

Jjfc h/' k 


R. , Jmg \ \ff*. 


jNM j 

|w 


w 


^Bp 

M, 

^vjfi 





y^^^rSmji r 


^ v(v«f ' 

A Ir* 

1^4 » w^ SVj «1 ] J r 


CYCLOPAEDIA 


OF 

BIBLICAL, 

THEOLOGICAL, AND ECCLESIASTICAL 

LITERATURE. 


PREPARED BY 


THE REV. JOHN M'CLINTOCK, D.D., 

AND 

JAMES STRONG, S.T.D. 

Vol. N.— SU-Z. 


private library 

RICHARD C. HALVERSON 


NEW YORK: 

HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS, 


FRANKLIN SQUARE. 

188 1 . 


Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1 88 1 , by 
HARPER & BROTHERS, 

In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 


PREFACE TO VOL. X. 


With this volume the Cyclopaedia reaches the end of the alphabet. The Supple- 
ment, which is already in an advanced stage of preparation, will embrace a large 
amount* of matter which came to hand too late for insertion in the body of the 
work ; the fresh material contained in the new editions of Herzog’s Recd-Ency- 
Jclopddie and Wetzer and Welte’s Kirchen - Lexikon, in Lichtenberger’s Encyclo- 
pedie des Sciences Reliyieuses , in Kraus’s Real-Encyklopddie der Christlichen Al- 
terthilmer , and in Smith’s Dictionaries of Christian Antiquities and Biography ; 
the recent researches in Egyptology and Assyriology; and the results of the Ord- 
nance Survey of Western Palestine just completed. The necrological sketches will 
be brought down to the latest date. Every available source of information will 
be laid under contribution in order to keep this Cyclopcedia fully abreast of the 
investigations and literature of the times. 

Notwithstanding the liability to omissions and inaccuracies which inevitably at- 
tends an undertaking so complex and extensive, it is the general verdict that this 
Cyclopcedia is superior to every other work of the kind, and that it is a necessity 
in the library of every Biblical and theological student. Minor errors which have 
been discovered from time to time have been corrected in the electrotype plates; 
and the Supplement is designed to effect more important emendations, and to place 
the latest discoveries at the disposal of the reader. 

The large colored Map of the Temple at Jerusalem , which is folded in a pocket of 
the cover of the present volume, has been carefully executed after plans furnished 
by the editor, and combines, for the first time, it is believed, in complete harmony, 
all the ancient information (from the Mislma and Josephus) with the full results 
of modern exploration (from the late Ordnance Survey).* 

In bringing this work to a close, the present editor desires to express his sincere 
regret that the later volumes have contained less and less of the material prepared 
by his late colleague, the Rev. Dr. McClintock, whose name will always be asso- 
ciated with the Cyclopcedia as that of one of its projectors, and whose learning and 
assiduous application contributed largely to its success. The earlier volumes were 
enriched by many articles from his accomplished pen, and received the full benefit 
of his personal supervision ; but towards the close the notes and memoranda which 
he left behind became fragmentary and scanty, or were superseded by more recent 
material. 


* The monograph on The Temple and (he Tomb by Captain Warren, late of the English Survey Corps at 
Jerusalem, has been published since our map and article on the subject were finished ; but we are happy to find 
that it substantially confirms our main positions in this regard. 


iv PREFACE TO VOL. X. 

The following is a list of the special contributors to this volume: 

T. J. C 'Hie Kov. T. J. Conan r, D.D., Brooklyn, N. V. 

J. T. C The late Kev. J. T. Crank, I >. 1 >., of the Newark Conference. 

K. E The Kev. It. Eddy, Akron, O. 

W. 1\ II The Kev. W. P. Hayden, Portland. Me. 

1). V. II The Kev. I>. Y. Hkislkr, Mont Alto, Pa. 

A. A. II Professor A. A. IIodoe, l).I>„ of Princeton Theological Seminary. 

<L F. II Professor (J. F. Holmes. LL.D.. of the University of Virginia. 

1). P. K Professor 1). P. Kimna:, D.D.. late of the Drew 'l'heological Seminary. 

II. P, The Kev. II. Pick, Ph.I)., Kochester, X. V. 

M. K Professor M. Kaymond, D.D., of the C.arrctt Biblical Institute. 

A. J. S Professor A. .1. Sen km. A.M., West Hoboken, X. .1. 

K. K. S The Kev. K. K. Siiiiten. Secretary of the American Unitarian Association, Boston, Mass. 

W. J. S The Kev. \V. ,T. Siiuky, Dayton. O. 

L. K. S Professor L. E. Smith, D.D., of the Watchman and Reflector, Boston, Mass. 

J. L. S 'the Kev. J. L. Sony, ( Mean, X. V. 

(L J. S Mr. (i. d. Stevenson, A.M., London, Eng 

-L C. S The Kev. J. C. Stock immcK, D.D., Providence, K. I. 

W. P. S The Kev. \V. P. Strickland. D.D., X. Y. city. 

W. .1. K. T — The Kev. \V. d. K. Taylor, D.D., Newark, X. J. 

W. P. W President \V. F. Warren. D.D.. of the Boston University. 

J. P. W The late Kev. J. P. Wester velt, Paterson. X. J. 

D. W The Kev. D. Wise, D.D., Englewood, X. J. 


LIST OF WOOD -CUTS IN VOL. X. 


Subsellium Page 

A gnu* Dei ou the Succinctorium . . 
Washing before or after a Meal. . . 

A Party at Dinner or Supper 

Altar 

Arab Repast 

Antique Representations of Susan- 
na 

Figure of Svantevit 

The Swift 

Purple Gall inn le 

Coins struck to Commemorate 

Peace 

Laracor Church 

Ancient Egyptian Pigs...* 

Ancient Persian Swords and Dag- 
gers 

Ancient Egyptian Daggers 

Ancient Assyrian Sword 

Classical Swords and Daggers .... 
Modern Oriental Swords and Dag- 
gers 

Sword Brother 

Black Mulberry-tree 

Black Mulberry Fruit, Leaf, and 

Blossom 

Sycamore near Ashkelon 

Sycamore Fig and Leaf 

Probable Representation of an An- 
cient Synagogue 

Plan of Ruined Synagogue at Tell 

Hum 

Jewish Synagogue in Amsterdam. 
Plan of Syracuse and its Environs. 

Coin of Syracuse 

Map of Syria 

Curtain-wall of Tabernacle Court. 
Curtain-wall of Entrance to Taber- 
nacle Court 

Plan of Tabernacle and Court 

Sockets of the Tabernacle Court. . 
Bottom of the Corner Planks of 

Tabernacle 

Planks on their Bases 

Fastenings for Top of Boards of 

Tabernacle 

Corner Board of Tabernacle (ac- 
cording to Riggenbach) 

Corner Board (according to Mur- 
phy) 

Top and Bottom Parts of Corner 

Boards 

View of the Wooden Walls of the 

Tabernacle 

Tabernacle as restored by Fergus- 

son 

Tabernacle as restored by Paine.. 

Rear of the Tabernacle 

Copper Tache in the Tabernacle 

Boards 

Inner Curtains 

Face and Section of Boards 

Corner Board and Sockets 

Corner Board showing one Ring.. 
Candelabrum of the Tabernacle. .. 

Stone Tabernacle at Kin tore 

Modern Oriental Table and Tray.. 

Ancient Egyptian Table 

Aucient Assyrian Table 

Table of Shew-bread 

Mount Tabor 

Modern Oriental Instruments 

Tambourine Players 

Tabula Pacis 

Natural Type of the “Tache” 

Curtains of the Tabernacle 

Plan of the Ruins of Palmyra 

View of the Ruins of Palmyra 

Tomb at Palmyra 

Figure of Talmai 

Altar Taper 

Bearded Daniel 


4 Map of the Coast of Tarsus. . .Page 

7 View of Tarsus 

29 Coins of Tarsus 

29 Martyr’s Stone at Uadleigh 

32 Temple at Denderah 

34 Solomon’s Temple 

Elevation of Solomon's Temple. .. 
39 Enclosure of Solomon’s Temple... 
43 Ground-plan of Solomon’s Temple 

45 Structures of Solomon’s Temple.. . 

46 Views of Solomon’s Temple 

Ilerod's Temple 

49 Stone of the Wall of the Ilaram at 

55 Jerusalem 

56 Angle of Temple Wall 

Restoration of Herod’s Temple... . 

59 Celestial City 

GO Assyrian Tents 

GO, Tent-pin and Mallet 

GO! Arab Tents 

Ancient Assyrian Ternphim 

601 Ancient Figures 

61 Branch of Terebinth 

61 \IHstachia tcrebinthus 

Tetrastyle 

61 Illumination of an Ancient Textus. 

62 1 A Theatine 

62: Plan of a Greek Theatre 

Ruins of the Theatre at Ephesus.. 

73 Map of the Plain of Thebes 

Plan of Temple at lvarnak 

73 Great Hall at lvarnak 

74 The Mem non in m at Thebes 

94 Coin of Theodosius I 

95 1 St. Theresa 

96 View of Thessalonica 

131 ( Coius of Thessalonica 

Plan of Thessalonica 

131 Triumphal Arch at Thessalonica.. 

131 Arabian Thistle 

132 Zizyphus Spina Christi 

\Lycium Etiropceum 

132 Acanthus spinosa 

132 Centaurea ealcitrapa, 

Ononis spinosa 

132 Acacia and Brier Bush 

PaliurUs aculeatus 

133 Bntcher’s-broom 

Tribuhts terrestris 

133 The A r nbk, or Dhom 

Figure of Thoth 

133 Oriental Threshing-floor 

Oriental Plain Threshing-sledge... 

133, Wheeled Threshing-sledges 

Assyrian Chair of State 

134 1 Aucient Egyptian Throne 

134 Ecclesiastical Throne 

135 Thuribles 

Thyatira 

135 Coin of Thyatira 

135 Thyine-tree 

135 Pope’s Tiara 

137|Herodian Coin of Tiberias 

137 1 Town and Lake of Tiberias 

138 .Coin of Antioch 

144! Ancient Bricks 

152 Assyrian Clay Tablet 

152 Pan-tiles 

152 Roof-tiles 

153 Roman Tiles in Wheatley 

155 Tile in Westleigh 

157 Tile in Canterbury Cathedral 

157 Tile Pavement of St. Paul’s in 

1581 Worms 

158 Tiles in Thame Church, Oxford- 

158 shire 

160 Tile in Woodperry 

161 Ancient Oriental Tambourine 

162 j Modern Egyptian Tambourine 

166; Appendage to Modern Egyptian 

200' t lead-dress 

201 (Coin of Titus 


220]Tablet on Arch of Titus at Rome 
221 Page 443 

221 Roman Coflin,York 459 

235 Tomb in Waterperry 459 

254! Altar-tomb in St. Mary’s, Thame .. 460 

256 Gravestone in Great Milton 460 

256 Tombstone in Bredon 461 

256 Tombstone in Handborough 461 

256 Aucient Roman Torches 495 

257 Modern Oriental Torches 495 

257 Uromastix spimpes 497 

25S Water-tortoise of Palestine 498 

Solitary Tower in the East 503 

259 Ancient Assyrians Attacking Mural 
259 Towers 503 

263 Roman Military Towers 504 

264 Tower of Little Saxhnm Church . . 504 


278 1’ower of Middleton Stoney 

27 s Tower of Brookthorpe 

278 Tower of Brisliugton 

253 Coin of Ephesus 

2S3 [Trajan’s Column in Rome 

254 Coin of Trajan 

2S4,Raphael’s Representation of the 

296 Transfiguration 

297 Trappist Monk and Nun 

302 Ancient Assyrians Cutting down 

303; Palms 

303|Assyrian Tartan 

306 Spanish Trinitarian Monk 

307 Trinitarian Nun 

30S Coins of Tripolis 

30S Triptych 

322 Triumphal Procession of Raineses 
343 111 


505 

505 

505 

507 

519 

519 

524 

525 

531 

548 

550 

551 
557 

557 

558 


351 Ancient Assyrian King in Proecs- 

352 sion after Victories 

353 Assyrian King Placing the Foot on 

354 the Neck of an Enemy 

364 Roman Triumph 

380 Coins of Troas 

380 Ruins of the Gymnasium at Troas. 

381JPlan of the Remains of Troas 

3S1 Plan of Trogyllinm 

3S2|Ancient Egyptian Trumpets 

383, Various Forms of Trumpets 

3S3 Coin of Tryphon 

384 Tudor Style 

384 Map of Turkey in Europe 

3SG,/*2$£«c?a tcrebinthus 

387 Turret at Beckley, Oxfordshire 

390 Turret of St. Mary’s, Beverley 

390 ' Tartar xEgyptiaens 

391 Columba Tartar 

39 1 j Tympanum of Doorway, Essendiue 

392 Ancient Insular Tyre 

392 Map of Tyre 

394 Early Coin of Tyre 

35 >5 Modern Tyre 

397 Greek Coin of Tyre 

397 Ruins of Tyre on the Mainland... . 

39S: Figure of Kali 

398 Greek Uncials 

399 Latin Uncials 

400 Wild Bull 

405 Unicorn 

405 House with an Altyah 

405 Front View of the Balcony of a 

405 1 “Chamber ou the Wall” 

406 Plan of Mugheir Ruins 

406 Ruins of Temple at Mugheir 

406 Ancient Egyptian Standing Fig- 

ures of the Goddess of Truth and 
Justice 

Ancient Egyptian Sitting Figure 

407 of the Goddess of Truth and Jus- 

407 tice 

410 Figures on Egyptian Breastplates. 
410 St. Ursula 

jUrsuline of Trois Rivieres, Canada 

428 Coin of Valens 

442,Coiu of Valeutinian I 


40 G 


559 

559 

560 

561 

561 

562 
567 
567 
570 
575 
5S0 

598 

599 

599 

600 
601 
607 
612 

613 

614 
618 

619 

620 

630 

631 
631 
639 
639 
668 

668 

670 

671 


G78 


678 

678 

GS1 

682 

697 

693 


VI 


LIST OF WOOD-CUTS IX VOL. X 


Coin of Vnlentininn IF ... . ..Page 69> 

Coin of Vulcntininu III 09> 

Coin of Valerian Ton 

Vane at Stanton Ilurcourt, Ttn 

Plan of Vatican Palace at Koine... 730 
Specimen of the Codex Witicnnus. . 732 

Cylindrical Vault 733 

Groined Vault 733 

Vault ill Westminster Abbey 733 

Vaul tin "-shaft, Net ley Abbey 734 

Oriental Out-door Veils 737 

Oriental In-door Veils 73> 

An Egyptian Woman Veiled 73s 

A Syrian Veiled Woman 73 9 

Figures of the Assyrian Venus 747 

Temple of the Paphinn Venus 74S 

St. Veronica 755 

Portrait of Christ on St. Veronica’s 

Handkerchief 75G 

Vesica Piscis, Ely Cathedral 765 

Coin of Vespasian 705 

Figure of Vesta TOG 

Vexillnm 769 

Antique Figure of Victory 775 

Wine-cups 776 

Ancients Reclining at Table 770 

Vignette 7si 

Angnstinian Hospital Sister of St. 

Thomas of Villenenvo 7>5 

Da Vinci’s First Sketch of Head of 

Christ 700 

Vine of Palestine 701 

Watch-tower in Vineyard 702 

Egyptian Vineyard and Wine-press 703 
Figurative Hieroglyphic Signifying 
Vineyard 796 


Ancient Egyptian Vineyard, with 
a large tank of water... ....Page 706 
brightening A wav Birds with a 

Sling .' 706 

Common Viper 70 s 

Oriental Viper 70S 

Figure of Vishnu su2 

Habit of the Order of the Visitation 

of St. .Mary s04 

Coin of Vitellius .*...• soil 

Vitrnvinn Scroll son 

Volute si3 

Voussoirs s]6 

Antique Head of Vulcan >24 

Specimens of MSS. of the Vulgate. >34 

Egyptian Vulture Mil 

Griffon Vulture >40 

Ancient Assyrian Wagon >4> 

Turkish Atabah >4s 

Robbers' Cave S51 

Kurdish Liers in Wait >51 

Walking-sticks found at Thebes. . . >59 
Priests and other Persons of Rank 

Walking with Sticks S59 

Specimens of Ancient Walls >05 

Wall-painting, Ringstcad >60 

A Watered Garden s>5 

Paradoxurus typus >94 

Polecat >94 

Ancient Egyptian Women Weav- 
ing >95 

An Egyptian Loom >90 

Modern Egyptian Shawl-weaver .. >06 

Ancient Egyptian Scales OOP 

Assyrian Weights 9ou 

Ancient Egyptian Kabbuneh 901 


Ancient Egyptian Death Judg- 
ment....: Page 002 

Well at Ileersheba 904 

Ancient Egyptian Machine for 

Raising Water 905 

Westminster Abbey 063 

Egyptian Wheat 076 

Ancient Egyptian Chariot-wheel. 077 

Ancient Egyptian Whips 070 

Whip Suspended from the Wrist. 070 

Satix -Eynptiaca lon3 

Weeping Willow 1003 

Branch of the Weeping Willow. . . 1004 
Oriental Out-door Veils f» »r Ladies inns 
Oriental In-door Veils for Ladies. inn> 

Egyptian Wolf Iu2> 

Specimen of the Codex Gudpher- 

byt turns a 1029 

Common Wormwood 1037 

A rtemUia Judaira 1057 

Portrait of Wycliffe 1042 

Library of the Young Men’s Chris- 
tian Association, New York City 1052 

Ruins ill Sum fend 1062 

Map of the Tribe of Zebu I tin 1066 

Puss of Su fa 10>4 

Ruined Town of Sebaita 10>5 

Modern Zidon •. 1092 

Greek Coin of Zidon 1094 

Map of the Environs of Zidon 1095 

View of Mount Zion 11 (to 

Map of the Original Surface of Je- 
rusalem 1101 

TellZif... • 1102 

Ain Jidy nod the Cliff of Ziz 1 103 

Zoau (uow Sau) 1 105 


CYCLOPAEDIA 


OF 


BIBLICAL, THEOLOGICAL, AND ECCLESIASTICAL LITERATURE. 


sv. 


Suada, the Roman personification of persuasion; 
the Greek Peitho. 

Suadela, the diminutive of Suada (q. v.). 

Su'ah (Ileb. n*lO. Sid ach, sweeping [ Geseu.], or rich- 
es [Fiirst ] ; Sept. Sous), first named of the eleven “ sons” 
of Zophah an Asherite (1 Chron. vii, 36). B.C. appar- 
ently cir. 1020. 

Suares (or Suarez), Joseph Marie, a French 
prelate and antiquarian, was born July 5, 1599, at Avi- 
gnon, and educated at his native place. Having em- 
braced the ecclesiastical state, he became the coadju- 
tor of his uncle Francisco Suarez (q. v.) as provost of 
the cathedral, and afterwards went to Rome, where car- 
dinal Barberini gave him charge of his library. Hav- 
ing received several additional honors, he was at length 
promoted by Urban VI 11, in 1033, to the bishopric of 
Vaison, in which capacity he attacked Calvinism; but 
he finally resigned in favor of his brother Charles, and 
retired to Rome, where he died, Dec. 7, 1077. llis an- 
tiquarian writings are enumerated in Iloefer, Nouv. 
Bing. Generate , s. v. 

Ilis brother Charles Joseph, born at Avignon in 
1018, became priest in 1041, succeeded to the bishopric 
of Vaison in 1066, and died there Nov. 7, 1670. 

A nephew of both the preceding, Louis Alphonse, 
born June 6, 1642, at Avignon, studied theology at the 
Seminary of St. Sulpice, succeeded his uncle as bishop 
of Vaison in 1671, held a synod there in 1073, and died 
March 13, 1085, near Sorgues, in Vaucluse. 

A nephew of the last preceding, Louis Marie, was 
bishop of Acqs (now Dax) in 1736, and died April 17, 
1785. 

Suarez, Francisco, a Spanish Jesuit, born at Gra- 
nada, Jan. 5, 1548, was a professor of reputation at Al- 
cala, at Salamanca, and at Rome, lie was afterwards 
invited to Coimbra, Portugal, where he became the 
principal professor of divinity. He died at Lisbon, 
Sept. 25. 1617. He was an author of the most volu- 
minous kind, and the Jesuits consider him the greatest 
and best scholastic divine that their order lias produced. 
See his writings in Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 
He is the principal author ol the system of congrmsm, 
which is at bottom only that of Molina. Father Noel, 
a French Jesuit, made an abridgment of the works of 
this commentator (Geneva, 1732, fob). There is a Life 
of him by Antony Deschamps (Perpignan, 1671, 4to). 
See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Suayambhu, in Hindft mythology, was the son of 
Bramah and ancestor of the human race, llis daugh- 
ter Devagdhi was married to Kartama, one of the great 
progenitors, and bore nine daughters, who became the 
wives of the nine remaining progenitors. By Satarupa, 
the daughter of Bramah, Suavambhu became the fa- 
ther of five other children, whose offspring contributed 
towards the extension of the human family. — Vollmer, 
Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

X.— A 


Su'ba (Sovfidg v. r. Safin)), a name given only in 
the Apocrypha (1 Esdr. v, 34) among the sons of Solo- 
mon’s servants who returned with Zerubbabel from the 
Captivity; but not found in the parallel Hebrew lists 
(Ezra ii, 35-37 ; Neh. vii, 37-39). 

Su'bai ( Svfiat ), a Gnecized form (1 Esdr. v, 30) of 
the Sualmai (q. v.) of the Hebrew' lists (Ezra ii, 40; 
Neh. vii, 48). 

Subarrhation, a term denoting the delivery by 
the bridegroom to the bride of the ring and other gifts 
at the time, and during the act, of marriage. 

Subcanon, an inferior or minor canon (q. v.). 

Subchancellor, or Scribe. The notary of Ital- 
ian cathedrals is the chancellor’s vicar, called also reg- 
istrar or matricular, and at St. Paul’s, in 1280, designated 
as scriptor librorum. He acted as assistant secretary, 
librarian, lecturer in theology and law r , and teacher of 
reading. — Walcott, Saci'ed Archwol. s. v. 

Subchanter, or Succentor, the deputy of the 
precentor, the principal among the vicars in choir. 
The precentor sat on the right-hand side of the choir, 
and the succentor on the left. His office was usually 
the gift of the chapter; occasionally, however, he was 
nominated by the precentor. There were two kinds of 
subchanters: 1. The succentor of canons, or succentor- 
major (first mentioned in the 11th century), at York, 
Bayeux, Paris, Amiens, Glasgow, Chalons, Girgenti, 
Wells, and Salisbury, acted as precentor’s deputy with 
regard to the canons; he ranks after the subdean, and 
the office w r as given by the diocesan. At Amiens he in- 
stalls canons in the lower stalls; at Rouen he holds a 
prebend and regulates processions ; he is often called 
prechantre in distinction from the grand chantre. 2. 

| A vicar, deputy, and assistant precentor. At Seville 
and Placentia and in England he tabled the ministers 
for service: at Chichester and Hereford he chastised 
the boys, and ordinarily his duties w r ere confined to or- 
dering processions, delating offenders, and general su- 
pervision of the lower choir: he could not correct a 
canon. His office appears at Chichester and St. Da- 
vid’s in the 13tli century; he corresponds to the pre- 
centor of the new foundations. At Lichfield and St. 
David’s the subchanter is head of the Vicar’s College. 
— Walcott, Sacred A rchceol. s. v. 

Subdeacon. The ancient Christian Church had 
but two classes of officers, the presidents, Trpoiordptvoi, 
TroiptrtQ, iiyovftevot, also hricncoTToi, npeofivTtpoi, and 
the servants, Sicuconoi; the former being charged with 
functions within t lie field of worship, while the latter 
were employed in administering the charities of the 
Church. In time, the episcopacy w r as developed out of 
the presbvtera te. and the subdiaconate from the diac- 
onate. The latter was always regarded by the Church 
as of human invention, and as having been introduced 
“utilitatis causa” (see Mori mis, Comm.de S. Eccles. Or- 
dinat. Exercitat. xi, l). Its introduction was, more- 


SUB DEAN 


o 


SUBLAPSAKIANS 


over, gradual, ami not uniform throughout the Church. 1 
Some churches were without suhdeacoiis as late as the 
middle of the iltli century; ami, before the hierarchy 
assumed a rigid and unchangeable form, the subdineo- 
nate was not regarded an indispensable preliminary to 
the diaconatc. The existence of snbdeaeons in tin* 
Church of Home as early as A.l>. 250 is shown in a let- 
ter of pope Cornelius to bishop l'abius of Antioch (Eu- 
seb. 1 list. Juries, vi, 43; comp. Jalle, Regest. I 'out if. No. 
8); in Spain as early as A.l). 305, in eh. 30 of the 
Synod of Elvira; in Africa about the middle of the 
3d century, in dillerent letters of Cyprian (2, 3, 20,30, 
etc.); and in the East by the middle of the 4th cen- 
tury, as appears from determinations of the Synod of 
Laodicca in 3(51 (Dist. xxiii, 21-23), and a letter of 
Athanasius (.1 d Solitar. A. I). 330). 

The subdeacons were reckoned among the class of 
Onlines Mi no res, and their functions were of inferior 
dignity. They were permitted to touch the sacred ves- 
sels if empty, in this having a pre-eminence over oth- 
er M i no res ; but, in general, their duties were simply the 
receiving of oblations (hence Oblafionarii), the care of 
the tombs of martyred saints, the guarding of church- 
doors during the administration of the sacrament, etc. 
In course of time the reading of the lesson from the 
epistles was added and became their leading function. 

The importance ofthesubdiaconate was enhanced when 
Gregory the (treat included it under the operation of the 
law of celibacy (Dist. xxxi, 1), and yet more when its 
members were made eligible to t lie episcopal office by 
the Council of Benevento in the pontificate of Urban II, 
1091. The question now arose whether the subdiaco- 
natc mu&t not be counted among the Onlines Mojo res, 
which was finally determined by Innocent 111 in favor 
of such promotion. Snbdeaeons thereby acquired the 
rights of the superior orders as respects personal in- 
dependence, etc. They assume a title at ordination, 
take vows of celibacy, etc., and are forbidden to return 
to secular life. Their ordination is, however, peculiar, 
in that the candidates are not presented to the conse- 
crating bishop by the archdeacon, the laying -on of 
hands and questioning of the people are not used, and 
the consecration is performed instead by “traditio in- 
strumentorum et vest mm.” The. beginning of the twen- 
ty-second year was fixed hv the (’mined of Trent (Sess. 
xxiii. 12, J)e Reform.) as the proper age for entering 
on this office, and a year is required to intervene before 
ordination to the diaconatc may follow; bishops, how- 
ever, may depart from this rule when needful (Sess, 
xxiii, 11; Bidder, Kirchenrecht, § 113). At the pres- 
ent time, the snbdiacouate exists simply as a stage on 
the way to higher stations, and its functions are gen- 
erally performed by laymen and presbyters. The term 
is sometimes used in Protestant churches, but without 
denoting any distinction of order. 

See Morinns, J)e Sands Onlinationibus , pt. iii,cxercit. 
12, Thoraassinus. Vet. et A or. Keel. Ihscipl. xx, 30 sq. , 
Seitz, Recht des lfarramtes , II, i, 415 sip; Bidder, AW - 
chenrerht , § 91, 103, 113; Coleman. Ancient Christ. Ex- 
emplified, viii, 11 ; Herzog, Real - Encyklop. s. v. ; Wal- 
cott, Sacred A rchtcol. s. v. 

Subdean. There were three kinds of subdeans: 
1. The vice-dean. 2. The dean’s vicar, his subollicer, 
assistant when present, and deputy when absent, vice- 
gerent in choir, as at Lichfield: both had a similar of- 
fice, that of supplying the duties of the dean in his ab- 
sence. 3. The capitular subdean, the perpetual sub- 
dean, who is said to hold a place which is a quasi-dig- 
nity in tin* gift of a bishop, lie has a stall, and cor- 
responds to the foreign archpriest having parochial 
charge of the close. The office was founded in Salis- 
bury in 1021. For a full account of his duties in the 
several cathedrals, see Walcott, Sacred Archceol. s. v. 

Subdiaconissa, a term applied, in the early 
Church, to the wife of a subdeacon. 

Subigus, a Homan divinity, the god of the wed- 


ding-night, whose office it was to render the newlv 
married maidens favorably disposed towards their hus- 
bands. 

Subintroductae (arret era ktoi) was a term applied 
to females kept by persons of clerical rank. Celibacy 
and chastity were regarded as identical from an early 
period in the Church, and in consequence ascetics in- 
vented the plan of remaining unmarried and taking into 
spiritual union with themselves young virgins (ace\0ar. 
sororts, sisters). The relation is already hinted at in 
Hernias, bill becomes more frequent in the 3d century, 
when Cyprian condemns it. Its spiritual character was 
speedily lost, and it soon became necessary to legislate 
against the abuses to which it gave rise. The question 
was discussed at the trial of Haul of Samosata. at Anti- 
och, in 2(59 (see Eusebius). In 305 the Council of Elc- 
beris forbade the clergy to have “sisters" living with 
them; and that of Ancvra in 31 I. and of Nice in 325. 
prohibited association with all females whose relation 
to the clergyman did not obviate all suspicion (mother, 
sister, etc.). Subsequent legislation on the part of both 
Church and State was in the same direction; e. g. of 
the third Council of Carthage in 397 (Can. 17, 27) and 
Cod. de Kpisc.et Clericis i, 3, 19 of llonorius and Theo- 
dosius, 420; Novella cxxiii, 29; cxxxvii, 1 , in fine, of 
Justinian. 

The practice of keeping snhintrodneUr. or extrancep, de- 
veloped into complete concubinage, and became so gen- 
eral that constantly repeated prohibitions became neces- 
sary, under penalty of degradation. Upon the whole 
subject, sec Brims, Canonrs A postal., etc. In the lltli 
century the term focarhv began to be applied to this dis- 
reputable class (“ meretrices foco assid cutes"), and the 
priests were termed focaristte, i. e. concubinurii.fo mica- 
tores. See Du Frcsne, Glossar. s. v. ; Giescler. Ki relief i- 
gesch. 4th ed. vol. i-iii, passim ; (ierh . Mugni (d. 1384) 
Set'mo de Focaristis et Xotnriis Fomicat. (Dresd. 1859) ; 
Trident. Cone. Sess, xxv, 14, De Reform. — Herzog, Real- 
Knnjklop. s. v. See A<;ai*lt.e. 

Subjectivism is the doctrine of Kant that all hu- 
man knowledge is merely relative, or, rather, that we 
cannot prove it to be absolute. According to him. we 
cannot objectify the subjective; that is, we cannot prove 
that what appears true to ns must appear true to all 
intelligent beings; or that, with dillerent faculties, what 
now appears true to us might u* >t appear untrue. But to 
call our knowledge relative is merely calling it human, 
or proportioned to the faculties of a man; just as the 
knowledge of angels may be called angelic. < hir knowl- 
edge may be admitted to be relative to onr faculties of 
apprehending it; but that does not make it less cer- 
tain. See Fleming, Vocab. of J’hilosnph. Science, s. v. 

Sublapsarians, or I nf it a t.a rs m a n s, is the name 
given by the orthodox Hoformcd theologians to those 
who consider the divine decree of election as dependent 
upon that which permitted the introduction of evil. 
The suprahipsurians. on the contrary, consider the de- 
cree of election, or of predestination to eternal salvation 
or damnation, as the original decree upon which all oth- 
ers, including that permitting the introduction of evil, 
depend. The question consequently refers to the order 
in which these two decrees were promulgated, or, which 
amounts to the same, to a nearer appreciation of the ob- 
ject of predestination, i. e. whether God in issuing his 
decree of election considered man (and the angels) as 
fallen, or simply as subjects whose eternal fate was to 
be decided apart from the consideration of sin, although, 
of course, knowing what would he their conduct. Both 
opinions have been permitted to exist side bv side in 
the Church even in times of the greatest intolerance, 
as, in reality, the question does in no way affect the 
dogma of predestination. Both systems hold to the fun- 
damental principles that election is absolute, not moti- 
vated by any cause outside of God's will, unchangeably 
settled since the beginning of the world, and infallible 
in its action. Vet the Synod of Dort, in 1618-19, en- 


SUBLAPS ARI AN S 


3 


SUBSCRIPTION 


dorsed the sublapsarian theory. Gomarus alone uphold- 
ing supralapsarianism, without, however, ceasing to he 
considered orthodox. The synod had recognised that 
both systems preserved the same fundamental doctrine, 
and only preferred sublapsarianism as presenting that 
doctrine in a form less objectionable to other churches. 
This question had no connection whatever with Armin- 
ianism, for not even the slightest appearance of a con- 
cession to those views would have been tolerated. In 
1675, at the drawing- up of the Formula Consensus , 
the Swiss refused expressly to endorse sublapsarianism 
for fear of appearing thereby to cast blame on the su- 
pralapsarians. The most eminent theologians, such as 
Beza, Piscator, Voetius, Gomarus, etc., upheld the strict- 
er system. It is only in modern times that sublapsa- 
rianism has come to be considered as a real diminishing 
of the difficulties of the orthodox Reformed doctrines; 
but the ancients, who appreciated it more correctly, 
did not look upon it as such, and consequently did not 
oppose it. The general principles of the system were 
as follows: The world, and man at first, answered ex- 
actly to the divine plan : man was created in primitive 
purity, fell by his own voluntary act, and thus became 
subject to retribution, and this infallibly; and although 
all are bad alike, yet some are redeemed by grace and 
made blessed, but the others remain unredeemed, and — 
as all, even those who are saved, deserve — are damned. 
All this happens exactly as it was originally decided in 
the organization of the world, and because it was thus 
decided. The decrees were all equally promulgated by 
God from all eternity without one having precedence 
over the other. Yet we are obliged to distinguish the 
different decrees according to their relation to each oth- 
er, as the final decree includes necessarily the means by 
which its object is to be attained; and these decrees con- 
cerning the means even precede the decree on the final 
result, yet only in causality, not in time, since there is 
no time with God. The supralapsarian system, on the 
other hand, holds that the final object of creation, in- 
dependent from anv other, is the revelation, the self- 
manifestation of God, and that in his two great attri- 
butes of mercy and justice — mercy on those he saves, 
justice on those he leaves to the punishment they de- 
serve. All other decrees serve but as means for this 
great object of the creation; in this view God created 
men, then permitted the introduction of sin, thus mak- 
ing them objects of his salvation or of his condemna- 
tion. which were decided beforehand. In consequence 
of these views, that school asserts that in issuing the 
decree of election God looked on man merely as man, 
not as man fallen; hence, also, Gomarus names as objects 
of the decree of predestination the “ creaturae rationa- 
biles, servabiles, damuabiles, creabiles, labiles, et repara- 
biles,” i. e. creatures considered yet as without anv de- 
termined properties. The sublapsarians arranged the 
plan of creation in such a manner that God, from mo- 
tives of his own, decreed to create man, and to allow 
him to sin. knowing that he would infallibly do so; and 
from these decrees they make the other decree depend — 
whereby some are saved, though no better than the 
others, and the others damned, though no worse ; and this 
manifestation of mercy to some and of justice to others 
constitutes the justification of the whole. This is their 
whole difference. The two methods uphold the same 
doctrine of absolute predestination, only the supralapsa- 
rians present it in a stricter, more imperious manner, 
without, however, lessening the guilt of man or making 
God the originator of evil ; the suhlapsarian method is 
more cautious in its expression, although it upholds 
predestination as firmly, and the guilt of man in the 
Fall; for what God allowed in bis plan is not permitted 
because God foresees what will happen, but only be- 
cause he wills it. The supralapsarians, indeed, say that I 
the Fall itself was predestined, but mean only that it 
was infallibly to come; while, on the other side, the 
sublapsarians do not in any way mean that the Fall 
might not have happened, that it could only be consid- 


ered in the plan of creation as having occurred, or even 
that the entrance of sin into the world might have oc- 
curred in a different manner than in that which God 
freeh T appointed in his scheme of creation. See Hagen- 
bach. Dogmengesch. 3d ed. p.589; Schweizer, Ref. Dog- 
matik , ii, 123 sq. ; the same, Gesch. d. ref. Central- Dog- 
men, ii, 43, 55. 181. 

Subleyras, Pierre, a French painter and engrav- 
er, was born at Uzes in 1609, and was the son of ATat- 
thieu Subleyras, a painter of considerable merit. Pierre, 
at the age of fourteen, went to Toulouse in order to 
receive lessons from Antoine Bivalx. In 1724 he went 
to Paris, took the course in the Academy, and in 1726 
gained the first prize. He went to Pome in 1728 as 
royal pensioner, and died there, May 28, 1749. He 
painted several sacred and ecclesiastical scenes which 
have been greatly admired. See Hoefer, Four. JJiog. 
Generate , s. v. 

Submission, Act of, an act passed in the reign of 
Henry Till, in 1534, which makes royal license neces- 
sary to the validity of certain acts of convocation. 

SUBMISSION to God implies an entire giving-up 
of our understanding, will, and affections to him; or, as 
Dr. Owen observes, it consists in — I. An acquiescence in 
his right and sovereignty ; 2. An acknowledgment of 
his righteousness and wisdom ; 3. A sense of his love 
ami care; 4. A diligent application of ourselves to his 
mind and will ; 5. Keeping our souls, by faith and pa- 
tience, from weariness and despondency; 6. A full res- 
ignation to his will. See Resignation. — B uck, Theol. 
Diet. s. v. 

Subprebendary, a prebendary in inferior orders. 

Subprecentor, an assistant to and substitute for 
the precentor of a church or cathedral, whose duty it is 
to attend to and guide the singing in the absence of the 
precentor. 

Subprior, an official in a priory, who is the prior’s 
deputy, and is ordinarily second in rank to the prior. 

Subramanya Maiiasena, in Hindu mythology, 
meaning the great leader of armies, is a surname of Kar- 
tikega. the son of Siva and the sisters Gonya and l T ma. 

Subruncinator, a Roman divinity who presided 
over the weeding and grubbing of gardens. 

Subsacrist, an assistant to, or deputy of, the or- 
dinary sacrist or sacristan of a church. They were 
keepers of the vestry and sacristy, church -cleaners, 
bell-ringers, etc. At Lincoln they were called stall- 
keepers; at York, clerks of the vestibule; and at Can- 
terbury, vesturers. 

Subsacristan. See Subsacrist. 

Subscription, Clerical. Subscription to arti- 
cles of religion is required of the clergy of every estab- 
lished Church, and of some churches not established. 

“The most stringent and elaborate subscription prob- 
ably ever enforced,” says l)r. Stanley, “was that in the 
duchy of Brunswick, when duke Julius required from 
all clergy, from all professors, from all magistrates, a 
subscription to all and everything contained in the 
Confession of Augsburg, in the Apology for the Confes- 
sion, in the Smalcaldic Articles, in all the works of 
Luther, and in all the works of Chemnitz” (Letter on 
State of Subscription, p. 37). The Church of England 
only requires this kind of assent to the Thirty-nine Ar- 
ticles and the Book of Common Prayer. But it has 
been a matter of dispute whether it answers any valu- 
able purpose as to religion, however necessary as a test 
to loyalty. All language is more or less ambiguous, so 
that it is difficult always to understand the exact sense, 
or the animus imponentis , especially when creeds have 
been long established. It is said that the clergy of the 
churches of England and Scotland seldom consider them- 
selves as fettered by the Thirty-nine Articles or the Con- 
fession of Faith, when composing instructions for their 
parishes or the public at large. It is to be feared, in- 


4 


SUBSELLIUM 

deed, that many subscribe merely for the sake of emol- 
ument ; and though it he professedly ex atiima, it is 
well known that it is not so in reality; for when any 
one appears to entertain conscientious scruples on the 
subject, he is told it is a thing of no consequence, but 
only a matter of form. 

Stanley presents the following arguments in favor of 
repeal: 1. The first is, that there are signs of a grow- 
ing reluctance, due in some part to the stringency of 
present subscriptions, on the part of thoughtful young 
men, to enter the ministry of the Church. 2. There is 
some recent evidence, especially at the universities, that 
the abolition of subscription has not tended to the inju- 
ry of the Church or to any increased disbelief of her 
doctrines. 3. Hut, more especially, there is a growing 
disposition to interpret adhesion to formularies more 
narrowly than in former times. See 1'alcy, Mor. Dhil. 
i, 218; Dyer, On Subscription; Doddridge, Lect. leet. 
70: Convbeare, Sermon on Subscription ; Free and Can- 
did Disquisitions relating to the Church of England ; The 
Confessional ; Duncan and Miller, On Creeds; Stanley. 
.1 Letter to the Lord Dishop of London on the State of 
Subscription in the Church of England and in the Uni- 
versity of Ox ford . 

Subsellium, a term given in the early Church to 
the footstool provided for persons of distinction. Upon 
Christian monuments Cod is represented as using the 
subsellium while receiving the offerings of Cain and 
Abel; our Lord, when teaching his disciples; and the 
Holy Virgin, in the adoration of the magi. The epis- 
copal chairs were also provided with them, and, to show 
their submission to bishops, persons were accustomed to 
seat themselves thereupon. They were also called sca- 
bellum, snbpositorium, suppedaneum . 

Subsellium was likewise a name for the seats of the 
presbyters, in the ancient Church, on each side of the 
bishop's throne, in the upper part of the chancel, called 
the apsis . Also the two lower steps in a sedilia, i. e. 
those for the deacon and subdeacon. 



Subsexton. See Suhsachistax. 

Substance (Lat. snb , under, sto or stems, to stand) 
is literally that which subsists by itself, fn Greek, 
substance is denoted bv oroia, hence, that which truly 
is, or essence, seems to be the proper meaning of sub-* 
stance. It is opposed to accident ; of which Aristotle, 
lias said that you can scarcely predicate of it that it is 


SUBSTANCE 

anything. Our first idea of substance is probably de- 
rived from the consciousness ol self — the conviction that, 
while our sensations, thoughts, and purposes are chang- 
ing, we continue the same. Wo see bodies, also, remain- 
ing t lie same as to quantity or extension, while their col- 
or and figure, their state of motion or of rest, may he 
changed. Substances are either primary , that is, sin- 
gular, individual substances; or secondary, that is, gen- 
era and species of substance. Substances have also been 
divided into complete and incomplete, finite and infinite. 
Hut these are rather divisions of being. Substance may, 
however, he properly divided into matter and spirit, or 
that which is extended and that which thinks. Sub- 
stance is given by Aristotle as one of the four principles 
common to all spheres of reality ; the other three being 
form or essence, moving or elKcient cause, and end. lie 
says, further, that the individual alone has substantial 
existence, and detines ovaia, in the sense of the individ- 
ual substance, as that which cannot be predicated of 
anything else, but of which anything else may be pred- 
icated. Johannes Uhiloponus of Alexandria, by ex- 
tending tbe Aristotelian doctrine, that substantial exist- 
ence is to be predicated in the fullest sense only of in- 
dividuals, to the dogma of the Trinity, thereby in- 
curred the accusation of tritheism. John Seotus re- 
garded the Deity as the substance of all things, and 
could nor, therefore, regard individual, concrete things 
as substances, of which the general may he predicated 
and in which the accidental. is contained, lie views 
all things, rather, as contained in the divine substance. 
Herengarius of Tours ( De Sacra Cana') disputes the 
theory of a change of substance , claimed hv the advo- 
cates of transubstantiation, without a corresponding 
change in the accidents, i. e. a change in the bread and 
wine apparent to the senses. Jioscellinus teaches that 
whatever is a substance is, as such, not a part; and the 
part is, as such, not a substance, but the result of that 
subjective separation of the substance into parts which 
we make in [thought and in] discourse. Gilbertus thus 
speaks: The intellect collects the universal, which ex- 
ists, hut not as a substance ( est , sed non substai), from 
the particular things which not merely are (sunt), but 
also (as subjects of accidents) have substantial exist- 
ence, by considering only their substantial similarity 
or conformity. Descartes detines substance as follows: 
•' Hv substance we can only understand that which so 
exists that it needs nothing else in order to its exist- 
ence; 1 ’ and adds that, “ indeed, only one substance can 
be conceived as plainly needing nothing else in order to 
its existence, namely, God: for wc plainly perceive 
that all others cannot exist without God’s assistance.” 
Spinoza understands substance to be “that which is in 
itself, and is to be conceived by itself. There is only 
one substance, and that is God. This substance has 
two fundamental qualities or attributes cognizable by 
us, namely, thought and extension; there is no extend- 
ed substance as distinct from thinking substance.” 
•‘There are not two substances equal to each other, 
since such substances would limit each other. One 
substance cannot produce or be produced by another 
substance. Every substance which is in God’s infinite 
understanding is also really in nature. In nature there 
are not different substances; nature is one in essence, 
and identical with God.” Locke says, “The mind, be- 
ing furnished with a great number of simple ideas, con- 
veyed to it by sensation and reflection, remarks that a 
certain number of them always go together; and since 
we cannot imagine that which is represented by them 
as subsisting by itself, we accustom ourselves to suppose 
a substratum in which it subsists, and from which it 
arises; this substratum we call a substance. The idea 
of substance contains nothing but the supposition of an 
unknown something serving as a support for qualities.” 
Leibnitz gives the name monad to simple, unextended 
substance: that is, a substance which has the power of 
action; active force (like the force of the strained how) 
is the essence of substance. He held that the divisibil- 


SUBSTANCE 


5 


SUCCESSION 


ity of matter proved that it was an aggregate of sub- 
stances; there can be no smallest indivisible bodies or 
atoms, because these must still be extended, and would 
therefore be aggregates of substances; that the real sub- 
stances of which bodies consist are indivisible, cannot 
be generated, and are indestructible, and in a certain 
sense similar to souls, which he likewise considers as in- 
dividual substances. The individual, unextended sub- 
stances were termed by Leibnitz monads. Hume re- 
marks, “ We have no clear ideas of anything but per- 
ceptions: a substance is something quite different from 
perceptions ; hence we have no knowledge of a sub- 
stance. The question whether perceptions inhere in a 
material or immaterial substance cannot be answered, 
because it has no intelligible sense.” John Stuart Mill 
distinguishes substances as bodily and mental, and says, 
“Of the first, all we know is, the sensations which they 
give us, and the order of the occurrence of these sensa- 
tions; i. e. the hidden cause of our sensations. Of the 
second, that it is the unknown recipient of them.” See 
Fleming, Vocab. of Philosophy Sciences, s. v. ; Ueberweg, 
History of Philosophy (see Index). 

SUBSTANCE, a term used in technical divinity to 
describe nearly the same idea as essence or nature. 
Thus the Son is said to be the same substance with the 
Father, that is, truly and essentially God, as the Fa- 
ther is. See Christology. 

Substantialists. The Lutheran heresiologist 
Schlusselburg gives this name as a synonym of the 
Manichees, in his Catalogue of Heresies, the second 
volume of which is entitled l)e Seda Manichuiorum 
seu Su bstantialista ru m . 

Substitution. See Vicarious Suffering. 

Substrati (i. e. prostrators) were penitents of the 
third order, so called from the custom of prostrating 
themselves before the bishop or priest as soon as the 
sermon was ended, to receive his benediction with the 
imposition of hands, and be made partakers of those 
prayers which the congregation particularly offered to 
God for them ; after which they were obliged imme- 
diately to depart, before the communion service. They 
stood until this part of the service in the nave of the 
church, behind the ambo. This sort of penitents are 
mentioned in the Council of Nice, though no particular 
place is assigned them ; but we may collect from Ter- 
tullian and Sozomen that their station was in this part 
of the church ; for Tertullian ( De Pudicit. c. 13), speak- 
ing of the Roman discipline, says pope Zephvrin brought 
penitents into the church in sackcloth and ashes, and 
prostrated them in the midst before the widows and 
presbyters, to implore their commiseration and excite 
their tears. They were also called Kneclers, or Genu- 
fedentes. See Bingham, Christ . Antiq. bk. viii, ch. v, 
§ 3; bk. xviii, ch. i, § 5. 

Subtreasurer, the deputy- receiver of certain 
rents in a cathedral of the new foundation ; a deputy- 
treasurer; the sacrist; a minor canon who had charge 
of the church goods, acted as parish priest in the pre- 
cinct, provided necessaries for divine service, and was 
librarian. The office is still partially preserved as an 
assistant in divine service and parochial cure of souls. 
At Hereford he ranked after the succentor, and sang the 
Founder’s Mass. He is mentioned in 1290 at York, and 
at Chichester in the 14th century, being the treasurer’s 
vicar, where he made the chrism of oil and balsam. — 
Walcott, Sac. Aj'ch&ol. s. v. 

Subuciila (jr oCt)p?]g'), a cassock, like a rochet, worn 
under the alb. 

Suburbicarian, an epithet applied to those prov- 
inces of Italy which composed the ancient diocese of 
Rome. Concerning this two questions arise: 1. What 
was the extent of this district? 2. Whether it was the 
limit of the metropolitical or patriarchal power? Dr. 
Cave and others think that the notion of suburbicary 
churches ought not to be extended beyond the lim- 


its of the prof edits urbis , viz. a hundred miles about 
Rome; or, at most, not beyond the limits of those ten 
provinces which were immediately subject to the civil 
disposition and jurisdiction of the ricarius urbis — viz. 
Campania, Tuscia and Umbria, Picenum Suburbicarium, 
Valeria, Samnium, Apulia and Calabria, Lucania and 
Brutii, Sicilia, Sardinia and Corsica — which Dr. Cave 
supposes to have been the exact and proper limits of 
the pope’s patriarchal power, as he thinks the others 
were the bounds of his metropolitan jurisdiction. — See 
Bingham, Christ. A ntiq. bk. ix, ch. i, § 347. 

Suburbs is the rendering, in the A. V., regularly 
of migrdsh, properly a pasture (1 Chron. v, 1G: 

Ezek. xlviii, 15) ; hence the open country around a 
city used for grazing (Numb, xxxv, 2; Josh, xxi, 11 : 

1 Chron. vi, 40; xiii, 2, etc.), or for any other purpose 
(Ezek. xxvii, 28; xlv, 2; xlviii, 17). Once (2 Kings 
xxiii, 11) it stands for parvar, which is but a 

MS. variation of Parbar (q. v.). 

SUBURBS, in an ecclesiastical sense, meant, in the 
early Church, all the towns and villages within the re- 
gion or district to which the city magistrate extended 
his jurisdiction, whose bounds, for the most part, were 
the bounds of the bishop’s diocese. See Bingham, 
Christ. A ntiq. bk. ix, ch. ii, § 3. 

Succat is said to have been the proper name of 
St. Patrick (q. v.). 

Succensum, an old term for a censer. See Thuri- 
ble. 

Succentor, a term used to denote — 1. A precen- 
tor's assistant in a cathedral church ; 2. A singer in a 
collegiate church or chapel; 3. A subprecentor ; 4. A 
cantor. — Lee, Gloss, of Liturg. Terms, s. v. 

Succession, Apostolical, a favorite term with 
prelatists and High - Churchmen to designate what is 
claimed to- be an unbroken line of clerical ordination 
from the apostles to the present time. In the Roman 
Church this claim is put forth in the most absolute and 
dogmatic manner through the Tridentine canons, which 
excommunicate and anathematize all other branches of 
the Christian Church as heretics and schismatics. Jn 
the Greek, Syriac, Coptic, Armenian, and Oriental 
churches generally, the same exclusive principle is 
maintained, although not avowed in so positive and 
formal a manner. A similar pretence is set up by many 
Protestants, such as the established churches of Euro- 
pean countries, particularly of Great Britain and Ire- 
land, and so likewise by the Vaudois, the Moravians, 
and others, who assert that they can trace their clerical 
pedigree in a direct line to the apostles; and in like 
manner the Protestant Episcopal Church of the United 
States, and other offshoots of the English Church, pride 
themselves upon their ecclesiastical lineage, as being in 
the “regular succession.” On the other hand, the de- 
nominations “unchurched” by this claim justly take 
exception to the clerical genealogy thus arrogated, on 
the following grounds: 

I. The phrase “ apostolic succession"’ is essentially ab- 
surd and self-contradictory. Strictly construed, it can 
only mean that the apostles have had a continuous line 
of successors to the present time. But the apostolic 
office was sui generis, and by its very constitution con- 
fined to the first incumbents. This is clear from two 
inherent qualifications of the order itself, not to mention 
others. 

a. It was necessary that an apostle should have been 
personally conversant with our incarnate Lord; he must 
have been an eye-witness of his miracles, have directly 
received his instructions, and immediately accepted the 
appointment at his hands (Mark iii, 14; Acts i, 21, 22). 
On this ground Paul bases his claim to the apostolate 
(1 Cor. ix, 1), by virtue of the revelation of the Gospel 
to him without human intervention (xi, 23; Gal. i, l. 
12). Hence the office was in its very nature intrans- 
missible and incapable of succession, as soon, at least, 


succession 


C SUCCESSION 


as all t lie "original eye-witnesses and ministers of the 
Word" had defeased. See Apostle. 

b. The "sign” of an apostle was t lie power of confer- 
ring miraculous endowments upon others by the imposi- 
tion of hands. This is often referred to in the Acts and 
Epistles as a distinguishing mark between them and 
ordinary Christians. All believers during the primi- 
tive period of the Church enjoyed these preternatural 
gifts, which were lirst imparted on the day of Pente- 
cost (Acts ii, 1); but the apostles alone were empow- 
ered to communicate the same to subsequent accessions 
(viii, 10). Hence when the original apostles died, these 
miraculous manifestations soon ceased, and have never 
been renewed. The Homan Catholic Church claims, 
indeed, a like power of miracle-working for eminent 
saints of later times, but it has never had the hardi- 
hood to aver that its ••apostolical succession” is invari- 
ably accompanied with this peculiar gift, llow pre- 
posterous then, for sober Christians to set up a preten- 
sion that legitimately involves such impossibilities! 
See Hums, Spikitual, 


This, alas, is no ideal picture ; it is but the record of sad, 
solemn fact. Kcolesiastioism and its fellow formalism 
have ever been the greatest banes to genuine piety, 
and the direst loes to the real kingdom of God. Big- 
otry was excusable in Judaism; but sectarianism, of 
which the fable of “apostolical succession” has been 
t he most fruitful source, is a crime under Christianity. 
It is both a libel on its name (John xvii, 23) and trea- 
son to its lirst law (1 John ii. 7 ; iii, II). Wherever 
this assumption has been prevalent and active, religious 
bodies have held points of order and esprit da corps 
among their members in higher esteem than historical 
truth in profession or vital godliness in practice. Per- 
secution has been more tierce ly waged against secession 
than even against heresy. Zealots for orthodoxy have 
gathered many a fagot Ibr the martyr, but sticklers for 
legitimacy have been foremost in kindling t lie pyre. 
Even nonconformity has at times caught the passion 
for its own established system, and Puritans have act- 
ually maltreated others — if not burned them at the 
stake — for refusing the ordinances of the so-called 


2. Kern the claim of an uninterrupted clerical suc- 
cession is incapable of proof. All the modern churches 
of Europe and this country, which set up this claim, 
trace their lineage (intimately through the Human pon- 
t i 1 Vs. But the records of the early popes are irrecover- 
ably lost. It is not certain that Peter (q. v.) ever was 
in Home, much less that he ever acted as bishop there. 
All e Hurts to make out the asserted succession thus fail 
at this initial point. Many other links in the chain 
are historically wanting. The lineage is a myth, or at 
best a mere cking-out of probabilities by vague and 
late traditions. This is now candidly admitted bv the 
best and most careful Protestant scholars. The title is 
indefensible. See Pope. “ I am fully satisfied, ” says 
bishop lloadlv, “ that till a consummate stupidity can 
he happily established, and universally spread over the 
land, there is nothing that tends so mueli to destroy all 
due respect to the elergv as the demand of more than can 
be due to them; and nothing has so effectually thrown 
contempt upon a regular succession of the ministry as 
the calling no succession regular but what was unin- 
terrupted : and the making the eternal salvation of 
Christians to depend upon that uninterrupted succes- 
sion, of which the most learned must have the least 
assurance, and the unlearned can have no notion but 
through ignorance and credulity.” (See below.) 

3. The claim is offensive and tends to biyotiy and ex- 
clusiveness. In the Homan Catholic, Greek, and An- 
glican churches, this tendency and result are notorious, 
and in the High-Church party of the Protestant Epis- 
copal Church they are almost equally obvious. In fact, 
••a good churchman,” as lie is styled, is compelled by 
this fact to hold himself aloof from other communions, 
and such a rule is avowed, more or less distinctly, in 
the canons and regulations of all the bodies last named. 
This single circumstance is to-day one of the greatest 
scandals of Christendom. Xo principle can be just 
which leads to such unchristian lack of brotherly kind- 
ness. See Ci i a kit v. 

4. The assertion is unnecessary , unirise, and based 
upon a icroiiy view of ecclesiastical polity. The true 
evidences of an evangelical Church are the conversion, 
sanctification, and salvation of souls; the propagation 
of a spiritual Gospel, and the amelioration of the state 
of society. But the “clinrehly” claim referred to turns 
the attention of its adherents too earnestly upon their 
own organization and technical order, and thus leads 
them away from a broad and catholic spirit, and from 
a wholesome personal experience, as well as from the 
highest forms' of individual and collective usefulness. 
The question with them habitually inclines to be, not 
what will best promote tbe welfare of Christendom at 
large, and most effectually promote personal holiness ; 
but what must be done to subserve party purposes, and 
keep up the pretensions of a select circle. The Church 
is too often put in the place both of Christ and man. 


Church. The prelatist smiles at such pseiulo-ecelesi- 
astieism, and the Humanist looks with equal contempt 
upon the Anglican mimicry of “the mother Church;” 
while the Great Head of all weeps at this petty rivalry 
as to who shall be esteemed first and greatest in the 
brotherhood of saints. In this competition all that is 
more valuable in religion has been lost sight of. Lax- 
ity of morals lias been winked at, while an infringement 
of canonical rules has been severely punished. It is 
the old story over again; making void the law of God 
by the tradition of men, tithing herbs and neglecting 
judgment, mercy, and faith. We need ever to revert 
from the symbols of Christianity to its essentials, or we 
shall find ourselves holding its form, but denying its 
power. See Pkel.uy. 

Literature. — This may well be exhibited in brief by 
the following extract from Eadie’s Eccles. Cyclop., which 
shows how writers in the Episcopal Church are dis- 
agreed on the main elements of the question ; 

I. On the Office of the Apostles , and whether they had 
any Successors.— Until Christ's death the apostles were 
presbyters, aud Christ alone was bishop. 1. This is af- 
firmed by Stillingtleet, Irenicum , ii, 218; Spauheim, Op. 
Theol . i, 436; in Ay ton, Constit. of the CU. p. IS; Ham- 
mond, HbrA-x, iv, 78t, who makes them deacons; Brett, 
Divine Right Episeop. leet. viii, p. 17. 2. This is contra- 
dicted, and the nposiles made bishops during the same 
time, by Taylor [Jeremy], Episeop. Asserted; id. Works, 
vii, 7, etc., who contradicts himself in ibid, xiii, ID sq. ; 
Scott, in Christian Li. fe, iii, 338; Monro, Inquiry into the 
Xew Opinions, p. DO; Ithind, Apol. p. 50, etc. ; Willet, 'y- 
nopsis / 'apismi, p. 236 ; archbishop of Spain to, in Ayton, 
Constit. of the Ch., app. p. 7. Archbishop Laud is very 
positive in affirming that Christ chose the twelve, and 
made them bishops over tiie presbyters {Lit. and Episcojt. 
]>. 105), and bishop Beveridge is as confident that Christ 
chose these same twelve ns presbyters, and not bishops 
( IlmAx, ii, 112). Again, Laud asserts very positively that 
Christ ordained them, since the word used l>v Mark is 
tirotrjo’e — 1 le made them (Lit. and Episeop. p. 106). Bev- 
eridge, on the contrary, declares that Christ did not ordain 
any of them during his life, and adduces in proof the use 
of this very term *non\< re dw&aca { Works, ii, 112). 3. Others, 
again, affirm that the apostles were not commissioned till 
after Christ’s resurrection. Sage, quoted in Ayton, Con- 
stit. of (he Ch. app. p. 5, 6; Saravin’s Priesthood, Span- 
hoim. Op. Theot. i, 436; Stillingfleet, Irenicum, i, 117, 1 IS, 
aiul ii, 21s; Whitby, Annul. Luke x, 1 ; Hammond, in 
ibid. ; Bellannine, Dc Pontiff, lib. iv, c. 25; Ileber [Bp.], in 
Life of Jeremy Taylor, HorA;#, i, 185. 

H. The apostles were extraordinary officers, and could 
have no successors. 1. This is affirmed by Pearson, On 
the Creed, p. 16, “who are continued to us only in their 
writings;” Whitby, in Comment. Pref. to Titus; Iloadly 
[Bp.], IJVA**, fol. ii, s27 : Barrow, in HorAvi, fob i, 598; 
Willet, in Synopsis Papixmi, p. 164, 165; Fell [Bp.], On 
Ephes. v, P; Hooker, heel. Pol. vol. iii, bk. vii, § iv, p. 187, 
Kehle’s edition; Chillingworth ; Hinds, History of Rise 
and Proyress of Christ, i), 70-87; On Inspiration, p. 117; 
Lightfoot, Works, xiii, 26, 27, 3U, 70. 98 , etc., and in oth- 
er works; Palmer, On the Ch. i, 169, 170; Bowers, Hist, 
of the Popes, i, 5, 6 ; Potter, On Ch. Government, p. 121, 117, 
Amer. ed. : Steele, Phil, of the Evid. of Christ, p. 102, 105, 
106, 107 ; Dodwell, Pareucs, ad. ext. p. 68 (comp, 11, 54, 55, 
62, apnd Ayton); Daveuaut [Bp.], On Col. vol.i,ch. i ; Brett, 
Die. Right of Episeop. lect. xii, p. 26, apnd Aytou ; Stilling- 


SUCCINCTORIUM 


4 


SUCCOTH 


fleet, Trenicnm,\\, 209-301; Spanheim,/^.D/.s$er£.m,Nos. 25, 
37,34; archbishop Tillotsou ^ee quoted in Presbyterianism 
Def. p. 117, US). 2. Tnis is most resolutely impugned by 
Laud (see Ids Three Speeches on the Lituryy Episeop. etc. 
in Oxt'. edit. 1840, passim) ; Nichols [William], in his De- 
fence of the Ch. of England; “Bishops are successors to 
the apostles, both in name and thing,” says Leslie, iu Let- 
ter on Episcopacy, in The Scholar A rmed, i, 04 et al. ; Bev- 
eridge, in HmLs, ii, SS, 03, 120, 147, 140, 107, 27S ; Law, iu 
his Second Letter to the Hi shop of Bangor See , iu Oxf. Tr. 
iii, 150 ; Stilliugfleet [Bp.], in llo/Aw, i, 371, iu art. “ Bish- 
op;” Rees, Cyclop. ; Hicks [Bp.], Khiud, Scott, Monro (see 
Ay ton, Conxtit. of the Ch. app. p. S, lect. ii); Honiman [Bp.], 
Survey of Xaphthali, ii, 101, etc., in Ayton ; llall [Bp.], 
Episeop. by Divine Right , pt. ii. Opinions differ as widely 
iu the Church of England at the present day (see Smyth, 
Prelatic Doctrine of Apostolical Succession Examined [Bos- 
ton, 1S41]). 

Succinctorium, or Succinctory, an ornament 
peculiar to the pope, resembling a maniple (q. v.), ami 
embroidered with the holy lamb {Agnus Dei). It is 
worn on the left side, being fastened by a cincture, and 
is, according to some, a substitute for an alms-purse; or 



according to others it was only a resemblance of the 
ends of a ribbon, formerly worn by most bishops as a 
cincture over the alb. and which was called balteum 
pit elicit he, or “belt of modesty.” In the East bishops 
wear one pendant, of a lozenge form, tasselled, and with 
a cross on it called epigonation. 

Succinere (undersinging), a term used to describe 
a mode of singing in common use in the early age of 
the Chureh. A precentor began the verse, and the peo- 
ple joined him in the close. It was often used for the 
sake of variety in the same service, with alternate psal- 
mody. Ecclesiastical historians relate that Athanasius 
effected his escape from the chureh in which he was 
beset by the Arian soldiery by setting the people to 
this kind of psalmody: he commanded the deacon to 
read the psalm, and the people {v—aKovtiv, respondere 
or succinere) to repeat this clause after him: “For his 
mercy endureth forever.” See Bingham, Christ. Antiq. 
bk. xiv, ch. i, § 12. See Acrostics. 

Suc'coth (Heb. Sukkoth niso or [in Gen. xxxii, 
17; Exod. xii, 37 ; xiii, 20; Numb, xxxiii, 5, 6] P2D, 
booths [as often]; Sept. So/cyw-S' v. r. SoKryw-^d, but 
<jKi]vat in Gen. and Psa. : Vulg. Socoth or Soceoth). the 
name of at least, two Biblical places (in the treatment 
of which we avail ourselves largely of the articles in 
the dictionaries of Kitto and Smith). See also Suo 

COT1I-BENOTH. 

1. A town of ancient date in the IIolv Land, being 
first heard of in the account of the homeward journey 
of Jacob from Padan-aram (Gen. xxxiii, 17). The 
name is derived from the fact of Jacob’s having there 
put up “ booths” for his cattle, as well as a house for him- 
self; and these structures, in contrast with the “tents” 
of the wandering life,. indicate that the Patriarch made 
a lengthened stay there — a fact not elsewhere alluded 
to. Travellers frequently see such “booths” occupied 
by the Bedawin of the Jordan valley. They are rude 
huts of reeds, sometimes covered with long grass, some- 
times covered with a piece of a tent. They are much 
used by a semi-nomad people. This fertile spot must 
have reminded Jacob of the banks of the Euphrates 
from which he had recently come. The situation is 
approximately indicated by the fact that Jacob was on 
his way from Peniel to Sheehem. Peniel was appar- 
ently on the north bank of the Jabbok (Gen. xxxii, 22, 


23) ; and it would seem that after his interview with 
Esau on the south bank, he turned back to avoid fur- 
ther intercourse with his dangerous brother; and in- 
stead of following him to Edom, he recrossed the Jabbok 
and descended to the valley of the Jordan, where he re- 
solved to rest for a time amid its luxuriant pastures 
(see, however, Kaliscb, ad loc.; Ritter, Pal. und Syr. ii, 
447). 

The next notice of Succoth is in Joshua’s description 
of the territory of Gad. To this tribe the middle sec- 
tion east of the Jordan was allotted, including the val- 
ley of the Jordan up to the sea of Galilee. See Gad. 
Among the towns in the valley is Succoth (Josh, xiii, 
27). Nothing more can be inferred from this than that 
it lay on the east bank of the river. 

In the narrative of Gideon’s pursuit of Zeba and Zal- 
munna it is said, “And Gideon came to Jordan, passed 
over . . . and said unto the men of Succoth,” ete. (Judg. 
viii, 5). His course was eastward — the reverse of Ja- 
cob’s — and he came first to Suecoth, and then to Penuel, 
the latter being farther up the mountain than the for- 
mer (ver. 8, “ went up thence”). The tale there record- 
ed of the mingled cowardice and perfidy of the inhab- 
itants, and of Gideon’s terrible vengeance, is one of the 
most harrowing in the Bible. At that period Succoth 
must have been a place of importance, when it ventured 
to refuse the request of Gideon. Its “ princes and el- 
ders,” too, are said to have numbered “ threescore and 
seventeen men.” 

Though the rulers were slain, the city continued to 
prosper, and in the days of Solomon it was -well known. 
The sacred historian informs us that the brazen vessels 
of the Temple were cast “in the circuit (‘"1223) of the 
Jordan, in the clay ground, between Succoth and Zar- 
than” (1 Kings vii,4G; 2 Chron. iv, 17). Suecoth gave 
its name to “a valley” (p22), probably a lower section 
of “the circuit,” or great plain of the Jordan (eomp. 
“ the vale of Siddim,” which was also called an Emtk 
in “ the circuit of the Jordan,” Psa. lx, 6). 

Jerome observes, in his notes on Genesis : “ There is 
to this day a city of this name ( Succoth ) beyond Jor- 
dan in the region of Scythopolis” {Opera, ii, 989, ed. 
Migne); but in the Onomasticon both Jerome and Eu- 
sebius merely state that it is the place where Jacob 
dwelt on his return from Mesopotamia, without indi- 
cating its site or appearing to know of its existence 
(s. v. “ Seen*"). 

Burckhardt.on his way from Beisan to es-Salt, forded 
the Jordan two hours (about six miles) below the for- 
mer, and observes in a note {Travels in Syria, p.345), 
“ Near where we crossed, to the south, are the ruins of 
Sukkot.” The ruins seem to have been on the east 
hank of the river, though he does not expressly say so, 
as later travellers do (see Schwarz, Palest, p.232). This 
may possibly be the Suecoth of Jerome; but it seems 
too far north to suit the requirements of the narrative 
in Genesis. Jacob’s direct road from the Wady Zerka 
to Shechem would have led him by the Wady Ferrali, 
on the one hand, or through Yaimu, on the other. If 
he went north as far as Sukkot, he must have ascended 
by the Wady Maleh to Tevasir, and so through Tubas 
and the Wady Bidan. Perhaps his going north was a 
ruse to escape the dangerous proximity of Esau; and 
if he made a long stay at Succoth, as suggested in the 
outset of this article, the detour from the direct road to 
Shechem would be of little importance to him (see the 
Bibliotheca Sacra, Oct. 1873, p. 742 sq.). 

Robinson discovered another ruin, called Sakiit (which 
is radically as well as topographically different from 
the Sukkot of Burckhardt), situated on the west bank of 
the Jordan, about, fifteen miles south of Beisan. “ Near 
it is a copious fountain, and the plain around it is cov- 
ered with most luxuriant vegetation. The ruin is mere- 
ly that of a common village, a few foundations of un- 
hewn stones” {Bibl. Res. iii, 309; comp. Van de Velde, 
Travels, ii, 343). Its position on the west bank pre- 


SUCCOTII-BEXOTII 


8 


SUDAILI 


vents its being identified with the Succoth of the Bible, 
but it is just possible that the name may have been 
transferred to a spot on the other side (see Hitter, ut 
sup. ii, 446), or it may have been a crusaders’ site (see 
Condor, Tent ll'or£ in Palest. ii,62). 

Until the position of Succoth is more exactly ascer- 
tained, it is impossible to say what was the valley of 
Succoth mentioned in I’sa. lx, 6 and cviii, 7, The same 
word is employed (Josh, xiii, 27) in specifying the po- 
sition of the group <4 towns among which Succoth oc- 
curs, in describing the allotment of Cad; so that it evi- 
dently denotes some marked feature of the country. It 
is not probable, however, that the main valley of the 
Jordan, the Ghor, is intended, that being always desig- 
nated in the Bible by the name of “the Arabnh.” 

2 . The first camping-place of the Israelites when 
they left Egypt (Exod. xii, 37 ; xiii, 20; Numb, xxxiii, 
5, 6). This place was apparently reached at the close 
of the first day's march. Kameses, the starting-place, we 
have shown was probably near the western end of the 
Wady et-Turaeylat. We have supposed the distance 
traversed in each day’s journey to have been about 
thirty miles; and as Succoth was not in the Arabian 
desert, the next station, Etham, being “in the edge of 
the wilderness” (Kxod. xiii, 20; Numb, xxxiii, 6), it must 
have been along the present pilgrim route called Dub 
el-Ban, about half-way between the easternmost branch 
of the Nile and the castle of Ajrud. It was probably, 
to judge from its name, a resting-place of caravans, or 
a military station, or a town named from one of the 
two. We find similar names in Scenre Mandrre (I tin. 
.!«/.), Secure Mandrorum (Xot. Higni), or Sjgjio) Mai>- 
cpdjv ( Xot. . Grcec. Episcopatunni), Seenre Vetcranorum 
(/tin. Ant. Xot. Hign .), and Secure extra Gerasa (sic : 
Xot. Hign.). See, for all these places, Parthey, Zur Erd- 
kunde des alien Aegyptcns , p. 585. It is, however, evi- 
dent that such a name would be easily lost, and, even if 
preserved, hard to recognise, as it might be concealed un- 
der a corresponding name of similar signification, though 
very different in sound, like that of the settlement of 
Ionian and Carian mercenaries, called tu ’SrparoTrefia 
(Herod, ii, 154). Sec Exode ; Bed Sea. Passage of. 

Suc'coth - Be'noth ( lleb. Sukkoth' - Benoth', 
booths of daughters; Sept. Ik- 

v. r. Hok'y<53 [and even 'Pok-ydi.^] B ei't3r/; Vulg. 
Soclioth-benoth ) occurs only in 2 Kings xvii, BO, as the 
name of some deity whose worship the Babylonian set- 
tlers in Samaria are said to have set up on their arrival 
in that country. It has generally been supposed that 
this term is pure Hebrew, and as such most interpreters 
explain it to mean “the booths in which the daughters 
of the Babylonians prostituted themselves in honor of 
their idol” (i.e. Mylitta, see Ilerod. i. 199; Strabo, xvi, 
745); others “small tabernacles in which were con- 
tained images of female deities” (comp. Calmet, Com- 
mentaire Littered, ii, 897). It is in objection to both 
these explanations that Succoth-beuoth, which in the 
passage in Kings occurs in the same construction with 
Nergal and various other gods, is thus not a deity 
at all, nor, strictly speaking, an object of worship. It 
should be noted, however, that the expression “made” 
(VI??) does not necessarily require such an interpreta- 
tion. Sir II. Bawlinson thinks that Succoth - benoth 
represents the Chaldrean goddess Zir-banit , the wife of 
Merodach, who was especially worshipped at Babylon, 
in conjunction with her husband, and who is called the 
“queen” of the place. Succoth he supposes to be either 
“a llamitic term equivalent to Zir," or possibly a tthc- 
mitic mistranslation of the term — Zir at, “supreme,” be- 
ing confounded with Zarat, “tents” (see the Essay of 
Sir II. Bawlinson in Kawlinson’s Herodotus, i, 680). 
Gesenius arbitrarily alters the reading to riSD, 

booths of the high-places (Thesaur. s. v.); and. Movers 
(Phonic, i. 596) understands “ involncra or secreta mn- 
lierum having reference to phallus-worship (so Nork, 


Afythol. i, 12-1). The rabbins (see Kirnchi and Jarchi, 
ad loc.) fable that it was a goddess under the form of a 
hen and chickens; which Kircher ((Ed. .Eg. i. 354) re- 
gards as an astronomical emblem of the Babylonians. 
See Seidell, He Diis Sgriis, ii, 7, 308 sq. ; Voss, Theol. 
Gent, ii, 22 ; Grensius, He Succoth Benoth, in Ugolino, 
Thesaur. xxiii. 

Su'cliathite (lleb. only in the plur. Snkathim ', 
uT-Vi‘, a patronymic of unknown origin; Sept. 1'w- 
KaSttip ; Vulg. in taberneicvfis commorantes), a designa- 
tion of ihe last-named of the three families of “scribes 
which dwelt, at Jabcz” (1 Chron. ii, 55); apparently de- 
scendants of some person named Suchah, a Judahite of 
the family of Caleb. 

Suckow, Caul Adolf, a German theologian, was 
born in 1802 at Mdnsterburg, in Silesia. He studied 
theology and philosophy at Breslau, was appointed in 
1881 professor of theology and director of the homilet- 
ical seminary at Breslau, and died there in 1847. He 
wrote. He Proterangelio Jacobi. Pars 1, He Argnmento 
ac Indole Protcrangelii (Vratislavire, 1830) : — Gedenktage 
des christl. Kirchenjnhres in einer He ihe ran Predigten 
(Breslau, 1838); — .1. B. C. evangel ischer Kirchenverf as- 
sung (ibid. 1846). See Pegensburger Conversations- Lex- 
ikon, s. v. ; Zuchold, Bibl. Theol. ii, 1292 sq. (B. P.) 

Slid (ford v. r. [in No. 2] 2oi>&/, Noiurd, etc.), the 
name of a stream and of a person in the Apocrypha. 

1. A river in the immediate neighborhood of Baby- 
lon, on the banks of which Jewish exiles lived (Bar. i, 
4). No such river is known to geographers: hut if we 
assume that the lirst part of the book of Baruch was 
written in Hebrew, the original text may have been 
Sur, the final 1 having been changed into *1. In this 
case the name would represent, not the town of Sora, as 
suggested by Bochart (Phafeg, i. 8), but the river Eu- 
phrates itself, which is always named by Arab geogra- 
phers “the river of Sura,” a corruption probably of tlie 
“Sippara” of the inscriptions (Bawlinson, Herod, i, 611, 
note 4). — Smith. 

2 . A corrupt Grrecism (1 Esdr. v, 29) of the name Sia 
or Si AU a (q. v.) in the Hebrew lists (Ezra ii, 44; Neh. 
vii, 47). 

Sudaili, Stephen Bar, a Monopliysite monk, who, 
according to the Candelabrum Sanctorum of Abul-faraj 
(q. v.), in Assemani, Bibl. Orient, ii, 291, lived about 
A.D. 500, at first in Edessa and afterwards in Jerusalem, 
lie is credited with the authorship of a work which cir- 
culated under the name of Ilierotheus, the teacher and 
predecessor of Pseudo-Dionysius, in which a limitation 
of the duration of hell is taught on the authority of a 
pantheistic interpretation of 1 Cor. xv, 28. Neandcr 
regarded the ascription of this work to Sudaili as rest- 
ing upon a mere assumption on the part of Abul-faraj 
(Gesch. d. christl. Pel. u. Kirche, i, 727), but without 
having sutlieient warrant for his view. 

Particulars respecting the mystico- pantheistic theol- 
ogv of Sudaili are furnished by Xcnajas or Philoxenus 
(q. v.) of Mabug in a letter addressed to the presbyters 
Abraham and Orestes of Edessa, which earnestly warns 
them against the infinence of that learned and subtle 
monk who formerly sojourned in their city (see extracts 
in Assemani, ut sup. p. 30-33). As there represented, 
Sudaili taught the essential unity of the Father, Son, 
and Spirit, of the divine and human nature of Christ, 
and also of God and all created existences, basing his 
views on 1 Cor. xv, 28, 7 va y o rd 7 tuvtci tv 7 ra- 
mi'. lie had inscribed on the wall of his cell the words 
“Omnis natura Divinitati consubstantialis est,”and he 
continued to elaborate the same idea in His writings 
after public opinion had compelled the erasure of the 
inscription in His cell. It is also charged by Philox- 
enus that Sudaili taught that baptism and the cucha- 
rist are superfluous, that he denied the infliction of 
punishment for sin at the last judgment, and that he 
promised to pagans and Jews the same heavenly felici» 


SUDARIUM 


9 


SUFFRAGAN 


ties as to Christians, to Judas and Simon Magus equal 
blessedness with Paul and Peter. It is evident that 
much of these assertions is dictated by malice anil is 
grossly misrepresented. The same remark applies to 
the Chiliastic views of Sudaili, who was a consequen- 
tial adherent of Origenistic doctrines," and must be re- 
garded as holding a spiritualized, idealistic view of the 
world. He taught three world-periods — the present, 
corresponding tq the sixth day of the week ; the millen- 
nium, the great Sabbath or rest-day of the week ; and 
the eternity of consummation or of the restoration of 
all things. 

Nothing is known of the personal or literary career 
of liar Sudaili. The violent assault of Philoxenus upon 
his character as a teacher and expositor of the Script- 
ures appears to have succeeded so far as to ca,use him 
to be regarded by all Monophysites as a dangerous her- 
etic. The Jacobites of Syria, e. g., admitted a special 
sentence of condemnation against him into their formu- 
la of ordination. See Asscmani, Bill. Orient, vol. i and 
ii. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Sudarium, or Sudary ( sweat-cloth ): 1. The pu- 
t'ijicatorium (q. v. ) for wiping the chalice; 2. The 
maniple (q. v.) ; 3. The veronica (q. v.) (the blessing 
of the priest’s eyes with the sudarium was forbidden 
in 1549); 4. The banner of a bishop’s staff, called also 
vex ilium (q. v.). 

Sudbury, Simon. See Simon of Sudbury. 

Suddath, William W., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Fairfax County, Va., July 31, 182G. He 
professed religion in his nineteenth year, was received 
by the Lexington Presbytery of the Cumberland Pres- 
byterian Church as a candidate for the ministry, and 
was licensed to preach in 1847. About this time lie 
entered Chapel Hill College, in Lafayette County, Mo. ; 
studied theology in the Cumberland University at Leb- 
anon, Tenn.; but before graduating he was induced, 
by the great interest he took in the success of Chapel 
1 1 ill College, to return to Missouri and accept the pro- 
fessorship of languages in that college. lie was after- 
wards elected president, which position he filled until 
1857, when hp accepted a call to the chair of languages 
in the Masonic College at Lexington, Mo. In 1858 he 
became enlisted for the St. Louis mission, and his far- 
reaching mind and noble, benevolent heart conceived 
a plan to relieve it of its embarrassments. But his la- 
bors were too great for his physical energies. lie gave 
up his position in the college to engage in the work of 
his choice: he accepted a call from the Church in St. 
Joseph, but died xVug. 1, I860, before assuming the du- 
ties of the new position. Mr. Suddath was an eloquent 
preacher, a scholar, and a Christian gentleman. See 
Wilson, Presb. /list. A hnanac , 18G1, p. 23G. (J. L. S.) 

Sudhoff, Carl, a doctor of divinity, and prominent 
theologian of the Calvinistic Church of Germany, who 
died in the year 18G5 at Frankfort-on-the-Main, is the 
author of, \Y eihestunden (4th ed. Ilamrn. 1865): — Der 
Heidelberger Katechismus zerglieilert (2d ed. Kreuznach, 
1854): — De Convenientia quee inter utrumque Gratice In - 
strumentnm , Verbnm Dei , et Sacramentnm Interceded, etc. 
(ibid. 1852): — In der Siille (Frankfort, 1859, 2 pts.) : — 
Fester Grund christlicker I. eh re, ein Iliilfsbuch zum Ilei- 
delberger Katechismus (ibid. 1857): — Geschichte der 
christl. Kirche (2d ed. ibid. 18G1, 2 vols.) : — Communion- 
buch (2d ed. ibid. 1859): — Christliche Religionslebre 
(ibid. J8G1): — Theologisches I/andbuch zur A v sleeping 
des Heidelberger Katechismus (ibid. 1862). Besides a 
number of articles for Herzog’s Real- Ency Mop., he also 
wrote the lives of C. Olevianus and Z. Ursinus, pub- 
lished in the 8th part of Leben nnd ausgeicahlte Schrif- 
ten der Yater und Begrihuler der reformirten Kirche. 
See Zuchold, Bibl. Theol. ii, 1293 sq. (B. P.) 

Su'dias (Eovdi aq), a corrupt Greek form (1 Esdr. 
v, 26) of the name Hodaviah or Hodevah (q. v.) of 
the Hebrew lists (Ezra iii, 40 ; Neh. vii, 43). 


Sudices, the Fates of the Bohemians and Mora- 
vians, supposed to resemble the Roman Parcce. 

Sudra, in Hinduism, is the lowest of the four castes 
among the Hindus, sprung from Brahma’s feet and ap- 
pointed to serve the other castes. It includes all inferior 
laborers and servants. 

Sudri, one of the four powerful dwarfs of the Norse 
mythology, who support the arch of the sky at the four 
regions from which they derive their names. The oth- 
er dwarfs are Nordri, Westri, and Austri. — Vollmer, 
WOrterb. d. J lythol. s. v. 

Suehre, in Persian mythology, is the name of the 
planet Venus before it was placed in the sky. It is 
identical with the Arabic Anahid. Suehre was an ex- 
ceedingly charming maiden, of whom two angels be- 
came enamoured, and who resisted their advances with 
the result that she was removed to the skies, while they 
were banished to the abyss. In her new abode she is 
served by thousands of celestial spirits, who adore her for 
her virtue and beauty. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. J lythol. 
s. v. 

Suemmer Oala, in Lamaism, is a mountain of vast 
elevation, which is surrounded by three others, upon 
whose circle rests a second circle of four mountains, all 
of them being of gold, with the exception of the central 
one, which is composed of a single green stone. These 
mountains are the place of abode of the free spirits, 
Erike Bariksan. The wicked spirits dwell in the cav- 
erns of the mountains, and their chief there holds a pow- 
erful castle. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Suenes, a Christian nobleman in Persia, who, re- 
fusing to deny Christ, had his wife taken front him, and 
given to one of the emperor’s meanest slaves; and what 
added to his mortification was that he was ordered to 
wait upon his wife and the slave, which at length broke 
his heart. 

Sueur, Eustaciie Le, one of the most celebrated 
of French painters, was born in 1617, and after studying 
with his father, a sculptor, was placed in the school of 
Simon Vouet at Paris. lie soon excelled his master, 
and adopted a style which is noted for its simplicity 
and severity, lie has been termed by his admirers the 
French Raphael ; but he was far behind that great mas- 
ter in every respect. He died in 1655. He painted the 
celebrated series of St. Bruno , twenty-two large pictures 
on wood, in the cloister of the Carthusians at Paris, be- 
fore his thirtieth year: — St. Paul Preaching ed Ephesus: 
— The Gentiles Burning their Prescribed Book (1649), 
.engraved by Picart and Massard : — Paul Healing the 
Sick: — Martyrdoms of St. Laurence and St. Protais, 
both engraved by Gerard Audran. He painted many 
other celebrated pictures, as, Christ Scourged: — Christ 
with Martha and Mary : — The Pi'esentation in the Tem- 
ple : — The Histories of St. Martin and St. Benedict. 
See English Cyclop, s. v. 

Suez. See Red Sea. 

Suffering-day. See Good-Fridav. 

Suffering-psalm, the name given to Psalm xxii, 
u Deus, Dens meus;” used in the services of the Church 
on Good-Friday. 

Suffering-week. See Passion-week. 

Sufferings of Christ. See Vicarious Suffer- 
ing. 

Suffetum, Council of ( Concilium Su (feta mini), was 
held in 528, at which St. F ulgentius was present. Bish- 
op Quod-vult-Deus (who had disputed the point of pre- 
cedency with him at the Council of Junga, in Africa), 
at his request, presided. 

Suffragan ( suffraganeus ) is the title applied to ev- 
ery ecclesiastic who has to assist his superior. In this 
way Alenin explains the term in a letter to Charle- 
magne : “ Suffraganeus est nomen mediae signifieationis; 
ideo nescimns quale fixum ei apponere debeamus, ut 
presbyterorum, aut abbatum, aut diaconorum, aut cae- 


SUFFRAGE 


10 


SUFISM 


terorum graduum iuferiorum, si forte episcoporum no- 
men. (pii aliquando vest raj civitati subject! eraut, adde- 
re debemus” (Opera, p. 1160). The term is also used 
as synonymous with vicarius (see Du Fresnc, (llossari- 
um , s. v.). It is given more especially to bishops, how- 
ever, and in respect to them with a twofold reference. 
A suffrayau bishop is an episcopus in jxirdbns infiileliuni 
employed as the vicar and assistant of a regular dio- 
cesan bishop; but the name is given to the latter also 
in view of the relation he sustains, if not exempt [see 
Exemption], to his metropolitan. The relation sus- 
tained by all the suffragans of a province (comprorinri- 
ales) together with their metropolitan, and the rights 
belonging to the latter in his relation to the suffragans 
and their subordinates, have been exactly determined, 
and are stated in Gratinn, Causa iii, qu. (>. and Causa 
ix, qu. 3. Various decisions occur also in the decretals, 
which ordain that the consecration of a metropolitan 
shall be performed by all his suffragans. The rights 
of metropolitans over their suffragans are limited. Sec 
Innocent III in c. 11, Dc OjJicio Judicis Ordinarii, i, 
31. — Herzog. Real- Eucyklop. s. v. See Attcumsnor; 
Metropolitan. 

It thus appears that anciently suffragan bishops were 
all the city bishops of any province under a metro- 
politan, who "were called his suffragans because they 
met at his command to give their suffrage, counsel, or 
advice in a provincial synod. In this sense the word 
was used in England at the time when Liu wood wrote 
his Prorinciale (in 1130): “They were called suffra- 
gans because they were bound to give their suffrage 
and assistance to the archbishop, being summoned to 
take part in his care, though notin the plenitude of his 
power.” The suffragans were not the same as Choke- 
piscopi (q. v.), or rural bishops. Thus it was also in 
other churches. The seventy bishops who were imme- 
diately subject to the bishop of Lome, as their primate 
or metropolitan, were called his suffragans, because they 
were frequently called to his synods. These bishops 
were called by the peculiar technical term libra, which 
stood for seventy. Their elections were regulated by 
the metropolitan, who either ordained them himself, or 
authorized their ordination. They were summoned bv 
him to attend the provincial synods, and could not dis- 
obey such summons under pain of suspension, or some 
such canonical censure, which was left to the discretion 
of the metropolitan and the council. From the 13th to 
the 16th century there were in the English Church a 
class of bishops (1) holding nominal sees, titulars or 
in partibus inffhlmm , in Hungary, Greece, and Asia; 
(2) exiles, temporary or permanent, from bishoprics in 
Ireland or Scotland, who were called suffragans. 

Bishops who had no metropolitan power tirst began 
to have suffragans under them in the 10th century. 
These were styled vicar-generals, vicegerents, mce-epis- 
co]>i , etc. Suffragan bishops were appointed in Germa- 
ny for the ordination of inferior officers and the conse- 
cration and benediction of churches, altars, baptismal 
waters, etc. Some attempt was made in England, at 
the beginning of the Reformation, to restore the chor- 
cpiscopi, under the name of suffragan bishops. Act 26, 
Henry VIII, 1534, appointed several towns for suffra- 
gan sees. One suffragan bishop was consecrated for Not- 
tingham, and another as bishop of Dover in 1-S70. A 
permissive act for bishops suffragan in Ireland was passed 
in the early part of the present century, and others have 
recently been consecrated in the colonies. .See Bing- 
ham, Christ. A ntiq. bk. ii, ch. xv, § 13-15 ; eh. xvi, § 12, 
17 ; Coleman, Ancient Christianity, p. 130. 

Suffrage. In the early Church, one of the ways 
of designating persons to the ministry was bv the ordi- 
nary course of suffrage and election of the Church. It 
was also customary for the clergy or presbytery (or the 
retiring bishop or presbyter) to nominate a person to till 
the vacant office, which nominat ion was followed by the 
suffrages of the people — suffrages not merely testimonial, 
but judicial and elective. See Riddle, Christ, A ntiq. p. 323. 


The term was also used to designate — 1. The public 
worship — the united voice and consent of the people in 
the petit ions offered. “See now, then, both learned and 
unlearned, how prayers and all other suffrages arc in com- 
mon to this spiritual Church” (Lantern of Light, A.l). 

1 100). 2. A short form of petition, as in the Litany. 

Thus, in the l )rder for the Consecration of Bishops we 
read that in the. Litany as then nscij, after the words 
“ that it may please thee to illuminate all bishops,” 
etc., “the proper suffrage shall be,” etc. 3. The vehi- 
cles after the Creed in Morning and Evening Prayer. 
See Stanton. Church Diet. s. v. 

Sufis, a sect of mystic philosophers in Persia, which 
was founded in the 9th century by Alml Khnir. It 
has contained among its members many of the most 
noted Mohammedan scholars and poets. Schamvl, the 
famous Circassian leader, is said to have belonged to 
this sect, and to have given to it a semi-political char- 
acter. directing it especially against the aggressions of 
the Russians. They are to be. found in every part of the 
empire; have their acknowledged head at Shiraz, and 
their chief men in all the principal cities. Mr. Martyn, 
missionary to that country, calls them “mystic latitu- 
dinarians.” For the tenets, see Sufism. 

Sufism, or Soofism (Arabic, stiff, pure, wise), a 
certain mystic system of philosophical theology within 
Islam. Its tenets are, that nothing exists absolutely 
hut God; that the human soul is an emanation from 
his essence; that every man is an incarnation of Deity; 
and, though divided for a time from this heavenly source, 
will be filially reunited with him; that the highest possi- 
ble happiness will arise from that reunion; and that the 
chief good of mankind consists in as perfect a union with 
the Eternal Spirit as the encumbrances of a mortal frame 
will allow; that, for this purpose, they should break all 
connection with extrinsic objects, and pass through life 
without attachments, as a swimmer in the ocean strikes 
freely without the impediments of clothes; that if mere 
earthly charms have power to influence the soul, the 
idea of celestial beauty must overwhelm it in ecstatic 
light. It maintains also that, for want of apt words to 
express the divine perfection and the ardor of our de- 
votion, we must borrow such expressions as approach 
the nearest to our ideas, and speak of beauty and love 
in a transcendent and mystical sense; that, like a reed 
torn from its native bank — like wax separated from its 
delicious honey — the soul of man bewails its disunion 
with melancholy music, and sheds burning tears; like 
the lighted taper, waiting passionately for the moment 
of its extinction, as a disengagement from earthly tram- 
mels, and the means of returning to its only beloved, 
Sufism teaches four principal degrees of human perfec- 
tion or sanctity. 1. Shariat, or the lowest, is the de- 
gree of strict obedience to all the ritual laws of Moham- 
medanism — such as prayer, fasting, pilgrimage, alms- 
giving, ablutions, etc. — and the ethical precepts of hon- 
esty, love of truth, and the like. 2. Tarikat. This de- 
gree is attainable by those who, while strictly adhering 
to the outward or ceremonial injunctions of religion, rise 
to an inward perception of the mental power and virtue 
necessary Ibr the nearer approach to the Divinity, the 
necessity of and the yearning for which they feel. 3. 
llakikul (truth) is the degree of those who, by contin- 
uous contemplation and inner devotion, have risen to 
the true perception of the nature of the visible and in- 
visible — who, in fact, have recognised the Godhead, and 
through this knowledge of it have succeeded in estab- 
lishing an ecstatic relation to it. 4. M aarifal is the 
degree in which man communicates directly with the 
Deity, and is admitted into a mysterious union with 
him. Thus it will be seen that the highest aim of the 
Sufi is to attain self-annihilation by losing his humani- 
ty in Deity. This is to be accomplished by abstracting 
his mind from all worldly objects, and devoting himself 
to divine contemplation. Accordingly the Sufis neglect 
and despise all outward worship as useless and uuneces- 


SUGE1 


11 


SUGIN 


sary. The Mnsnavi, their principal book, expatiates 
largely upon the love of God, the dignity of virtue, ami 
the high and holy enjoyments arising from a union with 
God. All Sutistic poetry and parlance are to be taken al- 
legorically and symbolically. They represent the high- 
est things by human emblems and human passions; 
and religion being with them identical with love, erotic 
terminology is chiefly used to illustrate the relation of 
man to God. Thus the beloved one’s curls indicate the 
mysteries of the Deity; sensuous pleasures, and chiefly 
intoxication, indicate the highest degree of divine love, 
or ecstatic contemplation. Its principal religious writer 
is Jalaleddin Ilumi, and its theology prevails among 
the learned Mussulmans, who avow it without reserve. 
See Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. ; Gardner, Faiths of the 
World , s. v.; Christian Observer , 1819, p. 379; Mill, 
Molt am medanism . 

Suger, abbot of St. Denis, and a leading dignitary 
of the Church and statesman of France in the 12th cen- 
tury, was born probably in the year 1081, and in the 
neighborhood of St. Omer, and was educated in the 
Monastery of St. Denis, where the crown-prince, Louis 
the Fat, was his companion. After completing his 
studies in 1103, he was employed by abbot Adam of St. 
Denis in the administration of distant possessions of the 
convent, and in their defence against the incursions of 
predatory knights. On the accession of Louis VI to 
the throne (1108), Suger became his counsellor, and con- 
tributed greatly to the subjugation of the barons, v-ho 
had thrown off all responsibility, and to the establish- 
ing of the royal authority, by which the reign of Louis 
VI became noted in the history of France. He was 
also an active participant in the dispute about investi- 
ture (see the article), which at that time agitated both 
Church and State, taking sides with the pope, as the pol- 
icy of France demanded. He was present at the Lat- 
eral! Council in 1112, which annulled the concessions 
made by pope Paschal II to Henry V. In 1118 he met 
the fugitive pope Gelasius II, and, in the name of his 
king, placed all the resources of France at his disposal 
against his Italian adversaries. He subsequently ne- 
gotiated a settlement of the question of investiture, in 
1121, which proved satisfactory to both France and the 
papacy. In 1122 he became the successor of the de- 
ceased Adam in the abbacy of St. Denis, and in 1124 he 
visited Pome to attend the great Lateran Council, and 
while there so ingratiated himself with the pope, Calix- 
tus II, that the latter proposed to create him cardinal, a 
project which failed by reason of the decease of the pope. 
He accompanied the army in a campaign against the 
emperor Henry V in the same year; and he was at the 
same time earnestly engaged in endeavoring to induce 
the king to release the colones , or lower orders in the 
State, from many of their pressing burdens, and to con- 
cede the right to form autonomous communes as a 
means of undermining the feudal system. 

About 1127 Suger renounced the habits of his pre- 
vious worldly life and became an ascetic; and, after 
having reformed himself, he undertook to enforce the 
Benedictine rule in all its strictness in the abbey of St. 
Denis. He fultilled his spiritual functions conscien- 
tiously, and built a magnificent church while himself 
living in a little cell. His principal merit consists, how r - 
ever, in an excellent administration of the convent, in 
the conservation of its rights, in the artistic decoration 
of churches, and in the dissemination of the influences 
of culture throughout the surrounding v r astes. His di- 
rection of the affairs of the State still continued, and, 
when Louis VII ascended the throne (in 1137), became 
even more pronounced than before. lie was associated 
with bishop Joscelin of Soissons in the regency, and ad- 
ministered the government on the plan of the late king. 
His boldness appears in his resisting the papal inter- 
dict (in 1141) by w hich Innocent II sought to force a 
prelate into the archbishopric of Bourges against the 
expressed will of the king. 11 is endeavor to restrain 
the king from embarking in his crusade failed ; but he 


was appointed regent of the country during the king’s 
absence, in conjunction with the archbishop of Bheims 
and count Vermendois. Aided by the pope, he subdued 
the rebellious nobility, and so wisely administered the 
finances that he was able to honor the incessant drafts 
of Louis, and also to erect many edi flees, and still save 
large sums of money to the public treasury. The 
height of his career was reached when he succeeded in 
neutralizing the endeavors of Hubert of Dreux, the 
brother of Louis VI, who had returned from the Holy 
Land in 1148, to seize upon the supreme authority. At 
the same time, he succeeded in resisting the desires for 
radical reform fostered by Abelard and Pierre de Bruys, 
while zealously endeavoring to correct the abuses from 
which those desires had sprung, lie was further suc- 
cessful in a conflict with the canons of St. Genevieve, in 
Paris, whose convent pope Eugene III had directed 
him to reform in accordance with the Benedictine rule. 
Louis VII, on his return, in 1149, publicly thanked the 
regent and called him the father of his country ; and 
Bernard of Clairvaux and a number of foreign princes 
wrote to him in token of their admiration and respect. 
He enjoyed his fame, however, during a brief season 
only, and died Jan. 12, 1151. His literary remains in- 
clude only sixty miscellaneous letters (in Duchesne, 
Scriptores , vol. iv), a report of his administration of 
St. Denis, and a biography of Louis VI which ranks 
among the superior historical productions of the Middle 
Ages (both in Duchesne, nt sup.). 

See Hist. Lit. de la France , xii, 301 ; Bernardi, Essai 
Ilist. sur V Abbe Suger, in Archives Lit.de V Europe (Par. 
1807), vol. xiv and xv ; Carnc, Etudes sur les Fondateurs 
de V Unite Nat. en France (ibid. 1848), vol. i; Combes, 
Ij Abbe Suger (ibid. 1853); monk Wilhelm’s (a contem- 
porary) biography of Suger, in Guizot, Coll, des Me- 
moires, vol. viii. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Suggestum, or Suggestio (a desk), a name 
frequently given to the benut, or sanctuary, of a 
church. 

SUGGESTITM Lectorum, one of several names 
given to the A.mbo (q. v.), or reader's desk. 

Sugiii from T^D), or pairs, is a Masoretic 

term to denote groups of words which occur in one sec- 
tion several times, once in this connection and once in 
another connection. These instances having been no- 
ticed by the Masorites, they arranged them into *paiO, 
or pairs. Thus the Massorct Finalis gives under the 
letter lie (p. 210, col. 1) “eleven pairs, each one of which 
pair alternately occurs with an audible He ( = Mappik) 
and with a quiescent He (=Raphe):” e. g.'mD'S 
(Prov. xxxi, 10) and {T"C*2 (Gen. xxv, 31); pnroi 
(Lev. xiii, 20) and ms'lL 4 ! (ver. 4). Or the Masorites 
tell us of “ twenty-two words beginning and ending with 
Far, each one of which occurs twice: once Milra, or 
with Far conjunctive, and once Milel, or with Vav con- 
versive,” as (Gen. xli, 35) and I'HIXTI (Exod. 

viii, 10); lormi (xxviii, 28) and 103mi (xxxix, 21). 
They tell us that “there are four groups of words, each 
of which occurs twice in the same book: once with a 
word less and a letter more, and once with a word more 
and a letterless.” The tirst of such a pair is “Jehovah, 
thy God. thou shalt fear, and him thou shalt serve” 
(Dent, vi, 13); the second, “Jehovah, thy God, thou 
shalt fear, him thou shalt serve, and to him” (x, 20), 
which will be best illustrated by the Hebrew-, viz. : 

rizrr irNi amn -pnbx mm rx (Deut. vi, 13 ). 
121 ‘ism irx smr -pnbx mm rx (Deut. x, 20). 

They enumerate instances in which four words occur 
twice in the same sentence, once with the negative 
particle SO and once without it, as SO (Gen. 

xxiii, II) and (ver. 15), or Stb (Lev. xiii, 4) 
and "j2n (ver. 20). They mention five pairs of words 


suicei 


12 


SULLIVAN" 


which respectively occur once with, the J'V/r conjunc- 
tive and once without it, as 'i'-I (Josh, xix, 7) 
and V-~> V" 1 (xv, 82); “ = (Exod. i, 3) 

and ‘p'-T. (den. xxxv, 28). Without in- 

creasing the number the reader is referred to Frensdorlf 
(AFassoru Mayna , p. 339 sq.), where, under the heading 
■piVT, these pairs are given in aljdiahetical order. A 
complete list of the above-quoted instances is given by 
FreusdorlT in his Ochht-vc-Ochlu , p. 14. 52, § 42; p. 14, 52 
sq., § 45; p. 133, § 232; p. 13*, § 250; p. 18*. £ 251 ; and 
in Levitn, Massoreth Hammasoreth (ed. Ginsb.), p. 17*. 
207,212,223,229. (B. I'.) 

Suicer, Johann Caspar, the author of the 'Hu- 
snu ms ICcclesiastivus. was born June 2(5, 1020. lie was 
educated in Zurich, Montauban, and Saumtir. In 1043 
he returned to Zurich, and became pastor in the Thur- 
gan, but was recalled in 1044 to the schools of the for- 
mer city. In 1040 he became inspector of the alumnate 
and professor of Hebrew, ten years afterwards professor 
of Creek and Latin in the Collegium Uumauitatis, and in 
1000 professor of Greek and canon in the superior col- 
lege {Carolinuni). lie remained in this position until 
10*3, and died Dec. 29, 10*4. 

Suicer rendered valuable service to theology hv his 
thorough philological labors. Mis earliest works were 
text-books for students: Sylloye Yocum Xori Test. (Tig. 
104*, and 1039 with appended com pend of Greek pros- 
ody; republished in 1744 by Ilagenbnch ): — Syntaxeos 
Gnectr, etc. (1051 ) : — ’EpTrvpeiqtara Knoefittac, quo elute 
Ckrysostomi et Jute /> asilii M. FFomihr Continent ur. etc. 
(1058 and 1G*1): — |)oh. Frisii Tigurini Dirt. FmCuio- 
(Jernu et Germ.- 1 Ait. ( 1001 sip ): — Commenii 1 'cstibul. 
S cholariun Usui Jelicim Accommotlutum , etc. (1005) : — 
finally, the celebrated Thesaurus Eccles. (Amst. 10*2. 2 
vols. fol. ; two enlarged eds. 172* and 1*21, with supple- 
ments) : — F, exicon Grteco-FAit. et Lat.-Cnecum (10*8): — 
and, after Suicer’s death, the Symbol. Xiarno-Const, et ex 
Antiquitate Eccles. I Unstratum (Traj. ad l*h. 1 7 18, -1 to). 
Various other writings were left in manuscript, and the 
Lexicon Crtrc, Majus and Expos it io Symbol, et A post, et 
Atkauusiani are lost. Suicer’s learning in these works, 
particularly the Thesaurus , is so evident that Charles 
Putin, in his Travels , observes that Suicer understood 
more Greek than all the Greeks taken together. 

Suicer took but little part in the doctrinal contro- 
versies of his day. lie regretted their existence, and 
assisted his friend Heidegger in securing a modifica- 
tion of the Formula Consensus . — Herzog, 1 leal- fancy Flop. 
s. v. See IIklvktic Consensus. 

Suicide (Lat. sui. one’s self, and credere, to kill) is 
defined as the killing of one’s self with malice afore- 
thought, and while in the possession of a sound mind. 
It is known in the law as felo de se, and is considered 
felony. In the early Church suicides were called fiio- 
( biothanati ), from ollering violence to them- 
selves. Because suicide was a crime that could have 
no penance imposed upon it. the Church denied the sui- 
cide the honor and solemnity of a Christian burial, and 
allowed him to lie excommunicated and deprived of all 
memorial in her prayers after death. In England this 
crime was punished not only with forfeiture of goods 
and chattels, like other felonies, but the body of the sui- 
cide was buried in the night at the crossings of two 
highways with a stake driven through the body. This 
ancient rule was repealed l>v Statute 4 George IV, e. 51, 
and now the burials take place in a churchyard, but be- 
between 9 and 12 P.M. 

Suicide is now generally considered a symptom of 
some form of insanity, permanent or temporary, in which 
the emotions and passions are excited or perverted. 
The following statistics respecting suicides are from 
Chambers's Encyclopedia, s. v. : “In the kingdom of 
Sweden there is calculated to lie 1 suicide to every 
92.375 inhabitants; in Saxony, 1 to *44(5; in Pussia. I 
to 34,240; in the United States, 1 to 15,000; in Paris, 1 


to 2700; in St. Petersburg and London, 1 to 21.000. In 
all England the proportion of suicides is 7.4 to every 
100,000 people.” See Winslow. A natomy of Suicide; 
Brierre de lioismont. I>u Suicide et tie la Eolie Suicirle; 
Bertrand, Trade tin Suicide; Radclitte, Enylish Suicide 
J'itlds; Medical Critic , 1*02. 

Sukkali. See Tai.mii>. 

Suk'kiim (lleb. SuHiyim ', C'l'Sp, booth -dwellers 
[Gesen.] or inhabitants of Sole [Fiirst] ; Sept. TpwyXo- 
ci'rat ; Vulg. Troylodyta ; A. V. “ Sukkiims”), a nation 
mentioned (2 Cliron. xii, 3) with the Eubim and 
Cusliim as supplying part of the army which came 
with Shishak out of Egypt when he invaded Judah. 
If the name he Hebrew, it may perhaps be better to 
suppose them to have been an Arab tribe like the 
Seei line than Ethiopians. If it is borne in mind that 
Zerah was apparently allied with the Arabs south of 
Palestine [see Zisuaii], whom we know Shishak to 
have subdued [see Shishak], our conjecture does not 
, seem to be improbable. The Sukkiim may correspond 
to some one of the shepherd or wandering races men- 
tioned on the Egyptian monuments, hut we have not 
I found any name in hieroglyphics resembling their name 
| in the Bible, and this somewhat favors the opinion that 
it is a Sliernitic appellation. — Smith, The Sept, and 
Vulg. render Troylodytes , apparently meaning the Ethi- 
opians by that name, who lived on the western shore of 
the Arabian Gulf (Strabo, xvii, 7*0), who might have 
been employed as fleet and light-armed auxiliaries of 
the Egyptians (Ileliod. +Eth. viii, 16). Pliny (vi. 34) 
mentions a Troglodvtic city in this direction called 
Suche (see Bochart, Phaley, iv, 29). See Ethiopia. 

Suleviae, a kind of wood-goddesses among the an- 
cient Gauls, who are known to ns only from an inscrip- 
tion in bas-relief found near Lausanne, which includes 
throe female figures whose hands are filled with fruit. — 
Vollmer, Wbrterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Sullivan, Daniel N. V., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, South, was licensed as a local 
preacher in Alabama in 1*33. In 1838 he removed to 
Texas, and engaged in teaching. In 1*10 he was re- 
ceived on trial into the Texas Conference, and served 
the Church as pastor and presiding elder until his death, 
at 1 louston, Feb. 20, 1817. He was a minister of a high 
order of talents, and especially eminent for his ability in 
defining and defending the doctrines of the Bible. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences of the M. E. Church , 
South , 1847, p. 90. 

Sullivan, Lott Bumpus, a Congregational min- 
ister, was born at Wa reham. Mass., June 27, 1790, and 
was a graduate of Brown University in the class of 
1814. For some time after leaving college he had 
charge of the Academy in Wrentham, Mass., at the 
same time reading theology with the liev. Otis Thomp- 
son of liehoboth, Mass. Having completed his theolog- 
ical studies, lie went to Ohio, and was ordained pastor 
of the Congregational Church in the town of Lyme in 
that state. Here be remained about six years. Sub- 
sequently be resided for ten years and more in West- 
ern New York as a missionary in the service of the 
American Home Missionary Society, and performed a 
most, acceptable work in preaching to several churches 
in that newly settled region, lie did a like service in 
sparsely settled sections of New Hampshire and Ver- 
mont. For several years he resided at Shiitesbury, 
Mass., preaching as opportunity presented. He died 
at Fall Biver, Mass., March 1, 1801. See the Cony. 
Quarterly , 1801, p. 210. (J. C. S.) 

Sullivan, Samuel B., a minister of the Method- 
ist Episcopal Church, was born Jan. 27, 1825, and was 
converted at the age of eleven. In 1*40 he was licensed 
to preach, and at the next session of the Erie Conference 
was received on trial. 1 1 is ministry, though marked 
with many conversions, was short, for he died April 9, 
1*53. He was a man of more than ordinary powers of 


SULLY 


13 


SULZER 


mind— fervent, forcible, sublime, and generally powerful 
in his preaching. See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 
1853, p. 248. 

Sully, Maurice de, a French prelate, was born 
at Sully -sur-Loire, about the middle of the J2th cen- 
tury, of obscure parentage. Having acquired an educa- 
tion through charity, he taught letters and theology in 
Paris, and was at length made canon of the Cathedral 
of Botirgcs, and eventually of that of Paris, to the bish- 
opric of which he finally attained by some means. lie 
greatly enlarged the edifices, honors, and emoluments 
of that see, and died Sept. 11, 1190, leaving Letters, Set'- 
mons, and a French translation of’the New Testament 
(Lyons, 1 51 1, 8vo). See Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Gen. s. v. 

Sully, Odon (or Eudes) de, a French prelate, was 
born about 1165 at La Chapellc d’Angillon ( Her ri), be- 
ing the son of Eudes Archambaud, lord of Sully, lie 
was educated at Paris, and in 1184 became singer at the 
Cathedral of Bourges. In 1 187 he visited Borne, and in 
1196 succeeded his brother Maurice as bishop of Paris, a 
see which he is said by Pierre de Illois to have adminis- 
tered with great fidelity, but by others in a mercenary 
manner. He took the pope’s part in the ecclesiastical 
quarrels of his country at the time, and was compelled 
to flee, leaving his property to be confiscated by the 
crown, but was eventually restored with additional hon- 
ors. A council of Paris was held under him by the pa- 
pal legate in 1201 ; he laid the foundation of Porrois, af- 
terwards famous as Port-Royal ; and he preached a cru- 
sade against the Albigcnses. He died at Paris, July 
13, 1208. See Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Gene rale, s. v. 

Sulphur is designated in Heb. as n“H£ Z.gophrith 
(A. V. “brimstone”), and in Greek $tton (Plutarch, 
Sympos . iv, 2, 3). In the Scriptures it is very frequent- 
ly associated with “fire:” “The Lord rained upon Sod- 
om and Gomorrah brimstone and fire out of heaven” 
(Gen. xix, 24; see also Psa. xi, 6; Ezek. xxxviii, 22). 
In Job xviii, 15 and Isa. xxx, 33 “brimstone” occurs 
alone, but no doubt in a sense similar to that in the fore- 
going passages, viz. as a synonymous expression with 
lightning, as has been observed by Le Clerc ( Dissert . de 
Sodomaz Subversione, Commentario Pentateuch A djecta, 
§ iv), Miehaelis, Rosenmiiller, and others. There is a 
peculiar sulphurous odor which is occasionally perceived 
to accompany a thunder-storm. The ancients draw par- 
ticular attention to it: see Pliny (Hist. Xat. xxxv, 15), 
“Fulmina ac fulgura quoque sulphuris odorem habent 
Seneca ( Q. Xat. ii, 53), and Pcrsius (Sat. ii, 24, 25). 
Hence the expression in the sacred writings “fire and 
brimstone” to denote a storm of thunder and lightning. 
The stream of brimstone in Isa. xxx, 33 is, no doubt, as 
Lee (//eft. Lex. p. 123) has well expressed it, “ a rushing 
stream of lightning.” From Dent, xxix, 23,“ The whole 
land thereof is brimstone . . . like the overthrow of 
Sodom,” it would appear that native sulphur itself is al- 
luded to (see also Isa. xxxiv, 9). Sulphur is found at 
the present time in different parts of Palestine, but in 
the greatest abundance on the borders of the Dead Sea. 
“ We picked up pieces,” says Dr. Robinson (Bibl. Res. ii, 
221), “ as large as a walnut near the northern shore, and 
the Arabs said it was found in the sea near ’Ain el- 
Feshkhah in lumps as large as a man’s fist: they find 
it in sufficient quantities to make from it their own gun- 
powder.” See Irby and Mangles ( Travels, p. 453 ), 
Burckhardt ( Travels , p. 394), who observes that the 
Arabs use sulphur in diseases of their camels, and Shaw 
(Travels, ii, 159). There are hot sulphurous springs on 
the eastern coast of the ancient Callirrhoe (Irby and 
Mangles, Travels, p. 467 ; Robinson, Bibl. Res. ii, 222). 
The pieces of sulphur, varying in size from a nutmeg to 
a small hen's egg, which travellers pick up on the shore 
of the Dead Sea, have, in all probability, been disinte- 
grated from the adjacent limestone or volcanic rocks 
and washed up on the shores. Sulphur was much used 
by the Greeks and Romans in their religious purifica- 
tions (Juv. ii, 157 ; Pliny, xxxv, 15); hence the Greek 


word Shov, lit. “the divine thing,” was employed to 
express this substance. Sulphur is found nearly pure 
in different parts of the world, and generally in volcanic 
districts. It exists in combination with metals and in 
various sulphates: it is very combustible, and is used 
in the manufacture of gunpowder, matches, etc. Pliny 
(loc.cit.) says one kind of sulphur was employed “ad 
ellychnia couficienda.” — Smith. See Bunt stone. 

Sulpicians, or Priests of tiie Society of St. 
Sclrice. This society was founded in the parish of 
St. Sulpice, Paris, in 1645, by Jean Jacques Olier dc Yer- 
neuil. The act founding the society was dated Sept. 6, 
1645, and was immediately sanctioned by the authori- 
ties. The society is specially devoted to the training 
of candidates for the priesthood, and is formed into two 
bands, one devoted to parish work and the other to teach- 
ing. Being warmly befriended by St. Vincent de Paul, 
the Sulpicians soon established themselves in nearly all 
the dioceses of France, and took the ehief part in the edu- 
cation of the French clergy down to the Revolution of 
1789. They were suppressed by Napoleon in 1812, but 
were restored by Louis XVIII. In 1636 Olier formed a 
company for colonizing the island of Montreal, who pur- 
chased it in 1640, sent out Sieur de Maisonneuve with 
priests and nuns in 1641, and transferred their proprie- 
torship to the Sulpicians in 1656. In 1657 the Sul- 
picians De Queylus, Souard, and Galinier took posses- 
sion of the island, but their claims were resisted, and a 
conflict of jurisdiction arose which had not been settled 
as late as the early part of 1876. In 1668 the Sulpi- 
cians Francois de Fenelon and Claude Trouve' founded 
the first Iroquois mission at the western extremity of 
Lake Ontario, but their labors were confined principally 
to the Indians near Montreal. In Montreal, in addition 
to the seminary attached to the Church of Notre Dame, 
founded in 1657, they possess the Theological Seminary, 
the Preparatory Seminary, or “ College of Montreal,” 
founded in 1773, and several other sneeursal churches 
with their residences. Invited bv bishop Carroll in 
April, 1791, a band of four Sulpieians and three Semina- 
rians, headed by Francois Charles Nagot, sailed for Bal- 
timore, Md., where they formed for a time the clergy of 
the cathedral. Some of their number went to teach in 
the Georgetown College, and founded the St. Mary’s 
I'heological Seminary, Baltimore, with a college or pre- 
paratory school. Pope Gregory XVI raised the semi- 
nary to the rank of a university. The collegiate school 
was removed to Ellicott City. Howard Co., in 1849, and 
suppressed in 1852. See Appletons ’ Cyclop, s. v. 

Sulpicius Severfs. See Severus. SuLnciFS. 

Suiter, in Norse mythology, was the knife of the 
wicked Hela. The word signifies devouring hunger. 

Sulzer, Simon, an avowed adherent and advocate 
of the Lutheran view of the Lord’s supper in Switzer- 
land during the period of the Reformation.* He was 
born Sept. 22, 1508— the illegitimate child of a provost 
of Interlachen, After previous vicissitudes, he was rec- 
ommended by Berthold Haller (q. v.) to the Council of 
Berne, and was thus enabled to pursue his studies at 
the expense of the public treasury, which he did at 
Basle and Strasburg. He subsequently became a teach- 
er of ancient languages, and was employed in establish- 
ing schools throughout the canton of Berne. When 
llallcr died he was deputed to Strasburg to negotiate 
the call of a successor. He took zealous part with the 
Strasburg theologians in their attempts at mediation, 
and even (in 1538) visited Saxony and had an interview 
with Luther. Having been won over to the position 
of Luther, Sulzer steadily persevered in defending the 
Lutheran view of the sacrament; at first in Berne, as 
professor of dialectics and rhetoric and subsequently of 
theology, as well as in the pulpit; and afterwards, be- 
ginning in 1548, at Basle, where he became pastor of 
St. Peter’s, and in 1552 professor of Hebrew. In 1553 
he became the successor of "Myconius in the cathedral, 
and chief pastor of Basle, and with these dignities he 


SUMEHU 


14 


SUMMER-HOUSE SILVEI 


united in 1554 a professorship of theology. In 15(53 he 
acquired the theological doctorate: ami he tilled, in ad- 
dition, the position of superintendent of Ildtelu under 
the margrave Charles of Radon. 

Sulzer entertained the hold project of inducing the 
Church of Basle to subscribe to the Form of Concord, 
and to refuse the acceptance of the second Helvetic 
Confession of 15G6. Sec Helvetic Confession, lie 
succeeded in causing the omission of explanatory notes 
from future publications of the first Helvetic Confession 
(of 1534), and in limiting its influence. Sulzer’s views 
on the sacrament are given in the confession which he 
instigated the burgomaster of BrUnn to issue in 1578 
(sec llagcnbach, G esch. d. ersten Baskr Confession). He 
was also successful in persuading the authorities to per- 
mit the use of the organ in the churches and on holi- 
days, and the ringing of the so-called “ pope's hell” (a gift 
from Felix V). lie died June 22, 1585. The archives 
of the Church of Basle and Sulzer’s family papers fell 
into the hands of his heirs, and were partially lost. His 
successor, J. J. Grynanis, promoted the Reformed the- 
ology, but Sulzer’s arrangements with regard to organ 
ami bell still continue in force. 

See llerzog, A then, llaur, p. 2fi, where a catalogue of 
Sulzer's writings may he found; 1 limdeshagen. Conjlikte 
lies Z icingl inn ism us, Lnthertlmms u. Cidrinismns (Berne, 
1842), p. 105 s<].; Kirchhofer, Berth. Haller (Basle, 1 M*27) , 
llagcnbach, Die. theoloy . Schnle Basel's, etc. (18G0); 
Tholuek, in Gesch. d. aktuhan. Lebens im 17 ten Jtilirh. 
p. 321 sq. — Herzog. Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Sumeru (or Mem), the north polo, a mountain of 
gold and precious stones on which dwell the genii and 
gods. 

Summanus, an Etruscan and Roman divinity, I he 
god of the nightly sky, the lightning-darter of the night, 
as Jupiter was of the day. 1 1 is temple stood near the 
Circus Maximus, and a representation of him in clay 
was given in the pediment of the Cnpitoline temple. 
Whenever a tree was struck by lightning in the night, 
the A real brothers would oiler a black ram to Summa- 
nus (Pliny, II. X. ii, 53; August. De Cir. Dei. iv. 23; 
Yarro, De Liny. Lat. v, 74 ; Livy, xxxii, 29 ; Ovid, Fast. 
vi, 731 ; Cicero, De Dir. i, 10, etc.). 

Summer is the invariable rendering in the A. Y. 
of the Hel>. kdyits (Chald. kdyit, Dan. ii, 35; 
New Test. Sepoq, heat), which properly signifies harvest 
of fruits (not of grain, which is “*^p), strictly t he cut- 
t lay-off of the fruit (Isa. xvi,9; Jor. viii, 20 ; xlviii,32); 
specially Jig-harvest, which in Palestine takes place in 
August, although the early figs ripen at the 

summer solstice (Isa. xxviii. 4 ; Mie. v ii. 1); hence the 
harvest-time of figs, i. e. summer, especially midsummer, 
the hottest season (Psa. xxxii, 4; the droughts of sum- 
mer, Prov. vi, 8; x, 5; xxvi, 1 . xxx,35; the summer- 
house, Amos iii, 15) ; also fruit, specially Jigs, as harvest- 
ed (viii, 1, 2; comp. Jer. xxiv, 1 sq.). See Agricult- 
ure: Fig; Harvest; Palestine; Season. 

Summerfield, John, a distinguished divine and 
minister of the Methodist Episcopal Church, was born 
at Preston, England, Jan. 31. 1798. II is father was 
a local preacher in the Wesleyan Methodist connec- 
tion in England, and he educated his son in those re- 
ligious principles which governed his own heart and 
life. At a suitable age he was put under the tuition of 
the Moravian Academy at Fairfield, near Manchester, 
where he gave early indications of that precocious gen- 
ius for which he was afterwards so eminently distin- 
guished. In. 1810 he taught a night-school in order to 
aid his father, who had become embarrassed. Before 
lie was fifteen he became clerk in a mercantile house in 
Liverpool, conducting the French correspondence. He 
now, through moral weakness, fell into evil habits anil 
company, and had also an intense passion for listening 
to eloquent speakers, whether in the pulpit, the senate- 
house, at t he bar, or on the stage. He would at times 


shut himself up in his room and study intently for six- 
teen hours out of the twenty-four with insufficient nour- 
ishment. This, together with the terrible remorse he 
suffered, seriously and permanently injured his consti- 
tution. Establi>hed in the coni trade by bis father, he 
was so discontented and neglectful that he brought 
poverty and distress upon his father’s family, and was 
himself thrown into the, Marshalsea of Dublin. Here 
lie employed himself in drawing up the necessary me- 
morials of his fellow -prisoners, and was so successful 
that he continued in this business for some time after 
his release. In 1817, in great distress and almost de- 
spair, he was led by a plain Methodist, mechanic to ser- 
vices, and the same night found peace, lie became the 
principal of a “praying association” which exercised in 
public, and in April, 1818, took his place among the local 
preachers, lie was received on trial in the Methodist 
Conference of Ireland in 1819, emigrated to America in 
March, 1821, and was received on trial in the New York 
Conference. His first appearance in public after his 
arrival in New York was at the anniversary of the 
American Bible Society, and bis speech on that occa- 
sion produced a wonderful effect, and was regarded as 
one. of the very highest efforts of platform eloquence. 
The following June he was admitted into the Troy Con- 
ference. lie entered on his labors in New Y’ork city, 
where the churches could not contain the audiences 
that desired to hear him. Persons of all professions 
and classes of society were attracted by the fame of his 
eloquence, and expressed their admiration of the pow- 
er with which he enchained them to the words that 
dropped from his lips. He continued to preach to large 
audiences until early in June, 1822, when his ministra- 
tions were suspended by the failure of his health. De- 
siring a milder climate, he was appointed delegate from 
the American Bible Society to the Protestant Bible So- 
ciety in France. He returned to America, April 19, 
1824, but was unable to perform regular service, and 
was appointed by the Missionary Board of the Phila- 
delphia Conference to travel in Pennsylvania and New 
Jerseyan d to take up collections. He united with min- 
isters of other denominations in forming the American 
Tract Society, and his last public act was an eloquent 
address at its organization. He died June 13. 1825. 
Mr. Summerfield was very famous as a pulpit orator; 
naturally eloquent, deeply devoted to the cause of Cod, 
possessed of great command of language and of a rich 
| stock of the most useful knowledge, whenever he spoke 
in the name of God he poured forth from a heart 
overflowing with the kindliest feelings a stream of 
evangelical truth which melted his audiences. A "god- 
ly sincerity” was evidently the pervading principle of 
his heart, and a tone of simplicity characterized his 
style of preaching. James Montgomery, the poet, said 
of his discourses that “the sermons are less calculated 
for instantaneous effect than for abiding usefulness.” 
II is only publication was, .4 Discourse on Behalf of the 
. AY iv York Institution for the instruction of the Deaf 
| and Dumb (1822). After his death appeared, Sermons , 
and Sketches of Sermons , by Rev. John Summerfield , A . 
M.,v‘ith an Introduction by Rev. Thomas K. Bond. M.l). 
(N. Y. 1842, Svo). Sec Holland, Memoir of Snnimerf eld's 
I Life and Ministry (1829, 8vo; 2d ed. 1830, 8vo; N. Y. 

I 8vo ; reviewed by L. Bacon in the A mer. Quar. Rev. vii, 
141 ; Christ. Quar. Spec, ii, 1 18); bis Life by Rev. Will- 
iam M. Willett (Phila. 8vo) ; Sprague, Annals of the 
A mer. Pulpit, vii, G39-G54; Fish, Pulpit Eloquence 
(1857), ii, 539 ; Waterbury, Sketches of Eloquent Preach - 
j ers (1804, 12mo) ; AUibone, Did. of Brit, and A mer. A u- 
thors, s. v. ; Bangs, Hist, of the M. E. Church, iii, 324- 
329; Minutes of Annual Conferences, i, 508; Simpson, 
Cyclop, of Methodism, s. v. (J. L. S.) 

Summer-house Silver, a payment made in the 
medieval ages by certain tenants of abbeys to the ab- 
bot or prior, in lieu of providing a temporary summer 
habitation for him when he came from a distance to 
inspect the property.— Lee, Gloss, of Liturg. Terms , s. v. 


SUMMERS 


15 


SUMPTUARY LAWS 


Summers, William, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Fairfax County, Va., 
in September, 1796. He joined the Church in Lees- 
burgh, O., and in 1832 was admitted on trial in the 
Pittsburgh Conference. In 1831 he was ordained dea- 
con, and in 1813 received a supernumerary relation; but 
his health improving, he was made effective at the 
next conference. In 1853 he was again placed on the 
supernumerary list, and that relation continued until 
terminated by death, which came to him in Martinville, 

0. , March 29, 1855. lie was kind, courteous, and hon- 
orable in his deportment, calm and tirm in his purpose, 
steadfast in his friendship, and faithful and successful 
as a minister. See Minutes of A mtual Conferences , 1855, 
p. 568. 

Summerville, John, a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born in the County of Tyrone, Ireland, March 

1, 1782. He enjoyed early religious training, was re- 
ceived on trial in the Baltimore Conference in 1812, 
and tilled the following appointments: Trumbull, Tus- 
carawas, Hinkstone, Oxford, Shenango, Letart Falls, 
Mansfield, Chautauqua, liidgeway, Paint Creek, Erie, 
Youngstown. Deerfield, Lisbon, Canton, Hartford, Butler, 
Mercer, Centreville, Kittanning, Elizabeth, Waynesburg, 
and Birmingham. In 1836 he was made a superannu- 
ate. He died Oct. 6, 1850. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences , iv, 602. 

Summis Desiderantes Affectibus is the title 
of the bull issued by pope Innocent VIII wherein he 
informed the Germans that their country was overrun 
by witches, and appointing two inquisitors, Henry 
Kriimer and Jacob Sprenger, for their destruction. See 
Kurtz, Church Hist, i, § 115,2. 

Summists, or Summistae, a name given to 
those scholastic divines of the Middle Ages who pro- 
pounded their dogmas in works called Sunanee Theo- 
logies. This name was first adopted from the Sinnma 
Universes Theologies of Alexander Hales, whose renown 
was eclipsed by that of Albertus Magnus. He was, in 
turn, surpassed by his disciple Thomas Aquinas, who 
published his famous work on divinity under the title 
of Summa Totius Theologies , and thereby greatly low- 
ered the estimation in which the Book of Sentences, 
written by Peter Lombard, was held. See Van Ooster- 
zee, Christ. Dogmat . i, 32. 

Summus Sacerdos (Lat. for chief priest), a name 
given to bishops when it had become the fashion, in the 
3d century, to deduce the institution of the ecclesiasti- 
cal hierarchy from the priests and services of the Tem- 
ple of Jerusalem. Homish writers apply the title ex- 
clusively to the pope of Borne. 

Sumner, John Bird, an English prelate, was the 
eldest son of the Rev. R. Sumner, A.M., many years 
vicar of Kenilworth and Stoneley, in the County of 
Warwick, and was born at his father’s parsonage house 
at Kenilworth in 1780. lie was sent at an early age to 
Eton, where he was nominated to a king’s scholarship, 
and, having spent several years on that royal founda- 
tion, he passed in the usual course to King’s College, 
Cambridge, of which he became successively scholar 
and fellow. Not long after having completed his aca- 
demical course, Mr. Sumner was invited to return as 
assistant master to Eton, where he remained for sever- 
al years. During this time he was ordained deacon 
and priest. He was preferred, about 1820, to the rec- 
tory of Maple-Durham, a pleasant and retired village on 
the banks of the Thames, a few miles above Reading. 
In 1820 Mr. Sumner was promoted by the ministry of 
the earl of Liverpool to a canonry in the Cathedral of 
Durham, which he held for many years, together with 
his rectory of Maple-Durham. In 1828 the see of Ches- 
ter became vacant, and canon Sumner, having just re- 
ceived his D.D. from Cambridge, was consecrated bish- 
op in due form. The bishopric being then but poorly 
endowed, he was allowed to retain the canonry of Dur- 


ham, but his views would not allow him to retain the 
rectory of Maple-Durham. While Dr. Sumner held the 
bishopric of Chester, the Oxford movement commenced 
and came to a head. From the time that the war cry 
of Anglo-Catholicisra was first sounded in 1833 down to 
his death, bishop Sumner has ever been among the first 
and the foremost to denounce the dishonesty of the 
Tractarian school of theology. In his charges, in ad- 
dresses, in sermons, he ever and again denounced the 
Tractarian doctrines and ritual. In the early part of 
1848 lord John Russell, who held the post of premier 
at the time, offered the archbishopric of Canterbury to 
Dr. Sumner. The offer was accepted, and, much to the 
satisfaction of the evangelical portion of the Establish- 
ed Church, he was translated from Chester to Canter- 
bury. In 1850. occurred the memorable event called 
the “Papal Aggression.” To that measure of the pope, 
by which England was portioned out into Roman Cath- 
olic dioceses with prelates set over each, archbishop 
Sumner offered that opposition which was to have been 
expected, and he denounced the measure in terms of 
more than usual energy. His grace, as we learn from 
the “ Peerage,” was “ primate of all England and met- 
ropolitan, one of the lords of her majesty’s privy coun- 
cil, a governor of the Charterhouse, and visitor of Mer- 
ton and All -Souls’ colleges at Oxford, as well as of 
King’s College, London, of Dulwich College, and of St. 
Augustine’s College, Canterbury,” and he enjoyed the 
patronage of no less than one hundred and sixtv-nine 
livings. lie was also most discreet and blameless in 
the distribution of his clerical patronage, bestowing his 
best livings on the most exemplary and painstaking of 
his clergy. He died Sept. 6, 1862. His works are, Essay 
on the 1'rophecies, etc. (Loud. 1802, Svo) : — -Apostolical 
Preaching (1815, Svo; 9th ed. Loud. 1850, 8vo) : — Rec- 
ords of Creation, etc. (1816, 1817, 1818, 1825, 1833, 1838, 
2 vols. 8vo; 7 th ed. 1850, Svo): — Evidences of Chris- 
tianity Derived from its Nature , etc. (Loud. 1824, Svo; 
N. Y. 1825, 12mo) : — Sermons and Lectures (1827-59). 

Sumner, Joseph, D.D., a Congregational divine, 
was born at Pomfret, Conn., Jan. 19, 1740. He gradu- 
ated at Yale College in 1759, was ordained pastor of 
the Church at Shrewsbury, Mass., June 23, 1762, and 
died Dec. 9, 1824. During a period of sixtv-two years, 
he was never absent from the stated communion of his 
Church. He published, A Sermon at the Ordination of 
Samuel Sumner (1791) : — A Thanksgiving Sermon (1799) : 
— A Half-century Sermon (1812). See Alii bone, Diet, 
of Brit, and A mer. Authors, s. v.; Sprague, Annals of 
the Amer . Pulpit, iv, 630, note; Cong. Quarterly, 1859, 
p. 42. 

Sumption, Tiiomas. a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Cecil County, Md., Dec. 
5, 1802. He was converted in 1819, licensed as a local 
preacher in 1828. and in 1838 was received oil trial into 
the Philadelphia Conference. He received a superan- 
nuated relation, in 1874, and died in Halifax, Dauphin 
Co., Pa., May 9, 1874. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences, 1875, p. 40. 

Sumptuary Laws. At an earl}' period Chris- 
tianity controlled domestic habits in a great variety of 
ways both in food and dress. Excesses were condemn- 
ed. Thus Clement of Alexandria says, “Other men, 
like the unreasoning animals, may live to eat; we have 
been taught to eat that we may live. For the nour- 
ishment of the body is not the work we have to do, nor 
is sensual pleasure the object of our pursuit, but rather 
the entrance into those mansions of incorruption whith- 
er the divine wisdom is guiding ns. \Ye shall there- 
fore eat simple food, as becomes children, and merely 
study to preserve life, not to obtain luxury. Great va- 
rieties of cookery are to be avoided. Antiphanes, the 
Delian physician, considers variety and research in 
cookery to be a main cause of disease; yet many have 
no taste for simplicity, and, in the vainglory of a fine 
table, make it their chief anxiety to have choice fish- 


sux 


16 


SUX 


es from beyond sea.” They might “use a little wine 
for the stomach’s sake,” as the apostle exhorted Tim- 
othy; “for it is good to bring the help of an astrin- 
gent to a languid constitution; but in small quantity, 
lest, instead of benefiting, it should be found to produce 
a fulness which would render other remedies needful ; 
since the natural drink of a thirsty man is water, and 
this simple beverage alone was supplied from the cleft 
rock by the Lord for the use of the Hebrews of old. . . . 
Water is the medicine of a wise temperance. Young 
men and maidens should, for the most part, forego wine 
altogether; for to drink wine during the boiling season 
of youth is adding tire to tire. . . . Those who require a 
mid-dav meal may eat bread altogether without wine, 
and, if thirsty, let them satisfy themselves with water 
only. In the evening at supper, when our studies are 
over and the air is cooler, wine may be used without 
harm perhaps, for it will but restore the lost warmth; 
but even then it should be taken very sparingly, until 
the chills of age have made it a useful medicine; and 
it is for the most part best to mix it with water, in 
which state it conduces most to health.” “Precious 
vases, rare to be acquired and ditlicnlt to be kept, are 
to be put away from among us,” says the same writer 
that we have been quoting. “Silver sgfas, silver ba- 
sins ami saucers, plates and dishes; beds of choice 
woods decorated with tortoise-shell and gold, with cov- 
erlets of purple and costly stuffs, are to be relinquished 
in like manner. The Lord ate from a humble dish, and 
reclined with his disciples on the grass, and washed 
their feet, girded with a towel. Our food, our utensils, 
and whatever else belongs to onr domestic economy 
should be conformable to the Christian institutions.” 
■■ It is proper that both the woman and the man should 
come into the church decently dressed, with no studied 
steps, in silence, and with a mind trained to real benev- 
olence; chaste in body, chaste in heart, tilted to pray 
to God. Furthermore, it is right that the woman 
should be veiled, save when she is at home; for this is 
respectable and avoids offence.” “ It is enough to have 
the disposition which becomes Christian women,” says 
Tertullian. “ God looks on the heart. The outward ap- 
pearance is nothing. Wh v make a display of the change 
that has been wrought in usV Lather are we bound 
to furnish the heathen no occasion of blaspheming the 
Christian name, and accusing Christianity of being ir- 
reconcilable with national customs.” Yet he adds, 
“What reasons can you have for going about in gay 
apparel when you are removed from all with whom 
this is required? You do not go the round of the tem- 
ples; you ask fur no public shows; you have nothing 
to do with pagan festivals. You have no other than 
serious reasons for appearing abroad. It is to visit a 
sick brother, to be present at the communion or a ser- 
mon; and if offices of courtesy or friendship call you 
among the pagans, why not appear in your own pecul- 
iar armor, that so the difference may be seen between 
the servants of God and of Satan?” Sumptuary laws 
have been passed by the State and Church, generally, 
however, to be disregarded. Homan laws prohibited 
certain luxuries in dress and food, but they were all 
habitually transgressed in the later times of the lieptth- 
lic. Such laws were in great favor in t he legislation 
of England from the time of Edward III down to the 
Reformation (see statute 10 Edward III, c. 3, act 37 
Edward III). In France they were as old as Charle- 
magne, but the first attempt to restrict extravagance in 
dress was under Philip lY. Scotland had also a simi- 
lar class of statutes. In all these countries, however, 
these laws seem to have never been practically ob- 
served. Most of the English sumptuary laws were re- 
pealed by 1 James I, c. 25, but a few remained on the 
statute-book as late as 1850. 

Sun (prop. shemesh; i'fKtog). In the his- 

tory of the creation the sun is described as the “great- 
er light,” in contradistinction to the moon, or “lesser 


light,” in conjunction with which it was to serve “for 
signs, and for seasons, and for days, and for years,” 
while its special office was “to rule the day” (Gen. i, 
14-10). The "signs” referred to were probably such 
extraordinary phenomena as eclipses, which were re- 
garded as conveying premonitions of coming events 
(Jcr. x, 2; Matt, xxiv, 21), with Luke xxi, 25). The 
joint influence assigned to the sun and moon in de- 
ciding the “seasons,” both for agricultural operations 
and for religious festivals, and also in regulating the 
length and subdivisions of the “years," correctly de- 
scribes the combination of t he lunar and solar year, 
which prevailed, at all events, subsequently to the Mo- 
saic period — t lie moon being the measurer (t car' t£o- 
X>/r) of t he lapse of time by the subdivisions of months 
and weeks, while the sun was the ultimate regulator 
of the length of the year by means of t lie recurrence 
oft lie feast of Pentecost at a fixed agricultural season, 
viz. when the corn became ripe. The sun “ruled the 
day” alone, sharing the dominion of the skies with the 
moon, the brilliancy and utility of which for journeys 
and other purposes enhances its value in Eastern coun- 
tries. It “ruled t he day,” not only in reference to its 
powerful influences, but also as deciding tbo length of 
the day and supplying the means of calculating its 
progress. Sunrise and sunset are the only defined 
points of time, in the absence of artificial contrivances 
for telling the hour of the day; and, as these points are 
less variable in the latitude of Palestine than in many 
countries, they served the purpose of marking the com- 
mencement and conclusion of the working-day. Be- 
tween these two points the Jews recognised three pe- 
riods, viz. when the sun became hot, about 9 A.M. (1 
Sam. xi,9, Neh.vii,3); the double light, or noon (Gen. 
xliii, 1G ; 2 Sam. iv, 5) ; and “ the cool of the day,” short- 
ly before sunset (Gen. iii, 8). The sun also served to 
fix the quarters of the hemisphere — east, west, north, 
and south — which were represented respectively by the 
rising sun, the setting sun (Isa. xlv, G; Psa. 1, 1), the 
dark quarter (Gen. xiii, 14; Joel ii, 20), and the Brill- 
iant quarter (Dent, xxxiii, 23; Job xxxvii, 17 ; Ezck. 
xl,24); or otherwise by their position relative to a per- 
son facing the rising sun — before, behind, on the left 
hand, and on the right hand (Job xxiii, 8, 9). The 
apparent motion of the sun is frequently referred to in 
terms that would imply its reality (Josh, x, 13; 2 Kings 
xx, 11; Psa. xix, G; Eccles. i, 5; Ilab. iii, 11). The 
ordinary name for the sun, shemesh, is supposed to refer 
to the extreme brilliancy of its rays, producing stupor 
or astonishment in the mind of the beholder; the poeti- 
cal names H-Tj, chnmmah (Job xxx, 28; Cant. vi. 10; 
Isa. xxx, 2G), and D^n, ckeres (Judg. xiv, 18; Job ix, 
7) have reference to its heat, the beneficial effects of 
which are duly commemorated (Deut. xxxiii, 14; Psa. 
xix, t>) as well as its baneful influence when in excess 
(Psa. exxi, G; Isa. xlix, 10; Jonah iv, 8; Ecclns. xliii, 
3, 4\ The vigor with which the sun traverses the 
heavens is compared to that of a “bridegroom coming 
out of his chamber.” and of a “giant rejoicing to run 
his course” (Psa. xix, 5). The speed with which the 
beams of the rising sun dart across the sky is expressed 
in the term “wings” applied to them (Psa. cxxxix, 9; 
Mai. iv, 2). 

The worship of the sun as the most prominent and 
powerful agent in the kingdom of nature was widely 
diffused throughout the countries adjacent to Palestine. 
The Arabians appear to have paid direct worship to it 
without the intervention of any statue or symbol (Job 
xxxi. 2G, 27 ; Strabo, xvi. 784), and this simple style of 
worship was probably familiar to the ancestors of the 
Jews in Chaldica and Mesopotamia. In Egypt the sun 
was worshipped under the title of Re or Ra, and not, as 
was supposed by ancient writers, under the form of Osi- 
ris (Diod. Sic. i. 1 1 ; see Wilkinson, A nc. Egypt, i v, 289). 
The name came conspicuously forward as the title of 
the kings — Pharaoh, or rather Phra, meaning “the sun” 


SUN 


17 


SUNDANESE VERSION 


(Wilkinson, A nc. Egypt, iv, 287). The Hebrews must 
have been well acquainted with the idolatrous worship 
of the sun during the captivity in Egypt both from the 
contiguity of On, the chief seat of the worship of the 
sun as implied in the name itself (On = the Hebrew 
Bethshemesh, ‘’house of the sun,” Jer. xliii, 13), and 
also from the connection between Joseph and Poti-phe- 
rah (“ he who belongs to Ba”), the priest of On (Gen. 
xli, 45). After their removal to Canaan, the Hebrews 
came in contact with various forms of idolatry which 
originated in the worship of the sun — such as the Baal 
of the Phoenicians (Movers, Phon. i, 180), the Molech or 
M ileum of the Ammonites, and the lladad of the Syr- 
ians (Pliny, xxxvii, 71). These idols were, with the 
exception of the last, introduced into the Hebrew com- 
monwealth at various periods (Judg. ii, 11; 1 Kings 
xi. 5) ; but it does not follow that the object symbol- 
ized by them was known to the Jews themselves. If 
we have any notice at all of conscious sun-worship in 
the early stages of their history, it exists in the doubt- 
ful term chammanim (Lev. xxvi, 30 ; Isa. xvii, 

8, etc.), which was itself significant of the sun, and 
probably described the stone pillars or statues under 
which the solar Baal (Baal-1 laman of the Punic in- 
scriptions, Gesenius, Thesaur. i. 489) was worshipped at 
Baal-ilamon (Cant, viii, 11) and other places. Pure 
sun-worship appears to have been introduced by the 
Assyrians, and to have become formally established by 
Manasseh (2 Kings xxi, 8, 5), in contravention of the 
prohibitions of Moses (Deut. iv, 19; xvii, 3). Wheth- 
er the practice was borrowed from the Sepharvites of 
Samaria (2 Kings xvii, 31), whose gods Adrammelech 
and Anammelech are supposed to represent the male 
and female sun, and whose original residence (the He- 
liopolis of Berosus) was the chief seat of the worship 
of the sun in Babylonia (Bawlinson, Herod, i, 611), or 
whether the kings of Judah drew their model of wor- 
ship more immediately from the East, is uncertain. The 
dedication of chariots and horses to the sun (2 Kings 
xxiii, 11) was perhaps borrowed from the Persians (He- 
rod. i, 189; Curt, iii, 3, 11 ; Xenoph. Cyrop. viii, 3, 24), 
who honored the sun under the form of Mithras (Strabo, 
xv, 732). At the same time it should be observed that 
the horse was connected with the worship of the sun in 
other countries, as among the Massagetae (Herod, i, 
216) and the Armenians (Xenoph. Anab. iv, 5, 35), both 
of whom used it as a sacrifice. To judge from the few 
notices we have on the subject in the Bible, we should 
conclude that the Jews derived their mode of worship- 
ping the sun from several quarters. The practice of 
burning incense on the house-tops (2 Kings xxiii, 5, 
12; Jer. xix, 13; Zeph. i,5) might have been borrowed 
from the Arabians (Strabo, xvi, 784), as also the simple 
act of adoration directed towards the rising sun (Ezek. 
viii, 16; comp. Job xxxi,27). On the other hand, the 
use of the chariots and horses in the processions on fes- 
tival days came, as we have observed, from Persia ; 
and so also the custom of “putting the branch to the 
nose” (Ezek. viii, 17) according to the generally re- 
ceived explanation which identifies it with the Per- 
sian practice of holding in the left hand a bundle of 
twigs called Bersam while worshipping the sun (Strabo, 
xv, 733 ; Hyde, Rel. Pe?'s. p. 345). This, however, is 
very doubtful, the expression being otherwise under- 
stood of “ putting the knife to the nose,” i. e. producing 
self-mutilation (Hitzig, On Ezek.). An objection lies 
against the former view from the fact that the Per- 
sians are not said to have held the branch to the nose. 
The importance attached to the worship of the sun by 
the Jewish kings may be inferred from the fact that 
the horses were stalled within the precincts of the 
temple (the term * m \^3,parvar, meaning not “suburb,” 
as in the A. V., but either a portico or an outbuilding 
of the Temple). They were removed thence by Josiah 
(2 Kings xxiii, 11). See Sun, Worship of. 

in the metaphorical language of Scripture, the sun 
X.— B 


is emblematic of the law of God (Psa. xix, 7), of the 
cheering presence of God (Ixxxiv, 11), of the person 
of the Saviour (John i, 9; Mai. iv, 2), and of the glory 
and purity of heavenly beings (Rev. i, 16 ; x, 1 ; xii, 1). 
— Smith. 

See Meiner, Gesch. tier Relig. i, 387 sq. ; Nork, Ueb. d . 
Sonnencultus d. alt. Yolker (lleilbronn, 1840); Pococke, 
Spec . Hist. Arab. p. 5, 150; Jablonski, Opnsc. i, 187 sq. ; 
Dough ta* i A/wlect. i, 189; Hyde, He/. Vett. Persarum , 
p. 206 sq. ; Eichhorn, l)e Sole Invicto A I it hr a, in the 
Comment. Soc. (lotting, iii. 153 sq. ; Creuzer, Symbol. 
i, 738 sq.; iv, 409 sq. ; Bochart, llieroz. i, 141 sq. ; Ro- 
senm filler, A l urgent, iii, 249 sq.; Bose, De Josia Quad - 
riyas Solis Removente (Lips. 1741); Pocarus, De Simu- 
la cr is Solaribus Israelitarum (Jen. 1725); Gesenius, 
Alonumen. Pheemc. ii, 349. 

Sun, Children of (Armen.. 4 revurdis ), an Armenian 
sect which originated with Sembat,a Paulician. They 
were also called Throntrakians (or Tkrond radons ), from 
the village of Tlirontrake ( Throndfac ), where their 
Church was formed. Sembat, who originated in the 
province of Ararat, having entered into some connection 
with a certain Medsclmsic, a Persian physician and as- 
tronomer, was led, under his influence, to attempt a new 
combination of Parseeism and Christianity. This sect, 
though it met with no mercy from the bishops, contin- 
ually revived, and spread widely in Armenia. About 
1002 it made the most alarming progress, when it is said 
to have been joined by Jacob of liarkh. He gave a 
more distinctively Christian cast to its tenets; jour- 
neyed through the country, preaching repentance and 
inveighing against work-righteousness; and denounced 
the false confidence which was placed in masses, obla- 
tions, alms, and church-prayers Ibr the forgiveness ofsins. 
Finally, the Catholics of the Armenian Church, having 
secured his person, caused him to be branded with the 
heretical mark (a fox on the forehead), carried from 
place to place attended by a public crier to proclaim 
him a heretic, and finally killed him. See Kurtz, Church 
History , i, 71, 2; Neander, Church History , iii, 587. 

Sun, Worship of ( Heliolatry ). The worship of 
the great orb which insures to us light, warmth, and 
life is as ancient as history. It existed in the earliest 
ages among the Phoenicians, Egyptians, Persians, and 
Hindus, and later among the Greeks and Romans of the 
West, venerating its object under the different names 
of Helios or Sol, or of Baal, Osiris, or Mithras. Various 
forms of sacrifice and prayer characterized this worship 
among the different nations, but they agreed in regard- 
ing the sun as a mighty and superior deity who ruled 
the world with an independent authority more or less 
complete. The Greeks alone did not render higher 
honors to the sun than to the other gods regarded as 
of superior rank. All Eastern nations considered it as 
practically the supreme divinity. The Romans, too, 
maintained the worship of the sun after Heliogabalus 
had introduced it and had built a temple to Sol. — Voll- 
mer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. See Sun. 

Sunadi was a Hindu divinity, the ivife of Utanu- 
baden and mother of the famous Drnva, a saint who 
ruled the kingdom of his father during 26,000 years, 
and was then translated by Vishnu to the pole-star. 

Sundanese Version. Sunda is a dialect spoken 
in the west of the island of Java, near the Straits of 
Sunda, and prevails over the third of the island. The 
dialect belongs to the great Polynesian stock of lan- 
guages, and the difficulties in mastering the same are 
best described by the Rev. G. J. Grashius, who studied 
the language with a view of rendering the translation 
of the Scriptures as idiomatic as possible. Mr. Grashius 
writes thus to the British and Foreign Bible Society 
(60/^ Report , 1864, p. 30) : 

“You will not be surprised to hear that I have as yet 
obtained but little insight into the Sundanese language. 
And this is not exactly a consequence of the difficulty and 
exteut of the subject which is to be mastered— no, it is oc- 


SUNDAY 


18 


SUNDAY 


rationed by the form in which the matter presents itself. 
Propose to yourself to learn a language which represents 
itself to you as a sea in miniature, with all conceivable 
motions of swelling and floating objects. At one moment 
you see something, the next it disappears again; at one 
moment yon think you have got hold of something, and 
formed a right conception of it, and the next you perceive 
that you are mistaken. 

“The study of the Soudanese is, for the greatest part, 
made more difficult by the childishness which character- 
izes the language. There is no by-law in it, but yet such 
a composition of laws that a novice experiences an anx- 
ious feeling on tirst making acquaintance with it — anx- 
ious, namely, whether he will penetrate with pleasure into 
that childish form of thinking and speaking. The fear 
which at this point I entertained begins gradually to van- 
ish, and I hope soon to be able to speak and write the 
Soudanese well, if God will but bless and prosper my un- 
dertaking. 

“By-and-by I shall master the vocabulary; but in this 
I by no menus hurry myself, because otherwise I might 
easily take things for granted which, by a closer insight 
into matters and significations, I should he obliged to un- 
learn. To unlearn takes time, and is very unprofitable 
for the freshness of mind which is a first requisite for the 
study of the Soudanese language.” 

In 1870 the British and Foreign Bible Society’s Report 
shows the publication of the Gospel of St. Luke in the 
Sundanese, and this seems to be the only part printed 
by the British and Foreign Bible Society, while the 
Dutch Bible Society has printed the New Test., trans- 
lated by Mr. Coolsma, who has also translated the Old 
Test. From the 74 th (1878) A maul Report of the 
British and Foreign Bible Society we see that the 
Netherlands Missionary Union have requested the Lon- 
don committee to undertake the publication of Mr. 
Coolsma’s translation of the Old Test., and that the 
committee have resolved to print the book of Genesis 
on receiving satisfactory reports as to the reception of 
Mr. Coolsma’s New-Test, translation. (B. P.) 

Sunday. I. Name and Change of Dag. — Sunday is 
the name of the first day of the week, adopted by the 
first Christians from the Roman calendar (Lat. Dies 
Solis), Dag of the Sun, so called because it was dedi- 
cated to the worship of the sun. The Christians rein- 
terpreted the heathen name as implying the Sun of 
Bighteonsness with reference to his “arising” (Mai. iv, 
2). It was also called Dies Pauls ( Dag of Bread), be- 
cause it was an early custom to break bread on that 
day. It is called, also, the Lord’s day. its sacred observ- 
ances being especially in his honor. The apostles them- 
selves introduced the religions observance of Sunday, 
meeting for divine service (Acts xx, 7 ; 1 Cor. xvi, 2), 
and the opposition in the Christian Church to Judaism 
early led to the substitution of Sunday for the Sabbath; 
and in the epistle of Ignatius to the Mngnesians it is 
presupposed that even the Jews wlu> had come over to 
Christianity adopted the same custom. See Syna- 
gogue. 

Sunday began, in 1064, at nones (8 P.M.) on Sat- 
urday and lasted until Monday. In 994 parishioners 
were required to attend even-song and nocturns on Sat- 
urday. In 696 the Lord’s day was reckoned from even- 
ing to evening, but in 958 from Saturday nones till 
light on Monday morning. I slip’s Constitutions and 
the Councils of Aix (789), Frejus (791), and Frankfort 
(794) assign as the cause that vespers are the first of- 
fice of the morrow. The mediaeval tradition was that 
our Lord was born on Sunday, baptized on Tuesday, 
and began his fast on Wednesday. 

1 1. Ecclesiastical Observance of the Dag. — The conse- 
cration of Sunday in a special manner to religions em- 
ployments and the abstaining from all worldly busi- 
ness was established bv a synodal law (canon 29, Coun- 
cil of Laodicea) with this restriction, that all Christians 
should abstain from worldly business if they were able. 
In the religious services of Sunday we note the follow- 
ing: all fasting was prohibited oil that day, even in 
Lent; Tertullian {De Coron. Mil. c. 3) declaring that 
it was accounted a crime to fast on the Lord’s day, and 
other authorities were equally severe in their denunci- 
ations. The reason for this observance was that the 


day was considered one of joy fulness because of onr 
Lord’s resurrection. Yet this rule was not so strictly 
binding but that when a necessary occasion required, 
and there was no suspicion of heretical perverseness or 
contempt, men might fast upon this day (Jerome, Ep. 
28, ad Luciniuni Jiadicnm). 

It may here be remarked that another custom was 
to pray standing on the Lord’s day, in memory of our 
Lord’s resurrection. The great care and concern of 
the primitive Christians for the religious observance 
of Sunday is seen in their ready and constant attend- 
ance upon all the offices and solemnities of public wor- 
ship, and this, too, even in times of persecution; from 
their studious observance of the vigils, or nocturnal as- 
semblies preceding the Lord’s day; from their attend- 
ance, in many places, upon sermons twice a day, and at 
evening prayers; and from the censures inflicted upon 
those who violated the laws concerning the religious 
observance of the day. The celebration of the cueha- 
rist was a standing part of divine service every Lord’s 
day, and every communicant was expected to partake 
thereof. See Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. xx,ch. ii, § 9- 
12; bk. xvi, eh. ix, § 2. 

The mode in which the early Christians spent the 
Lord’s day is thus described by Dr. Jamieson in his 
Manners and Trials of the Primitive Christians : 

“Viewing the Lord’s day as a spiritual festivity, a sea- 
son in which their souls were specially to magnify the 
Lord and their spirits to rejoice in God their Saviour, 
they introduced the services of the day with psalmody, 
which was followed by select portions of the prophets, 
the gospels, and the epistles, the intervals between which 
were occupied by the faithful in private devotions. The 
plan of service, in short, resembled wbat was followed in 
that of the vigils, though there were some important dif- 
ferences, which we shall now describe. The men prayed 
with their heads bare, and the women were veiled, as be- 
came the modesty of their sex, both standing— a position 
deemed the most, decent, and suited to their exalted no- 
tions of the weekly solemnity— with their eyes fified up 
to heaven and their hands extended in the form of a 
cross, the better to keep them in remembrance of Him 
whose death had opened up the way of access to the di- 
vine presence. The reading of the sacred volume consti- 
tuted an important and indispensable part of the observ- 
ance ; and, effectually to impress it on the memories of 
the audience, the lessons were always short and of fre- 
quent recurrence. Besides the Scriptures, they were ac- 
customed to read aloud several other books for the edifi- 
cation and interest of the people — such as treatises on 
the illustration of Christian morals by some pastor of em- 
inent reputation and piety, or lettersfrom foreign church- 
es containing an account of the state and progress of the 
Gospel. This part of the service — most necessary and 
valuable at a time when a large proportion of every con- 
gregation were unacquainted with letters— was perform- 
ed at first by the presiding minister, but was afterwards 
devolved on an officer appointed for that object, who, 
when proceeding to the discharge of his duty, if it related 
to any part of the history of Jesus, exclaimed aloud to 
the people , 1 Stand up ; the gospels are about to be read 
and then always commenced with ‘Thus saith the Lord.’ 
They assumed this attitude, not only from a conviction 
that it was the most respectful posture in which to listen 
to the counsels of the King of kings, but with a view to 
keep alive the attention of the people— an object which, 
in some churches, was sought to be gained by the minis- 
ter stopping in the middle of a Scriptural quotation and 
leaving the people to finish it aloud. The discourses, 
founded for the most part on the last portion of Scripture 
that was read, were short, plain, and extemporary expor- 
tations, designed chiefly to stir up the minds of the breth- 
ren by way of remembrance, and always prefaced by the 
salutation, ‘ Peace be unto you.’ As they were very short, 
sometimes not extending to more than eight or ten min- 
utes’ duration, several of them were delivered at a diet, 
and the preacher was usually the pastor of the place, 
though he sometimes, at his discretion, invited a stran- 
ger, or one of his brethren known to possess the talent 
of public speaking, to address the assembly. The close 
of the sermon by himself, which was always the last of 
the series, was the signal for the public prayers to com- 
mence. Previous to this solemn part, of ihe service, how- 
ever, a crier commanded infidels of any description that 
might be present to withdraw, and, the doors being closed 
and guarded, the pastor proceeded to pronounce a prayer, 
the burden of which was made to bear a special reference 
to the circumstances of the various classes who, in the 
primitive Church, were not admitted to a full participa- 
tion in the privileges of the faithful. First of all, he 
prayed, in the name of the whole company of believers, 
for the catechumens — young persons, or recent converts 


SUNDAY 


19 


SUNDAY 


from heathenism who were passing through a prepara- 
tory course of instruction in the doctrines and duties of 
Christianity — that their understandings might be enlight- 
ened, their hearts receive the truth in the love of it, and 
that they might be led to cultivate those holy habits of 
heart and life by which they might adorn the doctrine 
of God their Saviour. Next, he prayed for the penitents 
who were undergoing the discipline of the Church that 
they might receive deep aud permanent impressions of 
the exceeding sinfulness of sin, that they might be till- 
ed with godly sorrow, and might have grace, during the 
appointed term of their probation, to bring forth fruits 
meet for repentance. In like manner, he made appropri- 
ate supplications for other descriptions of persons, each 
of whom left the church when the class to which he be- 
longed had been commended to the God of all grace ; 
aud then the brethren, reduced by the successive depart- 
ures to an approved company of the faithful, proceeded 
to the holy service of communion.” 

Those who neglected ordinances were severely cen- 
sured. Absence from church for three consecutive Sun- 
days was to be visited with excommunication. Ir- 
regularities during attendance, such as refusing to join 
in prayers or receive the communion, or leaving church 
during sermon, were strongly condemned. In later 
times severe measures were employed to secure Sabbath 
observance, and which could only, in many cases, in- 
duce hypocrisy, or mere external attendance at church. 
The kirk-sessions in 1574 appointed “ searchers,” or 
“captors,” to make the round of the parish and take 
notice of such as were “ vaging abroad.” The strange 
practice lasted for nigh a century and a half. Some 
of the records of the period are curious. See Walcott, 
Sacred ArchceoL s. v. See Lord’s Day. 

III. Legal Observance of the Day . — As soon as the 
Christian religion came to be recognised by the State, 
laws were enacted for the observance of Sunday. The 
emperor Constantine made the tirst law (A.D. 321) to 
exempt the day from being juridical, as were the oth- 
ers. By this law and others he suspended all actions 
and proceedings of the law on this day, whether ar- 
rests, pleadings, exactions, sentences of judges, execu- 
tions, excepting only such as were of absolute neces- 
sity or of eminent charity, as the manumission of 
slaves, the appointing of curators and guardians to or- 
phans, and causes relating to matters of preservation 
and damage, legacies and trusts, exhibiting of wills, 
and all cases where great damage might be suffered 
either by delay or by death. Valentinian prohibited 
all arrests of men for debt, whether public or private, 
on this day, and Valentinian junior, with Theodosius 
the Great, appointed all Sundays in the year to be 
days of vacation from all business of the law whatso- 
ever. In like manner, all secular business or servile 
employments were forbidden, except only such as men 
were called to by necessity or some great charity, such 
as harvesting. By a law of llonorius the judges were 
enjoined to visit the prisons every Sunday to examine 
the prisoners and ascertain from them whether the 
keepers of the prison denied them any office of human- 
ity, and also to give orders that the prisoners, under 
proper guard, should be allowed to leave the prisons to 
bathe themselves. Later laws forbade all husbandry 
on the Lord’s day, allowing only such work as was nec- 
essary to secure food absolutely reeptired. The Chris- 
tian laws took care to secure the honor and dignity of 
the Lord’s day by forbidding public games, shows, or 
ludicrous recreations {Cod. Justin, lib. 3, tit. 12, De Feriis, 
leg. 11), and the Church was no less careful to guard 
the service of this day from the encroachment of all 
vain pastimes and needless recreations. The Fourth 
Council of Carthage made a decree (can. 88) excommu- 
nicating any person who should forsake the services of 
the Church to attend a public show. 

In England Sunday laws were of early date. The 
code of lna, king of the West Saxons (about 093), pun- 
ished servile work by fine. Alfred the Great (870) for- 
bade work, traffic, and legal proceedings; while the stat- 
ute 27 Henry TV, c. 5, enacts that all fairs and markets 
on Sundays, except in harvest, shall cease on pain of 
forfeiture of goods. The statute 5 and 0 Edward VI, 


c. 3, makes Sundays, with Christmas and Easter, holy- 
days, but permits work in harvest and in cases of ne- 
cessity. The statute 1 Elizabeth, c. 2, punishes by fine 
persons absenting themselves from church without ex- 
cuse. James I, in 1018, issued his Book of Sports (q. v.), 
in which lie declared certain games, sports, etc., law- 
ful on Sundays after divine service. This book was 
reissued by Charles 1 in 1G38. The statute 29 Charles 
II, c. 7, enacted “ that no tradesman, artiticer, workman, 
laborer, or other person whatsoever shall do or exer- 
cise any worldly labor, business, or work of their ordi- 
nary callings upon the Lord’s day, or any part thereof 
(works of necessity and charity only excepted);” and 
“that no person or persons whatsoever shall publicly 
cry, show forth, or expose to sale any wares, merchan- 
dise, fruit, herbs, goods, or chattels whatsoever upon the 
Lord’s day or anv part thereof.” This, somewhat mod- 
ified by subsequent laws, is the present Sunday law of 
England, and is the foundation of the laws on the sub- 
ject in the United States. 

In America the Puritan colonists established, to the 
full extent of their power, the observance of Sunday 
as the Christian Sabbath. The early laws of Massa- 
chusetts, Connecticut, Georgia, South Carolina, and Vir- 
ginia compelled attendance at church, the Massachu- 
setts law (1782) providing that such attendance was 
not obligatory where there was no place of worship 
which the person could conscientiously attend. When 
the Federal government was formed and the separa- 
tion of Church and State was fully recognised, the 
earlier Sunday laws were modified in conformity with 
this principle. The courts have been careful to dis- 
tinguish between Sunday observance as a religious aud 
as a civil institution, and to enforce only the latter. 
The following are the grounds upon which our Sunday 
laws rest: The right of all classes, so far as practicable, 
to rest one day in seven ; to worship undisturbed on 
the day set apart by the majority of the people; the 
decent respect which should be paid to the religious 
institutions of the people; the value to the State of 
Sunday observance, as contributing to popular intelli- 
gence and morality. With the partial exception of 
Louisiana, Sundav laws exist in every state in the 
Union. These laws differ somewhat in detail and 
strictness, but the following general characteristics may 
be noted: Sunday is everywhere held as a dies non; 
public affairs are suspended; legislatures do not sit; 
courts are not held, except city police-courts for an 
hour or two; legal processes are not served. In most 
of the states common labor and traffic are forbidden; 
contracts made for service on Sunday are invalid; pub- 
lic amusements are prohibited or restricted. In some 
states exception is made in favor of those who observe 
the seventh day of the week. In Louisiana the only 
Sunday law is that which makes it (with Christmas, 
New-vear’s-dav, etc.) a public rest-day, and provides 
that citations shall not issue, nor proceedings be had, 
nor suits instituted on that day, and that it shall not 
be reckoned in computing interest and in protests, etc. 
The Constitution of the United States provides that 
Sunday shall not be reckoned in the ten days within 
which the president may return any bill; the Federal 
courts and offices of the departments are closed; the 
post-office service is restricted; no session of Congress 
is held, or, if held on that day, it is considered as being 
part of the preceding Saturday; and provision is made 
by an act of Congress for the observance of Sunday 
by the army and navy. Federal legislation respecting 
Sunday proceeds no further. The constitutionality of 
Sunday laws has been decided frequently by the high- 
est courts of the several states. Some of our statutes 
define the extent of the Lord’s day. In Connecticut 
the courts have defined it as extending only from day- 
break to the closing of daylight on Sunday. General- 
13 ', in New England, it is from sunset on Saturdav' to 
sunset on Sunday; but for many purposes, and proba- 
bly iu most of the states for all purposes, it begins only 


SUNDAY 


20 


SUNDAY-SCHOOL 


at midnight between Saturday and Sunday and ends 
with the next midnight. 

In France, during the devolution, when the Chris- 
tian calendar was abolished and the decade substituted 
for the week, every tenth day was made a rest-day, 
and its observance was enforced by a law (17 Therini- 
dor, an. vi) which required the public offices, schools, 
workshops, stores, etc., to be closed, and prohibited sales 
except of eatables and medicines, and public labor ex- 
cept in the country daring seed-time and harvest. 
When the Gregorian calendar was restored, Sunday was 
recognised in the Code Xapoleon (art. ‘25, 260). The 
law of Nov. IS, 1814, prohibiting ordinary labor, traffic, 
etc., and declared bv the courts in 1838 and 1845 to be 
still in force, is. practically, a dead letter. 

In Switzerland recent legislation has granted to rail- 
way employes and ail government office-holders at least 
one Sunday in every three; and still further restriction 
of Sunday labor is being sought in some of the cantons. 
The question is agitated in Belgium and Germany of 
better protection by law of Sunday rest for operatives. 
See Cox, Literature of Sab, Question (Ediub. I8G5); 
A mer. Lair Her. vol. ii; Prof. Episcopal Quar . Per. vol. 
vii; Hopkins, Sabbath and Free Institutions , in doc. 29 
of X. Y. Sabbath Committee; Judge W. Allen, opinion 
in Lindenniiiller vs. The People, 33 Barbour. 548; Iies- 
sey. Bampton Lectures (1860); Sc ha If, Anglo- Amer. 
Sabbath (1863). Sec Sabbath. 

Sunday, John, or Shah-Wun-Dais, was a na- 
tive Indian, born of pagan parents in Canada. He be- 
longed to the Missisauga section of the Ojibway na- 
tion, and when a young man he served in the British 
army against the United States. He was converted in 
182G, and shortly after was appointed a leader among 
the converted Belleville Indians. He was the earliest 
evangelical pioneer to the tribes on the north waters 
of Lakes Huron and Superior. In 1832 he was received 
into the Conference and was ordained in 183G, and the 
same year accompanied Lev. William Lord to England 
to plead the cause of missions, and remained a year at 
that work. A large part of his ministerial labor was 
performed under the direction of Rev. William Case ; 
and he had charge of Aldcrville, Rice and Mud Lake, 
and Muncietown circuits. He died in 187G. See Simp- 
son, Cyclop . of Methodism, s. v. 

Sunday-school. Among the modern develop- 
ments of Christianity, Sunday-schools, and what is 
known as the Sunday-school enterprise, arc prominent. 
To persons familiar with their objects and the script- 
ural precepts by which they are sanctioned, it seems 
strange that so long a period elapsed before they came 
into actual existence. That a leading duty of the Church 
was to teach all nations was made plain in the great 
commission of our Lord to his disciples. That little 
children were included in the scope of that commission 
was evident from the great Teacher’s own command to 
“ suffer little children to come unto him and forbid them 
not,” as well as from his impressive charge to Peter, 
“ Feed mv lambs.” While evidence is not lacking to 
indicate that the Christians of the apostolic age both 
comprehended the duty enjoined by our Lord and illus- 
trated it iu adaptation to their circumstances, yet there 
are too many proofs that in the centuries immediately 
following, that duty fell into abuse and neglect amid 
the rapidly growing corruptions of the Church. The 
ceremonious catechetical system of the 4th and 5th cen- 
turies was a labored but poor apology for that neglect, 
and when it came to an end no substitute was left in its 
place. Hundreds of years then went by without any 
general effort on the part of the Church for the religious 
instruction of children. Following the Reformation of 
the lGth century catechizat ion in the elements of Script- 
ure doctrine was gradually introduced into most of the 
Protestant churches, but it was rarely extended to any 
beyond the recognised children of the Church. 

1. Origin and Early History of the Sunday-school 


System. — It was not till near the close of the 18th cen- 
tury that the modern system of Sunday-school instruc- 
tion took its rise. Although in numerous instances pre- 
viously catechization had been practiced on the Lord’s 
day, and iu several cases individuals remote from each 
other in time and locality had assembled children lbr 
instruction on that day, yet nothing like a general sys- 
tem of teaching the young on Sundays, whether in sec- 
ular or religious learning, was known prior to 1780, 
The system that then arose was purely philanthropic 
in its design, and in its origin contemplated only local 
results. From an early period in the 17th century, pin- 
making had been an important industry in the old city 
of Gloucester, England. This manufacture employed 
great numbers of small children, not only residents of 
the place, but gathered in from surrounding regions. 
Vast numbers of these children were wholly uneducated, 
and, being without parental restraint or moral supervis- 
ion, they naturally fell into gross disorder and immoral- 
ity, especially on Sundays, when the factories were not 
in operation. The first person who undertook to rem- 
edy this distressing state of things was 31 r. Robert 
Raikcs (q. v.), a printer residing in Gloucester, and a 
member of the Church of England, lie found four per- 
sons who had been accustomed to instruct children in 
reading, and engaged their services to receive and in- 
struct such children as he should send to them every 
Sunday. The children were to go soon alter ten in the 
morning, and stay till twelve. They were then to go 
home, and return at one; and after reading a lesson, 
they were to be conducted to Church. After Church 
they were to be employed in repeating the catechism 
till half after five, and then to be dismissed with an in- 
junction to go home without making a noise, and by 
no means to play in the street. This was the general 
outline of the regulations as stated by Mr. Raikes, in 
his celebrated letter of June 5, 1784, which conclusively 
identifies him as the originator of the Sunday-school 
movement. 

As has often happened in other cases of great results 
from small beginnings, there have been various en- 
deavors to fix the origin of Sunday-schools at earlier 
periods than that named above. Although it is not 
difficult to establish priority in several cases, yet there 
is no other instance of an actual Sunday-school from 
which continuity or serial connection can be traced 
down to the present time. If, therefore, mere priority 
were in question, it would be necessary to go back to 
the period of Moses, under whom the catechetical sys- 
tem of the Jews was appointed, culminating in the grand 
sabbatical year (Dcut. xxxi, 10-13). But as it is not the 
origin of catechization (q. v.) which is under considera- 
tion, but rather of that form of catechization which, iu 
modern times, is known as the Sunday-school system, it 
is safe to accept the general verdict of history, accord- 
ing to which Robert Raikes is recognised as its founder. 
When once the idea of Sunday instruction for the ig- 
norant children of Great Britain was fairly developed, 
it was seen to have not only great intrinsic merit, but 
perfect adaptation to other places. Hence the schools 
of Mr. Raikes soon began to be imitated in all direc- 
tions, with results of the most encouraging character. 
A Sunil ay-school Society was formed in London, and, in 
various ways, so general an interest was awakened on 
the subject that in the course of a few r years Sunday- 
schools were commenced in nearly every part of Eng- 
land. They did not, however, become universal, nor iu 
the largest degree useful, until a higher idea than that 
of mere philanthropy became embodied in them. The 
plan of employing hired teachers not only made it nec- 
essary to raise large amounts of money, but necessarily 
placed a limit upon their extension and permanence. 
Besides, it was not possible to secure the best quality 
of teaching by any appeal to mercenary motives. In 
discussing this subject at a comparatively early period 
of the history of Sunday-schools, the Rev. John Angell 
James said: “Hireling teachers can scarcely be expect- 


SUNDAY-SCHOOL 


21 


SUNDAY-SCHOOL 


ed to possess either the zeal or the ability of those who 
now engage in the work from motives of pure benevo- 
lence. Gratuitous instruction was an astonishing im- 
provement of the system, and which does not appear to 
have entered into the views of its benevolent author. 
‘ If we were asked/ says a writer in the Sunday-school 
Repository , ‘whose name stood next to that of Robert 
Raikes in the annals of Sunday-schools, we should say, 
the person who first came forward and voluntarily prof- 
fered his exertions, his time, and his talents to the in- 
struction of the young and the poor; since an imita- 
tion of his example has been the great cause of the 
present flourishing state of these institutions, and of all 
that future additional increase which may be reasonably 
anticipated.’” 

While it may not be possible to fix upon any one per- 
son as having been the first to commence gratuitous ef- 
fort in the teaching of Sunday-schools, it is not difficult 
to determine, from the history of the times, who was 
probably more instrumental than any other man in 
establishing and diffusing the system of gratuitous and 
Christian instruction in those schools. It was the Rev. 
John Wesley, who, for more than thirty years prior to 
the first Sunday-school of Raikes, had been in the habit 
of assembling children in various parts of England for 
the purpose of religious instruction. It w r as he w r ho, 
having recorded in his journal, July 18, 1784, that he 
found Sunday-schools springing up wherever he went, 
also recorded these memorable, if not prophetic, words: 

Perhaps God may have a deeper end therein than men 
are aware of. Who knows but some of these schools 
may become nurseries for Christians V” From that time 
forward notices of Sunday-schools were frequent in his 
journals. The following is a brief specimen . “July 27, 
1787. — We went on to Bolton. Here are eight hundred 
poor children taught in our Sunday-schools, by about 
eighty masters, who receive no pay but what they are 
to receive from their great Master.” This record cor- 
responds to the statement made in Myles’s History of the 
People called Methodists (Lond. 1 803). 1 1 avi ng referred 
to Sunday-schools as an excellent institution begun by 
Mr. Raikes, the author says, “Mr. Wesley no sooner 
heard of if than he approved of it. He published an 
account of it in the Arminian Magazine for January, 
1785, and exhorted his societies to imitate this laudable 
example. They took his advice. Laboring, hard-work- 
ing men and women began to instruct their neighbors’ 
children, and to go with them to t lie house of God on 
the Lord’s day.” Whatever w T as done by others, the 
Methodists, from the beginning, practiced only gratu- 
itous instruction in their Sunday-schools. By them the 
same institution and modes of instruction w F ere simulta- 
neously introduced into the United States of America, 
under bishop Asbury, who sustained to the American 
Methodist societies a similar relation to that of Mr. 
Wesley in England. 

As early as the year 1784 the following paragraph 
was incorporated in the Discipline of the Methodist Kpis- 
copal Church : 

“ What shall we do for the rising generation ? Who will 
labor for them ? Let him who is zealous for God and the 
souls of men begin now. 1. Where there are ten children 
whose parents are in society, meet them at least an hour 
every week. 2. Talk with them every time you see any 
at home. 3. Pray in earnest for them. 4. Diligently in- 
struct and vehemently exhort all parents at their own 
houses. 5. Preach expresHy on education.” 

In sequence of this mandatory rule, addressed prima- 
rily to ministers, but involving the co-operation of the 
laity, Sunday-schools were established in many places. 
Of one of those schools a very definite and satisfactory 
record was made. It was taught in 1786, in Hanover 
County, Va., at the house of Mr. Thomas Crenshaw, who, 
in 1827, forty-one years later, was a living witness of 
the fact, as was also the Rev. John Charleston, a minis- 
ter of thirty-nine years’ service in the Church, who had 
been converted in that school (Bangs, Hist, of the J /. 
E. Church). Further historic evidence of the early 


adoption of organized Sunday-school effort by the 
Church referred to grew out of the fact that persecu- 
tion arose on account of its endeavors to instruct the 
colored children of the South. In Charleston, S. C., the 
Rev. George Daughadav “ was severely beaten on the 
head, and subsequently had water pumped on him from 
a public cistern, for the crime of conducting a Sabbath- 
school for the benefit of the African children in that vi- 
cinity.” Nevertheless, the Methodist Conference. which 
met in Charleston in February, 1790, resolved to con- 
tinue the work. Its minute on the subject was in' these 
words : 

“ Ques. What can be done to instruct poor children, 
white and black, to read ? 

“Ah.s\ Let us labor, as the heart and soul of one man, 
to establish Sunday-schools in or near the place of pub- 
lic worship. Let persons be appointed by the bishop, 
elders, deacons, or preachers, to teach gratis all that will 
attend, and have a capacity to learn. . . . The Council shall 
compile a proper school-book to teach them learning and 
piety.” 

At the period of the origin of Sunday-schools the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church found one of its principal fields 
of action in the Southern States, being drawn thither 
bv t lie great spiritual destitution of the inhabitants. 
But it is easy to understand that, owing to the sparse- 
ness of the population and to other reasons, the condi- 
tion of that region was not favorable to the rapid de- 
velopment and permanent establishment of Sunday- 
schools. The same thing was, to some extent, true 
of the entire United States, owing to the general ex- 
haustion of the country following the war of the Revo- 
lution and the unsettled condition of affairs in a newly 
organized government. Hence nearly or quite a quar- 
ter of a century passed by before Sunday-schools be- 
came common in either the Southern or Northern States. 

Meantime they had been making steady and success- 
ful progress in Great Britain, where they were promoted 
by two classes of agencies, the philanthropic and the 
religious. Owing to the low state of public education 
in that country, hundreds of thousands of children were 
wholly dependent upon Sunday-schools for the first ele- 
ments of instruction. Hence reading and writing were 
universally taught in the Sunday-schools — the former 
as essential to the perusal of the Word of God or the 
Catechism, which from the first w T ere the text-books 
for all pupils able to use them. 

Although much and well-rewarded effort was put 
forth in behalf of Sunday-schools from purely philan- 
thropic motives, yet the greatest progress made by them 
and the highest results secured through them were in 
sequence of avowed and consistent religious effort. 
When, at length, this species of effort became general, 
Sunday-schools assumed a position of importance and 
of promise not before realized. About the same period 
they began to develop what may be called their cumu- 
lative power. This was seen when the first generation 
of Sunday-school scholars had grown up to become 
teachers, and felt themselves moved to do for others 
what had been done for them. In this manner the 
teaching force in Sunday-schools became greatly aug- 
mented. Besides, cases were not rare in which the 
grown-up scholars of Sunday-schools became ministers 
of the Gospel, while others, continuing in secular life, 
became prominent men in business and in society. The 
strong and effective support rendered by such persons, 
as well as by many others of less prominence, gave a 
new impetus to the Sunday-school enterprise, w hich has 
i been enlarging and repeating itself ever since. 

The enlistment of the press as an auxiliary to Sun- 
day-schools was an event of great importance. For a 
considerable period Sunday-school work was done at a 
great disadvantage for lack of suitable books of all kinds, 
not excepting copies of the Scriptures. The organiza- 


tion of the British and Foreign Bible Society in 1804, 


and subsequently of numerous other societies for the 
publication and diffusion of the Word of God, tended to 
a general supply of the Holy Scriptures in forms and at 


SUXDAY-SCIIOOl 


SUNDAY-SCIIOOL 


prices adapted to extensive use in Sunday-schools. Be- 
sides Testaments, Bibles, and elementary instruction- 
books. the tirst publications introduced extensively into 
Sunday-schools were called reward-hooks, on account 
of their being presented to children as an encourage- 
ment for punctual and regular attendance and for the 
memorization of lessons. At first they were tracts and 
story-books, in paper covers, of very inferior quality, no 
others being attainable. About 1810 the Religions Tract 
Society of London began issuing children’s hooks, pre- 
pared and printed specially with reference to Sunday- 
school patronage. The demand for such books increased 
in the ratio of their production, so that other religious 
societies, and even miscellaneous publishers, found it to 
their interest to provide them. At length the idea of 
introducing circulating -libraries into Sunday-schools 
came into vogue, and with it a still greater publication 
of books designed for juvenile reading, and also for the 
instruction and aid of teachers. 

There are no data for accurately tracing the numer- 
ical growth of Sunday-schools in the earlier periods of 
their history. Nevertheless, it is pleasing to know that 
some of the workers of those days were not inattentive 
to the broader aspects of the enterprise in which they 
were engaged. It was estimated by the Sunday-school 
Society of London, in 1780. that within five years after 
the opening of Haikes’s first school 250,000 scholars had 
been enrolled in the schools then established. About 
forty years later (1827) the American Sunday-school 
Union estimated that the aggregate number of scholars 
enrolled in theSundav-schools of different countries was 
1,250.000. 

11. The Second Period o f the Sunday-school Enter- 
prise . — This enterprise, at the present writing, has had 
a recognised existence of about one hundred years. In 
considering its history, it seems proper to divide its first 
century into two periods of fifty years each. The first, 
which has been summarily sketched above, may be de- 
nominated its initial and formative period. The sec- 
ond, now closing, constitutes its period of adolescence. 
We must look to the future for its full development. 

Owing to causes noticed above, it was not earlier than 
from 1825 to 1830 that the Sunday-school cause came 
generally and prominently before the American public. 
Between the years named two leading Sunday-school 
unions (q. v.) were organized — one in Philadelphia and 
one in New York. About that time several great pub- 
lishing societies were established that have given much 
auxiliary aid to Sunday-school efforts. The idea of re- 
ligious instruction as the one great business of Sunday- 
schools had then found universal acceptance. The de- 
velopment of public secular instruction had by that time 
become so general, at least in the Northern and Central 
States of the American Union, that Sunday-schools had 
little occasion to go out of their proper sphere. The 
movement in behalf of general education in England 
had begun, having been greatly stimulated by the re- 
sults of Sunday-schools. The purchase and use of Sun- 
day-school libraries had become common in both coun- 
tries, and the means of supplying them with suitable 
books were improving. In short, the Sunday-school 
enterprise was fairly launched, hut no more than that. 
All the general improvement and progress of the inter- 
vening fifty years, together with the united and consec- 
utive efforts of the multiplied workers in Sunday-schools, 
have been needed to bring those schools to the position 
they at present occupy. 

There are two methods of indicating the progressive 
advance and the actual results of Sunday-schools. The 
one is by general statements, and the other by the com- 
parative showing of such numerical statistics as may be 
found trustworthy. As neither of these modes is fully 
adequate, both will here be employed to a limited extent, 
in order that they may as far as possible supplement 
each other. Within the last fifty years Sunday-schools 
have come to be regarded as an essential branch of 
Church action, not merely in England and America, 


but throughout the Protestant world, whether in home 
or mission fields. They have also been adopted by Ro- 
man Catholics and Jews in Protestant countries. Not 
to speak of the intluence of Sunday-schools in the last- 
named bodies, it is safe to say that the great majority 
of all the ministers, missionaries, and communicants of 
all the Protestant churches of the world are at this time 
the alumni of Sunday-schools, and. as such, their active 
friends and supporters. The recognised necessities of 
these schools have given rise to important changes in 
church architecture, by which nearly every church is 
provided with accommodations for the instruction of 
the young in graded classes, ranging from infancy up- 
wards. They have called into existence not only an 
extensive literature, hut also a varied psalmody, con- 
templating the special tastes and wants of the young. 
While in England they have been chiefly limited to the 
| poorer and middle classes of the people, in the United 
States they have claimed, and in fact assumed, a rela- 
tion to public (week-day) schools corresponding to that 
which the Sabbath holds to the secular days of the 
week. In this relation they seek to supplement public 
and general education with the moral and religious in- 
fluences of Christianity. In this view, they secure the 
attendance of scholars from the higher as well as lower 
classes of the community, and enlist for their instruc- 
tion a quality of talent and an amount of effort which 
money could never hire. 

In passing from general though significant state- 
ments like these to such showings as may be made in 
figures, it seems necessary to explain that Sunday- 
school statistics, as minute and comprehensive as are 
now seen to be desirable, are very difficult to obtain on 
a large scale. Only in rare instances have govern- 
ments been interested to collect them, and compara- 
tively few of the promoters of Sunday-schools have so 
far recognised their importance as to take the requisite 
steps for securing them. Consequently, up to the pres- 
ent time, there has not been a uniformity of method 
and the extent of co-operation necessary to making up 
comprehensive exhibits of numbers and results. The 
most, therefore, that has been up to this time possible 
in the way of such exhibits has been to form estimates 
based upon accurate statistics taken within certain dis- 
tricts or churches, and extending the^)?*o rata outward. 
About the middle of the 10th century an effort was 
made in England, under government sanction, to ascer- 
tain the number and attendance of the Sunday-schools 
of that country. On a given Sunday (March 30, 1851) 
the Sunday-schools of England and Wales were simul- 
taneously inspected; and there were found in 23,514 
schools, 302,000 teachers and 2,280,000 scholars. The 
number of children enrolled as scholars was 2,407,400, 
or about three fifths of the number of children between 
the ages of five and fifteen enumerated by the census 
taken within the same limits. A similar proportion of 
children in American Sunday-schools at the same pe- 
riod would have reached the number of 3,000,000. If 
to those aggregates the probable number of Sunday- 
schools in Scotland. Ireland, and other countries at the 
same date be added, it seems safe to believe that there 
were in Sunday-schools throughout the world, at the 
end of 1850, not less than 0.000,000 scholars. Similar 
estimates made at the end of another quarter of a cen- 
tury indicate that at the end of 1875 there were in oper- 
ation in all countries 110,000 Sunday-schools, embrac- 
ing 1,500,000 teachers and 10,000,000 scholars. One 
statistician of some prominence has since estimated 
that there are in the United States alone not less than 
81,858 Sunday-schools and 6,896.696 scholars. On that 
basis the above aggregate for all countries might be 
enlarged. To illustrate the thoroughness with which 
Sunday-school statistics are taken by at least one of 
the American churches, and also the instructiveness of 
such statistics when taken through a series of years, we 
subjoin the official summary of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church for the year 1878: Sunday-schools, 19,904; 


SUNDAY-SCHOOL 


23 


SUNDAY-SCHOOL 


Sunday-school officers and teachers, 212,442 ; scholars, 
J, 51 1,389; scholars over fifteen years of age, 493,704 ; 
scholars under fifteen and not in infant classes, 445,502 ; 
scholars in infant classes, 276,553; average attendance, 
962,375; volumes in Sunday-school libraries, 1,911,263; 
annual expenses of the schools, $516,876.96; contribu- 
tions to the Sunday-school Union for establishing new 
and aiding poor schools, $32,968.27 ; oflieers and teachers 
who were communicants in the Church, 169,993 ; schol- 
ars who were communicants, 302,145; conversions in 
connection with the Sunday-schools, 77,644. The total 
membership of the Church at the same period was 
1,688,783, or 35,000 less than the aggregate number of 
teachers and scholars in the Sunday-schools. A retro- 
spective comparison of the increase of members in the 
same Church from year to year shows a striking cor- 
respondence to the number of reported conversions in 
the Sunday-schools. To the extent that the above 
statistics may be considered representative of the con- 
dition and work of Sunday-schools in the American 
churches, they render superfluous any argument to 
prove the magnitude of that work and its auxiliary 
power for the promotion of Christian influence. 

It is not to be supposed that results of the importance 
indicated in the foregoing sketch have naturally arisen 
from the spontaneous growth of Sunday-schools. On 
the other hand they are only to be attributed to the 
divine blessing upon the systematic and well-directed 
efforts of intelligent Sunday-school workers extending 
through successive years. In fact, a considerable por- 
tion of the second half century of Sunday-schools had 
passed away before it could be said that these schools 
were thoroughly popular with even the Christian pub- 
lic of America; nor did they become so without great 
and continuous exertions on the part of enthusiastic 
friends of the cause. As one great agency for accom- 
plishing that result, Sunday - school conventions were 
appointed and held in various places and in a great 
variety of circumstances. There were conventions for 
cities and towns, for counties, for districts, for confer- 
ences, and for states. Some of them were managed by 
single denominations and some by a union of all de- 
nominations. In these conventions, prominent Sunday- 
school workers came in contact with masses of people, 
answering objections, diffusing information, and stimu- 
lating zeal. Such gatherings gave an opportunity for 
the discussion of new methods, and became a great 
agency for the promotion of all real improvements in 
the organization and conduct of Sunday-schools even 
in the remotest sections of the land. In proportion as 
the Sunday-school idea became popular, and agitation 
in its behalf became unnecessary, conventions of Sun- 
day-school friends and workers began to take the form 
of institutes after the analogy of teachers’ institutes de- 
signed to elevate the standard of secular instruction. 
For a long period the most that was thought possible 
to be done for the higher training and special instruc- 
tion of Sunday-school teachers, was sought to be ac- 
complished through superintendents’ and pastors’ Bible- 
classes. But at length it was found practicable, with 
no design of superseding the Bible-classes referred to, 
to secure many of their benefits on a more popular scale, 
coupled with the enthusiasm derived from the assem- 
bly of numhers of people interested in common objects. 
Hence at Sunday-school conventions and institutes, lect- 
ures were given on important topics, apparatus and new 
publications were exhibited and explained, and model 
and normal classes were taught and trained by skilled 
teachers. By these public proceedings, not only was the 
better classification and instruction of Sunday-schools 
promoted, but an esprit du corps was aroused among 
teachers; and in many schools normal departments 
were established for the special instruction and quali- 
fication of teachers. 

The success of Sunday-school institutes and normal 
classes reacted upon the conventional idea and caused 
it to expand into that of Sunday-school assemblies, de- 


signed to continue in session from one to three weeks at 
a time. In connection with the growing American hab- 
ited’ taking summer vacations and of gathering in masses 
at popular resorts, Sunday-school assemblies, under wise 
and energetic management, have speedily grown to be 
influential of great good and promissory of long con- 
tinuance. The Chautauqua Sunday-school Assembly, 
held on the borders of a beautiful lake in Western New 
York, under the presidency of I)r. John 11. Vincent, may 
be considered at once the originator and model of vari- 
ous similar assemblies already held, and now said to be 
established for regular annual sessions in different parts 
of the United States; e. g. at Clear Lake, la.; Lake 
Bluff, 111.; Loveland and Lakeside, O.; the Thousand 
Island Bark in the St. Lawrence Liver; and at Bound 
Lake, near Saratoga, N. Y. These assemblies are de- 
signed to do, for vast and widely separated sections of 
America, what was contemplated by the London Sun- 
day-school Union in the erection of a building at 56 
Old Bailey, in the heart of London. In that building 
is a Sunday-school museum and a large hall in which 
courses of lectures are given, while in other rooms train- 
ing-classes are taught and competitive examinations 
held. While the centre of a million-peopled city af- 
fords some peculiar advantages for the objects above 
indicated, ami specially in being accessible at all seasons 
of the year, yet the ample spaces and the romantic as- 
sociations of a beautiful American grove adapted to 
such uses leave nothing to be desired in view of the 
objects of the assembly and during the season allotted 
to it. Many of the constructions are somewhat rude, 
but the appointments are in excellent taste and con- 
stantly improving. Everything, however, is made sub- 
servient to the grand idea of intellectual and spiritual 
improvement, with specific reference to the promotion 
of Christ’s kingdom upon earth through the agency of 
Christian instruction. No one can properly appreciate 
the importance and future bearing of the agencies now 
under notice without considering that each coming 
generation will jeqnire, in its turn, to be trained and 
fitted for the ever-expanding work of teaching all na- 
tions the truths of the Gospel. 

It may here be remarked that Sunday-school con- 
ventions have not been limited even to large states; in 
fact, they have been expanded so as to enlist national 
and even international representation. A World’s Sun- 
day-school Convention met in London in 1862, and a 
German National Sunday-school Convention in Ham- 
burg in 1874. In the United States, in 1875, twenty- 
one State Sunday-school conventions were held, besides 
one of a national and one of an international character. 
The meeting of leading and delegated Sunday-school 
workers from different churches and nations has had 
a happy tendency towards the promotion of practical 
Christian union on the largest scale. One of the best 
evidences of this may be instanced in the general adop- 
tion since 1872 of a system of international lessons for 
Bible study. Uniform schemes of simultaneous study 
had been previously adopted to a considerable extent, 
especially in Great Britain, where they had long been 
promoted by the London Sunday-school Union, but 
never officially accepted throughout the kingdom. As 
early as 1860 Mr. Orange Judd, editor of the American 
Agriculturist . originated a scheme of lessons having all 
the essential features of the present International Series 
— namely, a selection of about seven consecutive verses 
for each week, in historical order, from the several por- 
tions of Scripture. At his suggestion Dr. James Strong 
drew up such a scheme, which was printed in tabular 
form in the Agriculturist for February, 18G2. and hun- 
dreds of thousands of copies of it were distributed and 
used in the Sunday- schools of various denominations 
throughout the United States. A similar plan was pub- 
lished in the same manner the following year, and in 
1862 the first of four consecutive question-books, enti- 
i tied Lessons for Every Sunday in the Year , was prepared 
I under the same auspices, and published in New’ York, 


SUNDAY-SCHOOL SOCIETIES 24 SUNDAY-SCHOOL SOCIETIES 


In 1865 the London system, with some modifications, was 
brought to the attention of the American public by liev. 
J. II. Vincent, then editing a Sunday-school periodical 
in Chicago. The question was soon after proposed by 
him in a Sunday-school institute, “Is it practicable to 
introduce a uniform system of lessons into all our 
schools?” This question was earnestly and hopefully 
discussed in various ways for several years following; 
until, at the National Convention at Indianapolis in 1872. 
it was answered in the affirmative by a large vote. 
When the project was agreed to bv representatives of 
the leading denominations in America, it was through 
friendly correspondence endorsed hv the London Sun- 
day-school Union, and has since been in actual and ex- 
tensive use on both sides of the Atlantic. The inter- 
national use of systems of lessons, prepared by joint 
committees, has had a happy tendency to promote in- 
creased interest in scriptural study throughout the 
world. This mode of simultaneous study has been 
greatly popularized by the publication of notes and 
comments on the uniform lessons in hundreds of peri- 
odicals in various countries and in different languages. 
At the present time, the system of international study 
seems to have won general favor throughout the Prot- 
estant world, and to have the promise of a long, if not 
permanent, continuance. 

In closing this article, it seems proper to sav that it 
is in the United States that the greatest work has 
been done in the preparation and publication of Sun- 
day-school literature, although not without a great 
debt of obligation to English writers. Here Sunday- 
school circulating-libraries were first adopted as an es- 
sential auxiliary of Sunday-school effort. By this 
means, the influences of the Sunday-school were pro- 
jected through the secular days of the week. In this 
country also, Sunday-school requisites and periodicals, 
combining both elegance and cheapness, have been pub- 
lished in the greatest profusion. The Sunday-school 
libraries of the United States have, in fact, become so 
numerous and important as to have challenged and se- 
cured a partial enumeration in the official census of the 
government. The census of 1870 reported 33,580 libra- 
ries, and 8,316,153 volumes iu those libraries. This ag- 
gregate, large as it is. does not include the State of Con- 
necticut, and for other reasons is evidently far below 
the facts in the case at the present time. No other 
libraries are so widely diffused as those of Sunday- 
schools; they are not only found in cities, where most 
great libraries are established, but in the remotest sec- 
tions and neighborhoods of the land, and everywhere 
they are free to all who by attendance on Sunday- 
schools become entitled to draw their books for them- 
selves or their friends. In so vast an aggregate of vol- 
umes, it would not be strange if there were some of an 
indifferent or even of a very objectionable character. 
But such would be only exceptions to the general rule 
that Sunday-school libraries furnish wholesome and at- 
tractive reading to millions of youths and children, 
many of whom, without them, would have no reading, 
or only that which is bad. 

The most cursory view of the various agencies now 
in active operation as parts of the Sunday-school enter- 
prise can hardly fail to impress any thoughtful mind 
with the moral grandeur of that enterprise as a whole. 
Especially will any true Christian that contemplates 
the feeble beginning of 1780, in comparison with the 
vast array of Sunday-school activities and agents at 
work in 1880, be led to exclaim. What hath Cod wrought 
through the instrumentality of those who have en- 
deavored to obey the command “ Feed my lambs !” 
When, moreover, be considers the glorious results of 
the Sunday-school efforts of the past hundred years, 
and the cumulative power of those that may be made 
in the centuries to come, he will see that the prob- 
lem of the world's conversion is in process of solution. 
(D. I\ K.) 

SUNDAY-SCHOOL Societies, Unions, etc. As- 


sociated Christian effort may be designated as the ge- 
neric agency by which, under t he divine blessing, the 
great results of the Sunday-school enterprise have been 
accomplished. Such effort has assumed two forms — 
1, local; 2, general — each correspondent and supple- 
mentary to t lie other. Local associations, whether in 
neighborhoods or churches, have from the first been 
necessary as a means of raising the money to found, 
and of enlisting the teachers to instruct, Sunday-schools, 
(icncral associations were also, from an early day, seen 
to be important for the purpose of awakening public 
interest and of diffusing information both as to the 
necessity and the best means of instructing in religious 
truth. They have likewise had an important function to 
perform in prompting and guiding individual and local 
effort in the work of organizing and maintaining Sun- 
day-schools, becoming at the same time an important 
bond of union between great numbers of schools not lo- 
cally connected. General associations for these objects 
have assumed, somewhat interchangeably, the title of 
societies and unions, the latter predominating, appar- 
ently, on account of its expressiveness of their charac- 
ter and objects. The most important of those estab- 
lished in England and America will now be enumerated 
in chronological order. 

1. English. — 1. In 1785 “The Society for Promoting 
Sunday-schools in the British Dominions” was organized 
in London. It was under the leadership of William Fox, 
who in various ways proved himself to be a true philan- 
thropist, but specially in his zeal, liberality, and personal 
efforts for the education and moral elevation of the low- 
er classes of his countrymen. This society, during the 
first sixteen years of its existence, paid out £4000 for 
the services of hired teachers in Sunday-schools. When, 
however, the plan of gratuitous teaching came to be uni- 
versally adopted, and Christians and churches became 
generally enlisted in promoting Sunday-schools from 
purely religious motives, the importance and influence 
of this society declined until it became extinct. 

2. In 1803 “The London Sunday-school Union” was 
organized. It was composed of lay Sunday-school 
workers of different denominations of Christians resid- 
ing within a radius of live miles from the city post- 
office. This limitation was adopted as a measure of 
convenience and unity of action, but with no design of 
limiting the influence of the union to the circle thus de- 
scribed. This union has had an honorable and prosper- 
ous career from its origin to the present time. It has 
never controlled a large amount of funds, nor been able 
to take statistics on any scale of great importance; but 
it lias steadily and consistently pursued its specific de- 
signs, and in so doing has been able, from its central 
position, to influence favorably the Sunday-school cause 
not only throughout Great Britain, but throughout the 
world. The following have been its more important 
functions: L The publication of Sunday -school requi- 
sites, lesson-papers, and periodicals. Of the latter, The 
Sunday-school Teachers' Magazine and several juvenile 
monthlies have long held a high rank. 2. The promo- 
tion of activity and improvement in the work of Sun- 
day-school instruction. For this object the position of 
the union, in the practical centre not only of London, but 
of England, has been eminently favorable. This ad- 
vantage has been diligently and wisely improved by a 
succession of intelligent and faithful workers, who, by 
personal and co-operative efforts, have kept the stand- 
ard of Sunday-school instruction continually advancing. 
As a permanent means to this important end, they 
have secured the erection of a fine building in a central 
location, in which they maintain courses of lectures, 
training and model classes, together with competitive 
examinations for teachers. 

3. In 1810 “The Beligious Tract Society” of London 
was founded. This society, although not hearing the 
name Sunday-school in its title, or specifically naming 
Sunday-school objects in its constitution, has neverthe- 
less been, from its origin to the present time, one of the 


SUNDAY-SCIIOOL SOCIETIES 25 SUNDAY-SCHOOL SOCIETIES 


most serviceable auxiliaries to the Sunday-school enter- 
prise. Its publications have been unrivalled for cheap- 
ness, elegance, religions character, and adaptation to 
Sunday-school wants. As such they have challenged 
and secured the patronage of all Sunday-school workers 
throughout the British dominions. Vast numbers of 
them have been reprinted in the United States. 

Of several other general associations we are not able 
to assign the exact date of origin. The order of their 
establishment is indicated in the list, and the specific 
object of each is sufficiently expressed by its title. 
They are as follows: “The Church of England Sun- 
day-school Institute;” “The Ragged Sunday-school In- 
stitute;” “The Wesleyan Methodist Sunday-school 
Union.” The Wesleyan Methodist Church has long had 
a form of denominational action in behalf of both week- 
day and Sunday school education. It has, moreover, 
through its publication -office, issued many books for 
Sunday-schools, as well as requisites and juvenile peri- 
odicals. Between the years 1800 and 1870 it thought 
proper to adopt more specific measures in behalf of its 
Sunday-school work, lienee the institution of the 
union last named, and the appointment of a conneetion- 
al Sunday-school secretary. In general, it may be re- 
marked that the greater part of the churches through- 
out Great Britain maintain their Sunday-schools by in- 
dividual Church effort, often aided by the co-operative 
influence of local unions. 

II. American . — 1. Not counting the Church action 
alluded to in the preceding article, the first general 
Sunday-school organization established in the United 
States dated from Jan. 1 1, 1791. It was formed in Phil- 
adelphia. under the title of “The First-day or Sunday 
School Society.” It was composed of members repre- 
senting different denominations of Christians, among 
whom were several members of the Society of Friends. 
“The first article of the constitution of this society re- 
quired that the instruction given in the schools estab- 
lished under its auspices or receiving its beneficence 
should ‘be confined to reading and writing from the 
Bible and such other moral and religious books as the 
society may from time to time direct.’ The teachers 
were paid for their services.” Like its predecessor of 
similar design in London, this society did not have a 
very long or influential career. Neither did the New 
York Sunday-school Union, formed in 181(1, nor the Phil- 
adelphia Sunday and Adult School Union formed in 
Philadelphia in 1817. * 

2. In 1824 the last-named association was merged 
in “the American Sunday-school Union.” This union, 
like that of London, is composed of laymen belonging 
to different denominations of Christians; but from the 
first it has assumed and maintained a far more promi- 
nent position and more aggressive modes of action than 
its English prototype. It has undertaken the double 
work of the publication of Sunday-school literature and 
the missionary enterprise of founding Sunday-schools on 
the frontier and in all destitute portions of the United 
States. For these objects, it has appealed to its sup- 
porting churches for funds. Those appeals have been 
honored in large amounts from year to year; and thus, 
during more than half a century, it has carried forward 
a grand and expanding work in many places where de- 
nominational effort could not. have commanded success. 
As an indication of the work it is and has been accom- 
plishing, we subjoin its principal items of statistics for 
the year ending March 1, 1879 : Sunday-schools organ- 
ized, 1087, containing 4915 teachers and 30.709 schol- 
ars. Schools aided, 2718, containing 16,1522 teachers 
and 152,962 scholars. Miles travelled by its agents and 
missionaries, 232,622. Addresses delivered, 5521. Bi- 
bles distributed, 2137. Testaments distributed, 6668. 
Families visited, 14,140. It has expended in mission- 
ary operations an aggregate of $2,471,620, while the 
value of books and papers it has put in circulation is 
not less than $7,000, 000. It is easy to perceive that 
such a system of evangelical effort, steadily and ener- 


getically pursued for a long series of years, must result 
in an amount of good quite beyond the power of figures 
to enumerate or words to express. When to this grand 
idea is added that of the influence of a rich and abun- 
dant Sunday-school literature, diffused on business prin- 
ciples and through business agencies among the vari- 
ous Sunday-schools of the land, the mind strives in vain 
to comprehend the full extent of the significance and 
hopefulness of this system of effort. From the nature 
of its work, the American Sunday-school Union is una- 
ble to take what may be called permanent statistics, or 
to follow the schools it has founded into their subse- 
quent changes and developments. Its office is usually 
that of a pioneer, making preliminary organizations 
which, in the course of years — and often of a very few 
years — expand, subdivide, and become merged in the 
more permanent work of the various churches. 

3. In 1827 “The Sunday-school Union of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church” was organized in New York, in 
a form which also contemplated the publication and dif- 
fusion of religious tracts and the Holy Scriptures. Al- 
though all these objects had been previously contem- 
plated and promoted by regular Church action as taken 
in 1784 and subsequently, it was thought proper, in 
1827, to make special efforts in their behalf bv the 
joint and special organization referred to. In 1840 the 
Sunday-school Union under notice was reorganized as 
a separate institution, and in 1844 its interests and 
functions were brought into greater prominence by the 
appointment of an official Sunday-school editor, who 
was also made corresponding secretary of the union. 
These movements were in harmony with the original 
policy of the Church that instituted them, namely, to 
promote Sunday-school instruction as a branch of reg- 
ular Church action. For such action on a large scale 
circumstances at the last-named period were highly 
favorable. The Church had then become extended 
throughout the whole country, so that it could reach 
almost any inhabited place by its regular agencies. 
Its plan, therefore, was to stimulate its ministers and 
members to universal activity, in accordance with its 
rules, adopted in 1784 and 1790. This plan saved the 
great expense of sending out and maintaining special 
Sunday-school missionaries, while it made sure of re- 
sponsible and resident agents wherever the work was 
undertaken. By similar agencies it was sought every- 
where to promote a higher grade of Sunday-school ac- 
tivity and improved methods of instruction. For the 
production of an extensive and varied Sunday-school 
literature, provided under official editorship, the union 
was able to avail itself of an organized and most effect- 
ive publishing establishment, owned by the Church, 
with the best of facilities for diffusing its printed mat- 
ter. In these circumstances, all collections for the mis- 
sionary department of Sunday-school effort were ap- 
plied directly and exclusively to the distribution of 
books, at cost price, to be used by persons engaged in 
founding new or maintaining poor schools. Probably 
no more thorough and efficient system of Church effort 
in behalf of Sunday-schools was ever organized, inclu- 
sive of the system of statistics by which its workings 
are shown from year to year. Some of the results of 
the action of that system, running on in regular course, 
may be inferred from the statistical summaries given in 
the foregoing article. 

4. “The Protestant Episcopal Sunday-school Union” 
was organized in New York, at about the period when 
the two unions last named had their origin ; but, for 
some reason, it never secured a strong support from the 
Church in whose interest it was founded and whose 
name it bore. It acted for a time as a publication soci- 
ety, being often aided by individual congregations in 
the issue of particular books. After some years of. a 
rather languid existence, its interests were sold out to a 
private bookseller. A similar result occurred to the 
Evangelical Knowledge Society, an organization also 

' projected, about 1850, by ministers and members of the 


SUNDAY SERVICE 


2G 


SUN IAS 


Protestant Episcopal Church, in the idea of securing 
and diffusing a more evangelical literature than that 
furnished by the union last named. 

5. It is proper to say here that neither the Presbyte- 
rian nor Baptist churches of the United States have 
organized Sunday-school unions. They have availed 
themselves to a large extent of the publications of the 
American Sunday-school Union, and also, in part, of the 
juvenile literature issued hv their respective boards of 
publication, as well as that of the American Tract So- 
ciety. 

ti. In 1832 “The Massachusetts Sabhatli-school Soci- 
ety” was founded in Boston, bv representatives of the 
Congregational churches of New England. Its modes 
of action were denominational, and its publications were 
numerous and good, but after some years of independent 
existence the interests of the society were blended with 
those of the Congregational Publishing Society and the 
American Home Missionary Society. Neither of those 
societies publish Sunday-school statistics. 

7. “The (Dutch) Beformed Sunday-school Union” 
was organized in New York about 1850, and for several 
years proceeded quite actively to promote the Sunday- 
school interests of the Church it represented. It pub- 
lished a small catalogue of Sunday-school books and 
requisites, but did not long maintain a separate exist- 
ence, its interests having been merged in those of a pub- 
lishing society of a more general character. 

8. It is not within the scope of this article to notice 
the numerous local Sunday-school associations that have 
sprung up in the cities, towns, counties, or even states 
of the American Union. Many of them have had but a 
brief existence. Others have been maintained for con- 
tinuous years, happily illustrating the principles of 
Christian union, but rarely engaging in the enterprise 
of publication. Some of them have collected statistics, 
but usually within limited spheres. 

9. The Foreign Sunday-school Association of New 
York and vicinity had a germinal existence as far back 
as 1864, but did not secure an incorporation till 1878. 
It is composed of practical Sunday-school workers, who, 
by means of correspondence, co-operation with mission- 
aries, and judicious donations, seek to promote the or- 
ganization and maintenance of Sunday-schools in coun- 
tries foreign to the United States and outside of the 
British possessions. It claims to have “been the means 
of planting 1977 Sunday-schools in Germany, 1130 in 
France, 150 in Italy, 30 in Portugal, 40 in Japan, 405 in 
German Switzerland, besides some schools in China, 
Greece, Hungary, Holland, and other countries.” Its 
published report for 1879 contains numerous interesting 
facts, and authorizes the hope that in years to come 
grand results may ensue from beginnings which are at 
first necessarily feeble, so far as human agency is in- 
volved. 

The fact that the Sunday-school enterprise, during the 
first century of its history, has, with the divine blessing, 
come so fully to pervade English-speaking countries, 
and has made a hopeful commencement in many and 
remote foreign nations, deserves to be taken as a prom- 
ise of success during the centuries to come of inestima- 
ble extent and value. (I). P. 1\.) 

Sunday Service of this Methodist Episcopal 
Church was an abridgment of the Prayer-book of the 
Church of England, prepared by Mr. Wesley. It was 
arranged for the use of the Methodists in America, when 
he recommended their organization into a Methodist 
Episcopal Church. It was entitled The Sunday Service 
of the Afethodists of North America, with other Services, 
ami was adopted by the General Conference of 1784. It 
was published in connection with the Discipline (Phila. 
1785; Loud. 1786). This appears to have been the 
last time the Sunday Service was published in connec- 
tion with the Discipline , and at the General Conference 
of 1792 all reference to the use of a Sunday Service was 
stricken out. It gradually dropped out of use. The 
M. E. Church, South, in 1866, ordered that the Praver- 


| book as printed by Mr. Wesley in 1786 should be re- 
printed for the use of their Church, and the same ser- 
vice is used in many Wesleyan churches in England, 
though generally t lie churches using a service prefer 
the regular English Prayer-book. See Simpson, Cyclop, 
of Methodism, s. v. 

Sundays, Special. There are a number of Sun- 
i days in tbe year which have received names suggested 
by events happening upon or near those days. We 
give below a classified list: 

Advent (q. v.). The Sundays in Advent are called in the 
Greek Church by a certain number in connection with 
St. Luke’s Gospel ; thus, Advent Sunday is t lie “Tenth 
of Luke.” The third Sunday in Advent is called Gau- 
dete , from the lntroit. 

After Epiphany (q. v.). It is called in the Greek Church 
“Sunday after the Lights;” in the north of Italy “Mar- 
riage Sunday,” from the Gospel. The second Sunday 
after Epiphany is known as the “ Fifteenth of Luke.” 
Before Skutuaoestma (q. v.), called in the Greek Church 
“Sunday of the Publican and Pharisee.” 

Septitaoksima (q. v.), called by the Greeks “Sunday of 
the Prodigal,” and in the West “Close of Alleluia.” 
Sexaokstma (q. v.), in the Greek Church “Sunday of Apo- 
creos,” because meat is not eaten beyoud it. It was also 
called “Sunday of the Sower.” 

Qutnquaoekim \ (q. v.), called Qmnquagcsima Pcenitentiee ; 
also Esto Mihi (Psa. xxxi, 2), from the lntroit ; in Ger- 
many “Priest’s Fortnight,” ecclesiastics commencing 
their fast on this day; and in the Greek Church Tyro- 
phagm , because cheese is no longer eaten. 

In Lent (q. v.). 

1. (Quadragesima (q. v.), called Invocavit (Psa. xci, 15); 
in the East “Orthodoxy Suuday” in England (994) 
“ Holy Day.” 

2. Reminiscere, from the lntroit (Psa. xxv, 6); and in 
France “ Transfiguration,” from the Gospel iu the 
Paris use. 

3. Oculi, from the lntroit (Psa. xxv, 15) ; and in the East 
“Adoration of the Cross.” 

4. Last are (Da. liv, 1), “Sunday of the Golden Rose” 
(q. v.) ; “ Refreshment Sunday” (Gen. xliii) ; “ Midleut 
Sunday in the Greek Church “Sunday of the Great 
Canon," from a special hymn. In England it was 
known as “ Care-Sunday” (Ear, a penalty ) ; “Mother- 
ing-Snnday” (Gal. vi, 21), when all persons made their 
offerings in the cathedral or mother-church; “Sim- 
nel” or “Carling Sunday,” from eating liue wheat- 
cakes or beans on this day. 

5. Judica (Psa. xliii, 1), “Passion Sunday;” “Dimanche 
Repins,” from veiling the images; “Sunday of the 
Quintain” in Frauce, from the sports of the day; 
“ Black Sunday” in Germany, from the veiling of the 
crosses when the words “Jesus hid himself” were 
read. 

Pai.m-Sunday (q. v.), also “ Sunday of the Willow-boughs.” 
Eastkk (q. v.). 

1. First Sunday after Easter, or Octave, has various ap- 
pellations; Dominica in A Ibis , persons who were bap- 
tized at Easter laying aside the white robes then re- 
ceived : Dies Xeophytorum , the newly baptized being 
then recognised as actual members of the Church; 
Qninquagesima (q. v.) ; Pascha Clausum , close of Eas- 
ter; Oct a ra Infantium , in allusion to the newly bap- 
tized ; Quasintodogeniti , in allusion to mau's reuova- 
tion by the Resurrection. 

2. The second Sunday was known as that of the “ Three 
Ointment-bearers,” from the Gospel; “St. Thomas,” 
or “Renewal Sunday” (John xx, 27); Miscricordias 
Domini , from the lntroit (Psa. xxiii, 5); “Sunday of 
White Cloths” or “after the exhibition of relics.” 

3. “Of the Paralytic” in the Greek Church; in the Lat- 
in. Jubilate , from the lntroit (Psa. lxii, 2). 

4. Mid-Pentecost; ill the Greek Church “Of the Samar- 
itan in the Latin from the Introits, Cantata (Psa. 
xcviii, 1) ; Rogate (Soug of Sol. ii, 14); Exaudi (Psa. 
xxvii, 7). 

5. Rogation (q. v.); iu the Greek Church “Of the Bliud- 
m an.” 

Whit-Sun day (q. v.). 

Trinity Sunday (q. v.) ; in the East “All Saiuts’ Sun- 
day;” in France “King of Sundays,” or “Blessed Sun- 
day.” 1. “Sunday of the rich man and Lazarus” was 
the term used to designate the first Sunday after Trin- 
ity. 15. “Sunday of the Lilies” is the name by which 
the fifteenth Sunday after Trinity is known. 

After Ascension ; in the East “Sunday of the 3D,” in al- 
lusion to the Niceue fathers; at Rome “Sunday of 
Roses,” so called by Innocent III in 1130, roses being 
thrown from the roof of Srtnta Maria Rotunda, symbol- 
ical of the gifts of the Spirit. Sundays after Pentecost, 
Sundays from Whit-Snnday to Advent; but in England, 
anciently as now, Sundays after Trinity. 

Sunias, an epithet of the Grecian Minerva , from 
her temple at Suniuni in Attica (Pausan. i, 1, 1). 


SUN IS A CT AN ISM 


27 


SUP 


Sunisactanism (ovcfioaKroc, introduced with), a 
name given to the practice by which many of the cler- 
gy evaded the rigorous laws respecting celibacy. It is 
sometimes called domesticism, and consisted in keeping 
female inmates in their dwellings, with whom they pro- 
fessed to live in chaste affection, but who were known 
to be concubines. Jerome and Chrysostom severely 
reprehended the clergy on account of the gross licen- 
tiousness of which they were guilty, while at the same 
time they were professing the highest purity. See 
Agapet^e. 

Sunna, one of the Norse asas, the daughter of Mun- 
dilfare, the star -god. Her brother and herself were 
possessed of extraordinary beauty, which induced their 
parents to name them the sun and moon (Sol, or Sunna, 
and Maani); but the gods considered the bestowal of 
such names a crime, and accordingly kidnapped the 
children, afterwards placing them in charge of the sun 
and the moon wagons which were formed out of sparks 
of tire which flew from Muspelheim into the kingdom 
of the asas. The horses which drew the wagons were 
named Alswidur and Arvarknr (the “ universal scorcher” 
and the “ early wake”). They speeded rapidly on their 
courses because Skoll and Hate, two mighty giants in 
the form of wolves, followed swiftly on their heels to 
devour them. It would seem that the ancient Ger- 
mans also worshipped the sun under this title as a 
shining, light -radiating being. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. 
MythoL s. v. See Norse Mythology. 

Sunna (Arab, custom , legal usage) originally de- 
notes among Moslems the sayings and the example of 
Mohammed and his community, provided they are in 
accordance with the Koran, the meaning of which, 
however, is itself explained by the Sunna. The term 
is therefore (though incorrectly) used for the collections 
of moral and legal traditions traced to the Prophet, I 
which supplement the Koran, somewhat like the Mish- j 
11 a (q. v.), which supplements the laws of the Penta- ! 
teuch. The Sunna not only comprises religious doc- 
trines and practice, but also civil and criminal laws 
and the usages of common life — the way to eat and to 
drink, and to dress, and the like. This tradition is ' 
first heard of during the civil wars among the adher- 
ents of the new faith, about half a century after the 
Flight. The single traditions, as we now possess them, 
rarely exceed six lines. The diction is carefully wrought, 
and the form is that of a dialogue. For the credibility 
and canonicity of a tradition it was originally necessary 
that it should have been heard by one truthful witness; 
but this law was much relaxed in after-time. At the 
end of the 3d century (H.), a countless number of indi- 
vidual collections {Mosnad), mostly of an apocryphal 
character, had been produced by different theologians, 
but the first who sifted them critically, and without re- 
gard to any special theological system, was Bochary 
(<1. 256 11.). His collection contains 7275 single tra- 
ditions, 4000 of which, however, occur twice in the 
work. Muslim, his pupil, supplemented Bochary with 
another collection, containing 12,000, again including 
4000 repetitions. Besides these, there are four more 
“ canonical” collections — by Abu Dawud (d. 275 II.), 
Tirmidzy (d. 279), Nasny (d. 303), and Maga (d. 273). 
The Sunna, as we have it in these collections, contains, 
broadly speaking, more truth than it is generally sup- 
posed to contain, and, critically used, is, besides the 
Koran, the most authentic source of Islam. A selec- 
tion from the different collections (both canonical and 
otherwise), called Mishcat A l-Masabih, has been trans- 
lated into English by Capt. Matthews (Calcutta, 1809). 
Fragments from Bochary are found in the German 
translation, by Yon Hammer, in the Fundgruhen des 
Orients . — Chambers's Encyclop. See Sonna. 

Sunnites, traditionists, or believers in the Sunna 
(q. v.) ; the name of the “ orthodox” Moslems, as op- 
posed to the Shiites (q. v.). They are subdivided into 
four principal sects, who, though at issue on different 


minor points, yet are acknowledged by each other to 
belong to the faithful and to be capable of salvation, 
and they each have a special oratory at Mecca. The 
first of these sects are the Hanetites, founded by Abu 
Ilanifa, who died 150 years after the Hegira. They 
are emphatically called “ the followers of reason,” while 
the other three are guided exclusively by tradition. 
They allow reason to have a principal share in their 
decisions on legal and other points. To this sect, be- 
long chiefly the Turks and Tartars. The second sect 
are the Malekitcs, founded by Malek Ibn-Ans, who 
died at Medina about 180 H. As one of the chief 
proofs of his real piety and humility, it is recorded that 
when asked for his decision on forty-eight questions, he 
would only decide on sixteen, freely confessing his ig- 
norance about the others. In Barbary and other parts 
of Africa, the greatest part of his adherents are found. 
Mohammed Al-Shafei, born in Palestine, 150 H., but 
educated in Mecca, is the founder of the third sect, the 
Shafe'ites. lie was a great enemy of the scholastic 
divines, and seems altogether to have been of an orig- 
inal cast of mind. He never swore by God, and always 
took time to consider whether he should at all answer 
any given question or hold his peace. The most char- 
acteristic saying recorded of him is, “ Whosoever pre- 
tends to love both the work and the Creator at the same 
time is a liar.” He is accounted of such importance 
that, according to his contemporaries, “ he was as the sun 
to the world, and as health to the body;” and all the 
relations of the traditions of Mohammed were said to 
have been asleep until he came and woke them, lie 
appears to have been the first who reduced Moslem ju- 
risprudence into a method, and thus made it, from a 
number of vague sayings, a science. His followers are 
now’ chiefly found in Arabia and Persia. Ahmed Ibn- 
llanbal founded the fourth sect, the llanbalites. lie 
was born 164 H., and w T as a most intimate friend of 
Shafei. His knowledge of the traditions (of which he 
could repeat not fewer than a million) w’as no less famed 
than w T as his piety. He taught that the Koran was 
not created, but everlastingly subsisted in the essence 
of God — a doctrine for which he was severely punished 
by the caliph Al-Motasem. On the day of his death, 
no less than 20,000 unbelievers (Jew’s, Christians, and 
Magians) are said to have embraced the Mohammedan 
faith. Once very numerous, the Hanbalites now are 
but very rarely met with out of Arabia. On the differ- 
ences between the Sunnites and Shiites, see Shiites. — 
Chambers's Encyclop. See Sunnites. 

Sunyabadis, a sect of Hindu Atheists, or rather 
Nihilists, who held that all notions of God and man are 
fallacies, and that nothing exists. Whatever we look 
upon is regarded as vacuity. Theism and Atheism, 
Maya and Brahm, all is false, all is error.— Gardner, 
Faiths of the World, s. v. 

Suovetaurilia, peculiar sacrifices among the an- 
cient Romans, so named because they consisted of a pig, 
a sheep, and an ox. These w’ere offered at the gen- 
eral lustration of the Roman people, which took place 
every five years. The Suovetaurilia, indeed, formed a 
part of every lustration, and the victims w’ere carried 
around the thing to be purified, w’hether it was a city, 
a people, or a piece of land. The same sacrifices existed 
among the ancient Greeks, under the name of Trittya. 
A representation of the celebration of these sacrifices is 
found on the Triumphal Arch of Constantine at Rome. 
— Gardner, Faiths of the World, s. v. See Sacrifice. 

Sup (dti 7 rvtwl). Our information on this subject is 
but scanty. The early Hebrew’s do not seem to have 
given special names to their several meals, for the terms 
rendered “dine” and “dinner” in the A. V. (Gen. xliii, 
16; Prov. xv, 17) are in reality general expressions, 
which might more correctly be rendered “eat” and 
“portion of food.” In the New r Test, we have the 
Greek terms dparror and fot7rroF, w hich the A. Y. 
renders respectively “dinner” and “supper” (Luke xiv, 


sur 


28 


SUP 


12 ; John xxi, 12), but which are more properly “break- 
fast” and *■ dinner.” There is some uncertainty as to 
the hours at which the meals were taken. The Egyp- 
tians undoubtedly took their principal meal at noon 
((leu. xliii. 10); laborers took a light meal at that time 
(Ruth ii, 14; comp. ver. 17); and occasionally that early 
hour was devoted to excess and revelling (1 Kings xx, 
10). It has been inferred from those passages (some- 
what too hastily, we think) that the principal meal 
generally took place at noon. The Egyptians do, in- 
deed, still make a substantial meal at that time (Lane, 
Mod. Egypt, i. ISO), but. there are indications that the 
Jews rather followed the custom that prevails among 
the Bedawin, and made their principal meal after sun- 
set. and a lighter meal at about 9 or 10 A.M. (Burck- 
hardt, Notes, i, 04). For instance, Lot prepared a feast 
for the two angels “ at even” (Gen. xix, 1-3) ; Boaz ev- 
idently took his meal late in the evening (Ruth iii, 7); 
the Israelites ate flesh in the evening, and bread only, 
or manna, in the morning (Exod. xvi, 12); the con- 
text seems to imply that Jethro's least was in the even- 
ing (xviii, 12, 14). But, above all, t he institution of 
the Paschal feast in the evening seems to imply that 
the principal meal was usually taken then: it appears 
highly improbable that the Jews would have been or- 
dered to eat meat at an unusual time. In the later Bib- 
lical period we have clearer notices to the same effect. 
Breakfast took place in the morning (John xxi, 4, 12), on 
ordinary days not before 9 o’clock, which was the first 
hour of prayer (Acts ii, 15), and on the Sabbath not be- 
fore 12. when the service of the synagogue was com- 
pleted (Josephus, Life, § 54); the more prolonged and 
substantial meal took place in the evening (ibid. § 44; 
ITur, i, 17, 4). The general tenor of the parable of the 
great supper certainly implies that the feast took place 
in the working-hours of the day (Luke xiv, 15-24) ; but 
we mav regard this, perhaps, as part of the imagery of 
the parable rather than as a picture of real life. See 
Supper. 

The posture at meals varied at different periods. There 
is sufficient evidence that the old Hebrews were in the 
habit of sitting (Gen. xxvii, 19; Judg. xix, 6; 1 Sam. 
xx, 5, 24; 1 Kings xiii, 20), but it does not hence fol- 
low that they sat on ciiairs; they mav have squatted 
on the ground, as was the occasional, though not per- 
haps the general, custom of the ancient Egyptians (Wil- 
kinson, Awe. Egypt, i, 53. 181). The table was in this 
case hut slightly elevated above the ground, as is still 
the case in Egypt. At the same time, the chair was 
not unknown to the Hebrews, but seems to have been 
regarded as a token of dignity. The Hebrew term is 
kisse (X22). There is only one instance of its being 
mentioned as an article of ordinary furniture, viz. in 2 
Kings iv, 10, where the A. V. incorrectly renders it 
“stool.” Even there it seems probable that it was 
placed more as a mark of special honor to the prophet 
than for common use. As luxury increased, the prac- 
tice of sitting was exchanged for that of reclining. The 
first intimation of this occurs in the prophecies of Amos, 
who reprobates those “ that lie upon beds of ivory, and 
stretch themselves upon their couches” (vi, 4); and ft 
appears that the couches themselves were of a costly 
character — the “corners” or edges (iii, 12: the word 
is peak, HX3, which will apply to the edge as well as to 
the angle of a couch. That the seats and couches of 
the Assyrians were handsomely ornamented appears 
from the specimens given by Layard [A7wm7*, ii, 300- 
302]), being finished with ivory, and the seat covered 
with silk or damask coverlets. (The A. V. has “ in Da- 
mascus in a couch but there can he no doubt that the 
name of the town was transferred to the. silk stuffs man- 
ufactured there, which are still known by the name of 
“damask.”) Ezekiel. again, inveighs against one who 
sat “on a stately bed with a table prepared before it” 
(xxiii, 41). The custom may have been borrowed, in 
the first instance, from the Babylonians and Syrians, 


among whom it prevailed at an early period (Esth. i. 
G; vii, X). A similar change took place in the habits 
of the Greeks, who are represented in the Heroic Age as 
sitting (//. x, 578 ; Od. i, 145), but who afterwards adopt- 
ed the habit of reclining, women and children excepted. 
Sitting appears to have been the posture usual among 
the Assyrians on the occasion of great festivals. A bas- 
relief on the walls of Khorsabad represents the guests 
seated oil high chairs (Layard, Ninereh, ii, 41 1). In 
the time of our Saviour reclining was the universal cus- 
tom, as is implied in the terms (avaKfinStu, kutukh- 
aS’at, iivaK\ii'£<r$ai, KaTuicXivtaSai) used for “ sitting at 
meat,” as the A. V. incorrectly has it. The couch it- 
self (jc\in/) is only once mentioned (Mark vii, 4; A. V. 
“tables”), but there can be little doubt that the Roman 
triclinium hail been introduced, and that the arrange- 
ments of the table resembled those described by clas- 
sical writers. Generally speaking, only three persons 
reclined on each couch, but occasionally four, or even 
five. The couches were provided with cushions, on 
which the left elbow rested in support of the upper 
part of the body, while the right arm remained free, 
A room provided with these was described as iarpiopi- 
jwv, lit. “spread” (xiv, 15; A. V. “furnished”). As 
several guests reclined on the same couch, each over- 
lapped his neighbor, as it were, and rested his head on 
or near the breast of the one who lay behind him; be 
was then said to “lean on the bosom” of his neighbor 
(araKtioSat in T(y KoXmy, John xiii, 23; xxi, 20; comp. 
Pliny, Epist. iv, 22). The close proximity into which 
persons were thus brought rendered it more than usu- 
ally agreeable that friend should be next to friend, and 
it gave the opportunity of making confidential commu- 
nications (John xiii, 25). The ordinary arrangement of 
the couches was in three sides of a square, the fourth 
being left open for the servants to bring up t lie dishes. 
The couches were denominated respectively the high- 
est, the middle, and the lowest couch: the three guests 
on each couch were also denominated highest, middle, 
and lowest — the terms being suggested by the circum- 
stance of the guest, who reclined on another’s bosom 
always appearing to he below him. The protokiinia 
( ■KptoTOKXaria , Matt, xxiii, G), which the Pharisees so 
much coveted, was not, as the A. V. represents it. “the 
uppermost room ,” but the highest seat in the highest 
couch — t lie sent numbered 1 in the annexed diagram. 
See Accubation. 


lectus medius 



imns 

medius 

snmmus 


sum m ns 

medius 

im US 

6 5 4 

7 3 

8 2 

9 1 

imns 

medius 

sum m ns 


Some doubt attends the question whether the females 
took their meals along with the males. The present 
state of society in the East throws no light upon this 
subject, as the customs of the harem date from the time 
of Mohammed. The cases of Ruth amid the reapers 
(Ruth ii, 14), of Elkanah with his wives (1 Sam. i, 4), 
of Job’s sons and daughters (Job i. 4). and the general 
intermixture of the sexes in daily life, make it more 
than probable that they did so join; at the same time, 
as the duty of attending upon the guests devolved upon 
them (Luke x, 40), they probably took a somewhat ir- 
regular and briefer repast. See Dine. 

Before commencing the meal, the guests washed their 
hands. This custom was founded on natural decorum; 
not only was the hand the substitute for our knife and 
fork, hut the hands of all the guests were dipped into 
one and the same dish; uncleanliness in such a ease 
would he intolerable. Hence not only the Jews, hut 


SUP 


20 


SUP 



lUiL T Ji$ Tiil 1 ^ v " , "' 1 K; 


Washing before or after a Meal. (From Lane’s Modern 
Egyptians.) 

the Greeks (Od. i, 136), the modern Egyptians (Lane, 
i, 190), and many other nations have been distinguished 
by this practice; the Bedawin, in particular, are carefid 
to wash their hands before , but are indifferent about do- 
ing so after their meals (Burckhardt, Notes, i, 63). The 
Pharisees transformed this conventional usage into a 
ritual observance, and overlaid it with burdensome reg- 
ulations — a wilful perversion which our Lord reprobates 
in the strongest terms (Mark vii, 1-13). Another pre- 
liminary step was the grace or blessing, of which we 
have but one instance in the Old Test. (1 Sam. ix, 13), 
and more than one pronounced by our Lord himself in 
the New Test. (Matt, xv, 36; Luke ix, 16; John vi, 11); 
it consisted, as far as we may judge from the words ap- 
plied to it, partly of a blessing upon the food, partly of 
thanks to the Giver of it. The Kabbinical writers have, 
as usual, laid down most minute regulations respecting 
it, which may be found in the treatise of the Mishna 
entitled Berachoth, ch.vi-viii. See Wash. 

The mode of taking the food differed in no material 
point from the modern usages of the East; generally 
there was a single dish, into which each guest dipped 
his hand (Matt, xxvi, 23); occasionally separate por- 
tions were served out to each (Gen. xliii, 34; Ruth ii, 
14; 1 Sam. i, 4). A piece of bread was held between 
the thumb and two ringers of the right hand, and was 
dipped either into a bowl of melted grease (in which 
case it was termed -if/ojptov, “a sop,” John xiii, 26) or 
into the dish of meat, whence a piece was conveyed to 
the mouth between the la} r ers of bread (Lane, i, 193, 
194; Burckhardt, Notes, i, 63). It is esteemed an act 
of politeness to hand over to a friend a delicate morsel 



A Party at Burner or Supper. (From Laue’s Modern 
Egyptians.) 


(John xiii, 26; Lane i, 194). In allusion to the above 
method of eating, Solomon makes it a characteristic of 
the sluggard that “he hideth his hand in his bosom, 
and will not so much as bring it to his mouth again” 
(Prov. xix, 24; xxvi, 15). At the conclusion of the 
meal grace was again said, in conformity with Deut. 
viii, 10, and the hands were again washed. See Meal. 

Thus far we have described the ordinary meal. On 
state occasions more ceremony was used, and the meal 
was enlivened in various ways. Such occasions were 
numerous, in connection partly with public, partly with 
private events. In the first class we may place the 
great festivals of the Jews (Deut. xvi ; Tob. ii, *); pub- 
lic sacrifices (Deut. xii, 7 ; xxvii, 7 ; 1 Sam. ix, 13, 22; 
1 Kings i, 9; iii, 15; Zeph.i.7); the ratification of trea- 
ties (Gen. xxvi, 30; xxxi.54); the offering of the tithes 
(Deut. xiv, 26), particularly at the end of each third 
year (xiv, 28). In the second class, marriages (Gen. 
xxix, 22; Judg. xiv, 10; Esth. ii, 18; Tob. viii, 19; 
Matt, xxii, 2; John ii, 1) ; birthdays (Gen. xl, 20; Job 

1, 4; Matt, xiv, 6, 9) ; burials (2 Sam. iii, 35; Jer. xvi, 
7; llos. ix,4; Tob. iv, 17) ; sheep-shearing (1 Snm.xxv, 

2, 36 ; 2 Sam. xiii, 23) ; the vintage (Judg. ix, 27); lay- 
ing the foundation-stone of a house (Prov. ix, 1-5); the 
reception of visitors (Gen. xviii, 6-8: xix, 3 ; 2 Sam. 
iii, 20; xii, 4 ; 2 Kings vi, 23; Tob. vii, 9; IMacc. xvi, 
15; 2 IMacc. ii. 27; Luke v, 29; xv, 23; John xii, 2); 
or any event connected with the sovereign (Hos. vii, 5). 
“The day of the king,” in this passage, has been vari- 
ously understood as his birthday or his coronation; it 
may, however, be equally applied to any other event of 
similar importance. On each of the above-mentioned 
occasions a sumptuous repast was prepared; the guests 
were previously invited (Esth. v, 8; Matt, xxii, 3), and 
on the day of the feast a second invitation was issued to 
those that were bidden (Esth. vi, 14; Prov. ix, 3; Matt, 
xxii, 3). The visitors were received with a kiss (Tob. 
vii, 6; Luke vii, 45); water was produced for them to 
wash their feet with (Luke vii, 44) ; the head, the beard, 
the feet, and sometimes the clothes were perfumed with 
ointment (Psa. xxiii, 5; Amos vi, 6 ; Luke vii, 38; John 
xii, 3) ; on special occasions robes were provided (Matt, 
xxii, 11 ; comp. Trench, On Parables , p. 230) ; and the 
head was decorated with wreaths (Isa. xxviii, 1 ; Wisd. 
ii, 7. 8; Josephus, Ant. xix, 9, 1). This custom prevailed 
extensively among the Greeks and Romans. Not only 
were chaplets worn on the head, but festoons of flowers 
were hung over the neck and breast (Plutarch, Symp. iii, 
1, 3; Martial, x, 19; Ovid, Fast, ii, 739). They were 
generally introduced after the first part of the entertain- 
ment was completed. They are noticed in several fa- 
miliar passages of the Latin poets (Horace, Carm. ii, 7, 
24; iS'aL ii, 3, 256; J uven. v, 36). The regulation of 
the feast was under the superintendence of a special ofii- 
cer, named dp^irpiicAivog (John ii,8; A. V. “governor 
of the feast”), whose business it was to taste the food 
and the liquors before they were placed on the table, 
and to settle about the toasts and amusements; he was 
generally one of the guests (Ecclus. xxxii, 1,2), and 
might therefore take part in the conversation. The 
classical designation of this officer among the Greeks 
was cvp'KooiapxpQ ; among the Romans mugister or 
rex convicii. lie was chosen by lot out of the guests 
(Smith, Diet, of Ant iq. p. 925). See Ahchitriclinus. 
The places of the guests were settled according to their 
respective rank (Gen. xliii, 33 ; 1 Sam. ix, 22; Mark xii, 
39; Luke xiv, 8; John xiii, 23); portions of food were 
placed before each (1 Sam. i,4; 2 Sam. vi, 19; 1 Chron. 
xvi, 3), the most honored guests receiving either larger 
(Gen. xliii, 34; comp. Herod, vi, 57) or more choice (1 
Sam. ix, 24; comp. It. vii, 321) portions than the rest. 
The importance of t he feast was marked by the num- 
ber of the guests (Gen. xxix, 22 ; 1 Sam.ix,22; 1 Kings 
i, 9, 25; Luke v, 29; xiv, 16), by the splendor of the 
vessels (Esth. i, 7), and by the profusion or the excel- 
lence of the viands (Gen. xviii, 6; xxvii, 9; Judg. vi, 
19 ; 1 Sam. ix, 24 ; Isa. xxv, 6 ; Amos vi, 4). The meal 



SUPER-ALTAI 


30 


SUPEREROGATION 


■was enlivened with music, singing, and dancing (2 Sam. t 
xix, 35; Rsa. lxix, 12; Isa. v, 12; Amos vi, 5; Ecclus. ' 
xxxii, 3-6; Alat t. xiv, 6; Luke xv, 25). or with riddles 
(Judg. xiv, 12); and amid these entertainments the 
festival was prolonged for several days (Ksth. i, 3, 4). 
Entertainments designed almost exclusively for drink- 
ing were known by the special name ol inisktek (nnVw'3). 
This resembled the coimssatio of the Homans, which 
took place after the supper, and was a mere drinking 
revel, with only so much food as served to whet the 
palate for wine (Smith, Diet, of Antiq. p. 271). — Smith. 
See Banquet. Instances of such drinking-bouts are 
noticed in 1 Sam. xxv, 36; 2 Sam. xiii. 28; Estli. i, 7 ; 
Dan. v, 1 ; they are reprobated by the prophets (Isa. v, 
II ; Amos vi, 6). Somewhat akin to the mishteh of the 
Hebrews was also the homos (Ktofiog) of the apostolic 
age, in which gross licentiousness was added to drinking, 
and which is frequently made the subject of warning in 
the Epistles (Kom. xiii, 13; Gal. v, 21; Eph. v, 18; 1 
Pet. iv, 3). See Drink. 

Super-altar, a term given — 1. To a portable altar, 
placed on the altar itself at the time of the celebration of 
the Christian eueharist, or set up separately. I lincmar 
(867) allowed the use of a consecrated slate, marble, or 
a black stone slab, probably owing to the needs of the 
Crusaders and the deficiency of churches. It was large 
enough to contain the chalice and host. See Altar, 
Portable. 2. Ordinarily and commonly this term is 
applied to the ledge behind the altar, on which relics, 
flowers, candlesticks, and the altar-cross stand. It is 
very frequently so applied in the ancient Church of 
England. 

Superannuated Preachers are ministers in the 
Methodist churches who, by reason of age, infirmity, 
or afflictions, arc disabled from preaching, but remain 
members of the Annual Conferences. In the Amer- 
ican churches they retain all the rights and privileges 
of active ministers except being eligible to appoint- 
ments. In the English Wesleyan Church, if members 
of the Legal Hundred or Constitutional Conference, 
they cease to be members of that body. Their restora- 
tion to the effective relation depends upon the vote of 
the Conference. 

I. Rif its, etc . — When a superannuated preacher lives 
out of the bounds of his Conference, lie is entitled to a 
seat in the Quarterly Conference, and the privileges of 
membership in the Church where he resides. He is en- 
titled, if needy, to receive a share of the proceeds of the 
collection taken in the churches for Conference claim- 
ants, and of the chartered fund. Each Quarterly Con- 
ference is directed to estimate the amount needed for 
the support of these preachers or their widows, and for- 
ward a certificate to the Annual Conference. The case 
is considered by the Conference stewards, and on their 
report the amount to be distributed is decided by the 
vote of the Conference. 

II. Duties, etc. — It is the duty of the superannuated 
preacher to forward annually to the Conference of which 
lie is a member a certificate of his Christian and minis- 
terial character, signed by the presiding elder of the 
district or the preacher in charge of the work where he 
resides. Without such certificate he has no claims on 
the Conference for support. 

In 1876 there were in the Methodist Episcopal Church 
1103 superannuated preachers. The Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, South, in 1875, reported 250. See Discipline 
of the M. E. Church; Simpson, Cyclop, of Methodism, 
s. v. 

Superattendens. The Greek word fVtWo7roc, 
episcopus, has always been retained in the Church to 
denote the chief minister in sacred things. It was 
sometimes translated by Latin writers into superatten- 
dens, i. e. superintendent. See Bisuor. 

Superbia, the Roman personified pride, a daughter 
of ^Ether and Earth. 


Supererogation ( opus supererogation is ). The 
distinction between prweepta and consilia evangel ica, 
or between the positive duties enjoined by the law and 
the moral requirements of the Gospel, which the faithful 
arc at liberty to comply with or not, referring chiefly to 
1 Cor. vii, 6, and treated in the Catechism. Roman, iii, 
3, 24, is of very ancient origin. Scholastic theology in- 
sisted most particularly on that distinction, and estab- 
lished it in the form in which it has since been held 
by all orthodox Roman Catholics. If the observance 
of the obligatory commandments constitutes all the du- 
ties of man, then his undertaking to accomplish the 
non-obligatory consilia may be looked upon as a sort of 
traffic, the object of which is to gain by this accomplish- 
ment a certain degree of merit. We acquire by it a sort 
of surplus, and this is what is designated as opus super- 
erogationis. This doctrine of supererogatory merits is 
not symbolical, for the Council of Trent does not express 
itself on that point. On the other hand, the principle that 
the righteous may fully satisfy the divine law pro hujus 
vitie statu by works done in God is fully established 
by Cone. Trid. Sess. vi, can. 16. This is also the case 
with the other principle, t; Si quisdixerit, hominis justi- 
ficati bona opera ita esse dona Dei, ut non sint etiam bona 
ipsius justifieati merita, aut ipsum justificatnm bonis 
operibus . . . non vere merer! augmentum gratia?, vitam 
a?ternam et ipsius vita? aiterna? . . . consecutionem atque 
etiam gloriae augmentum; anathema sit” (Sess. vi, can. 
32). Finally, the symbolic books of the Roman Cath- 
olic Church recognise also the voluntary assumption of 
the vows of obedience, poverty and chastity (Sess. xxv, 
can. 1), of which Bellarmine ( De Motiachis, c. x iii) says 
they are “ nee pr.-ecepta nec indifferentia, sed Deo grata 
ct ab illo commendata.” If a satisfactory fulfilment of 
the law is possible, if good works constitute a desert, 
then the scholastic notion of the opera svpererogativa 
becomes a natural consequence. This doctrine, in short, 
is the result of the system. It is the natural conse- 
quence of that conception of the law in relation to the 
justification of man. It is supported by tradition from 
the time of Alexander of Hales (Summa, pt. iv, qu. 23, 
a. 2, m. 3 ; Albertos Magnus, Sent . iv, dist. 20, a. 16, 17 ; 
Thomas Aquinas, Snppl. tert. part. Summa; Theol. qu. 13, 
a. 1), and has not only never been denied, but always 
asserted and defended against all attacks by the most 
eminent theologians of the Roman Catholic Church. 
The assertion “ut unus posset pro altero satisfacere,” 
in the Cateck. Rom., can only be explained in view of 
that doctrine. If we now inquire further into its con- 
sequences, as attempted by more modern theologians, 
Mohlcr, for instance (A r eue Untersnchungen , 2d ed. p. 305 
sq.), we find an inextricable confusion in the conception 
of the law. Mbhler starts from the admission that the 
moral law, as the absolute will of God, and the unity of 
the human will with the divine hv love, which it re- 
quires, cannot be surpassed. Yet his conception of the 
law is erroneous and a mere abstraction, for, on the one 
hand, he considers it as without limits, infinite ; and, on 
the other, as resolving itself into a number of separate 
i commandments, each of which constitutes a duty. Tims 
^ considered, no one can do more than the law requires, 
though any one can do more than is required by the 
separate commandments taken individually. From the 
moment that by his entering into communion with 
Christ love becomes the ruling principle of a man’s life, 
he has absolutely fulfilled the moral law. Regeneration 
being presupposed, there are yet different degrees in the 
effects of love, and these degrees are not regulated by 
any law. Hence every one may accomplish certain du- 
ties as if they were not duties for him, thus overstep- 
ping the common limits of duty and attaining to a high- 
er degree of perfection. According to this argumenta- 
tion, the moral law would constitute, so to speak, an 
imaginary quantity, consisting, on the one hand, in the 
complete body of the divine commandments, and, on the 
other, in a number of imputations separate from these 
1 commandments, and very difficult to define particular- 


SUPEREROGATION 


31 


SUPEREROGATION 


ly. This, then, brings 11 s back again to the distinction 
between preecepta and consilla , as the basis of the opera 
supererogativa . Protestantism, on the contrary, looks 
upon the divine law as one indivisible, and being in this 
form the rule of all human life and action. Objectively, 
it is the expression of the idea of that which is good in 
itself, while subjectively it finds its accomplishment in 
love. Hut in order to satisfy the manifold exigencies 
of life, it presents itself also in the form of a plurality 
of commandments. These, however, are not to be con- 
sidered as separate from each other, nor, when taken to- 
gether, as forming an incommensurable whole; but, as 
it is man’s duty to do in every circumstance that which 
is good in itself, each distinct commandment is to be looked 
upon as the seal of the complete moral idea, as the whole 
divine law in its relation to the circumstance under con- 
sideration. As to which of the many commandments 
finds its application in a given case, this is a question 
entirely distinct from that which is objectively to be de- 
fined. The perception of it is given to the regenerate 
by the Holy Spirit through a conscience filled with 
love. It is evident that in this system there is no pos- 
sibility of supposing a human power in those regener- 
ated in Christ by virtue of which they could, under 
any circumstance, do more than is required of them, i. e. 
more than that which is absolutely good in itself. Thus, 
we may not only assert in abstracto that the young 
woman who devotes her life to taking care of the sick, 
or the missionary, does not thereby attain a higher de- 
gree of moral perfection than others who contribute but 
a mite towards the advancement of the kingdom of God. 
All depends in this respect on the individual, and on 
the position in which God has placed him. Thus, a 
young woman who, having an aged mother dependent 
on her care, should enter an order — such, for instance, as 
the Sisters of Mercy — would do a bail action. Of the 
woman who anointed him onr Lord said himself, “She 
hath done what she could” (Mark xiv, 8). In Luke 
xvii, 10, he says, “When ye shall have done all those 
things which are commanded you, say, We are unprofit- 
able servants.” Of the stewards, it is required that 
they should be found faithful, and nothing else. Of 
Christ himself it is said that he was “obedient unto 
death, even the death of the cross” (Phil, ii, 8), and to 
be more than obedient is impossible, while to be less is 
to be disobedient. The contrary doctrine, which as- 
cribes merits to man aside from the grace of God, is not 
only immoral, but positively irreligious. It is even il- 
logical when looked at from the Pom an Catholic stand- 
point, since (Mohler, p. 300) no living man ever accom- 
plishes the whole law. See Janow, T)e Reyulis; Conf. 
A ay. art. xxvii ; Apol. n. 140, 1G3, 187, 269 ; A rt . Smalc. 
iii, 3, 322; Coif. Anyl. xiv. 

We should neglect one of the principal consequences 
of the theory of the opus supererogatimnn if we forgot 
to consider its relation to indulgences (q. v.). While 
the sacrament of penance and the absolution connect- 
ed with it grant exemption from sin and from eternal 
punishment, the Church possesses a means of lessening 
or even remitting the temporal punishments required 
by divine justice by means of indulgences. These tem- 
poral punishments are otherwise to be undergone partly 
on this earth, as penances and ecclesiastical expiations 
{pcenw vindicative!}), partly afterwards in purgatory (Per- 
rone, ix, 2). Put w hence does the Church possess the 
power thus to set up as the “representative of God’s 
mercy and justice in our time,” and as such to exercise 
such a right of grace as is so far from being ecclesiasti- 
cal in its character that it extends (under some restric- 
tion) even beyond this life? How can it defend the as- 
sumption of a potestas conferendi indulgentias a Christo 
concessa, mentioned in Cone. Trid. Sess. xxv? On this 
point they refer, as was already done by Alexander of 
Hales, to the thesaurus superei'ogationis perfectorum 
founded by the supererogatory merits of Christ and of 
the saints: “ Est indulgentia remissio poena? temporalis 
adhuc post absolutionem sacramentalem peccatis debi- 


tie, in foro interno coram Deo valida, facta per applica- 
tionem thesauri Ecclesia? a superiore legitimo” (Pcrrone, 
ix, 1). That there exists such a fund capable of aton- 
ing for all the sins of humanity, of any kind, the basis 
and foundation of which are the infinite merits of the 
Son of God as man, and of Christ in his saints (Klee, 
Dogm. ii, 335), is considered as jidei proximum. Aside 
from the fact that it is implicitly established by the sanc- 
tion of indulgences (Cone. Trid. Sess. xxv, can. 21), it is 
confirmed by the express declarations of popes Clement 
VI {Const. Unigenitns ), Leo X, Pius V, Gregory XIII, Pius 
VI. and Benedict XIV. See also Alex. Ales. pt. iv, qn. 
23, a. 1, m. I ; Albertus Magnus, >$V«/.iv,dist. 20, a. 17, 18; 
Thomas Aquinas, pt. iii, qu. 25, a. 1 ; Sent. iv,dist.20,qu. 1 , 
a. 3 ; Snmm. adv . Gent, iii, 156; Bonaventura, Sent, iv, dist. 
20, pt. ii, qn. 1 ; Bellarmine, De Jndalg. c. ii, iii ; Veroni- 
us, Reg u la Fidei, ii, 4; Bossuet, Exposition, § 8 ; Balleri- 
ni [Peter], Summ. Theol. Enel. iii. Still there may re- 
main some doubt as to Avhether the merita on which 
the system of indulgences rests is to be considered as 
active performances in the strict sense of the opus su- 
jiererogationis, or as unmerited sufferings, such as those 
undergone by the saints, and w hich were not to be con- 
sidered as punishments, but which thus served to atone 
beforehand for the faults aftenvards committed by the 
universality of sinners. It is only in the first case that 
the doctrine of the opus supererogationis forms the basis 
of the system of indulgences, or the notion of the opus 
supererogativum must also embrace the superfluous suf- 
ferings of the perfect ; and on this the orthodox w r riters 
of the Roman Catholic Church do not agree. In their 
polemical defences of the doctrine of a fund of merits, 
they mostly base themselves on the second considera- 
tion. If we leave these, w e find in their other works so 
much that is obscure and indefinite on this as well as 
on most other points that it is impossible for Protes- 
tant expositors to attempt to define the doctrine of the 
Church without being at once accused by Roman Cath- 
olics of misunderstanding their authors. The same Moh- 
ler w T ho in Xeue Untersuchungen, § G8, derives the thesau- 
rus from the excessive sufferings of some, in § 69, p. 
41 1 , considers good works as efficient as undeserved 
sufferings in freeing the yet ensnared members of the 
body of Christ. This is still more expressly asserted by 
Klee {Dogm. ii, 334) and Bellarmine {De Monach. c. vii, 
viii). And it could not be otherwise, for the thesaurus , 
that basis of indulgences, the product of the “merita 
Christi et sanctorum. quatenus ha?c satisfactoria sunt,” is 
alone “norunt theologi omnes o/imr bona esse meritoria, 
impetratoria, et satisfactoria." Thus the opera superero - 
gativa contribute unquestionably to making up the fund 
of merits imparted to those who need it in the form of 
indulgences. “ Les bonnes oeuvres de tons les hommes, 
le sang des martyrs, les sacrifices et les larraes de l’in- 
nocence s’accumulent sans relache pour faire equilibre 
au mal. L’action de graces, la priere, les satisfactions, 
les secours, les inspirations, la foi, l’esperance et famour 
circulent de Tun ii l’autre comme des tleuves hienfaisans” 
(De Maistre, Soirees de St.-Petersbourg). 

This doctrine of the opus supererogationis w\as at- 
tacked by Wvcliffe {Dial. p. 287), and sharply criticised 
in Job. von Wesel’s A dr. Indulg. Disput. The position 
of the Reformers on that question may be seen in Me- 
lancthon {Loci, De Satisfactivne) and Calvin {Inst, iii, 
5). It was aftenvards treated by Chemnitz (i, De Bo- 
nis Opp. qu.3 ; ii, De Indulg.), Chamier {Panstratiu Ca- 
thol. iii, lib. 24, De Satisfactionibus A lienis), and Jo. Ger- 
hard {Loc. xv, 9, ed. Cotta). The Synod of Pistoja 
{Propos. X 'Ll), in 1876, took the same view’s in the 
Roman Catholic Church. If Protestant polemists have 
occasionally failed to observe that the vicarious satis- 
faction of the saints does not refer to sin itself, but to 
the temporal consequences of sin pardoned, this has, 
nevertheless, made no practical difference. We may also 
notice here the evident incongruity between the Roman 
Catholic essays on this subject and the fundamental 
truth of Christ’s all-sufficient merits. For, admitting 


SUPER F R O X TALE 


32 


SUPERNUMERARY 


the fundamental distinction made by the Thomists be- 
tween vuritum tie condiyno and merit uni de conyruo , 
since the merit of Christ remains still the active princi- 
ple of the supererogatory merits of the saints, the latter 
cannot increase the value of the merits ol Christ, but 
only the quantity or number. “ Per modum cumuli ad- 
jiciuntur satisfactionibus Cliristi, quin istis ulla ratione 
derogetur.” The merits of others, consequently, are re- 
versible merely as satisfactory services, not as personal 
moral act ions, and thus are looked upon only as means 
of application of the merits of Christ as manifested in 
supcrcrogative works. ‘‘Non liabent nisi rationem me- 
dii, quo Christ i pretium nobis ajiplicatur” (Bellarmine, 
De Indubj. i. 4. u. 4). — llerzog, Heal- Encyklop. s. v. See 
31 lilt IT. 

Superfrontale, a term applied to — l. The back 
wall of the altar, which received either stone-reliefs or 
a metal covering with embossed designs and enamel- 
work. 2. The modern name for a covering for the top 
of the altar, which commonly hangs down about six 
inches all round and is fringed. It is ordinarily made 
of silk velvet, satin, or damask, and is placed over the 
three white linen cloths which customarily cover and 
preserve the altar slab. 



Altar. (From St. Denis.) 

a, Frontal ; 6, Superfrontal No. 2 ; c , Superfronlal 

Superhumeral Cloth, a term used to designate 
the ft mice (q. v.). 

Superhumerale, a term for the archiepiscopal 
pall (q. v.). 

Superindicta were taxes imposed by the Homan 
emperors, beyond the ordinary canonical taxes, upon 
great exigencies and extraordinary occasions. The or- 
dinary taxes w'ere called indictions, so those extraordi- 
nary were called superindictions. From these the clergy 
w-ere universally exempted bv several laws of the Chris- 
tian emperors. — Bingham, Christ. A ntiq. bk. v, ch. iii, § 8. 

Superinspector, a word by which Latin writers 
have translated episcapus (hTcinKOTroq), or bishop (q. v.). 

Superinstitution is, in the Anglican Church, the 
institution to a henetiee over the head of a beneficiary 
supposed to be dead after prolonged absence. 

Superintendent. 1. The officer of the early 
Church who was also called overseer , or bishop (h nWo- 
ttoc). 2. The officer in the English Wesleyan Church 
who has charge of a circuit; he is responsible to the 
Conference for the maintenance of discipline and order 
in all the societies of the circuit, and presides as chief 
pastor in all circuit courts. The superintendent or one 
of his colleagues must make the circuit plan, arrange for 
the quarterly visitation of the classes, change or re-elect 
the stewards — the nomination being with himself, the 


vote with the leaders’ or quarterly meetings. All the 
minor details connected with the management of the 
circuit are in his hands, o. An ecclesiastical superior 
in several Deformed churches where episcopacy is not 
admitted, particularly among the Lutherans in Germany 
and t lie Calvinists in some other places. The superin- 
tendent is similar to a bishop, only his power is some- 
what more, restrained than that of our diocesan bishops, 
lie is the chief pastor, and has the direction of all the 
inferior pastors within his district or diocese. 

Superior, an official exercising jurisdiction ; the 
chief of a confraternity, brotherhood, sisterhood, monas- 
tery, or convent. In most orders the “superior” or other 
head of a convent is elected by the members of the con- 
vent, and the superiors in a province elect the provincial. 

Superioress, a female superior of a convent or 
nunnery. 

Supernatural. This is a word which is popular- 
ly used in opposition to “natural,” things and events 
which are not within the ordinary concrete experience 
and knowledge of mankind being looked upon as form- 
ing part of a separate system of things and events. 
“That is supernatural, whatever it be, that is either 
not in the chain of natural cause and effect, or which 
acts on the chain of cause and effect in nature from 
without the chain” ( Bushnell, Xature ami the Super- 
natural). 31 ‘Cosh (On the Supernatural , p. 140, 147) 
gives this definition. “We may speak of whatever is 
supposed to be beyond the natural as preternatural . The 
phrase will apply not only to the divine action, but to 
the agency of such beings as ghosts and dtemons — to 
all such operations as witchcraft and necromancy. 
We may reserve the phrase supernatural to the Su- 
preme Being and to the works performed by him, 
and to the objects created by him beyond the natural 
a sphere, such as angels and the world to come. We 
would confine the word miracle to those events which 
were wrought in our world as a sign or proof of God 
making a supernatural interposition or a revelation 
to man. We must not look upon 
creation as supernatural , but we 
do look upon it as miraculous.” 
So far as our investigation push- 
es out into the world of nature, 
we find that law’ and order exist, 
and every increase of knowledge 
N 0> reveals to us further illustrations 

of the assertion that “order is 
Heaven’s first law.” Belief in the supernatural does 
not, therefore, require us to believe in any violation of 
law r , since all reasoning which starts from w hat w r e know 
leads to the conclusion that “supernatural phenomena 
are as much the result of law as phenomena which are 
called ‘natural.’” See Miracle. 

Supernaturalist, a name commonly given in 
Germany at the end of the last and the beginning of the 
present century to all who believed in supernatural 
agency as exerted in the inspiration of the Scriptures, 
the performance of the miracles therein recorded, etc. 
Their opponents are called Antisupernaturalists. 

Supernumerary Preacher. 1. In the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, a “supernumerary preacher is one 
who, because of impaired health, is temporarily unable 
to perform directive work. He may receive an appoint- 
ment or be left without one, according to the judgment 
of the Annual Conference of which he is a member; 
but he shall have no claim upon the beneficiary funds 
of the Church except by vote of the Conference, and he 
shall be subject to all the limitations of the Discipline 
in respect to reappointment and continuance in the 
same charge that apply to effective preachers. In case 
lie be left without an appointment, be shall have a seat 
in the Quarterly Conference, and all the privileges of 
membership in the place where he may reside” (Disci - 
pline , xviii, 1). Iu 1800, on motiou of Dr. Coke, super- 


SUPERPELLICE 


33 


SUPERSTITION 


numerarv preachers, their widows and orphans, were to 
have the same support which was then accorded to ef- 
fective preachers. The funds of the Conferences increas- 
ing, as well as the advantages of membership multiply- 
ing, great difficulties arose, and in 1800 the General 
Conference abolished the relation so far as the Annual 
Conferences were concerned. In 1804 the relation was 
restored with the definition at present given, with the 
1 >rovision that no supernumerary preacher shall have a 
claim upon the beneficiary funds of the Church without 
a vote of the Annual Conference. In 1876 the number 
of supernumerary preachers was reported at 701. 

2. Among the English Wesley ans, in order to secure 
the relation of supernumerary the consent must be ob- 
tained of the May District Meeting. They receive a 
maintenance according to the number of years they 
have been in the active work. This is derived from 
the Annuitant Society, which is in reality their own 
life-assurance fund, and provides, to a certain extent, 
for the support and education of their children. Upon 
entering into business they are reckoned as local preach- 
ers, after four years as superannuated, and if members 
of the legal hundred, are superseded. They are under 
the supervision of the District Meeting: and if their 
names are on the minutes, they are members of the 
Quarterly, Local Preachers’, and District Meetings. See 
Simpson, Cyclop . of Methodism, s. v. 

Superpellice (or Svperpellicenm'), a surplice 
(<!•'•.)• 

Superpositio, a word used in the ancient Church 
to designate a fast, which lasted not only through the 
day, but till the morning of the following day, or for 
several days together, as was usual in the Passion week. 
The stations, or fasts on stationary days, terminated at 
three o’clock in the afternoon. See Fasting; Sta- 
tion. 

Superpurgation, purgation or cleaning beyond 
what is needed. 

Super-slab, or Super-table. See Altar, Port- 
able. 

Superstition ( CeuriFaipov'ia , deemon-terror). Fes- 
tus, governor of Judaja, informed Agrippathat Paul had 
disputed with the other Jews concerning matters of 
their own superstition (Acts xxv, 19), in which he 
spoke like a true pagan, equally ignorant of the Chris- 
tian religion and of the Jewish. Paul, writing to the 
Colossians (ii, 23), recommends to them not to regard 
false teachers, who would persuade them to a compli- 
ance with human wisdom in an affected humility and 
superstition; and, speaking to the Athenians, he says, 
"I perceive that in all things ye are too superstitious” 
(Acts xvii, 22). The heathen idea of religion has al- 
ways been one of terror. A superstitious man looks on 
God as a severe and rigid master, and obeys with fear 
and trembling. Varro says the pious man honors and 
loves God, the superstitious man dreads him, even to 
terror; and Maximus Tvrius observes that a man truly 
pious looks on God as a friend full of goodness, whereas 
the superstitious serves him with base and mean flat- 
ten". In the New Test., however, the word “supersti- 
tion” or “superstitious” is used in a less offensive sense. 
Festus, a governor newly arrived in his province, would 
hardly have paid so ill a compliment to Agrippa, a king 
of the Jewish religion, as to call his religion supersti- 
tious; and when Paul at Athens tells the Areopagites 
that they are too superstitious, he uses a word no doubt 
susceptible of a good as well as of a bad sense, as it 
would have been highly indecorous, nor less unneces- 
sary, to calumniate the religious disposition of his 
judges whom he was addressing. If we take the wort! 
in the sense of worship or reverence, Festus may say, 
“ Paul and the Jews differ in respect of certain objects 
of spiritual reverence,” and Paul may say, “ I perceive 
ye are greatly attached to objects of spiritual rever- 
ence,” not onlv without offence, but as a very graceful 
N.— C 


introduction to a discourse which proposed to describe 
the only proper object of such reverence. See Paul. 

The Hebrews were never given to such gross super- 
stition as the heathen nations of antiquity; yet there 
are traces of the same weakness of the human mind in 
their various modes of divination (q. v.) and their 
views of possessed persons (q. v.). A special instance 
has been found in the ease of Azazel (q. v.) ; also in the 
satyr (q. v.) and the night-monster (q. v.). See also 
SuiiCTRE. 

The modern Mohammedans are given to superstitions. 
Those of Egypt may be found in Lane’s Modern Eyyp- 
turns, i, 322, 336, 376; ii, 283. 308, 312. In Palestine 
! the peasantry have numerous superstitions: they be- 
lieve in incantations, in charms, in divination by sand 
and other means, and in the evil eye, their children be- 
ing left purposely dirty, or even besoiled, in order to 
avoid the consequences of an envious look. The belief 
in spirits is also general. These include, first, the Jan, 
or powerful daemon, good or bad, the latter kind having 
for bodies the tall smoke -pillars of the whirlwind, so 
commonly seen in summer; secondly, the Afrit, who is 
seemingly equivalent to a ghost; thirdly, the ghoul or 
hag of the cemetery, which feeds on the dead (a place 
haunted by one of these daemons is carefully avoided, or 
at least never approached without the most polite salu- 
tations, intended to appease the unseen spirit); fourth- 
ly, there are Kerad, or goblins, whose name is akin to 
the Arabic word for monkey; lastly, there is the Shai- 
tan, or Satan, a name often applied to human beings of 
an evil disposition ( Conder, Tent IForfc in Palest. ii, 
233). See Daemon. 

On the general subject, see Xavier, £>e Soperstitione 
Judceor. (Hand). 1720): Reineecius, id. (pref. to Chris- 
tiani’s Werke [Leips. 1705]); Spizelius, AuaiCaipovia 
Ebrcro-gentilis (ibid. 1608); Mauzel, De Voce AeunCai- 
povia (Rost. 1758) ; and the monographs cited by Danz, 
Worterb. s. v. “ Aberglaube.” See Witch. 

SUPERSTITION (Lat. snperstitio ) had for its an- 
cient sense that of worship over and above that which 
was appointed by proper authority. Hence religious 
systems not recognised by the Roman State were called 
“superstitions,” Christianity itself being for some cen- 
turies among the number. The word has been used 
so indefinitely that it is difficult to determine its precise 
meaning. It does not seem always to have been used 
in a bad sense in old English, as is shown by Acts xvii, 
22, where it represents CeartSaipovia, a word used by 
the apostle as indicating that the Athenians were a 
God-fearing people who would not refuse to listen to 
his appeal about the “unknown God.” Superstition 
must not he understood to mean an “excess of religion, 
as if any one could have too much of true religion, but 
any misdirection of religious feeling, manifested either 
in showing religious veneration or regard to objects 
which deserve none— that is, properly speaking, the wor- 
ship of false gods — or in an excess of veneration for an 
object deserving some veneration, or the worship of God 
through the medium of improper rites and ceremonies” 
(Whately, On Bacon, p. 155). It is generally defined to 
be the observance of unnecessary and nncommanded 
rites and practices in religion; reverence of objects not 
fit for worship; too great nicety, fears, or scrupulous- 
ness; or extravagant devotions; or religion wrong di- 
rected or conducted. The word may be applied to the 
idolatry of the heathens, the traditions of the Jews, the 
unscriptural rites of the Catholics; to the dependence 
placed by many on baptism, the Lord’s supper, and oth- 
er ceremonies. It may be extended to those who, with- 
out any evidence, believe that prophecies are still ut- 
tered or miracles are performed. Some forms of intel- 
lectual scepticism involve superstition of a far more 
dangerous kind than that involved in the credulity of 
ignorant piety, as belief in witchcraft, magic, table-turn- 
ing, spirit-rapping, etc. 

Superstition, says Claude, usually springs either (1) 
from servile fear, which makes people believe that God 


SUPERTOTUS 


34 


SUPPER OF TIIE LORD 





Arab Repast. 


is always wrathful, and invents 
means to appease him; or (2) 
from a natural inclination we all 
have to idolatry, which makes 
men think they see some rav of 
the Divinity in extraordinary 
creatures, and on this account 
worship them ; or (3) from hy- 
pocrisy. which makes men will- 
ing to discharge their obligations 
to God by grimace and by zeal 
for external services; or (4) from 
presumption, which makes men 
serve God after their own fancies. 

See Claude, Essay on the Compo- 
sition of a Sermon , ii, 49, 299; 

Saurin, Sermons (Eng. ed.), v,49 ; 

Gregory, Essays , Essay 3 ; Blunt, 

Diet, of Hist. Theol. s. v.; Buck, 

Diet. s. v. ; Fleming, Vocabulary 
of Phil. Science, s. v. 

Supertotus, a long gar- 
ment like a modern great-coat, 
resembling a straight-cut cloak 
in some particulars, worn over the secular and religions 
dress in mediaeval times as a protection against the 
weather. — Lee, Gloss, of Litury. Terms, s. v. 

Superville, Daniel t>e, a Protestant theologian, 
was born at Saumur, in August, 1657, of a respectable 
Dutch family, and, being early designated for the sacred 
ministry, studied theology at Saumur and Geneva, and 
in 1683 was called to take charge of the Church of Lou- 
dun. On the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes, he took 
refuge in Rotterdam, whence he could not be drawn by 
offers from Berlin, Loudon, and Hamburg. In 1691 the 
authorities of the city created for him an express pas- 
torate, which he occupied till his death, June 9, 1728. 
He was of a sweet disposition, a lively imagination, and 
a happy delivery. lie published several sermons and 
devotional works, which are enumerated in Hoefer, 
Xouv . Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Supervisor Cantorum, the master of the chor- 
isters. 

Supervisor Operis, the superintendent of works, 
also called mayister operis. 

Suph (r^lD, a sea-weed [see Flag], Jon. ii, 6) is the 
characteristic epithet of the Red Sea (q. v. ), which 
abounds in sedge (Exod. x, 19, and often). In one 
passage (Dent, i, 1) it has been supposed by some to 
designate a place, but no locality of that name has been 
discovered, and most interpreters (with the Sept, and 
Vulg.) understand it there to stand for the Red Sea (hv 
the omission of Ej, sea). So in Numb, xxi, 14, 
suphdh (Sept. Z toofi; Vulg. J fare. Rubrum ), some think 
a place (perhaps the same) to be indicated, but others 
with better reason render the word as an appellative, 
storm, i. e. violence (as in Job xxi, 18, and elsewhere). 

Supper h'nrvov (Mark vi, 21 ; Luke xiv, 12, 16; 
John xii, 2, etc.; sometimes rendered “feast”), a word 
used indifferently in the Homeric age for the early or 
the late meal, its special meaning being the principal 
meal. In later times, however, the term was applied 
exclusively to the late meal — the Soptcov of the Ho- 
meric age. It was the chief meal of the Jews, and also 
of t lie Greeks and Romans, being taken towards or at 
evening, after the labors of the day were over (Matt, 
xxiii, 6; Mark xii, 39; Luke xx, 46). In the New 
Test, it is also specially spoken of the paschal supper 
(John xiii, 2; iv, 21, 20), and of the Lord's supper (1 
Cor. xi, 20); and of any meal (ver. 21); metaphori- 
cally of a marriage-feast, as figurative of the Messiah’s 
kingdom (Rev, xix, 9); and of heaps of the slain as a 
feast for birds of prey (ver, 17). See Sup. 

A modern Oriental supper-partv is thus described by 
Lamartine ; “ Our apartments consisted of a pretty 


court, decorated with Arabic pilasters, and with a spout- 
ing fountain in the centre falling into a large marble 
basin; round this court were three rooms and a divan, 
that is to say, a chamber larger than the others, formed 
bv an arcade, which opened on the inner court, and 
which had neither door nor shutters to close it. It is 
a place of transition between the house and the street, 
serving as a garden to the lazy Mussulmans, its motion- 
less shade supplying for them that of the trees, which 
they have neither the industry to plant nor energy to 
go and seek where nature herself causes them to grow. 
Our rooms, even in this magnificent palace, would have 
appeared ruinous to the poorest hut of our peasants; 
the windows had no glass, an unknown luxury in the 
East, notwithstanding the rigor of winter in these 
mountains; no beds, tables, or chairs; nothing but the 
naked walls, mouldering and riddled with rat and lizard 
holes; and as a floor, the beaten clay, uneven, and mixed 
with chopped straw. Slaves brought mats of rush, 
which they stretched upon this floor, and Damascus 
carpets, with which they covered the mats; they after- 
wards brought a small table of Bethlehem manufacture, 
made of wood, encrusted with mother-of-pearl. These 
tables are not half a foot either in diameter or in height; 
they resemble the trunk of a broken column, and are 
not capable of holding more than the tray on which the 
Mohammedans place the five or six dishes which com- 
pose their repasts. Our dinner, which was served on 
this table, consisted of a pilau, of a dish of sour milk 
mixed with oil, and certain gourds like our cucumbers, 
stuffed with hashed mutton and boiled rice. This is, in 
fact, the most desirable and savory food which one can 
eat in the East. No knives, spoons, or forks; they eat 
with the hands: but the repeated ablutions render this 
custom less revolting for the Mussulmans.” See Eat- 
ing. 

SUPPER OF THE LORD (Kvpia K ot> Dittvov), so 
called by Paul in his historical reference to the Pass- 
over supper as observed by Jesus on the night in which 
he w r as betrayed (1 Cor. xi, 20; Matt, xxvi, 20-31). 

I. Scriptural Statements .- — Several controverted points 
may perhaps be best adjusted by a connected harmony 
of the last Passover of the Lord, constructed from the 
evangelic narratives alluding to it, but filling iq) the 
various omitted circumstances from the knowu Passover 
rites. See Passoveh. 

“Now r , when it was evening, Jesus sat down with 
the twelve (Matt.) apostles” (Mark). The first cus- 
tomary washing and purifications being performed, the 
blessing over the first cup of wine, which began the 
feast, would be pronounced, probably in the usual form 
— “We thank thee, O God, our Heavenly Father, who 
hast created the fruit of the vine.” Considering the 


SUPPER OF THE LORD 


35 


SUPPER OF TIIE LORD 


peculiarity of the circumstances, and the genius of the 
new dispensation about to be established — that the 
great Teacher had already declared the superiority of 
simple forms to the involved traditions of the Jewish 
doctors, and that his disciples alone were present on 
this occasion — it may be supposed that, after the bless- 
ing over the herbs, the recital of the liturgy (or hae/a- 
dah) explanatory of the redemption of their ancestors 
from Egyptian bondage would be somewhat simplified, 
and perhaps accompanied with new reflections. 

Then probably the second cup of wine was mingled, 
and with the flesh of the paschal lamb, feast-offerings, 
and other viands, placed before the Lord. “And he 
said unto them, With desire have I desired to eat this 
Pascha with you before 1 suffer; for I say unto you, I 
shall no more eat thereof until it be fulfilled in the 
kingdom of God. And he took the [second] cup. and 
gave thanks, and said, Take this, and divide among 
you, for I say unto you, I will not henceforth drink of 
the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God shall 
come” (Luke). 

When the wine distributed to each would be drunk 
off, one of the unleavened cakes would next be broken, 
the blessing said over it, and a piece distributed to each 
disciple, probably with the usual formula — “ This is the 
bread of affliction which your fathers did eat in the land 
of Egypt;” i. e. not the identical bread, transubstantia- 
ted, but a memorial or sign of it. The company would 
then proceed with the proper supper, eating of the 
feast-offering, and, after a benediction, of the paschal 
lamb. 

The translation of the phrase driirvov yevofisvov 
(which immediately follows) by “supper being ended” 
has much confused the various narratives, and led many 
to think that Judas was present at the Lord’s supper, 
properly so called. The true reading probably is ytuo- 
psvov (not ■yevofjievQv), as understood by the Arabic 
and Persic translators, in the sense “while supper was 
about,” or “during supper-time.” 

“And as they were at supper, the devil having now 
put it into the heart of Judas to betray him; Jesus, 
knowing that the Father had given all things into his 
hands, and that he was come from God, and was going 
to God, riseth from supper; and,” after due prepara- 
tions, “ began to wash the disciples’ feet” (John). Af- 
ter this striking symbolic exhortation to humility and 
mutual service (John xiii, 6-20), “Jesus was troubled 
in spirit, and bare witness, and said, Verily, verily, I 
say unto you, that one of you will betray me. Then 
the disciples looked on one another, doubting of whom 
he spake” (John). “And they were very sorry, and 
began each of them to say unto him, Lord, is it I?” 
(Matt.). “One of the disciples, leaning back on Je- 
sus’ breast, saith unto him, Lord, is it I? Jesus an- 
swered, He it is to whom 1 shall give a sop, when I 
have dipped it. And after dipping the sop he giveth 
it to Judas Iscariot. Then Satan entered into him. 
Jesus saith unto him, What thou doest, do quickly, 
lie then, on taking the sop, went immediately out; and 
it was night” (John). 

The supper would then proceed until each had eaten 
sufficient of the paschal lamb and feast-offering. 

“And as they were eating, Jesus took the bread,” the 
other unleavened cake left unbroken, “and blessed” 
God “and brake it, and gave it to the” eleven “disci- 
ples, and said, Take eat; this is my body (Matt., 
Mark), which is broken for you : this do in remem- 
brance of me” (Luke, Paul, l Cor. xi, 24). 

The supper being concluded, the hands were usually 
washed the second time, and the third cup y or “cup of 
blessing” (1 Cor. x, 16) prepared, over which the master 
usually gave thanks for the covenant of circumcision 
and for the law given to Moses. Jesus, therefore, at 
this juncture announced, with peculiar appropriateness, 
his New Covenant. 

“After the same manner, also, Jesus took the cup af- 
ter supper, and, having giveu thanks, gave it to them, 


saying, Drink all of you out of it ; for this is my blood 
of the new covenant, which is shed for many for for- 
giveness of sins (Matt.): this do, as oft as ye drink, 
in remetnbrauce of me” (l Cor. xi, 24). “But I say 
unto you, I shall not drink henceforth of this fruit of 
the vine, until that day when \ drink it new (kcuvov) 
with you in my Father’s kingdom” (Matt.). 

“And when they had sung a hymn” (Matt.), prob- 
ably the 1 label, our Lord discoursed long with his 
disciples about his approaching death and departure 
(John xiii, 31; xiv, 31) ; and when he had finished he 
said, “Arise, let us go hence.” “And they went out 
on to the Mount of Olives” (Matt.). 

II. Ecclesiastical Esaye. — A multitude of disputes 
and controversies have existed in the Church, from the 
earliest ages of Christianity, regarding the nature, ob- 
servance, and elements of the Lord’s supper. On these 
points the reader may consult the following works: 
Pierce, Waterland, Cud worth, Hoad ley, and Bell, On 
the Eucharist ; Orme, Lord's Supper Illustrated (Loud. 
1832); Goodman, On the Eucharist (ibid. 1841); Cole- 
man, Christ . An tig. ; Ilallev, On the Sacraments (ibid. 
1845) ; De Linde and M earns, Prize Essays on the Jeiv- 
ish Passover and Christian Eucharist (ibid. 1845). 

The early Church appears, from avast preponderance 
of evidence, to have practiced communion weekly, on 
the Lord’s day. 

The custom, which prevailed during the first seven 
centuries, of mixing the wine with water, and in the 
Greek Church with hot water, appears to have origi- 
nated with the ancient Jews, who mingled their thick 
wine with water (Mishna, Terumoth , xi). Maimon- 
ides (in Chomets ve-M atsah, § vii) states that the pro- 
portion of pure wine in every cup must not be less than 
the fourth part of a quarter of a bin, besides water w hich 
must needs be mingled, that the drinking of it may 
be the more pleasant. The raisin-wine often employed 
both by the ancient and modern Jew’s (Arhah Turim, 
§ 483, date 1300) contains water of course. Remnants 
of this custom are still traceable in the East. The Ncs- 
torian Christians, as late as the 16th century, as we find 
from the old travellers, celebrated the eucharist in such 
wine, made by steeping raisins one night in water, the 
juice being pressed forth (Osorius, lie Reb . Emanuel. 
lib. iii ; Boter, Pel. ii, 3 ; Odoard Barboso, ap. Ra- 
mum. i. 313; Brercwood. On the Diversities of Lan- 
guages [1622], p. 147). The Christians of India (said 
to be converted by St. Thomas) used raisin -wine, as 
also do some of the Syrian churches at the present day 
(Ross, Pansebeia [1683], p. 492; Ainsworth, Travels in 
A sia Minor [1842]). The third Council of Braga would 
not permit the use of the pure “fruit of the vine,” for 
they condemned as heretics “ those who used no other 
wine but what they pressed out of the clusters of grapes, 
which w r ere then presented at the Lord’s table” (Bing- 
ham, Christ. A ntiq. bk. v, eh. ii). The wine used by our 
Lord was of course fermented, as no other could have 
been procured at that season of the year, and as it seems 
to be contrasted with the neiv wine of the heavenly 
kingdom (Matt, xxvi, 29). See Wink. 

As regards the bread, many of the Eastern churches 
use unfermented bread in the communion. “ The 
Greek Church adopts a leavened bread, but the Roman 
Church has it unleavened ; and this difference has been 
the cause of much controversy, though it seems easy to 
decide which kind was used b}’ Jesus, the last supper 
having been on one of the ‘days of unleavened bread,’ 
when no other kind could be eaten in the land of Ju- 
daea.” The Protestant churches, generally, pay little 
regard to the nature of the elements, but use the ordi- 
nary bread, as w’ell as wine, of the country. It was 
probably from regarding in a similar w T ay the bread and 
wine as mere ordinary beverage that some of the an- 
cient sects gave up the wine altogether, and substituted 
other things. Epiphauins (Uteres. 49) and Augustine 
( Ilceres . 28) mention an ancient sect of Christians in 
Phrygia, called Artotyrites, because they used bread 


30 


SURETY 


SUPPLICATIO 

and cheese. Others made use of bread and water only; 
and the third Council of Braga (A.D. 075) condemns a 
custom of communicating in bread and milk. — Kitto. 
See Lotto's Suupku. 

Supplicatio, a solemn thanksgiving or supplica- 
tion to the gods among the ancient Romans, oil which 
occasion the temples were thrown open, and the statues 
of the gods carried on couches through the public 
streets that they might receive the prayers of the peo- 
ple. A supplier tio was appointed by the senate when 
a victory had been gained, or in times ot public danger 
and distress. 

Supplication of Beggars is a book which ap- 
peared mysteriously in London about A.D. 1527, setting 
forth the rapacity and licentiousness of the clergy. It 
eventually came into the hands of Ilenrv YI 1 1, who, 
after hearing it read, said, “ If a man should pull down 
an old stone-wall, and begin at the lower part, the up- 
per part might chance to fall upon his head,” thus 
broadly intimating that the clergy were the founda- 
tions of the rotten old Church; and should an attempt 
he made to reform them, the whole structure would 
tumble down. See Burehard, Hist, of Congregational- 
ism. i, 20. 

Supplication of Commons is a notable hook 
published in 1540, with the full title of A Supplication 
of the Poor Commons to the King. It was a sort of 
counterpart to the Supplication of Beggars, and made 
complaints against the character and conduct of the 
clergy, especially the monks. See Strvpe, Memoirs, i, 
008-02 1 ; Burchard, Hist, of Congregationalism , i, 33. 

Supplicatidnes (Or. Xtravtiai), in its original 
signification, is hut another name for prayers in general, 
of whatever kind, that either were made publicly in the 
church or by any private person. The term is applied 
both to litanies and short prayers, with brief petitions 
and responses. See Litany. 

Supralapsariatis, persons who hold that God, 
without any regard to the good or evil works of men, 
has resolved, by an eternal deeree, supra lapsnm , ante- 
cedently to any knowledge of the fall of Adam, and in- 
dependent of it, to reject some and save others; or, in 
other words, that God intended to glorify his justice in 
the condemnation of some, as well as his mercy in the 
salvation of others; and for that purpose deereed that 
Adam should necessarily fall. See Sublapsariaxs, 

Supramanya, a Ilindft (leva, son of Siva, and 
sprung from the eye in the forehead of that god. He 
fought the giant Sura Parpma, and with the most pow- 
erful weapon of his father split him in two, after seven 
days of battle. The festival Kandershasta is celebrated 
in his honor. 

Supremacy, Papal. The papists claim for the 
See of Rome, represented in the person of the pope, “a 
principality of power over all others, as the mother and 
mistress of all Christian churches;” and all other patri- 
archs are required tt> receive their palls from the Roman 
pontiff. This doctrine is chiefly built on the supposed 
primacy of Peter, of whom the pope is the pretended 
successor; a primacy so far from being countenanced 
by Scripture that we find it there absolutely forbidden 
(Luke xxii, 24; Mark ix, 35). The authority of the 
Roman See was first recognised hv the fourth Lateral) 
Council, A.D. 1215, and was first protested against by 
the authors of the Reformation. The title of “mother 
of churches,” claimed by the Church of Rome, must 
certainly belong to the Church at Jerusalem, and was 
given to that Church by the second Council of Con- 
stantinople, A.D. 381. .See Primacy. 

SUPREMACY, Royal. In the Church of England 
all ecclesiastical jurisdiction is annexed to the crown; 
and it is ordained that no foreign potentate shall exer- 
cise any power, civil or religious, within the limits of 
that kingdom. Canon ii of the Church of England 
says : 


“ Whosoever shall hereafter affirm that the king’s maj- 
esty hath not the same authority in causes ecclesiastical 
that the godly kings had among the Jews aud Christiau 
emperors of the primitive Church, or impeach any part 
of his regal supremacy in the said causes restored to the 
crown, and by the laws of this realm therein established, 
let him he excommunicated ipso facto, aud not restored, 
but only by the archbishop, alter his repentance aud pub- 
lic revocation of those his wicked errors.” 

In the United States, of course, no supremacy or inter- 
ference in spiritual affairs on the part of the civil au- 
thorities is recognised. 

Sur (Ileb. Stir, “!)0, removed, as in Isa. xlix, 21 ; 
Sept. a\ oeoi ; Yulg. Sur), the name of one of the gates 
of the Temple at Jerusalem (2 Kings xxiii, G) ; called in 
the parallel passage (2 Cliron. xxiii, 5) “ the gate of the 
foundation TiCP, yesod (which is the preferable read- 
ing), being apparently that which led across to Zion by 
the causeway or bridge. See Temple. 

Sur (Yoi'p ; Vulg. omits), one of the places on the 
sea-coast of Palestine, which are named as having been 
disturbed at the approach of Ilolofernes with the As- 
syrian army (Judith ii, 28). It cannot he Tyre, the 
modern Sur, since that is mentioned immediately be- 
fore. Some have suggested Dor, others a place named 
Sora, mentioned by Stephanos of Byzantium as in Phoe- 
nicia, which they would identify with Athlit; others, 
again, Sur af end. But none of these are satisfactory. — • 
Smith. The apocryphal character of the hook itself 
makes ns suspicious of the accuracy of the name. See 
Judith. 

Sura Deva, in Hindu mythology, is the goddess 
of wine, who sprang out of the milk-sea when the moun- 
tain Mandar was cast into it, in order to prepare the 
drink amrita. 

Sura Parpma, in Hindu mythology, is the giant 
with whom Supramanya (q, v.) fought. After he had 
been cut into pieces by the latter, one half changed it- 
self into a peacock, and the other half into a cock. Siva 
used the first as an animal for riding, and the second 
served as a watcher for the house in which the wagon 
of Siva stood. 

Surcingle is a band of black silk or stuff, fringed 
at the ends, and bound round the waists of the clergy 
so as to confine and keep the cassock in place. 

Surenhusius ( Surenhus ), Willem, professor of 
Greek and Hebrew at Amsterdam, flourished in the end 
of the 17th and the beginning of the 18th century. lie 
edited a beautifully printed edition of the Mischna, sire 
totius Hebrw.orum Juris, Rituum, A ntiquitatum, et Begum 
Oralinm Syste?na,cum Clurissimorum Rubbinorum Mai- 
monidis et Bnrtenorw, Comment arils Integris, etc. (Arnst. 
1090-1703, 6 vols. fob), which has ever since remained 
the best edition (see Wolf, Bibl. Uebr . ii, 8SG). lie pub- 
lished also J"nC*2 rr so, sire BifiXoi; kuraXXnyi/t;, in 
quo secundum Vett. Theoll. Ihbb. formulas allrgandi et 
viodos interpretandi conciliantur loca ex V. in X. T. alle- 
gata (ibid. 1713, 4to), a work of unsurpassed value on 
the subject to which it relates. 

Sureties is a name given to sponsors in virtue of 
the security given through them to the Church that 
the baptized shall he “virtuously brought up to lead a 
godly and a Christian life.” See Sponsor. 

Surety (some form of ardb, to barter, and es- 
pecially to deposit a pledge, either in money, goods, or 
in part payment, as security for a bargain ; tyyvoi;). 
I “Suretyship” in the A. V. is usually the rendering for 
tokeim, literally in marg. “those that strike 
(hands),” from S-’jrn, to st?-ike (Gesenius, Thesavr. p. 
1517). The phrase tesumeth ydd (Sept. 

Trapa$i)Ki]), “depositing in the hand,” i. e. giving in 
pledge, may be understood to apply to the act of pledg- 
I ing. or virtual, though not personal, suretyship (Lev. vi, 

I 2 [Ileb. v, 21]). In the entire absence of commerce, 


SURETY 


37 


SURNAME 


the law laid down no rules on the subject of suretyship; 
but it is evident that in the time of Solomon mercantile 
dealings had become so multiplied that suretyship in 
the commercial sense was common (Prov. vi, 1 ; xi, 15; 
xvii, 18; xx, 10; xxii, 20; xxvii, 13). lint in older 
times the notion of one mail becoming a surety for a 
service to be discharged by another was in full force 
(see Gen. xliv, 32), and it is probable that the same 
form of undertaking existed, viz. the giving the hand 
to (striking hands with), not. as Michaelis represents, 
the person who was to discharge the service — in the 
commercial sense the debtor — but the person to whom 
it was due, the creditor (.Job xvii, 3; Prov. vi, 1 ; ]\1 i- 
chaelis, Laws of Moses, § 151, ii. 322. ed. Smith). The 
surety, of course, became liable for his client’s debts in 
case of his failure. In later Jewish times the system 
had become common, and caused much distress in many 
instances, yet the duty of suretyship in certain eases is 
recognised as valid (Ecclus. viii, 13; xxix, 14, 15, 16, 18, 
19). — Smith. See Pledge. 

The earliest form of suretyship mentioned in Script- 
ure is the pledging of person for person, as when Judah 
undertook with his father to be surety for Benjamin 
I will exchange for him, put myself in place 
of him, Gen. xliii, 9) ; and when circumstances emerged 
which seemed to call for the fulfilment of the obligation, 
he actually offered himself in the room of Benjamin. In 
this sense the psalmist asks God to be surety for him for 
good (Psa. exix, 122), as did also, in his great distress, 
Ilezekiah (Isa. xxxviii, 14). though the sense here is a 
little weakened in the A. V. bv the rendering “under- 
take for me.” More commonly, however, the kind of 
suretyship spoken of had reference to pecuniary obli- 
gations or debts, and forms the subject of prudential 
advices and warnings in the book of Proverbs (vi, 1; 
xi, 15; xvii, 18: xx, 16). In the first of these passages, 
the dangerous practice of entering into sureties is put 
in two forms — first, “ if thou be surety for thy friend,” 
then “if thou hast stricken thy hand with a stranger;” 
there being no further difference between them than 
that the one has respect to the tiling itself, the other to 
the mode of going about it: the person agreeing to be- 
come surety gave his hand to his friend. Hence, also, 
in Prov. xvii, 18, a man “who strikes bands,” that is, 
readily becomes a surety, is declared to be void of un- 
derstanding. In the highest sense the term is applied 
to Christ, who, in his character as mediator, is repre- 
sented as “the surety ( tyyvo f) of a better covenant” 
(Heb. vii, 22), having made himself responsible for all 
that in this covenant was required to be accomplished 
for the salvation of those who were to share in its pro- 
visions. — Fairbairn. See Mediation. 

SURETY. In the ancient Church the clergy were 
forbidden to be bondsmen or sureties for any other 
man’s appearance in court, because it was thought that 
such sort of encumbrances might bring detriment to 
the Church in distracting her ministers from constant 
attendance upon divine service. 

Surin, Jean Joseph, a French ascetic writer, was 
born at Bordeaux in 1600, entered the Order of the Jes- 
uits at fifteen years of age, and soon distinguished him- 
self by his profound piety and knowledge of human 
nature. In 1634 he was sent to take charge of the Ur- 
suline convent in London, and began a series of exor- 
cisms against the evil spirits supposed to prevail there, 
but eventually became himself the victim of I lie demo- 
niacal possession, and was required to return to Bordeaux. 
In 1637 he again went to London, and remained there, 
with partial seasons of lucidity, for many years, but was 
at length removed from place to place in hopes of relief. 
He recovered his sanity in 1658, and died at Bordeaux, 
April 21, 1665, leaving several works on practical relig- 
ion, which are enumerated in Hoefer, Xvuv. Blog. Gene- 
rale , s. v. 

Surinam (Xegro- English) Version. Negro-Eng- 
lish, or, as it might be designated with equal propriety, 


Negro-Dutch, is the language of the Dutch colony of 
Surinam, in Guiana, and is current among a population 
of at least 100,000 people. Ever since 1738 there has 
existed in Surinam a mission of the United Brethren. 
The language is a compound of English and Dutch, 
with a sprinkling of Spanish, Portuguese, French, ami 
African or Indian words. Prior to the year 1813. the 
greater part of the New Test, was translated into that 
language. In 1828 Moravian missionaries completed a 
version of the entire New Test. The MS. was sent to 
Germany, and was revised by Hans Wied, who for up- 
wards of twenty years had resided in Surinam, and who 
expressed the opinion that the translation was “as per- 
fect as possible.” With t lie aid of the British and For- 
eign Bible Society, an edition of 1000 copies was printed 
in London. This edition was soon exhausted, and, as 
a result of these publications, more than 12,000 con- 
verts were added to the Church. Another edition of 
the New Test, and Psalms was prepared by the Mora- 
vian missionary Treu, and, with the aid of the Neth- 
erlands and the British and Foreign Bible societies, 
2000 copies were printed in 1846. Whether the Old 
Test, has been translated and printed, we are not able 
to say. (B. P.) 

Surius, Laurentius, a Carthusian monk, was the 
child of Lutheran, or, as others say, of Romish parents. 
He was horn at Lubeck in 1522, and educated at Frank- 
lbrt-on-the-Oder and at Cologne. At the latter place 
he became acquainted with Canisius (q. v.), and joined 
the Roman Catholic Church. In 1542 he entered the 
Carthusian Order and devoted himself to monastic as- 
ceticism and literary labor. He displayed both zeal for 
Romanism and hatred for the Reformation, whose lead- 
ers he charged with having borrowed their doctrines 
from Mohammed. Besides translating various mystical 
writings by Tanler, Ruysbroeek, Suso, etc., Surius com- 
posed a Commentaiius Brevis Rerum in Orbe Gestarum 
ab Anno 1500 (Lov. 1566). This book was designed to 
oppose the famous Protestant work by Sleidan (q. v.), 
but was devoid of any particular value ; but it was, nev- 
ertheless, carried forward by Isselt and others to 1673. 
Additional works by Surius are, Ilomilue sire Condones 
Prwstantissimornm Eccl. Boctorum , etc. (Col. 1569-76). 
— Concilia Omnia, etc. (ibid. 1567): — and Vita* Sanc- 
torum ab Aloysio Liponunmo o/im ConscripUe (ibid. 
1570-76, 6 vols. fol.), which was repeatedly reprinted, 
the best edition being that of Cologne, 1618. A seventh 
vol. was added after the death of Surius by the Carthu- 
sian Jacob Mosander. Surius died May 23. 1578. See 
Biog. U nicer selle, tom. xliv (Par. 1826); and Herzog, 
Real-Encgklop. s. v. 

Surlet (de Chokier)- die name of an old French 
family, which dates from the year 1170, and culminated 
in the person of Fastre Bare de Surlet, who died about 
1473. The emperor Ferdinand II ennobled the family 
of Surlet in 1630 with the title de Chokier . The follow- 
ing members deserve mention here: 

1. Jean, born at Liege, Jan. 14, 1571, studied at Lou- 
vain, and took his degrees at Orleans, lie became can- 
on of St. Lambert, abbe of St. Iladelin of Vise, and vicar- 
general of the diocese of Liege, where he distinguished 
himself hv his zealous charity and erudition, lie died 
about 1655, leaving several works on ecclesiastical mat- 
ters, for which see Hoefer, A "our. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

2 . Jean Ernest, nephew of the preceding, became 
canon of Liege and abbe of Vise. He founded the house 
of the Incurables and that of the Filles Repenties at 
Liege, and died about 1683. 

3 . Jean Frederic, uncle of Jean, was a learned can- 
on of Liege, who wrote Enchiridion 1‘racationum (Liege, 
1636), and died March 15, 1635. 

Surname. Names were at first expressive, as 
those of Scripture. According to Du Cange, surnames 
were originally written, not after the Christian-name, 
but above it, and so were “ supeniomina" — overnames. 
The first or Christian name is usually given at bap- 


3S 


SUSANNA 


SUUPL1CE 

tism. Hereditary surnames did not exist in England J 
till after the Norman Conquest. They are taken from 
locality, as Field or Forest; from occupation, as Fisher 
or ^Miller, Pilgrim or Palmer; from personal qualities, 
as Black or Brown ; from natural objects, as Lemon or 
Lamb, Peel or llog. Steel or Jewel, etc. As distinct from 
the surname, the sirname or si re’s- name is a natural 
addition, with son, Mac, or Fitz, ( ), ap, wieh, or sky (all 
signifying son), as Donaldson or Macdonald, Fitzgerald, 
O’Connell, Alexandrowieh, l’etrousky — ap llowel be- 
coming Bowel, and ap Bichard becoming Prichard. 

Surplice (Lat. superpellieeum , over the pelisse), a 
long, loose linen garment worn by clergymen of the 
Church of England during the performance of divine 
service. Surplices are also worn by the fellows of col- 
leges or balls, and by all the scholars and students in 
the universities of Oxford and Cambridge upon Sun- 
days, holidays, and even during their attendance at the 
college chapels or churches. It is also worn for the 
service of the choir. Its use dates back to an early 
day. Pauli mis sent a lamb’s-wool coat to Severus, and 
Ambrose complains of the use of beaver skins and silk 
dresses. The white garment of the clergy is mentioned 
by Gregory Nazianzen, Jerome, Clement of Alexan- 
dria, Honorius, and Ivo of Chartres. The Council of 
Basle required the surplice to reach belotv the middle 
of the thigh. The G libertines wore a hooded surplice. 
At Burgos, in summer, the canons wear, instead of a 
cope and mozzetta (their winter habit), a sleeved sur- 
plice raised on the shoulders. The name is first men- 
tioned by Odo of Paris and Stephen of Tournav, in the 
12th century. The origin of the surplice is thus given 
by Durand: “It was so called because anciently this 
garment was put upon leathern coats made of the skins 
of dead animals (super tunicas pellicas de pellibus mor- 
tnorum aninuilium facias), symbolically to represent 
that the sin of our first parents, which brought man 
under the necessity of wearing garments of skin, was 
now hid and covered by the robe of Christ’s innocence 
and grace.” The name and color (white) signify holi- 
ness of life joined to penitence. The use of the surplice 
was strongly objected to by the Calvinistic and Zwin- 
glian reformers on the Continent, and by the Puritans 
iu England, who regarded it as a relic of poperv. The 
argument against it is to be found in Beza, Tractat. 
Tkeolog. iii, 29; and its defence in Hooker. Eccles. Pol- 
ity. v, 29. Much controversy has been held of late 
years as to the propriety of the surplice being worn by 
the preacher in the pulpit, which is contrary to the 
more general practice of the Anglican Church. The 
surplice and alb (q. v.) are slight variations of what 
was originally one vestment. Foreign surplices are 
much shorter than those used in England. In Italy 
t lie short surplice is called a cotta. See Okn aments, 
Ecclesiastical. 

Surplice-fee is a fee paid to the clergy for occa- 
sional duties. This seems to have been unknowm iu 
the ancient Church; indeed, several laws were passed 
by the early Church commanding the gratuitous per- 
formance of all religious offices. 

Surrogate is a name (meaning one substituted, or 
appointed in the place of another) commonly applied in 
ecclesiastical usage to an officer delegated by the bishop 
to grant licenses for marriages, probates of wills, etc., 
in large towns. A surrogate is, properly speaking, the 
deputy or substitute of an ecclesiastical judge. 

Sursum Corda. In the ancient service of the 
Church, it was the duty of the deacon to summon each 
class of worshippers separately to engage in prayer by 
saving, “Let us pray.” Other forms for announcing 
the time of prayer were also used, as “Give audience,” 
“ Lift your heart” (Sursum corda). This rite is de- 
scribed in detail in the eighth book of the Apostolical 
Constitutions, where it is said that the high-priest or 
celebrant at mass says. “Lift up your hearts,” and the 
faithful respond, “ We lift them up unto the Lord.” In 


its English form it is found in the Communion Service 
of the Church of England. 

Suitur, in Norse mythology, is the mighty ruler 
of Muspelheim, the implacable enemy of the asas, who, 
in the conflagration of the universe, will lead the armies 
of the sons of Muspel, join himself w ith the serpent Mid- 
gard and the wolf Fenris, assail the residences of the 
gods, besiege all the asas in a tremendous battle, and 
finally bring on the overthrow of the world. See Norse 
M YT1IOLOGV. 

Surya, in Hindi! mythology, is the sun (not the sun- 
god. for that is called lndra), which in India is an object 
of worship as the celestial genius, lie rides in a car 
drawn bv seven green horses, whose leader is called 
A run. A thousand genii are in his train, who adore him 
and sing hymns to him. 8urva is often removed from his 
car, and has impressed the earth with numerous legends 
of his power. He lias many names, among whieh, how- 
ever, the following twelve are chief, indicating Ii is at- 
tributes in various relations, and also measurably the 
months: Varuma, Surya, Vetlang, Bhanu, lndra, Uavi, 
Gobasti, Varna, Svarna reta, Divakai, Mitra, and Vishnu 
(in the permanent sense of the word). Among all na- 
tions we find at the lowest stages the powers of nature, 
and especially the heavenly bodies, adored as mighty 
deities. See Ukanolatry. 

Sus. See Crane; Horse. 

Su'sa (Esth. xi, 3 ; xvi, 18). See Shusiian. 

Su'sanchite (Chald. only in the emphat. plur., 
Snsanbiye', ; Sept. NonoYirayrtiot ; Vulg. 

Susanechiei ) is found once only (in Ezra iv, 9, wffiere 
it occurs among the list of the nations whom the 
Assyrians had settled in Samaria, and wffiose descend- 
ants still occupied the country in the reign of the Pseu- 
do-Smerdis). There can be no doubt that it desig- 
nates the Susians, either the inhabitants of the city 
Susa or those of the country (Susis or Susiana) of 
j which Susa was the capital. Perhaps as the Elamites 
are mentioned in the same passage, and as Daniel (vi ii, 

! 2) seems to call the country Elam and the city Shu- 
shan (or Susa), the former explanation is preferable. — 
Smith. See Shusiian. 

SusaiiTia (Soutrat'i'a v. r. No urdura; i. c. 
Shoshanndh , a lily [q. v.]), the name of two females in 
the Bible. The name likewise occurs in Diod. Sic. as 
that of the daughter of Ninus (ii, 6); and Shcshan (1 
Chron. ii, 31,34,35) is of the same origin and meaning 
(Gesen. Thesuur. s. v.). 

1. The heroine of the story of the Judgment of Dan- 
iel in the Apocrypha, otherw ise called 

Susanna, The History of. being one of the appen- 
dices to the canonical book of Daniel. See Daniel, 
Apocryphal Additions to. 

L Title and Position. — This Apocryphal pieee has 
different titles. Sometimes it is calleiL (Soiuxni'i'a) 
Susanna, sometimes (Saru)\) Daniel, and sometimes 
(AioKparaj AawrjX) The Judy meat of Daniel. Equally 
uncertain is its position. The Vat. and Alex. MSS. 
and the Vet. Lat. place it before the first chapter of 
Daniel, while the Sept., after the Cod. Chisiauus and 
Theodotion. ed. Coniplu., put it after ch. xii. 

2. Design. — The object of this attractive story is to 
celebrate the triumph of womanly virtue over tempta- 
tions and dangers, and to exalt the wisdom of Daniel 
in saving the life of the pious heroine. Chrysostom 
rightly sets forth the beautiful lesson of chastity which 
this story affords, when he says, “God permitted this 
trial, that he might publish Susanna’s virtue and the 
others’ incontinence; and, at the same time, by her ex- 
emplary conduct, give a pattern to the sex of the like 
resolution and constancy in case of temptation” (Serm. 
de Susanna ). The story of Susanna is therefore read 
iu the Boman Church on the vigil of the fourth Sun- 
day in Lent, and in the Anglican Church on Nov. 22. 


SUSANNA 


39 


suso 


3. Character , Author , Date, and Original Language . 
— Though the form of this story, as we now have it, 
shows that it is greatly embellished, yet there is every 
reason to believe that it is not wholly tictitious, but 
based upon fact. The paronomasias in Daniel’s exam- 
ination of the elders, when he is represented as saying 
to the one who alhrmed he saw the crime committed, 
v 7r 6 afivov, under a mastich-tree , “the angel of God 
hath received sentence of God, oy^iaai at p'eaov, to cut 
thee in two ;” and to the other, who asserted he saw it 
committed, in ro 7rplvor, under a holm-tree, “the angel 
of the Lord waiteth with the sword, irpioai ae ptaov, 
to cut thee in tico ,” only prove that the Greek is an 
elaboration of an old Hebrew story, but not that it 
originated with the Alexandrine translator of Daniel. 
The Song of Solomon may have suggested material to 
the author. The opinion of Eusebius, Apollinarius, and 
Jerome, that the prophet Habakkuk is the author of 
the History of Susanna is evidently derived from the 
Greek inscription of the History of Bel and the Dragon. 
— Kitto. See Apocrypha. 

2 . One of the women who ministered to our Lord’s 
personal wants out of their private means (Luke viii, 
2, 3). A.D. 28. 

SUSANNA was held by the ancient Church to be a 
symbol of resurrection, and also a type of the persecuted 
Church — the two elders representing the pagans and 
the Jews. Representations of her are frequently found 
in France, in cemeteries, on sarcophagi. She is some- 
times standing between two old men, sometimes between 
two trees behind which the men are hiding. Some- 
times she is represented as a lamb between a fox and a 
leopard. In France she still appears as the representa- 
tive of the Christian Church, the persecutors being Ari- 
ans, Goths, and Vandals. — Martigny, Diet, des Antiq. 
Chi-et. s. v. 



Susceptores (receivers), a 'term applied— 1. To 
deaconesses, who assisted in undressing and dressing 
candidates for baptism, in anointing, and the like. 2. 
To sponsors, with special reference to the services ren- 
dered immediately before and after the rite of baptism. 

Su'si (Heb. Snsi f , 41 0*10, horseman ; Sept. Soiari), 
the father of Gaddi, which latter was the commissioner 
from the tribe of Manasseh to explore Canaan the first 
time (Numb, xiii, 11). B.C. ante 1657. 

Susil, Franz, a Roman Catholic divine, was born in 
1804 at Neu-Uausnitz, near Austerlitz. In 1827 he re- 


ceived holy orders, and in 1837 was appointed professor 
at BrUnn. He died June 1, 1868,at Bvstric, in Moravia. 
Susil was one of the most prominent theologians and 
poets of Moravia. Of his works, which are all written 
in the Czechian language, we mention the Works of the 
Apostolic Fathers (1837, and often): — Ecclesiastical 
Hymns (1846; 2d ed. 1850) : — and a Commentary on the 
Gospels (1864-07), 4 vols. See Litcrurischer Hand - 
iveiser fur das kathulische Deutschland, 1868, No. 69, 
p. 307 sq. (B. P.) 

Suso, Heinrich, a Mystic, was horn March 21, 
1300, at Constance. His real name was low Berg; but, 
having been greatly influenced by the tender piety of 
his mother, he assumed her name when her death, in 
his eighteenth year, caused him to seek satisfaction for 
his soul in inward peace. He had been a student at 
Constance and Cologne, and now was strongly influ- 
enced by Master Eckart; but imagination and feeling 
were more powerful with him than the speculative fac- 
ulty. His mysticism required a concrete form in which 
to clothe the idea, and such he found in the “ wisdom” 
of the writings of Solomon. Identifying this “eternal 
wisdom” now with Christ and again with the Blessed 
Virgin, he expended upon it his love and the devotion 
of his life. lie graved upon his breast, with an iron 
pencil, the name of Jesus. Having returned to the 
Convent of Constance, he gave himself to solitary mor- 
tifications, and had many visions. While there he also 
wrote his (German) book On the Eternal Wisdom, in 
1338, which was designed to teach pious souls how to 
imitate Christ in his sufferings. Having reached the 
age of forty years, he concluded his penances and be- 
came a preaeber, or, as he phrased it, “a knight of 
God,” and his labors were largely beneficial to the com- 
munity. lie entered into relations with other mystical 
teachers, especially Tauler and Heinrich von Nordling- 
en. lie induced many noble ladies to devote them- 
selves to a quiet and charitable life, aided in the forma- 
tion of organizations of the Friends of God (q.v.), and 
founded a Brotherhood of the Eternal Wisdom, for 
which he composed a rule and a number of prayers. 
These labors exposed him to criticism and even dan- 
gers. He was even accused of disseminating the heret- 
ical teachings of the Brothers of the Free Spirit (q.v.). 
In his latter days he was chosen prior of his convent. 
Soon afterwards he related the history of his inner and 
1 outer life to his friend the nun Elizabeth Stiiglin, and 
she wrote the narrative without his knowledge; but it 
was subsequently revised ami completed by his hand, 
and received into the collection of his works as part 
first. Part second was the book of Eternal Wisdom; 
part third, his book of Truth, like the other in dialogue 
form, and intended to satisfy the inquiries of a disciple 
of the truth. The conclusion consists of several mis- 
cellaneous letters. Suso died Jan. 25, 1365, in the Do- 
minican convent at LTlm. His writings evinee no con- 
nected system. His matter is generally borrowed, and 
only the imaginative, romantic style is peculiar to him. 
His fundamental idea is that of Eckart, that being forms 
the highest conception, and that being is God. All cre- 
ated being is a mirror of God, and to recognise God in 
this mirror is to speculate. No name can exhaust the 
idea of God. He is equally “ an eternal nothing” and 
the “most essential something;” he is a “ring whose 
centre is everywhere and whose circumferenee is no- 
where.” To gaze upon God is the highest joy. Creat- 
ures are eternal in God as their “ Exemplar,” and they 
have no distinguishing qualities until after their “out- 
flow” from God, when they have entered into the creat- 
ure state. They all have the yearning to return into 
their original and restore the interrupted unity. Simi- 
lar is Suso’s representation of the Trinity. The Son is 
the Eternal Word which proceeds from the Father; the 
love which reunites them is the Holy Spirit. The sin- 
stained human soul can find no other way to God than 
Christ, and more particularly than the imitation of bis 
I sufferings. The distinction between Creator and creat- 


SUSPENSION 


40 


SUTPHEX 


urc never ceases, however; so that, despite his mystical 
spirit, Suso does not cross the line where the pantheistic 
blending of the created and the Eternal Spirit begins. 
Suso was, in brief, the representative of poetic mysticism 
— a real poet, who is unable to apprehend an idea with- 
out clothing it in symbolic form; and he was in no true 
sense either a philosopher or a practical man of af- 
fairs. Suso’s writings appeared at Augsburg, 1482 and 
1512, fob Diepcnbrock published them in 1829 atKat- 
isbon (2d ed. 1838); in Latin, bv Surius (q. v.), 1555 
and often. From the Latin they were rendered into 
French and Italian, and even into German again. A 
book, I ’on den neun Eelsen {Of the Nine Rocks), which 
was long attributed to Snso, was written in 1392 by the 
Strasburger Uulnian Merswin. — Herzog, Real- Ency Hop. 
s. v. 

Suspension, an ecclesiastical act of two kinds: 1. 
One of the several sorts of punishment inflicted upon of- 
fending members of the clergy. This relates either to 
the revenues of the clergyman or to his o thee, and hence 
is called suspensio a benefvio and suspensio ab officio. Sus- 
pension from benefice deprives the offender of the whole 
or a part of his revenue. Suspension from office is vari- 
ous: ab online , where a clerk cannot exercise his minis- 
try at all; ab officio , where he is forbidden to exercise it 
in bis charge or cure. In all these cases the incumbent 
retains his order, rank, and benefice in distinction to the 
penalties of solemn deposal and degradation, by which 
lie forfeits all rights of his order and benefice. All per- 
sons who can excommunicate can suspend. Suspension 
must be preceded by a monition, and its cause must be 
stated in the formal act: “Forasmuch as you have been 
proved to have committed such and such things, there- 
fore we suspend you from the office and execution of 
your orders.’’ Every act of jurisdiction, such as absolu- 
tion. is null and void during suspension, if it has been 
publicly announced; but the ministration of baptism or 
communion is valid. Suspension is removed by abso- 
lution, by revocation of the sentence, by expiration of 
its time, and by dispensation. 2. 'l'lie other sort of sus- 
pension, which extends also to the laity, is suspension 
from entering a consecrated building, church, or chapel, 
or from hearing divine service, ** commonly called mass,” 
and from receiving the holy sacrament; which, there- 
fore, may be called a temporary excommunication. See 
Andre, Du Droit Canonique , i, 943; ii, 1110; Maillane, 
l)n Droit Canonique, v, 352 ; Blunt, Diet, of Doctrinal 
Theology , s. v. ; Kiddle, Christ. Aniig. p. 342. 

Suspicion consists in imagining evil of others 
without proof. It is sometimes opposed to charity, 
which tliinketh no evil. “A suspicious temper checks 
in the bud every kind affection; it hardens the heart, 
and estranges man from man. What friendship can we 
expect from him who views all our conduct with dis- 
trustful eyes, and ascribes every benefit we confer to 
artifice and stratagem ? A candid man is accustomed to 
view' the characters of his neighbors in the most favor- 
able light, and is like one who dwells amid those beauti- 
ful scenes of nature on which the eye rests with pleas- 
ure. On the contrary, the suspicious man, having his 
imagination filled with all the shocking forms of human 
falsehood, deceit, and treachery, resembles the traveller 
in the wilderness who discerns no objects around him 
but what arc either dreary or terrible; caverns that 
open, serpents that hiss, and beasts of prey that howl.” 
See Barrow, Sermons ; Gisborne, Sermons ; Dwight, The- 
oloyy ; James, On Charity. — Buck, Theol. Diet. s. v. 

Sustentation Fund. 1. English Wesleyan. — A 
fund formed in the several districts which has for its ob- 
ject the raising, of such an amount in each district as, be- 
ing divided among the poorer circuits, will secure to their 
preachers a much larger salary than could be paid them 
without supplementary aid. The whole is under the 
supervision of Conference. 2. Eree Church of Scotland. 
— A fund provided for the support of ministers of that 
Church, The idea was probably derived by Dr. Chal- 


mers from the Weslevans; and a scheme was devised 
by him and made public before the Disruption, and is 
now carried into operation throughout Scotland. The 
amount of this fund for 1873 to 1874 was <£152,112. 

Sutcliffe (or Soutcliffe), Matthew, an Eng- 
lish divine, was educated at Trinity College, Cambridge. 
In 158(5 he was installed archdeacon of Taunton, and on 
Oct. 22, 1588, confirmed dean of Exeter, lie died in 
1629. lie acquired some celebrity by his College of 
1‘olemical Divines, which came to naught shortly after 
his death. Among his works are, A Treatise of Eccle- 
siastical Discipline (Loud. 1591, 4to): — De Presbyterio , 
ej usque Nova in Ecclesia Christiana Politeia (ibid. 1591, 
4to) : — De Catholica et Orthodoxa Christi Ecclesia (ibid. 
1592,2 vols. ): — De Pontijicis Jnjusta Daminalione in 
Ecclesia , contra Bellarminum (ibid. 1599, 5 vols.): — De 
Tarco-Papismo , or Resemblance between Mahometanism 
and Popery (ibid. 1599, 4to) : — De Purgatorio, etc. (ibid. 
1599, 4to) : — De Vera Christi Ecclesia (ibid. 1(500, 4to) : 
— De Missa, ad versus Bellarminum (ibid. 1003, 4to) : — 
De Imlulyentiis et Jubileo (ibid. 100(5, 2 vols. 8vo). See 
Allibone, Diet, of Brit . and A met'. Authors , s. v. ; Chal- 
mers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. 

Sutcliffe, Robert Burns, a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Yorkshire, Eng- 
land, in 1815, and came to America in 1835, settling in 
Trenton, N. J. In 1854 he was admitted on trial into 
the New Jersey Conference, and was actively employed 
up to the time of his death, which occurred at Vincent- 
town, Feb. 18, 1874. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences, , 1874. p. 30. 

Suthdure (Sax. south door'), the place where ca- 
nonical purgation was performed. When a fact charged 
against a person was unproved, the accused was brought 
to the south door of his parish church, and then, in the 
presence of the faithful, made oath of his innoccncy. 
This is one reason why large south porches are found in 
ancient churches. — Lee, Gloss, of Liturg. Terms , s. v. 

Suthreh Slialiis, a division of the Sikhs in Hin- 
dustan whose priests may be known by particular marks. 
Thus they make a perpendicular black streak down the 
forehead, and carry two small black sticks, each about 
half a yard in length, with which they make a noi>e 
when they solicit alms. The}" lead a wandering life, 
begging and singing songs in t he Punjabi and other di- 
alects, mostly of a moral and mystic tendency. They 
are held in great contempt, and are frequently disrepu- 
table in character. They consider Tegh Bahader, the 
father of Guru Govind, as their father. 

Sutphen, Joseph Walworth, a Presbyterian 
minister, was born at Sweden, N. Y., in 1825. He en- 
tered Hamilton College, and graduated in 1847; after 
which he entered the Union Theological Seminary, in 
1848; from whence he graduated in 1851. lie was or- 
dained with a view of his entering the foreign field as 
missionary, and on Nov. 7, 1851, departed for Marsovan, 
in the Turkish empire. 11 is service was brief, as he hail 
but scarcely begun his labors when he was called to the 
heavenly world. 

Sutphen, Morris Crater, D.D., a Presbyterian 
minister, was horn Dec. 1, 1837, at Bedminster, N. J. 
lie united with the Church Aug. 10, 1855. He gradu- 
ated from Princeton College in 1850. After teaching 
in a private family in Virginia, he entered Princeton 
Theological Seminary, from whence he graduated after 
a three years’ course. In both college and seminary he 
gained a high position as a scholar. He was licensed 
by the Presbytery of Elizabethtown, at Kali way, N. J.. 
and on May 1, 1800, was ordained by the Presbytery of 
Philadelphia, and installed as collegiate pastor of the 
Spring Garden Church in that city, to serve as co-pas- 
tor with the venerable John McDowell, D.D., at whose 
death, Feb. 13, 1803, he became sole pastor. After a 
pastorate of great fidelity and fruitfulness, in which he 
became quite popular, he became collegiate pastor with 


SUTRA 


41 


SUTTON 


the venerable J. McElrov, P.D., of the Scotch Church 
in New York, and was installed April 28, 1866. lie was 
obliged to resign in 1872, on account of aphonia, which 
a journey to Europe failed to remedy. After his return 
lie spent a winter in Florida, and made an effort to sup- 
ply the pulpit of the Jacksonville Church, but was 
obliged to relinquish it. Returning to the North, his 
health continued to fail, and he died at Morristown, N. 
J., June 18, 1875. Dr. Sutphen was a talented, popular, 
and useful preacher, a man of genial spirit, a Christian 
gentleman, a laborious pastor, and a hard student, and 
was successful in all departments of Christian work, 
lie was offered the presidency of three colleges, and at 
one time a professorship in one of the theological semi- 
naries of the Church, but to none of these did he con- 
sider his health adequate. lie was engaged during the 
latter part of his life in preparing a Manual of Family 
Worship. (\V. P. S.) 

Sutra is the second division of the sacred writings 
of the Buddhjsts, addressed to the laity. The following 
will show how these sacred writings are classified : The 
Dharmma , divided into the Sudani and Abhidhummani ; 
again divided into — 1. Winaya, or discipline; 2. Sutra , 
or discourses; 8 . Abhidharmma, or pre-eminent truths. 
The Sutra Pi taka contains seven sections, called Sangis ; 
and, including both text and commentary, has 3%, 500 
stanzas. See llardy, Fasteni M onachism. 

Sutri (near Pome), Council of ( Concilium Sutri- 
mnn ), was held in December, 104G, by Henry the Black, 
king of Germany. Gregory VI was invited to this coun- 
cil, and came, hoping to be recognised as sole pontiff; 
but, finding various difficulties and obstacles in the way, 
he renounced the papacy, stripped himself of his orna- 
ments, and gave back the pastoral staff', after having 
held the papal chair about twenty months. After the 
council, Ilenrv, accompanied by the prelates who had 
been present, went to Pome, and by common consent 
of the Romans and Germans, Suidger was elected pope, 
who took the name of Clement II, and was consecrated 
on Christmas-day. See Mansi, Concil. ix, 943; Baro- 
nins, Anual. A.D. 104G. — Landon, Manual of Councils , 
s. v. 

Suttee (Sansc. sail , virtuous, i. e. wife), the name 
given in Hindustan to a woman who voluntarily sacri- 
fices herself by burning upon the funeral pyre of her 
husband, and also to the rite itself. The practice has not 
been confined to India, where it has had effect for many 
centuries, but has existed in other countries. Diodorus 
Siculus gives an instance which occurred in the army 
of Eumenes more than 800 years B.C. The period of 
its origin in India is unknown, though it is certainly of 
great antiquity. Although the practice is not enjoined 
hv their sacred books, yet it is based by the orthodox 
Hindus on the injunction of their Shastras, and there can 
be no doubt that various passages in their Puranas and 
codes of law countenance the belief which they enter- 
tain of its merit and efficiency. Thus the Brahma- 
Pur ana says, ‘'No other way is known for a virtuous 
woman after the death of her husband; the separate 
cremation of her husband would be lost (to all religious 
intents). If her lord die in another country, let the 
faithful wife place his sandals on her breast, and, pure, 
enter the fire.” The faithful widow is pronounced no 
suicide by the recited text of the Riy-Yeda. The code 
of Vvasa says, “Learn the power of that widow who, 
learning that her husband has deceased and been burned 
in another region, speedily casts herself into the fire.” 
And the code of Angiras, “ That woman who, on the 
death of her husband, ascends the same burning pile 
with him is exalted to heaven, as equal in virtue to 
Arundhati (the wife of Yasishtha). She follows her 
husband to heaven, and will dwell in a region of joy 
for so many years as there are hairs on a human body, 
viz. thirty-five millions. As long as a woman (in her 
successive migrations) shall decline burning herself, like 
a faithful wife, on the same fire with her deceased lord, 


so long shall she not be exempted from springing again 
to life in the body of some female animal. When their 
lords have departed at the fated time of attaining heav- 
en, no other way but entering the same fire is known 
for women whose virtuous conduct and whose thoughts 
have been devoted to their husbands, and who fear the 
dangers of separation.” 

The mode of performing suttee varies in some unim- 
portant respects, but its principal features are the same. 
An oblong space, seven feet by six feet, is enclosed by 
bamboo stakes about eight feet long, driven into the 
earth, within which a pile is built of straw, boughs, and 
logs of wood. After certain prayers and ablutions have 
been gone through with, the body of the deceased hus- 
band is brought from the house and placed upon the 
pile; sometimes in a little arbor of wreathed bamboos, 
hung with flowers within and without. Then the wife 
appears, and is unveiled by the Brahmins, herself re- 
moving the ornaments from her person, distributing 
them among her friends, by whom they are highly 
prized. She reserves only one jewel, the tali, or amu- 
let, placed round her neck by her deceased husband on 
the nuptial day. Led by the principal Brahmin, she 
walks three times around the pile, and then ascends to 
the side of her husband. Embracing the body, she lies 
or sits beside it, whereupon the nearest relative applies 
the torch. The shrieks of the dying woman, if she ut- 
ters any, are drowned by the shouts of the spectators 
and the noise of drums. 

Efforts to suppress this rite were made as early as the 
16th century by the Mohammedan emperor Ak'bar, but 
without much effect. The practice continued to such 
an extent that between 1815 and 182G there were 7154 
cases reported in Bengal alone. In 1829 lord Bcntinck, 
governor -general, enacted a law declaring all aid, as- 
sistance, or participation in any act of suttee to be mur- 
der, and punishable as such. In 1847, during lord Har- 
dinge’s administration, the prohibitory edict was ex- 
tended to the native states in subsidiary alliance with 
the government of India, and the practice may be con- 
sidered to be practically extinct. 

An attempt, of late years, has been made by rajah Rad- 
hankant Deb to show that in a text belonging to a par- 
ticular school of the Black Yajur-Veda there is really a 
passage which would justify the practice of suttee; but 
the text cited by him is of doubtful canonicity; and, 
moreover, there is a text in the Riy-Yeda which, if 
properly read, directs the widow', after attending to her 
husband’s funeral ceremonies, to return home and at- 
tend to her domestic duties. See Wilson. On the Sup- 
posed Yaulik .4 utlwrify for the Burning of Hindu Wid- 
ows (Lond. I8G2), voj. ii. 

Sutton. Alvah A., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Vermont, June 19, 1846. 
lie went to Minnesota in 1869, and engaged in teach- 
ing and farming. In 1873 he took work tinder the pre- 
siding elder, and supplied Long Prairie charge for two 
years. In 1875 he was ordained deacon, admitted into 
the Minnesota Conference, and appointed to the Brai- 
nerd Mission. He died Feb. 15, 1876. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences, 1876, p. 126. 

Sutton, Amos, an English missionary, was born 
at Seven oaks, Kent, in 1798. He was ordained for the 
mission work at Derby in 1824, and sent to Orissa, In- 
dia. He left this field once for a visit to England and 
America. His death took place at Cuttack, India, Aug. 
17, 1854. He translated the Scriptures into Oriya, com- 
piled an Oriya dictionary, grammar, and lesson -book, 
besides -writing The Family Chaplain (Calcutta, 1 831 — 
32, 2 vols. 8vo) : — Rise and Progress of the Mission at 
Orissa (Phila. 18mo): — Orissa and its Evangelization 
(Derby, Eng. 8vo; Boston, 1850, 8vo) : — f/ymn-book for 
Mission Congregations : — and Guide to the Saviour. 

Sutton, Charles Manners, D.D., an English 
prelate, was the fourth son of lord George Manners Sut- 
ton, and was born in 1755. lie was educated at Emmanuel 


SUTTON 


42 


SVATXTIX 


College, Cambridge; appointed dean of Peterborough, 
1791 : bishop of Norwich, 1792; dean of Windsor, 1794; 
and archbishop of Canterbury. 1805. lie died July 21, 
1828. lie published. Eire British Specie. s' of Or obanche 
{Transactions of the Linn. Soe. 1797, iv. 173) : — Sermons 
(1794, 4 to ; 1797, 4to). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
A mer. Authors, s. v. 

Sutton, Christopher, a learned English divine, 
was a native of Hampshire, and entered Hart Hall, Ox- 
ford, in 1582, aged seventeen years, but was soon trans- 
ferred to Lincoln College. lie was made prebendary 
of Westminster, 1(505; prebendary of Lincoln, lf>18. and 
died in 1(529. He published, I)isce Mori (Lond. 1600, 
2-1 mo, with several later editions, X. V. 1845, lOmo): — 
J)isce 1 'irere (Loud. 1608, I2mo; 1853. 18mo; X. 
16mo) : — Godly Meditations upon the Most Holy Sacra- 
ment of the Lord's Supper (Loud. 11522, 12mo; late edi- 
tions, *1838, 1847, IS 19; Oxf. 1839, 1841, 18mo; X. Y. 
1841, lOmo). See Allibone, J)iet. of Brit, and A mer. 
A uthors, s. v. 

Sutton, Henry, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born near Princeton, X. J., July 20, 
1808. Leaving home, he resided for some time in Tren- 
ton. X. J„ where he united with the Church. After 
preaching a year, he entered the Philadelphia Confer- 
ence on trial in 1835. In 1858 he was made supernu- 
merary. and after sustaining that relation for several 
years, was placed on the superannuated list, and there 
remained until his death, in Philadelphia, Pa., March 
23, 1876. He was then a member of the Wilmington 
Conference. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1877, 

p. 12. 

Sutton, Richard, the co-founder of Brasenose 
College, Oxford, was the younger son of Sir William 
Sutton. Of the time or place of his birth we have no 
certain account, but we know that he practiced as a bar- 
rister of the Inner Temple. In 1490 he purchased some 
estates in Leicestershire, and afterwards increased his 
landed property in different counties. In 1498 he was 
a member of Henry YIIl’s privy council, and in 1505 
was one of the governors of the Inner Temple. We 
find him, in 1513, acting as steward of the Monastery of 
Sion, near Brentford, Middlesex. He died about 1524. 
1 1 is bequests were almost all of a religious or charitable 
kind. Ills benefactions to Brasenose College were es- 
pecially liberal, he having completed the building and 
doubled its revenues, besides leaving to it several valu- 
able estates. He bore the expense of publishing the 
very rare book The Orcharde of Sy on. 

Sutton, Stephen B., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Clermont County, O., 
Feb. 14, 1819, and united with the Church in February, 
1837. He was licensed to preach March 16, 1844, and 
was admitted on trial into the Indiana Conference in 
October, 1851. lie died at Martinsville, December, 1863. 
Mr. Sutton was very successful in bis work, having ad- 
mitted about 1275 persons into the Church. See Min- 
utes of A nnual Conferences, 1864, p. 201. 

Sutton, Thomas (1), founder of the Charter- 
house school and hospital, was horn at Knaith, Lincoln- 
shire, in 1532. lie was educated at Eton and Cam- 
bridge, hut at what college is uncertain. After travel- 
ling abroad for some time, he returned home in 1562; 
was retained by the duke of Norfolk, and afterwards 
became secretary to the earl of Warwick and his broth- 
er, earl of Leicester. In 1569 he became master of ord- 
nance at Berwick, and shortly after obtained a patent 
for the ofHce of master-general of the ordnance of the 
North, which he retained until 1594. He entered into 
business, and was at the time of his death (at Hackney, 
Dec. 12, 1611) the richest untitled subject in the king- 
dom. He endowed the Charterhouse in 1611 with the 
bulk of his property. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
A mer . Authors, s. v.; Chalmers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. 

Sutton, Thomas (2), D.D., an English clergy- 


man, was horn at Bampton, Westmoreland, and entered 
Queen’s College, Oxford, in 1602, at the age of sixteen. 
He became perpetual fellow in 161 1, lecturer of St. 
Helen’s, Abiugton, Berks, and minister of Calhnm, and 
afterwards minister of St. Mary Overies, Southwark, 
lie was drowned at sea in 1623. lie published separate 
Sennons (Lond. 1(515, 8vo ; 1616, 8vo; 1626, 4to; 1631, 
4to) : — Lectures on Homans, ch. xi (1632, 4to) ; — and 
left in 51 S. L ectures on Romans, ch. xii, and Psalm cxix. 
See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Sutton, William, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Virginia about 1783, and 
in 1810 was licensed to preach. In 1823 lie was or- 
dained deacon by bishop M'Kemlree, and in 1829 elder 
by bishop Huberts, and after this gave the Church 
faithful service for twenty-nine years, lie died at 
London, Madison Co., O., Dec. 13, 1858. See Minutes 
of A nnual Conferences of the M. E. Church, South, 1859, 
p. 190. 

Suva, in Japanese mythology, is the god of the 
chase and the tutelary patron of all hunters. Large 
processions are annually formed in his honor. 

Svadilfur, in Norse mythology, was a famous horse 
of the giant who built the castle of the gods. lie pro- 
jected a great fortress for the asas who were defending 
themselves against the ice-giants; and he offered him- 
self as an architect to erect it, provided they would give 
him three winters to finish it, and the beautiful Freia as 
a wife and the sun and moon as servants. By the ad- 
vice of Loke, the asas accepted the offer, on the condi- 
tion that he should fulfil it in one winter, and without 
any other help than the horse Svadilfur. The giant 
agreed to this, and his horse exhibited such extraordi- 
nary strength that he easily lifted stones of the greatest 
weight, which would have required a hundred horses to 
carry; and the building was already completed, except 
a single gate, before the asas had thought it possible. 
They then threatened Loke with death if he did not 
break up the contract. Loke thereupon assumed t lie 
form of a beautiful mare, and so engaged the stallion 
Svadilfur that he broke the rope by which he was held 
and followed Loke, who took him far enough away. 
From this connection sprang Odin’s famous eight-footed 
horse Slcipner, who was fleeter than the wind and never 
tired. The architect saw himself deserted by bis help, 
and sought to assume his gigantic form in order to fin- 
ish the work with all his strength; but in the dilemma 
of the gods as to whether in that case they should abide 
by their word, or whether the giant should not be re- 
quired to finish the work as he was. Thor suddenly ap- 
peared with his hammer and slew the giant. — Yolhner, 
Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Svaha, in Hindu mythology, was the spouse of the 
fire-god Agni. 

Svainshaugi, or Swains’ Hill, in Norse mythol- 
ogy, was a place which appears to have been originally 
the residence of dwarfs, inasmuch as the Edda mentions 
several of these as coming thence to Orwanga (arrow- 
field) and Jornwall (iron or battle field). 

Svaixdunoka, in Slavic mythology, was the brill- 
iant bride of the star-god. She was worshipped by the 
heathen Prussians as a friendly, benign goddess, who 
kept the stars in their courses when her husband drop- 
ped their reins in his wild chase on the moon-car through 
storm and cloud. 

Svaixtix, in Slavic mythology, was the god of the 
stars and of sunlight, whom the ancient Prussians re- 
vered in common with the Wends and Slavs in Pome- 
rania, etc. lie was represented in exceedingly rich 
clothing, had flames and rays about his head, and a tuft 
of hair on the middle of his crown, which rose like a 
flame of fire. From old Hhetrcean works of art we infer, 
notwithstanding the inscription which calls him Belbog 
(i. e. biali boy, a good deity, in opposition to Czernebog, 


SVAKOXS 


43 


SVIARTOVIT 


the evil god), that he was a malicious deity, since he 
appears as tierce and forbidding; but we must bear in 
mind that sculpture must rise to a high grade before 
noble and inviting forms can be represented. This 
art was at that time in such infancy that we can only 
wonder how the figures are shapely at all. Svaixtix 
was the most benevolent deity; he illuminated the 
night by the glimmer of the stars, by the aurora and 
the snow-light, and, like the sun-god, imparted growth 
to seeds and warmth and fruitfulness to the soil. — Voll- 
mer, 1 1 r orterb. d. M ythol. s. v. 

Svakons, in Lettish mythology, were soothsayers 
who foretold fortunes from llame and the smoke of a 
light. 

Svalgoni, in Lettish mythology, were priests who 
understood nuptial ceremonies, examined bridegrooms 
and brides who were about to marry, tied the conjugal 
knot, and pronounced the blessing upon them in the 
name of Deity. 

Svantevit, in Slavic mythology, was the most re- 
vered and conspicuous of the gods among the Wends. 
At Arkona, on the island of Riigen, stood his gigantic 
image, which was far and wide, for the whole southern 
coast of the Baltic Sea, the central point of worship. 
Svantevit was an enormous colossus, which on four 
necks bore four heads with shorn hair and short beard. 
His clothing was like that of the Wends in general: a 
gown extending to the knees, made, of cloth or felt, with 
long wide sleeves; a girdle held it together; the legs 
were bare; on the feet he wore coarse bark shoes; an 
immense sword bung at his side; and in the right hand 
he carried a large bow resting on the ground; his left 
hand held a cornucopia, which was annually filled with 
wine. In addition to these 
insignia, his image, which 
stood in lihetra, had also a 
long- bearded human bead 
on the breast. Svantevit 
was both a good and an evil 
deity, as the eornncopia and 
the bow indicated — the lat- 
ter for war, the former for 
peace. He overshadowed 
the whole earth with his 
four heads; hence his coun- 
sel was highly prized and 
his oracles were the most 
conspicuous, as his cultiis 
involved earthly power and 
authority. He was wor- 
shipped with drunken rev- 
elries, and large offerings, 
including, not unfrequentlv, 
human victims, were made; 
but, it would seem, only 
when he was angry, II is 
service was attended to by 
one high-priest, who, on the 
day of the great harvest fes- 
Fignre of Svantevit. Personally swept the 

temple, and that with re- 
strained respiration, so as not to offend the god with his 
breath. Wine only was poured into his great cornucopia; 
and from the quantity that remained over from the pre- 
ceding year an augury was drawn as to the abundance or 
otherwise of the next year’s crop. The temple and the 
image of the god were destroyed by Waldemar I, on the 
baptism of the people. The public worship of this god 
thereafter ceased, although it privately continued, so 
that even now many old peasants regard the spot with 
superstitious awe. The interpretation of the name as 
Holy Veit (Sanctus Vitus) is probably onh r an instance 
of the corruption or extension of language. — Vollnier, 
Worterb. d. M ythol. s. v. 

Svartalfhein, in Norse mythology, was the native 
place of all evil genii or black elves. 


Svarthcefde, in Norse mythology, was the origi- 
nal ancestor of all magicians, who learned his art from 
the gods themselves, and transmitted it to his descend- 
ants. 

Svasudes, in Slavic mythology, was the god of 
summer, represented by the warm beams of spring that 
introduced summer. He was worshipped by the Wends 
and Slavs as a deity of the second rank. 

Svava, in Norse mythology, was a beautiful daugh- 
ter of king Eylimi, who became famous through llelgi 
lladdinga, the son of Pliorward, king of Norway. The 
last had made a vow to call his own the fairest woman 
of the earth; and thus he already had three wives — 
Alfhild, the mother of Hedin; Sareid, the mother of 
1 Limbing; and Sinriod, the mother of Hilming — when 
he heard that Sigurlin was the handsomest of women. 
He immediately wooed her through the jarl Atli, but 
was rejected through fear of other suitors. Thereupon 
he made war upon her father, and at length seized Si- 
gurlin. She was, however, already the mother of a son, 
the famous Helgi, who remained quiet until the kind- 
hearted Svava aroused him, gave him the name of llel- 
gi. and allied herself to him as a godmother. Defended 
by the bad and charming Walknr, and armed with a 
never-failing sword, Helgi signalized himself by deeds 
of the greatest heroism; but he was, nevertheless, slain 
by Atli, the son of llrodmar. No sooner, however, 
was Helgi reborn as the son of king Sigmund and the 
beautiful Borgliili than Svava also reappeared in a sec- 
ond incarnation as the Shild virgin Sigrun. Helgi was 
but one day old when he stood in armor and longed for 
the battle and victory. He crept, in female attire, into 
the house of the powerful but wicked king Hmidingur, 
explored it as a waiting-maid, and then attacked and 
slew him in a dreadful contest, llelgi next wooed the 
beautiful and formerly loved Svava, now Sigrun; but 
had yet to undergo many a severe contest, since she was 
already betrothed to llodbrod, a son of king (Jramnar 
of Sweden, but not loved by her. llelgi attacked him 
also, overcame and slew him in a battle at Frekastein, 
and was approaching the goal of his wishes when a new 
obstacle arose in the person of his own brother Hedin. 
The latter was returning home to Julaabend when he 
met an nglv old witch, out of the forest, riding on a wolf, 
which she drove with reins of twisted snakes, and she 
offered herself as a Walkur to the beautiful youth as a 
protectress; but when he disdained her, she angrily 
cried, “Thou shalt pay for this with Braga’s cup.” 
When Hedin reached his home, he wildly swore that 
he would possess himself of Sigrun, his brother’s bride, 
and he accordingly went immediately to seek his broth- 
er for that purpose. The latter not only treated him 
kindly, but, having been already mortally wounded in 
battle, surrendered her to his brother. When Helgi ar- 
rived in Walhalla, all the joys of heaven could not sup- 
ply the place of the beautiful Sigrun; he therefore re- 
turned to his tomb, and rested there all night by the 
side of the lovely Sigrun till the morning light an- 
nounced the end of his delight ; and, mounting his steed, 
he returned to the halls of Walhalla. llelgi was a third 
time born as the second lladdinga, while Svava, like- 
wise, a third time appeared as Kara, daughter of Half- 
dan, who was king of Denmark, and, with the spouse of 
his daughter, ruled over land anil sea. — Vollmer, I17b- 
terb. d. M ythol. s. v. 

Sverga Divi, in Hindu mythology, is a section of 
genii who execute the immediate commands of Indra, 
the Indian sun-god. They seem not to have a large 
form, since they often ask human help in order to defend 
them against the Assurs, or evil genii. 

Sviartovit (Slavic, holy warrior ), the most cele- 
brated deity of the ancient Baltic Slavonians, whose 
temple and idol were at Arkona, the capital of the 
island of Iiiigen. This last stronghold of Slavonic idol- 
atry was taken and destroyed, A.D. 1168, by Waldemar 
I, king of Denmark. See Slavonians. 



SWALLOW 


SVIDOR 44 


Svidor and Svipall, in Norse mythology, are sur- 
names of Odin. 

Svipul, in Norse mythology, was one of the beauti- 
ful Walkurs.or female spirits who order the battle. 

Swaddle (7TH, to bandage, aitapyaroio-, but 
in bam. ii, 23, means to bear upon the palm), to 
swathe an infant with eloths in order to keep its tender 
limbs from injury, a practice common in the bast (Ezek. 
xvi, 4; Luke ii, 7). See Biuru. 

Swaddlers, an absurd nickname given by the 
Irish Roman Catholics to the early Methodists. It is 
said to have originated from John Cenniek preaching a 
sermon on the Babe ‘‘wrapped in swaddling-clothes,” 
the ignorant Roman Catholics who heard it or heard of 
it supposing the “swaddling-clothes” to he an invention 
of the Protestants. In the year 1738 a ballad-singer 
named lhuler actually raised riots in Dublin and else- 
where to the cry of “Five pounds for the head of a 
swaddler!" and he and his allies called themselves 
“ Antiswaddlers.” 

Swahili Version. The Swahili, which was for- 
merly described as K isunheli (that is, “according to 
Swahili”), is spoken at Zanzibar and for a considerable 
distance down the East Coast of Africa, besides being 
likely to become an important means of communication 
with inland tribes. 'The language is evidently an off- 
shoot of the Kaffir family, but is strongly impregnated 
with Arabic words, being a connecting-link between the 
two opposite families of speech. A tentative, translation 
of the New Test, was made bv the Rev. Dr. Krapf when 
in Eastern Africa a few years ago, but he never so fur 
perfected his work as to render it prudent to propose its 
publication. Independently of Dr. Krapf s work, the at- 
tention of others had been drawn to this important sub- 
ject; and when the Rev. Dr. 8teere returned to England 
in 1869 he brought with him a translation of St. Matthew 
and the book of Psalms, which he had himself prepared 
during a residence of several years at Zanzibar. In the 
same year the Gospel of St. Matthew was printed; and 
as this was the first time any part of the Scriptures had 
been published in that language, and the circulation 
must of necessity be limited, only a small edition was 
issued. In 1871 the book of Psalms was printed, which 
was followed in 1875 bv the publication of St. John’s 
Gospel, and in 1877 hv that of St. Luke, the latter as 
translated by the late missionary Ilebmann, but with 
the orthography made to conform to that of bishop 
Steere. From the Report for the year 1877, we see that 
a proposal was made to use the Arabic characters for this 
version, but the committee of the British and Foreign 
Bible Society could not approve of it, inasmuch as the 
weight of evidence went to show that any natives who 
were acquainted with the Arabic characters could read 
the pure Arabic version, while for the rest the Kisnaheli 
in Roman characters was far simpler. Altogether the 
missionaries circulated in about nine years (i. e. since 
the publication of St. Matthew in 18(1!) to March 31), 
1878) 4048 copies. Thus encouraged, bishop Steere is 
preparing a translation of the other books of the Bible. 
(B. P.) 

Swaim, John Sanford, a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born at Chatham, N. J„ 
May 1, 1800, and united with the Church at the age of 
fourteen, lie was admitted mi trial in the Philadelphia 
Conference in 1834, and continued actively engaged in 
the pastorate until 1803. lie then entered the Chris- 
tian Commission, and was appointed to Hilton Head. 
In 1804 he was made supernumerary, and appointed 
missionary to Jacksonville, Fla. Finding the climate 
congenial to his health, he continued to reside there un- 
til his death, Nov. 18, 1875. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences, 1870, p. 42. 

Swaim, Samuel Budd, D.D., an able minister 
of the Baptist denomination, was born at Pemberton, 
N. J., June 22, 1809, and was a graduate of Brown Uni- 


versity in the class of 1830 and of the Newton Theolog- 
ical Institution in the class of 1833. lie was ordained 
at Haverhill, Mass., Nov. 7, 1833. For some time he 
was professor in Granville College (now Denison Uni- 
versity). In 1838 he took charge of the First Baptist 
Church in Worcester, Mass., where his ministry was an 
eminently successful one, and continued sixteen years. 
From 1854 to 1802 he was pastor in West Cambridge, 
and then became an agent for the American Baptist 
Home Missionary Society. II is death took place Feb. 
3, 1805. (J.C.JS.) 

Swain, Charles W., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born at New Bedford, Mass., Oct. 
22, 1793. He united with the Church in Richmond, 
Clermont Co.. O., in 1819, and in 1831 was admitted oil 
trial into the Ohio Conference, and in due time received 
deacon’s and elder’s orders. He was actively engaged 
in the ministry (excepting one year’s service as agent 
of the Ohio Wesleyan University) until the fall of 1855. 
In 1850 he took a superannuated relation, and made his 
home in Easton until his death, April 25, 1870. Mr. 
Swain assisted in organizing a temperance society in 
New Richmond, O., as early as Sept. 1, 1829, the lirst of 
the kind west of the Alleghany Mountains. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences, 1870, p. 100. 

Swain, Nathan, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was bom in 1707, and converted when fourteen years 
of age. In 1799 he was admitted on trial in the Phila- 
delphia Conference, in 1801 admitted into full connec- 
tion and ordained deacon, and in 1803 ordained elder. 
He continued effective, with the exception of two years, 
until 1816, when he took a supernumerary relation, which 
lie sustained until 1832, when he became superannuated, 
and so remained until his death, March 1, 1845. See 
Minutes of A nnual Conferences, iv, 14. 

Swain, Richard, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was a native of New Jersey. In 1789 he was admitted 
on trial, in 1791 into full connection, and tilled the fol- 
lowing stations: Trenton, N. J., in 1789; Flanders, in 
1790-91; Middletown Circuit, Conn., in 1792; New 
London, in 1793; Salem, N. J., in 1794; Burlington, in 
17*95; Freehold, in 1796; Trenton, in 1797; Freehold, 
in 1798; Salem, in 1799 and 1800; Bethel, in 1801; 
Cape May, in 1802; Salem, in 1803. He became super- 
numerary in 1804-7, and died Jan. 17, 1808. lie was 
a man of great usefulness in the ministry. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences, i, 159; Stevens, Hist, of the 
M. R. Church, iv, 280; Bangs, Ilist. of the M. E. Church , 
ii, 252. 

Swallow is the rendering, in the A. V„ of two 
Ileh. words, and possibly the true meaning of a third. 
(The billowing account is taken in part from the dic- 
tionaries of Kitto and Smith.) 

1. deror, prop, liberty (as often rendered), i. e. 

strictly swiftness, occurs in two passages only with ref- 
erence to a bird: Psa. Ixxxiv, 3 (Ileb. 4), “The swal- 
low [hath found] a nest;” Prov. xxvi, 2, “as the swal- 
low by flying.” The ancient versions, in the former 
passage, understand a turtle-dove (Sept. -pioyOv; Yulg. 
flirtin'), and in the latter a sparrow (orpovSoe. passer). 
The radical signification of the word favors the idea 
that it may include the swallow, with other swiftly Hy- 
ing or free birds. The old commentators (so the rab- 
bins), except Bochart ( Hieroz . ii, 590 sq.), who renders 
it “ col u m ha fera.” apply it to the swallow, from the love 
of freedom in this bird and the impossibility of retain- 
ing it in captivity (De Wette, Umbreit, Ewald, Gese- 
nius, Thesaur. p. 355). It is more likely that it was so 
named from its rapidity of flight. It probably, there- 
fore, is more properly the “swift” or “black martin,” 
and probably the dnrun, mentioned by Forskal as mi- 
grating to Alexandria from Tapper Egypt about the end 
of October ( Rescript . A mm. p. 10). The frequenting of 
public buildings by this class of birds (Herod, i, 159; 
-Elian, P. //. v, 17) is proverbial (Schultens, Monum. 


SWALLOW 


SWALLOW 45 


Vett. .1 rab. Carm. p. 1 ; Niebuhr, Reisen , ii, 270). See 
Sparrow. 

2. “i*!55*, ’ agur , the twitterer , also occurs twice: Isa. 
xxxviii, 14, “ Like a crane [or] a swallow, so did I chat- 
ter;” Jer. viii, 7, “The turtle and the crane and the 
swallow observe the time.” In both these passages it 
is associated with a third term, 0*10. sits (v. r. O n O, 
sis), rendered “crane,” but in the former passage the 
connective 1 (“and,” “or”) is wanting. The Sept, in 
Isa. renders both words by the single one 
Yulg. pnllus hirundinis ; and in Jer. ytXttVvi' dypon, 
hirundo et ciconia ; thus agreeing with t lie A. V. in de- 
noting the swallow. Bochart, however ( Ilieroz . ii, 614 
sq.), maintains that 'agur is the proper Hebrew desig- 
nation of the crane. lie compares the word with the 
Chald. SOZ-H, kurkeya, the Arab, kurki, the Gr. yspa- 
voq , the Welsh garan, and the Germ, kran, all of which 
are, like it, onomatopoetic. The twittering or queru- 
lous sound (tresis) and the migratory habit are both 
characteristics which meet in the crane; its cry is often 
compared by the poets with that of a person in distress 
or grief, and its migratory habits arc frequently dwelt 
upon by ancient writers (Aristot. A mm. viii, 12; yElian, 
A nim, iii, 13, 23: Pliny, x, 31; Quint. Curt. Smyrn. ii, 
107; xiii, 102 sq.). This view has been followed by 
Posen m idler, 51 aurer, and Henderson in their comments 
on Isaiah. Gosenius, though seeming to favor this 
view in his commentary on Isaiah, repudiates it in his 
Thesaurus, where he treats 'agur as a verbal adjective 
signifying chattering or twittering, and regards it as an 
epithet of the swallow in the passage in Isaiah, and 
as a designation of the swallow in that in Jeremiah. 
This is followed by Knobel {I)er Prophet Jesaia erkliiii). 
It is in favor of this that in the former the copulative is 
wanting between the two words; but this may be ex- 
plained as a case of asyndeton (as in 11 os. vi, 3; llab. 
iii, 11, etc.); whereas the insertion of the 1 in the other 
passage seems clearly to prove that 'agur and sus de- 
note different birds. Hitzig, indeed, proposes to strike 
out this copula, but without sufficient, reason. Maurer 
derives *"1*152 from an Arabic root signifying turbavit 
aquam, so as to designate an aquatic bird ; Knobel 
would trace it to another Arabic root meaning to mourn 
jiiteously. The 0*10, sits, if distinct from the “1-150, 
'agur. is probably a large species of swallow, and the 
latter term, when not a mere epithet of the former, 
probably signifies a peculiar kind of heron. Sis, how- 
ever, may perhaps be an imitative name expressive of 
the swallow’s voice or twitter; and in Dr. Kennicott’s re- 
mark that in thirteen codices of Jeremiah he read Isis for 
sis we find the source of the ancient fable of the Egyp- 
tian Isis being transformed into a swallow. See Crank. 

Whatever be the precise rendering, the characters 
ascribed in the several passages where the names occur 
are strictly applicable to the swallow, viz. its swiftness 
of flight, its nesting in the buildings of the Temple, its 
mournful, garrulous note, and its regular migration, 
shared, indeed, in common with several others. We 
may observe that the garrulity of the swallow was pro- 
verbial among the ancients (see Noun. Dionys. ii, 133, 
and Aristoph. Batr. 93). Hence its epithet kiotiKiiq, 
“ the twitterer,” KwriXctdaQ di roc Athen. 622. 

See Anaer. 104, and opSrpoyoij, Hesiod, Op. 566 ; and Vir- 
gil, Georg, iv, 306. Although Aristotle, in his Natural 
History, and Hiiiy, following him, have given currency 
to the fable that many swallows bury themselves dur- 
ing winter, yet the regularity of their migration, alluded 
to- by the prophet Jeremiah, was familiarly recognised 
by the ancients. See Anacreon ( Od . xxxiii). The ditty 
quoted by Athen. (360) from Theognis is well known — 

’HX-S" fjXS'e KaXfic wp a c &701 xra, 

KaXoi<r tuain-oi>f, t'7r< ya<TTtpa Xevsa, eni vibra plXaiva. 

So Ovid (Fast, ii, 853), “Praeimntia veris hirundo.” 

The species of Syria and Palestine, so far as they 



The Swift (Cyjjselus opus). 


are known, appear all to be the same as those of Eu- 
rope. The following are the most abundant : 1. Cypse - 
Ins apus, the common swift or black martin, distin- 
guished by its larger size, short legs, very long wings, 
forked tail, and by all the toes of the feet turning for- 
ward : these, armed with small, crooked, and very sharp 
claws, enable the bird to hang against the sides of walls, 
but it cannot rise from the ground on account of the 
length of its wings. 'The last two, but more particu- 
larly this species, we take to be the deror , on account 
of the name durari, already mentioned; which was 
most probably applied to it because the swift martin 
prefers towers, minarets, and ruins to build in, and is, 
besides, a bird to which the epithet “free” is particu- 
larly applicable. On the European coast of the Medi- 
terranean it bears the name of barbota, and in several 
parts of France, including Paris, is known by the vul- 
gar name of “le Juif,” the Jew ; and, finally, being the 
largest and most conspicuous bird of the species in Pal- 
estine, it is the type of the heraldic martlet, originally 
applied in the science of blazon as the especial distinc- 
tion of Crusader pilgrims, being borrowed from Oriental 
nations, where the bird is likewise honored with the 
term httgi, or pilgrim, to designate its migratory hab- 
its. The deror being mentioned as building on the al- 
tar seems to imply a greater generalization of the name 
than we have given it; for habits of nesting in imme- 
diate contact with man belong only to the house and 
window swallows ; but in the present instance the ex- 
pression is not meant to convey a literal sense, but must 
be taken as referring to the whole structure of the Tem- 
ple, and in this view the swift bears that character 
more completely than the other. It is not necessary to 
dilate further on the history of a genus of birds so uni- 
versally known. 2. Hirundo rustica, or domestica (var. 
CahiHca), the chimney swallow, with a forked tail, 
marked with a row of white spots, whereof Hirundo 
Syriaca , if at all different, is most likely only a variety. 
3. Chelidon vrbica, the martin, or commdn window 
swallow. 4. Cotyle ripuria, sand-martin, or shore-bird, 
not uncommon in Northern Egypt, near the mouths of 
the Delta, and in Southern Palestine* about Gaza, where 
it nestles in holes, even on the sea-shore. Besides 
these, the Eastern or russet swallow ( Hirundo rufula , 
Tem.), which nestles generally in fissures in rocks, and 
the crag-martin ( Cotyle rvpestris, Linn.), which is con- 
fined to mountain gorges and desert districts, are also 
common. (See Ibis, i, 27 ; ii, 386.) The crag-martin 
is the only member of the genus which does not migrate 
from Palestine in winter. Of the genus Cypselus (swift), 
besides the one first noted above, the splendid alpine 
swift ( Cypselus melba, Linn.) may he seen in all suitable 
localities. A third species, peculiar, so far as is yet 
known, to the north-east of Palestine, has recently been 
described under the name of Cypselus Galileensis. See 
Tristram, Nat. Hist, of the Bible, p. 204; Wood, Bible 
Animals, p. 381 sq. ; Lewysohn, Zoologie des Talmuds, 
p. 206. See Bird. 


SWAN 


4G 


SWAN 


Swan is the rendering, in the A. V., of r*22*2ri. tin - 
shemeth , in two of the three passages where this word 
occurs, namely. Lev. xi, liS; Dent, xiv, 1G, where it 
stands in the list of unclean birds (Sept. 7 rof)<}>i’p(u)v, 
i/eht; ; Vnlg., copy i ugly, porphyrin, ibis ; Samaritan the 
same). Boehart ( Ilieroz . ii, 200) explains it nod Hit 
(owl), and derives the name from 22 2*, shaindm, “ to 
astonish.” because other birds are startled at the appa- 
rition of the owl. Gescnius suggests the pelican, from 
22*2, “ to breathe, to pull,” with reference to the infla- 
tion of its pouch. Whatever may have been the bird 
intended by Moses, these conjectures cannot be admit- 
ted as satisfactory, the owl and pelican being both dis- 
tinctly expressed elsewhere in the catalogue. Giggeius 
wavered between these two; and l)r. Mason Harris, 
seemingly not better informed, and confounding the 
American red species with the white one of Africa, 
guessed that porphyrion must mean the Jlaminyo. 
Parkhurst, deriving the word from 22*2, nashum, “to 
breathe,” was inclined to render tinshhueth by “goose;” 
but as this bird is not by tbe present .Jews deemed un- 
clean, it may be confidently assumed that no mistake in 
this matter can have occurred during any period, and 
consequently that, the goose cannot have been marked 
unclean by tbe law and afterwards admitted among the 
clean birds with its name transferred to another species. 
The Hebrew Dictionary by Sclig Newman, it is true, 
renders tinshenieth “swan;” but the Polyglots show the 
great uncertainty there is in several of the names of 
both the chapters in question. The swan, for which 
some recent scholars contend, asserting that it was held 
sacred in Egypt, does not occur, so far as has been ascer- 
tained, in anv Egyptian ancient picture, and is not a bird 
which, in migrating to the south, even during the cold- 
est seasons, appears to proceed farther than France or 
Spain, though, no doubt, individuals may be blown on- 
ward in hard gales to the African shore. (July two 
instances of swans have been noticed so far to the south 
as the sea between Candia and Rhodes: one where a 
traveller mentions his passing through a tiock reposing 
on the sea during the night; the other recorded by 
llasseli pi ist, who saw one on the coast of Egypt. Put 
it may be conjectured that they mistook pelicans for 
swans, particularly as the last mentioned are fresh- water 
birds, and do not readily take to the true salt sea. Mr. 
Strickland, indeed, says of tbe mute swan ((' yynns olor), 
that it visits Smyrna Ibiv in winter; and Mr. Varrell, 
on the authority of Mr. Pennett, tells us that the hooper 
( C. finis ) sometimes goes as far south as Egypt and 
Barbary. lie adds that “they visit Corfu and Sicily in 
very severe winters; and Mr. Drummond saw a few on 
the lakes of Biserta, and one in the Lake of Tunis at the 
end of April, IS 15.” Put these are very rare instances. 
Nor, if it had been known to the Israelites, is it easy to 
understand why the swan should have been classed 
among the unclean birds. The renderings of the Sept., 
porphyria and ibis, are either of them more probable. 
Neither of these birds occurs elsewhere in the catalogue. 
The porphyrion, or purple gaUinule, cannot have boon 
unknown to tbe translators, as it was, no doubt, common 
in the Alexandrian temples, and was then, as it is now, 
seen both in Egypt and Palestine. lIup0('piW, por - 
phyrio antiquarian , Bp., the purple water-hen, is men- 
tioned by Aristotle {Hist. Anim. viii, H), Aristophanes 
(.1 r. 707), Pliny (ifist. Xat. x. Go), and is more fully de- 
scribed by Atlienaeus ( Deipn . ix, 3s, s ). The circum- 
stance of the same Hob. name being given to tbe cha- 
meleon (see below) may have arisen from both having 
the faculty of changing colors, or being iridescent; the 
tirst, when angry, becoming green, blue, and purple — col- 
ors which likewise plav constantly on the glossy parts 
of the second’s plumage. The porphyrion is superior in 
bulk to the common water-hen. or gallinule; has a hard 
crimson shield on the forehead, and tlesh-eolored legs; 
the head, neck, and sides are of a beautiful turquoise 


’ blue, the upper and back parts of a dark but brilliant 
indigo. It is allied to the corn-crake, and is the largest 
and most beautiful of the family Rallidir , being larger 
than the domestic fowl. From the extraordinary length 
of its toes, it is enabled, lightly treading on the fiat leaves 
of water-plants, to support itself without immersion, and 
apparently to run on the surface of the water. It fre- 
quents marshes and the sedge bv the banks of rivers in 
all the countries bordering oil the Mediterranean, and is 
abundant in Lower Egypt. Athemviis has correctly 
noted its singular habit of grasping its food with its 
very long toes and thus conveying it to its month. It 
is distinguished from all the other species of Iiallidie by 
its short, powerful mandibles, with which it crushes its 
prey, consisting often of reptiles and voting birds. It 
will frequently seize a young duck with its long feet, 
and at once crunch the head of its victim with its beak. 
It. is an omnivorous feeder, and, from the miscellaneous 
character of its food, might reasonably find a place in the 
catalogue of unclean birds. Its fiesh is rank, coarse, and 
very dark-colored. It was anciently kept tame in tbe 
precincts of pagan temples, and therefore, perhaps, was 
marked unclean, as most, if not all, the sacred animals 
of the heathens were. When, in the decline of idolatry, 
the dog, peacock, ibis, the purple bird in question, and 
other domesticated ornaments of the temples had disap- 
peared, Gesner’s researches show' how' early and long the 
writers of the Middle Ages and of the Revival of Lit- 
erature were perplexed to find again the porphyrion of 
the ancients, although modern naturalists have not the 
shadow of a doubt upon the subject, the species being, 
moreover, depicted upon Egyptian monuments. The 
Porphyria hyacinthinus is the species most common in 
Europe, although there are several others in Asia and 
Africa; Porphyria erythropvs , abundant on tbe south- 
east coast of Africa, appears to be that w hich the pagan 
priests most cherished. — Smith ; Kitto. 



Purple GaUinule ( Porphyria hyacinthinus). 


The same Heb. word tinshenieth ( 2222 n ; Sept. 
dmrd\at v. r. mra\a$, Vnlg. tat pit) in Lev. xi, 30, 
being found among the unclean “creeping things that 
creep upon the earth,” evidently no longer stands for 
the name of a bird, and is rendered “ mole” by the A. V., 
adopting the interpretation of the Sept., Vnlg., Onkclos, 
and some of the Jewish doctors. Bochart has, however, 
shown that the Mel). chided the Arabic k'huld or 

khild, denotes the “mole,” and has argued with much 
force in behalf of the “chameleon” being tbe tinshenieth. 
The Syriac version and some Arabic MSS. understand 
“a centipede” by the original word, the Targum of Jon- 
athan a “salamander;” some Arabic versions read smn- 
mabrtis, which Golius renders “a kind of lizard.” In 
Lev. xi, 30, the “chameleon” is given by the A. V. as 
the translation of the Ileb. choach (n^H), which in all 


SWAN 


47 


SWAYZE 


probability denotes some larger kind of lizard. See 
Chameleon. The only elue to an identification of tin - 
shemeth is to be found in its etymology, and in the con- 
text in which the word oeeurs. Bochart conjectures 
that the root (C‘»T3, nashdm, to breathe) from which the 
Heb. name of this creature is derived has reference to a 
vulgar opinion among the aneients that the chameleon 
lived on air (comp. Ovid, Met. xv,41 1, “ Id quoque quod 
vends animal nutritur et aura,” and see numerous quota- 
tions from classical authors cited by Hoc hart, ffieroz. ii, 
505). The lung of the chameleon is very large, and 
when filled with air it renders the body semi-transpar- 
ent; from the creature’s power of abstinence, no doubt, 
arose the fable that it lived on air. It is probable that 
the animals mentioned with the tinshenietk (Lev. xi, 30) 
denote different kinds of lizards; perhaps, therefore, since 
the etymology of the word is favorable to that view, the 
chameleon may be the animal intended by tinshemeth in 
the above passage. As to the change of color in the skin 
of this animal, numerous theories have been proposed; 
but, as this subject has no scriptural bearing, it will be 
enough to refer to the explanation given by Milne-Ed- 
wards, whose paper is translated in vol.xvii of the Edin- 
burgh New Philosophical Journal. The chameleon be- 
longs to the tribe Dendrosaura , order 8a uni ; the family 
inhabits Asia and Africa and the south of Europe. The 
Chamelco vnh/arls is doubtless the species mentioned in 
the Bible. — Smith. See Tristram, Nat. Hist, of the Bi- 
ble, p. 249; Wood, Bible Animals, p. 87, 488. See Liz- 

AUI>. 

SWAN (myth, and astron.), a beautiful constellation 
in the Milky-wav, which may be readily known from 
the five bright stars, arranged in the form of a cross, of 
which it is composed. It is situated between Cepheus 
and Vulpes, to the east of the Lyre. On bright wintry 
nights the naked eye may count a hundred and fifty 
stars in this large constellation. The Swan commem- 
orates the form chosen by Jupiter when he deceived 
Nemesis and Leda, or possibly the singing swan, sacred 
to Apollo, into which Orpheus was, at death, transformed. 

Swan, Roswell Randall, a Congregational 
minister, was born at Stonington, Conn., June 1 <3, 1778; 
was fitted for college by Rev. Hezekiah N. Woodruff, 
of Stonington, and graduated from Yale College in 1802. 
He united with the College Church Dec. 1, 1799. His 
purpose to enter the ministry was not formed until 
March, 1804, and shortly after he commenced the study 
of theology under Dr. Emmons, of Franklin, 31 ass. In 
October of the same year, after a severe illness, he con- 
tinued his studies with Dr. Perkins, of West Hartford. 
His license to preach was granted him by the Hartford 
North Association, at Northington, Feb. 6, 1805. Ow- 
ing to ill-health, he did not immediately settle, but in 
December took charge of an academy in Stonington, 
and supplied the vacant Church there. He was or- 
dained pastor of the Church in Norwalk Jan. 14. 1807, 
where he continued until his death, Mareh 22, 1818. 
See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, ii, 485. 

Swan, Samuel, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in the island of Dominica, Nov. 30, 1798. While Sam- 
uel was a child his father returned to his native coun- 
try, Scotland. Here the son received a liberal educa- 
tion. completing his course at the Glasgow University. 
At the age of nineteen he came with the family to Phil- 
adelphia, from whence he soon went to Princeton Sem- 
inary. He was licensed to preach by the Philadelphia 
Presbytery April 17, 1823, and received as a licentiate 
in the Presbytery of Huntington, Pa. He received a 
call from the Sinking Valley Church, which he declined 
to accept, and was dismissed to the Redstone Presby- 
tery. His next call was to the churches of Fairfield, 
Ligonier, and Donegal, which he accepted, and was in- 
stalled June 17, 1824. He proved to be a devoted, self- 
denying, and successful pastor, and for seventeen years 
and a half retained the esteem and growing confidence 
of his three churches. Becoming seriously crippled by 


a shivered limb, he was compelled to relinquish so ex- 
tensive a charge, and he accordingly resigned, and ac- 
cepted a call to the Johnstown Chureh, Pa., where he 
was installed in 1841. Half of his time was occupied by 
the Church at Armagh. Here he continued until 1855. 
In 1850 he removed to Loland, La Salle Co., 111., where 
he made an extensive purchase of land; and though he 
had no pastoral charge, he continued to preach the Gos- 
pel as he had opportunity. From 1809 to 1871 he resided 
at Aurora, 111. For the purpose of giving his children 
an education, he returned East, and, though advanced 
in years, continued to preach until the end of his pil- 
grimage, Aug. 5, 1877. (W. P. S.) 

Swanger, John I\, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Mifilin County, Pa., Feb. 
15, 1830. He was converted and united with the Church 
in 1854, and in 1859 was received on trial in the East 
Baltimore Conference. His ministry, however, was of 
short duration, as he died June 29, 1807, in Baltimore. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 18G8, p. 27. 

Swarm is the rendering, in the A. V., of two very 
different Hebrew words. 

1. •"HI'*, ’ edah (usually rendered “congregation” or 
“assembly”), is employed to designate the swarm of 
bees and honey found by Samson in the lion’s carcass 
(Judg. xiv, 8). The lion which Samson slew had been 
dead some little time before the bees had taken np their 
abode in the eareass, Ibr it is expressly stated that “af- 
ter a time” Samson returned and saw the bees and honey 
in the lion’s carcass, so that “if,” as Oedmann has well 
observed, “any one here represents to himself a corrupt 
and putrid carcass, the occurrence ceases to have any 
true similitude, for it is well known that in these coun- 
tries. at certain seasons of the year, the heat will, in the 
course of twenty-four hours, so completely dry np the 
moisture of dead camels, and that without their under- 
going decomposition, that their bodies long remain, like 
mummies, unaltered and entirely free from offensive 
odor.” To the foregoing quotation we may add that 
very probably the ants would help to consume the car- 
cass, and leave, perhaps, in a short time, little else than 
a skeleton. Herodotus (v. 1 14) speaks of a certain Ones- 
ilns, who had been taken prisoner by theAmathusiansand 
beheaded, and w hose head, having been suspended over 
the gates, had become occupied by a swarm of bees; 
comp, also Aldrovandus (I)e lustd. i, 110). Dr. Thom- 
son ( Land and Book, ii, 3(52) mentions this occurrence 
of a swarm of bees in a lion’s carcass as an extraordinary 
thing, and makes an unhappy conjecture that perhaps 
“hornets,” debabir in Arabic, are intended, “if it were 
known,” says he, “that they manufactured honey enough 
to meet the demands of the story.” It is known, how- 
ever, that hornets do not make honey, nor do any of the. 
family Vespidce, with the exception, so far as has been 
hitherto observed, of the Brazilian Neciarina mtllifica. 
— Smith. See Bee. 

2. 2*1 ’ arub , is the term applied to the fourth of 

the plagues (q.v.) of Egypt (Exod. viii, 8-31 ; “divers 
sorts of Hies,” Psa. Ixxviii, 45; ev, 31). It is regarded 
by most interpreters as a species of (jadjly, or tabunvs 
(Miehaelis, Supplem. p. 19G0), such as is still very troub- 
lesome to animals in Egypt (Forskal. Descr. A nim. p. 
85; Riippell, Arab. p. 73). See Bochart, Hieroz. iii, 
472; Werner, in the Miscell. Lips. Nov. iii, 201 sq. See 
Fly. 

Swayze, John J., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born at Poughkeepsie, N. Y., 
Aug. 30, 1812. He was received on trial in the Pitts- 
j burgh Conference in 1829, and labored with great aceept- 
I ability, filling the office of presiding elder nine succes- 
sive years. He took a superannuated relation in 1852, 
and died Feb. 18, 1853. See Minutes of A nnual Confer- 
ences, 1853, p. 242. 

Swayze, William, a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in Sussex Couuty, N. J., Nov. 18, 1784, 


SWEARING 


4S 


SWEARING 


In liis youth he was led by a pious African to hear a 
Methodist preacher near Baltimore. was converted, and 
soon after felt impressed that it was his duty to preach 
the Gospel, and labored as a local preacher to great ad- 
vantage for several years, lie was admitted into the 
Now York Conference on trial in May, 1.S07, and for 
eight years labored successfully within the bounds of 
that conference. “He became, emphatically a ‘son of 
thunder,’ attracting great crowds of people to his minis- 
try. and speaking with a power and pathos. that few 
have ever equalled, moving and exciting many — some 
to tears, others to cry for mercy, while others would 
shout for joy” (Gregg, p. 1 77). In 1*1(1 lie was trans- 
ferred to the Ohio Conference; in 1*17 appointed to Co- 
lumbus Circuit ; in 1*1* to Deer Creek Circuit, includ- 
ing Chilicotlie; in 1*20 presiding elder of ( lllio District, 
where " his labors, for almost four years, were crowned 
with unexampled success.” In 1*21, by the division 
made by the General Conference, he fell in the Pitts- 
burgh Conference, and was appointed to Erie District; 
in 1*2* to Canton District; in 1*30, conference mission- 
ary: in 1*32, retransferred to Ohio Conference; in 1*34 
to Pittsburgh Conference; after which, he was super- 
annuated until death, March 29, 1*41. See Minutes of 
Annual (Conferences, iii, 23* ; Stevens, Hist, of the M. E. 
Church , iv, 339-341. (J. L. S.) 

Swearing (some form of rtJX or rnr, oyvvfti), 
is an appeal to God in attestation of the truth of what 
one says, or in confirmation of what one promises or un- 
dertakes. The Eat in term is jusjuramhtm or jura men - 
turn. Cicero ( I)e Ojficiis, iii. 29) correctly terms an oath 
a religious affirmation ; that is, an affirmation with a re- 
ligious sanction. This appears from the words which 
lie proceeds to employ: “Quod antem affirmate, quasi 
Deo teste, promiseris, id tenendum est. Jam enim non 
ad irara deormn, qua* nulla est, sed ad justitiarn et ad 
tidem portinet;” which in effect means that an oath is 
an appeal to God, as the source and the vindicator of 
justice and fidelity. Hence it appears that there are 
two essential elements in an oath— first, the human, a 
declared intention of speaking the truth or performing 
t lie action in a given case; secondly, the divine, an ap- 
peal to God, as a being who knows all things and will 
punish guilt. According to usage, however, there is a 
third element in the idea which “oath” commonly con- 
veys, namely, that the oath is taken only on solemn, or, 
more specifically, on juridical occasions. The canon law i 
gives all three elements when it represents judicium, re- \ 
ritus, just it in as entering into the constitution of an oath 
—judicium, judgment or trial on the part of society; 
veritas, truth on the part of the oath-taker; just it ia , 
justice on the part of God. 

The practice of taking oaths existed before the time 
of Moses. It is found as early as the days of Abra- 
ham, who made the oldest servant of his family swear 
he would select for Isaac a wife of his own kindred (Gen. 
xxiv, 2, 3, 37). It is here observable that the oath is a 
private, not a judicial one; only that the authority of 
Abraham, as patriarch, must be taken into account/ An 
oath was sometimes a public and general bond, obliging j 
the parties who took it to a certain course— a case in 
which it appears to have been spontaneous and volun- j 
tary; as when, in Judges xxi, the men of Israel swore, I 
saying, “There shall not any of us give his daughter unto 
llcnjamin to wife” (comp, ver.5). From l Kings xviii, 
10, it appears to have been customary to require, on oc- 
casions of great concern, a public oath, embracing even 
an entire “ kingdom and nation but whether taken in- 
dividually or by some representative we have no means 
of ascertaining. Such a custom, however, implying as 
it does a doubt of the public faith of a people, would 
hardly be submitted to, unless on the part of an inferior. 

Oaths did not take their origin in any divine coni- 1 
maml. They were a part of that consuetudinary law 
which Moses found prevalent, and was bound to respect, 
since no small portion of the force of law lies in custom, | 


and a legislator can neither abrogate nor institute a 
binding law of his own mere will. Accordingly, Moses 
made u>e of t he sanction which an oath gave, but in 
that general manner, and apart from minute directions 
and express words of approval, which shows that he 
j merely used, without intending to sanction, an instru- 
ment that he found in existence and could not safely 
dispense with. Examples are found in Exod. xxii, 11, 
where an oath is ordered to be applied in the case of lost 
property; and here we first meet with what may strict- 
ly he called a judicial oath (Lev. vi, 3-5). 

An oath, making an appeal to the divine justice and 
power, is a recognition of the divinity of the being to 
whom the appeal is made. Hence to swear by an idol 
is to be convicted of idolatry. Such an act is according- 
ly given in Scripture as a proof of idolatry and a reason 
for condign punishment. “ Mow shall I pardon thee for 
this? Thy children have forsaken me, and sworn by 
them that are no gods” (Jer. v, 7 ; xii, IG; Amos viii, 
14; Zeph. i, 51. 

This appeal to God was in frequent use among the 
Hebrews, as a confirmation of both statements (Matt, 
xxvi, 74) and promises (l Sam. xix,G; xx, 17 ; 2 Sam. 
xix, 23; xv, 21 ; 1 Mace, vii, 35. For covenant oaths, 
see Gen. xxxi, 53 sq. ; Josh, ix, 15; 2 Kings xi, I; l 
Macc. vii, 1 5 ; Josephus, A nt. xiv, 1, 2. For oaths of al- 
legiance see 2 Sam. xv, 21 ; Josephus, A nt. xv, 10, 4) in 
I both public and private life (e. g. Judg. xxi, 5 ; 1 Kings 
xviii, 10; Ezra x, 5; and Gen. xxiv, 37 ; 1,5; Malt, xiv, 
7), as also before the Judges (Exod. xxii, 1 1 ; Lev. vi, 3, 
5) ; but the Mosaie law does not attempt to regulate its 
use. Perjury is forbidden (xix, 12), but on religious 
grounds, as a profanation of God’s name. The usual 
oath was by Jehovah (Dent, vi, 13; comp. Gen. xiv, 22; 
Judg. xxi, 7 ; Until i, 17 ; 1 Sam. xiv, 44; 2 Sam. xix, 
7; 1 Kings i, 29; ii, 23; Isa. xix, 18; Ixv, IG; Jer. iv, 
2; xxxviii, IG), while the apostates swore by strange 
gods (v, 7 ; xii, IG; Amos viii, 14 ; Zeph. i, 5). Some- 
times an oath was made by the fife of the person ad- 
dressed (2 Kings ii, 2; 1 Sam. i, 2G; xx, 3; comp. Eurip- 
ides, II el. *35), by the life of the king (1 Sam. xvii, 55; 
xxv, 2G; 2 Sam. xi, 11), or by his head, even when not 
in his presence (a common oath in Egypt, Gen. xlii, 15, 
and still used in Persia, Ilosenmiiller, Moryenl. i, 200 sq. ; 
Morier, Second Journey ; comp. Strabo, xii, 557 ; Herod- 
otus, iv, G8; Curtins, vi, 11, 18; Lucian, Catapl. 11 ; Sue- 
tonius, Culiy. 27 ; Vegotius, l)e Re Mil. ii, 5 ; Tcrtullian, 
Apol. 52; Zorn, fiiblioth. Antiq. i, 812 sq. In the Cos- 
pel accordiny to Xicodemus, Pilate swears by the safety 
of Ceesar ; comp. Hein, Rom. Criminalrecht, p. 534). 
More rarely, the oath was by the head of the swearer 
(Matt, v, 3G ; comp. Virgil, *En. ix, 300 ; Ovid, Trist. iv, 
4, 45; Juvenal, vi, 17), by some important member of 
the body, as the eyes (Ovid, Amor, iii, 3, 13; Tibullus, 
iii, G. 17 ; Plautus, Menwc. v, 9, 1) ; by the earth (Matt, 
v, 35; Sil. Ital. viii, 105; Euripides, Uippolytus , 1029); 
hv heaven and the sun (Matt. v. 34; Talmud Habvl. 
Berach. 55; comp. Kor. xci, 5; liii, 1; lvi, 77; Virgil, 
-Ev. xii, 17G, 197 ; ix, 429; Aristophanes, Eq. 705; Plu- 
tarch, 129; Euripides, Medea, 74G; Pausanias, viii, 18, 
1; Phi lost rat us, ller. ii, 11; and Wettstein, i, 305); 
by the angels (Josephus, War, ii, IG, 4). It was a 
part of the punctiliousness of the later Jews to prefer 
rather to swear by the sun, the earth, or heaven than 
by God himself (Philostratus, ii, 271). Some swore by 
the Temple (Matt, xxiii, IG; comp. Light foot, p. 280), or 
parts of it (Mutt, xxiii, IG; comp. Wettstein ad loc.), or 
by Jerusalem, the holy city (Matt. v. 35; Mishna, Kethu- 
both , ii, 9 ; Lightfoot, p. 280). So among other ancient 
nations, the altar was touched in swearing (comp. Dough- 
tieus, Analect. ii, 2G; Lakemacher, Obserr. ix, 112 sip on 
Sil. Ital. iii, 82. On the oath Cokban [q. v.j, see Jose- 
phus, A pian, i, 22. 453). 

The form of swearing by Jehovah, always the most 
usual oath (see above), was very simple— “ The Lord do 
this or that to me if I swear falsely” (Until i, 17 ; 2 Sam. 
iii, 9, 35; l Kings ii, 23; 2 Kings vi, 31), or “As Jeho- 


SWEARING 


49 


SWEARING 


vah liveth” (PPh? or Ruth iii, 13; | 

Judg. viii, 19; 2 Sam. ii, 27; Jer. xxxviii, 10) ; at 
greater length, “Jehovah be a true anil faithful wit- 
ness between ns” (r^X 1^5 *123 rPft? n .“P, Jcr. xlii, 
5). Formulas of terrible import were used by the later 
Jews (see Josephus, Life, § 53; comp. Lysias, Pro. Con. 
Aristoph. 32). Of the ceremonies usually observed by 
those who took oaths we know but little. In patri- 
archal antiquity it was usual to put the hand under the 
thigh (Gen. xxiv, 2 ; xlvii, 29). On this practice Aben- 
Ezra observes, “It appears probable to me that the 
meaning of this custom was as if the superior said, with 
the consent of his slave, * If thou art under my power, 
and therefore prepared to execute my commands, put 
thv hand, as a token, under my thigh.’” Winer, how- 
ever, thinks that, as it was usual to swear by the more | 
important parts of the human frame, so this was a ref- 
erence to the generative powers of man. But see on 
this interpretation, as well as on the general question 
of swearing by parts of the body, Kleiner, Gesch. der Re- 
lifj. ii, 28G sq. It is. however, certain that it was usual to 
touch that by which a person swore. Other instances 
may be seen in Niedek, De Popular, A dor at. p. 213 sq., 
and p. 218, which go immediately to confirm the idea 
advanced by Winer. The Targum of Jonathan (on 
Gen. xxiv, 2) supposes the hand to have been placed 
on the section of circumcision (comp. Jerome, ail loc .). 
Gramberg {Reliyionsid. i, 439) most strangely connects 
this custom with the licentious worship of Baal and 
Astarte. (For other views see Dreyer, Miscel. iib. einiye 
Geyenst. des teutsch. Reckts , p. 115 sq. ; Malm, in Ber- 
tholdt’s Journ. vii, 118 sq.). 

The more usual employment of the hand was to raise 
it towards heaven; designed, probably, to excite atten- 
tion, to point out the oath-taker, and to give solemnity 
to the act (Gen. xiv, 22, 23). In the strongly anthro- 
pomorphitic language of parts of the Scripture even 
God is introduced saying, “ I lift up my hand to heaven, 
and say, I live forever” (Deut. xxxii, 40). Some sup- 
pose that a similar license is employed whenever the 
Almighty is represented as in any way coming under 
the obligation of an oath (Gen. xxii, 1G, 17; Exod. vi, 
8; Ezek. xx, 5; lleb. vi, 17). Instead of the head, the 
phylactery was sometimes touched by the Jews on 
taking an oath (Maimon. Shebuoth , c. 11). Even the 
Deity is sometimes introduced as swearing by phylac- 
teries {Touch, fol. vi, 3; Otho, Lex. p. 757). “Giving 
the hand” (Ezek. xviii, 12) was a ceremony used be- 
tween equals; the violation of this pledge was believed 
to be a most atrocious crime, and hence the prophet 
denounces vengeance on the king of Babylon, who 
had broken a covenant after having "given his hand.” 
We meet with the representation of the pledge given 
by the joining of hands, in connection with some relig- 
ious ceremony, on many ancient coins, of which the 
accompanying engravings are specimens. They are 
taken from golden coins in the British Museum. See 
Hand. Swearing by dipping the hands in the blood 



Coins struck to Commemorate Peace. 


of a victim was the most solemn form of oath among 
the ancient Greeks, and was chiefly used in concluding 
alliances offensive and defensive. See Covenant. 

The Rabbinical writers indulge in much prolixity on 
the subject of oaths, entering into nice distinctions, and 
showing themselves exquisite casuists. A brief view 
of their disquisitions mav be seen in Otho, Lex. p. 347 
X.— D 


sq. Some oaths they declared invalid : “ If any one 
swear by heaven, earth, the sun, and such things, al- 
though there may be in his mind while using these 
words a reference to Him who created them, yet this 
is not an oath; or if any one swear by one of the proph- 
ets or by some book of Scripture, having reference to 
Him who sent the prophet and gave the book, never- 
theless this is not an oath” (Maimon. Hal. Shebuoth , 
c. 12). So the Mishna ( Shebuoth , c. 4): “If any one 
adjures another by heaven or earth, he is not held 
bound by this.” It is easy to see that oaths of this 
nature, with authoritative interpretations and glosses 
so lax, could hardly fail to loosen moral obligation, and 
to lead to much practical perjury and impiety. Mi- 
nute casuistical distinctions undermine the moral sense. 
When a man may swear and yet not swear, by the 
same formula appear to bind himself and yet be free, 
contract with his associates an obligation from which 
he may be released by religious authorities, the basis 
of private virtue and the grounds of public confidence 
are at once endangered. Besides, the practice of un- 
authorized and spontaneous oath-taking, which seems 
even in the earlier periods of Jewish history to have 
been too common, became, about the time of our Lord, 
of great frequency, and must have tended to lower the 
religious as well as weaken the moral character. Pe- 
ter’s conduct is a striking case in point, who “began to 
curse and to swear, saying, I know not the man” (Matt. 
xxvi,74). An open falsehood thus asserted and main- 
tained bv oaths and imprecations shows how little re- 
gard there was at that time paid to such means of sub- 
stantiating truth. The degree of guilt implied in such 
lamentable practices is heightened by the emphasis 
with which the Mosaic law guarded the sanctity of the 
divine name and prohibited the crime of perjury and 
profanation (Exod. xx, 7; Lev. xix, 12; Deut. v, 11 ; 
Matt, v, 33). 

The levity of the Jewish nation in regard to oaths, 
though reproved by some of their doctors (Otho, Lex. 
p. 351 : Philo, ii, 194), was notorious ; and when we find 
il entering as an element into popular poetry (Martial, 
xi, 9) we cannot ascribe the imputation to the known 
injustice of heathen writers tow ards the Israelites. This 
national vice, doubtless, had an influence with the Es- 
senes (q. v.) in placing the prohibition of oaths among 
the rules of their reformatory order. Modern Orientals 
habitually use the exclamation ImhaUoh (“in the 
name of God”) on the most trivial occasions. 

That no case has been made out by Christian com- 
mentators in favor of judicial swearing v r e do not af- 
firm;' but w'e must be excused if we add that the case 
is a very weak one, w r ears a casuistical appearance, and 
as if necessitated in order to excuse existing usages and 
guard against errors imputed to unpopular sects, such 
as the Quakers and Mennonites. II inferential and 
merely probable conclusions, such as the case consists 
of, may be allowed to prevail against the explicit lan- 
guage of Jesus and James, Scripture is robbed of its 
certainty, and prohibitions the most express lose theii 
force. For instance, it has been alleged that our Lord 
himself took part in an oath when, being adjured by 
the high-priest, he answ'ered “Thou hast said” (Matt, 
xxvi. 63, 64). But what has this to do w ith his own 
doctrine on the point? Placed at the bar of judgment, 
Jesus w'as a criminal, not a teacher, bound by the Jaws 
of his country — which it was a part of his plan never 
unnecessarily to disregard — to give an ansv T er to the 
question judicially put to him, ‘and bound equally by a 
regard to the great interests w'hich he had come into 
the w'orld to serve. Jesus did not swear, but w as sworn. 
The putting the oath he could not prevent. Hi? sole 
question was, Should he answer the interrogatory? — a 
question which depended on considerations of the high- 
est moment, and which he w T ho alone could judge de- 
cided in the affirmative. That question in effect was, 
“Art thou the Messiah?” Jlis reply was a simple af- 
firmative. The employment of the adjuration was the 


SWEARING 


50 


SWEDEN 


act of the magistrate, to have objected to which would 
have brought on Jesus the charge of equivocation, if 
not of evasion, or even tilt* denial of his “ high calling.” 
The general tendency of this article is to show Jjow de- 
sirable it is that the practice of oath-taking of all kinds, 
judicial as well as others, should at least be diminished 
till, at the proper time, it is totally abolished; for what- 
soever is more than a simple aflirmation cometh from the 
Evil One, tic rov irai'/jpor (.Matt. v, 37), and e*jually lead- 
eth to evil. See Lydii J)ts$. de Jnramento ; Nicolai, /A* 
Jurttm. J/ebnrorum , Gnrcorum , Romanorum, uliorumqne 
Populorum ; Seldeni Dias, de Juntmentis; Molcmbccii 
De Juramento per Genium J y rmcipis ; Spenceri jfins.de 
Juramento pa- Anchialum—n\\ of which may be found 
in vol. x.\ vi of l T golino’s Thesaurus Antiq. Suer . See 
also Hansen. De Jur ament. Yett. in Unwins, Thesaurus ; 
Carpzov, Appar. p. 652 sq.; Steinler. J)e Jurejur. Sec. 
Jtiscip. Ueb. (Lips. 1 7:>l» ) : Ihtrmann, De Jurejur. ex 
Mente JJebr. (Frankf. 17*2) ; Valekcnaer, De Ritib. in Ju- 
rejnr. a Vet. I/ebr. et finer. Obserr. (Frattek, 1735; and 
in Oelrich’s Collect. 1, ii, 175 sq.) ; especially Bassek, De. 
Jurejur. Vet. impr. Rom. (Traj. ad Kh. 1727); Lasanlx, 
Ueb. d. Kid bei d. ( iriech . (Wfirzb. IS 14); Ueb. d. Kid bei 
d. Rom. (ibid. 1X1 1); Otho, Lex. Rabbin, p. 347 sip A 
more recent authority may be found in Staudlin, Ge- 
schichte der Yorstell. s. v. " Fide;” see also Tyler, Oaths: 
their Origin, etc. See Oath. 

SWEARING. Profane, was severely condemned in 
the ancient Church, and seems to have been a common 
practice. Swearing, or foolish or wicked adjurations 
bv any creature or d.cmon, by the emperor’s genius, by 
angel and by saint, were reprobated. Perjured persons 
were placed under special penance. Profanity is also 
punishable by the civil law of Great Britain, and by 
the laws of some of the states of the United States. 

Sweat (nrj.Gcu.iii, 19; 7*U, Ezck. xliv, 18; r dptog, 
Luke xxii, 41) was one of the physical phenomena at- 
tending our Lord’s agony in the garden of Getlisem- 
ane as described by Luke (xxii, 44): “His sweat was 
as it were great drops (literally clots. Spnpfiot) of blood 
falling down to the ground.” The genuineness of this 
verse and of the preceding has been doubted, but is now 
generally acknowledged. They are omitted in A and 
B, but are found in the Codex Sinaiticus (X), Codex 
Bcza?, and others, and in the Peshito, Philoxenian, and 
Curetonian Syriac (see Tregelles, Greek New Test.; 
Scrivener, Introd. to the Crit. of the Xew Test. p. 434), 
and Tregelles points to the notation of the section and 
canon in vcr. 42 as a trace of the existence of the verse 
in the Codex Alexandrinns. 

< )f this malady, known in medical science by the term 
diapedesis, there have been examples recorded both in 
ancient and modern times. Aristotle was aware of it 
( De J*urt. Anim. iii, 5). The cause assigned is gener- 
ally violent mental emotion. “ Kanncgiesser,” quoted 
by Hr. Stroud (Rhys. Cause of the Death of Christ, p. 
86), *• remarks, ‘Violent mental excitement, whether oc- 
casioned by uncontrollable anger or vehement joy, and 
in like manner sudden terror or intense fear, forces out 
a sweat, accompanied with signs either of anxiety or 
hilarity.’ After ascribing this sweat to the unequal 
constriction of some vessels and dilatation of others, he 
further observes: 1 If the mind is seized with a sudden 
fear of death, the sweat, owing to the excessive degree 
of constriction, often becomes bloody.’” l)r. Millingen 
{Curiosities of Medical Experience , p. 489, 2d ed.) gives 
the following explanation of the phenomenon: “ft is 
probable that this strange disorder arises from a violent 
commotion of the nervous system, turning the streams 
of blood out of their natural course, and forcing the red 
particles into the cutaneous excretories. A mere relax- 
ation of the fibres could not produce so powerful a re- 
vulsion. It may also arise in cases of extreme debili- 
ty, in connection with a thinner condition of the blood,” 

The following are a few of the instances on record 
which have been collected by Calmet ( Diss.sur la Sueur 


dn Sany), Millingen, Stroud, Trusen (Die Sitten, Gebrau- 
che und Krankheiten d. alt. Ilebr. [Breslau, 1853]), in 
addition to those given under Bloody Sweat. Schen- 
kius (Ohs. Med. iii. 458) says that in the plague of Mise- 
no in 1554 a woman who was seized sweated blood for 
three days. In 1552 Conrad Lvcosthencs ( j)e Prodigi- 
is. p. (J23, ed. 1557) reports, a woman sick of the plague 
sweated blood from the upper part of her body. Ac- 
cording to He Thou (I, xi, 320, ed. 1020), the gov- 
ernor of Montcinaro, being seized by stratagem and 
threatened with death, was so moved thereat that he 
sweated blood and water. In the Melanges d'JJistoire , 
(iii, 179). by Dom Bonaventure d’Argonne, the case is 
given of a woman who sull'ered so much from this mal- 
ady that, after her death, no blood was found in her 
veins. Another ease of a girl of eighteen who suffered 
in the same way is reported by Mcsaporiti, a physician 
at Genoa, accompanied by the observations of Valisneri, 
professor of medicine at Padua. It occurred in 1703 
(Phil. Trans. No. 303, p. 2144). There is still, however, 
wanted a well-authenticated instance in modern times 
observed with all the care and attested by all the ex- 
actness of later medical science. That given in Cas- 
par’s Wochenschrift . 1848, .as having been observed by 
l)r. Schneider, appears to be the most recent, and re- 
sembles the phenomenon mentioned by Theophrastus 
(Jjondon Med. Gaz. 1848, ii, 953). For further reference 
to authorities, see Copeland, Diet, of Medicine , ii, 72. — 
Smith. 

Swedberg, Jesper, bishop of Skara, in Sweden. 
Ilis father’s name was Jacobson, but, according to a fre- 
cjnent Swedish custom, the son, on taking his degree at 
the university, assumed the name of Swedberg. lie was 
horn Aug. 28, 1653, in the province of Dalecarlia. Hav- 
ing received a university education, he was ordained in 
1685, and became successively court chaplain, professor 
of theology in the University of Upsala (1692), and 
provost of the cathedral there, lie was a pious, elo- 
quent, and active man, a somewhat voluminous writer, 
chiefly on devotional subjects, lie stood high in bis 
native country, and many of his hymns are still among 
the favorite ones in the Swedish Lutheran service. He 
was the father of Emanuel Swedenborg. lie was made 
bishop of Skara in 1702, about the time that he visited 
England. The Swedish Church in London and the 
Swedish congregations settled on the banks of the Dela- 
ware, in America, were placed by the king under his 
episcopal supervision; and his letters to the latter col- 
ony, still preserved in the records of the Church at Wil- 
mington, show' a warm interest in their affairs. From 
the information which he had obtained from this cor- 
respondence he published a work concerning America, 
a copy of which is in the library of Harvard College, 
lie also published a J’salm-Book (1694), which was sup- 
pressed as pict.istie; and the first Swedish Grammar 
(1722). Bishop Swedberg died July 26, 1735. (W. B. II.) 

Sweden, a kingdom in the northern part of Eu- 
rope. In conjunction with Norway it forms the Scan- 
dinavian peninsula, occupying itself the larger part of 
this peninsula. Its geographical position is between 
hit. 55° 20' and 69° N. and long. 11° 10' and 24° 10' E., 
and it extends not far from 1000 miles from north to 
south, and in its greatest breadth 300 miles from east 
to west. It is bounded on the north by Norwegian Lap- 
land, east by Russia, south by the Gulf of Finland and 
the Baltic, and west by the Sound, the Cattegat, and 
Norway. The country has the characteristic features 
of all northern regions. Many parts of it, especially in 
the north, are barren and unproductive. Its immense 
forests are a source of great revenue, the wood being 
used not only for fuel, but entering quite generally into 
the construction of the exterior as well as the interior 
parts of all buildings, and furnishing also a profitable 
article for export. All the grains peculiar to northern 
countries are raised in Sweden, not only in sufficient 
quantity for home consumption, but also for export. 


SWEDEN 


51 


SWEDEN 


In some of the metals it is very rich, and no small part 
of t be wealth of the country comes from the working 
of mines of gold, silver, iron, copper, etc. The descrip- 
tion which has been given of Norway, so far as the 
natural productions of the country are concerned, will 
apply to Sweden, and renders any minute detail in this 
respect unnecessary. See Norway. 

The great political divisions of Sweden are three — 
Gothland, Svealand, and Norrland. Gothland has thir- 
teen subdivisions, Svealand eight, and Norrland five — 
the whole giving an area of 171,730 square miles, and 
having a population of a little more than four millions 
and a quarter. The largest city is Stockholm, having 
a population in 1874 of nearly 150,000. The only oth- 
er city of considerable size in Sweden is Gothenburg, 
which has a population of over 00,000; but there is 
quite a large number of cities and towns having a pop- 
ulation of over 12,000. 

I. History . — The early history of Sweden is involved 
in great obscurity, nor do we find much in that history 
that will interest the general reader until we come 
down to the time of Gustavus Vasa, who, with great 
heroism, made an attack on Christian II, and succeeded 
in obtaining the throne in 1523. The next character 
that stands out prominently on the pages of Swedish 
history is Gustavus Adolphus, the great champion of 
the Protestant faith, and the powerful foe with whom 
Austria had to contend during the important period of 
the Thirty Years’ War. Gustavus was most fortunate 
in his counsellors and statesmen, especially in his chan- 
cellor, the wise and good Oxenstiern (q. v.), who, after the 
death of his sovereign at the battle of Lutzen in 1062, 
was intrusted with the management of affairs during 
the minority of Christina, the daughter of Gustavus, 
who succeeded to the throne. Passing over a few years, 
we come to the period during which the celebrated 
Charles XII sat on the throne, whose wonderful martial 
exploits form one of the most brilliant pages of modern 
history. At the commencement of his reign the king- 
dom of Sweden was at the height of its power and of 
its glory. When he closed his administration, and, by 
bis death, Sweden came under the dominion of his sis- 
ter, Ulrica Eleonora, its prospects were far from flatter- 
ing. She surrendered herself to the control of her hus- 
band, Frederick of Hesse-Cassel, whose administration 
of the affairs of Sweden was most unfortunate and hu- 
miliating. In making terms of peace with the enemies 
with whom she had been at war for so long a time, 
cessions of large territories which were once within the 
boundaries of the kingdom had to be made. Ulrica 
dying without issue, the throne passed into the hands 
of Adolphus Frederick, in fulfilment of one of the terms 
of peace prescribed by the empress of Russia in the 
treaty of 1743. His reign of twenty years was one of 
constant commotion and trouble. At his death, in 1771, 
his son Gustavus III succeeded to the crown and reign- 
ed twenty years, when he was assassinated, and his son 
Gustavus IV, a minor in age, came to the throne, with 
his uncle, the duke of Sodermannland, as regent. For 
various reasons the young king, after a few years, was 
compelled to abdicate, and his uncle, the regent, under 
the title of Charles XIII, became king. Upon his de- 
cease, Feb. 5, 1818, the French marshal Bernadotte was 
elected king, taking the title of Charles XIV. Dur- 
ing his reign of twenty-six years, Sweden enjoyed a 
good degree of prosperity, and recovered, in consider- 
able measure, what she had lost under the reigns of his 
predecessors. At his death, in 1844, his son Oscar 1 
succeeded him and perfected the plans of his father for 
developing the resources of the conn try and adding to 
its material wealth. 11 is reign lasted fifteen years 
(1844-59), during the last two of which, on account of 
bis ill-health, his son and successor had acted as re- 
gent. This son, Charles XV, was king for thirteen years 
(1859-72). During his administration, liberal ideas 
gained the ascendency, and the result was the intro- 
duction into the government of many constitutional re- 


forms. Charles died in 1872, and was succeeded by the 
present king, Oscar II. 

II. Reliyion . — Christianity was first introduced into 
Sweden. in the year 830 by Anschar, a monk of Corbev, 
Westphalia, although the Swedish historians assert that 
many of the people embraced the Gospel still earlier, 
and that in 813 a church was erected at Linkoping by 
Herbert, a Saxon ecclesiastic. The labors of Anschar 
were followed up by bis successor, Rembert, who found- 
ed several churches, but gained few converts. Several 
of Iiembert’s successors failed to prosecute the work, 
and Christianity became almost extinct; and it was 
not until 102G that Sweden became a Christian state. 
The Reformation commenced in Sweden in 1524 under 
Gustavus I, who secretly encouraged the preaching of 
Lutheran doctrines, in order, when he had formed a 
party of sufficient strength, to seize the revenues of the 
dominant Church and abolish its worship. One of the 
most popular and able missionaries of the Relormation 
was Olaf Petri, who published the New Test, in the 
Swedish language. The bishops called upon the king 
to suppress the translation, who treated their proposal 
with indifference, and consented to a public disputation 
at Upsala between the Romish and Protestant parties. 
This controversy tended to open the eyes of the people to 
the errors of the Romish creed, and they welcomed the 
missionaries to their houses. Gustavus seized at once 
two thirds of the whole ecclesiastical revenues, and au- 
thorized the clergy to marry and mix with the world, 
lie also declared himself a Lutheran, nominated Luther- 
ans to the vacant secs, and placed Lutherans in the 
parish churches. In the course of two years the Rom- 
ish worship was solemnly and universally abolished, 
and the Confession of Augsburg was received as t lie 
only rule of faith. John, who succeeded to the throne 
in 15G9, had married Catharine of Poland, a Roman 
Catholic, and soon displayed a decided leaning towards 
the old faith. In the fervor of his zeal he prepared a 
new liturgy, entitled “Liturgy of the Swedish Church, 
Conformable to the Catholic and Orthodox Church.” 
This liturgy was rejected by the mass of the clergy of 
both churches, and even the papal sanction was re- 
fused. Still, the king so far prevailed as to induce the 
Swedish Church to revise its liturgy, and to declare all 
opposed to revision guilty of schism. On his death, 
his brother Charles became regent, and one of his first 
acts was to induce the Synod of Upsala (1593) to abolish 
the liturgy prepared by the late king and depose those 
ecclesiastics who had defended it. Sigismund, hearing 
of these proceedings, came to Sweden and inaugurated 
violent measures in behalf of the Romish faith, which 
were so generally opposed by clergy and people that 
be returned in disgust to Poland. Charles took up the 
work of reform, caused a decree to be published ill 1600 
that the Confession of Augsburg should be the only 
rule of faith in Sweden, that all Romish priests should 
leave the country in six weeks, and prescribing gen- 
eral conformity under penalty of banishment. Under 
queen Christina the Church sank into a deplorable con- 
dition of spiritual declension and decay. There was a 
religions awakening, however, under the preaching of 
Ulstadius, who suffered for his zeal by a long imprison- 
ment. To put an end to what was called in ridicule 
Pietism, an act was passed in 1713, and a still more 
stringent one in 172G, prohibiting, under heavy penal- 
ties, all private religions meetings or conventicles. 
These harsh measures and the desire for true spiritual- 
ity led a number of the people to seek permission to 
have the old books used in the churches of their par- 
ishes, or to have regularly ordained pastors serve them, 
promising themselves to maintain them, in addition to 
paying all dues, as formerly, to the parish priest. This 
was refused, and they withdrew from the worship of 
the national Church, enduring many disabilities, as de- 
nial of marriage, tines, and penalties. It was not till 
1873 that dissenting ministers were allowed to marry. 

The established Church of Sweden is Lutheran, all 


SWEDEN" 


52 


SWEDENBORG 


sects of Christians, however, being tolerated. The king 
nominates the archbishop and the bishops from a list 
of names presented to him by the ecclesiastical author- 
ities. The archbishop of Upsala is the head of the 
Swedish Church, having under him eleven bishops. 
All ecclesiastical matters of importance are subject to 
the decision of the king. A revolution in religious 
matters is now going on in Sweden which cannot fail, 
it; time, to make itself felt in its influence on the future 
destiny of the national Church. Especially prosperous 
have been the missionary operations of the Baptists 
under the labors of the Kcv. Andreas Wiberg and bis 
fellow-laborers. Thousands of converts have been gath- 
ered into Baptist churches, and the work of evangeliza- 
tion seems to be but in its infancy. 

In 18o 1 the Bev. O. 1\ Petersen was commissioned 
by the Missionary Society of the Methodist Episcopal 
Church to open missions in the Scandinavian mission- 
ary; he had, as an assistant missionary. Peter Larssen, 
who went to Sweden and visited several families at 
Calmar. A mission was begfln in 1864: at Wisbv, in 
the island of Gothland, and from that time the work 
has been very prosperous. The General Conference of 
1876 ordered the Swedish mission to be organized into 
an Annual Conference, which was effected under the 
presidency of bishop Andrews at Upsala, Aug. 7, 1876. 
The following is a summary of the statistics of the mis- 
sion for 1879: Number of ministers, 54 ; local preachers, 
69; Sunday-schools, 168; teachers and officers, 505 ; 
Sunday-school scholars, 5500 ; members and probation- 
ers. 6800 ; churches, 38 ; probable value of churches, 
$396,82.). 

III. Education. — To the credit of Sweden it is to he 
said that she has provided most liberally for the educa- 
tion of the young. There is a common-school system, 
instruction being gratuitous, and children not attending 
the regular government schools are obliged to furnish 
certificates that they are under the tuition of private 
teachers. The result of all this careful and systematic 
attention to education is that seldom is a Swede found 
who cannot read and write. The higher seats of learn- 
ing are well patronized. The University of Upsala 
takes high rank among the literary institutions of 
Northern Europe. Its home is in the town from which 
it takes its name — Upsala, forty-live miles north-west 
of Stockholm, a place of some 12,000 inhabitants. The 
attendance of students is large, as high sometimes as 
1500, who gather here not only to pursue the regular 
course of collegiate study, but to listen to lectures from 
the professors of theology, law, medicine, and philoso- 
phy. The university has a valuable library of over 
100,000 volumes, several museums and collections, a bo- 
tanical garden, and an observatory. Both the army 
and the navy are well represented by schools, the for- 
mer having two well-conducted institutions, one at 
Carlberg and another at Marieberg, designed especially 
for the training of officers of the engineering and artil- 
lery departments, and the latter having a school for 
naval cadets at Stockholm. There are to be found in 
Sweden — as there are in all countries where the people 
are well educated — in all towns and villages, libraries, 
museums of art. etc., societies for the promotion of sci- 
ence and literature, publications in the form of news- 
papers and periodicals of many kinds, so that the diffu- 
sion of knowledge is wide-spread and healthy. 

IV. Literature. — See Adlerfcldt, Jfistoire Militaire de 
Charles XII (Baris, 1741,3 vols. 12mo); Brown, Memoirs 
of the Sovereign of Sweden and Denmark (Loud. 1804, 
3 vols. 8vo); Arndt, Erinnerungm <nts Schweden (Ber- 
lin. 1818, 8vo) ; Dunham, History of Denmark , Sweden, 
and Norway (Loud. 1833-34,3 vols. 12mo) ; Gall, Reise 
durch Schweden in 1836 (Bremen, 1838, 2 vols. 12mo); 
Laing, Tour in Sweden in 1838 (Lond. 1839, Svo); Syl- 
vanus, Rambles in Sweden and Gothland, with Etchings by 
the Wag-side (ibid. 1847, 8vo); Tham. Deskrifnng after 
Sveriges Hike (Stockh. 1849-56,7 vols. 8vo); Manyatt, 
Year in Sweden and Gothland (Lond. 1862, 8vo). 


Swedenborg, Emanuel, the founder of the New 
Jerusalem Church (q. v.), was born in Stockholm, Swe- 
den, Jan. 29, 1688. 1 1 is ancestry were not, noble, hut 

of high respectability among the miners of the great 
Stora-Kopparberg, in the province of Dalecarlia. His 
father, Jcsper Swedberg (q. v.) or Svedberg, married 
Sarah, daughter of Albrecht Behm, assessor of the Koval 
Board of Mines. Emanuel was their second son and third 
child. After the elevation of the father to the prelacy 
as bishop of Skara, the name was changed and the 
family ennobled by queen Ulrica Eleonora in 1719. 

Beared amid pious influences, the accounts we have 
of his earliest years seem to indicate a childhood of un- 
usual thoughtfulness and susceptibility to religious im- 
pressions. lie says of himself, “ From my fourth to my 
tenth year my thoughts were constantly engrossed by 
reflecting on God, on salvation, and on the spiritual af- 
fections of man. I often revealed things in my discourse 
which filled my parents with astonishment, and made 
them declare, at times, that certainly the angels spake 
through my mouth.” Great care was bestowed on his 
education, which was acquired principally at the Uni- 
versity of Upsala, where he took his degree of Ph.D. in 
1709, in his twenty-second year, lie then visited Eng- 
land. spending a year at Oxford and three more on the 
continent of Europe. At this time he was already a 
member of the Boyal Society of Sciences of Upsala, cor- 
responding with it while abroad, lie sought every- 
where the society of the learned, and commenced pub- 
lishing works almost immediately on his return, some 
of them poetical, others mathematical. His mind took 
an industrious and practical turn, and for many years 
he was almost wholly employed in scientific pursuits, in 
mining, engineering, and physiological studies. His 
family connections were influential — one sister married 
Eric Benzelius, afterwards archbishop of Upsala; an- 
other was the wife of Lars Benzelstierna, governor of a 
province, whose son became a bishop; while other mem- 
bers of the family rose to ecclesiastical and civil digni- 
ties. He had a large circle of friends among the nobility 
and higher classes, and enjoyed abundant patronage at 
court. His rank entitled him to a seat in the Swedish 
Parliament, and about 1721 he was appointed by Charles 
XII assessor of the Board of Mines, which made him also 
a member of the Cabinet. In 1724 he was solicited to ac- 
cept the professorship of mathematics in the University 
of Upsala, but preferred the position he already occnpied. 

Twelve years later we find him beginning to publish 
his philosophical works: first, Opera Philosophica el 
Mineruliu (Leipsic and Dresden, 3 vols. fol.), under the 
patronage of the duke of Brunswick; afterwards, his 
Principia: The Principles of Natural Things , or Xew 
A ttempts at a Ph ilosophical Explanation of the Phenom- 
ena of the Elementary World: — then came Outlines of a 
Philosophical A ryument on the Infinite and the Final 
Cause of Creation, and on the Intercourse between the 
Soul and the Body : — followed, a few years later, by the 
Economy of the Animal Kingdom (Amsterdam, 2 vols. 
4to) ; and the A nimal Kingdom (vol. i. at the Hague; vol. 
ii, Lond. 1745). There were many other tracts, essays, 
and volumes of minor importance, his last work of this 
nature being the Worship and Love of God. These 
works are generally acknowledged as belonging to the 
highest order of philosophical thought. His declared 
object in all his investigations was to behold the wisdom 
and goodness of the Creator in all his works; giving his 
life to the discovery of truths, determined to rise through 
their different degrees to those of the highest order, tor 
the sake of doing something useful to mankind and ad- 
vancing the best interests of society. The accounts 
show him to have been at this period a man of solid 
virtue, piety, and decorum. These are the “ rules of 
life” which he wrote down and preserved for his own 
guidance: 

1. Often to read and meditate on the Word of God. 

2. To submit everything to the will of Divine Provi- 
dence. 


SWEDENBORG 


53 


SWEET 


3. To observe in everything a propriety of behavior, and 
alwavs to keep the conscience clear. 

4. To discharge with fidelity the functions of my em- 
ployment, and the duties of my office, and to render my- 
self in all tbiugs useful to society. 

He was a member of the principal scientific and philo- 
sophical societies of Northern Europe. 

In 1745, at the age of fifty-seven — in the full maturity 
of his powers, in the enjoyment of honorable station, and 
of an enviable reputation at home and abroad for worth, 
learning, and extraordinary capacity — he ceased from 
bis other labors and began to devote himself to theol- 
ogy, to the promulgation of the doctrines of the New 
Jerusalem Church. Having been, as lie declared, called 
by t he Lord to be the messenger of a New Dispensation 
of Heavenly and Divine Truth, he was no longer at liber- 
ty to pursue bis former courses of occupation and study, 
but thenceforward applied himself, with all the diligence 
of his character, to the duties of his new office. The 
following are some of his own words with respect to this 
“calf’ and mission, written to Rev. Dr. Hartley, rector 
of Winwick, England, in reply to inquiries. After speak- 
ing of the circumstances of his previous career, he con- 
tinues, “But 1 regard all that ! have mentioned as mat- 
ters respectively of little moment; for, what far exceeds 
them, 1 have been called to a holy office by the Lord 
himself, who most graciously manifested himself in per- 
son to me, his servant, in the year 1743, when he opened 
my sight to the view of the spiritual world, and granted 
me the privilege of conversing with spirits and angels, 
which I enjoy to this day. From that time I began to 
print and to publish various arcana that have been seen 
by me or revealed to me — as, respecting heaven and hell, 
the state of man after death, the true worship of God. 
the spiritual sense of the Word, with many other most 
important matters conducive to salvation and true wis- 
dom. The only reason of my later journeys to foreign 
countries has been the desire of being useful, by making 
known the arcana intrusted to me.” At another time, 
late in life, lie writes, to the landgrave of Ilesse-Darm- 
stadt, “ The Lord, our Saviour, had foretold that he 
would come again into the world, and that he would 
establish there a new Church. He has given this pre- 
diction in the Apocalypse (xxi and xxii), and also in 
several places in the evangelists. But, as lie cannot 
come into the world again in person, it was necessary 
that he should do it by means of a man, who should not 
only receive the doctrine of this new Church in his un- 
derstanding, but also publish it by printing: and so the 
Lord had prepared me for this office from my infancy; 
he has manifested himself in person before me, his ser- 
vant, and sent me to fill it. This took place in the year 
1743. He afterwards opened the sight of my spirit, and 
thus introduced me into the spiritual world, and grant- 
ed me to see the heavens and many of their wonders, 
and also the hells, and to speak with angels and spirits, 
and this continually for twenty-seven years. 1 declare, 
in all truth, that such is the fact. This favor of the 
Lord in regard to me has only taken place for the sake 
of the new Church which I have mentioned above, the 
doctrine of which is contained in my writings.” Ex- 
cept in this chief object and in the character of his 
writings, liis habits of life underwent no change. His 
outward demeanor remained the same, with an increase 
of spiritual piety and prayerfulness, the same dignity and 
quiet urbanity of manner marked his intercourse with 
others, the same solid sense and enlightened intelligence 
characterized his conversation. His intercourse with 
the best society of the realm and the most eminent men 
of his time was uninterrupted. He retained his seat in 
the Swedish Parliament, and became more prominent 
in State affairs than he had ever been before. 

Swedenborg’s first theological publication, and his 
largest work, is the A rcana Ccelestia , or Heavenly Mys- 
teries, a commentary, in eight quarto volumes, on the 
book of Genesis, with a large part of Exodus; in which, 
with many other observations and doctrines, the text is 


nnfolded as to what he calls its “spiritual sense.” The 
design seems to be to discover a Christian meaning and 
application in all things of the “law and the prophets;” 
the method pursued does not appear to be much unlike 
that of other Christian commentators, except in the ex- 
tent to which the principles of symbolism are carried 
and the results arrived at. He maintains that such a 
secondary sense runs through all t lie books given by 
immediate divine dictation — Law, Former Prophets, 
Later Prophets, and Psalms — and that these books are 
written according to a uniform law, called that of “cor- 
respondence,” or the law of universal analogy between 
spiritual and natural tilings, which law it is one great 
object of his writings to unfold. His citations and com- 
parison of Scripture texts are remarkably full and ex- 
haustive. 

From the time of his alleged “call,” he wrote and 
published almost constantly until his death. The Ar- 
cana was finished in I75G. 11 is succeeding works are, 

An Account of the Last Judgment , and the Destruction 
of Babylon ; showing that all the Predictions in the 
Apocalypse are at this Day Fulfilled: Being a Relation 
of Things Heard and Seen (Loud. 1758): — Concerning 
Heaven and its Wonders, and concerning Hell; from 
Things Heard and Seen (ibid. 1758): — The Four Lead- 
ing Doctrines of the New Jerusalem , viz. Concerning the 
Lord, Sacred Scripture, Faith, and Life (Amster. 1763): 
— Angelic Wisdom concerning the Divine Love and the 
Divine Wisdom (ibid. 1703): — Angelic Wisdom concern- 
ing the Divine Providence (ibid. 1764) : — The A pocalypse 
Revealed, wherein are Disclosed the .4 rcana there Fore- 
told, which have hitherto Remained Concealed (ibid. 1766) : 
— The Apocalypse Explained according to the Spiritual 
Sense; in which are Revealed the Arcana which are 
there Predicted and have been hitherto Deeply Concealed 
(published after his death, in 5 vols. 8vo),a much larger 
and fuller work than the preceding :—The Delights of 
Wisdom concerning Conjugal Love: after which follow 
the Pleasures of Insanity concerning Scortatory Love 
(Amster. 1768). The True Christian Religion , contain- 
ing the Universal Theology o f the New Church, Foretold 
by the Lord in Daniel vii, 13, 14, and in Revelation xxi, 1, 
2 (ibid. 1771), contains his body of divinity, and is di- 
vided into fourteen chapters, under appropriate heads. 
There are also a number of minor treatises and tracts. 
All these works were written originally in Latin, and 
were distributed by the author to the principal univer- 
sities and seats of learning. 

In addition to his philosophical acquirements, Swe- 
denborg was learned also as a Hebrew and Greek scholar. 
He died in London, March 20, 1772, maintaining to the 
last the truth of his alleged disclosures. He did not 
attempt to collect congregations, nor organize a church. 
For an account of the followers of his doctrines, see 
New Jerusalem Church. (W. B. H.) 

Sweet, Elisha, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born at Gorham, Ontario Co., N. Y., 
in 1810. He was admitted into the Genesee Conference 
in 1847, in which conference and the East Genesee he 
spent his ministerial life, three years of which he was 
superannuated. He died Sept. 7, 1869. See Minutes 
of Annual Conferences, 1870, p. 281. 

Sweet, John Davis, a Baptist minister, was born 
at Kingston, Mass., Oct. 16, 1838. He was the sou of a 
Unitarian clergyman. From his early life he devel- 
oped a marked taste for literary pursuits, and in his 
preparatory studies took high rank as a. scholar. In 
the fall of 1857 he entered Harvard College, one year iu 
advance, and distinguished himself by his application 
to his college tasks. Having overworked himself, he 
sought to recruit his health by foreign travel. Return- 
ing home, he embarked in business; but, his friends urg- 
ing him to direct his attention to the ministry, he aban- 
doned liis secular pursuits, ami was ordained as pastor 
of the Baptist Church in Billerica, Mass., in October, 
1863, where he remained nearly five years — 1863-68 — 


SWEKT CAXE 


54 


SWIFT 


securing in a marked degree the affection of his Church 
and the respect of the people of the village in which he 
had his home. lie was publicly recognised as pastor 
of the First Baptist Church in Somerville, Mass., May 
4, 1868. He had commenced his work in the new tield 
of his labor, and was prosecuting it with rare success, 
when he was stricken down by disease. One of the 
last records which he made in his diary a few days be- 
fore his death was the following: “ In looking over my 
ministry of nearly seven years, I feel 1 ought to drop 
on my knees and thank C.od that he ever called me to 
this glorious work. Some are always speaking of the 
trials of the ministry; but I can say, on reviewing 
mine, that it has been one bright day, with few clouds 
to dim the brightness. 1 love the work.” lie died in 
August. 1869. See Warren [G. F.], Memorial Sermon. 
(.). C. S.) 

Sweet Cane. See Cane. 

Sweet Singers, :i small Scottish seet, called from 
their founder, John Gib, the Gihiutks (q. w). They 
forsook all worldly business, and professed to be entirely 
devoted to fasting and prayer in the open fields. The 
name “Sweet Singers” was given to them from their 
habit of “wailing a portion” of the more mournful 
psalms. They renounced and denounced the use of 
metrical psalms, the translation of the Bible, Longer 
and Shorter Catechisms, the Confession of Faith, the 
Covenant, names of months and days, the use of churches 
and church-yards; all kinds of tolls, custom, and trib- 
ute, all sports, and, indeed, everything and everybody 
but themselves. They finally undertook a pilgrimage 
to the Bentland Hills, where they remained some days, 
with a resolution to sit till they saw r the smoke of the 
desolation of Edinburgh, which their leader had pre- 
dicted. They were committed to prison in Edinburgh 
in April. 1681, but were soon released. See Blunt, Diet, 
of Sects, s. v. ; M‘Orie, Scottish Church History, ii, 195. 

SWEET SINGERS, the English Ranters (q. v.) of 
the 17th century, so called by some contemporary writ- 
ers. 

Sweet Wine. See Wine. 

Sweetman, Joseph, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born at Freehold, Monmouth Co., N. J., Mareh 9, 1774. 
Ilis mother was a granddaughter of Walter Kerr, who 
was banished from Scotland lbr his unwavering adher- 
ence to Covenanter principles and his opposition to prel- 
acy. When Joseph was about three months old, his 
parents removed to Charlton, Saratoga Co., N. Y. He 
graduated at Union College in 1797, being one of the 
three students that composed the graduating elass, 
and receiving its first honors. He studied theology 
privately, was ordained by Albany Presbytery, and 
installed pastor of Salem Chureh, Washington Co., 
N. Y., Sept. 17, 1800. On account of failing health, he 
resigned his pastoral charge Oet. 8, 1817, and was never 
again installed pastor of a Church, but from that time 
till his death devoted himself to aiding young men in 
preparing for the ministry. He was the founder of the 
“Sweetman Scholarship” in Princeton Theological Sem- 
inary, N. J. lie died Dee. 19 , 1X63. Mr. Sweetman 
was vigorous in intellect and eloquent in manner, lie 
was a very benevolent man : that he might have to 
give, he was industrious, economical, and prudent. See 
Wilson. Presb. llist. Almanac, 1863, p. 57 ; also 1864, p. 
198. (J. L. S.) 

Sweetser, Seth. D.D., a Congregational minister, 
was born at Newbury port, Mass., March 15, 1807. He 
was prepared for college in Newlmryport Academy, un- 
der the tuition of Leonard Withington, D.D., and grad- 
uated from Harvard College in 1827, lie then taught 
school for two years (1827-29) in Geneseo, N. Y., after 
whieh he returned to Harvard College as a tutor, re- 
maining there until 1831, when he entered Andover 
Theological Seminary, where, after a full course of three 
years, he graduated in 1834. lie was ordained Nov. 23, I 


1836, and was called to Gardiner, Me., where, after 
preaching two years, he was dismissed, Nov. 8, 1838, to 
the pastorate of the Calvinist Church, Worcester, Mass., 
was installed Dec. 19 of the same year, and remained in 
this olliee until his death, having had a colleague after 
1874. Here the great work of his life was done. He 
was a trustee of Leicester Academy and of Phillips 
Academy. Andover, from 1850, and president of the hit- 
ter board from 1861. lie was a trustee of the Worces- 
ter Free Industrial Institute and of Worcester Memorial 
Hospital. He was also a member of the council of the 
American Antiquarian Society, a corporate member of 
the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Mis- 
sions from 185-1, one of the vice-presidents of the Amer- 
ican Home Mission Society from 1864, and president of 
the American Education Society. From I860 to 1873 
he was overseer of Harvard College, during which time 
he published various Reports, Sermons , and Addresses: 
also several articles in the Bibliotheca Sacra, lie died 
from the effect of a spinal injury and pulmonary disease 
combined Mareh 24, 1878. (W. P. S.) 

Swell, in music, a set of pipes in an organ with a 
separate key-board, and forming a separate department, 
which are capable of being increased or diminished in 
intensity of sound by the action of a pedal on a series 
of shades or shutters overlapping each other like Vene- 
tian window-blinds, within whieh the pipes in question 
are enclosed. On a well-constructed swell a practiced 
performer can imitate not oidy a gradual crescendo and 
diminuendo, but also a sforzando , a very small opening 
sufficing to make an immediate burst upon the ear; 
while, when the shutters are closed, an imitation of ail 
echo is produced. — Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. 

Swelling (*pXJ, ejaon , “excellency,” “pride,” etc.) 
of Jordan is a phrase occurring in the A. V. at Jer. 
xii, 5; xlix, 19; 1, 44, but whieh should be rendered 
“ pride of Jordan,” as in Zeeh. xi, 3. It refers to the 
verdure and thickets along the banks, lined with wil- 
lows, tamarisks, and eane, in whieh the lions once made 
their covert; but has no allusion to overwhelming bil- 
lows from a rise of the waters (Reland, Pahest . p. 274). 
See Jordan, 

Swert (or Sweerts), Francis, a Flemish his- 
torian and antiquary, was born in Antwerp in 1567. 
He devoted much of his time to study, and published 
a great many works which brought him considerable 
reputation; Xarrationes Ifistoricce in JJcornm I)ea- 
rumqne Capita , etc. (Antwerp, 1602, 4to) : — Laerimee in 
Funere Ab. Ortclii,cum Ortetii Vita (1601, 8vo) :—Medi- 
tat iones ./. Cardinalis de Turrccrematu in Vitam Christ /, 
cum Vita Card. etc. (Cologne, 1607, 12mo): — Selectee Or - 
bis Christ iance, Deliciee (ibid. 1608, 1625, 8vo). lie died 
in 1629. See Chalmers, Biorj. Diet. s. v. 

Swift, Elisha Pope, D.D., an eminent divine of 
the Presbyterian Church, was born at Williamstown, 
Mass., Aug. 12, 1792. His paternal grandfather was the 
Hon. ileman Swift; his father, the Rev. Seth Swift, 
pastor at one time of the Congregational Chureh in 
Williamstown; and his mother was a descendant of 
Rev. John Eliot, well known in the annals of American 
history as the “Apostle to the Indians.” lie graduated 
with honor at Williams College, Sept. 1, 1813, and at 
the I’lieological Seminary, Princeton, N. J., in 1816: was 
licensed by New Brunswick Presbytery at Lawrenoe- 
ville, N. J., April 24, 1816, and on Sept. 19 of the same 
year lie met the American Board of Commissioners for 
Foreign Missions at Hartford, Conn., and was accepted 
as a foreign missionary, though he was informed that 
he could not he sent abroad for some months. On 
Sept. 3, 1817, he was ordained by a Congregational 
council as an evangelist to the heathen, the late Ly- 
man Beecher, I).D., preaching the ordination sermon 
in Park Street Chureh, Boston, Mass. The interval 
between his licensure ami his entering a permanent 
field of labor, a period of some two and a half years, 


SWIFT 


55 


SWIFT 


was filled up with laborious efforts in behalf of the for- 
eign missionary cause — travelling, for the most part, on 
horseback, preaching almost daily, collecting funds, 
forming auxiliary societies, and awakening the people 
everywhere to the claims of this great enterprise. At 
length he was obliged, on account of the want of funds 
on the part of the board, to relinquish his long-cherished 
desire of being a foreign missionary. In October, 1818, he 
became pastor of the Church in Dover, where he labored 
diligently, but under great discouragements; in Novem- 
ber, 1819, he was installed by a committee of the Red- 
stone Presbytery as pastor of the Second Presbyterian 
Church of Pittsburgh, Pa., and immediately entered upon 
his labors in that community, which he subsequently 
adorned and blessed until he became secretary and gen- 
eral agent for the Western Foreign Missionary Society, 
March 1,1833. “This society,” to use his own lan- 
guage, “ has since become, as it was intended at its very 
outset it should, the. Board of Foreign Missions of the 
General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church” (a his-* 
tory of which is published in the Presb. Hist. Almanac 
for 1SG1). He was also deeply interested in theological 
education, and took an active part in the establishment 
of the Allegheny Theological Seminary, Allegheny, Pa. ; 
and was connected with it from its inception until his 
death, a period of forty years, lie was one of the first 
directors, also an agent to collect funds, and the first in- 
structor in theology, which office he held for about two 
years and for which he declined to receive any remu- 
neration. In 1835 he received a unanimous call to 
become the pastor of the First Presbyterian Church 
in Allegheny, and after about twelve months, during 
which time he made such arrangements as to secure 
the continued efficiency of the Missionary Society, ho 
accepted the invitation, and was installed in this, his 
last, longest, and most important pastorate. He died 
April 3. 1865. Dr. Swift was a man of uncommon pow- 
er of intellect and unusual tenderness of heart. As a 
Christian he was pre-eminent for his humility and de- 
votion. He took a deep interest in all educational, 
eleemosynary, or Christian enterprises, and was a pa- 
triot in the truest sense of the term. He was a leader 
in all the various courts of the Church, made so bv the 
breadth of his views, the wisdom of his counsels, the 
integrity and loveliness of his character, and his mani- 
fest freedom from all selfishness and ambition. It was, 
however, as a preacher that he shone most conspicu- 
ously. See Wilson, Presb. Hist . Almanac . 1866, p. 17*2. 
(J. L. S.) 

Swift, Job, a Congregational minister, was born 
at Sandwich, Mass., June 17 (0. S.), 1743, and removed 
in early youth to Kent, Conn. He graduated from Yale 
College in 17G5, having made a profession of religion 
while in college. He studied theology under Dr. Bel- 
lamy, was licensed to preach in 17GG, and in 17G7 be- 
came pastor of the Church in Richmond, Mass. After 
a pastorate of seven years he left Richmond, and, hav- 
ing preached in different places for about a year, be- 
came pastor in Amenia, N. Y. In the spring of 1783 
he removed to Manchester, Yt., where he preached be- 
tween two and three years. On May 31, 178G, he was 
settled over the Church in Bennington, from which he 
made many missionary tours into the western and north- 
ern sections of the state. Leaving Bennington June 7, 
1801, he removed to Addison, on Lake Champlain, where 
he purchased a farm. He established a Church there 
and officiated as its pastor, and also continued his mis- 
sionary labor. He died on a missionary tour at Enos- 
burg, Oct. 20. 1804. Mr. Swift acted as a chaplain in 
the army during most of the Revolutionary war. See 
Sprague, Annals of the A mer. Pulpit, i, G40. 

Swift, Jonathan, D.D., a prelate and satirist, was 
born in Dublin, Nov. 30, 1GG7, and when about a year old 
was carried by his nurse to Whitehaven, Cumberland, 
England, where he was kept for three years. II is fa- 
ther, who died three months before he was born, left , 


his family in great poverty, and they were supported 
by relatives. Swift, when six years old, was sent to 
the school of Kilkenny, and remained there until re- 
moved to Trinity College, Dublin, which he entered as 
a pensioner. April 24, 1G82. He received his degree 
of A.B. Feb. 15, 1G85, but he remained in the college 
until 1G88, when he went to England to visit his moth- 
er, and was on her recommendation admitted into the 
house of Sir William Temple. In 1694 he went to Ire- 
land, took orders in the Church — that of deacon Oct. 18, 
1G94, of priest Jan. 13, 1G95 — and obtained a small liv- 
ing, which he threw np in two years and returned to 
England. He lived as a friend with Temple until the 
death of the latter, Jan. 27, 1G98, and in IG99 accom- 
panied lord Berkeley to Ireland as his chaplain and 
private secretary. Being deprived of this office, he was 
given the rectory of Agher, and the. vicarages of Lara- 
cor and Ruthbeggan, worth altogether £230 a year. The 



Laracor Church. 


prebend of Dunlavin was bestowed upon him soon after- 
wards. He still continued to reside with lord Berkeley 
until 1700, when the latter returned to England and 
Swift took possession of Laracor. lie performed his 
duties as a country clergyman with exemplary dili- 
gence. His appointment to the deanery of St. Pat- 
rick’s was made Feb. 23, 1713, and early in June he left 
England to take possession, lie soon returned to Eng- 
land on a political mission, and again visited England 
to solicit the remission of the “first-fruits.” In 1741 
Swift’s memory failed, his understanding was much im- 
paired, and he beeame subject to violent fits of passion 
which soon terminated in furious lunacy. In 1742 he 
sank into a state of quiet idiocy, and died Oct. 19, 1745. 
Dr. Samuel Johnson {Lives of the English Poets) gives 
the following estimate of dean Swift: “lie was a 
churchman rationally zealous; he desired the prosper- 
ity and maintained the honor of the clergy; of the 
Dissenters he did not wish to infringe the toleration, 
but he opposed their encroachments.” To his duty as 
dean he was very attentive. In his Church he restored 
the practice of weekly communion, and distributed the 
sacramental elements in the most solemn and devout 
manner with his own hand. He came to Church every 
morning, preached commonly in his turn, and attended 
the evening anthem, that it might not lie negligently 
performed. The suspicions of his irreligion proceeded 
in a great measure from his dread of hypocrisy; in- 
stead of wishing to seem better, he delighted in seem- 
ing worse than he was. In London he went to early 
prayers lest he should be seen at Church ; he read 
prayers to his servants every morning with such dexter- 
ous secrecy that Dr. Delan3 r was six months in his house 
before he knew it. lie gave great attention to politi- 
cal matters, and, indeed, it is to his political writings 
that he is principally indebted for his fame. In addi- 
tion to these works, some poems, etc., he published sev- 
eral Sermons and Tracts upon religious and ecclesias- 
tical matters. Of his works several editions have been 
printed, that of Sir Walter Scott being considered the 
best (Edinb. 1819, 19 vols. 8vo). See Allibone. Diet, of 


SWIFT 


5G 


SWINE 


Iirit. and Amer. A uthors, s.v.; Chalmers, Z)ic/.s.v.; ' general one which forbade anv of the mammalia as food 


English Cyclop, s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibfioy. s. v. 

Swift, Seth, brother of Job Swift, was a Congrega- 
tional minister, lie was born in Kent, Conn., Oct. SO, 
17 10, graduated at Yale in 1774. studied theology under 
Dr. Bellamy, and was ordained pastor of the Church in 
AVilliamstown, 3 1 ass., May 27, 1776, which charge he 
retained until his death, Feb. 13, 1807. He was greatly 
beloved by his people, and honored and revered by the 
whole community. . See Sprague, - I nnals of the Atner. 
Pulpit, i, ti l 5. 

Sw^ft Beast. See Camel. 

Swinden, Tobias, an English clergyman, was rec- 
tor of Cuxton, Kent, in 1688, and vicar of Shorne in 1689. 
lie died in 1710. lie published, Sermon on Luke xi, 2 
(1713, 8vo) : — An Enrpiiry into the Xature and Place of 
//elf, which he located in the sun (Loud. 17I4,8vo; trans- 
lated into French by Dion [Amst. 1728, 8vo], and Ger- 
man). See Allibone, Piet, of /frit, and Amer. A nthors , 
s. v. 

Swine (“PtH. chazir; Sept, vg, I'fioc, <ru£; New 
Test, yotpoc). Allusion will be found in the Bible to 
these animals, both in their domestic and in their wild 
state. See Tristram, Xat. /list, of the Bible , p. 145; 
Wood, Bible Animals, p. 202. 

1. The tlesh of swine was forbidden as food by the 
Levitieal law (Lev. xi, 7 ; 1 )eut. xi v, 8). The abhorrence 
which the Jews as a nation had of it may be inferred 
from Isa. Ixv, 4, where some of the idolatrous people are 
represented as “eating swine’s flesh,” and as having the 
“broth of abominable things in their vessels;” see also 
Ixvi, 3, 17, and 2 Mace, vi, 18, 19, in which passage we 
read >that Eleazar, an aged scribe, when compelled by 
Antiochns to receive in his mouth swine’s flesh, “spit 
it forth, choosing rather to die gloriously than to live 
stained with such an abomination.” The use of swine’s 
flesh was forbidden to the Egyptian priests, to whom, 
says Sir G. Wilkinson (.l«e. Egypt, i, 322), “above all 
meats it was particularly obnoxious” (see Herodotus, ii, 
47; .Elian, Pc Xat. A nim. x, 1 G ; Josephus, Apion, ii, 
14), though it was occasionally eaten by the people. 
The Arabians also were disallowed the use of swine’s 
flesh (see Pliny, //. A T . viii, 52; Koran, ii, 175), as were 
also the Phoenicians, .Ethiopians, and other nations of 
the East. 

No other reason for the command to abstain from 


w hich did not literally l'ullil the terms of the definition 
of a “clean animal,” viz. that it was to be a eloveu- 
footed ruminant. The pig, therefore, though it divides 
the hoof, hut does not chew the cud, was to be consid- 
ered unclean; and consequently, inasmuch as, unlike 
the ass and the horse in the time of the Kings, no use 
could be made of the animal when alive, the Jews did 
not breed swine (Laetant. Just it. iv, 17). It is, how- 
ever, probable that dietetieal considerations may have 
influenced Moses in his prohibition of swine's flesh. It 
is generally believed that its use in hot countries is li- 
able to induce cutaneous disorders; hence in a people 
liable to leprosy the necessity for the observance of a 
strict rule. “The reason of the meat not being eaten 
was its n n wholesomeness, on which account it was for- 
bidden to the Jew's and Moslems” (Sir G. Wilkinson’s 
note in Kawlinson’s Herodotus , ii, 47). Ham. Smith, 
however (lvitto. Cyclop, s. v.), maintains that this re- 
puted uuwliolesomeness of sw ine’s flesh has been much 
exaggerated; and recently a w'riter in Colburn’s Xeio 
Monthly Mayazine (July 1, 1862, p. 266) has endorsed 
this opinion. Other conjectures for the reason of the 
prohibition, which are more curious than valuable, may 
be seen in Boehart (//ieroz. i, 806 sq.). Callistratus 
(apud Plutarch. Sympos. iv, 5) suspected that the Jew's 
did not use swine’s flesh for the same reason which, he 
says, influenced the Egyptians, viz. that this animal 
was sacred, inasmuch as by turning up the earth with 
its snout it first taught men the art of ploughing (see 
Boehart, II ieroz . i, 806, and a dissertation by Cassel, en- 
titled Pe Jud(corum Odio et A bstinentia a Porcina ejus- 
que Cuusis [Magdeb.] ; also Miehaelis, Comment, on the 
Laws of Moses , art. 203, i ii, 230, Smith’s transl.). Al- 
though the Jews did not breed sw r ine during the great- 
er period of their existence as a nation, there can be 
little doubt that the heathen nations of Palestine used 
the flesh as food. See Plumptre, Bible Educator , i, 280 
sq. 

At the time of our Lord’s ministry it would appear 
that the Jews occasionally violated the law of Moses 
with respect to swine’s flesh. Whether “the herd of 
sw'ine” into which the devils w*ere allowed to enter 
(Matt, viii, 32 ; Mark v, 13) w r ere the property of the 
Jewish or Gentile inhabitants of Gadara does not ap- 
pear from the sacred narrative; but that the practice 
of keeping sw'ine did exist among some of the Jew's 
seems clear from the enactment of the law’ of Hv reanus, 


swine’s flesh is given in the law of Moses beyond the j “ne cui porcum alere liceret” (Grotius, Annot. ad Matt. 

loc. cit). Allusion is made in 
2 Pet. ii, 22, to the fondness 
which swine have for “wal- 
lowing in the mire;” this, it 
appears, was a proverbial ex- 
pression, w r ith which may he 
compared the “arnica Into sns” 
of Horace ( Ep . i, 2, 26). Sol- 
omon’s comparison of a “ jew'- 
el of gold in a sw’ine’s snout” 
to a “ fair woman without dis- 
cretion” (Prov. xi, 22), and the 
expression of our Lord, “ nei- 
ther cast ye your pearls before 
swine,” are so obviously intelli- 
gible as to render any remarks 
unnecessary. The transaction 
of the destruction of the herd 
of swine already alluded to, 
like the cursing of the barren 
fig-tree, has been the subject 
of most unfair cavil : it is well 
answered by Trench (Mira- 
cles, p. 173), who observes that 
“ a man is of more value than 
many swine;” besides which 
it must be remembered that 
it is not necessary to suppose 



Ancient Egyptian Pigs ; rarely seen in the sculptures, and never before the 1$th dynasty. 

1. Sows with young pips. 2. Young pips. 3. Boars, aisn whip, knotted like some of our own. 6, a gayd , 
or noose, often used as the emblem of a shepherd. 



SWINERTON 


57 


SWITZERLAND 


that our Lord sent the devils into the swine. He mere- j 
ly permitted them to go, as Aquinas says, “quod autem 
porci in mare pra?cipitati sunt non fuit operatio divini 
ruiraculi, sed operatio damionum e permissionc divina;” 
and if these Gadarene villagers were Jews and owned 
the swine, they were rightly punished by the loss of 
that which they ought not to have had at all. See 
Tacit. Hist, v, 4 ; Juveii. Sat. xiv, 08 ; Macrob. Sat. ii, 4; 
Josephus, A nt. xiii, 8, 2; Philo, Opp. ii, 531; Mishna, 
Baba Kama , vii, 7; Talm. Ilieros. Skekal . fol. 47, 3; 
Lightfoot, Hor. fleb. p. 315 sq. ; Otlio, Lex. Bab. p. 
530 sq. 

2. The wild boar of the wood (Psa. lxxx, 13) is the 
common Sus scrofa which is frequently met with in 
the woody parts of Palestine, especially in Mount Tabor. 
The allusion in the psalm to the injury the wild boar 
does to the vineyards is well borne out by fact. “ It is 
astonishing what havoc a wild boar is capable of effect- 
ing during a single night; what with eating and tram- 
pling underfoot, he will destroy a vast quantity of 
grapes” (Hartley, Researches in Greece, p. 234). — Smith. 
See Boar. 

Swinerton, Asa V., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, w T as born at Danvers, Mass., in 1802. 
He joined the New England Conference on trial in 
1831. When the Providence Conference was formed 
in 1841, he continued on the district of which he was 
presiding elder, and thus became a member of -the lat- 
ter Conference. He continued to labor, with the ex- 
ception of one year (supernumerary), until I860, his 
death taking place at Monument, Mass., Oct. 12 of that 
year. See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1864, p. 51. 

Swiney, Samuel T., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in West Feliciana 
Parish, La. Of the circumstances of conversion, etc., 
we have no particulars. He joined, probably, the Mis- 
sissippi Conference in 1856, and after a number of years 
became supernumerary, and died Aug. 14, 1869. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences of the M. E. Church, 
South , 1869, p. 341. 

Swinnock, George, an English clergyman, was 
vicar of Great Kymble, Bucks, from which he was eject- 
ed for nonconformity in 1662. He afterwards became 
pastor at Maidstone, where he died in 1673. II is writ- 
ings are: Heaven and Hell Epitomized (Loud. 1659, 8vo; 
1663, 4to): — Christian Man's Calling (in 3 pts. 4to: i, 
1662; ii, 1663; iii, 1665): — also Sermons. SeeAIlibone, 
Diet, of Brit, and Anier. A uthors , s. v.; Darling, Cyclop. 
Bibliog. s. v. 

Swiuton, John, an English divine and antiquary, 
was born in 1703 at Bexton, Cheshire. He was edu- 
cated at Wadham College, Oxford, was chaplain to the 
factory at Leghorn, and died April 4, 1777, keeper of 
the university records at Oxford. He contributed vols. 
vi and vii (the Life of Mohammed and the History of 
the Arabs') to the Modem Universal History , and wrote 
many learned dissertations on Phoenician and other an- 
tiquities. See Allibone, Did. of Brit, and Amer. Au- 
thors, s. v. ; Chalmers, Blog. Did. s. v. 

Swithin, St., an English ecclesiastic of the 9th cen- 
tury, was chaplain to king Egbert, and tutor to his son 
Ethel wolf, by whom he was made chancellor. He had 
the charge of the education of king Alfred, whom he 
accompanied to Rome. In 852 he was consecrated 
bishop of Winchester. William of Malmesbury records 
of him that he was “a rich treasure of all virtues, and 
those in which he took most delight were humility and 
charity to the poor.” The origin of the tribute called 
“Peter’s pence” (q. v.) has often been assigned to 
Swithin, and he is said to have procured an act of the 
Witenagemote enforcing, for the first time, the uni- 
versal obligation of paying tithes. Swithin died July 
2, 862. See Mrs. Jameson, Legends of the Monastic Or- 
ders , p. 89. 

Swithin’s Day. The following is said to be the 


origin of the old adage “ If it rain on St. Swithin’s 
Day, there will be rain more or less for forty succeed- 
ing days.” In the year 865 St. Swithin, bishop of Win- 
chester — to which rank he was raised by king Ethel- 
wolf the Dane — was canonized by the then pope. He 
was singular for his desire to be buried in the open 
church-yard, and not in the chancel of the minster, as 
was usual with other bishops, which request was com- 
plied with ; but the monks, on his being canonized, 
taking it into their heads that it was disgraceful for 
the saint to lie in the open church-yard, resolved to 
remove his body into the choir, which was to have 
been done with solemn procession on July 15. It 
rained, however, so violently on that day, and for forty 
days succeeding, as had hardly ever been known, which 
made them set aside their design as heretical and blas- 
phemous; and instead they erected a chapel over his 
grave, at which many miracles are said to have been 
wrought. The value to be placed upon the popular 
notion that if it rain on July 15 it will do so for 
forty succeeding days may be learned from the follow- 
ing facts from the Greenwich observations for twenty 
years: It appears that St. Swithin’s Day was wet in 
1841, and there were 23 rainy days up to Aug. 24; 1845, 
26 rainy days ; 1851, 13 rainy days; 1853, 18 rainy days; 
1854, 16 rainy days; and in 1856, 14 rainy days. In 
1842 and following years St. Swithin’s Day was dry, and 
the result was, in 1842, 12 rainy days; 1843, 12 rainy 
days; 1844,20 rainy days; 1846.21 rainy days; 1847, 
17 rainy days; 1848,31 rainy days; 1849,20 rainy days; 
1850, 17 rainy days; 1852, 19 rainy days; 1855, 18 rainy 
days; 1857. 14 rainy days; 1858, 14 rainy days; 1859, 
13 rainy days; and in 1860,29 rainy days. These fig- 
ures show the superstition to be founded on a fallacy, 
as the average of twenty years proves rain to have 
fallen upon the largest number of days when St. Swith- 
in’s day was dry. — Eadie, Ecclvs. Cyclop, s. v. 

Switzerland, the Helvetia of the Latins, is one 
of the smallest of the European states, lying between 
45° 49' and 47° 50' N. lat., and 5° 55' and 10° 30' E. 
long., its extreme length from E. to W. being 210 miles, 
and its extreme breadth not far from 140 miles, ft has an 
area of nearly 16,000 English miles, and is bounded north 
by Germany, from which it is separated by the Rhine 
and Lake Constance; on the east by Austria, the valley 
of the Rhine and the Bhretian Alps being the dividing 
line between the two countries; on the south by Italy 
and France, and on the west by France. It is the most 
mountainous country in Europe, being covered through- 
out its entire extent by the Alps, which are grouped 
into several branches. The highest and best-known 
peaks of the Alps in Switzerland are Matterhorn, or 
Mont Cervin, Finster-Aarhorn, and Jungfrau. Mont 
Blanc was once included in the mountains of Switzer- 
land, but at the close of the Franco-1 talian war it was 
transferred to France. The principal lakes of Switzer- 
land are Lake of Neufchatel, Lake of Geneva, Lake 
Thun, Lake Lucerne, Lake Zurich, and Lake of Con- 
stance. Its great rivers are the Rhine and the Rhone, 
with their many tributary streams. The glaciers are 
the great feeders of these streams and rivers, and are 
in themselves objects of great interest to the lover of 
nature. The climate of Switzerland is generally cold, 
as might be expected, the region of perpetual snow be- 
ing more extensive than in any other mountain system 
in Europe. In the lowlands and valleys the tempera- 
ture is warmer, and many of the productions which 
grow so luxuriantly in Italy are raised there. Agricult- 
ure furnishes the chief employment to the inhabitants 
of this country. There are some kinds of manufactures 
carried on which are productive, such as cotton, em- 
broidery, and silk stuffs of various kinds. The Swiss 
also pay great attention to the manufacture of watches, 
the annual production, in fine, of the cantons being not 
far from seventeen and a half millions of dollars. 

I. History . — Our earliest knowledge of Switzerland 
carries us back to the time when the inhabitants were 


SWITZERLAND 


53 


SWITZERLAND 


alluded to in Roman history as the llelvotii. In those I 


early days, not far from a century before the commence- 


ment of the Christian :era, they successfully resisted the 
attacks of the Romans. The Commentaries of Gesar i 
give us interesting accounts of the attempts of the le- 
gions under his command to subdue these hardy dwell- 
ers of the mountains and v alleys of 1 1 el yet ia. After 
many years, by degrees, the Roman arms brought these | 
proud-spirited foes into subjection, and for several cen- 
turies the conquerors held dominion over the country. 
Inyasious from the northern tribes of Europe laid waste 
many sections of the land. These barbarians of the 
North were at last all brought under the power of the 
Franks, and Christianity became the prevailing faith. 
Without tracing the political history of Switzerland 
through the various phases through which it passed 
during several centuries, it may sutliee to say that it be- 
came a federal republic in I S vs, and the people are now 
living under a revised constitution, which was accepted 
by them in t he spring of 1ST 1. This constitution guar- 
antees to the inhabitants of the twenty-five cantons 
into which Switzerland is divided those rights and im- 
munities which are found in all properly constituted 
republics. All citizens are equal in the eye of the law. 
Privileges of place or birth have ceased. Absolute lib- 
erty of conscience everywhere prevails. The press is 
free. The right of association is guaranteed, with the 
exception that the Jesuits and organizations kindred to 
them are forbidden. The capital of the confederated 
states is Herne. 

II. Religion . — Christianity was first introduced into 
Switzerland about A. I). (110 by St. Gall, a native oflre- 
land and pupil of Cohimban. lie was one of twelve 
Irish monks who labored to disseminate Christianity 
throughout Europe. They first took up their residence 
at the head of Lake Zurich, and, burning with zeal, set 
fire to the pagan temples, casting the idols into the lake. 
Driven away by the inhabitants, they settled at Bre- 
gentz, hut at the end of two years were banished from 
this place also, and all left for Italy except St. (ball, who 
was too ill to be removed. lie repaired to a sequestered 
spot, and with a few adherents built the Monastery of 
St. Gall in the canton of the same name. After his 
death, several of his scholars and monks from Ireland 
continued his work, until paganism lost its hold and Ro- 
manism was substituted in its place. 

With reference to the Reformation, D’Aubigne says: 
“From 1519 to 15*26 Zurich was the centre of the Ref- 
ormation, which was then entirely German, and was 
propagated in the eastern and northern parts of the 
confederation. Between 1526 and 1532 the movement 
was communicated from Berne; it was at once German 
and French, and extended to the centre of Switzerland, 
from the gorges of the Jura to the deepest valleys of the 
Alps. In 1532 Geneva became the focus of the light ; 
and the Reformation, which was here essentially French, 
was established on the shores of the Leman Lake, and 
gained strength in every quarter.” The main instru- 
ment in commencing and carrying forward the work of 
Reformation in Switzerland was Flric Zwingli (q. v.). 
In 1513 he commenced the study of the Greek lan- 
guage; and from 1516, when he began to expound the 
Word of God as preacher in the Abbey of Linsiedeln, 
Zwingli dates the Swiss Reformation. The influence 
of the pure faith was soon extensively felt, so that, by ! 
the year 1522, we find Erasmus estimating “those” in 
the cantons “who abhorred t he see of Rome” at about 
200,000 persons. Gradually changes in the mode of 
worship were introduced. In 1523 we find the Council 
of Zurich requiring that “the pastors of Zurich should 
rest their discourses on the words of Scripture alone;” 
the abolition of images in churches soon followed; mar- 
riage was no longer prohibited to the clergy; and in 
1525 the mass was superseded by the simple ordinance 
of the Lord's supper. In Appenzell the Reformation be- 
gan about 1521, in Schaffliausen about the same time. 
The sacramentarian controversy between Luther and 


Zwingli, and tlieir respective followers, was detrimental 
to the cause of truth in both Germany and Switzerland; 
and in the latter, as well as in the former, the rise of the 
Anabaptist body was both a source of injury and re- 
proach. In the year 1527 Berne became professedly a 
Reformed canton, and for mutual security allied itself, in 
1529, with the canton of Zurich. In 1530, at the Diet 
of Augsburg, When the Lutheran Confession was pre- 
sented, the Swiss divines presented another drawn up 
by Bueer, known, from the four towns it represented — 
namely, Constance, Strasburg, Lindau, and Meiningen — 
as the Tetrapolitan Confession. The two confessions 
only differed as to the sense in which Christ was under- 
stood to be really present in the Lord’s supper. At this 
time, also, Zwingli individually presented a confession, 
to which we find Eck replying. The five Romish can- 
tons, having made ample preliminary preparations, de- 
termined by force of arms to check the further progress of 
Reformed principles in the confederation. The French 
sympathies of Zwingli, and his hostility to Charles V, 
deprived the Protestant cantons of German support 
in the approaching conflict. The Protestant cantons 
formed a confederacy, and by a resolution adopted at 
Aarati, May 12, 1531, instituted a strict blockade of the 
five cantons. Goaded on by the consequent famine and 
its attendant miseries, these last determined on war, 
and entered the field on Oct. 6 of the same year, the first 
engagement, taking place at Cappel. proving most disas- 
trous to Zurich and fatal to Zwingli. The Reformation 
now took the direction of Geneva, its opinions being 
first proclaimed by William Farel about 1532. He was 
banished, but was succeeded by Anthony Fromment, 
who soon shared the same fate. The following year 
they were recalled, and the bishops fled. In 1535 the 
Council of the city proclaimed tlieir adherence to the 
Reformed faith. The following year witnessed the arri- 
val of John Calvin, and on July 20, 1539, the citizens 
abjured popery and professed Protestantism. Prior to 
this, a reaction of the popish and conservative elements 
in the State led to such dissensions and opposition that 
Calvin and Farel were banished, but, at the earnest en- 
treaty of the citizens, the former returned in 1541. 
Whatever difference of opinion there may be with ref- 
erence to the theological views of the great Genevan Re- 
former, there can be none as to his intellectual ability, 
and his wonderful organizing and executive power. 
His legal training (in early life he had studied law) 
qualified him to frame a civil code for Geneva, the good 
effects of which were apparent in the improved state of 
public morals. “Through his influence,” says Ilase, 
“ Geneva became a republic firmly established, govern- 
ed by an oligarchy, pervaded by an ecclesiastical spirit, 
and renowned in the history of the world. Thither re- 
sorted all who during that age were persecuted for their 
faith, and it became the acknowledged centre of a Re- 
formed Church.” See Calvin. For some years after 
the deatli of Calvin (1564), the religious history of 
Switzerland is closely identified with that of the Cath- 
olic reaction from the Reformation. Hopes which had 
been cherished with regard to the rapid progress of a 
purer form of Christianity in Germany and France and 
Switzerland were doomed to be disappointed. For 
many years the Roman Catholic power in the last of 
these countries seemed to have the predominance. 
Towards the close of the 17th century, the strife be- 
tween the two great religious parties, the papists and 
the Protestants, began to assume a more open character, 
and in 1703 the Catholic and the Protestant cantons 
took up arms against each other. A civil war was car- 
ried on for several years. At last, in 1712, a fierce bat- 
tle was fought at Villmergen, and victory was on the 
side of the Protestants. The Catholics were complete- 
ly routed, and two thousand of their number were left 
dead on the battle-field. See Reformation. 

At present, a majority of all the inhabitants of 
Switzerland are Protestants. In eleven of the cantons 
the Catholics outnumber the Protestants, although the 


SWORD 


59 


SWORD 


ecclesiastical government is in a certain sense under the 
control of the cantonal government. The pope has at- 
tempted to do certain things in the regulation of the af- 
fairs of those over whom he claims to exercise jurisdic- 
tion, but his acts have been declared illegal bv the civil 
authorities, and they are null and void. The “Old 
Catholics” have obtained possession of several parish 
churches in three or four of the cantons. The present 
constitution of Switzerland grants complete and abso- 
lute liberty of conscience and of creed. No one can in- 
cur any penalties whatsoever on account of his religious 
opinions. No one is bound to contribute to the ex- 
penses of a Church to which he does not belong. Free 
worship is guaranteed, civil marriage is compulsory, 
and subsequent religious service is optional. The can- 
tons have the right to maintain peace and order be- 
tween different religious communities, and to prevent 
encroachments of ecclesiastical authorities upon the 
rights of citizens. Bishops must receive the approval 
of the federal government. Liberty of press, petition, 
and association is guaranteed ; but Jesuits, and all re- 
ligious orders and associations which arc affiliated to 
them, are prohibited. Of late years much evangelizing 
work has been done by the Presbyterians, Baptists, and 
Methodists. In 1819 the Methodist Episcopal Church 
organized the “Germany and Switzerland Mission,” 
which in 1856 was constituted the German Mission Con- 
ference, with Switzerland as one of its districts. The fol- 
lowing are its statistics for 1879: Number of preachers, 
15; local preachers, 7; Church members, 3441 : proba- 
tioners, 675; Sunday-schools, 1 19 ; Sunday-school schol- 
ars, 7526; churches, 17; value of churches, $1,268,296. 
There is also a Methodist book establishment at Bremen 
and a theological school at Franklbrt-on-the-Main. 

See Memoires et Documents publies par la Societe 
(VHistoire et d' A rcheologie de Geneve (Geneva, 1841-47, 
5 vols.); Wilson, Hist, of Switzerland, in Lardner’s Cabi- 
net Cyclopaedia ; Gaillcur, La Suisse (ibid. 1855-56, 2 
vols. 4to) ; Inglis, Switzerland (Lond. 1840, 8vo) ; Shaw, 
History of Switzerland (N. Y. 1875). 

Sword, in the A. V., is the usual rendering of 
chereb (from to lay waste), which was simply a 

large knife, as it is rendered in Josh, v, 2; Ezek. v, 1, 2. 
Less frequent words are retsach, Psa. xlii, 10 

[11], a crushing or outbreak (“slaughter,” Ezek. xxi, 
27); nVj, shelttch (Job xxxiii, 18; xxxvi, 12; Joel ii, 
8), a dart, as elsewhere rendered; N. T. po/n<paia, a 
sabre, or long and broad sword (Luke ii, 35 ; Kev. i, 16; 
ii, 12, 16; vi, 8; xix, 15, 21); elsewhere ji id\aipa, a 
dagger, or short sword. See Auxioi:. 

1. The first mention of this principal offensive weap- 
on in Bible history is in the narrative of the massacre 
at Shechem, when “Simeon and Levi took each man 
his sword, and came upon the city boldly and slew all 
the males” (Gen. xxxiv, 25). But there is an allusion 
to it shortly before in a passage undoubtedly of the ear- 
liest date (Ewald, i, 446, note): the expostulation of 
Laban with Jacob (Gen. xxxi, 26). After this, during 
the account of the conquest and of the monarchy, the 
mention of the sword is frequent, but very little can be 
gathered from the casual notices of the text as to its 
shape, size, material, or mode of use. Perhaps if any- 
thing is to be inferred it is that the chereb was not 
either a heavy or a long weapon. That of Ehud was 
only a cubit, i. e. eighteen inches, long, so as to have 
been concealed under his garment, and nothing is said 
to lead to the inference that it was shorter than usual, 
for the “dagger” of the A. Y. is without any ground, 
unless it be a rendering of the pd\atpa of the Sept. 
But even assuming that Ehud’s sword was shorter than 
usual, yet a consideration of the narratives in 2 Sam. ii, 
16, and xx, S-10, and also of the ease with which David 
used the sword of a man so much larger than himself 
as Goliath (1 Sam. xvii, 51 ; xxi, 9, 10), goes to show 
that the chereb was both a lighter and a shorter weapon 


than the modern sword. What frightful wounds one 
blow of the sword of the Hebrews could inflict, if given 
even with the left hand of a practiced swordsman, may 
be gathered, from a comparison of 2 Sam. xx, 8-12 
with 1 Kings ii, 5. A ghastly picture is there given 
us of the murdered man and his murderer. The un- 
fortunate Amasa actually disembowelled by the single 
stroke, and “wallowing” in his blood in the middle of 
the road — the treacherous Joab standing over him, be- 
spattered from his “ girdle” to his “ shoes” with the blood 
which had spouted from his victim ! 

The chereb was carried in a sheath (“CFl, 1 Sam. 
xvii, 51; 2 Sam. xx, 8, only; j“!2, 1 Chron. xxi, 27, 
only) slung by a girdle (1 Sam. xxv, 13) and resting 
upon the thigh (Psa. xlv, 3; Judg. iii, 16), or upon the 
hips (2 Sam. xx, 8). “Girding on the sword” was a 
symbolical expression for commencing war, the more 
forcible because in times of peace even the king in state 
did not wear a sword (1 Kings iii, 24) ; and a similar 
expression occurs to denote those able to serve (Judg. 
viii, 10; i Chron. xxi, 5). Other phrases, derived from 
the chereb, are, “ to smite with the edge (literally 
‘mouth;’ comp, arbpa; and comp, ‘devour,’ Isa. i, 20) 
of the sword” — “slain with the sword” — “men that 
drew sword,” etc. 

Swords with two edges are occasionally referred to 
(Judg. iii, 16: Psa. cxlix, 6), and allusions are found to 
“whetting” the sword (l)eut. xxxii, 41 ; Psa. lxiv,'3; 
Ezek. xxi, 9). There is no reference to the material 
of which it was composed (unless it be Isa. ii, 4; Joel 
iii, 10); doubtless it was of metal, from the allusions to 
its brightness and “glittering” (see the two passages 
quoted above, and others), and the ordinary word for 
blade, viz. “a flame.” From the expression (Josh, 
v, 2,3) “swords of rock,” A. V. “sharp knives,” we may 
perhaps infer that in early times the material was flint. 
—Smith. See Knife, 



Ancient Persian Swords and Daggers. 

a. From the sculptures at Persepolis ; b. From those at Shiraz; c. From 
those at Takht-i-Bostan. 


2. The Egyptian sword was straight and short, from 
two and a half to three feet in length, having generally 
a double edge, and tapering to a sharp point. It was 
used for cut and thrust. They had also a dagger, the 
handle of which, hollowed in the centre, and gradually 
increasing in thickness at either extremity, was inlaid 
with costly stones, precious woods, or metals; and the 
pommel of that worn by the king in his girdle was fre- 
quently surmounted by one or two heads of a hawk, the 
symbol of Phrah, or the Sun, the title given to the 
monarchs of the Nile. It was much smaller than the 
sword : its blade was about ten or seven inches in length, 
tapering gradually in breadth, from one inch and a half 
to two thirds of an inch, towards the point : and the 
total length, with the handle, only completed a foot or 
sixteen inches. The blade was bronze, thicker in the 


SWORD 


CO 


SWORD -DAXCE 



Ancient Egyptian Daggers. 

I. Stuck in the belt ; 2. Without the sheath ; 3. In the sheath ; 4. Back of 
the sheath. 

middle than at the edges, and slightly grooved in that 
part: and so exquisitely was the metal worked that 
some retain their pliability and spring after a period of 
several thousand years, anil almost resemble steel in 
elasticity. Such is the dagger of the Berlin collection, 
which was discovered in a Theban tomb, together with 
its leathern sheath. The handle is partly covered with 
metal, and adorned with numerous small pins and studs 
of gold, which are purposely shown through suitable 
openings in the front of t he sheath; but the upper ex- 
tremity consists solely of bone, neither ornamented nor 
covered with any metal casing. Other instances of 
this have been found; and a dagger in Mr. Salt’s col- 
lection, now in the British Museum, measuring eleven 
and a half inches in length, had the handle formed in 
a similar manner. There was also a falchion called 
shops //, or khopsh , resembling in form and name the /co- 
7 rie, or chopper . of the Argives, reputed to he an Egyp- 
tian colony. It was more generally used than the 
sword, being borne by light- as well as heavy-armed 
troops; and that it was a most efficient weapon is evi- 
dent as well from the size and form of the blade as from 
its weight, the hack of this bronze or iron blade being 
sometimes eased with brass (Wilkinson, A tic. Egypt. i, 
35*). 

3. Assyrian swords, like the sceptres, as seen on the 
monuments, were often richly decorated. The hilt was 
generally ornamented with several lions’ heads, ar- 
ranged to form both handle and cross-bar. The scab- 
bard or sheath was elaborately embossed or engraved 
(Layard, Xinereh, ii, ‘23d). 




Ancient Assyrian Sword. 

1. The hilt; 2. End of the sheath. 

4. The Greek and Roman sword ( ghulius , &<poc, 
poet, itoftf 0«<ry«)'or, a glaive, by the Latin poets 
called ensis) had generally a straight two-edged blade, 
rather broad, and nearly of equal width from hilt to 
poiut. The Greeks and Romans wore them on the left 



Classical Swords and Daggers. 

a. Greek ; 6. Romau ; c. Ancient, but uncertain ; d. Dacian. 

side, so as to draw them out of the sheath ( vagina , i co- 
Xsde) by passing the right hand in front of the body to 
take hold of the hilt with the thumb next to the blade. 
The early Greeks used a very short sword. Iphierates, 
who made various improvements in armor about B.C. 
400, doubled its length. The Roman sword was larger, 
heavier, and more formidable than the Greek (see 
Smith, Diet, of Antiq. s. v. “Gladius”). The swords of 
the most ancient times were made of brass or copper, 
hardened by some process now unknown; and this con- 
tinued to be the case long subsequently with the Greeks 
and Romans, as well as among the Phoenicians (Kit to, 
Piet. Bible , note at Numb. xxxi, 8). 

5. The sword is the symbol of war and slaughter 
(Lev. xxvi, 25; Isa. xxxiv, 5 ; Rev. xix, 17, 18), of di- 
vine judgment (Deut. xxxii, 41 ; Psa. xvii, 13 ; Jer. xii, 
12; Rev. i, 16), and of power and authority (Rom. xiii, 
4). The Word of God is ealled “ the sword,” i. e. the 
weapon or instrument, of the Spirit (Eph. vi, 17). 



Modern Oriental Swords and Daggers. 

a. Syrian sabre; b. Syrian dervish’s sabre; c. Turkish sabre; d. Dagger 
of the prince royal of Persia ; e. Albanian dirk ; /. Yataghan of a do- 
mestic of the Turkish grand vizier; g. Janizary’s dagger; A. Bedawin 
Arab’s dagger and sheath. 

SWORI), Brothers of the, was an order of knight 
sword-bearers, founded at the beginning of the 13th 
century in Livonia; hence the order was sometimes 
called Livonian Brethren of the Sword. In 1237 the 
Order of the Teutonic Knights amalgamated with them, 
and they together gradually subdued all the territories 
surrounding the Gulf of Riga. (See illustration on op- 
posite page.) 

Sword - dance, in llinddism, is a religious dance 
performed by Hindu bayaderes who have dedicated 
themselves to some deity, and involving the display of 
great skill. Swords are fastened, edge upward, to two 
long poles, which are inclined against a wall so as to 
form two half-ladders. The bayaderes ascend these and 
dance on them, assuming the most graceful attitudes, 
and displaying inimitable skill and grace of bodily 
form. While the art of dancing on such vibrating 
blades may be exceedingly difficult, the reward of the 
dancers is correspondingly great, so that they are not 
unfrequentlv enriched by the receipts from a single per- 
I formanee. 


SWORDS Cl SYCAMINE 



Swords and a ducal cap are blessed on Christmas 
eve, at the midnight mass, by the pope, in order to be 
sent to favored kings, as Edward IV, 1478; Henry VII, 
1505; Henry VIII. 1517. The last gift of this kind 
was made by Leo XII to the due d’Angouleme in 1825. 
— Walcott, Sacred A rchteol. s. v. 

Swormstedt, Leroy, a prominent minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, was born in Maryland 
Oct. 4, 1798. When eighteen years of age he professed 
conversion, and was licensed to preach Jan. 2, 1818. 
His entrance into the itinerant^work was through the 
Ohio Conference in August, 1818. lie was ordained 
deacon in 1820, and elder in 1822. In 1830 he was ap- 
pointed presiding elder, and occupied that office until 
elected assistant agent of the Western Book Concern. 
After filling this position for eight years, he was elected 
principal agent in 1844, and continued to be such until 
1860, when he took a superannuated relation. After 
this he declined rapidly in health, and died Aug. 27, 
1863. Mr. Swormstedt was a man of vigorous health, 
scrupulously punctual, an energetic and methodical 
preacher, and a rigid disciplinarian. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences , 1863, p. 144. 

Syagrius, St., a French prelate, was born at Autun 
about 520, of a Gallo-Roman family, and was raised to 
the episcopal see of Autun about 560, being ordained by 
Germain, bishop of Paris. His house was a kind of 
school, where many distinguished ecclesiastics were ed- 
ucated ; and he founded likewise a hospital, and adorned 
the churches of the same city. He deeply sympathized 
with the conquered Franks. He was active in the ec- 
clesiastical affairs of his time, and died Aug. 27, 600. 
See Hoefer, None. Biorj. Generate, s. v. 

Sybaris, in Greek mythology, was a monster who 
occupied a cave on Parnassus and devastated the land 
around. I?y the command of the oracle a youth was to 
be sacrificed to him, and the task fell by lot upon Alcy- 
oneus, son of Diomus, who, adorned with a garland, was 
brought to the cave; but, charmed with the beauty and 
youth of the victim, Eurybatus took the garland, went 
into the cave, fought the monster, and hurled it down a 
precipice. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. MythoL s. v. 

Sycamine (ovicdptvoQ ; Vulg. tnoi'us) is mention- 
ed once only in the Bible, viz. in Luke xvii, 6, “If ye 
had faith as a grain of mustard-seed, ye might say to 
this sveamine-tree, Be thou plucked up,” etc. There is 
no reason to doubt that the o vtcdptvoi; is distinct from 
the avKOfiuipata of the same evangelist (xix, 4), al- 
though we learn from Dioscorides (i, 180) that this 
name was sometimes given to the ovKupupog. See 



Black Mulberry-tree (Mortis nigra). 


Sycamore. The sycamine is the mulberry-tree (mo- 
rus), as is evident from Dioscorides, Theophrastus (//. 
P. i, 6, 1 ; 10, 10; 13, 4, etc.), and various other Greek 
writers (see Celsius, Ilierob. i, 288). A form of the 
same word, avKafn\vyii , is still one of the names for 
the mulberry-tree in Greece (see Heldreieh, Nntz- 
pflanzen Grieckenlands [Athens, 1862 ], p. 19: “Mo- 
ms alba L. and M. Nigra L., i) Mopjjd, Movpyytt, 
and Moi/pj/n, also 'Svtcaprivyd', pelasg. mure"). In 
his learned essay on the Trees and Shrubs of the A n- 
cients (1865), Dr. Daubeny adopts the distinction point- 
ed out by Bodceus and confirmed by Fraas: the sycu- 
morus of the Romans, the crvKopopov or avKapiroi ; (f v 
AiyvTTTip) of Dioscorides, the avKapwog AtyvTrrta of 
Theophrastus, is the sycamore-fig, or Ficus sycomorvs 
of modern botany. On the other hand, the otncciptvog 
of the Greeks, used simply and without the qualifica- 
tion “Egyptian,” the avKapytda of Dioscorides, is the 
morus of the Romans— our mulberry. Dr. Sibthorpe, 
who travelled as a botanist in Greece for the express 
purpose of identifying the plants known to the Greeks, 
says that in Greece the white mulberry-tree is called 
povpea ; the black mulberry-tree, avKafaria. Not 
only is it the species whose fruit is prized, but it may 



SYCAMORE 


G2 SYCIIAR 


be questioned whether the Mows alba had found its 
wav into those regions before the introduction of the 
silk-worm had made its favorite food an object of culti- 
vation. Believed to be a native of Persia, the mul- 
berry, commonly so called, Morns nigra, is now spread 
over the milder regions of Europe, and is continually 
mentioned by travellers in the Holy Land. As the 
mulberry-tree is common, as it is lofty and affords 
shade, it is well calculated for the illustration of the 
above passage of Luke. See Tristram, Xat. Hist, of the 
Jiible , p. 39G ; Thomson, Land and Book , ii, 29G. See 
Ml'LlJKKKY. 

Sycamore is the invariable rendering, in the A. V., 
of the lleb. n*2JT shikmah ' (which, however, occurs 
in the sing, only in the Talmud, Shebiith , ix, 2; the Bi- 
ble employs indifferently the mase. plur. shik- 

mim, 1 Kings x, 27; 1 Chron. xxvii, 28 ; 2 Chron. i, 15; 
ix, 27 ; Isa. ix, 10; Amos vii, 14; and the fern. plur. 

w, shikmuth (Psa. Ixxviii, 47), and of the Greek 
vvKOfHopaia (Luke xix, 4). The Sept, always translates 
the lleb. word by ovicdfnvoQ, sycamine, meaning doubt- 
less the Egyptian tree, the a vied fiivoc Aiyvirria of The- 
ophrastus, which is really the sycamore (Dioscorides, i, | 
180). See Gesenius, Thesanr. Heb. p. 147G b: Losen- 
mliller, .1 I.terthumskmide, iv, 281 sq. Celsius, IJierob. i, 
810). The sycamore , or Jig-mulberry (from gvkov, jig, 
and gofuw, mulberry ), is in Egypt and Palestine a tree 
of great importance and very extensive use. It attains 
the size of a walnut-tree, has wide-spreading branches, 
and affords a delightful shade. On this account it is 
frequently planted by the waysides. Its leaves are | 
heart - shaped, downy on the underside, and fragrant. 
The fruit grows directly from the trunk itself on little 
sprigs, and in clusters like the grape. To make it eat- 
able, each fruit, three or four days before gathering, 
must, it is said, be punctured with a sharp instrument 
or the tinger-nail (comp. Theophrastus, I)e Cans. Plant, j 
i, 17, 9; Hist. PI. iv, 2, 1; Pliny, II. X. xiii, 7; For- 
skal, Bescr. Plant, p. 182). This was the original em- 
ployment of the prophet Amos, as he says vii, 14 (‘’a 
gatherer,” Sept, rw'^wr, the exact term employ- 

ed by Theophrastus). I lasselquist (Trcn\ p. 2G0; Lond. 
17GG) says, “The fruit of this tree tastes pretty well; 
when quite ripe it is soft, watery, somewhat, sweet, with 
a very little portion of an aromatic taste.” It appears, 
however, that a species of gall insect ( Cynips sycomori ) 
often spoils much of the fruit. “The tree,” Hasselquist 
adds, “ is wounded or cut by the inhabitants at the time 
it buds, for without this precaution, as they say, it will 
not bear fruit” (p. 201). In form and smell and inward 
structure it resembles the fig, and hence its name. The 
tree is always verdant, and bears fruit several times in 
the year without being confined to fixed seasons, and is 
thus, as a permanent food-bearer, invaluable to the poor. 



In Lower Egypt it buds in March, and ripens early in 
dune, and bv the poor of that country as well as of 
Palestine enormous quantities are consumed. The wood 
of the tree, though very porous, is exceedingly durable. 
It suffers neither from moisture nor heat. The Egyp- 
tian mummy coffins, which are made of it, are still per- 
fectly sound after an entombment of thousands of years. 
It was much used for doors and large furniture, such as 
sofas, tables, and chairs (Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt, ii, 110). 
So great was the value of these trees that David ap- 
pointed for them in his kingdom a special overseer, as 
he did lor the olives (1 Chron. xxvii, 28); and it is 
mentioned as one of the heaviest of Egypt’s calamities 
that her sycamores were destroyed by hailstones (Psa. 
Ixxviii, 47). The modern llaipha was the city of syc- 
amores ( Sycominon , Keland, Pahest. p. 1024), and the 
remains of its grove are still recognisable (Stanley, Sinai 
and Pal. p. 145). It was into a sycamore in the plain 
of Jericho that Zacchams climbed in order to get a sight 
of Jesus passing by (Luke xix, 4) ; and at the broken 
aqueduct of Ilerod’s Jericho Mr. Tristram lately lound 
“a line old sycamore fig-tree, perhaps a lineal descend- 
ant, and nearly the last, of that into which Zacchams 
climbed” ( Land of Israel, p. 509). That which is call- 
ed sycamore in North America, the Occidental plane or 
button-wood tree, has no resemblance whatever to the 
sycamore of the Bible. The name is also applied to a 
species of maple (the Acer pseudo -plutanus, or false 
plane), which is much used by turners ami millwrights. 
See Mayer, Be Bycamoro (Lips. 1G94) ; Warnokros, Hist . 
Xat. /Sycomori, in the Repert. fiir bibl. Lit. xi, 224 sip; 
xii, 81 sq.; Tristram, Xat. Hist, of the Bible , p. 397; 
Thomson, Land and Book , i, 22 sq. See Fig. 

Syceas, in Greek mythology, was one of 
the Titans whom, when Jupiter pursued him, 
his mother, Earth, received into her womb. 

Sy'char (L'uyap in X, A, C, D ; but rec. text 
with B; Vulg. Bichar ; but Codd. Am. 
and Fuld. Bychar ; Syriac Bocar), a place 
named only in John iv, 5, as “ a city of Sama- 
ria called Svchar, near the ground which Ja- 
cob gave to Joseph his son ; and there was the 
well of Jacob.” Svchar was either a name ap- 
plied to the town of Shechem, or it was an in- 
dependent place. 

L The first of these alternatives is now al- 
most universally accepted. In the words of 
Dr. liobinson (Bibl. Pes. ii, 290), “In conse- 
quence of tbe hatred which existed between 
the Jews and the Samaritans, and in allusion 
to their idolatry, the town of Siehem received, 
among the Jewish common people, the by- 
name Svchar.” It seems to have been a sort 



Sycamore ( Ficus sy comorns) near Ashkelou. (From a photograph 
by the Editor.) 


SYCIIA1 


63 


SYEXE 


of nickname (perhaps from sheker , “falsehood,” 

spoken of idols in Hab. ii, IS; or from shikkor, 

“drunkard,” in allusion to Isa. xxviii, 1,7), such as the 
Jews were fond of imposing upon places they disliked ; 
and nothing could exceed the enmity which existed be- 
tween them and the Samaritans, who possessed Sliechem 
(John iv, 9). It should not be overlooked that John ap- 
pears always to use t he expression Xeyogevot;, “called,” 
to denote a sobriquet or title borne by place or person in 
addition to the name, or to attach it to a place remote 
and little known. Instances of the former practice are 
xi, 1G; xx, 24; xix, 13, 17 ; of the latter, xi, 54. The 
son of Siraeh speaks of “ the foolish people that dwell 
in Sikima” (1,28). See Lightfoot, Opera, ii, 58G ; Lange, 
Life of Christ , ii, 337 ; Hengstcnberg, On St. John iv, 5. 
Jerome, in speaking of Paula’s journey, says, “ She pass- 
ed Sichem, not, as many erroneously call it, Sichar, 
which is now N eapolis" (Epist. ad Eustoch. in Opp. i, 
888, ed. Migne). In his questions on Genesis he says 
that, according to Greek and Latin custom, the Heb. 
Sichem is written Sicima ; but that the reading Sichar 
is an error: he adds that it was then called Neapolis 
(Opp. ii, 1004, ed. Migne). So Adamnan writes to Ar- 
culf, who travelled in the 7th century : “ He visited the 
town called in Hebrew Sichem , but by the Greeks and 
Latins Sicima , and now more usually Sychar ” ( Early 
Travels , Holm, p. 8). In the 12th century Phocas says, 
“Sichar was the metropolis of the Samaritans, and w'as 
afterwards called Neapolis” (Ileland, Pulcest. p. 1009). 

On the contrary. Eusebius ( Onomast . s. v. Suydp and 
Aot'wd) says that Sychar w r as in front of the city of ! 
Neapolis; and, again, that it lay by the side of Luza, 
which was three miles from Neapolis. Sychem. on the 
other hand, he places in the suburbs of Neapolis by the \ 
tomb of Joseph. The .Bordeaux Pilgrim (A.D. 333) 
describes Sechim as at the foot of the mountain, and as 
containing Joseph’s monument and plot of ground (villa). 
lie then proceeds to say that a thousand paces thence 
w r as the place called Sechar. Moreover, had such a 
nickname been applied to Shechem so habitually as its 
occurrence in John w'ould seem to imply, there would be 
some trace of it in those passages of the Talmud which j 
refer to the Samaritans, and in which every term of op- i 
probrium and ridicule that can be quoted or invented is ! 
heaped on them. It may be affirmed, however, with 
certainty that neither in Targum nor Talmud is there 
any mention of such a thing. Lightfoot did not know' 
of it. The numerous treatises on the Samaritans are 
silent about it, and recent close search has failed to dis- 
cover it. See Shechem. 

But Jerome’s view soon became the prevailing one, 
and has continued to be so. Bobinson adheres strongly 
to it; and in regard to one of the chief objections urged 
on the other side, that Jacob’s well, which stands at the 
entrance into the valley where Shechem or Nablus is 
situated, is about a mile and a half from the tow n, so 
that a woman w ould hardly have gone so far to draw 
water, since there was plenty of good water near at 
hand, he thinks that the town probably had extensive 
suburbs in the Gospel age which did not exist in the 
time of Eusebius, and might have approached quite 
near to the well of Jacob — just as Jerusalem anciently 
extended much farther north and south than at the 
present day (Researches, iii, P21). Porter takes the 
same general view', and says, in regard to the distance 
of the well, that persons “who use such arguments 
know little of the East. The mere fact of the well 
having been Jacob’s would have brought numbers to it 
had the distance been tw r ice as great. Even indepen- 
dent of its history, some little superiority in the quality 
of the water, such as we might expect in a deep well, 
would have attracted the Orientals, w ho are, and have 
always been, epicures in this element” (Handbook for 
Pal. p. 342). Jt may be added that there is no need 
for supposing this well to have been the one commonly 
frequented by the people of Nablus. The visit of the 


woman to it may have been quite an occasional one, or 
for some specific purpose. 

2. It has been thought that Sychar may be identified 
with the little village of AsAar, on the south-eastern 
declivity of Mount Ebal (Van de Velde, Memoir, p. 350; 
Thomson, Land and Hook, ii, 20G). The etymology, 
however, is against it, and also the topography. Our 
Lord was on his w ay to Galilee. The great road runs 
past the mouth of Wady Nablus. Jacob’s well is oil 
the southern side of the opening ; and Askar about half 
a mile distant on the northern side. The main road 
passes quite close to both. Our Lord sat down by the 
well while the disciples turned aside into the city to 
buy bread, llad Askar been the city, this would have 
been unnecessary; for by continuing their route for a 
short distance farther they would have been within a 
few paces of the city. There is, besides, a copious spring 
at Askar. In the Quarterly Statement of the “ Pal. Ex- 
plor. Fund,” for July, 1877, p. 149 sq., Lieut. Conder 
gives a further description of the village of Askar, and 
some additional reasons for identifying it with Sychar; 
but they are not conclusive. 

Sy'chem (Acts vii, IG). See Siiecheji. 

Sy'cliemite (Judith v, 1G). See Siiechemite. 

Sycites, in Greek mythology, was a surname of 
Bacchus in Lacedaemon, as having been the first to 
plant the fig (craci)). 

Sydesmen (more properly Synodsmen ) are Church 
officers, anciently appointed to assist the church-war- 
dens in making presentments of ecclesiastical offences 
at the bishop’s synods or visitations. By the 90th can- 
on, they are to be chosen yearly, in Easter week, by 
the parish priest and parishioners, if these can agree ; 
otherwise they are to be appointed by the ordinary of 
the diocese. Of late years this office has devolved on 
the church- wardens. The old English term for sydes- 
men was “sithcoudmen,” or “sithcuudmen.” — Lee, Gloss, 
of Lit urg. Terms , s. v, 

Sye'lus ( 'EvijXog v. r. TWo/Xoc and »/ a vvodoc), 
a corrupt Greek form (l Esdr. i, 8) for Jehiel (q. v.) of 
the lleb. (2 Chron. xxxv, 8). 

Sye'ne (Heb. Seventh, Sept. n)rij; Vulg. 

Syene), a tow n of Egypt on the frontier of Cush, or Ethi- 
opia. The prophet Ezekiel speaks of the desolation of 
Egypt “from Migdol to Seveneh, even unto the bonier 
of Cush” (xxix, 10), and of its people being slain “ from 
Migdol to Seveneh” (xxx, G). Migdol w as on the east- 
ern border [see Migdol], and Seveneh is thus rightly 
identified with the town of Syene, w hich was always 
the last town of Egypt on the south, though at one 
time included in the nome Nubia. Its ancient Egyp- 
tian name is Sun (Brugsch, Geogr. Inschrift. i, 155, tab. 
i, No. 55), preserved in the Coptic Souan, Se?ion, and 
the Arabic Aswan. The modern town is slightly to 
the north of the old site, which is marked by an inter- 
esting early Arab burial-ground, covered with remark- 
able tombstones, having inscriptions in the Cufie char- 
acter. Champollion suggests the Coptic derivation sa 
“causative,” and ouen or ouen, “to open,” as if it signi- 
fied the opening or key of Egypt (L'Egypte, i, 161- 
1GG), and this is the meaning of the hieroglyphic name. 
— Smith. It is the natural boundary of Egypt at the 
south (Ptolemy, ix, 5; Pliny, Hist. Nat. v, 10: xii, 8; 
Strabo, p. 787, 815), being situated at the foot of the 
first cataract on the Nile (Murray, Handbook for Egypt, 
p. 4G3). See Jour. Sac. Lit. Oct. 1851, p. 158. See 
Egypt. 

Syene is represented by the present Aswan or Es- 
Sudn, which exhibits few remains of the ancient city, 
exeept some granite columns of a comparatively late 
date and the shrine of a small temple. This building 
has been supposed by late travellers to have contained 
the famous w'ell of Strabo (Geog. xvii, p. 817), into 
which the rays of a vertical sun were reported to 
fall at the summer solstice — a circumstance, says the 


SYGN 


C4 


SYLPHS 


geographer, that proves the place “ to lie under the 
tropic, the gnomon at midday casting no shadow.” Hut 
although excavations have been carried on considera- 
bly below the pavement, which has been turned up in 
search of the well it was thought to cover, no other re- 
sults have been obtained than that this shrine was a very 
improbable site for such an observatory, even if it ever 
existed; and that Strabo was strangely misinformed, 
since the Egyptians themselves could never in his time 
have imagined this city to lie under the tropic; for they 
were l>v no means ignorant of astronomy, and Svenc 
was, even in the age of Hipparchus (B.C. 1 10, when 
the obliquity of the ecliptic was about 215° 51 ' 20"), very 
far north of that line. The belief that Svcne was in the 
tropic was, however, very general in the time of the Ho- 
mans. and is noticed bv Seneca, Lucan, Pliny, and oth- 
ers. But, as Sir J. Cl. Wilkinson remarks, ‘‘a well would 
have been a bad kind of observatory if the sun had been 
really vertical; and if Strabo saw the meridian sun in a 
well, lie might be sure he was not in the tropic” (Mod. 
Egypt and Thebes, ii, 286). The same writer adds. “ Un- 
fortunately, the observations of tbe ancient Greek wri- 
ters on the obliquity of the ecliptic arc not so satisfac- 
tory as might he wished; nor are we enabled, especially 
as La Grange’s theory of the annual change of obliquity 
being variable is allowed to be correct, to ascertain the 
time when Aswan might have been within the tropic, 
a calculation or traditional fact in which, perhaps, orig- 
inated the erroneous assertion of Strabo.” The latitude 
of Aswan is fixed by Wilkinson at 24 3 W 30", and the 
longitude is usually given as 32° 55'. — Kitto. 

Sygn, in Norse mythology, was one of the female 
asas, goddess of justice, who takes charge of decisions 
and prevents any one denying anything. She guarded 
the doors of the palace of Wingolf, so that foreigners 
could not enter unawares. 

Sykes, Arthur Ashley, an English divine, was 
born in London about 1684. lie was educated at St. 
Paul’s School, and was admitted to Corpus Christi Col- 
lege, Cambridge, 1701, taking bis degree of A.B. in 
1704-5 and A.M. in 1708. After leaving college he served 
as assistant in St. Paul’s School, but was collated to the 
vicarage of Godmersham, Kent, in 1712 — 13, by arch- 
bishop Tenison. In April, 1714, he was instituted to 
the rectory of Dry-Dray ton, Cambridgeshire, and in the 
August following resigned the vicarage of Godmersham. 
lie was instituted to the rectory of Rayleigh, Essex, 
November, 1718. and resigned the living of Dry-Dray- 
ton. In December following he was appointed after- 
noon preacher of King Street Chapel, Golden Square, a 
chapel of ease to St. James’s, Westminster. The morn- 
ing preaehership becoming vacant in 1721, Mr. Sykes 
was appointed to it. In January, 1723-24, be was ap- 
pointed to tbe prebend of Alton-Borealis, Salisbury, and 
three years after became precentor of the same cathedral, 
lie also received the following appointments: assistant 
preacher at St. James’s, Westminster, April, 1725 ; dean 
of St. Burien, Cornwall, February, 1730; prebendary of 
Winchester, Oct. 15, 1740. He died Nov. 15, 175G. 1 1 is 
published works number sixty-three, of which we no- 
tice, Aw Essay upon the Truth of the Christian Reliyion 
(Knapton, 1725, 8 vo; 2d ed. 1775, 8vo): — Principles and 
Connection of Xatnraland Revealed Reliyion (1740, 8vo) : 
— Credibility o f Miracles and Revelation (1742, 8vo) : — 
Essay on Sacrifices (1748, 8vo) : — Scripture iJoctrine of 
Redemption of Man by Jesus Christ (1755, 8vt>) : — Par- 
aphrase and Xotes upon the Epistle to the Hebrews (1755, 
4to). See Allibone, Diet, of Jirit. and Amer. A uthors , 
s. v. ; Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Sykes, Oliver, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born at Suffield, Conn., 1778. lie was 
converted in his twenty-second year, and in 180G was 
received on trial into the New York Conference. In 
1810 he became superannuated, and held that relation 
through most of his life. He died Feb. 11, 1853. lie 
left property, about 62500, to the Missionary Society, 


for the benefit of the China Mission. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences , 1853, p. 212. 

Sylea, in Greek mythology, was a daughter of king 
Corinthus and wife of Bolypemon, to whom she bore 
Sinis, the pine-tree bender, a notorious robber. 

Syleus, in Greek mythology, was a tyrant of Aulis, 
who compelled all foreigners who entered his dominions 
to labor in his garden. Hercules killed him, together 
with his daughter Xenodice. Another daughter was 
educated by her brother Dicams; she fell in love with 
Hercules, and died of grief because she could not he his. 
lie also loved her so deeply that he was with difficulty 
restrained from casting himself upon her funeral pyre. 

Syllable enthronisticae ('SvWafiat ti'Spovi<TTt - 
Kai), circular letters written by bishops recently installed 
to foreign bishops, to give them an account of their faith 
and orthodoxy, that they might receive letters of peace 
and communion from them. See Bingham, Christ. A n- 
tiq. bk. ii, ch. xii, § 10. 

Syllabus, an abstract; a compendium containing 
the heads of a lecture or sermon. 

• SYLLABUS (Gr. av\\ai36c, a collection , i. e. cata- 
logue ), Papal, is the title given to the appendix to the 
! encyclical letter issued by pope Pius IX, Dec. 8, 1864. 
It was ‘‘a list of the principal errors of the day pointed 
j out in the cousistorial allocutions, encyclical and other 
apostolical letters of pope Pius IX.” and enumerating, 
under ten general heads or sections, eighty of these er- 
rors. These ten sections of errors are entitled, “ I. Pan- 
theism, Naturalism, and Absolute Rationalism;” “ II. 
Moderate Rationalism;” “III. Indilferentism, Tolera- 
tion;” “IV. Socialism, Communism, Secret Societies, 
Bible Societies, Clerico-liberal Societies;” “V. Errors 
respecting the Church and her Rights;” “VI. Errors 
of Civil Society, as much in themselves .as considered 
in their relations to the Church;” “VII. Errors in Nat- 
ural and Christian Morals;” “VIII. Errors as to Chris- 
tian Marriage;” “ IX. Errors regarding the Civil Power 
of the Sovereign Pontiff:” “X. Errors referring to Mod- 
ern Liberalism.” Some of the specifications under these 
general heads have respect to religious freedom, the sep- 
aration of Church and State, the civil contract of mar- 
riage, education outside of the control of the Roman 
Catholic Church, the conflict between the civil law and 
the spiritual authority of the Church, the immunities 
of the clergy, the cessation of the pope’s temporal power, 
etc. Much excitement was created by the appearance 
of this bull and syllabus, especially in France ; Jules 
Barochc, minister of public worship, forbidding the bish- 
ops to publish the syllabus and the doctrinal part of the 
I bull. Elsewhere the civil governments did not interfere. 

For literature, see Schulte, The Power of the Romans 
over Princes, Countries , etc. (1871); Fessler, True and 
Ealse Infallibility of the Popes (Vienna, 1871 ; Loud, 
and N. V. 1875); Gladstone, The Vatican Decrees in their 
Bearing on Civil Allegiance (1874), with replies by New- 
man, Manning, and others. 

Syllis, in Greek mythology, was a nymph beloved 
j by Apollo, and the mother by him of Xcuxippus. 

Sylliturgus (SiAXeirorpyoc), a Greek term to 
designate the assistant during the offering of the Chris- 
tian sacrifice. 

Sylphs, in the fantastic system of the Paracelsists, 
are the elemental spirits of the air, who, like the other 
elemental spirits, hold an intermediate place between 
immaterial and material beings. They cat. drink, speak, 
move about, beget children, and are subject to infirmi- 
ties like men; but, on the other hand, they resemble 
spirits in being more nimble and swift in their motions, 
while their bodies are more diaphanous than those of 
the human race. They also surpass the latter in their 
knowledge both of the present and the future, but have 
no soul: and when they die, nothing is left. In form 
they are ruder, taller, and stronger than men, but stand 
nearest to them of all the elemental spirits, and as a 


SYLVESTER 


65 


SYMBOLICAL BOOKS 


consequence hold intercourse with human creatures. 
When they have children by marriage with mortals, 
the children have souls, and belong to the human race. 
Originally masculine, they have come, probably by the 
etherealization of poets, to be considered as feminine. 

Sylvester Gozzoloni. See S y lvestri a n s. 

Sylvester I, pope, was born in Rome about the 
year 270, and was the son of Rutinus and St. Justa. 
At thirty years of age he is said to have been ordained 
by bishop (pope) Marcellinus, and on Jan. 31, 314, he 
was chosen to succeed Melchides in the pontificate. His 
administration is celebrated for the Council of Nicaea 
(q. v.), held in 325, which, however, Sylvester did not 
attend, on account of his infirmities; and he was repre- 
sented by two priests, called Guy and Vincent, while 
Osius, bishop of Cordova, presided in his name. He is 
the author of several rules to the clergy. The account 
given of the donation to him of the city of Rome by Con- 
stantine is wholly apocryphal, lie died in Rome, Dec. 
31,335, and was succeeded b} r Marcus. 

Sylvester II, one of the most learned of the 
mediaeval popes, originally called Gerbert , was born at 
Aurillac, in Auvergne, early in the 10th century. lie 
was educated in the monastery of his native village, 
but went early to Spain, where he learned mathemat- 
ics, and afterwards to Rome. He was appointed abbot 
of the Monastery of Bobbio, where he taught with much 
distinction and success. At a later period he went to 
Germany as preceptor of the young prince Otho, after- 
wards Otho 11, and ultimately became secretary to the 
archbishop of Rheims, and director of the cathedral 
school, which became eminent under his care. The 
archbishop having been deposed, Sylvester was elected 
to the archbishopric; but he was afterwards set aside, 
the deposition of his predecessor having been declared 
invalid. In the year 098, however, he was appointed 
archbishop of Ravenna, whence he was called to the 
pontifical throne, April 2, 990, as the successor of Greg- 
ory V. He renounced the liberal tendencies of his ear- 
lier years, confirmed the judgment of John XV with 
regard to the Synod of Rheims, and established Arnnlph 
in his archbishopric; convened a synod in 1001 at Rome, 
which placed the Convent of Gandersheim under the 
jurisdiction of the bishop of Hildesheim; aifd awarded 
title and crown to the king St. Stephen of Hungary, 
besides conferring on him the right to determine in ec- 
clesiastical matters in his kingdom. While considering 
a plan for a crusade to the Holy Land, he died in Rome, 
May 12, 1003, and was succeeded by John XVIII. He 
was a man of rare acquirements for his age. He was 
an adept in mathematics and in practical mechanics and 
astronomy, in which departments his attainments ac- 
quired for him, among his contemporaries, the evil repu- 
tation of a magician. He is also believed to have been 
acquainted with Greek, and perhaps with Arabic. Of 
all his works, which were numerous, his letters (printed 
by Du Chesne in the Historians of France ) have attract- 
ed most notice, from their bearing on the history of an 
obscure period. His literary remains have been pub- 
lished by Masson and others, more recently by I’ertz, 
though not complete. See Richeri Hist. Lib. iv, in 
l’ertz. Monum. Germ. Historica Script, (llanov. 1838), 
tom. iii ; Mabillon, Vet. A nalecta (Paris, 1723), p. 102 sq.; 

I lock, Gerbert od. Pupst. Sylvester II u. sein Jahrkimdert 
(Vienna, 1837). See also Budinger on the scientific and 
political importance of Gerbert (Cassel, 1851) ; Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop. s. v. ; Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Sylvester III, antipope, was born in Rome, May 
1, 1044; and while known as John, bishop of Sabina, he 
was set on the pontifical throne through the influence 
of the consul Ptolemieus, in place of the juvenile Bene- 
dict IX, who had been expelled for his vices. Sylvester 
reigned but three months, when the counts of Frascati 
took up arms to replace Benedict. The latter, seeing 
he was despised by the clergy, sold the tiara to John 
Gratian, whom he crowned as Gregory VI. The em- 
X.— E 


peror Henry III held, in December, 104G, a council at 
Sutri, when the three popes were all deposed, and 
Clement II was elected. See Pope. 

Sylvestrians is the name of an order of monks 
founded by Sylvester Gozzoloni, who was born in 1170 
(or 1177) at Osimo, in the Papal States, lie was edu- 
cated at Padua and Bologna, and received a eanonry at 
Osimo, which he renounced about 1217, in order to* de- 
vote himself in solitude to a contemplative life of ascet- 
icism. Pupils and followers gathered about him, with 
whom he founded a monastery in 1231 on Mount Fano, 
in which the Benedictine rule was adopted, coupled with 
a vow of rigid poverty. Innocent IV confirmed the 
foundation (1247), and the order spread, particularly in 
Umbria, Tuscany, and Ancona. It was united with that 
of Vallambrosa in 1002, but again separated from it in 
1G81, and was endowed with new constitutions by Alex- 
ander VIII (1G90), which provided for the celebration 
of matins at night, for reciprocal and also self-inflicted 
.flagellations on every Wednesday and Friday in Advent 
ami Lent, and for abstinence from the use of flesh, milk, 
and eggs on every Friday and every Church festival. 
A considerable number of convents, of nuns as well as 
monks, belonged to this order in its flourishing period; 
but it is now insignificant. Leo XII purposed to dis- 
solve the order and incorporate its members with other 
organizations; but it has, nevertheless, been preserved 
to our time. An order of female Sylvestrians exists in 
Perugia. The direction of the order is placed in the 
hands of a general and a procurator-general, the former 
being chosen for Jour and the latter for three years. 
The habit is composed of a gown, scapularv, cowl, and 
mantle; its color is dark brown. The general wears 
violet, and is privileged to bear the pout if calia (q. v.). 
— Herzog, Real-Encyklop). s. v. 

Symaethis, in Greek mythology, was a Trinacrian 
nymph, goddess of the river of the like name, beloved 
of Faunas, to whom she bore Acis. 

Symbol (from avv and j3d\\io,to throw together , i.e. 
by comparison), an abstract or compendium, a sign or 
representation of some thing moral, by the figures or prop- 
erties of natural things. Hence symbols are of various 
kinds, as hieroglyphics, types, enigmas, parables, fables, 
etc. (q. v. severally). See Lancaster, Diet, of Scilpture 
Symbols; Bicheno, Symbolical Vocabulary, in bis Signs 
of the Times; Faber, On the Prophecies; Jones [W.], 
lUonb, vol. iv; Wemyss , Claris Symholica; Mills, Sac. 
Symbology (Edinb. 1853); Fairbairn, Typol. of Script.; 
Brit, and F or. Fran. Rev. 1843, p. 395. See Symbolism. 

SYMBOL (Gr. 2i»jw/3o\o»', sign, token ), a title an- 
ciently given to the Apostles’ Creed ( Cyprian, Ep. 
7G; Rutinus, De Symbolo ; Augustine, De Fide et Sym- 
bolo ; and Hilary, De Trin. cap. xii). The ecclesias- 
tical origin of the term is much disputed, but its most 
probable meaning was that of a contract, or bond of 
our faith. One reason for the name derives it from a 
Greek word signifying a throwing or casting together, 
and alleges that the apostles each contributed an article 
to form the Creed, putting their joint opinion or counsel 
in an abridged shape. The other is the opinion that 
this Creed was used in times of persecution as a watch- 
word or mark whereby Christians (like soldiers in the 
army) were distinguished from all others. 

The term symbol, importing an emblem or sensible 
representation, is also applied in the holy eucharist to 
the sacred elements, which there set forth the body and 
blood of Christ. 

Symbolical Books, This title designates the 
public confessions of faith of the different Christian 
churches or denominations; in other words, the writ- 
ings in which an ecclesiastical communion publishes to 
the world the tenets that bind together its members 
and distinguish it from other communions of believers 
or unbelievers. For the idea of a symbol we refer to 
the article Symbolics. 


SYMBOLICAL BOOKS 


GO 


SYMBOLICAL BOOKS 


The only symbol which finds universal acceptance in 
the Church is the Apostles' Creed. As the Church creed 
kut’ i£a\tiv, it is distinguished from the Scriptures upon 
which it is based, but al>o, on the other hand, from the 
private writings and confessions of the teachers of the. 
Church, however greatly the latter may lie esteemed. 
The later symbolical books differ from the briefer sym- 
bol i cal /o/v» a /</s, which alone served the purposes of the 
Church before the Reformation, in being more extensive 
and detailed, and in constituting the confessions of par- 
ticular churches only {symbol a particularia ), while the 
great creeds (Apostles’, Nicene, Athanasian) have oecu- 
menical value. The phrase Libri Symbol ici originated 
in the Lutheran Church, and was first applied to its own 
confessional writings when they appeared in the Book 
of Concord; but its use extended, and has long been 
current in all the churches and sects of Christendom. 

Considerable diversity of opinion has existed with 
reference to the importance and value of symbolical 
writings. The Church of Home regards the symbol as 
the immovable and unchangeable rule of faith, and 
therefore as the binding norm of doctrine. This does 
not, according to Thomas Aquinas {Summa Theol. ii, 2, 
1, 9), detract from the supreme authority of the .Script- 
ures, because the symbol is merely an extract from 
Scripture. In substance there is but one symbol; each 
additional formula is simply an exposition and closer 
determination of the original creed. Variations are to 
be understood as different aspects of the truth, assumed 
in view of the varying oppositions it has to encounter. 
The Church is accordingly competent to formulate a 
new symbol for the exposition of the truth, though not 
to set aside, or even to alter, the traditional creed (Thom. 
Aquinas, id sup.'). 

The Church of the Keformation asserted the sole au- 
thority of Holy .Scripture in matters of doctrine; and al- 
though it received the (ecumenical symbols, it deter- 
mined their character as being testimonia fdei simply, 
i. e. testimonies certifying the understanding of the 
Word of God current in t he Church at a given time. 
The worth of confessions is accordingly made to depend 
on their agreement with the Scriptures, and they may 
be altered and improved. The author of the A ngustana 
repeatedly undertook a thorough revision of his work; 
Luther did the same with the Smalcald Articles ; and 
the evangelical estates not only approved of Melanc- 
thon’s Variata. but in 1537 directed their theologians 
at the Convention of Smalcald to revise the confession. 
The beginnings of an obligatory support of the confes- 
sion are, however, apparent at an early day. Subscrip- 
tion to the A ugsburg Confession was occasionally re- 
quired during the fourth decade of the lGth century, 
and in 1533 the theological faculty of Wittenberg were 
required by statute to teach sound doctrine as contained 
in the ancient creeds and the Augsburg Confession. A 
growing disposition to insist on uniformity of teaching 
became manifest, and it was this which gave rise to the 
Ostandrian Controversies (q. v.). In the middle of the 
16th century the various corpora doctrlnie. began to ap- 
pear: in 1560 the Corpus Doctr. Philippicum; in 1561 
the C. T). Pomeranicum ; in 1567 the C. L>. Pruthenicnm , 
etc. The conclusion was made in 1576 with the For- 
mula of Concord (q. v.), and this names the writings 
to which symbolical authority is given by reason of a 
unanimous approval of their teachings, and is itself in- 
cluded among them. A rigid subscription was demand- 
ed in the countries where these writings were received 
by the civil government. The dispute with Calixtus 
(q. v.) led the Lutheran theologians to postulate a me- 
diate inspiration, and consequently a divine authority, 
for the symbolical books; but the distinction between the 
canon of Scripture and such standards is nevertheless 
constantly preserved in word, if not always in fact. In 
reality, the symbolical books were regarded as a Kavwv 
rgg 7ri(TTEiog throughout the 17th century side by side 
with the Scriptures, inasmuch as the faith was grounded 
directly on the symbol rather than on the Bible. 


1 The Reformed churches have produced no written 
symbol which has formal authority over them all; but 
they have cherished a very definite conviction of con- 
fessional unity among them, as may appear from the 
fact that the different. Reformed confessions, and partic- 
ularly the more important of them, the Helvetica , Galli- 
cana, Scotica, Belgica , etc., are received in all such 
churches as embodiments of the pure type of doctrine, 
and from the further fact that the members of a Church 
holding to one of these confessions may pass beyond the 
territory within which such confession has authority, 
but cannot pass from one confession to another by join- 
ing a Church which adheres to another of the Reformed 
confessions. All such persons are regarded simply as 
members of the Reformed Church. The number of Re- 
formed symbols was influential also in directing atten- 
tion upon their substance rather than upon the formu- 
lated letter, it being conceded that with respect to the 
; latter the confession is not infallible and incapable of 
further improvement. Such changes, however, are not 
to be needlessly undertaken, nor may individuals sub- 
! ject the confessional standards at will to experiments in 
the interests of novelty. Great care has ever been ex- 
ercised to preserve the purity of the confessional sym- 
bols, in some instances carried to the extent of requiring 
the subscription of the clergy and the officers of state to 
doctrinal standards settled by law. (Basle and Geneva 
even required such subscription of the body of their citi- 
zens. The Reformed Church of East Friesland alone 
never required subscription to its symbol.) The 1 7th 
century produced symbols in this body also, e. g. the 
Canons of Dort and the Helvetic Consensus , both of 
which go beyond even tlie Formula of Concord in 
scholastic rigidness. The beginning of the 18th cen- 
tury saw a reaction, however: Spener already ventured 
to doubt the necessity of symbols, since the Church had 
so long existed without them, and expressed his dissent 
from the doctrine of their inspiration and infallibility. 
A century afterwards it was conceded that obligation to 
adhere to the symbol holds only with reference to es- 
sentials; and a majority of critics asserted that the un- 
essential, not directly religions and merely theological, 
which deserves no place at all in a creed, was greatly in 
excess over that which is really essential. The conflict 
with rationalism caused many modifications in the views 
of the churches; but subscription to the creed was gen- 
erally insisted on, though the obligation thus assumed 
was often but lightly felt. In the present period, the 
reaction against rationalism has occasioned a revival 
of 17th-century confessionalism in many quarters: and, 
on the other hand, a liberal tendency requires a break- 
ing- away from the authority of symbols as being 
] simply monuments of the faith of onr fathers and evi- 
dences of former conquests, and also as being adverse 
to the genius of Protestantism. See Confession ok 
Faith. 

The abstract right of the Church to require submis- 
sion to its standards is evident, but it is a question 
which must be answered. May the Protestant Church 
assert that right, and, if it may, then to what extent? 
It is evident that the more recent symbols, as being 
more restrictive and separative in character than the 
! older confessions and creeds, are of inferior authority. 
It is also clear that the spirit and substance of a confes- 
sion have greater importance than attaches to the form 
or letter. Neither the Augsburg Confession nor the 
Heidelberg Catechism constitutes the Protestant Confes- 
sion of Faith, and must be regarded simply as essays 
towards formulating the body of Protestant doctrine, 
which may be tested by criticism and revised. Doctri- 
nal purity in the concrete is, after all, a relative thing, 
and the Church is under the necessity of persisting in 
the work of grounding its teachings more solidly on the 
Word of God and of developing them further towards 
their ultimate consummation. A distinction must ac- 
j cordinglv be admitted between heterodoxy of a more or 
I less serious type, which consists in departing in some 


SYMBOLICS 


07 


SYMBOLICS 


points from the accepted standards of a Church, and 
heresy, which removes the foundations and destroys the 
faith itself. It is none the less certain, however, that 
Protestantism requires an inner unity and a durable 
basis of character. Every step of its progress must be 
in harmony with its fundamental principles, which are 
laid down in the confessions formulated bv its founders. 
Those symbols attest a faith which belongs equally to 
our fathers and to us. The liberty of teaching , more- 
over, needs to be guarded, lest it degenerate into license 
and anarchy contrary to the Word of God and the order 
of the Church. Protestantism certainly has the right 
to protect its truth against neologizing antichristianity, 
and also against un-Protestant Romanism — in a word, 
against manifest perversion. The subscription to sym- 
bols required of its accredited teachers can hardly, how- 
ever, be without conditions. Perhaps the utmost ex- 
tent to which such requirement should be pressed is a 
cordial acceptance of principles upon which the confes- 
sions are based, leaving particulars to be determined by 
the conscience of the subscriber. In any case, the sym- 
bols are entitled to respect so far as to make them the 
subject of earnest and loving study, and to protect them 
against abuse from professed adherents. 

Literature . — Early Protestant writers have no sepa- 
rate locus for symbolical books, and but few treat of them 
even incidentally (see Ilasc, J/utterus Redb'iv. p. 115, 
note 1 ). Among later doctrinal writers, sec Twesten 
(182G). i, 50 sq.; tlase (3d ed. 1842), p. 498 sq.; Mar- 
tensen, p. 74 sq. Controversial writings are partially 
given in Ilasc, ut sup . A comprehensive monograph is 
Johannsen’s 1 Vissenschaftl. u. hist. Enters . iih. d. Jtecht- 
mdssigkeit d. VerpjUcht. auf sgmb. Bucher , etc. (Altona, 
1833). See also id. Anfdnge des Sgmbolzwangs , etc. 
(Leips. 1847); Matthes, Vergleichcude Sgmbolik (ibid. 
1843), p. 2 sq. ; Sclienkel, UrspriingJ. Verhdltn.d. Kirche 
zum Stuat, in the Stud. u. Krit. 1850, ii, 454 sq.; lidding, 
I)e Sgmb. Xatnra , Necessitate , A uctoritate , et Usu (Erl. 
1835) ; Bretsclineider, Unzuldssigkeit d. Symbolz wavgs, 
etc. (Leips. 1841) : Kudelbach, Einl. in d. A ugsb. Confes- 
sion, etc. (Dresd. 1841); Sartorius, Nothic. u. Ye.rbindl. 
cl.kirchl. Glaubensbekenntmsse (Stuttg. 1845); Schleier- 
lnacher, Eigentl. Werth . . . d. sgmb. Bucher fm Ref. Aim. 
(Frankf. 1819), p.335 sq.; id. Sendschr. an r. Colin u. 
Schulz , in the Stud. u. Krit. 1831, i, 3 sq. ; id. Prakt. 
Theologie , p. G22 sq.; I)c Wette, Lehreinheit d. evan. 
Kirche , in the Stud. u. Krit. 1831, ii, 221 sq. ; Ullmann, 
Alteub. kirchl. Angel, etc., in the Stud. u. Krit. 1840, ii; 
Scherrer, Die Princip. u. fukt. Stellung d. sch weiz.-j'ef. 
Kirche , etc., in the Verhandl.d. schweiz. Predigergtsellsch. 
zu St. G alien, 1844; Die gegemc. Krisis d. kirchl. Lebens , 
etc. '(Gdtt. 1854); Petri, Beleucht. d. gdtt. Denkschrift , 
etc. (llanov. 1854); Erkldrung der Denkschr . (Gdtt. 
1854) ; Nitzsch, Prakt. Theol. i. 

Among editions of Lutheran symbolical writings, 
those of Kechenbcrg, Concordia , etc. (Lips. IG78, 8vo, 
and often; last ed. 175G),and of Hase, Libri Sgmb. Eccl. 
Er. etc. (ibid. 1837), deserve mention. The Reformed 
confessions have not been gathered into a single collec- 
tion, the best and most complete collection being that 
of Niemeyer, Collect. Conf. in Eccl. Ref. Pubficat. (ibid. 
1840), cum Append. Other collections are by Augusti 
( Elberfeld, 1827), German by Mess (Neuwied, 1828, 
1830, 2 pts. ; comp. Schweizer, Ref. Glaubensl. i, 122£ 
and Heppe, Beken n tnisssch ri ften d.ref. Kirchen Deutschl. 
(Elberfeld, I860). The Libri Sgntbolici Eccl. Romano - 
Catholicw were edited by Danz (Vimar. 183G) and 
Streitwolf et Klener (Gdtt. 1837 sq.); the Libri Sgmb. 
Eccl. Orient a l is by Kimmel (Jena, 1843; cum Append, 
ibid. 1850). For the symbolical books and writings of 
particular churches and denominations, see the respec- 
tive articles. — Herzog, Real-Encgklop. s. v. 

Symbolics. The meaning of this term will vary 
with that assigned to the original word from which it 
is derived: avpl3o\ ov (from (rupfidWtiv) has a pri- 
mary reference to the fitting-together of two separate 
objects, e. g. the parts of a ring or of other “tessera hos- 


! pitqlitatis.” Su/f/Jo\oi' (related to tn)fta) next came to 
denote every mark or sign by which the connection of 
individuals to a whole, e. g. a corporation or association, 
might be indicated. Such were the badges which se- 
cured admission to a banquet, the “tessera militaris,” 
the flag, the, password, etc. In time, whatever might 
be employed to illustrate abstract or supcrscnsual ideas 
to tlie senses came to be termed a symbol, and this may 
be regarded the current meaning of the word to-day. 
As Christianity, like all religions, lias its symbols, it is 
as proper to speak of Christum sgmbolics as of heathen 
(or ancient). A rich symbolism runs through the whole 
of Christian liturgies, e. g. the symbolism of the cross, 
etc.; but in the organism of theological study the term 
sgmbolics has no reference to such symbols. The refer- 
ence is rather to the formulated and written confessions 
of the Church, which, more than any badge, arc suited 
to indicate the union of individuals in one and the same 
ecclesiastical organization. Of these symbols the most 
ancient are baptismal confessions, from which the Sgm- 
bolum Apostolicum was developed, which forms the ral- 
lying- point of all who are adherents of Christianity. 
Heretical tendencies afterwards compelled the Church 
to formulate the great creeds — the Nicenc, the Niceno- 
Constantinopolitan, and the so-called Athanasian — in 
which t he marks of orthodoxy were determined and 
made prominent; and, in addition to the foregoing so- 
called oecumenical sgmbols, other minor creeds and con- 
fessions were called into being by the force of events 
from time to time. 

The rise of Protestantism furnished a new class of 
symbols which were intended to serve as marks of dis- 
tinction between the old papal and the new evangelical 
churches. Of these the flrst was the A ugsburg Confes- 
sion (q. v.) of 1530, and the supplementary symbolical 
books of the Lutheran Church, closing with the Book 
of Concord in 1580. The Reformed churches framed 
distinct symbols of their own — the Zwinglian , the Te- 
trapolitana, etc. Of this class the Thirtg-nine Articles 
of the Church of England, the Heidelberg Catechism , 
and the second Helcetic Confession (sec the respective 
articles) acquired especial prominence. The Romish 
Church, for its part, was obliged, by the rise of Protes- 
tantism, to formulate its faith anew with a view to 
marking the features peculiar to its teachings, which 
was done in the Professio Fidei Tridentina and the Cate- 
chism us Romanus (see the corresponding articles). The 
accumulation of this wealth of material has operated 
decisively upon symbolics, so that the term has come to 
denote the science which is employed upon the doctrines 
that distinguish the several confessions of Christendom. 
Its method may be historical, statistical, polemical, or 
irenical ; but the ground upon which it operates can 
only be that of comparison of dogmas. 

Like the history of doctrines, to which it stands re- 
lated, symbolics is a modern branch of theological sci- 
ence, but is possessed of so much individuality as to 
necessitate a separate treatment. The foundation for 
the science was laid in the preliminary works of Waleh, 
Semler, Planck, and others (see below, Literature), while 
its actual beginnings date to Winer and Marheineke. 
The former drew up tables in which he simply present- 
ed to view, side by side, the differences existing in the 
various confessions, while the latter sought to exhibit 
the internal unity of each separate confession. It is 
evident that the treatment of symbolics requires the use 
of both these methods, and will vary according as the 
writer occupies the ground of one confession or another, 
or as he places himself above all confessions. It was 
because of this fact that Molder’s Sgmbolik, from the 
Roman Catholic point of view, drew forth the famous 
work of Baur from the Evangelical position (see below). 
The science speedily developed the necessity for examin- 
ing its material, not simply in the letter of the symbol- 
ical books, but in the spirit of the confessions. Every 
detail has accordingly been made the subject of earnest 
study; and the ethical, social, political, and artistic bear- 


SYMBOLISM 


G8 


SYMMACHUS 


iligs and differences of the various symbols have been 
examined. 'Phis fact gives rise to the question wheth- 
er the term symbolics is adequate to the tiling it is in- 
tended to represent; but all attempted substitutes have 
been so clumsy that they tailed to win their way into 
favor. In Great Britain and America the subject is 
usually included under dogmatic theology (q.v.). 

Literature. — Walcli, /n( rod. in Libros Symb. Eccl.Luth. 
(Jen. 1732); Sender, Apparat. ad Libros Symb. Kecks. 
Luth. (Halle, 1775); Feuerlin, Jiibl. Symbol ica (Gbtt. 
1752, 17GX); Planck, Gesch. d. Entstehuny , d. Vcrdnde- 
rungen, it.d. D ihlung des prot. Lehrbegrijfs (Leips. 1731- 
1X00); id. I/ist. u. rergkichende I )arst tilling d. verschie- 
denen Dogm.-Systeme. etc. (Gott. 173G ; 3d ed. 1822); 
Winer. Comparative Lhirst. d. Lehrbtgr. d. rerschitdtncn 
K irc/unpartekn, etc. ( Leips. 1824, etc. Ito); Marhci- 
neke. Symbolik (lleidelb. 1810, etc.) ; id. Inst. Symbolical 
Doctrinarian , etc. (Herb 1812, etc.); Marsh, Comp. I7< j ?e 
of the Churches of England and Home (bond. 1841, 8vo) ; 
Mdhler, Symbolik (Mayeuce. 6th ed. 1843) ; Baur, Gegen - 
satz d. Katholicismus u. Protest tad ism ns, e t c. (Tub. 1834). 
See in connection therewith Sack, Nitzseh, etc.; Kell- 
ner, Symb. alter christl. Conf. (IJamb. 1837; 1841, 2 
vols.) ; Guericke, Allgem. christl. Symbol. [Lutheran] 
(Leips. 1833); Kudelbaeh, Reformation , Lutherthum laid 
Cnion (ibid. 1833); Gbbel, Lutkerische n. ref. Kirche 
(Bonn, 1837); Sclmeckenburger, Lntherisch. u. ref. 
Lelirbegriffe (Stuttg. 1855, posthumous) ; Thiersch, Ka- 
thol. u. Protest ant is mus [lectures] (Erl. 1848, 2d ed.); 
Sehenkel, 1 1 T esen d. Protista ntisnws (Schallhausen, 184G- 
52, etc.). See especially Sc ha If, Creeds of Christendom 
(N. V. 1877, 3 vols. 8vo). — Ilerzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 
See Symbolical Books. 

Symbolism is that system which represents moral 
or intellectual qualities by external signs or symbols. 
It is characteristic of the earlier and ruder stages of de- 
velopment, when the mind and moral nature have not 
yet grown to the age which takes direct cognizance of 
mental and moral qualities, or takes cognizance of them 
only through external signs that bear a real or a con- 
ventional resemblance to them. The Old Test, is full 
of symbolism ; the Jewish Temple, like the Tabernacle 
which it superseded, though no image of the Deity was 
permitted in it, was itself a symbol of the soul of man, 
in which God abides, if it be holy and ready to receive 
him ; and all its utensils, as well as all its services, were 
symbolical. See Tyuk, and the various articles on the 
Old-Test, ceremonials and sacred objects. Symbolism 
was also naturally characteristic of the Church of the 
Middle Ages, which undertook to carry home to the 
eyes, minds, and hearts of the people spiritual truths 
through external symbols. The origin of some of these 
it is now difficult to discover. Many naturally suggest 
the correlative truth to the mind; others make the sug- 
gestion through historical or scriptural association. The 
following is a partial list of some of the principal sym- 
bols in use in the ( Christian churches, for a fuller account 
of which the reader is referred to Clements [ Mrs.], Hand- 
book of Legendary and Mythological A rf. The glory, au- 
reole, and nimbus all represent light or lightness, and are 
symbols of sanctity. The nimbus surrounds the head; 
the aureole the body; the glory unites the two. The 
nimbus attaches in Homan Catholic art to all saints; 
the aureole and glory only to the persons of the God- 
head and to the Virgin Alary. The lish is an emblem 
of Christ. See Irirrn ys. The cross, in its various forms, 
is also an emblem both of Christ and his passion. See 
Cross ; Crucifix; Lara hum. The lamb is a common 
symbol of Christ. It derives its significance from the 
fact that it was one of the chief sacrifices of the Jewish 
Temple, and from the words of John the Baptist, “Be- 
hold the lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the 
world” (John i, 23). The lamb is often represented in 
art bearing a cross. The lion is another symbol of 
Christ, who in Scripture is called “ the Lion of the tribe 
of Juda” (Rev. v, 5). The pelican, which is said to bare 
open her breast to feed her young with blood, is an em- 


blem of redemption. The dove is a symbol of the Holy 
Spirit (Matt, iii, 1G) : issuing from the mouth of the 
dying, it is an emblem of the soul. The olive-branch is 
an emblem of peace (Gen. viii, 11); the palm, of mar- 
tyrdom (Rev. vii. 3). The lily represents chastity; the 
lamp, piety (Matt, xxv, 1-12); tire, zeal or the suffer- 
ings of martyrdom ; the flaming heart, fervent piety 
ami spiritual love; the peacock, immortality ; the crow, 
victory : on women, it signifies the bride of Christ. The 
sword, axe, lance, and club indicate martyrdom; the 
skull and scourge, penance ; the chalice, faith ; the ship, 
the Christian Church; the anchor, faith (lleb. vi, 13). 
Each color also has a symbolic meaning in art, for which 
see article Color. In Homan Catholic art, also, each 
apostle has his own symbol, as follows : Peter, the keys, 
or a fish ; Andrew, the transverse cross which bears his 
name; James the Greater, the pilgrim’s staff; John, the 
eagle, or the chalice with the serpent; Thomas, a 
builder’s rule; James the Less, a club; Philip, a small 
cross on a staff, or crosier surmounted by a cross; Bar- 
tholomew, a knife; Matthew, a purse; Simon, a saw; 
Thaddeus, a halberd or lance; Matthias, a lance. The 
various monastic orders have also each its own symbol. 
See Jameson and Eastlake, History of Our Lord as Ex- 
emplified in iror&ff of A rt (Loud. 18G4.2 vols.) ; Didron, 
Christian Iconography, or History of Christian Art in 
the Middle Ages (ibid. 1851, ed. Bohn). 

Symbolum (St'jtt/3o\oi')> a Greek term for (1) the 
holy eucharist ; (2) a creed; (3) a bell. See Symbol. 

Syme, in Greek mythology, was a nymph, daugh- 
ter of lalvmus and Dotis. She was beloved of the sea- 
god Glaucus. who carried her off to an island near 
Rhodes, on the coast of Caria, which received its name 
from her (Athenians, vii, 23G). By Neptune she bore 
Cbthonius, who colonized the island from Lindus. 

Symeon the Stylite. See Simeon, St. 

Symmachia, in Greek mythology, was a surname 
of Venus at Mantinea, in Arcadia. 

Symmachians. The term designates the mem- 
bers of a sect mentioned only by Philaster {fleer. Ixiii). 
lie describes them as adherents of Patricias, who taught 
that the human body was not created by God, but by 
the devil, and that it should be abused in every possi- 
ble way, suicide even being regarded as allowable. The 
Symmachians asserted also that every vice and fleshly 
hist should command the obedience of mankind, and 
that there is no future judgment for the race. It is 
more probable, however, that the Symmachians were 
disciples of Symmachus (q. v.) of Samaria, a Jew who 
became a Christian, consorted with the Ebionites, and 
furnished a Greek version of the Old Test, which stands 
before that of Theodotion in the Polyglot, but is of 
more recent date than the latter. Petavius (in Xotes 
on Epiphatnus, ii, 400) endeavors to trace their origin 
to yet another Symmachus; and Yalesius (on Euseb. vi, 
17) says that a Jewish-Christian sect originated with 
the Ebionite Symmachus. of whom Ambrose states, in 
a commentary on the Epistle to the Galatians, that they 
descended from the Pharisees, kept the whole law, call- 
ed themselves Christians, and followed Pliotinus in the 
belief that Christ was merely a man. The Manielnean 
Faustus (see Augustine, Contra Faust, xix, 14), on the 
other hand, describes the Symmachians as Nazarenes, 
and Augustine adds ( Contra Cresconinm , i, 31) that they 
were hut few in number in his time, and that they 
practiced both Jewish circumcision and Christian bap- 
tism. See Fabricius [Joann. Alb.], Philastrii de Heeresi - 
bus Liber , cum Emend, ct Xotis (llamb. 1725), p. 125. — 
1 lerzog, Real-Encyldop. s. v. 

Symmachus, pope from A.D. 438 to 514, is noted 
because of his conflicts with the civil power, and his 
endeavors to heighten the importance of the Homan 
see. At the time of his election by the Homan party, 
the imperial party had elected the archpresbyter Lau- 
rentius, who was pledged to sign the Henoticon (q. v.). 


SYMMACHUS 


69 


SYMMACHUS 


The determination of the election was left with Theod- 
oric, king of the Goths, and resulted in favor of Sym- 
machus, because he was the first to be anointed or was 
supported by a majority of votes. At a synod held at 
Kome in 499 it was thereupon enacted that no vote 
should be cast for the election of a new pope before the 
reigning pope had actually died, and that that candidate 
should be regarded as elected who was supported by all 
or a majority of the votes of the Homan clergy. At a 
synod at Rome in 502 Symmachus revoked the enact- 
ment of king Odoacer which prohibited the incumbent of 
the papal chair from selling any portion of the property 
of the Church, and at the same time he ordained that all 
interference in the affairs of the Church of Home should 
'be forbidden to the laity. This provision contributed 
greatly to the development of the papal power, and has 
always remained a cardinal principle in the adminis- 
tration of the Romish Church. The party of Lauren- 
’tius, after a time, brought heavy charges against Sym- 
machus, and Theodoric deputed bishop Peter of Alti- 
num to investigate the ease; but, as he became a par- 
tisan of Laurentius, the king convoked a new synod at 
Home, the Sy nodus Palmaris , in 503. The life of Sym- 
machus was endangered by the machinations of the 
Laurcntines, and he submitted unconditionally to the 
decisions of the synod, in direct contradiction of his re- 
cently promulgated ordinance against the interference 
of laymen in ecclesiastical matters. He was acquitted 
without a trial. Bishop Ennodius of Tieinum, in his 
written defence of this synod, was the first to declare 
that God has reserved the judgment of the incumbent 
of the Roman see to himself, while other men must, 
according to his will, be judged by their fellows. At a 
synod held at Rome in 504, Symmachus promulgated 
detailed ordinances against all who should appropriate 
to themselves any of the possessions of the Church, it 
is worthy of note that the synods held under his pontif- 
icate addressed to him, by way of eminence, the title 
Papa. He appointed bishop Gesarius of Arles his vicar 
in Gaul. He banished the remaining Manielueans from 
Rome and caused their books to be burned, but was 
himself branded as a Maniehaean by the emperor Ana- 
stasius. Tradition attributes to him the introduction 
of the Gloria in Excelsis into the Sunday and feast-day 
services of the Church. He died, as is reported, July 
19, 514. See Schrockh, Christl. Kirchengesch. xvii, 180, 
195-21 1 : Gieseler, Kirchengesch. I, ii, 398-405. — Her- 
zog, Real- Encyhlop. s. v. 

Symmachus, a translator of the Old Test, into 
Greek, was born in Samaria during the latter half of the 
2d century. Originally a Jew, he became a Christian, 
but embraced the doctrine of the Ebionites. 

In spite of the high reputation enjoyed by the Alex- 
andrian version, or Septuagint (q. v.), not only among 
the Hellenists outside of Palestine, but also within Pal- 
estine itself, at a later time it became an object of sus- 
picion to the stricter Jews, owing to polemical reasons, 
so that, against the Christians, they denied its correct- 
ness, and set up another translation in opposition to it. 
The first who made a version for the use of the Jews 
was Aquila (q. v.) ; not much later than Aquila, Theo- 
dotion (q. v.) prepared a second, and very soon after- 
wards another translation was made by Symmachus. 
From Epiphanius, De Ponderibns et Mensuris, c. xvi 
(whose accounts, however, Bleek pronounces fabulous), 
we learn that Symmachus was a Samaritan, iYy<- 
pa\6 g rig ’Sapapeirijg rmv Trap avrotg oocpiov . . . 
i'6i)<jaQ <pi\apxtav . . . 7rpoGi]XvrevEi icai TTEpirEpyErai 
CEvrEpov. With Epiphanius agree Athanasius (Synoji- 
$ is), the Chronicon Pascliale , and Euthymius Zigabenus, 
in Carpzov, Critica Sacra, p. 5G7. Eusebius ( I list . 
Eccles. vi, 17 ; and Demonstr. Evany, vii, 1 ) calls him 
’E(3iwvaiog, an Ebionite, which is also the opinion of 
Jerome and modern critics. Fiirst and Geiger call him 
a Jew, and a pupil of R. Meir (q. v.). 

As to the time in which he lived, Epiphanius ( loc.cit .) 
places him in the reign of king Severus. With this 


would agree the fact that Irenaeus does not name 
him, while he mentions Aquila and Theodotion, and 
that Origen already found his translation in existence. 
Bleek says that from Eusebius ( loc . cit.) we may infer 
“that the translation of Symmachus was little known 
before the time of Origen, and that Origen had obtained 
it from a certain woman Juliane, to whom it had come 
from Symmachus himself.” The passage in Eusebius 
runs thus: Tcmra (He b XlpiyErpg pera icai dXXiov Eig 
rag ypa<pdg Eppijvihov rov <r ppaivEt itapd 

’I ovXiai'pg rivog EiXpcph'ai ijv icai <paoi Trap’ avrov 
—vpp id\ov rag (3t(3Xovg ciacPZaaSai. 

As to the genius of the translation, Epiphanius tells 
us that he translated in opposition to the Samaritans, 
7rpbg Ciaarpo<pt)v roiy 7rapii 1 lapapeiraig ippip'ebcrag. 
But this supposition is in bad taste, for, in the first place, 
in Gen. v Symmachus agrees with the Samaritan against 
the Sept.: in the second place, we cannot see how he 
should have made his translation in opposition to the 
Samaritans, who only accept the Pentateuch, while 
Symmachus’s version is on all the books of the Old 
Test.; and, in the third place, none of the other Church 
fathers knew anything of his opposition to the Samari- 
tans. The probability is that his whole aim was di- 
rected towards a more elegant and finer version ; for 
Symmachus, in his version, betrays the endeavor to sat- 
isfy the genius of the Greek language and to keep aloof 
from every influence of Eastern ideas and the Hebrew 
original. Thus he forms periods where the original 
has simply co-ordinate sentences, e. g. 2 Kings i, 2, lib 
1 lim, d 7 teX So vreg 7tvSegSe ; J ob xxxi v, 29, I: p ‘C "> NTrP 
“'’' 21 , avroi) fit t)ptpiav Sidoi'rog rig tcaraicpivEi ; 
Psa. ix, 4, *“iirtX Dim, ava(Trpa<pEVTu>v r<Zr 

ixSpwy pov. Where the Hebrew circumscribes an ad- 
verbial idea by a verb, Symmachus uses an adverb, as 
Gen. iv, 2, nbb 1 ) 0711 , icai ttciXiv eteice}'', or he uses 
the adjective for the Hebrew nomen qualitatis, as Psa. 
liv, 24, 175*1 piaaponoi icai doXioi. 

He reduces the Hebrew tropes to the corresponding 
Greek, e. g. 1 Sam. xx, 25, CI*2E cr SI. i&airtp euoSh ; 
xxv, 25, isb-rx mis-' so-bx, p 7 ) irpoaxyg, 

ci^iuiv; ni-H ni, in Gen. ii, 17, becomes Svijrbg Eay. 
He uses additions for the sake of elegancy : thus. Job 
xxi, 13, ir.PP biSPy 3?} “Cl, teal raxeiog dvoaot icai 
ttf3a(Favi<TTot Eig iicpv icarepxoi'rai ; Ezek. xvi, 31, 
“pnx cbpb, ev dliiomrjTuj, auydyovaa pioSibpara. 
Hebrew proper nouns are often translated etymological- 
ly, e. g. Dent, xxxii, 49, E n "C3.'!l “in, ro bpog rdiv 
diafidaEioi' ; Isa. xix, 18, CTtH “PI‘, 7ro/\i£ i)Xiov. 

Taken all in all, Symmachus deserves the praise which 
has been bestowed on his translation, which was called 
versio jierspieua, manifest a, admirabilis , aperta. Je- 
rome, In A mos Hi, 11, speaks of Symmachus, “ Non solet 
verborum icaicoZpXiai’, sed in tell igen rite ordiuem sequi;” 
In Isa.v , 1 , “Symmachus more suo manifestius.” Eu- 
sebius, In Psa. xxi, 31 sq., says. rraipEarEpov b TUvppa- 
yo£, and <y<p6Spa Savpaaruig b i Ivppaxog ; In Psa.xlri. 
10, otVw£ ppppvEVGE Scwpaaruig b i Ivppaxog . Still 
we cannot characterize his style as being pure Greek or 
elegant; and Symmachus himself seems to have felt it, 
for he made a second edition of his translation, in which 
he corrected all such Hebraisms and harsh expressions 
as had crept in. Thus Jerome, In Jer. xxxii, says, 
“Synimaehi prima editio et LXX et Theodotio solos 
(povoi) interpretati sunt ; secunda quippe Symmachi 
vertit SibXov and In Nahum Hi he writes, “Symma- 
ehus cnrorvpiag TrXijpijg, quod possumus dicere crudeli- 
tate vel severitate plena ; in altera ejus editione reperi 
ptXoico7riag tt Xijpijc, i. e. sectionibus carniuni et f rust is 
per membra concisis .” Whether his second edition em- 
braced all the books of the Old Test, cannot be decided 
with certainty, since only a few fragments of the second 
edition on some of the books are extant. 


SYMMACHUS 


70 


SYMPOSIA 


For philological purposes, Symmachus is just as use- 
ful as the other Greek translators, Riblieal criticism 
may also derive some advantage from the translation, of 
course, by exhibiting the greatest care. Thus Rsa. 
xxx, 13, Symmachus reads ns our text. T-2, and so 
also the Chaldee. Jerome. Syriac, and Theodotion, 
against the of t lie Sept., Vulg., and Arab. ; in 

Ixvi, 13, our text lias rP*HP, but Symmachus, the 
Sept., Syr., and Chald. seem to have read niT'~b. 

The fragments of Symmachus’s version of the Old 
Test, are given by Flam. Xobilis in IV. Test. sec. LX X 
Lat. Iledditum , etc. (Rome. 1587): Drusius. Veterum 
Interpret um Gracorum in Totnm V . T. Fragment a Col- 
lector etc. (Arnheim, 10*22); I>os, V. T. ex Version. LX X 
Inter]), etc.jnec non Fray mentis I 'ersionum .1 quihv, Sym- 
machi <t Theodotionis ( Franek. 170U ) ; Montfaucon, 
llexaplorum Oriyenis qmv Supersunt , etc. (Paris, 1713; 
in a later edition with notes by K. Uahrdt, Leips. 
and Liibeck, 1700-70). 'Phe fragments on single books 
were edited by T rcndelenhurg, Chrestomathia Uexaplaris 
(Liibeck and Leips. 1704) ; Spohn, deremias Vatese T>r- 
sione Jndir.orum , etc. (Lips. 1704, 1824); Segaar, Daniel 
sec. LXXet Tetraplis Oriyenis . etc. (Trier, 1775); Sehar- 
fenberg, .1 nimailro'sioncs quibns Fruymenta Yersionum 
V. T. Emendantur (Lips. 1770-81), sj>ec. i et ii ; Schleus- 
ner, Opnscula Critica ml Yersiones G metis Y.T. (ibid. 
1812 ). 

Literature. — Ei eh horn, Einleituny in das Alte Tes- 
tament (4th ed.), i, 531 sip; Carpzov, Critica Sacra. 
p. 5 GO sq. ; lveil, Introduction to the Old Testament, ii, 
233 sq.; llerbst , E inlei tuny, i, 1G0; Kaulen, Einleituny 
in die heiliye Sc hr iff (Freiburg. 1870), p. 79; Field, 
Oriyenis llexaplorum qua Supersunt. etc. (Oxonii, 1871), 
p. xxxiv; Fiirst, Jiihl. Jud. iii, 300 sq. ; Thieme, Dis- 
pntatio de Puritnte Symmachi (Lips. 1755); Geiger, 
diidische Zciisehrift (Rreslau, 1802), i, 30 04, and his 
X achyelassene Schriften (Deri. 1877), iv, 88 sq. ; Theolo - 
yisches Enin rsal-Lexikon, s. v. ; Heidenheim, Yiertel- 
jnhrsschrift (1807), iii. 403 sq. See Greek. Versions. 
(D. P.) 

Symmachus, Quintus Aurelius, a prefect, pon- 
tiff. and augur of Iiome in its declining age, remarkable 
for his eloquent appeal against the ruin threatened by 
the triumph of Christianity ; he is the author of Epistles 
still extant. His zeal for the ancient faith of Rome 
exercised throughout life, a marked influence upon his 
character, lie was chosen by the senate to remonstrate 
with Gratian on the removal of the altar of victory (A.D. 
3824, from their council-hall, and for curtailing the an- 
nual allowance to the Vestal Virgins. The emperor 
banished him from Rome, but in 384, having been ap- 
pointed prefect of the city, he urged in an epistle to 
Valcntinianus the restoration of pagan deities. In this 
he was unsuccessful, but without personal loss, being ap- 
pointed consul under Theodosius in 301. 

Symmes, William, D.l)., a Cnitarian clergy- 
man, was born at Charlestown, Mass., in 1731, and grad- 
uated from Harvard College in 1750, where he was a 
tutor from 1755 to 1758. He began to preach in the 
North Parish in Andover, and was ordained its pastor 
Nov. 1, 1758, and continued in that relation until his 
death, May, 1807. l)r. Symmes was a good scholar, of 
extensive reading, and an able divine, lie published, 
Thanksyiciny Sermon (1768): Discourse on the Duty 
and A dr ant a yes of Siny in y Praises to God (1770): — 
Sermon at the General Election (1785). See Sprague, 
Annals of the .1 mer. Pulpit, v i ii, 35, 

Symmes, Zachariah, a Congregational preacher, 
was born at Canterbury, England. April 5, 1500. lie 
was educated at Cambridge, and after leaving the uni- 
versity was employed as tutor in several distinguished 
families. In 1021 he was appointed lecturer at Atho- ! 
lines, in London, and in September, 1025, he became 
rector of Dunstable. Embarrassed by his Nonconform- 
ity, he emigrated to New England, where he arrived in 


August. 1634. lie was admitted to the fellowship of 
the Church in Charlestown, 31 ass., Dec. 0, and on the 22d 
of the same month was elected and ordained teacher of 
the same Church, Rev. Thomas James being pastor. 

- About a year afterwards lie succeeded to the office of 
pastor, which he tilled until his death, Feb. 4, 1671. See 
Sprague, Annals of the A mer. Pulpit, i, 17. 

Sympathy (avpTvdStia.feUon'-fceliny) is the qual- 
ity of being a fleeted by another’s affection. 1 1 was orig- 
inally used, like pity and compassion, to signify our fel- 
low-feeling with the sorrows of others, but now it is 
used to denote our fellow-feeling with any passion what- 
ever. Sympathy with sorrow or suffering is compassion, 
with joy or prosperity is congratulation. 

Symphony (o-u ptjnnria) originally signified the 
union of several voices in a chant, but by modern mu- 
sicians it is applied to an instrumental composition, gen- 
erally used as a kind of introductory movement to an- 
thems and other pieces. Symphonies are introduced 
with good effect in the interval of the voices, and are 
called preludes when played before the psalmody, inter- 
ludes when they mark the distinction of verses, ami 
post-hides when introduced at the close of the psalm. 

Symphorianus, a Gallic martyr at Autim in the 
reign of Aurelian. He was cited before the prefect 
Heraclius because lie had refused to honor the statue 
of Rereeynthia, and rejected the intluence of appeals 
and seourgings. His mother supported him with her 
exhortations to fidelity, lie was beheaded without the 
town walls and buried in a cell in the fields. II is grave 
became so remarkable for cures and miracles that it 
compelled the reverence even of the heathen. The 
narrative in the Acta Dead Symph ., as here outlined, 


seems to involve something of fact. The worship of 
Rereeynthia among the vEdui is a historical fact. Greg- 
ory of Tours mentions Symphorianus and the miracles 
wrought bv bis relics (De Gloria Mart. c. 52). Later 
tradition says that a church was, in time, built over bis 
! grave. The story cannot, however, date further back 
than the days of Gregory, as is evident from the chos- 
en and even pompous language and the legendary con- 
clusion. The death of Symphorianus is variously fixed 
in A.D. 180 (the reign of Aurelius), 270, or 280 (Aurelian). 
He is commemorated on Aug. 22. See the Acta SS. 
s. v. — Herzog, Ileal-Encyklop. s. v. 

Symphoiosa, the Christian widow of a martyred 
tribune. Hadrian bad built a temple at Tibur (Tivoli), 
and was about to dedicate it with religious ceremonies 
when he learned that Svmphorosa was a zealous Chris- 
tian. lie caused her, with her seven sons, to be sum- 
moned, and sought by persuasion to induce her to offer 
sacrifices* On her refusal, the emperor threatened her, 
and had her carried to the Temple of Hercules at Tivoli, 
where she was beaten with fists, hung up by the hair, 
and afterwards taken down and drowned. Her broth- 
er Eugene, a councillor of Tivoli, recovered the body 
and buried it in the suburbs. On the following day 
her sons were brought before the same temple and im- 
paled in various modes, after which their bodies were 
thrown into a deep pit, which subsequently became 
known as the pit ud septem bioihanutos. The persecu- 
tion then rested for a year and a half, during which pe- 
riod the remains of the martyrs were interred on the 
Via Tiburtina and honored as they deserved. The na- 
talities of Svmphorosa and her sons are observed on 
July 18 (see Ruinart, Acta Primorum Martyrum, p. 
18). The legend exists in manuscript form among the 
writings falsely ascribed to Julius African us. and may 
have originated in the third century, though the con- 
tents do not harmonize well with the known ordinary 
conduct of Hadrian. Ruinart supposes the probable pe- 
riod of the occurrence to have been A.D. 120. See also 
t lie ,4 eta SS. sub J uly 18. — Herzog, Ileal-Encyklop. s. v. 

Symposia (avpiroaia, banquets) is a word occa- 
sionally used by ecclesiastical writers to describe the 
ancient agnpie (q. v.). These symposia were held at the 


SYMPSON 


1 \ 


SYNAGOGUE 


graves of the martyrs; and the festival was designed to 
be, not only a memorial of the deceased, but, according to 
Origen, “an odor of a sweet smell in the sight of (iod 
for the poor and needy, the widows and orphans, met 
together, and were, refreshed by the charity of the rich. 

Sympson, Cutiikert, a layman and a deaeon of 
the Congregational Church at Islington, of which Iiuft 
(or Bough) was pastor. He was arrested Dec. 13, 1557, 
and tortured, being racked three times to make him 
divulge the members of the Protestant Church of which 
he was deaeon. lie was eventually burned at Smith- 
field, March 28, 1558. See Punehard, llist. of Congre- 
gationalism, ii, 326, 347. 

Synagogue (<r uraymyij ; other equivalent terms 
are 7rpo(rev\i} or TrpoatvKriifnov, i.e. chapel ; Ileb. 
bx, or assembly of God; Aramaic XP w2D “C, XP'^SZ), 
the Jewish place of worship in post-Biblical and mod- 
ern times. (We here freely avail ourselves of Gins- 
burg’s article in Kitto’s Cyclopadia , with large addi- 
tions, especially from Smith’s Did. of the Bible.') See 
Judaism. 

It may be well to note at the outset the points of 
contact between the history and ritual of the syna- 
gogues of the Jews, and the facts to which the inquiries 
of the Biblical student are principally directed. 1. 
They meet us as the great characteristic institution of 
the later phase of Judaism. More even than the Tem- 
ple and its services, in the time of which the New Test, 
treats, they at once represented and determined the re- 
ligious life of the people. 2. We cannot separate them 
from the most intimate connection with our Lord’s life 
and ministry. In them he worshipped in his youth 
and in his manhood. Whatever we can learn of the 
ritual which then prevailed tells us of a worship which 
he recognised and sanctioned; which for that reason, 
if for no other, though, like the statelier services of the 
Temple, it was destined to pass away, is worthy of our 
respect and honor. They were the scenes, too, of no 
small portion of his work. In them were wrought some 
of his mightiest works of healing (Matt, xii, 9; Mark 
i, 23; Luke xiii, 11). In them were spoken some of 
the most glorious of his recorded words (iv, 16; John 
vi, 59) ; many more, beyond all reckoning, which are 
not recorded (Matt, iv, 23; xiii, 54; John xviii, 20, 
etc.). 3. There are the questions, leading us back to 
a remoter past, In what did the worship of the syna- 
gogue originate? What type was it intended to repro- 
duce? What customs, alike in nature, if not in name, 
served as the starting-point for it? 4. The syna- 
gogue, with all that belonged to it, was connected with 
the future as well as with the past. It was the order 
with which the first Christian believers were most fa- 
miliar, from which they were most likely to take the 
outlines, or even the details, of the worship, organiza- 
tion, and government of their own society. Widely 
divergent as the two words and the things they rep- 
resented afterwards became, the ecclesia had its start- 
ing-point in the synagogue. 

I. Name and its Signification. — The word (rurayutyt), 
which literally signifies a gathering , is not unknown in 
classical Greek (Thuevd. ii, 18; Plato, Republ. 526 D), 
but became prominent in that of the Hellenists. It 
appears in the Sept, as the translation of not less than 
twenty-one Hebrew words in which the idea of a gath- 
ering is implied (Troram, Concordant, s. v.). But, al- 
though the word is there used to denote any kind of 
gathering , heap, mass, or assemblage , such as a gather- 
ing of fruits (for the Ileb. TDK, rpOX, Exod. xxiii, 16; 
xxxiv, 22), of water (Cip*2, mp^, Gen. i, 9; Lev. xi, 
36), a heap of stones (bs, Job vi ii, 17), a band of singers 
(bin*2, Jer. xxxi, 4, 13), a mass or multitude of people 
or soldiers (HSDX, b* 1 !"!, Isa. xxiv, 22; Ezek. xxxvii, 
10), a tribe or family (r n 2, I Kings xii, 21), etc., yet 
its predominant usage in this version is to denote an 


appointed meeting of people either for civil or religious 
purposes, thus being synonymous with ttac\i]<jta. This 
is evident from the fact that the Sept, uses avraywyt) 
130 times for the Hebrew m^, and twenty-five times 
for bnp, which in seventy instances is rendered in the 
same version by tKKXijoia. The synonymous usage in 
the Sept, of these two expressions is also seen in Prov. 
v, 14, where hack)) via and array toy t) stand in juxta- 
position for the Hebrew blip and mr. In the books 
of the Apocrypha, the word, as in those of the Old Test., 
retains its general meaning, and is not used specifically 
for any recognised place of worship. For this the re- 
ceived phrase seems to be ro7rog 7rpocrfuyy)t,‘ (1 Mace, 
iii, 46; 3 Mace, vii, 20). In the New Test., however, we 
rind avvayioyt), like buckifaia, used metonyinically, more 
especially for an appointed and recognised Jewish place 
of worship (Matt, iv, 23; vi, 2, 5; ix, 35, etc.). Some- 
times the word is applied to the tribunal which was 
connected with or sat in the synagogue in the narrower 
sense (Matt, x, 17; xxiii, 34; Mark xiii, 9; Luke xxi, 
12; xii, 11). Within the limits of the Jewish Church 
it perhaps kept its ground as denoting the place of 
meeting of the Christian brethren (James ii, 2). It seems 
to have been claimed by some of the pseudo- Judaizing, 
half- Gnostic sects of the Asiatic churches for their 
meetings (Lev. ii, 9). It was not altogether obsolete, 
as applied to Christian meetings, in the time of Ig- 
natius {Bp. ad Trail, c. v; ad Polyc. c. iii). Even in 
Clement of Alexandria the two words appear united as 
they had done in the Sept. {iiri r?)r arraymygr truki}- 
aiag, Strom, vi, 633). Afterwards, when the chasm be- 
tween Judaism and Christianity became wider, Chris- 
tian writers were fond of dwelling on the meanings of 
the two words which practically represented them, and 
showing how far the synagogue was excelled by the 
ecclesia (August. Knurr, in J*sa. Lrxx ; Trench, Syno- 
nyms of X. T. § 1). The cognate word, however, arr- 
a£ig, was formed or adopted in its place, and applied to 
the highest act of worship and communion for which 
Christians met (Suieer, Thesaur. s. v.). 

More definite than the Greek term synagogue is the 
ancient Hebrew name, beth tephilldh ( ilbsri 
roTrog Trpoahv\i)g, or simply 7rpoaev\i)) = house of 
prayer (Acts xvi, 13, for which the Syriac rightly has 
Josephus, Life, 54), which is now obso- 
lete, or beth hak-keneseth (rp!~n r^3) — house of 
assembly, which has superseded it. This definite local 
signification of the term synagogue among the Jews 
has necessitated the use of another expression for the 
members constituting the assembly, which is 
or to express our secondary sense of the word 

innkijaia. 

II. History of the Origin and Development of the 
Synagogue. — 1. According to tradition, the patriarchs 
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob instituted the prayers three 
times a day {Berakoth, 26 b), and had places of worship 
(comp, the Chaldee paraphrases of Onkelos, Jonathan 
ben-Uzziel, and the Jerusalem Targum on Gen. xxiv. 
62, 63 ; xxv, 27). We are informed that there were 
synagogues in the time of the pious king Ilezekiah 
{Sanhedrin, 94 b) ; that the great house (b*n)i PP2) 
was a stupendous synagogue ; that the many houses 
of Jerusalem (D^b'CJTH ^T2) which Nebuchadnezzar 
burned (2 Kings xxv, 9) were the celebrated 480 syna- 
gogues that existed in Jerusalem (Jerusalem Megillah, 
iii, 1), and that in Babylon the synagogue was to be 
seen in which Daniel used to prav {Krnbin, 21 a). We 
have the testimony of Benjamin of Tudcla, the cele- 
brated traveller of the Middle Ages, that he himself 
saw r the synagogues built by Moses, David, Obadiah, 
Nahum, and Ezra {Itinerary, i, 90, 91, 92, 106, 153, ed. 
Ascher [London, 1840]). It is in harmony v'ith this 
tradition that James declares “Moses of old time hath 


SYNAGOGUE 


SYNAGOGUE 


in every city them that preach him. being read in the 
synagogues every Sabbath day” (Acts xv, 2i ; comp. 
Philo, ii, 167,030; Josephus, Ajnon. ii, IS; Baba Kama, 
S2 a; Jerusalem Megillah, iv, i). But these are simply 
traditions, which love to invest everything with the 
halo of the remotest antiquity. 

2. In the Old Test, itself we find no trace of meet- 
ings for worship in synagogues, < >n the one hand, it is 
probable that if new moons and Sabbaths were observed 
at all, they must have been attended by some celebra- 
tion apart from, as well as at, the tabernacle or the 
Temple (l Sam. xx, 5; 2 Kings iv, 23). On the other, 
so far as we find traces of such local worship, it seems 
to have fallen too readily into a fetich religion, sacri- 
fices to ephods and teraphim (Jtulg. viii, 27 ; xvii. 5) in 
groves and on high-places, alluring nothing but a contrast 
to the “ reasonable service,” the prayers, psalms, instruc- 
tion in the law, of the later synagogue. The special 
mission of the priests and Levites under Jehoshaphat 
(2 Chron. xvii. 7-9) shows that there was no regular 
provision for reading the “ book of t lie law of the Lord” 
to the people, and makes it probable that even the rule 
which prescribed that it should be read once every 
seven years at the Feast of Tabernacles had fallen into 
disuse (I)eut. xxxi, 10). With the rise of the prophetic 
order we trace a more distinct though still a partial ap- 
proximation. Wherever there was a company of such 
prophets, there must have been a life analogous in many 
of its features to that of the later Kssenes and Thera- 
peutic, to that of the canobia and monasteries of Chris- 
tendom. In the abnormal state of the polity of Israel 
under Samuel, they appear to have aimed at purifying 
the worship of the high-places from idolatrous associa- 
tions, and met on fixed days for sacrifice and psalmody 
(1 Sam. ix, 12; x, 5). The scene in 1 Sam. xix, 20-24 
indicates that the meetings were open to any worship- 
pers who might choose to come, as well as to “ the sons 
of the prophet,” the brothers of the order themselves. 
The only pre-exilian instance which seems to indicate 
that the devout in Israel were in the habit of resorting 
to pious leaders for blessings and instruction oil stated 
occasions is to be found in 2 Kings iv, 23, where the 
Shunammite’s husband asks, “ Wherefore wilt thou 
go to him (Elisha) to-day? It is neither new moon 
nor Sabbath.” Yet 2 Kings xxii, 8, etc. ; 2 Chron. 
xxxiv, 14, etc., testify undoubtedly against the exist- 
ence of places of worship under the monarchy. The 
date of Psa. lxxiv is too uncertain for us to draw, any 
inference as to the nature of the “synagogues of God” 
(5X ^ *11* 1*3, meeting-places of God), which the invaders 
are. represented as destroying (ver. 8). It may have 
belonged to the time of the Assyrian or Chaldican in- 
vasion (Yitringa, be Bynag. p. 39G-405). It has been 
referred to that of the Maccabees (De Wotte, Psalmen , 
ad loc.), or to an intermediate period when Jerusalem 
was taken and the land laid waste by the army of 
Bagoses, under Artaxerxes II (Ewald, Poet. Bitch, ii, 
358). The “assembly of t he elders,” in Psa. evii, 32, 
leaves us in like uncertainty. 

3. During the Exile, in the abeyance of the Temple 
worship, the meetings of devout Jews probably became 
more systematic (Yitringa, I)e Bynag. p. 413-420; Jost, 
Judenthum, i, 1G8; Bornitius, l)e Bynagog. in ITgolino, 
Thesanr. xxi), and must have helped forward the 
change which appears so conspicuously at the time of 
the lietnrn. The repeated mention of gatherings of the 
elders of Israel, sitting before t lie prophet Ezekiel and 
hearing his word (Ezck. viii, 1 ; xiv, l ; xx, 1; xxxiii, 
31), implies the transfer to the laud of the Captivity of 
the custom that had originated in the schools of the 
prophets. One remarkable passage may possibly con- 
tain a more distinct reference to them. Those who 
still remained in Jerusalem taunted the prophet and his 
companions with tlieir exile, as outcasts from the bless- 
ings of the sanctuary. “Get ye far from the Lord; 
unto us is this land given in a possession.” The proph- 


et’s answer is that it was not so. Jehovah was as truly 
with them in tlieir “little sanctuary” as he had been 
in the Temple at Jerusalem. II is presence, not the 
outward glory, was itself tlie sanctuary (xi, 15, 1G). 
The whole history of Ezra presupposes the habit of sol- 
emn, probably of periodic, meetings (Ezra viii, 15; Neh. 
viii, 2; ix, 1 ; Zech. vii, 5). To that period, accord- 
ingly, we may attribute the revival, if not the institu- 
tion, of synagogues, or at least of the systematic meet- 
ings on fasts Ibr devotion and instruction (Zech. viii, 
10). Keligious meetings were also held on Sabbaths 
and fasts to instruct the exiles in the divine law, and to 
admonish them to obey the divine precepts (Ezra x, 1 
0; Neh. viii, 1, 3; ix, 1-3; xiii, 1-3). These meetings, 
held near the Temple and in other localities, were the 
origin of the synagogue, and the place in which the 
people assembled was denominated TO- in r*-, the 
house of assembly ; lienee, also, the synagogue in the 
Temple itself. The elders of this synagogue handed 
the law to the high-priest (Mishna, Yoma , vii, I ; Botah , 
vii, 7, 8), aided in the sacrifices (! Tamil! , v, 5), took 
charge of the palms used at the Feast of Tabernacles 
(Sukkuh, iv, 4), accompanied the pilgrims who brought 
tlieir lirst-lruits ( Tosiphta Bikkurim , ii), officiated as 
judges (J fakkoth, iii, 12), and superintended the infant- 
schools ( Sabbath , i, 3). Assuming Ewald’s theory as 
to the date and occasion of Psa. lxxiv, there must, at 
some subsequent period, have been a great destruction 
of the buildings, and a consequent suspension of the 
services. It is, at anv rate, striking that they are not 
in any way prominent in the Maecabiean history, either 
as objects of attack or ral lying-points of defence, unless 
we are to see in the gathering of the persecuted Jews 
at Masplia (Mizpali), as at a “place where they prayed 
aforetime in Israel” (1 Macc. iii, 4G), not only a remi- 
niscence of its old glory as a holy place, but the contin- 
uance of a more recent custom. When that struggle 
was over, there appears to have been a freer develop- 
ment of what may be called the synagogue parochial 
system among the Jews of Palestine and other coun- 
tries. The influence of John llyrcanus, the growing 
power of the Pharisees, the authority of the Scribes, the 
example, probably, of the Jews of the “ dispersion” (Yi- 
tringa, l)e Bynay. p.426), would all tend in the same di- 
rection. Well-nigh every town or village had its one 
or more synagogues. Where the Jews were not in suf- 
ficient numbers to be able to erect and fill a building, 
there was the 7 rpo<jtv\t), or place of prayer, sometimes 
open, sometimes covered in, commonly by a running 
stream or on the sea-shore, in which devout Jews and 
proselytes met to worship, and, perhaps, to read (Acts 

xvi, 13; Josephus, Ant. xiv, 10, 23; Juvenal, Sat. iii, 
20G). Sometimes the term TTjOocrfnY)/ (==n^sn r n 2) 
was applied even to an actual synagogue (Josephus, 
Life, § 54). Eventually we find the Jews possessing 
synagogues in the different cities of Syria, Asia Minor, 
Greece, Egypt, and wherever they resided. Wo. hear 
of the apostles frequenting the synagogues in Damas- 
cus, Antioch, lconium, Thessalonica, Berea, Athens, 
Corinth, Ephesus, etc. (Acts ix, 2, 20 ; xiii, 14; xiv, 1 ; 

xvii, i, 10, 17; xviii, 4, 19; xix, 8). There were nu- 
merous synagogues in Palestine; in Nazareth (Matt, 
xiii, 54, Mark vi, 2; Luke iv, 16), Capernaum (Matt, 
xii, 9; Mark i,21 : Luke vii, 5; John vi,59),etc.; and 
in Jerusalem alone there were 480 (Jerusalem Megillah, 
iii, 1 ; Jerusalem Kethuboth, xiii) to accommodate the 
Jews from foreign lands who visited the Temple. 
There were synagogues of the Libertines, Cyrenians, 
Alexandrians, Cificians, and of the Asiatics (Acts vi, 9; 
comp. Tosiphta Megillah, ii; Babylon Megillah , 2G a). 
When it is remembered that more than 2,500,000 Jews 
came together to the metropolis from all countries 
to celebrate the Passover (Josephus, vDtf.vi, 9, 3; Pe- 
sachim, G4 a), this number of synagogues in Jerusalem 
will not appear at all exaggerated. An idea may be 
formed of the large number of Jews at the time of 


SYNAGOGUE 


73 


SYNAGOGUE 


Christ, when it is borne in mind that in Egypt alone, 
from the Mediterranean to the border of Ethiopia, there 
resided nearly a million of Jews (Philo, Against Flac- 
cus, ii, 5*23); and that in Syria, especially in the me- 
tropolis, Antioch, the Jews constituted a large portion 
of the population (Griitz [2d ed.], iii, 282). 

III. Mite, > Structure , Internal Arrangement, Use , and 
Sanctity of the Synagogue.— 1. Taking the Temple as 
the prototype, and following the traditional explana- 
tion of the passages in Prov. i, 21 and Ezra ix, 9, which 
are taken to mean that the voice of prayer is to be 
raised on heights (X^pD 0503), and that the sanctu- 
ary was therefore erected on a summit (PX CCllb 
D*nbx n n 3), the Jewish canons decreed that syna- 



gogues are to be built upon the most elevated ground 
in the neighborhood, and that 
no house is to be allowed to over- 
top them ( Tosiphta MegillahAvr, 
Maimonides, lad Ha-Ckezaka 
IJilchoth Tephila, xi, 2). So es- 
sential was this law deemed, and 
so strictly was it observed in Per- 
sia, even after the destruction of 
Probable Represeuta- the Temple, that Rab (A.D.1G5- 
tion of an Ancient \ , \ ■ e 

Synagogue. ( From - 4/ ) prophesied a speedy rum of 
a stone in the ruined those cities in which houses were 
synagogue at Tell permitted to tower above the 
iun ’^ synagogue, while rabbi Ashi de- 

clared that the protection of Sora was owing to the ele- 
vated site of its synagogues (Sabbath, 11 a). Lieut. 
Kitchener, however, states ( Qnar . Statement of the “ Pal. 
Explor. Fund,” July, 1878, p. 123 sq.) that the ruins of 
the fourteen specimens of ancient synagogues extant in 
Palestine (all in Galilee) do not correspond to these Tal- 
mudieal requirements as to location, nor yet to those be- 
low as to position ; for they are frequent ly in rather a low 
site, and face the south if possible. Failing of a com- 
manding site, a tall pole rose from the roof to render it 
conspicuous (Leyrer, in Herzog’s Ileal- Encyklop. s. v.). 

The riverside outside the city was also deemed a 
suitable spot for building the synagogue, because, be- 
ing removed from the noise of the city, the people 
could worship God without distraction, and, at the same 
time, have the use of pure water for immersions and 
other religious exercises (Acts xvi, 13; Josephus, Ant. 
xiv, 10, 23 ; Juvenal, Sat. iii. 12, etc.; see also the Chal- 
dee versions on Gen. xxiv, G2). See Puoseucha. 

The building was commonly erected at the cost of 
the district, whether by a church-rate levied for the 
purpose, or by free gifts, must remain uncertain (Vitrin- 
ga, De Synagog. p. 229). Sometimes it was built by a 
rich Jew, or even, as in Luke vii, 5, by a friendly prose- 
lyte. In the later stages of Eastern Judaism it was 


often erected, like the mosques of Mohammedans, near 
the tombs of famous rabbins or holy men. 

2. The size of a synagogue, like that of a church or 
chapel, varied with the population. We have no rea- 
son for believing that there were any fixed laws of 
proportion for its dimensions, like those which are 
traced in the tabernacle and the Temple. 

The building itself was generally in the form of a 
theatre; the door was usually on the west, so that, on 
entering, the worshippers might at once face the front, 
which was turned towards Jerusalem, since the law is 
that “all the worshippers in Israel are to have their 
faces turned to that part of the world where Jerusalem, 
the Temple, and the. Holy of Holies are” ( Berakoth , 

30 a). This law, which is deduced from 1 Kings viii, 
29; Psa. xxviii, 2, and the allegorical interpretation of 
Song of Songs iv, 4, also obtained among the early 
Christians (Origen, Horn. v. in i Vum. in Opp. ii, 284) and 
the Mohammedans (Koran, e. ii). See Keblaii. Hence 
all the windows are said to have been generally in the 
eastern wall, so that the worshippers might look towards 
the holy city, in accordance with Dan. vi, 10. 

Like the Temple, the synagogue was frequently with- 
out a roof, as may be seen from the following remark of 
Epiphanius: “There were anciently places of prayer 
without the city, both among the Jews and the Samar- 
itans; . . . there was a place of prayer at Sichem, now 
called Xeapolis, without the city in the fields, in the 
form of a theatre, open to the air, and without cover- 
ing, built by the Samaritans, who in all things imitated 
the Jews” (Contr. Ilceres. lib. iii, ha?r. 80). It was this, 
coupled with the fact that the Jews had no images, 
which gave rise to the satirical remark of Juvenal — 
“Nil praeter uubes et eceli uumen adorant.” 

{Sat. xiv, 98.) 

In some places there were temporary summer and 
whiter synagogues; they were pulled down and re-ereet- 
ed at the beginning of each season, so that the style 
of building might be according to the period of the 
year (Baba Bathra , 3 b). 

3. In the internal arrangement of the synagogue we 
trace an obvious analogy, mutatis mutandis, to the type 
of the tabernacle. At the wall opposite the entrance, 
or at the Jerusalem end, stood the wooden chest or ark 
(POP) containing the scrolls of the law. It stood on 
a raised base with several steps (be ZO = subsellium, 
Xi\“H, Jerusalem Megilhth, iii, 1), which the priests 
mounted when they pronounced the benediction (Numb, 
vi, 24-2G) upon the congregation. Hence the phrase 
“pnb rr?V, which was retained after the destruction 
of the Temple to describe the act of giving the bene- 
diction to the people by the priests ( Rosh Ua-Shanah, 

31 b; Sabbath, 118 b). It is necessary to bear in mind 



Plan of Ruiued Synagogue at Tell Hum. 


that the ancient name for this ark is POP (comp. 
Mishna, Berakoth, v, 3, 4; Taanith, ii, 1, 2; Me- 
gillah , iv, 4. etc.), the name afterwards given to it 
(VPX) being reserved for the ark-of-the-eovenant 
table, which was wanting in the second Temple. 
There was a canopy (PSj^S) spread over the ark, 
under which were kept the vestments used during 
the service (Jerusalem Megillah , iii). In some 
places the ark or chest had two compartments, the 
upper one containing the scrolls of the law. and the 
lower the synagogieal garments of the officers of 
the community. The ark was not fastened to the 
wall, but was free, so that it might easily be tak- 
en outside the door of the synagogue in case a 
death occurred in the place of worship, in order 
that the priests should be able to attend the ser- 
vice; or be removed into the streets when fasts 
and days of humiliation were kept (Mishna, Ta- 
anith, ii, l). See Fast. In later times, however, 
a recess was made in the wall, and the ark was 
kept there. This recess was called the Sanctuary 
(bz^P, uiip). The same thought was sometimes 


SYNAGOGUE 


4 


SYNAGOGUE 


read ( Yoma, 68 b : 
MegiUah. 26 b ; .Jeru- 
salem MegiUah , iii). 
The reading-desk was 
covered with a cloth 


(XO^E), which va- 
ried in costliness ac- 
cording to the cir- 
cumstances of the 
congregat ion (Megil- 
/<//*, 20 b). When the 
edifice was large this 
platform was gener- 
ally in the centre, as 
was the case in the 
synagogue at Alex- 
andria (Hukkah, 51 b). 

There were also 
arm-chairs fp““Trp, 

r^x-nrj? = K azl- 

CjO«/,j“ !“I25p — k \ iv - 
T?iptc), or scats of 
honor (7rpiorot;a$t- 
Ipicn), for the elders 
of the synagogue, the 
doctors of the law. 


etc. (Watt, xxiii, 2, 6 : 


INI ark xii, 81); Luke 
xi. 43 ; tiukkah, 51 b ; 
M aim on ides, H it- 
ch olh 7'tphila, x. 4), 

Jewish Syuagogue iu Amsterdam. to NV i,ieli the wcnlthv 


developed still further in the name of Kophereth, or | 
Yerev-seat, given to the lid or door of the chest, and 
in the veil which hung before it (Yitringa, p. 181). On 
certain occasions the ark was removed from the recess 
and placed on the rostrum (IT^E. — j8///ia) in the mid- 
dle of the synagogue ( Tosiphta Megillah, iii; Maimon- 
ides, lad Ha -Chezaka Ililchoth fa/lab, vii, 23). See 
Tauekxacles, Feast or. Within the ark, as above 
stated, were the rolls of the sacred books. The rollers 
round which they were wound were often elaborately 
decorated, the cases for them embroidered or enamelled, 
according to their material. Such cases were customary 
offerings from the rich when they brought their infant 
children on the first anniversary of their birthday to be 
blessed by the rabbi of the synagogue. 

In front of the ark was the desk of the leader of 
the divine worship; and as the place of the ark was 
amphitheatral, the desk was sometimes lower and some- 
times higher than the level of the room. Hence the 
interchangeable phrases “he v'ho descends before the ark" 
(n:TH ■'IS? TlYH) and “he who ascends before the 
ark" (ns^rJl ‘'IS? *,nrn) used to designate the 
leader of divine worship in the synagogue (IMishna, 
Taamth , ii, 2; Berakoth, v, 4; Hash ila-Shanah , iv, 7 ; 
Mefjillah . iv, 3, 5, 7, etc.). 

'fhe next important piece of furniture was the ros- ^ 
trum or platform (yV n*:'S=/3 gpa, 

capable of containing several persons (Xeh. viii. 4: ix, 
4; Josephus, A nt. iv, 8, 12). On this platform the les- 
sons from the law and the prophets were read, dis- 
courses delivered, etc. (Mishua, Bofah, viii, 8; Babylon 
Hnkkahybl b; Meyilluh,2C> b). See II aimitak.mi. There 
were no arrangements made at first for laying duwn the 
law while reading, and the one upon whom it devolved 
to read a portion of the perieope had to hold the roll in 
his hand till the second one came up to read, and re- 
lieved him of it. Afterwards, however, there was a 
reading-desk (“ l "?*'?IX = «i' 0 /\oyti'or) on this platform, 
and the roll of the law was laid down during pauses, 
or when the methurgeman = interpreter) was 

reciting in the vernacular of the country the portion 


and honored wor- 
shipper was invited (James ii, 2, 3). They were placed 
in front of the ark containing the law, or at the Jeru- 
salem end, in the uppermost part of the synagogue, and 
these distinguished persons sat with their faces to 
the people, while the congregation stood facing both 
these honorable ones and the ark ( Tosiphta MegiUah, 
iii). Iu the synagogue at Alexandria there were sev- 
enty-one golden chairs, according to the number of the 
members of the Great Sanhedrim (Bnkkah, 51 b). See 
Sanhedrim. In the synagogue of Bagdad “the as- 
cent to the holy ark rvas composed of ten marble steps, 
on the uppermost of which were the stalls set apart lor 
the prince of the Captivity and the other princes of the 
house of David” (Benjamin of Tudela, Itinerary, i, 105, 
ed. Aschor, Loud. 1840). 

There was, moreover, a perpetual light. (T* “*2), 
which was evidently in imitation of the Temple light 
(Exod. xxviii, 20). This sacred light was religiously 
fed by the people, and in case of any special mercy 
vouchsafed to an individual, or of threatening danger, a 
certain quantity of oil was vowed for the perpetual lamp. 
This light was the symbol of the human soul (Brov. 
xx, 27), of the divine law (vi, 23), and of the manifes- 
tation of God (Ezek. xliii, 2). It must, however, be re- 
marked that though the perpetual lamp forms an es- 
sential part of the svnagogical furniture to the present 
day, and has obtained among tbe Indians, Greeks. Ko- 
mans, and other nations of antiquity (llosemn idler, Mor- 
genland , ii. 156). yet there is no mention made of it in 
the Talmud. Other lamps, brought by devout worship- 
pers, were lighted at the beginning of the Sabbath, i. e. 
on Friday evening (Yitringa, p. 198). 

As part of the liftings, we have .also to note (1) an- 
other chest for the Haphtaroth, or rolls of the prophets; 
(2) Alms-boxes at or near tbe door, after the pattern of 
those at the Temple, one for the poor of Jerusalem, the 
! other for local charities; (3) Notice-boards, on which 
were written the names of offenders who had been “put 
out of the synagogue;” (4) A chest for trumpets and 
other musical instruments, used at the New- Years, Sab- 
baths, and other festivals (Yitringa, Leyrer, toe . cif.). 

The congregation was divided, men on one side, worn- 



SYNAGOGUE 


SYNAGOGUE 


7 

en on the other, a low partition, live or six feet high, 
running between them (Philo, De 1 7V. Contempl. ii, 470). 
The arrangements of modern synagogues, lor many cen- 
turies, have made the separation more complete by 
placing the women in low side-galleries, screened off by 
lattice-work (Leo of Modena, in l'icart, Cerern. Hetty, i). 

4. Besides meetings for worship, the synagogues, or, 
more properly, the rooms connected with them, were 
also used as courts of justice for the local Sanhedrim 
( Tar gum Jonathan on Amos v, 12, 15; Jerusalem San- 
hedrin, i, 1 ; Jerusalem Baba Metsia , ii, 8; Babylon Ke- 
thubotl ?, 5 a; Sabbath, 150 a), and in it the beadle of 
the synagogue administered the forty stripes save one 
to those who were sentenced to be beaten (Mishna, 
Makkoth , iii, 12 ; comp. Matt, x, 17 ; xxiii,34). Travel- 
lers, too, found an asylum in the synagogue; meals were 
eaten in it ( Pesachim , 101 ; Beresliith Babba, c. xlv), 
and children were instructed therein (Kiddushin, 30 a; 
Baba Buthra , 21 a; Taanith , 24 b; Berakoth. 17 a; 
Yebcimoth, 65 b). This, however, did not detract from 
its sanctity; for the synagogue once used for the divine 
worship was only allowed to be sold on certain condi- 
tions (Mishna, Megillah, iii, i, 2). When the building 
was finished, it was set apart, as the Temple had been, 
by a special prayer of dedication. From that time it 
had a consecrated character. The common acts of life, 
such as reckoning up accounts, were forbidden in it. No 
one was to pass through it as a short cut. Even if it 
ceased to be used, the building was not to be applied to 
any base purpose — might not be turned, e. g., into a 
bath, a laundry, or a tannery. A scraper stood outside 
the door that men might rid themselves, before they 
entered, of anything that would be defiling (Leyrer, loc. 
cit„ and Vitringa). 

IV. The Offcers and Government of the Synagogue . — 
The synagogues of the respective towns were governed 
by the elders (E2pT, irptafionpoi, Luke vii, 3), who 
constituted the local Sanhedrim, consisting either of the 
twenty-three senators or the three senators assisted by 
four principal members of the congregation ( Megillah , 
27 ; Josephus, A nt . iv, 8, 14 ; 11 r ar, ii, 20, 5 ; Acts vii, 5 ; 
xxi,8), as this depended upon the size and population 
of the place. See Saxiiedium. Hence these author- 
ized administrators of the law were alternately denomi- 
nated shepherds (D^p^HD ^iroifftreg, Jerusalem Peak, 
viii ; Babylon Chagigah, 60 ; Sabbath, 17 a; Acts xx, 28; 
Eph. iv, 11), the rulers of the synagogue , and the chiefs 
(PODZil A’i*X^ = n/o^;t(Tui'«y&ryoi, dp\ovTfg, Matt, ix, 
18, 23; Mark v, 22; Luke viii, 41; Acts xiii, 15) and 
overseers = 7rpoEGTioreg, Mishna, Tamil , v, 1). 

The president of the Sanhedrim was ex officio the 
head or chief of the synagogue, and was therefore, tear 
t£o\7;r, the ruler of the synagogue (Mislma, Yomu,v ii, l ; 
Sotak, vii, 7), while the other members of this body, ac- 
cording to their various gifts, discharged the different 
functions in the synagogue (1 Tim. v, 17), as will be seen 
from the following classification. See Hioh-pkiest. 

1. The Ruler of the Synagogue (PODSH CXI = dpx 
avvciyioyog) and his two Associates. — Though the su- 
preme official, like the two other members of the local 
court, had to be duly examined by delegates from the 
Great Sanhedrim, who certified that he possessed all 
the necessary qualifications for his office (Maimonides, 
lad lla-Chezaka Ililchoth Sanhedrin, ii, 8), yet his elec- 
tion entirely depended upon the suffrages of the mem- 
bers of the synagogue. The Talmud distinctly declares 
that “no ruler (C:p2 -7roipt]v) is appointed over a 
congregation unless the congregation is consulted” 
{Berakoth, 55 a). But, once elected, the ruler was the 
third in order of precedence in the Temple synagogue — 
i. e. first came the high-priest, then the chief of the 
priests (]}p), and then the ruler of the synagogue 
(Mishna, Yoma, vii, 1 ; Sotak, vii, 7), while in the pro- 
vincial synagogues t lie respective rulers were supreme, 


5 

and had the principal voice in the decision and dis- 
tribution of the other offices. II is two judicial col- 
leagues aided him in the administration of the law. 
See Ahciii-synagooues. 

2. The Three A Imoners (Sljr*T!2 ">JX!S|i = &aK:6i'ot ; Phil, 
i, 1 ; l Tim. iii, 8, 12; iv, 6). — The office of almoner was 
both very responsible and difficult, as the poor-taxes 
were of a double nature; and in periodically collecting 
and distributing the alms the almoner had to exercise 
great discretion from whom to demand them and to 
whom to give them. There were, first, the alms of the 
dish (^npn), consisting of articles of food which had 
to be collected by the officials daily, and distributed 
every evening, and to which every one had to contrib- 
ute who resided thirty days in one place; and there 
were, secondly, Me alms of the box (HD^ip), consisting 
of money which w r as collected every Friday, was dis- 
tributed weekly, and to which every one had to con- 
tribute who resided ninety days in one place. Two au- 
thorized persons had to collect the former and three the 
latter. They were obliged to keep together, and were 
not allowed to put into their pockets any money thus 
received, but were to throw it into the poor-box. The 
almoners had the power of exempting from these poor- 
rates such people as they believed to be unable to pay, 
and to enforce the tax on such as pretended not to be 
in a position to contribute. They had also the power 
to refuse alms to any whom they deemed unworthy of 
them. All the three almoners had to be present at the 
distribution of the alms. The greatest care was taken 
by the rulers of the synagogue and the congregation 
that those elected to this office should be “men of hon- 
esty, wisdom, justice, and have the confidence of the 
people” ( Baba Bathra, 8 ; A boda Sara, 18 ; Taanith, 24 ; 
Maimonides, lad lla-Chezaka Ililchoth Mathcnath An - 
yim, ix). Brothers were ineligible to this office; the 
almoners (npTS , pD3~2) were not allowed to 

be near relations, and had to be elected by the unani- 
mous voice of the people (Jerusalem Peah, viii). 

3. The Legate of the Congregation, or the Leader of 
Divine Worship (*"Z-i rrV.2 = dyytXog tKKXtjaiag, 
cnroaroXog ). — To give unity and harmony to the wor- 
ship, as well as to enable the congregation to take part 
in the responses, it was absolutely necessary to have 
one who should lead the worship. Hence, as soon as 
the legal number required for public worship had as- 
sembled (“p273), the ruler of the synagogue (C:~2 = 
7 TQipijv), or, in his absence, the elders (C^pi — irpta- 
j3vrepoi), delegated one of the congregation to go up 
before the ark to conduct divine service. The function 
of the apostle of the ecclesia (TC3 rpVr) was not 
permanently vested in any single individual ordained 
for this purpose, but was alternately conferred upon any 
lay member who was supposed to possess the qualifica- 
tions necessary for offering up prayer in the name of 
the congregation. This is evident from the reiterated 
declarations both in the Mishna and the Talmud. Thus 
we are told that any one who is not under thirteen 
years of age, and whose garments are not in rags, may 
officiate before the ark (Mishna, Megillah, iv, 6); that 
“if one is before the ark [ = ministers for the congrega- 
tion], and makes a mistake [in the prayer], another 
one is to minister in his stead, and he is not to decline 
it on such an occasion” (Mishna, Bey'akoth , v, 3). “ The 
sages have transmitted that he who is asked to conduct 
public worship is to delay a little at first, saying that he 
is unworthy of it; and if he does not delay, he is like 
unto a dish wherein is no salt; and if he delays more 
than is necessary, he is like unto a dish which the salt 
has spoiled. How is he to do it? The first time he is 
asked, he is to decline; the second time, he is to stir; 
and the third time, he is to move his legs and ascend 
before the ark” ( Berakoth , 34 b). Even on the most 
solemn occasions, w hen the whole congregation fasted 


SYNAGOGUE 


7 G 


SYNAGOGUE 


and assembled with the president, and vice-president of 
the Sanhedrim tor national humiliation and prayer, no 
staled minister is spoken of; but it is said that one of 
t lie aged men present is to deliver a penitential ad- 
dress, and another is to oiler up the solemn prayers 
(Mishna, Taanith , ii, 1-4). See Fast. On ordinary 
occasions, however, the rabbins, who were the rulers of 
the synagogue, asked their disciples to act as officiating 
ministers before the ark ( Berakoth , 34 a). Hut since 
the sages declared that “ if the legate of the congrega- 
tion = dyyt\og irfcXpaiag, cnroaroXog) 

commits a mistake while officiating, it is a bad omen 
for the congregation who delegated him, because a 
man’s deputy is like the man himself” (Mishna, Bera- 
koth , v, 5) ; and, moreover, siuee it was felt that he who 
conducts public worship should botli be able to sympa- 
thize with the wants of the people and possess all the 
moral qualifications befitting so holy a mission, it was 
afterwards ordained that “even if an elder ("p7 rpia- 
f36repog) or sage is present in the congregation, he is 
not to he asked to officiate before the ark ; but that man 
is to be delegated who is apt to officiate, who has chil- 
dren, whose family are free from vice, who has a proper 
beard, whose garments are decent, who is acceptable to 
the people, who has a good and amiable voice, who un- 
derstands how to read the law, the prophets, and the 
Hagiographa, who is versed in ihe homiletic, legal, and 
traditional exegesis, and who knows all the benedic- 
tions of the service” (Mishna, Taanith , ii, 2; Gemara, 
ibid. IG a. b ; Mai mon ides, lad lla-Chezaka llilchoth 7V- 
phila , viii, 1 1, 12; comp. 1 Tim. iii, 1-7 ; Tit. i, 1-9). As 
the legate of the people, the most sacred portions of the 
liturgy (e. g. pj- a, nmp, imp), 

which could only be offered up in the presence of the 
legal number, were assigned to him ( Berakoth , 21 b, 
and Kashi, ad loc.), and he was not only the mouth- 
piece of those who were present in the congregation on 
the most solemn feasts, as on the Great Day of Atone- 
ment and New Year, but he was the surrogate of those 
who, by illness or otherwise, were prevented from at- 
tending the place of worship (Rosh Ha-Slianah , 35 ; Mai- 
monides, lad Ila-Cliezaka llilchoth Tephila, viii, 10). 

4. The Interpreter, or Methurgeman 

*i *2 Si r *2). — After the llabylonian captivity, when the 
Hebrew language was rapidly disappearing from among 
the common people, it became the custom to have an 
interpreter at the reading-desk (!T2*2) by the side of 
those who were alternately called up to read the sev- 
eral sections of the lessons from the law and the proph- 
ets. See II AiMiTAKAii. This methurgeman had to in- 
terpret into Chaldee or into any other vernacular of the 
country a verse at a rime when the lesson from the law 
was read, as the reader was obliged to pause as soon as 
he finished the reading of a verse in Hebrew, and was 
not allowed to begin the next verse till the methurge- 
man had translated it: while in the lesson from the 
prophets three verses were read and interpreted at a 
time (Mishna, Megillah, iv, 4). The reader and the in- 
terpreter had to read in the same tone of voice, and the 
one was not allowed to be louder than the other ( her a - 
koth, 45 a). The interpreter was not allowed to look 
at the law while interpreting, lest it should be thought 
that the paraphrase was written down. The office of 
interpreter, like that of conducting public worship, was 
not permanently vested in any single individual. Any 
one of the congregation who was capable of interpret- 
ing was asked to do so. Even a minor, i. e. one under 
thirteen years of age, or one whose garments were in 
such a ragged, condition that he was disqualified for 
reading the lesson from the law, or a blind man, could 
be asked to go up to the reading-desk and explain the 
lesson (Mishna, Megillah , iv, 5; Maimonides, lad lld- 
Chezaka llilchoth Tephila , xii, 10-14), 

5, The Chazzdn, or Attendant on the Synagogue 

*|7ij = v~)]ptT7]g), was the lowest servant, and 


was more like the sexton or the beadle in our churches, 
lie had the care of the furniture, to open the doors, to 
clean the synagogue, to light the lamps, to get the 
building ready for service, to summon the people to 
worship, to call out ("JV22” 1 ) the names of such persons 
as were selected by the ruler of the synagogue to come 
up to the platform to read a section from the law and 
the prophets, to hand the law to ordinary readers, or to 
the ruler of the synagogue when it had to be given to 
the high-priest, in which case the up\iavvuyit)yog took 
the law from the chazan . gave it to the chief priest, 
who handed it to the high-priest (Mishna, Yomu, viii, 
1 ; Sotah, vii, 7); he had to take it back after reading 
(Luke iv, 17-20), etc. Nothing, therefore, can be more 
clear than the position which this menial servant occu- 
pied in the synagogue in the time of Christ and a few 
centuries after. The Talmud distinctly declares that 
the chazan is the beadle or the sexton of the congrega- 
tion, and not the legate or the angel of the church 
(“■ns rrrj bnpn br r - r xin comp. 

Tosiphta Yoma , G8 b; and Mishna, Berakoth, vii, 1, for 
the meaning of *«L“2V2). The notion that his office re- 
sembled that “of the Christian deacon,” as well as the 
assertion that, “like the legal us and the elders , he was 
appointed by the imposition of hands,” has evidently 
arisen from a confusion of the chazan in the days of 
Christ with the chazan five centuries after Christ, Be- 
sides, not only was this menial servant not appointed 
by the imposition of hands, but the legatus himself, as 
we have seen, had no laying-on of hands. It was about 
A.D. 520, when the knowledge of the Hebrew language 
disappeared from among the people at large, that alter- 
ations had to be introduced into the synagogical service 
which involved a change in the office of the chazan. 
As the ancient practice of asking any member to step 
before the ark and conduct the divine service could not 
be continued, it was determined that the chazan , who 
was generally also the schoolmaster of the infant school, 
should be the regular reader of the liturgy, which he 
had to recite with intonation (Masecheth Sopherim, x, 
7 ; xi, 4 ; xiv, 9, 1 4 ; Griitz, Gesch . der Juden , v, 2G), 

6. The Ten Batlanin, or Men of Leisure (‘"^pp). 
— No place was denominated a town, and hence no syn- 
agogue could legally he built in it, which had not ten in- 
dependent men who could be permanently in the syna- 
gogue to constitute the legal congregation whenever 
required (31ishna, Megillah, i,3; Maimonides, lad lla- 
Chezaka llilchoth Tephila , xi, 1). These men of leisure 
were either independent of business because they had 
private means, or w T ere stipendiaries of the congrega- 
tion, if the place had not ten men who could entirely 
devote themselves to this purpose (Kashi. On Megillah , 
5 a). They had to be men of piety and integrity {Baba 
Bathra, 28 a ; Jerusalem Megillah, i, 4). Bv some (Light- 
foot, /lor. lleb. in Matt. ic. 23, and. in part, Yitringa. p. 
532) they have been identified with the above officials, 
with the addition of the alms-colleetors. lihenferd, 
however (Ugolino, Thesaur. vol. xxi),sees in them sim- 
ply a body of men, permanently on duty, making up a 
congregation (ten being the minimum number), so that 
there might be no delay in beginning the service at the 
proper hours, and that no single worshipper might go 
away disappointed. The latter hypothesis is supported 
by the fact that there was a like body of men, the Sta- 
tionarii or Yiri Stationis of Jewish archaeologists, ap- 
pointed to act. as permanent representatives of the con- 
gregation in the services of the Temple (Jost. Gesch. 
des Jude nth. i, 1G8-172). It is of course possible that in 
many cases t be same persons may have united both 
characters, and been. e. g., at once otiosi and alms-col- 
leetors. In the Middle. Ages these ten Batlanin con- 
sisted of those who discharged the public duties of the 
synagogue, and were identical with the rulers of the 
synagogue described above. Thus Benjamin of Tudela 
tells us that the ten presidents of the ten colleges at 


SYNAGOGUE 


77 


SYNAGOGUE , 


Bagdad were “called the Batlamn , the leisure men , be- 
cause their occupation consisted in the discharge of 
public business. During every day of the week they 
dispensed justice to all the Jewish inhabitants of the 
country, except on Monday, which was set aside for as- 
semblies under the presidency of II. Samuel, master of 
the college denominated l Gaon Jacob, who on that day 
dispensed justice to every applicant, and who was as- 
sisted therein by the said ten Batlamn , presidents of 
the colleges” ( Itinerary , i, 101, ed. Ascher, Loud. 1840). 
This seems to favor the opinion of Merzfeld that the 
ten Batlamn are the same as the ten judges or rulers 
of the synagogue mentioned in Aboth, iii, 10, according 
to the reading of Bartenora ( llorayoth , 3 b,-etc. ; comp. 
Gesch. des Yolkes Israel i, 392). 

V. Worship. — 1. Its Time.— As the Bible prescribes 
no special hour for worship, but simply records that the 
Psalmist prayed three times a day (Psa. lv, 18), and 
that Daniel followed the same example (Dan. vii, 11). 
the men of the Great Synagogue decreed that the wor- 
ship of the synagogue should correspond to that of the 
Temple. To this end they ordained that every Israel- 
ite is to offer either public or private worship to his 
Creator at stated hours three times a day — («) in the 
morning (n n “in'J) at the third hour=9 AAI., being the 
time when the daily morning sacrifice was offered ; (5) in 
the afternoon or evening (!“in!*-) at the ninth hour and 
a half=3 30 P.M., when the daily evening sacrifice was 
offered; and (c) in the evening or from the 

time that the pieces and the fat of the sacrifices, whose 
blood was sprinkled before sunset, began to he burned 
till this process of burning was finished. As this proc- 
ess of burning, however, sometimes lasted nearly all 
night, the third prayer could be offered at any time be- 
tween dark and dawn (Mishna, Berakoth, iv. 1 ; Ge- 
mara, ibid. 20 b; Pesackim , 58 a; Jerusalem Berakoth , 
iv, 1 ; Josephus, Ant, xiv, 4, 3). It is this fixed time 
of worship which accounts for the disciples’ assembling 
together at the third hour of the day (i. c. 9 AAI.) for 
morning prayer (rV’HJTJ) on the Day of Pentecost 
(Acts ii, 1-15), and for Peter and John’s going up to the 
Temple at the ninth hour (i. e. 3 PAL) for p“H"*2) even- 
ing prayer (Acts iii, l),as well as for Cornelius’s prayer at 
the same hour (x, 30). The statement in Acts x, 9, 
that Peter went up upon the house-top to pray about 
the sixth hour (=12 M.), has led some of our best 
expositors to believe that the hour mentioned in iii, 
1 1 and x, 30 is the time when the third prayer was of- 
fered. The two passages, however, and the two dif- 
ferent hours refer to one and the same prayer, as may 
be seen from the following canon : “ We have already 
stated that the time for the evening prayer (l"in3*3) was 
fixed according to that of the daily evening sacrifice, 
and since this daily evening sacrifice was offered at the 
ninth hour and a half (=3.30 PAL), the time of prayer 
was also fixed for the ninth hour and a half ( = 3.30 
PAL), and this was called the Lesser Minchah (Pin3^ 
H2::p). But as the daily evening sacrifice was offered 
on the fourteenth of Nisan (riD2 mr) at the sixth 
hour and a half ( = 12.30 PAL), when this day hap- 
pened to be on a Friday (TI'S [see Passover], 

it was enacted that he who offers his evening prayer af- 
ter the sixth hour and a half ( = 12.30 PAL) discharges 
his duty properly. Hence, as soon as this hour arrives, 
the time of obligation has come, and it is called the 
Great M mchah" fi rW3; Maimonides, lad 11a- 

Chezaka Ililchoth Tephila , iii, 2 ; Berakoth , 2G b). This 
mistake is all the more to be regretted, since the accu- 
racy in such minute matters on the part of the saered 
writers shows how great is the trustworthiness of their 
records, and how closely and strictly the apostles con- 
formed to the Jewish practices. The prayers three 
times a day were not absolutely required to be offered 


in public worship in the synagogue everv day. The 
times of public worship were (</) Monday and Thurs- 
day, which were the two market-davs in the week, when 
the villagers brought their produce into the neighbor- 
ing town and their matters of dispute before the local 
Sanhedrim, which held its court in the synagogue 
(Jerusalem Megillah , v, 1 ; Baba Kama , 32 a), and on 
which the pious Jews fasted (Mark ii, 18; Luke v, 33; 
xviii, 12; Acts x, 30); ( b ) the weekly Sabbath; and 
(c) feasts and fasts. But though not obligatory, yet 
it was deemed specially acceptable if the prayers were 
offered even privately in the synagogue, since it was 
inferred from Mai. iii, 10 that the Shcchinah is present 
where two or three are gathered together. 

2. The Legal Congregation. — Though it was the duty 
of every Israelite to pray privately three times a day, 
yet, as we have already seen, it was only on stated oc- 
casions that the people assembled for public worship in 
the legally constituted congregation, and recited those 
portions of the liturgy which could not be uttered in 
private devotion. Ten men, at least, who had passed 
the thirteenth year of their age (PPijJft “2) were re- 
quired to constitute a legitimate congregation Cp3T2) 
for the performance of public worship. This number, 
which evidently owes its origin to the completeness of 
the ten digits, is deduced from the expression my in 
Numb, xiv, 27, where it is said “ how long shall I bear 
with this (FH“) congregation ?” referring to the spies. 
As Joshua and Caleb arc to be deducted from the twelve, 
hence the appellation congregation remains for the ten, 
and this number is therefore regarded as forming the 
legal quorum (Mishna, Sanhedrim , i, 6; Maimonides, lad 
11a - Chezaka Ililchoth Tephila, xi, 1). “The Shema 
(V -U) must not be solemnly recited, nor must one go 
before the ark to conduct public worship, nor must the 
priests raise their hands to pronounce the benediction, 
nor must the lessons from the law or the prophets be 
read . . . unless there are ten persons present” (Mishna, 
Megillah, iv, 3). 

3. Ritual. — The most important features in the insti- 
tutions of the synagogue are the liturgy, the reading of 
the law and the prophets, and the homilies. To know 
the exact words of the prayers which our Saviour and 
his apostles recited when they frequented the syna- 
gogue is to us of the utmost interest. That the Jews 
in the time of Christ had a liturgical service is certain ; 
but it is equally certain that the present liturgy of the 
synagogue embodies a large admixture of prayers which 
were compiled after the destruction of the second Tem- 
ple. Though the poetic genius of the psalmists had 
vanished and the Temple music was hushed, yet nu- 
merous fervent and devout spirits were still unquench- 
ed in Israel. These earnest spirits made themselves 
audible in the synagogue in most devout and touching 
prayers, embodying the new anxieties, the novel modes 
of persecution and oppression which the Jews had to 
endure from the children of Christianity — the religion 
newly born and brought up in the lap of Judaism — who 
deemed it their sacred duty to heap unparalleled suffer- 
ings upon their elder brothers. These prayers, formed 
after the model of the Psalms, not only ask the God of 
Israel to pity the sufferers, to give them patience to en- 
dure, and in his own time to confound their enemies 
and free them from all their troubles, but embody the 
teachings of the sages and the sentiments propounded 
by the Haggadists in the Sabbatic homilies. Ilence, in 
describing the ritual of the synagogue, it is most essen- 
tial to separate the later element from the earlier por- 
tions. As it is beyond the limits of this article to trace 
the rise, progress, and development of all the component 
parts of the liturgy in its present order, we shall simply 
detail those portions which are, undoubtedly, the an- 
cient nucleus, which, beyond a question, were used by 
our Saviour and his disciples, and around which the 
new pieces were grouped in the course of time. 


SYNAGOGUE 


SYNAGOGUE 


1 S 


(1.) The Hymnal Group Just as' 

the Temple building was the prototype lor the syna- 
gogue edifice, so the Temple service was the model for 
the ritual of the synagogue. Hence, just as the Temple 
service consisted of the priests’ reciting the ten com- 
mandments. pronouncing the benediction upon the peo- 
ple (Numb, vi, 2 1-27), t he offering of the daily morning 
and evening sacrifice, t he Levites* chanting Tsa. cxv, 1- 
16; 1 Cliron. xvi,8-22 (JITin) during the morning sac- 
rifice. and Tsa. cxvi: 1 Citron, xvi, 23-36 ( ! H' v w) dur- 
ing the evening sacrifice, so the ritual of the synagogue 
consisted of the same benediction, the chanting of the 
sacrificial psalms — as the sacrifices themselves could 
not be offered except in the Temple — and sundry addi- 
tions made by Ezra and the men of the (ireat Syna- 
gogue. It is for this reason that the ritual began with 
the Temple psalms. These were followed by the group 
consisting of Tsa. e [xix, xxxiv, xei, exxxv, exxxvi, 
xxxiii, xcii], xciii, exlv-el — those enclosed in brackets 
being omitted on the Sabbath — 1 Chron. xxix, 10-13; 
Xeh. ix, 6-12 ; Exod. xiv, 30-xv, 18, and sundry sen- 
tences not found in the Bible, denominated the order of 
the Hymnal Sentences or “ musical periods” The use of 
this hymnal group as part of both the Temple and the 
synagogue service is of great antiquity, as is attested 
by the Seiler 01am , xiv, and Masecheth Sopherim; see 
also Sabbath , 118 b, where we are told that *““n was 
ordained by David, and by the Sopherim , or 

scribes. 

(2.) The Shemn , or Kcriath Shema (- PNT^.p). 
— This celebrated part of the service was preceded 
by two benedictions, respectively denominated “ the 
Creator of IJyht " (“ n X and “ Great Love ” 

(PCI H-HN), and followed by one called “ Truth" 
(P~N, now expanded into P-X). The two in- 

troductory benedictions were as follows: (er.) “Blessed 
art thou, O Lord our God, King of the universe, who 
ereatest light and formest darkness, who makest peace ! 
and ereatest all things! lie in mercy causes the light j 
to shine upon the earth and the inhabitants thereof, 
and in goodness renews every day the work of creation. 
Blessed art thou, the Creator of light!" (6.) “ With great 
love hast thou loved us, O Lord our God; thou hast 
shown us great and abundant mercy. < ) our Father and 
King, for the sake of our forefathers who trusted in 
thee! Thou who didst teach them the love of life, 
have mercy upon us, and teach us also ... to praise 
and to acknowledge thy unity in love. Blessed art 
thou, 0 Lord, who in love hast chosen thy people!" 
(Mislma, Tumid , v, 1; Jierakoth , 11 b). Thereupon 
the ten commandments were recited, which, however, 
ceased at a very early period, because the Saddueees 
declared that this was done to show that this was the 
most essential portion of the revealed law (Mishna, 
Tumid, v, 1, with Jierakoth , 14 b). Then came the 
Shema proper, consisting of Dent, vi, 4-9; xi, 13-21 ; 
Numb, xv, 37-41 ; which was concluded with benedic- 
tion (e), entitled “ True and /Established” P*CX), 

as follows: “It is true and firmly established that thou 
art llie Lord our God and the God of our forefathers; 
there is no God besides thee. Blessed art thou, O Lord, 
the redeemer of Israel!" (Mishna, Jierakoth. i, 4; Ge- 
mara, ibid. 13 a; Mislma, Tamid , v, 1 ; Gemara, ibid. 
32 b). There is evidently an allusion to the reading 
of the Shema in the reply which our Saviour gave to 
the lawyer who asked him. “ Master, what must I do 
to inherit eternal life?” when the lawyer forthwith re- 
cited the first sentence of t he Shema (Luke x, *26). See 
Shema. 

(3.) The third portion which constituted the ancient 
liturgy embraces the “Eighteen” Benedictions (n:T2*J 
mrr), called, Kaf the Prayer (n2£P). They 

are as follows : a. “ Blessed art thou, O Lord our 


God, the God of our fathers Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; 
great, omnipotent, fearful, and most high God, who 
bountifully showest mercy, who art the possessor of all 
things, who rememberest the pious deeds of our fathers, 
and sendest the Bedeemer to their children’s children, 
for his mercy’s sake is love, O our King, Defender, Sav- 
iour, and Shield! Blessed art thou, O Lord, the shield 
of Abraham!" b. (P 12 j JITS) “ Thou art powerful, O 
Lord, world without end; thou bringest the dead to 
life in great compassion, thou boldest up the falling, 
healest the sick, loosest the chained, and showest th) r 
faithfulness to those that sleep in the dust. Who is 
like unto thee, Lord of might, and who resembles thee 
(a Sovereign killing and bringing to life again, and 
causing salvation to flourish)? And thou art sure to 
raise the dead. Blessed art thou.O Lord, who raisest the 
dead!" c. (Hjnp PIPN) ••Thou art holy, and thy name 
is holy, and the holy ones praise thee every day con- 
tinually. Blessed art thou, O Lord, the holy God !” 
(/. PtPX) “Thou mercifully bestowest knowledge 

upon men and teaehest the mortal prudence. Merci- 
fully bestow upon us. from thyself, knowledge, wisdom, 
and understanding. Blessed art thou, O Lord, who 
mercifully bestowest knowledge!” e. (1"'-!1) “Our 
Father, lead us back to thy law; bring us very near, O 
our King, to thy service, and cause us to return in sin- 
cere penitence into thy presence ! Blessed art thou, O 
Lord, who delightest in repentance!” f (nbo)“Our 
Father, forgive us, for we have sinned; our King, par- 
don us. for we have transgressed; for thou art forgiving 
and pardoning. Blessed art thou, O Lord, merciful and 
plenteous in forgiveness!" ej. (HX^) “Look at our mis- 
ery, contend our cause, and deliver us speedily, for thy 
name’s sake, for thou art a mighty deliverer. Blessed 
art thou, O Lord, the deliverer of Israel!" h. ( >, :N2*) 
“Ileal us, O Lord, and we shall be healed; save ns, and 
we shall be saved; for thou art onr boast. Grant us a 
perfect cure for all our wounds; for thou, O Lord our 
King, art a faithful and merciful Physician. Blessed 
art thou, O Lord, who healest the sick of thy people Is- 
rael !" i C^bp “Bless to us, O Lord our God, 

for good this year, and all its kinds of produce; send 
thv blessing upon the face of the earth; satisfy us with 
thy goodness, and bless this year as the years bygone. 
Blessed art thou, O Lord, who blessest the seasons!" j. 
(ppp) “Cause the great trumpet to proclaim our liberty; 
raise the standard for the gathering of our captives, and 
bring us together from the four corners of the earth. 
Blessed art thou, O Lord, who gatherest together the 
dispersed of Israel !” k. (PC n 1TPI) “ Reinstate our judges 
as of old, and onr councillors as of yore; remove from us 
sorrow and sighing; and do thou alone, O Lord, reign 
over us in mejrey and love, and judge us in righteous- 
ness and justice. Blessed art thou, O Lord the King, 
who lovest righteousness and justice!” h (Z*': n U.*> -5*) 
“Let the apostates have no hope, and let those who per- 
petrate wickedness speedily perish; let them all be sud- 
denly cut off; let the proud speedily be uprooted, broken, 
crushed, and humbled speedily in our days. Blessed 
art thou, O Lord, who breakest down the enemy and 
humblest the proud!” n't. (C'p^PZiPt bp) “On the 
righteous, on the pious, on the elders of thy people, the 
house of Israel, on the remnant of the scribes, on the 
pious proselytes, and on us, bestow, O Lord onr God, 
thy mercy; give ample reward to all who trust in thy 
nnme in sincerity, make our portion with them forever, 
and let us not be ashamed, for we trust in thee! Bless- 
ed art thou, 0 Lord, the support and refuge of the right- 
eous!" n. “To Jerusalem thy city in mer- 

I ev return, and dwell in it according to thy promise; 

make it speedily in our day an everlasting building, 
i and soon establish therein the throne of David. Bless- 


SYNAGOGUE 


79 


SYNAGOGUE 


ed art thou. 0 Lord, -who buildest Jerusalem !” n\ (PN | 
TTZ'S) “The branch of David, thv servant, speedily cause 
to flourish, and exalt his horn with thy help, for we 
look to thy help all day. Blessed art thou, O Lord, 
who causest to flourish the horn of David!” o. (2“2'J 
“ Dear our voice, O Lord our Clod ; have pity and 
compassion on us, and receive with mercy and accept- 
ance our prayers, for thou art a God hearing prayer and 
supplications. Our King, do not send us empty away , 
from thy presence, for thou hearest the prayers of thy 
people Israel in mercy! Blessed art thou, O Lord, who 
hearest prayer!” p. (HZ"] “ Be favorable, O Lord our 
God, to thy people Israel, and to their prayer; restore 
the worship to thy sanctuary, receive lovingly the I 
burnt-sacrifice of Israel and their prayer, and let the 
service of Israel thy people be always well-pleasing to 
thee. May our eyes see thee return to Zion in love. 
Blessed art thou, O Lord, who restorest thy Shechinah 
to Zion!” q. (O n “JVO) “We thankfully confess before ( 
thee that thou art the Lord our God, and the God of 
our fathers, world without end, and that thou art the 
shepherd of our life and the rock of our salvation from 
generation to generation; we render thanks unto thee 
and celebrate thy praises. Blessed art thou, O Lord, 
whose name is goodness, and whom it becomes to 
praise!” r. (Z122J E‘ v 23) “Bestow peace, happiness, 
blessing, grace, mercy, and compassion upon us and 
upon the whole of Israel, thy people. Our Father, bless 
us all unitedly with the light of thy countenance, for 
in the light of thv countenance didst thou give to us, 
O Lord our God, the law of life, loving-kindness, justice, 
blessing, compassion, life, and peace. May it please 
thee to bless thy people Israel at all times, and in ev- 
ery moment, with peace. Blessed art thou, O Lord, 
who blessest thy people Israel with peace!” 

These eighteen (really nineteen) benedictions are mcn- 
tioned in the Mishna, Rash // d-Shanah.’w ; Berakoth, iv, 
3 ; Tosiphla Berakoth , iii ; Jerusalem Berakoth , ii; Me- 
gillah, 17 a. We are distinctly told that they were or- 
dained by the one hundred and twenty elders of the Great 
Synagogue (Megillah, 17 b; Berakoth, 33 a; Siphre on 
Dent, xxxiii, 2), and we know that the representatives 
of the people (1-7w “ l H'7X) recited them in the Temple 
every day ( Sabbath , 24 b), that the priests pronounced 
three of them upon the people every morning in the 
Hall of Squares (rPTSH 712 wb) in the Temple-court, 
and that the high-priest prayed the sixteenth (71121) 
and the seventeenth (Z n tV2) sections of this litany on 
the Great Day of Atonement (Yoma, 68 b). There can 
therefore be no doubt that our Saviour and his apostles 
joined in these prayers when they resorted to the syn- 
agogue, and that when the apostles went on the top of 
the house to pray at the stated hour (Acts i, 13 ; x, 9) 
these benedictions formed part of their devotions. It 
must, however, be remarked that the first three and the 
last three benedictions are the oldest ; that benedictions 
d to m were compiled during the Maceabcean struggles 
and the Roman ascendency in Palestine; and benedic- 
tion n was most probably compiled after the destruction 
of the second Temple. 

But though these three groups ( viz. the hymnal 
group, the Shema, and the eighteen benedictions) con- 
stituted the liturgy of the Jews when engaged in pub- 
lic or private devotion during the period of the second 
Temple, yet there were other prayers which could only 
be recited at public worship when the legal number 
were properly assembled. 

4. The order of the public worship in the synagogue 
was as follows: 

(1.) Morning Service. — The congregation having 
washed their hands outside the synagogue, and being 
properly assembled, delegated one of their number to 
go before the ark and conduct public worship. This 


legate of the congregation (1132S), who, like the rest 
of the congregation, was arrayed in his fringed gar- 
ment, and with the phylacteries on his head and left 
arm [see Fringe; Phylactery - ], began with reciting 
the Kadish (IZPIp), the people responding to certain 
parts, as follows: “ Exalted and hallowed be his great 
name in the world which he created according to his 
will; let his kingdom come in your lifetime and in the 
lifetime of the whole house of Israel very speedily. 
[Legate and congregation] Amen. Blessed be his great 
name, world without end. [Legate alone] Blessed and 
praised, celebrated and exalted, extolled and adorned, 
magnified and worshipped, be thy holy name; blessed 
be he far above all benedictions, hymns, thanks, praises, 
and consolations which have been uttered in the world. 
[Legate and congregation] Amen. [Legate alone] May 
the prayers and supplications of all Israel be graciously 
received before their Father in heaven. [Legate and 
congregation] Amen. [Legate alone] May perfect peace 
descend from heaven, and life upon us and all Israel. 
[Legate and congregation] Amen. [Legate alone] May 
he who makes peace in his heaven confer peace upon us 
and all Israel. [Legate and congregation] Amen.” The 
similarity between this very ancient Kadish and the 
Lord’s Prayer needs hardly to be pointed out. After this 
the legate recited in a loud voice the first sentence of the 
Sheimi, the rest being recited quietly by him and the con- 
gregation. Then followed the eighteen benedictions, for 
the third of which the Kedushah (Mwlip) was substi- 
tuted in public worship. It is as follows: “Hallowed 
be thy name on earth as it is hallowed in heaven above, 
as it is written by the prophet, and one calls to the oth- 
er and says [Congregation], Holy, holy, holy, is the 
Lord God of Sebaoth ; the whole earth is filled with his 
glory! [Legate] Those who are opposite them re- 
spond : [Congregation] Blessed be the glory of the Eter- 
nal, each one in his station. [Legate] And in thy Holy 
Word it is written, thus saying: [Congregation] The 
Lord shall reign forever, thy God, O Zion, from gener- 
ation to generation. Halleluiah! [Legate] From gen- 
eration to generation we will disclose thv greatness, 
and for ever and ever celebrate thy holiness; and thy 
praise shall not cease in our mouth, world without end, 
for thou, O Lord, art a great and holy King. Blessed 
art thou, holy God and King !” On Monday, Thursday, 
Sabbath, feasts and fasts, lessons from the law and proph- 
ets were read, and (with the exception of Monday and 
Thursday) discourses delivered by the rabbins. The 
service concluded with the priests’ pronouncing the ben- 
ediction (Numb, vi, 24-27). 

(2.) The Afternoon and Evening Prayer. — Some of 
the psalms in the hymnal group were omitted, other- 
wise the service was similar to that of the morning. 
The public worship of the feasts and fasts is described 
in the articles on the respective festivals, and in the ar- 
ticle Haphtarau. The other prayers which precede 
and follow the three ancient groups in the present lit- 
urgy of the synagogue are not described in this article 
because they are of later origin. See Liturgy. 

VI. Judicial Authority. — 1. As the officers of the syn- 
agogue were also the administrators of justice, the au- 
thority which each assembly possessed extended to both 
civil and religious questions. The rabbins, or the heads 
of the synagogue, as it is to the present day, were both 
the teachers of religion and the judges of their commu- 
nities. Hence the tribunals were held in the syna- 
gogue (Luke xii, 11 ; xxi, 12), and the chazzdn , or bea- 
dle, who attended to the divine service had also to ad- 
minister the stripes to offenders (iv, 17-20; comp.Mishna, 
Makkoth, iii, 12; and Matt, x, 17; xxiii,34; Mark xiii, 
9; Acts xxii, 19; xxvi, 11). The rabbins who had 
diplomas from the Sanhedrim, and, after the Sanhedrim 
ceased, from the Gaonim of the respective colleges at 
Sora and Pumbaditha (q. v.), and who were chosen by 
the different congregations to be their spiritual heads 
with the consent of the assembly, selected such of the 


SYNAGOGUE 


SO 


SYNAGOGUE 


members as were best qualified to aid them in the ad- 
ministration of the communal affairs. These consti- 
tuted a local self-governing and independent college; 
they issued all the legal instruments, such as marriage 
contracts, letters of divorce, hills of exchange, business 
contracts, receipts, etc. They had the power of indicting 
corporal punishment on any offender, or to put him out 
of the synagogue ( = excommunicate) altogether (Matt, 
xviii, 15-17 ; John ix, 22; xii, -12; xvi, 2). The pun- 
ishment of excommunication, however, was very seldom 
resorted to, as may be seen from the fact that though 
Christ and his apostles opposed and contradicted the 
heads of the synagogue, yet they were not put out of 
the synagogue. In some cases they exercised the right, 
even outside the limits of Palestine, of seizing the per- 
sons of the accused and sending them in chains to take 
their trial before the Supreme Council at Jerusalem 
(Acts ix. 2: xxii, 5). 

2. It is not quite so easy, however, to define the nat- 
ure of the tribunal and the precise limits of its jurisdic- 
tion. In two of the passages referred to (Matt, x, 17; 
Mark xiii, 9) they are carefully distinguished from the 
arrsCpta, or councils, yet both appear as instruments 
by which the spirit of religious persecution might fast- 
en on its victims. The explanation commonly given 
that the council sat in the synagogue, and was thus 
identified with it, is hardly satisfactory (Leyrer, in Her- 
zog’s Real-Encyklop. s. v. “ Svuedrien”). It seems more 
probable that the council was the larger tribunal of 
twenty-three, which sat in every city [see Council], 
identical with that of t he seven, with two Levites as 
assessors to each, which Josephus describes as acting in 
the smaller provincial towns (A nt. iv, 8, 14; War, ii, 20, 
5), and that tinder the term synagogue we are to under- 
stand a smaller court, probably that of the ten judges 
mentioned in the Talmud (Hem. llieros. Sanhedr, loe, 
eit.), consisting either of the elders, the chazzan. and the 
legate, or otherwise (as Ilerzfeld conjectures, i, 392) of 
the ten Batlanin, or otiosi (see above, 1 V, G). 

VI I, Relations of the Jewish Synagogue to the Chris- 
tian Church . — It is hardly possible to overestimate the 
intlucnce of the system thus developed. To it we may 
ascribe the tenacity with which, after the Maecalxean 
struggle, the Jews adhered to the religion of their fa- 
thers, and never again relapsed into idolatry. The peo- 
ple were now in no danger of forgetting the law, and 
the external ordinances that hedged it round. If pil- 
grimages were still made to Jerusalem at the great 
feasts, the habitual religion of the Jews in, and yet more 
out of, Palestine was connected much more intimately 
with the synagogue than with the Temple. Its simple, 
edifying devotion, in which mind and heart could alike 
enter, attracted the heathen proselytes who might have 
been repelled by the bloody sacrifices of the Temple, or 
would certainly have been driven from it unless they 
could make up their minds to submit to eireumcision 
(Acts xx i, 28). See Pros is lytic. Here, too, as in the 
cognate order of the scribes, there was an influence 
tending to diminish and ultimately almost to destroy 
the authority of the hereditary priesthood. The ser- 
vices of the synagogue required no sons of Aaron; gave 
them nothing more than a complimentary precedence. 
Sec PniLST ; Sciuhe. The way was silently prepared 
for a new and higher order, which should rise in “ the 
fulness of time” out of the decay and abolition of both 
the priesthood and the Temple, hi another way, too, 
the synagogues everywhere prepared the way for that 
order. Not “ Moses” only, but “the prophets” were read 
in them every Sabbath day; and thus the Messianic 
hopes of Israel, the expectation of a kingdom of heaven, 
were universally diffused. 

1, It will be seen at onee how closely the organiza- 
tion of the synagogue was reproduced in that of the 
Ecelesia. Here also there was the single presbyter- 
bishop [see Bishop] in small towns, a council of pres- 
byters under one head in large cities. The legutus of 
the synagogue appears in the ciyyeXog (Kev. i, 20; 


ii, 1), perhaps also in the «7ro<m>\oc, of the Christian 
Church. To the elders as such is given the name of 
Shepherds (Eph. iv, 11 ; 1 Pet. v, 1). They are known 
also as fjyovfuvoi (Ileb. xiii. 7). Even the transfer to 
the Christian proselytes of the once distinctively sacer- 
dotal name of iqoef'c, foreign as it was to the feelings 
of the Christians of the apostolic age, was not without 
its parallel in the history of the synagogue, Sccva, the 
exorcist Jew of Ephesus, was probably a “chief priest” 
in this sense (Acts xix, 14). In the edicts of the later 
Homan emperors, the terms ap^apivc and Up the are 
repeatedly applied to the rulers of synagogues (Cod. 
Theodos. l)e Jmh, quoted by Vitringa, De Decent Otiusis. 
in Ugolino, Thes. xxi). Possibly, however, this may 
have been, in part, owing to the presence of the scat- 
tered priests, after the destruction of the Temple, as the 
rabbins or ciders of wliat was now left to them as their 
only sanctuary. To them, at any rate, a certain prece- 
dence was given in the synagogue services. They were 
invited first to read the lessons for the day. The bene- 
diction of Numb. vi,22 was reserved for them alone. 

2. In the magisterial f unctions of the synagogue also 
we may trace the outline of a Christian institution. 
The tKK\t}(jta. either by itself or by appointed dele- 
gates, was to .act as a court of arbitration in all dis- 
putes among its members. The elders of the Church 
were not, however, to descend to the trivial disputes of 
daily life (rd fiuoriKa). For these any men of com- 
mon-sense and fairness, however destitute of official 
honor and position (oi iZovStvi] pivot), would be enough 
(1 Cor. vi, 1-8). For the elders, as for those of the syna- 
gogue, were reserved the graver offences against relig- 
ion and morals. In such cases they had power to ex- 
communicate, to “put out of” the Ecelesia, which had 
taken the place of the synagogue, sometimes by their 
own authority, sometimes with the consent of the whole 
society (v, 4). It is worth mentioning that Hammond 
and other commentators have seen a reference to these 
judicial functions in James ii,2-4. The special sin of 
those who fawned upon the rich was, on this view, that 
they were “ judges of evil thoughts,” carrying respect of 
persons into their administration of,justice. The inter- 
pretation, however, though ingenious, is hardly suffi- 
ciently supported. 

3. The ritual of the synagogue was to a large extent 
the reproduction (here also, as with the fabric, with 
many inevitable changes) of the statelier liturgy of the 
Temple. It will be enough, in this place, to notice in 
what way the ritual, no less than the organization, was 
connected with the facts of the New-Test, history, and 
with the life and order of the Christian Church. Here, 
too, we meet with multiplied coincidences. It would 
hardly be an exaggeration to say tliat the worship of 
the Church was identical with that of the synagogue, 
modified ((/) by the new truths, ( b ) by the new institu- 
tion of the supper of the Lord, (c) by the spiritual cha- 
rismata. 

(1.) From the synagogue came the use of fixed forms 
of prayer. To that the first disciples had been accus- 
tomed from their youth. They had asked their Master 
to give them a distinctive one, and he had complied 
with their request (Luke xi, 1), as the Baptist had done 
before for his disciples, as every rabbi did for bis. The 
forms might be, and were, abused. The 1‘liarisec might 
in synagogues, or, when the synagogues were closed, in 
the open street, recite aloud the devotions appointed 
for hours of prayer, might gabble through the Shema 
(“Hear. O Israel,” etc., from Dent, vi, 4), his K a dish, 
his Shemdneh Esrtdt, the eighteen Berakoth, or bless- 
ings, with the “vain repetition” which has reappeared 
in Christian worship. But for the disciples this was, 
as yet, the true pattern of devotion, and their Master 
sanctioned it. To their minds there would seem noth- 
ing inconsistent with true heart-worship in the recur- 
rence of a fixed order (kotu raZtv, 1 Cor. xiv, 40), of the 
same prayers, hymns, doxologies, such as all liturgical 
study leads us to think of as existing in the apostolic 


SYNAGOGUE 


SI 


SYNAGOGUE 


age. If the gifts of utterance which characterized the 
first period of that age led for a time to greater freedom, 
to unpremeditated prayer, if that was in its turn suc- 
ceeded by the renewed predominance of a formal fixed 
order, the alternation and the struggle which have re- 
appeared in so many periods of the history of the Church 
were not without their parallel in that of Judaism. 
There also was a protest against the rigidity of an un- 
bending form. Eliezer of Lydda, a contemporary of 
the second Gamaliel (cir. A.B. 80-1 15), taught that the 
legate of the synagogue should discard even the Shemo- 
neh Esreh , the eighteen tixed prayers and benedictions 
of the daily and Sabbath services, and should pray as his 
heart prompted him. The offence against the formal- 
ism into which Judaism stiffened was apparently too 
great to be forgiven, lie was excommunicated (not, 
indeed, avowedly on this ground), and died at Cmsarca 
(Jost, Gesch. des Judenth. ii. 30, 45). 

(2.) The large admixture of a didactic element in 
Christian worship, that by which it was distinguished 
from all Gentile forms of adoration, was derived from 
the older order. “Moses*’ was “read in the synagogues 
every Sabbath day” (Acts xv, 21), the whole law being 
read consecutively, so as to be completed, according to 
one cycle, in three years, according to that which ulti- 
mately prevailed and determined the existing divisions 
of the Hebrew text (Leyrer, Inc. cit.), in the fifty-two 
weeks of a single year. See Bible. The writings of the 
prophets were read as second lessons in a corresponding 
order. They were followed by t lie Jferash, the Xdyot; 
7r apctK\t)<jeiog (Acts xiii, 15), the exposition, the sermon 
of the synagogue. The tirst Christian synagogues, we 
must believe, followed this order with but little devia- 
tion. 1 1 remained for them before long to add “the other 
Scriptures” which they had learned to recognise as more 
precious even than the law itself, the ‘’prophetic word” 
of the New Test., which, not less truly than that of t lie 
Old, came, in epistle or in narrative, from the same 
Spirit. See Scripture. 

(3.) To the ritual of the synagogue we may prob- 
ably trace a practice which lias sometimes been a stum- 
bling-block to the student of Christian antiquity, the 
subject-matter of fierce debate among Christian contro- 
versialists. Whatever account may be given of it, it is 
certain that Travers for the Head appear in the Church’s 
worship as soon as we have any trace of it after the im- 
mediate records of the apostolic age. It has been well 
described by a writer whom no one can suspect of Bom- 
ish tendencies as an “ immemorial practice.” Though 
“ Scripture is silent, yet antiquity plainly speaks.” The 
prayers “have found a place in every early liturgy of 
the world.” (Ellicott, Destiny of the Creature , serin, 
vi). How, indeed, we may ask, could it have been oth- 
erwise*? The strong feeling shown in the time of the 
Maccabees, that it was not “superfluous and vain” to 
pray for the dead (2 Macc. xii. 44), was sure, under the 
influence of the dominant Pharisaic scribes, to show 
itself in the devotions of the synagogue. So far as we 
trace back these devotions, we may say that there also 
the practice is “ immemorial,” as old, at least, as the tra- 
ditions of the Babbinic fathers (Buxtorf, De Sgnagog. p. 
709, 710; M'Caid, Old Paths , ch. xxxviii). The writer 
already quoted sees a probable reference to them in 2 
Tim. i, 18 (Ellicott, Past. Epistles, ad loe.). But it is by 
no means certain that Oncsiphorus was at that time 
dead. See Heap. Prayers for the. 

(4.) The conformity extends, also, to the times of 
prayer. In the hours of service this was obviously the 
case. The third, sixth, and ninth hours were, in the 
times of the New Test. (Acts iii, 1 ; x, 3, 9), and had 
been, probably, for some time before (Psa. Iv, 17 ; Dan. 
vi, 10), the fixed times of devotion, known then, and still 
known, respectively as the Shacharith , the Minchuh, and 
the y A rahith ; they had not only the prestige of an au- 
thoritative tradition, but were connected respectively 
with the names of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to whom, 
as to the first originators, their institution was ascribed 
X.-F 


(Buxtorf. De Synagog. p. 280). The same hours, it is well 
known, were recognised in the Church of the second, 
probably also in that of the first, century (Clem. Ah Strom. 
loc. cit. ; Tertull. De Oraf. c. xxv). The sacred days 
belonging to the two systems seem, at tirst, to present a 
contrast rather than a resemblance; hut here, too, there 
is a symmetry which points to an original connection. 
The solemn days of the synagogue were the second, the 
fifth, and the seventh; the last, cr Sabbath, being the 
conclusion of the whole. In whatever way the change 
was brought about, the transfer of the sanctity of the 
Sabbath to the Lord’s day involved a corresponding 
change in the order of the week, and the first, the fourth, 
and the sixth became to the Christian society what the 
other days had been to the Jewish. 

The following suggestion as to the mode in which 
this transfer was effected involves, it is believed, fewer 
arbitrary assumptions than any other [see. Sabbath], 
and connects itself with another interesting custom, 
common to the Church and the synagogue. It was a 
Jewish custom to end the Sabbath with a feast, in which 
they did honor to it as to a parting king. The feast 
was held in the synagogue. A cup of wine, over which 
a special blessing had been spoken, was handed round 
(Jost, Gesch. des Judenth. i, 180), It is obvious that, so 
long as the apostles and their followers continued to use 
the Jewish mode of reckoning — so long. i. e., as they fra- 
ternized with their brethren of the stock of Abraham — 
this would coincide in point of time with their cenn'ov 
on the Jirst day of the week. A supper on what we 
should call Sunday evening would have been to them on 
the second. By degrees [sec Lord’s Surfer] the time 
became later, passed on to midnight, to the early dawn 
of the next day. So the Lord’s supper ceased to be a 
supper really. So, as the Church rose out of Judaism, 
the supper gave its holiness to the coming, instead of 
deriving it from the parting day. The day came to he 
Kvpiaici), because it began with the Cu7n r ov KvptaKov. 
Gradually the Sabbath ceased as such to be observed at 
all. The practice of observing both, as in the Church 
of Borne up to the fifth century, gives us a trace of the 
transition period. Sec Sunday. 

(5.) From the synagogue, lastly, came many less con- 
spicuous practices, which meet us in the liturgical life 
of the first three centuries. Ablution, entire or partial, 
before entering the place of meeting (11 cl), x, 22; John 
xiii, 1-15; Tertull. De Oraf. c. xi) ; standing and not 
kneeling, as the attitude of prayer (Luke xviii, 1 1 ; Ter- 
tull. ibid. c. xxiii); the arms stretched out (Tertull. 
ibid. c. xiii); the face turned towards the Keblah of the 
east (Clem. Al. Strom. loc. cit.); the responsive Amen 
of the congregation to the prayers and benedictions of 
the elders (1 Cor. xiv, IG). In one strange exceptional 
custom of the Church of Alexandria we trace the wilder 
tvpe of Jewish, of Oriental devotion. There, in the 
closing responsive chorus of the prayer, the worshippers 
not only stretched out their necks and lifted up their 
hands, but leaped with wild gestures (roue re 7ro$aQ 
£7reyf/po/iei'), as if they would fain rise with their pray- 
ers to heaven itself (Clem. Al. Strain, vii, 40). This, too, 
reproduced a custom of the synagogue. Three times did 
the whole body of worshippers leap up simultaneously 
as they repeated the great tej’-sanefus hymn of Isaiah 
vi (Yitringa, p. 1 100 sq. ; Buxtorf, ch. x). 

YI11. Literature, — Jerusalem Megillah , c. iii; Mai- 
monidcs, lad /la-Chezaka Uilchoth Tephila ; Yitringa, 
De Sgnagoga Yetere (Weisscnfels, 172G); Zunz. Die 
got tesdienst lichen Vortriige der Juden (Berlin, 1832), p. 
3GG sq. ; id. Die Pit us des sgnagogalen Gottesdienstes 
(ibid. 1859); Edelmann, Jligajnn L<b (Kdnigsb. 1845); 
Herzfeld, Geschichte des Volkes Israel (Nordhausen, 1855, 
1857). i, 24-30, 127,391-394; ii, 129-134, 183-223; Jost, 
Geschichte des Jndenthums (Leipsic, 1857-58), i, 38 sq., 
1G8 sq., 2G2 sq.; Duschak, lllustrirte Monatssehrift fur 
die gesammten Dtteressen des Jndenthums (Loud. 1805), 
i. 83 sq., 174 sq., 409 sq. See also Burmann, Exercitt. 
Acad, ii, 3 sq.; Belaud, Antiq. Sacr . i, 10; Carpzov, 


SYNAGOGUE 


S2 


SYNAGOGUE 


Appar. p. 307 sq. ; Hartmann, Verbiml. des A. T. mit < 1 . 
Xeuen, p. '225 sq. ; IJrmvn, Antiquities of the Jews, i, 500 
sq. ; Allen, Modern J udaism , ch. xix ; the monographs of 
Bornitz, J)e Vet. Sgnagogis (Vi tomb. 1050); Leovardic, 
De <5 ynagoga et Ecclesia (s. 1. ct an.) ; Bhenferd, De Otio- 
sis Synagnyu > (France. I0SG) ; id. J rchisyuuyogus Otiosus : 
(ibid. 1088); Tentzcl, I)e Proseuchis Samar, (Vitcinb. 
1082); and the dissertations cited by Darling, Cyclop. 
Biblioy. col. 1811. See Woksuii*. 

SYXAGOGl T E, tiir ( i heat (post- Biblical Hebrew, 
nbn:*n ; Aramaic, Xrin N r w : Z ; late Greek 

and Latin, orvaymyi) ptyd\)], Synuyoga Magna'), the 
Great Assembly, or the Great Synod , according to Jew- 
ish tradition, denotes the council tirst appointed after 
the return of the Jews from the Babylonian captivity 
to reorganize the religious life, institutions, and litera- 
ture of the people. (We here substantially adopt Gins- 
burg’s article in Kitto’s Cyclopaedia.) 

I. Xante and its Signification. — Though the verb 
C23, to gather , to assemble , occurs in the Old Test. 
(Esth. iv, 10 ; 1 Chron. xxii, 2; Ezek. xxii, 21 ; xxxix, 
28; Psa. cxlvii, 2), yet the noun PODS, assembly , syna- 
gogue , does not occur in Biblical Hebrew. In the He- 
brew Scriptures the terms nznp, 5nj3, and 

are used for congregation , assembly [see Ecclesiastes], 
and there can be but little doubt that the non-Biblical 
7*7X3 is designedly employed to distinguish this assem- 
bly from all other gatherings. See Synagogue. This 
is also the reason why the article is prefixed to the ad- 
jective alone, and not also to the noun — viz. P333 
n3'Hr*n, the Great Synagoyue — inasmuch as this sin- 
gles it out from the other synagogues, provincial or lo- 
cal, both great and small, which obtained at the same 
time, and which were designed for different objects. 
When Ewald asserts that “in the Mishnic language 
the substantive and the adjective fiewhave the article 
together ( Lehrbuch , § 293 a, note), we need only refer 
to Sabbath, xvii, 4; Yoma , iv, 3; Taanith , iii, 7; Ke- 
thnboth , vi, 7; Xedarim , iii, 11; Xazir, viii, 1; Baba 
Jiathra , iv, 3; and to innumerable other passages, in 
refutation of this assertion. According to the most an- 
cient tradition, this assembly or synagogue was styled 
great because of the great work it effected in restoring 
the divine law to its former greatness, and because of 
the great authority and reputation which it enjoyed 
(Jerusalem Megillah, iii, 7 ; Babylon Megillah. 13 b; 
Yoma, 09 b; Krubin, 13 b; Zebachim , 102; Sanhedrin, 
14 a). The enactments of the Great Synagogue are 
often quoted in the name of PD'lfn P323 the 

men of the Great Assembly, or those who successively 
constituted its members during the long period of its 
existence. The abbreviated forms of these two names 
to be met with in Jewish literature are Jl2 = PD:z 
Fib'-un and nbx, jnzx = nb’Hjin posd 
S ometimes this assembly is also designated the 120 el- 
ders (3XpT rr-m PIX3, Megillah, 17 b, 18 b). 

II. Origin. Date , and Development of the Great Syna- 
gogue. — It is supposed bv many that Ezra was the 
founder of the Great. Synagogue, and that he, in fact, 
was its president. Griitz, however, has adduced the 
following arguments to prove that Xehemiah originated 
it after the death of Ezra: 1. The very name of Ezra is 
not even mentioned in the Biblical register of the rep- 
resentatives (Xeh. ix; Ezra v). and it is inconceivable 
to suppose that the originator would have been omit- 
ted; and. 2. Xehemiah. as is well known, went twice 
from Shushan to Jerusalem to restore order — viz. in the 
twentieth year of Artaxerxes’s reign (B.C. 446), and 
considerably after the thirty-second year of his reign 
(B.C. cir. 410). On his second arrival he found Jerusa- 
lem in a most deplorable condition: the chiefs of the 
families had formed alliances with Snnballat the Ho- 
ronite and Tobiah the Ammonite, enemies of the Jews; 


the Sabbath was desecrated, and the law of God and of 
the sanctuary were disregarded (Xeh. xiii,0-31). Now 
the convention of the Great Synagogue was held ex- 
pressly for the removal of these very evils; and since 
the representatives distinctly bound themselves hv a 
most solemn oath to abstain from mixed marriages, to 
keep the Sabbath holy, and to attend sacredly to the 
sanctuary and its requirements, there can be no doubt 
that the synod was convened by Xehemiah after his 
second visit to Jerusalem to devise means in order to 
meet these perplexing points, and that because these 
evils disturbed the order of the community, therefore 
they were made the principal and express objects of 
the tirst synod. It is the position of ch. x recording 
the convention of the Great Synagogue which has 
caused this error. But it is well known that the hook 
of Xehemiah is not put together in chronological order. 
Griitz has shown a position of the different chapters in 
accordance with the above view (Frankel, Monatsschrift, 
vi, 02). See Ezra. It is obvious, however, that Xe- 
hemiah acted in perfect concert with Ezra, and hence 
there is no substantial error in attributing the Great 
Synagogue to the latter. 

As to its date , the convention of this Great Syna- 
gogue was most probably one of Xehemiah’s last acts, 
and it must have taken place after the death of Arta- 
xerxes, else Xehemiah could not have remained in Je- 
rusalem, since even the second permission to visit that 
city was granted to him on condition that he should 
return to Shushan. It could not therefore have taken 
place before B.C. 424. The Great Synagogue was most 
probably held a few years after the above date of Xe- 
hemiah’s second visit. Ezra was doubtless then dead, 
and this is the reason why his name does not occur in 
the register of the representatives. The whole period 
of the Great Synagogue embraces about 104 years (B.C. 
404-300), or from the latter days of Xehemiah to the 
death of Simon the Just (q. v.), who was the last link 
of the chain constituting the synod ( Aboth , i, 2). It 
then passed into the Sanhedrim, when the whole of its 
constitution was changed. See Sanhedrim. 

The existence of the Great Synagogue, which is at- 
tested by the unanimous voice of Jewish tradition, was 
first questioned by Bichard Simon {Hist. Crit. du Yieux 
Test. lib. i, cap. viii). Jacob Alting, with more bold- 
ness, rejected it altogether as one of the inventions of 
tradition (“Syuagoga magna enim ncc uno tempore 
nec uno loco vixit, coque svnagoga non fuit, rernm 
commentum est traditionariorum, qui nullum alioquiu 
nexum TrapacucretoQ reperire potuerunt.” Opp. v, 382). 
He was followed by Ban ( Diatribe de Synag. Magna 
[Ultraj. 1720], p. GO, etc.) and Anrivillius {De Synag. 
vulgo dicta Magna [ed. J. D. Michaelis, Gotting. 1790]). 
De Wette {Einleitung in das A. T. § 14) contemptu- 
ously dismisses it as “a tradition which vanishes as 
soon as the passages are looked at whereon it is based, 
and as not even being a subject for refutation.” Those 
who condescend to argue the matter reject this tradi- 
tion because it is not mentioned in the Apocrypha, Jo- 
sephus, Philo, or the Seder Ohm , and because the ear- 
liest record of it is in the tract of the Mishna entitled 
Aboth , which belongs to the 1st or 2d century of our a?ra, 
but probably represents an earlier age. But surely this 
argument from the silence of a few writers cannot set 
aside the express and positive testimony of the Mishna, 
the Talmud, and the earliest Jewish works. In like 
manner, the book of Ecclesiasticus, in its catalogue of 
Jewish heroes (ch. 1), does not mention Ezra: Jose- 
phus never alludes to the tribunal of twenty-three mem- 
bers, and the earliest patristic literature of the Jews 
does not breathe a syllable about the Mnccabnean heroes. 
Would it be fair to conclude from this silence that Ezra, 
the tribunal, and the Maccabees are a myth? In con- 
firmation of the records in the Talmudic literature about 
the Great Synagogue, the following circumstantial evi- 
dence is to be adduced: The errors of the Samaritans 
became rampant after the death of Xehemiah, while of 


SYNAGOGUE 


83 


SYNAGOGUE 


the high-priests between Eliashib and Onias I some 
were insignificant men and others were reprobates. Ju- 
daism, moreover, has no record whatever of any distin- 
guished persons during this period. We should there- 
fore have expected the religion of the people to be at 
the lowest ebb. “ But instead of declining, we find Ju- 
daism rapidly rising. No trace is to be found in the 
whole of this period of the disturbances, misconceptions, 
and errors which prevailed in the time of Ezra, Nelie- 
miali, and Zernbbabel. The law and the precepts were 
pre-eminently revered. The ancient collection of Ben- 
Sirach’s sayings, which reflects the spirit of the people 
in the pre-Si monic age, breathes a fervent enthusiasm 
for the inspired law (comp. Kcclns. ii, Id; vii, 29; ix, 
15; x, 19; xv, 1 ; xix, 17 ; xxi. 11; xxiii, 27, and espe- 
cially ch. xxiv). - Who, then, has kindled and sustained 
such an enthusiasm and religious spirit, if not an assem- 
bly similar to that convened by Nehemiah V” (Griitz, in 
Frankel’s Monatsschrift , vi, 63, etc.). 

III. Number of Members and their Classification . — 
We are told that Nehemiah organized the Great Syna- 
gogue (comp. Neh. x, 1-10 with Midrash liuth , c. iii ; 
Jerusalem Shebiith , v, 1), and that it consisted of 120 
members (Jerusalem Berakoth , ii, 4; Jerusalem Megil- 
lah, i; Babylon Megillah, 17 b). In loo'king at the regis- 
ter of the Great Assembly recorded in Nehemiah (x. 1- 
8), it will be seen that — a. Only sixteen out of the 
twenty-four chiefs of the priests (1 Chron. xxiv, 7—1 S) 
are enumerated, and that for the eight that are want- 
ing four private persons are given, viz. Zidkijah, Daniel, 
Baruch, and Meshullam. b. Of the six or seven chief 
Ledtes — viz. Jeshua, Bani, Kadmicl, Ilodijah, Sherebi- 
ah, Hashabniah — who returned with Zerubbabel and 
Ezra (Neh. ix, 4, 5 ; Ezra v, 18, 19, 24), Bani is omitted, 
and twelve private individuals are mentioned who were 
undoubtedly the doctors of the law (C" 1 -* 1 -^ ; Neh.viii, 
7 ; ix, 3). c. Of the forty-five chiefs of the people ( T rX1 
tZ^TI) only half are known as heads of families, and the 
rest are again distinguished private individuals. Here 
the families of David and Joab (comp. Ezra viii, 2, 9) 
are missing, d. Of the represent at ires of the cities there 
are only two mentioned — viz. Anathoth and Nebo — 
which plainly show's that others are omitted, since these 
two places did not at all distinguish themselves to be 
thus singled out. Now', in looking at the peculiar posi- 
tion in w hich they are placed among the heads of the 
people in the register of the exiles, it will be seen that 
the family of Hariph (Joseh) stand first; then follow' 
the names of thirteen cities (viz. Gibeon, Bethlehem, 
Netophah, Anathoth. Beth -azmaveth, Kirjath -jearim, 
Chephirah, Beeroth, Kamah, Gaba, Miehmas, Beth-el, 
and Ai) ; Nebo concludes the catalogue of the cities, 
and the family of Magbish follow's upon it (Ezra ii, 18^ 
30; Neh. vii, 24-33), which exactly corresponds with 
the order in the register of the Great Synagogue; Ha- 
riph begins, then come cities, i. e. Anathoth; Nehai 
comes last, and then again Magbish (Nelu x, 19, 20). 
It has been supposed, therefore, that the above-named 
cities are to be inserted between Hariph and Anathoth. 
If we add to these fifteen cities the other five specified 
in the register (viz. Lod, Undid, Ono, Jericho, and Te- 
koa — vii, 36, 37), which were represented by this syn- 
od, we have in all twenty cities. Under this view', 
eight divisions of the priests are wanting — the family 
of Bani is missing from the Levites, seven families of 
the heads of the people have disappeared — and thir- 
teen of the representatives of the cities have dropped 
out. Now', if we supply those which seem to have been 
dropped, and add them up with the private individuals 
mentioned in the register, we obtain the following rep- 
resentatives in the Great Synagogue: twenty-eight 
priests, consisting of the tw r enty-lbur divisions and the 
four private individuals; nineteen Levites, being the 
seven families and the tw'elve private persons; fifty Is- 
raelites, twenty -nine being chiefs of the people and 
twenty-one private persons — making in all ninety-sev- 


en, with Nehemiah ninety -eight, w'hile the remaining 
tw'enty-tw'o are the deputations of the cities. We may 
thus obtain the 120 members of the Great Synagogue 
mentioned by the unanimous voice of tradition. It will 
also be seen from the above that these 120 members 
represented five classes, viz. : 1. The chiefs of the priest- 
ly divisions (EX “’UTXl); 2. The chiefs of the Le - 

vitical families (D““vb{l T wXt) ; 3. The heads of the 
Israelite families (ELTI *1TX1); 4 .Representatives of 
cities , or the elders (C'jpT ; 7rpe(jj3vTepoi) ; 5. The doc- 
tors of the law (C^EIS ypuppaTBi^). from 

all grades. This number, however, if thus made up, 
w’as most probably restricted to the time of Nehemiah, 
as there can be no doubt that the assemblies which 
w T ere afterwards held consisted of a smaller number, 
since, at. the time when the Great Synagogue is held to 
have passed over into the Great Sanhedrim, the repre- 
sentatives consisted of seventy, which became the fixed 
rule for the Sanhedrim (q. v.). 

IV. The Work of the (Ji'cat Synagogue. — At its first 
organization under Nehemiah, if the above be its true 
origin, the representatives bound themselves by a most 
solemn oath »"I?XE) to carry out the fol- 

lowing six decisions, which were deemed most essential 
for the stability" of the newly reconstructed State: 1. 
Not to intermarry with heathens; 2. To keep the Sab- 
bath holy; 3. To observe the sabbatical year; 4. Ev- 
ery one to pay annually a third of a shekel to the 
Temple; 5. To supply wood for the altar; 6. Bcgularly 
to pay the priestly dues (Neh. x, 28-39). The founda- 
tion for the reorganization and reconstruction of the 
State and the Temple-service being thus laid at the first 
meeting of this synod, the obtaining of the necessary 
materials for the successful rearing-up of the super- 
structure and the completion of the edifice demanded 
that the synod should occasionally reassemble to devise 
and adopt such measures as should secure the accom- 
plishment of the plan and the permanent maintenance 
of the sanctuary. To this end the members of the 
Great Synagogue are believed to have collected the ca- 
nonical Scriptures. This was called forth by the effects 
of the first decision, which involved the expulsion of 
Manasseh, son of the high-priest Joiada, by Nehemiah 
and the synod for refusing compliance with that deci- 
sion — i. e. to he separated from his heathen w'ife, the 
daughter of Sanballat (xiii, 23-29). In consequence 
of tliis his father-in-law'. Sanballat, obtained permission 
to build an opposition temple on Mount Gerizim, in 
which Manasseli became high-priest, and whither he 
was followed by many of the Jews who sympathized 
with him. This proceeding, however, compelled them 
to deny the prophets, because their repeated declara- 
tions about the sanctity of Jerusalem did not favor the 
erection of a temple out of the ancient metropolis. To 
erect a w'all of partition between the Jew's and these 
apostates, and to show' to the people which of the an- 
cient prophetical books were sacred, the Sopherim and 
the men of the Great Synagogue compiled the canon 
of the prophets. As the early prophets and the great 
prophets — i. c. Isaiah, Jeremiah, and Ezekiel — like the 
Pentateuch, were already regarded as sacred, it only 
remained for the Great Synagogue to complete the pro- 
phetical canon by inserting into it the twelve minor 
prophets, which this synod accordingly did, as may be 
seen from Baba Bathra , 15; A both di Babbi Nathan. 
c. i ; 2 j\lacc. xii, 13. Although some of these authori- 
ties are uo longer clear about the books inserted into 
the canon, yet they all testify to the fact that the 
members of the Great Synagogue were engaged in col- 
lecting the canonical books of the prophets. The 11a- 
giographa were not as yet made up, as is evident from 
the fact that the younger Sirach did not even know the 
expression but used the general term rd d\\a 

to denote them ( Preface to Bcclus.), and that in Alex- 


SYN ALL AXIS 


84 


SYNCELLUS 


amlria additions were made to the book of Esther, and 
other books were inserted in what we now call the 11a- 
giographa, as well as from the circumstance that the 
canonicitv of some of the llagiographa continued to be 
a point of difference between the schools of Shammai 
and llillel, which could not have been the case if the 
canon of the llagiographa had been definitely made up. 
They also compiled the ritual for private and public 
worship [see Sv nagogue ] ; and, finally, they intro- 
duced schools for the study of the divine law rP2), 

and defined the precepts of Holy Writ. The whole of 
this is indicated in the epitome of the three grand max- 
ims transmitted to us in the laconic style of the Mishua : 
u The prophets transmitted the divine law to the men 
of the Great Synagogue, who propounded the three 
maxims — be cautious in judging, get many disciples, 
and make a hedge about the law” (Aboth, i, 1). The 
other work of the men of the Greek synagogue which 
has come down to us in the name of the Sopherim is 
given in the article Sen mu. 

V, Literature. — Wassermann, in Jost’s Israelitische 
Annalen (Frankfort - on - the - Main, 1840), ii, 1G3 sq,; 
Sachs, in I'ran kefs Zeitschrift Jiir (lie reliyidsen Inte- 
ressen des Judenthums (Berlin, 1845), ii, 301 sq. ; Kroch- 
mal, More Xeboche lla-Seman (Leopoli, 1851), p. 5*2 sq., 
102 sq., 1G6 sq.; Ucrzfeld, G< schichte des I T olkes Israel 
(Nonlhausen, 1855-57), i, 22 sq., 380 sq. ; ii, 53, 244 sq., 
2G4 sq. ; Jost, Gesehichte des Judenthums. i, 35 sq., 95 sq., 
270 sq. ; Low, Ben Chananja (Szegedin, 1858), i, 102 sq., | 
193 sq., 292 sq., 338 sq. ; and especially the elaborate 
essay of Griitz, in Fran kcl’s Monutsschnft jTtr Geschichte 
und Wisscnschaft des Judenthums (Leipsic, 1857), vi, 31 
sq., G 1 sq. ; also Fiirst, Gesch. des Kanons , p. 22, note. See 
Canon. 

SYNAGOGUE and Council. The Jewish Church 
is. in the catacombs, represented as a woman of majes- 
tic presence in flowing robes; but in mediaeval exam- 
ples, as on the doorway at Rochester Cathedral, with 
iier eyes bandaged, the tables of the law falling from 
one hand, and a broken staff in the other (Jer. v, 16, 
17). The Church is crowned and sceptred, and holds a 
church and a cross. — Walcott, Sacred A rchceol. s. v. 

Synallaxis, in Greek mythology, was one of the 
Ionids, nymphs skilled in medicine, living on the Cythe- 
rus, a river of Elis, 

Synapte (mu anrn)) is a Greek term for the Greek 
Collect in the Liturgy of St. ^\l ark. resembling the ec- 
tene in that of St. James and of St. Chrysostom. It is 
used, also, to designate the holy communion. 

Synaxarium ( avra^opiou ) is a term for an 
abridged form of the Greek menology ( record of 
months), an account of the festival being celebrated. 

Synaxis (iramStc), an Eastern term signifying, 
respectively, 1. A collect or short prayer; 2. The holy 
eucharist.or the Christian sacrifice; 3. An assembly for 
worship; and, 4. The joint commemoration of saints. 

Syncellus (from (jvyuiWu). to join) was an ancient 
officer attached to the patriarchs or prelates of the Ori- 
ental Church as witnesses to their conversation and 
conduct. (Pliers acted as clerks and stewards. It 
eventually became a mere title of honor. 

Syncellus, Geokchus, a Byzantine author and an 
ecclesiastical dignitary of Constantinople, who lived at 
the close of the 8th and the beginning of the 9th cen- 
tury after Christ. He has left a Chronography, or chro- 
nological reeoril of events, extending from t lie creation 
to t lie accession of the emperor Diocletian. He began 
with Adam, and intended to bring down his compila- 
tion to his own time, but death anticipated the comple- 
tion of his task. 

I. Xame. — He is called Georgius Abbas and Georgius 
Monuchus, and has sometimes been erroneously identi- 
fied with Georgius llamartolns , whose works remain 
still, for the most part, unpublished. The designation 
of Syncellus , which has been given to the chronogra- 


pher as a distinctive appellation, is no personal name, 
but a title of dignity. It is derived from his ecclesias- 
tical office in the hierarchy of the metropolitan Church 
of the Eastern Empire. The syncellus was originally 
the companion, room-mate, occupant of the same ceil 
with the patriarch — cohabitator , cellaneus, concellaneus. 
lie was to be the constant witness of the purity of the 
patriarch’s life and the propriety of his conduct and 
conversation, on the same principle as that which re- 
quires members of the Jesuit Order to be always accom- 
panied by one of the fraternity. Sometimes one syn- 
cellus was appointed, sometimes two, and sometimes 
more. Frequently the designation was bestowed as an 
honorary and honorable title. At times the office was 
employed as a mode of placing spies around the patri- 
arch. The popes of Rome had their syncelli down to the 
time of Gregory the Great, at least, as has been proved 
by Dueange, who has discussed the subject with his 
usual exuberant learning (Gloss. Med. et Injhn. Latin. 
s. v.). They were attached, also, to other prelates. The 
relation was naturally one of great intimacy and confi- 
dence, and consequently became one of influence and 
high distinction. Hence the syncellus seems frequent- 
ly to have acted as coadjutor to the patriarch, and to 
have been for a long time regarded as in the legitimate 
line of succession to the patriarchate. The practice, 
however, of elevating the syncellus to the patriarchal 
throne on the death of the metropolitan appears to have 
never been habitual, and to have been abandoned be- 
fore the end of the 9th century (Zonaras, XVI, xiii, 25; 
Gretser et Goar, Comm, in Codin. p. 105). The em- 
peror Romanus Lecapeuus made his youngest son, The- 
ophylaet, syncellus, evidently with a view to the suc- 
cession to the highest place in the hierarchy (Zonaras, 
XVI, xviii). 'l’lie special functions of the office seem 
to have been gradually abandoned, but the name and 
dignity were still retained when Codinus prepared his 
Court-roll of the Imperial Ojjiciuls (see Goar, Prcrf. ad 
Syncellum , ii, 5G). 

II. Life. — George the Chronographer was syncellus 
to the patriarch Tarasius, who died in 806. lie may 
have been one of those imposed on that eminent func- 
tionary by the emperor Nicephorus as a spy. Wo know 
nothing of him except from his name and his title, and 

i from his commemoration by his friend and continuator, 
Theophanes. The testimony of Theophanes amounts 
to very little, [t is simply that George, the abbot and 
syncellus, was a distinguished and very learned man, 
who faithfully and laboriously chronicled the events of 
the world from Adam, and diligently recorded their 
chronological succession; that life failed him when he 
had brought his chronicle down only to the accession of 
Diocletian; that, on the approach of death, he requested 
and urged his friend Theophanes to complete Ids de- 
sign, and that Theophanes reluctantly undertook and 
I executed this commission. Of George the Chronogra- 
i plier nothing more is reported. After this brief appa- 
rition on the stage of history he vanishes into thick 
darkness, leaving his unfinished work behind him. 

III. I Fonts. — The only work of George Syncellus 
which we possess, or know to have been written by 
him, is his Chronography, or Unicersal Chronicles, which 
comes down, as has been said, to the reign of Diocletian. 
Had life and health been spared, he would probably, 
like his continuator, Theophanes, and like the general 
tribe of mediaeval chroniclers, have been fuller, more 
original, and more instructive in the treatment of con- 
temporaneous events. These events were, in all likeli- 
hood, well known to him, from his social and official po- 
sition, and from the diligent studies which obtained for 
him the reputation of extraordinary knowledge (7 ro\v- 
fjaSearaTog'). As he died when lie had proceeded no 
further than the accession of Diocletian, nothing can be 
expected from him but fidelity of compilation and dis- 
cernment in the selection and use of authorities. Faith- 
fulness and industry may be readily conceded to him. 
Discretion and sagacity are scarcely among his charac- 


SYNCELLUS 


So 


SYNCRETISM! 


teristics. He is exceedingly curt, harsh, dry, jejune, 1 
and often confused, llis temperament, his vocation, 
and his times inclined him to credulity and superstition, 
lie introduces his multitudinous extracts in a crude and 
undigested form, and accepts without hesitation what- 
ever he finds in his texts. Yet his work has a very 
high value, and largely from this total absence of crit- 
ical discrimination. It is the most extensive of the 
(Ireek chronicles that have come down to us, with the 
exception of the Sicilian, Alexandrine, or Paschal chron- 
icle. The latter and the chronicle of Eusebius are the 
only two important chronological treatises that preceded 
it which have been preserved. Eusebius was sadly mu- 
tilated and fragmentary, and was in part restored bv the 
aid of Syncellus. Scaliger, the restorer of Eusebius, con- 
templated the abandonment of his undertaking when 
he despaired of obtaining the assistance of Syncellus, 
which he deemed indispensable. The restoration was, 
indeed, impracticable without such aid, till the discov- 
ery of the complete work, in recent years, in an Arme- 
nian AI IS., which was published at Milan, in 1818, by 
Mai and Zohrab. The Chronograph y of Syncellus has 
thus rendered important service. It has other sources 
of interest. It is throughout a compilation, but a com- 
pilation which usually retains the ipsissima verba of the 
authors from whom it borrows, and which records its 
obligations. Thus have been preserved remnants, more 
or less extensive, of many writers who would otherwise 
have perished utterly. The citations from Eusebius 
have already been referred to. We owe, besides, to 
Syncellus nearly all that survives of Julius Africanus, 
most of the fragments of Manelho, and much of the lit- 
tle that is left of Berosus, who strangely illustrates the 
Book of Genesis, and corroborates t lie remarkable dis- 
coveries of the late George Smith. Among the shat- 
tered remnants imbedded in the chronicle of Syncellus 
— like broken columns, ruined architraves, dismembered 
friezes, and mutilated statues in mediaeval walls and for- 
talices — may be found passages from books of various 
kinds, including many from partially or wholly lost 
Apocrypha. There are extracts from the Life of Adam, 
the Book of Enoch, the History of Judith, Hermes, Zos- 
inius the philosopher, etc. Some of these excerpts are 
very curious, and perpetuate the memory of remarkable 
superstitions and of quaint legends of the antique world. 
It would be misplaced labor to investigate here the 
chronological accuracy of Syncellus, or to comment upon 
his chronological statements. The service has been ren- 
dered laboriously, if not altogether satisfactorily, by the 
Dominican Goar, who added a Canon Chronoyraphicvs 
to the editio princeps of the work. The history of the 
MS. used by Goar is curious. It was preserved in the 
library of the patriarch at Constantinople. It reap- 
peared in the Royal Library of France. A notice, in 
Greek, appended to the MS. states that it was pur- 
chased at Corinth, for four pieces of gold (\jOUfjiiwc), by 
John Abrami (or Abrams), in the month of November, 
1507, or mundane year 7016 (of the tora of Constantino- 
ple). It was probably one of the many waifs from the 
Ottoman capture of Constantinople. For some time it 
was believed to have been lost from the Royal Library. 
It reached Scaliger’s hands. It was. in time, restored 
to the royal repository, where it still remains, if it did 
not perish in the fires of the Commune. The supposed 
date of this MS. is 10*21. It is somewhat mutilated, and 
one leaf is lost; but it is the most complete MS. of this 
author. Dindorf regards as of much higher mark an- 
other Parisian MS., which he also employed in his re- 
cension of the text for the Bonn series of the Byzantine 
Historians. This has lost many leaves in the middle, 
and, like Coleridge’s Christabel. has neither beginning 
nor end. 

IV. Literature. — Georg. Svncelli Chronograph ia, Ed. 
J. Goar (Par. 1652). This edition is accompanied with 
copious emendations and annotations, with an instructive 
preface, and with a full chronographical canon. Georg. 
Syncellus et Xiaphorus C. P. ex recensione Guilelrai 


Dindorfii (Bonnie, 1820, 2 vols. 8vo). Dindorf repub- 
lishes the apparatus literarius of Goar, and adds a re- 
print of Bedovii Dissertatio de Georgii Syncelli Chro- 
noyraphiu. (G. F. 11.) 

Syncretism (t JoyKppricrpog , union). This term is 
employed in Church history to designate the movement 
to promote union among the various evangelical parties 
of Germany in the 17th century. The word occurs in 
Plutarch (ii, 400 B; ed. Reiske. vii, 010)— perhaps the 
only instance among the writers of antiquity — and 
is there illustrated by the idea that the Cretans, though 
frequently at war among themselves, were accustomed 
to unite their powers against the attacks of any foreign 
foe (teni rouro gv 6 xa\ ovpti'og in t avrinv avyKpp- 
r input;). Erasmus adopted the word into the A da gin 
(chil. i, cent. 1, No. 11, p. 24), and defined it. to signify 
the union of parties who have need of each other or 
who desire to make head against a common foe, though 
they may not be influenced to form such union because 
they are one at heart. Both the word and the idea 
came into common use soon afterwards. Zwingli, for 
example, in a letter to GSeolampadius of the year 1525, 
recommends such a syncretism {Opp. ed. Schuler et 
Schulthess, vii, 390) ; Bucer employs the term frequent- 
ly in connection with his efforts towards union after 
the publication of the Augsburg Confession {OpjK viii, 
577), as does also Melancthon with reference to the 
same business (Corp.Ref. ii, 485 sq. ; i,917: Opp. Mel . 
ed. Yitemb. iv, 813). The apostate Staphylus (q. v.) 
charges the Reformers with being simply Babel-build- 
ers, and in setting forth his proofs represents the Lu- 
therans as being Syncret izantes (Calov. Syncret. llist. i, 
2). Zach. Ursinus (q. v.) also employs the term in an 
unfavorable sense (Opp. Crsini [Neustadt, 1589], ii, 305, 
on Isa. ix,fl). Syncretism is thus shown to have been 
a current term with all persons of humanistic culture 
in the IGtli century, and to have been employed, ac- 
cording to circumstances, with a favorable or unfavora- 
ble meaning to designate an alliance of dissenting par- 
ties in despite of all dissent. The twofold use of syn- 
cretism as a term of commendation or censure contin- 
ued throughout the 17th century, but with a gradual 
predominance of the latter idea, arising from the in- 
creased importance which came to be attached to every 
variation of doctrinal beliefs. In 1603 the Romish the- 
ologian Windeek wrote against the Protestants a Prog- 
nosticon Futuri Status Fcclesice , in which he advised the 
Romanists to cultivate greater harmony, in the words 
“Si saperent Catholiei, et ipsis cara esset reipublica? 
Christiana' salus, syneretismum eolerent.” The Hei- 
delberg theologian David Pareus (q. v.) responded in 
his Irenicum , sire tie Unione Evangel. Conrilianda, with 
an appeal to both wings of the Protestant Church for an 
alliance against their common foe; but Leonhard Hot- 
ter rejected the idea of such an alliance as preposterous 
(’EZstcutiq ’EXcy/crini/, etc. [Wittenb. 1614]), and a Jesuit, 
Adam Contzen, followed in a polemic of eight hundred 
and sixty-one pages, entitled J)e Pace Germanire Libri 
II (Mavence, 1616, 8vo), whose principal purpose was 
a demonstration of the impossibility of any union be- 
tween the Lutheran and Reformed parties of the Prot- 
estant Church. The tendency, scarcely interrupted by 
the raging of the Thirty Years’ War, of Lutheran and 
Romanist zealots to magnify existing differences of 
opinion and intensify their influence drew forth the 
protest of Calixtus (q. v.). ITe stigmatized it as shame- 
ful, and urged the making of distinctions between doc- 
trines of greater and inferior importance; and, while he 
wished the further development of doctrinal matters to 
be relegated to the schools, he also urged that a practi- 
cal sympathy and fellowship be cultivated between the 
churches. This brought on him a storm of obloquy. 
The Wittenberg faculty issued two opinions, warning 
against such “ syncret ismus diversarum religionum,” 
and deprecating the Saudomir Consensus (q.v.): and in 
the same year (1645) a Jesuit, Veit Erbermann. wrote 
a work entitled EipgviKov Catholicum , etc., that de- 


SYNCRETISTIC CONTROVERSIES 30 SYNCRETISTIC CONTROVERSIES 


serves notice ns being the probable source of a new in- 
terpretation of the word syncretism, by which it came 
to denote, not. as aforetime, the practical association of 
religionists holding divergent views upon some ques- 
t ions, but an intermixing of the religions themselves. 
The new rendering of the word furnished the opponents 
of Calixtus with additional weapons, of which they Mere 
not slow to avail themselves. See Dannhauer, Myste- 
riinn sfyncretismi. etc. (Strasb. 1048), where the idea of 
syncretism is made to include every form of hurtful as- 
sociation or intermixture, e. g. of Eve with the serpent, 
of the chemical or mechanical intermixture of hetero- 
geneous elements in nature, etc. With Calovius (q. v.) 
begins emphatically the use of the term syncretism as 
denoting an improper and unalloMable approximation 
of Lutheran and Reformed Christians tonxards each oth- 
er. This view’ underlies the phrase *S Syncretistic Con- 
troversies (q. v.) as used in ecclesiastical history, 'flic 
more benevolent meaning was gradually laid aside, and 
even Calixtus was constrained to refuse his consent to 
the application of the term to his position. The per- 
version has retained its hold upon the popular usage 
until now*, and has doubtless contributed towards the 
unauthorized assumption of a derivation of syncretism 
from (Toyictpdvvvfti. — Herzog, Real-Fncyklop. s. v. 

Syncretistic Controversies. The title applies 
in ordinary practice to such disputes only as originated 
in connection with efforts made in the second half of 
the 1 7 tli century to promote union and fellowship be- 
tween the Protestant churches of Germany. These dis- 
putes raged less between Reformed and Lutheran theo- 
logians than between the strict and the liberal wing 
of the Lutheran Church itself. The progress of con- 
troversy, moreover, generally resulted in the interweav- 
ing of extraneous and foreign matters with the direct 
question at issue; and in this way the syncretistic con- 
troversies became also disputes with reference to the 
degree of freedom to he allowed theological schools and 
theological science, the disputants being known as Gne- 
siolutherani and Moilerat lores. The term syncretism 
(q. v.) is not broad enough to cover all these several 
disputes, but is in practice so employed by all parties. 
Everything prior to the transactions of the year 1C45 
must he regarded as preliminary to the syncretistic 
controversies proper. From that date n’e may distin- 
guish three periods to the death of Calovius and the 
practical end of the dispute. 

1. From the Colloquy of Thorn to the Death of Georye 
Calixtus (1045-50). — Calovius had succeeded in pre- 
venting the selection of Calixtus as the delegate of 
Dantzie to the Colloquy of Thorn : and wdien the latter 
was appointed to serve for Kbnigsberg instead, Calovius 
caused him to be deprived of all opportunity to co-op- 
erate with the Lutheran delegates. Calixtus thereupon 
associated and counselled with the Reformed theologi- 
ans, and thereby gave opportunity for his opponents to 
fasten on him the charge of an unwarrantable com- 
bining of diverse religions — a charge persistently urged, 
though he publicly and in writing rejected the Reform- 
ed Confession ot Thorn. The next measure was a un- 
ion of all the Saxon theologians, led by Weller, the su- 
perintendent of Brunswick, in a censure of the Univer- 
sity of llo.lmstiult, which favored Calixtus, on the al- 
leged ground that it had made innovations in doctrine 
ami had departed from the generally received Consensus 
Formula et Catechesis Rudiorum. To this Calixtus re- 
sponded with a denial under date of Feb. 20, 1047 ; but. 
with no other result than that of increasing the eager- 
ness with which every peculiarity in the teaching of 
Ilelmstadt was scanned for the discovery of error. In 
Prussia, the appointment of the Calixtines Chr. Dreier 
and Johann Latermann to the faculty of Konigsberg 
excited similar disputes, which called forth numerous 
volumes in defence of either side ; and Calovius, who had 
been superseded by Dreier, continued to fan the flame 
from a distance, even after Mvslenta, its originator, had 
died (in 1053). 


The increasing prominence of the electors palatine 
and Brandenburg was in this period regarded with anx- 
iety by the electoral court of Saxony, and the repre- 
sentatives of the latter, in the Bence Congress of West- 
phalia, had standing instructions, accordingly, to pre- 
vent, if possible, the concession of rights to the Reform- 
ed churches equal to those enjoyed by the Lutheran; 
but the endeavor failed altogether. The class of Lu- 
theran theologians which approved the action of the 
congress in this regard was accordingly not in favor in 
electoral Saxony; and as early as Jan. 21, 1018, t lie the- 
ologians of Wittenberg and Leipsic were commanded to 
investigate the errors of the Ilelmstadt theologians, and 
state them “article by article.” In the following year 
the elector addressed to the dukes of Brunswick a paper 
in which he rehearsed all the objections of his theolo- 
gians against Calixtus and llelmstiidt, ami requested 
that the latter, as disturbers of the 1 Church and State, 
should be forbidden to write against the Saxon divines. 
In November, 1050, Calovius, the redoubtable defender 
of Lutheran orthodoxy, *was called to the faculty of 
Wittenberg. An immense quantity of controversial 
writings preceded and followed this event. The dukes 
of Brunswick refused to accede to the request to silence 
their theologians, and caused a defence of their position 
to he written by Horneius, and a reply to t lie elector 
hv Calixtus himself; and they also rejected the propo- 
sition to convene a diet of theologians, as tending rath- 
er to increase than diminish the troubles of the Church. 
They proposed instead a convention of “ political coun- 
cillors M’ho love peace and are acquainted u-ith allairs;” 
but this M f as rejected by Saxony. < >n Jan. 9, 1054, twen- 
ty-four accredited representatives of evangelical powers 
united in a renewed proposition to submit the questions 
in dispute to a body of peacefully inclined theologians 
and statesmen for discussion ; but the elector of Saxony, 
acting under the advice of his theologians, would not 
entertain the project. The Saxons hom' pursued the 
plan of dismissing the party of llelmstiidt from the Lu- 
theran Church more zealously than before, and in the 
course of their labors produced a work which was ex- 
pected to serve as the confession of faith of all M'ho 
Mould continue in the purified Church — the Consensus 
Repet it us Fidei re re Lut Iterance. To secure the largest 
possible number of supporters, a mass of writings in 
harmony with its teachings M'as issued: but it became 
speedily apparent that but few Mere ready to adopt the 
neu r confession, and this fact, coupled with the death of 
George Calixtus in the spring of 1G5(>, caused a cessa- 
tion of the strife. 

Five years of almost total quiet ensued, interrupted 
only by slight agitations in Brandenburg, where the 
Lutheran preacher Samuel Pomarius (q.v.) was suspend- 
ed for preaching against the Reformed and the syncre- 
tists. This period M as folhuved, hoM-ever, by 

2. Renewed Conflicts (1G61-G9). — The immediate oc- 
casion of strife was found in the measures taken by 
the landgrave of Ilesse-Cassel, William VI, to secure a 
religious constitution for his land M’hich should be suf- 
liciently broad and generous to comprehend both Lu- 
therans and Reformed under its operation. His endeav- 
ors culminated in a convention which met at Casscl, 
consisting of two members of the (Reformed) University 
of Marburg ami two theologians belonging to the (Lu- 
theran) faculty of Rinteln. A declaration Mas drawn up 
M’liich recognised existing divergencies of opinion be- 
tM'een t lie parties, but at the same time showed an 
agreement betM’een them on all essential matters, and 
on the ground of such consent urged the exercise of 
brotherly love and the recognition of both parties as 
belonging to one Church, sharing in a common faith 
and looking (wards a common heaven. The appear- 
ance of this declaration roused the Wittenbcrgers to ac- 
tion. They issued a circular asking the support of all 
good Lutherans against the Cassel colloquy, and in- 
duced the facidties of Jena and Leipsic to unite M-ith 
them in admonishing the theologians of Rinteln con- 


SYXCRETISTIC CONTROVERSIES 87 


SYNEDRIANS 


corning the lapse of which they had been guilty. A 
fusilade of papers in Latin and German, aimed at both 
the learned world and the public, was now kept up un- 
til after the death of William VI, in 1666, when the 
zeal of Rinteln became much cooler in consequence of 
beuetits conferred on the Reformed at the expense of 
the Lutheran party. 

The renewal of the dispute in Hesse soon reacted 
upon Brandenburg, whose duke was brother-in-law to 
the landgrave, and thoroughly in sympathy with his 
plans. The government issued a manifesto deprecating 
the custom of discussing points of controversy in the 
pulpit and before mixed audiences, and soon afterwards 
(Aug. 21. 1GG3) a colloquy was summoned to Berlin for 
the purpose of M inaugurating a state of fraternal uni- 
ty.” The Lutherans, however, proved unyielding, the 
poet Paul Gerhard t (q. v.) in particular being fixed in 
his opposition to any compromise, and the colloquy 
ended without result. Various orders now followed in 
quick succession, by which preachers were forbidden to 
apply opprobrious names to their opponents in the pul- 
pit, and also to attribute to them doctrines inferred 
from their principles, but not avowed by them. The 
Lutherans refused to sign a pledge of obedience to these 
edicts, this being in their eyes tantamount to a formal 
abandonment of their position. The government event- 
ually compelled them to yield, though many chose dep- 
osition from oJhce and exile rather than submission. 

A new phase of the dispute began in 1GG4 with the 
publication of a great collection of Consilia Theologica 
Witebergensia, which included a multitude of judgments 
against Calixtus and the syncretists, and also the Con- 
sensus Repetitus Fidei vere Lui iterance. The exclusion 
of the syncretists was now less aimed at than the rally- 
ing of all strict Lutherans about the Consensus as a new 
confession of faith. The terms of the Consensus, how- 
ever, implicitly condemned Calixtus and his adherents 
as non-Lutheran and heretical : and the new movement 
accordingly drew out the son of Calixtus, Frederick Ul- 
ric, who from this time made it the object of bis life to 
resist the persistent attacks of Calovius on his father’s 
character and work. Both were extremists, and could 
not substantiate all the assertions they put forth ; but 
the party of Calovius triumphed over Calixtus for a 
time through the efforts of a new combatant whom 
they had gained to their support— the youthful Strauch, 
professor of history and assessor in theology at Witten- 
berg. The University of 1 lelmstadt, on the other hand, 
enlisted the services of Herman Conring (q. v.), a schol- 
ar and statesman of European fame, and he succeeded 
in so presenting to view the danger to the peace of the 
Church and to the liberty of teaching which grew out 
of the attempt to force the Consensus upon the Church 
as a confession of faith, that universities and princes 
were alarmed, and a period of quiet was secured, 1GG9. 

3. Final Conflict. — Calovius reopened the war in 1675 
with accustomed energy; and although the temper of 
the time was changing, and disgust with the intermin- 
able quarrel began to be manifested, he was able, by 
1679, to comped the entire University of Jena to dis- 
avow all sympathy with syncretism. This, however, 
proved to be bis last victory. 11 is aged patron, the elec- 
tor Johann Georg II of Saxony, died in the following 
year, and the new ruler was not so fond of controversy 
as the old one had been. In 1682 the IJistoria Syncr., 
which Calovius had made a storehouse of the details of 
his life-long contest, and published anonymously to evade 
the law forbidding such publications, was bought up 
and prevented from circulating among the people by 
the government. He died of apoplexy Feb. 21, 1686. 
No considerable features in connection with the syn- 
cretistic controversy appear after the death of Calovius. 
Lutherans and members of the Reformed Church in 
Germany neither desired nor sought fraternity with 
each other during more than another century. When 
the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes occurred, in 1685,. 
only the Reformed population in Germany welcomed 


the fugitive Protestants from France. The end of the 
controversy — a peaceful separation between theology 
and religion, the regulation of the boundaries interven- 
ing between Church and school, between confession and 
science, between that which is and that which is not, 
obligatory upon all Christians — was not attained. Ca- 
lovius held pure doctrine to be the one thing needful, 
and regarded that as fixed and settled, so that every 
soul is required to simply accept it as the truth. Ca- 
lixtus did not believe the acceptance of doctrine to be. 
upon the whole, the essential tiling in Christianity, nor 
that all doctrine has equal importance; and he held 
that the points of belief which a Christian absolutely 
must receive arc but few. lie was thus able to over- 
look minor differences and desire fraternity among all 
Protestant Christians. 

The literature of the controversy is vast. See espe- 
cially Calovius, Hist. Sync ret. ; Walcli, Streitigkeiten d. 
luth. Kirche , pt. i and iv; Thohiek, A had. Lehen d. 17 ten 
Jahrh. ( 1854), pt. ii ; id. Lebeiiszengen d. luth. Kirche 
(Berk 1859) ; id. Kircid. Ltbend. 17 ten Jahrh. (ibid. 1861) ; 
Gass, Gesch. d.prot. Vogmatik (ibid. 1857), vol. ii; and 
the works mentioned s. v. “ Calixtus, George.” — Ilerzog, 
Real- Ency Hop. s. v. 

Syncretists (<JvyKpr)Ti<Trat, unionists), persons 
who advocate a system of union and harmony which 
was attempted to be introduced into the Lutheran 
Church in the 17th century. It originated with Ca- 
lixtus, professor of divinity at Hehnstiidt, who, in ex- 
amining the doctrines professed by the different bodies 
of Christians, discovered that, notwithstanding there 
were many things to be reprobated, there was so much 
important truth held by them in common that they 
ought to banish their animosities, ami live together as 
disciples of one common blaster. 1 1 is object was to 
heal the divisions and terminate the contests which 
prevailed. Like most men of a pacific spirit, he be- 
came the butt of all parties. He was accused of Cal- 
vinism, Roman Catholicism, Arianism, Socinianism, Ju- 
daism, and even Atheism. II is bitterest opponent was 
Buscher, a 1 lanoverian clergyman, who published a hook 
against him entitled Crypto- Fapismus Xovce Theologice 
Helmstadiensis. The subject was taken up by the Con- 
ference held at Thorn in t he year 1645, to which Calix- 
tus had been sent by the elector of Brandenburg; and 
the whole force of the Saxon clergy was turned against 
him, as an apostate from the strict and pure principles 
of Lutheranism. This great man continued, however, 
with consummate ability, to defend his views and re- 
pel the attacks of his enemies till his death, in 1656. 
But this event did not put a stop to the controversy. 
It continued to rage with greater or less violence till 
near the close of the century, by which time most of 
those who took part in it had died. To such a length 
was the opposition to Calixtus at one time carried that, 
in a dramatic piece at Wittenberg, he was represented 
as a fiend with horns and claws. Those who sided with 
him were called Calixtines or Syncretists. See Syn- 
cretism. 

Syndics (avrStKoi), or Defknsores, were officers 
whose duty it was to watch over the rights of the poor 
and of the Church, to act as superintendents of the 
Copiatte (q. v.), and to see that all clerks attended the 
celebration of morning and evening service in the 
church. See Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. iii, cli. ii. 

Synecdemi (a wire ppot, fellou'-qrilgrhns), a name 
given by the Paulicians in the 9th century to their 
teachers, because they were all equal in rank, and were 
distinguished from laymen by no rights, prerogatives, 
or insignia. 

Synedrians (from ovrrfpoc, a sitting together'), a 
name given bv the Novatians to orthodox Christians, 
because they charitably decreed in their synods to re- 
ceive apostates and such as went to the Capitol to sacri- 
fice into their communion again upon their sincere re- 
pentance. 


SYNERGISM 


88 


SYNESIUS 


Synergism (<rm'f|Oyfu/, to trork together) is the doc- 
trine that the human will co-operates with divine grace 
in the work of conversion, as it was advanced by Kras- 
nius in his controversy with Luther, and afterwards 
represented by j\!elaneihon and his school. Luther 
taught that sin had absolutely ruined man, making of 
his reason a ravenous beast and of his will a slave, so 
that it is impossible for him to contribute in any way 
towards his conversion; and in the first edition of his 
Loci Commune# Melauethon’s teaching is in entire har- 
mony with Luther’s view. Such a view necessarily re- 
sulted in the doctrine of predestination, and both Lu- 
ther and jMelaucthou traced everything back to God 
as the first cause, the sin of .Judas no less than the con- 
version of Paul. It was, however, an unnatural view 
for Melnnethou to hold, and he receded from it into the 
ilualistic itlea that human liberty must be recognised 
as a factor in conversion by the side of the divine ne- 
cessity. In the third edition of the Loci sin is derived 
from the will of the devil and of man, instead of that 
of God; not everything, consequently, is to be ascribed 
to the divine causality, and there is a realm of contin- 
gencies bv the side of the realm of necessity which is 
founded on the freedom of the human will. A certain 
measure of volitional freedom to perform outward works 
of obedience to the divine law remains to man even af- 
ter the Fall; but he cannot, without the aid of the 
IIolv Spirit, quantitatively and qualitatively fulfil that 
law, and accordingly in every good action three causes 
work together (avvtpyovai ) — the Word of God, the Holy 
Spirit, and the human will, which does not resist the 
Word of God, and is at times described directly as fi- 
cultas sese applicandi ad gratiam. The doctrine of pre- 
destination fell, of course, so soon as man came to be 
regarded as other than a volitiouloss statue. This syn- 
ergistic theory of Melancthon’s was admitted into the 
Leipsic Interim (q. v.) in the words “God does not op- 
erate on man as on a block, but draws him in such a 
way that his will co-operates.” It was also advocated 
in a polemical address by Johann Pfeffingcr, professor 
and pastor at Leipsic (1555), against whom Amsdorff 
(q. v.) contended, in 1558, that “it is presumptuous to 
hold that man could, in the exercise of his natural pow- 
ers, prepare and fit himself to receive grace.” Pfeffing- 
er had said, however, that the Holy Spirit must first 
arouse the will, after which the latter is required to do 
its part in conversion. From this personal stage the 
question was lifted into the schools by Flacius (q. v.). 
lie denied all participation of the will in the work of 
conversion, because it is dead to all good, wanting in 
all powers for good, and inclined to evil constantly. 
God, therefore, is the sole agent in conversion, and man 
is not only passive, but also unwilling. To the defence 
of such postulates Flacius devoted two days in a dis- 
putation at Jena, which latter university now became 
the centre of strict Lutheranism as against Wittenberg, 
where the spirit of Melancthon ruled. The next meas- 
ure of this Lutheran champion was the publication of 
the Weinutr Jiook of Confutations , which committed 
the duke of Saxony to the defence of orthodoxy, and 
served, at the same time, to refute all t lie errors of the 
time. It likewise occasioned the overthrow of Strigel 
(q. v.), who had been forced to aid in making a first 
draft of tiie book, but was unwilling to admit into it 
any of the improvements suggested by Flacius, and 
wrote against it in the form in which it was given to 
the world. He was seized and imprisoned on Easter- 
day, 1559. but was soon afterwards liberated in defer- 
ence to the censure with which public opinion every- 
where visited that, act of violence; and a colloquy was 
ordered to be lipid at Weimar in August, 15G0, with a 
view to settling the dispute. On this occasion Flacius 
inconsiderately asserted that original sin is not an ac- 
cident, but part of the substance of man, and obstinate- 
ly refused to retract the statement. The favor of the 
court now begin to wane, and in exactly the same de- 
gree did the Flacianist. divines rage against all who re- 


fused to sustain their opinions. Punishment naturally 
followed, and reached its culmination in the dismissal 
from office of Flacius and his clique, Dec. 10, 1561. 
Strigel, on the other hand, was induced to draw up a 
declaration of his views, and was thereupon reinstated, 
which event was followed by an explanatory Superdec- 
laration from the hand of superintendent Stbssol, de- 
signed to conciliate the opposite party (('of hu runs Stoes- 
selii , in Salig, iii. «S91). Strigel, however, refused to ac- 
cept. the interpretation of his views given by Stbssel, 
and took refuge “from the machinations of false breth- 
ren” in Leipsic. The Lutherans who rejected Stbssel’s 
compromise were banished, to the number of forty. 
The accession of John William to the throne of ducal 
Saxony (1567) restored the Flacianists, Flacius himself 
excepted, to power; a futile colloquy was held for the 
purpose of giving peace to lhe Church at Altenburg, 
Oct. 21, 1 56iS ; and the duke was eventually constrained 
to order the forming of the Corpus J)octrbue Thurin- 
yicum (Jena. 1571) with a view to the protection of as- 
sailed orthodoxy, l he Formula of Concord gave the 
finishing stroke to the conflict, and settled it substan- 
tially in harmony with the Flacian view. See Salig, 
1 list. d. A ngsb. Coif i. 648; Wnlch, ReliyionsstreiUybdten 
itmvrhulb d. luth. A in hr, i. 60; iv, 86; Planck, G esc fa d. 
prot. Lehrbegrifs , iv, 553; Scliliisselberg, Catalog i. Ua- 
ret.v; Galle. Melancthon, p. 326; T hom asi us, JJekenntn iss 
d. luth. Kirche , etc., p. 119; Dollinger, Reformation , iii, 
437; Schmid, in Zeitschr. f hist. Theol. 1849, p. 13; 
Preger, J/. Flacius Illgncus , etc., ii, 104-227, — Herzog, 
Real-Encyhiop. s. v. 

Synesius, bishop of Ptolemais, was first a pagan, 
then a Christian, and always a rhetorician. He lived at 
the close of the 4th and the beginning of the 5th century 
of our ;era. He was a late representative of the rhetorical 
declaimers of t lie Hellenic schools, and of the Neo- Pla- 
tonic philosophers. 1 le was also a pagan and a Christian 
poet, an elegant gentleman of leisure, and a bishop of the 
African Church. Contrasts were combined and reconciled 
in the man and in his career. He lived in an age of 
transitions; and he is, in his writings and in his fort- 
unes, typical of the age in which he lived. The biog- 
raphy and the literary remains of Synesius are much 
more interesting and instructive for the light which 
they shed upon the social, intellectual, and religious 
condition of provincial life in the Human empire during 
the first period of its manifest dissolution than for any 
influence exercised by him on the literature, the philos- 
ophy, the paganism, or the Christianity of his times, 
or on the sentiments, convictions, or character of subse- 
quent generations. Ho was designated by Casaubon 
“the sweetest of philosophers and the delight of the 
pious muses” (“ suavissimns philosophic et piarum de- 
lirium musarum.” Prof. Fp. Greg. Xyssen .) ; yet few 
authors have excited so much admiration and been so 
seldom read. Few have been so often quoted by the 
few who were acquainted with him, and been so inac- 
cessible for many generations, even to professed schol- 
ars. The attractions of Synesius are so special in their 
character that they address themselves to a very limit- 
ed class of students. The period which he illustrates 
is so obscure, so disheartening, and so little considered, 
that only the frequenters of the by-ways of history are 
likely to turn their regards to it. More than two cen- 
turies intervened between two editions of his works. 
After this long interval, three complete editions have 
been published within the last twenty years. One is 
only a Latin version, another is a French translation, 
and the third is no more than a reprint of the Greek 
text and Latin rendering from the edition of 1640, with 
some slight corrections. The writings of Synesius, in 
prose or verse, inspired by pagan or by Christian influ- 
ences. are much less notable for literary charm, for vigor- 
ous thought, or for philosophical reflection than as a pres- 
entation of the feelings, the aspirations, t he struggles, 
the difficulties, the hazards, the gratifications, the an- 
noyances, the occupations, and the associations of a cul- 


SYNESIUS 


89 


SYNESIUS 


tivated country gentleman, de provincia, under the reign 
of Arcadius and llonorius, when all parts of the empire 
were falling to pieces. They, accordingly, interpret the 
times for ms, and require to be interpreted by them. 

I. Character and Circumstances of the Aye . — The life 
of Synesius was cast in a stormy period ; and the storms 
were not limited to his own province, but swept over the 
whole empire. It was the age of general dissolution, 
political, social, intellectual, and religious; an age of 
usurpations and civil discords; of crimes in the palace 
and treacheries in the State; of barbarian invasions; of 
permanent dismemberments; of strife between pagans 
and Christians; of controversies, heresies, and schisms 
in the Christian Church; of social depravation and de- 
cay; of universal disintegration, and of rapid material 
decline. The date*of the birth of Synesius is unde- 
termined. If he was born in 370, it occurred only sev- 
en years after the death of the pagan emperor and the 
failure of his attempt to restore paganism. When Sy- 
nesius died, if be died in 431. Genseric and his Vandals 
had seized a large part of Africa; Britain, Gaul, and 
Spain had been cut off from the Uoman dominion. 
During bis lifetime usurper had sprung up after usurp- 
er; Asia Minor and Greece and Italy had been ravaged ! 
bv the Goths; Constantinople had been threatened and * 
Home thrice captured by them, and Alaric had led his 
wild hosts from the Alps to Seylla and Chary bdis. 
While Synesius was still a child in the cradle, Firmus 
had revolted in Egypt, and the insurrection had been 
revived after the lapse of a few years, to be crushed out 
in the Gildonic war. Strangely enough, to none of 
these portentous events is any distinct allusion made 
in the remains of this author, except to the Gothic in- 
surrection in Pbrvgia. There is a possible reference to 
the Gildonic war ( Catastasis , ii, I). In the early oration 
delivered before the emperor Arcadius there is a clear ex- 
position of the fearful perils from the Northern hordes im- 
pending over the empire (De Tteyuo , c. xxi-xxiv). Was 
his mind so engrossed by literary labors, by philosoph- 
ical speculations, and by troubles nearer home that the 
great calamities of the time occurred without attracting 
bis attention? Or was his pen arrested by despair, 
even in his candid-communications to bis friends? Yet 
the invasions and the mutilations of the empire in the 
gloomy chasm between the birth and the death of Sy- 
nesius were not the most grievous calamities of those 
years. Even more grievous was the social condition 
which invited the invasions, and rendered resistance 
impracticable. There was no cohesion or concert be- 
tween the provinces; no devotion to emperor or empire; 
nothing but division, isolation, misery everywhere — as 
a consequence, in part at least, of imperial rule and im- 
perial administration. The organization of the govern- 
ment was impotent for defence, or for that vigorous at- 
tack which is often the best means of defence. It was 
ingeniously devised for inflicting needless and paralyz- 
ing restraint, and for extorting revenue from penury 
and wide-spread distress. Lands were left uncultivated 
and almost without inhabitants. Wide tracts relapsed 
into forest or marsh. The people were ground by taxes 
and the ruinous modes of collecting them. Movement 
and enterprise were prevented in order to facilitate fiscal 
arrangements. Bridges were broken down by time and 
neglect. Loads were left without repair, and became im- 
passable. Communication was rendered difficult. Com- 
merce, manufactures, and industry of all kinds were 
harassed and impeded in many ways. In numerous 
extensive regions banditti lurked in the woods, infested 
the highways, and ransacked villages. So great, was 
the wretchedness which had driven these outcasts into 
nefarious courses that a presbyter nearly contemporary 
with Synesius undertook their exculpation. One book 
of the Theodosian Code, whose compilation falls within 
this age, is occupied with defining and enforcing the 
liabilities to municipal and other public burdens, and 
with regulating and restricting the exemptions from 
them, which were often arbitrarily and capriciously ac- 


corded. The hard struggle for bare life engrossed near- 
ly all thoughts; and irregular, treacherous, and violent 
proceedings became familiar, while unrestrained license 
was common whenever opportunities of indulgence pre- 
sented themselves. The general demoralization and 
the social disintegration were aggravated by divisions 
in the Christian Church, which weakened the authority 
of the new religion, and by the great, contention be- 
tween Christianity, often sadly corrupted, and the ex- 
piring paganism, which was cognizant of its disease, but 
not of its approaching dissolution. All the bonds of gov- 
ernment, law, morals, and religion were fearfully enfee- 
bled. Full and indisputable information in regard to 
these sorrowful generations is contained in the De 
Ciritate Dei of Augustine and the De Guhernaiione 
Dei of Salvian of Marseilles. Yet, despite all interrup- 
tions and apprehensions, philosophy and literature con- 
tinued to be cultivated. Philosophy lost itself in Neo- 
platonic fantasies and Oriental mysticism. Literature 
was, in large part, made up of pedantic epistles and rhe- 
torical affectations. It was the a?ra of Libanius, The- 
mistius, and Svmmaehus. No severer censure of it need 
be sought than is contained in the productions of Syne- 
sius. It was, however, also the tera of the great Chris- 
tian orators and fathers, who contended earnestly against 
vice, in high places, oppression and wrong wherever they 
were found, and the manifold distresses of the people. 
Ambrose, Basil, Augustine, John Chrysostom, Jerome, 
and the two Gregories illustrated the Christian Church 
in that age, and attracted the admiration of pagans as 
well as of the followers of their own creed. To none 
of them does Synesius make any reference. These, 
then, were the varied, and in many respects alarming, 
aspects of the years which measured the career of Sy- 
nesius, and bv them its anomalies are rendered intel- 
ligible. 

II. Life . — Synesius was probably born about the year 
370. Some authorities say in 375. His birthplace was 
Cyrene, the capital of Cyrenaica, the tract which stretch- 
es along the African coast westward from Egypt. Cy- 
rene w f as a Dorian colony of the mythical ages; and 
Synesius claimed for himself the most illustrious Laco- 
nian descent. In his denunciation of Andronieus, he 
! contrasts the splendor of his own lineage with the mean 
extraction of the imperial governor. “ In default of 
other merit,*’ says he, l descend from Eurysthenes — 
from ancestors whose names, from Eurysthenes, who led 
the Dorians into Laconia, down to my father, are in- 
scribed in the public registers” ( Kpist . lvii ; comp. Cata- 
stasis, ii, 5). This deduces his line from the royal house 
of Sparta, though he has blundered in his statement of 
the ancient legend. His family was opulent (Kpist. 
cxxxiii). Tie had a city house, and country estates in 
w hich he took unceasing delight. Nevertheless, he dil- 
igently sought exemption from civic and fiscal burdens. 
His love of letters and philosophy must have been man- 
ifested early, for his tastes w r ere already decided and 
much accomplishment attained when he proceeded to 
Alexandria (304) to attend the Neo-Platonic and other 
courses in that tumultuous city. Here he became ac- 
quainted with the beautiful, brilliant, and unfortunate 
Hypatia. He enrolled himself among her disciples. 
He secured her esteem and regard, and alw ays retained 
I the warmest admiration for her. Seven of his letters 
are addressed to her. On returning from Egypt, he 
went to Athens, to complete his education at that old 
centre of learning and refinement, whence had issued, 
in the preceding generation, the emperor Julian and 
many of his distinguished contemporaries, pagan and 
Christian. He was utterly disenchanted by his visit, 
and made no long stay (Kpist. liv, cxxxv). After desert- 
ing Athens, he paid a second visit to Alexandria, as is 
show'll by a graphic and humorous letter (ibid. iv). de- 
scribing the hazards of shipwreck to which he was ex- 
posed on his return. (Druon, p. 587-5S9, discusses the 
calculations of Petavius and Tillemont, and assigns this 
voyage to 397.) Soon after his return, he was sent by 


SYXESIUS 


90 


SYXESIUS 


his fellow-citizens to Constantinople, to present their 
petitions and a golden crown to the young emperor 
Arcadius ( De Regno, c. ii). He was a youthful ambas- 
sador. He appears to have discharged his mission with 
ability, acceptance, and some degree of success. The 
emperor was still under tutelage. Everything was in 
confusion. The court was distracted by bitter rivalries. 
Alaric had recently ravaged Greece and threatened Ath- 
ens. During his stay the insurrection of the Goths in 
IMirvgia occurred. It was no wonder that he experi- 
enced frequent inattention and disheartening procrasti- 
nations, and that he was at times reduced almost to des- 
titution and despair. He had the honor of delivering a 
public harangue before the emperor. He gained intiu- 
culial friends, established a reputation for literary tal- 
ent. and acquired elegant correspondents, who would 
display and eulogize his epistles at Constantinople, 
while he would pay the same compliment to theirs at 
Cyrene. One thing he accomplished for himself— im- 
munity from public dues. Ail earthquake hastened 
and excused his departure from the capital of the East- 
ern Empire. On reaching home he found his country 
desolated by barbarian war, an affliction from which it 
had seldom been entirely free for five centuries. The 
nomads from the edges of the Libyan desert were mak- 
ing frightful irruptions, plundering, destroying, murder- 
ing, and meeting with little and only ineffectual resist- 
ance (E]>ist. civ, cxiii, cxxiv). The governor and offi- 
cials were more studious of pillaging than of repelling 
other pillagers. Synesius, calling to mind his Laconian 
descent and the example of Leonidas, and having ap- 
parently had some military training himself in his 
youth, roused his neighbors to action, and led them 
against the spoilers. This war with the nomads, 
which was renewed from time to time, is mentioned in 
many of his letters, and forms the subject of a special 
tract. These productions exhibit the weakness and 
wretchedness of the province — the neglect, imbecility, 
cowardice, and rapacity of the imperial authorities, and 
the disgust of Synesius at the conduct of both the peo- 
ple and the officials. After the war was over, or, rath- 
er. in the intervals of partial or local repose, he enjoy- 
ed ail elegant and learned retreat in his country resi- 
dences, finding occupation in study, literary production, 
and rural pursuits, and relaxation in hunting, manly 
sports, and an active correspondence. Two years and 
more after the close of his embassy he revisited Alexan- 
dria. It was during this visit that he married. He 
received his wife from the hands of the patriarch; and 
to her and to his children he remained always tenderly at- 
tached. His marriage was his first visible contact with 
Christianity. It was, perhaps, decisive. It is no vio- 
lent presumption to suppose that his wife was Chris- 
tian, as he received her from the Christian bishop of 
Alexandria (J 'grist, cv). “The unbelieving husband 
may hare been sanctified by the believing wife;” or the 
wife may have been chosen with a prevenient disposi- 
tion to believe, l'here is no evidence, no intimation 
of this. The Dion was written about this time. It is 
pagan. The treatise On Dreams was composed after 
Ills marriage. It is mystical and Xeo- Platonic, and ac- 
cords with Christianity as little as Cicero’s dialogue De 
Dirinatione. After an abode at Alexandria of more 
than two years, and the birth of a son, he came back to 
Cyrene. which was shortly afterwards besieged by the 
barbarians. During t lie succeeding years he must have 
inclined more and more to Christianity, but without re- 
nouncing his philosophical dogmas. The date of his 
conversion cannot he ascertained. He must have been 
reputed a Christian, or “ almost a Christian,” when elect- 
ed bishop of Ptolemais (4()fi, 410). The episcopate was 
a very different function then from what it has been in 
serener and more settled periods. The bishop was the 
guide, the advocate, the protector, the support, and often 
the judge of the Christian tlock. 1 1 is civil attributes 
were of the utmost import nice to the daily life of his 
people. Character was of more immediate concern to 


them than doctrine. Synesius had gained and deserved 
the esteem and confidence of his countrymen. The met- 
ropolitan Church of Ptolemais demanded him for its 
bishop. lie was unwilling to incur the solemn respon- 
sibilities of the position, lie declined, he protested, he 
urged objections which might be deemed insuperable, 
lie could not put away the wife to whom he was de- 
voted ; he was unwilling to forego the pleasures of the 
chase, the other recreations of the country, and the lit- 
erary and philosophical ease which had been the charm 
of his life, lie had neither relish nor aptitude, he thought, 
for the multifarious and exacting business which would 
devolve upon him. lie could not surrender the Neo- 
Platonic convictions which he had approved, expound- 
ed, and still believed; yet lie recognised that they were 
at variance with Christian doctrine. In an elaborate 
letter to his brother he presents earnestly the grounds 
of his hesitation and reluctance, lie begs him to lay 
his views before the patriarch Theophilus, whose deci- 
sion lie agrees to receive as the decree of t lod (A pist. cv). 
The patriarch must have recommended his acceptance 
of the sacred honor, notwithstanding his Xolo episco- 
pal. He was consecrated at Alexandria by Theoph- 
ilus. Seven months afterwards, being still in that city, 
he declared that “ he would have preferred many deaths 
to the episcopate” (Epist. xcv). Did he separate from 
his wife? Druon thinks that lie did. It lias been more 
frequently supposed that the separation was not required 
of him. Did he yield his convictions in regard to the 
pre-existence of souls, the non-resurrection of the body, 
and the incompatibility of Christian doctrine with re- 
vealed truth? M. Druon again confidently concludes 
that he did. Other inquirers, ancient and modern, be- 
lieve, with more probability, that he continued to en- 
tertain them, for some time at least, after his elevation. 
He may have acted on the convenient principle of Seie- 
voln and Varro, which he avowed in the letter to his 
brother, that many things in religion are allegorical, 
which it is expedient to inculcate upon the vulgar, who 
are unable to receive truth in its purity. At any rate, 
he discharged with energy, resolution, integrity, and 
skill the administrative and other external otlices of the 
episcopate. He boldly assailed the tyranny and rapaci- 
ty of the governor of the province, and succeeded in re- 
lieving the provincials of his rule. His denunciation of 
Andronicus survives. Another incident of his episcopal 
aptitudes is preserved. He effected an amicable and 
satisfactory settlement between two of his suffragans for 
the possession of a dismantled fortress on the border of 
their respect i ve dioceses. There was ample occasion for 
the display of his sagacity and fortitude. The ravages 
of the nomads were renewed. The Ausurians besieged 
Ptolemais. The resistance ’of the inhabitants was sus- 
tained by the courage of their bishop, who continued 
zealous in seeking protection for the province, and has 
transmitted to our days the record of its woes. How 
much longer he guided his diocese we do not know. 
The date usually assigned for his death (430, 431) is 
founded on a dubious conjecture. In this date M. Druon 
does not concur. 1 le considers a letter to Hypatia, writ- 
ten from a sick-bed, and ascribed to 413, to be his latest 
epistolary or other production (Epist. xvi ) (Druon, p. 
551); and believes that he escaped, by an earlier death, 
the affliction of knowing the tragic fate of “ his teacher, 
mother, sister, friend.” It would be strange, had he 
known it, that no mention of her murder occurs in letter 
or other treatise. A fantastic legend, two centuries after 
his death, attributed to him a miracle for the proof of the 
resurrection. The greatest of all miracles, in his case, 
was that, being, or having been, a Neo-Platonist, he be- 
came a bishop of the Christian Church without the full 
renunciation of his views ; that, being a provincial of an 
African province, be acquired eminence in diplomacy, 
in philosophy, and in poetry; that, living amid the tur- 
bulences, vices, and meannesses of the 5th century, he 
maintained the reputation of an innocent, sincere, and 
gallant man. 


SYNESIUS 


91 


SYNGE 


III. lUorfo. — The works of Svnesins, usually brief — 
for tlie Dion is one of the longest — are numerous and 
varied. They are of great interest. We may concede 
to Synesius grace of expression ; we may admit the exu- 
berance of his fancy and the propriety of his reflections; 
we may enjoy the freshness and simplicity of many of 
his letters, and the unalloyed purity of his sentiments; 
but these merits may easily be exaggerated, and do not 
constitute his chief claim to enduring consideration, it 
is the striking portraiture of the manifold phases of an 
unhappy period, when civilization was sinking under a 
mortal agony, that gives a value to his remains far tran- 
scending their literary and philosophical excellences. 
These excellences were, indeed, counterbalanced by very 
grave defects. The style of Synesius is too often char- 
acterized by affectations, strained fancies, and a con- 
scious craving for display. 1 1 is philosophy is without 
originality. Yet even his philosophy merits attention, 
as illustrating the line gradations by which pagan spec- 
ulation melted into the semblance of Christianity with- 
out divesting itself of its pagan phrase and spirit. 

The works of Synesius which survive (for his juve- 
nile poem, the Cynegetica , or, On Hunting , has been lost) 
are, an Address to Pieonius, with the Gift of an Astrolabe , 
invented or improved by himself, in which he encour- 
aged his friend to prosecute the study of astronomy: — 
an Oration on Government , delivered at Constantinople 
before the emperor Arcadius; it is somewhat common- 
place, but is remarkable for the boldness and freedom 
of its utterance and for its sound sense: — Dion , which 
is so called in honor of Dion Chrysostom, his exemplar 
in style and habit of thought. This treats of the train- 
ing of a philosopher, or, rather, of what had been the 
aim and the result of bis own education in philosophy. 
It is, in some sort, a semi-pagan anticipation of the Re- 
ligio Medici of Sir Thomas Browne. The treatise is at 
times transcendental, but abounds in high fancies and 
generous aspirations. The Encomium on Baldness is 
a rhetorical extravaganza, a counterpart and reply to 
Dion Chrysostom’s Eulogy of Hair. The speculation 
On Dreams is simply a specimen of superstition and 
Neo-Platonic mysticism. It was honored or loaded 
with a commentary by Nicepborns Gregoras. The 
Catastasis, or Catastcises — for the production consists of 
two distinct parts— is chiefly a mournful recitation of 
the miseries of Cyrenaica, induced by chronic misgov- 
ern ment and oppression, and by the reiterated invasions 
of the nomads. It is, perhaps, the strongest testimo- 
ny to the weakness, impoverishment, and disorganiza- 
tion of the provinces of the empire that he ascribes the 
calamities which lie specially deplores to only one thou- 
sand Ausurians, and says that they were defeated and 
scattered by forty imperial troopers, Unnigarda*. The 
second Catastasis is a eulogy of Any si us, the leader of 
these Unnigarda?, and the military chief of the province. 
These Catastcises resemble the overwrought declama- 
tions of t lie professional rhetoricians, in the same 
strain, also, is the declamation Against Andronicus. A 
fable, entitled The Egyptian, or On Providence , is a re- 
gret for the deposition and a laud for the restoration of 
bis friend and correspondent Aurelian, the praetorian 
praefect. A couple of brief Homilies are entitled to no 
special notice. 

The most important and the most interesting of the 
remains of Synesius are his Letters, 157 or J 59 in num- 
ber, according as the Denunciation of Andronicus is ex- 
cluded from or is included in the series of Epistles, and 
ten Hymns. The letters are of diverse style, and on the 
most dissimilar occasions. Some are formal letters of 
civility; others are written to be paraded by liis cor- 
respondents among their acquaintances. These are 
strained, rhapsodical, and ostentatious, and are more 
notable for literary filigree than for their contents. 
Other letters are friendly communications or earnest 
expositions. They are simple, fresh, natural, earnest, 
and modern in their cast. His correspondence with his 
brother is direct and affectionate, and is rendered at- 


tractive by the revelation of bis disposition, feelings, 
and circumstances. The family and serious letters 
make a favorable contrast to the redundant epistolog- 
raphy of Libanius ami Symmaelnis, and afford in an 
ecpial degree pleasure and instruction. 

There is much variance of opinion in regard to both 
the character and t lie dates of the Hymns of Synesius. 
Druon has endeavored to fix their chronology, but hard- 
ly secures confidence in bis conclusions. The first two 
were, almost certainly, the earliest. They are thorough- 
ly Neo-Platonic, and probably pagan. The rest may be 
Christian, with a diminishing Neo-Platonie complexion. 
The only one entirely free from this philosophical char- 
acteristic is the short one numbered the tenth. Druon 
assigns seven of the hymns to the years preceding bis 
conversion. This conclusion is not apt to win assent. 
The third hymn is Neo-Platonic, but it is as Christian 
as the ninth. The later Neo- Platonism apes so closely 
and so habitually the language and sentiments of Chris- 
tianity, and the Christianity of Alexandria is often so 
deeply imbued with Neo-Platonism, that exact discrim- 
ination between pagan and Christian utterances is not 
always possible. The convictions of men were then in 
a transition stage in everything, and paganism and 
Christianity frequently lapsed into each other. There 
is a passage in the third hymn (ver. 210-230) which 
may he simply Neo-Platonie, but it bears a striking re- 
semblance, in thought and expression, to parts of the 
Athanasian Creed. As the conversion of Synesius can- 
not be fixed to any certain date, and as he avowed his 
inability to renounce bis philosophic opinions when 
chosen bishop, all the hymns may have been composed 
under Christian influences, and all but the last may re- 
tain Neo-Platonic tendencies, without being thereby 
rendered pagan. But these questions cannot be dis- 
cussed here. The hymns of Synesius exhibit no emi- 
nent poetic merit. Their attraction lies in their philos- 
ophy, in their ease of expression and facility of versifi- 
cation. 1 1 was a strange adaptation of Anacreontic me- 
tre to fit it to philosophical and theological songs. Yet 
it may well be asked what meaning should be attached 
to the claim of Synesius, in the opening of the seventh 
hymn, to have been the first to tune his lyre in honor 
of Jesus. 

IV. Literature . — Synesii Opera, ed. Tnrnebi (ed. prin- 
ceps, Paris, 1553, fob); id. ed. Morell. (ibid. 1012, fob; 
corr. et aucta, 1640. 1653); id. apud Cursnm Patrolo - 
gice, etc., ed. Migne (Latin, ibid. 1850, 8vo; Greek and 
Latin, ibid. 1804, 8vo); Druon, (Euvres de Synesius, 
trad, en Frangais (ibid. 1878, 8vo); Synesii JJymni , 
ed. Boissonade, apud Poett. Gr. Sylloge (ibid. 1824 32); 
Synesii JJymni J fetrici, ed. Flack (Tub. 1875); Syne- 
sii Epistolce , ed. Herscher, apud Epistologr. Gr. (Paris, 
1873); Chladni, Theologvmena Synesii (Wittenb. 1713, 
4to) ; Bovsen, RJiilosophnmenn Synesii (1 Ialle, 1714, 4to) ; 
Clausen. De Synesio Philosopho (Hafn. 1831); Krauss, 
Obss. Grit, in Synesii Cyren. Epistolas (Ratisbon, 1803); 
Lilies Dupin, Nouveau Bibliotheque dcs A uteuj's Ecclesi- 
astiques; Tillemont, JJistoire Ecclesiastique , xii, 499- 
544; Ceillier, Hist, des A u tears Sucres, x, 1496-1517; 
Villemain, V Eloquence Chretienne au l Ye Si'ecle (Paris). 
(G. F. H.) 

Synge, Edward, an Irish prelate, was born at Inis- 
honane, April 0, 1059, and was the second son of Ed- 
ward, bishop of Cork. He was educated at the gram- 
mar-school at Cork, and at Christ Church, Oxford, fin- 
ishing his studies in the University of Dublin. Ilis 
first preferment was to two small parishes in the diocese 
of Meath, which he exchanged for the vicarage of 
Christ Church, Cork, where he served for over twenty 
years. In 1099 he was offered the deanery of Derry, 
but declined it for bis mother’s sake. lie was chosen 
proctor for the chapter in the Convocation of 1703, and 
soon after was presented with the crown’s title to the 
deanery of St. Patrick’s, Dublin. The title being thought 
defective, the chancellorship was presented to Mr. Synge, 
which gave him the care of St. Werburgh’s, Dublin. In 


SYX IS ACTIVE 


92 


SYNODATICUM 


1 713 he was chosen proctor for the chapter of St. Patrick’s, 
and on Dr. Sterne’s promotion to the see of Dromore, the 
ardtbishop of Dublin appointed Dr. Synge his vicar- 
general, in which office he continued until lie was ap- 
pointed bishop of b’aphoc, in 1711. lie was made arch- 
bishop ol’Tuam in 1 7 1 1>. over which see he presided un- 
til his death, duly 21, 1741. He published many ser- 
mons and religious tracts, of which a collective edition, 
under the title of ll’oHs ( Loud. 1740, 4 vols. 12mo; 1741, 
1759), was issued. The best-known of bis works is The 
Gentleman's Religion. His Treatise on the Holy Com - 
munion was published at Philadelphia in 1*49, 32mo. 
See Allibone, Diet, of Ur it. and Amer, Authors , s. v. ; 
Chalmers, /Hog. Diet. s. v. 

Synisactae (orvfiffaKTai),a Greek term for priests’ 
concubines. See Suhixtroductje. 

Synistameni standing together'), a 

name given in the Eastern Church to the fourth order 
of penitents, called in the Latin Church consistentes. 
They were so called from their having liberty (after the 
other penitents were dismissed) to stand with the faith- 
ful at the altar, and join in the common prayers and 
see the oblation olVvred. Still they could not yet make 
their own oblations, nor partake of the eucharist. See 
Ilingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. xviii, ch. ii. 

Synnada, Counc il of (Concilium Synna dense), 
was held about 230. or, according to some, in 25G, upon 
the subject of Cataphrygian baptism. Baptism received 
out of the Church was declared to be null and void. 
See Mansi, Concil. i, 7G0. 

Synod (from oovocoq, a gathering), a meeting or 
assembly of ecclesiastical persons to consult on matters 
of religion. (See the monographs cited in Volbeding, 
Index Programmatum , p. 1G5.) ( )f these there are four 

kinds, viz. — 1. General, where bishops, etc., meet from all 
nations. These were first called by the emperors; af- 
terwards by Christian princes; till, in later ages, the 
pope usurped to himself the greatest share in this busi- 
ness, and by his legates presided in them when called. 
See CEcum enidal. 2. National, where those of one na- 
tion only come together to determine any point of doc- 
trine or discipline. The first of this sort which we 
read of in England was that of Ilerndford, or Hertford, 
in G73; and the last was held by cardinal Pole in 
1555. See Counc il. 3. Provincial, where those only 
of one province meet, now' called the convocation (q. v.). 
4. Diocesan, where those of but one diocese meet to en- 
force canons made by general councils or national and 
provincial synods, and to consult and agree upon rules 
of discipline for themselves. These were not wholly 
laid aside till, by the act of submission (25 lien. vui, 
art. 19), it was made unlawful for any synod to meet 
but bv roval authority. See Synods. 

Synod is also used to signify a Presbyterian Church 
court, composed of ministers and elders from the differ- 
ent presbyteries within its bounds, and is only subordi- 
nate to the General Assembly (q. v.). 

SYNOD, Associate, the highest ecclesiastical court 
among the united Presbyterian Dissenters in Scotland, 
the pow ers of which are, in a great measure, analogous 
to those of the General Assembly in the established kirk. 
See Scotland, Churuiies in. 

SYNOD, IIoly, the highest court of the TJnsso- 
Greek Church, established by the czar Peter in 1723, 
and meeting now at St. Petersburg. Each diocese sends 
in a half-yearly report of its churches and schools. The 
members composing it are two metropolitans and as 
many bishops, with procurators, attorneys, and other 
lay officials. See BusstAx Cnuitcii. 

SYNOD, TIoly Governing, is the highest court of 
the Greek Church, established in Greece after the re- 
coYery of its 'independence. It met first at Syra in 
1833, and in 1844 was recognised by the constitution, 
which also enacted that the king should be a member 
of the established Church. The members of synod 


were at first appointed by the king, but are now chosen 
hv the clergy, the bishop of Attica being perpetual presi- 
dent. In 1850 it was formally recognised by the patri- 
arch of Constantinople, through the mediation of Bus- 
sia, but on the condition that it should always receive 
the holy oil from the mother Church. See Greek 
C l lUKCit. 

SYNOD, Bkfoumed. See Covenanters; Presby- 
terian Churches. 

SYNOD, Belief. See Scotland, Churches in. 

Sy nodales Testes were persons anciently sum- 
moned out of every parish in order to appear at the 
episcopal synods, and there attest or make preferment 
of the disorders of the clergy and people. In after-times 
they were a kind of empanelled jury, consisting of two. 
three, or more persons in every parish, who were, upon 
oath, to present all heretics and other irregular persons. 
These, in process of time, became standing officers in 
several places, especially in great cities, and hence were 
called Sydekmen (q. v.). They were also called (luest- 
men , from the nature of their office in making inquiry 
concerning offences. But this latter duty devolved 
mostly upon the church-wardens. — Lee, Gloss. ofLiturg . 
Terms , s. v. 

Synodals was a term applied to (J) provincial 
constitutions or canons read after the synods in parish 
churches; (2) to procurations, so called because t he 
bishop held bis synod and visitation together: (3) to 
the payments made a bishop by bis clergy in virtue of 
bis holding a synod. See Synodaticum. 

Synodaticum, or Cathedraticum, is the annual 
tribute paid by incumbents of benefices in the Church 
of Borne to the bishop of the diocese, in token of sub- 
jection to the episcopal cathedra. It is generally paid 
at the time of rite convening of the diocesan synod. 
The earliest direct mention of this impost occurs in the 
transactions of the second Synod of Braga, A.D. 572 
(sess. ii, can. 2, in c. 1, cans, x, qu. iii), where various 
extortions on the part of Spanish bishops are forbid- 
den, and they are permitted only in connection with 
the visitations of their districts “ honorem cathedrae sme 
id est duns solidus . . . per ecclesias tollcre.’* The same 
synod forbids the payment of an impost by candidates 
for ordination, which is also termed cathedraticum , but 
must not be confounded with the synodaticum. The 
seventh Council of Toledo. A.D. G4G, confirmed the ac- 
tion of Braga; and Charles the Bald, in 844, directed the 
payment of two solidi, or an equivalent in kind (Bertz, 
Monnm. Gcrmanur. iii. 378), and devolved this collec- 
tion fur the bishops on the archpresbyters. Bope Al- 
exander 111 conceded to bishops who should obtain a 
church from the hands of the laitv the right to impose 
on it the cathedraticum (c. 9, X, De Censibus , iii, 39); 
and both Innocent III (c. 20, X, De Censibus) and 
Honorius HI (c. 1G, X, De Officio Judicis Ordinarii, 
i, 31) expressed themselves in favor of its being ren- 
dered. Other references may be found in Du Fresno, s. v. 
“ Cathedratieum” and “Svnodus;” Benedict XIV, I>e 
Synod. Diacesana , lib. v, c. vi, 1 and 2; Bichter, Kirchen- 
recht (5th cd.), § 233, note 4. etc. ; Gudenus, Cod. Diplo- 
mat. i, No. 93. p. 2G0. The Council of Trent discontin- 
ued the payment of many heavy impositions connected 
with visitations (sess. xxiv, can. 3, De Reform .) ; but 
various declarations of the Cougregatio pro. Interpret. 
Cone , Trident, have left the cathedraticum in force (sec 
Ferraris, Dili. Canon, s. v. “Cathedraticum Thomassin, 
Vet. ac jYor. Reel. Disdpl. HI, ii, 32. 34 ; Benedict XIV, 
ut sup. G and 7; Deelarationes 18-2G in the edition of 
Trent by Bichter and Schulte, loc. cit.). 

This impost is termed cathedraticum “in honorem 
cathedra?, *’ and synodaticum as being collected during 
the session of synod; but it has in practice been paid 
at other times as well, and is exacted even where no 
synod is held, unless a custom recognised in law for- 
bids (Benedict XIV, ut sup . etc.). A tax expressive 


SYNODIO/E 


93 


SYXUSIASTJE 


of subordination is required in any ease, amounting gen- 
erally to two solidi. It must be paid by all churches 
and benefices and their incumbents, and also by semi- 
naries with which benetices are incorporated, and lay 
unions having a church of their own. Regulars arc 
exempt with reference to convents and convent church- 
es in which they personally minister. The Order of 
St.John of Jerusalem is likewise exempt. In practice, 
however, it. has not always been possible to collect these 
taxes. Austria ceased to pay them under imperial re- 
scripts of 1783 and 1802, and in many other districts of 
Germany they were quietly discontinued. Their valid- 
ity was decreed in Havana, on the other hand, so late 
as 1841 (see Permaneder, Handb. d. Kirchenrechts, 3d 
ed., p. 310, note). — Herzog, Rcal-Encyliop. s. v. 

Synodicae (avvoduccii') were letters written by a 
new bishop informing other bishops of his promotion, 
and to testify his desire to hold communion with them. 
A neglect to write such letters was interpreted as a re- 
fusal to hold such communion and a virtual charge of 
heresy upon his fellows. Circular letters summoning 
the bishops to a provincial synod were also called Sy- 
nodicce. 

SyuocHtae (from ovrodoc, a community ) were 
monks who lived in communities or convents, differing 
in this respect from the Anchorets, 

Synods form a noticeable feature in the history of 
the general Church. Particular synods have served to 
indicate particular stages in the progress or retrogres- 
sion of the life of the Church, as respects the develop- 
ment of knowledge and teaching, the formation of the 
worship and the constitution of the Church itself; and 
all synods serve, more clearly than other institutions, 
to reveal the ruling spirit, the measure of strength, or 
the type of disease, in any given period. The breadth 
of the held covered by this title will appear from the 
fact that Mansi’s (q. v.) collection of the acts, etc., of 
councils, extending only into the 15th century, em- 
braces 31 volumes folio. 

With respect to the origin of synods opinions differ. 
Some authors hold them to have been divinely insti- 
tuted through the agency of the apostles (Acts xv, es- 
pecially ver. 28, “It seemed good to the Holy Ghost, 
and to us”), while others concede to them a merely ac- 
cidental rise. The council in Acts xv must certainly 
be considered a synod, though it does not appear that 
it was designed to introduce a permanent institution. 
On the other hand, the situation of the Church and the 
progress of events furnished the providential conditions 
by which ecclesiastical assemblies became necessary, so 
that the theory of a merely human origin for them can- 
not be accepted. The history of our subject, excluding 
the period since the Reformation, admits of being di- 
vided into five periods. 

1. The Begin ninys o f the Institution o f Synods as Fur- 
nished hy Provincial Synods (to A.D. 32o). — The earliest 
of such synods of which mention is made are one al- 
leged to have been held in Sicily in A.l). 125 against 
the gnostic Ileracleon (q. v.), and one at Rome under 
bishop Telesphorus (d. 139); but there is not the 
slightest evidence that either of them was held. The 
earliest of which we have authentic information were 
held in Asia Minor against the Montanists (Eusebius. 
Hist, Eccl.v , 16). probably not before A.D. 150. Soon 
afterwards various synods were held to discuss the cele- 
bration of Easter (ibid, v, 23) and other questions; so 
that Tertnllian speaks (I)e Jejuniis , c. 13) of the con- 
vening of such bodies as a custom among the, Greeks, 
and thereby at the same time implies that such assem- 
blies were not known in his own (African) Church. 
Such conferences promoted Christian unity and laid the 
foundation for a government of the churches by supe- 
rior authority. l>y the middle of the 3d century syn- 
ods were regularly held in each year, and were attend- 
ed by bishops and elders, so that they had already be- 
come a fixed and periodically recurring institution, in 


which the different churches shared in the persons of 
their appropriate representatives (see Kirmilian’s letter 
to Cyprian, Epp. No. 75). The earliest synods in the 
West were held in Africa about A.D. 21 5, and soon such 
assemblies became frequent. The next stage in the de- 
velopment of synods appears in the extension of their 
jurisdiction over larger areas than a single district or 
province, hy which the inauguration of oecumenical 
councils was prepared for. At 1 coni urn, in 256, repre- 
sentatives were present from Galatia, Cilicia, etc. Ev- 
ery part of Spain was represented at Elvira; and the 
Synod of Arles, in 314, was attended by bishops from 
Gaul, Britain, Germany, Spain, North Africa, and Italy. 

II. A.D. 325 to 869. — '1 “lie oecumenical synods of the 
Greek Church, beginning with that of Nica*a (q. v.) and 
closing with the fourth Council of Constantinople (q. v.). 

III. A.D. 869 to 131 1. — Councils of the Western Church 
under the direction of the papacy, including a great 
number of provincial and national synods whose pro- 
ceedings indicated both the utmost devotion and the 
most decided opposition to the rule of the popes — end- 
ing with the general Council of Vienne in Gaul (q. v. 
severally). 

IV. A.D. 1311 to 1517. — Councils ostensibly aiming to 
secure reform “in head and members” — Pisa, Constance, 
and Basle (q. v. severally). 

V. A.D. 1517 to 1563. — The Reformation and the re- 
actionary Synod of Trent (q. v.). 

For an enumeration and characterization of the more 
important synods see the article Councils, to which we 
also refer for a list of sources. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. 
s. v. 

Synodus {uvvoIoq). a term applied in the early 
Church to the building (church) in which the synod 
was held. It was simply transferred from the assembly 
to denote the place of assembly, as was done w ith the 
word ecclesia. 

Synthromis (rTiVS-poroc), a Greek term to signify 
the seats of a bishop and his clergy in the beraa of an 
Oriental Church. 

Syn'tyche (2Vi're\i/, with Fate), a female mem- 
ber of the Church of Philippi, mentioned (Phil, iv, 2, 3) 
along with another named Euodias (or rather Iuiodia). 
A.D. 57. To what has been said under the latter head 
the following may be added: The apostle’s injunction 
to these two women is that they should live in harmony 
with each other, from which we infer that they had, 
more or less, failed in this respect. Such harmony w'as 
doubly important if they held office as deaconesses in 
the Church, and it is highly probable that this was the 
case. They had afforded to Paul active co-operation 
under difficult circumstances (iv ro7 evoyytXay 
SrXtjaav /tor, ver. 3), and perhaps there w’ere at Philippi 
other women of the same class (airivec, ibid.). At. all 
events, this passage is an illustration of what the Gospel 
did for women, and women lor the Gospel, in the apos- 
tolic times; and it is the more interesting as having 
reference to that Church which was the. first founded 
by Paul in Europe, and the first member of w hich was 
Lydia. iSome thoughts on this subject will be found in 
Rilliet, Comm, sur I'Fpitre aux Philipp, p. 311-314. — 
Smith. 

Synnsiastae (avvovaiaaTai) were those who held 
that the incarnation of our Lord was effected by a blend- 
ing or commixture of the Divine substance with the 
substance of the human fiesh. The name is taken from 
the statement, of the doctrine ovrovoimmv y EyevijnSai 
K(d Kpamv rijy 3corj/roi; (Theod. Iher. Fab. iv, 9). 
Theodoret calls this sect Polemians, one of the Apolli- 
narist sects; and Apollinaris himself, in the latter part 
of his life, added to his distinguishing heresy regarding 
the soul of our Lord either this heresy or one closely 
akin to it. At the Latcran Council in A.D. 649 were 
quoted two extracts from Polcmon’s works, from which 
it appears that the Synusiastas retained the heresy re- 
garding the soul of our Lord, denying him a human 


SYRACUSE 


94 


SYRACUSE 


will, and asserting that he was to himself a rational soul. 
They seem to have been led to the adoption of the her- 
esy in this manner. At the outbreak of the controver- 
sies regarding the incarnation, some asserted the con- 
version of the substance of the Godhead into the sub- 
stance of ilesh, others that the Divine nature supplied 


About B.C. 210 this city was taken and sacked by 
Marcellos, the Woman general, and, in storming the 
place, Archimedes, the great mathematician, who is es- 
teemed the lirst inventor of the sphere (and who. dur- 
ing the siege, had sorely galled the Womans with as- 
tonishing military engines of his own invention), was 


in Christ the place of the human soul. The attempt to ; slain by a common soldier while intent upon his stud- 
hold these two tenets together resulted in a denial of an i ies. After it was thus destroyed by Marcellus, Augus- 
ii'av&pMTTtimg altogether. To avoid this denial, it was tus rebuilt that part of it which stood upon the island, 
allowed that the flesh of man was assumed, but so blend- and in time it so far recovered as to have three walls, 
ed with the Divine substance as to eliminate that ten- j three castles, and a marble gate, and to be able to send 


dency to sin which it was alleged could not but be resi- i 
dent in human nature. Diodorus of Tarsus and Theod- 
otus of Antioch wrote against this heresy. {See Cave, 
Jlist. Lit.; Blunt, Diet, of Sects, etc., s. v. 

Syr'acuse (ZvpaKovoai ; Lat. Syracusai), a cele- 
brated eitv on the eastern coast of Sicily, whither Paul 


out twelve thousand horse soldiers and four hundred 
ships. In A.D. 075 the Saracens seized on it, but in 
1000 it was taken from them by Roger, duke of Apulia. 
It yet exists under its original name (Ital. tiiraettsa'), 
and is still much frequented on account of its commodi- 
ous harbor, Paul staved here three days as lie went 


arrived in an Alexandrian ship from Melita,on his vov- prisoner to Rome (Acts xxvii, 12) ; here also Christian- 
age to Rome (Acts xxviii, 12). It had a tine prospect ity was early planted, and still, at least in name, contin- 
from every entrance both by sea and land. Its port, ! nes; but the city has lost its ancient splendor, though 
which had the sea on both sides of it, was almost all of it is a bishop’s see. 

it environed with beautiful buildings, and all that part The magnificence which Cicero describes as still re- 
ef it which was without the city was on both sides I maiding in his time was no doubt greatly impaired 


banked up and sustained with very fair walls of mar- 
ble. The city itself, while in its splendor, was the 


when Paul visited it. The whole of the resources of 
Sicily had been exhausted in the civil wars of Caesar 


largest, and richest that the Greeks possessed in any and Pompev. and the piratical warfare which Sextus 


Pompeius. the youngest son of the latter, subsequently 

Augustus 


part of the world. For (according to Strabo) it was 
twenty-two miles in circumference, and both Plutarch j carried on against the triumvir Octavius, 
and Livy inform us 
that the spoil of it 
was equal to that 
of Carthage. It 
was the oldest of 
the Greek colonies, 
being founded by 
Corinthians, and in 
a manner consisted 
of four cities united 
intoone; or, as oth- 
ers express it.it was 
called quadruplex, 
as being divided 
into four parts, Ac- 
radina, Tyche, Xe- 
apolis, and the isl- 
and of Ortygia. 

The tirst of these 
contained the fa- 
mous Temple of 
Jupiter, the second 
the Temple of 
Fortune, the third 
a large amphithea- 
tre, and a wonder- 
ful statue of Apollo 
in the midst of a 
spacious square, 
and the fourth the 
two temples of Di- 
ana and Minerva, 
and the renowned 
fountain ofAretlm- 
sa. For about two 
hundred and fifty 
years the city made 
little noise in the 
world; but in the 
next two hundred 
and eighty it be- 
came conspicuous 
in war, in sea trade, 
and in wealth, un- 
der its kings Gelon, 

Dionysius, elder 
and younger, Dion, 

Agathocles, and 

Iliero. Plan of Syracuse and its Environs. 



SYRACUSE 


05 


SYRIA 


restored Syracuse, as also Catana ami Cent oripa, which 
last had contributed much to the successful issue of 
his struggle with Sextus Pompeius. Yet the island 
Ortygia and a very small portion of the mainland ad- 
joining sufficed for the new colonists and the remnant 
of the former population. Put the site of Syracuse 
rendered it a convenient place for the African corn- 
ships to touch at, for the harbor was an excellent one, 
ami the fountain Arethnsa in the island furnished an 
unfailing supply of excellent water. The prevalent 
wind in this part of the Mediterranean is the W.NAY. 
This would carry the vessels from the corn region ly- 
ing eastward of Cape Hon, round the southern point of 
Sicily, Cape Paehynus, to the eastern shore of the isl- 
and. Creeping up under the shelter of this, they would 
lie either in the harbor of Messana or at Khegium, un- 
til the wind changed to a southern point and enabled 
them to fetch the Campanian harbor Puteoli or Gaeta, 
or to proceed as far as Ostia. In crossing i'rom Africa 
to Sicily, if the wind was excessive, or varied two or 
three points to the northward, they would naturally 
bear up for Malta ; and this had probably been the ease 
with the “Twins,” the ship in which Paul found a pas- 
sage after his shipwreck on the coast of that island. 
Arrived in Malta, they watched for the opportunity of 
a wind to take them westward, and with such a one 
they readily made Syracuse. To proceed farther while 
it continued blowing would have exposed them to the 
dangers of a lec-shore, and accordingly they remained 
“three days.” They then, the wind having probahly 
shifted into a westerly quarter so as to give them 
smooth water, coasted the shore and made (7rqoceA3or- 
rtc Kar^vrijaafisv tig) Rheginm. After one day there, 
the wind got round still more and blew from the south ; 
they therefore weighed, and arrived at Puteoli in the 
course of the second day of the run (Acts xxviii, 12-14). 

In the time of raid’s voyage, Sicily did not supply 
the Romans with corn to the extent it had done in the 
time of king Hiero, and in a less degree as late as the 
time of Cicero. It is an error, however, to suppose that 
the soil was exhausted; for Strabo expressly says that 
for corn and some other productions, Sicily even sur- 
passed Italy. I )ut the country had become depopu- 
lated hv the long series of wars, and when it passed 
into the hands of Rome, her great nobles turned vast 
tracts into pasture. In the time of Augustus the whole 
of the centre of the island was occupied in this manner, 
and among its exports (except from the neighborhood 
of the volcanic region, where excellent wine was pro- 
duced), fat stock, hides, and wool appear to have been 
the prominent articles. These grazing and horse-breed- 
ing farms were kept up by slave labor; and this was the 
reason that the whole island was in a chronic state of 
disturbance, owing to the slaves continually running 
away and forming bands of brigands. Sometimes these 
became so formidable as to require the aid of regular 
military operations to put them down; a circumstance 
of which Tiberius Gracchus made use as an argument 
in favor of his measure of an Agrarian law (Appian, 
B. C. i, 0), which would have reconverted the spacious 
grass-lands into small arable farms cultivated by Ro- 
man freemen. 

In the time of Paul there were only five Roman col- 



onies in Sicily, of which Syracuse was one. The oth- 
ers were Catana, Tauromenium, Thermae, and Tyndaris. 
Messana too, although not a colony, was a town tilled 
with a Roman population. Probably its inhabitants were 
merchants connected with the wine-trade of the neigh- 
borhood, of which Messana was the shipping port. Syr- 
acuse and Panonnus were important as strategical points, 
and a Roman force was kept up at each. Sicilians, Siea- 
nians, Morge thins, and Iberians (aboriginal inhabitants 
of the island, or very early settlers), still existed in the 
interior, in what exact political condition it is impossi- 
ble to say; but most likely in that of villeins. Some 
few towns are mentioned by Pliny as having the Latin 
franchise, and some as paying a fixed tribute; but, with 
the exception of the five colonies, the owners of the soil 
of the island were mainly great absentee proprietors, 
and almost all its produce came to Rome (Strabo, vi, 
2; Appian, IS. C. iv, 84 sq. ; v, 15-1 IK; Cicero, 1 'err. iv, 
53; Pliny, II. A', iii, 8). — Smith. For a full account of 
ancient Syracuse, see Smith’s Diet, of Geoy . s. v., and 
the literature there cited ; also Gbller, De Situ et Oriyine 
Syracimirinn (Lips. 1818); for the modern city, Biide- 
ker, Southern Italy, p. 308 sq. See Sicily. 

Syr'ia, a province and kingdom of Western Asia, 
the name, extent, and boundaries of which have been 
subjects of no little difficulty to both sacred and clas- 
sical geographers. (The following article is based upon 
those found in the dictionaries of Ivitto and Smith.) 

1. Xante. — l. The word Syria does not occur in He- 
brew; but in the A. V. it is the usual, though not the 
uniform, rendering of the word Aram (C**X). Thus 
in Gen. x, 22, A ram, the youngest son of Sliem, is men- 
tioned as the founder of the Aramaean nation, from 
whom the whole country colonized by his descendants 
took its name. The country is therefore rightly called 
“Aram” in Numb, xxiii, 7 ; but the very same Hebrew 
word is rendered Mesopotamia in Judg.iii, 10, and Syria 
in x. 6. 

Aram was a wide region. It extended from the Med- 
iterranean to the Tigris, and from Canaan to Mount 
Taurus. It was subdivided into live principalities: 1. 
Aram-Dammesek (called in the A. V. “Syria of Damas- 
cus”) ; 2. I ram-M aacliah ; 3. A ram-Beth-Rechob ; 4. 
Aram-Zobah ; and 5. .1 ram-Xaharaim (Mesopotamia 
in the A. V.). These have already been described. 
See Aram. When the kingdom of Damascus attained 
to great power under the warlike line of lladad, it w as 
called by wav of distinction A ram. w hich unfortunately 
is rendered “Syria” in the A. V. (2 Sam. viii, 5, 12; 1 
Kings x, 20; xv, 18; 2 Kings v, 1 ; xxiv, 2, etc.). This 
lax method of translation w r as borrowed from the Sept, 
and Yulg. versions. The Targums retain A ram ; and 
it would tend much to geographical accuracy and dis- 
tinctness were the Hebrew proper names uniformly re- 
tained in the A. Y. 

The region comprehended by the Hebrew's under 
the name Aram w r as not identical with that which the 
Greek writers and the authors of the New r Test, in- 
cluded under Syria. It embraced all Mesopotamia and 
Assyria, while it excluded Phoenicia and the whole ter- 
ritory colonized by the Canaanites. See Canaan. 

In the New Test, the name Syria (Svpta) is not em- 
ployed with great definiteness. In fact, it 
is doubtful if ever the Greek geographers 
w r ore agreed as to the exact boundaries of 
the country so called. Matthew’, after men- 
tioning the mighty works and wondrous 
teachings of our Lord in Galilee, says: “ His 
fame went throughout all Syria,” alluding 
apparently to the country adjoining Galilee 
on the north (iv, 24). Luke applies the 
name to the Roman province of which 
Cyrenins was governor, and which did not 
include Palestine (ii, 2). In the same re- 
stricted sense the w r ord is used in Acts 
xv, 23. The apostles in Jerusalem wrote 


SYRIA 


SYRIA 


06 


“unto the brethren of the Gentiles in Antioch, ami 
Syria, and Cilicia;” and afterwards it is said that 
Paul, setting out from Antioch, “ wont through Syria 
and Cilicia’’ (ver. 11 ; comp. Gal. i. 21). A wider sig- 
nification seems to be attached to the name in other 
passages. It is said of Paul, when going to Jerusalem, 
••that he sailed thence (from Greece) into Syria” — giv- 
ing this general name to Palestine as well as the coun- 
try north of it (Acts xviii, 18; xx, 3). In one passage 
taken from the Sept, t lie name is employed as an equiv- 
alent of the Hebrew Aram (Luke iv, 27 ; comp. 2 Kings 

v. 20). 

2. fbe origin of the word is not quite certain. Some 
make it a contraction or corruption of Assyria (Scylax, 
Perijd. p, SO; Dionys. Pericg. 970-975; Eustath. Com- 
ment . ad loe., etc.). Herodotus says, “The people whom 
the Greeks call Syrians are called Assyrians by the 
barbarians” (vii, 03) ; and these names were frequently 
confounded bv the later Greek writers (Xcnoph. Cyr. 

vi, 2, 19; viii, 3. 24): and apparently also by some 
of the Latins (Pliny, //. X. v, 13). A much more 
probable etymology is that which derives Syria from 
Tsur (“HU), the Hebrew name of the ancient city of 
Tyre. The distinction between Syria and Assyria is 
very great in Hebrew. The Greek form of the name 
derived from Tsur would be Tsuria ; but as this could 
not be expressed by Greek letters, it was softened down 
to XopiYi. Assyria is in Hebrew "iVA’X, and in Greek 
’ A<T<Tv(jia, and sometimes ’ Arovpia . “A still greater 
distinction between the names is found in the Assyrian 
inscriptions, where Assyria is called As-sur. while the 


Tyrians are the Tsur-ra-ya . the characters used be- 
ing entirely dilfcrent” (Uawlinson, Herod, i, 03, note). 
Tyre was the most important city along the Mediter- 
ranean coast. With it and its enterprising merchants 
the Greeks soon became familiar; and tbev gave to the 
country around it the general name Syria — that is, 
“region of Tyre.” 

It is interesting to observe that the connection be- 
tween Syria and Aram is noticed by Strabo when com- 
menting on a stanza of Pindar; “Others understand 
Syrians by the .1 rimi, who are now called .1 ranwi" 
(xiii. 020, and xvi, 785); and again, “Those whom we 
call Syrians (Xcpocc) are by the Syrians themselves 
called Armenians and A rummwans” (Apappaiovt ; ; i, 
% 34). 

The name Syria was thus of foreign origin. It was 
never adopted or acknowledged by the people them- 
selves; nor was it ever employed by native authors ex- 
cept when writing in Greek for Greeks. At the pres- 
ent day it is unknown in the country. It lias been 
seen that in ancient times the name .1 ram was spe- 
cially applied to Damascus and its kingdom. There is 
something analogous to this in modern usage. Esh- 
Sham is the name now commonly given to both city 
and country, though in more correct language the for- 
mer is st vied Jiimishk esh-Shatn. 

II. K xtent and Boundaries . — 1. Ancient geographers 
do not agree as to the extent of Syria. Herodotus 
makes it reach to the I Hack Sea on the north (i, G) ; to 
Paphlagonia and the Mediterranean on the west (i, 72; 
ii, 12, 11G); to Egypt on the south (ii, 158, 159); and 
to Media and Persia on the east (vii, G3). He con- 
founded Syria and Assyria, and lienee 
arose the error into which he fell re- 
garding the extent of the former. The 
same view is taken by Xenophon (.1 nab . 
i, 4, 11 19). Even Strabo states in one 
place that “the name Syria seems to 
extend from l>abvlonia as far as the bay 
of lssus, and anciently from this bay to 
the Euxine. Both tribes of the Cap- 
padocians — those near the Taurus, and 
those near the Pont us — are called to 
this day Leuco- Syrians.” It is elear, 
however, from a subsequent sentence, 
that be in this place fell into the error 
of Herodotus; for be thus remarks, 
“When the historians of the Syrian 
empire say that the Medes were con- 
quered by the Persians, and the Syrians 
by the Medes, they mean no other Syri- 
ans than those who built the royal pal- 
aces of Babylon and Nineveh ; and Ni- 
n ns who built Nineveh in Aturia was 
one of these Syrians” (xvi. 737). It is 
evident that for Syrians the name J ,<?- 
Syrians should here be substituted. The 
great similarity of the names, no doubt, 
tended to create this confusion. 

When writing directly of the country 
of Syria, Strabo is more accurate. He 
describes its extent, boundaries, and di- 
visions with great minuteness. “Syria 
is bounded on the north by Cilicia [comp. 
Acts xv, 23] and Mount Amanns; on the 
east by the Euphrates and the Arabian 
Scenita?, who live on this side [west] of 
the Euphrates; on the south by Arabia 
Felix and Egypt ; on the west by the 
Egyptian and Syrian seas, as far as ls- 
sns” (xvi, 749). Pliny gives substan- 
tially the same boundaries, lie savs, 
however, that some geographers di- 
vide the country into four provinces — 
Idumsea, Juda?a, Phoenicia, and Syria 
(If. A\ v, 13; comp. Josephus, Ant . x, 
6 , 1 ). 



SYRIA 


97 


SYRIA 


Ptolemy confines Syria within the same limits on the 
north, west, ami east; but he marks its southern bound- 
ary by a line running from Dor, at the base of Carmel, 
by Seythopolis and Philadelphia, to Alsadamus Mons 
(Jebel Hauran). lie thus includes Phoenicia, Galilee, 
and a portion of Pcnea, but excludes Judiea and Idu- 
maea (v, 15). 

2. In this article the name Syria is confined to what 
appears to be its more strict New-Test, signification. 
Its boundaries may be giyen as follows : Palestine on 
the south; the mediterranean on the west; Cilicia and 
Mount Amanus on the north; and the Euphrates and 
desert of Palmyra on the east. Its length, from the 
mouth of the Litany on the south to the bay of Iskan- 
deriin on the north, is 250 miles, and its breadth aver- 
ages about 130 miles. Its area may thus be estimated 
at 32,500 square miles. It lies between lat.33° 13' and 
30° 42' N., and long. 35° 45' and 38° E. 

III. Physical Geography. — Syria, like Palestine, is di- 
vided into a series of belts, extending in parallel lines 
from north to south. (I.) A narrow belt of plain along 
the seaboard. It embraces the plain of Issus, now Is- 
kanderun, on the north, extending as far as the bold 
promontory of Ras el-Khanzir. South of the promon- 
tory is the fertile plain of Seleucia, now Suweidlyeh, at 
t lie mouth of the Orontes. Then follows the peak of 
Casius, which dips into the sea; and from its southern 
base down to the mouth of the Litany stretches the 
plain of Phoenicia, varying in breadth from ten miles 
at Ladikiyeh to half a mile at Sidon. It is nearly all 
fertile ; and some portions of it at Sidon, Beirut, and 
Tripoli are among the richest and most beautiful in 
Syria. (2.) A belt of mountains, the backbone of the 
country. It commences with the ridge of Amanus on 
the north; then follows Bargylus in the centre, and 
Lebanon on the south. (3.) The great valley of Ccele- 
Svria, and its northern extension the valley of the Oron- 
tes, form the next belt, and constitute one of the most re- 
markable features of the country. (4.) The mountain- 
chain of Antilebanon, though broken by the plain of 
Hamath, finds a natural prolongation in the ridge which 
rises in the parallel of the city of Hamath and runs 
northward beyond Aleppo. (5.) Along the whole east- 
ern border from north to south extends an arid plateau, 
bleak and desolate, the home of the roving Bedawin. 

1. Plains. — The plains of Phoenicia have already been 
noticed under that head. 

By far the most important part of Syria, and, on the 
whole, its most striking feature, is the great valley which 
reaches from the plain of Umk, near Antioch, to the 
narrow gorge on which the Litany enters in about lat. 
33° 30'. This valley, which runs nearly parallel with 
the Syrian coast, extends the length of 230 miles, and 
has a width varying from 6 or 8 to 15 or 20 miles. The 
more southern portion of it was known to the ancients 
as Coele-Syria, or “ the Hollow Syria,” and has already 
been described. See Ccele-Sykia. In length this por- 
tion is rather more than 100 miles, terminating with a 
screen of hills a little south of Hums, at which point 
the north-eastern direction of the valley also ceases, and 
it begins to bend to the north-west. 

The plain of Hamath is very extensive. It joins 
Ccele-Syria on the south, and extends northward on both 
sides of the Orontes as far as Apamea, about seventy 
miles; while its breadth from the base of Lebanon to 
the desert is nearly thirty. Its surface is almost per- 
fectly fiat, its soil generally a rich black mould ; water 
is abundant. Upon it once stood the large cities of 
Riblah, Laodicea ad Libanum, Emesa, Arethusa, Larissa, 
Hamath, and Apamea ; all of which, with the exception 
of Hamath and Emesa (now Hums), are either in ruins 
or have dwindled down to poor villages. 

The plain of Damascus and its continuation towards 
Ilauran on the south are exceedingly fertile. See Da- 
mascus. 

The little plain of Issus between the mountains and 
the bay is now a pestilential marsh, on the borders of 
X.— G 


which stands the miserable village of Iskanderftn, the 
only seaport of Antioch and Aleppo. 

The plain of Suweidlyeh, at the mouth of the Oron- 
'tes, is still a lovely spot, in part covered with orchards 
and mulberry plantations. On its northern border lie 
the ruins of Seleucia, the port from which Paul em- 
barked on his first missionary journey (Acts xiii, 2-4), 
and once so celebrated for its docks and fortifications 
(Polybius, bk. v). 

2. Mountains. — (1.) The parallel ranges of Lebanon 
and Antilebanon have already been noticed under their 
own titles. At the southern end of the former is the 
pass called in Scripture “the entrance of Hamath” 
(q. v.). 

(2.) Beyond this, in a line with Lebanon, rises the 
range of Bargylus, which extends to Antioch. It is a 
rugged limestone ridge, rent and torn by wild ravines, 
thinly peopled, and sparsely covered with oaks. Its 
elevation is much inferior to Lebanon, and does not av- 
erage more than 4000 feet. In the parallel of Antioch 
the chain meets the Orontes, and there sweeps round in 
a sharp angle to the south-west, and terminates in the 
lofty peak of Casius (now Jebel Akra), which rises ab- 
ruptly from the sea to a height of 5700 feet, forming 
one of the most conspicuous landmarks along the coast 
of Syria. The Bargylus range has received the name 
Jebel en-Nusairiveh, from the mysterious and warlike 
tribe of Nusairiyeh, who form the great bulk of its in- 
habitants. 

At the northern extremity of the range, on the green 
bank of the rapid Orontes, stand the crumbling walls 
and towers of Syria’s ancient capital, Antioch (q. v.), 
now dwindled down to a poor town of some G000 inhab- 
itants. A few miles west of it, in a secluded mountain 
glen, are the fountains and ruins of Beit el-Ma, which 
mark the site of the once celebrated Daphne (Murray, 
Handbook for Syr. and Pal. p. G02). 

(3.) Beyond the valley through which the Orontes 
breaks narrow and wild, rises steeply another mountain- 
range, which runs northward till it joins the Taurus, 
and has an average elevation of nearly 6000 feet. The 
scenery of this range is very grand — deep ravines shut 
in by cliffs of naked rock, conical peaks clothed with 
the dark foliage of the prickly oak, and foaming tor- 
rents fringed with dense copses of myrtle and oleander. 
On the west it sends out the lofty promontory of Ras 
el-Khanzir, which shuts in the plain of Suweidlyeh ; 
and farther north the curve of the bay of Iskanderun 
sweeps so close to the rocky base of the range as to 
leave a pass only a few feet broad between the cliff and 
the sea. Here are the ruins of an ancient arch mark- 
ing the site of the celebrated Syrian Gates; to the 
north of it is the battle-field of Issus. The southern 
section of this range was anciently called Pieria,* and 
gave its distinguishing name to the city ( Seleucia Pie- 
ria ) at its base ; the northern section was called Ama- 
nus. The whole ridge is now usually called Jawar 
Dagh, though the southern portion is perhaps more 
commonly known as Ras el-Khanzir. 

(4.) On the eastern bank of the Orontes, near the 
ruins of Apamea, rises another but much lower range 
of hills, which runs northward, not in a regularly form- 
ed ridge, but rather in detached clumps, to the parallel 
of Aleppo. The hills are mainly calcareous, well wood- 
ed in places, and intersected at intervals by fertile plains 
and vales. They are interesting to the traveller and 
antiquarian as containing some of the most remarkable 
ruins in Syria (Murray, Handbook , p. 615 sq. ). The 
southern section is called Jebel Riha, the central Jebel 
el-’Ala, and the northern Jebel Siman, from its having 
been the home of St. Simeon Stylites. 

3. The Northern Highlands. — Northern Syria, espe- 
cially the district called Commagene, between Taurus 
and the Euphrates, is still very insufficiently explored. 
It seems to be altogether an elevated tract, consisting 
of twisted spurs from'Taurus and Amanus, with narrow 
valleys between them, which open out into bare and 


SYRIA 


98 SYRIA 


sterile plains. The valleys themselves are not very 
fertile. They are watered by small streams, producing 
often abundant tish, and, for the most part, {lowing into 
the Orontes or the Euphrates. A certain number of 
the more central ones, however, unite and constitute the 
“ river of Aleppo,” which, unable to reach either of the 
oceanic streams, forms (as we have seen) a lake or 
marsh, wherein its waters evaporate. Along the course 
of the Euphrates there are rich land and abundant vege- 
tation; but the character of the country thence to the 
valley of the Orontes is bare and woodless, except in 
the vicinity of the towns, where fruit-trees are culti- 
vated, and orchards and gardens make an agreeable ap- 
pearance. Most of this region is a mere sheep-walk, 
which grows more and more harsh and repulsive as we 
approacli the south, where it gradually mingles with 
the desert. The highest elevation of the plateau be- 
tween the two rivers is 1500 feet; and this height is 
readied soon after leaving the Euphrates, while towards 
the west the decline is gradual. 

4. The Eastern Desert . — East, of the inner mountain- 
chain, and south of the cultivable ground about Aleppo, 
is the great Syrian desert, an “ elevated .dry upland, for 
the most part of gypsum and marls, producing nothing 
but a few spare bushes of wormwood, and the usual aro- 
matic plants of the wilderness.” Here and there bare 
and stony ridges of no great height cross this arid re- 
gion, but fail to draw water from the sky, and have, 
consequently, no streams flowing from them. A few 
wells supply the nomad population with a brackish 
fluid. The region is traversed with difficulty, and has 
never been accurately surveyed. The most remarkable 
oasis is at Palmyra, where there are several small streams 
and abundant palm-trees. See Tatkmok. Towards the 
more western part of the region along the foot of the 
mountain-range which there bounds it, is likewise a 
good deal of tolerably fertile country, watered by the 
streams which flow eastward from the range, and after 
a longer or a shorter course are lost in the desert. The 
best -known and the most productive of these tracts, 
which seem stolen from the desert, is the famous plain 
of Damascus— the el-Ghutah and el-Mcrj of the Arabs 
— already described in the account given of that city. 
See Damascus. No rival to this “earthly paradise” is 
to be found along the rest of the chain, since no other 
stream flows down from it at all comparable to the Ba- 
rada; but wherever the eastern side of the chain has 
been visited, a certain amount of cultivable territory has 
been found at its foot; corn is grown in places, and 
olive-trees are abundant (Burckhardt, Travels in Syria , 
p. 124-129; Pococke, Description of the East , ii, 146). 
Farther from the hills, all is bare and repulsive — a dry, 
hard desert like that of the Sinaitic peninsula, with a 
soil of marl and gravel, only rarely diversified with 
sand. 

5. Rivers. — (1.) The Orontes is the largest river in 
Syria. It is now called el-’Asy (“The liebellious”), and 
also el-Maklflb (“The Inverted”), from the fact of its 
running, as is thought, in a wrong direction. Its high- 
est source is in the plain of Bukfi’a (Ccele- Syria), at the 
base of Antilebanon, beside the ruins of the ancient city 
of Lybo. It runs north-west across the plain to the 
foot of Lebanon, where its volume is more than trebled 
by the great fountain of Ain el-’Asy. ITence it winds 
along the plain of Hamath, passing Uiblah, Hums, Ha- 
math, and Apamea. At Antioch it sweeps round to the 
west through a magnificent pass, and falls into the Med- 
iterranean at Seleucia. Its scenery is in general tame 
and uninteresting. Its volume above Hamath is less 
than that of the Jordan, but lower down it receives 
several tributaries which greatly increase it. Its total 
length is about 154 miles. 

(2.) The Litany i9 the next river in magnitude. Its 
principal sources are in the valley of Bukfi’a, at Baalbek, 
Zahleh, and Anjar (the ancient Chalcis). After wind- 
ing down the Buka’a to its southern end, it forces its 
way through a sublime glen, which completely inter- 


sects Lebanon, and falls into the sea a few miles north 
of Tyre. 

(4.) The rivers Eleutherns, Lvcus, and Adonis have 
been noticed in the article Lebanon, and the Abana 
and Pharpar under Damascus. 

(5.) A small stream called Nahr Koweik rises near 
the village of Aintab, flows southward through a nar- 
row glen to Aleppo, waters the town and its gardens, 
and empties itself in winter into a marsh some twenty 
miles farther south. It seems to be the Chalus of Xen- 
ophon {Anal, i, 4, 9). 

(6.) The Sajur rises a little farther to the north, in 
the mountains north of Aintab. Its course for the first 
twentv-tive miles is south-east, after which it runs east 
for fifteen or twenty miles, finally resuming its first di- 
rection, and flowing by the town of Sajur into the Eu- 
phrates. It is a larger river than the Koweik, though 
its course is scarcely so long. 

6. Lakes . — There are only two lakes of any impor- 
tance in Syria. 

(1.) One lies some miles north cf Antioch, and is called 
Bahr el-Abiad, “White Lake.” It is about twenty-five 
miles in circuit, but has a broad margin of marsh, which 
is flooded after heavy rains. 

(2.) The other lake is on the Orontes, west of Hums, 
and is called Bahr Kades. It is about six miles long by 
from two to three broad, and is in a great measure, if 
not entirely, artificial. It is formed by a dam built 
across the valley. The water is thus raised to an ele- 
vation sufficient to supply the town and irrigate the 
surrounding plain (Porter, Damascus, ii, 344). 

(3.) The Sabakhah is a salt lake, into which only in- 
significant streams flow, and which has no outlet. It 
lies midway between Balis and Aleppo, the route be- 
tween these places passing along its northern shore. It 
is longer than the Lake of Antioch, but narrower, being 
about thirteen miles from east to west, and four miles 
only from north to south, even where it is widest. 

(4.) The Bahr el-Merj, like the piece of water in 
which the Koweik, or river of Aleppo, ends, scarcely de- 
serves to be called a lake, since it is little better than a 
large marsh. The length, according to colonel Clies- 
ney, is nine miles, and the breadth two miles ( Enphrat . 
Exp. i, 503): but the size seems to vary with the sea- 
sons, and with the extent to which irrigation is used 
along the course of the Barada. A recent traveller, 
who traced the Barada to its termination, found it di- 
vide a few miles below Damascus, and observed that 
each branch terminated in a marsh of its own; while a 
neighboring stream, the Awaj, commonly regarded as 
a tributary of the Barada, also lost itself in a third 
marsh separate from the other two (Porter, in Geograph. 
Journ. xxvi, 43-46). 

7. Cities . — The principal cities and towns of Syria are 
the following: Damascus, pop. 150,000; Aleppo, pop. 
70,000; Beirut, pop. 80,000; Hamath, pop. 30,000; Hums, 
pop. 20,000; Tripoli, pop. 13,000; Antioch, Sidon. and 
Ladik^yeh. Besides these, which occupy ancient sites, 
there were in former times Palmyra, in the eastern des- 
ert; Abila, on the river Abana; Chalcis, Heliopolis, and 
Lybo, in t lie valley of Ccele-Syria ; Laodicea ad Libanum, 
Arethusa, and Apamea, in the valley of the Orontes; 
Seleucia, Aradus, and Bvblos [see Gebal], on the sea- 
coast, and many others of less importance. 

IV. Political Geography . — Syria has passed through 
many changes. Its ancient divisions were numerous, 
and constantly varying. The provinces of the Biblical 
Aram have already been noticed. See A bam. Phoe- 
nicia was generally regarded as a distinct principality 
[see Phoenicia], and the warlike tribes of Lebanon ap- 
pear to have remained almost in a state of independence 
from the earliest ages. See Lebanon. The political 
divisions, as enumerated by Greek and Homan geogra- 
phers, are indefinite and almost unintelligible. Strabo 
mentions five great provinces: 1. Commagene, a small 
territory in the extreme north, with Samosata for capi- 
tal, situated on the Euphrates. 2. Seleucia, lying south 


SYRIA 


99 


SYRIA 


of the former, was subdivided into four districts accord- 
ing to the number of its chief cities: (1) Antioch Epi- 
daphne; (2) Seleucia, in Rieria; (3) Apamea ; and (4) 
Laodicea. In the district of Antioch was another sub- 
division, situated near the Euphrates, and called Cvr- 
rhestice, from the town Cyrrhestis, which contained a 
celebrated temple of Diana. Southward were two sub- 
divisions (apparently) of Apamea, called I'arapotamia 
and Chalcidice, bordering on the Euphrates, and inhab- 
ited by Scenitre. The territory of Laodicea extended 
south to the river Eleut herns, where it bordered on 
PhoLMiice and Ccele-Svria. 3. Ccele-Syria , comprising 
Laodicea ad Libanum, Chalcis, Abilene, Damascus, Itu- 
nea, and others farther south, included in Palestine. 4. 
Phoenicia. 5. Judcea ( Geogr . xvi, 748 sq.). 

Pliny’s divisions are still more numerous than those 
of Strabo. It appears that each city on rising to im- 
portance gave its name to a surrounding territory, larger 
or smaller, and this in time assumed the rank of a prov- 
ince (Pliny, //. A r . v, 14-21). 

Ptolemy mentions thirteen provinces: Commagene, 
Pieria, Cyrrhestica, Seleucis, Casiotis, Chalibonitis, Chal- 
cis, Apamene, Laodicene, Phoenicia, Ccele-Syria, Palmy- 
rene, and Batana?a, and he gives a long list of the cities 
contained in them. He excludes Palestine altogether 
(Geogr. v, 15). 

Under the Romans Syria became a province of the 
empire. Some portions of it were permitted to remain 
for a time under the rule of petty princes, dependent, on 
the imperial government. Gradually, however, all these 
were incorporated, and Antioch was the capital. Under 
Hadrian the province was divided into two parts : Syria 
Major on the north, and Syria- Plioenice on the south. 
Towards the close of the 4th century another partition 
of Syria was made, and formed the basis of its ecclesi- 
astical government: 1. Syria Prima, with Antioch as 
capital ; 2. S. Secunda , with Apamea as capital ; 3. 
Phoenicia Prima , including the greater part of ancient 
Phoenicia — Tyre was its capital; 4. Phoenicia Secunda , 
also called Phoenicia ad Libanum , with Damascus for 
capital (“ Car. a St. Paul,” Geog. Sac. p. 287). 

At the present time Syria forms a portion of three 
pashalies — Aleppo, Damascus, and Sidon. 

Y. Climate , Inhabitants, etc. — 1. The temperature of 
Syria greatly resembles that of Palestine. The sum- 
mits of Hermon and Lebanon are crowned with perpet- 
ual snow, and the high altitudes along these ranges are 
as cool as the south of England ; but, on the other hand, 
the low marshy plains of the interior are very hot. The 
seaboard, being much exposed to the sun’s rays, and 
sheltered by the mountains behind, is generally sultry 
and subject to fevers ; but there are a few places — such 
as Sidon, Beirut, and Suweidiveh — where the soil is 
dry and the air pure. Rain is more abundant than in 
Palestine, and even during summer light showers occa- 
sionally fall in the mountains. 

2. The present population of Syria is estimated at 
1,880,000. Arabic is their vernacular. They consist 
of Mohammedans, Yezidees, Druses, Romanists, Jews, 
and Greek Christians. The Mohammedans, who prob- 
ably comprise three fourths of the whole, are seldom 
associated with the progress of arts or industry, and, 
though possessing the influence which belongs to the 
ruling authorities, are rarely instrumental in the crea- 
tion of capital or the diffusion of civilization. Most of 
the commercial establishments are either in the hands 
of the Christian or Jewish population. The agricult- 
ural produce of Syria is far less than might be expect- 
ed from the extensive tracts of fertile lands and the fa- 
vorable state of the climate. Regions of the highest 
fertility remain fallow, and the want of population for 
the purposes of cultivation is most deplorable. The 
commerce of Syria is in an equally low state. Volnev 
but faithfully depicted Syria when he described it as 
“a land of almost unparalleled natural resources, com- 
prising within its limits every estimable variety of cli- 
mate and of soil.” Yet Syria, under the execrable Mus- 


sulman rule, is almost the lowest in the scale of nations ; 
but even in the present state of things she produces 
silk, cotton, and wool — three staple articles of demand. 
A change has been brought about during the last few 
years in the external features of Oriental dress, and in 
Syria more especially, which, with the decline of their 
own manufactures, has tended to introduce the cheaper 
fabrics of Europe. The issue of the recent Turko- 
Russian war has been to place Syria under the nominal 
protectorate of Great Britain, with promises of social re- 
form, which, however, the Turks are slow in bringing 
about. See Turkey. 

VI. History. — 1. The first occupants of Syria appear to 
have been of Hamitic descent. The Canaanitish races, 
the Hittites, Jebusitcs, Amorites, etc., are connected in 
Scripture with Egypt and Ethiopia, Cush and Mizraim 
(Gen. x, 6, 15-18) ; and, even independently of the 
evidence, there seems to be sufficient reason for believ- 
ing that the races in question stood in close ethnic con- 
nection with the Cushitic stock (Rawlinson, Herod, iv, 
243-245). These tribes occupied not Palestine only, 
but also Lower Syria, in very early times, as we may 
gather from the fact that Ilamath is assigned to them 
in Genesis (x, 18). Afterwards they seem to have be- 
come possessed of Upper Syria also, for when the As- 
syrians first push their conquests beyond the Euphra- 
tes, thej r find the Ilittites ( Khatti ) established in 
strength on the right bank of the great river. After a 
while the first comers, who were still to a great extent 
nomads, received a Shemitic infusion, which most prob- 
ably came to them from the south-east. The family of 
Abraham, whose original domicile was in Lower Baby- 
lonia, may, perhaps, be best regarded as furnishing us 
with a specimen of the migratory movements of the pe- 
riod. Another example is that of Chedorlaomer with his 
confederate kings, of whom one at least — Amraphel — 
must have been a Shemite. The movement may have 
begun before the time of Abraham, and hence, perhaps, 
the Shemitic names of many of the inhabitants when 
Abraham first comes into the country, as Abimelech, 
Melcliizedek, Eliezer, etc. The only Syrian town whose 
existence we find distinctly marked at this time is Da- 
mascus (Gen. xiv, 15; xv, 2), which appears to have 
been already a place of some importance. Indeed, in 
one tradition Abraham is said to have been king of 
Damascus for a time (Nic. Dam. Fragm.oO ) ; but this is 
quite unworthy of credit. Next to Damascus must be 
placed Hamath, which is mentioned by Moses as a well- 
known place (Numb, xiii, 21 ; xxxiv. 8), and appears in 
Egyptian papyri of the time of the eighteenth dynasty 
(i Cambridge Essays , 1858, p. 208). Syria at this time, 
and for many centuries afterwards, seems to have been 
broken up among a number of petty kingdoms. Sev- 
eral of these are mentioned in Scripture, as Damascus, 
Rehob, Maachah, Zobah, Geshur, etc. We also hear 
occasionally of u the kings of Syria and of the Hittites” 
(1 Kings x, 29; 2 Kings vii, G) — an expression indica- 
tive of that extensive subdivision of the tract among 
numerous petty chiefs which is exhibited to us very 
clearly in the early Assyrian inscriptions. At various 
times different states had the pre-eminence, but none 
was ever strong enough to establish an authority over 
the others. 

2. The Jews first come into hostile contact with the 
Syrians, under that name , in the time of David. The 
wars of Joshua, however, must have often been with 
Syrian chiefs, with whom he disputed the possession of 
the tract about Lebanon and Hermon (Josh, xi, 2-18). 
After his time the Syrians were apparently undisturbed, 
until David began his aggressive wars upon them. 
Claiming the frontier of the Euphrates, which God had 
promised to Abraham (Gen. xv, 18), David made war 
on Hadadczer, king of Zobah, whom he defeated in a 
great battle, killing 18,000 of his men, and taking from 
him 1000 chariots, 700 horsemen, and 20,000 footmen 
(2 Sam. viii, 3, 4, 13). The Damascene Syrians, having 
endeavored to succor their kinsmen, w T ere likewise de- 


SYRIA 


100 


SYRIA 


feated with great loss (ver. 5) : and the blow so weak- 
ened them that they shortly afterwards submitted and 
became David’s subjects (ver. 0). Zobah, however, was 
far from being subdued as yet. When, a few years 
later, the Ammonites determined on engaging in a war 
with David, and applied to the Syrians for aid, Zobah, 
together with Betli-Behob, sent them 20,000 footmen, 
and two other Syrian kingdoms furnished 13,000 (x, 
0). This army being completely defeated by Joab, Ilad- 
adezer obtained aid from Mesopotamia (ver. 10), and 
tried the chance of a third battle, which likewise went 
against him. and produced the general submission of 
.Syria to the Jewish monarch. The submission thus 
begun continued under the reign of Solomon, who 
"reigned over all the kingdoms front the river [Eu- 
phrates] unto the land of the Philistines and unto the 
border of Egypt ; they brought presents and served Sol- 
omon all the days of his life” (1 Kings iv, 21). The 
only part of Syria which Solomon lost seems to have 
been Damascus, where an independent kingdom was 
set up by Bezon, a native of Zobah (xi, 23-25). On 
the separation of the two kingdoms, soon after the ac- 
cession of Behoboam, the remainder of Syria no doubt 
shook off the yoke. Damascus now became decidedly 
the leading state, Hamath being second to it, and the 
northern llittites, whose capital was Carchemish, near 
Bambuk, third. See CAnciiEMisit. The wars of this 
period fall most properly into the history of Damascus, 
and have already been described in the account given 
of that city. See Damascus. Their result was to at- 
tach Syria to the great Assyrian empire, from which it 
passed to the Babylonians, after a short attempt on the 
part of Egypt to hold possession of it, which was frus- 
trated by Nebuchadnezzar. From the Babylonians 
Syria passed to the Persians, under whom it formed a 
satrapy in conjunction with Jiuhea, Phoenicia, and Cy- 
prus (Herod. iii, 91). Its resources were still great, and 
probably it was his confidence in them that encour- 
aged the Syrian satrap Megabazus to raise the standard 
of revolt against Artaxerxes Longi maims (B.C. 447). 
After this we hear little of Syria till the year of the bat- 
tle of Issus (B.C. 333), when it submitted to Alexander 
without a struggle. 

3. Upon the death of Alexander, Syria became, for the 
first lime, the head of a great kingdom. On the division 
of the provinces among his generals (B.C. 321), Seleucus 
Xicator received Mesopotamia and Syria, and though, 
in the twenty years of struggle which followed, this 
country was lost and won repeatedly, it remained final- 
ly, with the exception of Coele-Syria, in the hands of 
the prince to whom it was originally assigned. That 
prince, whose dominions reached from the Mediterranean 
to the Indus, and from the Oxus to the Southern Ocean, 
having, as he believed, been exposed to great dangers 
on account of the distance from Greece of his original 
capital, Babylon, resolved, immediately upon his victory 
of Ipsus (B.C. 301), to fix his metropolis in the West, and 
settled upon Syria as the fittest place for it. Antioch 
was begun in B.C. 300, and, being finished in a few 
years, was made the capital of Seleucus’s kingdom. The 
whole realm was thenceforth ruled from this centre, and 
Syria, which had long been the prey of stronger coun- 
tries, and had been exhausted by their exactions, grew 
rich with the wealth which now flowed into it on all 
sides. The luxury and magnificence of Antioch were 
extraordinary. Broad straight streets, with colonnades 
from end to end, temples, statues, arches, bridges, a royal 
palace, and various other public buildings dispersed 
throughout it made the Syrian capital by far the most 
splendid of all the cities of the East. At the same time, 
in the provinces, other towns ol’large size were growing 
up. Seleucia in Pieria, Apamca, and both Laodiceas 
were foundations of the Seleucidit*. as their names suf- 
ficiently indicate. Weak and indolent as were many of 
these monarch?, it would seem that they had a heredi- 
tary taste for building; and so each aimed at outdoing 
his predecessors in the number, beauty, and magnificence 


of his constructions. As the history of Syria under the 
Scleucid princes has been already given in detail in the 
articles treating of each monarch [see Antiouiius; 
Dkmetkius; Sei.kucus, etc.], it will be unnecessary 
here to do more than sum it up generally. The most 
llourishing period was the reign of the founder, Nicator. 
The empire was then almost as large as that of the 
Acluemeiiian Persians, for it at one time included Asia 
Minor, and thus reached from the Aegean to India. It 
was organized into satrapies, of which the number was 
seventy- two. Trade flourished greatly, old lines of 
trallic being restored and new ones opened. The reign 
of Nicator’s son, Antiochus l, called Soter, was the be- 
ginning of the decline, which was progressive from his 
date with only one or two slight interruptions. Soter 
lost territory to the kingdom of Pergaraus, and failed in 
an attempt to subject Bitlivnia. lie was also unsuccess- 
ful against Egypt. Under his son, Antiochus II, called 
Deoc, or “the God,’’ who ascended the throne in B.C. 
261, the disintegration of the empire proceeded more 
rapidly. The revolt of Parthia in B.C. 256, followed 
by that of Bactria in B.C. 254, deprived the Syrian 
kingdom of some of its best provinces, and gave it a 
new enemy which shortly became a rival and finally a 
superior. At the same time, the war with Egypt was 
prosecuted without either advantage or glory. Fresh 
losses were suffered in the reign of Seleucus II (Callini- 
eus), Antiochus IPs successor. While Callinicus was 
engaged in Egypt against Ptolemy Euergetes, Eu- 
menes of Pergamus obtained possession of a great part 
of Asia Minor (B.C. 242); and about the same time 
Arsaces II, king of Parthia, conquered liyreania and 
annexed it to his dominions. An attempt to recover 
this latter province cost Callinicus his crown, as he was 
defeated and made prisoner by the Parthians (B.C. 226). 
In the next reign, that of Seleucus III (Ceraunus), a 
slight reaction set in. Most of Asia Minor was recov- 
ered for Ceraunus by his wife’s nephew', Achmus (B.C. 
224), and he w r as preparing to invade Pergamus when 
he died poisoned, llis successor and brother, Antiochus 
III, though he gained the surname of Great from the 
grandeur of his expeditions and the partial success of 
some of them, can scarcely be said to have really done 
anything towards raising the empire from its declining 
condition, since his conquests on the side of Egypt, con- 
sisting of Caffe- Syria, Phoenicia, and Palestine, formed 
no sufficient compensation for the loss of Asia Minor, 
W'hich he was forced to cede to Pome for the aggran- 
dizement of the rival kingdom of Pergamus (B.C. 190). 
Even had the territorial balance been kept more even, 
the ill policy of making Borne an enemy of the Syrian 
kingdom, w'ith which Antiochus the Great is taxable, 
w'ould have necessitated our placing him among the 
princes to wdiom its ultimate ruin was mainly owing. 
Towards the east, indeed, he did something, if not to 
thrust back the Parthians, at any rate to protect his 
empire from their aggressions. But the exhaustion 
consequent upon his constant wars and signal defeats — 
more especially those of Uaphia and Magnesia — left 
Syria far more feeble at his death than she had been at 
any former period. The almost eventless reign of Seleu- 
ens IV (Philopator), his son and successor (B.C, 1*7- 
175), is sufficient proof of this feebleness. It was not 
till twenty years of peace had recruited the resources of 
Syria in men and money that Antiochus IV (Epiphanes), 
brother of Philopator, ventured on engaging in a great 
war (B.C. 171) — a w r ar for the conquest of Egypt. At 
first it seemed as if the attempt w'ould succeed. Egypt 
was on the point of yielding to her foe of so many years, 
w 7 hen Borne, following out her traditions of hostility to 
Syrian power and influence, interposed her mediation, 
and deprived Epiphanes of all the fruits of his victories 
(B.C. 16*). A greater injury was about the same time 
(B.C. 167) inflicted on Syria by the folly of Epiphanes 
himself. Not content with replenishing his treasury by 
the plunder of the Jewish Temple, he madly ordered the 
desecration of the Holy of Holies, and thus caused the 


SYRIA 


101 


SYRIA 


revolt of the Jews, which proved a permanent loss to 
the empire and an aggravation of its weakness. After 
the death of Epiphanes the empire rapidly verged to its 
fall. The regal power fell into the hands of an infant, 
Antioehus V (Eupator), son of Epiphanes (B.C. 104); 
the nobles contended for the regency; a pretender to 
the crown started up in the person of Demetrius, son of 
Selencus IV; Home put in a elaim to administer the 
government; and amid the troubles thus caused the 
Parthians, under Mithridates I, overran the eastern prov- 
inces (B.C. 104), conquered Media, Persia, Susiana, Baby- 
lonia, etc., and advanced their frontier to the Euphrates. 
It was in vain that Demetrius II (Nicator) made an 
attempt (B.C. 142) to recover the lost territory; his 
boldness cost him his liberty; while a similar attempt 
on the part of his successor, Antioehus VII (Sidetes), 
cost that monarch his life (B.C. 128). Meanwhile, in 
the shorn Syrian kingdom, disorders of every kind were 
on the increase; Commagene revolted and established 
her independence; civil wars, murders, mutinies of the 
troops, rapidly succeeded one another; the despised Jews 
were called in by both sides in the various struggles; 
and Syria, in the space of about ninety years, from B.C. 
154 to B.C. (>4, had no fewer than ten sovereigns. All 
the wealth of the country had been by this time dissi- 
pated — much had flowed Bomewards in the shape of 
bribes; more, probably, had been spent on the wars; and 
still more had been wasted by the kings in luxury of 
every kind. Under these circumstances, the Komans 
showed no eagerness to occupy the exhausted region, 
which passed under the power of Tigranes. king of 
Armenia, in B.C. 83, and was not made a province of 
the Koman Empire till after Pompev’s complete defeat 
of Mithridates and his ally Tigranes in B.C. 04. 

The chronology of this period has been well worked 
out by Clinton (Fast. Hell, iii, 308-340), from whom the 
following table of the kings, with the dates of their ac- 
cession, is taken : 


Kings. 

Length of 
Reign. 

Date of 1 

Accession. 

1. Selencus Nicator 

32 years. 

Oct. 312 

2. Antioehus Soter 

19 “ 

Jan. 2S0 

3. Antioehus Tlieos. 

15 “ 

Jan. 201 

4. Selencus Callinicus 

20 “ 

Jan. 24G 

5. Selencus Cernunus 

3 “ 

Aug. 22 G 

0. Antioehus Magnus 

3G “ 

Aug. 223 

7. Selencus Philopator 

12 “ 

Oet. 1S7 

S. Autiochus Epiphanes 

11 “ 

Ang. 175 

9. Antioehus Eupator 

2 “ 

Dee. 1G4 

10. Demetrius Soter 

12 “ 

Nov. 162 

11. Alexander Bala 

5 “ 

Aug. 150 

12. Demetrius Nicator (1st reign).. 

9 “ 

Nov. 14G 

13. Antioehus Sidetes 

9 “ 

Feb. 137 

14. Demetrius Nicator (2d reign).. 

3 “ 

Feb. 12S 

15. Antioehus Grypus 

13 “ 

Aug. 125 

10. Antioehus Cyzenieus 

18 “ 

113 

17. Antioehus Eusebes aud Phi-) 
lippus ) 

12 “ 

95 

18. Tigranes 

14 “ 

S3 

19. Antioehus Asiaticus 

4 “ 

G9 


4. As Syria holds an important place, not only in the 
Old Test., but in the New, some account of its condition 
under the Komans must now be given. That condition 
was somewhat peculiar. While the country generally 
was formed into a Koman province, under governors who 
were at first proprietors or quaestors, then proconsuls, and 
finally legates, there were exempted from the direct rule 
of the governor, in the first place, a number of “free 
cities,” which retained the administration of their own 
affairs, subject to a tribute levied according to the Koman 
principles of taxation ; and, secondly, a number of tracts 
which were assigned to petty princes, commonly natives, 
to be ruled at their pleasure, subject to the same obliga- 
tions with the free cities as to taxation (Appian, Syr. 50). 
The free cities were Antioch, Seleucia, Apamea, Epi- 
phaneia, Tripolis, Sidon, and Tyre; the principalities, 
Commagene, Chalcis ad Bclum (near Baalbek), Arethn- 
sa, Abila or Abilene, Palmyra, and Damascus. The 
principalities were sometimes called kingdoms, some- 
times tetrarchies. They were established where it was 


thought that the natives were so inveterately wedded 
to their own customs, and so well disposed for revolt, 
that it. was necessary to consult their feelings, to flatter 
the national vanity, and to give them the semblance 
without the substance of freedom, (a.) Commagene 
was a kingdom ( reynum ). It had broken off from Syria 
during the later troubles, and become a separate state 
under the government of a branch of the Seleucuhe, who 
atfected the names of Antioehus and Mithridates. The 
Komans allowed this condition of things to continue till 
A.D. 17, when, upon the death of Antioehus 111, they 
made Commagene into a province; in which condition 
it continued till A.D. 38, when Caligula gave the crown 
to Antioehus IV (Epiphanes), the son of Antioehus HI. 
Antioehus IV continued king till A.D. 72, when lie was 
deposed by Vespasian, and Commagene was finally ab- 
sorbed into the empire. He had a son, called also An- 
tiochus and Epiphanes, who was betrothed to Drusilla. 
the sister of “ king Agrippa,” and afterwards the wife of 
Felix, the procurator of Judiea. (5.) Chaleis “ad Belum” 
was not the city so called near Aleppo, which gave name 
to the district of Chaleidiee, but a town of less importance 
near Heliopolis (Baalbek), whence probably the suftix 
“ad Belum.” It is mentioned in this connection by 
Strabo (xvi, 2, 10), and Josephus says that it was un- 
der Lebanon {Ant. xiv, 7, 4), so that there cannot be 
much doubt as to its position. It must have been in 
the “Hollow Syria” — the modern Buka’a — to the south 
of Baalbek (Josephus, I Par, i, 0, 2), and therefore prob- 
ably at Anjar, where there are large ruins (Kobinson, 
Bill. lies, iii, 493. 497). This, too, was generally, or per- 
haps always, a “kingdom.” Pompey found it under a 
certain Ptolemy, “ the son of Mennams,” and allowed him 
to retain possession of it, together with certain adjacent 
districts. From him it passed to his son, Lysanias, who 
was put to death by Antony at the instigation of Cleo- 
patra (about B.C. 34), after which we find its revenues 
farmed by Lysanias’s steward, Zenodorus, the royalty 
being in abeyance (Josephus, Ant. xv, 10, 1). In B.C. 22 
Chalcis was added by Augustus to the dominions of 
Herod the Great, at whose death it probably passed to 
his son Philip (ibid, xvii, 11, 4). Philip died A.D. 34; 
and then we lose sight of Chalcis, until Claudius, in his 
first year (A.D. 41), bestowed it on a Herod, the brother 
of Herod Agrippa I, still as a “ kingdom.” From this 
Herod it passed (A.D. 49) to his nephew, Herod Agrippa 
II, who held it only three or four years, being promoted 
from it to a better government (ibid, xx, 7, 1). Chalcis 
then fell to Agrippa’s cousin, Aristobulus, son of the first 
Herodian king, under whom it remained till A.D. 73 
(Josephus, War. vii, 7, 1). About this time, or soon 
after, it ceased to be a distinct government, being finally 
absorbed into the Koman province of Syria, (r.) Arethusa 
(now Eestun) was for a time separated from Syria, and 
governed by phvlarchs. The city lay on the right bank 
of the Orontes, between Hamah and Hums, rather nearer 
to the former. In the government were included the 
Emiseni, or people of Hums (Emesa), so that we may 
regard it as comprising the Orontes valley from the 
Jebel Erbavn, at least as high as the Balir el-Ivades, or 
Baheiret-Il urns, the lake of Hums. Only two governors 
are known — Sampsiceramus. and Jamblichus, his son 
(Strabo, xvi. 2, 10). Probably this principality was 
one of the first absorbed. ((/.) Abilene, so called from 
its capital Abila, was a “ tetrarehv.” It was situated to 
the east of Antilibanus, on the route between Baalbek 
and Damascus (I tin. A nt.). Ruins and inscriptions mark 
the site of the capital (Kobinson, Bibl. Res. iii. 479-482). 
which was at the village called el-Suk, on the river 
Barada, just where it breaks forth from the mountains. 
The limits of the territory are uncertain. We first hear 
of this tetrarchy in Luke’s gospel (iii, 1), where it is said 
to have been in the possession of a certain Lysanias at 
the commencement of John’s ministry, which was prob- 
ably A.D. 25. Of this Lysanias nothing more is known ; 
he certainly cannot be the Lysanias who once held Chal- 
cis, since that Lysanias died above sixty years previous- 


SYRIA 


102 


SYRIA 


lv. Thirteen years after the date mentioned by Luke 
(A.D. 38), the heir of Caligula bestowed “the tetrarchy 
of Lysanias,” by which Abilene is no doubt intended, on 
the elder Agrippa (Josephus, Ant. xviii, 6, 10), and four 
years later Claudius confirmed the same prince in the 
possession of the “Abila of Lysanias” (ibid, xix, 5, 1). 
Finally, in A.D. 53, Claudius, among other grants, con- 
ferred on the younger Agrippa "Abila, which had been 
the tetrarchy of Lysanias” (ibid, xx, 7, 1). Abila was 
taken by Placid ns, one of the generals of Vespasian, in 
B.C. 09 (Josephus, War, iv, 7, 0), and thenceforth was 
annexed to Syria, (c.) Palmyra appears to have occu- 
pied a different position from the rest of the Syrian 
principalities. It was in no sense dependent upon Pome 
(Pliny, II. A. v. 25), but, relying on its position, claimed 
and exercised the right of self-government from the 
breaking-up of the Syrian kingdom to the reign of 
Trajan. Antony made an attempt against it in B.C. 41, 
but failed. It was not till Trajan’s successes against the 
Parthians, between A.D. 114 and A.D. 1 10, that Palmyra 
was added to the empire, (f.) Damascus is the last of 
the principalities which it is necessary to notice here. 
It appears to have been left by Ponipcy in the hands of 
an Arabian prince, Aretas, who, however, was to pay a 
tribute for it, and to allow the Pomans to occupy it at 
their pleasure with a garrison (Josephus, A nt. xiv, 4, 5 ; 
5, 1 ; 11, 7). This state of things continued most likely 
to the settlement of the empire by Augustus, when 
Damascus was attached to the province of Syria. Dur- 
ing the rest of Augustus’s reign, and during the entire 
reign of Tiberius, this arrangement was in force; but it 
seems probable that Caligula, on his accession, separated 
Damascus from Syria and gave it to another Aretas, who 
was king of Petra, and a relation (son?) of the former. 
See Aretas. Hence the fact noted by Paul (2 Cor. xi, 
32), that at the time of his conversion Damascus was 
held by an “ethnareh of king Aretas.” The semi-inde- 
pendence of Damascus is thought to have continued 
through the reigns of Caligula and Claudius (from 
A.D. 37 to A.D. 54), but to have come to an end under 
Nero, when the district was probably reattached to 
Syria. 

The list of the governors of Syria, from its conquest 
by the Pomans to the destruction of Jerusalem, has been 
made out with a near approach to accuracy, and is as 
shown in the adjoining table. 

The general history of Syria during this period may 
be summed up in a few words. Down to the battle of 
Pharsalia, Syria was fairly tranquil, the only troubles 
being with the Arabs, who occasionally attacked the 
eastern frontier. The Homan governors labored hard 
to raise the condition of the province, taking great 
pains to restore the cities, which had gone to decay un- 
der the later Seleuehhe. Gabinins, proconsul in the 
years B.C. 50 and 55, made himself particularly con- 
spicuous in works of this kind. After Pharsalia (B.C. 
40) the troubles of Syria were renewed. Julius Ciesar 
gave the province to his relative Sextus in B.C. 47 ; but 
Pompev’s party was still so strong in the East that in 
the next year one of his adherents, Cieeilius Bassus, put 
Sextus to death, and established himself in the govern- 
ment so firmly that he was able to resist for three years 
three proconsuls appointed by the Senate to dispossess 
him, and only finally yielded upon terms which he 
himself offered to his antagonists. Many of the petty 
princes of Syria sided with him, and some of the no- 
madic Arabs took his pay and fought under his banner 
(Strabo, xvi, 2, 10). Bassus had but just made bis 
submission, when, upon the assassination of Caesar, Syria 
was disputed between Cassius and Dolabella, the friend 
of Antony, a dispute terminated by the suicide of Dola- 
bella, B.C. 43, at Laodicea, where he was besieged by 
Cassius. The next year Cassius left his province and 
went to Philippi, where, after the first unsuccessful en- 
gagement, he, too, committed suicide. Syria then fell to 
Antony, who appointed as his legate L. Decidius Saxa, 
in B.C. 41. The troubles of the empire now tempted 


the Parthians to seek a further extension of their do- 
minions at the expense of Home, and Pacorus, the crown- 
prince, son of Arsaces XIV, assisted by the Homan ref- 
ugee Labienus, overran Syria and Asia Minor, defeat- 
ing Antony’s generals, and threatening Home with the 
loss of all her Asiatic possessions (B.C. 40-39). Ven- 
tidius, however, in B.C. 38, defeated the Parthians, slew 
Pacorus. and recovered for Home her former boundary. 
A quiet time followed. From B.C. 38 to B.C. 31 Syria 
was governed peaceably by the legates of Antony, and, 
after his defeat at Aetium and death at Alexandria 
in that year, by those of Augustus. In B.C. 27 took 
place that formal division of the provinces between Au- 
gustus and the Senate from which the imperial admin- 
istrative system dates; and Syria, being from its ex- 
posed situation among the procinciie principis , continued 
to be ruled by legates, who were of consular rank ( con - 
su lares), and bore severally the full title of “ Legatus 
August i pro prnetore.” During the whole of this period 
the province enlarged or contracted its limits according 
as it pleased the reigning emperor to bestow tracts of 
land on the native princes, or to resume them and place 
them under his legate. Judaea, when attached in this 
way to Syria, occupied a peculiar position. Partly, per- 
haps, on account of its remoteness from the Syrian cap- 
ital, Antioch, partly, no doubt, because of the peculiar 
character of its people, it was thought best to make it, 
in a certain sense, a separate government. A special 
procurator was therefore appointed to rule it, who was 
subordinate to the governor of Syria, but within his 
own province had the power of a legatus. See Jud.ea. 
Syria continued without serious disturbance from the 
expulsion of the Parthians (B.C. 38) to the breaking- 
out of the Jewish war (A.D. GO). In B.C. 19 it was 
visited by Augustus, anil in A.D. IS- 19 by Gcrmani- 
cus, who died at Antioch in the last-named year. In 
A.D. 44-47 it was the scene of a severe famine. See 
Agar us. 


Table of the Homan Governors of Syria. 


Titles of Office. 


Date of 
Entering 
Office. 


Date of 
Quitting 
Office. 


M. /Emilias Scmirus. . . . 

L. Marcias Philippas. . . 
Lentulns Marcelliuus. . . 

Gabinius 

Crnssns 

Cassias 

M. Calpurnins Bibulus. 
Sext. Julius Caesar 
Q. Caecilius Bassus 
(Q. Corniticins .... 

(L. Statius Marcus 
(Q. Mareius Crispus. . . 

t’. Cassius Longiuus 

;L. Decidius Saxa 

P. Ventidins Bassus 

jC. Sosius 

L. Munatius Plancns — 

L. Calpuruuis Bibulus... 

Q, . Didius 

M. Valerius Messalla 

Varro 

M. Vlpsanius Agrippa. . . 

M. Tullius 

M. Vipsanius Agrippa. . . 

M. Tit ins 

t’. Sentius Satnrniuus. . . 
P. Quintilius Varus 

P. Snlpieius Quiriinis 

Q. Cieeilius Metellus^ 
Cretieus Silanus — j* 

M. Calpurnius Piso 

Cu. Sentius Satnrniuus.. 
L. Pomponius Flnccus. . . 

|L. Vitellius 

P. Petmnius 

Vibius Marsus 

C. Cassius Longinus 

T. Numidius* Qnadratns. 

| Domitins Corbulo 

Cineiu^ 

C. Cestius Gallus 

P. Lieinins Miieianns 


(Quaestor pro) 
( Pnetore. ... J 

Proprietor 

Propraetor 

Proconsul 


Quaestor . . 
Proconsul. . 


Praetor. 


H 


received authority from the 
Senate to dispossess Bassus, 
but failed.) 


Proconsul 

B.C43 

B.C. 42 

Legatus 

11 41 

“ 40 

Legatus 

“ 40 

“ 38 

Legatus 

“ 38 

“ 35 

Legatus 

“ 35 

“ 32 

Legatus 

“ 31 

“ 3t 

Legatus 

“ 30 


Legatus 

“ 29 

“ 29 

Legatus 

“ 24 


Legatus 

“ 22 

“ 20 

Legatus 

“ 19(0 


Legatus 

“ 15 


Legatus 

“ H 

“ 7 

Legatus 

“ 7 

“ 3 

Legatus 

“ 3 

A.D. 5 

Legatus 

A.D. 5 


Legatus.. 


“ 17 

Legatus 

“ 17 

“ 19 

Prolegatus 

“ 19 


Proprietor 

“ 22 

“ 33 

Legatus 

“ 35 

“ 39 

Legatus 

k •}(> 

“ 42 

Legatus 

“ 42 

“ 4X 

Legatus 

“ 48 

“ 51 

Legatus 

“ 51 

“ 60 

Legatus 

“ 60 

“ 63 

Legatus 

“ 63 


Legatus 

“ 65 

“ 67 

Legatus 

“ 67 

“ 09 


* Called “ Vinidius” bv Tacitus. 


SYRIA 


103 


SYRIA 


5. A little earlier Christianity had begun to spread 
into it, partly by means of those who “were scattered” 
at the time of Stephen’s persecution (Acts xi, 10), part- 
ly by the exertions of Paul (Gal. i, 21). The Syrian 
Church soon grew to be one of the most flourishing 
(Acts xiii, 1 ; xv, 23, 35, 41, etc.). Here the name of 
“Christian” flrst arose — at the outset no doubt a gibe, 
but thenceforth a glory and a boast. Antioch, the cap- 
ital, became, as early probably as A.D. 44, the see of a 
bishop, and was soon recognised as a patriarchate. The 
Syrian Church is accused of laxity both in faith and 
morals (Newman, A rians, p. 10) ; but, if it must admit 
the disgrace of having given birth to Lucian and Paul 
of Samosata, it can claim, on the other hand, the glory 
of such names as Ignatius, Theophilus, Ephracm, and 
Babylas. It suffered many grievous persecutions with- 
out shrinking; and it helped to make that emphatic 
protest against worldliness and luxuriousness of living 
at which monasticism, according to its original concep- 
tion, must be considered to have aimed. The Syrian 
monks were among the most earnest and most self-de- 
nying; and the names of Hilarion and Simeon Stylites 
are enough to prove that a most important part was 
played by Syria in the ascetic movement of the 4th and 
5th centuries. 

6. The country remained under Roman and Byzan- 
tine rule till A.D. G34, when it was overrun by the Mo- 
hammedans under Khaled. Sixteen years later Da- 
mascus was made the capital of the Mohammedan em- 
pire. In the lltli century the Crusaders entered it, 
captured its principal cities, with the exception of Da- 
mascus, and retained possession of them about a hun- 
dred years. Por more than two centuries after the ex- 
pulsion of the Crusaders, Syria was the theatre of tierce 
contests between the warlike hordes of Tartary and the 
Mameluke rulers of Egypt. At length, in A.D. 1517, it 
was captured by the Turks under sultan Selim I, and 
became a portion of the Ottoman empire. 

In 1798 Bonaparte landed in Egypt with a powerful 
army, and, having subjected that country to the arms 
of France, marched into Syria, affecting the utmost re- 
spect for the Mohammedan doctrine and worship, and 
claiming a divine commission as regenerator of the 
East. He laid siege to Acre ; but, the Turkish garrison 
being animated bv the presence of 300 British sailors 
under sir Sidney Smith, at the expiration of sixty days 
the French general was compelled to retire, after the 
sacrifice of a large number of his most gallant soldiers. 
A powerful army of Turks, who had advanced from Da- 
mascus to raise the siege of Acre, were next attacked 
by Napoleon at the base of Mount Tabor, and routed 
with great slaughter, thousands being driven into the 
Jordan. Jaffa (Joppa) fell into his hands, and, con- 
trary to the usages of war, 1200 prisoners were shot or 
despatched with the bayonet. But the French cam- 
paign in Syria was of short duration. On June 15, 
1799, the army under Bonaparte arrived at Cairo, hav- 
ing traversed the Great Desert; and after the battle of 
Aboukir, in the following month, when 18,000 Turks 
perished on the field, the general deputed the command 
to Kleber, and sailed for France. 

Sjria remained under the Turks till 1830, when Mo- 
hammed Ali, pasha of Egypt, declaring war with his 
sovereign, the sultan, sent an army into Palestine, un- 
der the command of his son Ibrahim, which speedily 
captured Acre, Tripoli, Aleppo, and Damascus, and, de- 
feating the Turks in various battles, crossed the Taurus, 
and prepared to march on Constantinople itself. The 
sultan was obliged to invoke the aid of Russia against 
the conqueror of Syria; and 20,000 Russians, under 
count Orloff, hastily landed on the Asiatic territory, 
encamping between Ibrahim and the Bosphorus. The 
sultan then entered into negotiation with the Egyptian 
general, and solemnly confirmed to Mohammed Ali the 
viceroyalty of the whole territory from Adana, on the 
frontiers of Asia Minor, to the Nile. The Syrians soon 
discovered that their new masters were not a whit less 


rapacious than the Turks, and several insurrections took 
place in Mount Lebanon and various districts of Syria 
in 1834. The presence of Mohammed Ali himself, with 
large reinforcements, suppressed for a moment the spirit 
of disaffection, and in the following year the Druses 
and Christians of Lebanon were disarmed. Ground 
down, however, by the utmost tyranny, the Syrians 
again revolted in 1837; they were chastised by Ibra- 
him, and again reduced to subjection. In 1840, in con- 
sequence of a treaty between England, Russia, Austria, 
and Prussia, the seaport towns of Syria were bombarded 
by a British squadron ; and, the Egyptians being com- 
pelled to evacuate the whole of Syria, the supremacy of 
the Turks was once more established over the country, 
which they have ever since held. 

VII. Literature. — See, in general, Smith, Did. of 
Class. Geoff, s. v. ; M‘Cullough, Geofj. Did. s. v. On 
the geography, see Pocoeke, Description of the East , ii, 
88-209; Burckhardt, Travels in Syria and the Holy 
Land , p. 1-309; Robinson, Later Biblical Researches , p. 
419-625; Stanley, Sinai and Palestine, p. 403-414; Por- 
ter, Five Years in Damascus ; Ainsworth, Travels in 
the Track of the Ten Thousand, p. 57-70; Researches, 
etc., p. 290 sq.; Wortabet, The Syrians (Lond. 185G); 
Chesnev, Euphrates Expedition; Thomson, in the Bi- 
bliotheca Sacra, v ol. v; Burton and Drake, Unexplored 
Syria (Lond. 1872). On the history under the Seleu- 
cida?, see (besides the original sources) Clinton, Fasti 
Ilellenici, vol. iii, Appendix iii, p. 30S-34G ; Gardner, Se- 
lencid Coins (Lond. 1878); Vaillant, Imperium Seleuci- 
darum (Par. 1681); Frblich, Anncdes Rerum et Reyum 
Syria (Vien. 1744); and Flathe, Gesch. Macedon. (Leips. 
1834). On the history under the Romans, see Nori- 
sius, Cenotaphia Pisana, in Opp. iii, 424-531 ; Gibbon, 
Decline and Fall, etc. On the modern history and con- 
dition, see Castille, La Syrie sous Mehemet Ali; Bow- 
ring, Report on Syria; Ritter, Syrien und Paldst.; 
Murray and Biidekcr, Syria and Palest. 

SYRIA, Missions in. The origin of the Syrian mis- 
sion dates back as far as 1823. When the two American 
missionaries Bird and Goodell arrived in that year, the 
civil and the social condition of Jerusalem and Palestine 
were such that these gentlemen were advised to make 
Beirut the centre of their operations. Soon several 
English missionaries were added to the Protestant 
force at that time, and the papal Church became thor- 
oughly alarmed. Letters were addressed from Rome to 
the different patriarchs to render, if possible, the under- 
taking of the missionaries ineffectual. The letters were 
answered by the anathemas against the “Bible men;” 
yet, notwithstanding all this, the missionaries took a 
hopeful view of their prospects, and commenced schools 
in 1824 at Beirut. The first was a mere class of six 
Arab children, taught daily by the wives of the mis- 
sionaries. Soon an Arab teacher was engaged, and be- 
fore the year ended the pupils had increased to fifty. 
In 1827 they had already GOO children in thirteen 
schools, and more than 100 of these pupils were girls. 
That the Romish ecclesiastics were hostile to these 
schools need not be mentioned. The troubles which 
commenced in I82G with the invasion of the Greeks, 
and the constant apprehension of an approaching war, 
made it necessary to suspend the missiou for a time, 
which happened in the year 1828. and thus the first pe- 
riod in the Syrian mission closed. The second period 
commences with the year 1830, when the station at 
Beirut was resumed. In 1834 an Arabic press arrived 
at Beirut, which proved a great help in the mission- 
work, especially in the controversy which Air. Bird had 
with the papal bishop of Beirut. In 1835 a high-school 
was commenced, but missionary work was impeded by 
the wars of Lebanon. These troubles lasted till the 
year 1842. In the year 1844 the missionaries held a 
convention, the result of which was that it was recog- 
nised as a fact of fundamental importance that the peo- 
ple within the bounds of the mission were Arabs, wheth- 
er called Greeks, Greek Catholics, Druses, or Maronites, 


SYRIA 


104 


SYRIA 


and that the divers religious sects really constituted 
one race. It was also agreed upon that wherever small 
companies were ready to make a credible profession of 
piety, they were entitled to be recognised as churches, 
and had a right to such a native ministry as could be 
given them. About that time a call for preaching came 
from Hasbeiya, a village of four or five thousand inhab- 
itants, situated at the loot of Mount llermon, and about 
tiftv miles south-east of 1 lei rut. A considerable body 
of ilasbeiyans bad seceded from the Greek Church, de- 
clared themselves Protestants, and made a formal ap- 
plication to the mission for religious instruction. Sev- 
enty-six of these people were added to the Church of 
Christ. A persecution against the Protestants now en- 
sued, who fled to Abeih, where the high-school was re- 
vived under the charge of Mr. Calhoun. A chapel lor 
public worship was titted up, and here, as also at Beirut, 
there was preaching every Sabbath in the Arabic lan- 
guage, with an interesting Sabbath-school between the 
services. In the spring of the year 1845 war broke out 
afresh between the Druses and Maronites, and Lebanon 
was again purged by fire. The consequence was that 
the schools in the mountains were broken tip; but in 
the following year, when Dr. Van Dyck was ordained 
to the work of the Gospel ministry, there were ten 
schools in the charge of the station at Abeih, with 430 
pupils. Connected with the Beirut station were four 
schools for boys and girls, and one for girls alone. In 
Suk el-Glmrb, a village four miles from Abeih, a Prot- 
estant secession from the Greek Church was in progress, 
embracing fourteen families, and religious services were 
held with them every Sabbath. At Bhamdun, the 
summer residence for the brethren of the Beirut station, 
there were a number of decided Protestants, and even 
in Zaldeh, the hot-bed of fanaticism, there were men 
who openly argued from the Gospel against the pre- 
vailing errors. Missionary work had now so increased 
that in the year 1847 an earnest and eloquent appeal 
from the missionaries for an increase to their number 
was made to the Prudential Committee. The appeal 
was published, but it continued painfully true that the 
harvest was plenteous, while the laborers were few. In 
the same year the Protestants of Hasbeiya sent one of 
their number to Constantinople to la)' their grievances 
before the sultan. The appeal was successful, and the 
principle of tolerating and acknowledging the Protes- 
tants as a Christian sect was recognised, in spite of the 
bull of excommunication of the Greek patriarch. The 
most important event, however, in the year 1848 was 
the formation of a purely native Church at Beirut, and 
the beginning of translating the Scriptures into Arabic, 
which was committed to Mr. Eli Smith, who was assist- 
ed by Butrus el-Bistany and Nasif el-Vasiji. In the 
same year Aleppo was made a missionary station, but it 
was left in 1855 to be cultivated by the Armenian mis- 
sion, the language in that region being chiefly the Turk- 
ish. At that time the Gospel was preached statedly at 
sixteen places. At four of these — Beirut, Abeih, Sidon, 
and Hasbeiya — churches had been organized. The 
anathemas of the Maronite clergy, once so terrific, had 
lost their power, and the most influential inhabitants 
were on friendly terms with the mission, and in favor 
of education and good morals. Things had changed in 
the last fifteen years for the better in a most remarka- 
ble way. We have now arrived at the year 1857, which 
opened with the death of Dr. Eli Smith, the translator 
of the Bible into Arabic. He had departed at Beirut., 
Sabbath morning, Jan. 11, and was succeeded in the 
work of translation by Dr. Van Dyck, who had been re- 
moved for that purpose from Sidon to Beirut. In the 
year 1859 the translation of the New Test, was com- 
pleted and published under the care of Dr. Van Dyck, 
who then proceeded with the translation and publica- 
tion of the ( fid Test., whieh was completed Aug. 22, 
18(54. The British and Foreign Bible Society requested 
permission to adopt this version, instead of the one for- 
merly issued by them. The result of a friendly nego- 


tiation was that the American and the British and 
Foreign Bible Society agreed to publish the version 
conjointly from electrotype plates furnished by the for- 
mer. 

The civil war which broke out in Syria in 18(50, and 
which was noted for savage massacres on Lebanon, at 
Hasbeiya, Damascus, and elsewhere, although doubtless 
injurious to the missionary work in its direct effects, 
was the means of an interesting development of the 
missionary spirit. Not less than six different mission- 
ary societies were formed, embracing nearly all the 
Protestants of the various towns and villages, and a 
commendable degree of liberality was shown by the 
natives in collecting and contributing. The number of 
converts increased, churches and stations were multi- 
plied and provided with native preachers and pastors, 
and a proposal was made for a Protestant college. The 
demand for the Scriptures anil other religious works 
was so great that the press was unable to meet it. In 
I8G2 the printing alone amounted to 8000 volumes and 
9000 tracts, making an aggregate of 6,869,000 pages. 
Besides the Protestant college, which was proposed in 
1861 anil incorporated in 1863, in accordance with the 
laws of the state of New York, a theological seminary 
was commenced at Abeih in May. 1869, which opened 
with seven students. In the year 1870 the Syrian mis- 
sion was transferred from the American Board to the 
Presbyterian Board of Missions, under whose care it is 
still carried on. 

Beirut is one of the missionary centres for the revival 
of Bible Christianity in Bible lands. Among the chief 
instrumentalities for the development of this city are 
the benevolent and literary institutions founded by for- 
eign missionary zeal. First among them are the Amer- 
ican Protestant institutions under the care of the Pres- 
byterian Board of Foreign Missions in New York. They 
are manned bv a noble band of Christian scholars, as 
Drs. II. Jl. Jessup, D. Bliss, C. V. A. Van Dyck, G. E. 
Post, and Profs. James S. Dennis, E. L\ Lewis, and Hall. 
In the year 1877, when Dr. Philip Schalf visited Beirut, 
a new mission chapel, with a native pastor, had just 
been opened in the eastern part of the city. There are 
the American Female Seminary and the printing-press 
and Bible depository, which sent forth in 1876 no less 
than 38,450 volumes (or 13,786.980 pages) of Bibles, 
tracts, and other books, including a series of text-books 
and juvenile works. There is the “Syrian Protestant 
College,” which is independent of the mission, but grew 
out of it, and promotes its interest. In 1877 it num- 
bered over KH) pupils of different creeds and nationali- 
ties. The college embraces, besides the literary de- 
partment — Arabic language and literature, mathemat- 
ics, the natural sciences, the modern languages, and 
Turkish law and jurisprudence — a medical school, mi- 
ller the management of Dr. Post ; an observatory, un- 
der Dr. Van Dyck, who sends daily by telegraph me- 
teorological observations to the observatory of Constan- 
tinople; a library, and a museum of natural curiosities. 
The entire Syrian mission of the American Presbyte- 
rian Board embraces, according to the statistics of 1879, 
29 American missionaries (12 men and 17 women), 3 
native pastors, 112 teachers, 15 licensed preachers, 10 
other helpers — total force, 140; 12 churches, 71(5 com- 
municants, 115 received on profession, 66 preaching- 
places, anil 45 Sunday-schools with 1895 pupils. The 
principal stations outside of Beirut are Tripoli, Abeih, 
Sidon, and Zahleh. Besides these flourishing Presby- 
terian institutions, the schools of Mrs. 31. 3Iott. 3Iiss 
Jessie Taylor, and the deaconesses of Kaiserswerth de- 
serve most honorable mention. The Jesuits are also 
very active in Beirut in the interest of the Roman Cath- 
olic Church. They are just now issuing a new Arabic 
translation of the Bible, evidently in opposition to Dr. 
Van Dyck’s translation, which is widely circulated in 
the East. From Dr. SehafFs work, Through Bible 
Lands, we subjoin the following statistics concerning 
the 


105 


SYRIAC 


SYRIA 


Beirut Schools at tue Close of 1S77. 


Protestant Schools — American, | 

English, German, aud Native.. J 

Orthodox Greek 

Papal (United) Greek 

Maronite (Roman Catholic) 

Syriac 

Jewish 

Jesuit 

Sisters of Charity (Roman Catholic). 

Sisters of Nazareth 

Mohammedan 

Total 


[ Schools. ] 

.a 

NO. , 

C*F PUPILS. 


Girls. 

Total. 

30 

11(5 

761 

22S1 

3042 

15 

33 

928 

425 

1353 

3 

11 

227 


227 

10 

25 

S20 


S20 

1 

2 

SO 


SO 

3 

7 

125 


125 

14 

20 

1024 


1024 

4 

31 


iiio 

1110 

2 

IS 


340 

340 

11 

23 

*805 


S05 

03 


4770 

415G 

S92G 


Besides Beirut, we may mention Damascus, the hot- 
bed of Mohammedan fanaticism. A daily diligence con- 
nects this place with Beirut. “ It seems a hopeless task,” 
says Dr. Schaff, “to plant Protestant Christianity in such 
a place as Damascus. Nevertheless, the thing has been 
done, and not altogether without result.” Since 1813 
the United Presbyterian Church of America and the 
Presbyterian Church of Ireland have maintained jointly 
a mission, with a church for converts from Jews and 
Creek Christians, and with schools. The buildings were 
burned during the massacre of 1800, but have been sub- 
stantially rebuilt. The Protestant community there is 
now larger than before the massacre. Worship is con- 
ducted twice every Sunday in Arabic, and occasionally 
in English. Besides this Presbyterian mission, there is 
an Episcopal mission, with a chapel built by the London 
Society for Promoting Christianity among the Jews. 
Adjoining the chapel are several fine schoolrooms for 
bovs and girls. Altogether this society employs there 
a missionary staff of five persons. Connected with this 
society is also a depot, where Bibles and other books, 
such as the Pilgrim's Progress , are for sale. The mis- 
sionary operations at Damascus are but small begin- 
nings; but the time is not far distant when, as Abd-el- 
Kader prophesied, “ the mosques of Damascus will be 
turned into Christian churches.” 

From the work recently published by Dr. Schaff, 
Throvgh Bible Lands, we extract the following table. 

In conclusion, we will mention the fact that the last 
mission year has been signalized by the establishment 
of a British protectorate over Syria and all Asiatic Tur- 
key, and by a new departure in the Syrian Protestant 
College, in the adoption of the English language as the 
common medium of instruction. See Anderson, History 
of the Missions of the American Board of Commissioners 
for Foreign Missions to the Oriental Churches (Bos- 
ton, 1872-73, 2 vols.); Schaff, Throvgh Bible Lands 
(N. Y., 1879); besides the annual reports of the different 
societies. Some of the publications from the Jesuit press 
at Beirut are mentioned in Literarischer I/andiveiser , 
18G4, p. 209 sq. (B. P.) 

Among the most notable missionary efforts in Pales- 


tine are the German colonies at Haifa and Jaffa. They 
belong to a religious society known as “ The Temple,” 
which originated among the Pietists of Wiirtcmberg, 
who accept IJengel’s theory of the prophecies of the 
book of Revelation as set forth in his Gnomon of the 
F. T. In 1807 an expedition of twelve men, sent out 
from the parent society at lvirschenhardthof, establish- 
ed themselves at Semumeh, near Nazareth, but soon 
died of malarial fever. On Aug. G, 18G8, another com- 
pany set out, and, arriving in Palestine in October, sep- 
arated into two colonies, one settling at Haifa, under 
the presidency of G. D. llardegg, and the other at Jaffa, 
under Christopher Hoffmann. Their object was a re- 
ligious one, to prepare the Holy Land for Christ’s per- 
sonal coming in the Millennial reign. They purchased 
land, built houses, and have addressed themselves at 
once to agriculture. At Jalfa they have two settle- 
ments — one called Sarbva, about two and a half miles 
north of the town, consisting in 1872 of ten houses; the 
second, near the walls of Jaffa, was bought from the sur- 
viving members of an American colony which came to 
grief (for this last see Ridgawav, Lord's Land , p. 485), 
and tins settlement included thirteen houses, with a 
school and a hotel. The Jaffa colony in all numbered 
in 1872 one hundred men, seventy women, and thirty- 
five children ; two of the colonists were doctors, and 
some twenty were mechanics, the rest being farmers. 
The Haifa colony in 1875 numbered 311, having been 
lately reinforced by new arrivals from Germain*. Both 
colonies arc well established, having neat and comfort- 
able houses, and signs of external prosperity, being en- 
gaged in various trades and manufactures, as well as 
farming. They have little influence, however, over the 
native population and small security for permanence, 
although for the present fully tolerated by the Turkish 
authorities and highly respected by their neighbors 
(see Conder, Tent -Work in Palest, ii, 301 sq.). 

At Jaffa there has lately been likewise established an 
agricultural colony of Jews from Germany, who have a 
small but flourishing establishment just outside the 
city. 

Besides the episcopal mission in Jerusalem [see Pal- 
estine, Missions in], the Church of England has mis- 
sion stations at Nablus and various other points in Pal- 
estine, where religious services are held with more or 
less regularity. At Nazareth is an elegant Protestant 
church founded by the English Missionary Society in 
connection with the Anglo-Prussian bishopric of Jerusa- 
lem, where an ordained clergyman (formerly Rev. J. 
Zeller, now Rev. F. Bellamy) officiates, assisted by a na- 
tive catechist. In the same town is a hospital founded 
by the Edinburgh Medical Missionary Society, which 
dispenses medical aid to all applicants; and likewise an 
orphanage, established hy the Ladies’ Society for Pro- 
moting Female Education in the East, which educates 
and cares for about forty girls, chiefly of Christian pa- 
rentage. See Turkey. 


Statistics of General Protestant ani> Evangelical Work in Syria at the Close of 1S77. 


Names of Societies. 

c» 1 

Ijj 

Native 

1 Laborers. 

tl . 
.£ 2 

lir- 

!f« 

|| 

H 

Schools. 

Scholars. 

American Presbyterian Mission 

20 

135 

08 

2S38 

G19 

S3 

3,925 

103 

Syrian Protestant College 

G 

7 

1 

100 

4 

British Svrian Schools 


75 


27 

2,844 

624 

Church of Scotland Mission to the Jews 

2 

9 




o 

Miss Taylor’s Moslem Girls’ Schools 

1 

5 

1 

40 


2 

19G 

Native Protestant School (Eastern Quarter) 


2 

1 

GO 


1 

GO 

Lebanon Schools of the Free Church of Scotland 

3 

33 

4 

130 

’ 15 

23 

1,024 

345 

Anglo-American Friends’ Society (Quaker) 

1 

15 

o 

120 

12 

Society for Promoting Female Education in the East f 

(English) j 

Mrs. Watson’s School 

2 

2 



1 

G3 

1 

2 




1 

22 

Mr. T» Bist, any’s National College 

7 




1 

40 

ATr. Snleehy’s School .. 


5 

1 

20 


4 

110 

Prussian Deaconesses 

14 

7 

1 

250 

’ 21 

2 

203 

Church of England Mission lo the Jews (in Damascus).. 
Ghiireh Missionary Society (in the Ilanrfoi) 

2 

3 

1 




1 

4 

1 


4 

200 

Reformed Presbyterian Mission (Latakiali) 

s 

s 

2 

150 

50 

7 

400 

Total 

TT 

*319 

83 

3708 ; 705 

I 174 

10,159 


Missionary work has 
thus a foothold in Syr- 
ia, but owing to the 
severe Moslem laws 
against proselytism, it 
accomplishes as yet 
hut little direct spirit- 
ual results (see Collins, 
M iss. Enterprise in the 
Fast, Lend. 1873). 

Syr iaMa'achah 

(1 Chron.xix,6). See 
Maaciiaii. 

Syr'iac (Dan. ii, 
4), or Syrian Tongue 
(E zra iv, 7) or Lan- 
guage (2 Kings xviii, 
26 ; Isa. xxxvii, 1 1), is 
the rendering in the 


SYRIAC LANGUAGE 


100 


SYRIAC LANGUAGE 


A. V. of the Ifeb. Aramith. which is the fem. 

of *'*£** X, -l ranuean, used adverbially i. q. *1 ramaice, in 
Aramaic. See Aka.m.kan. 

Syriac Language. This represents the Western 
dialect of that branch of the Sliemitic or Syro-Arabian 
languages usually termed the Araimean (q. v.), the Kast- 
ern being represented bv the Chaldee (q. v.). The affin- 
ity between the Chaldee and Syriac is indeed so close 
that but for a few orthographical changes, and especial- 
ly the difference in written character, they would scarce- 
ly be distinguishable. In speech they could hardly have 
differed more than the several dialects of the Creek (e.g. 
the Doric, .Eolic, Attic) from each other. While the 
Chaldee is written in the square character, now usually 
called the Hebrew, the Syriac is written in a very dif- 
ferent and more cursive hand, and exhibits (in addition 
to the peculiar forms for final letters, as usual in all the 
Sliemitic group) a method of combining certain letters 
or running them together in writing, similar to the 

TABLE OF THE SYRIAC ALPHABET. 


NAME. 


FORM. 

I 

POWER. 

J 

HEBREW. 

ESTRAN- 

I MODERN 

Simple. 

Joined. 

Final. 


GE LO. 

Olapk 

1 

V 


Spirit us lenis 

S 


2. 

Beth 



vS 

B 

— 

3 

*3 

Gomal 


^ I 

"N. 

G 

3 



Dolatli 

? 

r 


D 


* 


He 

Cl 

1 


H 

n 


C7 

V I 

\ au" 

o 

. ! 


V 

3 


o 

i Zain 

1 

> 


z 

T 

\ 

? 

Clietli 

.*» 

A* 


German CH 

n 



Teth 



-i or 

T 


V 


Jud 


•A. 

or ^ 

Y 



V 

Copk 


2 

y or y* 

K 

| 3 


J 

Lomad 



\orV 

L 

b 

\ 

A 

Mini 

* 

la 

or 

M 

* ^ 


is 

^ Xun 

2 

X 

/* 

o 

A 

N 

j 

J 


Semcatli 

2 

XI 

^2 or ji 

S 


to 


Ee 

X 


^or 

Peculiar 

✓ 


A- 

Phe 

.9 

2 

^3 oi\a 

PH or P 

2 

Sk 

& 

Tsode 


o 


TS 

13 


X 

1 Kopli 


2 

— o or wa 

K 

P 


£ 7 

Risk 

b 

r 


R 

"i 

s 

• 

Skin 

-4, 

.4. 

-4*01* v-A. 

SH 

w 

a ( 


Tliau 

i ^ 

L*_ 


TH or T 

n 

V 



L c 


COMPOUND LETTERS. 


l^ = 

7 = 

bx 

Name. 

Form. 

Power. Greek. Hebrew. 

P 

r 

xb 

Petkocko 

or 

ci 

(C 


n 

bb 

Rebotso 

or •• 

a 

k 




Ckevotso 

or 

D 

c 




Zekopko 

p 

or ’ 

0 

0 

T 




Etsotso 

t* • 

or o 

u 

V 5) 


practice in Arabic. There are also two forms of the 
characters (which correspond precisely to the Hebrew 
in number and power) — the ordinary or light-stroke 
form now generally used in printing, and an older form 
called the Estrangelo, of heavier strokes and more un- 
couth shape. The vowel-points also (of which there 
are live, corresponding in general to the modern vowels 
a. e, i, o, and n, as pronounced in Italian) differ entirely 
from the Hebrew (and Chaldee), and, moreover, vary 
in these two methods of writing; with the ordinary let- 
ters they consist of modified forms of the Greek vowels 
(a, £, i, o, v), while in the Estrangelo they are denoted 
by two dots in various positions. Other orthographical 
peculiarities of the Syriac as compared with the He- 
brew and Chaldee* are the use of a small line {lima oc- 
cultans ) beneath silent letters, the suppression altogeth- 
er of the Sheva when silent, the disuse of the Dagesh 
(some writers, however, employing a dot above a Begad- 
Kephath letter, called Kushoi . i. e. “ hardness,” to re- 
move the aspiration, and a dot beneath it, called Rakok , 
i.e. “softness,” to retain 
the aspiration), and the 
indication of the plural 
(when identical in form 
with the singular) by 
two horizontal dots 
placed above it, called 
Ribbui , i. e. “ increase." 
For the leading differ- 
ences in the formation 
and construction of 
words in Syriac, which 
are throughout analo- 
gous with the Chaldee, 
see A r a m sE a n Lan- 
guage. 

The ancient or proper 
Syriac is believed to be 
now wholly a dead lan- 
guage, ami is used only 
in the old liturgies and 
sacred books. The mod- 
ern Syriac, which is used 
almost solely by the Nes- 
torian Christians of Per- 
sia, and to some extent 
by their Koordish neigh- 
bors, differs considerably 
from the old Syriac, or 
that of literature. The 
principal value of a 
knowledge of the latter 
is its use in the elucida- 
tion of rare words in the 
Old Test, and the com- 
parison with the Heb. 
roots; and it is also of 
much importance from 
the fact that the oldest 
and best version of the 
New Test, (the Peshito) 
is in this language. See 
Syriac Versions. The 
principal literature ofihe 
Syriac, besides this and 
the inferior version of the Old Test., consists 
of certain historical works of the Early and 
Middle Ages, particularly the writings of 
Ephrem Syrus (q. v.), and a number of re- 
ligions poems and hymns (see Select Hymns 
and Homilies [Loud. 1853], translated from 
the Syriac by Rev. II. Burgess). 

General treatises on the Syriac language 
and literature, many of them in connection 
with the Hebrew, but exclusive of those that 
treat likewise of the Chaldee, are by the fol- 
lowing: Lysius (Regiom. 1726), Michaelis 


SYRIAC LITERATURE 


107 


SYRIAC LITERATURE 


[J. B.] (Hal. 175G), Miehaelis [J. D.] (Gott. 17G8, etc.), 
Agrell (Upsal, 1791 ; Loml. 181G), Svanborg (Upsal, 
1795), Lengerke (Regiom. 183G), La r sow (Berol. 1841). 
See the Jour, of Sac. Lit. Oct. 18G2; an art. on the 
Syro- Arabian Languages and Literature, in the Christ. 
Lev. xvii,393 sq. ; on Syriac Biblical Literature, in the 
Church Rev. v, 3G sq. ; on Syriac Philology , in the Bibli- 
otk. Sacra, viii, 55-1 sq. ; and the list in Uhlemaun’s Syr. 
Grammar , p. 22 sq. 

Grammars on the Syriac, exclusively, are those of 
Dilherr (2d ed. Ilal. IG4G), Opitius (Lcips. 1G91), Lens- 
den (Ultrnj. 1G58), Beveridge (Loml. 1G58), Miehaelis 
[C. B.] (Hal. 1741), Miehaelis [J. I).] (Gott. 1784), Adler 
(Alton. 1784), Zel (Lemgo, 1788), Tyschen (Rost. 1793), 
Yates (Loml. 1821), Ewald (Erlang. 182G), Hoffmann, 
(Hal. 1827), Uhlemann (Berl. 1829 ; N. Y. 1855), Tull- 
berg (Loud. 1827), Phillips (2d ed. ibid. 1845), Cooper 
(ibid. 18G0), Merx (Halle, 18G7). A Grammar of the 
Modern Syriac Language, by Rev. D. T. Stoddard, is 
printed in the .four, of the Ainer . Oriental Society (N. Y. 
1855), vol. v, No. I. Lexicons have been executed by 
Gutbir (Hamb. 1GG7; new ed. by Henderson, Lond. 
183G) and Schaaf (Lngd. Bat. 1708); the abstract of 
the Syriac part of Castell’s IJeptaglot Lex. by Miehaelis 
[J. D.] (Gott. 1788); Smith, Thesaurus (Lond. 1858), 
pt. i. A new and extensive Syriac lexicon is in prepa- 
ration by Prof. Bernstein of Germany. Syriac chresto- 
mathies are those of Kirsch (Leips. 1789), Grimm (Lem- 
go, 1795), Knaes (Gott. 1807), Ilahn and Sieffert (Leips. 
1825), Oberleitner (Yien. 182G), Dopke (Gott. 1829), 
We nig (lnnsbr. 18G5),and ltodiger (2d ed. Halle, 18G8). 
The most convenient reading-book for beginners is the 
Syriac New Test., published by Bagster (Lond.), and 
containing a brief lexicon edited by Dr. Henderson. 
See Sueuitic Languages. 

Syriac Literature. The Syriac literature is pre- 
eminently religious. The oldest monument is the Syri- 
ac version of the Bible, called the Peshitka or Peshito, 
for which see Syriac Versions. Like the Jews, the 
Syrians treated their Bible in Masoretie manner, which 
may be seen from the superscriptions added to some 
books. Thus we read at the end of Job, X~rz cbv 
Mss x-srirs t rcr^x xpins srxn, i. e. 

“ Here ends the book of the just and noble Job; it con- 
tains 2553 verses.’’ The result of critical care for the 
Peshito is contained in a work speaking of the variety 
of single readings, of the correct reading of difficult 
words, and in which the pronunciation of proper names 
according to the Greek mode is taught. The title of 
this collection is Xrp^rr“J xm^pTI XDT: 

xmsnp XrPS^OT "pX xmmi,i. e. “Book of the 
names and readings of the Old and New Test, according 
to the Karkaphic recension.” The latter expression 
denotes that the work was prepared in the Jacobitic 
monastery Karkaph, which by a mistake lent the name 
and idea of a Karkaph ic or Karkaphensian recension 
(see Martin, Tradition Karkaphienne, ou. la M assure 
chez les Syriens [Paris, 1870]). After this, all notices 
concerning a Karkaphensian version which are found 
in the introductions to and cyclopaedias and diction- 
aries of the Bible must disappear once for all. The 
same French writer also called attention to the fact 
that, like the Jews, who have an Eastern and Western, 
a Babylonian and Palestinian, Masorah, so likewise we 
must distinguish between an Eastern and Western, a 
Nestorian and Jacobitian, Masorah among the Syrians; 
and this he laid down in his Syriens Orientaux et Occi - 
dentaux (ibid. 1872): “Essai sur les deux principaux 
dialectes Arame'ens:” to which we may add a third essay 
by the same author : llistoire de la Ponctuation ou de la 
Massore chez les Syriens (ibid. 1875). These three es- 
says are very important for the reading and understand- 
ing of the Syriac version. Passing over the other ver- 
sions, which will be treated in the art. Syriac Ver- 
sions, we must state that the deuterocanonical boolcs , 


which are not found in Lee’s edition of the reshito. 
were already translated before the 4th century, for 
Ephrem the Syrian already quotes them. Thus under 
the formula of ytypoTTrai lie cites Ecelus. Hi, G, 7,9, 12, 
13 ( Opp. Grace, i, 85) ; xi, 5 {ibid. p. 92); iv, 7 (ibid, p, 
101); with KaSibe; ytypa7rTai he quotes Wisd. iv, 7; 
viii, 1-17 (ibid. p. 241) ; iii, 1 ; iv, 15 (ibid. p. 25G) ; vii, 
1G (ibid, ii, 28); Ecclus. ii, 1 he introduces with coq y 
y pa<pi) <pi)<n (ibid, ii, 327), etc. In 18G1 Lagarde pub- 
lished the apocryphal books of the Old Test, under the 
title Libri Apocryphi V. T. Syriace ; Cerium, in his 
Monumenta Sacra et Prof ana, tom. i, published the 
apocalypse of Baruch and the epistle of Jeremiah ; in 
the 5th vol. the 4th book of Esdras; and in the 7th vol. 
(Mediol. 1874) he published the Wisdom of Solomon and 
Ecclesiasticus. 

The apocryphal literature of the New Test., as far as 
it has been published, is given by Renan, Fragments du 
Livre Gnostique intitule A pocal. d'Adum on Penitence ou 
Testament d'Adam, public d'apres deux versions Syr., 
in the Jour. As. se'r. v, tom. ii. p. 427 ; by Lagarde, in 
Didascalia Aposiolorvm Syriace (Lips. 1854); by Cu- 
re ton, in his Ancient Documents, and Lagarde’s Reliquiae 
Juris Eccles. A ntiquissinue Syriace . 185G ; by II. Cowper, 
in the Apocr. Gospels and other Docnmcnts, etc. (2d ed. 
Lond. 18G7) ; and by Wright, Contributions to the Ajwo- 
ryphal Literature of the New Test., collected and ed- 
ited from Syrian MSS. in the British Museum (ibid. 
1SG5). 

Between the translation of the Scriptures and the 
classic period of Syriac literature there existed a gap 
covering about three hundred years, which is now tilled 
through Cureton’s Ancient Syriac Documents relative 
to the Earliest Establishment of Christianity in Edessa 
(Lond. 18G4). Eusebius, in bis Church History, tells us 
that he translated the correspondence between Christ 
and king Abgar of Edessa, together with the narrative 
of the healing and conversion of that king by Thaddneus, 
one of the seventy disciples, from the archives of Edessa. 
A part of this report has been found in Nitrian MSS. of 
the 5th and Gth centuries, under the title The Doctrine 
of Adda i (lately published, with an English translation 
by Philipps, Lond: 187G). From this we learn that Ad- 
dai, one of the seventy, converted not only the king Ab- 
gar Ukkama, but also a great many of the people, and 
built churches in and about Edessa. Addai was suc- 
ceeded by Aggieus, who was murdered. Besides Ag- 
goens, a good many others suffered martyrdom, for which 
comp. Acta M artyrorum Orient, et Occident. (Ron). 1748, 
2 tomi, ed. Assemani). 

I. Orthodox Writers. — Towards the middle of the 4th 
century begins the golden cera of Syriac literature, and 
under this head we mention Jacob, bishop of Nisibis 
(q. v.). Although later MSS. contain something under 
his name, yet no genuine works are now extant. Con- 
temporary with Jacob was Aphraat or Farhad, sur- 
named the “ Persian sage,” the author of homilies writ- 
ten between 337 and 345, and published by Antonelli in 
the Armenian, with a Latin paraphrase, in 175G, but of 
late in the original Syriac by Wright (Lond. 18G9). 
Prof. Biekell translated eight of these homilies into 
German (in the Bibliothek der Kirchenvdter [Kemp- 
ten, 1874], No. 102, 103). On Aphraat see Sasse, Prole- 
gomena in Aphraatis Sapienfis Persce Sermones IIo?ni- 
leticos (Lips. 1878), and Sehonfelder, in the Titbinger 
theolog. Quart alschri ft, 1878, p. 195-25G. 

Of greater renown was Ephrem (q. v.), who died in 
A.D. 373, and whose writings were translated not only 
into Latin and Greek, but also into the Armenian, Cop- 
tic, Arabic, Abyssinian, and Slavonic. Besides Ephrem, 
we mention Gregory, abbot in Cyprus about 390, author 
of epistles; Balams, whose hymns are given by Over- 
beck in his S. Ephrcemi Syri, BabuUv, B<dcei aliorumque 
Opera Se/ecta (Oxford, 18G5); by Wenig, in his Schola 
Syriaca (Innsbruck, 18GG) ; and in a German translation 
by Biekell, in A usgewdhlte Gedichfe der syrischen Kir- 
chenvdter (Kempten, 1872). Bakeus’s contemporary. 


108 


SYRIAC LITERATURE 


SYRIAC LITERATURE 


was Cvrillonas, whose hymns were also translated by 
Bickell {lor. cit.). 

Towards the end of the 4th and beginning of the 5th 
century lived and wrote Maruthas, bishop of Tagrit, au- 
thor of a martyrology (printed in Assemani’s Bibliotheca ) 
and hymns. The canons of the Synod ofSeleueia (410) 
concerning Church discipline, and bearing his name and 
that of Isaac, bishop ofSeleueia, have been published 
after a Paris MS. by Lamy: Concilium Selene be et 
Ctesiphonti habitant anno 1 1 0, etl. vert, illustr. (Louvain, 
1869); Bahtda, bishop of Edessa (died 435), author of epis- 
tles, canons, and hymns, for which comp. Overbeck (loc. 
cit.) and Bickell. In the year 4G0 died Isaac the Great 
(q. v.), presbyter of Antioch. Ills hymns are translated 
by Zingerle, in the Tiibinger theolog. Qnartalschrift , 
1870, and bv Bickell, in the Kemptner Bibliothek tier 
Kirchenvdter , 1872, No. 44. The latter has also pub- 
lished N. Isaaci Antioeheni, Doctor is St/ r or tun, Opera 
omnia, ex omnibus , quotquot extant , Codicibus J lanu- 
script is cum curia lectione Syriaee Arabiceque primus 
edidit , I ai tine rertit, Prolegomenis et Glossario auxit 
(Giessen, 1873-77, 2 vols.); see also Zingerle, Monu- 
menta Syriaca ex Romanis Codicibus Collecta ((Eni- 
ponti. 1869), i. 13-20. Contemporary with Isaac was 
the monk Dada, who wrote about three hundred works 
on Biblical, homiletical, and hagiographical matter. 
About the same time lived Cosmas, the biographer of 
Simeon the Stylite (see Biblioth. Orient, and Acta 
M artyrorum Oriental.). Towards the end of the 5th 
and beginning of the Gth century lived Joshua the 
Stylite of Edessa, author of a chronicle covering the 
years 495-507, which has been edited by Martin, Chro- 
nique tie Josue le Stylite, ecrite vers ran 515. Texte 
et Traduction (Leips. 187G), and Jacob, bishop of Sartig 
(q. v.). In the work by Abbelus, De Vita et Scriptis 
S. Jacobi Batnarum Sarny i in Mesopotamia Episcopi 
(Louvain, 1SG7), three biographies of Sartig are given. 
More recent is Martin’s Eveque-Po'ete an Ye et au Vie 
Steeles, on Jacques de Sarong, sa Vie, son Temps , ses 
(Eurres, ses Croycmces, in the Revue des Sciences Ec - 
clesiastiques, Oct. and Nov. 187G, p. 309-352, 385- 
419. According to Martin, Sarug was a heretic, for he 
says. “Jacob was born, lived, and died in heresy; he 
loved everything which the Church condemned, and 
condemned everything that the Church loved at that 
time.” 1 1 is hymns Bickell published in a German 
translation in the J usgeirdhlte Gediehte syrischer Kir- 
chenvdter. Of Sarug’s writings, some were published 
in the Monument a Syriaca, i, 21-9G ; ii, 52-63; 7G-1GG; 
in Assemani’s Acta Martyr, ii, 230; Cureton, Ancient 
Documents , p. 86 sq. ; We nig, Schola Syr. p. 155; by 
Zingerle, in the Zeitschrift der deutsch. moryeiil. Gesellseh. 
1858, p. 115; 1859, p. 44; I860, p. G79; 1864, p. 751; 
1866, p. oil ; by the same author, six homilies were pub- 
lished at Bonn in 1867. Martin published in the Zeit- 
schrift tier deutsch. nwrgenl. Gesellseh. 1875, p. 107-137, 
Discours tie Jacques de Sarong sur la Chute des Idoles; 
and ibid. 1876, p. 217-275, Retires de Jacques de Sarong 
anx mains du Convent de Mar Bassus et d Paul d'Edesse , 
relevers et traduits; Dr. IL Schrbter, ibid. 1877, p. 360, 
the Consolatory Epistle to the Ilimyaritic Christians, in 
the original Syriac, with notes. In the Gth century also 
lived John Saha, a monk, a native of Nineveh, author 
(*f sermons and epistles, published in Greek (Leips. 
1770), and Isaac of Nineveh (q. v. ) (see M ointment a 
Syriaca, i, 97-101), author of an ascetic w'ork in seven 
hooks, and known in the Greek translation, made by 
Fabricius and Abraham, and given under the title Libri 
de Contemptu Mundi, in the 11th vol. of the Magna Bi- 
bliotheca Pat rum , where they are erroneously ascribed 
to Isaac of Antioch. With Isaac of Nineveh the list 
of orthodox writers is closed, and we come now to 
II. Heterodox IFnYers. — 1 . The Xestorians* — Without 
entering upon the history of these Christians, we will 
only remark that the catalogue of Ebedjesu on Nesto- 
rian writers was first published by Abraham Ecchellen- 
gis (Borne, 1653), but more correctly by Assemani in the 


3d vol. of his Biblioth. Orient. Besides, we find many 
literary and historical notices in Assemani’s catalogue 
of the Oriental MSS. of the Vatican Library, or in the 
Bibliothccte A postal. Vatic. Codicil m MSS. Catalogus 
S. E. et J. S. A ss. r teen suer unt Tom. II, compleetens 
Libras Cha/d. sire Syros (ibid. 1758), and in the Ap- 
pendix by Cardinal Alai, in the Catal. Codd. Bibl. Vatic. 
A rabb. etc., item ejus partis Ilebrr. et Syria rc. qutnn 
Assemani in editione prat tnnise runt (ibid. 1831). See 
Nestor ians. 

The earliest writers among the Nestorians were Bar- 
suma (q. v.), bishop of Nisibis and author of epistles; 
Narses (d. 496), surnamed “the Harp of the Spirit,” 
author of commentaries on the Old Test., three hundred 
and sixty orations, a liturgy, a treatise on the sacrament 
of baptism, another on evil morals, various interpreta- 
tions, paracletic sermons, and hymns (see Schbnlelder, 
Ilymnen , Proklamationen ?/. M artyreryesanye des Xe- 
storian Breviers, in the Tiibinger theolog. Qnartalschrift , 
1866, p. 177 sq.); Mar Abba (d. 552), who wrote a 
commentary on the Old Test, and a translation of the 
Old Test, from the Sept., the latter not extant; Abra- 
ham of Kashkar, author of epistles and a commentary 
on the dialectics of Aristotle; Paul of Nisibis, an exe- 
getical writer; Babiuus or Babi, surnamed “the Great,” 
archimandrite of Nisibis in 563, a voluminous writer 
and author of On the Incarnation , an exposition of the 
ascetical treatise of Evagrius of Pontns, a history of the 
Nestorians, hymns for worship through the circle of the 
year, an exposition of the sacred text, monastic rules, 
etc.; Iba, Kuma, and Proba, doctors of Edessa, who 
translated in the 5th century the commentaries of Theo- 
dore of Mopsuestia and the w ritings of Aristotle into 
Syriac; Hanana of Adiabene, an exegetical writer; 
Joseph the lluzite, a mystic; John Saba, author of 
epistles; John of Apamea, author of ascetical treatises. 
Famous as grammarians and lexicographers were H<>- 
nain Ibn-Ishak (d. 876), Bar-Ali (about 885), Bar-Bah- 
ltd (about 963), and Elias bar-Shinaja (d. 1049). 

Of the writers wdiose works w r ere published, at least 
in parts, we mention Jesujabh of Adiabene, patriarch 
about 660, and author of Da-IIuphok Chusobee, or On 
the Conversion or Change of Opinions, an exhortation to 
certain disciples, and a ritual ; Thomas Margensis, about 
the middle of the 9th century, author of a history of 
the monastery of Beth -Abe, published by Assemani; 
John bar-Abgora, patriarch about 900, and author of 
canons, Church questions, and decisions, in part given 
by Assemani ; George, metropolitan of Arbela and Mos- 
sul, author of an explanation of the liturgy, by Assemani; 
and Timothy II, patriarch about 1318, author of a trea- 
tise on the sacraments, also given by Assemani. The 
ethical work, The Book of the Bee, by Solomon, bishop 
of Bassora (about 1222), has lately been published with 
a Latin translation by Schdnfelder. Salomonis Ep. Bas- 
sorensis Liber Apis , Syriacum A rabicumqne textum 
Ratine rertit (Bamberg, 1866); George Varda, two of 
w'hose hymns are given in an English translation by 
Badger, in his The Xestorians and their Rituals (Loud. 
1852), ii, 51. 83, 95; Chamis bar-Kardache, w hose hymn 
on the incarnation is also given by Badger (loc. cit. p. 
39). The latest w riter among the Nestorians was Ebed- 
jesu (q. v.), metropolitan of Saba (d. 1318). 

After the 16th century, a great part of the Nestorians 
returned to the Church of Borne. From their midst a 
number of polemical writings in the Syriac language 
were published against the errors of their countrymen, 
as the Three Discourses on Faith , about the year 1600, 
by the archimandrite Adam (afterwards as bishop of 
Amida, called Timothy). These discourses are given 
by P. Strozza, in his De Doymatibus Chaldccorum Dis- 
pnt. (Bom. 1617), and in Synodalia Chaldtcorum (ibid.), 
where also the synodical letter of the patriarch Elias to 
Paul V. in a Latin translation, and the hymn of the pa- 
triarch Ebedjesu in honor of Pius IV, in the Syriac, is 
given. About 1700 the patriarch Joseph II wrote the 
Clear Mirror, parts of which are given by Assemani, and 


SYRIAC LITERATURE 


109 


SYRIAC LITERATURE 


in our days the Chalda?an priest Jos. Guriel published 
at Rome (1858) his Lectiones Dogmatt. de Divini J neat' - 
natione quas in Perside habebat. 

2. The M onophy sites. — Of this class of writers we 
mention John, bishop of Telia, whose canons were pub- 
lished by Lamy in De Syrorum Fide in Re Eucharistica , 
p. 62-97 (see also Land, Anecdota Syriaca , ii, 109, and 
Cod. J lus. Brit. add. 12,174, fol. 152) ; Paul, bishop of 
Callinicum, the first translator of Severus’s writings; 
Xenajas or Philoxenus (q. v.), bishop of Ilierapolis 
(Mabug), the author of a Jlible translation, commen- 
taries be Trinitaie et Incaniatione and De Uno ex Tri- 
nitate Incarnato et Passo (Jacob of Edessa calls Xenajas 
one of the four classic writers of Syria) ; Simeon, bishop 
of Betharsam (d. 525), author of epistles, given by Asse- 
mani in the Bibl. Orient, i, 346, 361 ; Peter of Callinicum 
(57S-591), author of polemical works and hymns (see 
Cod. J D/s. Brit. add. 14,591, p. 69) ; John of Ephesus j 
(q. v.), author of an ecclesiastical history; Jacob of 
Edessa (q. v.), author of a recension of the Syro-Hexa- 
plaric translation, fragments of which are given by Ce- 
riani in the 2d and 5th vols. of his Monumenta Sacra ; 
besides, he wrote commentaries and scholia on the Holy 
Scriptures (published by Philipps, Scholia on Passages 
of the Old Test. [Loud. 1864]), epistles (given in the 
Bibl. Orient, i, 479, and by Wright, in the Jour, of 
Sac. Lit. Jan. 1867), canons (given by Lagarde. in Re- 
liquite Jut'is Ecdes. Syr. p. 117, and by Lamy, in De 
Syroruui Fide in Re Eucliaristica , p. 98); his essay on 
the Shem Ilamtnephorash was published by Nestle in 
the ZeitschriJ't der deutsch. morgenf. Gesellschaft, 1878, iii, 
465 sq. ; he also introduced a more correct vocalization 
(see Martin, Jacques d'Edesse et les Voyelles Syriennes 
[Paris, 1870]); George, bishop of the Arabs, in the be- 
ginning of the 8th century (see Lagarde, Analecta , 
p. 108-134); Dionysius, patriarch of Telmachar, who, 
perusing the works of Eusebius, Socrates, and John of 
Ephesus, wrote annals from the Creation to A.l). 775, 
the first book of which was published by F. Tullberg, 
Dionysii Telmahhrensis (Upsala, 1850), lib. i; John of 
Dara (q. v.), author of four books on the resurrection 
of the body (extant), two books on the ecclesiastical 
and celestial hierarchies, four books on the priesthood, 
and a liturgy (see Zingerle, in the Tubinger theolog. 
Quart alschrift, 1867, p. 183-205; 1868, p.267-285; Mo- 
numenta Syriaca ex Rom. Collect a, i, 105 sq., and Over- 
beck, loc. cit. p. 409); Moses bar-Cephas (q. v.), author 
of a commentary on the Paradise (published by Masius 
in a Latin translation at Antwerp in 1569); besides, he 
wrote on the hexremeron, an exposition of the Old and 
New Test., tracts on the liturgy, and seven homilies: 
Masius’s Mosis Barceph. 3 Libri Comment, de Paradiso 
ad Ignat. Eat. redd, is also found in the Bibl. Patr. 
Lugdun. xvii,456; Dionysius bar-Calib (d. 117 1), com- 
mentator; of his commentaries only those on the four 
gospels are extant: he also wrote on the incarnation 
and sacraments (not extant), against certain heresies 
(not extant), and an oration and tracts on ordination, 
schism, and confession (extant); John of Mardin (d. 
1165) (see the Bibl. Orient, ii, 217 sq.) ; Jacob of Mai- 
perkin, author of a dogmatical work. The Book of 
Treasures, mentioned by Assemani, and an address to 
such as are to be ordained (given in part in a Latin 
translation by Denzinger in his Ritus Orientalium in 
A dministrandis Sacramm. [Wurzburg, 1863], ii, 106 sq.). 
The series of monophysitic writers is closed by a man 
who surpassed all his predecessors, namely, Gregory 
Abulfaraj bar-Ilebneus. As the literature given under 
the art. Abulfaraj (q. v.) is very deficient, and has of 
late greatly increased, we give it here by way of supple- 
ment. As a historian, Bar-IIebraeus proved himself in 
his chronicle, which is now complete in the edition by 
Abbelus and Lamy, Gregorii bar-IIebran Chronicon 
Ecclesiasticum quod e Codice Musei Britanmci Descrip- 
tum Conjuncta Opera Edulerunt, Latinitate Donarunt 
Annotationibusque Theologicis, llistoricis , Geographicis 
et Archceologicis Illustrarunt (Louvain, 1872, 1874, 1877, 


3 vols.) ; that part of the chronicle which treats of the 
crusade of king Richard I of England is given in the 
original with an English translation in the Syriac 
Reading Lessons, published by Bagster and Sons (Loud.). 
Of his dogmatical works, we mention Mcnorath Kudshi, 
i. e. “ the lamp of the sanctuary,” a body of theology ex- 
tant in Arabic, written in the Syrian character ; Koihobo 
Dazeljie, i. e. “ the book of rays,” a compendium of 
theology, extensively described by Assemani. He also 
wrote Kothobo da-Dubori, i. e. “the book of morals,” a 
compendium of ethics, chiefly deduced from the fathers 
and ascetical writers, and Kothobo da-Tunoye Muphre- 
goni, “ the book of pleasant narratives,” a collection of 
anecdotes, stories, and sentiments from Persian, Indian, 
Hebrew, Mohammedan, and Christian writers, in twen- 
ty chapters (see Adler, Brevis Lingua*, Syriacce Insti- 
tutio [Altona, 1784]). The ecclesiastical and civil law 
he treats in his Kothobo da-IJudoye, i. e. “the book of 
directions,” published in a Latin translation by Mai in 
the 10th vol. of his Scriptorum Yeterum Nova Collectio 
(Rom. 1838). 1 1 is A ntsar Ilozi, or “treasury of mys- 

teries” — his greatest exegetieal work — is a commentary 
on the Holy Scriptures, and has elicited many mono- 
graphs. Lnrsow’s intention to publish a new edition 
has not been realized. Of monographs, we mention the 
general Procemion and the Scholia on Job, in Kirsch 
Chrestom. Syr. (Leips. 1832, ed. Bernstein), p. 143, 186; 
Rhode, Abulpharagii Scholia in Psa.v et xviii (Breslau, 
1832) ; Winkler, Carmen Deborce cum Scholiis Barhe- 
breeanis (ibid. 1839); Tullberg, Scholia in Jesajam et in 
Psulmos Scholiorum Specimen {Praam, et Scholia in Psa. 
i, ii, xxii [Upsala, 1842J); Knobloch, Greg. B.II. Scholia 
in Psa. Ixviii, primvm ed. et ill. (Breslau, 1852); Konen 
and Wennberg, Greg. B. II. Scholia in Jerem. (Upsala, 
1852) ; id. Greg. B. II. Scholia in Psa. viii,xf, xli, l (Bres- 
lau, 1857, ed. R. S. F. Schrbter); id. Scholia in Gen. xlix, 
l ; Exod. xx xii-xxxiv ; Judg. v, in Zeitschrift der deutsch. 
morgenl. Gesellsch. xxi v, 495 sq. ; id. Scholia on Psa. iii, iv, 
vi, v ii, ix-xv, xxiii, liii (together with bar - Hebrieus’s 
i preface to the New Test, in the same review, xxix, 247- 
1 303); id. Greg. B. II. Scholia in Jobi i (Breslau, 1858, 
ed. Bernstein); Schwarz, Gregorii bar-Ebhraya in 
Evangelium Johannis Commentarms. E Thesauro Mys - 
teriorum Desumptum , edidit (Giitt. 1878); Klamroth, 
Gregorii Abulfaragii bar-Ebhraya in Actus Aposto- 
lorutn et Epistulas Catholicas Adnotationes. Syriace 
(ibid. 1878). lie was also not only distinguished as 
a poet and grammarian, but combined also both quali- 
! ties in that of a grammatical poet. His short gram- 
mar in metre was published by Bertbeau, Greg. B. II. 
Gramm. Lingua* Syr. in Metro Ephrvemeo (Gott. 1843), 
wdiile Martin published the Oeuvres Grammuticales 
d' Aboulfaradj (fit bar-IItbrteus (Paris, 1872, 2 vols.). 
Of his poems, Wollf published a Specimen Carminum pr. 
ed. vert. ill. (Lips. 1834), and Lengerke, A b. Carrnni. 
Syi'r. aliquot ailhuc inedita ed. vert. ill. ( Kbnigsberg, 
1836-38) ; but lately they have been published by A. 
Scebabi, Gregorii bar-IIebreei Carmina Correcta, ac ab 
eodeni Lexicon Adjunctum (Rom. 1877). See Moxo- 

PHYSITES. 

3. Monothelitic Writers . — The only writer who cer- 
tainly belonged to this sect was Thomas of Haran, 
bishop of Kapharlab, who in 1089 sent an apology of the 
monothelitic doctrine to the patriarch John of Antioch. 
But there is a controversy whether the patriarch of 
Antioch, John Maro, was a Catholic, monothelite, or a 
mystical person, and whether the Maronites were al- 
ready orthodox before the crusades. The writings 
which go under his name, the Metul Kohunotha, a 
treatise on the priesthood, and a commentary on the 
liturgy, are not his — the former belongs to John of 
Dara, the latter to Dionysius bar-Calib. But there is 
no reason to deny him the authorship of the treatise 
on the faith of the Church against the Monophysites 
and Nestorians, which is preserved in a MS. dated 1392, 
and written in Syriac with an Arabic translation, 

111. Translations . — The translations made from the 


SYRIAC LITERATURE 


110 


SYRIAC LITERATURE 


Creek into Syriac are very numerous, especially of the 
writings of the apostolic fathers. The Syrians had 
both epistles of Clement of Rome to the Corinthians 
(sec Lagarde, Clementis Romani Recogmtiones Syriace 
[Lips. 1861]; id. Clementina [ibid. 1865]; Funk, Die 
syrische Uebersetzung der Clemensbriefe , in the Theolog. 
Quarta/schrift , 1877, p. 477 ; and llilgenfeld, Die Brief e 
des romisehen Clemens und Hire syj'ische Uebersetzung, in 
the Zeitschrift fur wissensch . Theol. 1877, xx, pt. 4). 
On the seven epistles of Ignatius of Antioch, see, as for 
the controversy, the art. Ignatius of Antiouii, and 
add Lipsius, Ueber das Verhaltniss der 3 syr. Brief e 
des Ignatius zit den iibrigen Recenss. der iynut. Literutnr 
(ibid. 1859), and Merx, Melitemata Ignatiami (Breslau, 
1801). 

A somewhat peculiar work is the Gnomology men- 
tioned by Origen, and ascribed to Sixtus I (in the be- 
ginning of the 2d century)* published in Latin by Ilil- 
lesemius in 1574 and by Sibcr in 1725. Lagarde has 
published it in the Syriac according to Nitrian MSS. in 
his Analecta. Very important also are the contribu- 
tions of the Syrian Church to the apologetic literature 
of the 2d century. In Curcton’s Spieilegium we find an 
oration of Melito of Sardes, written about A.D. 1G0 to 
Marc Aurel, in which he tries to show the folly of 
polytheism and seeks to gain him for the Christian 
faith. A German translation of this oration was made 
by Wette, in the Tiibinger Quart alsch rift, 1862. Besides 
this oration, Cureton also gives some fragments from 
Melito’s writings on the body and soul, on the cross and 
faith. In the same Spieilegium we find another apolo- 
getic work, which is otherwise mentioned as the “ora- 
tion to the Greeks” by Justin. The Syrian text as- 
cribes it to Ambrose, a Greek. Fragments of a Syrian 
translation of Irena?us are given by Fitra in the Spicilc- 
gium Solesmense (Paris, 1852), i, 3, 6. 

The Nitrian MSS. also contain much material per- 
taining to the works of Ilippolytus, the author of the 
Philosophumena. Lagarde, who published a Greek edi- 
tion of Ilippolytus (JJippolyti Romani qiue feruntur 
omnia Grace [Lips. 1858]), has collected the Syrian 
fragments in his Analecta, p. 79-91 ; and in his Aq)pen- 
dix ad Analecta sua Syriaca (ibid. 1858), he gives 
Arabic fragments of Hippolvtus’s commentary on the 
Apocalypse. As for the Syriac fragments, they contain 
an extract of Ilippolytus’s commentary on Daniel. 
Chapters viii and xi he refers to Persia, Alexander, and 
Antiochus Epiphanes; the four kingdoms (ch. ii and 
vii) are the Babylonian, Persian, Macedonian, and Ro- 
man; the ten horns (ch. vii) he refers to ten kingdoms 
growing out of the Roman empire, three of which — 
Egypt, Ethiopia, and Libya— will be annihilated by the 
antichrist. Besides the commentary on Daniel, these 
fragments also contain a scholium on the authors, di- 
vision, collection, and order of the Psalms, fragments of 
a commentary on the Song of Songs, also fragments of 
a treatise on the resurrection (in which the deacon 
Nicolaus is designated as the author of the Nicolaitans) 
addressed to the empress INI ammrea, on the Passover, the 
four animals by Ezekiel, and the genealogy of Jesus 
Christ. 

In Lagarde’s Reliquim Juris Eccles. A ntiqnissimee 
Syriace (Lips. 1856), we also have the minutes of the 
Carthagenian Synod of 256, together with Cyprian’s 
epistles and the Epistola Canonica of Peter of Alexan- 
dria in the Syrian version, while the Analecta by the 
same author contain Syriac writings and fragments of 
Gregory Thaumatnrgus. A fragment of an epistle of 
pope Felix 1 to Maximus of Alexandria is contained in 
lingerie’s Monumenta Syriaca. This much for the ante- 
Nicene period.. As to the post-Xieene period, we men- 
tion two works of Harris Cowper, Analecta Niceena 
(Loud. 1857), fragments relating to the Council of Nice, 
and Syriac Miscellanies (ibid. 1861), or extracts re- 
lating to the first and second general councils, and va- 
rious quotations. In these two works we have Constan- 
tine’s invitatory address to the bishops of the Nicene 


Council, his decree against Arius, and the episcopal sig- 
natures to councils of the 4th century. 

A great favorite with the Syrian translators was 
Eusebius of Ctesarea, whose ecclesiastical history is pre- 
served for the greatest part in London and St. Peters- 
burg MSS. of the 5th and 6th centuries. Specimens of 
the Syriac translation were given by Cureton in the 
Corpus Ignatianum , in the Spieilegium and Ancient 
Documents, while Wright is preparing a Syriac edition, 
who also edited and translated in the Jour, of Sac. 
Lit. July, Oct., 1866, a treatise On the Star , ascribed to 
Eusebius, and which is found in a IMS. of the 6th cen- 
tury. The Theopliany (§eo<paveia), long lost, was dis- 
covered by Tattam in a Nitrian monastery, and was 
edited, under the title Eusebius on the Thcophania or 
Divine Manifestation of Jesus Christ, by Lee (Lond. 

1842) , who also translated the same into English (ibid. 

1843) . The MS. is now in the British Museum, and 
Lee assigns it to A.D. 411. The Thcophania has the 
same object in view as the drroSu^ig ebayytXiKij, the 
Demonstrate Evangelica. It speaks in the frst book 
of the Logos, the mediator between God and the world, 
and the prototype of the divine ideas expressed in the 
Creation, refuting at the same time atheism, polythe- 
ism, pantheism, and materialism. The second book treats 
of the fall and sin, and of the necessity of a divine inter- 
vention for the conversion and sanctification of man- 
kind; the third speaks of the incarnation of the divine 
Logos, his redeeming death, resurrection, etc. ; the fourth 
speaks of the fulfilment of the prophecies of Christ con- 
cerning the extension of his kingdom, the destruction 
of Jerusalem, the Temple, etc.; the fifth book refutes 
the objections made to Christ’s miracles as being magi- 
cal humbug or invented by his disciples. 

Of greater import are the Festal Letters of Athana- 
sius, long lost in the Greek original, but found in a 
Nitrian MS., from which they were edited by Cureton 
in 1846, who also published an English translation in 
1848; another English translation is given by Burgess 
and Williams in the Library of the Fathers (Oxford, 
1854) ; they were translated into German and annotated 
by Larsow (Leips. 1852), while the original, with a Latin 
translation, is given by Mai in the Nova Patrum Bibli- 
otheca (Rom. 1853), vi, 1-168. 

Besides the writers already mentioned, wc must name 
Titus, bishop of Bostra, who wrote four books against 
the Maniehneans, imperfect in the Greek, but complete 
in the Syriac translation, and edited by Lagarde, Titi 
Bostreni contra M anicheeos Libri I V Syriace ( Berk 
1859) ; Cyril of Alexandria, whose commentary on Luke 
has been edited by Pavnc Smith, S. Cyrilli Alex. Ar- 
chiep. Commentarii in Lucie Evangdinm (Oxford, 1858). 
Of the translations of Gregory of Nvssa and Chrysostom 
only a few fragments have been published (see Zin- 
gerle, Monumenta Syriaca , i, 111, 117). The Physiolo - 
gus, erroneously ascribed to Basil, was published (1795) 
by Tvschen, Phgsiologus Syrus, sen Jlist. Ammulium 
xxxii in Sacra Scriptura Memoratorum. A part of 
the Paradise, an account of the acts and discourses of 
the most eminent Egyptian monks, erroneously ascribed 
to Palladius and Jerome, has been published by Diet- 
rich, Codd. Syriacorum Specimina , qua> ad I llustrandam 
Dogma t is ile Cacna Sacra , nec non Scriptures Syr. Ilisto- 
riam facerent (Marburg, 1855). 

After the 5th century the translations from Greek 
Church fathers gradually cease, because the Syrians 
from that time on either belong to the Nestorians or 
Monophysites. The Nestorians translated the writings 
of Diodorus and Theodore of Mopsucstia for excerpts 
from their writings (sec Lagarde, A nalecta'), while The- 
odore’s commentary on Genesis has lately been publish- 
ed by Sachau, Theodori Mopsuesteni Fragment a Syri- 
aca, edidit atque in Lat. senn. vertit, (Lips. 1869) ; the 
Monophysites translated Severus’s writings, whose hom- 
ilies were translated at the same time by Paul of Cal- 
linicum, and later by Jacob of Edessa. Four visitation 
discourses of Severus are translated into Latin from the 


SYRIAC LITERATURE 


111 


SYRIAC LITERATURE 


Syriac by Mai in Scriptt. Veterum, Nova Coll. ix,742 sq. 
Some fragments from Jacob’s translation of Severus’s 
homilies are published by Martin, who also published 
Jacob’s epistle to George, bishop of Sarug, concern- 
ing Syriac orthography (see Jacobi Episc. Edesseni 
Epistola ad Georgium Episc. Sarugemem de Ortho - 
graph ia Syriaca; subseqmintur ejusdem Jacobi necnon 
Thonue Diaconi Tractatus de Punctis aliaque Dock- 
menta in eundem materiam (Paris, 1809), to which 
must be added Phillips, A Letter by Mar Jacob on Syr- 
iac Orthography, also a Tract by the same author, and 
a Discourse by Gregorius bar-Hebr . on Syriac Accents 
(Loud. 1809), to which are added appendices. In fine, 
we mention the translation of the epistles of pope Julius 
I, which is given by Lagarde in his Analecta , p. 67-79, 
while the original Greek is contained in Mai’s SS. Vett. 
Nora Coll, vii, 105, and in the Appendix to Lagarde’s 
Titi Bostreni. Of translations from other languages be- 
sides the Greek, little is to be said, unless we mention 
the works into modern Syriac issued from the press at 
Urumiah, as the translation of the Bible, of Baxter’s 
Rest of the Saints, Btinyan’s Pilgrim's Progress , etc. 

IV. Liturgies . — The Syrian churches are rich in 
sacramental liturgies. The Eastern Syrians use a li- 
turgical form which has been transmitted to them by 
the apostles of Edessa and Seleucia, Addai and Maris, 
while the Western Syrians use the liturgy of James, 
which has become the basis for the liturgical service 
throughout the Orient. The works which treat on the 
Oriental liturgies are Assemani’s Codex Liturg. (Rom. 
1749-66); Renaudot, Liturgiarum Orientt. Cvllectio 
(Par. 1716); Daniel, Cod. Lit. (Lips. 1853), tom. iv; 
Neale, History of the Holy Eastern Church (Loud. 1850) ; 
Neale and Littledale, The Liturgies of SS. Mark, James, 
Clement , Chrysostom , and Basil , and the Church of M al- 
abar (2d ed. ibid. 1869), translated with introduction 
and appendices. 

The liturgical service ( Kurbono , “the oblation or ac- 
cess;” also Kudsho, “ the holy ritual”) of all the Syrian 
churches consists of two principal parts, the first being 
performed in the public congregation, composed alike 
of the faithful and the general hearers, but the second 
available only to the baptized, or believers. This latter 
part is called anaphora , or “the uplifting,” a term re- 
ferring both to the presentation of the eucharistic ma- 
terials on the altar and to the devotional elevation of 
the mind in the communicants. Of these anaphoras, 
a few are the productions of Syrian fathers; the rest 
are versions or adaptations from the Greek. The old- 
est anaphora is that of James, which is the basis of 
that great number of anaphoras which are used among 
the Jacobites and Maronites. The lesser liturgy of 
James is an abridgment of the former by Gregory bar- 
Ilebrjeus. This is used on comparatively private occa- 
sions, as baptisms and matrimony. To Peter, chief 
of the apostles, are ascribed the Jacobitic anaphoras, 
found by Renaudot and by Howard in his Chris- 
tians of St. Thomas and their Liturgies from Syriac 
MSS. (Oxf. and Lond. 1864). The Liturgy of the 
Twelve Apostles, compiled by Luke, is found by Re- 
naudot, Howard, Neale, and Littledale. There are also 
liturgies ascribed to John, Mark, Clement of Rome, 
Dionysius of Athens, Ignatius of Antioch, Matthew 
the pastor, Xystus and Julius (bishops of Rome), and 
Celestine, whose liturgy Wright published (The Lit- 
urgy of St. Celestine , Bishop of Rome) in the Jour, of 
Sac. Lit. April, 1867, p. 332. To orthodox Greek fa- 
thers are ascribed the anaphoras of Eustathius of An- 
tioch, Basil, Gregory of Nazianzum, Chrysostom, and 
Cyril of Alexandria. To orthodox Syrians are as- 
cribed the anaphoras of Maruthas, Jacob of Sarug, and 
Simeon the Persian. To Greek heretics belong the 
anaphoras of Severus of Antioch and Dioscurus of Al- 
exandria. 

All these anaphoras are either spurious or very dubi- 
ous, while those prepared by the bishops, especially the 
patriarchs of the Syrian Jacobites, have more historical 


foundation in their favor. Of such we mention Philox- 
enus, Jacob Bardauis, Thomas of Charchel, John of Bas- 
sora, Jacob of Edessa, Elcazar bar-Sabetha of Babylon 
(also called “Philoxenus of Bagdad” in the 9th cen- 
tury), Moses Bareoplin, John bar-Shushan (d. 1073), 
John of Haran and Mardin (d. 1165; in Catholic mis- 
sals erroneously called “Chrysostom”), Dionysius bar- 
Calib, the patriarchs Michael the Elder, John Scriba 
or the Lesser (towards the beginning of the 13th cen- 
tury), John lbn-Maadani (d. 1263), Gregory bar-1 le- 
brreus, Dioscorus of Kardii (at the end of the 13th cen- 
tury), and Ignatius Ibn-Wahib (d. 1332). 

All the anaphoras which we have mentioned are pub- 
lished either in the original or in a translation, but there 
are some which are extant only in IMS. or known from 
incidental quotations. Altogether there are about sixty 
anaphoras belonging to the family of Syro-Jacobitic lit- 
urgies. 

From the West- Syrian liturgies we come now to 
East-Syrians, who, as we have already stated, used a 
liturgical form transmitted to them from Addai and 
Maris, which is the Norma normans , while sometimes 
the anaphoras of Theodore of Mopsucstia and Nesto- 
rius is used. The latter was, according to Ebedjesti, 
translated by Thomas of Edessa and Marabba. The 
anaphoras of Narses, Barsumas, and Diodore of Tar- 
sus, mentioned by Ebedjesu, are lost. The liturgy of the 
apostles, together with the Gospels and Epistles, is found 
in Syriac in the Missale Chaldaicum ex Decreto S. 
Congreg. de Propaganda Fide editum (Rom. 1767); 
Ordo Chaldaicus Missal Beatorum app. juxta Ritinn 
Eccles. Malabar, (ibid. 1774) ; Ordo Chaldaicus Rituvm 
et Lectionum juxta Morem Eccl. Mai. (ibid. 1775); 
Tukhse we Kerjane da Chedata wa de A ttiketha akh 
Tekhsa Kaldaja de Malabar (ibid. 1844) (comp, also 
Renaudot, Neale, and Littledale [loc. «7.]). 

V. Ritual. — The main work on this subject is Den- 
zinger’s Ritus Orientalium , Coptorum , Syroy'um et Ar- 
menorum in Administrandis Sacramentis (Wurzburg, 
1863-64, 2 vols.), who collected his material from As- 
semani, Codex Liturg. Ecclesice Universes in XV libr. 
distribute (Rom. 1749-66), and perused that left by 
the late Renaudot, as well as the documents copied for 
that purpose bv Zingerle from MSS. at Rome. The 
ritual for “ baptism” among the Nestorians, said to be 
used by the apostles Addai and Maris, and fixed by 
Jesujab of Adiabene in the 7th century, is found in the 
Cod. Lit., by Badger in his Nestorians , and Denzinger. 
The Jacobites have many baptismal rituals, one of 
which is ascribed to James, the brother of the Lord ; 
while another, transmitted hy Christ to the apostles, 
and instituted by Severus, is, according to a Florentine 
MS., said to have been translated into Syriac by Jacob 
of Edessa (comp. Assemani, Bibliotheca Medicece , Lau - 
7'entiance et Palatince Codicum Manuscript. Orient. Cata- 
logus [Flor. 1742], p. 83). The same Severus is said to 
have prepared two other baptismal rituals ; besides, there 
is one by Philoxenus for cases of emergency. In three 
forms (for a boy, a girl, and many candidates) we have 
an order of baptism ascribed to Jacob of Edessa; an- 
other, called after St. Basil, is said to be of Melchitic 
origin, although the Jacobites use it. All these orders 
are found by Assemani and Denzinger. The Maronites 
also use the formuhe of the apostles James and Jacob of 
Edessa; besides, they have one by Jacob of Sarug, an 
anonymous one, and one named after St. Basil. The 
latter two are only found by Denzinger, the first also 
by Assemani. The distribution of t lie “encharist” is 
described in the liturgies. The “penitential rite” as 
prescribed by the Nestorian Jesujab of Adiabene, to- 
gether with that of the Jacobite Dionysius bar-Calib and 
other Jacobitic documents, are given by Denzinger, who 
also gives the Nestorian and Maronitic rite of “ordina- 
tion,” on which also see Lee, The Validity of the Holy 
Orders of the Church of England (Lond. 1869). The 
order for “matrimony" according to the Nestorian 
and Jacobitic rite is also given by Denzinger. The 


112 


SYRIAC LITERATURE 


SYRIAC LITERATURE 


sacrament of “extreme unction” has gradually disap- 
peared among the Nestorians, although there is no 
doubt that it existed at an early time, as may be seen 
from several allusions made to it by Ephrem (see also 
Cod. Vat. Syr. 119, p. 127-12*). !'he Jacobitie Onlo 
Lampadis (as this sacrament is called by the Western 
Syrians), Denzinger gives after Trombellii Tractatus 
III de Extrema Unctione (Bologna, 1776). In conclu- 
sion, we only add that the extensive Nestorian ritual 
for the burial of a priest is given in English by Bad- 
ger {loc. cit. ii, p. 282 sq.), and in the Officinm Ihfunc- 
torum. ad Csum Maronitarum Greyorii XIII Impensa 
Chaldaicis Characteribus Impression (Horn. 1585), we 
find the ritual for the dead, both clerical and lay. 

VI. The Breviary. — On this subject see, besides the 
breviaries, Badger {loc. cit. ii, 16-25), Dietrich {Com- 
mentatio de Psalterii Usu Publico et JJivisione in Ec- 
clesia Syriaca [Marburg, 1862]). and the art. Buev- 
i a k y in this Cyclopedia. The Nestorian oihee in its 
present form may be traced back to the 5th century. 
As early as the 5th century Theodul wrote on the mode 
of the recitation of the psalms in the office (q. v.). 
Narses wrote proclamations and hymns for the same, 
and Micha and Abraham of Bethrabban treat of the 
Katkismata (q. v.) of the nocturn. In the 6th century, 
Marabba instituted antiphons (canons) for all psalms, 
while Babams arranged the hymns for the days of the 
saints and other festivals. In the 7th centur}*, accord- 
ing to the testimony of Thomas Margensis, the Pro - 
prium de Tempore (ehudra) was arranged by Jesujab of 
Adiabene, which occasionally was altered by the inser- 
tion of new prayers and hymns, until it received its 
final revision about 1250 in the monastery of Deir 
Ellaitha at Mosul. 

For better understanding, it is necessary to know the 
division of the Psalter among the Nestorians, which 
almost corresponds to that of the Greek Church. The 
book of Psalms is divided into twenty hnllalas, to which 
is added as the twenty-first the song of Exod. xvi and 
Deut. xxxii. The lndlalas are again subdivided into 
fifty-seven (inclusive of Exod. xvi and Deut. xxxii, 
sixty) marmithas. Each marmitha is preceded by a 
prayer and succeeded by the Gloria Patri. Each psalm 
has* an antiphon (canon) after the first verse, which 
serves very often to impress the whole with a specific 
Christian character. The psalms thus arranged were 
printed at Mosul in 1866 and twice at Home, Psalter ium 
Chaldaicnm in Usum Xationis Chald. editum (1842), 
and Breviarium Chald. in Usum Nat. Chald. a Jos. 
Curie!, secundo editum (1865). As it is not the object 
of this article to give a description of the breviary, we 
here mention only, for such as are interested, Dietrich, 
Moryenyebete der alien Kircke des Orients fur die Fest- 
zeiten (Leips. 1*64); Takhsa de teshmeshatha itanjatha 
de jaumatha shechime ve da star re methida Kethaba 
dakdam vadebathar (Mosiil, 1866); Schonfelder, in the 
Tiibinyer Quartalschrift , 1866, p. 179 sq. 

The Western Syriac or Jacobitie office, with which 
the Maronitic corresponds for the greater part, is distin- 
guished not only from the Eastern Syriac, but also from 
all others, in not having the psalms as its main sub- 
stance. The Jacobitie office is found in Breviarium 
Feriale Syriacum SS. Ephnemi et Jacobi Syrorum 
juxta Pit inn ejusdem Xationis, quod incipit a Feria 1 1 
usque ad Sabbatum inclusive ; additis variis Ilymuis 
ac Benedict ionibus. Ah A than. Saphar Episcopo Mar- 
din (Horn. 1696). The Sunday office may be found in 
Officinm Feriale juxta Ritum Ecclesire Syrorum (ibid. 
1851). The office for the Passion week was published 
by Clod ius from a Leipsic MS. in 1720, Lituryice Syri- 
ac<e Septimanrr Passionis Bom. A r . I. Chr. excerptum 
e Cod. MS. Biblioth. Ups. ed. ac notis illustr. 

The Maronitic festival office is found in Officia Sanc- 
torum juxta Ritum Ecclesite Maronitarum (Bom. 1666, 
2 vols. fob), and in Breviarium Syriacum , Officinm Fe- 
riale juxt. Rit. Eccl. Syr. Moron. Innocentii X Pont. 
Max. Jussu Editum, I)enuo Typis Excusum (5th ed. 


ibid. 1863), with an appendix containing the Officium 
Defunctorum and other prayers. An edition of the of- 
fice was published on Mount Lebanon in 1855, Be shem 
abba va hern va ructia de Kudsha alaha sharira tabei- 
nan shechimetha akh ejada de it a de Maronaje. 

It may not be out of order to speak here of the Syrian 
Church lectionary. The MSS. of the Syriac New Test, 
are strangers to the modern division of the books into 
chapters and verses, instead of which they divide the 
several books (except the Apocalypse) into reading-les- 
sons of different lengths, but averaging about fifteen 
of our verses. Thus the first lesson (Matt, i, 1-17) is 
for the Sunday before Christmas; the second (ver. 18- 
25) is entitled the revelation to Joseph; the third (ii, 
1-12), vespers of Christmas; the fourth (ver. 13-18), 
matins of slaughter of the infants, etc. The four Gos- 
pels contain 248 lessons, of which seven are unappro- 
priated or serve for any day, and the remaining 241 
serve for 252 different occasions. The Acts and the 
Epistles (which are collectively called the Apostles) con- 
tain 242 lessons, of which twenty are unappropriated, 
and the remaining 222 serve for 241 occasions. On 
most of the occasions there was one lesson appointed 
from the Gospels, and one also from the Apostles. A 
tabular view of these lessons is given in the first appen- 
dix to Murdock’s New Test, from the Syriac Peshito ver- 
sion (N. Y. 1869). 

VII. Ilynmoloyy. — According to Hahn, the first bym- 
nologist of the Syrians was the celebrated Gnostic Bar- 
desanes, who fiourished in the second half of the 2d 
century. In this he is in some degree supported by 
Ephrem in his Fifty-third Homily ayainst Heretics (ii, 
553), where, although he does not actually assert that 
Bardesanes was the inventor of measures, yet he speaks 
of him in terms which show that he not only wrote 
hymns, but also imply that at least he revived and 
brought into fashion a taste for hymnology: 

“ For these things Bardesaues 
Uttered in his writings. 

He composed odes, 

And mingled them with music; 

He harmonized psalms 
And introduced measures — 

By measures and balances 
He divided words. 

He thus concealed for the simple 
The bitter with the sweet ; 

For the sickly do not prefer 
Food which is wholesome. 

He sought to imitate David, 

To adorn himself with his beauty 

So that he might be praised by the likeness. 

He therefore set in order 
Psalms one hundred and fifty, 

But he deserted the truth of David, 

And ouly imitated his numbers,” 

It is to be regretted that of the hymns of Bardesanes — 
which, it appears, in consequence of their high poetic 
merit, exercised an extensive influence over the relig- 
ious opinions of the age in which he lived, and gave so 
much strength and popularity to his Gnostic errors — a 
very few fragments only remain. These fragments are 
to be found scattered through the works of Ephrem. 
For Bardesanes, see the excellent monograph by llahn, 
Bardesanus Gnosticus Syrorum Primus Hymnoloyus 
(Lips. 1819), who makes the following beautiful re- 
mark: “Gnosticism itself is poetry; it is not therefore 
wonderful that among its votaries true poets should 
have been found. Tertullian mentions the psalms of 
Valentinus; and Marcus, his disciple, a contemporary 
of Bardesanes, inculcated his Gnosticism in a song, 
in which he introduced the yEons conversing” {loc. cit. 

p. 28). 

Harmonius, the son of Bardesanes, stands next in the 
history of this subject, both chronologically and for his 
successful cultivation of sacred poetry. He was edu- 
cated in the language and wisdom of Greece, and there 
can be no question that he would make his knowledge 
of the exquisite metrical compositions of that literature 
bear on the improvement of his own. This is said on 


SYRIAC LITERATURE 


113 


SYRIAC VERSIONS 


the presumption that the accounts of the ecclesiastical 
historians Sozomen ami Theodoret are credible. The 
former states, in his Life of Epht'cm, lib, iii, c. 10, 
that “Harmonius, the son of Rardesanes, having been 
well educated in Grecian literature, Avas the first who J 
subjected his native language to metres and musical 
laws (jrpioTov pirpoig Kal vopoiQ poixriKoig ti)v 7rd- 
rpior (pojj’ijv V 7 rayaytlv), and adapted it to choirs of 
singers, as the Syrians uoav commonly chant — not, in- 
deed, using the writings of Harmonius, but his num- 
bers (roig peXstn')} for, not being altogether free from 
his father’s heresy and the things which the Grecian 
philosophers boasted of concerning the soul, the body, 
and regeneration (7ra\iyyei'€crm£), having set these to 
music he mixed them with his own writings.” The 
notice of Theodoret is yet more brief. He says (lib. iv, 
c. 29): “And since Harmonius, the son of Rardesanes, 
had formerly composed certain songs, and, mingling his 
impiety with the sweetness of music, enticed his hear- 
ers and allured them to destruction, having taken from 
him metrical harmony (ri)v appoviciv tov pkXovg), 
Ephrem mixed godliness with it,” etc. This state- 
ment is not confirmed by Ephrem, who attributes to 
the father what the Greek historians ascribe to the son. 
Hahn admits, without any expressed hesitation, the 
testimony of the Greek historians, their mistake as to 
the invention of the metres excepted, and ingeniously 
traces to Harmonius certain features of the Syriac poetry 
( Ceber den Gesang in dei' syrischen Kirche , p. Gl). As- 
semani, in his Bibliotheca Oriental is, i, Gl , makes an in- 
cidental allusion to Harmonius, intimating that in the 
later transcriptions of Syriac literature his name and 
influence were acknowledged, since both he and his fa- 
ther, Rardesanes, are mentioned in MSS. as the inven- 
tors of metres. 

Until we come to Ephrem, there is one more name 
which has historical or traditionary importance in Syr- 
iac metrical literature — that is Ralaeus, or more proper- 
ly Ralai, who, as Hahn says ( Bardesanus , p. 47), “gave 
his name to the pentasyllable metre, because the ortho- 
dox Syrians entertained a horror of Rardesanes.” Re- 
fore Ephrem, according to the catalogue of Ebedjesu, 
lived Simeon, bishop of Seleueia, who suffered martyr- 
dom about the year 296. Two of his hymns are, ac- 
cording to Assemani, to be found in the sacred offices 
of the Chaldreans. The greatest of all hymn-writers 
whose works are extant, and whose hymns have been 
translated into German as well as into English (see 
Rurgess, Metrical Hymns and Homilies [Loud. 1853]), 
was Ephrem Syrus (q. v.) Resides these writers, the 
following are mentioned by Ebedjesu : Paulona, a dis- 
ciple of Ephrem; Marutha, bishop of JMaiphercata; 
Narses of Edessa, surnamed “the harp of the spirit,” 
who used the hexasyllabie metre; Jacob of Edessa; 
Rabi bar-Nisibone, about A. I). 720; Jacob, bishop of 
Chalatia, about A.D. 740; Shalita, bishop of Eashana, 
about A.D. 740; Saliba of Mesopotamia, about A.D. 
781; Chabib-Jesu bar-Nun of Rethabara, about A.D. 
820; Jesujahab bar-Malknn of Nisibis, about A.D. 1222; 
Chamisius bar-Kardaehi ; George Varda, about 1538; 
Simeon, bishop of Amiola, about 16 1 G ; and Gabriel 
Hesna. 

VIII. L iterature . — Assemani, Bibliotheca Orient . Cle- 
mentino-Vatic. (Rom. 1719-28, 3 vols. ; abridg. ed. by 
Pfeiffer, Erlangen, 1776, 2 vols.); Assemani [S. E. and 
J. S.], Bibliothecce ApostoL Vatic. Codic. M SS. Catal. 
(Rom. 1785 sq.) ; Mai, Catal. Codd . Bill. Vatic. Arab, 
etc., item ejus partis Hebr.et Syriaci giiarn Assemani in 
editione sua preetermiserunt (ibid. 1831); Rosen, Catcd. 
Codd. MSB 4 Orientalium qui in Museo Britannico as- 
servantur (Lond. 1838 sq.) ; Wiseman, Horce Syriacee 
(Rom. 1829); Wenrich, De A uctorum Grcec . Version- 
ibus et Commentariis Syriacis (Lips, 1842). Resides 
the works already mentioned in this article, see the 
article “Syrischc Sprache u. Literatur” in the Reyens - 
burger Allyemeine Real-Encyklop. ; Etheridge, The Syr- 
ian Churches and Gospels (Lond. 1846); Rickell, “Sv- 
X.— H 


risches fiir dentsehe Theologen” in the Liter. Hand - 
u'dser , No, 77, 78, 79, 80, 82, 86, 88, 91, 92; id. Conspec- 
tus Rei Syrorum Lit era rice Additis Notts Biblioyraphicis 
et Excerptis A necdotis (Minister, 1871); Hermann, Bi- 
bliotheca Orientalis et Linguistica (Halle, 1870); and 
Friederici, Bibliotheca Orientalis ( Lond. 1876, 1877, 
1878). (II. P.) 

Syriac Liturgy. See James, St., Liturgy of; 
Syriac Literature. 

Syriac Versions. The following account of the 
translations of the Holy Scriptures in the ancient Syr- 
iac language is chiefly based upon that found in Smith’s 
Diet, of the Bible. 

1. The Old Testament. — There are two Syriac transla- 
tions of this part of the Bible, one made directly from 
the original, and the other from an ancient Greek ver- 
sion. 

A. From the Ilebreic . — 1. Name. — In the early times 
of Syrian Christianity there was executed a version of 
the Old Test, from the original Hebrew, the use of 
which must have been as widely extended as was the 
Christian profession among that people. Ephrem the 
Syrian, in the latter half of the 4th century, gives abun- 
dant proof of its use in general by his countrymen. 
When he calls it “our version,” it does not appear to be 
in opposition to any other Syriac translation (for no 
other can be proved to have then existed), but in con- 
trast with the original 1 1 ebrew text, or with those in 
other languages (Ephrem, Opera Syr. i, 380, on ] Sam. 
xxiv, 4). At a later period this Syriac translation was 
designated Peshito, a term in Syriac which signifies 
simple or single , and which is thought by some to have 
been applied to this version to mark its freedom from 
glosses and allegorical modes of interpretation (lliiver- 
nick, Einleit. I, ii, 90). It is probable that this name was 
applied to the version after another had been formed 
from the Ilexaplar Greek text. (See below.) In the 
translation made from Origen’s revision of the Sept., 
the critical marks introduced by him were retained, and 
thus every page and every part was marked with aster- 
isks and obeli, from which the translation from the He- 
brew was free. It might, therefore, be but natural for 
a bare text to be thus designated, in contrast with the 
marks and the citations of the different Greek transla- 
tors found in the version from the Ilexaplar Greek. 

2. Bate. — This translation from the Hebrew has al- 
ways been the ecclesiastical version of the Syrians; 
and when it is remembered how in the 5th century 
dissensions and divisions were introduced into the Syr- 
ian churches, and Iioav from that time the Monophy- 
sites and those termed Nestorians have been in a state 
of unhealed opposition, it shows not only the antiquity 
of this version, but also the deep and abiding hold 
Avhieh it must have taken on the mind of the people, 
that this version Avas firmly held fast by both of these 
opposed parties, as Avell as by those A\ r ho adhere to the 
Greek Church, and by the Maronites. Its existence 
and use prior to their divisions is sufficiently proved by 
Ephrem alone. Rut how much older it is than that 
deacon of Edessa Ave have no evidence. From Bar-He- 
broeus (in the 13th century) Ave learn that there Avere 
three opinions as to its age; some saying that the ver- 
sion was made in the reigns of Solomon and Hiram; 
some that it was translated by Asa, the priest aaTio Avas 
sent by the king of Assyria to Samaria; and some that 
the version Avas made in the days of Addai the apostle 
and of Abgarus, king of Osrlioene (at Avhieh time, he 
adds, the Simple version of the NeAv Test, was also 
made) (Wiseman, Horce Syriacee , p. 90). The first of 
these opinions, of course, implies that the books Avritten 
before that time Avere then translated; indeed, a limi- 
tation of somewhat the same kind would apply to the 
second. The ground of the first opinion seems to haA'e 
been the belief that the Tyrian king Avas a convert to 
the profession of the true and revealed faith held by 
the Israelites; and that the possession of Holy Scripture 


m 


SYRIAC VERSIONS 


SYRIAC VERSIONS 


in the Syriac tongue (which they identified with his 
own) was a necessary consequence of this adoption of 
the true belief : this opinion is mentioned as having 
been held by some of the Syrians in the Oth century. 
The second opinion (which does not appear to have 
been cited from any Syriac writer prior to Bar-1 Iebr:e- 
us) seems to have some connection with the formation 
of the Samaritan version of the Pentateuch. As that 
version is in an Aramaean dialect, any one who sup- 
posed that it was made immediately after the mission 
of the priest from Assyria might say that it was then 
first that an Aramaean translation was executed; and 
this might afterwards, in a sort of indefinite manner, 
have been connected with what the Syrians themselves 
used. James of Edessa (in the latter half of the 7th 
century) had held the third of the opinions mentioned 
by Bar-IIebneus, who cites him in support of it, and 
accords with it. 

It is highly improbable that any part of the Syriac 
version is older than the advent of our Lord, those 
who placed it under Abgarus, king of Edessa, seem to 
have argued on the theory that the Syrian people 
then received Christianity; and thus they supposed 
that a version of the Scriptures was a necessary accom- 
paniment of such conversion. All that the account 
shows clearly is, then, that it was believed to belong to 
the earliest period of the Christian faith among them : 
an opinion with which all that we know on the subject 
accords well. Thus Ephrem, in the 4th century, not 
only shows that it was then current, but also gives the 
impression that this had even then been long the case. 
For in his commentaries he gives explanations of terms 
which were even then obscure. This might have been 
from age: if so, the version was made comparatively 
long before his days; or it might be from its having 
been in a dialect different from that to which he was ac- 
customed at Edessa. In this case, then, the translation 
was made in some other part of Syria; which would 
hardly have been done unless Christianity had at such 
a time been more diffused there than it was at Edessa. 
The dialect of that city is stated to have been the purest 
Syriac ; if, then, the version was made for that place, it 
would no doubt have been a monument of such pijrer 
dialect. Probably the origin of the Old Syriac version 
is to be compared with that of the Old Latin [see Vul- 
gate]; and it probably differed as much from the pol- 
ished language of Edessa as did the Old Latin, made in 
the African province, from the contemporary writers of 
Borne, such as Tacitus. Even though the traces of the 
origin of this version of the Old Test, be but few, yet it 
is of importance that they should be marked ; for the 
Old Syriac has the peculiar value of being the first ver- 
sion from the Hebrew original made for Christian use, 
and, indeed, the only translation of the kind before that 
of Jerome which was made subsequently to the time 
when Ephrem wrote. This Syriac commentator may 
have termed it “our version” in contrast with all others 
then current (for the Targums were hardly versions), 
which were merely reflections of the Greek and not of 
the Hebrew original. 

3. Origin.- — The proof that this version was made 
from the Hebrew is twofold: we have the direct state- 
ments of Ephrem, who compares it in places with the 
Hebrew, and speaks of this origin as a fact; and who 
is confirmed (if that were needful) by later Syrian 
writers; we find the same thing evident from the in- 
ternal examination of the version itself. Whatever in- 
ternal change or revision it may have received, the He- 
brew groundwork of the translation is unmistakable. 
Such indications of revision must be afterwards briefly 
specified. 

From Ephrem having mentioned translators of this 
version, it has been concluded that it was the work of 
several: a thing probable enough in itself, but which 
could hardly he proved from the occurrence of a casual 
phrase, nor yet from variations in the rendering of the 
same Hebrew word; such variations being found in al- 


most all translations, even when made by one person — 
that of Jerome, for instance; and which it would be al- 
most impossible to avoid, especially before the time 
when concordances and lexicons were at hand. Varia- 
tions in general phraseology give a far surer ground for 
supposing several translators. 

It has been much discussed whether this translation 
were a Jewish or a Christian work. Some, who have 
maintained that the translator was a Jew, have argued 
from his knowledge of Hebrew and his mode of render- 
ing. But these considerations prove nothing. Indeed, 
it might well be doubted if in that ago a Jew would 
have formed anything except a Chaldee Targum ; and 
thus diffuseness of paraphrase might be expected in- 
stead of closeness of translation. There need be no rea- 
sonable objection made to the opinion that it is a Chris- 
tian work. Indeed it is difficult to suppose that, before 
the diffusion of Christianity in Syria, the version could 
have been needed. 

4. History. — The first printed edition of this version 
was that which appeared in the Paris Polyglot of Le Jay 
in 1645; it is said that the editor, Gabriel Sionita, a Ma- 
ronite, had only an imperfect IMS., and that, besides er- 
rors. it was defective as to whole passages, and even as 
to entire books. This last charge seems to be so made 
as if it were to imply that books were omitted besides 
those of the Apocrypha, a part which Sionita confessed- 
ly had not. He is stated to have supplied t lie defi- 
ciencies by translating into Syriac from the Vulgate. 
It can hardly he snpposed but that there is some exag- 
geration in these statements. Sionita may have filled 
up occasional hiatus in his IMS.; but it requires very 
definite examination before we can fully credit that he 
thus supplied whole books. It seems needful to believe 
that the defective books were simply those in the Apoc- 
rypha, which he did not supply. The result, however, 
is, that the Paris edition is but an infirm groundwork 
for our speaking with confidence of the text of this ver- 
sion. 

In Walton’s Polyglot, 1657, the Paris text is reprint- 
ed, but with the addition of the apocryphal books which 
had been wanting. It was generally said that Walton 
had done much to amend the texts upon MS. author- 
ity ; but the late Prof. Lee denies this, stating that “ the 
only addition made by Walton was some apocryphal 
books, 15 From Walton’s Polyglot, Kirsch, in 1787, pub- 
lished a separate edition of the Pentateuch. Of the 
Syriac Psalter there have been many editions. The 
first of these, as mentioned by Eichhorn, appeared in 
1610; it has by the side an Arabic version. In 1625 
there were two editions; the one at Paris edited by Ga- 
briel Sionita, and one at Leyden by Erpenius from two 
MSS. These have since been repeated; but anterior to 
them all, it is mentioned that the seven penitential 
Psalms appeared at Borne in 1584. An English Trans- 
lation of the Psalms of David was made from the Pe- 
shito by A. Oliver (Bost. 1861). 

In the punctuation given in the Polyglots, a system 
was introduced which was in part a peculiarity of Ga- 
briel Sionita himself. This has to be borne in mind by 
those who use either the Paris Polyglot or that of Wal- 
ton ; for in many words there is a redundancy of vow- 
els, and the form of some is thus exceedingly changed. 

When the British and Foreign Bible Society proposed 
more than fifty years ago to issue the Syriac Old Test, 
for the first time in a separate volume, the late Prof. 
Lee was employed to make such editorial preparations 
as eould be connected with a mere revision of the text, 
without any specification of the authorities. l)r. Lee 
collated for the purpose six Syriac MSS. of the Old 
Test, in general, and a very ancient copy of the Penta- 
teuch ; he also used in part the commentaries of Ephrem 
and of Bar-Ilebneus (see the Class. Journal, 1821, p. 
245 sq.). From these various sources he constructed 
his text, with the aid of that found already in the Pol- 
yglots. Of course the corrections depended on the edi- 
tor’s own judgment; and the want of a specification of 


SYRIAC VERSIONS 


115 


SYRIAC VERSIONS 


the results of collations leaves the reader in doubt as 
to what the evidence may be in those places in which 
there is a departure from the Polyglot text. But 
though more information might be desired, we have in 
the edition of Lee (Loud. 1823) a veritable Syriac text, 
from Syriac authorities, and free from the suspicion of 
having been formed in modern times by Gabriel Sio- 
nita’s translating portions from the Latin. 

But we now have in the IMS. treasures brought from 
the Nitrinn valleys the means of far more accurately 
editing this version. Even if the results should not ap- 
pear to be striking, a thorough use of these MSS. would 
place this version on such a basis of diplomatic evi- 
dence as would show positively how this earliest Chris- 
tian translation from the Hebrew was read in the Gth 
or 7th century, or possibly still earlier: we could thus 
use the Syriac with a fuller degree of confidence in the 
criticism of the Hebrew text, just as we can’ the more 
ancient versions of the New Test, for the criticism of 
the Greek. 

In the beginning of 1849 the Rev. John Rogers, canon 
of Exeter, published Reasons why a New Edition of the 
Peschito, or Ancient Syriac Version of the Old Testa- 
ment , should be published . There was a strong hope ex- 
pressed soon after the issue of Canon Rogers’s appeal 
that the work would be formally placed in a proper 
manner in the bands of the Rev. Wm. Cureton, and 
thus be accomplished under his superintendence at the 
Oxford University press. Canon Rogers announced 
this in an Appendix to his pamphlet. This, however, 
has not been effected. 

The only tolerable lexicon for the Old.-Test. Peshito 
is Michaelis’s enlarged reprint of Castell (Gbtt. 1878, 
2 pts. 8vo), for Bernstein did not live to publish more 
than one part of his long-expected lexicon. See Syri- 
ac Language. 

5. Identity. — But, if the printed Syriac text rests on 
by no means a really satisfactory basis, it may be asked, 
How can it be said positively that what we have is 
the same version substantially that was used by Eph- 
rem in the 4th century? Happily, we have the same 
means of identifying the Syriac with that anciently 
used as we have of showing that the modern Latin 
Vulgate is substantially the version executed by Je- 
rome. We admit that the common printed Latin has 
suffered in varions ways, and yet at the bottom and in 
its general texture it is undoubtedly the work of Je- 
rome: so with the Peshito of the Old Test., whatever 
errors of judgment were committed by Gabriel Sionita, 
the first editor, and however little has been done by 
those who should have corrected these things on IMS. 
authority, the identity of the version is too certain for 
it to be thus destroyed, or even (it may be said) materi- 
ally obscured. 

From the citations of Ephrem, and the single words 
on which he makes remarks, we have sufficient proof 
of the identity of the version; even though at times 
he also furnishes proof that the copies as printed are 
not exactly as he read. (See the instances of accord- 
ance, mostly from the places given by Wiseman, Hor. 
Syr. p. 122, etc., in which Ephrem thinks it needful 
to explain a Syrian word in this version, or to discuss 
its meaning, either from its having become antiquated 
in his time, or from its being unused in the same sense 
by the Syrians of Edessa.) 

The proof that the version which has come down to 
us is substantially that used bv the Syrians in the 4th 
century is, perhaps, more definite from the comparison 
of words than it would have been from the comparison 
of passages of greater length; because in longer cita- 
tions there always might be some ground for thinking 
that perhaps the IMS. of Ephrem might have been 
conformed to later Syriac copies of the sacred text; 
while, with regard to peculiar words, no such sus- 
picion can have any place, since it is on such words 
still found in the Peshito that the remarks of Ephrem 
are based. The fact that he sometimes cites it differ- 


ently from what we now read only shows a variation 
of copies, perhaps ancient, or perhaps such as is found 
merely in the printed text that we have. 

6. Relations to other Texts. — It may be said that the 
Syriac in general supports the Hebrew text that we 
have: how far arguments may be raised upon minute 
coincidences or variations cannot be certainly known 
until the ancient text of the version is better establish- 
ed. Occasionally, however, it is clear that the Syriac 
translator read one consonant for another in the He- 
brew, and translated accordingly; at times another vo- 
calization of the Hebrew was followed. 

A resemblance has been pointed out between the 
Syriac and the reading of some of the Chaldee Tar- 
gums. If the Targum is the older, it is not unlikely 
that the Syriac translator, using every aid in his pow- 
er to obtain an accurate knowledge of what he was ren- 
dering, examined the Targums in difficult passages. 
This is not the place for formally discussing the date 
and origin of the Targums (q. v.); but if (as seems al- 
most certain) the Targums which have come down to 
us are almost without exception more recent than the 
Syriac version, still they are probably the successors of 
earlier Targums, which by amplification have reached 
their present shape. Thus, if existing Targums are 
more recent than the Syriac, it may happen that their 
coincidences arise from the use of a common source — 
ail earlier Targum. 

But there is another point of inquiry of more impor- 
tance : it is, how far has this version been affected by 
the Sept.? and to what are we to attribute this influ- 
ence? It is possible that the influence of the Sept, is 
partly to be ascribed to copyists and revisers; while, in 
part, this belonged to the version as originally made. 
For, if a translator had access to another version while 
occupied in making his own, he might consult it in 
cases of difficulty; and thus he might unconsciously 
follow it in other parts. Even knowing the words of 
a particular translation may affect the mode of ren- 
dering in another translation or revision. Thus a 
tinge from the Sept, may easily have existed in this 
version from the first, even though in whole books it 
may not be found at all. But when the extensive use 
of the Sept, is remembered, and how soon it was super- 
stitiously imagined to have been made by direct inspi- 
ration, so that it was deemed canonically authoritative, 
we cannot feel wonder that readings from the Sept, 
should have been, from time to time, introduced; this 
may have commenced probably before a Syriac version 
had been made from the Hexaplar Greek text; because 
in such revised text of the Sept, the additions, etc., in 
which that version differed from the Hebrew would be 
so marked that they would hardly seem to be the au- 
thoritative and genuine text. (See the article follow- 
ing-) 

Some comparison with the Greek is probable even 
before the time of Ephrem ; for, as to the apocryphal 
books, while he cites some of them (though not as 
Scripture), the apocryphal additions to Daniel and the 
books of Maccabees were not yet found in Syriac. 
Whoever translated any of these books from the Greek 
may easily have also compared with it in some places 
the books previously translated from the Hebrew. 

7. Recensions. — In the book of Psalms this version 
exhibits many peculiarities. Either the translation of 
the Psalter must be a work independent of the Peshito 
in general, or else it has been strangely revised and al- 
tered, not only from the Greek, but also from liturgical 
use. Perhaps, indeed, the Psalms are a different ver- 
sion; and that in this respect the practice of the Syrian 
churches is like that of the Roman Catholic Church 
and the Church of England in using liturgicallv a 
different version of the book so much read ecclesiasti- 
cally. 

It is stated that, after the divisions of the Syrian 
Church, there were revisions of this one version by the 
Monophysites and by the Nestorians; probably it would 


SYRIAC VERSIONS 


116 


SYRIAC VERSIONS 


be found, if the subject could be fully investigated, that 
there were in the hands of different parties copies in 
which the ordinary accidents of transcription had in- 
troduced variations. 

The Karkaphensian recension mentioned by Bar-lle- 
bra?us was only known by name prior to the investiga- 
tions of Wiseman ; it is found in two MSS. in the Vat- 
ican. In this recension Job cornes before Samuel; and 
immediately after Isaiah the minor prophets. The 
Proverbs succeed Daniel. The arrangement in the 
New Test, is quite as singular. It begins with the 
Acts of the Apostles and ends with the four Gospels; 
while the epistles of James, Peter, and John come be- 
fore the fourteen letters of Paul. This recension pro- 
ceeded from the Monophysites. According to Assema- 
ni and Wiseman, the name signifies mountainous , be- 
cause it originated with those living about Mount Sa- 
gara, where there was a monastery of Jacobite Syrians, 
or simply because it was used by them. There is a pe- 
culiarity in the punctuation introduced bv a leaning 
towards the Greek; but it is, as to its substance, the 
Peshito version. 

B. The Syriac Versionfrom the Hexaplar Greek Text. 
— 1. Origin and Character. — The only Syriac version of 
the Old Test, up to the Oth century was apparently the 
Peshito as above. The first definite intimation of a 
portion of the Old Test, translated from the Greek is 
through Moses Aghelaeus, This Syriac writer lived 
in the middle of the 6th century, lie made a transla- 
tion of the Glaphyra of Cyril of Alexandria from Greek 
into Syriac; and, in the prefixed epistle, he speaks of 
the versions of the New Test, and the Psalter, “which 
Polycarp (rest his soul!), the chorepi scopus, made in 
Syriac for the faithful Xenaias, the teacher of Mai mg, 
worthy of the memory of the good” (Assemani, Bibli- 
otheca Orient alls, ii, 83). We thus see that a Syriac 
version of the Psalms had a similar origin to the Phi- 
loxenian Syriac New Test. We know that the date of 
the latter was A.D. 508; the Psalter was probably a 
contemporaneous work. It is said that the Nestorian 
patriarch Marabba, A.D. 552, made a version from the 
Greek; it does not appear to be in existence, so that, 
if ever it was completely executed, it was probably su- 
perseded by the llexaplar version of Paul of Tela; in- 
deed, Paul may have used it as the basis of his work, 
adding marks of reference, etc. 

This version of Paul of Tela, a Monophvsite, was 
made in the beginning of the 7th century, for its basis 
he used the Hexaplar Greek text — that is. the Sept., 
with the corrections of Origen, the asterisks, obeli, etc., 
and with the references to the other Greek versions. 
The Greek text at its basis agrees, for the most part, 
with the Codex Alexandrians. But it often leans to 
the Vatican, and not seldom to the Complutensian 
texts. At other times it departs from all. 

The Syro-Hexaplar version was made on the princi- 
ple of following the Greek, word for word, as exactly as 
possible. It contains the marks introduced by Origen, 
and the references to the versions of Aquila, Symma- 
chus, Theodotion, etc. In fact, it is from this Syriac 
version that we obtain our most accurate acquaintance 
with the results of the critical labors of Origen. 

2. History. — Andreas Masius, in his edition of the 
book of Joshua (Antwerp, 1574), first used the results 
of this Syro-Hexaplar text; for, on the authority of a 
MS. in his possession, he revised the Greek, introducing 
asterisks and obeli, thus showing what Origen had done, 
how much he had inserted in the text, and what he had 
marked as not found in the Hebrew. The Syriac MS. 
used by Masius has long been lost; though in this day, 
after the recovery of the Codex Beuchlini of the Apoc- 
alypse (from which Erasmus first edited that book) by 
Prof. Delitzsch, it could hardly be a cause for surprise if 
this Syriac Codex should again be found. 

It is from a IMS. in the Ambrosian library at Milan 
that we possess accurate means of knowing this Syr- 
iac version. The MS. in question contains the Psalms, 


Job, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Canticles, Wisdom, Eccle- 
siasticus, minor prophets, Jeremiah, Baruch, Daniel, 
Ezekiel, and Isaiah. Norberg published, at Lund in 
1787, the books of Jeremiah ami Ezekiel from a tran- 
script which he had made of the MS. at Milan. In 
1788 Bugati published at Milan the book of Daniel; 
he also edited the Psalms, the printing of which had 
been completed before his death in 1816; it was pub- 
lished in 1820. The rest of the contents of the Milan 
Codex (with the exception of the apocryphal books) 
was published at Berlin in 1835, by Middeldorpf, from 
the transcript made by Norberg; Middeldorpf also add- 
ed the fourth (second) book of Kings from a MS. at 
Paris. Rordam issued Libri Judicum et Ruth secundum 
Versionem Syriaco-Hexapalarem ex Codice Mu set Bri- 
tannici nunc primnm editi, Greece trans/ati, Notisque il - 
lustrati (in two fasciculi, 1859, 1861, Copenhagen, 4to). 
A competent scholar has undertaken the task of edit- 
ing the remainder — Dr. Antonio Ceriani, of Milan. In 
1861 appeared his Monumenta Sacra et Prof ana (Mil- 
an, tom. i, fascic. i), containing, among other ancient 
documents, the llexaplar-Syriae Baruch, Lamentations, 
and the Epistle of Jeremiah. In the preface the learn- 
ed editor states his intention to publish, from the Am- 
brosian MS. and others, the entire version, even the 
books printed before, of whose inaccurate execution he 
speaks in just terms. A second part has since appeared. 

Besides these portions of this Syriac version, the MSS. 
from the Nitrian monasteries now in the British Muse- 
um would add a good deal more : among these there are 
six from which much might be drawn, so that part of 
the Pentateuch and other books may be recovered. 
These MSS. are like that at Milan, in having the marks 
of Origen in the text, the references to readings in the 
margin; and occasionally the Greek word itself is thus 
cited in Greek. The following is the notation of these 
MSS., and their contents and dates : 

12,133 (besides the Peshito Exodus), Joshua (defective), 
cent. vii. “Translated from a Greek IMS. of the Ilex- 
apla, collated with one of the Tetrapla.” 

12,134, Exodus. A.D. 697. 

14,434, Psalms formed from two 1MSS. cent, viii (with the 
Song of the Three Children subjoined to the second). 
Botli MSS. are defective. Subscription, “According to 
the Sept.” 

14,437, Numbers and 1 Kings, defective (cent, vii or viii). 
The subscription to 1 Kings says that it was translated 
into Syriac at Alexandria lu the year 927 (A.D. GIG). 
14,442, Genesis, defective (with 1 Sam. Peshito). “ Accord- 
ing to the Sept.” (cent. vi). 

17,103, Judges and Ruth, defective (cent, vii or viii). Sub- 
scription to Judges, “ According to the Sept. ;” to Ruth, 
“From the Tetrapla of the Sept.” 

Rordam issued at Copenhagen in 1S59 the first portion 
of an edition of the MS. 17,103: another part has since 
been published. Some of these MSS. were written in the 
same century in which the version was made. They may 
probably be depended ou as giving the text with general 
accuracy. 

C. Other Texts The list of versions of the Old Test. 

into Syriac often appears to be very numerous; but on 
examination it is found that man}’ 1 translations, the 
names of which appear in a catalogue, are really either 
such as never had an actual existence, or else that they 
are either the version from the Hebrew, or else that 
from the Hexaplar text of the Sept., under different 
names, or with some slight revision. To enumerate 
the supposed versions is needless. It is only requisite 
to mention that Thomas of llarkel, whose work in the 
revision of a translation of the New Test, will have to 
be mentioned, seems also to have made a translation 
from the Greek into Syriac of some of the apocryphal 
books — at least, the subscriptions in certain MSS. state 
this. 

II. The Syriac New-Test ament Versions. — These we 
may conveniently enumerate under five heads, including 
several recensions under some of them, but treating sep- 
arately the notable “ Curetonian text.” 

A. The Peshito- Syriac New Test, (text of Widman- 
stadt, and Cureton’s Gospels). — In whatever forms the 
Syriac New Test, may have existed prior to the time 


SYRIAC VERSIONS 


117 


SYRIAC VERSIONS 


of rhiloxenus (the beginning of the Gth century), who 
caused a new translation to be made, it will be more 
convenient to consider all such most aneient transla- 
tions or revisions together; even though there may be 
reasons afterwards assigned for not regarding the ver- 
sion of the earlier ages of Christianity as absolutely 
one. 

1. Date . — It may stand as an admitted fact that a 
version of the New Test, in Syriac existed in the ‘2d 
century; and to this we may refer the statement of 
Eusebius respecting Hcgesippus, that he “ made quota- 
tions from the Gospel according to the Hebrews and 
the Syriac,” tK n roe icaS’ ‘E fipaiovg evayytXiou koi 
tou N DpuiKov ( Hist . Eccl. iv, 2‘2). It seems equally cer- 
tain that in the 4th century such a version was as well 
known of the New Test, as of the Old. It was the com- 
panion of the Old Test, translation made from the He- 
brew, and as such was in habitual use in the Syriac 
churches. To the translation in common use among 
the Syrians, orthodox, Monophysite, or Nestorian, from 
the 5th century and onward, the name of Peshito has 
been as commonly applied in the New Test, as the Old. 
In the 7th century at least the version so current ac- 
quired the name of old, in contrast to that which was 
then formed and revised by the Monophysites. 

Though we have no certain data as to the origin of 
this version, it is probable on every ground that a Syr- 
iac translation of the New Test, was an accompaniment 
of that of the Old ; whatever therefore bears on the one, 
bears on the other also. 

2. History. — There seem to be but few notices of the 
old Syriac version in early writers. Cosmas Indico- 
pleustes, in the former half of the Gth century, inci- 
dentally informs us that the Syriac translation does not 
contain the Second Epistle of Peter, 2 and 3 John, and 
Jude. This was found to be correct when, a thousand 
years afterwards, this ancient translation became again 
known to Western scholars. In 1552, Moses of Mardin 
came to Rome to pope Julius III, commissioned by Ig- 
natius, the Jacobite (Monophysite) patriarch, to state 
his religious opinions, to e licet (it is said) a union with 
the Romish Church, and to get the Syriac New Test, 
printed. In this last object Moses failed both at Rome 
and Venice. At Vienna he was, however, successful. 
Widmanstadt, the chancellor of the emperor Ferdinand 
I, had himself learned Syriac from Theseus Ambrosius 
many years previously ; and through his influence the 
emperor undertook the charge of an edition which ap- 
peared in 1555, through the joint labors of Widman- 
stadt, Moses, and Posted. Some copies were afterwards 
issued with the date of 15G2 on the back of the title. 

In having only three Catholic epistles, this Syriac 
New Test, agreed with the description of Cosmas; the 
Apocalypse was also wanting, as well as the section 
John viii, 1-1 1 ; this last omission, and some other points, 
were noticed in the list of errata. It also wants some 
words in Matt, x, 8 and xxvii,35; two verses in Luke 
xxii — viz. 17, 18; and I John v, 7, all which are absent 
from Syriac MSS. In 2 Cor. v, 8 it has in the leaven of 
purity, which is found in Nestorian sources alone; but 
it has the usual reading in Ileb. ii, 9, not the Nestorian 
one x i °P l € $tov. The editors appear to have followed 
their MSS. with great fidelity, so that the edition is 
justly valued. In subsequent editions endeavors were 
made conjecturally to amend the text by introducing I 
John v, 7 and other portions which do not belong to 
this translation. One of the principal editions is that 
of Leusden and Sehaaf ; in this the text is made as full 
as possible by supplying every lacuna from any source; 
in the punctuation there is a strange peculiarity, that in 
the former part Leusden chose to follow a sort of Chal- 
dee analogy, while, on his death, Sehaaf introduced a 
regular system of Syriac vocalization through all the 
rest of the volume. The Lexicon which accompanies 
this edition is of great value. This edition was first 
issued in 1708 : more copies, however, have the date 
1709; while some have the false and dishonest state- 


ment on the title-page, “Secwnda editio a meudis pur- 
gata,” and the date 1717. The late Prof. Lee published 
an edition in I81G, in which he corrected or altered the 
text on the authority of a few MSS. This is so far in- 
dependent of that of Widmanstadt. It is, however, 
very far short of being really a critical edition. In 
1828 the edition of Mr. William Greenfield (often re- 
printed from the stereotype plates), was published by 
Messrs. Bagster; in this the text of Widmanstadt was 
followed (with the vow-els fully expressed), and with 
certain supplements within brackets from Lees edi- 
tion. For the collation with Lee’s text Greenfield was 
not responsible. There arc now in Europe excellent 
materials for the formation of a critical edition of this 
version: it may, however, be said that, as in its first 
publication the MSS. employed were honestly used, it 
is in the text of Widmanstadt in a far better condition 
than is the l’eshito Old Test. The best lexicon, which 
also serves for a concordance, is Sehaaf’s (1709, 4to). 
The Peshito has been translated into English by Ethe- 
ridge (184G, 1849, 2 vols. I2mo); and better by Mur- 
dock (in I vol. 8 vo, N. Y. 1851). 

3. Character. — This Syriac version has been various- 
ly estimated : some have thought that in it they had 
a genuine and unaltered monument of the 2d, or per- 
haps even of the 1st century. They thus naturally 
upheld it as almost co-ordinate in authority with the 
Greek text, and as being of a period anterior to any 
Greek copy extant. Others, finding in it indubitable 
marks of a later age, were inclined to deny that it had 
any claim to a very remote antiquity. Thus La Croze 
thought that the commonly printed Syriac New' Test, 
is not the Peshito at all, but the Philoxenian executed 
in the beginning of the Gth century. The fact is, that 
this version as transmitted to us contains marks of an- 
tiquity, and also traces of a later age. The two things 
are so blended that, if either class of phenomena alone 
w r ere regarded, the most opposite opinions might be 
formed. The opinion of Wettstein was one of the most 
perverse that could be devised : he found in this ver- 
sion readings which accord w’ith the Latin; and then, 
acting on the strange system of criticism which he 
, adopted in his later years, he asserted that any such 
accordance with the Latin was a proof of corruption 
from that version : so that with him the proofs of an- 
tiquity became the tokens of later origin, and he thus 
assigned the translation to the 7th century. With 
him the real indications of later readings were only the 
marks of the very reverse. Michaelis took very oppo- 
site ground to that of Wettstein ; he upheld its antiquity 
and authority very strenuously. The former point could 
be easily proved, if one class of readings alone were 
considered ; and this is confirmed by the contents of 
the version itself. Rut. on the other band, there are 
difficulties, for very often readings of a much more re- 
cent kind appear; it was thus thought that it might 
be compared with the Latin as found in the Codex 
Brixianus, in which there is an ancient groundwork, 
but also the work of a reviser is manifest. Thus the 
judgment formed by. Griesbaeh seems to be certainly 
the correct one as to the peculiarity of the text of this 
version. He says (using the terms proper to his system 
of recensions): “Nulli harum recensionum Syriaca ver- 
sio, prout quidem tvpis excusa est, similis, verum nec 
ulli prorsus dissimilis est. In mnltis concinit cum Al- 
exandria reeensione, in pluribus cum Occidentali, in 
nonnullis etiam cum Constantinopolitana, ita tamen ut 
qua? in banc posterioribns demum seculis inveeta sunt, 
plerique repudiet. Diuersis ergo temporihus ad Or a cos 
codices plane dicersos iterum iterumque recognita esse 
videtur” (Nov. Test. Proleg. lxxv). In a note Gries- 
.bach introduced the comparison of the Codex Brixia- 
nus, “ Illustrari hoc potest codicum nonnullorum Lati- 
norum exemplo, qui priseam quidem versionem ad Oe- 
cidentalem reeensionem aeeommodatam representant, 
sed passim ad juniores libros Grecos refietam. Ex hoc 
genere est Brixianus Codex Latinus , qui non raro a 


SYRIAC VERSIONS 


118 


SYRIAC VERSIONS 


Grceo-Latinis et vctustioribus Latinis omnibus solus dis- 
eedit, et in Graicorum partes transit.” Some proof that 
the text of the common printed Peshito has been re- 
wrouglit will appear when it is compared with the 
Curetonian Syriac Gospels. 

4. Minor Recensions . — Whether the whole of this ver- 
sion proceeded from the same translator has been ques- 
tioned. Not only may Michaelis be right in supposing 
a peculiar translator of the Epistle to the Hebrews, but 
also other parts may be from different hands; this opin- 
ion will become more general the more the version is 
studied. The revisions to which the version was sub- 
jected may have succeeded in part, but not wholly, in 
effacing the indications of a plurality of translators. 
The Acts and Epistles seem to be either more recent 
than the Gospels, though far less revised; or else, if 
coeval, far more corrected by later Greek MSS. 

There is no sufficient reason for supposing that this 
version ever contained the four catholic epistles and the 
Apocalypse, now absent from it, not only in the printed 
editions but also in the MSS, 

Some variations in copies of the Feshito have been 
regarded as if they might be styled Monophvsite and 
Xestorian recensions ; but the designation would be far 
too definite, for the differences are not sufficient to war- 
rant the classification. 

The MSS. of the Karl' a ph ensi a n recension (as it has 
been termed) of the Peshito Old Test, contain also the 
New with a similar character of text. 

13. The Curetonian Syriac Gospels. — This, although in 
reality but a variety of the Peshito, exhibits such mark- 
ed peculiarities that it may almost be called a distinct 
version. 

1. History , Date, and Contents. — Among the MSS. 
brought from the Nitrian monasteries in 1842, Dr. Cure- 
ton noticed a copy of the Gospels differing greatly from 
the common text; and this is the form of text to which 
the name of “ Curetonian Syriac” has been rightly ap- 
plied. Every criterion which proves the common Pe- 
shito not to exhibit a text of extreme antiquity, equal- 
ly proves the early origin of this. The discovery is in 
fact that of the object which was wanted, the want of 
which had been previously ascertained. Dr. Curcton 
considers that the MS. of the Gospels is of the fifth cen- 
tury. a point in which all competent judges are proba- 
bly agreed. Some persons, indeed, have sought to de- 
preciate the text, to point out its differences from the 
Peshito, to regard all such variations as corruptions, 
and thus to stigmatize the Curetonian Syriac as a cor- 
rupt revision of the Peshito, barbarous in language and 
false in readings. This peremptory judgment is as rea- 
sonable as if the old Latin in the Codex Vereellensis 
were called an ignorant revision of the version of .Je- 
rome. The judgment that the Curetonian Syriac is 
older than the Peshito is not the peculiar opinion of 
Cureton, Alford, Tregelles, or Biblical scholars of the 
school of ancient evidence in this country, but it is also 
that of Continental scholars, such as Ewald, and appar- 
ently of the late Prof. Bleek. 

The MS. contains Matt, i-viii, 22; x, 3l-xxiii, 25; 
Mark, the four last verses only ; John i, 1-42; iii, 6-vii, 
37; xiv, 11-29; Luke ii, 48-iii, 16 ; vii, 33-xv, 21 ; xvii, 
24-xxiv, 41. It would have been a thing of much value 
if a perfect copy of this version had come down to us ; 
but as it is, we have reason greatly to value the discov- 
ery of Dr. Cureton, which shows how truly those critics 
have argued who concluded that snch a version must 
have existed, and who regarded this as a proved fact, 
even when not only no portion of the version was known 
to be extant, but also when even the record of its exist- 
ence was unnoticed. For there is a record showing an 
acquaintance with this version, to which, as well as to 
the version itself, attention has been directed by Dr. 
Cureton. Bar-Salibi, bishop of Amida in the 12th cen- 
tury, in a passage translated by Dr. C. (in discussing 
fhe omission of three kings in the genealogy in Mat- 
thew), says: “There is found occasionally a Syriac copy, 


made out of the Hebrew, which inserts these three 
kings in the genealogy; but afterwards it speaks of 
fourteen and not of seventeen generations, because four- 
teen generations has been substituted for seventeen by 
the Hebrews on account of their holding to the septena- 
ry number,” etc. This shows that Bar-Salibi knew of a 
Syriac text of the Gospels in which Ahaziah, Joash, and 
Amaziah were inserted in Matt, i, 8; there is the same 
reading in the Curetonian Syriac: but this might have 
been a coincidence. But in ver. 17 the Curetonian text 
has, in contradiction to ver. 8, fourteen generations and 
not seventeen ; and so had the copy mentioned by Bar- 
Salibi: the former point might be a mere coincidence; 
the latter, however, shows such a kind of union in con- 
tradiction as proves the identity very convincingly. 
Thus, though this version was unknown in Europe prior 
to its discovery by Dr. Cureton, it must in the Pith cen- 
tury have been known as a text sometimes found; and, 
as mentioned by the Monophvsite bishop, it might be 
more in use among his eo-religionists than among oth- 
ers. Perhaps, as its existence and use is thus recorded 
in the Pith century, some further discovery of Syriac 
MSS. may furnish us with another copy so as to supply 
the defects of the one happily recovered. 

2. Relation to the Peshito and to Older Texts . — In ex- 
amining the Curetonian text with the common printed 
Peshito, we often find such identity of phrase and ren- 
dering as to show that they are not wholly independent 
translations; then, again, we meet with such variety in 
the forms of words, etc., as seems to indicate that in the 
Peshito the phraseology had been revised and refined. 
But the great (it might be said characteristic) differ- 
ence between the Curetonian and the Peshito gospels 
is in their readings; for while the latter cannot in its 
present state be deemed an unchanged production of 
the 2d century, the former bears all the marks of ex- 
treme antiquity, even though in places it may have 
suffered from the introduction of readings current in 
very early times. 

The following are a few of the very many eases in 
which the ancient reading is found in the Curetonian, 
and the later or transition reading in the Peshito. For 
the general authorities on the subject of each passage, 
reference must be made to the notes in critical editions 
of the Greek New Test. 

Matt, xix, 17, t< pe fyuoru? wept t ov ayaS'ou; the ancient 
reading, as we find in the best authorities, and as we know 
from Origen ; so the Curetonian : t i fie Aty e<r ; the 

common text with the Peshito. Matt, xx, 22, the clause 
of the common text, Kai to fitimtapa o eyu> fiaHTtt,opcu 
(and the corresponding part of the following verse), are in 
the Peshito; while we know from Origen that they were 
in his day a peculiarity of Mark: omitted in the Cureto- 
nian with the other best authorities. In fact, except the 
Peshito and some revised Latin copies, there is no evi- 
dence at all extant for these words prior to the 5th cen- 
tury. Matt, v, 4,5: here the ancient order of the beati- 
tudes, as supported by Origen, Terttillian, the canons of 
Eusebius, and Hilary, is that of placing panupiot oi npa- 
eiV, k. t. A., before pumtiptot oi TrevS'or/yTer, k. t. A. ; here the 
Curetonian agrees with the distinct testimonies for this 
order against the Peshito. In i, IS, we know from Irenaeus 
that the name “Jesus” was not read; and this is con- 
firmed by the Curetonian: in fact, the common reading, 
however widely supported, could not have originated 
until ’UjCToiJv xptfnw was treated as a combined proper 
name, otherwise the meaning of to? be ov xp^tov h ye- 
vecic would not be “the birth of Jesus Christ,” but “the 
birth of Jesus as the Christ.” Here the Curetonian read- 
ing is in full accordance with what we know of the 
2d century in opposition to the Peshito. In vi, 4 the 
Curetonian omits ai/rot; in the same ver. and in ver. 6 it 
omits tv rtZ (pavepZ: in each case with the best authori- 
ties, but against the Peshito. Matt. v. 44 has been ampli- 
fied by copyists in an extraordinary manner: the words 
in brackets show the amplifications, and the place from 
which each was taken : eyi'n be Aeyio vptv, 'Ayanure toi-c 
ex^poi’f vpuiv fc vAo'y c7t€ too? KuTapwpevovv {'/iu?, Lltke vi, 
2S ; KaAific TToieire Toiie pioovirav vp.de, ver. 27 j, kcu -npoaev- 
Xeo’S’f irnep tuiv [ennpea^ovTtav vpai Ka'i, ver. 35] buoKnvTiov 
vpd?. The briefer form is attested by Irenaeus, Clement, 
Origen, Cyprian, Eusebius, etc. : and though the inserted 
words and clauses are found in almost all Greek MSS. 
(except Codices Vaticanus and Sinaiticus), and in many 
versions, including the Peshito, they are not in the Cureto- 
nian Syriac. Of a similar kind are Matt, xviii, 35, rd na- 


SYRIAC VERSIONS 


119 


SYRIAC VERSIONS 


pa7nu>para avrSw : Lllke viii, 54, eK/3uAt»>v €?<*> iravrav Kail 
ix, 7, vtt’ uvtov ; vet*. 54, wt am ’HAiac Inoinatv : xi, 2, <yei^»i- 
5>»;ra) to S’tAjj/ua gov a>r tv uvpavio Kui tni t/ v 7 7;r : VCT. 29, tou 
■ 7 rpo(f>i]TOV : ver. 44, ypajujuaTeiv Kai (papuraiot vnoKpirai : Jolll) 
iv, 43, Kai awriA^ei' : V, 10, Kat 1&1TOVV avrov inroKTeivai : Vi, 
51, }jv 67 tii du>ao ) : ver. 09, toD tjbovron. 

On the other hand, the Curetonian often changes the 
text for the worse, as in the following examples: 

In Luke xxiv the fortieth verse is omitted, contrary to 
the Peshito and the most ancient uncial MSS. A, B, X. In 
Matt, xxii, 35, Kai Atjwv is read hy the Curetonian ; but it is 
absent from the Peshito, which is supported by B and X. 
In vii, 22, the words “have we not eaten and drunk in 
thy name?” are inserted without any MS. authoriij T , ap- 
parently from Luke xiii, 20. In xi, 23, instead of the usual 
Greek text, it has “thou shalt not be exalted to heaven, 
but;” contrary to all authority, and betraying at the same 
time a Greek original with prj. In xxi, 9, it is added at 
the end, “and many went out to meet him, and were re- 
joicing and praising God concerning all that which they 
saw,” words wholly unauthorized. In ver. 23, 6t6daKovri 
is omitted without authority. In xxiii, IS, from or cue to 
Igtiv are also left out, contrary to all external evidence. 
In Luke viii, 10, is the unauthorized addition “he set 
forth another parable.” In xi, 29, “except the sign of 
the prophet Jonas” is omitted, contrary to MSS. Luke 
xx, 12 is omitted without authority. In xxii, ver. 20 is 
wanting, and ver. 19 is put before ver. 17 ; diddpevov is 
also absent in ver. 19 without authority. In John v, S, we 
have the addition “go away to thy house.” So, too, in 
ver. 9, “and he took up his bed” is omitted. In vi, 20, plj 
(pofieXaSe are left out, against MS. authority. 

The following are points of comparison with the noted 
early MSS. : 

It often agrees with B, C, D, and the old Latin version 
before it was corrected by Jerome, especially its MSS. a, b, 
c ; with D most of all. Very seldom does it coincide with 
A alone. Thus in Matt, xix, 9 the words k« £ 6 u7roAeAu- 
fieirii' laptiGaf, poixurat are omitted, as in D, a, h, e, ff; and 
to ver. 2S a long passage is added which is only in D, a, b, 
c, d. It omits xvi, 2, 3, with B and two other uncial MSS. ; 
though the old Italic has them, as well as D. In xiii, 55, 
it has Joseph with B, C, the old Italic, Vulgate, aud other 
authorities. 

3. Hebrew Original of Matthew. — It is not needful for 
very great attention to be paid to the phraseology of 
the Curetonian Syriac in order to see that the Gospel 
of Matthew differs in mode of expression and various 
other particulars from what we find in the rest. This 
may lead us again to look at the testimony of Bar-Sa- 
libi ; he tells us, when speaking of this version of Mat- 
thew, “ there is found occasionally a Syriac copy made 
out of the Hebrew we thus know that the opinion of 
the Syrians themselves in the 1 2th century was that 
this translation of Matthew was not made from the 
Greek, but from the Hebrew original of the evangelist : 
such, too, is the judgment of Dr. Cureton : “ this Gospel 
of Matthew appears at least to be built upon the original 
Aramaic text, which was the work of the apostle him- 
self” ( Preface to Syriac Gospels , p. vi). 

We know from Jerome that the Hebrew Matthew 
had “in "2 where the Greek has imovaiov. We do 
not find that word here, but we read for both imovoiov 
and ayytpov at the end of the verse, 11 constant of the 
day.” This might have sprung from the interpreta- 
tion, “morrow by morrow,” given to and it may 

be illustrated by Old- Test, passages, e. g. Numb, iv, 
7. Those who think that if this Syriac version had 
been made from Matthew’s Hebrew we ought to find 
“UT2 here forget that a translation is not a verbal trans- 
fusion. 

We know from Eusebius that Hegesippus eited from 
the gospel according to the Hebrews, and from the 
Syriac. Now in a fragment of Hegesippus (Booth, i, 
219) there is the quotation, yatcdpioi oi 6(p$ra\p.oi vpwv 
ot /3\s7 rovreg Kai to. Com vputv ra ctKOvovra, words 
which might be a Greek rendering from Matt, xiii, 1G, 
as it stands in this Syriac gospel as we have it, or prob- 
ably also in the Hebrew work of the apostle himself. 

From these and other particulars, Dr. Cureton con- 
cludes that in this version Matthew’s gospel was trans- 
lated from the apostle’s Hebrew (Syro-Chaklaic) origi- 


nal, although injured since by copyists or revisers. The 
same view is maintained by the abbe Lehir (Etude, etc. 
[Bar. 1859J); but it is vigorously rejected by Ewald 
(Juhrb. d. bibl , Wissenschaft, vol. ix) and many later 
critics. 

C. The Philoxenian Syriac Version , and its Bevision 
by Thomas of Harkel. — Philoxenus, or Xcnaias, bishop 
of llierapolis or Mabug at the beginning of the Gth 
century (who was one of those Monophysites that sub- 
scribed the llenoticon of the emperor Zeno), caused Poly- 
carp, his chorepiseopus, to make a new translation of 
the New Test, into Syriac. This was executed in A.D. 
508, and it is generally termed Philoxenian from its 
promoter. In one passage Bar-Hebraeus says that it. 
was made in the time of Philoxenus; in his Chronicon 
that it was done by his desire; and in another place of 
the same work that it was his own production. Moses 
Aghelauis (Assemani, Eibliath. Oriental, ii, 83) states 
that its author was Polvcarp, rural bishop of Philoxenus. 
In an Arabic MS., quoted bv Assemani ( ibid, ii, 23), 
Philoxenus is said by a Jacobite author to have trans- 
lated the four Gospels into Syriac. 

1. History. — This version has not been transmitted 
to us in the form in which it was first made; we only 
possess a revision of it, executed by Thomas of Harkel 
in the following century (The Gospels , A.D. G16). Po- 
cocke, in 1G30, gives an extract from Bar-Salibi, in 
which the version of Thomas of Harkel is mentioned; 
and though Pococke did not know what version Thomas 
had made, he speaks of a Syriac translation of the Gos- 
pels communicated to him by some learned man whom 
he does not name, which, from its servile adherence to 
the Greek, was no doubt the Harklean text. In the 
Bibliotheca Orientalis of Assemani there were further 
notices of the work of Thomas; and in 1730 Samuel 
Palmer sent from the ancient Amida (now Diarbekir) 
Syriac MSS. to Dr. Gloucester Pulley, in which the 
version is contained. Thus he had two copies of the 
Gospels, and one of all the rest of the New Test., except 
the end of the Epistle to the Hebrews and the Apoca- 
lypse. No other MSS. appear to have yet come to light 
which contain any of this version beyond the Gospels. 
From the subscriptions we learn that the text was re- 
vised by Thomas with three (some copies say two) Greek 
MSS. One Greek copy is similarly mentioned at the 
close of the Catholic epistles. 

Ridley published in I7G1 an account of the MSS. in 
his possession, and a notice of this version. He had 
intended to edit the text: this was, however, done 
by White, at different times from 1778 to 1803. After 
the publication of the Gospels, the researches of Adler 
brought more copies into notice of that part of the Har- 
klean text. From one of the MSS. in the Vatican, 
John’s Gospel was edited by Bernstein in 1851. It will 
be noticed that this version differs from the Peshito in 
containing all the seven Catholic epistles. 

2. Character. — In describing this version as it has 
come down to ns, the text is the first thing to be consid- 
ered. This is characterized by extreme literality : the 
Syriac idiom is constantly bent to suit the Greek, and 
everything is in some manner expressed in the Greek 
phrase and order. It is difficult to imagine that it could 
have been intended for ecclesiastical reading. It is not 
independent of the Peshito, the words, etc., of which 
are often employed. As to the kind of Greek text that 
it represents, it is just what might have been expected 
in the Gth century. The work of Thomas in the text 
itself is seen in the introduction of obeli, by which pas- 
sages which he rejected were condemned ; and of aster- 
isks, with which his insertions were distinguished. His 
model in all this was the Ilexaplar Greek text. The 
MSS. which were used by Thomas were of a different 
kind from those employed in making the version; they 
represented in general a much older and purer text. 
The margin of the Harklean recension contains (like 
the Hexaplar text of the Sept.) readings mostly, appar- 
ently, from the Greek MSS. used. It has been ques- 


SYRIAC VERSIONS 


120 


SYRIAC VERSIONS 


tioned whether these readings are not a comparison 
with the Peshito; if any of them are so, they have 
probably been introduced since the time of Thomas. It 
is probable that the Philoxenian version was very lit- 
eral, but that the slavish adaptation to the Greek is the 
work of Thomas; and that his text thus bore about the 
same relation to that of Philoxenus as the Latin Bible 
of Arias Montanns does to that of his predecessor Pag- 
ninns. For textual criticism this version is a good au- 
thority as to the text of its own time, at least where it 
does not merely follow the Peshito. . The amplifications 
in the margin of the book of Acts bring a MS. used by 
Thomas into close comparison with the Codex Bez:e. 
One of the MSS. of the Gospels sent, to Ridley contains 
the Harldean text, with some revision by Bar-Salibi. 

The marginal readings are probably the most valua- 
ble part of the version in a critical view. One of the 
Greek MSS. compared bv Thomas had considerable af- 
finity to D in the Gospels and Acts. Of 180 marginal 
readings, about 130 are found in 15, C, D, L, i, 33, 69, etc. 
With D alone of MSS. it harmonizes nineteen times in 
the Gospels; with I) and B seven times. With the 
Alexandrian, or A, alone, it agrees twice, but with it and 
others, D, L, eight times. With the Vatican, or B, alone, 
it harmonizes twice, but with it and others four times 
(see Adler, p. 130, 131). 

I). Syriac Versions of Portions Wanting in the Peshi- 
to. — (I.) The Second Epistle of Peter , the Second and 
Third of John, and that of Jude. — The fact has already 
been noticed that the old Syriac version did not con- 
tain these epistles. They were published by Pococke 
in 1630 from a INIS, in the Bodleian. The version of 
these epistles so often agrees with what we have in 
the Harklean recension that the one is at least de- 
pendent on the other. The suggestion of Dr. David- 
son (. Biblical Criticism , ii, 196) that the text of Pococke 
is that of Philoxenus before it was revised by Thomas 
seems most probable. But, if it is objected that the 
translation does not show as great a knowledge of Greek 
as might have been expected in the translation of the 
rest of the Philoxenian, it must be remembered that 
here he had not the Peshito to aid him. In the Paris 
Polyglot these epistles were added to the Peshito, with 
which they have since been commonly printed, although 
they have not the slightest relation to that version. 

(II.) The Apocalypse. — In 1627 De Dieu edited a Syr- 
iac version of the Apocalypse from a IMS. in the Ley- 
den library, written by one “Caspar from the land of 
the Indians,” who lived in the latter part of the 16th 
century. A MS. at Florence, also written by this Cas- 
par, has a subscription sta'ting that it was copied in 
1582 from a MS. in the writing of Thomas of Ilarkel 
in 622. If this is correct, it shows that Thomas by him- 
self would have been but a poor translator of the New 
Test. But the subscription seems to be of doubtful 
authority; and, until the Rev. B. Harris Cowper drew 
attention to a more ancient copy of the version, we 
might well be somewhat uncertain if this were really 
an ancient work. It is of small critical value, and the 
MS. from which it was edited is incorrectly written. 
It was in the MS. which Abp. Usher sent as a present 
to De Dieu in 1631, in which the whole of the Syriac 
New Test, is said to have been contained (of what ver- 
sion is unknown), that having been the only complete 
MS. of the kind described; and of this MS., in compar- 
ison with the text of the Apocalypse printed by De 
Dieu, Usher says, “the Syriac lately set out at Leyden 
may be amended by my MS. copy” (Todd, Walton, i, 
196, note). This book, from the Paris Polyglot and on- 
ward, has been added to the Peshito in this translation. 
Some have erroneously called this Syriac Apocalypse 
the Philoxenian , a name to which it has no title: the 
error seems to have originated from a verbal mistake 
in an old advertisement of Greenfield’s edition (for 
which he was not responsible), which said “the Apoc- 
alypse and the Epistles not found in the Peshito are 
given from the Philoxenian version.” 


(III.) The Syriac Version of John viii, 1-11. — From 
the MS. sent by Abp. Usher to De Dieu, the latter pub- 
lished this section in 1631. From De Dieu it was in- 
serted in the London Polyglot, with a reference to Ush- 
er’s MS., and hence it has passed with the other edi- 
tions of the Peshito, where it is a mere interpolation. 

A copy of the same version (essentially) is found in 
Ridley’s Codex Bursalibiei , where it is attributed to 
Maras, 622; Adler found it also in a Paris MS. ascribed 
to Abbas Mar Paul. 

Bar-Salibi cites a different version, out of Maras, 
bishop of Amida, through the chronicle of Zacharias of 
Melitina. See Assemani ( Biblioth . Orient, ii, 53 and 
170), who gives the introductory words. Probably the 
version edited is that of Paul (as stated in the Paris 
MS.), and that of Maras the one cited by Bar-Salibi ; 
while in Ridley’s MS. the two are confounded. The 
Paul mentioned is apparently Paul of Tela, the trans- 
lator of the Hexaplar Greek text into Syriac, 

E. The Jerusalem Syriac Lectionary. — The MS. in 
the Vatican containing this version was pretty fully de- 
scribed l>v S. E. Assemani in 1756 in the catalogue of 
the MSS. belonging to that library; but so few copies 
of that work escaped destruction by tire that it was vir- 
tually unpublished and its contents almost unknown. 
Adler, who, at Copenhagen, had the advantage of study- 
ing one of the few copies of this catalogue, drew public 
attention to this peculiar document in his Kurze Ueber- 
( sicht seiner biblisch-kritisclien Reise nach Rom (Altona, 
1783), p. 118-127, and, still further, in 1789, in his val- 
uable examination of the Syriac versions. The MS. 
was written in 1031 in peculiar Syriac writing; the 
portions are, of course, those for the different festivals, 
some parts of the Gospels not being there at all. The 
dialect is not common Syriac; it was termed the Jeru- 
salem Syriac from its being supposed to resemble the 
Jerusalem Talmud in language and other points. The 
grammar is peculiar; the forms almost Chaldee rather 
than Syriac; two characters are used for expressing PH 
and P. 

In Adler’s opinion its date as a version would be from 
the 4th to the 6th century; but it can hardly be sup- 
posed that it is of so early an age, or that any Syrians 
then could have used so corrupt a dialect. It may 
rather be supposed to be a translation made from a 
, Greek lectionary, never having existed as a substantive 
translation. To what age its execution should be as- 
signed seems wholly uncertain. A further account of 
the MS. of this version, drawn up from a comparison of 
Assemani’s description in the Vatican catalogue, and 
that of Adler, with the MS. itself in the Vatican Libra- 
ry, is given in Horne’s Introd. iv, 284-287. The only 
complete passage published till recently was owing to 
Adler — viz. Matt, xxvii, 3-32; and scholars could only 
repeat or work upon what he gave. But the version 
has been published entire by Minischalchi Erizzo (Ve- 
rona, 1861, 1864, 2 vols. 4to; the first containing the 
text, with a Latin translation; the second, prolegomena 
and a glossary). Critical editors of the Greek Tes- 
tament cannot now overlook this very valuable docu- 
ment, whose readings are so important. It contains 
the following portions of the Gospels: all Matthew ex- 
cept iii, 12; v, 34-41; vi, 25-34; vii, 19-23; viii, 14-19; 
x, 9-15,23-31, 34-36; xi, 16-26; xii, 1-29,38-50; xiii, 
1-43, 55-58; xiv, 1-13, 35, 36 ; xv, 1-20, 29-31 ; xvi, 1- 
12, 20-28; xvii, 20, 27; xviii. 5-9, 11, 21, 22; xix, 1, 2, 
13-15; xx, 17-28; xxi. 44-46; xxvi, 40-43; all Mark 
except i, 12-34,45; ii, 13, 18-22; iii, 6-35; iv; v, 1-23, 
35-43; vi, 6-13, 31-56; vii, 1-23; viii, 1-26, 32, 33; ix, 
1-15,31,41-50; x, 1-31,46-52; xi, 1-21,26-33; xii. 1- 
27; xiii; xiv; xv, 1-15,33-42; all Luke except i, 69- 
75, 77-79; iii, 23-38; iv, 1-15, 37-44; v, 12-16, 33-39; 
vi, 11-16, 24-30, 37-49; vii, 17, 18, 30-35; viii, 22-25, 
40; ix, 7-26, 45-56; x, 13-15, 22-24; xi, 1-26, 34-54; 
xii, 1, 13-15, 22-31,41-59; xiii, 1-10,30-35; xiv, 12- 
15, 25-35; xv, 1-10; xvi, 1-9, 16-18; xvii, 1, 2, 20-37; 
xviii, 1, 15-17, 28-34; xix, 11-48; xx, 9-44; xxi, 5-7, 


SYRIAC VERSIONS 


121 


SYRIAC VERSIONS 


20- 24, 37, 38; xxii, 40, 41, 46-71 ; xxiii, 1-31, 50-56; 
all John except ii, 23-25; iii, 34-36; iv, 1-4,43-45; vi, 
34,45,46, 71; vii, 30-36; xi, 46, 55-57; xiii, 18-30; xix. 

21- 24, 

As to the readings, it appears to ns that they are 
such as characterized the 5th and 6th centuries. The 
text is not that of X, 15, Z, or even D, but rather that 
of A and C. In Matt, vi, it has the doxology of t lie 
Lord’s Prayer, which is not in X, 15, D, Z; it has John 
vii, 53-viii, 11 ; contains John v, 3, 4; has the usual or- 
der of the fourth and fifth verses in Matt.v; and has the 
later enlarged form of ver. 44. It also contains the last 
twelve verses of Mark xvi, contrary to X and 15; has 
uloc, not Stoc, in John i, 18; and in Matt, xxii, 35 has 
the later reading Kai Xeyiov, omitted in 15, L, and the 
Peshito. It lias also ot Ciodtica in Luke xxii, 14, with 
A, C, E, etc., but contrary to X, 15, 1), the Curetonian 
Syriac, and Italic. In John i, 27 it has the words tfi- 
irpooStv gov yiyovtv, contrarj' to X, 15, L, and the Cu- 
retonian Syriac; but with A, E, F, etc., the old Italic, 
Vulgate, and Peshito. In Matt, xix, 17 it has the old 
and genuine ti pe tpionjg rrepi rov ayaSov, in John 
iii, 15, pt) aTroXijTai dXXd are omitted with X and the 
Curetonian Syriac, E, etc. On the whole, while it is 
easy to see a number of the oldest readings in the text, 
such as those in X, 15, the old Italic, D, etc., yet the 
readings of a later period prevail. Its text, though 
often differing from the Peshito, is neither older nor 
better. 

III. Literature. — Adler, X. T. Versiones Syriacce, Sim- 
plex, Pit iloxeuiana et Ilierosoli/mituna demo examinu- 
tce (1789); Wiseman, //one Syriacie (1827); Hidlej', l)e 
Syriacarum X. Foederis Versionum Indole atque l r su, etc. 
(1761) ; Winer, Comment at io de Versionis X. T. Syria cce 
Usu Critico caute Instituendo (1823) ; Wiehelhaus, De 
Novi Test. Versione Syriaca Antiqud quam Peschitho 
vocant (1850); Bernstein, De Charklensi X. T. Trunsla- 
tione Syriaca Commentatio (1857); Cureton, Ant lent. Re- 
cension of the Syriac Gospels (preface, etc., 1858); Lee, 
Proleyomena to Bagster's Polyglot ; Heusch, Syrus Inter- 
pres cum Fonte X. T. Grceco collatus (1741); Storr, 
Observationes super X. T. Versionibus Syriacis (1772); 
Lohlein, Syrus Ep. ad Ephesios Inter pres (1835); Mi- 
chaelis [J. D.], Curce in Yersionem Syriucam Actuum 
A postolicorum (1755); Credner, De Prophetarum Min. 
Yers. Syr. quam Peschito vocant Indole (1827) ; the In- 
troductions of De Wette, Herbst, and Blcek, with Da- 
vidson’s Treatise on Biblical Criticism, vol. ii ; also the 
literature referred to by Walch, Bibl. Theol. iv, 143 sq. ; 
Ivosenmuller, Uandbuch , iii, 19 sq., 91 sq.; l)anz, Theol. 
Worterb. p. 927 ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. col. 70; and 
Herzog, Real-Encyldop. s. v. 

SYB1AC {Peshito) VERSION, Relation of, to the 
Septuagint and Chaldee. One of the most mooted 
points which have vexed scholars is the question as to 
the relation of the Peshito to the Sept, and Chaldee 
version. 

I. Relation to the Septuagint, — A good deal has been 
written concerning this question, pro and con . To the 
former side belong Gesenius, Credner, Hiivernick, and 
Bleek; to the latter, Hirzel and Herbst. Without adduc- 
ing the arguments used on both sides, it must be admitted 
that an intluence of the Sept, upon the Peshito cannot 
be denied, and to this supposition we are led by a com- 
parison of the one with the other. To make our asser- 
tion good, we will present the following passages from 
different books, and the reader can draw ids own infer- 
ences. We commence with the book of Genesis; 

ii, 2. Sept, t fj tK-rj/— Syr. X 1 n i mr. From the art. Tal- 
mudic Sotices on the Septuagint , s. v. Septfa- 
gint in this Cticlopo'dia, it will be seen that the 
Sept, changed here purposely “seventh” into 
“sixth.” If the Peshito version were made 
only from the original Hebrew, there was uo 
reasou why the of the Hebrew should 


be translated as if it read “dElin, like the read- 
ing of the Sain., Sam. vers., and Syr., which all 
followed the Sept. 

ii, 4. E' 1 *2’H "p^X — Sept. rov oipavdv Kai rijv ; Syr. 

xnxi x**2i. 

23. EMXE — Sept . U rov didpot aurtt; Syr. 5TE2 "ET. 

24. rm — Sept. Kai ecrovTui ot duo ; Syr. jl^HDI 

■ji.Tir\ 

iii, 2. *j"l "'"S'w — Sept. u7ro nai/rdt ft)\ov; Syr. also has 

bz. 

7. nbl— Sept. Syr. XE^E. 

9. lEXM — Sept. Kai eijrev 'Adcip; Syr. also supplies 

etx. 

11. 'lEXM — Sept. Kui et7rev aurui 6 Seor j Syr. **1*2X1 

x^e nb. 

16. 5“ll!Xn“bX — Sept. Kai Tr/ 71/1/cwKt ; Syr. XEE3XH. 

iv, S. 1TX — Sept. SitASttifiev etp to nidtov’, Syr. X*1"0 

xrbpnb. 

10. "lEXM — Sept. Kai et7re Kupio p; Syr. fib "1*2X1 
X^“*2. 

E^p:?X— i Sept. /3oa ; Syr. xb.1. 

15. "jib— Sept. ov\ outojp; Syr. X-Zi"!Xb. 

17. D *1*2 — Sept. 67r t t u> bvdpaTi ; Syr. ET1?1. 

25. IPIXTX — Sept. Euav t ijV 7 vva7«a aurov ; Syr. 

nrr:x xinb. 

— Sept. Kai avAAaftovoa treKev; Syr. J*i"!?"'1 

nrjzi. 

v, 23. -I, Til — Sept. Kai eyevovTo ■, Syr. nm (id. ver. 31). 
29. 12H*2E — Sept, a7ro TWV Ipatov r,fx£)v\ Syr. *j*2 

"pill. 

j*2 — Sept. Kai utto ; Syr. |*21. 

vi, 20. bzE—Sept. and Syr. bz*21. 

vii, 2. Till— Sept, duo duo ; Syr. -pin "pin. 

3. D}— Sept, and Syr. EM. 

8. bzl— Sept, and Syr. bz*2l. 

20. Tinn— Sept. T« oprj u\|rt)A«; Syr. X*2"l X^E. 
viii, 7. EV11 X1!i*i XITl-Sept. Kai l£e\$w V oIk «W- 
arpex/ze; Syr. xbl p£E p£M. 

17. bz— Sept. and Syr. bzl (id. ver. 19). 

22. **ip1— Sept, and Syr. "ip. 

"p-'pl— Sept, and Syr. *pp. 
ix, 2. PZE — Sept. Kai 67 rt irdvra; Syr. bzbll. 

5. EMX "PE— I Sept. U xetpor; Syr. XTX “,E\ 

7. 12S" 1 '! — Sept. Kai 7r\t]pu)aare ; Syr. 1"IP1X1. 

10. i’IEJ’122 — Sept. Kai and ktjjmwi/; Syr. X"l*2*Z EH. 

xi, 27. 111*13 riX — Sept. Kai rov n a\tbp i Syr. "!1H11?1. 

xii, 3. "jb?pEl — Sept. Kai Tour Karapiopevout <re ; Syr. 

-yrj-'bzi. 

7. ^lEXM — Sept. Kai eiirev out u>; Syr. nb ^exi. 

13. XD— Sept, aud Syr. omit (id. xiii, S). 

xiii, 7. E2M — Sept. Ka-npKov v ; S}’r. "pEn* 1 . 

xiv, 1. -jmx -Sept, aud Syr.-jM^XI. 

binni— Sept. 0up7«\; Syr. b^rnn. 

2. EXj’ 1— Sept, and Syr. EX31E1. 

5. EHE, in Ham — Sept, dpa adroit; Syr. p!"tET. 

6. E"1"1HE— Sept, ev tow Speai ; Syr. ^"llEEl. 

7. Mil', the country — Sept. toCt apxovrat; Syr. 

X3^->"l. 

10. !T"I121 ETD — Sept. 2o<56pu>v Kai fiaaiAevt Topop- 
pat ; Syr. X11E11 XzbEl EinO*l. 


SYRIAC YERSIOXS 


122 


SYRIAC YERSIOXS 


XIV, 20. “T^E — Sept, uiroxeipiow aov ; Syr. ""pT^XE. 

XV, 5. T2X"'l— Sept. ku< tlnei ainw; Syr. Jib 
0. “) -Xm — Sept. Kat tTrioT€v<jev' , Appafi; Syr. 

xvi, 2. S3— Sept, ami Syr. omit. 

6. “T'E — Sept, tv tui? x e ^ <rt c^ou > Syr. ^"H^XE. 

15. mb">-Sept. 6T€KCI avTU ) ; Syr. nb ‘ib'TXT 
xvii, 1G. "'cbE— Sept. k«» /?u<7<AtiY; Syr. XEb*21. 

19. C"H5S — Sept. o ^£09 7rp6r’A/?pa«V» Syr.CmExb. 
T“1T^ — Sept. Kat tiZ oneppaTi ai>Tov; Syr. HE"! *51. 

xviii, 5. nnS-Sept. Kat perd toDto ; Syr. ]Z "IPE1. 

17. EmEXE-Sept. a7ro ’Aftpaafi t ov naibb? pov\ Syr. 

ch-ex -he? p. 

20. ri-“l ^E — Sept. 7re7r\tj$ui/Tc» 7r poc pe ; Syr. 

lEiprb:?. 

29. n 'I.* V X xb — Sept, ov pij anoXeatn ; Syr. xb 

■jsbzns. 

xix, 3. HEX -Sept. eVe^ev auroTs; Syr. "pSlb XEX. 

7. “1EX" 1 ! — Sept. ctTre be irpo? avrovs ; Syr, “1EX1 

-pnb. 

12. ElpEH “| E — Sept. t« t ov Tonov tovtov ; Syr. "j E 

s:n xnrx. 

XX, 15. “5 — Sept. ’A fitpeAex tu» 'A(5padp\ Syr. 

en-cxb. 

Xxi, S. pnii" 1 — Sept. ’ IcrauK 6 1/109 airoD ; Syr. X"1E 

nnpncb. 

10. ZV (2.)— Sept, and Syr. omit. 

13. "njb — Sept, et? eSvos pe^ a; Syr. XE 1 "! XE5‘b. 

14. CEJ — Sept. Kat t7re3 , nK€i' ; Syr. COT. 

33. E 13^1 —Sept. Kat ecpuTcvcev 'Afipadp-, Syr. E3231 
cnnEX. 

xxii, 13. ^IHX-Sept. ft9; Syr. in. 

16. “IT 1 IT 1 PX — Sept, rod uja7rtjTov be epe ; Syr. 

^3E "“’T'n^b. 

xxiii, 14. 1?— Sept, and Syr. omit. 

19. *EE bp — Sept, o eoTiv cnrevavn ; Syr. E“ET 
xxiv, 21. ETEnE-Sept. Kat TrapecrithiTa ; Syr. XpEPEl. 
25. EipE C5— Sept. Kai T07ro9 ; Syr. n^PX CXI. 
31. “1EX“1— Sept. Kat einev avTipr, Syr. HI? "1EX1. 

33. “)EP PEX" 1 ! — Sept. Kat oVey, AttAijo-ov; Syr. 

hex nb ■p-iEXi. 

3S. **3E5 — Sept. ru5 inui pov tKe7^£i/; Syr. “|E ‘'PEP 
1-^ 

40. nDEZ" 1 — Sept, auto? IfaTrocTeXei; Syr. PPH3 in. 

54. "EP^EJ — Sept. tKirep'l/aTe pe tva d7rt\2-ci); Syr. 

b7x ^ipte. 

55. n^nx PEXT — Sept, einav be ol abe\<poi auT^ ; 

Syr. "pnx nb 1PEX1. 

“IHX - Sept. Kat /u £ r d Tat/Ta; Syr. "pP^ni. 

GO. npzn — Sept. 'PE/JeKKav r»/v dd£A0t;v avrow, Syr. 

nnnn xpEPb. 

xxv, 5. pni^b— Sept. ’laadK tw vtto aviov\ Syr. pno n b 

m e. 

S. EEEZ1 — Sept. Kat TrAt/pnP fipepMVy Syr. EE'IZl 
nn*2i\ 

Without enlarging our collation, it must be seen at 
once that the agreement between the Sept, and the 
Syriac version cannot be merely accidental, and the 
most sceptic must admit that the Sept, has been made 
use of by the Syriac translators. Is this inference cor- 


rect, we may go a step farther and say what holds good 
for the one must also be good for the other; or, in other 
words, the Syriac translator made use of the Sept, for 
the other books too. And, indeed, Gesenius has pro- 
duced a number of examples from the book of Isaiah to 
show that the Sept, was followed even in free and arbi- 
trary interpretations (comp, his Commentar fiber den 
Jesaia, i, 82 sip) ; and, in like manner, Credner, who 
has minutely examined the minor prophets in his lie 
Prophet arum Minorum Yersionis Syriucie quam Ptechi- 
to vocant Indole, thinks that the Sept, was employed 
there. A similar result will be achieved in comparing 
the book of Jeremiah. Thus, 

ii. 25. CX*3 — Sept, d^pioi^a.; Syr. b'nrX: both de- 

rive it from w^X, instead of from uZX“> (comp, 
also xviii, 12). 

34. nbx b^b^D— Sept. 67 ri irdcry bpvl ; Svi*. 

■jb^X bD: both probably reading H2X. 

iii, 2. ‘’E'HE’E — Sept. Kopwvrj; Syr. XEE3, reading E“2'I. 

S. riEu3?2 — Sept. KaTotKta-, Syr. XrHVE^, deriving 

from E’U">. 

viii, 21. ‘’m Em— Sept, and Syr. omit. 

XV, G. cn:n ^n^xbs — Sept. Kai owKfTt at V/cw avTOK ; 
Syr. ynb p s ,EEZX xb ET.I; both reading 
tn:n for cnrri. 

xvii, 16. EZ-1ZX CT 1 — Sept, bpepav av^pwnov‘, Syr. XE*^ 
XEZ3*1ET : both leading E*!3X. 
xviii, 14. “I'ZilE — Sept. a7ro irerpas puaroi; S}T. *jE 

X*Tr. both read iug 

xlviil, 2. fc jE"1E — Sept. Kai Travotv nai'(T€Tail Syr. 

■pprEZn '(X prrE "JEX: both regarded 
“|E*1E not as a proper noun, but as an Arama- 
ic infinitive of CE1. 

1.21. EEH Tips ^E'l^P bX"!. In the Masoretic text 
the Athiiach under “lips indicates that it be- 
longs to * 1 E'E!‘\ The Sept. connects TIpE with 
E™n, also reading E jp 6 kAik»j<7ov pdxcupa ; in 
like manner the Syr. connects and translates 
XE"in i-prrrx. 

It would be useless to adduce more examples for our 
supposition, since we do not write a dissertation, but for 
a cyclopaedia which, so far as the point in question is 
concerned, has treated that subject in such a full way as 
neither the introductions to the Old Test, nor cyclopae- 
dias and dictionaries of the Bible have done before, if 
they ever touched this point fully. 

There is yet another matter which we should not pass 
over, and to which, as it seems, little attention has been 
paid. We mean the titles of the Syriac psalms, which 
are found neither in the Hebrew nor in the editions of 
the Sept. The titles are partly historical, partly dog- 
matical, the former speak of David or the Jewish peo- 
ple, the latter of Christ and his Church. Now the ques- 
tion arises, if the Syriac translators really perused the 
Sept., as our supposition is, how is it that the titles 
found in the Syriac psalms are not to be met with in 
the Sept.? But the question is easily answered, when 
we consider the fact that these titles are not only found 
in the commentary of Eusebius, but also in the Codex 
Alexandrinus. From the latter they were reprinted in 
Walton’s Polyglot (vol. vi, pt. vi, p. 137 sq.), and again by 
Grabe, in the fourth volume of his edition of the Sept. 
A comparison of the titles as found in the Alex. Codex 
with those in the Peshito shows that the dogmatical 
part of these titles are a later addition, otherwise we 
could not account for the omission in the Greek, if real- 
ly the latter had copied the Peshito. Deducting these 
additions, the titles otherwise agree with each other. 
Thus the title of Psa. ii reads: 7rpo<pi]Ttta 7 rtpi Xpi - 
cttqv Kai KXgcretoq Syr. XEEX1 XI"P"lp bEE 


SYRIAC VERSIONS 


123 


SYRIAC VERSIONS 


xrnr-"! nna Yj-a sni’:) rsi: Psa. iii, irpo^ij- 

teici yf y>](TOf.ikvoiV ayciSGjv rip AttiuC; Syr. “PIT? "T 1 -X 
“jT^n^'n XPDD by: Psa. iv, irpo^pr^ui rip Aavid mpi 
u)v wkwoi&w, Syr. rV£“l ’pbn b:3E “PI lb. 

II. Relation to the Chaldee . — That there is a tolerable 
likeness between the Syriac and Chaldee in many places 
cannot be denied. Gesenins has produced a number of 
examples from Isaiah to show that the Targum was 
used there ( Comment . i, 83 sq.). Credncr is of the same 
opinion in regard to the minor prophets ( De Propheta- 
rum , etc., p. 107). Haverniek and Ilerbst are of an op- 
posite opinion, and yet the original traces of a use of a 
Targum are too distinct to be denied, as the following 
examples in Genesis must show: 

ii,l. caOX bD-Chald. Onk. *}imb"'n bz ; Syr. 

‘pnb-in nbs. 

2. mum-Chald. Onk. H31 ; Syr. mSPP&fcl. 

S. D“JpE— Chald.Onk/pEnpbE; Syr.cmp "E. 

17. "in'nSn-Chaltl.OnODib-’na; Syr.-pb’JE. 

24. nnnn anb— chald. onk. xnnn *jra; Syr. 

vi, 14. C’Ep— Chald. Onk. "p“l1“lE ; Syr. K“P“IE. 

vii, 4. miSEE — Chald. Onk. tn'JE TOIE ; Syr. 

kvje nnE. 

viii, 1. IDlim— Chald. Onk. 1H31 ; Syr. ItTEPTOI. 

4. I21TO “n,“l ?r— Chald. Onk. imp 1"1VJ b’J\ 

Syr. nnp mi a b m j. 

22. TTri- Chald. Onk. yiVjD"'; Syr. “jlVjnS. 

x, 10. -lraa— Chald. Onk.bDD; Syr. inn. 

xi, 28. ">32 hy— Chald. Onk. "'"'TO : Syr. ^TO. 
xi\\14. V'n-»3n TO-Chald. Onk. ">niEb;> rr>; Syr. 

miE^b2. 


Dprm ; Syr. x^T:m )zbb srr-'pb 

"pins mpr-i. 

xxxi, 9, 1 G. ^P2£"'1 — Chald. ETSXl ; Syr. 1T“IE1. 

34. in:n nrn-ciiaid. xbEn smrn; Syr. 
KbEm wN-j-nm. 

xxxvii, 25. n^bacrE^ nmx-Chaid. -‘xn'nr n“PT: 
Syr. SODTOn Xm^. 

xiiv, 30. rrssn mvjp vrssi — chald. miDESi 
mrsaa mb nnmfi; Syr. mrsai 
n w23 -pb nb XDmn. 

xivii, 2i. smrb ito ^nrn nrn rxi — chaid. 

^r,pi - r-"" X-5 - n V-e. 

and the people he made him to pass from city 
to city; Syr. X*p “,*2 *p3X “ED> XEl'Vl 
X“ipP. This is a very obvious imitation of 
the Chaldee. 

xlix, 3. "'SIX mean— Chalil. “'Epn 13m ; Syr. lam 

mpm. 

We could thus go on with the other books of the 
Pentateuch, but our examples are sufficient to show 
that the priority belongs to the Chaldee of Onkelos, and 
not to the Peshito. Our supposition being correct, the 
assertions of those must fall to the ground who would 
put Onkelos in the 2d or 3d century. On the con- 
trary, we believe that the Targum of Onkelos belongs 
to the time of Christ — provided the Syriac version of 
the Pentateuch belongs to the 1st century of the Chris- 
tian mra — and thus the notices concerning Onkelos 
which we find in the Talmud are continued anew. 
Our examples from the book of Genesis leaving it be- 
yond a shadow of doubt as to the dependence of the 
Syriac version upon the Chaldee, the Chaldee of the 
book of Proverbs will prove this more fully. Thus we 
read : 


Chaldee— Prov. i, 4. 


Syriac. 


xr-3 nr" atrenm ">xb-jbi atr.iE^n^ ^nn’rb ", rrb 

xmrnm 

iopEbi br^b 

i, 12. 


die xbTOi mnb bz 


i<E*; "nn3 - h n die xbnbi “^nb brE"D "psrbnD 

m.n.3 -px 

T« mmrbD:i 

ii, 13. 



kdi: 

Kzrrnn xnmaa "pbixi 


-ppbnEi »rs">nn 

xn-nx "pp--^ 

ii, 15. 


"pmb^D'n "pbrsEi 

XDiirm 

"pmb^EEJ "pbrsm ",Ep3E p.nnnnxn 


",Ep3E -prrmro 


xiv,7. PED ll^nn-Chald. Onk. “'13 "p?D ; Syr. 
“i3 "pm. 

xviii, 12. rS3“!3J ">b Pimfi m.bD m TO— Chald. “IPD 
^b vz^by xnr. Syr. nm -,e 

xniE'b;? ^b min mbm. 

"jPT "ETOI-Chald. D^D ^3D“)1; Syr. m El 
230. 

xxi, 33. brX m"'! -Chald. fcOIID 2231; Syr. 2231 

XH223. 

xxii, C. pbrXE— Chald. X3"=0; Syr. X3 ">pD. 
xxiii, 13. mm qOD-Chald.xbpn ">E“I K2C33; Syr. 

^ xbpn mn K20D. 

xxiv, 64. bE3n blTE bEH — Chald. rj^lllil; Syr. 
r3^3-)TO. 

xxvii, 3. “pbn— Chald. ”20, Syr. “E"0. 
xxx, 14,15. E^3ni"l— Chald. pniO; Syr. Xni22i. 

2S. ““1223 H2p3 — Chald. l 3"HD; Syr. ITmS. 

42. 2p3^b omirpm *jDbb D*23rn mm- 
chaid. m-rsai -pbb mir-'pb pm 


We will not increase the quotations, but let the student 
examine passages like i, 6, 8, 10, 13, 15, 18, 21-23, 25,30, 
33 ; ii, 1, 4, 10, 14, 17, 21 ; iii, 2, 4, G-8, 12, 15, 19, 21, 25, 
29; iv, 2,3, 10, 11, 14,18,21-23,25-27; v, 2, 4, 5, 7,8, 10, 

13, 16. 18, 21, 23; vi, 1,2, 4-6, 13, 15,16, 17, 19,26,28,34; 
vii, 2-4, 10, 16-18, 23-25; viii, 4, 8, 10, 12, 13, 20, 23, 26, 
32; ix, 4,5, 11, 14; x, 3-5, 7, 9, 16, 22, 30, 31 ; xi, 7, 13, 

14, 18, 21, 22, 26. 27, etc. — altogether more than 300 pas- 
sages where he will find a striking similarity between 
these two versions. 

Besides this similarity, there are a great many pas- 
sages in which the Chaldee and Syriac deviate from the 
Hebrew, and the inner connection of both versions with 
each other can no longer be doubted. Thus Prov. i, 7, 
the Hebrew reads, nr “I n*VTO“l mm TO”T— i.e. ‘‘The 
fear of God is the beginning of wisdom ;” but the Chal- 
dee reads, “ n “l Mnbm SCIEZn ir-n— i.e. “The begin- 
ning of wisdom is the fear of God;” and so also the Syr. 
;>r“i*2“i xnbm xr^pn lr-n : or xvi, 4, brs bs 
1Jl33Eb mm— “The Lord has made all things for 
himself;” the Chaldee paraphrases, "p"C13>‘ “inbs 
mb "p”EP12J12“! "pb^xb xnbxi— i. e. “All works of 
God are for those who obey him;” and thus also the 


124 


SYRIAN CHURCHES 


SYRIAN 

Syr. nh •przrrzi ■p’b-xb K-nzn \thz:> *pn^z. 
Without increasing the number of such passages, we will 
adduce some in which both versions entirely give up the 
Masoretic text and follow another reading: thus Prov. 
i, 24, for 12X 1 -HI the Chaldee reads 501, for tlic 

translation is •prClT'n N31, and so also the Syriac, xbl 
"pr: -"H: v,9, the Chaldee reads instead of "pin, 
for the translation is ~?^n, and so in the Syriac, ”?Vt : 
ix, 11, for “C'S the Chaldee reads HZ" 1 :, for the trans- 
lation is HZ'! SIZE, and in the Syriac riZT b-Z. These 
examples, which could be increased greatly (comp, iii, 
27; v, 4, 9, 19, 21 ; vii, 22, 23 ; viii, 3; ix, 11; x, 4; xi, 
2G; xii,4, 19,21,28; xiii, 15, 19; xiv, 14; xv, 4; xix, 
19,23; xx, 4, 14, 20; xxi, 4, 30; xxii, 11, 10; xxiv, 5, 
22; xxv, 20, 27; xxvi,5,7, 10; xxviii,5, 11; xxix, 18.21; 

xxx, 31 ; xxxi, 6), leave no doubt that the Chaldee and 
Syriac stand in a relation of dependence to each other. 

But in speaking of a relation of these versions, it 
must not be understood as if they relate to each other 
as the original and copy, but this relation consists in 
that the author of the one version, in preparing the 
same, followed mostly the other without giving up his 
independence entirely. This we can see from the eighty- 
two passages in which the Chaldee follows the Masoretic 
text, while the Syriac deviates from it, as ii, 10; iii, 30; 
iv, 3, 1 1 , 22, 25, 32 ; vii, 7, 8, 10, 22 ; viii, 7, 1 1, 35 ; ix, 12, 
18; x, 10, 12, 19,24,20; xi, 9, 10, 10, 19,24, 29; xii, 17, 
23; xiii, 1, 10,23; xiv, 7, 17, 22,23,33,35; xv, 10, 14, 10, 
17, 22, 30; xvi, 7, 20; xvii, 4, 9, 15; xviii, 1, 3, G, 15 ; 
xix, 1,4,22,29; xxi, 14; xxii, 3, 19; xxiii, 2, 0, 30, 34; 
xxiv, 10, 20, 32, 33; xxv, 4, 11, 10, 13, 21, 22; xxvi, 2, 
11-13, 17-19,20; xxx, 15, 19; or from those passages 
in which the Syriac agrees with the Masoretic text 
against the Chaldee, as vi, 35; vii, 15; viii, 29; x, 29; 
xi, 4; xiv, 24; xv, 32; xvi, 5, xvii, 5, 10; xviii, 17; 
xix, 2, 13; xxiii, 28; xxiv, 9, 14; xxv, 9; xxviii, 1; 

xxxi, 3. 

To these examples from the book of Proverbs we 
could also add a number from other books, but we be- 
lieve we have proved sufficiently onr assertion. As this 
Cyclopedia, so far as we know, is the only one in which 
this question has been treated to such length, future in- 
vestigations based upon these must show the tenabilitv 
or otherwise of our assertion. See also Schonfelder, On - 
Icelos und Peschito (Miinchen, 1809) ; May ba urn, Ueber 
die Sprache des Tar yum zu den Spr uchen und dessert Ver- 
haltniss zum Syrer, in Merx, Archie Jur wissenschaft- 
liche Erforschung des Alien Testaments, ii, GO sq. ; Dathe, 
Opusculu , p. 100 sq. ; Frankl, Stmlien iiber die Septua- 
ginta und Peschito zu Jeremia , in Frankel-Grlitz, Manats - 
schrift , 1872, p. 444 sq. (B. P.) 

Syr'ian pEPX, A rammi , Gen. xxv, 20 ; xxviii, 5 ; 
xxxi, 20, 24; Dent, xxvi, 5, 2 Kings v, 20; fem. PPEHX, 
Arammiydh , 1 Chron. vii, 14, “ Aram i less;” plur. masc. 

Arammim , 2 Kings viii, 28, 29; xvi, 0 [where 
the text has which the marg. corrects to 

Edomites ] ; 2 Chron. xxii, 5 ; but “ Syrians” is 
elsewhere the rendering of E1X, Aram; 'S.vpog, Luke 
iv, 27), an inhabitant either of Western Syria, i. e. on 
the Mediterranean (2 Kings v, 20), or of Eastern, i. e. 
Mesopotamia (Gen. loc. cit.). See Syria. 

Syrian Churches, a general name for that portion 
of the Oriental Church which had its seat in Syria, and 
which was anciently comprehended in the patriarchate 
of Antioch and (after that of Jerusalem obtained a dis- 
tinct jurisdiction) in the patriarchate of Jerusalem. The 
Syrian Church of the early centuries was exceedingly 
flourishing. Before the end of the 1th century it num- 
bered 119 distinct sees, with a Christian population of 
several millions. The first blow to the prosperity of the 
Syrian Church was the fatal division which arose from 
the controversies on the incarnation. See Eutycijes; 
Jacobites; Monophysites; Xestokians. The Eu- 


tvehian heresy, in one or other of its forms, obtained 
wide extension in Syria; and the usual results of divi- 
sion ensued in the corruption and decay of true religion. 
The Moslem conquest accelerated the ruin thus begun; 
and from the 7th century downwards, this once flourish- 
ing Church declined into a weak and spiritless commu- 
nity, whose chief seat was in the mountains, and whose 
best security from oppression lay in the belief on the 
part of the conquerors of their utterly fallen and con- 
temptible condition. Under the head Maronites lias 
been detailed the most remarkable incident in the later 
history of the Syrian Church. This branch of the East- 
ern Christianity, although for the most part divided 
from the orthodox Greek Church by the profession of 
Monophysitism, took part with the Greeks in their sepa- 
ration from the West, under Michael Cerularius; and 
the reunion of the Maronites to Borne had the remark- 
able result of establishing side by side, within the nar- 
row limits occupied by the Christians under the Moslem 
rule in Syria, two distinct communities, speaking the 
same language, using the same liturgy, and following 
the same rites, and yet subject to two different patri- 
archs, and mutually regarding each other as heretics 
and apostates from the ancient creed of their country. 

The chief peculiarity of the Syrian rite, as contradis- 
tinguished from the Greek, consists in its liturgy, and 
the language of that liturgy, which is Syriac, and with 
which the people, and, in many cases, the priests, are en- 
tirely unacquainted. The liturgy is known as the Lit- 
urgy of St. James. The Syrians agree with the Greeks 
in the use of unleavened bread, in administering com- 
munion under both heads, in permitting the marriage 
of priests (provided they marry before ordination), and 
in administering the unction of confirmation at the same 
time with baptism, even to infants. 

The Christian community of Syria may at present be 
divided into four classes: the Maronites, the Greeks 
(who are also called Melehites), the Monophysites, who 
are called Jacobites, and the primitive Syrian Christians 
(not Maronites) who are in communion with Borne. This 
last-named community forms the small remnant of the 
ancient Syrian Church which remained orthodox during 
the controversy on the incarnation, at the time of the 
general lapse into Monophysitism. To these are to be 
added the Christians of the Latin rite. The Maronites 
number about 150,000; the Greeks are said to be about 
50,000; the Jacobites of Syria and of Armenia Proper 
are said to reckon together about 40,000 families, of 
whom, however, but a small proportion (probably scarce- 
ly 10,000 in all) can be set down to the account of the 
Syrian Church. The non-Maronite Syrians who follow 
their national rite, but are in communion with Borne, are 
supposed to amount to about 4000. The resident Latins 
are chiefly members of the religious orders who from 
immemorial time have possessed convents in the Holy 
Land, and European Catholics who have settled perma- 
nently or for a time at Jerusalem, Beirut, and Damas- 
cus. None of these can in any way be regarded as be- 
longing to the Syrian Church. It may be well to add 
that the belief, and, in most particulars, the disciplinary 
practice, of these several classes coincide substantially 
with those respectively of the same communities in the 
other churches of the East. All (with the exception of 
the Maronites and the few United Syrians) reject the 
supremacy of the Roman see. The Syrians of the Greek 
communion reject the double procession of the Holy 
Ghost ; and the Jacobites firmly maintain their old 
tenet of Eutychianism. Among them all are to be found 
monks and religious females. All enforce celibacy on 
their bishops, and refuse to priests the privilege of con- 
tracting a second marriage, or of marrying after ordina- 
tion. The practice of fasting prevails among all alike. 
They receive and practice the invocation of saints and 
prayers for the dead, and the use of painted, although 
not of graven, images. Many particulars regarding 
them are to be gleaned from the memoirs of recent 
missionaries of the several denominations, among which 


SYRINX 


125 


SYRTIS 


the letters published from time to time by the French 
Society for the Propagation of the Faith, although nat- 
urally tinged with some sectarian coloring, are partic- 
ularly full and interesting. — Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. 
Sec Etheridge, II 1st,, Liturgy, etc., of Syrian Churches 
(Lond. 1840) ; Benin, Traditions of Syr. Churches (ibid. 
1871). 

Syrinx, in Greek mythology, was a daughter of the 
river-god Lado, who, when pursued on account of her 
beauty by Pan, prayed to her father for relief, and was 
changed into a reed. Pan cut some stalks from it, join- 
ed them together with wax, and used it, in the form 
known to us as Pan’s- pipe, in remembrance of her 
(Ovid, Met am. i, 090). 

Syrna, in Greek mythology, was a daughter of the 
Carian king Damoetlnis. She fell from the roof of her 
house, and was restored by the art of Podalirius, who 
then married her, and built the city named after her in 
Caria. 

Sy'ro-Fhceni'cian ( "Svpofpoii'KTcm y. r. , Zvpo<poi- 
rtKtooa), a general name (Mark vii, 20) of a (female) 
inhabitant of the northern portion of Phoenicia, which 
was popularly called Syro-Phoenicia , by reason of its 
proximity to Syria and its absorption by conquest into 
that kingdom. See Pihexicia. The name is made es- 
pecially interesting to the scriptural student on account 
of the woman who besought our Lord in behalf of her 
afflicted daughter, and the miraculous cure wrought by 
him on the latter. Matthew calls the woman a woman 
of Canaan (xv, 22), being in respect to her nationality, 
in common with the Phoenicians, a descendant of Ca- 
naan ; Mark describes her as “ a Greek, a Syrophocnici- 
an by nation” (vii, 20), but Rosenmiiller rightly observes 
that the Jews called all Gentiles Greeks ('EAXi/i'fc), 
just as the Greeks called all strangers barbarians. She 
was therefore a Greek, or Gentile, and a native of that 
part of Syria which belonged to Phoenicia. We have 
a curious instance of the interchange made in respect 
to the terms Canaanitcs and Phoenicians, of an earlier 
kind, in the case of Shaul, the son of Simeon, who is 
said in Genesis (xlvi. 10), according to the Sept., to be 
the son of a Phoenician woman, and in Exodus (vi, 15), 
to be the son of a Canaanitish woman. The case of 
the Svrophcenician woman was a ven T singular one, 
both on account of the strong faith manifested on her 
part, and the exercise of divine grace and power in mi- 
raculous working by Christ beyond the proper sphere 
of his personal ministrations. In the latter respect it 
stands in a sort of affinity to the cases in Old-Test, his- 
tory referred to by our Lord in Luke iv, 20, 27. — Fair- 
bairil. 

The invention of the words “ Syro-Phoenicia” and 
“ Svro-Phcenicians” seems to have been the work of 
the Romans, though it is difficult to say exactly what 
they intended by the expressions. It has generally 
been supposed that they wished to distinguish the Phoe- 
nicians of Syria from those of Africa (the Carthagini- 
ans) ; and the term “ Syrophocnix” has been regarded 
as the exact converse to “Li by phoenix” (Alford, ad loc.'). 
But the Libvphocnices are not the Phoenicians of Afri- 
ca generally — they are a peculiar race, half-Alrican and 
half- Phoenician (“mixtum Punicum Afris genus,” Livy, 
xxi, 22). The Svro-Phcenicians, therefore, should, on 
this analogy, be a mixed race, half Phoenicians and half 
Syrians. This is probably the sense of the word in the 
satirists Lucilius (ap. Non, Marc. De Proprietat . Serm. 
iv, 431) and Juvenal (Sat.v iii, 159), who would regard 
a mongrel Oriental as peculiarly contemptible. In later 
times a geographic sense of the terms superseded the 
ethnic one. The emperor Hadrian divided Syria into 
three parts — Syria Proper, Syro-Phoenice, and Syro- 
Paltestina; and henceforth a Syro-Phocnician meant a 
native of this sub-province (Lucian, De Cone. Deor. § 4), 
which included Phoenicia Proper, Damascus, and Pal- 
myrene (sec Bawlinson, Ilerod. iv, 243 sq.). — Smith. 
Syropulus (also Sguropui.us, 2yoi/po7rouXoc, 


Syof-po^), Sylvester, a writer on the history of the 
Council of Ferrara and Florence (1438 sq.), who himself 
participated in its business, and was one of the most de- 
termined opponents of the union between the churches 
of the East and West upon which the emperor, John 
Paheologus, had set his heart. So far did he carry his 
opposition that he found it advisable to resign his place 
as one of the six debaters in the council, and came into 
violent antagonism with both the patriarch and the 
emperor, lie yielded to the emperor’s commands and 
threats, however, so far as to sign the decree of union 
which had been adopted, but afterwards deplored the 
weakness of his action. He was a legal officer (cikcu- 
d<pv\a!Z) and a chief sacristan (peyag tKK\ijaidpxi}0 at 
Constantinople, and also one of the five dignitaries 
about the patriarch who were allowed to wear the 
badge of the cross upon their robes; but his want of 
tirmness in the matter of the treaty of union with the 
Latin Church rendered him unpopular at home and 
thus caused him to retire from public life. He devoted 
his leisure to the composition of a “true history of the 
untrue union between the Greeks and the Latins,” 
thereby exciting against himself the anger of the Lat- 
ins and their friends in turn, so that Romish writers 
like Labbe and Allatius class him unqualifiedly with 
Grecian liars and the worst sort of schismatics. 

The work of Syropulus has important and undeniable 
value as a source for the history of the Synod of Ferrara. 
It presents a credible view of events personally engaged 
in by the author, and defends a position actually repre- 
sented in the council, besides revealing to view a series 
of connected and involved incidents which, but for its 
narration, could not have been known at this day. The 
later criticism of Allatius may, nevertheless, have cor- 
rected some minor particulars of the narrative. The ob- 
ject of the book was to show that a real union was im- 
possible, though the leaders on both sides, the pope, 
Bessarion, the patriarch, the emperor, etc., steadily drew 
nearer to each other, until the necessities of the Greeks 
decided the result, which Syropulus justly characterizes 
as a compromise (gevorge) rather than a union. The 
final drafting of the terms of union involved extraordi- 
nary difficulties (sect, viii, 14). Book xii relates the 
disagreements of the Greeks while returning from the 
synod, and their discouraging reception at home. 

The work is extant in a single edition based on a 
codex of the Bibliotheca Regia (N. 1247), from which 
Serrarius caused it to be copied in 1042 and sent to 
Isaac Vossius for publication; but Sir Edward Ilyde, 
the English ambassador, caused the manuscript to be 
placed at the disposal of Robert Creyghton, chaplain at 
the court of Charles II and, later, bishop of Bath. The 
latter issued the book in the original Greek and accom- 
panied it with a Latin translation under the title Vera 
Hist. Unionis non Vera’ inter Greecos et Latinos, etc. (Ila- 
gte Comitis, 1000), besides prefixing to it a eulogy of 
Syropulus and of the Grecian theology and Church as 
compared with the papal, which rendered the work still 
more unpalatable to Romish readers. Allatius accord- 
ingly prepared a refutation, directed more especially at 
Creyghton, entitled In P. Creyghtoni Apparat., Versio- 
nem et Not. ad Hist. Cone. Florentini , etc. (Rom. 1005), 
pt. i. Creyghton’s edition and also the Paris codex are 
incomplete, as the whole of the first book is wanting; 
but several other manuscript copies of Syropulus exist, 
so that the deficiency may perhaps be met. See Creygh- 
ton’s preface, ubi sup.; Oudini Comment, iii, 2418 ; Cave, 
Hist. After. Append.; Schrbkh, xxxiv, 411. — Ilerzog, 
Peal-Encyklop. s. v. 

Syrtis (2?'p n G “quicksands,” Acts xxvii, 17). 
There were two quicksands on the coast of North Af- 
rica, between Cyrene and Carthage, whose shoals and 
eddies the ancient mariners greatly feared (Horace, 
Odes, i, 22, 5 ; Ovid, Fast, iv, 499; Tibull. ii, 4, 91). The 
greater of these was named Syrtis Major , or Magna, 
and the lesser Syrtis Minor; and old geographers used 
to tell many marvels respecting them (Strabo, ii, 123; 


SYRUS 


126 


xvii, 834; Ptolemy, iv, 3 ; Pliny, v, 4; Solin. 27; Mela, 
i, 7, 4; Sallust, Jug. 78). Modern explorations find 
both of them to be highly dangerous bays, where the 
treacherous sandy shore is barely covered with wa- 
ter, and where territic clouds of sand are suddenly 
raised by the wind, obscuring the sight and overwhelm- 
ing men and even ships. The Greater Syrtis is now 
called the Gulf of Sidra, between Tripoli and Barea; 
and the Lesser the Guff of Cubes. The former is spe- 
cially intended in the account of Pauls shipwreck (<p v.). 


TABEEL 

See Smith, Diet, of Class. Geog. s. v. See Quick- 
sand. 

Syrus, in Greek mythology, was a son of Apollo and 
Sinope, who is said to have given name to the Syrians. 

Systaticae (Svararticai) were letters of license 
granted by a bishop for a clergyman to remove from 
his diocese to another, called by the old canons Dismis- 
sorg Letters. 

Syzygus. Sec Yoke-fellow. 


t. 


Ta'anacli (Heb. Taanak “JS'ri , sandy [Gesenins], 
or fortified- [Filrst] ; twice [Judg. xxi. 25 ; 1 Cliron. vii, 
29] more briefly Tanak ', q32ri, A. Y. “Tanach;” Sept. 
Oardy or Oaard^ v. r. Taray —ai’c'iK, etc.), an ancient 
Canaanitish city, whose king is enumerated among the 
thirty-one conquered by Joshua (Josh, xii, 21). It 
came into the hands of the half-tribe of Manasseb (xvii, 
11 ; xxi, 25; 1 Chron. vii, 29), though it would appear 
to have lain within the original allotment of Issachar 
(Josh, xvii, 11). It was bestowed on the Kohathite 
Levites (xxi, 25). Taanach was one of the places in 
which, either from some strength of position, or from 
the ground near it being favorable for their mode of 
fighting, the aborigines succeeded in making a stand 
(xvii, 12; Jndg. i, 27); and in the great struggle of the 
Canaanites under Sisera against Deborah and Barak it 
appears to have formed the headquarters of their army 
(Judg. v, 19). After this defeat the Canaanites of Taa- 
nach were probably made, like the rest, to pay a tribute 
(Josh, xvii, 13; Judg. i, 28), but in the town they ap- 
pear to have remained to the last. Taanach is almost 
always named in company with Megiddo, and they 
were evidently the chief towns of that fine, rich district 
which forms the western portion of the great plain of 
Esdraelon (1 Kings iv, 12). It was known to Eusebius, 
who mentions it twice in the Onomasticon (Baai'dy and 
Qavai] ) as a “very large village” standing between 
three and four Homan miles from Legio — the ancient 
Megiddo. It was known to hap-Parchi, the Jewish 
mcdiieval traveller, and it still stands about four miles 
south-east of Lejjnn, retaining its old name with hardly 
the change of a letter. Schubert, followed by Robin- 
son, found it in the modern Ta'anmik, , now a mean ham- 
let on the south-east side of a small hill, with a summit 
of table-land (Schubert, Morgenland , iii, 164; Robinson, 
Bill. Res. iii, 156; Bibl. Sacra, 1843, p. 76; Schwarz, 
Palest. p. 149). The ancient town was planted on a 
large mound at the termination of a long spur or prom- 
ontory, which runs out northward from the hills of Ma- 
nasseh into the plain, and leaves a recess or bay, subor- 
dinate to the main plain on its north side, and between 
it and Lejjun (Van de Velde, i, 358). Ruins of some 
extent, but possessing no interest, encompass it (Porter, 
Handbook, p. 371). The houses of the present village 
are mud huts, with one or two stone buildings (Ridga- 
wav, The Lord's Land , p. 588). 

Taanali. See Taanath-Siiiloii. 
Ta'anath-Shi'loh (Ileb. Taanath' Shiloh', 

Taanah [Gesenins, approach; Fiirst, circle ] of 
Shiloh, so called prob. from its vicinity to that place; 
Sept. TjjndS' SjjXtu v. r. (h)vaaa icai SsXXt/c), a place 
mentioned (Josh, xvi, 6) as situated near the northern 
border of Ephraim at its eastern end between the Jor- 
dan and Janohah. Sec Trike. With this agrees the 
statement of Eusebius {0 nomast. s. v.), who places Jano- 
hah twelve and Thenath ten Roman miles east of Ne- 
apolis. It is probably the Thenn (Qijva) mentioned by 
Ptolemy (Geog. v, 16, 5), one of the chief cities of Sama- 
ria, in connection with Xeapolis. In the Talmud (Je- 
rusalem Megillah, i), Taanath-Shiloh is said to be iden- 


tical with Shiloh, a statement which Kurtz (Gesch. des 
Alt. Bundes, ii, 70) understands as meaning that Taa- 
nath was the ancient Canaanitish name of the place, 
and Shiloh the Hebrew name, conferred on it in token 
of the “rest” which allowed the tabernacle to be estab- 
lished there after the conquest of the country had been 
completed. But this is evidently conjecture arising 
from the probable proximity of the two places. Taa- 
nah-of-Shiloh is probably the A in Tana seen bv Rob- 
inson north-east of Mejdel ( Later Res. iii, 295), and by 
Van de Velde (Memoir, p. 121, although erroneously 
marked Meraj ed-Din on his Map), about a mile from 
the road between Acrabi and Mejdel, consisting of “a 
small tell with a ruin, on the first lower plateau into 
which the Ghor descends.” 

Taanitli. See Talmud. 

Tab'aoth (T dfiatbS v. r. Ta/3<o3), a less correct 
form (1 Esdr. v, 29) of the name Tabbaotii (q. v.) of 
the lleb. lists (Ezra ii, 43; Neh. vii, 46). 

Tab'baotli (Heb. Tabbaotii ', rnrsiJ, rings [Gese- 
nins], or spots [Fiirst] ; Sept. T aj3j3a(b$ v. r. T afiad)& 
and Ta/3w3), one of the Nethinim whose descendants 
or family returned from Babylon with Zerubbabel (Ezra 
ii, 43; Neh. vii, 46). B.C. ante 536. 

Tab'bath (Heb. Tahbath', perh. celebrated 

[Gesenins]; Sept. TafiaS v. r. Pa/3dS), a place men- 
tioned in describing the flight of the Midianitish host 
after Gideon’s night attack; they tied to Beth-shittah, 
to Zercrath, to the brink of Abel-meholab on (^2) Tab- 
bath (Judg. vii, 22). As all these places were in or near 
the Ghor, Tahbath is probably the present Tubuhhut- 
Fahil , i. e. “Terrace of Fahil,” a very striking natural 
bank, 600 feet in height, with a long horizontal and 
apparently flat top, which is embanked against the 
western face of the mountains east of the Jordan, and 
descends with a very steep front to the river (Robinson, 
Bibl. Res. iii, 325). 

Tab'eal (Isa. vii, 6). See Tabeel, 1. 

Tab'eel (Ileb. Tabeel bs;2:: [in pause TabedT, 
5X212, Isa. vii, 6, A. V. “Tabeal”], God is good; Sept. 
T afiegX), the name of two men. See also Tobiel. 

1. The father of the unnamed person on whom Re- 
zin, king of Syria, and Pekah, king of Israel, proposed 
to bestow the crown of Judah in case they succeeded in 
dethroning Ahaz (Isa. vii, 6). B.C. ante 738. Who 
“Tabeal’s son” was is unknown, but it is conjectured 
that he was some factious and powerful Ephraimite 
(perhaps Zichri, 2 Chron. xxviii, 7), who promoted the 
war in the hope of this result. — Kitto. The Aramaic 
form of the name [see Tabrimmon], however, has been 
thought to favor the supposition that he was a Syrian 
in the army of Rezin. The Targum of Jonathan ren- 
ders the name as an appellative, “and we will make 
king in the midst of her him who seems good to us” 
(s:b -dl'l'n "‘S r?). Rashi by Gematria turns the 
name into Rimla , by which apparently he wonld 

understand Remaliah. — Smith. 


TABELLIUS 


127 


TABERNACLE 


2. An officer of the Persian government in Samaria 
in the reign of Artaxerxes (Ezra iv, 7). B.C. 510. It 
has been argued that lie, too, was an Aramaean, from 
the fact that the letter which lie and his companions 
wrote to the king was in the Syrian or Aramaean lan- 
guage. Gesenius, however (Jena, i, 280), thinks that 
he may have been a Samaritan. — Smith. 

Tabel'lius (Ta/3e\\toe), a Gnecized form (I Esdr. 
ii, 10) of the Heb. name (Ezra iv, 7) Tabeel (q. v.). 

Tab'erah (Heb. Taber ah', rn?2f), consumption ; 
Sept. ipirvpiGpog), a place in the wilderness of Paran ; 
so called from the fact that “ the tire of Jehovah burned” 
(rn~3) among the Israelites there in consequence of 
their complaints (Numb, xi, 3). It lay at the next sta- 
tion beyond Iloreb, and must therefore be sought some- 
where in Wady Saal. See Exode. Keil argues (Com- 
ment*. a(\ loc.) from the expression that it was u in the 
uttermost part of the camp,” and from the omission of 
the name in Numb, xxxiii, that the place was identical 
with the station Kibroth-hattaavali next named; but 
he overlooks the fact that both these are separately 
mentioned in Deut. ix, 22. 

Tabering (fYlBBh'3; Sept.. <p$tyy6pevat ; Vulg. 
murmur antes), an obsolete word used in the A. V. of 
Nab. ii, 7 in the sense of drumming, or making regular 
sounds. The Hebrew word is derived from CjPl, “a 
timbrel,” and the image which it brings before us in 
this passage is that of the women of Nineveh, led away 
into captivity, mourning with the plaintive tones of 
doves, and beating on their breasts in anguish, as wom- 
en beat upon their timbrels (comp. Psa. lxviii, 25 [2G], 
where the same verb is used). The Sept, and Vulg., as 
above, make no attempt at giving the exact meaning. 
The Targum of Jonathan gives a word which, like the 
Hebrew, has the meaning of “ tympanizantes.” The 
A. V., in like manner, reproduces the original idea of the 
words. The “tabour” or “tabor” was a musical instru- 
ment of the drum type, which with the pipe formed the 
band of a country village. We retain a trace at once 
of the word and of the thing in the “tabourine” or 
“tambourine” of modern music, in the “ tabret” of the 
A. V. and older English writers. To “ tabour,” accord- 
ingly, is to beat with loud strokes as men beat upon 
such an instrument. The verb is found in this sense in 
Beaumont and Fletcher, The Tamer Tamed (“I would 
tabor her”), and answers with a singular felicity to the 
exact meaning of the Hebrew.— Smith. See Plump- 
tre, Bible Educator, iv, 210. 

Tabernacle is the rendering, in the A. V., of the 
following Heb. and Gr. words: J. bflX, ohel, the most 
frequent term, but often signifying and rendered a com- 
mon “ tent 2. *j31L ;, 2, mishkdn, the distinctive term, 
always so rendered, except (“dwelling”) in 1 Chron. 
vi, 32; Job xviii, 21; xxi, 28; xxxix, 6; Psa. xxvi, 8; 
xlix, 11; lxxiv, 7; lxxxvii, 2; Isa. xxxii, 18; Jer. ix, 
19; xxx, 8; li, 30; Ezek. xxv, 4; Heb. i, 0; (“habita- 
tion”) 2 Chron. xxix, G; Psa. lxxviii, 28; cxxxii, 5; 
Isa. xxii, 1G; liv, 2; (“tent”) Cant, i, 8; 3. “3 [once 
” ; U, Lam. ii, G], sole (Psa. lxxvi, 2), !"!20, sukkdh (Lew 
xxiii, 34; Deut. xvi, 13, 1G: xxxi, 10: 2 Chron. viii, 
13; Ezra iii, 4; Job xxxvi, 29 ; Isa. iv, G; Amos ix, 11 ; 
Zech. xiv, 1G, 18, 19), or 7**130, sikkuth (Amos v, 2G), all 
meaning a booth, as often rendered ; 4. < jKipn ), GKrjvog 
(2 Cor. v, 1, 4), or oicgviopa (Acts vii, 4G [rather hab- 
itation] ; 2 Pet. i, 13, 14), a tent . Besides occasional use 
for an ordinary dwelling, the term is specially employed 
to designate the first sacred edifice of the Hebrews prior 
to the time of Solomon ; fully called "IpO btl jt, the tent 
of meeting, or (especially in Numb.) nnOil “SOTO, tab- 
ernacle of the congregation (Sept, otjju/} [I Kings viii, 
4, G, <7fc?)i'OJ/ia] 7ou paprvpiov ; Philo, Upon <popi]r6v, 
Opp. ii, 14G; Josephus, peraepepoperog Kai Gvp7repivo- 


oreor vaog, Ant. iii, 0, 1). (In the discussion of this 
interesting subject, we use in part the articles found in 
the dictionaries of Kitto, Smith, and Fairbairn, but with 
large additions and modifications, especially in the sec- 
tion on its structure, where we have availed ourselves 
of MS. contributions from Prof. T. O. Paine, LL.D., au- 
thor of Solomon's Temple, etc., in addition to the sug- 
gestions in the book itself.) 

1. Terms and Synonyms . — I. The first word thus 
used (Exod. xxv, 9) is *,30io, mishkdn, from “|3'3, to 
lie doicn or dwell, and thus itself equivalent to dwelling. 
It connects itself with the Jewish, though not scriptu- 
ral. word Shechinah (q. v.), as describing the dwelling- 
place of the divine glory. It is noticeable, however, 
that it. is not applied in prose to the common dwellings 
of men, the tents of the patriarchs in Genesis, or those 
of Israel in the wilderness. It seems to belong rather 
to the speech of poetry (Psa. lxxxvii, 2; Cant, i, 8). 
The loftier character of the word may obviously have 
helped to determine its religious use, and justifies trans- 
lators who have the choice of synonyms like “taber- 
nacle” and “tent” in a like preference. In its applica- 
tion to the sacred building, it denotes (a) the ten tri- 
colored curtains ; (b) the forty-eight planks supporting 
them; (c) the whole building, including the roof. Sec 
Dwelling. 

2. Another word, however, is also used, more con- 
nected with the common life of men ; ohel, the 

tent of the patriarchal age, of Abraham and of Isaac 
and of Jacob (Gen. ix, 21, etc.). For the most part, as 
needing something to raise it, it is used, when applied 
to the sacred tent, with some distinguishing epithet. 
In one passage only (1 Kings i, 39) does it appear with 
this meaning by itself. The Sept., not distinguishing 
between the two words, gives gkijvi) for both. The 
original difference appears to have been that rep- 
resented the uppermost covering, the black goats'-hair 
roof, which was strictly a tent, in distinction from the 
lower upright house -like part built of boards. The 
two words are accordingly sometimes joined, as in Exod. 
xxxix, 32; xl, 2, 6, 29 (A. V. “the tabernacle of the 
tent”). Even here, however, the Sept, gives gk)jv)j 
only, with the exception of the va?\ lect. of >/ gk}]vi) 
rijg GKE7ri}g in Exod. xl, 29. In its application to the 
tabernacle, the term ohel means («) the tent-roof of 
goats’-hair; (b) the whole building. See Tent. 

3. P.?2, bdyith, house (ohcog, domus}, is applied to the 
tabernacle in Exod. xxiii, 19; xxxiv, 26; Josh, vi, 24; 
ix, 23; Judg. xviii, 31 ; xx, 18, as it had been, appar- 
ently, to the tents of the patriarchs (Gen. xxxiii, 17). 
So far as it differs from the two preceding words, it ex- 
presses more definitely the idea of a fixed settled hab- 
itation. It was therefore fitter for the sanctuary of 
Israel after the people were settled in Canaan than 
during their wanderings. For us the chief interest of 
the word lies in its having descended from a yet older 
order, the first word ever applied in the Old Test, to a 
local sanctuary, Beth-el, “ the house of God" (xxviii, 17, 
22), keeping its place, side by side, with other words — 
tent, tabernacle, palace, temple, synagogue — and at last 
outliving all of them ; rising, in the Christian Ecclesia, 
to yet higher uses (1 Tim. iii, 15). See House. 

4. ll'Tp, kddesh, or mikddsh (dytaopa, dyia- 

orijptov , ro uytov, rd ityia, sunctaarium ), the holy, 
consecrated place, and therefore applied, according to 
the graduated scale of holiness of which the tabernacle 
bore witness, sometimes to the whole structure (Exod. 
xxv', 8; Lev. xii, 4), sometimes to the court into which 
none but the priests might enter (Lev. iv, G ; Numb, iii, 
38; iv, 12), sometimes to the innermost sanctuary of all, 
the Holy of Holies (Lev. xvi, 2). Here also the word 
had an earlier starting-point and a far-reaching his- 
tory. Eu-Mishpat, the city of judgment, the seat of 
some old oracle, had been also Kadesh, the sanctuary 
(Gen. xiv, 7 ; Ewald, Gesch . Isr. ii, 307). The name 


TABERNACLE 


12S 


TABERNACLE 

El-Kuds still clings to the walls of Jerusalem. See 
Sami-laky. 

5. '“I"!, heyh'd, temple (vaog, templuni), as meaning 
the stately building, or palace of Jehovah (1 Chron. 
xxix. 1. 19). applied more commonly to the Temple 
(2 Kings xxiv, 13, etc.), but was used also (probably at 
the period when the thought of the Temple had affect- 
ed the religious nomenclature of the time) of the tab- 
ernacle at Shiloh (1 Sam. i, 9; iii, 3) and Jerusalem 
(l»sa. v, 7). In either case the thought which the word | 
embodies is that the “tent,” the “house,” is royal, the 
dwelling-place of the great king. See Tumble. 

The tirst two of the above words receive a new 
meaning in combination with “12*1^2 (jnovd), and with 
rsnrn ( ha-ediith ). To understand the full meaning 
of the distinctive titles thus formed is to possess the 
key to the significance of the whole tabernacle. 

(a.) The primary force of is “to meet by ap- 
pointment,” and the phrase “h7*V2 bnk has therefore 
the meaning of “ a place of or for a fixed meeting.” 
Acting on the belief that the meeting in this case was 
that of the worshippers, the A. V. has uniformly ren- 
dered it by “tabernacle of the congregation” (so Seb. 
Schmidt, “tentorium conventfis:” and Luther, “ Stifts- 
hiitte” in which Stiff — Pfarrkirche'), while the Sept, 
and Vulg., confounding it with the other epithet, have 
rendered both by i) (tkijvi) rob paprvptov, and “taber- 
liaculum testimonii.” None of these renderings, how- 
ever, bring out the real meaning of the word. This is 
to be found in what may be called the locus classicus, 
as the interpretation of all words connected with the 
tabernacle. “This shall be a continual burnt-offering 
... at the door of the tabernacle of meeting (12* * «) 
where I will meet you (TTvS, yvuxjSpaopad) to speak 
there unto thee. And there will I meet (TH^, tci$o- 
pat) with the children of Israel. And I will sanctify 
(*nr^p) the tabernacle of meeting . . . and I will 
dwell ( n r among the children of Israel, and will 
be their God. And they shall know that I am the 
Lord their God” (Exod. xxix, 42-4G). The same cen- 
tral thought occurs in xxv, 22, “There 1 will meet with 
thee” (comp, also xxx, 6, 30; Numb, xvii, 4). It is 
clear, therefore, that “congregation” is inadequate. 
Not the gathering of the worshippers, but the meeting 
of God with his people, to commune with them, to make 
himself known to them, was what the name embodied. 
Ewald has accordingly suggested 0$bibarungszelt = tent 
of revelation, as the best equivalent (A Iterthiimer, p. 130). 
This made the place a sanctuary . Thus it was that the 
tent was the dwelling , the house of God (Biihr, Symb. i, 
81). See Congregation. 

(6.) The other compound phrase, Fippri as con- 
nected with “nr ( — to bear witness), is rightly ren- 
dered by »/ rob paprvptov, tabernucidnm testi- 

monii. die ) Vohnung des Zeugnisses, “the tent of the tes- 
timony” ( Numb, ix, 15) “the tabernacle of witness” 
(xvii. 7; xviii, 2). In this case the tent derives its 
name from that which is the centre of its holiness. 
The two tables of stone within the ark are emphatical- 
ly the testimony (Exod. xxv, 10,21; xxxi, 18). They 
were to all Israel the abiding witness of the nature and 
will of God. The tent, bv virtue of its relation to 
them, became the witness of its own significance as the 
meeting-place of God and man. The probable con- 
nection of the two distinct names, in sense as well as in 
sound (Biihr, Symb. i, 83, Ewald, Alt. p. 230), gave, of 
course, a force to each which no translation can repre- 
sent. See Testimony. 

II. History. — 1. We may distinguish in the Old Test, 
three sacred tabernaeles. 

(1.) The Ante-Sinaitic, which was probably the dwell- 
ing of Moses, and was placed by the camp of the Is- 
raelites in the desert, for the transaction of public busi- 


ness. Exod. xxxiii, 7-10, “Moses took the tabernacle, 
and pitched it without the camp, afar ofF from the camp, 
and called it the Tabernacle of the Congregation. And 
it came to pass, that every one which sought the Lord 
went out unto the tabernacle of the congregation, which 
was without the camp. And it came to pass, when 
Moses went out unto the tabernacle, that all the peo- 
ple rose up, and stood every man at his tent-door, and 
looked after Moses until lie was gone into the taber- 
nacle. And it came to pass, as Moses entered into the 
tabernacle, the cloudy pillar descended, and stood at the 
door of the tabernacle, and the Lord talked with Moses. 
And all the people saw the cloudy pillar stand at the 
tabernaele-door : and all the people rose up and wor- 
shipped, every one in his tent-door.” This was neither 
the sanctuary of the tabernacle described in ch. xxv 
sip, which was not made till after the perfect restora- 
tion of the covenant (ch. xxxv sq.), nor another sanctu- 
ary that had come down from their forefathers and was 
used before the tabernacle proper was built (as Le Clerc, 
J. D. Michaelis, and KosenmUller supposed) ; but an or- 
dinary tent used for the occasion and purpose ( Keil, 
Comment . ad loc.). 

(2.) The Sinaitic tabernacle superseded the tent 
which had served for the transaction of public business 
probably from the beginning of the Exode. This was 
constructed by Bezaleel and Aholiab as a portable man- 
sion-house, guildhall, and cathedral, and set up on the 
first day of the first month in the second year after leav- 
ing Egypt. Of this alone we have accurate descriptions. 
It was the second of these sacred tents, which, as the 
most important, is called the tabernacle par excellence. 
Moses was commanded by Jehovah to have it erected 
in the Arabian desert, by voluntary contributions of the 
Israelites, who carried it about with them in their mi- 
grations until after the conquest of Canaan, when it re- 
mained stationary for longer periods in various towns 
of Palestine (as below). 

(3.) The Daeidic tabernaele was erected by David, in 
Jerusalem, for the reception of the ark (2 Sam. vi, 12); 
while the old tabernacle remained to the days of Solo- 
mon at Gibeon, together with the brazen altar, as the 
place where sacrifices were offered (1 Chron. xvi, 39; 2 
Chron. i, 3). 

2. Varied Fortunes of the Sinaitic Tabernacle . (1.) 

In the Wilderness . — The outward history of the taber- 
nacle begins with Exod. xxv. It comes after the first 
great group of laws (eh. xix-xxiii), after the covenant 
with the people, after the vision of the divine glory (ch. 
xxiv). Eor forty clays and nights Moses is in the mount. 
Before him there lay a problem, as measured by human 
judgment, of gigantic difficulty. In what fit symbols 
was he to embody the great truths without which the 
nation would sink into brutality? In what way could 
those symbols be guarded against the evil which he had 
seen in Egypt, of idolatry the most degrading? He 
was not left to solve the problem for himself. There 
rose before him, not without points of contact with pre- 
vious associations, yet in no degree formed out of them, 
the “pattern” of the tabernacle. The lower analogies 
of the painter and the architect seeing, with their in- 
ward eye, their completed work before the work itself 
begins, may help us to understand how it was that the 
vision on the mount included all details of form, meas- 
urement, materials, the order of the ritual, the apparel 
of the priests. lie is directed in his choice of the two 
chief artists, Bezaleel of the tribe of Judah, Aholiab of 
the tribe of Dan (ch. xxxi). The sin of the golden calf 
apparently postpones the execution. For a moment it 
seems as if the people were to be left without the Divine 
Presence itself — without any recognised symbol of it 
(xxxiii, 3). As in a transition period, the whole fut- 
ure depending on the patience of the people, on the in- 
tercession of their leader, a tent is pitched (probably 
that of Moses himself, which had hitherto been the head- 
quarters of consultation), outside the camp, to be pro- 
visionally the tabernacle of meeting. There the mind 


TABERNACLE 


120 


TABERNACLE 


of the lawgiver enters into ever-eloser fellowship with 
the mint! of God (ver. 11), learns to think of him as 
‘•merciful and gracious” (xxxiv, G); in the strength of 
that thought is led hack to the fulfilment of the plan 
which had seemed likely to end, as it began, in vision. 
Of this provisional tabernacle it has to be noticed that 
there was as yet no ritual and no priesthood. The peo- 
ple went out to it as to an oracle (xxxiii, 7). Joshua, 
though of the tribe of Ephraim, had free access to it 
(ver. 11). 

Another outline law was, however, given; another 
period of solitude, like the first, followed. The work 
could now be resumed. The people offered the neces- 
sary materials in excess of what was wanted (xxxvi, 
5. 6). Other workmen (ver. 2) and workwomen (xxxv, 
25) placed themselves under the direction of Bezalecl 
and Aholiab. The parts were completed separately, and 
then, on the first day of the second year from the Ex- 
ode, the tabernacle itself was erected and the ritual ap- 
pointed for it. begun (xl, 2). 

The position of the new tent was itself significant. 
It stood, not, like the provisional tabernacle, at a dis- 
tance from the camp, hut in its very centre. The mul- 
titude of Israel, hitherto scattered with no fixed order, 
were now, within a month of its erection (Numb, ii, 2), 
grouped round it, as around the dwelling of the unseen 
Captain of the Host, in a fixed order, according to their 
tribal rank. The priests on the east, the other three 
families of the Levites on the other sides, were closest 
in attendance, the “body-guard” of the Great King. 
See Levitk. In the wider square, Judah, Zebulun, Is- 
sachar, were on the east; Ephraim, Manasseh, Benja- 
min, on the west; the less conspicuous tribes, Dan, Ash- 
er, Naphtali, on the north ; Beuben, Simeon, Gad, on 
the south side. When the army put itself in order of 
march, the position of the tabernacle, carried by the 
Levites, was still central, the tribes of the east and south 
in front, those of the north and west in the rear (ch. 
ii). Upon it there rested the symbolic cloud, dark by 
day and fiery-red by night (Exod. xl, 38). When the 
cloud removed, the host knew that it was the signal for 
them to go forward (ver. 3G,37 ; Numb, ix, 17). As long 
as it remained — whether for a day, or month, or year — 
they continued where they were (ver. 15-23). Each 
march, it must be remembered, involved the breaking- 
up of the whole structure, all the parts being carried on 
wagons by the three Levitical families of Kohath, Ger- 
shon,and Merari, while the “sons of Aaron” prepared for 
the removal by covering everything in the Holy of Ho- 
lies with a purple cloth (iv, 0-15). See Encampment. 

In all special facts connected with the tabernacle, the 
original thought reappears. It is the place where man 
meets with God. There the Spirit “comes upon” the 
seventy elders, and they prophesy (Numb, xi, 24, 25). 
Thither Aaron and Miriam are called out when they re- 
bel against the servant of the Lord (xii, 4). There the 
“glory of the Lord” appears after the unfaithfulness of 
the twelve spies (xiv, 10) and the rebellion of Korali 
and his company (xvi, 10, 42) and the sin of Meribah 
(xx, 6). Thither, when there is no sin to punish, but 
a difficulty to he met, do the daughters of Zelophehad 
come to bring their cause “before the Lord” (xxvii, 2). 
There, when the death of Moses draws near, is the sol- 
emn “charge” given to his successor (Dcut.xxxi, 14). 

(2.) In Palestine . — As long as Canaan remained un- 
conquered, and the people were still therefore an army, 
the tabernacle was probably moved from place to place, 
wherever the host of Israel was for the time encamped— 
at Gilgal (Josh, iv, 19), in the valley between Ebal and 
Gerizim (viii, 30-35), again, at t lie headquarters of 
Gilgal (ix, 0; x, 15, 43); and, finally, as at “the place 
which the Lord had chosen,” at Shiloh (ix, 27 ; xviii, 
1). The reasons of this last choice are not given. Tart- 
ly, perhaps, its central position, partly its belonging to 
the powerful tribe of Ephraim, the tribe of the great 
captain of the host, may have determined the preference. 
There it continued during the whole period of the judges, 
X.-I 


the gathering-point for “the heads of the fathers” of 
the tribes (xix, 51), for councils of peace or war (xxii, 
12; J Lidg. xxi, 12), for annual solemn dances, in which 
the women of Shiloh were conspicuous (ver. 21). There, 
too, as the religion of Israel sank towards the level 
of an orgiastic heathenism, troops of women assem- 
bled, shameless as those of Midinn, worshippers of 
Jehovah, and, like the itpotWAoi of heathen ttmples, 
concubines of his priests (1 Sam. ii, 22). It was far, 
however, from being what it was intended to be. the 
one national sanctuary, the witness against a localized 
and divided worship. The old religion of the high- 
places kept its ground. Altars were erected, at first 
under protest, and with reserve, as being not for sacri- 
fice (Josh, xxii, 20), afterwards freely and without scru- 
ple (Judg. vi. 24; xiii, 19). Of the names by which 
the one special sanctuary was known at this period, 
those of the “house” and the “temple” of Jehovah (I 
Sam. i, 9, 24; iii,3, 15) are most prominent. 

A state of things which was rapidly assimilating the 
worship of Jehovah to that of Ashtaroth or Mvlitta need- 
ed to be broken up. The ark of God was taken, and the 
sanctuary lost its glory; and the tabernacle, though 
it did not perish, never again recovered it (1 Sam. iv, 
22). Samuel, at once the Luther and the Alfred of Is- 
rael, who had grown up within its precincts, treats it as 
an abandoned shrine (so Psa. Ixxviii, CO), and sacrifices 
elsewhere — at Mizpeh (1 Sam. vii, 9), at Hamah (ix, 
12 ; x, 3), at Gilgal (ver. 8 ; xi, 15). It probably became 
once again a movable sanctuary; less honored, as no 
longer possessing the symbol of the Divine Presence, 
yet cherished by the priesthood, and some portions at 
least of its ritual kept up. For a time it seems, under 
Saul, to have been settled at Nob (xxi, 1-0), which 
thus became what it had not been before — a priestly 
city. The massacre of the priests and the flight, of Abi- 
athar must, however, have robbed it yet further of its 
glory. It had before lost the ark. it now lost the pres- 
ence of the high-priest, and with it the oracular ephod. 
the Urim and Tlmmmim (xxii, 20, xxiii, 6). What 
change of fortune then followed we do not know. The 
fact that all Israel was encamped, in the last days of 
Saul, at Gilboa, and that, there Saul, though without 
success, inquired of the Lord by Urim (xxviii, 4-G), 
makes it probable that the tabernacle, as of old, was in 
the encampment, and that Abiathar bad returned to it. 
In some way or other it found its way to Giheon (1 
Chron. xvi, 39). The anomalous separation of the two 
things which, in the original order, had been joined 
brought about yet greater anomalies, and while the ark 
remained at Kirjath-jearim, the tabernacle at Giheon 
connected itself with the worship of the high-places (1 
Kings lii, 4). The capture of Jerusalem, and the erec- 
tion there of a new tabernacle, with the ark, of which 
the old had been deprived (2 Sam. vi, 17 ; 1 Chron. 
xv, 1), left it little more than a traditional, historical 
sanctity. It retained only the old altar of burnt-offer- 
ings (1 Chron. xxi, 29). Such as it was. however, neither 
king nor people could bring themselves to sweep it away. 
The double service went on; Zadok, as high-priest, of- 
ficiated at Giheon (1 Chron. xvi, 39): the more recent, 
more prophetic service of psalms and hymns and mu- 
sic, under Asaph, gathered round the tabernacle at Je- 
rusalem (ver. 4, 37). The divided worship continued 
all the days of David. The sanctity of both places was 
recognised by Solomon on his accession (l Kings iii. 15; 
2 Chron. i, 3). But it was time that the anomaly should 
cease. As long as it was simply tent against tent, it 
was difficult to decide between them. The purpose of 
David, fulfilled by Solomon, was, that the claims of both 
should merge in the higher glory of the Temple. Some, 
Abiathar probably among them, clung to the old order, 
in t his as in other things; but the final day at last came, 
and the tabernacle of meeting was either taken down or 
left to perish and be forgotten. So a page in the relig- 
ious history of Israel was closed. Thus the disaster of 
Shiloh led to its natural consummation. 


TABERNACLE 


130 


TABERNACLE 


III. Description. — The written authorities for the res- 
toration of the tabernacle are, lirst, the detailed account 
to be found in Exod. xxvi, and repealed in xxxvi,8-H8, 
without any variation beyond the slightest possible 
abridgment; secondly, the account given of the build- 
ing by Josephus (.4 nt. iii, (>). which is so nearly a repe- 
tition of the account found in the Bible that we may 
feel assured that he had no really important authority 
before him except the one which is equally accessible to 
us. Indeed, we might almost put his account on one 
side if it were not that, being a Jew, and so much near- 
er the time, he may have had access to some traditional 
accounts which may have enabled him to realize its ap- 
pearance more readily than we can do, and his knowl- 
edge of Hebrew technical terms may have assisted him 
to understand what we might otherwise be unable to 
explain. The additional indications contained in the 
Talmud and in Philo are so few and indistinct, and are. 
besides, of such doubtful authenticity, that they practi- 
cally add nothing to our knowledge, and may safely be 
disregarded. 

For a complicated architectural building, these writ- 
ten authorities probably would not suffice without some 
remains or other indications to supplement them; but 
the arrangements of the tabernacle were so simple 
that they are really all that are required. Every im- 
portant dimension was either live cubits or a multiple of 
live cubits, and all the arrangements in plan were either 
squares or double squares, so that there is, in fact, no dil- 
tieultv in putting the whole together, and none would 
ever have occurred, were it not that the dimensions of 
the sanctuary, as obtained from the ‘-boards” that formed 
its walls, appear at first sight to be one thing, while 
those obtained from the dimensions of the curtains 
which covered it appear to give another. The appar- 
ent discrepancy is, however, easily explained, as we shall 
presently see, and never would have occurred to any one 
who had lived long under canvas or was familiar with 
the exigencies of tent architecture. 

The following close translation of Exod. xxvi will set 
the subject generally before the reader. We have indi- 
cated, by the use of italics, marked variations from the 
A. V. : 

1. And the tabernacle thou shalt make— ten cur- 

tains; twisted linen, and violet and purple and crimson 
of cochineal : cherubs, work of(au) artificer, thou shalt 

2. make them. (The) length of the one curtain (shall be) 
eight and twenty by the cubit, and (the breadth) four 
by the cubit, the one curtain: one measure (shall be) 

3. to all the curtains. Five of the curtains shall becom- 
ing each to its fellow, and five of the curtains joining 

4. each to its fellow. And thou shalt make loops (bib) 
of violet upon (the) edge of the one curtain from (the) 
end in the joining, and so shall thou make in (the) edge 

5. of (he endmost curtain in the second joining: fifty loops 
shalt thou make in the one curtain, and fifty loops shall 
thou make iu (the) end of the curtain which is in the 
second joining , the loops standing opposite (T* 

6. the one to its fellow. Aud thou shalt make fifty tachcs 
(C n £) of gold, and thou shalt join the enrtains one to 
its fellow with the taches, and the tabernacle shall be 
one. 

7. Aud thou shalt make curtains of goats (’ hair) for a 
tent (bnk) upon the tabernacle, eleven curtains shalt 

S. thon make them. (The) length of the one curtain 
(shall be) thirty by the cubit, and (the) breadth four by 
the cubit, the one curtain: one measure (shall be) to 
0. (the) eleven curtains. And thon shalt join five of the 
curtains separately, and six of the curtains separately; 
and thou shalt double the sixth curtain towards (the.) 

10. forefront of the tent. And thou shalt make fifty loops 
upon (the) edge of the one curtain — the endmost in 
the joining, and fifty loops upon (the) edge of the enr- 

11. tain— the second joining. And thou shall make taches 
of copper — fifty; and shalt bring the taches in the 
loops, and thou shall join the tent, and (it) shall he 

12. one. And (the) overplus hang iu (the) curtains of the 
tent — half of the overplus curtain shall hang upon 

13. the hack of the tabernacle; and the cubit from this 
(side) and the cubit from that (side) in the overplus in 
(the) length of (the) curtains of the tent shall be hting 
upon (the) sides of the tabernacle from this (side) and 
from that (side), to cover it 


14. And thou shalt make (a) covering to the tent, skins 
of rams reddened, and (a) covering of skins of tach - 
ashes from above. 

15. And thou shalt make the planks (- jj^) for the tab- 
ernacle, trees [ wood ] of acacias standing. 

10. Ten cubits (shall tie the) length of the plank, and (a) 
cubit and (the) half of the cubit (the) breadth of the 
17. one plank. Two hands [te on.s] (shall there be) to 
the one plank, joined others corresponding) 

[comp, xxxvi, 22] each to its fellow: so shalt thou 
IS. make ! or do] for all (the) planks of the tabernacle. And 
thou shalt make the planks for the tabernacle, twen- 
ty planks for (the) Negeb [#ouf/i] quarter towards Tev- 
10. man [the south]. And forty bases (“|TNJ of silver shalt 
thou make under the twenty planks, two bases under 
the one plank for its two hands, and two bases under 

20. the one [next] plank for its two hands. And for the 
second rib [ dank] of the. tabernacle to (the) Tsaplnm 

21. [north] quarter (there shall be) twenty planks; and 
their forty ba.-es of silver, two bases under the one 
plank, and two bases under the one [next] plank. 

22. And for (the) thighs [ran] of the tabernacle seaward 

23. [«wf] thou shall make six planks. And two planks 
shalt thou make for (the) angles (Z’l^p'2, cutting off) 

24. of the tabernacle in the thighs [rear]: and (they) shall 
be twinned (E n *£8in, perhaps jointed, hinged, or bolted) 
from below together, and shall be twins upon its 
head [top] towards the one ring: so shall (it.) be to 
both of them: for the two angles shall (they) be. 

25. And (there) shall be eight planks, and their bases of 
silver— sixteen bases, two bases under the one plank, 
and two bases under the one [ncx-f] plank. 

2(5. And thon shall make bars (n n “2) of trees [hwh?] of 
acacias [Shittim]; five for (the) planks of the one rib 
27. [dank] of the tabernacle, and five bars for (the) planks 
(if the second rib [jlank] of the tabernacle, and five 
bars for (the) planks of (the) r\h>[jlank] of the taber- 
2S. uncle for the thighs [w<r] seaward [av.sf], And the 
middle bar in (the) middle of the planks (shall) bar 
(rr-c-a ,be bolti ng through) from the eud to the end. 

29. And the planks thou shalt overlay (with) gold, and 
the rings thon shalt make (of) gold, (as) houses [places] 
for the bars; and thou shalt overlay the bars (with) 
gold. 

30. And thon shalt rear the tabernacle like its judg- 
ment [style] which I made thee see iu the mountain. 

1. The court (^n) was a large rectangular enclosure, 
open to the sky. and with its entrance at the cast end. 
Its dimensions are given more than once, being 100 cubits 
long and 50 broad. Its construction was very simple, 
being composed of a frame of four sides of distinct pil- 
lars, with curtains hung upon them. In other words, it 
was surrounded by canvas screens — in the East called 
kanudfs, and still universally used to enclose the pri- 
vate apartments of important personages. The pillars 
were probably of shittim-wood (that, is, the desert acacia), 
a light, close-grained, imperishable wood, easily taking 
on a fine natural polish, though it is nowhere directly 
intimated of what material they were; they were five 
cubits in height (sufficient to prevent a person from look- 
ing over them into the enclosure), but their other di- 
mensions are not given, so that we cannot be sure 
whether they were round (Ewald) or four-cornered 
(Biihr), probably the latter. At the bottom these pil- 
lars were protected or shod by sockets of brass (copper). 
It is not quite easy to say whether these sockets were 
merely for protection, and perhaps ornament, or if they 
also helped to give stability to the pillar. In the latter 
case, we may conceive the socket to have been of the 
shape of a hollow wedge or pointed funnel driven into 
the ground, and then the end of the pillar pushed down 
into its cavity; or they may have been simply plates 
laid on the. ground, with a hole for the reception of the. 
tenoned foot of the pillar, as in the case of the “boards” 
noticed below. Other appliances were used to give the 
structure firmness, viz. the common articles of tent ar- 
chitecture, ropes and pins (Exod. xxxv, 18). At the 
top these pillars had a capital or head (xxxviii, 17, 
“chapiter”), which was overlaid with silver; but wheth- 
er the body of the pillar was plated with any metal is 
not said. Connected with the head of the pillar were 
two other articles, hooks, and things called 


TABERNACLE 


131 


TABERNACLE 


Curtain-wall of Entrance to Court. 


chaskukim, rendered “fillets,” i. e. 
ornamental chaplets in relief 
round the pillar (so Ewald. Alter- 
thihmr, p. 335, note 5), hut most 
probably meaning rods (so (ie- 
senius. Fiirst.and others), joining 
one pillar to another. These rods 
were laid upon the hooks, and 
served to attach the hangings to 
and suspend them from. The hooks and rods were 
silver, though Knobel conjectures the latter must have 
been merely plated {Exod. p. 27bi). The mode of ad- 
justing these hangings was similar to that of the door- 
way screens and “ vail” described below. 

The circumference of the enclos- 
ure thus formed was 300 cubits, 
and the number of pillars is said to 
have been 20 + 20 + 10 + 10 =t>0, 
which would give between every 
two pillars a space of 3 ^ ( b° =5 cu- 
bits. There has been consider- 
able difficulty in accurately con- 
ceiving the method adopted by 
the writer in calculating these pillars. This difficulty 
arises from the corner pillars, each of which, of course, 
belongs both to the side and to the end. It has been 
supposed by many that the author calculated each one 
corner pillar twice: that is, considered it, though one in 
itself, as a pillar of the side and also as a pillar of the end. 
This would make in all 5G actual pillars, and, of course, as 
many spaces (13iihr, Knobel, etc.); that is, nineteen spaces 
on each side, and nine on the end. Now since the side 
was 100 cubits and the end 50, this would give for each 
side space 1 I *^°=5^, and for each end space ^°=5^ cu- 
bits, spaces artificial in themselves and unlike each other. 
It is certainly most probable that the spaces of side and 
end were of exactly the same size, and that each of them 
was some exact, and no fractional, number of cubits. 
The difficulty may he completely removed by assuming 
the distance of 5 cubits to each space, and counting as 
in the accompanying ground-plan. Thus, since each 
side was 100 cubits, this needs twenty spaces. I hit 
twenty spaces need twenty-one pillars. So that, sup- 
posing us to start from the south-east corner and go 
along the south side, we should have for 100 cubits 
twenty-one pillars and twenty spaces; but of these we 
should count twenty spaces and pillars for the south 
side, and call the south-west corner pillar, not the twen- 
ty-first pillar of the side, but the first of the end. Then 



Curtain -wall of Court. (Details suggested by Assyrian sculpture; 


going up the end, we should count ten pillars and spaces 
as end, but consider the north-west corner pillar not as 
eleventh of the end, but first of tbe north side; and so 
on. In this way we gain sixty pillars and as many 
spaces, and have each space exactly 5 cubits. 



(Details suggested by Assyrian sculptures.) 

The hangings (C'lAj?. kelaim'") of the court were. of 
twined shesh ; that is. a fabric woven out of twisted yarn 
of the material called shesh. This word, which properly 
means while , is rendered by our version “fine linen,” a 
.rendering with which most concur, while some decide 
for rollon. At all events, the curtains were a strong 
fabric of this glancing white material, and were hung 
upon the pillars, most likely outside, though that is not 
known, being attached to the pillars at the top by the 
hooks and rods already described, while the whole was 
stayed hv pins and cords, like a tent. 

The entrance, which was situated in the centre of the 
east end, and was twenty cubits in extent, was formed 
also of a hanging (technically “S'T, musdk) of “blue, 
purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, work of the 
rohetn” (A. V. “needle-work”). The last word 
has usually been considered to mean embroiderer with 
the needle, and the curtain fancied to have had figures, 
flowers, etc., of the mentioned colors wrought into it. 
But such kinds of work have always a “wrong” side, 
and, most probably, taking into account the meaning 
of the word in Arabic, and the fondness of the Arabs at 
this day for striped blankets, tbe word means “ weaver 
of striped cloth,” and the hanging is to be conceived as 
woven with lines or stripes of blue, purple, and scarlet 



Plan of the Tabernacle and its Court. (From Higgenbach’s Mosaische Stiftshutte.) 

Large enclosure — Court (open overhead!. Small enclosure— the Tabernacle (covered), a. Ark in the Holy of Holies, b. TaMe of show-hread. r. Golden 
candlestick, d. Altar of incense — b, e, d being in the holy place, e. Laver, or basin for washing. /. Altar of burnt-offering. g. Gang or ledge 
around this altar for the priests to stand upon, h. Sloping ascent from the ground to this ledge. (The last two articles are in the court.) 


TABERNACLE 


132 


TABERNACLE 


on the white ground of shesh (Knobel, Keil, etc.). In 
other words, the warp, or longitudinal threads, was of 
white linen, while the woof made cross- bars (which 
would hang vertically) of brilliantly dved wool in a 
treble thread. They were merely spun and woven, 
without gold or embroidered iigures. 

The furniture of the court consisted of the altar of 
burnt- offering and the laver. These are sufficiently 
described under their appropriate headings. See Al- 
tar; l.AVKti. What concerns us is the position of 
them. In all probability, the tabernacle proper stood 
with its entrance exactly in the middle of the court, 
that is, fifty cubits from the entrance of the court; and 
very possibly the altar of burnt- offering stood, again, 
midway between the door of the court and that of the 
tabernacle, i. e. twenty-five cubits from each, and some- 
where in the twenty-five cubits between the altar and 
the tabernacle stood the laver (Josephus, Ant . iii, G, 2). 

2. The Tabernacle itself. — Following the method pur- 
sued with the outer court, we begin with the walls. 
These were built of boards, or, rather, planks 
kerashini), in close contact with each other. They were 
of shittim-wood, overlaid with gold on both sides, ten 
cubits high and one and a half cubit broad, their 
thickness being nowhere given. From the foot of each 
plank came out two ‘‘tenons” (HIT 1 , yaddth=- hands), 
which must not be conceived as connecting the planks 
with each other laterally, as if there corresponded to a' 
tenon in one plank a mortise in another; they were for 
connecting each particular plank with the ground, and 
must be conceived as two wedge-shaped or pointed 
pieces (probably of copper, or perhaps of silver), pro- 
jecting from the lower end of the plank. These tenons 
were thrust into silver sockets, of which two were pre- 
pared for each plank, each socket being the weight of a 



Sockets of the Tabernacle Court, and their Position nu- 
der the Boards. 


talent of silver. Whether these sockets were wedge- 
shaped or pointed, and themselves went into the ground, 
or whether they were mere foot-plates for the plank, 
with holes for the tenons to pass through into the ground 
(the last more probable), is not intimated. l*rof. Paine 
has ingeniously suggested the thickness of these sock- 
ets as one sixth of a cubit [see Metrology], and like- 
wise their form (half a cubit square), as in the adjoin- 
ing eut. lie also calculates from this size of the sock- 
ets, or foot-plates, that the planks should be (as Jose- 
phus says) one third of a span, i. e. one sixth of a cu- 
bit thick (which is 
quite sufficient for 
strength), in order to 
turn the corners neat- 
ly, as illustrated in the 
subjoined cut. This 
might indeed have 
been effected on the 
supposition that the 
planks were one cubit 
thiek.as the accompa- 
nying cut will show ; 
but we can hardly 
suppose that the 
planks overhung the 
Bottom of the Corner Planks, shown ^ atlCS "bich support- 
as resting upou the Bates (accord- e( l them. These bases 
ing to Paine). did not require to eu- 




Planks on their Bases (according to the common view). 


ter deeply into the ground, as there was no lateral strain 
upon them, and the whole weight of the building kept 
them firmly in their place. Their only object was to 
keep t he bottom of the planks level and even. The up- 
per ends of the planks, however, needed to be kept from 
separating, as they would certainly do under the trac- 
tion of the stay-cords fore and aft. Hence the tenons 
mentioned in Exod. xxvi, 17 are carefully distinguished 
from those (already described) referred to in ver. 19; 
and they are designated (without any sockets assigned 
to them) by a peculiar term, meshullaboth , 

which occurs here only. It is regarded by Gcsenius as 
radically signifying notched, but he understands it here 
as meaning joined, a sense in which Flirst and M lihlau 
emphatically concur, to the exclusion of that adopted 
by the Sept. ( avTt7ri7rrovTtg ) and the A. V. (“set in 
order"). Prof. Paine refers the term to the top of the 
planks, and renders it clasped , understanding a separate 
plate with holes corre- 
sponding to pins or ten- 
ons (probably all of cop- 
per) in the upper end 
of the planks likewise, 
as in the annexed eut. 

This is an essential pro- 
vision for the stabili tv of 

the structure, of which Fl !? t I ? n ' m F., f °r '5 e T,">? of "je 
, ’ . “Boards’ of the Tabernacle 

no one else seems to (according to Paine). 

have thought. Never- A aclas? _ b, two board, clasped, 
theless, as he privately 

informs us, he has since abandoned this distinction be- 
tween the top and bottom tenons, and in his forthcom- 
ing second edition he will dispense with the clasps. 
The long middle bar, if pinned to each end plank, 
would subserve a similar purpose. Something of this 
sort is perhaps intimated by the bolting (nTHZ'p, rP 23 ) 


o 


o 


X 


of Exod. xxvi, 28 ; xxxvi, 33. The roof-curtains would 
likewise assist in holding the planks together. 

Of these boards, which, being one and a half cubit, 
i.e. about two and a half feet broad, must have been form- 
ed of several smaller ones jointed together, there were 
twenty on the north and twenty on the south side, thus 
making each side the length of thirty cubits. For the 
west end were made six boards, yielding nine cubits, 
and in addition two boards for the corners (Exod. xxvi, 
22 sq.), making in all eight boards and twelve cubits; 
and as the end is thought (so Josephus, Ant. iii, 6, 3) 
to have been ten cubits (proportionate to that in Solo- 
mon’s Temple, 1 Kings vi, 2. 20), this would imply that 
each corner plank added half a cubit to the width, but 
nothing to the length, the measurements being taken 
inside. Were the planks supposed a cubit thick, which 
is the usual calculation (but an extravagant one on ac- 
count of the weight), the remaining cubit, of the corner 
plank would exactly cover the thickness of the side 
plank. The description given of the corners is exceed- 
ingly perplexing, and the diversity of opinion is natural- 
ly great. The difficulties all lie in Exod.xxiv.24. It goes 
on, “ they shall be coupled together;” rather, they shall 
be “twins,” or “twinned” (CCX’ri, toiimim ). “They” 
evidently refers to the corner planks; and, setting aside 
the idea that they make twins together, which cannot 


TABERNACLE 


133 


TABERNACLE 


be, since they are at opposite 
corners, the expression may 
mean that each corner plank 
of itself makes twins, which 
it would do if it had two legs 
containing the angle between 
them. If the corner plank be 
two-legged, it adds necessa- 
rily something to the length, 
and thus destroys the meas-- 
urement. One explanation 
Corner Board of the Tab- i* therefore to regard the end 
“ S l ° of the corner plank, e, as twin, 
i. e. corresponding to the side 
plank a. Further, each corner plank must be “entire 
tammim) at or on its head” (A. V., with many 
others, considers tammim the same as foam ini). Now if 
the “head” be not the top of the plank, but the edge or 
point of the corner, yj then the statement implies that the 
corner plank of the end wall, though prolonging the side 
wall outside, must not be cut away or sloped, for example, 
in the fashion indicated by the dotted lines c d. Once 
more, the words are added “unto one ring,” accurately 
“ unto the first ring.” Keil ( Comment . ad loc.) understands 
that “the two corner boards at the back were to consist 
of two pieces joined together at a right angle, so as to 
form, as double boards, one single whole from the top to 
the bottom,” and that “ one ring was placed half-way 
up the upright board in the corner or angle, in such a 
manner that the central bolt, which stretched along the 
entire length of the walls, might fasten into it from 
both the side and back.” Murphy ( Comment . ad loc.) 

suggests a form 
which we rep- 

resent by the 

annexed figure. 
But Paine’s ar- 
rangement, as in 
the cut below, 
seems to ns to 
meet all the re- 
quirements of 
the case in the 
simplest and 
most effectual 

Corner Board (according to Murphy). 1 he 

ring and staples 

at the top and bottom of the corner planks formed a 
hinye , so that the adjoining planks were twinned, , or car- 
ried together as one. That the end planks went in be- j 
tween the last side planks (as neatness and usage in 
such structures dictated), making the interior width of 
the tabernacle the full twelve cu- 
bits. is probable from the length 
of the roof-curtains presently de- 
scribed, it they were longitudinal- 
ly arranged. 

The walls or planks, in addition 
to the stability they may have de- 
rived from the sockets at the bot- 
tom (and perhaps the clasps at the 
top), were bound together by five 
bars or bolts, thrust into rings at- 
tached to each plank. These bars, 
in all probability, ran along the out- 
side, though that is not intimated, 
and Ewald thinks otherwise. One 
bar is said to have gone in the mid- 
dle (”*ir2) : this is usually taken 
to mean half-way up the plank, and 
with two bars on each side of it, 
above and below; but some inter- 
pret “through the heart of the 
boards” (lliggenbach), and others 
understand it of the rear bar alone. 

Thus there seem to have been three 



Top and Bottom Parts of Coruer- boards (according to 
Paine). 

rows of bars, the top and bottom one on each of the 
sides being in two pieces. Josephus’s account is some- 
what. different: “Every one,” he says {Ant. iii, G, 3), 
“of the pillars or boards had a ring of gold affixed to 
its front outwards, into which were inserted bars gilt 
with gold, each of them five cubits long, and these 
bound together the boards; the head of one bar run- 
ning into another after the manner of one tenon insert- 
ed into another. But for the wall behind there was 
only one bar that went, through all the boards, into 
which one of the ends of the bars on bath sides was in- 
serted.” The whole edifice was doubtless further stayed 
by ropes attached to tent-pins in the ground from knobs 
on the outside of the planks. (See below.) 

3. Drapery of the Tabernacle. — The wooden structure 
was completed as well as adorned by four kinds of 
hangings, each of which served a useful and even need- 
ful purpose. 

(1.) The Hoof. — The first question that arises here is 
whether the roof was fiat, like that of Oriental houses, 
or peaked and slanting, as in Occidental buildings. The 



General View of the Wooden Walls of the Tabernacle. (From Paine.) 



TABERNACLE 


134 


TABERNACLE 


The Tabernacle as restored by Fcrgussou. 



old representations, such as Calmct’s, take the former 
view; but to this it may be forcibly objected that it 
would in that case be impossible to stretch the roof- 
covering sufficiently tight to prevent the rain and snow 
from collecting in the middle, and either crushing the 
whole by its weight or Hooding the apartments. Hence 
most later writers assume a peaked roof, although there 
is no mention of a ridge-pole, nor of supports to it ; but 
the name "tent” given to the upper part of the editiee 
is itself conclusive of this form, and then these accesso- 
ries would necessarily follow. 

The roofing material was a canvas of goats’ hair, the 
article still employed by the Uedawin for their tents. It 
consisted of eleven “ curtains” i. e. breadths or 

pieces of (this camlet) cloth, each thirty cubits long and 
four cubits wide, which is as large, probably, as could well 
be woven in the loom at once. Ten of these were to be 
“ coupled” (“'2n), i. e. sewed together, five in one sheet, 
and five in another, evidently bv the selvage; thus 
making two large canvases of thirty cubits by twenty 
each, lhit as the building was only twelve cubits wide, 
one of them alone would more than suffice for a roof, 
even with a peak. lienee most interpreters understand 
that the surplus width was allowed to hang down the 
sides. But what is to be done with the 
other sheet? Fergusson (in Smith’s Diet, 
of the Bible , s. v. “Temple”) supposes (with 
interpreters in general) that the two sheets 
were thrown side by side across the ridge- 
pole, the extra length (some fifteen cubits) 
being extended at the eaves into a kind of 
wings, and the surplus width (ten cubits) 
furled along the slope of the gable, or per- 
haps stretched out as a porch. But there 
is no authority whatever lbr this disposal ; 
and if the two pieces of canvas were intend- 
ed to be thus adjoined, there appears no 
good reason why they should not have been 
sliced together at the first, like the individ- 
ual breadths. Hence Paine suggests that 
they were designed as a double roof, so as 
the more effectually to shed rain, somewhat 
in the manner of a “fiy” or extra roof to a 
modern tent. For this the size is exactly 
adequate. If the angle at the peak were a 
right ainrle, as it naturally would he, the ga- 
ble, of course,' being an isosceles triangle, 
eight and a half cubits would be required for 
each slope of the roof (they being the two 
legs of which twelve is the hypothenuse) ; 
thus leaving one cubit to cover each of the 
eaves (as specified in ver, 13), and one cubit 
for seams, and perhaps hems. The seams, in 


order to be water-tight (especially since they rati paral- 
lel with the ridge and eaves) as well as smooth, would 
best be formed by overlapping the edges, in shingle style. 

The sixth “curtain.” or extra single piece, was to he 
“doubled in the fore-front of the tabernacle” (xxvi, 1), 
r.SSZ'l), which interpreters gen- 
erally have understood as meant to close the ga^le. 
This, as Paine suggests, it would neatly do if folded in 
two thicknesses (like the rest of the goat’s-hair cloth) 
across the lower part of the rear open space above the 
“ boards,” as it is just long enough (twice fifteen cubits; 
the surplus three cubits being employed exactly as in 
the case of the other sheets), and sufficiently wide (four 
cubits up the six of the perpendicular: leaving only a 
small triangle at the peak for ventilation); the gores 
or corners probably being tucked in between the two 
thicknesses of the roof-sheets. This sixth curtain, of 
course, was sewed endwise to one of the outer pieces of 
the under canvas. 

These roof- curtains were joined by means of fifty 
“loops” (rN??. luladth ) of unspecified (probably the 
same strong) material, and as many taches (2““““\ 
kerasini) of “brass.” With most interpreters, Fergus- 
son understands these to be intended for connecting the 



The Tabernacle as restored by Paine. 



TABERNACLE 


135 


TABERNACLE 



Rear of the Tabernacle, 
showing the sable curtain 
according to Paine. 



edges of the two sheets to- C ^^aehe h^e Tjb- 
get her so as to form one roof- its Attachments. (After 

canvas. But besides the Paine.) 
uselessness of this (as above 

pointed out), on this plan the rain would find an easy 
inlet at this imperfect suture. Hence Paine more rea- 
sonably concludes that they were designed for button- 
ing clown the double canvas at the eaves so as to form 


“one tent’’ (xxvi, 11, “IP>X 5PX i. e. the upper or tent 
part of the building). The taches, accordingly, were 
not kooks (as most understand: Fergtisscm thinks 
“S hooks”)? but knobs in the planks on the outside, 
placed one cubit below the top (ver. 12). The number 
of the taches would thus exactly correspond to the re- 
quirements of the “ boards,” i. e. twenty for each side 
and eight for the end, with one additional for each rear 
corner (where a tache would be needed for both edges 
of the board, the others being in the front edge, as the 
first board would necessarily have it there; in the rear 
boards the knob would be in the middle). See Tache. 

(2.) Another set of curtains was provided, consisting 
of ten pieces of stuff, each twenty-eight cubits long and 
four cubits wide, to be sewed into two large cloths of 
live “curtains” or breadths each. From the general simi- 
larity of the description, interpreters have naturally in- 
ferred that they were to be joined and used in like man- 
lier; but the necessity or practicability of employing 
them overhead is far from obvious. Nor does the size 
in that ease suit; for besides the difficulty of disposing 
of the surplusage in breadth 
(in length they would be 
scant if double), we naturally 
ask, Why were they different 
in number and size from the 
other roofing material ? Prof. 
Paine therefore thinks that 
they were sewed end to end (t he 
original is !T2'S\, 

t -• 7 t • • 

(me to the other , xxvi, 3; dif- 
ferent from “122, separately , 
ver. 9, of the roof-curtains) in 
two long pieces (they would 
probably have been woven 
thus had it. been possible), 
and then hung double in 
loose drapery around the in- 
terior of the tabernacle, being 
just high enough (four cu- 
bits) to cover the joints of the 



boards and prevent any one from looking through the 
cracks from without. These curtains were suspended 
on fifty knobs or taches of gold by means of fifty loops 
of the same material as the curtains themselves; these 
fastenings may he arranged as in the case of the roof- 
canvas. It thus became “one tabernacle” (ver. G, ’|3 
*inX, i. e. these curtains belonged to the upright [wood- 
en] part of the structure, in distinction from the sloping 
[canvas] or tent” part above it). The material of 
these inner curtains was similar to that of the door of 
the outer court (xxvii, 16), but it was also to be em- 
broidered with cherubim, like the interior “vail” (xxvi, 
31), which will be considered below. 

(3.) A coat of “rams’ skins dyed red and tacliash 
( A. V. “ badgers’,” probably seal or some other fur) 
skins” was furnished as an additional covering (xxvi, 14, 
S122222, millemdlak, from upward). This is usually 
regarded as a part of the roof; but to pile them there 
would have been sure to catch the rain, and so prove 
worse than useless. Taine places them on the outside 
of the “boards” to hide the cracks and prevent the 
wind and rain from driving in. Hence t he number of 
skins is not specified ; they were to form a blanket suffi- 
ciently large to cover the walls, and run up under the 
edge of the roof-canvas so as to catch the drip from the 
eaves. Doubtless the tachash fur was placed next the 
smooth gilding, and in its natural state, because hid- 
den ; and the rougher but more durable rant's- wool 
was exposed, the hair shingling downward to the 
weather, but dyed a brilliant color for effect. They 
would naturally be hung upon the copper taches, 
which served so many useful purposes in the “boards.” 
They are called in ver. 14 “a covering (n02’2, mikseh, 
not necessarily a roof, for it is used only of this fur robe 
[or some similar one, Numb, iv, 8, 12] and of the screen 
[whatever that may have been] of Noah’s ark [Gen. 



Face and Section of l he “Boards” of the Tabernacle, 
showing their varied Attachments. (After Paine.) 


TABERNACLE 


13 G 


TABERNACLE 


viii. 13 J ) fur the tenC (ZrfjO), apparently as completing 
the canvas or tent-like part of the structure. 

Saalsehiitz (Archaol. der Hebriit r , ii, 321 sq.) repre- 
sents the hangings of the tabernacle as suspended in 
the form of a tent, but in a peculiar form. lie thinks 
the was properly the space enclosed by the 

boards of acacia- wood ; and that these formed the outer 
wall, so to speak, within which the tabernacle, the 
properly so called, was reared in the form of a peaked 
tent. Of this the bvssus curtains, he supposes, formed 
the internal drapery, while the goats’-hair curtains, cov- 
ered with leather and thchash skins, formed the outer 
covering. The whole structure would thus present the 
appearance externally of a peaked tent, reared within a 
high palisade of wood, and open at the front. This rep- 
resentation has the advantage of allowing the ornamen- 
tal curtain, and also the gilded boards with their gold- 
en rings and silver sockets, to be fully visible. There 
seems, however, at least one fatal objection to it, viz. 
that it does not fulfil the condition that the joinings of 
the curtains shall he over the pillars that separate the 
holy from the most holy place — a condition of essential 
significance, as we shall see. 

(4.) The doorways of the tabernacle were formed or 
rather closed in a manner altogether analogous to the 
entrance of the exterior court, namely, by a vertical 
screen or sheet of cloth made of heavy material, and 
(in one case) still further stiffened by embroidery, simi- 
lar to the piece of tapestry that hangs at the portal of 
modern cathedrals in Italy, or (to speak more Oriental- 
ly) like the tlap at the opening of a modern tent and 
the carpet or camlet partition between the male and fe- 
male apartments of a Bedawin abode. Of these there 
were two, each of which is denoted by a distinctive 
term rarely varied. 

(a.) The front opening (HriB, pel hack ; A. V. “door”) 
was closed sufficiently high to prevent a passer-by from 
looking in. by a “hanging” a screen , or 

"covering” from the sun [Bsa. cv, 39] or from observa- 
tion [2 Sam. vii, 19; Isa. xxii, S]) of materials exactly 
like that of the entrance to the court already described, 
suspended upon five copper-socketed and gilded pillars 
(Z - ! 1 ! ZZ) of acacia-wood by means of golden hooks 
(Z n *\ pegs, spoken only of these and those at the outer 
entrance), the whole being probably of the same height, 
proportions, and style in other respects as the exterior 
one just referred to. The number of these pillars is 
significant : as there were Jire of them, one must neces- 
sarily stand in the centre, and this one was probably 
carried up so as to support one end of the ridge-pole, 
which w'e have above seen is presumable. A corre- 
sponding pillar in the rear of the tent may be inferred 
to sustain the other end, and possibly one or more in 
the middle of the building. 

(6.) A “vail” (PZ pardketh* separatrix, used only 
of this particular thing, sometimes [Exod. xxxv, 12; 
xxxix, 34; xl, 21] with the addition of the previous 
term for emphasis) divided the interior into two apart- 
ments, called respectively the "holy place” and the 
"most holy.” This partition-cloth differed only from 
the exterior ones in being ornamented (perhaps on both 
sides: comp. 1 Kings vi, 29) with figures of cherubim 
stitched (probably with gold thread, i. e. strips of gold- 
leaf rolled and twisted) upon it, apparently with the art 
of the embroiderer (Z’Zn n wZ'Z, the work of an artif- 
icer ; A. V. “cunning work”). It was suspended upon 
four pillars precisely like those of the door “hanging,” 
except that their sockets were of silver. A special state- 
ment of the text (Exod. xxvi, 33), “And thou shalt hang 
up the vail under the taches” (TI'EriTX nrr:i 
nnri), evidently meaning that the pillars to 
which its ends were to be attached were to be placed 
directly beneath the golden knobs opposite in the walls. 


l on which likewise hung the side-curtains, shows both 
that these latter were thus completed by a drapery on 
the remaining side of each room (it will be remem- 
bered that the front knobs likewise correspond in po- 
sition to that of the doorway screen), and likewise 
proves the character and situation of the taches them- 
selves (not hooks in the roof, which at tin* eaves was at 
least five cubits above the top of the "vail”). As the 
"vail.” like the two outer screens, was stretched tight 
across the space it occupied, it was of course made ex- 
actly long enough for that purpose; thus, too, the em- 
broidered figures (which, if of life-size, were of just the 
height to extend upright across t lie stuff — about four 
cubits) would show to the finest effect, not being in 
folds like the interior side-curtains. 

It is not a little singular that the exact position of 
the “vail” is not otherwise prescribed than by the 
above requirement; nor is the length of eit her of the 
apartments which it separated given, although together 
they amounted to thirty cubits. On the supposition 
(sustained by the analogy in the Temple) that the Most 
Holy was an exact square, i. e. (according to our deter- 
mination above) twelve cubits each way, the knob or 
tache opposite which it would hang must have been 
that which stood in the forward edge of the eighth 
plank from the rear of the building. Whether it was in 
front of or behind the pillars is not certain ; but the for- 
mer is probable, as it would thus seem a more effectual 
barrier from without. The end pillars apparently stood 
in immediate contact with the side walls, both in order 
to sustain the ends of the vail, and to leave a wider space 
between them for ingress and egress. The vail was sus- 
pended directly upon golden pins (A. V. “ hooks”) in- 
serted in the face of the pillars near their summit; and 
thus differed (as did likewise the screen of the door of 
the tabernacle) from the hangings of the outer court, 
which hung upon silver rods (A. V. “fillets”) (doubtless 
by loops running on the rods) resting on similar pins or 
“ hooks.” The reason of this difference seems to have 
been that the greater space between the court pillars 
(so as to admit animals as well as men) would have 
caused too much sag in the hanging without interme- 
diate support, which could only be furnished by the 
rods and attachments along the upper edge. 

4. Supplementary Xote , — Since the above was in type 
we have reconsidered a few points concerning the struct- 
ure of this edifice which admit of further elucidation. 

(1.) The" Corner-boards”- — The fact that the dimen- 
sions of the courts and the building itself were in deci- 
mal proportions, and that in the temple subsequently 
erected for the same purpose, which maintained multi- 
ples of these dimensions, the holy and most holy were 
exactly twenty cubits wide (I Kings vi, 2), leads so 
strongly to the presumption that in the tabernacle 
these rooms were ten cubits wide, that we are disposed 
to recall the arrangement adopted in the foregoing 
discussion, which gives these apartments a width of 
twelve cubits, leaving for the holy place the irregu- 
lar dimensions of eighteen by twelve cubits. Adopting 
the suggestion of Keil ( Commentary . ad loe.) that the 
corner-boards were constructed of two parts, forming a 
right angle with each other, we have only to take a 
plank one and a half cubits wide, like all the others, 
divide it lengthwise into two portions, one four sixths 
and the other five sixths of a cubit wide, ami fasten these 
together in that manner, in order to obtain the needed 
half cubit necessary at each end of the rear, and allow 
one wing of the corner- board to lap around the end of 
tiie last side-board, and cover the joint neatly and sym- 
metrically, as in the following figure. This last is the 
adjustment adopted by Brown ( The Tabernacle, etc. 
[Loud. 1S72], p. 23), who reviews and justly rejects the 
conjectures of Josephus (,4m/. iii, li, 3), lvalisch {Com- 
mentary,^ loc.),aml Yon (Tcrlach ( ibid .). His compli- 

I cated arrangement of the sockets, however, is unneces- 
sary, as may be seen from the following diagram. 

The statement respecting these corner - planks in 


TABERNACLE 


137 


TABERNACLE 



Exod. xxvi, 24, “And they shall be twinned 
from below, and together they shall be complete (S^SPI) 
upon its top to the first (or same) ring,” we may then 
understand to mean that they were to be in that man- 
ner jointed throughout their length, and were to use 
the first or end ring of the side-plank in common for 
the topmost bar, thus holding the corner firm in both 
directions, as seen in the accompanying figure. The 
topmost rear bar may have been dowelled into the end 
of the side-bar for further security. 



‘‘Corner-board,” showing its “One Ring,” in common 
with that of the Side-plank. 

(2.) Position of the Curtains. — The use of these 
pieces of drapery will not be materially affected by this 
change in the width of the structure. We need only 
raise the peak into an acute instead of a right angle 
in order to dispose of the roof - canvas. The curtain 
across the rear gable may be wrapped a little farther 
along the side at each end, and it will at the same time 
cover the tops of the rear planks, and close the joint 
where the ends of the roof-curtains fall short of doing so. 

On the supposition of a flat roof stretched directly 
across the tops of the planks, the dimensions of both 
sets of curtains may readily be made to correspond with 
the requirements of the building. The embroidered 
curtains may either be used around the walls, as pre- 
viously, or they may be joined together into one large 
sheet to cover the ceiling and walls on the inside. 
Their length (twenty-eight cubits) would in the latter 
case reach to within one cubit of the ground: and their 
combined breadth (forty cubits) would in like manner 
cover the end wall (ten cubits + thirty cubits of length 
of building). The suture, where the two canvases are 
ordinarily supposed to be joined by the loops, would 
thus also exactly fall over the “vail,” separating the 
holy from the most holy place. 

The same would be true likewise of the goats’-hair cur- 
tains if similarly joined and spread over the roof and out- 
side of the tabernacle, reaching to within one sixth cubit 
of the ground on each side and rear. The only difficul- 


ty would be as to the eleventh or extra goats’-hair cur- 
tain. If this were attached in the same manner as the 
other breadths, it would be wholly superfluous, unless 
used to close the entire front, as it might be if doubled 
(according to the usual interpretation of Exod. xxvi, II). 
Hut it seems agreed upon by all critics that it must be 
employed upon the rear of the building (as explicitly 
stated in ver. 12). Eeil understands that it was di- 
vided between the back and the front equally ; but 
this answers to neither passage, makes part of the rear 
trebly covered in fact, and brings (by his own confes- 
sion) the suture one cubit behind the ‘’vail” (contrary 
to ver. 33). llrown reviews and confutes the explana- 
tions of other interpreters (Kalisch, Von (lerlaeh, and 
Fergusson), but frankly admits his own inability to 
solve the problem (p. 43). Paine’s interpretation is the 
only one that meets the case. 

This last insuperable difficulty, together with the im- 
possibility of shedding the vain and snow, seems to us 
a conclusive objection against the flat-roof theory of the 
building. Brown innocently remarks (p. 47), “Admit- 
ting that snow sometimes falls on the mountains of 
Sinai, it seldom, if ever, falls in the wadies or plains; 
and if slight showers ever do occur, they must be like 
angels’ visits, few and far between. None of the many 
authors I have followed across the desert of wandering 
seem ever to have witnessed snow, and very rarely even 
rain.” This last circumstance is probably owing to 
the fact that travellers almost invariably avoid the 
winter or rainy season. The writer of this article was 
overtaken, w ith his party, by a snow-storm in March, 
1874, which covered the ground in the plains and bot- 
toms of the wadies of Mount Sinai ankle-deep; and ev- 
ery traveller must have observed the unmistakable 
traces of terrific floods or freshets along the valleys of 
the whole region. It often rains here in perfect tor- 
rents (see Palmer, Desert, of the Exodus, p. 33, 177). “A 
single thunder-storm, with a heavy shower of rain, fall- 
ing on the naked granite mountains, will be sufficient 
to convert a dry and level valley into a roaring river in 
a few short hours” {ibid, p. 129). It is essential to any 
reconstruction of the tabernacle that the roof be made 
water-tight, and this can only be done effectually by 
the true tent-form, with ridge-pole and peak. See Text. 

5. Furniture of the Tabernacle . — The only piece of 
furniture within the inner or most holy place was the 
ark of the covenant ; and the furniture of the outer 
room or holy place consisted of the altar of incense, 
the table of show-bread, and the “golden candlestick,” 
the position of each of which is given in Exod. xxvi, 
34,35. They are all described in detail under their re- 
spective heads in this Cyclopaedia, but we subjoin the 
following particulars as supplementary to the article on 
the last-named piece. 

The candelabrum, as described in Exod. xxv, 31-37 
(of which xxx vii, 17-23 is almost verbatim a copy), 
differs considerably from that in the account of Jose- 
phus (.4>tf. iii, (1, 7). and from the sculptured figure still 
extant upon the Arcli of Titus ( Reland. De Xpoliis 
Templi, p. G; in which work other representations, all 
slightly varying, are given from Rabbinical sources and 
coins). Hence it is probable that the “candlestick” 
as constructed for the tabernacle by Moses was not ex- 
actly the same in form as in the later models of Solo- 
mon’s and Herod’s temples; it would naturally be sim- 
pler and less ornamental in the earliest case, and the 
llerodiau fabrication (if, indeed, this were other than 
that of the restoration from Babylon), to which all the 
later Jewish and profane statements apply (Solomon 
does not appear to have furnished his Temple with any 
other than the original candelabrum of the tabernacle), 
would of course depart most widely from the severity 
of the primitive type. 

(1.) In the original object the following elements arc 
clearly defined by the language (as above) employed: 
There was a main or central stem {fff, yarck, thiyh. 


TABERNACLE 


TABERNACLE 13S 



The Golcleu Candelabrum of the Tabernacle. (From a 
restoration by the Editor.) 

A. V. “ shaft"), doubtless flaring or enlarged at the bot- 
tom, for a secure foot. From each side of this went off 
(apparently opposite each other, and at equal intervals), 
three arms (C'Dp, kantm , reeds, •‘branches”), having 
each along their course three almond-shaped calyces 
(-"’"’’ZS, gebiim , cups, “bowls”), one crown ("*iDSr, 
kaphtor, circlet, “knop"), and one blossom (rnz,perach, 
flower”) : the middle stem had four such calyces, and 
at least three crowns, placed each immediately beneath 
the several junctions of the arms with the main stem; 
also more than one blossom. Finally, there were seven 
burners (2”'“'2, nerim , lights, “lamps”), evidently one 
for the extremity of each arm. and one for the top of 
the central stem. Every part of the candelabrum (in- 
cluding the burners, only so far as applicable to them) 
was a continuous rounded (hammered or turned) piece 
of retined gold (pini: Z!“l“ rnx iTi'pZ, “ one beaten 
work of pure gold”). It has usually been assumed that 
the arms were all in the same plane with the main 
stem, and their summits all of equal height, and equi- 
distant from each other, as is the case with the repre- 
sentation on the Arch of Titus. 

(*2.) The following are the principal points that re- 
main uncertain: The relative position of the calyces, 
crowns, and blossoms on the arms; for although they 
are always enumerated in this order, there is nothing 
to show absolutely whether the enumeration begins at 
the intersection with the shaft or with the extremities. 
The former view, which is countenanced by the rest of 
the description (since this proceeds upward from the 
base), is adopted by I)r. Conant (in the Amer. ed. of 
Smith’s Diet, of the Bible , s. v. “Candlestick”); the lat- 
ter, which is favored by the difficulty (or rather impos- 
sibility) of assigning more than one blossom to the sum- 
mit of the central stem (as the text would then seem to 
require), is adopted by Prof. Paine (Solomon's Temple, 
etc., p. 10). The signification of the terms is not de- 
cisive: for the kaphtor. or “knop,” may quite as well 
signify a little ornamental ball or globular enlargement 
in the necks of the arms and in the stem at their points 
of departure, as a capital or surmounting decoration (the 
three ranged along the main stem certainly were not 
such in strictness). The perach, or “flower,” is regard- 
ed by both the above writers (who thus agree in mak- 
ing these, after all, the extreme points of t lie chande- 
lier) as the “receptacles” of the lamps themselves; 
these last being regarded by Paine as denoted by the 
gebiim, or “bowls,” having a trinal form in the case of 
the side arms, and a quaternal in that of the main stem 


— a view which leads to great complexity in their con- 
I struction and in the form of their sockets, and which, 
moreover, is ineongruent with the number (seven only) 
assigned to the lights. Furthermore, in the compar- 
ison of the ornament in question with the shape of 
almonds, it is not clear whether the fairer or fruit of 
that tree is referred to; 'we prefer the latter as being 
more properly designated bv the simple word, and be- 
cause the former is denoted by a different term in the 
same connection, the blossom - shaped ornament. It 
must also be noted that the arms had each three of the 
first-named ornament, and but one of the other two; 
whereas the main stent had four of the first, and at 
least three of the second and two of the third: the 
three kinds, therefore, did not invariably go together, 
although they may have done so in the case of the 
central stem. Perhaps the whole may be best adjusted 
by assigning such a group or combination of the three 
kinds to each summit and to each intersection of the 
arms with the main stem, and merely two others of 
one kind (the gebia, or “bowl") to the side arms, prob- 
ably at equidistant points; the group itself consisting 
simply of an ovate cup-like enlargement of the rod con- 
stituting the shaft, with a raised band just above the 
bulb, and the rim opening into petal-like lips, forming 
a cavity or socket for the lamp. See Lamp. 

IV. Relation of the Tabernacle to the Religious Life of 
Israel. — 1 . Whatever connection may be traced between 
other parts of the Mosaic ritual and that of the nations 
with which Israel had been brought into contact, the 
thought of the tabernacle meets us as entirely new. 
Spencer ( De Leg. Ilebneor. iii, 3) labors hard, but not 
successfully, to prove that the tabernacles of Moloch of 
Amos v, 26 were the prototypes of the tent of meeting. 
It has to be remembered, however, (1) that the word 
used in Amos (sikkuth) is never used of the tabernacle, 
and means something very different; and (2) that the 
Moloch-worship represented a defection of the people 
subsequent to the erection of the tabernacle. The 
“house of God” [see IJetiiel] of the patriarchs had 
been the large “pillar of stone” (Gen. xxviii, 18, 19), 
bearing record of some high spiritual experience, and 
tending to lead men upward to it (l)iihr, Symbol, i, 93), 
or the grove which, with its dim, doubtful light, at- 
tuned the souls of men to a divine awe (Gen. xxi, 33). 
The temples of Egypt were magnificent and colossal, 
hewn in the solid rock, or built of huge blocks of stone 
as unlike as possible to the sacred tent of Israel. The 
command was one in which we can trace a special fit- 
ness. The stately temples belonged to the house of 
bondage which they were leaving. The saered places 
of their fathers were in the land towards which they 
were journeying. In the meanwhile, they were to be 
wanderers in the wilderness. To have set up a bethel 
after the old pattern would have been to make that a 
resting-place, the object then or afterwards of devout 
pilgrimage; and the. multiplication of such places at the 
different stages of their march would have led inevita- 
bly to polytheism. It would have failed utterly to lead 
them to the thought which they needed most — of a Di- 
vine Presence never absent, from them, protecting, rid- 
ing, judging. A sacred tent, a moving bethel, was the 
lit sanctuary for a people still nomadic. It was capable 
of being united afterwards, as it actually came to be, 
with “the grove” of the older cultus (Josh, xxiv, 26). 
Analogies of like wants, met in a like way, with no as- 
certainable historical connection, are to be found among 
the Gietnlians and other tribes of Northern Africa (Sil. 
Ital. iii, 289), and in the sacred tent of the Carthaginian 
encampments (Diod. Sic. xx, 65). 

2. The structure of the tabernacle was obviously de- 
termined by a complex and profound symbolism, but its 
meaning remains one of the things at which we can 
but dimly guess. No interpretation is given in the law 
itself. The explanations of Jewish writers long after- 
wards are manifestly wide of the mark. That which 
I meets us in the Epistle to the Hebrews, the application 


TABERNACLE 


TABERNACLE 


130 


of the types of the tabernacle to the mysteries of re- 
demption, was latent till those mysteries were made 
known. Yet we cannot but believe that, as each por- 
tion of the wonderful order rose before the inward eye 
of the lawgiver, it must have embodied distinctly mani- 
fold truths which he apprehended himself and sought 
to communicate to others. It entered, indeed, into the 
order of a divine education for Moses and for Israel, 
and an education by means of symbols, no less than by 
means of words, presupposes an existing language. So 
far from shrinking, therefore, as men have timidly and 
unwisely shrunk (Witsius, ^Eyyptiaca, in Ugolino, The - 
saur. vol. i), from asking what thoughts the Egyptian 
education of Moses would lead him to connect with the 
symbols he was now taught to use, we mav see in it a 
legitimate method of inquiry — almost the only method 
possible. Where that fails, the gap may be tilled up (as 
in Biihr, Symbol . passim) from the analogies of other 
nations, indicating, where they agree, a widespread 
primeval symbolism. So far from laboring to prove, at 
the price of ignoring or distorting facts, that everything 
was till then unknown, we shall as little expect to tind 
it so, as to see in Hebrew a new and heaven-born lan- 
guage, spoken for the first time on Sinai, written for the 
first time on the two tables of the covenant. 

3. The thought of a graduated sanctity, like that 
of the outer court, the holy place, the holy of holies, 
had its counterpart, often the same number of stages, 
in the structure of Egyptian temples (Biihr, Symbol . i, 
216). See Temple. 

(1.) The interior adytum (to proceed from the inner- 
most recess outw r ard) was small in proportion to the rest 
of the building, and commonly, as in the tabernacle (Jo- 
sephus, Ant. ii, 6. 3), was at the western end (Spencer, 
I)e Ley. Jlebrceor . iii, 2), and was but little lighted. In 
the adytum, often at least, was the sacred ark, the cul- 
minating-point of holiness, containing the highest and 
most mysterious symbols — winged figures, generally like 
those of the cherubim (Wilkinson, .1 nc. Eyypt. v, 275; 
Kenrick, Eyypt , i, 460), the emblems of stability and 
life. Here were outward points of resemblance. Of 
all elements of Egyptian worship this was one which 
could be transferred w r ith least hazard, with most gain. 
No one could think that the ark itself was the likeness 
of the God he worshipped. When we ask what gave 
the ark its holiness, we are led on at once to the infinite 
difference, the great gulf between the two systems. 
That of Egypt was predominantly cosmic al, starting 
from the productive ponders of nature. The symbols of 
those powers, though not originally involving what we 
know as impurity, tended to it fatally and rapidly (Spen- 
cer, JJe Ley. Ihbreeor. iii, 1 ; Warburton, Divine Leya- 
(ion , ii, 4, note). That of Israel w r as predominantly eth- 
ical. The nation was taught to think of God, not chief- 
ly as revealed in nature, but as manifesting himself in 
and to the spirits of men. In the ark of the covenant, 
as the highest revelation then possible of the Divine 
nature, were the two tables of stone, on which w'ere 
graven, by the teaching of the Divine Spirit, and there- 
fore by “ the finger of God” (Matt, xii, 28; Luke xi, 20; 
see also Clement of Alexandria [Strom, vi, 133J and 1 
Kings xviii. 46; 2 Kings iii, 15; Ezek. i, 3; iii, 14; 1 
Chron. xxviii, 19), the great unchanging laws of hu- 
man duty which had been proclaimed on Sinai. Here 
the lesson taught w'as plain enough. The highest 
knowledge was as the simplest, the esoteric as the exo- 
teric. In the depths of the holy of holies, and for the 
high-priest as for all Israel, there was the revelation of 
a righteous Will requiring righteousness in man (Saal- 
schiUz. A rchaol. c. 77). See Ark. 

Over the ark w r as the kophereth (“ mercy-seat”), so 
called with a twofold reference to the root-meaning of 
the word. It covered the ark. It was the witness of a 
mercy covering sins. As the “footstool” of God, the 
“throne” of the Divine glory, it declared that over the 
law which seemed so rigid and unbending there rested 
the compassion of one forgiving “iniquity and trans- 


gression.” Ewald, however, giving to “123, the root 
of kophereth. the meaning of “to scrape,” “erase,” de- 
rives from that meaning the idea implied in the Sept. 
Waoriipiov, and denies that the word ever signified 
iiriSfpa ( Alterth . p. 128, 129). See Mercy-seat. 

Over the merev-seat were the cherubim, reproducing, 
in part, at least, the symbolism of the great Hamit ic 
races, forms familiar to Moses and to Israel, needing no 
description for them, interpreted for us by the fuller 
vision of the later prophets (Ezek. i, 5-13; x, 8 15; xli, 
19), or by the winged forms of the imagery of Egypt. 
Kepresenting as they did the manifold powers of nature, 
ereated life in its highest form (Biihr, De Ley. Jlebrieor. 
i, 341), their “overshadowing wings,” “meeting” as in 
token of perfect harmony, declared that nature as well 
as man found its highest glory in subjection to a divine 
law, that men might take refuge in that order, as under 
“the shadow of the wings” of God (Stanley. Jewish 
Church, p. 98). Placed w here those and other like fig- 
ures were, in the temples of Egypt, they might be hin- 
derances and not helps, might sensualize instead of puri- 
fying the worship of the people. But. it was part of the 
wisdom which we may reverently trace in the order of 
the tabernacle that while Egyptian symbols are retained, 
as in the ark, the cherubim, the urim, and the thummim, 
their place is changed. They remind the high-priest, 
the representative of the whole nation, of the truths on 
which the order rests. The people cannot bow r down and 
worship that which they never see. See Cherubim. 

The material, not less than the forms, in the holy of 
holies was significant. The acacia or shittim -wood, 
least liable of woods then accessible to decay, might 
w r ell represent the imperishableness of divine truth, of 
the law's of duty (Biihr, Symbol, i, 286). Ark, mercy- 
seat, cherubim, the very walls, were all overlaid with 
gold, the noblest of all metals, the symbol of light and 
purity — sunlight itself, as it w r ere, fixed and embodied, 
the token of the incorruptible, of the glory of a great 
king (ibid, i, 282). It w r as not without meaning that 
all this lavish expenditure of w'hat w r as most costly w r as 
placed where none might gaze on it. The gold thus 
offered taught man that the noblest acts of beneficence 
and sacrifice are not those which are done that they 
may be seen of men, but those which are known only to 
him who “seetli in secret” (Matt, vi, 4). 

Dimensions also had their meaning. Difficult as it 
may be to feel sure that we have the key to the enigma, 
there can be but little doubt that the older religious 
systems of the world did attach a mysterious significance 
to each separate number; that the training of Moses, as 
afterwards the far less complete initiation of Pythagoras 
in the symbolism of Egypt, must have made that trans- 
parently clear to him, which to us is almost impenetra- 
bly dark. A full discussion of the subject is obviously 
impossible here, but it may be useful to exhibit briefly 
tbe chief thoughts which have been connected with the 
numbers that are most prominent in the language of 
symbolism. Arbitrary as some of them may seem, a 
sufficient induction to establish each will be found in 
Biihr’s elaborate dissertation (Symbol, i, 128-255) and 
other w'orks (comp. Wilkinson, Anc. Eyypt. iv, 190-199; 
Leyrer, in 1 lerzog‘s Ueal-Encyklop. s. v. “ Stiftshiitte”). 

One— The Godhead, eternity, life, creative force, the sun, 
man. 

Two— Matter, time, death, receptive capacity, the moon, 
woman. 

Three (as a number or in the triangle) — The universe in 
connection with God, the absolute in itself, the un- 
conditioned, God. 

Four (the number, or in the square or cube) — Conditioned 
existence, the world as created, divine order, revela- 
tion. 

Seven (as — 3 + 4)—' The union of the world and God, rest 
(as in the Sabbath), peace, blessing, purification. 
Ten (as = l-f-2-f-3-f-4) — Completeness, moral and physi- 
cal; perfection. 

Five— P erfection half attained, incompleteness. 

Twelve— The signs of the zodiac, the cycle of the seasons; 
in Israel the ideal number of the people, of the cov- 
enant of God wilh them. 


TABERNACLE 


140 


TABERNACLE 


To those who think over the words of two great teach- 
ers, one heathen (Plutarch, Ve Is. et Os. p. 411) and 
one Christian (Clem. Al. Strom, vi. 8-1 -87), who had at 
least studied as far as they could the mysteries of the 
religion of ISgypt, and had inherited part of the old sys- 
tem. the precision of the numbers in the plan of the tab- 
ernacle will no longer seem unaccountable. If, in a cos- 
mieal system, a right-angled triangle, with the sides 
three, four, five. represented the triad of Osiris, Isis, 
Urns, creative force, receptive matter, the universe of 
creation (Plutarch, loc. «/.), the perfect cube of the holy 
of holies, the constant recurrence of the numbers 4 and 
10, may well be accepted as symbolizing order, stability, 
perfection (Uii.hr, Symbol, i, 225). The symbol reap- 
pears in the most startling form in the closing visions 
of the Apocalypse. There the heavenly Jerusalem is 
described, in words which absolutely exclude the literal- 
ism that has sometimes been blindly applied to it, as a 
city four-square — 12.000 furlongs in length and breadth 
and height (Ilev. xxi. 1G), See Numrer. 

Into the inner sanctuary neither people nor the priests 
as a body ever entered. Strange as it may seem, that 
in which everything represented light and life was left 
in darkness and solitude. Once only in the year, on the 
day of atonement, might the high-priest enter. The 
strange contrast has, however, its parallel in the spirit- 
ual life. Death and life, light and darkness, are won- 
derfully united. ( hilv through death can we truly live. 
Only by passing into the ‘’thick darkness” where God 
is (Exod. xx, 21; 1 Kings viii, 12) can we enter at all 
into the “light inaccessible” in which he dwells ever- 
lastingly. The solemn annual entrance, like the with- 
drawal of symbolic forms from the gaze of the people, 
was itself part of a wise and divine order. Intercourse 
with Egypt had shown how easily the symbols of truth 
might become common and familiar things, yet without 
symbols tlie truths themselves might be forgotten. 
Both dangers were met. To enter once, and once only 
in the year, into the awful darkness — to stand before 
the law of duty, before the presence of the God who 
gave it, not in the stately robes that became the rep- 
resentative of God to man, but as representing man in 
his humiliation in the garb of the lower priests, bare- 
footed and in t lie linen ephod — to confess bis own sins 
and the sins of the people — this was what connected the 
atonement-day (kippur) with the merev-seat (kopbe- 
reth ). To come there with blood, the symbol of life, 
touching with that blood the mercy-seat — with incense, 
the symbol of adoration (Lev. xvi, 12-14), what did 
that express hut the truth (1) that man must draw 
near to the righteous God with no lower offering than 
the pure worship of the heart, with the living sacrifice 
of body, soul, and spirit; (2) that could such a perfect 
sacrifice be found, it would have a mysterious power 
working beyond itself, in proportion to its perfection, to 
cover the multitude of sins? 

From all others, from the high-priest at all other 
times, the holy of holies was shrouded by the heavy 
vail, bright with many colors and strange forms, even as 
curtains of golden tissue were to be seen hanging before 
the adytum of an Egyptian temple, a strange contrast 
often to the bestial form behind them (Clem.Al. Pad. 
iii. 4). In one memorable instance, indeed, the vail 
was the witness of higher and deeper thoughts. On 
the shrine of Isis at Sais, there were to be read words 
which, though pointing to a pantheistic rather than an 
ethical religion, were yet wonderful in their loftiness, 
“ 1 am all that has been (nav to ysyoroc), and is, and 
shall be, and my vail no mortal bath withdrawn” (cnrtKei- 
\v\kev) (Plutarch. PM Is. et Osir. p. 394). Like, and yet 
more unlike, the truth, we feel that no such words could 
have appeared on the vail of the tabernacle. In that 
identification of the world and God all idolatry was la- 
tent, as, in the faith of Israel, in the I am all idolatry 
was excluded. In that despair of any withdrawal of 
the vail, of any revelation of t lie Divine will, there were 
latent all the arts of an unbelieving priestcraft, substi- 


tuting symbols, pomp, ritual, for such a revelation. But 
what, then, was the meaning of the vail which mot the 
gaze of the priests as they did service in the sanctuary ? 
Colors, in the art of Egypt, were not less significant than 
number, and the four bright colors, probably, after the 
fashion of that art, in parallel hands— blue, symbol of 
heaven, and purple of kingly glory, and crimson of life 
and joy. and white of light and purity (Bahr, Symbol . 
i, 305 330) — formed in their combination no remote 
similitude of the rainbow, which of old had been a 
symbol of the Divine covenant with man, the pledge of 
peace and hope, the sign of the Divine Presence (Ezek. 
i, 28 ; Ewald, Alterth. p. 333). See Color. Within the 
vail, light and truth were seen in their unity. The vail 
itself represented the infinite variety, the Tro\viroiKi\oq 
ao<pia of the divine order in creation (Eph.iiiJO). There, 
again, were seen copied upon the vail the mysterious 
forms of the cherubim; how many, or in what attitude, 
or of what size, or in what material, we are not told. 
The words “cunning work” in Exod. xxxvi, 35, applied 
elsewhere to combinations of embroidery and metal 
(xxviii, 15; xxxi, 4), seem to justify the conjecture 
that here also they were of gold. In the absence of 
any other evidence, it would have been perhaps natural 
to think that they reproduced on a larger scale the 
number and the position of those that, were over the 
mercy-seat. The visions of Ezekiel, however, repro- 
ducing. as they obviously do, the forms with which his 
priestly life had made him familiar, indicate not less 
than four (eh. i and x), and those not all alike, having 
severally the faces of a man, a lion, an ox, and an eagle 
— strange symbolic words, which elsewhere we should 
have identified with idolatry, but which here were 
hearing witness against it, emblems of tlie manifold va- 
riety of creation as at once manifesting and concealing 
God. 

(2.) The outer sanctuary was one degree less awful 
in its holiness than the inner. Silver, the type of hu- 
man purity, took the place of gold, the type of the Di- 
vine glory (Bahr, Symbol, i. 284). It was to be trod- 
den daily by tlie priests as bv men who lived in the 
perpetual consciousness of the nearness of God, of the 
mystery behind the vail. Barefooted and in garments 
of white linen, like the priests of Isis [see Priest], 
they accomplished their ministrations. Here, too, there 
were other emblems of divine realities. It was special- 
ly illumined hv the golden lamp with its seven lights, 
never all extinguished together, the perpetual symbol 
of all derived gifts of wisdom and holiness in man, 
reaching their mystical perfection when they shine in 
God’s sanctuary to his glory (Exod. xxv, 31 ; xxvii, 20 ; 
Zech. iv, 1-14). The shew-bread (the “ bread of faces”) 
of the Divine Presence, not unlike in outward form to 
the sacred cakes which the Egyptians placed before the 
shrines of their gods, served as a token that, though 
there was no form or likeness of the Godhead, he was 
yet there, accepting all offerings, recognising in partic- 
ular that special offering which represented the life of 
the nation at once in the distinctness of its tribes and 
in its unity as a people (Ewald, A Iterth. p. 120). The 
meaning of the altar of incense was not less obvious. 
The cloud of fragrant smoke was the natural, almost 
the universal, emblem of the heart’s adoration ( Psa. 
cxli, 2). The incense sprinkled on the shew-bread and 
the lamp taught men that all other offerings needed the 
intermingling of that adoration. Upon lliat altar no 
“strange fire” was to be kindled. When fresh fire was 
needed it was to be taken from the altar of burnt-offer- 
ing in the outer court (Lev. ix. 24; x. 3). Very strik- 
ing, as compared with what is to follow, are the sublim- 
ity and the purity of these symbols. It is as if the 
priestly order, already leading a consecrated life, were 
capable of understanding a higher language which had 
to be translated into a lower for those that were still 
without (SaalschiUz. .4 rchciol. $ 77). 

(3.) Outside the tent, hut still within the consecrated 
precincts, was the court, fenced in by an enclosure, yet 


TABERNACLE 


141 


TABERNACLE 


open to all the congregation as well as to the Levites, 
those only excepted who were ceremonially unclean. 
No Gentile might pass beyond the curtains of the en- 
trance, but every member of the priestly nation might 
thus far “draw near” to the presence of Jehovah. 
Here, therefore, stood the altar of burnt-offerings, at 
which sacrifices in all their varieties were offered by 
penitent or thankful worshippers (Exod. xxvii, 1-8; 
xxxviii, 1), the brazen layer at which those worship- j 
pers purified themselves before they sacrificed, the 
priests before they entered into the sanctuary (xxx, 
17-21). Here the graduated scale of holiness ended. 
What Israel was to the world, fenced in and set apart, 
that the court of the tabernacle was to the surrounding 
wilderness, just as the distinction between it and the 
sanctuary answered to that between the sons of Aaron 
and other Israelites; just as the idea of holiness culmi- 
nated personally in the high-priest, locally in the holy 
of holies. 

Y. Theories of Later Times. — 1. It is not probable that 
the elaborate symbolism of such a structure was under- 
stood by the rude and sensual multitude that came out 
of Egypt. In its fulness, perhaps, no mind but that of 
the lawgiver himself ever entered into it, and even for 
him, one half, and that the highest, of its meaning must 
have been altogether latent. Yet it was not the less, 
was perhaps the more fitted, on that account, to be an 
instrument for the education of the people. To the 
most ignorant and debased it was at least a witness of 
the nearness of the Divine King. It met the craving 
of the human heart, which prompts to worship, with 
an order that was neither idolatrous nor impure. It 
taught men that their fleshly nature was the hinderance 
to worship; that it rendered them unclean; that only 
by subduing it, killing it, as they killed the bullock and 
the goat, could they offer up an acceptable sacrifice; 
that such a sacrifice was the condition of forgiveness, a 
higher sacrifice than any they could offer as the ground 
of that forgiveness. The sins of the past were consid- 
ered as belonging to the fleshly nature which was slain 
and offered, not to the true inner self of the worshipper. 
More thoughtful minds were led inevitably to higher 
truths. They were not slow to see in the tabernacle 
the parable of God’s presence manifested in creation. 
Darkness was as his pavilion (2 Sam. xxii, 12). He 
has made a tabernacle for the sun (Psa. xix, 4). The 
heavens were spread out like its curtains. The beams 
of his chambers were in the mighty waters (civ, 2, 3: 
Isa. xl, 22; Lowth, De Sac. Poes. viii). The majesty 
of God seen in the storm and tempest was as of one who 
rides upon a cherub (2 Sam. xxi, 11). If the words 
••lie that dwelleth between the cherubim” spoke on the 
one side of a special, localized manifestation of the Di- 
vine Presence, they spoke also on the other of that 
Presence as in the heaven of heavens, in the light of 
setting suns, in the blackness and the flashes of the 
thunder-clouds. 

2. The thought thus uttered, essentially poetical in 
its nature, had its fit place in the psalms and hymns of 
Israel. It lost its beauty, it led men on a false track, 
when it was formalized into a system. At a time when 
Judaism and Greek philosophy were alike effete, when 
a feeble physical science which could read nothing but 
its own thoughts in the symbols of an older and deeper 
system was after its own fashion rationalizing the mv- 
thulogy of heathenism, there were found Jewish writers 
willing to apply the same principle of interpretation to 
the tabernacle and its order. In that way, it seemed to 
them, they would secure the respect even of the men 
of letters who could not bring themselves to be prose- 
lytes. The result appears in Josephus and in Philo, in 
part also in Clement of Alexandria and Origen. Thus 
interpreted, the entire significance of the two tables of 
the covenant and their place within the ark disap- 
peared, and the truths which the whole order repre- 
sented became cosmicul instead of ethical. If the spe- 
cial idiosyncracy of one writer (Philo, De Profug.) led 


him to see in the holy of holies and the sanctuary that 
wliirh answered to the Platonic distinction between the 
visible (ai<r$i]Ta) and the spiritual (I'oijrd), the coarser, 
less intelligent Josephus goes still more completely into 
the new system. The holy of holies is the visible fir- 
mament in which God dwells, the sanctuary is the 
earth and sea which men inhabit (J nt. iii, 0, 4, 7 ; 7, 
7). The twelve loaves of the shew-bread represented 
the twelve months of the year, the twelve signs of the 
zodiac. The seven lamps were the seven planets. The 
four colors of the vail were the four elements (<xro*y€i«), 
air, fire, water, earth. Even the wings of the cherubim 
were, in the eyes of some, the two hemispheres of the 
universe, or the constellations of the greater and the 
lesser bears (Clem. Alex. Strom, v, 35). The table of 
shew-bread and the altar of incense stood on the north, 
because north winds were most fruitful ; t lie lamp on t he 
south, because the motions of the planets were south- 
ward (ibid. § 34, 35). We need not follow such a sys- 
tem of interpretation further. It was not unnatural 
that the authority with which it started should secure 
for it considerable respect. We find it reappearing in 
some Christian writers — Chrysostom {Horn, in Joann. 
JJapt.) and Theodoret (Queest. in Exod.); in some Jew- 
ish — Ben-Uzziel, lvimchi, Abarbanel (Bahr, Symbol, i, 
103 sq.). It was well for Christian thought that the 
Church had in the Epistle to the Hebrews and the 
Apocalypse of St. John that which helped to save it 
from the pedantic puerilities of this physico-theology. 
It is curious to note how in Clement of Alexandria the 
two systems of interpretation cross each other, leading 
sometimes to extravagances like those in the text, 
sometimes to thoughts at once lofty and true. Some 
of these have already been noticed. Others, not to be 
passed over, are that the seven lamps set forth t lie va- 
ried degrees and forms (tzoXv pepiog icai TroXcrpoTriuc) 
of God’s revelation, the form and the attitude of ihe 
eherubim, the union of active ministry and grateful, 
ceaseless contemplation (Strom, v, 36, 37). 

3. It will have been clear from all that has been said 
that the Epistle to the Hebrews has not been looked on 
as designed to limit our inquiry into the meaning of 
the symbolism of the tabernacle, and that there is con- 
sequently no ground for adopting the system of inter- 
preters who can see in it nothing but an aggregate of 
types of Christian mysteries. Such a system has, in 
fact, to choose between two alternatives. Either the 
meaning was made clear, at least to the devout wor- 
shippers of old, and then it is no longer true that the 
mystery was hid “from ages and generations,” or else 
the mystery was concealed, and then the whole order 
was voiceless and unmeaning as long as it lasted, then 
only beginning to be instructive when it was “ready to 
vanish away.” 1 lightly viewed, there is, it is believed, 
no antagonism between the interpretation which starts 
from the idea of symbols of great eternal truths, and 
that which rests on the idea of types foreshadowing 
Christ and his Work and his Church. If the latter 
were the highest manifestation of the former (and this 
is the keynote of the Epistle to the Hebrews), then the 
two systems run parallel with each other. The type 
may help us to understand the symbol. The symbol 
may guard us against misinterpreting the type. That 
the same things were at once symbols and types may 
take its place among the proofs of an insight and a fore- 
sight more than human. Not the vail of nature only, 
but the vail of the flesh, the humanity of Christ, at 
once conceals and manifests the Eternal’s glory. The 
rending of that vail enabled all who had eyes to see 
and hearts to believe to enter into the holy of holies, 
into the Divine Presence, and to see, not less clearly 
than the high-priest, as he looked on the ark and the 
mercy -seat, that righteousness and love, truth and 
mercy, were as one. Blood had been shed, a life had 
been offered which, through the infinite power of its 
love, was able to atone, to satisfy, to purify. 

The allusions to the tabernacle in the Apocalypse 


TABERNACLE 


142 


TABERNACLE 


are, as might be expected, full of interest. As in a | 
vision, which loses sight of all time limits, the temple 
of the tabernacle is seen in heaven (Lev. xv, 5), and 
yet in the heavenly Jerusalem there i* no temple seen 
(xxi, 22). In the heavenly temple iliore is no longer 
any vail; it is open, and the ark of the covenant is 
clearly seen (xi, 19). 

4. We cannot here follow out that strain of a higher 
mood, and it would not be profitable to enter into the 
speculations which later writers have engrafted on the 
tir>t great thought. Those who wish to enter upon 
that line of inquiry may find materials enough in any 
of the greater commentaries on the Epistle to the He- 
brews (Owen’s, Stuart’s, Block's, Tholuck’s, Delitzsch’s, 
Alford's), or in special treatises, such as those of Van 
Till {be Tabernac.m Ugolino, Thesaurus, viii ), Bede 
( Expositio Mystlca et M oralis Mosaici Tabernaculi\ 
Wit si us ( be Tabern. Lev it. My s ter Us, in the Miscell. 
Eacr.). Strange outlying hallucinations, like those of 
ancient rabbins, inferring from “the pattern showed to 
Moses in the Mount" the permanent existence of a 
heavenly tabernacle, like in form, structure, propor- 
tions to that which stood in the wilderness (Leyrer, loc. 
ciV.), or of later writers who have seen in it (not in the 
spiritual, but the anatomical sense of the word) a type ; 
of humanity, representing the outer bodily framework, 
the inner vital organs ( Friederich, Symb. der Mos. 
Sdftshiitte , in Leyrer, loc. cit., and Ewald, Alterth. p. 
338), may be dismissed with a single glance. The 
Judaic and patristic opinion in the main, though not 
in the details, was advocated by 1 »ii h r in his Symbolik 
(1837), in which he considered the tabernacle a symbol 
of the universe, the court representing earth, and the 
tabernacle, strictly so named, heaven, though not in a 
material sense, but as the place and instruments of God’s 
revelation of himself. In his work on the temple, ten 
years later, Biilir retracted much of his former theory, 
and advocated the opinion that the tabernacle sym- 
bolized the idea of the dwelling of God in the midst of 
Israel. Another view, which seems an exaggeration 
into unwarrantable detail of the true idea that each 
Christian is a temple of God, proceeds to adapt to the 
elements of human nature the divisions and materials 
of the tabernacle. Thus the court is the body, the holy 
place the soul, the holiest the spirit— true dwelling- 
place of God. This might do very well as a general 
illustration, and was so used bv Luther; but the idea 
has been fully developed and defended against the at- 
tack of l>ii.hr by Friederich in his Symb. der Mos. Stift- 
shiitte (Leips. 1841). 

5. Nevertheless, as the central point of a great sym- 
bolical and typical institute, the tabernacle necessarily 
possessed, both as a whole and in its contents, a sym- 
bolical and typical significance, which has been recog- 
nised by all orthodox interpreters. ( )n this head, as we 
see above, much fanciful and unregulated ingenuity has 
been indulged; but this must not induce us to neglect 
those conclusions to which a just application of the 
principles of typological interpretation conducts. 

(1.) Under the Old-Test, economy, the primary idea i 
of the tabernacle was that of a dwelling for Jehovah in 
the midst of his people, and this was prominently kept 
in view in all the arrangements concerning the con- 
struction and location of the structure. ‘‘Let them," 
said God to Moses, “make me a sanctuary that 1 may 
dwell among them" ( Exod. xxv, 8; xxix, 45); when 
the structure was completed it was set up in the midst 
of the congregation, and there it always remained, 
whether the people rested or were on their march 
(Numb, ii) ; on it rested the cloud which indicated the 
Divine Presence, ami which by its quiescence or re- 
moval indicated the will of the Great Sovereign of Is- 
rael as to the resting or t he removing of the camp 
(Exod. xl. 3G-38) ; and to it the people repaired when 
they had sacrifice to offer to God. or counsel to ask of 
him (Lev. i. 3; Numb, xxvii, 2; Deut. xxxi, 14, etc.). 
As Judaism was strictly monotheistic, it knew but one 


sacred place where Jehovah was to he found. The 
holy of holies, which the apostle calls “the second tab- 
ernacle” (lleb. ix, 7), was t lie appropriate residence of 
Jehovah as the God of Israel. In this the principal 
tiling was the ark, in which was placed “ the testimony" 
(r ■"!;;), and which was covered by “the mercy-seat” 
(r^.ES). The testimony was the book of the law, and 
it was put into the ark as a witness against the people 
because of their sinfulness (Dent, xxxi, 20. 27). This 
symbolized the great truth that the tirst relation into 
which Jehovah conies with the sinner is that of a ruler 
whose law testifies against the transgressor. But this 
testimony was hid by the mercy-seat, on which the 
blood of atonement was sprinkled by t lie high -priest 
when he entered within the vail, and on which the visi- 
ble emblem of Jehovah’s presence — the sheehinah be- 
tween the cherubim of glory — was enthroned; and in 
this there was an emblem of the fact that the con- 
demning and accusing power of the law was taken away 
by the propitiatory covering which God had appointed. 
By all this was indicated the grand truth that the char- 
acter in which Jehovah dwelt among his people was 
that of a justly offended but merciful and propitiated 
sovereign, who. having received atonement for their 
sins, had put these out of his sight, and would remem- 
ber them no more at all against them (comp. Philo, De 
Yit. M os is, bk. iii). 

In the tirst. or outer tabernacle, were the altar of in- 
cense, the table with the shew -bread, and the golden 
candlestick. The tirst was symbolical of the necessity 
and the acceptableness of prayer, of which the smoke 
of sweet incense that was to ascend from it morning 
and evening appears to he the appointed Biblical sym- 
bol (comp. Psa. exli. 2; Luke i, 10; Lev. v, 8; viii. 3, 
4). The second was emblematical of the necessity of 
good works to accompany our devotions, the bread be- 
ing the offering of the children of Israel to their Divine 
King (Lev. xxiv, 8), and consecrated to him by the of- 
fering of incense along with it as emblematical of prayer. 
The third was the symbol of the Church, or people of 
God, the gold of which it was formed denoting the ex- 
cellence of the Church, the seven lamps its complete- 
ness, and the oil by which they were fed being the ap- 
propriate symbol of the Divine Spirit dwelling in his 
people and causing them to shine (comp. Zech. iv, 2,3 ; 
Matt, v, 14, 10; Lev. i, 12, 20). 

In the fore-court of the tabernacle stood the altar of 
burnt-offering, on which were offered the sacrifices of 
the people, and the laver, in which the priests cleansed 
their hands and feet before entering the holy place. 
The symbolical significance of these is too well known 
to need illustration. See Offkking; Pt hjkicatiox. 

(2.) Under the new dispensation, if we view the tab- 
ernacle as a general symbol of Jehovah’s dwelling in the 
midst of his people, then that to which it answers can 
be no other than the human nature of our Lord, lie 
was “God manifest in the flesh,” “Immanuel,” God 
with ns, and in him “dwelleth .all the fulness of the 
Godhead bodily” (1 Tim. iii, 10; Matt, i, 23; C’ol. ii. 9). 
Hence John (i, 14), in speaking of his incarnation, says, 
“The Word became flesh and tabernacled (ioKi'iinoai) 
among us,” where the language evidently points to the 
ancient tabernacle as the symbolical residence of Jeho- 
vah ; and in the book of Revelation (xxi, 5) the same 
apostle, in announcing the final presence of Christ in 
his glorified humanity with his Church, uses the ex- 
pression, “The tabernacle of God is with men." From 
these statements of the New Test, we may hold our- 
selves justified in concluding that the ancient taberna- 
cle, viewed in its general aspect as the dwelling of Jeho- 
vah, found its antitype in the human nature of Christ, 
in whom God really dwelt. Viewed more particularly 
in its two great divisions, the tabernacle symbolized in 
its inner department the reign of Jehovah in his own 
majesty and glory, and in its outer department the ser- 
vice of God by propitiation and prayer. In keeping 


TABERNACLE 


143 


TABERNACLE 


^ivith this, the writer of the Epistle to the Hebrews 
teaches (as above seen) us to regard the outer part of 
the tabernacle as more strictly typical of the person of 
Jesus Christ, and the inner of heaven, into which he 
has now entered. Thus he speaks of him (viii, 2) as 
now, in the heavenly state, “a minister of the true [i. e. 
real, aXifiivt), as distinguished from symbolical] taber- 
nacle which the Lord pitched, and not man,” where the 
allusion seems to be partly to the fact that Christ is in 
heaven, and partly to the fact that he ministers there 
in human nature. Still more explicit is the language 
used in ix, 1 L, where the writer, after speaking of the 
sacerdotal services of the ancient economy as merely 
ligurative and outward, adds, “ But Christ having ap- 
peared as high-priest of the good things to come, by 
means of the greater and more perfect tabernacle not 
made with hands (that is, not of this creation), nor by 
means of blood of goats and calves, but by means of his 
own blood, entered once (for all) into the holy place, 
having obtained eternal redemption for us.” In inter- 
preting this passage, we would follow those who take 
the whole as far as the words “ his own blood” as the 
subject of the sentence, and consequently join the 
clauses depending from dux with irapayEvopEvo^, and 
not with ; for it seems to be more natural to 

suppose that the writer should say that it was by means 
of a more perfect tabernacle and a holier sacrifice that 
Christ became the high-priest of spiritual blessings than 
that it was by these means that he entered into the holy 
place. The objection to this construction which dean 
Alford urges, that ‘‘in that case ovdk would be left with- 
out any preceding member of the negation to follow,” is 
of no weight, for it burdens the construction he adopts 
as much as that he rejects, and is to be obviated in 
either case by resolving oddi into teat o v (see Meyer’s 
note on ver. 12). Assuming this to be the proper con- 
struction of the passage, it seems clearly to represent 
the human nature of our Lord — that in which he made 
his soul an offering for sin — as the antitype of the an- 
cient tabernacle in which the high-priest offered sacri- 
fice, while the heavenly world into which he had enter- 
ed as a high-priest was typified by the holy place into 
which the Jewish high-priest entered to appear in the 
symbolical presence of Jehovah. For further confirma- 
tion of this may be adduced Ileb. x, 20, where the writ- 
er, speaking of the privilege enjoyed by believers under 
the new dispensation of approaching God through Christ, 
savs we can do it “ by a new and living way which he 
hath inaugurated (tvEKalvioEv') for ns through the vail 
(that is, his own flesh).” The allusion here is undoubt- 
edly to the ancient tabernacle service, and the truth set 
forth is that as the high-priest of old went with sacrifi- 
cial blood through the vail into the holy of holies, so 
we, as made priests unto God by Jesus Christ, may ap- 
proach the immediate presence of Jehovah through that 
path which the Saviour has inaugurated for ns by his 
death in human nature — that path by which he himself 
lias preceded us as our great intercessor, and which is 
ever fresh and living for us. There may be some rhe- 
torical confusion in this passage, but the general idea 
seems plainly this, that the body of Christ, slain lbr us, 
affords us a passage, by means of sacrifice, into the pres- 
ence of God, just as the first tabernacle with its services 
afforded an entrance to the high-priest of old into the 
holy of holies (see Hofmann, Schriftbeweis , II, i, 405 sq. ; 
Weissaff. u. Erfiilluny , ii, 189 sq.). 

For the symbolism, in a New-Test, sense, of the va- 
rious parts and uses of the tabernacle, such as the altar 
( $v<riaoTi)piov , Heb. xiii, 10), the vail ( KaTairtTaapa , 
x, 20), the mercy-seat (iXaoTi'ipiov, Rom. iii, 25), etc., 
see each word in its place. 

6. It is proper in this connection to refer to a specu- 
lative hypothesis which, though in itself unsubstantial 
enough, has been revived under circumstances that have 
given it prominence. It has been maintained by Yon 
Bohlen and Yatke (Biihr, i, 117, 273) that the commands 
and the descriptions relating to the tabernacle in the 


books of Moses are altogether unhistorical. the result of 
the effort of some late compiler to ennoble the cradle of 
his people’s history by transferring to a remote antiquity 
what he found actually existing in the Temple, modi-’ 
tied only so far as was necessary to fit it into the the- 
ory of a migration and a wandering. The structure did 
not belong to the time of the Exodus, if indeed there 
ever was an Exodus. The tabernacle thus becomes the 
mythical aftergrowth of the Temple, not the Temple 
the historical sequel to the tabernacle. It has lately 
been urged as tending to the same conclusion that the 
circumstances connected with the tabernacle in the 
Pentateuch are manifestly unhistorical. The whole 
congregation of Israel are said to meet in a court which 
could not have contained more than a lew hundred men 
(Oolenso, Pentateuch and Book of Joshua, pt. i, ch. iv, v). 
The number of priests was utterly inadequate for the ser- 
vices of the tabernacle {ibid. ch. xx). The narrative of 
the head-money collection, of the gifts of the people, is 
full of anachronisms {ibid. ch. xiv). 

Some of these objections — those, e. g., as to the num- 
ber of the first-born, and the disproportionate smallness 
of the priesthood, have been met by anticipation in re- 
marks under Priest and Levite. Others bearing upon 
the general veracity of the Pentateuch history it is im- 
possible to discuss here. See Pentateuch. It will be 
sufficient, to notice such as bear immediately upon the 
subject of this article. (1.) It may be said that this 
theory, like other similar theories as to the history of 
Christianity, adds to instead of diminishing difficulties 
and anomalies. It may be possible to make out plausi- 
bly that what purports to be the first period of an insti- 
tution is, with all its documents, the creation of the sec- 
ond ; but the question then comes, How are we to explain 
the existence of the second? The world rests upon an 
elephant, and the elephant on a tortoise, but the footing 
of the tortoise is at least somewhat insecure. (2.) What- 
ever may be the weight of the argument drawn from 
the alleged presence of the whole congregation at the 
door of the tabernacle tells with equal force against the 
historical existence of the Temple and the narrative of 
its dedication. There also, when the population num- 
bered some seven or eight millions (2 Sam. xxiv, 9), 
"all the men of Israel” (1 Kings viii, 2), “all the con- 
gregation” (ver. 5), “all the children of Israel” (ver. 63) 
were assembled, and the king “blessed” all the congre- 
gation (ver. 14, 55). (3.) There are, it is believed, un- 

designed touches indicating the nomadic fife of the wil- 
derness. The wood employed for the tabernacle is not 
the sycamore of the valleys nor the cedar of Lebanon, 
as afterwards in the Temple, but the shittim of the Si- 
naitic peninsula. See Siiittah-trke; Shittim. The 
abundance of fine linen points to Egypt, the seal or dol- 
phin skins (“badgers” in the A. Y., but see Gesenius, 
s. v. il3nn) to the shores of the Red Sea. See Badger. 
The Levites are not to enter on their office till the age of 
thirty, as needing for their work as bearers a man’s full 
strength (Numb, iv, 23, 30). Afterwards, when their 
duties are chiefly those of singers ancl gatekeepers, they 
were to begin at twenty (1 Chron. xxiii, 24). Would 
a later history, again, have excluded the priestly tribe 
from all share in the structure of the tabernacle, and 
left it in the hands of mythical persons belonging to 
Judah, and to a tribe then so little prominent as that of 
Dan? (4.) There remains the strong Egyptian stamp 
impressed upon well-nigh every part of the tabernacle 
and its ritual, and implied in other incidents. See 
Brazen Seruent ; Levite; Priest; Ukim andTiium- 
mim. Whatever bearing this may have on our views 
of the things themselves, it points, beyond all doubt, to 
a time when the two nations had been brought into 
close contact, when not jewels of silver and gold only, 
but treasures of wisdom, art, knowledge, were “bor- 
rowed” by one people from the other. To what other 
period in the history before Samuel than that of the 
Exodus of the Pentateuch can we refer that intercourse? 


TABERNACLE 


144 TABERNACLES, FEAST OF 


When was it likely that a wild tribe, with difficulty 
keeping its ground against neighboring nations, would 
have adopted such a complicated ritual from a system 
so alien to its own? 'flic facts which, when urged by 
Spencer, with or without a hostile purpose, were de- 
nounced as daring and dangerous and unsettling, are 
now seen to be witnesses to the antiquity of the religion 
of Israel, and so to the substantial truth of the Mosaic 
history. They are used as such by theologians who in 
various degrees enter their protest against the more 
destructive criticism of our own time (llengstenberg, 
Kyypt and the Hooks of Moses i Stanley, Jewish Church . 
lect. iv). (5.) We may, for a moment, put an imagi- 
nary case. Let us suppose that the records of the Old 
Test, had given us in 1 and 2 Sam. a history like that 
which men now seek to substitute for what is actually 
given, had represented Samuel as the first great preach- i 
er of the worship of Eloliim. Gad, or some later prophet, | 
as introducing for the first time the name and worship j 
of Jehovah, and that the Old Test, began with this 
(Colenso, pt. ii, eh. xxi). Let us then suppose that 
some old papyrus, freshly discovered, slowly deciphered, 
gave iis the whole or the greater part of what we now 
find in Exodus and Numbers, that there was thus given 
an explanation both of the aetual condition of the peo- 
ple and of the Egyptian element so largely intermingled 
with their ritual. Can we not imagine with w hat jubi- 
lant zeal the books of Samuel would then have been 
“critically examined,” what inconsistencies would have 
been detected in them, how eager men would have been 
to prove that Samuel had had credit given him for a 
work which was not his; that not he, but Moses, was 
the founder of the polity and creed of Israel; that the 
tabernacle on Zion, instead of coming fresh from David’s 
creative mind, had been preceded by the lmmbler tab- 
ernacle in the wilderness? 

The objection raised against the truthfulness of the 
narrative (Colenso, ibid. ch. vii) on the ground that the 
entire congregation of GOO, 000 is said to have been con- 
vened at the door of this small structure (Lev. vi ii) is 
readily obviated by the natural interpretation that only 
the principal persons stood immediately near, while the 
multitude easily viewed the ceremonies from a conven- 
ient distance (Dirks, The Exodus of Israel, p. 111). 

VI. Literaturel — Desides the commentaries on Exodus 
ad loc., see Diihr. Symbolik d. mos. Cult, i, 56 sq.; Lund, 
Die jiid. lleiliythumer daryestellt. ( 11 a mb. 1605, 176*) ; 
Van Til, Comment, de Tabernac. Mos. (I)ord. 1714; also 
in Ugolino, 7fteMwr.vol.viii); Conrad. De Tabernaculi 
Mosis Structvru et Flyura (Offenbach, 1712); Lamv, 
De Tabernaculo Foederis (Paris, 1720); Tympe. Taber- 
naculi e Monument is Descriptio (Jena, 1731); Carpzov, 
Appar. p. 248 sq. ; Reland, Antiq. Sacr. i, 3-5; Schaelit, 
A nimadv. ad Ikon. Antiq. p. 267 sq.; P’Aquine [Phil.], 
Du Tabernacle (Paris, 1623-24); Deuzelii Disserta- 
tions, ii, 97 sq.; Millii Miscellanea Sacra (Amit. 1754), 
p. 320 sq. ; Ravius, De iis qu<e cx A rabia in iisuin Ta- 
bernaculi f uerant Petita (Ultraj. 1753, ed. J. M. Schrbckh, 
Lips. 1755): Recchiti, (Mantua, 1776); Vric- 

moet, De Auleco adyti Tabernaculi (France. 1745); 
Meyer, 7 libeldeu tuny, p. 262 sq.; Lanzi [Michelangelo], 
La Sacra Scrittura Illustrata con Monum. Fenico A s- 
siri ed. Eyiziani (Roma, 1827, fol.) : Neumann, Die Stifts- 
hiitte (Gotha, 1 861) ; F riederich, Symbol, d. mos. Stiftshiitte 
(Leips. 1841); Kurtz, in the Stud. u. Krit. 1844, ii, 305 
sq. ; Riggenbach, Die mos. Stiftshiitte (Basel, 1862, 
1867); Soltau, Vessels of the Tabernacle (Lond. 1865) ; 
Paine, The Tabernacle, Temple, etc. (Dost. 1861); Kitto, ’ 
The Tabernacle and its Furniture (Lond. 1840): Simp- 
son, Typ. Character of the Tabernacle (Edinb. 1852); 
Drowm, The Tabernacle, etc. (ibid. 1871, 1872, 8vo). 

TABERNACLE is a name given to certain chapels 
or meeting-houses in England erected by Mr. White- 
field, and to similar plaees of worship reared by Robert ' 
Haldane for the accommodation of a few large congre- 
gations in Scotland, out of which have chiefly been 



formed the present churches of Congregational dissent- 
ers in that country. 

Tabernacle is also a term applied to certain interior 
portions of churehes, etc.: 1. A niche or hovel lbr an 
image. 2. An ambry on the right side of the altar, or 
behind it, for the reservation of the host, chrism, and 
oil for the sick. 3. A throne carried like a litter on the 
shoulders of Spanish priests in the procession of Corpus 
Christ i. and supporting the host. 4. A small temple 
over the central part of an altar for the reservation of 
the eucharist, contained in the pyx, and often decorated 
with a erown of three circlets. Its earliest form was a 
coffer of wood, or a little arched receptacle; then it be- 
came a tower of gold, or of circular shape, being a cas- 
ket for the chalice and paten, in faet a ciborhnn. In 
the 15th century the tabernacle became a magnificent 
piece of furniture over or on the left side of the high-al- 
tar, with statues, towers, foliage, buttresses, and superb 
work, as at Grenoble, St. John Maurienne, Lean, Tour- 
nay, and Nuremberg, the latter sixty-four feet high, and 
of white stone. See Cinomuai ; Dove; Pyx. 

Tabernacles, the Feast of, the third of the three 
great annual festivals, the other two being the feasts of 
the Passover and Pentecost, on which the whole male 
population w'erc required to appear before the Lord in 
the national sanctuary. (We base our treatment of this 
subject upon Ginsburg’s article in Kitto’s Cychpa dia, 
with additions from other sources, especially Smith's 
Diet, of the Bible.) See Festival. 

I. Names and their Siynijication. — This festival is 
called — 1. .‘*n. Chay has-Sukkoth ; Sept, kopn) 

OKip'u))’, the Festival of Tents; Vulg. 4 /enVe tabernaculo- 
rum ; A. V. the Feast nf Tabernacles (2 Chron. viii. 13; 
Ezra iii, 4; Zccli. xiv, 16, 18, 19); t TKJjvoTnjyla (John 
vii, 2; Josephus, Ant. viii, 4, 5): CKijvai (Philo, De 
Sept. § 21) ; ij uKyry (Plutarch, Sympos. iv, 6, 2); be- 
cause every Israelite was commanded to live in taber- 
nacles during its continuance (comp. Lev. xxiii, 43). 


TABERNACLES, FEAST OF 145 


TABERNACLES, FEAST OF 


2. Cppxn 351 , ioprt) ovvTtXeiaQ, the Feast of Ingather- 
ing (Exod. xxiii, 16; xxxiv, 22), because it was cele- 
brated at the end of the agricultural year, when the in- 
gathering of the fruits and the harvest was completed. 

3. It . is tear iKo\i)v denominated IVirP +n, the Festival 
of Jehpvah (Lev. xxiii, 39), or simply 3nP, 351, the Fes- 
tival (1 Kings viii, 2; 2 Chron. v, 3; vii, 8, 9; Mishna, 
Shekalim, iii, 1 ; Sukkah, ii, 6 ; Rosh ha-Shana, i. 2 ; Me- 
gillah, iii, 5; Taanith, i, 1, 2). because of its importance, 
and of its being the most joyful of all festivals. The 
assertion of Winer (Bill. Realwoi'terbuch, s. v. “ Laub- 
htittenfest”), repeated by Keil (J rchaologie , vol. i, § 85, 
note 3) and Biihr (Symbolik, ii, 660), that the rabbins 
call this festival ilCT -H DP, dies multiplicationis , is 
incorrect. The Mishna. which Winer quotes in corrob- 
oration of this assertion, does not denominate this festi- 
val as such, but simply speaks of the many sacrifices 
offered on the first day thereof : “ If any one vows wine 
[for the Temple] he must not give less than three logs; 
if oil, not less than one log. ... If he says, I do not 
know how much I have set apart, lie must give as much 
as is used on the day which requires most” ( Menachoth , 
xiii, 5) — i. e. as is used on the first day of the festival 
[of Tabernacles] when it happens to be on a Sabbath, 
for on such a day there are more libations used than on 
any other day in the year, inasmuch as 140 logs of wine 
are required for the different sacrifices. 

The following are the principal passages in the Penta- 
teuch which refer to this festival : Exod. xxiii, 16, where 
it is spoken of as the Feast of Ingathering, and is brought 
into connection with the other festivals under their ag- 
ricultural designations, the Feast of Unleavened Bread 
and the Feast of Harvest; Lev. xxiii, 34-36, 39-43, 
where it is mentioned as commemorating the passage 
of the Israelites through the desert; Deut. xvi, 13-15, 
in which there is no notice of the eighth day, and it is 
treated as a thanksgiving for the harvest; Numb, xxix, 

12- 38, where there is an enumeration of the sacrifices 
which belong to the festival; Deut. xxxi, 10-13, where 
the injunction is given for the public reading of the laiv 
in the Sabbatical year, at the Feast of Tabernacles. In 
Neh. viii there is an account of the observance of the 
feast by Ezra, from which several additional particulars 
respecting it may be gathered. 

II. The Time at which this Festival was celebrated . — 
The time fixed for the celebration of this feast is from 
the 15th to the 22d of Tishri, when the season of the 
year is changing for winter (.Josephus, Ant. iii, 10, 4); 
i. e. in the autumn, when the whole of the chief fruits 
of the ground — the corn, the wine, and the oil — were 
gathered in (Exod. xxiii, 16; Lev. xxiii, 39 ; Dent, xvi, 

13- 15). lienee it is spoken of as occurring “in the end 
of the year, when thou hast gathered in thy labors out 
of the field.” There were thus only four days inter- 
vening between this festival and the Great Day of 
Atonement. But though its duration, strictly speaking, 
was only seven days (Deut. xvi, 13 ; Ezek. xlv, 25), yet, 
as it was followed by a day of holy convocation, this 
festival is sometimes described as lasting eight days 
(Lev. xxiii, 36; Neh. viii, 18). 

III. The Manner in which this Festival was celebrated. 
— As it is most essential, in describing the mode in which 
this feast was and still is celebrated, to distinguish be- 
tween the Pentateuchal enactments and those rites, cer- 
emonies, and practices which gradually obtained in the 
course of time, we shall divide our description into three 
periods. 

1. The Period from the Institution of this Festival to 
the Babylonian Captivity, — The Mosaic enactments about 
the manner in which this festival is to be celebrated are 
as follows: The Israelites are to live in tabernacles dur- 
ing the seven days of this festival, “that your genera- 
tions may know that I made the children of Israel to 
dwell in tabernacles when I brought them out of the 
land of Egypt” (Lev. xxiii, 42, 43). The first day alone, 


however, is to be a holy convocation (1D*lp X“!|r>D), 
and a Sabbath or day of perfect cessation of business, on 
which no manner of secular work is to be done (ver. 35, 

39) ; and all the able-bodied male members of the con- 
gregation, who are not legally precluded from it, are to 
appear in the place of the national sanctuary, as on the 
Passover and Pentecost (Exod. xxiii, 14, 17 ; xxxiv, 23). 
On this day the Israelites are to take “the fruit of 
goodly trees, with branches of palm-trees, boughs of 
thick trees, and willows of the brook” (Lev. xxiii, 

40) , most probably to symbolize the varied vegetation 
which grew in the different localities of their journey 
through the wilderness — viz. the palm-tree of the plain 
where the Israelites encamped, the willow at the moun- 
tain stream, from which God gave his people water to 
drink; and the designedly indefinite thick bush on the 
mountain heights over which they had to travel; while 
the fruits of the goodly trees represent the produce of 
the beautiful land which they ultimately obtained after 
their pilgrimages in the wilderness (Pressel, in Herzog's 
Real - Encyklopadie, s. v. “ Laubhiittenfest”). As this 
festival, however, though symbolizing by the several 
practices thereof the pilgrimage through the wilderness, 
was nevertheless more especially designed to celebrate 
the completion of the harvest in the Promised Land, as 
typified by “the fruit of the goodly trees” in contrast to 
the plants of the wilderness, the Israelites are enjoined 
“not to appear before the Lord empty, but every one 
shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of the 
Lord thv God which he hath given thee” (Exod. xxiii, 
15; Deut. xvi, 16, 17). Hence they are to offer burnt- 
offerings, meat-offerings, drink-offerings, and other sac- 
rifices as follows : On the first day, the burnt-offering is 
to consist of thirteen bullocks, two rams, fourteen lambs, 
and one kid of the goats for a sin-offering, with the ap- 
propriate meat- and drink-offerings; the meat-offerings 
being three tenths of an ephah of dour mingled with one 
half of a hiu of oil to each bullock, two tenths of an 
ephah of dour mingled with one third of a hin of oil to 
each ram, and one tenth of an ephah of dour mingled 
with one quarter of a hin of oil to each lamb; the drink- 
offering consisting of one half of a hin of wine to each 
bullock, one third of a hin of wine to each ram, and one 
quarter of a hin of wine to each lamb (Numb, xv, 2-11 ; 
xxviii, 12-14). The same number of rams and lambs, 
and one kid, are to be offered on the following days; 
the number of bullocks alone is to be reduced by one 
each day, so that on the seventh day only seven are to 
be offered (xxix, 12-38). There are accordingly to be 
offered during the seven days in all seventy bullocks, 
fourteen rams, ninety-eight lambs, and seven goats, 
with thirty-three and three-fifths ephahs of flour, sixty- 
four and one-sixth bins of oil, and sixty-four and one- 
sixth bins of wine. Moreover, the law is to be read 
publicly in the sanctuary on the first day of the festival 
every Sabbatical year (Deut. xxxi, 10-13). The six 
following days — i. e. 15th-22d of Tishri — are to be half- 
festivals; they were most probably devoted to social 
enjoyments and friendly gatherings, when every head 
of the family was to enjoy the feasts from the second or 
festival tithe with his son, daughter, man-servant, maid- 
servant, the Lcvite, the stranger, the fatherless, and the 
widow (xvi, 14). See Tithe. 

At the conclusion of the seventh day another festival 
is to be celebrated, denominated the concluding day (CP 
rP3£3?), the eighth concluding day (rVH3S2 ; Sept. 

i^oSiov). Like the first day, it is to be a holy convo- 
cation, and no manner of work is to be done on it. As 
it is not only the finishing of the Feast of Tabernacles, 
but the conclusion of the whole cycle of festivals, the 
dwelling in the tabernacle is to cease on it, and the sac- 
rifices to be offered thereon are to be distinct, and un- 
like those offered on the preceding days of Tabernacles. 
The burnt-sacrifice is to consist of one bullock, one ram, 
and seven lambs one year old, with the appropriate 
meat- and drink-offerings, and one goat for a sin-offering 


TABERNACLES, FEAST OF 140 TABERNACLES, FEAST OF 


(Numb, xxix, 36-38). The sacrifices, therefore, were ' 
to be like those of the seventh new moon and the Great 
Day of Atonement. Being, however, attached as an 
octave to the Feast of Tabernacles, the Sabbatical rest 
and the holy convocation, which properly belong to the 
seventh day of the Feast of Tabernacles, are transferred 
to it, and hence the two festivals are frequently joined 
together and spoken of as one composed of eight days. 
There is only one instance on record of this festival be- 
ing celebrated between the entrance into the Promised 
Land and the Babylonian captivity (I Kings viii, 2; 2 
Cliron. vii. 8-10 with Nch. viii, 17). No trace of any 
exposition of the Bentnteuchal enactments with regard 
to this festival is to be found till we come to the post- 
exilian period. 

2. The Period from the Return from Babylon to the 
Destruction of the Temple. — In the account of the first 
celebration of this festival after the return of the Jew's 
from the Babylonian captivity, the concise Pentateuchal 
injunction is expanded. Not only are the localities 
specified in which these booths are to be erected, but 
additional plants are mentioned, and the use to be 
made of these plants is stated. The Jews, according to 
the command of Ezra, made themselves booths upon 
the roofs of houses, in the courts of their dwellings, in 
the courts of the sanctuary, in the street of the water- 
gate, and in the street of the gate of Ephraim, from the 
olive-branches, the pine-branches, the myrtle-branches, 
the palm-branches, and the branches of the thick trees, 
which they were told to gather, and dwelt in these 
booths seven days (Neh. viii, 15-18). The Sadducees of 
old, w'ho are followed by the Karaites, took these boughs 
and the fruits to be identical w'ith those mentioned in 
Lev. xxiii, 39, 40. and maintained that these were to be 
used for the construction and adornment of the booths 
or tabernacles. The Pharisees and the orthodox Jew- 
ish tradition, however, as we shall see hereafter, inter- 
preted this precept differently. 

When the Feast of Tabernacles, like all other festi- 
vals and precepts of the Mosaic law, began to he strictly 
and generally kept after the Babylonian- captivity, un- 
der the spiritual guidance of the Great Synagogue, the 
Sanhedrim, and the doctors of the law = scribes, more 
minute definitions and more expanded applications of 
the concise Pentateuchal injunction were imperatively 
demanded, in order to secure uniformity of practice, as 
well as to infuse devotion and joy into the celebration 
thereof, both in the Temple and in the booths. Hence 
it w’as ordained that the tabernacle or booth (H2D, suk- 
kdh) must be a detached and temporary habitation, con- 
structed for the sole purpose of living in it during this 
festival, and must not be used as a permanent dwelling. 
The interior of it must neither be higher than twenty 
cubits, nor lower than ten palms; it must not have less 



in such a manner as to admit the view of the sky and 
the stars; and the part open to the rays of the son must 
not exceed in extent the part shaded by the cover. It 
must not be under a tree; neither must it be covered 
with a cloth, nor with anything which contracts defile- 
ment or docs not derive its growth from the ground 
(Mishna, Sukkah , i, 1-ii, 7). The furniture of the huts 
was to be, according to most authorities, of the plainest 
description. There was to be nothing which was not 
fairly necessary. It would seem, however, that there 
w’as no strict rule on this point, and that there was a 
considerable difference according to the habits or cir- 
cumstances of the occupant (Carpzov, p. 415; Buxtorf, 
Syn. Jud. p. 451). (See curious figures of different 
forms of huts, and of the great lights of the Feast of 
Tabernacles, in Surenhusius, Mischna , vol. ii ; also a 
lively description of some of the huts used bv the Jews 
in modern times in La Vie Juire en Alsace, p. 170, etc.) 
Every Israelite is to constitute the sukkah his regular 
domicile during the whole of the seven days of the fes- 


tival, while his house is only to be his occasional abode, 
and he is only to quit the booth when it rains very 
heavily. Even a child, as soon as he ceases to be de- 
pendent upon his mother, must dwell in the booth; and 
the only persons exempt from this duty are those de- 
puted on pious missions, invalids, nurses, women, and 
infants (Mishna, Sukkah, ii, 8, 9). The orthodox rabbins 
in the time of Christ would not eat any food which ex- 
ceeded in quantitv the size of an egg out of the booth 
(ibid, ii, 5). 

The four species of vegetable productions to be used 
during prayer (Lev. xxiii. 39, 40) arc the next distinc- 
tive feature of this festival, to which the ancient doctors 
of the law before the time of Christ devoted much at- 
tention. These are — I. “ The. fruits of the goodly tree!'' 
(ynn "3? -ns). As the phrase goodly or splendid tree 
07 *l ? ^) is too indefinite, and the fruit of such a tree 
may simply denote the fruit of any choice fruit-tree, 
thus leaving it very vague, the Hebrew canons, based 
upon one of the significations of “inn (to dwell, to rest ; 
see Bashi on Lev. xxiii. 40), decreed that it means the 
fruits which permanently rest upon the tree — i. e. the cit- 
ron, the paradise-apple ethrdg ). Hence the 

rendering of Onkelos, the so-called Jerusalem Targnm, 
and the Syriac version of Tin by ethrdg (=Kirpior, 
Josephus, Ant. xiii, 13, 5), citron. Josephus elsewhere 
(ibid, iii, 10. 4) says that it was the fruit of the persea, 
a tree said by Pliny to have been conveyed from Persia 
to Egypt ( Hist . Nat. xv, 13), and which some have 
identified with the peach (Mains persica). 'lhe ethrdg 
must not be from an nncircumeised tree (Lev. xix, 23), 
nor from the unclean heave-offering (comp. Numb, xviii, 
11, 12); it must not have a stain on the crown, nor be 
without the crown, peeled of its rind, perforated, or de- 
fective, else it is illegal (Mishna, Sukkah, iii, 5, 6). 2. 
“ Branches of palm-trees” (C^wH rE3). According 
to the Hebrew canons, it is the shoot of the palm-tree 
wdien budding, before the leaves are spread abroad, and 
while it is yet like a rod, and this is called luldb (-b*b), 
which is the technical expression given in the Chaldee 
versions and in the Jewish writings for the Biblical phrase 
in question (Buxtorf, Lea*. Talm.aA. 1143; Carpzov, A pp. 
Crit. p. 416; Drusius, Not. Maj. in Lev. xxiii). 'file luldb 
must at least be three hands tall, and must be tied togeth- 
er with its own kind (Mishna. Sukkah, iii, 1,8; Maimoni- 
des, lad lla-Chezaka , Uilchoth Lvlab, vii, 1). 3. “ The 
bough of a thick tree" (VZV I*” *23*). This ambiguous 
phrase is interpreted by the ancient canons to denote “the 
myrtle-branch (CHn) whose leaves thickly cover t lie 
wood thereof: it must have three or more shoots around 
the stem on the same level of the stem, but if it has two 
shoots opposite each other on the same level, and the 
third shoot is above them, it is not thick, but is called 
(niiVii; H123?) a thin myrtle ” (Mishna, Sukkah, 32 b; 
Maimonidcs, ibid, vii, 2). This explanation accounts 
for the rendering of the Chaldee paraphrases of this 
phrase by hadds (Ojrp, myrtle-branch. If the point of 
this myrtle-branch is broken off, or if its leaves are torn 
off, or if it has more berries on it than leaves.it is illegal 
(Mishna, Sukkah , iii, 2). 4. “ The willows of the brook ” 
(2HD ^'Z^V—salix helix) must be of that species the 
distinguishing marks of which are dark wood, and long 
leaves with smooth margin. If any one of these four 
kinds has been obtained by theft, or comes from a grove 
devoted to idolatry, or from a town which has been 
enticed to idolatry (comp. Dent. xiii. 12, etc.), it is illegal 
(ibid, iii, 1-5). Their legality having been ascertained, 
the palm, the myrtle, and the willow are bound up 
together into one bundle, denominated luldb. 

It has already been remarked that the Sadducees in 
and before ‘the time of Christ maintained that the 
boughs and fruit here mentioned (viz. Lev. xxiii, 40) 
are to be used for the construction and adornment of 


TABERNACLES, FEAST OF 147 TABERNACLES, FEAST OF 


the booths, and that they appeal to Neh. viii, 15, 16 in 
support of this view. This view has not only been es- 
poused by the Karaite Jews, the successors of the Sad- 
ducees [see Sadducek], but is defended by bishop Pat- 
rick, Keil, and most modem Christian interpreters. 
Against this, however, is to be urged that — (1.) The ob- 
vious sense of the injunction (Lev. xxiii, 40) is that 
these boughs are to be carried as symbols during the 
rejoicing, and that we should expect something more 
explicit than the single and simple word DPinj^l, and 
ye shall take , had it been designed that these boughs 
should be employed for the construction of the booths. 
(2.) The fruit ( n “i3) — as the margin of the A. V. rightly 
has it, and not boughs, as it is in the text with which 
this injunction commences — could surely not be among 
the materials for the construction of the booths. (3.) The 
law about the booths is entirely separated from the 
ordering of the fruit and boughs, as may be seen from a 
comparison of Lev. xxiii, 40 with ver. 42. (4.) The first 

day of this festival, as we have seen, was a holy convo- 
cation, on which all manner of work was interdicted. 
It is therefore against the sanctity of the day to sup- 
pose that the command to take the fruit and the boughs 
on the first day meant that the Israelites are to con- 
struct with these plants the booths on this holy day. 
(5.) The appeal to Neh. viii is beside the mark, inasmuch 
as different materials are there mentioned — e. g. olive- 
branches and pine-branches — which were actually used 
for making the booths, while the haddr fruit and the 
willow specified in the Pentateuchal injunction are 
omitted. With the regulations about the tabernacles 
and the boughs or luldb before us, we can now continue 
the description of the mode in which this festival was 
celebrated in the Temple. 

14 fh of Tishri was the Preparation Day (D'P 32^2 
2*0 =7rapa<Jicsvt)). The pilgrims came up to Jerusa- 
lem on the day previous to the commencement of the 
festival, when they prepared everything necessary for 
its solemn observance. The priests proclaimed the ap- 
proach of the holy convocation on the eve of this day 
by the blasts of trumpets. As on the Feasts of the Pass- 
over and Pentecost, the altar of the burnt-sacrifice was 
cleansed in the first night-watch (Mishna, Yoma . i, 8), 
and the gates of the Temple, as well as those of the in- 
ner court, were opened immediately after midnight for 
the convenience of the priests who resided in the city, 
and for the people who filled the court before the cock 
crew to have their sacrifices and offerings duly exam- 
ined by the priests (ibid, i, 8). When the first day of 
Tabernacles happened on the Sabbath the people brought 
their palm-branches or luldbs on the 14th of Tishri to 
the synagogue on the Temple mount, where the ser- 
vants of the synagogue (D n 2Tn) deposited them in a 
gallery, while the luldbs of the elders of the synagogue 
(D n 3pT) w’ere placed in a separate chamber, as it was 
against the Sabbatical laws to carry the palms on the 
Sabbath from the booths of the respective pilgrims to 
the Temple. 

15 th of Tishri. — At daybreak of the first day of the 
festival a priest, accompanied by a jubilant procession 
and by a band of music, descended with a golden pitch- 
er holding three toys to the pool of Siloam, and, having 
filled it with water from the brook, he endeavored to 
reach the Temple in time to join his brother priests 
who carried the morning sacrifice to the altar ( Tosiph - 
ta Sukkah, c. iii). Following in their steps, he enter- 
ed from the south through the water-gate into the inner 
court (Mishna, Middoth, ii, 6; Gemara, Sukkah, 48 a). 
On reaching the water-gate, he was welcomed by three 
blasts of the trumpet. He then ascended the steps 
of the altar with another priest who carried a pitcher 
of wine for the drink-offering. The two priests turned 
to the left of the altar where two silver basins were fix- 
ed with holes at the bottom; the basin for the water 
was to the west and had a narrower hole, while the one 


for the wine was to the east and had a wider hole, so 
that both might get empty at the same time. Into 
these respective basins they simultaneously and slowly 
poured the water and the wine in such a manner that 
both were emptied at the same time upon the base of 
the altar. To the priest who poured out the water the 
people called out, Raise thy hand! The reason for this 
is that when Alexander Jannai, who officiated as priest, 
was charged with this duty, being a Sadducee and re- 
jecting the ordinances of the scribes, he poured the 
water over his feet and not into the basin, wdiereupon 
the people pelted him with their ethrogs , or citrons. 
At this catastrophe, w hich nearly cost the life of the 
Maccabrean king, Alexander Jannai called for the as- 
sistance of the soldiers, when nearly six thousand Jew's 
perished in the Temple, and the altar w T as damaged, a 
corner of it being broken off in the struggle which en- 
sued (Josephus, Ant. xiii, 13, 5; Mishna, Sukkah, iv, 9; 
Gemara, ibid. 48 a; 51 a; Griitz, Geschichfe der Juden 
[2d ed. Leips. 1863], iii, 112, 473 sq.). See Scribes. 
The ceremony of drawdng the water w r as repeated ev- 
ery morning during the seven days of the festival. 

At the same time that the priests went in procession 
to the pool of Siloam, another jubilant multitude of peo- 
ple w'ent to a place outside Jerusalem called Motsa 
(X2£*?2), which abounded in willow's. These willows 
they gathered with great rejoicing, carried them into 
the Temple amid the blasts of trumpets, and placed 
them at the altar in such a manner that their tops over- 
hung and formed a sort of canopy (Mishna, Sukkah , iv, 
5). The decorating process of the altar being finished, 
the daily morning sacrifice was first offered, Musaph 
(rD^w); then the additional or special sacrifice for this 
festival prescribed in Numb, xxix, 12-38, wdiich, on the 
first day, consisted of a burnt-offering of thirteen bul- 
locks, two rams, and fourteen lambs, with the appropri- 
ate meat- and drink-offering, and a goat for a sin-offer- 
ing, and then the peace-offerings, the vows, and the 
free-will offerings, which constituted the repast of the 
people (Jerusalem, Sukkah, v). While these sacrifices 
w’ere offered the Levites chanted the Great liallel , as on 
the feasts of the Passover and Pentecost. On this occa- 
sion, how’ever, each of the pilgrims held in his right hand 
the luldb, or palm, to wdiich w r ere tied the twdgs of myr- 
tle and willow' as described above, and the ethrog , or 
citron, in his left, while these psalms w’ere chanted; 
and, during the chanting of Psa. cxviii, the pilgrims 
shook their palms three times — viz. at the singing of 
ver. 1, 25, and 29 (Mishna, Sukkah, iii, 9). When the 
Musaph chant was finished the priests in procession 
went round the altar once, exclaiming: Hosanna, 0 Je- 
hovah; give us help, O Jehovah, give prosperity! (Psa. 
cxviii, 25). Thereupon the solemn benediction was 
pronounced by the priests and the people dispersed, 
amid the repeated exclamations, “How beautiful art 
thou, O altar!” or “To Jehovah and thee, O altar, w'e 
give thanks!” (Mishna, Sukkah, iv, 5 ; Gemara, ibid. 44 b, 
45). Each one of the pilgrims then betook himself to 
his respective booth, there to enjoy his repast wdth the 
Levite, the stranger, the poor, and the fatherless who 
shared his hospitality. This practice explains the re- 
marks of the evangelists (Matt. xxi,8, 9, 15; John xii, 
12, 13). It is to be remarked that on the first day of 
the festival every Israelite carried about his luldb, or 
palm, all day; he carried it into the synagogue, held it 
in his hand while praying, and only laid it down when 
called to the reading of the law, as he then had to hold 
the scroll [see Synagogue] ; carried it with him when 
he went to visit the sick and comfort the mourners 
(Mishna, St/kkah, 41 a; Maimonides, lad Ila-Chezaka, 
Ililchoth Lulab, vii, 24). 

lGth-20th of Tishri. — These days w T ere half-holvdays; 
they w'ere called the middle days of the festival (b'P! 
'T’J m i’0= iitoovogQ T))Q iopryc, John vii, 14), or the lesser 
festival ("|22p HS'I'S). Any articles of food or raiment 


TABERNACLES, FEAST OF 148 TABERNACLES, FEAST OF 


required for immediate use were allowed to be pur- 
chased privately during these days, and work demand- 
ed by the emergencies of the public service or required 
for the festival, the omission of which entailed loss or 
injury, was permitted to be done. See Passover. 

On the night of the 15th, and on the five succeeding 
nights, the rejoicing of the drawing of water (rtTC'U 
rCXVw'n PH3) was celebrated in the court of the Tem- 
ple in the following manner: The people assembled in 
large masses in the court of the women at night after 
the expiration of the first day of the festival. The 
women occupied the galleries, which were permanent 
fixtures in the court (Mishna, Middoth , ii, I5),w r hile the 
men occupied the space below. Four huge golden can- 
delabra were placed in the centre of the court; each of 
these candelabra had four golden basins and four lad- 
ders, on which stood four lads from the rising youths 
of the priests with jars of oil wherewith they fed the 
basins, while the cast-off garments of the priests were 
used as wicks. The lights of these candelabra illumi- 
nated the whole city. Around these lights pious and 
distinguished men danced before the people with light- 
ed flambeaux in their hands, singing hymns and songs 
of praise; while 'the Lcvitcs, who were stationed on the 
fifteen steps which led into the woman’s court, and cor- 
responded to the fifteen psalms of degrees = steps (Psa. 
cxx-cxxxiv), accompanied the songs with harps, psal- 
teries, cymbals, and numberless musical instruments. 
The dancing, as well as the vocal and instrumental mu- 
sic, continued till daybreak. Some of these pious men 
performed dexterous movements with their flambeaux 
while dancing for the amusement of the people. Thus 
it is related that IJ. Simon II (A.D. 30-50), son of Ga- 
maliel I, the teacher of the apostle Paul [see Educa- 
tion], used to dance with eight torches in his hands, 
which he alternately threw up in the air and caught 
again without their touching each other or falling to 
the ground ( Tosiphta Sukkah , c. iv; Jerusalem, Suk- 
kah, v, 4; Babylon, ibid, 53 a). It is supposed that it 
was the splendid light of this grand illumination which 
suggested the remark of our Saviour — “I am the light 
of the world” (John viii, 12). Towards the approach of 
day two priests stationed themselves, with trumpets in 
their hands, at the upper gate leading from the court 
of the Israelites to the court of the women, and awaited 
the announcement of daybreak by the crowing of the 
cock. As soon as the cock crew, they blew the trumpets 
three times and marched out the people of the Temple 
in such a manner that they had to descend the ten 
steps, where the two priests again blew the trumpets 
three times, and when they reached the lowest step in 
the outer court they for the third time blew the trum- 
pets three times. They continued to blow as they were 
marching across the court till they reached the eastern 
gate. Here they turned their faces westward towards 
the Temple and said, “Onr fathers once turned their 
back to the sanctuary in this place, and their faces to 
the east, and worshipped the sun towards the east 
(comp. Ezek. viii, 15, 16); but we lift up our eyes to 
Jehovah.” Thereupon they returned to the Temple, 
while the people who were thus marched out went to 
their respective booths. Some, however, formed them- 
selves into a procession, and went with the priests to the 
pool of Siloam to fetch the water; while others return- 
ed to the Temple, to be present at the morning sacrifice 
(M ishna, Sukkah, v, 2-4 ; Maimonides, lad Ha-Chezaka , 
Hilchoth Sukkah, viii, 12-15). The Talmud maintains 
that the ceremony of the drawing of water is anterior 
to the Babylonian captivity, and that Isa. xii, 3 refers 
to it {Sukkah, 48 b). Indeed, it is only on this suppo- 
sition that the imagery in Isa. xii, 3 obtains its full 
force and significance. As to the import of this cere- 
mony, ancient tradition furnishes two explanations of it. 
(1.) Since the Feast of Tabernacles was the time of the 
latter rain (Joel ii, 23), the drawing and pouring out of 
the water was regarded as symbolical of the forthcom- 


ing rain which it was ardently desired might be blessed 
to the people. Hence the remark that he who will not 
come up to the Feast of Tabernacles shall have no rain 
(Snkkuh, 48, 51 ; Rosh ha-Shanah, 16; Taanith, 2 a). 
(2.) The Jews seem to have regarded the rite as symbol- 
ical of the water miraculously supplied to their fathers 
from the rock at Meribah. But they also gave to it a 
more strictly spiritual signification. It was regarded 
as typical of the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. Hence 
the remark : “It is called the house of drawing the wa- 
ter, because from thence the Holy Spirit is drawn in 
accordance with what is said in Isa. xii. 3, ‘With joy 
shall ye draw water out of the wells of salvation”’ (Je- 
rusalem Sukkah, v, 1). It is upon this explanation 
that our Saviour’s remark is based (John vii, 37-39) in 
allusion to this ceremony on this last day of the festival 
when it was performed for the last time. The two 
meanings are, of course, perfectly harmonious, as is 
shown by the use which Paul makes of the historical 
fact (1 Cor. x, 4) — “they drank of that spiritual rock 
that followed them : and that rock was Christ.” 

The mode in which the sacrifices were offered in the 
middle days of the festival, the use of the palm and the 
citron, the procession round the altar, etc., were simply 
a repetition of the first day of the festival, with this ex- 
ception, however, that the number of animals diminish- 
ed daily, according to the prescription in Numb, xxix, 
12-38, and that the Lesser Hallel was chanted by Le- 
vites instead of the Great Hallel (q. v.). A peculiarity 
connected with the sacrificial service of this festival 
must here be noticed. On all other festivals only those 
of the twenty-four orders of the priests officiated upon 
whom the lot fell (comp. 1 Chron. xxiv, 7-19), but on 
the seven days of Tabernacles the whole of the twenty- 
four orders officiated. On the first day the thirteen bul- 
locks, two rams, and one goat were offered by sixteen 
orders, while the fourteen sheep were offered by the oth- 
er eight. As there was one bullock less offered each of 
the seven days, one order of priests left each day the 
sixteen orders who offered these bullocks and joined 
those who offered the fourteen lambs. Hence, “on the 
first day six of these orders offered two lambs each, and 
the two other orders one lamb each. On the second 
day five orders of the priests offered two lambs each, 
and the four other orders one lamb each. On the third 
day four orders offered two lambs each, and six orders 
one lamb each. On the fourth day three orders offered 
two lambs each, and eight orders one lamb each. On 
the fifth day two orders offered two lambs each, and ten 
orders one lamb each. On the sixth day one order of- 
fered two lambs each, and twelve orders one lamb each ; 
while on the seventh day, when the orders of priests 
who sacrificed the bullocks had diminished to eight, 
fourteen orders offered one lamb each” (Mishna, Suk- 
kah , v. G). 

21s/ ofTishri. — The seventh day, which was denom- 
inated the last dag of the Feast of Tabernacles (3'Li D* 1 " 1 
571 b'22 ■J'nrixn, Mishna, Sukkah, iv, 8), was especial- 
ly distinguished in the following manner from the oth- 
er six days. After the Musdph , or special festival sac- 
rifice of the day, the priests in procession made seven 
circuits round the altar (ibid, iv, 5), whereas on the pre- 
ceding days of the festival only one circuit was made. 
The willows (!TC^5’) which surrounded the altar were 
then so thoroughly shaken by the people that the leaves 
lay thickly on the ground. The people also fetched 
palm-branches and beat them to pieces at the side of 
the altar (ibid, iv, 6). It is from this fact that the last 
day of the festival obtained the names of the Day of 
Willows (rc*i5‘ ibid, iv, I), the Great Hosanna Day 
(i“Q“l N3 D".^), and the Branch-thrashing Day 

(nvnn 13*00 E*P,i£uV. iv, 6). Herzfeld suggests that 
the thrashing of the willows and palms may have been 
to symbolize that after the last verdure of the year had 
served for the adornment of the altar the trees might 


TABERNACLES, FEAST OF 


140 TABERNACLES, FEAST OF 


now go on to cast off their leaves ( Gesch.des Volkes Is- 
rael, ii, 125). As soon as the thrashing process was 
over, the children who were present, and who also car- 
ried about the festive nosegays, threw away their palms 
and ate up their ethrogs, or citrons (Mishna, Sukkah , iv, 
7); while the pilgrims, “in the afternoon of this day, 
began to remove the furniture from the Tabernacles in 
honor of the last day of the festival” (ibid, iv, 8). as the 
obligation to live or eat in the booths ceased in the af- 
ternoon of the seventh day, inasmuch as the Feast of 
Tabernacles itself had now terminated. The eighth 
day, as we shall presently see, was a holy convocation, 
whereon no manner of work was allowed to be done, 
and the Hebrews could no more dismantle their huts 
on this day without desecrating it than on the Sabbath. 
It must also be remarked that this last day of the fes- 
tival, this Great Hosanna day, was regarded as one of 
the four days whereon God judges the world (Mish- 
it a, Rosh ha-Shanah, i, 2 ; Gemara, ibid.). There can, 
therefore, be but little doubt that when John records 
the memorable words uttered by Christ (iv nj ia\aTy 
ifpipq. t/j fit yd\y tIjc ioprijg), in the last great day of 
the festival (John vii, 37), he meant this distinguished 
day. 

22 d of Tishri. — The eighth day — which, as we have 
seen, was a separate festival — was a day of holy convo- 
cation whereon no manner of work was allowed to be 
done. After the daily morning sacrifice and the pri- 
vate offerings of the people, the sacrifices prescribed in 
Numb. xxix,3G-38 were offered, during which the Great 
Ilallel was chanted by the Levites. At the sacrifices, 
however, the twenty-four orders of priests were no long- 
er present, but lots were cast as on other festivals, and 
that order upon whom the lot fell offered the sacrifices 
(Mishna, Sukkah, v, 6). The Israelites dwelt no longer 
in the booths on this day, the joyful procession for the 
drawing of water was discontinued, the grand illumi- 
nation in the court of the women ceased, and the palms 
and willows were not used any more. 

It only remains to be added, that when the Feast of 
Tabernacles fell on a Sabbatical year (q. v.) the reading 
of portions of the law (Dent, xxxi, 10-13) was after- 
wards confined to one book of the Pentateuch. This 
arose from the multiplication of synagogues, in which 
the law was read every week, thus rendering it less 
needful to read extensive portions in the Temple dur- 
ing this festival, inasmuch as the people had now am- 
ple opportunities of listening in their respective places 
of worship to the reading of the law and the prophets. 
Hence also the reading of the law, which in olden days 
took place in the last hours of the forenoon of every 
day of this festival, was afterwards restricted to one 
day. It was at last assigned to the high-priest, and 
ultimately to the king. 

It is said that the altar was adorned throughout the 
seven days with sprigs of willows, one of which each 
Israelite who came into the court brought with him. 
The great number of the sacrifices has already been 
noticed. The number of public victims offered on the 
first day exceeded those of any day in the year (Menach. 
xiii, 5). But besides these, the Chagigahs or private 
peace-offerings were more abundant than at any other 
time; and there is reason to believe that the whole of 
the sacrifices nearly outnumbered all those offered at the 
other festivals put together. It belongs to the character 
of the feast that on each day the trumpets of the Tem- 
ple are said to have sounded twenty-one times. Though 
all the Hebrew annual festivals were seasons of rejoic- 
ing, the Feast of Tabernacles was, in this respect, distin- 
guished above them all. The huts and the lu labs must 
have made a gay and striking spectacle over the city 
by day, and the lamps, the flambeaux, the music, and 
the joyous gatherings in the court of the Temple must 
have given a still more festive character to the night, 
lienee it was called by the rabbins an, the festival , Kaf 
i£oxt)v. There is a proverb in Sukkah (v, 1), “ lie who 


has never seen the rejoicing at the pouring-out of the 
water of Siloam has never seen rejoicing in his life.” 
Mai mon ides says that he who failed at the Feast of 
Tabernacles in contributing to the public joy according 
to his means incurred especial guilt (Carpzov, p. 419). 
The feast is designated by Josephus (Ant. viii, 4, 1 ) 
topn) ayuurciTi / teat yeyirrni, and by Philo {apron* 
fityicmi. Its thoroughly festive nature is shown in the 
accounts of its observance in Josephus (ibid, viii, 4, 1; 
xv, 33), as well as in the accounts of its celebration by 
Solomon, Ezra, and Judas Maccabieus. From this fact, 
and its connection with the ingathering of the fruits 
of the year, especially the vintage, it is not wonderful 
that Plutarch should have likened it to the Dionysiao 
festivals, calling it Oupootyopia and Kpanjpocpopia (Sgm- 
pos. iv). 

3. From the Dispersion of the Jeics to the Present 
Time. — Excepting the ordinances which were local and 
belonged to the Temple and its sacrificial service, and 
bating the exposition and more rigid explanation of 
some of the rites so as to adapt them to the altered con- 
dition of the nation, the Jews to the present day con- 
tinue to .celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles as in the 
days of the second Temple. As soon as the Day of 
Atonement is over, every orthodox Israelite, according 
to the ancient canons, begins to erect his booth in which 
he and his family take up their temporary abode dur- 
ing this festival. Each paterfamilias also provides him- 
self with a luldb— palm, and ethrdg — citron, as defined 
by the ancient canons. On the eve of the 14th of Tish- 
ri, or of the Preparation Da} r (mo -^2), the festival 
commences. All the Jews, attired in their festive gar- 
ments, resort to the synagogue, where, after the evening 
prayer appointed in the liturgy for this oc- 

casion, the hallowed nature of the festival is proclaimed 
by the cantor (’,Tn) in the blessing pronounced over the 
cup of wine (^ITp). After the evening service, every 
family resorts to its respective booth, which is illumi- 
nated and adorned with foliage and diverse fruit, and 
in which the first festive meal is taken. Before, how- 
ever, anything is eaten, the head of the family pro- 
nounces the sanctity of the festival over a cup of wine. 
This sanctification or Kiddush (d^np) was ordained 
by the men of the Great Synagogue (q. v.), and as there 
is no doubt that our Saviour and his apostles recited it, 
we shall give it in English. It is as follows: “ Blessed 
art thou, O Lord our God, King of the universe, who 
hast created the fruit of the vine ! Blessed art thou, O 
Lord our God, King of the universe, who hast chosen 
us from among all nations, hast exalted us above all 
tongues, and hast sanctified us with thy command- 
ments. In love, O Lord, thou hast given us appoint- 
ed times for joy, festivals, and seasons for rejoicing; 
and this Feast of Tabernacles, this time of our glad- 
ness, the holy convocation, in memory of the exodus 
from Egypt; for thou hast chosen us, anil hast sanc- 
tified us above all nations, and hast caused us to in- 
herit thy holy festivals with joy and rejoicing. Bless- 
ed art thou, O Lord, who hast sanctified Israel and the 
seasons! Blessed art thou, O Lord our God, King of 
the universe, who hast sanctified us with thy command- 
ments, and hast enjoined us to dwell in booths! Bless- 
ed art thou, O Lord our God, King of the universe, who 
hast preserved ns alive, sustained us, and brought us to 
the beginning of this season !” Thereupon each mem- 
ber of the family washes his hands, pronouncing the 
prescribed benediction while drying them, and all en- 
joy the repast. The orthodox Jews sleep in the booths 
all night. The following morning, which is the first 
day of the festival, they again resort to the synagogue, 
holding the palms and citrons in their hands. They 
lay them down during the former part of the prayer, 
but take them up after the eighteen benedictions, when 
they are about to recite the Ilallel. Holding the palm 
in the right hand and the citron in the left, they recite 


TABERNACLES, FEAST OF 150 TABERNACLES, FEAST OF 


the following prayer: “Blessed art thou, O Lord our 
God, King of the universe, who hast sanctified us with 
thy commandments, and hast enjoined us to take the 
palm-branch!’’ Thereupon each one turns his citron 
upside-down and waves his palm-branch three times 
towards the cast, three times towards the west, three 
times towards the south, and three times towards the 
north. The legate of the congregation pronounces the 
following benediction : “ Blessed art thou. O Lord our 
God, King of the universe, who hast sanctified ns with 
thy commandments, and hast enjoined ns to recite the 
llidleir and the Halkl is chanted: when they come 
to l’sa. cxviii, the waving of t he palm-branch is repeal- 
ed at the first, tenth, and twenty-fifth verses, just as it 
was done in the Temple. Two scrolls of the law are 
then taken out of the ark (yiN, m^P) and brought 
on the platform (H when the lessons for the lirst 
day of the festival are read out from the law — Lev. xxii, 
26-xxiii,44; and Numb, xxix, 12-16, as Maphtir ; and 
from the prophets, Zeeli. xiv, 1-21. See IIarhtarah. 
After this the Musdph. prayer is recited, which corre- 
sponds to the Musdph or additional sacrifices in the 
Temple for this special festival. When the legate of the 
congregation in reciting the Musdph comes to the pas- 
sage where the expression priests occurs, the 

Aarouites and the Levites arise, and, after t he latter 
have washed the hands of the former, the priests, with 
uplifted hands, pronounce the sacerdotal benediction 
(Numb, vi, 24-27) upon the congregation, who have 
their faces veiled with the Ttdith. See Fringe. The 
ark of the Lord is then placed in the centre of the syn- 
agogue, when the elders form themselves into a proces- 
sion headed by the legate, who carries the scroll of the 
law, and all the rest carry the palm-branches in their 
hands and walk round the ark once, repeating the Ho- 
sanna, and waving the palms in commemoration of the 
procession round the altar in the Temple Qlaimonides, 
Tad Hu-Chezal'a, Hilchoth Lulab, vii, 23). When the 
morning service is concluded, the people betake them- 
selves to t heir respective booths to partake of the fes- 
tive repast with the poor and the stranger. In the af- 
ternoon, about five or six o’clock, they again resort to 
the synagogue to recite the Minchdh (ilPISw) prayer, 
answering to the daily evening sacrifice in the Temple. 
As soon as darkness sets in or the stars appear, the sec- 
ond day of the festival commences, the Jews having 
doubled the days of holy convocation. The evening 
prayer as well as the practices for this evening resem- 
ble those of the first evening. 

The ritual for the second day in the morning, as well 
as the rites, with very few variations, is like that of 
the first day. The lesson, however, from the prophets 
is different, for on this day 1 Kings viii, 2-21 is read. 
After the afternoon service of this day the middle days 
of the festival begin, which last four days, when the 
ritual is like that of ordinary days, except that a few 
prayers bearing on this festival are occasionally inserted 
in the regular formula*, lessons from t lie law are read on 
each day as specified in the article 1 Iaphtauah, and 
the above-named procession goes round the ark. The 
seventh day, which is the Great Hosanna ( NSS'IIPPI 
nil), is celebrated with peculiar solemnity, inasmuch 
as it is believed that on this day God decrees the weather, 
or rather the rain, for the future harvest (Mishna, Rosh 
ha-Shanah, i, 2; Gemara, ibid.'). On the evening pre- 
ceding this day every Israelite prepares for himself a 
small bunch of willows tied up with the hark of the 
palm; some of the pious Jews assemble either in the 
synagogue or in the booths to read the book of Deuter- 
onomy, the Psalms, the IMishna, etc., all night, and are 
immersed before the morning prayer. When the time 
of morning service arrives, numerous candles are lighted 
in the synagogue, and after the Shachrith (PP" DTJ) = 
morning prayer, which is similar to that of the previous 


day, seven scrolls of the law are taken out of the ark, 
and from one of them the lesson is read. The Musdph 
or additional prayer is then recited; thereupon a pro- 
cession is formed, headed by the rabbi and the legate 
with the palms iu their hands, and followed by those 
who carry t he seven scrolls of the law. This procession 
goes seven times round the ark, which is placed in the 
middle of the synagogue, or round the reading-desk, 
reciting the Hosannas, in accordance with the seven 
circuits around the altar which were performed in the 
Temple on this day, and waving their palms at certain 
expressions. The palms are then laid down, and every 
one takes up his hunch of willows and beats off its leaves 
at a certain part of the liturgy, in accordance with the 
beating off the leaves from the willows around the altar 
in the Temple, which took place on this day. On the 
evening of the seventh day the festival commences 
which concludes the whole cycle of festival (*m -"J 
mar). It is a day of holy convocation, on which no 
manner of work is done, and is introduced by the Kid- 
dush (Clip) ~ proclamation of its sanctity, given in the 
former part of this section. On the following morning 
the Jews resort to the synagogue, recite the morning 
prayer (P^rvj), as in the first two days of the Feast of 
Tabernacles, inserting, however, some prayers appropri- 
ate for this occasion. Thereupon the special lesson for 
the day is read, the Musdph or additional prayer is of- 
fered, and the priests pronounce the benediction in the 
manner already described. The people no longer take 
their meals in the booths on this day. On the evening 
of this day again another festival commences, called the 
Rejoicing of the Law (min PITS «). After the re- 
citing of the Eighteen Benedictions, all the scrolls of the 
law are taken out of the ark, into which a lighted candle 
is placed. A procession is then formed of the distin- 
guished members, who are headed by the legate: they 
hold the scrolls in their hands, and go around the read- 
ing-desk; the scrolls are then put back into tbe ark, and 
only one is placed upon the desk, out of which is read 
the last chapter of Deuteronomy, and to the reading of 
which all persons present in the synagogue are called, 
including children. When the evening service is over 
the children leave the synagogue in procession, carrying 
banners with sundry Hebrew inscriptions. 

On the following morning the Jews again resort to 
the synagogue, recite the Halkl after the Eighteen Ben- 
edictions, empty the ark of all its scrolls, put a lighted 
candle into it, form themselves into a procession, ami 
with the scrolls in their hands, and amid jubilant songs, 
go round the reading-desk. This being over, the scrolls 
of the law are put back into the ark, and from one of the 
two which are retained is read Dent, xxxiii, whereunto 
four persons are at first called, then all the little children 
are called as on the previous evening, and then again 
several grown-up people are called. The first of these 
is called the Bridegroom of the Law (PH1P jrP!), and 
after the cantor who calls him up has addressed him in 
a somewhat lengthy Hebrew formula, tbe last verses of 
the Pentateuch are read; and when the reading of the 
law is thus finished all the people exclaim, pin, be strong/ 
which expression is printed at the end of every book in 
the Hebrew B ble as well as of every non-inspired He- 
brew work. After reading the last chapter of the law. 
the beginning of Genesis (i, 1-ii, 3) is read, to which 
another one is called who is denominated the Bridegroom 
of Genesis (r^wKI- "|Pn), and to whom again the 
cantor delivers a somewhat lengthy Hebrew formula; 
the Maphtir , consisting of Numb, xxix, 35-xxx, 1, is 
then read from another scroll; and with the recitation 
of the Musdph, or additional special prayer for the fes- 
tival, the service is concluded. Tbe rest of the day is 
spent in rejoicing and feasting. The design of this fes- 
tival is to celebrate the annual completion of the perusal 
of the Pentateuch, inasmuch as on this day the last sec- 


TABITIIA 


TABERNACLES, FEAST OF i; 

tion of the law is read. Hence the name of the festival, 
the Rejoicing of Finishing the Law. 

IV. Origin and Import of this Festival. — Like Pente- 
cost, the Feast of Tabernacles owes its origin to the 
harvest, which terminated at this time, and which the 
Jew’s in common with other nations of antiquity cele- 
brated as a season of joy and thankfulness for the kindly 
fruit of the earth. This is undoubtedly implied in its 
very name, the Feast of Ingathering , and is distinctly 
declared in Exod. xxiii, 16: “Thou shalt keep . . . the 
feast of ingathering in the end of the year when thou 
hast gathered in thy labors out of the tield” (comp, also 
Lev. xxiii, 39; Dent, xvi, 13). With this agricultural 
origin, however, is associated a great historical event, 
which the Jews are enjoined to remember during the 
celebration of this festival, and which imparted a second 
name to this feast — viz. “ Ye shall dwell in booths seven 
days . . . that your generations may know that 1 made 
the children of Israel to dwell in booths, when I brought 
them out of the land of Egypt” (Lev. xxiii, 42, 43), 
whence its name, the Feast of Booths or Tabernacles. 
The Feast of Tabernacles, therefore, like the Passover, has 
a twofold significance — viz. it has a reference both to the 
annual course of nature and to a great national event. 
As to the reason for connecting this pre-eminently joy- 
ous festival of ingathering with the homeless dwelling 
of the Israelites in booths in the wilderness, we prefer 
the one given by the ancient Jews to theories advanced 
by modern commentators. In the midst of their great 
joy — when their houses are full of corn, new wine, oil, 
and all good things, and their hearts overflow with re- 
joicing — the Israelites might forget the Lord their God, 
and say that it is their power and the strength of their 
arm which have gotten them this prosperity (Deut. viii, 
12, etc.). To guard against this the Hebrews were 
commanded to quit their permanent and sheltered house 
and sojourn in booths at the time of harvest and in the 
midst of general abundance, to be reminded thereby that 
they were once homeless and wanderers in the wilder- 
ness, and that they are now in the enjoyment of bless- 
ings through the goodness and faithfulness of their 
heavenly Father, who fulfilled the promises made to 
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. This idea was still more 
developed after the Babylonian captivity, when the 
canons about the building of the booths were enacted. 
The booths, as we have seen, were to be covered in such 
a manner as to admit the view of the sky and the stars, 
in order that the sojourners therein might be reminded 
of their Creator, and remember that, however great and 
prosperous the harvest, the things of earth are perishable 
and vanity of vanities. This is the reason whv the 
scribes also ordained that the book of Ecclesiastes should 
be read on this joyous festival. 

The origin of the Feast of Tabernacles is by some 
connected with Sukkoth, the first halting-place of the 
Israelites on their march out of Egypt; and the huts 
are taken, not to commemorate the tents in the wilder- 
ness, but the leafy booths {sukkoth) in which they lodged 
for the last time before they entered the desert. The 
feast would thus call to mind the transition from settled 
to nomadic life (Stanley, Sinai and Palestine, Appendix, 
§ 89 ). 

Philo saw in this feast a witness for the original equal- 
ity of all the members of the chosen race. All. during 
the week, poor and rich, the inhabitant alike of the pal- 
ace and the hovel, lived in huts which, in strictness, were 
to be of the plainest and most ordinary materials and 
construction. From this point of view the Israelite 
would be reminded with still greater edification of the 
perilous and toilsome march of his forefathers through 
the desert, when the nation seemed to be mure imme- 
diately dependent on God for food, shelter, and protec- 
tion, while the completed harvest stored up for the 
coming winter set before him the benefits he had de- 
rived from the possession of the land flowing with milk 
and honey which had been of old promised to his race. 

But the culmiuating-point of this blessing was the 


1 

establishment of the central spot of the national worship 
in the Temple at Jerusalem. Hence it was evidently 
fitting that the Feast of Tabernacles should be kept with 
an unwonted degree of observance at the dedication of 
Solomon’s Temple (l Kings viii, 2, 65; Josephus, Ant. 
viii, 4, 5), again after the rebuilding of the Temple by 
Ezra (Nch. viii, 13-18), and a third time by Judas Mac- 
cabeus, when he had driven out the Syrians and re- 
stored the Temple to the worship of Jehovah (2 Macc. 
x, 5-8). 

V. Literature. — Maimonides, lad I/a-Chezaka , Ilil- 
choth Lulab; Meyer, Lie Temp.et Festis I Rebus Heb neo- 
rum (Utrecht, 1755), p. 317, etc.; Biihr, Sgmbolik des 
Mosaischen Outfits (Heidelberg, 1839), ii, 624 sq., 652 sq.; 
[\erz(e\(\,Geschichte des Volkes Israel (Nordhausen, 1857), 
ii, 120 sq., 177 sq. ; The Jewish Ritual, entitled Derek 
IJa-Chajim (Vienna, 1859), p. 214 b sq., 295 sq. ; Keil, 
Ilandbuch der biblischen A rchliologie (2d ed. Frankfort- 
on-the-Main, 1859), p. 412 sq. ; Carpzov, A pp.Crit. p.414 ; 
Iluxtorf, Syn. Jud . c. xxi ; Belaud, A tit. iv, 5 ; Light foot, 
Temple Service, xvi, and Exercit. in Joan, vii, 2. 37 ; Otho, 
Lex. Rab. 230; the treatise Sukkah, in the Mishna, with 
Suren husius’s Xotes; Hupfeld, De Fest. llebr. pt.ii; comp, 
the monographs De Libatione Aqua in Fest. Tab. by 
Iken (in the Symbol, etc. [Bremen, 1744], i, 160), Biel 
(Vitemb. 1716), and Tresenreuter (Alt. 1743), Groddek, 
De Ceremonia Pulmarum in Fest. Tab. (Lips. 1694-95, 
also in Ugolino, vol. xviii) ; Dachs, on Sukkah, in the 
Jerusalem Gemara (Utrecht, 1726); Tirsch, De Taber - 
nac. Feriis (Frag. s. 1. et an.). 

Tab'itha (T a(3t5d ; Vulg. Tabitha ), also called 
Dorcas (Ao piccttf), a female disciple of Joppa, “full of 
good works,” among which that of making clothes for 
the poor is specifically mentioned (Acts ix, 36-42). 
A.D. 32. While Peter was at the neighboring town of 
Lvdda, Tabitha died, upon which the disciples at Joppa 
sent an urgent message to the apostle, begging him to 
come to them without delay. It is not quite evident 
from the narrative whether they looked for any exercise 
of miraculous power on his part, or whether they simply 
wished for Christian consolation under what they re- 
garded as the common calamity of their Church; but 
the miracle recently performed on Ahieas (ver. 34), and 
the expression in ver. 38 (SieXSetv tw q i/piov'), lead to 
the former supposition. Upon his arrival Peter found 
the deceased already prepared for burial, and laid out in 
an upper chamber, where she was surrounded by the re- 
cipients and the tokens of her charity. After the ex- 
ample of our Saviour in the house of Jairus (Matt, ix, 
25; Mark v. 40), “ Peter put them all forth,” prayed for 
the divine assistance, and then commanded Tabitha to 
arise (comp. Mark v, 41 ; Luke viii, 54). She opened 
her eyes and sat up, and then, assisted by the apostle, 
rose from her couch. This great miracle, as we are fur- 
ther told, produced an extraordinary effect in Joppa, and 
was the occasion of many conversions there (Acts ix, 
42). See Peter. 

The name of “Tabitha” (Nr^i^) is the Aramaic 
form answering to the Hebrew n*2 m JL, tsebiyah, a “fe- 
male gazelle,” the gazelle being regarded in the East, 
among both Jews and Arabs, as a standard of beauty — 
indeed, the word properly means “beauty.” Luke 
gives “ Dorcas” as the Greek equivalent of the name. 
Similarly we find Sopicdc as the Sept, rendering of 
in Deut. xii, 15, 22; 2 Sam. ii, 18; Prov. vi, 5. It has 
been inferred from the occurrence of the two names that 
Tabitha was a Hellenist (see Whitby, ad loc.). This, 
however, does not follow, even if we suppose that the 
two names were actually borne by her, as it would seem 
to have been the practice even of the Hebrew Jews at 
this period to have a Gentile name in addition to their 
Jewish name. But it is by no means clear from the 
language of Luke that Tabitha actually bore the name 
of Dorcas. All he tells us is that the name of Tabitha 
means “gazelle” {SopKuij), and for the benefit of his 


TABLE 


TABLE 


152 


Gentile readers he afterwards speaks of her by the Greek 
equivalent. At the same time it is very possible that 
she may have been known by both names; and we 
learn from Josephus (H’uu, iv, 3, 5) that the name of 
Dorcas was not unknown in Palestine. Among the 
Greeks also, as we gather from Lucretius (iv, 1154), it 
was a term of endearment. Other examples of the use 
of the name will be found in Wettstein, ad ioc, — Smith. 
See Dorcas. 

Table is the rendering in the A. V. usually of “nbw, 
shulchdn (New Test. rpaTn^a, likewise invariably so 
translated, except Luke xix, *23 [“bank”]; Acts xvi, 
34 [“meat”]), so called from being extended (HI?'!*; 
comp. Homer, Od. x, 37; and see Psa. lxix, 23), and 
denoting especially a table spread with food (Judg. i, 
7; 1 Sam. xx, 29, 34; 1 Kings v, 7; x, 5; Job xxxvi, 
1G; Nell, v, 17); but spoken likewise of the table of 
shew-bread (see below), and likewise of the lectisternia 
prepared before idols (Isa. xlv, 11; see Schumann, De 
Lectisterniis in Sacro Cod . [Lips. 1739]). For the “ ta- 
bles” of stone on which the Decalogue was engraved, 
sec below. The word SD’D, mesdb , a divan (q. v.), is 
once rendered “at table” (Cant, i, 12). See Sitting. 

Little is known as to the form of tables among the 
Hebrews; but, as in other Oriental nations, they were 
probably not high. In Exod. xxv, 23, indeed, the table 
for the shew-bread is described as a cubit and a half in 
height; but the table of Herod’s temple, as depicted on 
the arch oT Titus at Pome, is only half a cubit high. 
Probably the table of the ancient Hebrews differed little 
from that of the modern Arabs, namely, a piece of skin 
or leather spread upon the ground (hence the figure of 
entanglement in it, Psa. lxix, 23). In Palestine, at the 
present day, the general custom, even of the better 
classes, is to bring a polygonal stool ( hurst ), about four- 
teen inches high, into the common sitting-room for 
meals. Upon this is placed a tray (seniyeh) of basket- 
work or of metal, generally copper, on which the food 
is arranged. These two pieces of furniture together 
compose the table ( sufrah ). The bread lies upon the 
mat beneath the tray, and a cruse of water stands near 
by, from which all drink as they have need. On formal 
occasions, this is held in the hand by a servant, who 
waits upon the guests. Around this stool and tray the 
guests gather, sitting on the floor (Thomson, Land and 
Book, i, 180). See Eating. 



Modern Oriental Table and Tray for Eating. 


Among the ancient Egyptians, the table was much 
the same as that of the present day in Egypt, a small 
stool, supporting a round tray, on which the dishes are 
placed (see Lane. Mod. Eg. i, 190) ; but it differed from 
this in having its circular summit fixed on a pillar, or 
leg, which was often in the form of a man, generally a 
captive, who supported the slab upon his head, the 
whole being of stone or some hard wood. On this the 



AncieutEgyptian Table brought in with the Dishes upon it. 


dishes were placed, together with loaves of bread, some 
of which were not unlike those of the present day in 
Egypt, flat and round, as our crumpets. Others had the 
form of rolls or cakes, sprinkled with seeds. The table 
was not generally covered with any linen, but, like t lie 
Greek table, was washed with a sponge, or napkin, after 
the dishes were removed, and polished by the servants, 
when the company had retired; though an instance 
sometimes occurs of a napkin spread on it, at least oil 
those which bore offerings in honor of the dead. One 
or two guests generally sat at a table, though, from the 
mention of persons seated in rows according to rank, it 
has been supposed the tables were occasionally of a long 
shape; as may have been the case when the brethren of 
Joseph “sat before him, the first-born according to his 
birthright, and the youngest according to his youth,” 
Joseph eating alone at another table where “they set 
on for him by himself.” But even if round, they might 
still sit according to rank, one place being always the 
post of honor, even at the present day, at the round ta- 
ble of Egypt (Wilkinson, A nc. Egypt, i. 179). See Dine* 

The tables of the ancient Assyrians, as delineated 
upon the monuments, were often of a 
highly ornamental character (Layard, 

Nineveh, ii, 23G ; Botta, Nineveh, p. 

188). See Banquet. 

For the triclinium of the Roman 
period, see Accubatiox ; Sup. 

Other Greek words than rpamZa 
above (which likewise denotes occa- 
sionally a broker’s counter [see Mon- 
ey-changer], not to mention ava- 
Ktlpai, etc., often rendered “sit at ta- 
ble”), which are translated “table” in Ancient Assyrian 
the A. V. in a different sense, are : Table. 

tcXini (Mark vii, 4), a bed (as elsewhere rendered), or 
couch used for eating, i. e. the triclinium above noticed ; 
and 7r\dK (2 Cor. iii, 3; Heb. ix, 4), a tablet for inscrip- 
tion ; more fully 7 nvaictCiov } a writing-table (Luke i, Go). 
See Table of the Law. 

TABLE (rnb, lunch, a tablet, whether of stone [as 
below], wood [“board,” Exod. xxvii, ’8, etc.], or for 
writing on [Isa. xxx. 8; Hab. viii, 9; Prov. iii, 3]) of 
the Law (only plur. in the phrases “tables of stone” 
[‘|IN mb, Exod. xxiv, 12; xxxi, 18; or *b, 

xxxiv, 1, 4], and “ tables of the covenant” [Dent, ix, 9, 
1 5] or “of the testimony” [Exod. xxxi, 18]), such as those 
that were given to Moses upon Mount Sinai, being writ- 
ten by the finger of God, and containing the Decalogue, 
or Ten Commandments of the law, as they are rehearsed 
in Exod. xx. Many idle questions have been started 
about these tables: about their matter, their form, their 
number, who wrote them, and what they contained. 
The words which intimate that the tables were written 
by the finger of God, some understand simply and liter- 
ally; others, of the ministry of an angel; and others 
explain merely to signify an order of God to Moses to 
write them. The expression, however, in Scripture al- 
ways signifies the immediate Divine agency. See Wal- 



TABLE 


153 


TABLE 


ther, De Ductbus Tabulis Lapideis (Regiom. 1G79); Mi- 
chaelis, De Tab. Feed. Prioribits (Vitemb. 1719). 

TABLE, the name given to the supreme ecclesiasti- 
cal court of the Waldensian Church (q. v.). 

TABLE, Credence, a small side -table, commonly 
placed on the south side of the altar, for the altar breads, 
cruets of wine and water, offertory dish, service-books, 
lavabo dish, and other things necessary for the solemn 
or low celebration of the holy eucharist. See CRE- 
DENCE-TABLE. 

TABLE, Holy. 1. The Lord’s table or altar. 2. A 
frontal to an altar; e. g. one given to Glastonbury in 
1071, tnade of gold, silver, and ivory, and one at St. 
Alban’s in the 12th century. 3. The mensa, the upper 
stone altar-slab. 4. Pensilis, containing the names of 
benefactors, registers of miracles, a list of indulgences, 
and the course of officiants, officiating clergy at the 
hours, and celebrants of masses. 

TABLE of Commandments, a representation of 
the two tables of stone on which the Commandments 
were graven, ordered by a post-Reformation canon to 
be placed on the east wall of the church or chancel. 

TABLE of Degrees, a formal list of relationships, 
both by blood and affinity, within which degrees the 
Church of England authoritatively prohibits marriage. 
This table, usually printed at the end of the Anglican 
Praver-book, is ordered to be hung up in a prominent 
place in the nave of every church or chapel, by the au- 
thority of various visitation articles, especially those of 
archbishop Parker in 1 563. — Lee, Gloss, of Liturgical 
Terms , s. v. See Affinity. 

TABLE of (movable) Feasts, a list of movable 
festivals prefixed to the Book of Common Prayer for 
the guidance and instruction of both clergy and laitv. 

TABLE of Lessons. A tabular arrangement of 
Scripture lections for matins and evensong, daily ar- 
ranged throughout the year. This table was ffrst drawn 
up in 1549, altered in the revision of 1661, and again 
amended by Convocation in 1870. 

TABLE of the Lord, a phrase taken from Scriptnre, 
used to designate the holy table, or altar, of the Chris- 
tian Church (l Cor. x, 21). In the Old Test, the words 
table and altar appear to have been applied indifferently 
to the same tiling (Ezek. xli, 22). Among other terms 
which have been used to designate the Lord’s table, it 
is obvious to mention the word “altar” as having been 
so employed : it is a term, however, which, though it 
may easily be borrowed in a figurative sense from the 
ancient Scriptures, is neither found in the New Test, in 
the sense now referred to, nor has it the sanction of the 
Church. In the first Prayer-book of king Edward VI, 
published in 1549. which may be considered as a con- 
necting link between the Missal and our present Prayer- 
book, the word “altar” occurs in the Communion Ser- 
vice at least three times: but in the service of 1552 (the 
second Prayer-book of Edward VI) it is in every in- 
stance struck out; and if another expression is used in 
place of it, that expression is The Lord's Table. This 
circumstance is the more worthy of remark, because 
wherever in the older of these books the phrase “God’s j 
Board” was adopted as descriptive of “ the Lord’s Table” 
it was allowed to remain. See Altar. 

TABLE of Prothesis, See Credence-table. 

TABLE of Secrets, a piece of paper placed at the 
foot of the cross on the altar, and containing the part of 
the service the priest is to say while turned to the altar, 
so that he need not turn to look on his book. This is 
placed upon pasteboard or thin wood, and richly framed. 
— Migne, Encyclup . Theologique , s. v. 

TABLE OF Siiew-brkad (E^Sll table of the 

faces , Numb, iv, 7 ; table of the ar- 
rangement , I Chron. xxviii, 16; "jnlpisrri, the pure 

table, Lev. xxiv, 6; 2 Chron. xiii, It; Sept. ?) rpenre^a 


rf/e one of the pieces of furniture in the 

Mosaic tabernacle (Exod. xxv, 23 sq. ; xxxvii, 10 sq.), 
in Solomon’s Temple (1 Kings vii, 48; comp. 2 Chron. 
xxix, 18), in its restoration by Zerubbabel (1 Macc. i, 
22), and in Herod’s reconstruction of that edifice (Jose- 
phus, 11 ar , vii, 5, 5). It stood in the outer apartment 
or holy place, on the right hand or north side, and was 
made of acacia (shittim) wood, two cubits long, one 
broad, and one and a half high, and covered with lami- 
na) of gold. According to the Mishna (Menach. xi, 5), 
it was ten handbreadths long and five wide; other tra- 
ditions make it twelve handbreadths long and six wide. 
The top of the leaf of this table was encircled by a bor- 
der or rim a crown or wreath ) of gold. The frame 
of the table, immediately below the leaf, was encircled 
with a piece of wood of about four inches in breadth, 
around the edge of which was a rim or border (rnrO'S, 
a margin ) similar to that around the leaf. A little low- 
er down, but at equal distances from the top of the ta- 
bic, there were four rings of gold fastened to the legs, 
through which staves covered with gold were inserted 
for the purpose of carrying it (Exod. xxv, 23-28; xxxvii, 
10-16). The description of Josephus, which is quite mi- 
nute, varies in several particulars (A nt. iii, 6, 6). These 
rings were not found in the table which was afterwards 
made for the Temple, nor indeed in any of the sacred 
furniture, where they had previously been, except in the 
ark of the covenant. Twelve unleavened loaves were 
placed upon this table, which were sprinkled with frank- 
incense (the Sept, adds salt; Lev. xxiv, 7). The num- 
ber twelve represented the twelve tribes, and was not 
diminished after the defection of ten of the tribes from 
the worship of God in his sanctuary, because the cove- 
nant with the sons of Abraham was not formally abro- 
gated, and because there were still many true Israelites 
among the apostatizing tribes. The twelve loaves were 
also a constant record against them, and served as a 
standing testimonial that their proper place was before 
the forsaken altar of Jehovah (see Philo, Opp. ii, 151 ; 
Clem. Alex. Strom, vi, 279). 

Wine also w as placed upon the table of shew-bread in 
bowls, some larger, nnrjT, and some smaller, DTDS; 
also in vessels that w'ere covered, nirrp, and in cups, 
ITPJTO'G, which were probably employed in pouring in 
and taking out the wine from the other vessels, or in 
making libations. Gesenius calls them “paterie libato- 
ria;” and they appear in the A. V. as “spoons.” Some 
of them were perhaps for incense (flS’Cb Mish- 

na, Yoma,v, 1). See generally Exod. xxv, 29, 30; xxxvii, 
10-16; xl, 4, 24; Lev. xxiv, 5-9 ; Numb, iv, 7. 

The fate of the original table of shew'-bread is un- 
known. It was probably transferred by David (if it 
then still existed) to his temporary sanctuary on Mt. 
Zion, and thence by Solomon to his sumptuous Temple. 
With the other articles of sacred furniture, it was car- 
ried away by the Babylonians, and possibly in like man- 
ner restored after the Captivity. Antiochus Epiphanes 
despoiled the second Temple of this as well as of its 
other treasures (1 Macc. i, 23), and hence on the Mac- 
cabrenn restoration a new one was made (iv, 49). Ac- 
cording to Josephus, it was reconstructed in a most 
elaborate and costly manner at the expense of Ptolemy 
Philadelphia (Ant. xii, 2, 9, where the description is 
very detailed). The same historian again describes 
more briefly the Herodiau shew-bread table, which was 
carried away bv the Romans (War, vii, 5, 5), and was 
deposited by Vespasian in his newly erected Temple of 
Peace at Rome (ibid, vii, 5, 7), wdiere it survived the 
burning of that building under Commodus (Herodiau, i, 
14), and in the middle of the 5th century w'as taken by 
the Vandals under Genseric to Africa (Cedren. Com- 
pend, i, 346). It is said to have been rescued by Beli- 
sarius (A.D. 520), and sent to Constantinople, whence 
it was finally remitted to Jerusalem (Procopius, Vandal. 
xi, 9). The only authentic representation of this in- 


TABLE 


154 


TABOE 




1. Traditionary form according to Kiepert ; 2. According to Paine ; 3. According to Soltau ; 4. According to Neumann ; 5. According to "Riggenbach. 


teresting article extant is that upon the arch of Titus 
at Home [see Shew-breai>], which was carefully delin- 
eated and described by Reland (I)e iSpoliis Templi [Fr. 
ad Rh. 1710], c. 0-9) when it seems to have been in 
a better state of preservation than at present. See, gen- 
erally, Schlichter, De Mensii Facierum (Hal. 1738, also 
in Ugolino, Thesaur . x); Witsius, Miscelf . Sacr . i, 336; 
Carpzov, A ppar. Crit. p. ‘278 ; lliihr, Symbol, d. mos. Cul- 
tits, i, 435 ; Fricderich, Symbol, d. mos. Stiftshiitfe, p. 1 70 ; 
Kcil. Tempel Sid. p. 109; Paine, The Tabernacle and (he 
Temple (Rost. 1801), p. 11; Neumann, Die Stiftshiitfe , 
etc. (Leips, 1801), p. 135; Riggcnbach, Die mos. Stifis- 
hiitte (Rasel, 1807), p. 37 ; Soltau, Vessels of the Taberna- 
cle (Loud. 1873), p. 17-28. See Tabernacle; Temple. 

TARLE of Succession. A list of the successors of 
St. Peter made bv Eusebius, lie acknowledged that 
there was great difficulty in procuring information, and 
his account appears to have been compiled chiefly from 
reports or traditions. Of his fidelity he has given proof, 
by leaving vacancies in his conjectural list, when he had 
no light to guide him. These vacancies were subse- 
quently filled up by Nieephorus,Callistus, and Simon the 
Metaphrast (see Elliott, Delineation of Romanism, p.498). 
See Succession. 

Table-tomb, a tomb shaped like a table or altar, 
erected over a grave or place of interment. See Tome. 

Table-turning. See Spi ritualism. 

Tablet is the inaccurate rendering in the A. V, of 
two Heb. words designating some kind of female orna- 
ment; 1 . T*S : 12, himaz (so called, according to Gesen., 
from the globular form ; but, according to Fiirst, a locket 


or clasp; Sept. ipwXoKia Kai 7TEpidi£ia, Vnlg. dertralia , 
ill Exod. xxxv, ‘22; ipTrXoKioi>, murtenvlie, in Numb, 
xxxi, 50). probably drops hung like beads in a string 
around the neck or arm, as described by ancient au- 
thors on Arabia (Diod. Sic. iii, 44, 50; Strabo, xvi, 277). 
2 . TTEiil “'riE, bottey' hau-ne' phesh , houses of the soul 
(Isa. iii, 20, Sept. datCTvXiot, Vnlg. olfactoriola ), i. e. per- 
fume-bottles of essences or smelling-salts kept in lockets 
suspended about the person. See Ornament. 

TABLET, Memorial. A tablet placed on the floor 
of a church or cloister, inscribed with a legend in mem- 
ory of some person deceased. 

TABLET, Mural. A tablet on which an inscription 
has been placed, affixed to the wall of a church or cloister. 

Ta'bor (Heb. Tabor' , ^VOn, a mound), the name 
of three spots in Palestine (in the treatment of which we 
chiefly depend upon the articles in Smith’s Diet, of the 
Bible). See also Aznoth-Tabor; Chislotii-Tabor. 

1. Mount Tabor (Sept. r«i3/3f*V> [v. r. T «0<53*] , 
opo£ Ba/3(5p, Oafimp, but to Irafirpioi’ in Jer. and 
Hosca, and in Josephus [.4 nt. v, 5, 3 ; IPor, iv, 1,1, etc.], 
who has also ’Arapfivpwv, as in Polybius, v, 70,0; Vulg. 
Thabor ), a mountain pH, Judg. iv, 0, 12, 14, elsewhere 
without this epithet. Josh, xix, 22, Judg. viii, 18; Psa. 
Ixxxix, 12; Jer. xlvi, 18, Hos. v, 1), one of the most 
interesting and remarkable of the single mountains in 
Palestine. It was a Rabbinic saying (and shows the 
Jewish estimate of the attractions of the locality) that 
the Temple ought of right to have been built here, but 
was required by an express revelation to be erected on 
Mount Moriah. 


TAB01 


155 


TABOr 



Mount Tabor, from the West. (From a photograph.) 


1. Description . — Mount Tabor rises abruptly from the 
north-eastern arm of the plain of Esdraelon, and stands 
entirely insulated, except on the west, where a narrow 
ridge connects it with the hills of Nazareth. It pre- 
sents to the eye, as seen from a distance, a beautiful 
appearance, being so symmetrical in its proportions, and 
rounded off like a hemisphere or the segment of a cir- 
cle, yet varying somewhat as viewed from different di- 
rections, being more conical when seen from the east or 
west. The body of the mountain consists of the pecul- 
iar limestone of the country. It is studded with a com- 
paratively dense forest of oaks, pistacias, and other trees 
and bushes, with the exception of an occasional open- 
ing on the sides and a small uneven tract on the sum- 
mit. The coverts afford at present a shelter for wolves, 
wild boars, lynxes, and various reptiles. Its height is 
estimated at 1300 feet from the base, and 1365 from the 
sea-level (Tristram, Land of Israel, p. 498). Its ancient 
name, as already suggested, indicates its elevation, 
though it does not rise much, if at all, above some of 
the other summits in the vicinity. It is now called 
Jebel et-Tur , a name which some have tried to identify 
with Tabor, as if it were a contraction, lint Jebel et- 
Tur means simply the “ fort-hill,” and is used to desig- 
nate the Mount of Olives and Gerizim. as well as Tabor. 
It, lies about six or eight miles almost due east from 
Nazareth. The ascent is usually made on the west side, 
near the little village of Deburich, probably the ancient 
Daberath (Josh, xix, 12), though it can be made with 
entire ease in other places. It requires three quarters 
of an hour or an hour to reach the top. The path is 
circuitous and at times steep, but not so much so as to 
render it difficult to ride the entire way. The trees 
and bushes are generally so thick as to intercept the 
prospect ; but now and then the traveller as he ascends 
comes to an open spot which reveals to him a magnif- 
icent view of the plain. One of the most pleasing as- 
pects of the landscape, as seen from such points, in the 
season of the early harvest, is that presented in the di- 
versified appearance of the fields. The different plots 
of ground exhibit various colors, according to the state 
of cultivation at the time. Some of them are red, 
where the land has been newly ploughed up, owing to 
the natural properties of the soil; others yellow or white, 


where the harvest is beginning 
to ripen or is already ripe; and 
others green, being covered with 
grass or springing grain. As they 
are contiguous to each other, or 
intermixed, these parti -colored 
plots present, as looked down 
upon from above, an appearance 
of gay checkered work which is 
singularly beautiful. The top of 
Tabor consists of an irregular plat- 
form, half a mile long by three 
quarters wide, embracing a circuit 
of half an hour’s walk and com- 
manding wide views of the sub- 
jacent plain from end to end. A 
copious dew falls here during the 
warm months. Travellers who 
have spent the night there have 
found their tents as wet in the 
morning as if they had been 
drenched with rain. 

It is the universal judgment 
of those who have stood on the 
spot, that the panorama spread 
before them as they look from 
Tabor includes as great a variety 
of objects of natural beauty and 
of sacred and historic interest as 
any one to be seen from any posi- 
tion in the lloly Land. On the 
east the waters of the Sea of Ti- 
berias, not less than fifteen miles 
distant, are seen glittering through the clear atmosphere 
in the deep bed where they repose so quietly. Though 
but a small portion of the surface of the lake can be dis- 
tinguished, the entire outline of its basin can be traced 
on every side. In the same direction the eye follows the 
course of the Jordan for many miles, while still farther 
east it rests upon a boundless perspective of hills and val- 
leys, embracing the modern Haurau, and farther south 
the mountains of the ancient Gilead and llashan. The 
dark line which skirts the horizon on the west is the 
Mediterranean; the rich plains of Galilee fill up the in- 
termediate space as far as the foot, of Tabor. The ridge 
of Carmel lifts its head in the north-west, though the por- 
tion which lies directly on the sea is not distinctly visible. 
On the north and north-east we behold the last ranges of 
Lebanon as they rise into the hills about Safed, overtop- 
ped in the rear by the snow-capped Hermon, and still 
nearer to us the Horns of Hattin, the reputed Mount of 
the Beatitudes. On the south are seen, first the summits 
of Gilboa, which David’s touching elegy on Saul and 
Jonathan has fixed forever in the memory of mankind, 
and farther onward a confused view' of the mountains 
and valleys which oeeupy the central part of Palestine. 
Over the heads of Duhv and Gilboa the spectator looks 
into the valley of the Jordan in the neighborhood of 
Beisan (itself not within sight), the aneient Bethshean, 
on w'hose avails the Philistines hung up the headless 
trunk of Saul, after their victory over Israel. Looking 
across a branch of the plain of Esdraelon, we behold En- 
dor, the abode of the sorceress whom the king consulted 
on the night before his fatal battle. Another little vil- 
lage clings to the hill-side of another ridge, on which 
v r e gaze with still deeper interest. It is Nain, the vil- 
lage of that name in the New Test., where the Saviour 
touched the bier and restored to life the widow’s son. 
The Saviour must have often passed at the foot of this 
mount in the course of his journeys in different parts of 
Galilee. It is not surprising that the Hebrews looked 
up with so much admiration to this glorious work of the 
Creator’s hand. The same beauty rests upon its brow 
to-day, the same richness of verdure refreshes the eye, 
in contrast with the bald aspect of so many of the 
adjacent mountains. The Christian traveller yields 
spontaneously to the impression of wonder and devo- 



TABOr 


1 50 


TABOIi 


tion, and appropriates as his own the language of the 
psalmist (Ixxxix, 11, 12) — 

“ The heavens are thine, the earth also is thine; 

The world and the fulness thereof, thou hast founded 
them. 

The north and the south thou hast created them ; 

Tabor and llermon shall rejoice in thy name.” 

2. Ilistoiy. — Tabor is not expressly mentioned in the 
New Test., but makes a prominent figure in the Old. 
The book of Joshua (xix, 22) names it as the boundary 
between lssaehar and Zebulon (see ver. 12). Barak. at 
the command of Deborah, assembled his forces on 'la- 
bor. and, on the arrival of the opportune moment, de- 
scended thence with “ ten thousand men after him” into 
the plain, and conquered Sisera on the hanks of the 
Ivishon (Judg. iv, 0-15). The brothers of Gideon, each 
of whom “resembled the children of a king,” were mur- 
dered here by Zebah and Zalmunna (vtii, 18. ID). Some 
writers, after Herder and others, think that 'labor is in- 
tended when it is said of lssaehar and Zebulon in Dent, 
xxxiii, 19, that “they shall call the people unto the 
mountain ; there they shall offer sacrifices of righteous- 
ness.” Stanley, who holds this view (Sinai and Pales- 
tine, p. 851), remarks that he was struck with the as- 
pect of the open glades on the summit as specially fitted 
tor the convocation of festive assemblies, and could well 
believe that in some remote age it may have been a 
sanctuary of the northern tribes, if not of the whole na- 
tion. The prophet in II os. v, l reproaches the priests 
and royal family with having “been a snare on Mizpah 
and a net spread upon Tabor.” The charge against 
them probably is that they had set up idols and prac- 
ticed heathenish rites on the high places which were 
usually selected for such worship. The comparison in 
Jer. xlvi, 18, “As Tabor is among the mountains and 
Carmel by the sea,” imports apparently that those 
heights were proverbial for their conspicuousness, beau- 
ty, and strength. 

After the close of Old-Test, history, Tabor continued 
to he a strong fortress. In the year B.C. 218, Antioclms 
the Great got possession of it by stratagem and strength- 
ened its fortifications. The town existed on the sum- 
mit in New-Test, times, but the defences had fallen into 
decav, and Josephus caused them to be rebuilt 
iv, \, 8). 

3. Present Condition . — Dr. Itobinson (Bill. Res. ii, 353) 
has thus described the ruins which are to be seen at pres- 
ent on the summit of Tabor: “All around the top are 
the foundations of a thick wall built of large stones, 
some of which are bevelled, showing that the entire 
wall was perhaps originally of that character. Jn sev- 
eral parts are the remains of towers and bastions. The 
chief remains are upon the ledge of rocks on t he south 
of the little basin, and especially towards its eastern 
end; here are, in indiscriminate confusion, walls and 
arches and foundations, apparently of dwelling-houses, 
as well as other buildings, some of hewn, and some of 
large bevelled stones. The walls and traces of a fortress 
are seen here, and farther west along the southern brow, 
of which one tall pointed arch of a Saracenic gateway 
is still standing, and hears the name of Bab el-llawa, 
‘Gate of the Wind.’ Connected with it are loopholes, 
and others are seen near by. These latter fortifications 
belong to the tera of the Crusades; hut the large bevel- 
led stones we refer to a style of architecture not later 
than the times of the Homans, before which period, in- 
deed, a town and fortress already existed on Mount Ta- 
bor. In the days of the Crusaders, too, and earlier, there 
were here churches and monasteries. The summit has 
many cisterns, now mostly dry.” The same wrjter found 
the thermometer here, 10 A.M. (June 18), at 98° Fahr., 
at sunrise at G4°, and at sunset at 74°. The Latin 
Christians have now an altar here, at which their 
priests from Nazareth perform an annual mass. The 
Greeks also have a chapel, where, on certain festivals, 
they assemble for the celebration of religious rites. 
Stanley, in his Xotices of Localities Visited with the 


Prince of Wales, remarks, “The fortress, of which the 
ruins crown the summit, had evidently four gateways, 
like, those by which the great Homan camps of our own 
country were entered. By one of these gateways my 
attention was called to an Arabic inscription, said to he 
the only one on the mountain.” It records the build- 
ing or rebuilding of “this blessed fortress” by the order 
of the sultan Abu-Bekr on his return from the East 
A. II. 607. In 1873 the monks began the construction 
of a convent on the north-east brow of the mountain. 

4. Traditional Importance. — In the monastic ages, 
Tabor, in consequence partly of a belief that it was the 
scene of the Saviour’s transfiguration, was crowded with 
hermits. It was one of the shrines from the earliest 
period which pilgrims to the Ilolv Land regarded as 
a sacred duty to honor with their presence and their 
prayers. Jerome, in his Itinerary of Paula, writes, 
“ Scandcbat montem Thabor, in quo transtiguratus est 
Dominus; aspiciebat procul 1-Term on et Hermonim et 
campos latissimos Galihea? (Jesrcel), in quibus Sisara 
prostratus est. Torrens Cison qui mediant planitiem 
dividebat, et oppidum juxta, Naim, monstrabantur.” 
This idea that our Saviour was transfigured on Tabor 
prevailed extensively among the early Christians (see 
Hohmson, Bill. Res. ii, 858 sq.), who adopted legends of 
this nature, and often reappears still in popular religious 
works. If one might choose a place which he would 
deem peculiarly fitting for so sublime a transaction, 
there is certainly none which would so entirely satisfy 
our feelings in this respect as the lofty, majestic, beauti- 
ful Tabor. It has been thought difficult, however, to 
acquiesce in the correctness of this opinion. The sum- 
mit of Tabor appears to have been occupied by a town 
as early as the time when the Israelites took possession 
of the country (Josh, xix, 22). Indeed, such a strong 
position would scarcely he left unoccupied in those 
stormy times of Syria’s history. Accordingly, as above 
seen, it is susceptible of proof from the Old Test., and 
from later history, that a fortress or town existed on 
Tabor from very early times down to B.C. 50 or 53; 
and, as Josephus says that he strengthened the fortifica- 
tions of a city there, about A.D. GO, it is certain that 
Tabor must have been inhabited during the intervening 
period, that is, in the days of Christ (comp. Polybius, v, 
70, G , Josephus, Ant. xiv, 6, 3 ; 115/?-, ii, 20, 1 ; iv, 1. 8; 
Life, § 37). But as in the account of the transfigura- 
tion it is said that. Jesus took his disciples “up into a 
high mountain apart and was transfigured before them” 
(Matt, xvii, 1, 2), we must understand that he brought 
them to the summit of the mountain, where they were 
alone by themselves (tear’ iaav). Yet it is not proba- 
ble that the whole mountain was occupied by edifices, 
and it is quite possible that a solitary spot might have 
been found amid its groves, where the scene could have 
taken place unobserved. The event has, indeed, been 
referred by many to Mount Hennon, on the ground 
that our Lord’s miracle immediately preceding was at 
Caesarea- Philippi ; but the interval of a whole week 
(••six days,” Matt, xvii, 1, Mark ix, 2, “eight days,” 
Luke ix, 28) decidedly favors the idea of a considerable 
journey in the interval. See Transfiguration. 

Some Church traditions have given also to Tabor the 
honor of being Melchizedek’s hill, from which he came 
forth to greet Abraham, so that here is another king’s 
dale, rivalling that at Gerizim, if tradition is to he fol- 
lowed. 'The whole legend will he found at full length 
in Athanasius (Opp. ii, 7 [Colon. 1686]). That father 
tells us that Salem, the mother of Melchizedek, ordered 
him to go to Tabor. He went, and remained seven 
years in the wood naked, till his hack became like a 
snail’s shell. 

The mountain has been visited and described by mul- 
titudes of travellers, especially (in addition to those 
named above) Hussegger (Reis, iii, 258), Ilasselquist 
( Voyage, p. 179), Volney ( Voyage, ii, 272), Schubert 
(Morgenl. iii, 175). Burckhardt (Syria, p. 332), Stephens 
( Travels , ii, 317), Nugent [lord] (Lands, ete., ii, 198); 


TABOR ITES 


157 TABULA EUCIIARISTLE 


see also Reland, Pakest. p. 334; Haekett, Illustr . of 
ScrijJt. p. 304; Thomson, Land and Book, ii, 136; Por- 
ter, Ifandb. p. 401 ; Biideker, Palest, p. 3G4; Ridgaway, 
The Lord's Land, p. 371. 

2. The Plain (or rather Oak) of Tabor ( ‘ji^X 
VlZr, ; Sept, i) Spve Bafiiap-, Vulg. Qnercus Thabo r) 
is mentioned only in 1 Sam. x, 3 as one of the points in 
the homeward journey of Saul after his anointing by 
Samuel, It . was the next, stage in the journey after 
“ Rachel’s sepulchre at Zelzah.” But, unfortunately, 
like so many of the other spots named in this interest- 
ing passage, the position of the Oak of Tabor has not 
yet been fixed. See Saul. Ewald seems to consider 
it certain (gewiss) that Tabor and Deborah are merely 
different modes of pronouncing the same name, and he 
accordingly identifies the oak of Tabor with the tree 
under which Deborah, Rachel’s nurse, was buried 
(Gen. xxxv, 8). and that again with the palm un- 
der which Deborah the prophetess delivered her 
oracles ( Gesc.h. i, 390; ii, 489; iii. 29), and this 
again with the Oak of the old Prophet near Beth- 
el (ibid, iii, 444). But this, though most ingen- 
ious, can only be received as a conjecture, and the 
position on which it would land us — “between 
Hamah and Bethel” (Judg. iv, 5) — is too far from 
Rachel’s sepulchre to fall in with the conditions 
of the narrative of Saul’s journey, so long as we 
hold that to be the traditional sepulchre near 
Bethlehem. We can only determine that it lay 
somewhere between Bethlehem and Bethel, but 
why it received the epithet “Tabor” it is impossible to 
discover. Yet we see from the names Chisloth-Tabor 
and Aznoth-Tabor that the mountain gave adjunct ti- 
tles to places at a considerable distance. See Zelzait. 

3. The City of Tabor (Sept. Oafiiop v.r. D«yy ti«; 
Vulg. Thabo?’) is mentioned in the lists of 1 Chron. vi 
as a city of the Merarite Levites, in the tribe of Zebn- 
lun (ver. 77). The catalogue of Levitical cities in Josh, 
xxi does not contain any name answering to this (comp, 
ver. 34, 35). But the list of the towns of Zebulun (ch. 
xix) contains the name of Chisloth-Tabor (ver. 12). 
It is therefore possible either that this last name is ab- 
breviated into Tabor by the chronicler, or (which is less 
likely) that by the time these later lists were compiled 
the Merarites had established themselves on the sacred 
mountain, and that the place in question is Mount Tabor. 

Taborites, a section of the Hussites, the other be- 
ing known as the Calixtines. The Taborites were so 
called from the fortified city of Tabor, erected on a 
mountain, in the circle of liechin, in Bohemia, which 
had been consecrated by the field-preaching of Huss. 
The gentle and pious mind of that martyr never could 
have anticipated, far less approved, the terrible revenge 
which his Bohemian adherents took upon the em- 
peror, the empire, and the clergy, in one of the most 
dreadful and bloody wars ever known. The Ilussites 
commenced their vengeance after the death of king 
Weneeslaus, Aug. 16, 1419, by the destruction of the 
convents and churches, on which occasions many of the 
priests and monks were murdered. John Ziska, a Bo- 
hemian knight, formed a numerous, well-mounted, and 
disciplined army, which built Tabor, as above described, 
and rendered it an impregnable depot and place of de- 
fence. He was called Ziska of the Cup, because one 
great point for which the Ilussites contended was the 
use of the cup by the laity in the sacrament. At his 
death, in 1424, the immense mass of people whom he 
had collected fell to pieces; but under Procopius, who 
succeeded Ziska as general, the Hussites again rallied, 
and gained decisive victories over the imperial armies 
in 1427 and 1431. After this, as all parties were de- 
sirous of coming to terms of peace, the Council of Basle 
interposed, and a compromise was made; but hostilities 
again broke out in 1434, when the Taborites gained a 
complete victory. Owing, however, to the treachery 
of Sigismund, whom they had aided in ascending the 


throne, they were much weakened; and from this time 
they abstained from warfare, and maintained their dis- 
putes with the Catholics only in the deliberations of 
t lie diet and in theological controversial writings, by 
means of which their creed acquired a purity and com- 
pleteness that made it similar in many respects to the 
Protestant confessions of the 16th century. Encroach- 
ments were gradually made on their religious freedom, 
and they continued to suffer until they gradually merged 
into the Bohemian Brethren (q. v.). See Bezezyna, 
in Ludwig, Reliq. MBS. vi, 142, 186; yEneas Sylvius, 
/ list. Bohem. epist. 130. 

Tabret (a contraction of taboret, for “taboring” [see 
Taber]) is the rendering in the A. V. of the two kin- 
dred words E]’n, tdph (Gen. xxxi, 27; 1 Sam. x, 5; 
xviii, 6; Isa. v, 12; xxiv, 8; xxx, 32; Jer. xxxi, 4; 


Ezek. xxviii, 13; elsewhere “timbrel”) and nsh. to- 
pheth (Job xvii, 6), which both mean a musical instru- 
ment. of the drum kind (from ClBH, to beat ). This sort 
of music has always been in great request, both in clas- 
sical and sacred scenes, especially on festive occasions. 
See Musical Instruments. Especially has that form 
of the drum known as the tambourine been in vogue, 
particularly for female performers. See Timbrel. 



Tab'rimon (Heb. Tabrimmon', *j 53 *11313, good is 
Ritnmon; Sept. Ta/3fps/t« v. r. Tafifvpaiipd ; Vulg. Ta- 
bremon), the father of Benhadad I, king of Syria in 
the reign of Asa (1 Kings xv, 18). B.C. ante 928. 
The name is in honor of the Syrian god (comp, the 
analogous forms Tobiel, Tobiah, and the Phoenician 
Tabaram [Gesenius, Mon. Pham. p. 456]). See Rim- 
mon. 

Tabula Clericorum, the catalogue of the clergy 
so called by Augustine. 

Tabula Dei, a Latin term for the Table of the 
Lord (q. v.). 

Tabula Eucharistic©, the Christian altar. 



Modern Oriental Instruments of the Drum kind. 




TABULA TACIS 


158 


TACHMONITE 


Tabula Pa- 
ds {tablet, of 
peace), a term ap- 
plied to the Oset> 
LATORIl’M ((|. v.), 
an ornament by 
which the kiss of 
peace was given 
to the faithful in 
mediaeval times. 



Tachash. See Badger. 


Tache (0"£. keres; Sept. tcpticoQ; Yulg. circnlus , 
fibula). The word thus rendered occurs only in the 
description of the structure of the tabernacle and its 
littings (Exod. xxvi, 6, 11, 33; xxxv, 11 ; xxxvi, 13; 
xxxix, 33). and has usually been thought to indicate 
the small hooks by which a curtain is suspended to the 
rings whereon it hangs, or connected vertically, as iti 
the case of the vail of the IIolv of Holies, with the 
loops of another curtain. The history of the English 
word is philologicallv interesting, as presenting points 
of contact with many different languages. The Gaelic 
and Breton branches of the Celtic family give tac, or 
tuch, in the sense of a nail or hook. The latter mean- 
ing appears in the uttaccare , staccare, of Italian ; in the 
attache)', detacher , of French. On the other hand, in 
the tak of Dutch, and the Zacke of German, we have a 
word of like sound and kindred meaning. Our Anglo- 
Saxon taccan and English take (to seize as with a hook ?) 
are probably connected with it. In later use the word 
has slightly altered both its form and meaning, and the 
tack is no longer a hook, but a small flat-beaded nail 
(comp. I)iez, Homan. WOrterb . s. v. “ Tacco”). — Smith. 

The philological relations of the Hebrew word are 
likewise interesting. It comes from the obscure root 
C jp, kards, which occurs only in Isa. xlvi, 1 (“stoop- 
eth,” Sept. GvvfTpifiq i Yulg. contritus est ) as a syno- 
nym of 2^3 (“ boweth down”) in the parallel hemistich, 
and is therefore understood by Gesenius and Fiirst to sig- 
liify to bend , or by Miihlau to be round (like lip). Tbe 
only derivatives, besides the proper name Kiros (0"!“p, 
Nell. vii,47) or Keros (C“p, Ezra ii.44), are tbe term in 
question and karsol, tbe ankle (occurring only in 



(3) in the “ ankle” or karsol (t). 


the dual, “ feet,” 
2 Sam. xxii, 37 ; 
Psa. xviii, 30 
[37]). Prof. 
Paine (author of 
The Tabernacle , 
etc.), in a private 
note, ingenious- 
ly traces the con- 
nection between 
these two ob- 
jects, which adi- 
* agram will clear- 
ly illustrate. 

As the loops are explicitly stated to have been in the 
selrage of the curtains, the “ taches,” if meant as hooks 
to join them edgewise, would present the appearance in 
the annexed cut, w hich is substantially the representa- 
tion of those interpreters who have adopted this idea. 
Now, to say nothing for the present of the gap thus left 
in the roof, we find that these “taches,” being exactly 
fifty for each set of “curtains," bear no special numeri- 
cal relation to the general size of the curtains them- 
selves, the edges so joined being in one case thirty and 
in the other twenty-eight cubits long; whereas all the 
other numbers and dimensions about the building have 
definite proportions to each other. Nor, if the sixth or 
extra breadth of the goats’-hair cloth was sewed in the 
ordinary way like the other five, can we divine any 
good reason for resorting to this singular method of 
joining the remaining selvages. 


There are other and still graver 
difficulties in the ordinary plan 
of connecting these sheets, w hich 
would immediately be revealed in 
the actual attempt at reconstruc- 
tion, and will be anticipated by 
any one familiar with tent archi- 
tecture. 

{a.) The “vail” bung exactly 
under tbe “ taches” (Exod. xxvi, 

33). But as the colored sheets 
(which of course must have been 
innermost) were each twenty cu- 
bits wide and twenty-eight cubits The Tabernacle “Cur- 
long, if they were spread thus com- tains” ns joined by 
bined over the ridge-pole, the sut- the “loops” and 
ure between then, wind, these iil^’enbacil'mla 
“hooks formed could in no case Fennissou. 
have well tallied with this posi- 
tion : had they been stretched lengthwise of the building 
(as their close correspondence in length would indicate), 
the joint also would have been in the same direction, i. e. 
at right angles with the line of the vail ; if crosswise of 
the building (as both Higgenbacli and Fergtisson sup- 
pose), then the line of the suture and that of the “vail” 
could only have coincided on the supposition that the 
entire extra ten cubits 1 breadth of the embroidered “cur- 
tains” was thrown outside the rear of the edifice, where 
it would be utterly useless and exposed to tbe weath- 
er. Nor could tbe requirements of tbe text cited be met 
by using these colored sheets singly in this manner: not 
longitudinally for the same reason as before; not trans- 
versely, for then their breadth would not cover both the 
apartments. 

(b.) The goats’-hair sheets, if combined by such a 
contrivance as an S hook, would be equally impractica- 
ble : placed longitudinally on the ridge (as their length 
would emphatically indicate by tins second repetition 
of the thirty cubits), they would certainly leak intoler- 
ably at the joint, unless this were brought exactly at 
the peak, which the odd number of tbe “curtains” in 
this set (11) prevents; placed transversely, even in the 
most favorable manner (Fergtisson ’s), so as to “break 
joints” with the suture in the sheets under them, they 
must (as a corollary from the above combination of the 
latter) have had their extra width (fourteen cubits) 
project wholly beyond the rear of the building, leaving 
nothing for a “ porch” (which Fergusson imagines). 

(c.) In any case it would have been a bad arrange- 
ment to make the suture in either set of roof canvas 
come exactly over so choice a piece of drapery as the 
“ vail” was , for some drip must have been apprehended, 
or an embroidered lining (a delicate article with which 
to stop a leak) would not have been provided — to say 
nothing of Fergusson’s idea that the sheep-skin and fur 
robes may have been for the purpose of covering the 
joint! In short, the bare fact of leaving such a crack 
in the roof would have been an irremediable blunder, 
which it is strange that a professional architect should 
make. On Biggenbach’s theory of a flat roof, all the 
rain would inevitably have poured through this crevice 
directly upon the vail. Jehovah planned better than 
this, we may be sure. See Tabernacle. 

Tachmas. See Night-hawk. 

Tach'monite (Heb. [without the art.] Tachke- 
monV , "'S'ZSnri; Sept, o Xaraiwoc v. r. vtic Qeicf pa- 
ri ; Yulg. sapient iss units). “The Tachmonite that sat 
in the seat,” chief among David’s captains (2 Sam. xxiii, 
8), is in 1 Chron. xi, 11 called “Jashobeam a Ilnchmo- 
nite,” or, as the margin gives it, “son of Ilachinoni.” 
The Geneva version has in 2 Sam. xxiii, 8, “ He that 
sate in the seate of wisedome, being chiefe of the princes, 
was Adino of Ezni,” regarding “Tachmonite” as an ad- 
jective derived from E3n, chakdm , “wise,” and in this 
derivation following Kimehi. Kennicott has shown, 



TACKLING 


150 


TADMOIs 


with much appearance of probability, that the words j 
paiy? rrii* 1 , yosheb bashshebeth , “ he that sat in the 
seat,” are a corruption of Jashobeam, the true name of 
the hero, and that the mistake arose from an error of 
the transcriber, who carelessly inserted r011*3 from the 
previous verse where it occurs, lie further considers 
“Tachmoni” a corruption of the appellation in Chroni- 
cles, “son of Ilachmoni,” which was the family or local 
name of Jashobeam. “ The name here in Samuel was 
at first "O'SSnn, the article H at the beginning having 
been corrupted into a H; for the word "p in Chronicles 
is regularly supplied in Samuel by that article” (Dissert. 
p. 82). Therefore he concludes “Jashobeam the Ilach- 
monite” to have been the true reading. Josephus (Ant. 
vii, 12, 4) calls him Attract po£ tuo£ ’Ayqtotou, which 
favors Ivennicott’s emendation. — Smith. In these cor- 
rections Keil ( Comment . ad loc.) concurs. See IIacii- 
moni: Jashobeam. 

Tackling is the rendering in the A. V. of mctvi], 
which occurs only in Acts xxvii, 19, meaning the spars, 
ropes, chains, etc., of a vessel’s furniture (as in Diod. 
Sic. xiv, 79; so of household movables, Polyb. ii, 6, G; 
equipage, Xenoph. A nab. iv, 7, 27 ; Herodian, vi, 4, 1 1 ; 
warlike apparatus, Diod. Sic. xi, 71). See Ship. 

Tacquet, Andrew', a Jesuit of Antwerp, known for 
his skill in the mathematical sciences, died in 1660. 
He published, among other things, a good treatise on 
astronomy, an edition of Euclid, etc. The prejudices 
of the times seem to have prevented him from more ef- 
fectually defending the system of Copernicus. His col- 
lected works were published at Antwerp (1669, 1707, 
fol.). See Chalmers, Blog. Diet. s. v. 

TacTmor (Heb. Tadmor ', “ -“[ri, prob. city of 
palms [see below]; Sept. OtSgbp v. r. 0o ffytdp; Vulg. 
Palmira ), a city “in the wilderness” which Solomon is 
said to have built (l Chron. vi ii, 4). In the nearly par- 
allel passage (1 Kings ix, 18), where the phrase “in the 
land” is added to the description, indicating that this, 
like the associated cities, w r as within Solomon’s legiti- 
mate jurisdiction, the reading “Tadmor” is adopted in 
the A. Y. from the Neri, or margin ; the Kethib , or text, 
has *rsn, Tamar (Sept.. GtppdS v. r. Octyptbp; Vulg. 
Palmira ), which should probably be pointed bv 

contraction for or in imitation of the original 

“pFi, the palm - tree (see Keil, Comment, ad loc.). See 
Palm. (In the following article we freely use the ac- 
counts in the dictionaries of Kitto and Smith, with ad- 
ditions from other sources.) 

1. Classical Identification. — There is no reasonable 
doubt that this city is the same as the one known to 
the Greeks and Homans and to modern Europe by the 
name, in some form or other, of Palmyra (UaXpupr't, 
UaXpipci, Palmira). The identity of the two cities re- 
sults from the following circumstances: (1.) The same 
city is specially mentioned by Josephus (Ant. viii, 6, 1) 
as bearing in his time the name of Tadmor among the 
Syrians, and Palmyra among the Greeks; and Jerome, 
in his Latin translation of the Old Test., translates 
Tadmor by Palmira (2 Chron. viii, 4). (2.) The modern 
Arabic name of Palmyra is substantially the same as 
the Hebrew word, being T admit r , or Tathmvr. (3.) 
The word Tadmor has nearly the same meaning as Pal- 
myra, signifying probably the “City of Palms,” from 
Tamar, a palm ; and this is confirmed by the Arabic 
word for Palma, a Spanish town on the Guadalquivir, 
which is said to be called Tadmlr (see Gesenius, in his 
Thesaurus , p. 345). (4.) The name Tadmor, or Tadmor, 

actually occurs as the name of the city in Aramaic and 
Greek inscriptions which have been found there. (5.) 
In the Chronicles, the city is mentioned as having been 
built by Solomon after his conquest of Ilamath-Zobah, 
and it is named in conjunction with “all the store-cities 
which he built in Hamath.” This accords fully with 
the situation of Palmyra [see Hamath]; and there is 


no other known city, either in the desert or not in the 
desert, which can lay claim to the name of Tadmor. 

2. History . — As above stated, Tadmor was built by 
Solomon, probably with the view of securing an inter- 
est in and command over the great caravan traffic from 
the East, similar to that which he had established in 
respect of the trade between Syria and Egypt. See 
this idea developed in Kitto’s Pictorial Bible (note on 
2 Chron. viii, 4), where it is shown at some length that 
the presence of water in this small oasis must early have 
made this a station for caravans coming west through 
the desert; and this circumstance probably dictated to 
Solomon the importance of founding here a garrison 
town, which would entitle him — in return for the pro- 
tection he could give from the depredations of the Arabs, 
and for offering an intermediate station where the fac- 
tors of the West might meet the merchants of the East 
— to a certain regulating power, and perhaps to some 
dues, to which they would find it more convenient to 
submit than to change the line of route. It is even 
possible that the Phoenicians, who took much interest 
in this important trade, pointed out to Solomon the ad- 
vantage which he and his subjects might derive from 
the regulation and protection of it by building a forti- 
fied town in the quarter where it was exposed to the 
greatest danger. A most important indication in favor 
of these conjectures is found in the fact that all our in- 
formation concerning Palmyra from heathen writers de- 
scribes it as a city of merchants, who sold to the West- 
ern nations the products of India and Arabia, and who 
were so enriched hv the traffic that the place became 
proverbial for luxury and wealth and for the expensive 
habits of its citizens. 

We do not again read of Tadmor in Scripture, nor is 
it likely that the Hebrews retained possession of it long 
after the death of Solomon. No other source acquaints 
ns with the subsequent history of the place, till it reap- 
pears in the account of Pliny (Hist. Nat. v, 24) as a con- 
siderable town, which, along with its territory, formed 
an independent state between the Roman and Parthian 
empires. Afterwards it was mentioned bv Appian (Ue, 
Bell. Cir. v, 9), in reference to a still earlier period of 
time, in connection with a design of Mark Antony to 
let his cavalry plunder it. The inhabitants are said 
to have withdrawn themselves and their effects to a 
strong position on the Euphrates, and the cavalry en- 
tered an empty city. In the 2d century it seems to 
have been beautified by the emperor Hadrian, as may be 
inferred from a statement of Stephanus of Byzantium 
as to the name of the city having been changed to 
H adrianopolis (s. v. IIrt\/u'p«). In the beginning of 
the 3d century it became a Roman colony under Car- 
acalla (A.D. 211-217), and received the jus Italicum. 
From this period the influence and wealth of Palmyra 
rapidly increased. Though nominally subject to Rome, 
it had a government of its own, and was ruled by its 
own laws. The public affairs were directed by a senate 
chosen by the people ; and most of its public monuments 
were built, as the inscriptions show, by “ the senate and 
people.” For nearly a century and a half this prosper- 
ity continued, and it was only checked at length by the 
pride it generated. 

The story of the unfortunate Valerian is well known. 
Being captured by the Persians, his unworthy son did 
not use a single effort to release him from the hands of 
his conquerors. Odenathus, one of the citizens of Pal- 
myra, revenged the wrongs of the fallen emperor, and 
vindicated the majesty of Rome. He marched against 
the Persians, took the province of Mesopotamia, and de- 
fied Sapor beneath the walls of Ctcsiphon (A.D. 260). 
The services thus rendered to Rome were so great that 
Odenathus was associated in the sovereignty with Gal- 
lienns (A.D. 264). lie enjoyed his dignity but a short 
period, being murdered by his nephew at a banquet in 
the city of Krnesa only three years afterwards. His 
reign was brief, but brilliant. Not only was Sapor con- 
quered and Valerian revenged, but Syrian rebels and 


TADMOR 


1 GO 


TADMOR 


the northern barbarians, who now began their incur- continued to be inhabited until the downfall of the Bo- 
sions into the Boiuau empire, felt the force of his arms, man empire. There is a fragment of a building with a 

Odenathus bequeathed his power to a worthy sue- Latin inscription bearing the name of Diocletian; and 
cessor — Zenobia, his widow : and the names of Zenobia there are existing walls of the city of the age of the cm- 
and Palmyra will always be associated so long as bisto- peror Justinian, together with the remains of a costlv 
rv remains. The virtue, the wisdom, and the heroic aqueduct which he built. It eventually became the seat 
spirit of this extraordinary woman have seldom been of a bishop, but never recovered any importance. When 
equalled. At first, she was content with the title of the successors of Mohammed extended their conquests 
regent during the minority of her son Vaballatus, but beyond the confines of Arabia, Palmyra was one of the 
unfortunately ambition prompted her to adopt the high- first places which became subject to t lie caliphs. In the 
sounding title of “Queen of the Last.” She soon add- year 050 a battle was here fought between the caliphs 
ed Lgypt to her possessions in Syria, Asia Minor, and Ali and Moawiyah, and won bv the former. In 7-1 -1 it 
Mesopotamia, and ruled over it during a period of five was still so strongly fortified that it took the caliph 
years. In A.D. 271 the emperor Aurelian turned his Merwan seven months to reduce it, the rebel Solyman 
arms against her, and having defeated her in a pitched having shut himself up in it. 

battle near Antioch and in another atEmesa, he drove her From this period Palmyra seems to have gradually 
back upon her desert home, lie then marched his vet- fallen into decay. Benjamin of Tudela, who was there 
erans across the parched plain and invested Palmyra, towards the end of the 12th century, speaks of it as 
which capitulated after a brief struggle. Zenobia at- j “Thadmor in the desert, buiil by Solomon of equally 
tempted to escape, but was captured on the banks of the large stones [with Baalhec], This city is surrounded 
Euphrates, and brought back to t he presence of the con- by a wall, and stands in the desert, far from any inhab- 
queror. She was taken to Borne, and there, covered i ted place. It is four days’ journey from Baalath [Baal- 
with her jewels and bound by fetters of gold, she was i bee], and contains 2000 warlike Jews, who are at war 
led along in front of the triumphant Aurelian. Zeno- j with the Christians and with the Arabian subjects of 
bia deserved a better fate. If common humanity did Noureddin, and aid their neighbors the Mohammedans.” 
not prevent the Boman citizens from exulting over an In connection with this statement, it may be remarked 
honorable, though fallen, foe, the memory of her 1ms- that the existing inscriptions of Palmyra attest the pres- 
band’s victories and of his services rendered to the State enee of Jew’s there in its most flourishing period, and 
might have saved her from the indignity of appearing that they, in common with its other citizens, shared in 
before a mob in chains. ‘ the general trade, and were even objects of public honor. 

Aurelian took Palmyra in A.D. 272, and left in it a One inscription intimates the erection of a statue to 
small garrison, but soon after his departure the people Julius Schalmalat, a Jew’, fur having at his own ex- 
rose and massacred them. On hearing of this the em- pense conducted a caravan to Palmyra. This was in 
peror returned, pillaged the city, and put the inhabi- A.D, 258, not long before the time of Zenobia, who, ac- 
tants to the sword. It was soon repaired by the orders cording to some writers, was of Jewish extraction. Irby 
of the conqueror, and the Temple of the i$un rebuilt; and Mangles (Travels, p.273) also noticed a Hebrew in- 
but it never recovered its former opulence. Twenty scription on the architrave of the great colonnade, but 
years later, under the reign of Diocletian, the walls of give no copy of it, nor say what it expressed. The 
th^* city were rebuilt. It appears from an inscription to latest historical notice of Tadmor which we have been 
have assisted the emperor Alexander Severus in his w ars able to find is, that it was plundered in 1400 by the 
against the Persians; and there are proofs of its having army of Timur Beg (Tamerlane), when 200,000 sheep 



Plan of the Kuius of Palmyra. 


T ADM 01 


1G1 


TADMOli 


were taken (Rankin, IRar* of the Mongols). Abulfeda, 
at tlie beginning of the 14th century ( Descript . .!/•«&. 
]>. 98), speaks of Tadmor as merely a village, but cele- 
brated for its ruins of old and magnificent ediiices. These 
relics of ancient art and magnificence were scarcely 
known in Europe till towards the close of the 17th cen- 
tury. In the year 1678 some English merchants at 
Aleppo resolved to verify by actual inspection the re- 
ports concerning these ruins which existed in that place. 
The expedition was unfortunate, for they were plun- 
dered of everything by the Arabs, and returned with 
their object unaccomplished. A second expedition, in 
1691, had better success; but the accounts which were 
brought back received little credit, as it seemed unlike- 
ly that a city which, according to their report, must 
have been so magnificent, should have been erected in 
the midst of deserts. When, however, in the year 1753, 
Robert Wood published the views and plans which had 
been taken with great accuracy on the spot two years 
before by Dawkins, the truth of the earlier accounts 
could no longer be doubted; and it appeared that nei- 
ther Greece nor Italy could exhibit antiquities which, 
in point of splendor, could rival those of Palmyra. From 
that time it has frequently been visited by travellers, 
and it is now readily accessible by an excursion on 
camels from Damascus. Its ruins have often been de- 
scribed and delineated. 

3. Present Remains . — Tadmor was situated between 
the Euphrates and Hamath, to the south-east of that 
city, in a fertile tract or oasis of the desert. Palm- 
trees are still found in the gardens around the town, 
but not in such numbers as would warrant, as they once 
did. the imposition of the name. The present Tadmor 
consists of numbers of peasants’ mud-huts, clustered to- 
gether around the relics of the great Temple of the Sun. 

The ruins cover a sandy plain stretching along the 
bases of a range of mountains called Jebel Belaes. run- 
ning nearly north and south, dividing the great desert 
from the desert plains extending westward towards Da- 
mascus and the north of Syria. The lower eminences 
of these mountains, bordering the ruins, are covered with 
numerous solitary square towers, the tombs of the an- 
cient Palmyrenes, in which are found memorials similar 
to those of Egypt. They are seen to a great distance, 
and have a striking effect in this desert solitude. Be- 


yond the valley which leads through these hills the 
ruined city first opens upon the view. The thousands 
of Corinthian columns of white marble, erect and fallen, 
and covering an extent of about a mile and a half, pre- 
sent an appearance which travellers compare to that of a 
forest. The site on which the city stands is slightly 
elevated above the level of the surrounding desert for a 
circumference of about ten miles, which the Arabs be- 
lieve to coincide with the extent of the ancient city, as 
they find ancient remains whenever they dig within 
this space. There are, indeed, traces of an old wall, not 
more than three miles in circumference; but this was 
probably built by Justinian, at a time when Palmyra 
had lost its ancient importance and become a desolate 
place, and when it was consequently desirable to con- 
tract its bounds, so as to include only the more valuable 
portion. Yoluey well describes the general aspect which 
these ruins present: “In the space covered by these 
ruins we sometimes find a palace of which nothing re- 
mains but the court and walls; sometimes a temple 
whose peristyle is half thrown down; and now a por- 
tico, a gallery, or triumphal arch. Here stand groups 
of columns, whose symmetry is destroyed by the fall 
of many of them; there we see them ranged in rows of 
such length that, similar to rows of trees, they deceive 
the sight, and assume the appearance of continued walls. 
If from this striking scene we cast our eyes upon the 
ground, another, almost as varied, presents itself — on 
all sides we behold nothing but subverted shafts; some 
whole, others shattered to pieces or dislocated in their 
joints; and on which side soever we look, the earth 
is strewn with vast stones, half buried; with broken 
entablatures, mutilated friezes, disfigured reliefs, effaced 
sculptures, violated tombs, and altars defiled by dust.” 
The colonnade and individual temples are inferior in 
beauty and majesty to those which may be seen else- 
where — such, for example, as the Parthenon and the 
remains of the temple of Jupiter at Atheps; and there 
is evidently no one temple equal to the Temple of the 
Sun at Baalbec, which, as built both at about the same 
period of time and in the same order of architecture, 
suggests itself most naturally as an object of compari- 
son. But the long lines of Corinthian columns at Pal- 
myra, as seen at a distance, are peculiarly imposing; 
and in their general effect and apparent vastness, they 



General View of the Ruins of Palmyra. 


X.— L 


TADMOl 


162 


TAGGART 


seem to surpass all other ruins of the same kind. The 
examinations of travellers show that the ruins are of 
two kinds. The one class must have originated in very 
remote times, and consists of rude, uushapen hillocks of 
ruin and rubbish, covered with soil and herbage, such 
as now alone mark the site of the most ancient cities 
of Mesopotamia and Babylonia, and among which it 
would be reasonable to seek some traces of the more an- 
cient city of Solomon. The other, to which the most 
gorgeous monuments belong, bears the impress of later 
ages. It is clear from the style of architecture that 
the later buildings belong to the three centuries prece- 
ding Diocletian, in which the Corinthian order of pil- 
lars was preferred to any other. All the buildings to 
which these columns belonged were probably erected in 
the 2d and 3d centuries of our tera. Many inscriptions 
are of laier date ; but no inscription earlier than the 2d 
century seems yet to have been discovered. 

The Temple of the Sun is the most remarkable and 
magnificent ruin of Palmyra. The court by which it 
was enclosed was 1711 feet square, within which a double 
row of columns was continued all round. They were 
31>0 in number, of which about sixty still remain stand- 
ing. In the middle of the court stood the temple, an 
oblong quadrangular building surrounded with columns, 
of which about twenty still exist, though without capi- 
tals, of which they have been plundered, probably be- 
cause they were composed of metal. In the interior, at 
the south end, is now the humble mosque of the village. 

A little beyond the temple begins the great colon- 
nade, which runs nearly from east to west; it is of great 
length, and very beautiful. The columns are in good 
proportion and excellent preservation ; each shaft con- 
sisting of three courses of stone admirably jointed, with 
a bracket for a bust or statue interposed between the 
second and third. In their present naked condition, 
these brackets are unsightly; yet when they were sur- 
mounted by s.tatues the effect must have been extreme- 
ly grand. 

The necropolis of Palmyra lies half an hour north- 
west of the Temple of the Sun, in the Wady el-Kebur, 
the ravine through which we made our approach to the 
city. The tombs, which are very numerous and ex- 
tremely interesting, are almost all of them towers, two, 
three, four, and in one instance five stories high. The 
tomb of Jambliehus, mentioned by Wood, is now dread- 
fully dilapidated, its stairs crumbled awav, and the 
floor of the fourth story entirely gone. It is five sto- 
ries high, and was built in the third year of the Chris- 
tian ter a. That of Manaius is peculiarly interesting, 
and in some respects, indeed, the most curious building 



Part of a Tomb at Palmyra. 


at Palmyra. It is in wonderful preservation, and its 
description will afford some idea of the others, as they 
are almost all built on the same plan, though far less 
beautiful. It is a lofty square tower, about fifteen feet 
in the side, lessening by three courses of stonelike steps 
at about a third of its height. An inscription in honor 
of the deceased is engraved on a tablet over the door- 
way. The principal apartment is lined with four Co- 
rinthian pilasters on each side, with recesses between 
them for mummies; each recess divided into five tiers 
by shelves, only one of which retains its position. The 
ancient Palmyrenes buried their dead in the Egyptian 
manner, ami Wood found in one of the tombs a mum- 
my in all respects similar to those in the land of the 
Pharaohs. 

4. Authorities* — The original sources for the history 
of Palmyra may he seen in the Script ores llistorite A v- 
gustie, Triginta Tyramii. vol. xiv ; Dirus Aurelianus, 
vol. xxvi; Eutropins , ix, 10, 11, 12. In A. I). 1G90 
Abraham Seller published a most instructive work, en- 
titled The Antiquities of Palmyra, containing the Jlis- 
tory of the City ami its Emperors , which contains sev- 
eral Creek inscriptions, with translations and explana- 
tions. Gesenins published an account of the Palmyrene 
inscriptions at Pome and Oxford in his Mtmvmenta 
Scripfnrie Lingmeque Phamac, § 53. The best work on 
the ruins of Palmyra is still Bobert Wood’s splendid fo- 
lio. entitled The Ruins of Palmyra, etc. (Land. 1753). 
Very good accounts of them may also be seen in Irby 
and Mangles, Travels; Biehter, Wallfahrten ; Addison, 
Damascus and Palmyra, The last work contains a 
good history of the place; for which, see also Bosen- 
mUller’s Bill, Geog translated !>v the Bev. N. Morren ; 
and, in particular, Cellarius, Dissert, de Dnp. Pahnyreno 
(1093). Gibbon, in eh. xi of the Decline and Fall , has 
given an account of Palmyra with his usual vigor and 
accuracy. For an interesting account of the present 
state of the ruins, see Porter, Handbook for Syria and 
Palestine , p. 543-549; Beaufort, Egyptian Sepulchres , 
etc., vol. i ; and Biideker, Syria, p. 523. Besides Wood’s 
great work, excellent views of the place have been pub- 
lished by Cassas in his Voyage Pitt ore sqve de la Syrie ; 
and later by Laborde in his Voyage en Orient. Beeently 
photographs have been taken by various artists, and an 
‘accurate knowledge of the remains of this renowned 
and remarkable place is thus made accessible to the 
whole world. 

Taft, Geokc.e, D.D., an Episcopal minister, was 
born at Mendon, Mass., Aug. 27, 1791, and was a grad- 
uate of Brown University, in the class of 1815. He 
pursued his theological studies under the direction of 
the Bev. Dr. Crocker, rector of St.John’s Church, Prov- 
idence, B. I., and was ordained a deacon by bishop Gris- 
wold, March 7, 1818, and a presbyter, Sept. 2, 1819. lie 
became rector of St. Paul’s Church in Pawtucket, B. I., 
in October, 1820, continuing for a time to teach in a 
school in Providence with which he had been connected 
for several years. Such double service not being alto- 
gether satisfactory to his bishop, he gave a gentle hint 
to the parish of St. Paul’s that “he had not ordained 
their minister to keep school;” and he thenceforth de- 
voted himself with great zeal ami success to his work 
as a minister of the Gospel until his death, which oc- 
curred at Pawtucket, Dec. 11, 1869. His ministry was 
a little over fifty years in duration. (J. C. S.) 

Taggart, Samuel, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born at Londonderry, N. H., March 24, 1754. lie grad- 
uated at Dartmouth College in 1774, was licensed to 
preach by the Presbytery of Boston June. 1, 1776, and 
was ordained and installed pastor of the Church at Cole- 
raine, Hampshire Co., Mass., Feb. 19, 1777. lie was a 
member of Congress from 1803 to 1817. lie died April 
25, 1825. Mr. Taggart possessed a mind of great strength 
and vigor. He published several theological treatises, 
sermons, orations, political speeches, etc. (1800-19). See 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, iii, 377 ; Allibone, 


TAGGART 


163 


TAHPANHES 


Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. ; Packard, I list, 
of the Churches and Ministers in Franklin County. 

Taggart, William, D.D., a Presbyterian divine, 
was born in 1783, educated privately, graduated at the 
Theological Seminary of the Associate Reformed Church, 
New York, in 1813; was licensed to preach by the Mo- 
nongahela Associate Reformed Presbytery in the same 
year, and ordained by the same presbytery and installed 
pastor of the united congregations at Upper Wheeling 
and Cadiz in 1814, where lie continued to l.abor until 
old age. He died Sept. 11, 1865. Dr. Taggart was a 
man of strong thought. “ His moral and intellectual 
attributes were perhaps rarely, if ever, excelled.” See 
Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 18(16, p. 279. 

Ta'han (Heb. Tach'an, *)np, camp [Gesenius], or 
graciousness [Fiirst]), the name of two descendants of 
Ephraim. 

1. (Sept. Tandy v. r. Tarai; Yulg. Thehen .) The 
head of one of the families of the Ephraimites at the 
end of the Exode (Numb, xxvi, 35). B.C. ante 1618. 
See Tahanite. 

2 . (Sept. Oaev v. r. Oadv; Yulg. Thaan.') Son of 

Telah and father of Laadan in the Palestinian lineage 
of Ephraim (1 Chron. vii, 25). 15.0. post 1618. 

Ta'hanite (Heb. TachanV , "’SHri, patronymic from 
Tahan; Sept. T ava\i v. r. Tarai; Yulg. Thehenita'), 
the family name (Numb, xxvi, 35) of the descendants 
of Tahan 1 (q. v.). 

Tahap'anes (Jer. ii, 16). See Taiifaxiies. 
Taliaroth. See Talmud. 

Ta'hath (Heb. Tdchath, PH ft, in pause Tuchuth, 
rnn. station , i. e. beneath, as often), the name of a place 
and of three men. 

1. (Sept. K aradS v. r. BdaS; Yulg. Thahath.) One 
of the stations of the Israelites in the desert between 
Makheloth and Tarah (Numb, xxxiii, 26); situated ap- 
parently not far beyond the western edge of the Arabah 
nearly opposite Mount Hor. See Exode. 

2 . (Sept. 0a«3 v. r. Kad3; Yulg. Thahath.') A 
Kohathite Levite, son of Assir and father of Uriel, or 
Zephaniah, in the ancestry of Samuel and Heman (1 
Chron. vi, 24, 37 [Heb. 9 and 22 ]). B.C. cir. 1585. 

3 . (Sept. Dads’ v. r. 0ad$ ; Yulg. Thahath.) Son 
of Bered and father of Eladah, among the immediate 
descendants of Ephraim in Palestine (1 Chron. vii, 20). 
B.C. post 1618. Burrington ( Geneal . i, 273) regards 
him as the same with Tahan (q. v.) the son of Ephraim ; 
but against the text. 

4 . (Sept. 2ud$ v. r. N ogee; Yulg. Tahath.') Grand- 
son of the preceding (with whom some confound him), 
being son of Eladah and father of Zabad (1 Chron. 'di, 
20). B.C. post 1618. 

Tahitian Version. The extensive assemblage of 
islands in which the Tahitian dialect is spoken includes 
the Society, or Leeward, and the Georgian, or Wind- 
ward, Isles, with the Low Islands, and the “ Paumotu,” 
or Dangerous Archipelago. The largest of the islands is 
Otaheite, or, more properly, Tahiti, where the Tahitian 
language, generally considered as the most perfeet type 
of all the Polynesian dialects, remained in its primitive 
simplicity. To aeeount for this, it seems as if Tahiti 
had been peopled before any other island of Polynesia, 
properly so called; that from thence, as from a eentre, 
emigrants went to settle on the islands of the surround- 
ing archipelago as far as New Zealand, and that while 
the Polynesian language became more or less modified 
by the mode of life called for by the nature of the soil 
or of the climate, it remained, as stated already, in its 
primitive simplicity at Tahiti. The Tahitian version 
was made from the English Bible, with constant refer- 
ence to the sacred originals. The first portion pub- 
lished was the Gospel of Luke, which appeared in 1818, 
while in 1838 the entire Bible was published in Lon- 
don under the superintendence of the Rev. Henry Nott. 


Other editions followed, of which the most important, 
consisting of a revised edition of the entire Scriptures, 
was completed in London in 1848. In 1877 the annual 
report of the British and Foreign Bible Society an- 
nounced that the committee were bringing out a revised 
edition with maps, which, according to the report in 
1879, had left the press, the edition, consisting of 5000, 
having been edited bv the Rev. A. T. Savillc. Up to 
March 31, 1879, the sum total of Bibles distributed, 
either as a whole or in parts, was 42,335. See, besides 
The Bible of Every Eand, the annual reports of the 
British and Foreign Bible Society since 1860, which are 
the only source of information. (B. P.) 

Tah'panhes (Heb. Tachpanches', Jer. 

ii, 16 [marg.] ; xliii, 7, 8, 9 ; xliv. 1; xlvi, 14), Ta- 
liap'anes (Heb. Tach panes C35PP, ii, 16 [text]), 
or Tehaph'nehes (Heb. Techaphneches onisnn, 
Ezek. xxx, 18; all of Egyptian origin [see below]; 
Sept. T or T capvai ; Yulg. Tapline or Taphnis ), a 
city of Egypt, of importance in the time of the prophets 
Jeremiah and Ezekiel. The name is clearly Egyptian, 
and closely resembles that of the Egyptian queen Taii- 
penes (q. v.), which, however, throws no light upon it. 
The Coptic name of this place, Taphnas (Quatremere, 
Mem. Geog. et Hist, i, 297, 298), is obviously derived 
from the Sept, form: the Gr. and Lat. forms, Aciapvai, 
llerod., Scafnaj, Steph. Byz., Dafno, Itin. Ant., are per- 
haps nearer to the Egyptian original (see Part hey, Zur 
Erdkunde des alien Aegyptens, p. 528). Can the name 
be of Greek origin ? If the Hanes mentioned by Isaiah 
(xxx, 4) be the same as Tah pan lies, as we have sug- 
gested (s. v.), this conjecture must be dismissed. No 
satisfactory Egyptian etymology of this name has been 
suggested, Jablonski’s Taphenes, “the head” or “begin- 
ning of the age” ( Opusc . i, 343), being quite untenable; 
nor has any Egyptian name resembling it been discov- 
ered. I)r. Brugseli ( Geogr . Jnschr. i, 300, 301, Taf. lvi, 
No. 1728), following Mr. Heath ( Exodus Papyri , p. 174), 
identifies the fort Tebenet with Tahpanhes; but this 
name does not seem to us sufficiently near either to the 
Hebrew or to the Greek. 

Tahpanhes was evidently a town of Lower Egypt 
near or on the eastern border. When Johanan and the 
other captains went into Egypt “ they came to Tahpan- 
hes” (Jer. xliii, 7). Here Jeremiah prophesied the con- 
quest of the country by Nebuchadnezzar (ver. 8-13). 
Ezekiel foretells a battle to be there fought, apparently 
by the king of Babylon just mentioned (xxx, 18). The 
Jews in Jeremiah’s time remained here (Jer. xliv, J). 
It. was an important town, being twice mentioned by 
the latter prophet with Noph or Memphis (ii, 16; 
xlvi, 14), as well as in the passage last eited. Here 
stood a house of Pharaoh llophra before which Jere- 
miah hid great stones, where the throne of Nebu- 
chadnezzar would afterwards be set, and his pavilion 
spread (xliii, 8-10). It is mentioned with “ Ramesse 
and all the land of Gesen” in Judith i, 9. Herodotus 
calls this place Daphnce of Pelusium (Acapi’at m IL/- 
Ao lariat), and relates that Psammotichus l had here a 
garrison against the Arabians and Syrians, as at Ele- 
phantine against the Ethiopians, and at Marea against 
Libya, adding that in his own time the Persians had 
garrisons at Daphnseand Elephantine (ii, 30). Daplmaj 
was therefore a very important post under the twenty- 
sixth dynasty. According to Stephanus, it was near 
Pelusium (s. v.). In the Itinerary of Antoninus this 
town, called Dafno, is plaeed sixteen Roman miles to 
the south-west of Pelusium (ap. Parthey, Map vi, where 
observe that the name of Pelusium is omitted). This 
position seems to agree with that of Tel- Defenneh, 
which Sir Gardner Wilkinson supposes to mark the site 
of Daphnne (Modern Egypt and Thebes, i, 447, 448). This 
identification favors the inland position of the site of 
Pelusium, if we may trust to the distance stated in the 
Itinerary. See Sin. Sir Gardner Wilkinson (loc. cit.') 
thinks it was an outpost of Pelusium. It may be ob- 


TAIIPENES 


104 


TALBOT 


served that the Camps, rd X Tpa707r*ea , the fixed gar- 
rison of lonians and Carians established by Psam- 
metiehus 1, may possibly have been at Dap lime. — 
Smith. 

Tah'penes (lleb. Tachpeneys ', D*VI 2nn, evidently 
of Egyptian origin, !>ut uncertain in its signification 
[see Tamtamies] ; Sept. tffKtQirtjx v. r. 

Vulg. Taphues ), a proper name of an Egyptian queen. 
She was wife of the Pharaoh who received lladad the 
Edomite, and who gave him her sister in marriage (1 , 
Kings xi, 18-20). B.C. cir. 1000. In the Sept, the lat- | 
ter is called the elder sister of Thekemina, and in the 
addition to eh. xii Shishak (Susakim) is said to have 
given Ano, the elder sister of Thekemina his wife, to 
Jeroboam. It is obvious that this and the earlier state- 
ment are irreconcilable, even if the evidence from the 
probable repetition of an elder sister be set aside, and 
it is scarcely necessary to add that the name of Slu- 
sh ak’s chief or only wife, Karaiimat, does not support 
the Sept, addition. See Shisiiak. There is therefore 
but one Tahpenes or Thekemina. At the time to which 
the narrative refers there were probably two, if not three, 
lines ruling in Egypt— the Tanites of the twenty-first 
dynasty in the lower country; the high-priest kings 
at Thebes, but possibly they were of the same line; and 
perhaps one of the \a$t faineants of the Rameses family. 
To the Tanitic line, as apparently then the most pow- 
erful, and as holding the territory nearest Palestine, the 
Pharaoh in question, as well as the father-in-law of Sol- 
omon, probably belonged. If iManetho’s list be correct, 
he may be conjectured to have been Psusennes. See 
PiiAKAOJi, 9. No name that has any near resemblance 
to either Tahpenes or Thekemina has yet been found 
among those of the period (see Lepsius, Kbniysbuch ). — 
Smith. 

Tah'rea (Heb. Tachre' a, V~'nF\, cunning [Gesenius], 
or fight [Fiirst] ; Sept. O apci v. r. Oapa\i Vulg. Tha- 
raa ), third named of the four sons of Micah, Jonathan’s 
grandson (1 Chron. ix, 41); called in the parallel pas- 
sage (viii, 35) Tarea (q. v.). B.C. post 1037. 

Tah'tim-HocTshi (II eb. Tachtim' Chodshi', * nrin 
^ wHn, lit. lowlands my month; Sept. Qa(3a<ubr // ianv 
Nop’orroi v. r. iSaiov acaffai ; Vulg. inferiora Ilodsi ), 
a region (j*^X, “land”) mentioned as one of the places 
visited by Joab during his census of the land of Israel, 
between Gilead and Dan-jaan (2 Sam. xxiv, G). Fiirst 
{ Handwbrterb . i, 380) proposes to separate the “ Land 
of the Tachtim” from “ Ilodshi,” and to read the latter 
as llurshi — the people of Ilarosheth (comp. Judg. iv, 
2). Thenius restores the text of the Sept, to read “ the 
Land of Pash an, which is Edrei.” This in itself is fea- 
sible, although it is certainly very difficult to connect it 
with the Hebrew. Ewald ( Gesch . iii, 207) proposes to 
read Hervion for Ilodshi; and Gesenius {Thesaur. p. 
450 a) dismisses the passage with a vix pro sano haben- 
dum. There is a district called the A rd et-Tuhta. to the 
east-northeast of Damascus, which recalls the old name 
— but there is nothing to show that any Israelite was 
living so far from the Holy Land in the time of David. 
— Smith. It seems probable from the connection that 
the whole is a proper name, descriptive, however, of 
the physical aspect of the region to which it was given. 
The route taken by the king’s messengers was first east- 
ward to Moab; then northward through Gilead; then 
from Gilead to “the land of Tahtim-llodshi,” to Dan- 
jaan and Zidon. “The land of Tahtim-llodshi” was 
thus manifestly a section of the upper valley of the Jor- 
dan, probably that now called A rd el-Iluleh , lying deep 
down at the western base of llermon. — Kitto. 

Taitazak or Taytazak, Joseph, a Spanish Jew, 
belonged to those 300,000 exiles who had to leave their 
country in 1492. With his father and brothers, he set- 
tled at Salonica, where he wrote CjDV 1 PT1£, “the 
fruitful bough of Joseph” (after Gen. xlix, 22), a com- 


mentary on Ecclesiastes, in a homiletico-philosophical 
style (Venice, 1599): — UT'IS rup, i. e. ex- 

cerpts from his commentary on the Psalms, published 
with Penini’s work, ZHTH “ the tongues of gold” 

(ibid. 1599). 'flic MS. of his complete commentary on 
the Psalms is to be found in the libraries of Paris and 
Oxford: — -HP, “the bread of sacredness,” in 
allusion to Prov. ix, 17 ; a commentary on Daniel and 
the five A1 egilloth, viz. the Song of Songs, Ruth, Lam- 
entations, Ecclesiastes, and Esther (ibid. 1G0S). In its 
present form this work only contains fragments of Tai- 
tazak’s commentaries on three books, and 31 SS. of the 
entire commentaries are still extant : — T-S 2, a 
commentary on Job, extant : — rT i. e. ques- 

tions and decisions (ibid. 1G22). See Fiirst, BibL Jud. 
iii, 412; De Kossi, JJizionurio Storico, p. 314 (Germ, 
transl.) ; Steinsclmeider, Catulogus Libr. llebr. in BibL 
Bodl. col. 1533; Kitto, Cyclop, s. v. ; Finn, Sephardim , 
p. 413. (B. P.) 

Tajus, Samuel, bishop of Saragossa, lived in the 
7th century. In the year G4G he went to Borne at the 
command of king Chindaswinth, and with the sanction 
of the seventh Council of Toledo, for the sake of bring- 
ing back the long-missed Expositio in lliobitm s. Mora- 
Hum, lib. xxxv, of Gregory I. According to tradition, 
he was shown in a vision the place where it was hid- 
den. Tajus was also present at the eighth and ninth 
councils of Toledo. Besides an Epistola ad Eugenium 
Toletanum episcopum , he also wrote Seutentiannn lib. v 
(3Iigne, Patrol, vol. Ixxx), containing extracts from 
Gregory’s work on (a) God, creation, creature, govern- 
ment of the world; (b) incarnation, Church, Church 
government; (c) moral life, virtues; (f) sins and vices; 
( e ) sinners, prince of this world, Antichrist, judgment, 
condemnation. Wherever Gregory failed him, he sup- 
plied his work from Augustine’s writings. The work is 
preceded by a Pi'cefacio ad Qviricum Barcinonensem 
Episcopum , to whom the work is dedicated, together with 
the Responsio Quirici. See Regensburger Conversations- 
Lexikon, s, v. ; Theologisches Universal - Lexikon, s. v. 
(B.P.) 

Talapoins, priests or friars of the Siamese and 
other Indian nations. They reside in monasteries under 
the superintendence of a superior, whom they call a 
Sanerat. Celibacy is obligatory upon them, and a breach 
of chastity in the case of any one of them is punished 
with death. They perform penance for such of the peo- 
! pie as pay them for it ; are very hospitable to stran- 
I gers, and strict in their rules of chastity. There are 
| also female Talapoins, who live according to rules simi- 
lar to those of the men. The residences of the Tala- 
poins are much superior to those of the priests in Cey- 
lon and Burmah, having richly carved entrances and 
ornamental roofs. 

Talbot, Peter, a Roman Catholic divine, was the 
son of sir William Talbot, and was born in the county 
of Dublin in 1G20. lie entered the society of Jesuits in 
Portugal in 1G35; and after studying philosophy and di- 
vinity. went into holy orders at Borne, whence he re- 
turned to Portugal, and afterwards to Antwerp, where 
i he read lectures on moral theology, lie is supposed to 
be the person who, in 1G5G, reconciled Charles II. then 
at Cologne, to the popish religion; and Charles is re- 
i ported to have sent him to Madrid to inform the 
court of Spain of his conversion. Sent to England in 
the interest of the Romish Church, he paid court to 
Cromwell, whose funeral he attended as a mourner. In 
1GG9 pope Clement IX dispensed with his vows as Jes- 
uit, and advanced him to the titular archbishopric of 
Dublin. He immediately began to persecute those of 
his order who had signified their loyalty to the king, 
quarrelled with Plnnket, the titular primate; and when 
the popish plot was discovered in England in 1G78, he 
was imprisoned in Dublin Castle oil suspicion of being 


TALBOT 


1 Go 


TALLENTS 


concerned in it, and died there in 1080. Me was a man 
of ability and learning, but vain, ambitious, and turbu- 
lent. Among Ills publications are, De Xatura Fidei et 
IItr?'esis, Tractatus de Religione : — A Treatise of Relig- 
ion and Government (1070, 4to) : — Letters to the Roman 
Catholics in Ireland (Paris. 1074, 4to). See Allibone, 
Diet, of Brit, and A mer. .4 uthors , s. v. ; Chalmers, Biog. 
Diet. s. v. 

Talbot, Robert, D.D., an English divine and an- 
tiquarian, was born at Thorp, Northamptonshire, and 
was admitted to New College, Oxford, in 1 525. He left 
the university in 1530; in 1541 was made prebendary 
of Wells; and treasurer of the cathedral church of Nor- 
wich, April 9, 1547, which position he retained until his 
death, Aug. 27, 1558. He was a diligent searcher into 
the antiquities of his country, and his collections proved 
of great service to Lelaiul, Bale, Caius, Camden, and oth- 
ers. He also furnished archbishop Parker with many 
Saxon books. He was the first Englishman who illus- 
trated Antoninus’s Itinerary with various readings and 
notes, but his notes reach only to the sixth journey. 
See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Talbot. Samson, D.D., a Baptist minister, was 
born at Mt. Zion, Champaign Co., 111., and was a grad- 
uate of Granville College, now Denison University, O., 
in 185*2, and of Newton Theological Institute in 1855. 
lie was ordained in 185G, and was pastor of the Bap- 
tist Church in Dayton, O., eight years, 185G-64, and 
was then appointed president of Denison University, 
which position he held until his death, which occurred 
at Newton Centre, Mass., June 29, 1873. President Tal- 
bot was an accomplished scholar, a profound thinker, 
and bade fair to stand in the very front rank of scholars 
in this country. (J. C. S.) 

Talbot, William, D.D., an English prelate, was 
horn at Stourton Castle in 1659, and in 1674 entered as 
a gentleman commoner of Oriel College, Oxford. After 
graduation he entered holy orders, and in the reign of 
king James II preached and acted with great zeal against 
popery. In April, 1691, he was nominated to the dean- 
ery of Worcester, and Sept. 24, 1699, was advanced to 
the bishopric of Oxford. He was translated to the 
bishopric of Sartma, April 23, 1715; and in September, 
1722, was translated to that of Durham, of which coun- 
ty he was made lord-lieutenant and eustos rotulorum. 
He died Oct. 10, 1730. There are in print two speeches 
of his in the House of Lords, and a volume of Sermons 
(Svo). See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Talent, representing the Greek rdXcrrroR, Lat. ta- 
lent urn, is the rendering of the Ileb. and Chald. likkdr, 
“125, a circle , the coin being no doubt of that form. It 
was the largest weight among the Hebrews, being used 
for metals, whether gold (1 Kings ix, 14; x, 10, etc.), 
silver (2 Kings v, 22), lead (Zech. v, 7), bronze (Exod. 
xxxviii, 29), or iron (l Chron. xxix, 7). A hill suffi- 
cient for the site of a city was sold for two talents of 
silver (1 Kings xvi, 24); and for 1000 talents of silver 
the friendship of the Assyrian king was purchased (2 
Kings xv, 19) ; another Assyrian king laid the kingdom 
of Judah under a tribute of 300 talents of silver and 
30 of gold (xviii, 14); a similar tribute imposed by an 
Egyptian king consisted of 100 talents of silver and one 
talent of gold (xxiii, 33); the crown of an Ammonitish 
king weighed one talent of gold (2 Sam. xii,30). The 
sacred utensils of the Tabernacle and the Temple amount- 
ed to many talents of silver and gold (Exod. xxv, 39 ; 
xxxviii, 24, 25, 27 ; l Kings ix, 14, etc.). But there 
must be some error in the numbers at 1 Chron. xxix 
(see Kitto, Piet. Bible , note ad loc.). See Number. In 
the post-exilian period, likewise, talents were a mode 
of estimation (1 Macc. xi, 28; xiii, 16, 19; xv, 31 ; 2 
Macc. iii, 4,8, etc.). In the New Test, the talent only 
occurs in a parable (Matt, xxv, 15 sq.), and as an esti- 
mate of a stone’s weight (Rev. xvi, 21). From Exod. 
xxxviii, 25, 26, it appears that one talent was equiva- 


lent to 3000 shekels of the sanctuary (Schmidt, Bill. 
Mathem. p. 183; Bdckh, Metrol . Unters. p. 55). See 
Shekel. As the ininn (q. v.) consisted of 50 sacred 
shekels, it follows that the talent was equal to 60 mi- 
naj, just as the Attic talent had 60 mime. — Winer. See 
Metrology. 

TALENT figuratively signifies any gift or opportunity 
God gives to men for the promotion of his glory. “ Ev- # 
ervthing almost,” says Mr. Scott, “ that we are, or pos- 
sess, or meet with, may be considered as a talent ; for a 
good or a bad use may be made of every natural en- 
dowment, or providential appointment, or they may re- 
main unoccupied through inactivity and selfishness. 
Time, health, vigor of body, and the power of exertion 
and enduring fatigue — the natural and acquired abili- 
ties of the mind, skill in any lawful art or science, and 
the capacity for close mental application — the gift of 
speech, and that of speaking with fluency and propri- 
ety, and in a convincing, attractive, or persuasive man- 
ner — wealth, influence, or authority — a man’s situation 
in the Church, the community, or relative life — and the 
various occurrences which make way for him to attempt 
anything of a beneficial tendency ; these, and many oth- 
ers that can scarcely be enumerated, are talents which 
the consistent Christian will improve to the glory of 
God and the benefit of mankind. Nay, this improve- 
ment procures an increase of talents, and gives a man 
an accession of influence and an accumulating power 
of doing good; because it tends to establish his repu- 
tation for prudence, piety, integrity, sincerity, and dis- 
interested benevolence: it gradually forms him to an 
habitual readiness to engage in beneficent designs, and 
to conduct them in a gentle, unobtrusive, and unas- 
suming manner: it disposes others to regard him with 
increasing confidence and affection, and to approach him 
with satisfaction; and it procures for him the counte- 
nance of many persons whose assistance he can employ 
in accomplishing his own salutary purposes.” — Buck, 
Theol. Diet. s. v. 

Talidnis, Lex {law of retaliation). This was a 
Roman law to the effect “That if any one called an- 
other man’s credit, or fortune, or life, or blood into ques- 
tion in judgment, and could not make out the crime al- 
leged against him, he should suffer the same penalty 
that he intended to bring upon the other.” Although 
the ecclesiastical law could not inflict the punishment 
of retaliation for false witness against any man’s life, 
yet such false testimony was early reputed by the 
Church as the highest species both of calumny and 
murder, and consequently brought such witnesses under 
all the ecclesiastical penalties due to those crimes. — 
Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. xvi, ch. x, § 9. 

Talith. See Fringe. 

Tal'itha Cu'mi (raXtSA Kovpt ; Aram, 

telithd kumi ), two Syriac words (Mark v, 41) 
signifying “ Damsel, arise.” The word occurs 

in the Chald. paraphrase of Prov. ix, 3, where it signi- 
fies a girl; and Lightfoot ( Hone Ileb. Mark v, 41) gives 
an instance of its use in the same sense by a rabbinical 
writer. Gcsenius {The sour. p. 550) derives it from the 
Hebrew a lamb. The word "^Ip is both He- 

brew and Syriac (2 p. fern, imperative, Kal, and Peal), 
signifying stand, arise. As might be expected, the last 
clause of this verse, after Cmni, is not found in the Syr- 
iac version. Jerome {Bp. Ivii ad Pammachium , Opp. i, 
308 [ed. Yallars]) records that Mark was blamed for a 
false translation on account of the insertion of the words 
“I say unto thee;” but Jerome points to this as an in- 
stance of the superiority of a free over a literal transla- 
tion, inasmuch as the words inserted serve to show the. 
emphasis of our Lord’s manner in giving this command 
on his own personal authority. — Smith. 

Tallents, Francis, an eminent Nonconformist di- 
vine, was born at Paisley, near Chesterfield, England, 
November, 1619, and was educated at the public-schools 


TALLEYRAND 


106 


TALMUD 


of Mansfield and Newark, lie entered Pcterhouse, Cam- 1 
bridge, but being chosen subtutor to the sons of the earl 
of Suffolk, removed to Magdalen College, of which he 
afterwards became fellow, senior fellow, and president. 
In 1648 he was ordained at London in the Presbyterian 
form, and in 1052 became minister of St. Mary’s, Shrews- 
bury. At the Restoration, not wishing to be re-ordain- 
ed, he was ejected, and in 1073 returned to Shrewsbury, 
and became pastor of a Dissenting congregation there. 
He died April 11, 1708. and was buried in St. Mary’s, 
Shrewsbury, lie published, View of Universal History 
to 1700 (Loud. 1700, fob): — Short History of Schism 
(1705. 8vo): — Considerations on S. Gar scone's Answer . 
See Chalmers, Hiog. Diet . s. v. ; Allibone, Did. of Brit, 
and A tner. A ut hors, s. v. 

Talleyrand (de Perigokd), Alexandre An- 
gelique, a noted French prelate, was born in Paris, 
Oct. 10, 1730, and after a course of education at the Col- 
lege de la Fleehe, the Seminary of St. Sul pice, and un- 
der the direction of abbe Bourlicr, became one of the 
almoners of the king, later vicar-general of Verdun, and 
(in 1702) abbot of Hard (diocese of Amiens). Having 
been chosen coadjutor of the archbishop of Rheims, he 
was consecrated at Rome, Sept. 20, 1700, under the title 
of archbishop of Troyanople in partihus. lie succeeded 
to the archbishopric of Rheims Oct. 27, 1777, and was 
very active in improving his diocese, as well as in pub- 
lic and ecclesiastical functions, sharing the varied fort- 
unes of the Church and State during the stormy period 
of the French Revolution. After having been a refugee 
at Aix-la-Chapelle, Brussels, and other places, he was 
recalled in 1803, and on July 28 was made cardinal, and 
on Aug. 8 following bishop of Paris, where he died, Oct. 
20, 18*21. See Hoefcr, None. Biog. Generale. s. v. 

Talleyrand (i>e Peuigoud), Elie, a French prel- 
ate, was born at Perigueux in 1301, and was educated 
for the priesthood at the school of St. Front in that 
town, lie became successively archdeacon of Peri- 
gueux, clean of Richmond (diocese of York), abbot of 
Ohancelas. and (Oct. 10, 1324) bishop of Limoges, al- 
though he was not consecrated because of his youth; 
and in 1328 he was translated to the see of Auxerre, 
though he continued to resident Oudan, engaged in lit- 
erary studies. He was created cardinal May 22, 1331, 
and thenceforth became active in public affairs, in 
which he experienced many remarkable adventures. 
He died at Avignon, Jan. 17, 1304, leaving a vast fort- 
une. See lloefer, Xouc. Biog. Generale , s. v. 

Tallis, Thomas, a celebrated English musician, 
flourished about the middle of the 10th century. Lin- 
der queen Elizabeth he became gentleman of the royal 
chapel and organist. Although lie was a diligent 
collector of musical antiquities, and a careful peru- 
ser of the works of other men, his compositions are so 
truly original that he may justly be said to be the 
father of the cathedral style. Notwithstanding his 
supposed attachment to the Romish religion, it seems 
that Tallis accommodated himself and his studies to the 
alterations introduced at the Reformation. With this 
view, he set to music those parts of the English liturgy 
which at that time were deemed most proper to be 
sung, viz. the two morning services — the one compre- 
hending the Venite Exultemns , Te Denm , and Benedic- 
ts; and the other, which is part of the communion of- 
fice, consisting of the Kyrie Eleison , Xicene Creed , and 
S audits ; as also the evening service, containing the 
Magnifcat and Xunc Dimittis. lie also set musical 
notes to the prcccs and responses, and composed that 
litany which for its excellence is sung on solemn ser- 
vices in all places where the choral service is performed. 
The services of Tallis contain also chant’s for the Venite 
Exultemns and the Creed of St. Athanasius, two of 
which are published in Dr. Boyce’s Cathedral Music, 
vol. i. Besides the offices above mentioned, constitut- 
ing what are now termed the morning, communion, 
and evening services, in four parts, with the preces, 


responses, and litany, Tallis composed many anthems, 
lie died Nov. 23, 1585, and was buried in the parish 
church of Greenwich, in Kent. See Chalmers, Bioq. 
Diet . s. v. 

Talmage, Samuel Kennedy, D.D., a Presbyterian 
divine, was born at Somerville, N. J., Dec. 1 1, 1798. lie 
graduated at the College of New Jersey in 1820; taught 
in an academy for two years; was tutor in the College 
of New Jersey for three years, employing his leisure 
hours in studying theology privately; was licensed and 
ordained an evangelist in 1825 by the Newton Presby- 
tery; labored as a missionary at Hamburg and other 
points in Edgefield District, S. C.. for one year; in 1827 
was a colleague with the Rev. S. S. Davis, D.D., in sup- 
plying tiic First Presbyterian Church at Augusta, Ga. ; 
in 1828 became pastor of the Augusta Church; in 1830 
was elected professor of languages in Oglethorpe Uni- 
versity, which chair he held until 1840, when he was 
elected president of the institution, where he continued 
to labor until 1862, when his health failed. He died 
Sept. 2, 1865. Dr. Talmage was an able minister, a fine 
scholar, and a successful instructor. See Wilson, Presb. 
Hist. Almanac , 1866, p. 363. (J. L. S.) 

TaPmai (lleb. Talmay ', furrowed [Gcseni- 

us ] or bold [Fiirst, who comp. Do XopatoQ, Josephus, 
Ant. xiv, 8, 1 ; Bap-SoXopaiog, Matt, x, 3] ; Sept. 0oX- 
pai. 0oX/g, QeXaptir, QoXopai , etc.; Yulg. Tholmai or 
Tholoma'i ), the name of two men. 

1. Last named of the three gigantic “sons of Anak” 
in Hebron (Numb, xiii, 22), who were expelled by Ca- 
leb (Josh, xv, 14) and slain 
by the Judahites (Judg. i, 

10). B.C. 1618. It has been 
thought that these people 
are depicted on the Egyp- 
tian monuments as a tall, 
light -complexioned race. 

In the hieroglyphic inscrip- 
tion they are named Tan- 
mahu, which may be the 
Egyptian rendering of the 
Hebrew word Talmai, al- 
lowing for the interchange 
of the liquid l for n , so con- 
stant in all languages. The 
figure is from a picture on a 
wall of the tomb of Aimc- 
liepthah I, supposed to rep- 
resent a man of the tribe of 

Talmai, one of the sons of Supposed Egyptian Figure 
Anak (Burton, Excerpta and Name’of Talmai. 

H i e rogly phica'). 

2. Son of Ammihud and king of Gesbur (2 Sam. iii, 
3; xiii, 37; 1 Chron. iii, 2). B.C. 1045. His daughter 
Maachah was one of the wives of David and mother of 
Absalom. He was probably a petty chieftain dependent 
on David, and his wild retreat in Bashan afforded a shel- 
ter to his grandson after the assassination of Amnon. 
See David. 

Tal'mon (Heb. Talriwn', l p , E'bl5, oppressor; Sept. 
TeXyiov and T eXapiv v. r. TtX/tdi', ToX/iwu, TzXaptiv; 
Yulg. Telmoii), the bead of a family of door-keepers in 
the Temple, “ the porters for the camps of the sons of 
Levi” (1 Chron. ix, 17 ; Neh.xi, 19). B.C. 1013. Some 
of his descendants returned with Zerubbabel (Ezra ii, 
42; Neh. vii, 45), and were employed in their heredi- 
tary office in the days ofNehcmiah and Ezra (Neh. xii, 
25), for the proper names in this passage must be con- 
sidered as the names of families. 

Talmud (n*^bri, talmud , doctrine; from “to 
teach”). The Talmud, “that wonderful monument of 
human industry, human wisdom, and human folly” 
(Milman), is the work which embodies the canonical 
and civil laws of the Jews. It consists of a Mishna 
(q. v.) as text, and a voluminous collection of cornmen- 



TALMUD 


1G7 


TALMUD 


taries ami illustrations, called in the more modern He- 
brew Horaa , and in Aramaic Gemm a , “ the comple- 
ment” or “completion,” from “to make perfect.” 

lienee the men who delivered these decisive commen- 
taries are called Gemarists, sometimes Horaim, but 
more commonly Amoraim. 

I. History and Composition. — The Jews divided their 
law into the written and unwritten. The former con- 
tained the Pentateuch, we VTdrev\oQ, PlZJ*' *zn, *B2J'Z , in 
min, or the mm, verbnm Dei script um, 

tyypatyo g; the latter was handed down orally, the 
H3 bZTU mnn, wapacoouj, verbnm Dei non scrip- 
turn, aypafog. Some Jews have assigned the same 
antiquity to both, alleging that Moses received them 
on Mount Sinai, and that Joshua received the oral law 
from Moses, who transmitted it to the seventy elders; 
and these again transmitted it to the men of the Great 
Synagogue, the last of whom was Simon the Just (q. v.). 
From the men of the Great Synagogue it came into 
the possession of the rabbins till Judah the Holy (q. v), 
who embodied in the celebrated code of traditional 
law, or Mishna, all the authorized interpretations of 
the Mosaic law, the traditions and decisions of the 
learned, and the precedents of the courts or schools; or, 
as Moses Maimonides (q. v.) states, in his preface to 
the Mishna {Seder Zeraim ), “ From Moses our teacher 
to our holy rabbi no one has united in a single body of 
doctrine what was publicly taught as the oral law ; but 
in every generation the chief of the tribunal, or the 
prophet of his day, made memoranda of what he had 
heard from his predecessors and instructors, and com- 
municated it orally to the people. In like manner, each 
individual committed to writing for his own use, and 
according to the degree of his ability, the oral laws and 
the information he had received respecting the inter- 
pretation of the Bible, with the various decisions that 
liad been pronounced in every age and sanctified by the 
authority of the great tribunal. Such was the form of 
proceeding until our rabbi the holy, who first collected 
all the traditions, the judgments, the sentences, and the 
expositions of the law, heard by Moses our master, and 
taught in each generation.” There is, no doubt, some 
truth in this as to a few elementary principles of He- 
brew usage and practice, both civil and religious; but 
the whole of the unwritten law cannot have this pri- 
mordial majesty, for, without referring to the trivial and 
foolish character of many of its appointments, we know 
that Midrashim. or explanations and amplifications of 
Biblical topics, were of gradual growth. Their com- 
mencement dates prior to the chronicle writer, because 
he refers to works of that nature (2 Chron. xiii, 22; 
xxiv, 27). The system of interpretation which they 
exemplify and embody existed in the age of the so- 
called Sopherini, or scribes, who took the place of the 
prophets. The men of the Great Synagogue promoted 
it. It prevailed from the Asmonaian period till that of 
Hadrian, i. e. about 300 years. The Midrash was nat- 
urally simple at first, but it soon grew more comprehen- 
sive and complicated under a variety of influences, of 
which controversy was not the least powerful. When 
secret meanings, hidden wisdom, deep knowledge, were 
sought in the letter of Scripture, the Midrashim shaped 
themselves accordingly, and a distinction in their con- 
tents could be made. Thus they have been divided 
into the Hulakdh , Ptzbn, “the rule,” and llagadah , 
m:n, “what is said.” Legal prescriptions formed the 
llalakah, free interpretations the llagadah. The one, as 
a rule of conduct, must be attended to; the other merely 
passed for something said. The one was permanent and 
proceeded from authoritative sources, from schools, the 
teachers of the law, etc.; the other was the product of 
individual minds, consisting of ideas which had often 
no other object than of being expressed at the moment. 
The oldest collection of Halakoth — that is, the oldest 
Mishna — proceeded from the school of Hillel. Babbi 


Akiba, who was slain in the Hadrianic war, is said to 
have composed Mishnic regulations. The school of 
B. Simon ben-Gamaliel (q.v.), A.D. lG(i, who was a de- 
scendant of llillel, collected and sifted the existing ma- 
terials of the oral law. The present Mishna proceeded 
from the hands of B. Judah the Holy (q. v.), son and 
successor of B. Simon ben-Gamaliel. The title of Ju- 
dah’s work is simply Alishndh, !“I2Z2 fovripmatg (from 
nrr, “to repeat”), “ repetition,” like the Arabic Mathani 
(Koran, xv, S7 ; xxxix, 34), that is, either (consider- 
ing the divine law as twofold, written and traditional) 
the second branch of the twofold law, or else the law 
given in a second form, as an explicative and practi- 
cal development of it (comp. Griitz, Gesch.d. Juden, iv, 
419). 

The work itself is composed of the following ele- 
ments : 

1. Pure Mishndh (112^^), the elucidation of the funda- 
mental text of the Mosaic laws, and their application to 
an endless variety of particular cases and circumstances 
not mentioned in them. 

2. llalakah (Pizbp), the usages aud customs of Juda- 
ism, ns sanctioned aud confirmed by time and general ac- 
quiescence. 

3. Dibrey Chakamim (D*^zn “'“Q b 1) J law principles of 
the wise men or sages, i. e. the ancient, and at that time 
the more recent, teachers, to whose decisions the people’s 
respect for them gave a greater or less weight. 

4. Maassiyoth (TYPE? ^3), practical facts, conclusions ar- 
rived at by the course of events. 

5. Geziroth (PiPPU), extemporaneous decisions de- 
manded by emergencies. 

6. Tekanbth (HI 2 pH), modifications of nsages to meet 
existing circumstances; and 

7. Kelallm (D^bbzj, universal principles, nnder which 
a multitude of particular cases may be provided for. 

According to Maimonides, there were five classes into 
which the traditional law is divided, viz.: 

1. Pintshim (D'WPS ), “interpretations” given to 
Moses by God, the authority of which has never been 
disputed (d->2s nvzn cm rpibrvz yao. 

2. Halakdhle-Mosheh mi s- Sind y (^2 *0^2 TYIT'ZP fizbri), 
“precepts delivered to Moses on Mount Sinai,” a distinc- 
tion which gaiued the applause of all the classical rabbins, 
because it belongs to the class of undisputed decisions. 

3. Those which have admitted of discussion, and the 
value and weight of which have been mainly determined 
by an extensive consent among the authorities. 

4. Gezarbth (niPTM, “decisions” which have been made 
by the wise men regarding some of t lie written laws, and 
which decisions are designed to insure more fully the ob- 
servance of such laws (or to make a fence about the law, 

j-mnb yo rvrzb *hz>. 

5. Tekanbth (P12pn), “experimental suggestions,” re- 
ferring to things recommended or enjoined by particular 
masters, which though they may not possess the stringent 
force of laws, nevertheless exert a great influence in the 
formation of social and religious habits aud usages. 

In constructing his work, Jehudah,or Judah, arranged 
these manifold materials under six general classes, called 
Sedarim (Z^lPD), or orders. The first is called Zeraim 
(D 11 Z “IT), or “seeds, ’’and treats of agricultural laws; the 
second, Moed pZVZ), or “festivals,” or “solemnity,” 
treats of the Sabbath and the annual festivals and holy- 
days. the duties of their observance, and the various en- 
actments and prohibitions thereunto pertaining; the 
third, Nashvn (D“'Z22),or “women,” treats of the inter- 
course between the sexes, of husband and wife, the 
duties of a brother-in-law towards his widowed and 
childless sister-in-law, the right of untying the shoe 
(Dent, xxv, 5), of dowry and marriage settlements, of 
espousals, divorces, and of all the laws to these subjects 
respectively appertaining; the fourth , Xezikin (yp“'T3 , 


TALMUD 


1GS 


TALMUD 


or “ injuries,” treats of the laws of property (movable as | 
well as immovable) ami of commerce; the tifth, Koda- 
shim (E-'w'lp), or “consecrations,” treats of sacrifices 
and their laws; the sixth, Taharoth [or rather Toho- 
roth ] (niinii), or “ purifications,” treats of the laws of 
pureness, legal cleanness, and that both positively and 
negatively. The initial letters of these titles combined, 
for the sake of memory, give the technical word Zenuin 
neket “a time accepted.” 

The regulations thus generally classified are further 
arranged under a multitude of subsidiary topics, each 
Seder, or order, being divided into a number of tracts or 
treatises, called Massiktoth (TiiriD-), and these were 
again subdivided into Perakim (D^p-S), chapters. 
The latter again are divided or broken up into para- 
graphs. Altogether there are 63 Massiktath, with 525 
chapters and 4187 paragraphs, in the Mishna. The 
whole is called Shas (O — ), after the initials of JTw’JJ 
-"'“HO, i.e. the six orders. Since a general analysis of 
the contents of the Mishna has already been given under 
the art. Mishna (q. v.), we must refer the reader to it, 
while a more minute analysis will be given farther on. 

R. Judah’s Mishna, however, did not contain all Mid- 
rashim. Many others existed, which are contained in 
part in the Siph? m a on Leviticus, Siphre on Numbers 
and Deuteronomy, Mechilta on Exodus (see the art. 
Midrasu), the Mishnas made by individual teachers 
for the use of their pupils, with the addition to the offi- 
cial Mishna collected by R. Chiya and his contempora- 
ries. AH the Halakoth of this sort, which were ex- 
ira-Mishnaie, were called Boraithas ; Ileb. 

or Tosiphtas (n^TSSID). As has been 
stated, R. Judah the Holy collected the great mass 
of traditions in the work called Mishna; but even this 
copious work could not satisfy, for the length of time, 
the zeal of the rabbins for the law, for all casuistry is 
endless in its details. There were a great multitude of all 
kinds of possibilities which were treated in the Mishna, 
and yet, again, each single sentence left open divers pos- 
sibilities, divers doubts, and considerations not yet fin- 
ished. Thus it was an inner necessity of the matter that 
the text of the Mishna should again become the point 
of learned discussion. Partly by means of logic (that is, 
Rabbinical), partly with the help of the traditional mat- 
ter, which had not yet been included in the Mishna, all 
open questions were now discussed. This task was car- 
ried out by the AmoraTm, or Gemarieal doctors, whose 
very singular illustrations, opinions, and doetrines were 
subsequently to form the Gemaras, i. e. the Palestinian 
and Babylonian : a body of men charged with being the 
most learned and elaborate triflers that ever brought 
discredit upon the republic of letters — 

“ For mystic learning, wondrous able 
Jn magic, talisman, and cabal — 

Peep-sighted in intelligences, 

Ideas, atoms, influences.” 

With unexampled assiduity did they seek after or in- 
vent obscurities and ambiguities, which continually fur- 
nished pretexts for new expositions and illustrations, 
the art of clouding texts in themselves clear having 
proved ever less difficult than that of elucidating pas- 
sages the words or the sense of which might be really 
involved in obscurity. 

“Hence comment after comment, spun ns fine 
As bloated spiders draw the flimsy line!” 

The two main schools where this casuistic treatment of 
the Mishnie text was exercised were that at Tiberias, in 
Palestine, and that at Sora (q. v.),in Babylonia, whither 
Abba Areka, called “Rab” (q. v.), a pupil of R. Judah, 
had brought the Mishna. In these and other schools 
(as Nahardea, Sipporis, Pumbaditha [q. v.], and .Jabne 
or Jamnia), the thread of casuistry was twisted over 
and over again, and the matter of traditions of the law 
thus took greater and greater dimensions. Abandoning 


the Seriptnre text, to illustrate and to explain which the 
doctors and wise men of the schools had hitherto la- 
bored, successive generations of Gemarici now devoted 
their whole attention to the exposition of the text of 
the Mishna; and the industry and eavillation were such 
that expositions, illustrations, and commentaries multi- 
plied with amazing rapidity and to so portentous a 
degree that they eventually swelled into a monstrous 
chaotic mass, which was dignified by the name of 
Gemara, (supplement or complement ), and this, to- 

gether with the Mishna, was called “Talmud.” Not- 
withstanding the uncertain paternity of this incongru- 
ous body of opinions, there were not wanting those who 
gave a preference to the Gemara over the Mishna, and 
even over the “ written law.” It was said by some that 
the “written law” was like water, the Mishna like wine, 
and the Gemara like hippoeras, or spiced wine. The 
“words of the scribes,” said those supporters of the Ge- 
mara, are lovely above the “words of the law,” for the 
“ words of the law” are weighty and light , but the “ words 
of the scribes” are all weighty. 

It was by R. Joehanan, rector of the Academy of Ti- 
berias, that the minor chaos of comments and facetite 
began to be collected; and these, being added to the 
Mishna, were termed the Palestinian Talmud, or Tal- 
mud Jerushalmi , i. e. Jerusalem Talmud. This Talmud, 
which was completed at Tiberias about A.D. 350, only 
contains four orders, viz., Zeratm , Moed , Nashim , and 
Nezikin, together with the treatise Niddah and some oth- 
er fragmentary portions. From the schools of Babylo- 
nia, also, a similar collection was in after-times made; 
but, as, upon the desolation of Palestine, the study of 
the law was chiefly prosecuted in Babylon, the colleges 
there were far more numerous, and far more ingenious 
and prolific were the imaginations of the Babylonian 
professors. To collect and methodize all the disputa- 
tions, interpretations, elucidations, commentaries, and 
conceits of the Babylonian Gemarici was consequently 
a labor neither of one man nor of a single age. The 
first attempt was made (A.D. 367) by R. Ashe, elected 
at the age of fourteen to be rector of the school of Sora 
(q. v. ), a teacher described as eminently pious and 
learned. R. Ashe labored during sixty years upon the 
rank, unwieldy work, and, after arranging thirty -five 
books, died in 427, leaving the completion to his suc- 
cessors. For 100 years longer did rabbi after rabbi, 
with undiminished zeal, successively continue this un- 
profitable application, until at length, after the lapse of 
123 years (about A.D. 550), rabbi Abina, the sixth in 
succession to Ashe, gave the finishing stroke to this 
second Talmud. Denominated, from the name of the 
province in which it w r as first compiled, the Babylonian 
Talmud , this second Talmud is as unmanageable to the 
student on account of its style and composition as on 
account of its prodigious bulk. Composed in a dialect 
neither Chaldaic nor Hebrew, but a barbarous commixt- 
ure of both of these and of other dialects, jumbled to- 
gether in defiance of all the rules of composition or of 
grammar, it affords a second specimen of a Babylonian 
confusion of languages. 

“It was a parti-colored dress 
Of patched and piebald languages, 

Which made some think, when it did gabble, 
They’d heard three laborers of Babel, 

Or Cerberus himself pronounce 
A leash of languages at once.” 

Abounding, moreover, in fantastic trifles and Rabbinical 
reveries, it must appear almost incredible that any sane 
man could exhibit such acumen and such ardor in the 
invention of those unintelligible comments, in those 
nice scrupulosities, and those ludicrous chimeras which 
the rabbins have solemnly published to the world, and 
of which we will speak further on. 

II. Form and Style. — In general, the Gemara takes the 
shape of scholastic discussions, more or less prolonged, 
on the consecutive portions of the Mishna. On a cur- 
sory view, it is true, these discussions have the air of a 


TALMUD 


169 


TALMUD 


desultory and confused wrangle; but, when studied more 
carefully, they resolve themselves into a system gov- 
erned by a methodology of its own. “ Non vero sterilis 
in Mishnicam commentarius Gemara est ; qtne illius tan- 
ttim modo verba explicet. Sed prolixas in earn insti- 
tuit disputcitiones , qurestiones proponemlas et ail eas re- 
spondcndo dubia movendo, eaque solvendo, excipiendo 
et replicando” (Wilhner, A ntiqq. Ilebr. i, 33!)). 

The language of the Talmud is partly Hebrew and 
partly Aramaic. The best Hebrew of the work is in the 
text of the Mishna, that in the Gemara being largely de- 
based with exotic words of various tongues, such as Latin, 
Greek, Arabic, Coptic, and Persian (comp. A. Briill, Fremd- 
sprackliche Redensarten in den Talmuden und M idrashim 
[Leips. 18G9]), barbarous spelling, and uncouth gram- 
matical, or rather ungrammatical, forms. The same 
remark will apply to the Aramaic portions, which, in 
general, are those containing popular narrative, or leg- 
endary illustration, while the law principles and the 
discussions relating to them are embodied in Hebrew. 
Many forms of the Talmudic dialect are so peculiar as to 
render a grammar adapted to the work itself greatly 
to be desired. Ordinary Hebrew grammar will not take 
a man through a page of it. See Rabbinical Dia- 
lect. 

In style the Mishna is remarkable for its extreme 
conciseness, and the Gemara is written upon the same 
model, though not so frequently obscure. The prevail- 
ing principle of the composition seems to have been the 
employment of the fewest words, thus rendering the 
work a constant brachvlogy. A phrase becomes a focus 
of many thoughts, a solitary word an anagram, a cipher 
for a whole subject of reflection. To employ an appro- 
priate expression of Delitzsch, “What Jean Paul says of 
the style of Haman applies exactly to that of the Tal- 
mud: ‘It is a firmament of telescopic stars, containing 
many a cluster of light which no unaided eye has ever 
resolved’” (Zur Geschichte der jiidischen Poesie [Leips. 
183G], p. 31). But without regard to grammatical 
and linguistic difficulties and numberless abbreviations 
which crowd the pages of the Talmud, there are a num- 
ber of so-called termini technici , which were current 
only in the Rabbinical schools, but have been incorpo- 
rated in the Gemara, like joints and ligaments in its or- 
ganization, so as to make the knowledge of them indis- 
pensable to the student. Such termini were — 

1. The explication , or 1Z5VP3, which is introduced by 

the formulae \V3, “What is this?” *i^Xp ^X'S, 
“ What does he say ?” "p^p^X “IIow is this to 

be understood?” p^pOS’ "'X-Sn, “What is the matter 
here?” Fl'TU 12*1 "fX^, “Who could think of such a 
thing ?” “ How have we to interpret this?” 

2. The i question, or rftxi T. If a question is offered by 
one school to another, it is introduced by the formula 
1F!3 X* 1 ?— n X, “They propose to them if from several 
persons to one, the formula is FPD* 1 ^ 123, “They ask 
of him or if the demand is made of one person to an- 
other, it is FT 3 ^ 73 X23, “ I ask of him.” 

3. The response , or fn HUH, which may consist either in 
strong reasons (X3'JD or -pTHn) or in strong objec- 
tions (XS'V'B or X^'DIp), is introduced by the formula 
•jb JO'S, “Whence have you this?” or Fib 2 ^HF! 11 X3, 
“ You wish to know the decisiou in this case.” 

4. Tosiphta , or XTSOIFl, au appendix to the Mishna. 

We have seen that R. Chiya, or, as some have it, R. Ne- 
hemya under his direction, composed a work of this de- 
scription in Palestine, the substance of which is diffused 
in citations throughout the Talmud. They are indicated 
by the sign-word Tana, X3XH, “He teaches,” or Vetani 
aley , “ 1 b2 “ It is taught hereupon,” prefixed to the 

sentence. 

5. Boraitha, or another kind of supplement 

to the Mishna. Such are the books Siphra , Sipkre , and 
Mzchiltha , mentioned above. When a citation is adduced 


from a Boraltha in the Talmud, it is introduced by one of 
these forms; Tanu rabbanan , “3 2 "I 13H, “Our rabbins 
have taught;” Tani chada, X*in “OH, “A certaiu (rabbi) 
has taught,” etc. 

G. The suspense, or Ip^H, is used when a case cannot be 
decided either pro or con, and thus ihis formula is used, 
which according to some contains the initials of “QlUn 
rvruip -pin* 1 , i. e. “the Tishbite (viz., 
Elijah, at his coming) will explain all objections and in- 
quiries.” Others, however, pretend that it is an abbrevia- 
tion ofC:pT, “It remains in statu quo.” 

7. The objection , or X^—'lp, a qnestiou not of a fixed 
ITalakuh, which is irrefragable, but of some position of the 
Amoraim or perhaps Tan aim, which is lawfully debatable, 
and is introduced by the formulae 273125 XH, “Come and 
hear;” n3"F3 27313, “ Hear of this “^Fl ^X, “Ifso ; ” 
X^bx, “Therefore;” H73 rp*lbn3, “There is a con- 
troversy in this case;” Xp “'X'Sn, “What is the. 

ground of the controversy?” “^21 Xpbo, “Then 
couldst suppose.” 

S. The refutation , or Xr37^r\ is used in order to np- 
hold the authority of the Bible (plOSFl ‘) 1 2) against a 
Tanaite, and to oppose the authority of a Tanaite against 
that of one of the Amoraim, and is introduced by the for- 
mula xmvn, xrn*nn, “This objection is truly of 
great weight.” 

9. The contradiction , or FT* 1 ^, an objection thrown 
against a sentiment or opinion by the allegation of a 
contrary authority, and is introduced by the formula 
-'rU'Wl, “But T oppose this.” 

10. The argumentation, or XPDpr.n, “an assailing or 
seizing upon,” is a kind of objection in use only among 
the later Amoraim, and is introduced by Fib CppHTO 
■'3133 1, “Rabbi N. objects to this.” If this objection 
is liof refuted, it takes the value of ITalakah. 

11. The solution, or pi*!* 1 3, is the explanatory answer 
to the objection (see supra 7). 

12. The information , or TSIL 1 , “disowning or shifting 
oft',” when a sage, sorely pressed in debate, shifts off his 
thesis upon another, introducing this by the formula XFJ 
" l 3‘3, “ But whose is this sentence.” 

13. The apjmi, or 27* 1 0, “support,” is a corroborative 
evidence for a doctrine or principle, introduced by the for- 
mula FP3 2“'“ 1 C3 X j 11 ?, “It can be said,” “There is 
support for it.” 

14. The necessity, or FI3*1^FI. This term is nsed in or- 
der to justify a sentence or a word, or even a single let- 
ter, which seems superfluous in the Bible or in the Mish- 
na, and is introduced by the formula ^b fl*3b IT XFJ, 
“What is this for?” To which is answered, X2“nN, “ It 
is absolutely necessary.” 

15. The accord, or FlU-'TT, “series,” a catena or line of 
Talmudic teachers, cited against a given proposition. 

1G. Sugia, X^ID, means the proper nature of a thing. 
By this word the Gemara refers to itself with regard to its 
own properties and characteristics. 

17. Uilkatha, XT □bn, is the ultimate conclusion on a 
matter debated, henceforth constituting a rule of conduct. 
Much of the Gemara consists of discussions by which they 
are verified, confirmed, and designated. When the advo- 
cates of two opposing theses have brought the debate to 
an issue, they say, “The Ilalacta is with such a one,” 

1 =r -p xnzbn. 

IS. Maasah, or Fl 125 2 73, factum, the establishment of a 
Ilalacta by cases of actual experience or practice. 

19. Shematetha, Xrin272125, “ to hear,” describes a judg- 
ment or principle which, being founded on Holy Writ, or 
being or self-evident authority, must be hearkened to as 
incontestable. 

20. Horaah, FJXTlFl, “demonstration,” doctriue, legit- 
imate and authoritative. 

21. Hagadah, FH^FJ, “a saying,” incident related, an- 
ecdote or legend employed in the way of elucidation. 
Ilagadah is not law, but it serves to illustrate law. 


TALMUD 


170 


TALMUD 


III. Literary and Moral Character of the Book . — 
Since the (lemara is in general only a more complete 
development of the Mislma, it also comprises all the 
primary elements of the Mislma mentioned above, which 
are, however, intermixed with an endless variety of lla- 
I jadoth , i. c*. anecdotes and illustrations, historical and 
legendary, poetical allegories, charming parables, with 
epithalamiums, etc., and thus making the Talmud con- 
tain all and everythin;; , or, as lluxtorf (in Prcefat. Lex. 
Chald. ef Talmud.) says : 

“Snnt enim in Talmud adlmc multa quoque Theolngica 
saim, qnnmvis phirimis imitilibns corticilnis, nt Majemon 
alieubi loquitur, involuta. Snnt in eo multa fida antiqui- 
tatis Judaicm collapsie veluti rndera et vestigia, ad con- 
viuceudain posterorum Jiidaeoruni perfidinm, ad illustran- 
dam ntriusque Testamenti historiam, ad recte explicandos 
ritus, leges, consnetudines populi Hebrjei prisci, plnrimum 
conduceutia. Sum in eo multa Jnridica, Medica, Physica, 
Ethica, Politico, Astronomica et aliarum scientiarum prae- 
clara documenta, qua? istins gentis et lemporis historiam 
mirifice coinmendant. Snnt in eo illustria ex amiquitate 
proverbia, insignes seutentin?, acuta apophthegmnta, scite 
prndenterqne dicta innumern, qme lectorem vel meliorem, 
vel sapieutiorem, vel doetiorem reddere possuut, et ceil 
rutilautes gemma? non minus Hebrjeam lingiiam exornant, 
qnam omnes Latii et Gra?ciie floscnli suas linguns conde- 
coraut. Sunt in eo mulite vocuni myriades, qua? vel voces 
in Scriptime Sicrae usu raras illustrant, et native expli- 
cant,vel totius lingua? Ilebraica? et (’huldfeie ns mu insigni- 
ter compleut et perticiunt, qui alioqui in defectu maxi mo 
mntilus et mancus jaceret.” 

In order to illustrate this, we will give a few speci- 
mens of sucli Ilagadoth for the benefit of the reader: 

God is represented as praying. 

It. Jochauau says, in the name of It. Josi, How is it 
proved that the Holy One, blessed be he, does pray? 
From Isa. lvi, 7, “I will bring them to my holy mountain, 
aud make them joyful in my house of prayer.*” Mark, it 
is not said, their prayer, but my prayer; therefore it is 
conclusively proved that he prays. And what does he 
pray? R. Zntra, the son of Tobin, said, in the name of 
Rav. the following is the divine prayer: “May it please 
me that my mercies shall prevail over mine anger, that 
the bowels of my compassion may be extended, that I 
may mercifully (leal with tny children and keep justice in 
abeyance.” In corroboration of this, the following story 
is given. It is told by R. Ismael, the son of Elisha. Once 
I went iuto the Holy of Holies for the purpose of burning 
incense, and I saw Acathriel Jah, the Lord, sitting upon 
the high and exalted throne. And he said to me, Ismael, 
my son, bless me ! and 1 addressed to him the above prayer, 
nud he shook his head ( Derakoth , p. 7, col. 1). 

But if God prays, then he must also put on phylacteries. 
Even upon this poiut the rabbins do not leave us in iguo- 
rance. Where is it proved that God puts on phylacteries? 
In Isa. lxii, s, where we read, “The Lord hath sworn by 
his right hand, and by the arm of his strength.” By the 
term right hand is meant the law, as it is written, “ From 
Iiis right hand went a tiery law for them” (Deut. xxxiii, 2) ; 
and by the term arm of his strength is meant phylacteries, 
as it is written, “The Lord will give strength to his peo- 
ple,” etc. ( Derakoth , p. G, col. 1). Moreover, God has actu- 
ally shown his phylacteries to Moses. It is written, “And 
I will take away mine hands, and thou shalt see my back 
parts” (Exod. xxxiii, 23). R.Chana, the son of Bisna.says, 
iu the name of II. Shimeon Chasida, “From this passage 
we learn that the Holy One, blessed he he, has shown to 
Moses the tie of the phylacteries, which lies on the back 
part of his head” ( Derakoth , p. 7, col. 1). 

If God prays, then, in the language of the rabbins, he is 
conscious of some personal feeling. They are not silent 
on this point. For example, the school of Ishmael have 
taught that peace is a very important matter, and that for 
its sake even God prevaricated. For it is written in Gen. 
xviii, first that Sarah said, “My Lord is old;” blit after- 
wards it is written she said. “And 1 am old" (Yebamoth, 
p. 05, col. 2 ; see also Daba Metsia, p. S7, col. 1). 

God is represented as needing a sacrifice to atone for 
himself. R. Shimeon, the son of Pazi, asked, It is written, 
“And God made two great lights;” and again, the great- 
er light and the lesser light; how does this agree ? A ns. 
The moon said to the Holy One, blessed be he — Lord of 
the universe, is it possible for two kings to use one crown ? 
lie said to her, Go and make thyself smaller. She saicl to 
him again, Lord of the universe, because I spoke to thee 
reasonably, should 1 make myself smaller? He said, in 
order to comfort her, Go and rule day aud night. She 
said to him, What advantage will this be to me? Of what 
use is a candle in the middle of the day? He replied, Go 
and let Israel number the days of the year by thee. She 
said, It is impossible even for the sun that the calendar 
should be reckoned after him only, for it is written, “Let 
them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days and years?" 
He said to her, Go, and the righteous will he called by thy 
name; such as Jacob the little, Samuel the little, David 


the Tittle, etc. But when God saw that the moon was not 
quite comforted with these promises, he said, Bring ve a 
sacrifice to atone for me, because I lessened the size of the 
moon. And this corresponds with the saying of R. Slum- 
eon, the sou of Lnkish : Why is the monthly sacrifice dis- 
tinguished from others, inasmuch as it is written concern- 
ing it, “And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering unto 
the Lord?” (Numb, xxviii, 15). Because God said, This 
kid shall be an atonement for that I have lessened the size 
of t he moon ( Chitlin , p. GO, col. 2). Iiabn bar bar Chana, in 
telling a long story, says, I heard a Bath-kol crying, Woe 
to me that I have sworn ! And now since I have sworn, 
who will absolve me from my oath? (Daba Bathra , p. 74, 
col. 1). 

Occupation of God. 

On one occasion Abyathon found Elijah, and asked him, 
What does the Holy One, blessed be be, do ? He answered, 
He is studying the case of the concubine of Gibea. [We 
do not give this' excerpt in full.] And what is his opinion 
about it? He says that Abyathon, my son, is right; and 
Jonathan, my son, is also right. Is there, then, a doubt 
in heaven about it ? No, not in the least, rejoined Elijah ; 
but both opinions are the words of the living God ( Gittin , 
p. G, col. 2). 

Rabba, the son of Shila, met Elijah, and asked him, 
What does the Holy One, blessed be he, do ? Elijah re- 
plied. He recites the lessons he hears from the lip’s of all 
the rabbins, with the exception of rabbi Meir. But why 
does lie not want to learn from rabbi Meir? Elijah an- 
swered, Because rabbi Meir learned from one with the 
name of Aeher. Rabba said, But rabbi Meir found a pome- 
granate, and has eaten the inside, but thrown away the 
husks of it, i. e. he only learned from Acher, but did not 
practice bis deeds. Elijah answered, Now God says, Meir, 
my soil ( Chagigah , p. 15, col. 2). 

R. Abhu says, If there had not been a passage of Script- 
ure for it, it would be impossible to make such a state- 
ment ; but it is written, “In the same day shall the Lord 
shave with a razor that is hired, namely, by them beyond 
the river, by the king of Assyria, the head, and the hair of 
the feet : and it shall also consume the beard” (Isa. vii, 20). 
God appeared to Sennacherib in the form of an old man. 
Sennacherib said to him, If thou shouldst go to the kings 
of the east and the west, whose children 1 have taken away 
and killed, what wonldst thou say to them? He an- 
swered, 1 would say to them that this man, i. e. Senna- 
cherib, sits also iu fear. Sennacherib said, What then 
shall I do? God said, Go and disguise thyself, that they 
should not recognise thee. IIow shall I disguise myself? 
God said, Go and bring me a razor, and I will shave thee. 
Sennacheribreplied, Front where shall I bring thee a razor? 
God said. Go to that bouse, and bring it me. He went 
there and found one. Theu angels came, and appeared to 
him in the form of men ; and were grinding olive-seeds. 
He said to them, Give me a razor. They replied, Crush 
(>ne measure of olive-seeds, and we will give the razor, 
lie did so and they gave it to him. Before he returned to 
God it became dark. God said to him, Bring a light. And 
he brought coals of fire to make a light ; and while lie was 
blowing them, the flame took hold of his beard; and thus 
God shaved his head and beard (Sanhedrin, p. 9G, col. 1). 

The schools of llillel and of Shammai were disputing for 
three years about a certain point in the law; each side 
maintained that it was infallibly right. At last a Bath- 
kol came down from heaven and said, The opinions of 
both are the words of the living God, but the law is as the 
school of llillel (Erubin, p. 13, col. 2). 

R. Joshua, the son of Levi, says. When Moses came 
down from the presence of God, Satan appeared before 
him and said. Lord of the universe, where is the law? 
God replied, 1 have given it to the earth. lie went to the 
earth and asked, Where is the law? The earth answered, 
God understands h the way thereof (Job xxviii, 23). lie 
went to the sea and asked, Where is the law? The sea 
said, It is not in me. lie went to the depth, and asked 
the same question. The depth said, It is not in me. De- 
struction and death said, We have heard the tame thereof 
with our ears (ibid.). So he returned to God and said, 
Lord of the universe, 1 have searched for it all over the 
earth, and have not found it. God said to him, Go to the 
son of Amram. He came to Moses, and said to him, The 
law which God gave thee, where is it? Moses replied to 
Satan, Who am I, that God should give me a law ! There- 
upon God saicl to Moses, Art thou a liar? Moses answered, 
Lord of the universe, thou hast a precious treasure, which is 
thy daily delight, and should 1 claim it for my own advan- 
tage? God said to him, Because thou didst think little of 
thyself, the law shall be called after thy name. As it is writ- 
ten,” Remember ye the law of Moses my servant” (Mai. iv, 4). 

Rabbi Joshua continues to narrate: When Moses went 
up to heaven, he found God occupied in twisting wreaths 
for the letters (of the law). Aud he called, Moses ! is there 
no peace iu thy city? i. e. that thoit didst not salute me 
with a salaam ? Moses answered, Is it customary that a 
servant should salute his master? God said, Thou ouglit- 
est to have helped me; i. e. thou shouldst have wished 
me success in my work. Immediately Moses said to him, 
“And now, I beseech thee, let the power of my Lord be 
great, according as thou hast spokeu” (Numb, xiv, 17) 
(Sabbath, p. 89, col. 1). 


TALMUD 


m 


TALMUD 


These are only a few of the many examples which j 
crowd the pages of the Talmud. That these stories 
are extravagant, and often, when taken literally, ab- 
surd, no one can deny. But. they must be merely 
regarded as to their meaning and intention. Much 
has been said against the Talmud on account of the 
preposterous character of some of these legends. But 
we should give the Hebrew literati the benefit of their 
own explanations. They tell us that in the Talmud 
the Hagadah has no absolute authority, nor any value 
except in the way of elucidation. It often — but not 
always — enwraps a philosophic meaning under the veil 
of allegory, mythic folk-lore, ethical story, Oriental ro- 
mance, parable, and aphorism and fable. They deny 
that the authors of these fancy pieces intended either to 
add to the law of God or to detract from it by them, 
hut only to explain and enforce it in terms best, suited 
to the popular capacity. They caution us against re- 
ceiving these things according to the letter, and admon- 
ish us to understand them according to their spiritual or 
moral import. “ Beware,” says Maimonides, “ that you 
take not the words of the wise men literally, for this 
would be degrading to the sacred doctrine, and some- 
times contradict it. Seek rather the hidden sense; 
and if you cannot find the kernel, let the shell alone, 
and confess, ‘1 cannot, understand this.’” But the im- 
partial reader must at once admit that these suggestions 
are merely the after-thoughts of tender apologists, for 
some of these stories have no hidden sense at all, but 
must be taken literally', because meant so, as the follow- 
ing will prove. In the treatise Git tin , fol. 69, col. 1, we 
read the following prescription : “ For the bleeding at 
the nose, let a man be brought who is a priest, and 
whose name is Levi, ami let him write the word Levi 
backwards. If this cannot be done, get a layman, and 
let him write the following words backwards: ‘Ana 
pipi Sliila bar Sumki;’ or let him write these words: 
‘Taam dli bemi keseph, taam li bemi paggan.’ Or let 
him take a root of grass, and the cord of an old bed, and 
paper and saffron and the red part of the inside of a 
palm-tree, and let him burn them together; and let him 
take some wool and twist two threads, and let him dip 
them in vinegar, and then roll them in the ashes and 
put them into his nose. Or let him look out for a small 
stream of water that flows from east to west, and let 
him go and stand with one leg on each side of it, and 
let him take with his right hand some mud from under 
liis left foot, and with his left hand from under his right 
foot, and let him twist two threads of wool, and dip 
them in the mud, and put them into his nostrils. Or 
let him be placed under a spout, and let. water be brought 
and poured upon him, and let them say, ‘As this water 
ceases to flow, so let the blood of M., the son of the 
woman X., also cease.’” A commentary on this wisdom 
or folly is superfluous. That this direction to stop a 
bleeding at the nose is not a rare case in the Talmud, 
the following mode of treatment for the scratch or bite 
of a mad dog will prove. In the treatise Yoma , fol. 83, 
col. 1, we read: “The rabbins have handed down the 
tradition that there are five things to be observed of a 
mad dog; his mouth is open, his saliva flows, his ears 
hang down, his tail is between his legs, and he goes by 
the sides of the ways. Some say, also, that he barks, 
but his voice is not heard. What is the cause of his 
madness? Rav says it proceeds from this, that the 
witches are making their sport with him. Samuel says 
it is an evil spirit that rests upon him. What is tiie 
difference'? The difference is this, that in the latter 
case he is to be killed by some missile weapon. The 
tradition agrees with Samuel, for it says in killing him 
no other mode is to be used but the easting of some mis- 
sile weapon. If a mad dog scratch any one, he is in 
danger; but if he bite him he will die. In case of 
scratch there is danger; what, then, is the remedy? 
Let the man cast off his clothes and run away. Rab 
Huna, the son of Rab Joshua, was once scratched in the 
street by one of them; he immediately cast off his 


j clothes and ran away. He also says, I fulfilled in my- 
self these words : ‘ Wisdom gives life to them that have 
[ it’ (Eccles. vi, 1*2). In ease of a bite the man will die; 

' what, then, is the remedy? Abai says be must take 
the skin of a male adder and write upon it these words: 
‘1, M., the son of the woman N., upon the skin of a 
male adder, l write against thee, Kanti , Kanti, Klims .’ 
Some say, ‘ Kamli, Kantli , Kin ms , Jab, Jah, Lord of 
hosts, Amen, Amen, Selah.’ Let him also cast off' his 
clothes and bury them in the graveyard for twelve 
months of the year; then let him take them up and 
burn them in an oven, and let him scatter the ashes at 
the parting of the roads. But during these twelve 
mouths of the year, when he drinks water, let him drink 
out of nothing but a brass tube, lest be should see the 
phantom-form of the daemon and be endangered. This 
was tried by Abba the son of Martha, who is the same 
as Abba the son of Manjumi. II is mother made a gold- 
en tube for him.” 

In the face of such extravagancies, we are not sur- 
prised at the following statement made by a modern 
Jewish writer, II. llurwitz, in an essay preceding his 
Hebrew Tales (Loud. 1826), p. 34 sq. : 

“The Talmud contains many things which every en- 
lightened Jew must sincerely wish had either never ap- 
peared there, or should, at least, long ago have been ex- 
punged from its pages. . . . Some of these sayings are 
objectionable per se ; others are, indeed, susceptible of 
explanations, but without them are calculated to produce 
false and erroneous impressions. Of the former descrip- 
tion are all those extravagancies relating to the extent of 
Paradise, the dimensions of Gehiuiiom, the size of Levia- 
than, and the shor habor , the freaks of Ashmodai, etc., 
idle tales borrowed most probably from the Parthians and 
Arabians, to whom the Jews were subject before the prom- 
ulgation of the Talmud. . . . How these objectionable 
passages came at all to be iuserted, can only he accounted 
for from the great reverence with which the Israelites of 
those days used to regard their wise men, and which 
made them look upon every word and expression that 
dropped from the month of their instructors as so many 
precious sayings well worthy of being preserved. These 
they wrote down for their own private information, to- 
gether With more important matters, and when, in after- 
times, these writings were collected in order to be em- 
bodied in one entire work, the collectors, either from want 
of proper discrimination or from some pious motive, suf- 
fered them to remain, and thus they were handed down 
to posterity. That the wiser portion of the nation never 
approved of them is well known. Nay, that some of the 
Talmudists themselves regard them with no favorable 
eye is plain from the bitter terms in which they spoke 
against them [for example, Jehoshna ben Levi, who ex- 
claims: “He who writes them down will have no portion 
in the world to come; he who explains them will he 
scorched”]. ... I admit, also, that there are many and 
1 various contradictions in the Talmud, and, indeed, it 
would be a miracle if there were none. For the work 
contains not the opinions of only a few individuals liv- 
ing in the same society, under precisely similar circum- 
stances, but of hundreds, nay, thousands, of learned men 
of various talents, living in a long series of ages, in dif- 
ferent countries, and under the most diversified condi- 
tions. . . . To believe that its multifarious contents are 
all dictates of unerring wisdom is as extravagant as to 
suppose that all it contains is founded in error. Like all 
other productions of unaided humanity, it is not free from 
mistakes and prejudices, to remind us that the writers 
were fallible men, and that unqualified admiration must 
he reserved for the works of divine inspiration, which we 
ought to study, the better to adore and obey the all-per- 
fect Author. But while I should be among the first to 
protest against any confusion of the Talmudic rills with 
the ever-flowing stream of Holy Writ, I do not hesitate to 
avow my doubts whether there exists any uninspired 
work of equal antiquity that contains more interesting, 
more various and valuable information than that of the 
still-existing remains of the ancient Hebrew sages.” 

But while we admire the candor of this Jewish writer, 
we must confess that not all of his coreligionists act on 
the same principle, as the sequel will prove. An arti- 
cle in the Quarterly Review for October, 1867, with the 
heading “What is the Talmud?” has taken the world 
by surprise. Such a panegyric the Talmud most likely 
never had. Written so learnedly, and in a style so at- 
tractive, about a subject utterly unknown to the world 
at large, the stir it has created is not to be wondered at, 
and the more so because this article contained sentences 
which could not have emanated from a Jew. But the 


TALMUD 


172 


TALMUD 


writer was a Jew, Mr. E. Deutscli (since deceased), and [ 
what Isaac said to Jacob, “The voice is Jacob’s voice, I 
but the hands are the hands of Esau,” must be applied 
to the author of “ What is the Talmud?” We cannot 
pass over t his article by merely alluding to it; it de- * 
serves our full attention, on account of the mischief it 
has already wrought, and must work, in the minds of 
those who are not able to correct the erroneous state- | 
ments contained in it. 

The writer accuses (p. 4 of the American reprint, 
contained in the Literary Remains [N. V. 1874]) the 
investigators of the Talmud of mistaking the grimy 
stone caricatures over our cathedrals for the gleaming 
statues of the saints within. But, entering into the ca- 
thedrals of the Talmud and beholding these saints, we 
hear, in the treatise Aboda Sara, fol. 17, col. 1, of rabbi 
Eliescr, mbr x:: cbirn rnx fin rr: n xVr 

(we dare not translate this sentence into English, but we 
give it in Latin: “Non erat mcretrix in terra qtiacum 
non fornicatus esset”). When rabbi Nachman (we read 
Tr. Toma, fol. 12, col. 2) went to Shanuzib, he proclaimed 
arei-4 am “jX-c 7^=^ wenrb vbp'z a-i 

(this also we dare not translate into English, but we I 
give it in Latin : “ Bab quum Tarsum intraret proclama- 
bat quam vellet [uxorem] in diem”). Of rabbi Abuha 
we read (Tr. Berakoth , fol. 44, col. 1) that he was such 
a strong eater that a flv could not rest upon his fore- 
head; and (ibid.) of rabbi Ami and rabbi Assi that 
they ate so much that the hair fell from their heads; 
and of rabbi Simeon, the son of Lakesh, that he ate so 
much that he lost his senses. In Tr. Baba Metsia, fol. 
84, col. 1, we read that rabbi Ismael, the son of rabbi 
Jose, and rabbi Eleazar, the son of rabbi Simeon, were 
so corpulent that when they stood face to face a pair of 
oxen could pass under them without touching them. 
Of the honesty of rabbi Samuel and rabbi Cahauna we 
read a nice story in Tr. Baba Kamma , fol. 113, col. 2, 
which we had better pass over, for enough has been said 
of some of the Talmudical saints. 

The writer in the Quarterly is astonished at the fact 
that the Talmud lias so often been burned. But it is an 
old saying, “ Ilabent sua fata libelli.” The followers of 
the Arabian prophet burned the great library at Alex- 
andria, and they still do the same with every book 
which they believe is written against their religion. 
The Jews have burned and excommunicated the books 
of their own great Maimonides (q. v.), and considered 
him a heretic. They have burned, and still burn, the 
Hebrew Old Test, because of the Latin headings and 
crosses, to say nothing of the New Test. The Boman 
Catholics burn the Protestant Bible. Why should the 
Talmud have escaped? Besides, ignorance and fa- 
naticism, in all ages and countries, have burned the 
books which they supposed were against their system. 
This was especially the case with the Talmud, A. I). 
1240, when a conference was held in Paris between 
Nicolaus Donin and some Jewish rabbins concerning 
certain blasphemies contained in the Talmud and writ- 
ten against Jesus and Mary. B. Jechiel, the most 
prominent of the Jewish rabbins at that conference, 
would not admit that the Jesus spoken of in the Tal- 
mud was Jesus of Nazareth, but another Jesus, a dis- 
covery which was copied by later writers. But modern 
Jews acknowledge the failure of this argument, for, 
says Dr. Levin, in his prize-essay Die Riliyionsdisputa- 
tian des R. Jechiel von Paris , etc., published in Griitz’s 
Monatsschrift (1869), p. 193, “We must regard the at- 
tempt of Ii. Jechiel to ascertain that there were two by 
the name of Jesus as unfortunate, original as the idea 
may be.” The result of this conference was that the 
Talmud in wagon-loads was burned at Paris in 1242. 
This was the first attack. When, however, the writer 
in the Quarterly states that Justinian in A.D. 553 al- 
ready honored the Talmud by a special interdictory no- 
vella (146 n f pi 'E/3paiW), we must regard such a state- 
ment as erroneous and superficial, for, as Dr. Griitz, in 


his Gesek. der Juden , v, 392, shows, this novella has no 
reference to the Talmud at all (comp, also vol. vii 
[ 1873 j,p. 441 sq.). In our days, such accusations against 
the Talmud as that preferred by Donin were impossible, 
because all these offensive passages have been removed 
— not so much by the hands of the censor, as bv the 
Jews themselves, as the following document or circular 
letter, addressed by a council of elders, convened in Po- 
land in the Jewish year 5391 (i. e. A.D. 1631), to their 
coreligionists, which at the same time contains the clue 
why in later editions of the Talmud certain passages 
are wanting, will show. The circular runs thus in the . 
translation of Ch. Leslie (in A Short and Easy Method 
with the Jews , p. 2 sq. [Loud. 1812], where the original 
Hebrew is also found) : 

“Great peace to our beloved brethren of the house of 
Israel. 

“Having received information that many Christians 
have applied themselves with great care to acquire the 
knowledge of the language in which our books are writ- 
ten, we therefore enjoin you, under the penalty of the 
great ban (to be inflicted upon such of yon as shall trans- 
gress this onr statute), that von do not, in any new edition 
either of the Mishna or Gemara, publish anything relative 
to Jesns of Nazareth ; and yon take special care not to 
write anything concerning him, either good or bad, so 
that neither ourselves nor onr religion may be exposed to 
any injury. For we know what those men of Belial, the 
HI tun rim, have done to us, when they became Christians, 
and how their representations against ns have obtained 
credit. Therefore, let this make yon cautions. If you 
should not pay strict attention to this our letter, but act 
contrary thereto, and continue to publish our books in 
the same manner as before, you may occasion, both to us 
; and yourselves, greater afflictions than we have hitherto 
experienced, and be the means of our being compelled to 
embrace the Christian religion, as we were formerly ; and 
thus onr latter troubles might be worse than the former. 
For these reasons we command yon that, if yon publish 
any new edition of those books, let. the places relating to 
Jesns The Nazarcne be left in blank, and fill up the space 
with a circle like this, o. But the rabbins and teachers 
of children will know how to instruct the youth by word 
of month. Then Christians will no longer have anything 
to show against us upon this subject, and we may expect 
deliverance from the afflictions we have formerly' labored 
under, and reasonably hope to live in peace.” 

The writer in the Quarterly, while loudly praising 
the humane spirit which, as he tells ns, pervades the 
“system and institutions set forth in the Talmud,” en- 
deavors at the same time to apologize for those parts 
of the Talmud which contain, as lie admits (p. 12), 
j “ gross offences against modern taste,” by telling us 
that, when compared with other ancient systems of 
jurisprudence, “ the Talmud will then stand out rather 
favorably than otherwise.” It is not necessary to say 
much on this painful and disgusting part of the subject; 
but we will say this, that it is one thing to point to the 
existence of inirc, that we may warn the unwary, and 
another to wallow with delight in it. We heartily wish 
that some of the rabbins who wrote the Talmud had been 
content with discharging that which maybe considered 
a duty, and not laid themselves open to the charge just- 
ly brought against them, of doing injury to the morals 
and minds of those who study their writings, by their 
unnecessary and improper statements and details, of 
which the treatise Xidda, w hich we have here especial- 
ly in view, and which treats of the “ menstruating wom- 
an,” is so full. When, in 1843, Messrs. De Sola and Ka- 
phall published a translation of a portion of the Mishna, 
they excused the omission of this treatise by saying, in 
the preface to their work, “ The treatise Xidda, not be- 
ing suited to the refined notions of the English reader, 
has not been printed.” They did well and wisely to omit 
it in the list of portions selected for translation. It may 
be said, But this treatise, bad as it is, is only a commen- 
tary on some portions of the laws of Moses. To this we 
may reply, it w r as manifestly necessary that Infinite Wis- 
dom should solemnly prohibit many atrocities then prev- 
alent among the heathen nations. In order to prohibit 
them, they must of necessity be mentioned. No doubt, 
the proper feeling which leads ns to turn wfith disgust 
from the very thought of the crimes thus forbidden is 


TALMUD 


173 


TALMUD 


very much owing to those very laws which were given 
that the children of Israel should be distinguished from 
other nations, and thus, being ceremonially clean, should 
be tit to enter the tabernacle of God. But is there any 
proper excuse for writing or printing one hundred and 
seventy-eight folio pages in order to dotiue all the forms 
in which imagination can suggest that only one of 
these crimes cuuld be committed. Let us, as the sub- 
ject, is so important, for a moment consider a parallel 
case. 31 order is forbidden. This law is of inexpressi- 
ble importance. It is impossible to dwell too largely on 
the enormity of this crime, or to speak too earnestly 
of the necessity of watching against anger, hatred, cru- 
elty, and every possible form in which we can in any 
way participate in the guilt of this dreadfid sin. Just 
so we cannot say too much about the necessity of per- 
sonal purity and holiness, tor God will be “sanctified in 
them that draw near him.” But what would we say 
of a man who should write a large volume merely to 
describe all the various modes in which a murder can 
be carried out, and the symptoms of decay and dissolu- 
tion which would follow the deed? 

On page 20 of the article alluded to we are told : 
“There are many more vital points of contact between 
the New Test, and the Talmud than divines vet seem 
fully to realize, for such terms as ‘ redemption,’ 4 baptism,’ 
‘grace.’ ‘ faith,’ ‘salvation,’ ‘ regeneration,’ ‘ Son of man,’ 
‘ Son of God,’ ‘ kingdom of heaven,’ were not, as we are 
apt to think, invented by Christianity, but were house- 
hold words of Talmudical Judaism, to which Christiani- 
ty gave a higher and purer meaning.” It requires, how- 
ever, a very slender acquaintance with the Bible to en- 
able any one to reply to this statement that many of 
these terms were familiar to the Jews long before the 
Talmud was in existence, for they are found in the Old 
Test. And not only so, but the New Test, itself is a 
much older book than the Talmud. Our author tells ns 
that the Mishna was compiled about A.D. 200. The 
Gemara is of still later date. It seems strange, indeed, 
that it did not occur to the learned author that it is im- 
possible to suppose that the New Test, had no influence 
upon the rabbins, who rejected its authority. Unques- 
tionably the reasonings of Paul and the writings of the 
other apostles greatly affected the whole tone of thought 
and manner of expression which prevailed among those 
who, nevertheless, refused to acknowledge their own 
Messiah. This is a common mistake among even learn- 
ed Jews. Because some parts of the Talmud are unques- 
tionably very ancient, t hey speak of the whole as a work 
of very great antiquity. They .cannot altogether divest 
themselves of the fabulous notion that God gave the oral 
as well as the written law to Moses himself. Thus they 
habitually- claim for the Talmud, as to antiquity, a de- 
gree of respect to which it is by no means entitled. 

The most serious error, however, and that against 
which we must most distinctly protest, is this. We are 
told that “ the Pentateuch remains in all cases the back- 
ground and latent source of the Mishna” (p. 17). And 
again, “ Either the scriptural verse forms the terminus 
a quo , or the terminus ad qnem . It is either the start- 
ing-point for a discussion which ends in the production 
of some new enactment, or one never before investi- 
gated is traced back to the divine source by an out- 
ward ‘hint,’ however insignificant” (p. 19). Now, al- 
though this is literally true as to many of the civil laws 
contained in the Pentateuch, it is by no moans a correct 
representation of the actual state of the case as to the 
religious principles which form the substance and the 
foundation of the laws of Moses. If those men who 
wrote the Talmud really understood and followed out 
the teaching of Moses, why do they almost entirely ig- 
nore the teaching of the other prophets? It is aston- 
ishing to see how very little mention is made in the 
Jerusalem Talmud and in the 5894 pages of the Baby- 
lonian Talmud of a great part of the Old Test. ; and a 
perusal of the book called *p»H5< rHPln com- 


piled bv R. Aaron Pisaurensis, or Pesaro (q. w), which 
contains an index of all the passages of Holy Writ 
quoted in the Talmud, will make good our assertion. 
Passing over some minor points, such as on astronomy 
or mathematics or the science of interpretation of 
dreams (a filthy specimen of the latter is especially 
given in Tr. Berakvth , Ibl. 57, col. I), we will only touch 
another point, the Talmudical praise of women. Thus, 
we read on p. 50, among other moral sayings, “Love 
your wife like yourself, honor her more than yourself.” 
Without arguing the question from what we know of 
the position of Jewish females in the countries where 
the Talmud is studied and its precepts obeyed — a posi- 
tion which proves the very contrary to the saying al- 
luded to — it is well known to every student of the Tal- 
mud that the doctors of the Talmud in general do not 
hold in high estimation the female sex. They put them 
in the category with slaves and children. Again and 
again we read, “ Women, slaves, and children are ex- 
empted.” “Von shall teach the law to your sons, and 
not to your daughters.” “ He who teaches his daugh- 
ter the law is like as if he teaches her to sin.” “The 
mind of woman is weak.” “The world cannot exist 
without males and females, but blessed is he whose chil- 
dren are sons; woe to him whose children are daugh- 
ters.” We also remember the teaching of the Talmud- 
ical sages, that a man may consider his wife like a piece 
of butcher’s meat. We also remember that in the morn- 
ing prayer the husband thanks God “that he hath not 
made him a woman.” As to the precept which the 
writer in the Quarterly Review quotes as one of the 
moral sayings of the Talmud, we must believe him on 
his word, or search over the 2947 pages of that stu- 
pendous work, since the writer has thought proper to 
conceal the treatise and the page of the Talmud from 
which he has translated the above sentence. 3 Ye are 
inclined to believe that the reviewer bad the following 
passage (Tr .Sanhedrin, fol. 7G, col. 2) before him : “ Rabbi 
Judah has said that Rab lias said, lie who marries his 
daughter to an old man, and he who gives a wife to his 
son when too young, and he who returns to the Goi 
(Gentile) the things the Gentile has lost, concerning 
him the Scripture says, ‘In order to add drunkenness 
to thirst, the Lord will not forgive him’ (Deut.xxix, 18, 
19). They replied, lie who loves his wife like himself, 
and he who honors her more than himself, and he who 
directs his sons and daughters in the right way, and 
gives them into marriage at the proper ages, concerning 
him the Scripture says, ‘And thou shalt know that thy 
tabernacle shall be in peace; and thou shalt visit thy 
habitation, and shalt not sin’ (Job v, 24).” This, how- 
ever, is not a command, but optional according to the 
Talmud and the following, as given in Tr. Yebamoth , 
fol. 62, col. 2 : 

“Rabbi Tnncbuma said that rabbi Hanilai had said, 
Every man who is without a wife is without joy, without 
blessing, without goodness. Without joy because it is 
written, ‘Thou shalt rejoice, thou and thine household’ 
(Dent, xiv, 2(5) : without a blessing, for it is written, 1 That 
he may cause the blessing to rest in thine house 1 (Ezek. 
xliv, 30); without goodness, for it is written, ‘It is not 
good that the man should be alone.’ In the west they 
add that the man who is without a wife is also without a 
law and without a wall. Without a law, for it is written 
‘ Is not. my help iu me? and is wisdom driven quite from 
me?’ (Job vi, 13); without a wall, because it is written ‘A 
woman shall compass a man’ (Jer. xxxi, 22). Rabba, the 
son of Olah, says, also without pence, as it is written, 
‘And thou shalt know that thy tabernacle shall be iu 
peace, and shalt visit thy habitation, and shalt not siu.’ 

. . . He who loves his wife like himself, and he who hon- 
ors her mote than himself, and he who directs his sons 
and his daughters in the right.' way, and gives them into 
marriage at the proper ages^concerning him the Scripture 
says, ‘And thou shalt know that, thy tabernacle shall be 
in'peaee, aud thou shalt visit thy habitation, and shalt not 
sin.’” 

YYe venture to think that these are the passages of 
the Talmud which the reviewer has picked out. We 
must, however, be allowed to observe that it is not the 
imperative, “Love your wife,” but the participle with 


TALMUD 


174 


TALMUD 


the article, “lie who loves.” It will be seen that we 
have not translated the whole paragraph; ut dare not. 
We will leave that to the reviewer and his admirers, for 
what we have left out, and much of the following, belongs 
to the detiled and defiling portions of the work, in which 
the Talmud is so rich. From another such foul page 
(Sanhedrin, fol. "2*2, col. 1) the reviewer has copied, “ lie 
who forsakes the love of his youth, God’s altar weeps lor 
him.” “lie who sees his wife die before him has, as 
it were, been present at the destruction of the sanctuary 
itself. Around him the world grows dark.” The sen- 
tences are badly rendered; and, even if they were not, 
seeing in what connection they stand and through what 
a quagmire the reviewer was obliged to wade to fish 
t hem out, they are worthless. Another such moral say- 
ing runs thus: “When the thief has no opportunity for 
stealing, he considers himself an honest man.” Who of 
the Talmndieal sages has said this? The Talmud re- 
lates that when Abishagthe Shunammite was brought to 
king David she said to him, “Marry me;” the king re- 
plied, “It is not lawful for me to marry you.” As a 
reproach to the king, the Talmud makes the Shunammite 
say. A rP“Cn (Sanhedrin, 

ibid.), which the reviewer translated as above. After 
all, it would be strange, indeed, if we could not gather 
from a work of 2fl47 pages some good sayings and 
sentences. - lint, unless the whole work be translated, it 
will never be known >vhat the Talmud really is. For 
instance, in one of the treatises of the Talmud called 
Chalhih we find, almost verbatim, what our Lord says 
in Matt, v, 28; and yet that portion of the Talmud is 
written in language so obscene and immoral that it 
would be difficult to meet its equal among the most li- 
centious publications of ancient or modern times. We 
challenge any admirer of the Talmud to translate the 
treatise and publish it. and then every one will be able 
to give the right reply to the query so often raised by 
the reviewer, “ What is the Talmud?” 

The article in question thus concludes: 

“When the masters of the law entered and left the 
academy, t hey used to offer up a short but fervent prayer: 
a praver of thanks that they had been al)le to carry out 
their ‘task thus far, and a prayer, further, that no evil 
might arise at their bauds, that they might not have fall- 
en into error, that they might not declare pure that which 
was impure, and impure that which was pure” (p. 5S). 

Against this we offset the following: 

“The wise men have informed us that when the teach- 
er entered the house of learning, he said, ‘May it please 
1 hee, O Lord my God, that 1 may not be the cause of any 
offeuce, nor err in anything as regards the Ilalakah , that 
my companions may rejoice over me, and that I may not 
say of things unclean they are clean, and things clean that 
they are unclean, and that my companions may not err 
in anything as regards the llahikah , and that I may re- 
joice over them. 1 And when the teacher left the house 
of learning he said, ‘ I thank thee, my God, that thou hast 
given me my portion among those who sit in the house 
of learning and not among 'those who sit at the corners 
of the streets. Fur I rise up early, and they rise up early : 

I rise up early to occupy myself in things concerning the 
law, they rise np early to'occnpy themselves iu things 
which are useless. I work and they work; I work and 
receive a reward, they work and receive no reward. I 
run and they run ; I run to everlasting life, and they run 
to the pit of destruction.”' 

Is not this prayer like that of the Pharisee in the gos- 
pel? (Luke xviii, 1 1.) 

After having touched upon the most vital points of 
the Talmud — which, as we believe, has been done sine 
ira et studio , but in accordance with the old saving, 
A miens Plato , a miens A ristoteles, sed magis arnica reri- 
tas — we will now subjoin some of the opinions on the 
Talmud by different authors. D' Israeli, in his Genius 
of Judaism (p. 88), says : 

“The Mishna, at first considered as the’perfection of 
human skill and industry, at length was discovered to be 
a vast, indigested heap of contradictory decisions. It was 
a supplement of the law of Moses which itself required a 
supplement. Composed in cun, unconnected sentences, 
such as would occur in conversation, designed to be got i 
by rote by the studeuts from the lips of their oracles, the 


whole was at length declared to be not even intelligible, 
and served only to perplex or terrify the scrupulous He- 
brew. Such is the nature of traditions when they are 
fairly brought together and submitted to the eye. 

“ The Misliua now only served as a text (the ‘law of Mo- 
ses being slightly regarded) to call forth interminable ex- 
positions. The very sons of the founder of the Mishna 
set the example by pretending that they understood what 
their father meant. The work once begun, it was found 
difficult to get rid of the workmen. The sons of the 
4 Holy 1 were succeeded by a long line of other rulers of 
their divinity schools, under the title, aptly descriptive, 
of the Amoraim, or dictators. These were the founders 
of the new despotism ; afterwards, wanderers in the laby- 
rinth they had themselves constructed, roved the Sebnra - 
im, or ojnnionists , no longer dictating, but inferring, opin- 
ions by keen speculations. As in the decline of empire 
mere florid titles delight, rose the ( ,'eonim , or sublime doc- 
tors, till at. length, iu the dissolution of this dynasty of 
theologians, t hey sank into the familiar, titular" lion or of 
Rabbi, or master. 

“The .lews had inclined the solemn reproach in the 
days of Jesus of having annihilated the word of God by 
the load of their traditions. The calamity became more 
fearful when, two centuries after, they received the fatal 
gift of their collected traditions, called Mishna, and still 
more fatal when, in the lapse of three subsequent centu- 
ries. the epoch of the final compilation, was produced the 
commentary graced with the tirle of the ( iemara , ‘com- 
pleteness,’ or 4 perfection. ’ It was imagined that the hu- 
man intellect had here touched its meridian, 'l'he na- 
tional mind was completely rabbinized. It became uni- 
form, stable, and peculiar. 

“The Talmud, or the Doctrinal, as the whole is called, 
was the work of nearly five hundred years, llete, then, 
we find a prodigious mass of contradictory opinions, an 
infinite number of casuistical cases, a logic of scholastic 
theology, some recondite wisdom, and much rambling do- 
tage : many puerile tales and Oriental fancies: ethics and 
sophisms, reasonings and nil reasonings, subtle solutions, 
and maxims, and riddles; nothing in human life seems 
to have happened which these doctors have not perplex- 
ed or provided against, for their observations are as mi- 
nute as Swift exhausted in his Directions to Servants. 
The children of Israel, always children, were delighted 
as their Talmud increased its volume and their hardships. 
The Gem am was a kind of a third law to elucidate the 
Mishna, which was a second law, and which had thrown 
the first law, the law of Moses, into obscurity.” 

Dr. Isaac Da Costa, in his Israel and the Gentiles 
(N. Y. 1855, p. llfi), says: 

“The Talmud is a most curious monument, raised with 
astonishing labor, yet. made up of puerilities. Like the 
present position of the Jew, away from his country, far 
from his Messiah, and in disobedience to his God, the 
Talmud itself is a chaos in which the most opposite ele- 
ments are found in juxtaposition. It is a book which 
seems in some parts entirely devoid of common-sense, and 
iu others tilled with deep meaning, abounding with ab- 
surd subtleties and legal Jinesse , full of foolish tales and 
wild imaginations; but also containing aphorisms and 
parables which, excepi in their lack of the simple and 
sublime character of ihe Holy Writ, resemble in a degree 
the parables and sentences of the New Test. The Tal- 
mud is an immense heap of rubbish, at the bottom of 
which a few bright pearls of Eastern wisdom are to he 
found. No book has ever expressed more faithfully the 
spirit of its authors. This we notice the more when com- 
paring the Talmud with the Bible — the Bible, that Book 
of books, given to, and by means of, the Israel of God ; 
the Talmud, the book composed by Israel without their 
God, in the time of their dispersion, their misery, aud 
their degeneracy.” 

Dr. Milman, in his History of the Jews (iii, 13), says: 

“The reader, at each successive extract from this extraor- 
dinary compilation (i. e. the Talmud), hesitates whether 
to admire the vein of profound allegorical truth and the 
pleasing moral apologue, to smile at the monstrous ex- 
travagance, or to shudder at the daring blasphemy. The 
influence of the Talmud on European superstitious, opin- 
ions, and even literature remains to be traced. To the 
Jew the Talmud became the magic circle within which 
the national mind patiently labored for ages in perform- 
ing the bidding of the ancient and mighty enchanters 
who drew the sacred line beyond which it might not 
venture to pass.” 

Mr. Farrar, iu his Life of Christ (ii, 485), says: 

“Anything more utterly nnhistorical than the Talmud 
cannot be conceived. It is probable that uo human writ- 
ings ever confounded names, dates, and facts with a more 
absolute indifference. The genius of the Jews is the re- 
verse of what, in these days, we should call historical. . . . 
Some excellent maxims— even some close parallels to the 
utterances of Christ- may he quoted, of course, from the 
Talmud, where they lie imbedded like pearls in ‘a sea’ of 
obscurity and rand. It seems to me indispensable— aud a 


TALMUD 


175 


TALMUD 


matter which every one can now verify for himself— that 
these are amazingly few, considering the vast bulk of na- 
tional literature from which they are drawn. And, after 
all, who shali prove to ns that these sayings were always 
uttered by the rabbins to whom they were attributed? 
Who will supply its with the faintest approach to a proof 
that (when not founded on the Old Test.) they were not 
directly or indirectly due to Christian influence or Chris- 
tian thought?” 

Prof. Delitzsch, in his lectures on Judisches Iland- 
icerkerleben zur Zeil Jesu (3d ed. Erlangen, L879, p. 35), 
says : 

“Those who have not in some degree accomplished the 
extremely difficult ta-k of reading this work for them- 
selves will hardly be able to form a clear idea of this poly- 
nomial colossus. It is a vast debating club, in which 
there hum confusedly the myriad voices of at least tive 
centuries. As we all know by experience, a law, though 
very minutely and exactly defined, may yet be suscepti- 
ble of various interpretations, and question on question 
is sure to arise when it comes to be applied to t lie ever- 
varying circumstances of actual life. Suppose, then, 
you have about ten thousand legal definitions all relating 
to Jewish life and classified under different heads, and 
add to these ten thousand definitions about rive hundred 
doctors and lawyers, belonging mostly to Palestine or 
Babylonia, who make these definitions, one after the oth- 
er, the subject of examination and debate, and who, with 
hair-splitting acuteness, exhaust not only every possible 
sense the words will hear, but every possible practical 
occurrence arising out of them. Suppose that those fine- 
spun threads of these legal disquisitions frequently lose 
themsehes in digressions, and that, when one has waded 
through a long tract of this sandy desert, one lights, here 
and there, on some green oasis consisting of stories and 
sayings of universal interest. This done, you will have 
some tolerable idea of this enormous and, in its way, 
unique code of laws, iu comparison with which, in point 
of comprehensiveness, the law-books of all other nations 
are but lilliputian, and, when compared with the hum of 
its kaleidoscopic Babel, they resemble, indeed, calm and 
studious retreats.” 

Mr. Alexander, in his book on The Jews: their Past , 
Present, and Future (Loud. 1870), p. 80 sq., says: 

“The Talmud, as it now stands, is almost the whole 
literature of the Jews during a thousand years. Com- 
mentator followed upon commentator, till at last the 
whole became an immense bulk, the original Babylonian 
Talmud alone consisting of 21)47 folio pages. Out of such 
a literature it is easy to make quotations which may throw 
an odium over the whole. But fancy, if the productions 
of a thousand years of English literature, say from the 
History of the Venerable Bede to Milton’s Paradise Lost, 
were thrown together into a number of uniform folios, 
aud judged in like manner; if, because some superstitions 
monk should write silly ‘Lives of Saints,’ therefore, the 
works of John Bunyan should also be considered worth- 
less. The absurdity is too obvious to require another 
word. Such, however, is the continual treatment the 'Pal- 
mud receives, both at the hands of its friends and of its 
enemies. Both will fin'd it easy to quote in behalf of their 
preconceived notions; but the earnest student will rather 
try to weigh the matter impartially, retain the good he 
can find even iu the Talmud, aud reject what will not 
stand the test of God’s Word.” 

In conclusion, while we acknowledge the fact that this 
great encyclopaedia of Hebrew wisdom teems with error, 
and that in almost every department in science, in natu- 
ral history, in chronology, genealogy, logic, and morals, 
falsehood and mistake are mixed up with truth upon 
its pages, we nevertheless confess that, notwithstanding, 
with all its imperfections, it is a useful book, an attesta- 
tion of the past, a criterion of progress already attained, 
and a prophecy of the future. “ It is a witness, too, of 
the length of folly to which the mind of man may drift 
when he disdains the wisdom of God as revealed in the 
Gospel ; and in these respects it will always have a claim 
on the attention of the wise. When Talmudism, as a 
religious system, shall, in a generation or two, have passed 
away, the Talmud itself will be still resorted to as a treas- 
ury of tilings amazing aud things profitable; a deep cav- 
ern of antiquity, where he who carries the necessary 
torch will not fail to find, amid whole labyrinths of the 
rubbish of times gone by, those inestimable lessons that 
will be true for all times to come, and gems of ethical 
and poetic thought which retain their brightness for- 
ever” (Etheridge, Introduction to Jewish Literature ). 

IV. Contents . — The six Sedarim , or orders, of which 
the Mishua is composed are also found in the Talmud, 


and the following is an analysis of the contents of each 
tractate of the six orders: 

I. E n 2*"iT "HD, Seder Zerahn (Seeds). 

This Seder contains the following eleven tractates: 

1. rij'Z, Herakoth, or the treatise of blessings, and 

speaks in nine chapters of the daily prayers and thanks- 
givings, etc.; a. (so called from the first word 

of the chapter) treats of the time when the Shenia is to be 
said in the morning and evening, of the position of the 
body at prayers, and the benedictions to be said respec- 
tively (5 sections). b. X"Pp n*n speaks of the sections 
and order of the Sherna, of hmv the voice is to he used in 
saying the prayer, and of the occasions which exempt 
from prayer (S sections), c . IP EE) “>‘2 points out such as 
are exempted from prayer (6 sections), d. "IPUEPI rbsn 
treats of the time during which prayers may be said, 
whether the Shemoneh Esreh (q. v.) are to be said in an 
abbreviated manner, of prayer as an opus nperatum , of 
praying in dangerous places, and of the additional prayer 
(7 sections), e. “p"! E12 "pat refers to the outer and in- 
ner position at prayer; of prayer tor rain ; of the prayer 
on Sabbath evening ; of the minister of the congregation ; 
and mistakes in prayer (5 sections). /. "pEPEE re- 

cites the different blessings to be said for fruits of the tree 
and the earth, wine and bread; for wine before and after 
meals ; of the sittingand lying at the table; of blessings for 
the main meals and water (S sections). g.*\bz$.'2J PIeAe? 
expatiates on blessings pronounced conjointly; with whom 
a union for such a purpose may be entered upon : the form 
of prayer to be used in accordance with the number of per- 
sons, of different companies (5 sections), h . D^PEP ibx 
*pE’E shows the differences between the schools of Hillel 
and Shammai concerning the washing of hands and the 
blessing at meals (S sections), i. PlX*HPI names the prayer 
to be said at beholding signs and wonders, at the build- 
ing of a new house ; and treats of prayers offered in vain, 
of prayers at the leaving and going into a city ; of the 
praising of God for the good as well as for the evil ; how 
to approach the Temple mountain ; of the using of the 
name of God at salutations (5 sections). 

2. PlXE, Peah, or the corner of the field , treats, in eight 
chapters, of the field corners, gleanings, etc., to be left to 
the poor, etc. ; «. CHE' “I IPX, of the measure of the Peah, 
where, of what, and how large it must be given, and how 
long the fruit, is exempted from tithe (0 sections), b. 
"pp^OSE ibxi, how fields and trees as to the Peah may 
be separated from each other (S sections), c. rtlDEPE, 
how large a field must be of which Peah must be given 
(S sections), d. PIXEPt, how the Peah must be given (11 
sections), e . EPPS, what belongs to the poor, and on the 
bunch left through forgetfulness (S sections). /. CE 
^XEiE, what may lie regarded as a bunch left through 
forgetfulness, and what not (11 sections), g. PtAe, the 
same concerning olive-trees; on the right of the poor in 
the vineyard (S sections), h. hz H-'E^XE, how long the 
right of the poor lasts; what constitutes the poor, and 
who is not entitled to the right of the poor (0 sections). 

3. ^NEP, Demai, or doubtful, treats, in seven chapters, of 
fruits about which some doubts may be raised whether 
tithes should be paid for them or not, viz. a. "pPpPJ, which 
fruits are exempted from the rights of Demai'; how the De- 
mai tithe differs from other tithes, and as to the rights of 
Demai fruits (4 sections), b. "pPEJ^PlE E n PEP IPSO, who 
may be regarded a strict Israelite, aud to whom the per- 
formance of the Demai law belongs at buying and selling. 
c. “pb^EXE, who may receive Demai for eating, and that 
nothing should be given away nntithed (6 sections), d. 
nplPH, how a man may be believed concerning the tithes 
(7 sections), e . “(E Pip lb PI, how the tithe is to he given 
from Demai (11 sections). /. ^EpEPl, what to do at the 
renting of a fiyld, at the pressing in company, and of the 
fruits in Syria (12 sections), g. “pElEiP, how to act with 
such as are not believed concerning the tithes; how to 
separate the tithes in divers cases; and what must be 
taken into account when tithed aud nntithed fruits are 
mixed tip (S sections). 


TALMUD 


TALMUD 


no 


4. E"XDE, Kilayim , or mixtures, treats, in nine chapters, 
of the prohibited mingling of fruit aud graiu crops on the 
same field, etc., viz. a. S 1 wnn, which kinds of fruits, trees, 
and animals are Kilayim, and how to graft and plant (9 
sections), b. .“ISO PP, what to do when two kinds of seed 
are mixed, or in case of sowing another kind on a field al- 
ready sown, or in ease of making beds of different corn in 
one field (1 1 sections), c. nnPI\ of beds, their division ; of 
cabbage and its distance (7 sections), d and e. EPP and 
rmp, of vineyards and their Kilayim (9 aud S sec- 
tions). /. im^X, of the rights of a vine raised on an espal- 
ier (9 sections). g. ““’"IS -H, of the layeringofvines, spread- 
ing of vines, etc. (S sections). h. “'XPP, in how far Kilayim 
are forbidden among animals, in yoking together as well 
as in copulating, and what to do with bastards and some 
other animals (6 sections), i. P*CX *pX, of Kilayim in 
garments, especially of the mixture of wool and flax; of 
clothing-merchants aud tailors; of felt aud woven letters, 
etc. (10 sections). 

5. rPlPEPJ, Shcbiith , or the Sabbatical year , in ten chap- 

ters: a. “ipxn mm *prv.n te^x ir, of fields with 
trees, aud how long they may be cultivated in the sixth 
year (S sections), b. HPPJE H X I\ of open fields, 

and what may be done in them till the beginning of the 
seventh year (10 sections), c. ““X“:£"IE TE^XE, of ma- 
nuring the field : of breaking stoues and pulling down walls 
(10 sections), d. !P31P:XPE, of cutting and pruning trees ; 
from what time on it is permitted to eat of the fruits of 
the seventh year which have grown by themselves (10 
sections), c. mpj PEE, concerning tbe white fig and 
summer-onions; which farm utensils cannot be sold and 
lent (9 sections), /. PIS IX PPPPJ, of the difference of 
countries concerning the seventh year, and what fruits 
cannot be taken outside of the country (6 sections), g. 

V?E, what things are subject to the right of the 
seventh year (7 sections), h. blTl VpE, what use may be 
made of fruits which have grown by themselves; what 
must be observed at their sale and the proceeds thereof; 
how they are to be gathered (11 sections), i. E IPS PI, of 
the fruits which may be bought, and of storing away the 
preserved fruits (9 sections), j. PPP^EP3, of the remit- 
tance of debts (9 sections). 

G. PPE1PP, Terumoth, or oblations, relates, in eleven 
chapters, to the heave-offering: a. ITi'Cn, what persons 
can give the Terumoth, and of which fruits ; and of giving 
the Terumoth not according to number, measure, and 
weight (10 sections), b. *pEPlP *pX, the Terumoth can- 
not be given from the pure for the impure ; of distinguish- 
ing whether something was done purposely or by mistake; 
and that one kind of fruit can supply the Terumoth of an- 
other (G sections). c. CTPPS.in which cases the Terumoth 
must be given a second time ; how to determine the Teru- 
mnh; of the Terumah of a Gentile (9 sections), d and e. 
PNC and PPPSEPI, of the quantity of the large Terumah : 
in which cases common fruit becomes uot medumma (i. e. 
is to be given euiirely as Terumah), in spite of having been 
mixed with Terumah (13 and 9 sections). /. bPlXPI, of 
the restitution of tbe Terumah, when a person has eaten 
thereof by mistake (5 sections), g. bp'XPI, when a per- 
son eats thereof with intention (7 sections), h. PIPPXPI, 
of the care that a Terumah get neither unclean nor poi- 
soned (12 sections), i. “TIP, what is to be done in ease 
Terumah has been sown (7 sections), j. PEE, how com- 
mon fruits by the mere taste can become Terumah fruit 
(12 sections), k. “*2P*D “pX, how the oil of a Terumah 
cannot be burned, when the priest cannot enjoy its light 
(10 sections). 

7. P1PP3PE, Maaseroth. or tithes, due to the Levites, in 
five chapters: a. "HEX 3PE, of the kinds of frnits snbject 
to tithes, and from what time on they are due (S sections). 
6. PE"P PPPl, of exceptions (S sections), c. ““EI’EPI, 
where frnits become tithable (lo sections), d. IPEIEPl, of 
preserving, picking out. and other cases exempted from 
tithes (G sections), e. Pp^PP, of removing of plants; of 
buying and selling ; of wine and seed that cannot be tithed 
(8 sections). 


S. TP3 PPJEE, Mauser sheni , or second tithe, which the 
Levites had to pay out of their tenth to the priests, in five 
chapters: a. PPJ2E, that this tenth cannot be dis- 
posed of in any way (7 sections), b. “jP^I CO PlEPE, 
only things necessary for eating, drinking, and anointing 
can be bought for t lie money of the tenth ; what to do when 
tenth-money and common money are mixed together, or 
when tenth-money must be exchanged (10 sections), r. 
P -X" 1 x"b, frnits of the second tenth, when once in Jerusa- 
lem, cannot be taken out again (13 sections), d. "pb*En, 
what must be observed at the price of the tenth, and how 
money aud that which is found must be regarded (12 sec- 
tions). e. “E'EP EPP, of a vineyard in its fourth year, 
the fruits of which are equally regarded as the fruits of the 
second tenth; and how the biur, or taking-away of the 
tenth, is performed in a solemn manner according to 
Deut. xxvi, 13 sq. (15 sectious). 

9. P3P, Challah , or dough , refers to the cake which the 
women were required to bring of kneaded dough to the 
priest, in four chapters: a. IP “HE “I Pip; EH, which frnits 
are snbject to Challah (9 sections), b and c. PC'S and 
pPP*X, of special cases which need a more precise defi- 
nition concerning Challah, and of the quantity of meal and 
its Challah (S and 10 sections), d. EC3 TO, of count- 
ing together of different fruits, and the different rights of 
countries concerning Challah (11 sections). 

10. pbpp, Orlah , \M, foreskin, of the forbidden fruits of 
the trees in Palestine during the first three years of their 
growth, in three chapters: a. PE13P, which trees are sub- 
ject to the law of Orlah and which not (9 sections), b. 
PlElPPPl, what to do in case of fruits of Orlah or Kilayim 
being mixed with other fruits; of the law concerning leav- 
en, spices, and meat; what to do in case of holy and uu- 
holy, or Cholliu, having been mixed up (17 sections), c. 
PIE, how the same law also coucerns colors for dyeing pur- 
poses, and the fire used for cooking ; and what is to be ob- 
served concerning the difference of countries (9 sections). 

11. E'HIPE, Dikkurim, or first-fruits, in four chapters: 
a. pX“PE who is not entitled to offer the first-fruits, 
or who can offer them without observing the formula pre- 
scribed (Deut. xxvi, 3) ; of what and when they are to be 
offered or repaid (11 sections), b. EHPIPEPll PlElPPPl, 
of the difference of the first-fruits of the Terumah aud the 
second tenth, especially of the pomegranate at the Feast 
of Tabernacles; of blood of men and of the animal Coi 
(probably a bastard of buck and roe), which must be 
distinguished from all animals (11 sections), c. PE^E 
■PPHPSE, of the ceremonies to be observed at bringing 
the first-fruits to Jerusalem, and their rights (12 sectious). 
d. OU’EIPPIX, of the hermaphrodite (5 sectious). (This 
chapter isBoraitha, or addition to the second chapter, aud 
is wanting where only the Mishua is printed.) 

II. PIPE PPE, Seder Moed (Festive Solemnity). 

This Seder, one of the most interesting, consists of 
twelve tractates : 

12. PEP:, Shabbath , containing twenty -four chapters, 
treats of the laws relating to the Sabbath, with respect 
to lights and oil used on that day, ovens in which arti- 
cles of food were warmed on the Sabbath, and the dress 
of men and women used on the same day. It also enu- 
merates thirty-nine kinds of work, by each of which, sep- 
arately, the guilt of Sabbath-breaking may be incurred, 
viz. : 1, to sow ; 2, to plough ; 3, to mow ; 4, to gather into 
sheaves ; 5, to thresh ; G, to winnow ; 7, to sort corn ; S, to 
grind ; 9, to 6ieve; 10, to knead ; 11, to hake ; 12, to shear 
wool; 13, to wash wool; 14, to card ; 15, to dye ; 1G, to spin ; 
17, to warp; 18, to shoot two threads; 19, to weave two 
threads; 20, to cut and tie two* threads; 21, to tie; 22, to 
unite; 23, to sew two stitches ; 24, to tear two threads 
with intent to sew ; 25, to catch game ; 20, to slaughter; 
27, to skin ; 2S, to salt a hide ; 29, to singe ; 30, to tan ; 31, 
to cut up a skin ; 32, to write i wo letters ; 33, to erase two 
letters with intent to write: 34, to build ; 35, to demolish ; 
36, to extinguish fire ; 37, to kindle fire; 38, to strike with 
a hammer; 39, to carry out of one property into another. 
It treats of the differences between the schools of Hillel 
and Shainmai, etc., viz. a. PEPJPl PIX^E" 1 , of removals 


TALMUD 


177 


TALMUD 


on the Sabbath day ; work to be avoided ; discussion be- 
tween the schools of llillel and Shatnmai as to what con- 
stitutes work: work allowed (11 sections), b. HEE 
■pp^blE, of the lighting of a lamp; eve of the Sabbath 
(T sections), c. iTPD, of different ovens, and preparing 
and warming the meat on Sabbath ; of pails for retention 
of the dripping oil or sparks of the lamps (6 sections), d. 
",i2E12 JlEE, of things to cover up pots to retain the 
beat, and of things not to cover up the pots (2 sections). 
e. HEME HEE, with what a beast is led forth or covered, 
especially a camel (4 sections). /. n'2X HwD, with what 
women and men may go out or not go out on the Sab- 
bath ; of various styles; of pinning the veil; of ribbons, 
etc. (10 sections), g. bl!3 bbs, »>f how many sin-offer- 
ings a man may be responsible for under certain circum- 
stances for ignorantly trespassing against the Sabbath; 
the thirty-nine kinds of forhidden work; rule and meas- 
ure for things the carrying of which makes liable to a 
sin-offering (4 sections), h. "pi £<i21En, of the meas- 
ure of fluids; of cords, bulrushes, paper, and all possible 
portable things (T sections), i. 21 X, of things the carry- 
ing of which makes unclean, and of the measure of the 
portable things on the Sabbath day (7 sections), j. 
2"E2En, of different kinds of portable things; of carry- 
ing living or dead men, and of many other things (6 sec- 
tions). k. pIlTH, of throwing over the street, ditch, and 
rock, river and land; of the distance how far it can be 
thrown, and the presumable error (6 sections). 1. (121111, 
of building, hammering, planing, boring, ploughing, gath- 
ering wood, pruning, pickiug up, writing (6 sections), m. 
1T2ibx ill, of weaving, sewing, cutting, washing, beat- 
ing, catching game, etc. (7 sections), n. Jl21E'2, of catch- 
ing game ; of making salt-water; of forbidden medicines, 
toothache and pains in the loins, o. Ei112p 1>X, of 
tying and untying of knots; of folding garments, and 
making the beds (3 sections), p. lEPE b-, of saving 
things out of a conflagration ; of extinguishing and cover- 
ing, etc. (S sections). q. b 3, of vessels which may 

be moved on the Sabbath (S sections), r. "j^SE, what 
things may be moved for making room; of hens, calves, 
asses; of leading the child; of an auimal that calves; a 
woman that is to be delivered, aud of a child (3 sections). 
s. 172ibx 1E1, of circumcision on the Sabbath, and 
what belongs to it (6 sections), t. 1E1X 1T2ibx 1 
*pPin, of straining the wine; of fodder; of cleansing the 
crib ; of straw ou the beds and clothes-press (5 sections), 
u. bai3, of things permitted to be carried ; of cleaning a 
pillow; the table, of picking up the crumbs; and of sponges 
(3 sections), v. ?HEn, 6f casks, cisterns, bathing-clothes, 
salves, etc. ; of emetics; of setting a limb or a rupture (6 
sections), w. E1X 2X112, of borrowing; of counting 
from a book, drawing lots, hiring laborers; of waiting at 
t lie end of a Sabbath- way; of mourning-pipes, coffin, aud 
grave which a heathen has dug; what may be done to the 
dead (5 sections), x. IE, of one who is over- 

taken by the dusk on the road; of feeding the animals; 
of pumpkins and carrion ; of several things permitted on 
the Sabbath (5 sections). 

13. ‘p3112 l , Ervbin , or mingling , in ten chapters, deals 
with those ceremonies by which the Sabbath boundary 
was extended; “mingling” a whole town into one ficti- 
tious yard, so that carrying within it should not be unlaw- 
ful: «. ilEE, concerning the entry to an alley (lOsections). 
b. "pEE "p '2 12, concerning enclosures (6 sections). c.bsE 
Y 3 “1 213, concerning a holyday or a Friday (9 sections). 
d. irY>Xi21!T2 IE, concerning the stepping beyond the 
Sabbath limit (11 sections), e. *pE12E 121E, concerning 
the enlarging the bounds of a city (9 sections). / and g. 
“p2n, etc., nn, concerning the neighborhood (10 and 11 
sections), h. "pBrr\12E 1212, concerning what may 
be done in a yard (11 sections), i. m 33 bE, concerning 
roofs, etc. (4 sections), j. t pbi£Jl H21EI1, concerning 
some different Sabbath laws (15 sections). 

14. ETSES, Pesachim, iu ten chapters, treats of the pas- 
chal festival and things connected with its celebration: a 

X.— M 


J and b. 772*2 hz and J12E1X2 11X, of searching for leav- 
; eu ; howto put it away ; of the Easter-cake,aiul the herbs for 
the bitter herbs (7 audS sections), e. "p1E12 ibx, of the 
care to avoid leaven (S sections), d . 13H32 EIpE, of the 
works on the day before Easter, and what kinds of work 
are permitted (9 sections), c. Ert23 "l^n, when and 
how to kill the paschal lamb; of cleaning and skinning 
the same, and how it becomes disallowed (10 sections). /. 
nCEE E11E1 ibx, how the Passover abrogates the 
command against work ou the Sabbath; of the offering 
of festival sacrifices; of a sacrifice having been changed 
with another (0 sections), g . *pb 12 I2£i3 f of roasting 
the lamb; how it becomes unclean ; what to do with the 
remaining parts (13 sections), h. “jEtE »*T2X!l, what 
persons are allowed to eat it and what are not ; of compa- 
nies (8 sections), i. Xi!T2 IE, of the second Easter; of 
the Easter in Egypt, aud of divers cases when paschal 
lambs have been exchanged (11 sections), j. " i 3"12 
EiJIDB, of the order at the Easter-meal after the four 
cups of wine which are necessary for it (9 sections). 

15. E n bp2, Shekalim, or shekels, in eight chapters, con- 
tains laws relating to the half-shekel which was paid for 
the support of public worship: a. 11XE inXE, how the 
money-changers take their seat at the money-tables, on the 
15th of Adar, where the people exchange their money (7 
sections). 6. *pB122E, of changing, and of coins used in 
former times; of the remaining money (5 sections), c. 
EiplB ("Iwbu’E, how the paid shekels may be taken 
again from the treasury (4 sections), d. JlElirn, how 
they are to be spent, and what, to do with the balance (9 
sections), e. “p3iEE!l "|!"I ibx, of the offices iu the 
sanctuary, and of the seals (G sections). /. 122 H2b2, 
how often the number thirteen occurred iu the sanctuary 
(6 sections), g. 1X2SED2 I112E, of money and other 
things which are found, when it is doubtful to whom 
they belong (7 sections), h. *ppiTl bE, of other dubi- 
ous things; resolution that the shekel aud firstlings have 
ceased with the Temple (S sections). 

16. XEIi, Voma, or the Day of Atonement, in eight chap- 
ters: a. QiEi *12312, of the preparations of the high- 
priest (S sections), b. J1312X13, of casting lots, and of 
the offerings (7 sections), c. Enb iex ofthebeginningof 
the Day of Atonement: of bathing, washing, and dressing 
the high-priest, and of presenting the bullocks and goats 
(11 sections), d. isbpE E]13, of casting the lots upon 
the goats, and the confession (G sections), e. lb 1 X n 32 1 n , 
what was to be done in the Holy of Holies (7 sections). 
/. n !"2!2 1312, of sending forth the goat (S sections), g. 
lb XE, what the high-priest was meanwhile to do, and 
until the end of his service at night (5 sections), h. Eli 
EiniEEH, of the privileges of fasting; how man is for- 
given, and how he is not forgiven (9 sections). 

17. J1E10, Sukkah, or the Feast of Tabernacles, in five 
chapters: a. XiH2 HE10, of the size and covering of the 
Sukkah (11 sections), b. *}12in, how often meals should 
be eaten in it; exemptions (9 sections), c. Eblb, of the 
palm-branches, myrtle-bonghs, willows, citrons; what 
constitutes their fitness, and what not ; how to tie and 
stake them (15 sections), d. PIE"*21 Eblb, how many 
days these ceremonies last ; of the pouring-ont of the wa- 
ter (10 sections). e. b^bnn, of the rejoicings ; how to di- 
vide the offerings and shew-bread on this festival among 
the orders of the priests (S sections). 

IS. E12 E1 n , Yom Tab, i .e.good day, or, as it is general- 
ly called, HITE, Dctzah, i.e. the egg, from the word with 
which it commences, containing five chapters; a. i"I2!E 
mb 13 whether an egg laid on the festival may be eaten 
thereon. On this question the schools of Shaminai and 
llillel are divided ; the former decide in the affirmative, 
the latter in the negative (10 sections), b. E1E Eli, or 
"|ibi-2En ET12, i. e. of connecting the meals ou the Sab- 
bath and other subsequent, hoi yd ays. Maimonides gives 
the following account, which will enable the reader to un- 
derstand this expression: “The rabbins, iu order to pre- 


TALMUD 


178 


TALMUD 


vent cooking or preparation of food on the festival for the ' 
following working-days, have prohibited it even for the 
Sabbath immediately following. They have ordered, how- | 
ever, that some article of food should be prepared on the 
day before the festival, to which more may be cooked, in 
addition, on the festival ; which has been ordered with the 
intention of reminding the general mass that it is not law- 
ful to prepare any food ou the festival which is not eateu 
thereon. It is called EV1D*, or mixture, because it mixes 
or combines the preparation of food necessary for the festi- 
val with that required for the family’s use on the Sabbath” 

( Hilchoth Yom Tob , ch. vi). c. ’pis* “px, of catching and 
killing animals; how to buy the necessary things, with- 
out mentioning the money (S sections), d. X“E*Dn, of 
carrying, especially wood not required for burning (7 sec- 
tions). e. enumeration and precise definition 

of classes of things which cannot be done ou a feast- 
day, still less on a Sabbath day (7 sections). 

19. nren C3X“1, Jiosh Uash-shanah , or Xew-year , in four 

chapters; a. v wX‘l ilD'E^X, ofthe four Xew-years 

(9 sections), b. ’p“X EX, of examining witnesses who 
witnessed the uew moon, and of announcing it on the top 
of the mountains by fire (9 sections), c. 1fTlX“), of an- 
nouncing the new moon and new year with cornets (S 
sections), d . h'U El 13 CT, what to do in case the Ncw- 
year falls on the Sabbath, and of the order of service on 
the Ncw-year (9 sections). 

20. rP3"n, Taanith , or fasting, in font* chapters: a. 

“ I ‘D’ 1 X‘D, of prayer for rain, and proclamations of fasting 
in case the rain does not come in due season (7 sections). 
b. of the ceremonies and prayers on the 

great fast-days (10 sections), c. IPX nV^D’r “ID, of 
other occasions of fasting; of not blowing alarms; when 
to cease fasting, in case it rains (9 sections), d. 

C^piE, of the twenty-four stations or delegates; their 
fastings, lessons; of bringing wood for the altar; of the 
17th of Tarumnz and of the 9th and 15th of Ab (S sec- 
tions). The Mishna tells ns the following concerning 
these dates: “Ou the 17th of Tammnz the stone tables 
were broken and the daily offering ceased, and the city 
was broken tip, and Apostemus (i. e. Autiochtis Epipha- 
nes) burned the law, and he set up nu image in the Tem- 
ple. On the 9th of Ab it was proclaimed to our fathers 
that they should not enter the land, and the house was 
ruined for the first and second time, and Bitber was tak- 
en, and the city was ploughed up.” Rabban Simon, the 
son of Gamaliel, said, “There were no holydavs in Israel 
like the 15th of Ah, or like the Pay of Atonement, be- 
cause in them the daughters of Jerusalem promenaded 
in white garments, borrowed, that no one might be 
ashamed of her poverty. All these garments must be 
baptized. And the daughters of Jerusalem promenaded 
and danced iu the vineyards. And what did they say? 
‘Look here, young man, and see whom you choose ; look 
out for beauty, look for family.’ ‘Favor is deceitful, and 
beauty is vain ; but a woman that 1 enrol h the Lord, she 
shall be praised and it is said, ‘Give her of the fruit of 
her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates’ 
(Prov. xxxi, 30, 31). And it is also said : ‘Go forth, O ye 
daughters of Zion, and behold king Solomon with the 
crown wherewith his mother crowned him in the day of 
his espousals, and in the day of the gladness of his heart’ ” 
(Song of Solomon, iii, 11). 

21. Megillah, or the roll of the book of Esther, in 
four chapters : a. HP of the days on which the Megil- 
lah is read (11 sections). The Gemara, on the fourth sec- 
tion of this Mishna (fol. 7, col. 2), tells us that, the Jews are 
directed to get so drunk on the Feast of Ptirim that they 
cannot discern the difference between “ Blessed be Morde- 
cai and cursed be Ilaman” and “ Cursed be Mordecai and 
blessed be Ilaman.” On the same page we read, “ llabba 
and rabbi Zira made their Pnrim entertainment together. 
When Rabbn got drunk, he arose and killed rabbi Zira. 
On the following day he prayed for mercy, and restored 
him to life. The following year Rabba proposed to him 
again to make their Pnrim entertainment together; but 
he answered, ‘Miracles don’t happen every day.”’ b. 
X“l h pH, how to read the Megillah; what can only be 


done by day, and what can be done by night (G sections). 
c. of tlie sale of holy things; of the lessons 

for the Sablmib during the month of Adar, and for other 
festivals (G sections), d. m HP^PEH TX XV.pn, 
of the persons required for the lessons ; how many verses 
each person may lead; who must he silenced iu public 
prayer; of the passages which at the public reading are 
to be omitted, or at least not to be interpreted (10 sec- 
tions). For these passages, see the following article, Tai.- 
mui>, Tin:, in the Time ok the Oi.n Tkstamknt. 

22. “pEp “JP’IE, Mbtd K a ton, or small holyday , in three 
chapters, treats of the half-holydays between the first and 
the last day of the Passover, and of the Feast of Taberna- 
cles; a. "pptUE.of working in the field ; of graves, and of 
making coffins; and what pertains to a building (10 sec- 
tions). b. “SHU? ■'■a, of the work done on fruits; what 
may be carried and bought (5 sections), c. “priPpE IPX*!, 
of shaving, washing, writing, and mourning (9 sections). 

23. nrppn, Chagigah , or feasting, in three chapters, speaks 
of the voluntary sacrifices — other than the paschal lamb- 
offered by individual Jews on the great feasts: a. bzn 
“pE" n n, of the persons who are obliged to appear at the 
feasts (S sections), b. *pw^*n "pX, of sundry ordinances 
having no direct connection with the subject indicated by 
the title of the treatise : thus the first section of this second 
chapter opens with “Meu must not lecture on matters of 
iucest (or adultery) before three persons, nor on matters 
of the creation before two, nor ou the chariot before one, 
unless be be wise and intelligent hy his own knowledge,” 
etc. ; of laying-on of hands (7 sections), c. inpn “lETI, 
in how far the rules for holy things are more weighty 
than for the heave-offering; in how far certaiu persons 
may be credited; how the vessels of the sauctuary were 
cleaned again after the feast (S sections). 

III. D“»E;2 “HE, Seder Xashim (Women). 

This Seder is composed of seven treatises, viz. : 

24. JVIEE’V Ycbamoth , enters into the minutest de- 
tails as to the peculiar Jewish precept of yibbum, or the 
obligation of marrying the childless widow of a brother, 
with the alternative disgrace of the performance of the 
fibalitsah, or removal of the shoe of the recalcitrant, re- 
ferred to in the book of Ruth. It contains sixteen chap- 
ters, in 123 sections, a. The opening section of this 
treatise will give a good idea of the subject treated there. 
“Fifteen women free their rival wives and their rival’s 
rivals from the chalitsah and yibbum ad infinitum, viz. 
his daughter (the dead brother’s wife being the daughter 
of a surviving brother), son’s daughter, or daughter’s 
daughter; his wife’s daughter, wife's son’s daughter, or 
wile’s daughter’s daughter ; his mother-in-law, mother of 
his mother-in-law, the mother of his father-in-law; his 
maternal sister, his mother’s sister, or his wife’s sister; 
the widow of his maternal brother, or the widow of a 
brother who was not alive at the same time with him, 
and his daugbter-in-law. All these free their rival wives 
and their rival's rivals from the chalitsah and yibbum. 
If, however, any of these had died, or refused her con- 
sent, or had been divorced, or is unfit for procreation, 
their rivals may be married by yibbfim ; yet refusal of 
consent or unfitness [to procreate] cannot be applied in 
respect to bis mother-in-law, or the mother of his father- 
in-law.” This Mishna is called D^E3 miTD* IL’Ert (4 
sections), b. T',TX “USD, of cases where a brother was 
born after the married brother’s death; of cases where a 
brother is to he freed either according to the command or 
for the sacred ness of the person ; of the equal right of 
brothers and sons; of betrothing to persons who cannot 
be distinguished from each other; of wives who cannot 
he married (10 sections), c. "pPIX »1P*E"1X, of hypothet- 
ical cases, e. g. when brothers married sisters, etc. (10 sec- 
tions). d. •pbtnn, of the sister-in-law who was found to 
be pregnant; when she gets the heritage; of her mar- 
riage contract ; of her relatives; how long she nui«t wait ; 
what constitutes a mamzer, i. c. an illegitimate child; 
that the sister of the deceased wife may be married (13 
sections), e. bx“DE3 "p">, of the rights of a marriage 
contract and divorce (6 sections). /. >*■ XEH, whom the 
high-priest cannot marry; what constitutes a baireu 


TALMUD 


179 


TALMUD 


womnD, or a prostitute; of the duty of begetting children 
(0 sections), g. »132bx, who is entitled, under these cir- 
cumstances, to eat of the heave-offering or not (G sections). 

h. *512}"!, of one that is wounded in the stones, and of one 
that has his privy member cut off; of the Ammonites 
and Moabites; of the hermaphrodite, etc. (G sections). 

i. *j 11*1 113 ID* 1 , of women, or brothers-in-law, who, ou ac- 
count of their relationship, can neither marry nor be mar- 
ried, and of the prohibited degrees (G sections), j. iTI'itri 
“jbniU, of false news that one or the other died ; of the 
carnal intercourse of one who is not yet marriageable (9 
sections), k. 'P5C2513, of violated women, proselytes, and 
interchanged children (7 sections). 1. ni2£*2il, of the 
ceremonies of the chalitsah (6 sections), m. Eil*21X 11*2, 
and n. 11 “in, of the refusal of one who is not of age to 
marry a man ; of the right of deaf persons (13 and 4 sec- 
tions). o. tizb nr nrxn, and p. “bnr rrrxn 

Sl322, how the evidence that one is dead receives cre- 
dence, and its validity as to the right of the wife marry- 
ing again; and the Levirate (q. v.) (10 and 7 sections). 
Several portions of this treatise are so offensive to all feel- 
ings of delicacy that they have been left untranslated by 
the English translators, and are either printed in Hebrew 
or represented by asterisks alone. 

25. ni2ir2, Kcthubotli , in thirteen chapters, contains 

the laws relating to marriage contracts: a. nbinn, of 
such as are regarded as virgins, and of the sum promised 
by the bridegroom to the bride (10 sections), b. ITlXi"!, 
whether a person may testify of himself, and of the credi- 
bility of the witnesses (10 sections), c. mi23 1>X, of 
the penalty for violating a virgin (9 sections), d. 11123, 
to whom the fine belongs; of the rights of a father over 
his daughter; of a husband over his wife; what the hus- 
band owes the wife ; of the heritage of sons and daughters 
(12 sections), e. C]X, of the addition to the kethubah 

(or the sum stipulated in the marriage contract) ; of the 
duties belonging to the wife ; of conjugal duties ; to how 
much a wife is entitled for her living (9 sections). /. 
riOri2, what the wife owes to her husband, and what 
belongs to him; of assigning against the sum which the 
wife has brought in, and of the dowry of a daughter (7 sec- 
tions). g. “PTSH, of the vows of a woman, and of the de- 
fects which cause a divorce (10 sections), h. 1^22123 nrxn, 
of the rights of the husband to the property which fell to 
his wife during her marriage, and vice versa (S sections). 
?. 2*112(1, of the privileges at the meeting of creditors, and 
before whom the wife has to swear that she has received 
nothing of her kethubah (9 sections), j.* V223 rP!T23 

of cases where a man has more than one wife (6 sections) . 
k. roil* 1 } »13*2bx, of the rights of widows, and of the 
sale of the kethubah which is invested in immovable 
property (G sections). I . !T22Nn PX X’2312n, of the 
right of a daughter of a former husband, and of the right 
of a widow to remain in her husband’s house (4 sections). 
m. i-Hl ^ 2 2*, different opinions of two judges of Jeru- 
salem ; how a wife may not be taken from one place to 
another; of the privileges in living in the land of Israel 
and at Jerusalem ; as to the money in which the kethu- 
bah must be paid (11 sections). 

26. E*H12, Xedarim , or votes, in eleven chapters: a. 
"’■'133 Vd, of the expressions for vows, since a person is 
obliged to keep them, even if the words were wrongly and 
not correctly pronounced (4 sections), b. *pim*2 lb XI, 
what words do not constitute a vow ; how they are to be 
distinguished from an oath ; what restrictions and ambi- 
guities may occur (5 sections), c. D^llD J1221X, of 
four kinds of vows which are regarded as void ; of the 
vows made to robbers, publicans, etc. (11 sections), d. 
mirn *p2 -pa, and e. 1113 2) ■psmSPl, of the case 
where a person has consented to derive no advantage from 
another or to be to him of no use, and how one can make 
something prohibited to the other (8 and G sections). /. 
bw*122ll -,13 111311, and g. pi ip! p 111211, of dif- 
ferent kinds of eatables, in case they have been renounced, 
etc. (10 and 9 sections), h. "p" 1 C2ip, concerning the time 


over which the vow extends (7 sections), i. lT2ibx 21, 
of divers causes for which a vow may be made (9 sections). 

j. J1223, who has the right of making the vow of a wife 
or daughter void (S sections), k. 21113 lb XI, what 
vows can be made void by the husband or father, and 
what in case of ignorance or error (12 sections). 

27. l*iT2, Sazir, in nine chapters, relating to vows of 
abstinence: a. mii13 “‘“'1332 32, of the form in which 
such a vow can be made; of the difference of Samson’s 
vow of abstinence from others (7 sections), b . 1 2 lift 
l 1 13, what vows are binding and what not (10 sections). 
c. 113X123 i£, of the time of shaving (7 sections), d. i?D 
“112X122, of the remission and removing the same (7 sec- 
tions). e. iX-2 *112, what is to be done in cases of 
error and other dubious cases (7 sections). /. 11 '23 b 23 
*p!10X, of things prohibited to a Nazarite (11 sections). 
g. blli *|113, for what nucleanness he must shave him- 
self (4 sections), ft. Ci“iiT3 13123, of some doubtful cases 
(2 sections), i. 2123 * 11 , of the power which, in divers 
cases, leads to the supposition that he is unclean ; wheth- 
er Samuel was a Nazarite (5 sections). 

2S. S13310, Sotah, or the erring woman , in nine chapters: 
a. N3p2il, what constitutes an erring woman ; who mnst 
drink the bitter water; how she is to be presented in pub- 
lic, etc. (9 sections), b. 302 2 lli n, G f writing the curses, 
and the ceremonies connected with it (G sections), c. IPf! 
2213, of the offering of the sotah, and the fate of the wom- 
an found guilty (8 sections), d. HD*lX, where the bitter 
water is not to be used (5 sections), e. DH3IT23 2 '222, 
that the bitter water should also be taken by the adul- 
terer (5 sections). /. XSiplIT 1*2, of the required testi- 
mony (4 sections), g. “plEX3 ibx, of formulas to be 
spoken in the holy tongue, and of such not to be spoken 
in that tongue (S sections), h. HI '23*2, of the address of 
the priest anointed as king (7 sections), i. fib 212, of kill- 
ing the heifer for expiation of an uncertain murder; of 
different things which have been abolished, and what 
will be at the time of the Messiah (11 sections). The last 
sections of this Mishna are very interesting because they 
foretell the signs of the approaching Messiah, and wind 
up with the following remarkable words: “In the time 
of the Messiah the people will be impudent and be given 
to drinking; public-houses will flourish and the vine 
will be dear; none will care for punishment, and the 
learned will be driven from one place to the other, and 
no one will have compassion on them ; the wisdom of 
the scribes will be stinking; fear of God will be despised; 
truth will be oppressed, and the wise will become less. 
The young men will shame the old, the old will rise 
against the young; the son will despise the father; the 
daughter will rise against the mother, the daughter-in- 
law against the mother-in-law, and a man’s foes shall be 
ihey of his own household. The face of that generation 
is as the face of a dog; the sou shall not reverence the 
father !” 

29. *p333, Gittin, or divorce bills , in nine chapters, treats 
of divorce, and the writing given to the wife on that oc- 
casion; how it must be written, etc.: a. 223 Xi2*2n, of 
sending a divorce, and what must be observed in case the 
husband sends one to his wife (6 sections), b. 333 Xi2*2H 
r.31‘1212, when, how, and on what it must be written 
(7 sections), c. 333 32, that it must he written in the 
name of the wife (S sections), d. 333 113112211, sundry 
enactments, made for the better existence of the world 
(9 sections), e. *jipM2n, enactments for the sake of 
peace (9 sections), f. 1131X51, sundry cases of the bill 
of divorce (7 sections), g. 11HX123 1*2, of additional con- 
ditions (9 sections), h. 333 pTTFT, of throwing the di- 
vorce bill, its different effects; what constitutes a bald 
bill of divorce (i. e. one which according to the Mishna 
has move folds than subscribing witnesses) (10 sections’!. 
i. 23“32!l, of the signature of witnesses, and of the cause 
that constitutes a divorce, of which the school of Shnm- 
mai says, “No man may divorce his wife, unless he find 


TALMUD 


ISO 


TALMUD 


in her scandalous hehavior, for it is said (Dent, xxiv, 1), 
‘Because he fouud in her some uncleanness hut the 
school of llillel says, ‘Even if she spoiled nis food, be- 
cause it is said some uneleauuess.’ K. Akiba says, 

‘ Even if he fouud one handsomer than she, for it is 
said, if it happen that she found no favor in his eyes.’” 

30. Kiddushin, or betrothals , in four chapters: a. 
rr:p: ri22Xn, of the different ways in which a wife is ac- 
quired, and how she regains her liberty; of the difference 
of prayers which are incumbent upon the man and wife, in 
and outside of the laud of Israel (10 sectious). b. 22"Xn 
22Pp*2, of valid aud invalid betrothals (10 sections), c. 
■'"Znb P21X71, of betrothals made under certain condi- 
tions ; of children of different marriages (13 sections), d. 
Ton*n nP222, of the different kinds of families which 
may intermarry and which cannot; of the evidence of a 
kuown or unknown lineage; rules according to which a 
man ought not to he in a secluded place alone with wom- 
en ; counsels as to the trade or profession in which an Is- 
raelite should bring up his sou ; occupations which an un- 
married man should not follow, on accouut of the great 
facilities they offer for unchaste practices. It also states 
that all ass-drivers are wicked, camel-drivers are honest, 
sailors are pious, physicians are destined for hell, aud 
butchers are company for Ainalek (14 sectious). 

IV. , pp*'T3 PP2, Seder Xezikin (Damages). 

This Seder contains ten tractates; 

31. X*2p 50-, Saba Kamma , or the first gate, so called 
because in the East law is often administered in the gate- 
way of a city. It treats, in ten chapters, of damages: a. 
I*12X 7122PX, of four kinds of damages, restitution and 
its amount (4 sections), b. b:niP PIT2, how an animal 
can cause damage, and of the owner who is obliged to 
make restitution (6 sections), c. rP2 — 71, of damage 
caused by men; of goring oxen (11 sectious). d aud e. 
"Via, continuation, aud of damage caused by an open pit 
(9 and 7 sections). /. 03"271, of damage caused by negli- 
gent feeding of cattle aud by fire (6 sections), g. 712‘P*2, 
of restitution, when it is double, twofold or fivefold (7 sec- 
tions). h . b-^nn, of restitution for hurting or wounding 
(7 sections), i. 571371, what to do, in case some change 
happens with something robbed; of the fifth part above 
the usual restitution, in case of perjury (12 sections), j. 
b^IXEl bllin, of sundry cases, applicable to the restitu- 
tion of stolen goods (10 sectious). 

32. 502, Baba Met&iah, or the middle gate, in ten 
chapters, treats of claims resulting from trusts: a. E'222 
■pirrx, and b. r'X^XE ibx, what to do with goods which 
were found (8 and 11 sections), c. P^p2*27l, of deposits 
(12 sections), d. 271771, of buying, and different kinds of 
cheating (12 sections), c. 17l7 n X, of different kinds of 
usury and overtaxing (11 sections). /. “12 V— n, of the 
rights of hiring (8 sections), g. ■’b 2 15 71 rX P212271, of 
the rights of laborers concerning their eating, aud what 
they may eat of the eatables they work on ; of the four 
kiuds of keeping, and what is meant by ones, i. e. casus 
fortuities (11 sectious). h. *5X1-71, continuation, aud again 
of hiring (9 sections), i. b2p*271, of the rights among 
farmers; of wages, and taking a pledge (13 sections), j. 
2^271, of divers cases when something belonging to 
two has fallen in ; of the rights of public places (G sec- 
tions). 

33. XP“2 X22, Baba Bathra , or the last gate, in ten 
chapters, treats of the partition of immovables, laws of 
tenantry, joint occupation, aud rights of common: «. 
‘PSPI— fl, of the partition of such things as are in com- 
mon; what each has to contribute, and how one can be 
obliged to make a partition (6 sections), b. PlsrP xb, of 
divers kinds of servitude; what and how far something 
must he removed from the neighbor’s premises for differ- 
ent causes (14 sections), c. rpTTI, of superannuation of 
thiugs, and its rights (12 sections), d. P*27l PX “121 -H, 
what is sold along with the sale (9 sections), e. “1211271 
PlI^EOTl PX, continuation, and how a sale may be made 


void (11 sections). /. PIP'S “121*271, for what a person 
must be good ; of the required size of different places and 
the right of passing through (8 sections), g. “1*21X71, of 
becoming security for a sold acre and of other things per- 
taining to it (4 sections), h. *pbni3 22*>, of inheritances 
(S sections), i. P* 223 n 13, of the division of property (10 
sections), j. 21*225 223, what is required in order to make 
a contract legal (8 sections). 

34. *pPP713D, Sanhedrin, or courts of justice, in eleven 
chapters: a. P'3' , 2*2 * , 3“ | P, of the difference of the three 
tribunals of, a, at least three persons ; /3, the small Sanhe- 
drim of twenty-three persons; aud, 7, the great Sanhedrim 
of seveuty-oue persons (6 sections), b. blP3 ’(712, of the 
privileges of the high-priest and king (5 sections), c. ^2*H 
P131*2*2, of appointing judges ; unfitness for being judge 
and witness ; of hearing the witnesses and publishing the 
sentence (8 sectious). d. P71X, of judgments in money 
and judgments in souls; a description how they sat in 
judgment (5 sectious). e. ‘}“'pT , 2 1^71, again of exam- 
ining witnesses, and what must be observed in capital 
punishments (5 sections), f. “1*232, of stoning in special 
(G sections), g. P1PP*2 22 PX, of the other capital pun- 
ishments; those that were to be stoned (11 sections), h. 
PP10 ’2, of stubborn sous aud their punishments, with 
so many restrictions, however, that this case hardly could 
ever have occurred (7 sections), i. *jn 15X1, of criminals 
who were burned or beheaded (0 sections), j. bx“22' 52, 
of those who have part in the world to come, viz. “all Is- 
rael” (6 sections). But the following have no share: he 
who says that the resurrection of the dead is not found 
in the law, or that there is no revealed law from heaven, 
and the Epicurean. Besides, there are excluded from 
the world to come, Jeroboam, Ahab, Mnuasseh, Balaam, 
Doeg, Ahitophel, and Gehazi. So, likewise, the genera- 
tion of the Deluge ; that of the Dispersion (Gen. xi, 8) : the 
men of Sodom, the spies, the generation of the wilder- 
ness, the congregation of Korah, aud the men of a city 
given to idolatry. In the Gemara a good deal is spoken 
of the Messiah, k. "ppsn^Tl ]71 '5X, of those that are 
strangled, especially rebellious elders and their punish- 
ment (6 sections). 

35. 1512*2, Makkoth, or stripes, in three chapters, treats 
of corporal punishments: a. E"H2iP PS^E, in what 
cases false witnesses are inflicted with the stripes, and of 
the mode of procedure against false witnesses in general 
(10 sections), b. *jn ibx, of unintentional murders, and 
the cities of refuge (S sections), c. “H 1*5X1, of criminals 
deserving the stripes; how they should be inflicted; why 
forty save one (?) ; of stoppiug in case the delinquent is 
regarded as too weak; that such as have suffered this 
penalty are free from the punishment of extermination ; 
of the reward of those who keep the law; why so many 
laws were given to Israel (16 sections). 

36. P 121222, Shebuoth , or oaths, in eight chapters: a. 
E“T22 P121222, of different kinds wherein a person is 
conscious or unconscious of having touched anything un- 
clean (because it is treated under the head of oaths, Lev. 
v, 2); of the atonement through sacrifices; what sins were 
atoned by the different kinds of sacrifices (7 sections), b. 
P12">P*\ how far the sanctity of the court of the Temple 
reaches (5 sections), c. P121222, of forswearing, its kiuds 
and degrees (11 sections), d. IP1P271 221222, of the oath 
of witnesses; of blasphemy aud cursing (13 sections), e. 
*}1PpS71 P121222, of the oath mentioned in Lev. vi. 3, 
and of the perjurer (5 sections). /. '|“2'“HJP P.21211*, of 
the oath demanded by the court, when it must be taken 
or not, and what ought to be testified (7 sections), g. 
I p22-271 ba, of such oaths as are for the benefit of 
him that swears (8 sections), h. "pP*2l22 7122PX, of the 
different watchmen who must be security for goods ; how 
far it goes; in what cases they must replace it or swear; 
what in case they lied (6 sections). 

37. P1 n P2, Edaijoth , or testimonies, in eight chapters. 
It is so called because it consists of laws which tried and 
trustworthy teachers attested to have been adopted by the 
eider teachers, in Sauhedrim assembled: a. 'X^2 22, enact- 


TALMUD 


181 


TALMUD 


ments in which the other sages deviate from the schools 
of Shammai and TIillel, or wherein the school of Hillel is 
followed, or wherein the school of Ilillel has given way to 
that of Shammai (14 sections), b. ^21, enactments 

of different rabbins, especially of It. Ishmael and 11. Akjba 
on mostly unimportant things (10 sections), e. ”GPI 52 
"pXGG, enactments of K. Dosa on divers defilements (12 
sections), d. D*H21 153< r laws in which the school of 
Shammai is more lenient than that of Ilillel (12 sections). 
e. PnlPP "Cl, laws which R. Akiba would not take back 
(7 sections). /. *,2 min" 1 "Cl, of different kinds of de- 
filement on which disputes have taken place with R. Eli- 
ezer (3 sections), g and h. 2121PP "1 "P2PI, of some mi- 
nor points which cannot be brought under one common 
nomenclature ; at the eud we read that Elijah the Prophet 
will finally determine all disputed points of the sages and 
will bring peace (9 and 7 sections). 

3S. P11T P11122, Abodah Zarah, or idolatry, in five chap- 
ters. This treatise is wanting in the Basle edition of 157S, 
because severe reflections upon Jesus Christ, and his fid- 
lowers were found therein by the censor: a. *j!T 1 T , X “GSb, 
what must be observed concerning idolatrous feasts, and 
of things not to be sold to idolaters (9 sections), b. *pX 
■p1^G2G, of divers forbidden occasions which tend to- 
wards a near relation with idolaters ; of the use that can 
be made of their goods, especially eatables (7 sections). 

c. Dublin bz, of idols, temples, altars, and groves (10 
sections), d. bX2G 'C 1 "Cl, of what belongs to an idol, 
and of desecrating an idol ; prohibition of wine of liba- 
tion, and of every wine which was only touched by a 
heathen, because even the slightest libation could have 
made it sacrificial wiue (12 sections), e. “21CPI, contin- 
uation of things with which wiue could have beeu mixed 
up: how to cleanse utensils bought of a heathen for eat- 
ing purposes (12 sections). 

39. rVDX, Aboth , or ri2S< “pi 3, Pirkeij Aboth , con- 
tains the ethical maxims of the fathers of the Mishna. 
It is impossible to give an analysis of the six chapters, 
because they all contain maxims without any chronolog- 
ical order. This treatise speaks of the oral law, its trans- 
mission, names of the “ receivers,” and contains maxims, 
apothegms, and the wisdom of the wise. The first chap- 
ter has IS, the second 16, the third IS, the fourth 22, the 
fifth 23, and the sixth 10 sections. A more detailed account 
of it has been given in the art. Piukr Aboth (q. v.). 

40. PfPlIPl, Ilorayoth , or decisions, in three chapters, 
treats of the manner of prononucing sentences and other 
matters relating to judges and their functions, but which, 
though erroneous, still were observed, and for which a 
si ti-o fieri ng was to be brought according to Lev. iv, 13: a. 
111PJ, in what cases and under what circumstances such 
offerings were to be brought by the congregation or not (5 
sections). 6. ",n2 rn“H, of the siu-offering of an anoint- 
ed priest and prince (7 sections), c. rP23G ",P12, who is 
meant by an anointed priest and priuce ; of the difference 
between an anointed priest and one only invested with 
the priesthood: of the prerogatives of a high-priest be- 
fore a commou priest ; of the male sex before the female ; 
finally, of the order of precedence among those who pro- 
fe.-s the Jewish religion, that a learned precedes an un- 
learned (S sections). 

V. 2">‘,2lp HD, Seder Kodashim (Consecrations). 

This Seder contains eleven tractates: 

41. 2TI27, Zebachim, or sacrifices, in nineteen chapters: 
a. 2 n n27Pt bz, ill how far every sacrifice must be regard- 
ed with the intention that it shall be such a sacrifice (4 sec- 
tions). b. 22p23 G^PI27Pl is, and c. "pbicsn bz, 
how it becomes unfit or an abomination (5 and 6 sections). 

d. “’itGw r n 2, of sprinkling the blood (G sections), e. 
*,GlpG IPI’PX, of the difference between the most holy 
sacrifices and those of less holiness (S sections). /. “ I linp 
2 v C1p, of the place of the altar where every sacrifice 
has to be offered (7 sections), g. 2jl2PI PNGPI, of the 
sacrifice of birds (6 sections), h. "212P323 G^nGtPl bz, 
of cases where something of the sanctified has been 
changed with the other parts (12 sections), i. rciGPl, 


how the altar sanctifies the offered part (7 sections), j, 
Tirn bz, of the order in which sacrifices must be 
brought; which precedes the other (8 sections), k. G1 
PXCn, of washing the dress, etc., on which the blood 
of a sin-offering has come (S sectious). I. 5122, 
to whom the skins belong and where they go (0 sec- 
tions). m. CDVCPl, of divers trespasses, when trespass 
has been committed unconsciously during the sacrificial 
service (S sections), n. rXGPI r.1S, of the diflereut 
places of sacrificial service during diflereut periods (Oil- 
gill, Shiloh, Nobh, Gibeon, Jerusalem), and of the differ- 
ence between the altar and the heights (10 sections). 

42. n1PI3G, Menachath , or meat-offerings, in eighteen 
chapters: a. nirGGPl bz, of taking a handful; what 
corresponds iu sacrifices to the act of sacrificing, when it 
becomes unfit or an abomination (4 sections), b and c. 
*j*G*pn, and d. P* :nn, according to the diflereut kinds 
of meat-offerings (5, 7, and 5 sectious). e. Pin: Gin >2 
D1X2, and /. nm:G ibx, of these different kinds and 
their treatment (9 and 7 sections), g. PHI P Pi, of the 
thank-offering and of the Nazarite’s offering (G sections). 

h. rP32ip ^2, whence the necessary good things were 
taken (7 sections), i. nilG ‘'PTC, of the measures in 
the sanctuary ; of the drink-offerings and the laying-on of 
hands (9 sectious). j. 5X2223^ "Cl, of the wave-loaf 
(9 sections), k. C115PI "T23, of the Pentecostal and shew- 
breads (9 sections). 1. ninSGPI, of changes in the of- 
fering (5 sections), m. ">^2 ">in, of indefinite vows ; of 
the Onias temple in Egypt; a correct exposition of the 
words “ti sweet savor” (11 sections). 

43. ", ^bin, Cholin , or nnenn secrated things, in seventeen 
chapters: a. "p2rP23 ^211, who may slaughter ; where- 
with and where it can be slaughtered (7 sections), b. 
1HX amir PI, of entting through the windpipe and oesoph- 
agus, in front or at the side, and how the slaughtering 
becomes unfit (10 sections), e. ni3 n 12 ibx, what ani- 
mals are no more kashdr, i. e. lawful, but trephuh, i. e. un- 
lawful : the signs of clean fowls, grasshoppers, and fishes 
(7 sections), d. Pl23pGPl PJGPI2, enactments concern- 
ing an animal foetus (7 sections), e. 132 PX1 IPlIX, of 
the prohibition against slaughtering an animal and the 
young on the same day (5 sections). /. CIPl “’ICC, the 
precept of covering the blood of wild animals and fowl (7 
sections), g. Pi £3 3 PI “P3, the precept concerning the pro- 
hibition of eating the sinew which shrank (G sections), h. 
1232PI bz, the prohibition to boil any kind of flesh in 
milk (6 sections), i. 2211PJ1 112PI, pollution commu- 
nicated by a carcass or trephah (S sections), j. 211 7 Pi, 
of the oblations due to the priest from the slaughtered 
animal (4 sections), k. 73PI rp23X1, of the firstlings of 
the fleece (2 sections). L pPl PPlblT, the precept of let- 
ting the parent bird, found iu the nest, fly away (5 sec- 
tions). 

44. Dll 122, Bckoroth, or first-born, in niue chapters: a. 
1212 npibn, of the redemption of the first-born of an 
ass ; how to redeem it (7 sections), b. “1212 Plp15PI 
in“15, when the first-born of an animal is not to be 
given; of some defects of a sanctified animal; of sundry 
dubious cases as to what constitutes the first-born (9 sec- 
tions). c, PIGH2 nplbn, of the sign of the birth of the 
first-born ; of the wool of a first-born (4 sections), d. 12 
PIGS, how long the first-born must be raised up before it 
is given to the priest; what must be paid for the inspec- 
tion (10 sections), e. ^1G3 bz.f. *pG1G ibx b’J, and 
g. ibx *pGlG, of the defects which make a first-born un- 
fit for sacrifice or service iu the sanctuary (G, 12, and 7 sec- 
tions). h. 1122 11**% of the rights of the first-born con- 
cerning a heritage; in what cases he forfeits such a right 
or the priest forfeits the right on the first-born, and of 
what property he has to receive his heritage (10 sections). 

i. PIGPJ2 123213, concerning the tithe of the herd; of 
what, when, and how the tithe has to be given ; what to 
do in dubious cases (S sections). 

45. *p2l2. Erakin , or estimates, in nine chapters: a. 


TALMUD 


1S2 


TALMUD 


yZ'^V'Z ^271, who ha? to make this estimate and on ' 
what (4 sections), b. *p2122 1"X, what constitutes herein 
the minimum and maximum (G sections), c. "p2“)22 '2* 1 , 
how such a valuation may he more difficult to the one than 
to the other {5 sections), if. “P VlTl, how the valuation 
has to be made according to the means, age, etc. (4 sec- 
tions). e . ^pEJE “1*21X71, valuation according to 
weight, and how the treasurer takes a forfeit (6 sections). 
/. E“*2ir n 7l 2VE\ of proclaiming and redeeming (5 sec- 
tions). g. ’pUP“p'3 *pX, and h. tl'^Tp-n, of the ban- 
ished (5 and 7 sections), i. 171*1 '3 DX *12 H *271, of re- 
deeming a sold field : of houses in a city surrounded with 
a wall (Lev. xx, 29); of the privilege of the houses and 
cities of the Levites (8 sections). 

4G. rni'Cn, Temurak , or exchanges (Lev. xxvii, 10, 33), 
in seven chapters, treats of the way exchanges are to be 
effected between sacred things: a. 1“ 1 “P'2*2 PZH, to what 
persous and things this right may be applied or not (6 sec- 
tion*). b. ri22“ip2 13 of the difference between the 
sacrifice of an individual and a congregation (3 sections). 
c. C" 1 *3*ip I^X, of the exchange of the young of a sacred 
animal (5 sections), d. nX’jn *121, of sin-offerings which 
were starved, or which were lost and found again (4 sec- 
tions). e. “p*2*H2 , '2 *1:^2, of the means to cheat the 
priest out of the first-born : how young and old can be 
sanctified at the same time or separately (G sections). /. 
pT.DXH br, what is prohibited to be brought upon 
the altar (5 sections), g. I12‘ip2 13 *\ of the different 
rights of things sanctified for the altar and for the Tem- 
ple: what may be buried or burned of the sanctified (6 
sections). 

47. nn" , “!2, Kerithoth , ox cutting off, in seven chapters, 
treats of offenders being cut off from the Lord, provided 
the offences were wantonly committed ; but if inadvertent- 
ly committed, entail the obligation to bring sin-offerings: 
a. *3*31 C^rblT, of the sacrifice of a woman in childbed, 
after the birth is certain or uncertain (7 sections), b. 
*nEin*2 7i22“ix, and c. r,22x 12 i'hex, of cases 
where one or more sin-offerings were to be brought (G 
and 10 sections), d. ^2X pSO, of a doubtful sin-offer- 
ing (3 sections), e. !“l3 n JT3 2" 2ZX, of eating blood 
and divers doubtful eatings, and what they cause (8 sec- 
tions). /. C1EX X"2*27l, of cases where the secret sin 
became known ; of the efficacy of the day of expiation ; 
of shekels which were used separately and for other pur- 
poses (9 sections). 

48. Me'ilah, or trespass (Nnmb. v, 6, 8), in six 
chapters, treats of things partaking of the name of sacri- 
lege: a. arrnp ' v 3'1p, what sacrifice causes a trespass 
(4 sections), b. 2)1271 rXZn, from what time it is possi- 
ble according to the nature of the sanctified (9 sections), 
c. rszn *lbl, of things which were given from such tres- 
pass (8 sections), d. n27*2 lEHp, how far the addition 
of different things takes place (G sections), e. 1*2 71271271 
UHpnn, in how far the wear and tear, by spoiling some- 
thing of it, or the use thereof, is to be considered (5 sec- 
tions). /. 71*3213 rnVm, in how far a man may tres- 
pass by means of a third person (6 sections). 

49. T -n, Tumid, or daily sacrifices , in seven chapters, 
treats of the morning and evening offerings: a. 71*3^132 
r**2*p*2, of the night-watch and of the arrival of the cap- 
tain, when the gate was opened and the priests went in (4 
sections), b. lTlX “MIX"', of the first work, how the al- 
tar was cleared from the ashes, the fagots were bronghtand 
the great and the small fire were arranged ; the former for 
the members and the cauls of the sacrifices, the latter for the 
coals of the incense (5 sections), c. 7121*2*271 CTlb *1*2 X, 
allotting services for the offering of the lamb; of finding 
out whether “it brightens;” of fetching the lamb and the 
vessels; of the lamb-chamber, opening the Temple and 
cleansing the inner altar and candlestick (9 sections), d. 
1*17 S12 rn xb, of slaughtering and sprinkling the 
blood; of skinning, cutting, and dividing the parts (3 
sections), e. 71211271 2712 “1*2 X, of the morning prayer of 


the priests ; of offering the incense (6 sections). /. 12H71 
E n bl2, again of cleansing the inner altar and the candle- 
stick ; of putting on the coals and of lighting the incense 
(3 sections), g. 1712*3 1*2 72, of the entering ol‘ the high- 
priest and of the other priests; of the blessing of the 
priests; when the high-priest offered the sacrifices; of 
the chant which the Levites intoned in the sanctuary (4 
sections). 

50. r 1*1*2, Middot h, or measurements , in five chapters, 
treats of the measurements of the Temple, its different 
parts and courts: a. ri*21p*2 71*32*32, of the night- 
watches in the Temple, the gates and chambers (9 sec- 
tions). b. 7^271 “in, the mountain of the Temple, its 
walls and courts (G sections), c. H27*2n, of the altar 
and the other space of the inner court to the hall of the 
Temple (8 sections), d. HITS, computation of the meas- 
ures of the Temple (7 sections), e. 71*17271 hz, of the 
measure of the court and its chambers (4 sections). This 
tractate has no Gemara or commentary. 

51. E^p, Kinnim , or bird's- nests, in three chapters, 
treats of the mistakes about doves and beasts brought 
into the Temple for sacrifice: a. E 1 2‘ 71 PXETI, how the 
blood of these birds was sprinkled in different manner— 
that of the sacrifice above the altar, that of the trespass- 
offering below the red line which stretched around the 
altar (4 sections), b . TIE* TO Ip, of the so-called indefi- 
nite nest (5 sections), c. E^EEH 71*22, of possible mis- 
takes of the priests and the offering women (G sections). 

VI. riETlE “1*12, Seder Taharoth (Purifications). 

This order has twelve tractates: 

52. E n 22, Kelim , or vessels, in thirty chapters^ rents of 
those which convey nncleanness (Lev. xi, 33): a. 212X 
riX*2l27l, of the main kinds of uncleanness according 
to their ten degrees, as well as of other ten degrees of nn- 
cleanness as well as of holiness (9 sections). b. pi* ^22, a. 
1^2 *112 v 3, and d. OETITl, of earthen vessels, which are 
the least capable of nncleanness, but which become clean 
ns soon as they break wholly or partly (S, S, and 4 sections). 

e. -nan,/, 7131221 , g. nirbpTi, n. 13377*3 “nan, and 

i. 12 n *2, of the divers kinds of ovens made of earth (11,4, 
G, 11, and S sections), j. 2 n ^2 IPX, of vessels which by 
cover and binding are protected against uncleanness (S sec- 
tions). h. nrr-2 ^bz,i. mx rv 22 , m. rp^cn, and 
n. 71*22 ni2r*2 *^2, of metal vessels which become un- 
clean, and how they get clean (9, ^.8, and S sections), o. 
yy *1^2, p. 1*2 **22 >2, and q. *^22*02 22, of vessels 
of wood, skin, leather, bone, glass, and the size of the 
hole whereby they become clean ; also of the size of 
things used as a measure (6, 8, and 17 sections), r. *11*371, 
and s. p“) 2*271, of beds (9 and 10 sections). £.2*0271, of 
things which become unclean by sitting thereon (7 sec- 
tions). u. 22*221, of things fastened to a loom, plough, 
etc. (3 sections), v. 1712371, of tables and chairs (10 sec- 
tions). u\ “11*1271, of things which become unclean by 
riding thereon (5 sections), x. *pE'EP 713^*3, of a great 
many things by which three modes of nncleanness take 
place (17 sections), y. C n b27l ^2, of the outside and 
inside of vessels, the handle and the different duties be- 
longing to them (9 sections), z. 2*122, of vessels which 
have straps (9 sections), aa. X*22*2 *12271, and bb, 
22 wVj, how large something must be in order to 
become unclean ; also, that something which is three 
inches long and wide may be called a dress (12 and 10 
sections), cc. " 1 ‘E12, of cords on different things (S sec- 
tions). dd. 702127 *^2 2, of vessels of glass which are flat 
or a receptacle (4 sections). 

53. PI 2 71 X, Ohaloth, or tents (Nnmb. xix, 14), in twenty- 

two chapters, treats of tents and houses retaining unclean- 
ness, etc. : a. E^XEE of the different modes and 

degrees of nncleanness over a dead body ; of the difference 
of nncleanness in men and vessels; of the measure of the 
limbs of a dead body, or carcass, and of the number of the 
members of man (8 sections). 5. 1“'X*2I2 ,, 2 ibx, what be- 


TALMUD 


1S3 


TALMUD 


comes unclean iu a tent through a corpse, aud what only by 
touching and carrying (7 sections), c. 11X2021! 52, of 
adding together divers kinds of uncleanness; what is not 
uncleau in a dead body (teeth, hair, and nails, provided 
they are no more on the corpse) ; of the size of openings 
whereby uncleanness can be propagated (7 sections); d. 
^132, of vessels into which tmclcanness does not pene- 
trate (3 sections), e. *115*1, when the upper story may be 
regarded as separated from the lower part (7 sections). /. 
E n 521 01 X, how men and vessels form a cover over a 
carcass; of the nncleanness in the wall of a house (7 sec- 
tions). g. of a woman giving birth to a dead 

child (6 sections), h. “jiXiEE im, of things conveying 
and separating uncleanness, and of others which do not 
(6 sections), i. 111112, how far a large basket separates 
(16 sections), j. J1211X, and k. rPEIJ, of openings in a 
house and cracks on a roof (7 and 9 sections). Z. 103, of 
uncleanness in parts of the house aud roof (S sections). 
m. 115(2 152312*11, of the measure of a hole or window 
which may propagate nncleanness (6 sections), n. ‘PTH 
X n 22, aud o. 013*0, of cornices and partitions in a house; 
of graves (7 and 10 sectious). p. "pboboOH ^2, con- 
tinuation of graveyards (5 sections), q. rX 23115115, and 
r. 155"'2, of the both hap-pras (field iu which a grave has 
been detected, or must be presumed, etc.) ; how far the 
houses of the heathen must be regarded as unclean (5 and 
10 sections). 

54. m2 3*3, Xegalm, or plague s of leprosy, in seventeen 
chapters, treats of leprosy of men, garments, or dwellings : 
a. 01233 HIXIO, of the four indications of leprosy and 
their kinds (6 sections), b. IHUE, of the inspection of lep- 
rosy (5 sections), c. “px 2552 boll, of the time and signs 
when nncleanness is pronounced (8 sections), d. 231 
12122, of the difference between the different signs of 
leprosy (11 sections), e. pEO b2, of dubious cases when 
nncleanness is pronounced (5 sections). /. 11213, of the 
size of the white spot, and the places where no leprosy oc- 
curs (S sections), g. P 11152 ibx, of the changes of the 
spots of leprosy, and when they were rooted out (5 sec- 
tions). h. misn, of the growing of the spots (10 sec- 
tions). i. ■pren, of the difference betweeu a boil and a 
burning (3 sectious). j. OipP215, of scalds (10 sections). 

k. 0113211 bj, i. omeu bo, and m. oipe 1112 : 2 , 

of the leprosy in houses and garments (12, 7, and 12 sec- 
tions). n. “pinOE im2, of cleansing a leper (13 sec- 
tions). 

55. HIS, Parah, or the red heifer , in sixteen chapters, 
directs how she is to be burned, etc. : a. 1E1X XI, of the 
heifer’s age, and ages of other offerings (4 sections), b. 
HIS 1E1X XI, blemishes which make her unfit (4 sec- 
tions). c. mo* 1 P2'223, separation of the priest for burn- 
ing the red heifer; procession of heifer aud attendants; 
pile for burning; gathering the ashes (11 sections), d . 
riXuJn ms, how the sacrifices may become unfit under 
these rites (4 sections), e. X1E215, of the vessels for the 
sprinkling-water (9 sections). /. 23ipolS, of cases where 
the ashes or the water becomes unfit (5 sections), g. 
!Xb223 1523211, how this rite cannot be interrupted by 
any kind oflabor (12 sections), h. 11J123 E n 323, of keep- 
ing the water ; of the sea and other waters with regard to 
the sprinkling-water (11 sections), i. nmbo, continu- 
ation (9 sections), j. 1X11 b2, how clean persons and 
vessels may become unclean (6 sections), k. rinibu 
nrP3!l2J, of the hyssop for sprinkling (9 sections). Z. 
E^XH, of the persons fit for sprinkling (11 sections). 

56. minis, Taharoth (prop. Tohoroth), or purifications , 
in fifteen chapters, teaches how purifications are to be ef- 
fected; a. 1232 H 23b 23, of the carrion of a cleau and uu- 
t-ieau fowl (9 sections), b. H min 23 1523X15, of the uuclean- 
ness of the person whohaseaten something unclean ; of the 
effect of the different degrees of uucleanness (s sections). 
c . 201115, of l>everages; of the estimation of an nnclean- 
uess after the time ofits detection (8 sectious). d. plllil, 


e. pim, and/. mn23 0 s p2, of doubtful cases of nn- 
cleanness (13, 9, and 10 sections), g. Ilpn, how a lay- 
man makes something unclean ; of the care to be taken iu 
preserving the cleanness ofdresses and vessels (9 sections). 
h. nn, how to keep victuals clean (9 sectious). i. mril, 
of the cleanness in pressing the olives (9 sections), j. 
b2!315, of the same iu the treatment of wine (S sections). 

57. n Xip*2, Mikvaoth , or pools of water (N nmb. xxxi, 23), 
in fiftecu chapters, treats of their construction, and the 
quantity of water necessary for cleansing; a. HI 5213 2323, 
of the six different grades of pools of water, where one is 
purer than the preceding, from the water iu the pit to the 
living water (S sectious). b. X2051, of doubt ful cases con- 
cerning bathing; how much and how far drawn water 
makes a mikvah, or bathing-place, unfit for bathing (10 sec- 
tions). c. iQli 121, how a mikvah becomes clean again 
(4 sections), d. 1113215, how rain-water is to be led into a 
mikvah, so as not to become drawn water (5 sections), e . 
■ji22, of different kinds of water — spring water, river and 
sea water (6 sections). /. 21121311 b2, what is regarded 
as connected with a mikvah, and how mikvaoth may be- 
come united (11 sectious). g. *ji522 23 n , what makes a 
mikvah complete and fit, and wheie the change of the 
color has to be considered (7 sections), h. 5X1231 piX, 
of some uncleanness of the mikvah (5 sectious). i. ibx 
pUUin, of the difference between bathing the body and 
a vessel (7 sections), j. Ill 1 52, of vomiting when 
eating and drinking, whether it be clean or uncleau (S 
sections). 

58. HID, Xiddah, or separation of women during their 
menses, after childbirth, etc., in fifteen chapters: a. n X223 
1131X, of computing the time of the niddah, and where it 
is to be supposed (7 sections), b. “PH 52, of the niddah 
itself (7 sections), c. 1152211, and d. mm2 P132, of 
women iu childbed (7 and 7 sections), e. 1211 X22V\ of 
the different ages of children according to their sex (9 sec- 
tions). /. imo X2, of the blood-spots (14 sectious). g. 
111311 01, what makes unclean if it be damp or dry (5 sec- 
tions). h. 11X1115, and i. X 111 23 1523X15, of recognising 
the blood-spots ; their origin ; of changes in the menses (4 
and 11 sections), j. Ppl3P, of all kinds of suppositions 
concerning cleanness and uucleanness (S sections). This 
treatise should be read ouly by persons studying med- 
icine, it being devoted to certain rules not ordinarily 
discussed, although they appear to have occupied a dis- 
proportionate part of the attention of the rabbins. The 
objections that our modern sense of propriety raises to 
the practice of the confessional apply with no less force to 
the subject of this tract, considered as a matter to be reg- 
ulated by the priesthood. 

59. p1 n 2322, Makshirin , or liquors lhat dispose seeds 
and fruits to receive pollution, in six chapters: a. bo 
Hp232, of the precaution by the fault of which something 
has hecome wet (6 sections), b . T21, of sweating and 
steaming; of different rights of cities in which Jews aud 
heathen reside (11 sectious). e. p23, of cases where fruits 
are moistened unintentionally (8 sections), d. ilium, 
of the regulations of rain-water in similar cases (10 sec- 
tions). e. bEOE3 12, of cases where eatables, although 
they have become wet, do not change (11 sections). /. 
1ib22l5, of the seveu liquors, their variety; and of such 
liquors as at the same time make cleau and unclean, or 
not (S sections). 

60. m27, Zabim, or bodily fluxes that cause pollution, 
in five chapters : a. 15X1115, of computing this unclean- 
ness (6 sections), b. 1*X2I3"'2 b251, of examining 
whether such an issue is not enforced (4 sections), c. 
E7U, and d. 223 n 1P “’El, of the power and different 
motions towards pollution (3 and 7 sectious). e. 23*1315, 
comparison of divers pollutions and what makes the 
heave-offering uncleau (12 sectious). 

61. CV 1 blEO, Tibbul Torn, or baptism on the day of un- 
cleanness (Lev. xxii, C), in four chapters: a. 032215, when 
cakes of bread, grain, and seeds become unclean, or remain 


TALMUD 


184 


TALMUD 


clean through the tonch of a tlbhul yOm (5 sections), b. 
r*piL"2), how far the dampness of a tihbul yom is not to be 
treated as strictly as that of other unclean things; how 
the union of unwashed hands with those of a tibbul yum 
are to be discerned ; how the uncleanness through a tibbfil 
yom differs from another uucleanness in all kinds of boil- 
ed things and vessels of wine (8 sections), c. P*"P hz, 
of the chibbur , or connection of the parts and the whole 
concerning the uncleanness through a tihbul yOm in frnits, 
eggs, herbs, boiled things, and eatables of all kinds (0 sec- 
tions). d. “iwP'a the same in separating the 

heave-offering, cakes, etc., according to older more lenient 
and recent more strict laws (7 sections). 

02. Yadaim, or hand*, in four chapters, treats of 
the washing of hands before eating bread, though dry 
fruits are allowed to be eaten without such washing: a . 

"’B, how much water is required for ablution of 
the hands; what kiud of water; of the vessels for the 
same ; who may pour it out (5 sections), b. VP >722, of 
the two ablutions whereby the unclean first water is wash- 
ed away; how the ablution rnnst take place (4 sections). 

C n 2I -H, whether and how the hands become unclean 
iii the first degree, and how in the second; whether and 
how far the touching of straps of phylacteries and of holy 
writings defiles (5 sections), d. C*P3 *12, of some special 
discussions; of the defilement l>y the Chaldee in the Bible, 
and of the Assyrian; disputes between the Pharisees and 
Sadducees (7 sections). 

03. "pjjpl V,Ckatsin, or stalks of fruit which convey nn- 
cleanuess, in three chapters : a. NliTi'bG, of the difference 
between the stalks and husks of fruits (G sections), b. 

nvn, what is added to the whole from stones, 
husks, leaves, etc. (10 sections), c. “j WU C*\ of differ- 
ent classes of things, how and wheu they are apt to ab- 
sorb an uucleauness (12 sections). 

In addition to the treatises which compose the Ge- 
mara, there are certain minor ones which are connected 
with it as a kind of Apocrypha or appendix, under t he 
title of Mesiktoth Ketanoth (Til-Bp nrSD -),or small- 
er ti'eatises . These are : 

1 . C V£10, Sophcrim , concerning the scribe and reader 
of the law (21 chapters). This treatise is important tor 
the Alasorah. A separate edition, with notes, was -pub- 
lished by J. Muller (Leips. 1S7S). See also the art. So- 
ph euim. 

2. n^D, Kallah, relates to marriages (1 chapter). 

3. ritTSTB SOp:n VIV bnN, Ebcl Eabbathi, or Se- 
machoth , concerning the ordinances for funeral solemni- 
ties (14 chapters). 

4. "i*- X “pT, Derek Ercts , on social duties (11 chapters). 

5. 50*11 *jV5< "pT, Derek Ercts Suta , rules for the 
learned (10 chapters). 

6. Epbwfl p’IS, Perek ha- Shalom, ou the love of peace 
(1 chapter). 

7. GV3, Gerim , concerning proselytes (4 chapters). 

8. CW, Kuthim , concerning Samaritans (2 chapters). 

0. C V27*, Abadim, concerning slaves (3 chapters). 

10. Tsitsith, concerning fringes (1 chapter). 

11. “jV^Sn, Tcphillin, concerning phylacteries (1 chap- 
ter). 

12. T\Y'\’Z,Mezuzah, concerning the writing on thedoor- 
post (2 chapters). See art. AIkzuzah. 

13. rnin PEO, Sepher Thorah , concerning the writing 
of the law (5 chapters). 

Nos. 7-13 were published together by R. Kirch heim, un- 
der the title Septem Libri Talmudici Parvi (Frankf.-on-the- 
Main, 1S51). 

To these treatises are sometimes added : 

14. b 50*2 "* 5$ n:;n, Hilkoth Erets Israel, relating 

to the ways of slaughtering animals for food after the 
Jewish ideas, a treatise which is much later tbau the Tal- 
mud. 


15. *jr2 W ri2K, A both di-Pabbi Xathan, a com- 
mentary on or amplification of the treatise Aboth (21 chap- 
ters). For the author of this treatise, see the art. Natuax 
ha-Baui.i. 

Aumiauktioat. List of tue Different Treatiser as 
Found in the Bahylonian Tai.mud. 

The first column grives the names of the treatises ; the at eon d indicates 
the volume of the Talmud where the treatises may he hutud : the third 
shows the Seder or division under which they are ^iveii ; and the Jourth 
the numerical order in which they stand in tlie Mishna. 


Name. 

V«»t. | 

Division. 

T realise. 

Aboth 

IX 

Nezikin 

Id 

A bod a Zurab 

VI 11 


9 

R:ih:i Ruthrn . _ 


it 

3 

“ K aniniM .... 

VII 

it 

1 

“ Metsinh 


“ 

2 

Bekoroth 

X 

Kodashim 

4 

Renikot h 


Zend m 

1 

Be-zuh 

III 

Aided 

7 1 

Bikkurim 


Zeraim 

11 

Chagigah 

III 

Aided 

12 j 

Challah 

I 

Zeraim 

9 

Cholin 

XI 

Kodashim 

2 

Denial 


Zeraim 

3 

Edavoth 

IX 

Nezikin 

7 

Ei-akin 

XI 

K< idasldm 

5 i 

Erubin 

HI 

Aided 

2 

Hit lin . 

VI 

N nsbini 

4 

Ilorayoth 

IX 

Nezikin 

S 

Kelitn 

XII 

Tahardth 

1 

Kerilhoth 

XI 

Kodashim 

8 

Kothnhoth , 

V 

Nashini 

2 

K iflflnsliin 



3 

Ki lay ini 

I 

Zeraim.. 

4 

Tv in nini 

XI 

Kodashim 

11 

Alii.-iKPi-otli 

I 

Zeraim 

7 

A1 jisiser Silent 



S 

]\1 4 fa 

IX 

Nezikin 

5 

Alakshiriu 

XI f 

Tahardth 

9 

Alegillah 

IV 

Aided 

10 

Alpilnh, , 

1 XI 

Kodashim 

7 

Mid doth 



10 

Alik\ r fi(ith 

XII 

Tahardth 

6 

Alpnaehoth 

X 

Kodashim 

3 

Aided K at on 

III 

Aided 

11 

Nazir 

VI 

Nashim 

G 

Nedarim 



5 

Negn'im . . . 

XII 

Tahardth 

3 

Niiblah 



7 

Ohaloth 

II 

ii 

2 

Uriah 

J 

Zeraim 

10 

Pa rah 

XII 

Tahardth 

4 

Ppah 

I 

Zeraim 

2 

Ppsnchim. . 

III 

Aided 

3 

Kosh Ilash-shanah . 

IV 


S 

Sanhedrin 

IX 

Nezikin 

4 

Sll-ihbalh 

11 

Aided 

1 

.Shekalim 

IV 


4 

Nbebiith 

I 

Zeraim 

5 

Slipknot ii 

IX 

N ezikin 

6 

Siilnh 

VI 

Nashim 


Snkliah 

IV 

Aided 

G 

Tannith 



9 

Taharoth 

XII 

Tahardth 

5 

Tumid 

XI 

Kodashim 

9 

Tptnnrah 



G 

Tern moth 

I 

Zeraim 

G 

TiUhel Yom 

XII 

Tahardth 

10 

Ukatsiu 


12 

Yadaim 

it 

** 

11 

\'pli;imuth 

V 

Nashim 

1 

Yom a 

IV 

Aided 

5 

Zabim 

XII 

Tahardth 

9 

^(■IviHiim 

x 

Kodashim 

1 






Having given an analysis of the contents of the Tal- 
mud. we will now give a specimen of its text, which 
will present to the reader a faint idea of the mode of 
procedure as we find it in that wonderful work. 

We open the very first page of the Talmud, the trea- 
tise Berukoth , on blessings, commencing -. 

Mishna . — “At what time in the evening should one sav 
the Shema ? From the time that the priests go in to eat of 
their oblation till the end of the first night-watch. These 
are the words of the rabbi Eliezer; but the wise men sav 
until midnight. Rabban (4a nisi lie! says till the morning 
dawn uriseth. It came to pass that his sons were returning 
from a least; they said unto him, ‘We have not yet re- 
cited the Shema. * lie answered and said unto them, ‘If 
the morning dawn has not yet arisen, ye are under obliga- 
tion to recite it.’ And not this alone have they said, 
but everywhere where the wise have said ‘until mid- 
night.’ the command is binding till the morning dawn 
ariseth ; aud the steaming of the fat and of the joints is 


TALMUD 


185 


TALMUD 


lawful until the morning dawn arisetb, and so everything 
which may he eaten on the same day ii is allowed to eat 
until the morning dawn ariseth. If this is so, why do the 
wise say ‘ till midnight ?’ In order that men may be held 
far away from sin.” 

Gemara . — “The Thanna (i. e. rabbi Judah the Holy), 
what is his authority that he teaches, from what time on- 
ward? And, besides that, why does he teach on the even- 
ing first, and might he teach on the morning first? The 
Thanna rests on the Scripture, for it is written, ‘When 
thou best down and when thou risest tip,’ and so he 
teaches, the time of reciting the Shema, when thou best 
down, when is it? From the time when the priests go 
in to eat of their oblation. But if thou wilt, say I, he 
hath taken it out of the creation of the world, for it is said 
it was evening and it was morning one day. If this is so, 
it might be the last Mislma which teaches. In the morn- 
ing are said two blessings before and one after, and in 
the evening 1 two before and two after, and yet they teach 
in the evening first. The Thanna begins in the evening, 
then he teaches in the morning: as he treats of the morn- 
ing, so he explains the things of the morning, and then he 
explains the things of the evening.” 

This is less than one fourth part of the comment in 
the Gemara on that passage in t he Mishna, and the re- 
mainder is equally lucid and interesting. 

Subsidiaries to the Talmud, printed either in the 
margin of the pages or at the end of the treatises, are 

(1) the Tosaphoth , exegetieal additions by later authors; 

(2) Masorah ha-shesh Sedarim, being marginal Maso- 
retie indices to the six orders of the Mishna; (3) Am 
or En-Mishpat, i. e. index of places on the rites and in- 
stitutions; (4) Xer Mitsroth, a general index of de- 
cisions according to the digest of Maimonides; and (5) 
Peru shim, or commentaries by different authors. 

IV. Literary Uses. — The Talmud has been applied to 
the criticism and interpretation of the Old Test. Most 
of its citations, however, agree with the present M a so- 
re tic text. It has probably been conformed to the Mas- 
oretic standard by the rabbins, at least in the later edi- 
tions. For variations, see the art. Quotations of the 
Old Test, in the Talmud; for the interpretation, 
see the art. Scripture Interpretation among the 
J EWS. 

The Talmud has also been used in the illustration of 
the New Test, by Lightfoot, Schottgen, Meusehen, Wett- 
stein, Gfrdrer, Kobertson, Nork, Delitzseh, Wiinsehe. 
But in this department, also, its utility has been over- 
estimated, and by none more than by Lightfoot himself, 
who says, in the dedication prefixed to his Talmudieal 
exercitations, “ Christians, by their skill and industry, 
may render them (the Talmudic writings) most useful- 
ly serviceable to their students, and most eminently 
tending to the interpretations of the New Test.” But 
not so Isaac Yossius, who said Lightfoot would have 
sinned less by illustrating the evangelists from the 
Koran than these nehnlee. rabbinica and exclaimed, “Sit 
modus ineptiendi et eessent tandem aliquando miseri 
Christian! Judaicis istiusmodi fidere fabcllis!” (“Let 
Christians at length cease from playing the fool and 
trusting to such wretched Jewish fables as those con- 
tained in the Talmud!”) The mistake of Lightfoot is 
repeated by Wiinsehe, in his Xeue Beitrdye zur Erlaute- 
runy der Einmyelien mis Talmud lend Midrash (Gbtt. 
1878), whose modus illustrundi et interpretundi is like 
a Jew writing an apology for Judaism; hence great 
caution must be exhibited in the perusal of the latter’s 
work. There is only one way of using the Talmud for 
the New Test., for which see onr art. Sermon on the 
Mount and the Talmud. 

For the Old Test, as it was in the time of the Tal- 
mud, see the next article. 

V. Apparatus for Study of the Talmud. — 1. Manu- 
scripts. — Like the text of the Old Test., the Talmud 
was copied with the greatest care during the Middle 
Ages; but, like a good many other works, these MSS. 
have become the prey of time, and only a few of them are 
extant. All that is known is (1) the first division of the 
Jerusalem Talmud in possession of the Jewish congre- 
gation at Constantinople; (2) a complete copy of the 
Babylonian Talmud from the year L343 in the Loyal Li- 


i brary at Munich; (3) a fragment of the same, evident- 
ly older than No. 2, in the same place; (4) a fragment 
of the same from the year 1134 in the Hamburg City 
Library; (5) the treatise Sanhedrin according to the 
Babylonian redaction, and belonging to the 12th centu- 
ry, in the Ducal Library at Carlsruhe; (fi) some frag- 
ments with valuable variations, preserved at the Uni- 
versity Library of Breslau. There is no doubt that in 
some libraries fragments may yet be found, if the covers 
of old books should be properly examined, for which 
they have been used by ignorant binders. That such 
was the ease we not only know from the fragments at 
the Breslau University, but from a more recent discov- 
ery of W. II. Lowe, who published the Fragment of the 
Talmud Babli Pesachim of the 9 th or \0th Century , 
in the University Library at Cambridge, with Xotcs and a 
Facsimile (Loud. 1879). 

2. Editions. — Like the Old Test., at first only parts 

of the Talmud were published, on which see De Bossi, 
.1 males Uebneo-typographici Sec. AT (Parrme, L795). 
The first part of the Talmud, the treatise Berakoth , 
was published at Soneino in 1484; but tbe first com- 
plete edition (the basis of later ones) was published by 
Bomberg (Venice, 1520-23, 12 vols. fol.) (a complete 
copy of which is in the libraries of Cassel and Leipsic). 
Since that time editions have been published at different 
places, which are enumerated by B. N. Itabbinowicz, in 
bis rosnn bv n-CX-S, or Kritische Ueber- 

sicht der Gesammt- lend Einzeh t u sr/i iben des babylonischen 
Tahnuds seit 1484 (Munich, 1877) (with the exception 
of the German title-page, the rest is in Hebrew). The 
Jerusalem Talmud was first published by D. Bomberg 
(Venice, 1523) ; then with brief glosses (Craeov. 1609; 
Dessau, 1743; Berlin, 1757; Schitomir, 18G0-67, 4 vols. 
fol.; Krotosehin, 1866, fol.). A new edition of Bom- 
berg’s, with commentaries, was commenced by the late 
1 )r. Z. Frankel, of which, however, only the first division 
was published (Vienna, 1875-7G). 

3. Translations. — There exists as vet no complete 
translation of either of the Talmuds in any language. 
The Arabic translation, said to have been prepared in 
A. D. 1000, at the will of king Ilashem of Spain, is no 
longer extant. A large portion of the Jerusalem Tal- 
mud is found in a Latin translation in Ugolino, Thesaur. 
A ntiq. Suer., viz. Pesachim (vol. xvii), Shekalim, Yoma , 
Sukkah, Posh Hash -shanah, Taanith, Meyillah , Chayi- 
yah , Bezah , Moed Eaton (vol. xvi ii), Muaseroth, Challah , 
Orlah, Bikkurim (vol. xx), Sanhedrin, Makkoth (vol. 
xxv), Kiddnshin , Sotah, Kcthuboth (vol. xxx). In the 
same work we also find three treatises of the Babylonian 
Talmud, viz,, Zebuchim , Memichoth (vol. xix), and San- 
hedrin (vol. xxv). Into French, the treatises Berakoth, 
Peah, JJenun , Kilayim , Shebiith, Terumoth , Maaseroth, 
Mauser Sheni, Challah , Orlah , Bikkurim of the Jerusa- 
lem Talmud were translated by 31. Schwab (Paris, 1872- 
79). The treatise Berakoth according to the Jerusalem 
and Babylonian Talmuds was also translated into French 
by L. Cbiarini (Leips. 1831) and into German by Babe 
(Halle, 1777). Of the Babylonian Talmud we have 
German translations of Berakoth by Pinner (Berlin, 
1842); of Baba Metsia by A. Sammter (ibid. 1876-79); 
of Aboda Zuruh by F. Chr. Ewald (Nuremb. 1868). 
These are all the translations which are known to us. 

4. Monographs. — Since the Talmud is the great 
storehouse of all and everything, different branches of 
science and religion have been treated in monographs. 
Thus, on — 

a. Botany: by Dnsehak, Zur Botanik des Talmud 
(Leips. 1870). 

b. Civil and criminal law: by Frankel, Der yerieht- 
liche Beiveis i\ach mos.-talmudischem Bechte , Ein Bei- 
trny zur Kentniss des mos.-talmudischen Criminal- if. 
Cii'ilrechts (Berlin, 1846); Dusehak, Das mosniseh-tal- 
vnidische Eherecht, etc. (Vienna, 1864); Thonisson. La 
Peine de Mart dans le Talmud (Bruxelles, 1866) ; Bloeh, 

I Das mosuisch-talmudisehe Polizeirccht ( Leips. 1879) ; 


TALMUD 


J SO 


TALMUD 


Liclitscliein, Die Eke uadi m osa isch -talm udischer J uf as- 
sung und das mosa isch -tal m u disch e Ekerecht (ibid. 1879) : 
Fassel, Das mosaisch-rabbinisehe Gerichts-Verfakren in 
cicilrechttichen Sachen, etc. (Vienna, 1858); Frank cl, 
Grundlinien des mosaisvh-talnudisdien Eherechts (Bres- 
lau, I860); Mielziner, Die Verhdlinisse der S Horen bei 
den alten f/ebraem nach bibl. u. talmud. Qnellen dar- 
gesteflt (Lcips. 1859). 

c. Coins and weights: by B. Znckermann, Ueber tal- 
mudische Miinzen mid Geirichfc (Breslau, 1802). 

d. Education : S. Marcus, Zur Schul - Pddagogik des 
Talmud (Berlin, 1800) ; Simon, E Education et V Instruc- 
tion des En fonts chez les A nciens JuiJ's d'apres la Bible et 
le Talmud (Lcips. 1879); Sulzbach, Die P ddagor/ik des 
Talmud (Frankf.-on-tb e-Main, 1803). See also the art. 
Schools in this Cyclopaedia. 

e. Ethics, maxims, proverbs, etc.: Lazarus, Zur Cha- 

rakteristik der talmudischen Ethik (Breslau, 1877); 
maxims and proverbs are given by Dukes, Rabbinische 
Blumenlese (Leips. 1844), in “■'“B “ISO (War- 

saw, 1874), and by A. Franck, Les Sentences et Proverbrs 
du Talmud et du Mid rash, in the (Paris) Journal des 
Sara ids, Nov. 1878, p. 059-070; Dec. p. 709-721. 

f Geography : by A. Neubauer, La Geographic du 
Talmud, Memoire couromie par VAcademie des Inscrip- 
tions et Belles-lettres (Paris, 1808). 

ej. Mathematics: by Znckermann, Das mnthematische 
im Talmud (Breslau, 1878); id. Das jiidische J laass- 
System (ibid. 1807). 

h. Medicine: Wunderbar, Biblisch-talm udisch e Medi- 
cin (Riga, 1852-59); llalpern, Beitrdye zur Gesckichte 
der talmudischen Chiruryie (Breslau, 1809). 

i. Magic : Brecher, Das Transcendent ale, Mayie u. 
mayische lleilurten im Talmud (Vienna. 1850). 

j. Psychology: Jacobson, Versuch einer Psycholoyie 
des Talmud (Hamburg, 1878). 

k. Religious philosophy: Nager, Die Reliyionsphiloso- 
phie des Talmud (Leips. 1804). 

l. Zoology : Lewysobn, Zur Zoologie des Talmud 
(F rank f.-on- the-M ai n, 1 858). 

tn. Labor and handicraft : S. Meyer, A rbeit und Hand- 
irerk im Talmud (Berlin, 1878); Delitzscli, Ji/disches 
Ihindwerkerleben zur Zeit Jesu (3d ed. Erlangen, 1879). 
The latter wrote also on the colors in the Talmud in 
Xord und Slid , May. 1878. 

n. Biblical Antiquities: Hamburger, Biblisch-Tal- 
mudisch. Worterbuch (Neu-Strelitz, 1801). 

5. Textual Criticism. — Lebrecht, Ki'itische Lese rer- 
besserter Lesarten zum Talmud ( Berlin, 1804); Rabbi- 
now icz, Varice Lectiones in M ischium et in Talmud Baby- 
lonicum qunm ex aliis Libris A ntiquissimis et Scriptis et 
Dnpressis turn e Codice Monacensi Preestantissimo collec- 
ts, A nnotatiombus instructs (pt. i-viii, INI unich. 1808-77). 

0. Bibliography. — Pinner, in his preface to Berakoth, 
p. 9 sq.; Beer, in Frankel’s M onatsschrift , 1857, p. 456- 
458; Lebrecht, Ihtndsehriften und erste Gesammtausya- 
ben des baby], Talmud, in den wissenschaftlichen Bliit- 
tern des Berliner Beth ha-Midraseh (Berlin, 1802): 
Steinschneider, J/ebraische Bibliographic (1803), vi, 39 
sq.; De Rossi, Annales / 1 ebreeo- typographic! See. X F 
( Parma, 1795) ; id. De Ihbraicee. Typographies Origine ac 
Primitiis, etc. (ibid. 1770). 

7, Linguistic Helps. — Buxtorf, Lexicon Chaldaicum, 
Talmudicum et Rabbinicum (Basil. 1040, fob ; new ed. by 
B. Fischer, Leipsic, 1809-75); Lbwv, Xeuhebrdisches 
und chaldaisches Worterbuch, etc. (ibid. 1875; in the 
course of publication); Aruch, by Nathan ben-Jechiel ; 
new critical edition by A. Kohut, Plenum A rveh Targum- 
Talmudico-Midrasch Verbal e et Reale Lexicon (Vien- 
na, 1878 sq.) ; Briill, Fremdsprachliche Redensarten , etc. 
(Leipsic, 1809); Geiger, Zur Geschichte der talmudi- 
schen Lexicographic , in Zeitschrift d. D. M. G. 1858 . 
xii. 142 : Stein, Talmudische Terminologie (Prague, 1809); 
Zuckermandel, in Gratz’s M onatsschrift , 1873, p. 421- 
430, 475-477; 1874, p. 30-44, 130-138, 183-189, 213- 
222; Riilf, Zur Lautlehre der aramdisch-talmudische?i 


Dialecte , i, Die Kehllaute (Leipsic, 1879); Berliner, Bei- 
trage zur hebrdischen Grumnuitik im Talmud und Mi - 
drasch (Berlin, 1879); Kalisch [I.], Sketch of the Tal- 
mud , including the Sepher Jezirah , with Translation , 
Notes, and Glossary (N. V. 1877), 

8. Literature in General. — Treatises on the Talmud 
have been written in different languages, and their 
number is legion. To enumerate them would be not 
only tedious, but useless, because, written from a certain 
standpoint, they only give one side of the question. 
Such are the treatises of Deutsch, written for t lie glori- 
fication of modern Judaism, and repeated by Schwab in 
bis introduction to bis treatise Berakoth (Paris. 1871), 
and of Holding and Martin, written in a hostile spirit 
against Judaism, because more or less dependent on 
Fiscnmenger’s Entdecktes Judenthum (Kbnigsberg, 1711, 
2 vols.). Quite different is the work of A. iNPCaul, The 
Old Paths (Loud. 1854), and the Pentateuch according 
to the Talmud (vol. i, Genesis, ibid. 1874) by P. J. ller- 
shon, because tending to show bow Pharisaism has 
made the law of God void by a multitude of traditions. 
Wc therefore contine ourselves to such works as will 
give the reader the necessary information on the Tal- 
mud, viz. Wiihner, Antiquitates Ebrieorum (1743), i, 
231-584; Wolf, Bibliotheca llebraa. ii. (157-993; iv, 
320-456; Briill, Die Entstehvnysgeschichte des babyl. 
Talmuds . in his Jahrbucher (Frankfort -on -the- Main, 
1876), ii, 1-123; Auerbach, Das jiidische Obligatwus- 
recht, i, 62-114; Frankel, / ntroductio in Talmud Iliero- 
solymitanum (Breslau, 1870 [lleb.]); Wiesner, Gib'eth 
Jeruschulaim, ed. Smolensky (Vienna, 1872 [Heb.]); 
Fiirst, Literciturblutt des Orients, 1843, No. 48-51 ; 1850, 
No. 1 sq.; id. Kultur - u. Literatnrgeschichte der Juden in 
Asien (1849). vol. i; Znnz, Die gottesdienstlichen For- 
trdge der Juden , p. 51-55, 94; Jost. Gesch. d. Israeliten , 
iv, 222 sq., 323-328; id. Gesch. d. Judenthums u. s. Sec- 
ten, ii, 202-212; Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden, iv, 384, 408-412 
sq.; Frankel, M onatsschrift, 1851-52. p. 36-40, 70-80, 
203-220, 403-421, 509-521; 1861, p. 186-194, 205-212, 
256-272; 1871, p. 120-137 : Geiger, Jiidische Zeitschrift, 
1870, p. 278-306; Pinner, Compendium des hiei'osolym. 
und babylon. Talmud (Berlin, 1832); id. Einleitnng in 
den Talmud, in bis translation of Berakoth , fob 1-12; 
Schiirer, Uandbuch der Jievtestam. Zeitgeschichte (Leip- 
sic, 1874), p. 37-49; Pressel. art. Talmud, in Herzog’s 
Real- Encyklop. ; Davidson, in Kitto’s Cyclop, s. v. ; 
Mausseaux, Le Juif le Juda'isme , et la Jmhnsation 
(Paris, 1869), p. 76 sq.; Bernstein, *^>ban apol- 

ogy for the Talmud (Odessa. 1868) ; Waldberg, 

or explanation of the logic of the Talmud 
(Lemberg, 1876). The expurgated passages are col- 
lected by Meklenburg in riBBTSin riilEp; the dif- 
ficult passages of the Talmud, which are explained by 
Raschi, are found in (Sehitomir, 1874) ; Jacob 

Briill, or Mnemotechnik des Talmuds 

(Vienna, 1864 [lleb,]); Bacher, Die Agada der baby- 
hmischen A moraer, Kin Beitrag zur Geschichte der 
Agada und zur Einleitnng in den babylonischen Talmud 
(Strasburg, 1878) ; Friedliinder, Geschichtsbihler aus der 
Zeit der Tanuiten und A moraer. Ein Beitrag zur Ge- 
schichte des Talmuds (Briinn, 1879). The Ilagadoth 
contained in both Talmuds are collected in Jacob ibn- 
Chabib’s *}T (latest edition Wilna, 1877). See 

Fiirst, Bill. Jud. i, 151 ; Wolf, Bibl. lleb. i, 590 sq. : iii, 
456 sq. ; iv. 866 sq. ; and in Jafe’s MJOB ME"' (comp. 
Wolf, ibid, i, 1 204 ; iii, 1109; Fiirst. ii, 9,96); the Tosephta 
is now in course of being edited by Dr. M. S. Zucker- 
mandel (Berlin, 1876 sq.); Schwarz, Die Tosifta der 
Ordnung Mned in ihrem Verhdltniss zur Misehna hit isch 
untersucht , Pt. i, Der Tractat Sabbath (Carlsruhe, 1879); 
Jellinek, llagadische Ilermenentik mil Midrasch-Com- 
mentar (Vienna, 1878); Placzek, Die Agada und der 
Daricinismus. in the Jiid. Liternturblatt, vol. vii, No. 1, 
6, 8, 11, 13, 16, 17, 23-31 ; Mublfelder, llab: ein Lebtns- 


TALMUD 


1S7 


TALMUD 


bild zur Geschichte des Talmud (Leips. 1871) ; Fcssler, 
Mar Samuel, der bedeutendste A mora , Kin Beit ray zur 
Kunde des Talmud (Breslau. 1879); Hoffmann, Mar 
Samuel, Rector der jiidischen Akademie zu Xehardca in 
Babylonien (Leips. 1873). (B. P.) 

TALMUD, The Oij> Testament in the Time of 
the. The Talmud presupposes a text so firmly estab- 
lished by tradition that the Talmudists no longer vent- 
ure to alter anything in it; they merely seek to settle 
it unchangeably for all time by means of very precise 
regulations on the subject of Biblical calligraphy, the 
different ways of reading, etc. 

I. The Canon (Kamov). — This word, which occurs first 
in the 3d century after Christ, has no corresponding ex- 
pression in Jewish writings. The Bible is called “ISO, 
or “1 SOil, “the Book” ( Sabbath , fol. 13, col. 1); “the 
Scripture,” NZP3 (Targnm ii inGen. xii, 42); “ Holy 
Writings,” “OrG (Sabbath, fol. 16, col. 1); SOpG, 

“Heading” (Taanith, fol. 27, col. 2). In Kiddnshin, 
fol. 49, col. I. we find the expression G^JOG] XrPiilS 
G^Ginai, “ the Law, the Prophets, and the Writings.” 

The order of books as found in our present Hebrew 
Bibles is that of the Masorites, and differs from that 
given in the Talmud, as the following table will show : 


as, for instance, the books of Ben-Sira and Ben-Toglah, 
brings confusion into his house.” Accordingly, Eeele- 
siasticns is not included in the canon of Melito, Ori- 
gen, Cyril, Laodieea, Hilary, Hufinus, etc.; and though 
Augustine, like the Talmud and the Midrashim, con- 
stantly (piotes it, yet he* as well as the ancient Jewish 
authorities, distinctly says that it is not in the Hebrew 
canon (l)e Civit. Dei, xvii, 20). Comp, also Jerome, 
Frol. in Libr. Solum., where he says that Ecelesiasti- 
eus should be read “for the instruction of the people 
( plebis ), not to support the authority of ecclesiastical 
doctrines.” 

2. The I Iphabet. — It is difficult to determine with 
precision the time at which the square character was 
perfected. Origen and Jerome ascribe the invention to 
Ezra, and so does Jose ben-Chalafta, who flourished be- 
tween A.D. 138 and K54. In the Talmud we find descrip- 
tions and allusions to the form of Hebrew letters which 
precisely suit the square alphabet ; and even in the 
Mishna, which was completed in the 3d century of our 
aera, traces occur of the same. In our own days the ex- 
istence of the Hebrew square alphabet before the Tal- 
mudic aera has been proved by the discovery of some 
tombstones in the Crimea, a few of which even bear the 
date A.D. 6 and 30 (comp. Geiger, Jiidische Zeitschrift, 
iii, 128-133, 237 ; iv, 214 sq.). But these stones cannot 


Name. 

Talmud. 

M:\9orah. 

1. Genesis 

..rnirana 



1 

1 

2. Exodus 

..nvs'j 



2 

2 



The Law, 




3. Leviticus 


i mm 


3 

3 

4. Numbers 


1 


4 

4 

5. Deuteronomy 

..D-nGT J 

i 


5 

5 

1. Joshua 

..reim ) 




f G 

G 

2. Judges 

..D^GEVJ 

[ Earlier, 



7 

7 

3. I and II Samuel — 


omirm 



S 

8 

4. I and II Kings 

..0-0^73 J 

1 

Prophets, 


9 

9 

5. Isaiah 

..mrm 1 

j 

'g^gd 


12 

10 

G. Jeremiah 

..mem 

| Later, 



10 

11 

7. Ezekiel 

..bxptm 

i 

j 



11 

12 

S. XII Minor Prophet: 

s.Trr -nn J 

i 



13 

13 

1. Psalms 

..o^bnn 

i .. 



15 

14 

2. Proverbs 


s-nax 



17 

15 

3. Job 

..rpN 

1 



1G 

1G 

4. Song of Solomon . . , 

..Gmtrn -ro] 




19 

17 

5. Ruth 

..pm 




14 

18 



I The Five 

Ilngiographa, 




G. Lamentations 

map 

Rolls, 

“C"'2‘l r.3 


20 

19 

7. Ecclesiastes 

..rbnp 

mbmi irsn 



IS 

20 

S. Esther 

..-inox j 




22 

21 

9. Daniel 

..bam 




21 

22 

10. Ezra and Nehemiah. IOT3 




23 

23 

11. I and II Chronicles.. mm 




.24 

24 


Besides these twenty-four books, the Talmud also quotes 
from the apocryphal book Jesus ben-Sira, better known 
under the name of Kcclesiasticus, as the passages given in 
the art. Ecclesiasticus indicate. But, in spite of this 
book being quoted so often, we are distinctly told that it 
is not canonical. Thus Yada'im, ch. ii, says, “The book 
of Ben-Sira, and all the other books written after its 
time, are not canonical” (G-mfi TK *pXGGG “pX). 
Again, the declaration made by B. Akiba, that he who 
studies uncanonieal books will have no portion in the 
world to come (Mishna, Sanhedr. x, 1), is explained bv 
the Jerusalem Talmud to mean “the books of Ben-Sira 
and Ben-Laanah and the Midrash on Coheleth, xii, 12 
remarks, “Whosoever introduces into his house more 
than the twentv-fonr books (i. e. the Sacred Scriptures), 


be relied upon, and the forgery has been made manifest 
by Dr. H. Struck, A. Firkowitsch v. seine Entdeehmyen 
(Leips. 1876). In the Talmud, however, we are dis- 
tinctly told not to change and V, 3 and 3, 3 and 
1 and ", n and n, 1 and 1 and "), 13 and 2, D and D 
(Shabbath, fol. 103, col. 2). The Talmud also knows the 
five final letters "j, *], D (ibid. fol. 104, col. 1), which 

were probably used to render reading more easy by dis- 
tinguishing one word from another (thus, rXGmbtt 
[the third and fourth words of the lleb. Bible] might be 
read mb God is dead”). The Talmud, again, 

not only mentions the so-called t ay yin ("pur , Gmrc), 
or calligraphic ornaments on the letters ”, 3, T, 2, 13, 3T, 123 
(Menachofh, fol. 29, col. 1 sq.; Shabbath, fol. 89, col. 1 j 


TALMUD 


1SS 


TALMUD 

fol. 105, col. 2), but also gives different combinations of 
the alphabet, as 

bzy c*\ :-j, cn, rt, 3 % fn, pn, *ia, m, rx 
rr, "|i, in. pbn, j*D“t, rp:, r--. snx 
r=, '3', pn, yi, r,\ rn, o% ==, is. 

The first of these combinations is remarkable on ac- 
count of Jerome having so confidently applied it to the 
word Sheshak, "IT-, in Jer. xxv, 26, it being the same 

as 2ZZ. 

3. The Voecel-points, — See that article. 

4. Division of Words. — Hebrew was originally writ- 

ten, like most ancient languages, without any divisions 
between the words, in a script io confinua , which fact ac- 
counts for the various readings in the Sept., as Gen. vii, 
lljC'irr for C1“> TiT; xx, 16, TKZZ lb= for bz 
rn::*!; xl, i7,b:x chzz for bznz b:*:, etc.; l 
Sam. i, 1, r,12£ “p, Alex, tv N aai [3, ; Psa. ix, 1, 

r*“b- for r"z i:', etc. Put there is no doubt that a 
division of words already existed in the time of the 
Talmud; at least the final letters, which are already 
mentioned, may have served such a purpose; and in 
Jfenachoth , fol. 30, col. 1, the space between the words in 
the sacred MSS. is fixed with precision. Whether or 
not this division of words by points — as used in the Sa- 
maritan Pentateuch — was applied, must be left undeter- 
mined. 

5. Divisions according to the Meaning of Verses. — 

There is no doubt that at a very early period a division 
according to verses (S"p*'02) existed. “Every verse 
divided by Moses may not* be otherwise divided,” we 
read in Megillah , fol. 22, col. 1. The reason for such di- 
visions was probably twofold: a. The reading of the 
Scriptures, especially in the synagogue, led to such. 
TheMishna (Megillah, cli. i v, § 4) mentions the C'pIDS 
in relation to this, for we read that “not less than 
three verses of the holy law may be read in the syna- 
gogue to each person (called to read). One verse only 
of the law may at one time be read to the methurgeman , 
or interpreter; but it is lawful to read three consecu- 
tive verses to him from the prophets; but if each verse 
should form a separate section, one verse only may be 
read to him at a time.” The Gemara forbids the leav- 
ing of the synagogue before the ending of such a sec- 
tion ( Berakoth , fol. 8, col. 1), introduces the injunction 
of Ezra (Nell, viii, 8; Megillah, fol. 3, col. 1 ; Xcdarim, 
fol. 37, col. 2), and prescribes, in reference to the proph- 
ets, how many sections are to be read on week-days 
(Baba Kamma, fol. 82, eol. 1). b. The study of the law, 
the instruction and school-teaching of the same pro- 
duced such sense-divisions. These were distinguished 
from the former, which were merely called E'piCS, by 
the names clauses, sententice, or also ** “1C S3 

clause sections. To instruct in the dividing of 
clauses (C^CDC plC^S) was a special part of the rab- 
binical teaching (Xedarim, fol. 37, col. 1); in Berakoth, 
fol. 62, col. 1, the teacher is said to point it out to his 
scholars with his right hand; and according to it dis- 
puted points of the law were settled (Chagigah, fol. 6, col. 
2). As to the sign of this division which is now found 
in the Hebrew Bible (:), it is not seen on the syna- 
gogue-roll, nor is it mentioned in the Talmud, but is of 
later origin; and we must conclude it as highly proba- 
ble that these divisions into verses and periods were not 
first externally designated, but were merely transmit- 
ted by oral tradition, as may be seen from the follow- 
ing quotation. In Kiddushia, fol. 30, col. 1. we read: 
“Therefore are the ancients called Sopherim because 
they counted all letters in Holy Writ. Thus they said 
that the Pay in j*n.1 (Lev. xi, 42) is the half of all t lie 
letters in the Pentateuch: 3L*“n (x, 16) is the 

middle word; nsmi (xiii, 33), the middle verse; 


that A yin in *1“"'C (Psa. Ixxx, 14) is the middle letter 
in the Psalms, and Ixxvii, 38 the middle verse.” In 
the same passage we also read that “ the Pentateuch con- 
tains 5888 verses, the Psalms eight more, and Chroni- 
cles eight less.” Now if we compare this number with 
that given by t lie Masorites, we shall find that the Tal- 
mud counts forty-three verses more than the Masorites 
in the Pentateuch, and this difference can only be ex- 
plained from the statement made by the Talmud ( Baba 
Bathru , lbl. M, col. 2), that Joshua wrote his book and 
eight verses of the law (Dent, xxxiv, 5-12); and t lie 
Occidentals, as we read in Kiddushin, loc. cit., divided 
Exod. xix, 9 into three verses. Thus much is certain, 
that in the time of the Talmud there was a division ac- 
cording to verses; hut what this mark of division was, if 
there were any at all— at least Tr. Sopherim, eli.iii, § 5, is 
against it — is dilficult to point out. 

6. Sfichoi ( artfot ). — The poetical passages in Exod. 

xv ; I)eut. xxxii; Judg. v; 2 Sam. xxii, were in the time 
of the Talmud already written aTi\i]pibg (comp. Shab- 
bath, fol. 103. col. 2, in jine ; Sopherim , eh. xii). The same 
may be said of the poetical books, i. e. Job, Prov- 

erbs, Psalms. The Decalogue was also originally writ- 
ten in ten series (D^Cw 1 , oriyoi), as is intimated in the 
Targum on the Song of Songs, v, 13 : “ The two tables of 
stone which he gave to his people were written in ten 
rows (shiftin'), resembling the rows or beds (shittin) in 
the garden of balsam.” See also Siiitta. 

7. The Smaller Sections of the Pentateuch. — In our He- 
brew Bibles, which follow the Masoretic text, the Penta- 
teuch is divided into parashas, or sections (m* v £*S, 
rvj-'S), of which 290 are open (riniTS, and dis- 
tinguished in our Bibles by the initial letter 2) and 379 
are closed (rYDirO, marked by the initial letter “). 
Of these parashas mention is made in the Talmud, viz. 

1. Tacinith , ch. iv, § 3, the history of creation is divided 
into seven sections, viz. Gen. 1,1-5,6-8,9-13, 14-19, 20-23, 
24-31 ; ii, 1-3. 

2. Berakoth, ch. ii, § 2; Tumid, eh. v, § 1 : Menachoth , eh. 
iii, § 7, the. sections of the prayer and phylacteries (Ex<.d. 
xiii, 1-13 ; Dent, vi, 4-9; xi, 1*3-21 ; Nunib. xv, 37-41) are 
mentioned. 

3. Megillah , ch. iii, § 4-G (comp, also Voma, eh. vii, § 1 ; So- 
tah, ch. vii, § 7), the following sections fur the Sabbath and 
festivals are given, viz.: Exod.xxx, 11-16; Dent, xxv, 17- 
19; Nnmh. xix, 1-22; Exod. xii, 1-12 ; Lev. xxii, 26-33 (fur 
the first day of the Passover); Dent. xvi,9-12 (for Pente- 
cost): Lev. xxiii, 23-25 (for New Year); xvi, 1-34; xxiii, 
26-32 (for the Day of Atonement) ; Numb, vi, 2‘2-vii,lS (for 
the Day of Dedication); Exod. xvii, 8-13 (for Purim); 
Numb, xxviii, 11-15 (for the new moon) ; Lev. xxvJ, 3 sq. ; 
Deut. xxviii sq. (for the fast-davs). 

4. Tumid, ch. v, 5 1 ; Sot ah , ch. vii, § 2, 6 ; Numb, vi, 22-27. 

5. Vadahn, ch. iii, § 4, Numb, x, 35. 36. 

6. Sotah, ch. vii, § 7, Deut. xvii, 14-20; Numb, v, 11-31 ; 
xix, 1-22; Deut. xxi, 1-9 ; xxvi, 1-11 ; xiv, 22-27 ; xxvi, 
12-15, xxv, 5-10, and many others. 

In the Gemara the following parashas are mentioned: 

7. Shahbath, fol. 115, col. 2; fol. 116, col. 1, Nnmb.x, 35, 36. 

S. Berakoth , fol. 12, eol. 2, states t hat “every parasha 

which Moses divided we also divide; and any one which 
he did not divide, neither do we,” in reply to the question 
why the verse ““ID to (Nuinb. xxiv, 9) was not 

taken out from the long section (ch. xxii-xxiv) and used 
for the prayer Shew a Israel, i.e. “ Bear, O Israel.” 

9. Ibid. fol. 63, col. 1, Numb, vi, 1-6; v, 11-31, are men- 
tioned. 

10. Gittin, fol. 60, col. 1, Lev. xxi, 1-24 : Numb, viii, 5-22 ; 
ix, 6 sq. ; V, 1-4 ; Lev. xvi ; x, 8-11 ; Numb, viii, 1-4 ; xix 
sq., are mentioned. 

That some of these were open, some closed, we read in 
Shahbath, fol. 103. col. 2; Menachoth, fol. 30, 31 ; Jeru- 
salem Megillah, fol. 71, col. 2; and in Sopherim, i. 14, 
we also read that the ojicn section is an empty space, 
the width of three letters , at the beginning of a line, 
and the closed is as much in the middle of a line. 

8. The larger sections, marked in our Bibles by S 5 3 
and ODD, are not mentioned in the Talmud. 

9. Ilaphtarahs. — After the reading of the law in the 
synagogue, it was also customary from an early period 


TALMUD 


189 


TALMUD 


to read a passage from the prophets (comp. Acts xiii, 
15, 27 ; Luke iv, 66 sq.), and with that to dissolve the 
meeting (Xi'hp ti)v avvaywygv, Acts xiii, 43; Heb. 
" *1:271); hence the reader who made this conclusion 
was called “PZiS'E, and the prophetic passage read 
The Mishina repeatedly speaks of the Hapli- 
tarahs (.1 fegillah, eh. iv, § 1-3, 5, 10), and as early as in 
the (lemara ( Megillah , fol. 20, col. 2; fol. 31, col. 1), sev- 
eral Haphtarahs are named. Vet in general they can- 
not then have been fixed determinately, and even now 
different usages prevail among the Jews of different 
countries, as may be seen from the table given in the 
art. Haphtaraii, for, as Zunz says, “our present order 
is the work of later centuries.” 

10. Various Readings . — The various readings so fre- 
quently found in the margins and foot-notes of the He- 
brew Bibles, known as Ken and Kethib "Hp, 

pi. "pTCl "“•■'“ip), are very ancient. The Talmud 
traces the source of these variations to Moses himself, 
for we are distinctly told in Xedarim, fol. 37, col. 2. 
that “the pronunciation of certain words according to 
the scribes (D"H210 X'lp'a), the emendations of the 
scribes (S^ISIO "11132*), the not reading of words 
which are in the text ( n “'p 3<bl ITC), and the read- 
ing of words which are not in the text (501 *^“ip 
2T.2), etc., are a law of Moses from Sinai (TllL'^b !"I2bn 
"'D"0*2).” We here mention some of the Talmudic pas- 
sages which have reference to these readings: 

Gen. viii, 17, Kethib 3C£in, but Keri XiTH ( Bereshith 
Rabba, ad loc. sect, xxxiv, fol. 37, col. 3). 

Lev. xxi, 5, Kethib nn“lp?, but Keri imp 1 ' ( Makkoth , 
fol, 20, col. 1). 

Lev. xxiii, 13, Kethib l"t2031, but Keri ’'DOST ( Mcnachoth , 
fol. S9, col. 2). 

1 Sam. xvii, 23, Kethib bnt Keri *112151313 (So- 

tah , fol. 42, col. 2). 

Ilag. i, 8, Kethib 12230, but Keri !"i122X (Yoma, fol. 21, 
col. 2).* 

Esth. ix, 27, Kethib bnpl, but Keri ibnpl (Jerusalem 
Berakoth, fol. 14, col. 3). \ 

Eccles. ix, 4, Kethib but Keri “QHP (Jerusalem 

Berakoth , fol. 13, col. 2). 

Job xiii, 15, Kethib xb, but Keri lb ( Sotah , ch. v, § 5). 
Prov. xxxi, 18, Kethib b^bl, but Keri ( Psikta , ed. 

Buber [Lyck, 186S], fol. 65, col. 1). 

Isa. lxiii, 9, Kethib xb, bnt Keri lb (Sotah, fol. 31, col. 1 ; 
while Taanith , fol. 16, col. 1, reads lb). 

To these variations belongs also the substitution of eu- 
phonisms for cacophonisms . See the art. Keri and 
Ketiiib, § 8. 

For the most part the rabhins follow the reading of 
the "Hp, often that of rb l^ro, especially when they 
can elicit a new interpretation from the reading of the 
2*02 ; thus, e. g., Ruth iii. 3, they interpret the reading 
of the 2*02, "’m“P1, while the *np reads HTl 
(J tidr. Ruth Rabba , sect, v, fol. 43, col. 3 [Cracov. 1588, 
fol.]). The reading according to the 2 n r3 is cited in 
Challin , fol. 68, col. 1, from Lev. ii, 2 and 2 Sam. xxiii, 

* As this passage is very interesting, we give it in 
full: “ R. Samuel bar- Enin snith, Why has the Kethib 
“12230 and the Keri 1TI33X? What is meant by the 
absence of the H ? It is because of the five things which 
made the difference between the first and second Temple, 
viz., the ark with the lid and the chernbim upon it; the 
fire (from heaven, comp. 2 Chron. vii, 1), the Shechinah, the 
Holy Gho*t, and the Urim and Thnmmim In the Midrash 
Rabba on the Song of Songs, viii, 8, where the same thing 
is recorded, the holy oil (SUTrisn "21T) is substituted for 
the Shechinah, as one of the five things, fol. 26, col. 1 (ed. 
Stettin, 1S63). 


20, in Berakoth , fol. 18, col. 1 , in fine. In the Misbna 
we find the marginal reading *Hp six times, that of the 
2 TO twice, viz. : 

Lev. ix, 22, it is written 1“P : but in Sotah, ch. vii, § 6, aud 

Tamid, ch. vii, § 2, it reads 1*H\ 

Dent, xx, 7, it is written 71252? ; but in Sotah, ch. ix, § 6, 

12523, according to the Keri. 

1 Kings vi, 6, it is written SOjUT ; but iu Middoth , ch. iv, 

§ 4, :nx^n. 

Isa. x, 13, it is written “P2X3 ; but iu Yadahn, ch. iv, § 4, 

“P23. 

Ezck.xliii,16, it is written b^X^XTIl ; hut in Middoth , ch. 
iii, 5 l,bx*nX7ll. 

Job xiii, 15, it is written xb ; but iu Sotah, ch. v, 5 5, lb. 

The reading according to the Kethib we find in two 
passages, Exod. xxi, 8, 30 ( Berakoth , ch. i, § 7 ; Kidda- 
sh in, fol. 17, col. 1), and Isa. x, 13, in Yadaim, ch. iv, § 4. 

IFords written but not read, T p 301 2T2, are men- 
tioned in Xedarim, fol. 27, col. 2, viz. 30, 2 Kings v, 8 ; 
0X1, Jer. xxxii, 1 1 ; “p“P,li,3; 2??3n, Ezek. xlviii, 16 ; 
C3<, Ruth iii, 12. 

IForc/s readbutnot written , 2T2 xbl "'“ip, arc men- 
tioned in Xedarim, fol. 37, col. 2, viz. P“iD, 2 Sam. viii, 
3; 2?*X, xvi, 23 ; 0^5, Jer. xxxi, 38; Pb, 1,29; OlX, 
Ruth ii, 11; "’bx, iii, 5, 17. 

In connection with this we may remark that in the 
treatise Meyillah, fol. 25, col. 2, we are told of certain 
passages of Scripture which are read in the synagogue 
and interpreted, read and not interpreted, and such as 
are neither read nor interpreted. Thus, “The inter- 
course of Reuben with Billah is to be read without 
being interpreted; that of Tamar (and Aranon) is to be 
read and interpreted. The (first part of the) occurrence 
with the golden calf is to be read and interpreted; but 
the second part (commencing Exod. xxxiv, 21) is to be 
read without any interpretation. The blessing of the 
priests, and the occurrence of David ami Anmon, are 
neither to be read nor interpreted. The description of 
the divine chariot (Ezek. i) is not to be read as a 
Haphtarah, but R. Jehudah permits it ; R. Eleazer says 
neither (Ezek. xvi), ‘Cause Jerusalem to know her 
abomination,’ ” etc. 

11. Ablatio Scribaj'um^^t^D *1122*, Xedarim , fol. 
37, col. 2. See the art. Masokaii, § 6. 

12. Correctio Scribantm , DTE10 ppOl, is not men- 
tioned in the Talmud, but reference is made to it in the 
Mechilta, Siphri, Tanchuma, Bereshith Rabba, Shemoth 
Rabbah (Midrashie works, enumerated under Midrash); 
the passages belonging to the correctio scribarum are 
given s. v. Masoraii, 5. See also Tikkun Sopherim. 

13. Puncta Extraordinaria. — Over single letters, over 
entire words, we find dots or points, generally called 
“ puncta extraordinaria.” The first instance is men- 
tioned in the Mishna, Pesachim, ix, 2, over the 71 of the 
word 71pm, Numb, ix, 10. Ten such words which 
have these extraordinary points are enumerated in 
J fid rash Ba-midbar Rabbah on Numb, iii, 39, sect, iii, 
fol. 215, col. 4; comp. Pirke de- Rabbi Xathan, cli. xxxiii; 
Siphri on Numb. ix, 10; Soplierim, vi,3 ; Massora Mag- 
na on Numb, iii, 39; Oklah re-Oklah, § 96. 

The following words are mentioned in the Talmud : 

Gen. xviii, 9, Y^bx. On this passage the Midrash Bere- 
shith Rabba remarks: “l n X are poiuted, 
but not the b. R. Simeon ben-Eliezei' saith, 
wherever you find more letters than points, 
yon must explain the letters, i. e. what is 
written; but where von find more points 
than letters, yon must explain the points. 
In this case, where there are more points 
than the written text, you must explain 


TALMUD 


190 


TALMUDISTS 


• the points, viz. *p5t, ‘where is Abraham.’ \ 

The meaning is that the points over these ■ 
three letters intend to iudicate that the 
three angels did uot ask ‘where is Sarai, 
PITITrPX,’ but 'where is Abraham,’ 
Cm2X’’ (comp. Baba Metsiak y fol. S7, col. 
D- . 

Gen. xix, 33, iTlip-l. In the Talmud, Xazir , fol. 23, 
eol. 1, we read : “ Why is there a point over 
the Vav, 1, of the word To indi- 

cate that when she lay down he did uot 
perceive it, but when she arose he perceived 
it”(comp. also Horayoth , fol. 10, col. 1 ; and 
Jerome, Qwest. in Genes.; “ Appnugunt de- 
super quasi incredil)ile et quod rerum na- 
tnra uon capiat coire quemquam uescieu- 
tem”). 

Numb, iii, 19, ’jlJlX’l. Ba-midbar Rabbah , loc. eit., says 
that the points over Aaron indicate that he 
was not one of that number (comp, also 
Berakoth , fol. 4, col. 1). 

ix, 10, fipm. In Mishna, JYsfleZ?nn,ix,2, we read: 
“What is a distant journey? R. Akibasays 
from Modaim and beyond, and from all 
places around Jerusalem situated at the 
same distance. R. Eleazar says ‘any dis- 
tance beyond the outside of the threshold 
of the court of the Temple.’ R. Jose says 
the reason for the point over the H (in our 
word) is to denote that it is not necessary 
to he actually on a distant road, but only 
beyond the threshold of the court of the 
Temple.” 

Dent, xxix, 2S, *i3^. Ba-midbar Rabbah, 

loc. cit., ‘‘Yon have made manifest, hence 
I will also manifest unto yon hidden things” 
(comp. Sanhedrin , fol. 43, col. 2, in fine). 

Fsa. xxvii, 13, Berakoth, fol. 4, col. 1, says, “Lord 

of the universe, I am aware that tlion great- 
ly rewardest the just in future ages, but I 
know not ’whether I shall partake of it with 
them on account of my sin.” Buxtorf re- 
marks on this passage, CPU CP33,i.e. 
a sense without any sense. The meaning 
probably is that without the points, 

means if not, like the Latin nisi, but with 
the points it signifies “ a doubt.” 

As to the origin and signification of these points, noth- 
ing certain can be said. According to the rabbins, Ezra 
is said to have been the author of them (comp. Ba-mid- 
bar Rabbah on Numb, iii, 3D, sect, iii, Ibl. 215, eol. 4; 
A both de-Rabbi Xa than, eh. xxxiii). This much may be 
taken for granted, that these points were known long 
before the Talmud. 

14. Inverted Xun, c. — Before Numb, x, 35. and after 
ver. 36, we find in our Hebrew text the letter Xu n, 
3, inverted (c). In the Talmud, N/m&fot//?, fol. 1 15, eol. 2; 
fol. 116, col. I, we are told that “the section commencing 

1~N1 “,iXn (Numb. X, 35) was 

made by God with signs below and above, to indicate 
that it is notin its proper plaee. But Rabbi said this 
is not so, but that this book was counted bv itself. 
How do you know it? R. Samuel bar-Nachman said, 
R. Jonathan saith (it is written) ‘She hath hewn out 
her seven pillars’ (l’rov. ix, 1); this means the seven 
books of the law.” On the inverted Xuns found in Rsa. 
evii, mention is made in Rosh 1 1 ash-slianah , fol. 17, eol. 2. 

15. The Vav Ketid in Numb, xxv, 12. — Of this ‘PI 
S3.“"-p, or Fat* cut-off, which is found in our Hebrew Bi- 
ble N we read in the Talmud, Kiddushin , fol. 66, eol. 2 : 
“ Whence do we have it that a person having some de- 
fect is unfit for the sacred ministry? R. Jehudah said 
that R. Samuel taught that this is because the Scripture 
says,* Wherefore say, Behold I give unto him my cove- 
i>ant of peace’ — a perfect peace, and not an imperfect 


one. But, said one, it is written mb’U, i. e. peace; but 
answered R. Naehman, the Vav in 31? is cut oil” (/"' 

nr^’jp nibiri). 

16. 'Hie Closed or Final Mem (E3) in the middle of the 

word Isa. ix, 6, In the Talmud, Sanhedrin , fol. 

91, col. 2, we find the following : 

“Why is it that all the Means in the middle of a word 
are open (i. e. *2) and this one closed (i. e. D) ? The Holy 
One (blessed be he) wanted to make Ilezekiah the Mes- 
siah, and Sennacherib Gog and Magog; whereupon Jus- 
tice pleaded before the presence of the Holy One, Lord of 
the world, ‘What! David, the king of Israel, who sang 
so many hymns and praises before thee, wilt thou not 
make him the Messiah? But Ilezekiah, for whom thou 
hast performed all the miracles, and who has not uttered 
one song before thee, wilt thou make him the Messiah ?’ 
Therefore has the Mem been closed.” 

17. Suspended Letters. — The suspended Xun we find in 
nir - 72,Judg.xviii,30. The Talmud, Baba Bathra , fol. 
109, col. 2, states the following : 

“Was he (i. e. Gershom) the son of Manasseh ? while 
the Scripture says the sons of Moses were Eleazar and 
Gershom. But because he did the deeds of Manasseh (2 
Kings xxi), did the Scripture append him to the (family) 
of Manasseh.” The meaning is that the prophet did not 
like to call Gershom the son of Moses, because it would 
be ignominious that Moses should have had au impious 
sou; hence he called him the son of Manasseh, with the 
suspended letter, which may mean the son of Manasseh 
or Moses. 

The suspended A yin is found in fc* 1 ’' 12*1, Job xxxviii, 
15. In the Talmud, Sanhedrin, fol. 103, eol. 2, we read 
the following : “ Why is the V in C‘ , P 131 suspended ? It 
is to teaeh that when a man is 1131, poor, in this world, 
he will also be 1131 in the world to come; or, literally, 
poor below, he will also be poor above.” 

Of the suspended A yin in Psa. lxxx, 14, we 

read, Kiddushin , fol. 30, col. 2, that this letter is the mid- 
dle letter in the Psalms. 

18. Majuscular and M 'muscular Letters. — Of words 

written with large and small letters in our Hebrew Bi- 
ble we find nothing in the Talmud, but some of these 
instances are mentioned in the Sopherim, eh. ix. That 
this mode of writing must have been very ancient can- 
not be doubted, for there is a dispute in the Talmud, 
M erf ilia h , fol. 16, col. 2, whether the 1 in XPUI (Esth. 
ix, 9) should be written as a majuscular or mi muscular 
letter; and the word (Lev. xiii, 33), which is 

now written with a majuscular 3*. is mentioned in Kid- 
dushin, fol. 30, eol. 2, as being the middle of the verses 
of the Pentateuch. 

19. Mode of Quotations. See Quotations of the 
Old Testament in the Talmud. (B. P.) 

Talmudists. Under this head we include all those 
rabbins whose opinions are regarded as authoritative 
in the Talmud. The period of these men comprises 
the time from about B.C. 180 to A.l). 500, i. e. from Si- 
mon the Just to the completion of the Talmud. This 
period is again subdivided into that of the Tan aim and 
that of the Amoral m — the former representing the time 
from about B.C. 180 to A.H. 219, the latter from A.l). 
219 to A.l). 500. 

I. Tanaim. — The first reeognised, after Simon’s death, 
as the head of the Sanhedrim was Antigomis of Soho, 
about B.C. 180. 1 1 is contemporary was Eliczcr ben- 

Charsum, celebrated for his opulence, learning, and 
zeal in the promotion of religious knowledge. After 
Antigomis, always two (or zuyoth) stand at the head of 
the community — the first being the president, the sec- 
ond the vice-president. As the first of these zugoth. 
or pairs, are mentioned Jose ben-Joezer and Joseph 


TALMUDISTS 


191 


TAM 


ben-Jochanan, about. B.C. 70. Tbev were followed by 
Joshua ben-Pcrachja and Nithai of Arbela (q. \\). Their 
successors were Jehuda ben-Tabai and Simon ben-She- 
tach (q. v.). The fourth pair is represented in She- 
maja and Abtalion, about B.C. 47. The tilth and last 
pair are llillel (q. v.) and Shammai (q. v.). Under their 
presidency lived Baba ben-Buta, Chanina hen -Dose, 
Jochauan ben-Zachai (q. v. ), and Nechunjah ben-ha- 
Kana (q. v.). llillel was followed by his son Simon (ben- 
llillel) (q. v.). llis successor was Gamaliel 1 (q. v.), who 
was followed by his son Simon (ben-Gamaliel) (q. v.). 
With Simon closes the period of the so-called earlier 
Tanaim. The later Tanaim first figure in history 
when the Temple was in ashes and Jerusalem a heap 
of ruins. At this period, verging upon decay, when Ju- 
daism was without any centre and support, appeared 
Jochanan ben-Zachai, the last among Hillel’s eighty 
disciples. Jochanan established a school at Jamniah, 
or rlabneh, whose president he became. 1 1 is successor 
was Gamaliel bar-Simon (q. v.), and his fellow-laborers 
were Akiba ben -Joseph (q.v.), Eliezer ben-Asarja, 
Eliezer ben-Arak, Eliezer ben-Hyrkanos (q. v.), Ismael 
ben-Elisa (q. v.), Joshua ben-IIananja (q. v.), Nechunjah 
ben-ha-Kana (q. v.),and Tarphon ((|.v.). Gamaliel was 
succeeded b\ r his son Simon (ben-Gamaliel II) (q.v.), 
who transferred the Rabbinical apparatus to Tiberias. 
To his college belonged Nathan ha-Babli (q. v.), Jose 
ben-llalephta, Jehndah ben-Uai, rabbi Meir (q. v.), and 
Simon ben- JochaV (q.v.). Simon ben -Gamaliel ’was 
succeeded bv his son Judah the llolv (q. v.). 

II. A moral m . — With the life and labors of rabbi Ju- 
dah ended the succession of the Tanaim, who were now 
followed by a new order, the Amoraim i. e. 

the expositors of the law, at length no longer oral, but 
reduced to a written text. Some of the most distin- 
guished of their number were rabbi Chija, Chanina 
bar-Chana, Abba Areka, or Bab (q. v.), Bar-Kappara, 
Jochanan bar-Napacha (q. v.), and Simon ben-Lakish 
(q. v.). Of the scholastic labors of these men we have 
the monumental result in the Palestine Gemara, com- 
monly called Tctlmud Jerushalmi (p’zh'Z II* 1 T.H2P). 

After the death of Judah, not only learning, but also 
the patriarchal dignity, was more and more in the de- 
cline; for with Judah’s death the star of Judaea’s learn- 
ing had set, never to rise again in Palestine, liabhan 
Gamaliel III, Judah’s son, and Judah 11, son of Gama- 
liel III, his successor, were weak in character, mediocre 
in learning, and deficient in theological acumen. The 
latter transferred his residence to Tiberias, and Galilee, 
once so despised, now became “ the Holy Land,” and Ti- 
berias its Jerusalem. Of Gamaliel IV, the successor of 
Judah II, and Judah III, son and successor of Gamaliel 
IV, history has nothing to record, except that, they 
close the line of Palestinian teachers. Meanwhile nu- 
merous migrations of rabbins to Babylon had taken 
place, especially in the reign of Constantius, who perse- 
cuted the Jews. We leave Palestine and turn to Baby- 
lon, where the schools at Sora (q. v.), Pumbaditha (q. v.), 
Nahardea, and Machusa were in a flourishing condition. 

At Babylon the greater and more noble part of the 
Jewish families settled at the Captivity, to return no 
more to their ancestral soil, and there the literary cult- 
ure of the people took a development which exerted no 
small influence on the studies of after- generations. 
There the Jews lived under their resh gelutha , or prince 
of the exiles, whose office was of an ecclesiastical and 
secular kind. So long as the Temple was standing the 
Babylonian Jews acknowledged the presidency of the 
high-priest, and paid the didrachm contribution to the 
Temple, which, however, they did not after the destruc- 
tion of that edifice. Finally, the Babylonians succeed- 
ed in establishing their own independence, in civil and 
ecclesiastical matters, of the Western patriarchate, and 
established schools of learning all over the country 
without material aid from those of the fatherland, 
though the schools took the same undeveloped form as 


I those of the Holy Land. The names given to these 
I schools were Aramaean forms for the Hebrew ones of the 
| Palestinian schools. The “house of learning” was called 
1 Beth Vlpliana (SCSblX PPH); JJeth Midrash (PPH 
- ), “the house of doctrine;” Beth ha-Vaad 
(“iPYlil; Ileb. PD2^n P">H), “the house of assemblage;” 
Beth Metihtha (KPH^PH P.^H; Heb. PH^nT), “the 
house of sitting;” Beth Rabbanan (“:H“l P n H), “the 
house of the masters;” Beth Sidra (N“HD P^H), “the 
house of order.” The principal or rector of the school 
was entitled Rub Beth Ulphana (N2£?*iN P" 1 H HP), 
Resk Metihtha (SPH"'PH £T*I), Resh Sidra ( WH 
XPPC), etc. So, too, the academical degree of Mar 
(PH) was equivalent to the Palestinian title of rabbi 
("'HP), anti was conferred after the same course of study 
by the semikah (HE^EO), or “imposition of hands.” 

III. Schools. — The earliest school of which we have 
any specific information is that which was situated at 

1. Xahartlea. — With this school we first become ac- 
quainted towards the close of the 2d century. Nahar- 
dea was situated on the Euphrates, and for a time she 
was the Babylonian Jerusalem. While the Temple was 
vet in existence, this place had the treason' of the Baby- 
lonian congregations for the Tempi e-offerings which were 
brought to Jerusalem (Josephus, Ant. xviii, 12). The 
first rector at Nahardea was K. Shila, who was succeed- 
ed by Mar-Samuel, the astronomer (also called Arioch 
and Jarchiuai), in A.L>. 190-247. Ilis disciples were 
Nachman ben- Jacob, Sheshet, Rabba ben-Abbuba, and 
Joseph ben-Chama. When Nahardea was sacked in 
259 and the academy broken up, they migrated to 

2. Machusa , a town on the Tigris, about four hours 
from Ctesiphon, where a new academy was founded. 
Rabba ben-Abbuba promoted this school of learning by 
bis lectures, and Machusa attained some celebrity. Ten 
years (A. I). 303) after Rabba’s death, the city was de- 
molished by the Romans in the war tinder Julian. The 
most famous schools, however, were those at 

3. Pumbaditha and Sora, where the Amoraim at- 
tained great renown. The. teachers of these schools 
having already been mentioned in the arts. Pumra- 
ditiia and Sou a, we need only to refer to them. Of 
the names mentioned, we have only given the most 
prominent, which, in part, are already given under the 
respective letter, or will be treated, so far as omitted, in 
the supplement volume. 

IV. Literature.— Lnzzatto, tTNPHXI tTJCPl PPO 
(Prague, 1839) ; Liber Juchasin, ed. Filipowski (Lond. 
1857); Frankel, Ilodegetica in Mischmtm (Lips. 1859 
[Heb.]); Weiss, Zur (leschiclite der jiidischen Tradition 
(Vienna, 1872-77, 2 vols. [lleb. j) ; Cliiariui, Le Talmud 
de Baby lone (Leips. 1831), i, 105 sq. ; Bacher, Die Ar/ada 
der babylonischen Amorder ( Strasburg, 1878). The 
Talmudists whose names are mentioned in the treatise 
Baba Metsia are given by Sammter in the. appendix to 
his German translation of Baba Metsia (Berlin, 1879), 
p. 160 sq. See Scribe. (B. P.) 

Talochon, Marik Vincent, better known by his 
clerical name, P'ere Elysee. was a French surgeon, born 
in January, 1753, at Thorigny, and reared among the 
Brothers of Charity at Paris, whose order he entered 
Jan. 30, 1774. He was engaged in various public and 
benevolent enterprises, and died in Paris Nov. 27, 1817. 
See Iloefer, Xouv. Bioy. Generate, s. v. 

Tal'sas (S«\3otc v. r. YaXoag, Vulg. Thalsas), a 
corrupt G racism (1 Esdr. ix, 22) for the name Elasaii 
( q. v.) of the Hebrew list (Ezra x, 22). 

Tam, Jacob ben-Meir, better known in Jewish lit- 
erature under the name of Rabeiw Tam , was born at 
Rcmers, France, about 1100, and died in 1171. lie was 
a grandson of llashi (q. v.), and youngest brother of 
Rash bam (q. w), and was famous not only as a Talmud- 


TAMA 


192 


TAMAI 


ist, grammarian, and commentator, but also for his pie- 
ty, for which he obtained the appellation Tam (HP), in 
allusion to Gen. xxv, 27, where his namesake Jacob is 
denominated 77m = pious (~P1 11* "'X Under 

the title of "iw^H *“£0, “ the book of the righteous,” he 
wrote additions on thirty treatises of the Talmud, pub- 
lished at Vienna in 1811. Supplements are given by 
Luzzattofrom an old MS. in the Kcrem Chewed (Prague, 
1843), vii, 19 sq.; nViT 1 “iu;v. i. e. ten 

Talmudic decisions, also given by Luzzatto {loc. eit .) ; 
— " “2 y — n } 


r<*3 IT2, i. e. a poem on the He- 
brew accents, consisting of forty- five stanzas, five of 
which were first published by Luzzatto ( loc . eit.), and 
the whole forty-five of which appeared in the following 
work: myi^nflD, or grammatical and lexical ani- 
madversions, designed to reconcile the differences of 
Dunash ibn-Labral and Menaehen beii-Saruk on points 
of grammar and exegesis (first published by Filipowski, 
Lond. 1855); min “ISO -ppp, or 7*0 nobn, or 
ppr. a guide for transcribing MSS. of the 
Bible, in MS. extant; ” :r 'VS'HB, or a grammatical 
commentary on the Bible, which has not yet come to 
light, but is quoted by commentators, lexicographers, j 
and grammarians. R. Tam also enriched the Jewish 
ritual with some pieces, as the OSPS O n 3P (i. e. “these 
words are true,” etc.), in the Machser Ashkenazim, and 
used after the haphturuk for the second day of Pen- 
tecost. Sec Filrst, Bill. Jud. iii, 40G sq. ; De Rossi, l)i - 
zionario Storico (Germ, transl.), p. 306; Kitto, Cyclop. I 
s. v. ; Gratz, (Jesch. d. Juden , vi, 196 sq. ; Braunschwei- . 
ger, Gesch. d. J if den in den romanischen Staaten (Wi'irz- ' 
burg, 1865), p. 85; Geiger, Pai'shandatha (Leips. 1855), I 
p. 24 sq. ; Kalish, Hebrew Grammar (Lond. 1863), ii, 
27 ; Zunz, Synagogale Poesie (Berlin, 1855). p. 248: id. 
Literaturgeschichte zur synagogulen Poesie (ibid. 1865), 
p. 265-267 ; id. Zur Literatur und Geschirhte , p. 32, 109; 
Rapaport, in Kerem Chemed (Prague, 1843), vii, 1 3; 
Luzzatto, ibid. p. 19-34, 35-53 ; Landshuth [L.], A mude 
Haabodah (m*!0~n (Berlin, 1857), i, 106 sq. 

(B. P.) 

Tama ( Kethib in 1 Kings ix, 8). See Tadmor. 

Ta'mah(lleb. non, Te'mach ; in pause, POP, Ta 
mach, laughter [Gesen.], or combat [Fur*t] ; Sept. 0 rjftd, 
0 tpd ; Vulg. Thema), the name of a man whose de- 
scendants (or rather a place whose inhabitants) return- 
ed among the Nethinim from the captivity with Zerub- 
babel (Kzra ii, 53, “ Thamah Neb. vii, 55). 

Ta'mar (Ileb. POP, Tamar', a palm-tree, as often; 
Sept. Hapap [v. r. 0 jjpftp~\ t but Oatpdr in Kzek. : Jo- 
sephus, 0 a papa, Ant. vii, 3, 3; 8, 1 ; 10, 3; Vulg. Tha- 
mur), tlie name of one place and of three remarkable 
women in Old-Test, history. See also Palm. 

1. A spot on the southeastern frontier of Judah, 
named in Ezek. xlvii, 19; xlviii. 28 only, evidently 
called from a palm-tree. We naturally think of llaze- 
zon-tamar, the old name of Engedi ; but this is not 
quite appropriate for location. Eusebius and Jerome 
mention a Thavmra, a place hung between Hebron and 
Ailah (Onomast. s. v. “ Hazezon-tamar”); and Ptolemy 
(v, 16,8) mentions a Qnpapw, as do also the Peutinger 
Tables (Reland, Pahrsf. p.462). Robinson identifies it 
with Kunmb, a place containing the ruins of an old 
fortress about an ordinary day’s journey from el-Milh to- 
wards the pass es-Sufah (Bill. Res. ii, 198, 201). This, 
however, depends on a conjectural emendation of the 
Onomasticon, where, in the clause nop?} duariurra Mrh£/<f 
(v. r. p6\ tc, Md\«c), ipdpag odor, Robinson would read 
M a\a5i}g for whereby he makes Thamara a 

day’s journey from Malatha, which he identifies with 
el-Milh. Besides, as Van de Velde observes, the dis- 
tance of Kurnub from el-Milh is not a day’s journey, 
but only four hours; nor is Kurnub to the south-west 


of the Dead Sea, where the Peutinger Tables place 
Thamaro; nor are the ruins ancient (Van de Velde, 
Syria, ii, 130). Fiirst ( Ileb. Tex. s. v.) regards it as 
identical with the Tamar of the Kethib, or text, in 1 
Kings ix, 8; but that is generally thought to mean 
Tadmor (q. v.). Schwarz (Palest, p. 21, note) thinks 
that Zoar is meant, on the strength of certain Tal- 
mudical notices. De Saulcv (Karr, i, 7) endeavors to 
establish a connection between Tamar and the Kalaat 
Um-Baghik, at the mouth of the ravine of that name 
on the south-west side of the Dead Sea, on the ground 
(among others) that the names are similar. But this, 
to say the least, is more than doubtful. It is rather to 
be sought at the extreme south end of the Dead Sea, 
where the line as run bv Ezekiel evidently begins (see 
Keil, ad loc.) ; perhaps at some clump of palms anciently 
exiting at A in el- A rus, near the mouth of Wady Fi- 
kreh. 

2 . The wife successively of Er and Onan, the two 
sons of Judah (Gen. xxxviii, 6-30). Her importance 
in the sacred narrative depends on the great anxiety to 
keep up the lineage of Judah. It seemed as if the fam- 
ily were on the point of extinction. Er and Onan (q. v. 
respectively) had each in turn perished suddenly. Ju- 
dah’s wife. Bathshuah, died; and there only remained 
a child, ShelahjWhom Judah was unwilling to trust to 
the dangerous union, as it appeared, with Tamar, lest 
he should meet with the same fate as his brothers. 
That he should, however, marry her seems to have been 
regarded as part of the fixed law of the tribe, whence 
its incorporation into the Mosaic law in after-times 
(Dent, xxv, 5 ; Matt, xxii, 24) ; and, as such, Tamar was 
determined not to let the opportunity escape through 
Judah’s parental anxiety. Accordingly, she resorted to 
the desperate expedient of entrapping the father him- 
self into the union which he feared for his son. He, 
on the first emergence from his mourning for his wife, 
went to one of the festivals often mentioned in Jewish 
history as attendant on sheep-shearing. He wore on 
his finger the ring of his chieftainship; he carried his 
staff in his hand; he wore a collar or necklace round 
his neck. He was encountered by a veiled woman on 
the road leading to Timnath, the future birthplace of 
Samson, among the hills of Dan. He took her for one 
of the unfortunate women who were consecrated to the 
impure rites of the Canaanitish worship. See Har- 
lot. He promised her, as the price of his intercourse, 
a kid from the flocks to which he was going, and left 
as his pledge his ornaments and his staff’. The kid he 
| sent back by his shepherd (Sept.), Hirah of Adullam. 
I The woman could nowhere be found. Months after- 
■ wards it was discovered to be his own daughter-in-law, 
Tamar, who bad thus concealed herself under the veil 
or mantle, which she cast off on her return home, where 
she resumed the seclusion and dress of a widow. She 
was sentenced to be burned alive, and was only saved 


j by the discovery, through the pledges which Judah had 
left, that her seducer was no less than the chieftain of 
the tribe, lie had the magnanimity to recognise that 
she had been driven into this crime by his own neglect 
of his promise to give her in marriage to his youngest 
1 son. “ She bath been more righteous than I . . . and 
he knew her again no more” (Gen. xxxviii, 26). The 
fruit of this intercourse was twins, Pharez and Zarah, 
and through Pharez the sacred line was continued. 
B.C. 1885. Hence the prominence given to Tamar in 
the nuptial benediction of the tribe of Judah (Ruth iv, 
12) and in the genealogy of our Lord (Matt, i, 3). — 
Smith. See Judah. 

3 . Daughter of David and Maachah the Geshurite 
princess, and thus sister of Absalom (2 Sam. xiii, 1-32; 
1 Chron. iii, 9; Josephus, Ant. vii, 8, 1). She and her 
brother were alike remarkable for their extraordinary 
beauty. Her name (“palm-tree”) may have been giv- 
en her on this account (comp. Cant, vii, 7). This fatal 
beauty inspired a frantic passion in her half-brother 
Amnon, the eldest son of David bv Ahinoam. He 


TAMAR 


193 


TAMIL VERSION 


wasted away, from the feeling that it was impossible to 
gratify his desire, “for she was a virgin” — the narra- 
tive leaves it uncertain whether from a scruple on his 
part, or from the seclusion in which, in her unmarried 
state, she was kept. Morning by morning, as he re- 
ceived the visits of his friend Jonadab, he is paler and 
thinner (Josephus, Ant. vii, 8, 1). Jonadab discovers 
the cause, and suggests to him the means of accom- 
plishing his wicked purpose. He was to feign sickness. 
The king, who appears to have entertained a consider- 
able affection, almost awe, for him as the eldest son (2 
Sam. xiii, 5, 21 ; Sept.), came to visit him ; and Amnon 
entreated the presence of Tamar on the pretext that 
she alone could give him the food that he would eat. 
What follows is curious, as showing the simplicity of 
the royal life. It would almost seem that Tamar was 
supposed ^o have a peculiar art of baking palatable 
cakes. She came to his house (for each prince appears 
to have had a separate establishment), took the dough 
and kneaded it, and then in his presence (for this was 
to be a part of his fancy, as if there were something 
exquisite in the manner of her performing the work) 
kneaded it a second time into the form of cakes. The 
name given to these cakes QebibalT), “ heart -cakes,” 
has been variously explained: “hollow cakes,” “cakes 
with some stimulating spices” (like our word cordial ), 
cakes in the shape of a heart (like the Moravian ge- 
riihrte Herzen , Thenius, ad loc.j cakes “the delight of 
the heart.” Whatever it be, it implies something spe- 
cial and peculiar. She then took the pan in which 
they had been baked and poured them all out in a heap 
before the prince. This operation seems to have gone 
on in an outer room, on which Amnon’s bedchamber 
opened. He caused his attendants to retire, called her 
to the inner room, and there accomplished his design. 
In her touching remonstrance two points are remarka- 
ble. First, the expression of the infamy of such a crime 
“in Israel” implying the loftier standard of morals that 
prevailed as compared with other countries at that time; 
and, secondly, the belief that even this standard might 
be. overborne lawfully by royal authority — “ Speak to 
the king, for he will not withhold me from thee.” This 
expression has led to much needless explanation from 
its contradiction to Lev. xviii, 9; xx, 17; Deut. xxvii, 
22 ; as, e. g., that her mother, Maachah, not being a Jew- 
ess, there was no proper legal relationship between her 
and Amnon; or that she was ignorant of the law; or 
that the Mosaic laws were not then in existence (The- 
nius, ad loc.). It is enough to suppose, what evidently 
her whole speech implies, that the king had a dispens- 
ing power which was conceived to cover even extreme 
cases. The brutal hatred of Amnon succeeding to his 
brutal passion, and the indignation of Tamar at his bar- 
barous insult, even surpassing her indignation at his 
shameful outrage, are pathetically and graphically told, 
and in the narrative another glimpse is given us of the 
manners of the royal household. The unmarried prin- 
cesses, it seems, were distinguished by robes or gowns 
with sleeves (so the Sept., Josephus, etc., take the word 
translated in the A. V. “divers colors”). Such was the 
dress worn by Tamar on the present occasion, and when 
the guard at Amnon’s door had thrust her out and 
closed the door after her to prevent her return, she, in 
her agony, snatched handfuls of ashes from the ground 
and threw them on her hair, then tore off her royal 
sleeves, and clasped her bare hands upon her head, and 
rushed to and fro through the streets screaming aloud. 
In this state she encountered her brother Absalom, who 
took her to his house, where she remained as if in a 
state of widowhood. The king was afraid or unwilling 
to interfere with the heir to the throne, but she was 
avenged by Absalom, as Dinah had been by Simeon 
and Levi, and out of that vengeance grew the series of 
calamities which darkened the close of David’s reign 
(see Stanley, Jeioish Church , ii, 128). B.C. 1033. See 
David. 

4. Daughter of Absalom, called, probablv, after her 
X.— N 


beautiful aunt, and inheriting the beauty of both aunt 
and father (2 Sam. xiv, 7). She was the sole survivor 
of the house of Absalom ; and ultimately, bv her mar- 
riage with Uriah of Gibeah, became the mother of Maa- 
chah, the future queen of Judah, or wife of Abijah (1 
Kings xv, 2), Maachah being called after her great- 
grandmother, as Tamar after her aunt. B.C. 1023. See 
Absalom. 

Tambourine. See Timbrel. 

Tamburini, a name common to several Roman ec- 
clesiastics, of whom we mention the following: 

1. Michael Angelus, of Modena, was made general 
of the Jesuits Jan. 31, 1706, and died Feb. 28, 1730. 

2. Pietro, born in 1737 at Brescia, received his 
theological and philosophical training at the seminary 
of his native place, where he afterwards acted as the 
head of the lyceum founded by him. He was also head 
of the Collegium Germanicum at Rome, and was pro- 
moted by Maria Theresa to a professorship of theology, 
and in 1779 to the chair of natural law and moral phi- 
losophy at Pavia. He resigned his professorship in 
1795, but was compelled by the French authorities in 
Lombardy to (ill the chair of ethics and international 
law in 1797. For three years, 1798—1801, this chair was 
suppressed, but, being restored in the latter year, was 
filled by Tamburini till 1818, when he was appointed 
dean of the faculty of law. He died at Pavia, March 
14, 1827. He was made a chevalier of the Iron Crown 
by the emperor of Austria, and received other distinc- 
tions. He wrote, Idea della Santa Sede (Pavia, 1784): 
— Introduzione alio Studio della Filosojia (Milan, 1797) : 
— Lezioni di Filosojia Morale , etc. (Pavia, 1806-12,4 
vols.): — Elementa Juris Natures (Milan, 1815): — Cenni 
sulla Perfettibilita dell ’ Uinana Famiylia (ibid. 1823) : 
— Preelectiones ele Ecclesia Christi et Unirersa Jurispru- 
dentia Ecclesiastica, quee habuit in A cademia Ficinensi 
(Lipsia?, 1845, 4 pts.): — Preelections de Justitia Christ . 
et ele Sacramentis , ele Ultimo Hominis Fine deque Yirtu- 
tibus Theol. et Carclinalibus (Ficino, 1783-85,3 vols.) : — 
Analisi delle Apologie di S. Justino Mart., con alcune 
IHjlessioni (Pavia, 1792): — Pagionamenti sul 1 0 Libro di 
Grig, contra Cello (ibid. 1786) : — on Tertullian, Analisi 
del Libro delle Preset' izioni, con alcune Osservazioni (ibid. 
1782). 

3. Tommaso, a Jesuit, was born in 1591 at Caltaniset- 
ta, in Sicily, was professor of theology, afterwards censor 
and counsellor of the Holy Office, and died at Palermo 
in 1675. His moral and theological writings were pub- 
lished at Lyons in 1659, and Venice in 1755. 

See Theologisches Universal- Lex ikon, s. v. ; Wetzer 
n. Welte, Kirch. -Lex ikon, xii, 1818 ; Zuchold, Bibl. Theol. 
ii, 1305; Winer, flandbuch der theol. Liter atur, i, 316, 
897,900,913; ii, 797. (B. P.) 

Tamid. See Talmud. 

Tamil Version. Tamil, or Tamul, the language 
of the ancient kingdom of Dravira, is spoken in the ex- 
tensive country now called the Carnatic, and is the ver- 
nacular language from the town of Pnlicat in the north 
to Cape Comorin in the south, and from the shores of 
the Indian Ocean on the east to the Ghauts on the west. 
It also obtains along the whole northern coast of Cey- 
lon, including the populous district of Jaffna, where it 
is spoken by a race of people sometimes called the Mal- 
abars. Tamil is likewise the vernacular language of 
the Moormen of Ceylon. 

A Tamil version of the New Test, was executed by 
Zicgenbalg, the first Protestant missionary to India, 
with the help of other missionaries associated with him, 
at Tranquebar. He commenced the translation in 1708, 
and completed it in 1711. The printing of this version 
was delayed in order that it might receive the benefit 
of a thorough revisal ; and this important task was com- 
mitted to John Ernest Grundler, a German missionary, 
who had arrived in India soon after the commencement 
of the translation. Under his care the work was print- 
ed, bearing the title Novum Testamentum D. N. Jesu 


TAMIL VERSION 


194 


TAMIL VERSION 


Christ!, ex Original! Textu in IAnguam DitmuUcctm Ver- 
sum,in Usum Gentis Mulubarictv , opera et studio Bsrtho- 
lomiei Ziegenbalg et Joan, Ernest i Grumllcri Screnissimi 
Danirc Begis Frideriei IV ad Indos Orientales Missio- 
nariorum (Tranquebane, 1714). In 1717 Ziegenbalg 
commenced the translation of the Old Test., and in 
1719, having carried it as far as the book of Until, he 
died, at the age of thirty-six. After his decease, and 
that of his fellow-laborer Grundler, which, occurred dur- 
ing the following year, the revision of his manuscripts 
and the prosecution of the version of the Old Test, de- 
volved on Benjamin Schultze, a missionary who had 
arrived from Italic a short time previously under the 
patronage of the Society for Promoting Christian Knowl- 
edge. Schultze published the portion of the Old Test, 
translated by Ziegenbalg in 1723, and completed the 
version in 1727, which was published in three parts, viz. 
Biblkt Damulica . seu quod Dens Omnipotentissimus sc met 
ipsum ex sita sEtcniitate clarius Manifestaturus de Calo 
est Loeutus. I ’ eteris Testament i Pars J’rima, in qua J fosis 
Libri quinque , Josum Tibet' anus, atque Liber units Judi- 
cum, studio et opera Bartholomau Zegenbalgii Missio- 
nary ad Indos Orientales in linguam Damulicam versi 
eontinentur (Tranquebariai in lit tore Coromandelino, tv- 
pis et sumptibus Missionis Danica?, 1723). Bibliti Da- 
mulica, seu quod Beits Sapient issi mu s in sua Divina CEco- 
nomia cum Popnlo Isruelitico et Etjit et Loeutus est. 1 kte- 
ris Testamenti Pars Seeunda, in qua Libellus Ruth , Samu- 
elis Liber Prior et Posterior , Liber Nehemice , Liber Esther , 
Liber Jobi, Liber Psalmorum Bar id is, Liber Proverbio- 
rum, Liber Ecclesiastes et Liber Cantici C anti corn m, studio 
et opera, etc. (ibid. 172G). Biblkt Bamulica, sen quod 
Deus Omniscius de gratia in Jesu Christo tempore Novi 
Testamenti Revelanela per Sanctos suos Pi'ophetas est 1 kt- 
ticinatus. Veteris Testamenti Pars Tertia , in qua Pro - 
phetce Major es, Esaias, Jeremias, ejusdemque Lamenta- 
tiones, Ezechiel, Daniel; Prophetic, Minores, lloseas , Joel, 
A mos, Obadia, Jona, Micha, Nahum, IJabacue, Zcphania, 
I/aggai, Zachariits, et Malachias, studio et opera, etc. 
(ibid. 1 727). To these parts were added, in the year 1728, 
the Apocryphal books, or Libri Apociyphi, seu Libri a 
quibusdam Piis Viris Ecclesice A ntiquee J udaicce post Pro- 
phetas Veteris Testamenti Script i, continentes purtim I r a- 
rias Regulas Vitas Utiles, partim Sit pplementum 1/istoriie 
Ecclesiasticce Veteris Testamenti, scilicet Liber S a pientice, 
Ecclesiasticus sire Sirach, Liber Esdree, Liber Tobiie, Liber 
Judith, A djeclionesad Libnnn Esther, Liber Baruch, Epis- 
tola J eremice, A djectiones ad Banielemseu Trium Virorum 
Jlymnologia, Historia Sosannce, item Belis et Draconis, 
Maccabceorum Liber Primus , Secundus, et Tertius, denique 
Oratio Manassis , studio et opera, etc. (ibid. 1728). 

Schultze likewise addressed himself to a diligent re- 
vision of the New Test., a second edition of which he 
put to press in 1722, and completed in 1724, at Tranque- 
bar. It has the same title as the first, with the addi- 
tion Editio seeunda correction et accessione summario- 
rum cujusvits cajntis auctior . In 1758 a third edition of 
the New Test, was printed at the same place; it had 
previously been subjected to another revision, in which 
several missionaries took a part. The second Tranque- 
bar edition was reprinted at Colombo in 1741-43, after 
having undergone some alterations adapting it to the 
Tamil spoken in Ceylon. This edition was designed 
for the native Tamilian Christians in that island, and 
was published under the auspices of L. B. von I mho If, 
the governor. 

In 1777 an important version of the New Test, was 
published by the Rev. J. I*. Fabricius, one of Schultze’s 
successors in the Danish mission at Madras. This ver- 
sion is far more elegant and classical in diction than 
that of the Tranquebar translators. Fabricius likewise 
undertook the revision of Schultze’s version of the Old 
Test., preparatory to a second edition ; but the work, as 
revised by him, has every claim to be considered a new 
and independent version. lie sent the translation, sheet 
by sheet, for examination and correction to the mission- 
aries at Cuddalore; from them it passed to the Danish 


missionaries, and from these to the native translator to 
the Danish government. The notes and corrections 
thus obtained were carefully collated by Fabricius, and 
the whole translation was again subjected by him to a 
searching revision. It was printed at the mission press 
at Tranquebar between the years 1777 and 1782, under 
the special care of two missionaries, one of whom was 
Dr. Bottler. Fabricius was esteemed an “unparalleled 
Tamil scholar,” and his translation long held the rank 
of the standard Tamil version of the Scriptures in the 
missions of the Society for the Propagation of the Gos- 
pel in Tanjore and Madras, and partly in those in Tin- 
nevellv, and also in the missions of the Leipsie Lutheran 
Missionary Society. 

The editions of the two versions of the New Test, 
above mentioned, printed by the Danish missionaries 
prior to the commencement of the present century, 
amount in all to fourteen, besides two versions of the 
Old Test. But the number of copies issued being very 
far from adequate to the wants of the native Christians, 
the deplorable scarcity of the Scriptures in the Tamil 
country was first pressed upon the notice of the British 
and Foreign Bible Society in a letter from the Bev. Dr. 
Buchanan, dated Madura, 1806; and in 1813 an edition 
consisting of 5000 copies was completed by the Seram- 
pore missionaries, the text being that of Fabricius. 

As a great demand for the Scriptures still continued 
throughout the Tamil country, even after the circula- 
tion of this large edition, it seemed necessary to take 
immediate measures for issuing further supplies. The 
want of copies of the Scriptures appeared to be particu- 
larly felt at Ceylon, where the number of native Chris- 
tians speaking the Tamil language was estimated at 
45,000. Besides the edition of the New Test, published 
at Colombo in 1743, as above mentioned, a version of 
the Pentateuch, translated by Mr. De Milho, bad also 
been printed in Ceylon, under the patronage of the 
Dutch government, in 1790. These editions, however, 
had been long exhausted, and the people in general 
were almost destitute of the Scriptures. It was there- 
fore deemed advisable not only to issue another edition, 
but also to obtain such a revision of the existing version 
as might render it intelligible to the Tamil population 
of Ceylon and of the adjacent continent. This impor- 
tant version was committed to the Bev. C. T. E. Rhe- 
nius, of the Church Mission, subject to the superintend- 
ence of the Bev. Dr. Rottler (who had former!}' assisted 
in carrying the version of Fabricius through the press) 
and to the inspection of the missionaries at Trichinopoly, 
Tanjore, and Tranquebar. To secure the greater accu- 
racy of the work, a committee of translation was ap- 
pointed at Madras in 1821. In 1829 Rhenius’s version 
seemed to have been completed, and from the time of 
its appearance it has been used in the missions of the 
Church Missionary Society, and in those of the London 
Missionary Society, the Wesleyan Missionary Society, 
and the American Board of Missions. 

But neither Fabricius’s version nor Rhenius’s being 
in universal use among Tamil Christians, neither version 
had acquired among them that prescriptive reverence 
and authority which are conceded to the authorized 
English version (except by Roman Catholics) wherever 
the English language is spoken. Fabricius’s version, 
though admitted by all to be very faithful to the origi- 
nal, was regarded by Tamil scholars in general as too 
frequently unidiomatieal and obscure; while Rhenius’s 
version, though generally written in clear, idiomatic 
Tamil, was regarded by some of those by whom it was 
used, and by all who were accustomed to Fabricius, as 
too paraphrastic, as departing too frequently, without 
sufficient warrant, from the renderings adopted in the 
principal European versions, and as needlessly differing 
from Fabrieius’s forms of expression, even when they 
happened to be perfectly correct. 

For the sake of having a version which should be 
generally acceptable to Tamil Christians and Tamil 
scholars, the Bev. P. Pcreival, assisted by missionaries 


TAMMUZ 


195 


TAMMUZ 


in Jaffna, Ceylon, undertook in 1840 a new version, I 
known as the ‘-Tentative Version,” which has proved 
to be a very valuable contribution to the work of Tamil 
Biblical revision. 

The Romanists, who had managed to evade the ne- 
cessity of publishing any portion of the Holy Scriptures 
in Tamil during the 300 years in which they had been 
laboring in the Tamil country, were induced in 1857 to 
publish at Pondicherry a translation of their own of the 
Gospels and the Acts of the Apostles. This translation 
has been made from the Latin Vulgate, not from the 
original Greek, and, where it is a good translation, may 
be regarded as a reproduction of Fabricius, with a still 
more excessive zeal for literality. Where it differs 
from Fabricius, though occasionally it succeeds in giv- 
ing a happy turn to the expression, it more often pre- 
sents so curious a mixture of high and low Tamil, and 
the general character of the composition is so rugged 
and uncouth, that even the heads of the Roman commu- 
nity themselves need have very little fear that this long- 
delayed, reluctantly published translation of a portion 
of the Scriptures should be too generally read by their 
people. 

Taking all these circumstances into account, and con- 
sidering the evils arising from the existence and use 
among Tamil Christians of a variety of versions of the 
Tamii New Test., it was felt that another effort was in 
the highest degree desirable to secure to the Tamil peo- 
ple a version which should be worthy of being accepted 
by all religious communities in the Tamil country, how- 
ever they might differ in various other particulars. 
Accordingly delegates were selected from the various 
missionary bodies in the Tamil-speaking district. The 
tirst meeting was held at Palamcotta. It commenced 
on April 29, 1861, and closed on June 18, during which 
period the delegates worked nine hours a day. In 1863 
the revision of the Tamil New Test., under the edito- 
rial supervision of the Iiev. II. Bower, was completed. 

In the report for 1865 we read, “The attention of 
the Madras Auxiliary is now directed to a version of 
the Tamil Old Test., on the same principles as have led 
to the successful completion of the New Test, under the 
editorial superintendence of the Iiev. H. Bower.” The 
completion of this version was announced in I860. In 
1873 we read that Mr. Bower has been appointed to pre- 
pare the marginal references and alternative renderings 
for the Tamii Bible. Up to March 31. 1879, the British 
and Foreign Bible Society had disposed of 1,876,950 
copies of the Tamil Bible, while of the Tamil with Eng- 
lish 32,000 were distributed. See Masch, Bibliotheca 
Sacra, ii, 197 sq. ; the Bible of Every Land; and the 
Annual Reports of the British and Foreign Bible Soci- 
ety. (B. T.) 

Tam'muz (Ileb. with the article hat-Tammuz', 
T-IEnn, the Tammuz , as if originally an appellative; 
Sept. 6 T appovZ,), a name of great obscurity, which oc- 
curs but once in the Scriptures. In the sixth year of 
the captivity of Jehoiacliin, in the sixth month and on 
the fifth day of the month, the prophet Ezekiel, as he 
sat in his house surrounded by the elders of Judah, was 
transported in spirit to the far-distant Temple at Jeru- 
salem. The hand of the Lord God was upon him, and 
led him “to the door of the gate of the house of Jeho- 
vah, which was towards the north ; and behold there the 
women sitting, weeping for the Tammuz” (Ezek. viii, 14). 
Some translate the last clause (7 : l5iriil’’rN n‘12^‘3) 
“causing t lie Tammuz to weep,” and the influence which 
this rendering has upon the interpretation will be seen 
hereafter. 

1. Etymological Simplification of the Word. — Tf 1*1 53 Pi 
be a regularly formed Hebrew word, it must be derived 
either from a root T*22 or T'3in (comp, the forms q*l*X, 
•pan), which is not known to exist. To remedy this 
defect, Furst ( Handwb . s. v.) invents a root, to which he 
gives the signification “to be strong, mighty, victori- 


ous,” and, transitively, “to overpower, annihilate.” It 
is to be regretted that this lexicographer cannot be con- 
tented to confess his ignorance of what is unknown. 
Iibdiger (in Gesenius, Thesaur. s. v.) suggests the deri- 
vation from the root CD'S = 71*2 ; according to which 
T*I53FI is a contraction of 1*1 1^2 Pi, and signifies a melting- 
away, dissolution, departure, and so the a<f>avi<rp.bg \A&5- 
vidoc, or disappearance of Adonis, which was mourned 
by the Phoenician women, and, after them, by the 
Greeks. But the etymology is unsound, and is evi- 
dently contrived so as to connect the name Tammuz 
with the general tradition regarding it. Miihlau (new 
ed. of Gesenius’s Lex.) refers to Delitzsch’s elucidation 
(Stud. z. Semite Reliyionsyesch. i, 35, 300 sq.) from the 
Babylonico-Assyriau form Duzu (for JJumuzi), signify- 
ing “sprouting of life.” 

2. Old Interpretations.— The ancient versions supply 
us with no help. The Sept., the Targum of Jonathan 
ben-LTzziel, the Peshito-Syriac, and the Arabic in Wal- 
ton's Polyglot merely reproduce the Hebrew word. In 
the Targum of Jonathan on Gen. viii, 5, “ the tenth 
month” is translated “the month Tammuz.” Accord- 
ing to Castell {Lex. llept .), taniuz is used in Arabic to 
denote “the heat of summer;” and Tamuzi is the name 
given to the Pharaoh who cruelly treated the Israelites. 

The Vulg. alone gives Adonis as a modern equiva- 
lent, and this rendering has been eagerly adopted by 
subsequent commentators with but few exceptions. It 
is at least as old, therefore, as Jerome, and the fact of 
his having adopted it shows that it must have embod- 
ied the most credible tradition. In his note upon the 
passage he adds that since, according to the Gentile 
fable, Adonis had been slain in the month of June, the 
Syrians give the name of Tammuz to this month, when 
they celebrate to him an anniversary solemnity, in 
which he is lamented by the women as dead, and, after- 
wards coming to life again, is celebrated with songs and 
praises. In another passage {ad Paulinum , in Opp. i, 
102, ed. Basil. 1565) he laments that Bethlehem was 
overshadowed by a grove of Tammuz, that is, of Adonis, 
and that “in the cave where the infant Christ once 
cried, the lover of Venus was bewailed.” Cyril of Alex- 
andria {in Oseam , in Opp. iii, 79, ed. Paris, 1638) and The- 
odoret {in Ezech.) give the same explanation, and are 
followed by the author of the Chronicon Paschale . The 
only exception to this uniformity is in the Syriac trans- 
lation of Melito’s Apology, edited by Dr. Cureton in his 
Spicilegium Syriacum. The date of the translation is 
unknown; the original, if genuine, must belong to the 
2d century. The following is a literal rendering of the 
Syriac: “The sons of Phoenicia worshipped Balthi, the 
queen of Cyprus. For she loved Tamuzo, the son ot 
Cuthar, the king of the Phoenicians, and forsook her 
kingdom and came and dwelt in Gebal, a fortress of the 
Phoenicians, And at that time she made all the vil- 
lages (not Cyprians , as Dr. Cureton translates) subject 
to Cuthar the king. For, before Tamuzo, she had loved 
Ares and committed adultery with him, and Hephaes- 
tus, her husband, caught her and was jealous of her. 
And he (i. e. Ares) came and slew Tamuzo on Lebanon 
while he made a hunting among the wild boars. And 
from that time Balthi remained in Gebal, and died in 
the city of Aphaca, where Tamuzo was buried” (p. 25 
of the Syriac text). We have here very clearly the 
Greek legend of Adonis reproduced with a single change 
of name. Whether this change is due to the translator, 
as is not improbable, or whether he found “Tammuz” 
in the original of Melito, it is impossible to say. Be 
this as it may, the tradition embodied in the passage 
quoted is probably as valuable as that in the same au- 
thor which regards Serapis as the deification of Joseph. 
The Syriac lexicographer Bar-Bahlnl (10th century) 
gives the legend as it had come down to his time. 
“Tomuzo was, as they say, a hunter, shepherd, and 
chaser of wild beasts; who, when Belathi loved him, 
took her away from her husband. And when her bus- 


TAMMUZ 


106 


TAMMUZ 


band went forth to seek her, Tomuzo slew him. Anil 
with regard to Tomuzo also, there met him in the des- 
ert a wild boar ami slew him. And his father made 
for him a great lamentation and weeping in the month 
Tonmz: and Belathi, his wife, she, too, made a lamen- 
tation and mourning over him. And this tradition 
was handed down among the heathen people during I 
her lifetime and after her death, which same tradition 
the Jews received with the rest of the evil festivals 
of the people, and in that month Tonutz used to make 
for him a great feast. Tomuz also is the name of one 
of the months of tin* Syrians.” 

In t lie next century the legend assumes, for the first 
time, a different form in the hands of a Kabbinieal com- 
mentator, Kabbi Solomon Isaaki (Ka*hi) has the fol- 
lowing note on the passage in Ezekiel: “An image 
which the women made hot in the inside, and its eyes j 
were of lead, and they melted by reason of the heat of 
the burning, and it seemed as if it wept; and they (the 
women) said, He asketh for offerings. Tammuz is a 
word signifying burning, as run ^ ^3? (Dan. 

iii. 19), and rn^rn rnx (ver. 22).” Instead of 

rendering “weeping for the Tammuz,” he gives what 
appears to be the equivalent in Ereneh, “faisantes pleu- 
rer rechauffe.” It is clear, therefore, that Kashi re- 
gards Tammuz as an appellative derived from the Chal- 
dee root IKES, azd, “to make hot.” It is equally clear 
that his etymology cannot be defended for an instant. 
In the 12th century (1 IG1) Solomon ben-Abraham Par- 
chon, in his Lexicon, compiled at Salerno from the works 
of Jehuda Chavng and Abulwalid Menvan ben-Gan- 
nach, has the following observations upon Tammuz : “ It 
is the likeness of a reptile which they make upon the 
water, and the water is collected in it and Hows through 
its holes, and it seems as if it wept. Put the month 
called Tammuz is Persian, and so are all our months; 
none of them is from the saered tongue. Though they 
are written in the Scripture, they are Persian; but in 
the saered tongue the first month, the second month,” 
etc. At the close of this century we meet for the first 
time with an entirely new tradition repeated by li. Da- 
vid Kimchi, both in his Lexicon and in his Commen- 
tary, from the il foreh Nebncliim of Maimonides: “In 
the month Tammuz they made a feast of an idol, and 
the women came to gladden him; and some say that 
b} r crafty means they caused the water to come into 
the eyes of the idol which is called Tammuz, and it 
wept, as if it asked them to worship it. And some in- 
terpret Tammuz ‘ the burned one,’ as if from Dan. iii, 19 
(see above), i. e. they wept over him because he was 
burned; for they used to burn their sons and their 
daughters in the tire, and the women used to weep over 
them, . . . Put the Kab, the wise, the great, our Pabbi 
Moshe bar-Maimon, of blessed memory, has written that 
it is found written in one of the ancient idolatrous 
books that there was a man of the idolatrous prophets, 
and his name was Tammuz. And he called to a certain 
king and commanded him to serve the seven planets 
and the twelve signs. And that king put him to a vi- 
olent death; and on the night of his death there were 
gathered together all the images from the ends of the 
earth to the Temple of Babel, to the golden image which 
was the image of the sun. Now’ this image was sus- 
pended between heaven and earth, and it fell down in 
the midst of the temple, and the images likewise (fell 
down) round about it, and it told them what had befall- 
en Tammuz the prophet. And the images all of them 
wept and lamented all the night ; and, as it came to 
pass, in the morning all the images flew awav to their 
own temples in the ends of the earth. And this was to 
them for an everlasting statute; at the beginning of 
the first day of the month Tammuz eaeh year they la- 
mented and wept over Tammuz. And some interpret 
Tammuz as the name of an animal, for they used to 
worship an image which they had, and the Targum of 


(the passage) PN V.L‘,521 (Isa. xxxiv, 14) 

is ■p Pirns *piV2P But in most copies 

pi 1ST is written with two Vavs.” The book of the 
ancient idolaters from which Maimonides quotes is the 
now* celebrated w f ork on the agriculture of the Naba- 
th :eans, to which reference will be made hereafter. 
Ben-Meleeh gives no help, and Abendana merely quotes 
the explanations given by Kashi and Kimchi. 

3. Mode )'n Opinions . — The tradition recorded by Je- 
rome, which identifies Tammuz with Adonis, has been 
followed by most subsequent commentators; among oth- 
ers, by Vatablus, Castellio, Cornelius a Lapide, Osian- 
der, Caspar Sanetius, Lavater, Yillalpandus, Selden, Si- 
monis, Calmet, and, in later times, by J. D. Michaelis, 
Gesenius, Ben-Zeb, Kosenmuller, Maurer, Ewald, llii- 
verniek, llitzig, and Movers. Luther and others regard- 
ed Tammuz as a name of Bacchus. That Tammuz* was 
the Egyptian Osiris, and that his worship was intro- 
duced into Jerusalem from Egypt, was held by Calvin, 
Piscator, Junius, Leusden, and Pfeiffer. This view de- 
pends chiefly upon a false etymology proposed by Kireh- 
er, which connects the word Tammuz with the Coptic 
tumut , to hide, and so makes it signify the hidden or 
concealed one; and therefore Osiris, the Egyptian king 
slain by Typho, w hose loss was commanded by Isis to 
be yearly lamented in Egypt. The women weeping 
for Tammuz are in this case, according to Junius, the 
priestesses of Isis. The Egyptian origin of the name 
Tammuz has also been defended bv a reference to the 
god Anuiz, mentioned by Plutarch and Herodotus, who 
is identical with Osiris. There is good reason, how T - 
ever, to believe that Amuz is a mistake for Arnun. 
That something corresponding to Tammuz is found in 
Egyptian proper names as they appear in Greek cannot 
be denied. T cifubc, an Egyptian, appears in Thucydi- 
des ( v i i i , 3 1 ) as a Persian officer. in Xenophon (A nab. i, 
4, 2) as an admiral. The Egyptian pilot who heard 
the mysterious voice bidding him proclaim “Great Pan 
is dead” was called Qagovg (Plutarch, l)e Defect. Orat. 
17). The names of the Egyptian kings, OovpguxriQ, 
T&piomg, and Opwtnc, mentioned by Manetho (Jose- 
phus, Cont. Ap. i, 14, 15), have in turn been compared 
with Tammuz; but, unless some more certain evidence 
be brought forward than is found in these apparent re- 
semblances, there is little reason to conclude that the 
worship of Tammuz w*as of Egyptian origin. 

The identification of Tammuz with an idolatrous 
prophet, which has already been given in a quotation 
from Maimonides, who himself quotes from the Agri- 
culture of the Xabatliceans , has been recently revived by 
Prof. Chwolson, of St. Petersburg ( Ueber Tammuz , etc. 
[St. IVtersb. i860]). An Arab writer of the 10th cen- 
tury, En-Nedim, in his book called T’ihrist el-'Ulum , 
says (quoting from Abu Sa’ld Wahb ben-Ibralilm) that 
in the middle of the month Tammuz a feast is held in 
honor of the god TaYiz. The women bewailed him be- 
cause his lord slew r him and ground his bones in a mill, 
and scattered them to the winds. In consequence of 
this the women ate nothing, during the feast, that had 
been ground in a mill (Chwolson, Die Ssabier , etc., ii, 
27). Prof. Chwolson regards Ta’uz as a corruption of 
Tammuz; but the most important passage, in his eyes, 
is from the old Babylonian book called the Agriculture 
of the Xubathceans, to which he attributes a fabulous 
antiquity. It was written, he maintains, by one Qut- 
’ami, towards the end of the 14th century B.C., and w’as 
translated into Arabic by a descendant of the ancient 
Chaldieans, whose name was lbu-\Vashiyyah. As Prof. 
Chwolson ’s theory has been strongly attacked, and as 
the chief materials upon which it is founded are not 
yet before the public, it would be equally premature to 
take him as an authority, or to pronounce positively 
against his hypothesis, though, judging from present 
evidence, we are inclined to be more than sceptical 
as to its truth. Qut’ami then, in that dim antiquity 
from which he speaks to us, tells the same story of the 


TAMMUZ 


197 


TAMMUZ 


prophet Tammuz as has already been given in the quo- 
tation from Karachi. It was read in the temples after 
prayers to an audience who wept and wailed ; and so 
great was the magic influence of the tale that Qut’ami 
himself, though incredulous of its truth, was unable to 
restrain his tears. A part, he thought, might be true, 
but it referred to an event so far removed by time from 
the age in which he lived that he was compelled to be 
sceptical on many points. His translator, Ibn-Washiy- 
yah, adds that Tammuz belonged neither to the Chal- 
deans nor to the Canaanites, nor to the Hebrews nor 
to the Assyrians, but to the ancient people of Janban. 
This last, Chwolson conjectures, may be the Shemitic 
name given to the gigantic Cushite aborigines of Chal- 
dasa, whom the Shemitic Nabathaeans found when they 
first came into the country, and from whom they adopt- 
ed certain elements of their worship. Thus Tammuz, 
or Tammfizi, belongs to a religious epoch in Babylonia 
which preceded the Shemitic (id. Ueberreste d. alfba- 
byl. Lit. p. 19). lbn-Washiyvah says, moreover, that 
all the Sabians of his time, both those of Babylonia and 
of llarrau, wept and wailed for Tammuz in the month 
which was named after him, but that none of them pre- 
served any tradition of the origin of the worship. This 
fact alone appears to militate strongly against the truth 
of Ibn-Washivyah’s story as to the manner in which he 
discovered the works he professed to translate. It has 
been due to Prof. Chwolson’s reputation to give in brief 
the substance of his explanation of Tammuz; but it 
must be confessed that he throws little light upon the 
obscurity of the subject. 

It seems perfect!}" clear from what has been said that 
the name Tammuz affords no clue to the identification 
of the deity whom it designated. The slight hint giveu 
by the prophet of the nature of the worship and wor- 
shippers of Tammuz has been sufficient to connect them 
with the yearly mourning for Adonis by the Syrian 
damsels. Beyond this we can attach no special weight 
to the explanation of Jerome. It is a conjecture, and 
nothing more, and docs not appear to represent any tra- 
dition. All that can be said, therefore, is that it is not 
impossible that Tammuz may be a name of Adonis, the 
sun-god, but that there is nothing to prove it. It is true, 
however, that the name of Adonis docs occur in Phoeni- 
cian inscriptions see Gesenius, Alonum. Phoen. ii, 

400), and the coincidences of the ancient notices above 
and the mode of worship detailed below with the lan- 
guage of Ezekiel afford the most plausible interpreta- 
tion hitherto offered. 

4. Ceremonies of the Cultits. — There was a temple at 
Amathus, in Cyprus, shared by Adonis and Aphrodite 
(Pausan. ix, 41, 2); and the worship of Adonis is said 
to have come from Cyprus to Athens in the time of the 
Persian war (Apollodor. iii, 14, 4; Pausan. ii, 20, 5; Ovid, 
Met am. x, 725 , Philostr. .4 poll, vii, 32 ; Plutarch, .1 Icib. 
c. 18; Athen. xv, G72; Aristoph. Pax, 420). But the ■ 
town of Byblos, in Phoenicia, was the headquarters of I 
the Adonis-worship (Hamaker, Miscell. Phoenic. p. 125). 
The feast in his honor was celebrated each year in the 
temple of Aphrodite (said to have been founded by Ki- 
nvras, the reputed father of Adonis) on the Lebanon 
(Lucian, De Dea Syra, § 6) with rites partly sorrowful, 
partly joyful. The emperor Julian was present at 
Antioch when the same festival was held (Amm. Marc, 
xxii, 9, 13). It lasted seven days (xx, 1), the period 
of mourning among the Jews (Ecclus. xxii, 12; Gen. 1, 
10; 1 Sam. xxxi, 13; Judith xvi, 24), the Egyptians 
(Heliodor. xEth. vii, II), and the Syrians (Lucian, De 
Dea Syra , § 52), and began with the disappearance 
( acpaviofioc ) of Adonis. Then followed the search (£//- 
t)](7iq) made by the women after him. His body was 
represented by a wooden image placed in the so-called 
‘•gardens of Adonis” ( AotbriCog ki}7toi), which were 
earthenware vessels filled with mould, and planted with 
wheat, barley, lettuce, and fennel. They were exposed 
by the women to the heat of the sun at the house-doors 


or in the “ Porches of Adonis,” and the withering of the 
plants was regarded as symbolical of the slaughter of 
the youth by the fire-god Mars. In one of these gar- 
dens Adonis was found again, whence the fable says he 
was slain bv the boar in the lettuce («0<fv/j = Apliaca?), 
and was there found by Aphrodite. The finding again 
(topefug) was the commencement of a wake, accompa- 
nied by all the usages which in the East attend such a 
ceremony — prostitution, cutting off the hair (comp. Lev. 
xix, 28, 29; xxi, 5; Dent, xiv, 1), cutting the breast 
with knives (Jcr. xvi, G), and playing on pipes (comp. 
Matt, ix, 23). The image of Adonis was then washed 
and anointed with spices, placed in a coffin on a bier, 
and the wound made by the boar was shown on the fig- 
ure. The people sat on the ground round the bier, with 
their clothes rent (comp. Ep. of Jer. 31, 32), and the 
women howled and cried aloud. The whole terminated 
with a sacrifice for the dead, and the burial of the figure 
of Adonis (see Movers, Phbnizier , I, vii). According 
to Lucian, some of the inhabitants of Byblos maintained 
that the Egyptian Osiris was buried among them, and 
that the mourning and orgies were in honor of him, and 
not of Adonis {De Dea Syra , § 7). This is in accord- 
ance with the legend of Osiris as told by Plutarch (De 
Is. el Os.). Lucian further relates that on the same 
day on which the women of Byblos every year mourned 
for Adonis, the inhabitants of Alexandria sent them a 
letter, enclosed in a vessel which was wrapped in rushes 
or papyrus, announcing that Adonis was found. The 
vessel was cast into the sea, and carried by the current 
to Byblos (Procopius on Isa. xviii). It is called by Lu- 
cian /3e/3Au')/v KE<pa\i)v, and is said to have traversed 
the distance between Alexandria and Byblos in seven 
days. Another marvel related by the same narrator is 
that of the River Adonis (Nahr Ibrahim), which flows 
down from the Lebanon, and once a year was tinged 
with blood, which, according to the legend, came from 
the wounds of Adonis (eomp. Milton, Par. Lost , i, 4G0) ; 
but a rationalist of Byblos gave him a different expla- 
nation, how that the soil of the Lebanon was naturally 
very red-colored, and was carried down into the river 
by violent winds, and so gave a bloody tinge to the 
water; and to this day, says Porter {Handbook, p. 187), 
“after every storm that breaks upon the brow of Leba- 
non the Adonis still 1 runs purple to the sea.’ The rush- 
ing waters tear from the banks red soil enough to give 
them a ruddy tinge, which poetical fancy, aided by pop- 
ular credulity, converted into the blood of Thammuz.” 

The time at which these rites of Adonis were cele- 
brated is a subject of much dispute. It is not so impor- 
tant with regard to the passage in Ezekiel, for there 
does not appear to be any reason for supposing that the 
time of the prophet’s vision was coincident with the 
time at which Tammuz was worshipped. Movers, who 
maintained the contrary, endeavored to prove that the 
celebration was in the late autumn, the end of the 
I Syrian year, and corresponded with the time of the 
I autumnal equinox. He relies chiefly for his conclu- 
sion on the account given by Ammiamis Marcellinus 
(xxii, 9, 13) of the Feast of Adonis, which was held at 
Antioch when the emperor Julian entered the city. It 
is clear, from a letter of the emperor’s {Ep. Jul. 52), 
that he was in Antioch before Aug. 1, and his entry 
may therefore have taken place in July, the Tammuz 
of the Syrian year. This time agrees, moreover, with 
the explanation of the symbolical meaning of the rites 
given by Ammiamis Marcellinus (xxii, 9, 15) that they 
were a token of the fruits cut down in their prime. 
Now at Aleppo (Russell, Aleppo, i, 72) the harvest is all 
over before the end of June, and we may fairly conclude 
that the same was the case at Antioch. Add to this 
that in Hebrew astronomical works VVEn PBipn, teku- 
phath Tammuz, is the “summer solstice;” and it seems 
more reasonable to conclude that the Adonis feast of 
the Phoenicians and Syrians was celebrated rather as 
the summer solstice than as the autumnal equinox. At 


TAX 


19S 


TANCRED 


this time the snn begins to cIoscoikI among the wintry 
signs (lvenrick, Phoenicia, p. 310). — Smith. 

See, in addition to the above literature, and that cited 
under Adonis, Simon is, l)e Siyvificatione Thammuz 
(Hal. 1 744^) ; Menrsii A don in, in Gronov. Thesanr. vii, 
208 sq.; Mercersb. Review, Jan. I860 5 Christian Remem- 
brancer', April, 1801. 

Tail. See Dragon. 

Ta'nach (Josh, xxi, 25). See Taanach. 

Tanaim. See Scribes, Jewish. 

Tanchelm (Tanciielin, Tanquelix), a fanatic 
who lived in the lltli century, and was identified with 
the opposition current in that age against the ecclesias- 
ticism then prevailing. We are told that he despised 
the Clnireh and the clergy, from the pope downward, 
and claimed that the true Church inhered in him and 
his followers; that the priestly station has no influence 
upon the sacrament of the eucharist, worth and sanctity 
being the only efficient qualitieations of the minister. 
He declared himself to be possessed of the Holy Ghost, 
and even to be God, as Christ is God; and he affianced 
himself with the Virgin 31 ary, whose image he presented 
to the vision of the assembled multitude, demanding 
sponsalia, which were readily contributed. Water in 
which he had bathed was distributed for drinking pur- 
poses, with the assurance that its use formed a sacred 
and powerful sacrament to the good of the body as well 
as the soul. Tanchelm’s followers were chiefly drawn 
from the lower classes of society, and were mostly 
women. His operations were carried on along the 
coast of the Netherlands, and particularly in Utrecht, 
where disturbances were occasioned which called forth 
the successful interference of archbishop Frederick of 
Cologne. Tanchelm then removed to Bruges and Ant- 
werp, where he caused still greater tumults than at 
Utrecht, and was killed on shipboard by a priest in A.D. 
1124 or 1125. His sect continued to exist somewhat 
longer, but was ultimately scattered or reclaimed to the 
Church. See Hahn, Gesch. d. Keizer ini Mittelulter 
(Stuttg. 1845), i, 459 sq. ; Okken, Diss. de Priva Rel. 
Christ. Med.uEvo inter Xederlandos, etc. (Groning. 1840), 
p. 43 sq.; Ep. Traj . Eccl. ad Fridericum , Archiepisco- 
putn Colon., in Tcngnagel, Coll. Yet. Momun. contra Schi- 
smaticos (lngolst. 1012), p. 308 sq. ; D11 Plessis d’Argen- 
tre, Coll. Jud. de Xovis Erroribus, etc. (Paris, L728), i, 
1 1 sq. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Tanchelmians. See Tanchelm. 

Tanchum (of Jerusalem) ben- Josef, also called 
“ R. Tanchum Jerushalmi ” of Haleb, flourished about 
A.D. 1205-80. The first who made Tanchum’s name 
known to the learned world was the famous scholar 
Schnurrer, who in 1791 published ch. i-xii of Tanchum’s 
Arabic commentary on Judges; R. Tanchumi Ilieroso- 
lymitani ad IJbros U. T. Commentarii A rabid Specimen 
una cum Annotationibus ad aliquot Loca Libri Judicum 
(Tubingen, 1791 ). Since that time his exegetical works 
have been brought to light, though nothing of his life 
is known except that he must have lived shortly after 
the devastation of Palestine by the Mongolians, A.D. 
1200. lie wrote a commentary in Arabic on the whole 
Old Test., entitled i. e. The Book of 

Exposition, of which the following are still extant in 
MS. at the Bodleian Library: a. the commentary on the 
earlier prophets, i.e. Joshua, Judges, Samuel, and Kings 
(Cod. Pocock 314); b. commentaries on Jeremiah, Ezekiel 
and the minor prophets (Cod. Pocock 344); c. commen- 
taries on the five Megilloth (i. e. Song of Songs, Ruth, 
Lamentations, Ecclesiastes, and Esther) and Daniel (Cod. 
Pocock 320); d. nivjrnbx mirba r:xrr, i. e. The 
JIaphtaroth, or Lessons from the Prophets , translated into 
Arabic (Cod. Hunt. 607). These commentaries are pre- 
ceded by elaborate introductions treating on the general 
import of Holy Writ. Besides the commentary on Lam- 
entations, ■J’3 m^p "ISO mr, which 


has been edited by W. Curcton, Tanchumi Hierosoly- 
mitani Comm. A rabicus in Lumentationes e Codice unico 
Bodleiano Literis Hebraicis exarato. Descripsit Chn- 
ructere .1 rabico et edidit (Loud. 1843), the following por- 
tions have been published: i. Commentary on Joshua, 
edited bv llaarbriicker, in the Wisseuschaftliche Bluffer 
uns der Ye it el- II cine- Eph ra i m 'schen Lehrunstalf (Berlin, 
1862) ; ii. on Jud yes, in part by Schnurrer, ch. i-xii, and 
ch. xiii-xxi by HaarbrOcker (Halle, 1847); iii. on Sam- 
uel and Kinys, by llaarbriicker (Leipsic, 1844); iv. on 
Habakkuk. with a French translation by Dr. Monk (Par- 
is, 1843, in Cahen’s Bible, vol. xiii). “ K. Tanchum’s 
contributions to Biblical exegesis,” says Dr. Ginsburg, 
“are very important to its history. 1 1 is commentaries 
are based upon the literal and grammatical meaning of 
the text, lie frequently avails himself of the labors of 
Hai Gaon, Danash ibn-Librat, Ibn-Chajug, Ibn-Ganach, 
lbn-Ezra, Maimonides, etc.; rejects the traditional in- 
terpretations (comp. comm, on Judg. xii, 7; xx, 28); 
transposes sundry portions of the sacred narratives, so 
as to point out their chronological order (comp. Judg. 
xviii, 1; xx, 28), and, like Maimonides, distinguishes 
different degrees and kinds of prophecy (comp, vi, 34; 
xiii, 1; xx, 28).” He also wrote an Arabic Lexicon 
to the Mishna, entitled Tr'Tcbx, i.e. A Snf- 

Jicienl Guide, treating on the relation of the language 
of the Mishna and of Maimonides’ lad ha-Chazaka. 
There are four different 31 SS. of this work in the Bod- 
leian Library, viz. Cod. Pocock 297, written by Saadia 
ben-Jacob in 1388; Cod. Hunt. 129, by Saadia ben-Da- 
vid in 1451 ; Cod. Hunt. 621, by Solomo ben-David ben- 
Binjamin in 1393; and Cod. Pocock 215. 216. 229, writ- 
ten in 1449. He also wrote a Grammar of the Old- 
Test. Hebrew, quoted by Tanclium himself, but which 
lias not yet come to light. See De Rossi, JJzziouario 
Storico (Germ, trails].), p. 145 sq.*, Kitto, Cyclop, s. v. ; 
Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. ii, 56 sq. ; Sieinschneider, Cataloyus 
Libr. Jlebr. in Bibl. Bodl. col. 2666-2669 ; Ewakl, Bei- 
trdye zur Gesch. d. iiltesten Ausleyuvy u. Spracherkld- 
runy des A. Test. (Stuttgart, 1844), i, 151 sq. ; Griitz, 
Gesch. d. Juden (Leipsie, 1873), vii, 144 sip; Etheridge, 
Jntrod. to Heb. Literature, p. 44; Keil, I tit rod. to the Old 
Test, ii, 384 sq.-, Bleek, Einleituny in das Alte Test. p. 
106 ; GoIdziher,/87?/(/iVu iiber Tanchum Jeruschalmi (Leip- 
sic, 1870); Geiger, Jiidische Zeitschrift, 1862, p. 193; 
1871, p. 199; Griitz, Monatsschrift, 1870, p. 239, 285; 
Zuchold, Bibliotheca Theoloyica, ii, 1306. (B. P.) 

Tanchimia ben-Abba, who flourished A.D. 380, is 
the reputed author of the celebrated commentary 011 
the Pentateuch called for which see 

the art. 31idrasii. The latest edition is that published 
by E. Perl mutter (Stettin, 1864). See Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. 
iii, 409; Steiusclmeider, Cataloyus Libr. Hebr. in Bibl. 
Bodl. col. 2669; Griitz, Gesch. der Juden, iv, 458, 558; 
Wolf, Bibl. Ilebr. i, 1159 sq. ; iii, 1166 sq.; iv, 1035; 
Zunz, Goftesd. Yortrdye (Berlin, 1832), p. 226-238; De 
Rossi, Dizionario Storico (Germ, trail si.), p. 307 ; id. 
Annales II ebrceo-typoyraphici, p. 24. (B. P.) 

Tancred, Ciikistouiier, an English benefactor, 
was the son of Sir Richard Tancred, and died unmar- 
ried in 1754, leaving his house and estate at Whixley 
for the maintenance of twelve decayed gentlemen who 
had borne arms in the service of their country. He also 
founded four medical exhibitions at Cains College; four 
in divinity at Christ’s College, Cambridge; and four 
law studentships at Lincolns Inn. See Chalmers, 
Bioy. Diet. s. v. 

Tancred of Bologna was a most celebrated can- 
onist of the 13th century (who must not be confounded 
with another Tancred of Corneto; comp. De Savigny, 
Gesch. d. rom. Rechts im Mittelulter [2d ed.], v, 135, 
and p. 115, 116). His preceptbrs were Azo in Roman 
and Laurentius in canon law. In 1210 he was himself 
a teacher (decretorum mayister) at Bologna, and intrust- 
ed with the management of important affairs by both 


TAXCRED 


199 


TAXXE1 


the pope and tlie city. He belonged to the Chapter of 
Bologna, and in 1220 was made archdeacon by llono- 
rius III, which position then included among its duties 
the supervision of promotions in the university. The 
year of his decease is not known, but it must have been 
prior to 1230. as the archdeaconate is then found to be 
in other hands (see Sarti, De Claris Archigymnasii Bo- 
nomens. Professoribus, pars ii, fol. 28, 29, 30. 37, 181). 
His literary remains include a Summa de M atrhnonio, 
written between 1210 and 1213; first published, with 
numerous interpolations, by Simon Schard (Cologne, 
1503), and again, in revised form, by Wunderlich (Got- 
tingen, 1841) an Ordo Judiciarius (Ordinurius Tancre- 
di), written about 1214, and afterwards revised in 1225, 
1234, and often by unknown scholars. It was formerly 
believed that this work originated in about 1227, but 
the earlier date is now accepted. An edition of the 
work in its original form was issued by Bcrgmann (ibid. 
1842). Tancred’s lectures at Bologna were, among other 
matters, upon the collections of decretals received into 
the curriculum of Bologna after the close of Gratian’s 
collection, and resulted in Apparatus, or commentaries, 
on the first three compilations. He had no part, how- 
ever, in the preparation of the fifth ancient compilation. 
In addition to the above, there is extant of Tancred’s 
works a manuscript list of bishoprics throughout the 
Church, arranged in the order of provinces (De Savigny, 
ut sup. p. 1 17, 1 18). See Herzog, Real-Eneyldop. s. v. 

Tancred of SictLY, the son of Eudes, a Norman 
baron, and of Emma, the sister of Robert Guiscard, 
was one of the celebrated heroes of the first Crusade, 
and was born after the middle of the 11th century. 
Some chroniclers profess to detail the events of his early 
life, describing him as the most accomplished youth of 
his time in athletic and military exercises, and of a 
wisdom far surpassing that of men of mature years, and 
as a partisan of his cousin Bohemond in the quarrel 
with their uncle Roger of Sicily. But the first au- 
thentic information respecting him is that he raised a 
large body of men in Apulia and Calabria, and joined 
Bohemond, then on his way to the first Crusade. The 
two cousins landed in Epirus, and first one and then 
the other made his submission to the Greek emperor 
Alexis. Tancred’s exploits on the way to Syria; his 
quarrel with Baldwin for the possession of Tarsus, and 
his subsequent chivalrous forbearance to and rescue of 
his rival; his wondrous valor before Antioch, where he 
killed no fewer than 700 infidels, transmitting the heads 
of seventy to the pope, and receiving a corresponding 
number of marks of silver in return; his vigorous re- 
pulse of the first sortie by the infidels from Jerusalem; 
his sad and lonely vigil on the Mount of Olives; and 
his gallantry at the storming of the sacred city, are all 
detailed by the numerous chroniclers of this epoch in 
their usual style of extravagant laudation, but with a 
harmony which speaks favorably for their correct ap- 
preciation of his character. He was one of the claim- 
ants of the throne of Jerusalem, and was pacified by 
Godfrey (q. v.), the successful competitor, with the gift 
of some towns in Palestine, and the principality of Gal- 
ilee or Tiberias. A brief quarrel .with Baldwin, after 
Godfrey’s death, petty combats with the infidels, and 
occasional Avars with the other Christian princes who 
had settled in Syria and Palestine occupied the remain- 
der of his life, which was brought to a close at Antioch 
in 1112. Besides his own principality, he governed 
that of Antioch, belonging to his cousin Bohemond, 
from 1100. The fiery and energetic, but at the same 
time pious, sagacious, and forbearing, chief whom the 
chroniclers present to us has been considerably toned 
down by Tasso in bis Gerusalemme Liberata.— Cham- 
bers's Encyclop. s. v. 

Tan'humeth [some Tanhu'meth ] (Heb. Tanchu'- 
metk, H'arpn, consolation; Sept. OavapdSr or Qarae- 
peS v. r. OcwepdSr, etc.; Yulg. Thanehumeth ), the fa- 
ther (Fiirst says mother, as the name is fern.) of Seraiah, 


in the time of Gedaliali (2 Kings xxv, 23, where he ap- 
pears as a Netophathite by the clerical omission of an- 
other name, as is evident from the parallel passage, Jer. 
xl, 8). B.C. ante 582. 

Ta'nis (Tdng, the Greek form (Judith i, 10) of the 
Egyptian city Zoan (q. v.). 

Tankerfield, Geokc.e, an English martyr, was a 
native of York, and followed the occupation of a cook. 
Seeing the great cruelty shown by the papists under 
queen Mary, lie began to doubt their doctrines and to 
abhor them. After study, refiection, and prayer, he ab- 
jured popery, whereupon he was arrested and taken to 
Newgate in February, 1555. Being summoned before 
bishop Bonner, he declared his convictions concerning 
auricular confession, the mass, etc. lie was sentenced 
to death, and was burned at the stake Aug. 26. See 
Milner’s Fox, Jlist. of Christ. Martyrdom, ii, 770. 

Tanner (fivpatvg, Hebraized in the Talmud as 
"'O VC , also the occupation of Simon of Joppa 

(Acts ix, 43; x, 6, 32). This trade, on account of the 
bad smell connected with it (comp. Schol. on Aristoph. 
! Eq. 44; Petron. Sat. 11), was despised among the Jews 
( Kethuboth , vii, 10 ; Megillah , iii, 2 ; see Schottgeu, II or. 
lleb. i, 447 ; Wettstein, X. T. ii, 516). Those who fol- 
lowed it were called by the Greeks (3vp<joCps\pai, in 
Latin coriarii, suborlarii (Guter, Inscript, p. 1548, No. 
8). They usually had their work -place outside the 
cities (Artemid. i, 51; Mishna, Baba Bathra, ii, 9), or 
on streams or the sea (Acts x, 6). See Waleh, Dissert, 
in A ct. Apost. ii, 101 sq. — Winer. See Mechanic. The 
ancient Egyptians used the bark of various trees for 
tanning (Wilkinson, ii, 106). See Leather. The tan- 
neries of Joppa are now on the shore south of the city 
(Thomson, Land and Booh, ii, 281). Several circum- 
stances, however, confirm the tradition of the present 
“ house of Simon” there (Stanley, Palest, p. 269). See 
Simon. 

Tanner, the name of several theological scholars 
and writers. 

1. Adam, born at Innsbruck in 1572, a Jesuit, lect- 
ured on theology at Ingolstadt and Vienna, was made 
chancellor of the University of Prague, and died March 
25, 1632, at Unken. He wrote, Bericht iiber die Dispu- 
tation zu Peyensburg, 1601 (Munich, 1602) : — Theologia 
Scholastica (4 vols.): — A nutomia Confessionis A ugus- 
tance: — Apologia pro Societate Jesu (Vienna, 1618): — 
Disputationes 'Theologia in Summam Thonue : — Astrolo- 
gia Sacra (Ingolstadt, 1621). 

2. Conrad, born at Schwvz Dec. 28, 1752, was made 
abbot of Einsiedeln in 1808, and died April 7, 1825. lie 
wrote, Die Bildung des Geistlichen durck Geistesiibmgen 
(Augsburg, 180/, 2 vols.; 6th ed. 1847): — Betruchtungen 
zur sittlichen Avfldarung im 19 to/ Jahrhundert (ibid. 
1804): — Betrachtungen avf die Eeste des Herrn und der 
Ileiligen (ibid. 1829 sq.). 

3. Matthias, born at Pilsen in 1630, a Jesuit, was 

professor of philosophy and theology, and was sent to 
Rome in 1675 as procurator of his order. He died about 
1705. He wrote, Cruentum Christi Sacrificinm Incruento 
Miss a Sacrifcio explication (Prague, 1669): — Contra 
Omnes impie Agentes in Locis Sacris [Latin and Bohe- 
mian]: — Societas Jesu usque ad Sanguinis el Vita Pro- 
fusioneni Militans [a glorification of the Jesuitic mis- 
sion] (ibid. 1675; in German, 1683); similar is Societas 
Jesu A postolorum I mitcitrix sive Gesta Preeclara et Virtu - 
tes, etc. [Latin and German] (ibid. 1694 and 1701): — 
Historia Montis Olivet i in Moravia ad Strambergam 
Sili [Bohemian] (ibid. 1666). (B. P.) 

4. Thomas, an English divine and antiquary, was 
born at Market Lavington, Wiltshire, in 1674. He en- 
tered Queens College, Oxford, in 1689; was admitted 
clerk in 1690: graduated in 1693; entered holy orders at 
Christmas, 1694; became chaplain of All-Souls’ College 
in January following; fellow of the same in 1697; and 
chancellor of Norfolk and rector of Thorpe, near Nor- 


200 


TAPPAN 


TAX QUELMI AX S 

wich, in 1706. Tie was installed prebendary of Ely [ 
Sept. 10, 1713; archdeacon of Norfolk Dec. 7, 1721; 
canon of Christ Church Keb. 3, 1723; prolocutor of the 
House of Convocation in 1727; and was consecrated 
bishop of St. Asaph Jan. 23, 1732. He died at Christ 
Church, Oxford, Dec. 14, 1735. After his death ap- 
peared, Xotitia Monastica. or an Account of all the Ab- 
beys , Priories , etc., formerly in England and Wales, etc., 
with additions by the Lev. John Tanner (Loud. 1744, 
fob; Camb. 1787. Ibl.) : — Bibliotheca Britunnico- Iliber- 
nica, sire de Scriptoribus, qui in Anglia, etc. (Lond. 1748, 
fob ; 250 copies). 

See Tlieologisches Universal- Lexikon, s. v. ; Wetzer u. 
Welte, Kirchen- Lexikon, s. v. : Ilegensburger Conversa- 
tions- Lexikon. s. v. ; Winer, Hamlbuch der theolog. IJte- 
ratitr , i, 124; ii. 46, 707; Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. ; 
Hook, Eccles. Biog . s. v. ; Allibone, Piet, of Brit, and j 
Amer. Authors, s. v. On Adam Tanner, see also Wer- 
ner, Gesch . der kuthol. Theol. seit dem trident. Concil. 
(Munich, I860), p. 7, 17, 25. 

Tanquelmians. See Tancmklmians. 

Taoists, Taoism. See Lao-tzit. 

Tapers, Early Use of. It became enstomarv at 
an early period to burn tapers in churches on various 
occasions. This was done during the reading of the 
gospel, and is partly excused by Jerome. He says to 
Vigilantius, “We do not light candles in open day, 
therefore you slander ns without reason.” He confesses, 
however, that some untaught laymen and simple relig- 
ious women, “of whom we may certainly say that they 
have a zeal of God without knowledge,” do such a thing 
in honor of martyrs; but he asks, What is the harm? 
And then he refers to a custom prevalent in the East: 
“In all churches of the East they light tapers, without 
any respect to the relics of martyrs, when the gospel is 
to be read, even when the sun shines brightly; which 
is done, not for the sake of giving light, but as an ex- 
pression of joy. Hence the virgins in the Gospel had 
their lamps lighted; anil the apostles were warned to 
‘ let their loins be girded about, and their lights burn- 
ing.’ Hence it is said of John also, 4 He was a burning 
and a shining light.’ Also under the figure of a mate- 
rial light is represent- 
ed that light of which 
we read in the Psalter, 
‘Thy word is a lamp 
unto my feet, and a 
light unto my path.’” 
But the superstition 
spread, and during the 
ceremony of baptism ta- 
pers were placed in the 
hands of the baptized, 
if adults; if they were 
infants, in the hands of 
the sponsors. These ta- 
pers were said to be em- 
blematical of the illu- 
minating power of the 
sacrament. Also at the 
eucharist we find the 
same custom. Tapers 
were also used at mar- 
riages; and in funeral 
processions carried be- 
fore and behind the 
coffin. — Farrar, Eccles. 
Diet. s. v. 

The altar tapers were 
used in those candle- 
sticks which are placed 
on or about the altar; 
ordinarily those which 
were lighted during the 
office of the Christian 
Altar Taper. sacrifice. Custom in 



the West expects that at least two be lighted, even 
at low celebrations; at high celebrations, in the Latin 
Church, as also in some English churches, six tapers 
are ordinarily lighted. They symbolize ( 1 ) the fact 
that our Saviour, “God of God, Light of Light, very 
God of very God,” is the true Light of the world. Thev 
are also (2) symbols of joy and gladness on the part of 
the faithful that. Christ is born into the world (a) natu- 
rally, (6) sacramentally, i. e. in the cucharistic mystery. 
A seventh taper is added if the bishop of the diocese 
celebrates a solemn pontifical mass; even twelve or 
twenty-one are sometimes used. 


Ta'phatll (lleb. Taphath ', P£I 2, ornament ; Sept. 
TetyciS v. r. T a<pard m , \"ulg. Tapheth), Solomon’s daugh- 
ter, and wife of Abiuadab, his commissariat in the dis- 
trict of Dor (1 Kings iv, 1 1). B.C. cir. 1000. 

Taph'nes (T a<pvd(f), a Gra?cized form (Judith i, 
9) of the Egyptian city Tampan mes (q. v.). 

Ta'phon (?) Te^oj; Josephus, T oyo« or To\oav; 
Vulg. Thopo ; Syr. Tefos ), one of the cities in Judaea 
fortified by Bacchides (I Mace, ix, 50). It is probably 
the Beth-Taiwah (q. v.) of the Old Test., which lay 
near Hebron. The form given by Josephus suggests 
Tekoa, but Grimm (Exeg. llamlbitcli) has pointed out 
that his equivalent for that name is Gekwe ; and there 
is, besides, too much unanimity among the versions to 
allow of its being accepted. — Smith. 


Tappan, Benjamin, D.D., a Congregational min- 
ister, the son of the Lev. David Tappan, professor of 
divinity in Harvard College, and grandson of Benjamin 
Tappan, pastor in Manchester, Mass., was born at AVest 
Newbury, Mass., Nov. 7, 1788. He graduated at Har- 
vard College in 1805, spent soine time teaching at Wo- 
burn and Salem, and in 1809 became tutor at Bowdoin 
College, Me., which position he held for two years. In 
181 1 he was ordained over the Church in Augusta, Ale., 
and continued pastor until he assumed the secretaryship 
of the Maine Missionary Society in 1849. His death 
took place Dec. 22, 1863. His ministry was eminently 
useful, and few men occupy a more prominent place in 
the history of Congregationalism in Maine. lie was 
vice-president of the board of Bowdoin College until his 
death, secretary of the Maine Missionary Society from 
1849 to 1863, and trustee of Bangor Theological Semi- 
nary from 1825, of which he was a most liberal and 
steadfast friend, and a professorship in which he de- 
clined in 1829. Dr. Tappan was an immense worker, 
was noted for his hospitality and generosity, and his 
Christian character was one of beauty and strength. 
He was an effective preacher, and had a remarkable 
gift in prayer. Dr. Tappan was one of the pioneers in 
the temperance reform, preaching a sermon on the sub- 
ject in 1813. AVaterville College (now Colby Univer- 
sity) conferred upon him the degree of D.D. in 1S36, 
and Bowdoin in 1845. See Cong. Quarterly (art. by his 
son Benjamin), 1865, p. 131-159. 

Tappan, David, D.D., a Congregational minister, 
was born at Manchester, Mass., in 1753, graduated at 
Harvard College in 1771. and was ordained in April, 
1774, pastor at Newbury, Mass., where he remained un- 
til inaugurated professor of divinity at Harvard College, 
Dec. 26, 1792, which position he retained until his death, 
Aug. 27, 1803. He published, Two Friendly Letters to 
Philalethes (1785) : — An Address to the Students of An- 
dover Academy (1791): — An Address to Andover Stu- 
dents (1794) : — and a large number of occasional Ser- 
mons. After his death were published Lectures on Jew- 
ish Antiquities (1807): — Sermons on Important Subjects 
(1807). See Sprague, A minis of the A mcr. Pulpit, ii, 97. 

Tappan, William Bingham, an American di- 
vine, was horn at Beverly, Mass., in 1794, entered the 
service of the American Sunday-school Union in 1826, 
and continued this connection until his death, at West 
Needham, Mass., in 1849. He published, among other 
poetical works, Poetry of the Heart (Worcester, 1845, 


TAPPUAII 


201 


TARES 


12mo ) : — Sacred and Miscellaneous Poems (Boston, 184G, 
lGmo ): — Poetry o f Life (ibid. 1847, lfimo ) : — The Sun- 
day-school and other Poems (ibid. 1848, lGmo). See 
Allibone, Piet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors , s. v. 

Tap'puah [some Tappn'ah ] (lleb. Tappu'ach, 
msn [in 1 Giron, ii, 43, nDT, J, an apple , as often; 
Sept. Trt0ov, 'Wapovr, 0apl2q 0a$0ou, etc., and twice 
[Josh, xv, 34; xvii, 8] omits; Vulg. Taphua ), the 
name of a man and also of two places in Palestine. See 

ArrLE. 

1. Second named of the four sons of Hebron of the 
lineage of Caleb (1 Chron. ii, 43) ; not to be confounded 
with either of the following (see Iveil, ad loc.). B.C. 
ante 1G 18. 

2. A town in the lowland district of Judah, men- 
tioned between En-gannim and Enam (Josh, xv, 34), 
in the group situated in the N.W. corner (see Keil, 
ad loc.); differs from the Beth-tappuah ( q. v. ) of 
ver. 53, but probably the same with the royal city of 
the Canaanites (Josh, xii, 17), conquered by the Israel- 
ites (see Keil, ad loc.). It is perhaps the present Beit- 
’.4 tab, an important place on a conspicuous hill, about 
half-way from Jerusalem to Beit-Jebrin. It contains 
about GOO or 700 inhabitants, is built of stone, and has 
a ruined tower or castle (Kobinson, Bill. Res. ii, 13). 
This is apparently the place meant by Schwarz ( Palest . 
p. 10*2) by “the village Beth-Tapa, five English miles 
N.W. [ten N.E.] of Beit-Jibrin.” 

3. A town in the tribe of Ephraim, near the border 
of Manasseh, in which latter the adjacent territory 
(“land of Tappuah”) lay (Josh, xvi, 8; xvii, 8); prob- 
ably containing a tine spring, and hence called (ver. 7) 
En-tappuah (q. v.). It is no doubt, as suggested by 
Van de Velde ( Memoir , p. 351), although this is dis- 
puted by Keil ( Comment . ad loe.),the same as the pres- 
ent 7 A tuf a deserted village about four hours N.E. by 
E. of Nablus, with traces of antiquity and ancient wells 
of excellent water. Schwarz also states that “at the 
present dav the Arabs call the country between Nablus 
and the Jordan Balad-tapuach , as probably the town 
of this name was formerly in it” ( Palest . p. 89). See 
Tribe. 

Ta'rah (Heb. Te'rach , PHA [in pause Tarach , 
wandering or delay ; Sept. TapdSr v. r. QapdS; 
Vulg. Thare ), a station of the Israelites in the desert, 
situated between Taliath and Mithcah (Numb, xxxiii, 
27); perhaps in the great Wady el -Jerafeh, opposite 
Mount Hor. See Exode. 

Tar'alah [some Taru'lah ] (Heb. Taralak ', H550FI, 
reeling ; Sept. 0ap«\d v.r. QapeijXci] Vulg. Tharcla ),a 
town in the western section of the tribe of Benjamin, 
mentioned between Irpeel and Zelah (Josh, xviii, 27). 
Schwarz suggests ( Palest . p. 128) that it “is perhaps 
the village Thaniel=Thariel, in the neighborhood of 
Lod,” probably meaning Neby Paniyal , two miles south 
of Lud; but the name has little resemblance, and the 
territory of Benjamin did not reach so far west. It is 
possibly represented by the modern village Beit-Tirza, 
in Wady Ahmed, just north of Iieit-Jala, with a well 
adjacent and several ruined sites in the vicinity. 

Tarasius, patriarch of Constantinople, was a zealous 
and active supporter of image-worship in the time of 
the empress Irene. See Iconoclasm. He first held 
the secular position of secretary of state, but was cho- 
sen, though a layman, to fill the patriarchal office by 
both the court and the people (A.D. 784). His election 
gave great offence to Rome, but he was eventually rec- 
ognised by Hadrian I on the ground of his avowed in- 
tention to restore the worship of images in the Greek 
Church. A synod to promote the unifying of the Church 
of Constantinople with other churches, which he had 
suggested as a condition of his acceptance of the pa- 
triarchate, met in 785, but was compelled by a mob to 
adjourn to Nicea, where it reconvened in 787. In this 
body the papal legates were accorded the first place and 


the patriarch of Constantinople the second, and the lat- 
ter heartily endorsed the new creed, which determined 
that worship, in the exercises of kissing, bowing the 
knee, illuminations, and burning of incense, should be 
rendered to the images of the human person of Christ 
and of Mary, the angels, apostles, prophets, and all 
saints; but not such worship as is due to the Divine 
Being only (r#)r rtpi}TiKi)v Trpocncvvtjon' — ov pi)v ti)v 
aXtj$ivi)v Xarpeiat', i) irptiru povy ry Sdq. (ptxni). All 
laws directed against the worship of images were anath- 
ematized. In his own person, Tarasius was also espe- 
cially active in the work of converting the opponents 
of image-worship. In the matrimonial affairs of Con- 
stantine, the son of Irene, Tarasius played an unworthy 
part, lie protested at first against the rejection of 
queen Maria and the substitution for her of Theodota, 
but soon gave way to the wishes of the court, and 
thereby came into collision with the monks, who re- 
garded the emperor as excommunicated. Tarasius died 
in 800, and ranks among the saints of both the Greek 
and the Romish Church. II is literary remains con- 
sist of letters and homilies (see. Walch, Entwurf einer 
vollst. I list . d. Ketzereien, Spalt ungen u. Religionsstreitig- 
keiten [Leips. 1782], x, 419-511). — Ilerzog, Real-Ency- 
klop. s. v. 

Ta'rea [some Tare'd] (Heb. Tare'a , by in- 

terchange of gutturals for Tahrea ; Sept. Oapd v. r. 0a- 
pd\; Vulg. Thurau ), son of Mieah in the lineage of 
king Saul (1 Chron. viii, 35); elsewhere (ix, 41) called 
Tahrea (q. v.). 

Tares (ZiZ,dria\ Vulg. zizania). There can be 
little doubt that the ZiZdna of the parable (Matt, xiii, 
25) denote the weed called “darnel” (folium t emu lent um)> 
a widely distributed grass, and the only species of the 
order that has deleterious properties. The word used 
by the evangelist is an Oriental, and not a Greek, term 
(the native Greek word seems to he ajpa, Dioscor. ii, 
91). It is the Arabic zawan, the Syriac zizana, and the 
zonin (“j n 2*T) of the Talmud (Mishna, i, 109; see Bux- 
torf, Lex. Tulin, s.v. ). The derivation of the Arabic 
word from zein, “ nausea,” is well suited to the character 
of the plant, the grains of which produce vomiting and 



TARES 


202 


TARGUM 


purging, convulsions, and even death. Volnev ( Trctv. 
ii, 306) experienced the ill effects of eating its seeds; 
and “the whole of the inmates of the Sheffield work- 
house were attacked some years ago with symptoms 
supposed to he produced by their oatmeal having been 
accidentally adulterated with lolinm” (Engl. Cyclop, s. v. 
“Lolium”). The darnel before it comes into ear is very 
similar in appearance to wheat; hence the command 
that the zizania should be left to the harvest, lest while 
men plucked up the tares “they should root up also 
the wheat with them.” Prof. Stanley, however ( Sinai 
and J’alest. p.426), speaks of women and children pick- 
ing out from the wheat in the cornfields of Samaria 
the tall green stalks, still called by the Arabs zuirdn. 
“These stalks,” he continues, “if sown designedly 
throughout the fields, would be inseparable from the 
wheat, from which, even when growing naturally and 
by chance, they are at first sight hardly distinguish- 
able.” See also Thomson (Land and Book, ii, 111): 
“The grain is just in the proper stage to illustrate the 
parable. In those parts where the grain has headed 
out , the tares have done the same, and then a child 
cannot mistake them for wheat or barley; but where 
both are less developed, the closest scrutiny will often 
fail to detect them. Even the farmers, who in this 
country generally weed their fields, do not attempt to 
separate the one from the other.” The grain-growers 
in Palestine believe that the zuicdn is merely a de- 
generate wheat; that in wet seasons the wheat turns to 
tares. Dr. Thomson asserts that this is their fixed opin- 
ion. It is curious to observe the retention of the fallacy 
through many ages. “ Wheat and zunin ,” says Light- 
foot (II or. Ileb. on Matt, xiii, 25), quoting from the Tal- 
mud, “are not seeds of different kinds.” See also Bux- 
torf (Lex. Talm. s. v. “Zizania, species tritici 

degeneris, sic dicti, quod scortando cum bono tritico, 
in pejorem natnram degenerat.” The Pom an writers 
(comp. “ Infelix lolium,” Virgil, Georg, i, 154) appear 
to have entertained a similar opinion with respect to 
some of the cereals. Thus Pliny (Hist. AW. xviii, 17), 
borrowing probably from Theophrastus, asserts that 
“barley will degenerate into the oat.” The notion 
that the zizania of the parable are merely diseased or 
degenerate wheat has been defended by Brederod (see 
his letter to Sehultetus in Exercit. Evang. ii, 65), and 
strangely adopted by Trench, who (Notes on the Para- 
bles , j). 91, 4th ed.) regards the distinction of these two 
plants to be “a falsely assumed fact.” If the zizania of 
the parable denote the darnel, and there cannot be any 
reasonable doubt about it, the plants are certainly dis- 
tinct, and the L.temulentum has as much right to specif- 
ic distinction as any other kind of grass. — Smith. On 
the route from Beirut to Akka (1852), Dr. liobinson 
describes fields of wheat “of the most luxuriant growth, 
finer than which I had not before seen in this or any 
other country. Among these splendid fields of grain 
are still found the taj'es spoken of in the New Test. As 
described to me, they are not to be distinguished from 
the wheat until the ear appears. The seed resembles 
wheat in form, but is smaller and black. In Beirfit, 
poultry are fed upon this seed, and it is kept for sale for 
that purpose. When not separated from the wheat, 
bread made from the flour often causes dizziness to 
those who eat of it” (Bibl. Res. iii, 55). The bearded 
darnel has the bad reputation of yielding the only dele- 
terious grain among all the countless grasses. We are 
not aware that any injurious quality has been detected 
in the seeds of its own congeners, Lolium uri'ense, L. 
perenne , the rye-grasses so familiar to British husband- 
ry; but if mixed with bread, L. temule?itvm occasions 
giddiness, nausea, difficulty of articulation, and other 
symptoms ranging from intoxication to paralysis, and 
instances are on record where mortification of the ex- 
tremities, or even death, has ensued (see Burnett, Plantee 
Utiliores , vol. iii). Hence the French have named it 
inaie, or “ tipsy-grass,” a word from which the English 


' have dropped the first syllable, and bestowed it on those 
unoffending “ ray” or “ rye grasses,” by which the dar- 
nel is represented in our hav-fields. Thus understood, 

I “ how well do these ‘ tares’ represent those who make a 
false profession; who appear among Hod’s people; who 
draw near with their mouth, and honor Hod with their 
lips, but their heart is far from him ( Isa. xxix, 13; 
Matt, xv, 8; Mark vii,6)! Both grow together, and at 
first may seem alike. Man cannot accurately distinguish 
between the true and the false ; but at the great harvest- 
day the Lord will separate them. He will gather the 
wheat into his garner, while the tares shall be con- 
sumed” ( Balfour, Rot. ami Relig. p. 251 ). — Fairbairn, 
See Kitto, Piet. Bible , ad loe.: Hacked t, Illustr. of Script. 

р. 130; Calcott [Lady], Script. Herbal, p. 475 sq. ; Tris- 
tram, Nat. Hist, of the Bible, p. 486; Bochelius, I)e Zi - 
zaniis in Eccles. Dei J)isseminutis (Arg. 1661). 

Target (j*T3, kidon , 1 Sam. xvii, 6, a spear, as 
! usually rendered; Hi!!, tsinnah, 1 Kings x, 1G; 2 Chron. 
ix, 15 ; xiv, 8, a large shield, as usually rendered). See 
Shield. 

Targum (E *5*1 FI, i. e. translation , interpretation ) is 
the name given to a Chaldee version or paraphrase of 
the Old Test., of which there are several extant. 

I. Origin of the Targums. — The origin of the Chaldee 
paraphrase may be traced back to the time of Ezra. 
After the exile it became the practice to read the law 
in public to the people, with the addition of an oral 
paraphrase in the Chaldee dialect. Thus we read in 
Neh. viii, 8, E^nbxn 

>3 w CVn, which expression the Talmud, Bab. Megil- 
lah, fid. 3, col. 1, explains ElJHri 'll ‘^“"2-, i. e. “to ex- 
plain means Targum.” This ecclesiastical usage, ren- 
dered necessary by the change of language consequent 
on the Captivity, was undoubtedly continued in after- 
times. It rose in importance, especially when the syn- 
agogues and public schools began to flourish, the chief 
subject of occupation in which was the exposition of 
the Thorah. The office of the interpreter (j 
jE^Vr, N““!EN. less frequently i'w‘1, comp. Znnz, 
Die gottesd. Yortrage, p. 332) thus became one of the 
most important, and the canon of the Talmud, that as 
the law was given by a mediator, so it can be read and 
expounded only by a mediator, became paramount (Jc- 
rus. Megillah, fol. 74). The Talmud contains, even in 
its oldest portions, precise injunctions concerning the 
manner of conducting these expository prelections. 
Thus, “ Neither the reader nor the interpreter is to 
raise his voice one above the other;” “They have to 
wait for each other until each have finished his verse;” 
“The methnrgcnian is not to lean against a pillar or a 
beam, but to stand with fear and with reverence;” “He 
is not to use a written Targum, but he is to deliver his 
translation viva voce;" “No more than one verse in the 
Pentateuch and three in the prophets shall be read or 
translated at a time;” “That there should be not more 
than one reader and one interpreter for the law; while 
for the prophets one reader and one interpreter, or two 
interpreters, are allowed” (Mishna, Megillah, iv, 5, 10; 
Sopherim, xi, 1). Again (Megillah, ibid., and Tosiphtu , 

с. iii), certain passages liable to give oflence to the 
multitude are specified, which may be read in the syna- 
gogue and translated; others which may be read but 
not translated; others, again, which may neither be read 
nor translated. To the first class belong the account 
of the creation — a subject not to be discussed publicly 
on account of its most vital bearing upon the relation 
between the Creator and the Cosmos, and the nature 
of both; the deed of Lot and his two daughters (Gen. 
xix, 31); of Judah and Tamar (eh. xxxviii) ; the first 
account of the making of the golden calf (Exod.xxxii); 
ail the curses in the law; the deed of Amnon and 
Tamar (2 Sam. xiii); of Absalom with his father’s con- 

. cubines (xvi, 22); the story of the woman of Gibeah 


targum 


203 


TARGUM 


(Juilg. xix). These are to be read and translated, or 
■p -mnsi l pK‘lp3. To be read but not translated, 
xbl are the deed of Reuben with 

his father's concubine (Gen. xxv, 22) ; the latter por- 
tion of the story of the golden calf (Exod. xxxii) ; and 
the deed of David and Bathsheba (2 Sam. xi, xii). 

At what time these paraphrases were written down 
we cannot state; but it must certainly have been at an 
early period. Bearing in mind that the Hellenistic 
Jews bad for a long time been in possession of the 
law translated into their language, and that in the 
2d century not only had the Jews themselves issued 
Greek versions in opposition to the Alexandrian ver- 
sion, which were received with decided approbation 
even by the Talmudists, as the repeated and honorable 
mention of Aquila in the Talmud proves, but that 
also the Syrians had been prompted to translate the 
Holy Scriptures, it would indeed be strange had not 
the Jews familiar with the. Aramaean dialect also fol- 
lowed the practice at that time universally prevalent, 
and sought to protit by it. We have, in point of fact, 
certain traces of written Targums extant at least in 
the time of Christ. For even the Mishit a seems to im- 
ply this in Yadu'im , iv, 5, where the subject treated is 
t he language and style of character to be used in writing 
the Targums. Further, the Talmud, Shabbalh , fol. 1 15, 
col. 1, mentions a written Targnm on Job of the middle 
of the 1st century (in the time of Gamaliel 1), which 
incurred the disapprobation of Gamaliel. Zunz here 
justly remarks, “ Since it is not likely that a beginning 
should have been made with Job, a still higher antiq- 
uity as very probably belonging to the first renderings 
of the law may be assumed” ( [loc.cit . p. 02). Griitz, in 
his Monatsschrff, 1877, p. 84, believes that this Tar- 
gum of Job, mentioned four times in the Talmud, can 
only refer to a Oreek translation of that book; and 
Derenbourg, in his Essui sar C Uistoire et la Geographic 
de la Palestine , p. 242, accounts for the action of Gama- 
liel, because it was written avec des curacteres non-he - 
braiqaes. But as Delitzsch, in llorce Utbr. et Talmud . 
{Zeitsch rift fit r die luth.Theologie u.Kirche [Leips. 1878], 
p. 211), remarks, “Z*!!nn 2P3 means ‘in Targnm,’ i.e. 
written in the Aramaean, and refers not to the charac- 
ters with which, but to the language in which, it was 
written. Gamaliel acted according to old principle, 
■pnrb nrx ns brrr fns-i, i.e.,‘aii 

that belongs to oral tradition was not to appear in writ- 
ten form.”’ This principle included also the Targum, 
but it was not strictly observed, and, like the Mishina, 
so, also, Targums were clandestinely circulated in sin- 
gle copies. That this was the case we see from the 
fact that Gamaliel of Jabneh, the grandson of Gama- 
liel I or elder, having been found reading the Targum 
on Job, was reminded of the procedure of his grand- 
father, who had the copy of the Job Targum, which 
was brought to him while standing on the mountain of 
the Temple, immured in order to prevent its further use. 
Dr. Frankl, in Die Zusdtze in der Sept, zu Hiob (in 
Griitz, Munuisschrift, 1872, p. 313), says, “There is no 
doubt that the additions in the Sept, were made ac- 
cording to an old Aramaean Targum,” and in corrobora- 
tion of bis statement lie quotes Tosiphta Skubbath , c. 
14; Skubbath , fol. 115, col. 1 ; Jerus. Skubbath , 16, 1 ; 
Sopherim , v, 15. We are thus obliged to assume an 
early origin for the Targums, a fact which will be cor- 
roborated further on, in spite of the many objections 
raised, the chief of which, adduced by Eichhorn, being 
the silence of the Christian fathers, of whom none, not 
even Epiphanius or Jerome, mention the subject. But 
this silence is of little weight, because the fathers gen- 
erally were ignorant of Hebrew and of Hebrew litera- 
ture. Nor was any importance attached to them in 
comparison with Greek translations. Besides, in truth, 
the assertion in question is not even supported by the 
tacts of the case; for Ephraem Syrus, e. g„ made use 


of the Targums (comp. Lcngorke, De Ephraemi S. Arte 
Ilermeneut. p. 14 sq. ; Asscmani, Bibl. Orient, i, 60). 

11. The Targum of Onkelos . — There is a Targum of 
Onkelos on the Pentateuch which has always been 
highly valued by the Jews. 

1. Authorship . — In regard to the author, the notices 
of him are meagre and uncertain. Wc now approach 
one of the most mooted questions as to the identity of 
Onkelos with Akilas or Aquila; but before solving it 
we must hear the different witnesses. The first men- 
tion of Onkelos is found in the Tosiphta, a work drawn 
up shortly after the Mishna. From this we learn: a. 
That Onkelos the Proselyte p.‘>n OlbpIX) was so se- 
rious in his adherence to the newly adopted (Jewish) 
faith that he threw his share of his paternal inher- 
itance into the Dead Sea, ”b*cn L n b ipbn “pbin 
(Tos. Demai, vi, 9), b. At t he funeral of Gamaliel the 
elder he burned more than seventy mime worth of 
spices in his honor (Tos. Skubbath , c. 8; the same story 
is repeated with variations Sem ichoth, c. 8, and Talm. 
A boda Zarah , lbl. 1 1, col. 1). c. I le is finally mentioned, 
by way of corroboration to different llalachas, in con- 
nection with Gamaliel in three more places, viz. Chagi- 
gah , iii. 1 ; Mikeaoth , vi, 1 ; Kelim , iii, 2, 2. In the Baby- 
lonian Talmud, Onkelos is mentioned in the following 
passages : 

1. Git tin, fol. 56, col. 2; fol. 57, col. 1, where, we read, 

“onkelos the Proselyte, the son of Kalonikos (Callinicus 
or Cleonicns?), the sou of Titus’s sister, who, intending to 
become a convert, conjnred up the ghosts of Titus, Ba- 
laam, aud Jesus [the latter name is omitted in later edi- 
tions, for which, as in the copy before us, is substituted 
b^Tw" 1 but not in Bomberg’s and the Cracow 

editions], iu order to ask them what nation was consid- 
ered the first in the other world. Their answer that Is- 
rael was the favored one decided him.” 

2. Aboda Zarah , fol. 11, col. 1, here called the son of 
ICalonymos (Cleonymos?) ; and we also read in this place 
that the emperor sent three Roman cohorts to capture 
him, and that he converted them all. 

3. Baba Bat lira , fol. 1)9, col. 1, where Onkelos the Prose- 
lyte is quoted as an authority on the question of the form 
of the cherubim (comp. 2 Chron. iii, 10). 

4. Megillah, fol. 3, col. 1, where we read, “ R. Jeremiah, 
or, according to others, R.Chia bar-Abba, said the Targum 
on the Pentateuch was made by the proselyte Onkelos, 
from the month of R. Eliezer and K. Jehoshua; the Tar- 
gum on the prophets was made by Jonathan ben-Uzziel 
from the mouth of llaggai, Zechariah, and Malachi. . . . 
But have we not been taught that the Targum existed 
from the time of Ezra? . . . Only it was forgotten aud 
Onkelos restored it.” 

In the Midrash Tanchuma, section “b “b (Gcn.xxviii, 
20), we read, “ Onkelos the Proselyte asked an old 
man whether that was all t ho love God bore towards 
a proselyte, that be promised to give him bread and a 
garment? The old man replied that this was all for 
which the patriarch Jacob prayed.” In the book of 
Zahar, section HVO "Hnx (Lev. xviii, 4), Onkelos is 
represented as a disciple of llillel and iSliammai. Fi- 
nally a MS. in the library of the Leipsic Senate (B. II. 
17) relates that Onkelos, the nephew of the wicked 
Titus (rirnn 01 13 ^ b'J *1^-3), asked the emperor’s 
advice as to what merchandise he thought it was prof- 
itable to trade in. Titus told him that that should be 
bought which was cheap in the market, since it was 
sure to rise in price. Onkelos went to Jerusalem and 
studied the law under R. Eliezer and R. Jehoshua, and 
his face became wan (niSin^ “P3S “l^m). When he 
returned to Titus, one of the courtiers observed the pal- 
lor of his countenance, and said to Titus, “Onkelos ap- 
pears to have studied the law.” Interrogated by Titus, 
lie admitted the fact, adding that he had done it by his 
advice. No nation had ever been so exalted, and none 
was now held cheaper among the nations than Israel; 
“therefore,” he said, “ 1 concluded that in the end none 
would be of higher price” (comp. Anger, De Onkelo, pt. 
ii [Lips. 1846], p. 12, where the whole passage in the 
original is copied). In all these passages the name of 
Onkelos is given. But there are many passages ill 


TARGUM 


204 


TARGUM 


which the version of Akilas (D^pP C3"!P) is men- ' 
tioned, and the notices concerning Akilas bear consid- 
erable likeness to those of Onkelos. Akilas is men- 
tioned in JSiphra (Lev. xxv, 7), and in Jems. Talmud, 
Denial , 27 d, as having been born in l’ontus; that, after 
having embraced the Jewish faith, he threw his pa- | 
ternal inheritance into an asphalt lake (Jems. Demai, 
25 d); that he translated the Torah before 11. Eliezer 
and II. Jehoshua, who praised him (1P1N IDPpI) and 
said to him, “Thou art fairer than the sons of men” 
(3"!N "13312 !*“£"£"') ; or, according to the other ac- 
counts, before II. Akiba (comp. Jems. Kiddusliin, i, 1, 1, 
etc. ; Jerus. Megillah , i, 9 ; 15a by 1. Megillah , fol. 3, col. I ). 
We learn, further, that he lived in the time of Hadrian 
(Chag. ii, 1), that he was the son of the emperor’s sis- 
ter (Tanchun, ed. Prague, fol. 34, col. 2), that he be- 
came a convert against the emperor’s will ( ibid, and 
Shemoth Rabbuh, fol. 146 c), and that he consulted Eliezer 
and Jehoshua about his conversion {Bereshith liabba , 
fol. 78 d ; comp. Midrash Coheleth, fol. 102 b). 

That Akilas is no other than Aquila (’A kv\oq), the 
well-known Greek translator of the Old Test., we need 
hardly add. He was a native of Pont us (Iren. .1 dv. /Iter. 
3,24; Jerome, l)e Vir. III. c. 54; Philostr. De liter. § 90). 
lie lived under Hadrian (Epiph. De Pond.et Mens. § 12). 
lie is called the {Citron. Alex. TrtuSspoc) of 

the emperor {ibid. § 14), becomes a convert to Judaism 
(§ 15), whence he is called the Proselyte (Iren. loc. cit. ; 
Jerome to Jer. viii, 14, etc.), and receives instructions 
from Akiba (Jerome, loc. cit.'). He translated the Old 
Test., and his version was considered of the highest 
import and authority among the Jews, especially those 
unacquainted with the Hebrew language (Euseb. Prcep. 
Evany, loc. cit. ; Augustine, De Civ. Dei , xv, 23 ; Philostr. 
De liter. § 90; Justin, Novell. 146). Thirteen distinct quo- 
tations from this version are preserved in the Talmud and 
Midrash; and we may classify the whole as follows: 

Greek Quotations. — Gen. xvii, 1, in Beresh. Bab. 51 b; 
Lev. xxiii, 40, Jerus. Sukkah , 3, 5, f-d. 53 d (comp. I'«;. Rub. 
200 d) ; 1 sal iii, 20, Jerus. Bhabb. 0, 4, fol. 8 b; Ezok. xvi, 
10, Midr. Thren. 58 e ; Ezek. xxiii, 43, Vaj. Rub. 203 d : Psa. 
xlviii, 15 (Masor. text xlvii, according to the 8ept.). Jerus. 
Meg. 2, 3, fol. 73 b; Prov. xviii, 21, Vaj. Rab. I< >1. 203 b; 
Esth. i, G, Midr. Rsth. 120 cl; Dan. v, 5, Jems. Yoma , 3, S, 
fol. 41 a. 

Hebrew Quotations (retranslated from the Greek) — Lev. 
xix, 20, Jei'us. Kid. i, 1, fol. 59 a ; Dan. viii, 13, Beresh. Rab. 
24 c. 

Chaldee Quotations.— Prov. xxv, 11, Beresh. Rab. 104 b; 
Isa. v, G, Midr. Coh. 113 c, d. 

All these quotations are treated at length by Anger, 
De Onkelo , i, 13 sep, and the variations adduced there 
show how carefully they have to be perused, and the 
more so since we have as yet no critical edition of the 
Talmud. 

The identity of Akilas and Aquila having been as- 
certained, it was also argued that, according to the 
parallel accounts of Onkelos and Aquila, Onkelos and 
Aquila must be one and the same person, since it was 
unlikely that the circumstances and facts narrated 
could have belonged to two different individuals. I»ut 
who will warrant that the statements are correct? 
There are chronological differences which cannot be 
reconciled, unless we have recourse to such means as 
the Jewish historian Dr. Griitz, who renders “(pin 3“i 
(i. e. Ii. Gamaliel I, or elder) “Gamaliel II.” Is it not 
surprising that on one and the same page Onkelos is 
once spoken of as “Onkelos the Proselyte,” and “Onke- 
los the son of Kalonymos became a convert” {Aboda 
Zarah , fol. 11, col. I)? It has also been stated that 
Onkelos was neither the author of the Targum nor a 
historical person, but that Targum Onkelos means sim- 
ply a version made after the manner of A kilos , the 
Greek translator. Aquila’s translation was a special 
favorite with the Jews, because it was both literal and 
accurate. Being highly valued, it was considered a 
model or type after which the new Chaldee one was 


named, in commendation, perhaps, of its like excellences. 
This view is very ingenious, but it is hardly probable. 
Now the question arises, how is it that there is only 
a version of Onkelos on the Pentateuch, while Aquila 
translated the whole Old Test.? If Onkelos’s Targum 
was really made after the manner of Aquila, how is it 
that the latter is so slavishly literal, translating even 
the PN, sign of the accusative, or, as Jerome states {I)e 
Opt. Gen. Interpret.), “Non solum verba sed et ctvino- 
logias verborum transferre eonatus est. . . . Quod lie- 
bran non solum h about tipSpa sed et rrpoapSpa, ille 
KaKo%))\u)Q et svllabas interpretetur et litteras, dictat- 
que <t v v rov ovpavbv icai trv v Tt)v ytji r quod Grrcca 
et Latina lingua non recipit,” while Onkelos is freer, 
adding sometimes here and there a word or phrase for 
the better understanding? 

That the Targum Onkelos cannot mean a Targum 
after the manner of Aquila is also evident from the 
fact that while Aquila made a recension of the then 
existing Sept,, nothing of the kind ean be said of On- 
kelos. The latter wrote for the people in a language 
which it understood better than the original Hebrew; 
the former wrote for polemical purposes, to counterbal- 
ance the arguments of the Christians, who made use of 
the Alexandrian version against the Jews. That the 
author of the Chaldee paraphrase was not a proselyte, 
but a native Jew, is sufficiently proved from the excel- 
lence and accuracy of his work ; for without having 
been bred up from his birth in the Jewish religion and 
learning, and long exercised in all the rites and doctrines 
thereof, and being also thoroughly skilled in both the 
Hebrew and Chaldee languages, as far as a native Jew 
could be, he could scarcely be thought thoroughly ade- 
quate to that work which he performed. The repre- 
senting of Onkelos as having been a proselyte seems to 
have proceeded from the error of taking him to have 
been the same with Aquila of Pontus, who was indeed 
a Jewish proselyte. A comparison of both versions 
must show the superiority of Onkelos’s over that of 
Aquila. The latter, on account of his literal adherence 
to the original, makes his version often nonsensical and 
unintelligible, and less useful than the former, as the 
following will show : 

Genesis. 

ii, 6. -PNI — Aq. hiu^Xvy/jioi ; Onk. N3!3*". 

7. P3333— Aq. uvanvoii\ Onk. X? 
vi, 4. — Aq. lirnrinTorTtf \ Onk. 

1G. Prrn-Aq. ; Onk. VPP:. 

viii, 1. 1 2 3.* " 1 — Aq. xal e<TT«A»)crai' ; Onk. "inn 
xii, 8. pppn— Aq. nerTpe ; Onk. pbpCNI. 
xv, 2. pw*2 "31— Aq. vius row ttotictoi tos ; Onk. P31 

sons. 

xviii, 12. Pt3“)p3 — Aq. k«t’ au-rfis ; Onk. Nn3"33. 

^Plbn-Aq. KU Ta-rp,/?. Ollk. P"3^G“I. 

xxii, 2. PPPl'in — Aq. T»/V yj.v Ti]v Naratf/aG, ; 

onk. fiwnbis 

13. “pQZ-Aq. ei/ <tv X v$; Ollk. N:b“N3. 
xxvi, 33. 2 3 23 *1N3 — Aq. <tyeaf> TrAntTfioi/7,s ; Ollk. "IN 3 

mu. 

XXX, S. 'ipbpES DVlbx "’biPSS-Aq. avvIarpeHv 

/ieo 0 eor; Onk. 1P1Z*3 P!23p. 

11. "133 (Keri "13 N3)-Aq. faSev i, C Onk. 

"13 XPN. 

xxxii, 25. p3N"H — Aq. InvXieTo ; Onk. b*lP2.’N\ 
xxxiv, 21. C* 1 12 3 23 — Aq. unt]gTiafj.iioi ; Onk. *plPu3. 
xxxv, 16. "|"“N P"I33 — Aq. ku$' bdov t7jp *y rjv ; Onk. 

NZ-IN 31-13. 

xxxvi, 24. C" > 12 n n PN — Aq. tovp ’Ia/ieiV; Onk. PP 

&nn33. 


TAR GUM 


205 


TARGUM 


XXXVli, 27. 3-*U2 — Aq. t/ 7r\eoveKTrjjUa; Ouk. iT2 

x:b ibpjps 

xxxviii, IS. ”*5^rsl— Aq. <7rpe7rToi/; Ouk. X2 v w*2J. 

xiii, 4. *}*SX — Aq. <rvpnT(,\p.a; Ouk. XP.V2. 

Exodus. 

i, 9. C13SP1— Aq. oa-rolvov (id. Dent, ix, 1); Ouk. 

Vs^pn. 

11. P, "322*2 ‘’"IP — Aq. 7ro\etr (TK^vaparcov ; Ouk. 

aonx rpn ■n",p. 

13. “"IS 3 — Aq. t-v Tpu0>)juaT< ; Onk. 1*'u3p2. 
iv, 12. "j^nnim-Aq. fuTttru ae (id. ver. 15; xxiv, 
12 always ^uti&iv, taken from "IX); Ouk. 
“3" l 2 : hx (id. ver. 15; xxiv, 12). 
viii, 12. 21PPP5 — Aq. nappviav \ Onk. ^ *1 “T^ Z-* - 

xiv, 2T. Iin^xb — Aq. ei? ap\a7ov avjov; Ouk. 

iT'spirb. 

xv, S. V2")S*3— Aq. ZaoapeOSri ; Onk. 
xxiv, G. P133iX2 — Aq. ev 7rpo^i''jua<r<v ; Onk. X^pPTwS. 
xxviii, S. ^3 23 — Aq. bu'upopov ( id. xxxv, 22, 35 ) ; Ouk. 

‘mm. 

xxix, G. PT3 — Aq. to 7rOa\ov; Onk. X^^S. 

36. PXBSHl Bins: — Aq. ILb-aapoZ nepi 

apapTtac; Onk. ^2*1 “1 X^ l "'l22 bl?. 

XXX, 12. ^S13— Aq. tf/Xaapa; Ollk. *jp"HS. 

35. P3>*"ID "O X1PI P1"l2 — Aq. u7roireTa<rp.evo 9 

auTO? oti ; Ollk. xin b" 1 I32. 

Aq. u7re7rtTaaev uvtov\ Ollk. rPS^bw^X " l *n X. 
X5X1V, 24. Q"' -"2 ITlb’J — Aq. rpe7? KaS-<idou9; Onk- 

-ps-sT nbn. 


Leviticus. 

iii, 1. Ci^ba-Aq. eipm-i^r; Onk. XTST'p HDDS, 
xiii, G. rrrsn iTI32 — Aq. embojap enibopa] Ouk. 
CpD m X221X. 

xvii, 7. C"'"l^" , ^b — Aq. toF? Tp{xtou<T<v(id. Isa.xiii, 21); 
Onk. ■pV^b. 

xxv, 33. bxrp "V125X1 — Aq. 09 «v ey^i’Ctov eo’rti' ; Ouk. 
pi^s-i *m 

xxvii, 2. X^bs -1 — Aq. SavpaorTwap ; Ouk. 2312" 1 . 

Numbers. 

i, 47. Pi 32 Tib — Aq. els pd(ibov\ Onk. X13"’wb. 
xi, S. "|“223Pl T3 — Aq. toD iia<jro5 h\alov\ Ouk. 

xrann ur-'b"!. 

xxiii, 12. mt32n-Aq.\afeur»jv; Ouk. XP*2“). 


Deuteronomy. 

i, 40. tzb 132 — Aq. levaare auroiV; Ollk. 132PX 

r=^ 

xxii, 9. E^xbD— Aq. a vopo<opevo9 ; Onk. pS^'"P3?. 

13332*23 — Aq. u. vTibianetpevov ; Onk. XT3 33PO 
xxiii, 15. "p32? "p2“''iX PPbl — Aq. toZ doITa< Toi >9 
txS'poi'r (tov €i9 Trpbaoairov arov ; Ouk. "101212^1 

“snp -pm ■'bra. 

xxviii, 20. mam^n nxi mx:n px— A q. 

Kat (pavtdaiva ; Ouk. PP1 XP.1'X3 PP 

X^JIMT. 


It has been urged that while Akilas’s version is al- 
ways cited in the Talmud by the name of its author, 
D5^pr C1B"IP, the Targum of Onkelos is never quoted 
with his name, but introduced with *j 3 ">*23; "IP'S "12, 
“as we translate,” or *pT CUPP, “our Targum,” or 
‘l'21i"lP3, “as the Targum has it;” but this only shows 


the high esteem in which Onkelos’s Targum stood. 
And as to the quotations of Aquila, almost all which 
are cited are on the prophets and llagiographa, while 
Onkelos’s Targum is only on the law ; and a close ex- 
amination of the sources themselves shows that what is 
said there has reference only to the Greek version, 
which is fully expressed in the praise of 11. Eliezer and 
11. Jehoslina when saying CTX ^32*2 r“ 1 2*'2“', “Thou 
art fairer than the sons of men,” thereby alluding to 
Gen. ix, 27, where it is said that Japheth (i. e. the Greek 
language) should one day dwell in the tents of Shem 
(i. e. Israel) ( Meyilluh , i, 11, 71 b and c; Bereshith 
Rabba, 40 b). 

There is another very important point, which has 
been overlooked by all favoring the identity of Akilas 
with Onkelos, and thus putting the origin of the Tar- 
gum of Onkelos at a late date, viz. the use of the 
memra=\6yoQ by Onkelos; and this peculiarity of the 
Targum shows that its origin belongs to the time of 
Philo and the New-Test, period. It is not unlikely that, 
in this respect, Onkelos was followed by the other Tar- 
gumists, and that his intention was to reconcile Alex- 
andrian with Palestinian theology. John’s doctrine 
of the Logos would be without any foundation or point 
of departure if we could not suppose that at the time of 
Jesus a similar doctrine concerning t lie Word of God, 
as it can be deduced from the Targum, was known 
among the Palestinian Jews. That later Judaism has 
put aside this important moment, of older theology 
must be explained from its opposition to Christianity. 

In the Targum of Onkelos we find not the least 
indication that it was made after the destruction of 
Jerusalem ; we find neither the least trace of hostil- 
ity to the Homans nor of opposition to Christianity. 
The Temple is regarded as still standing, the festive 
days are still celebrated, the Jews are still a nation 
which never ceases to resist its enemies. This may 
be seen from the prophetic passages, as Gen. xlix, 
Numb, xxiv, Dent, xxxiii, the explanation of which, 
as given by Onkelos, could have hardly originated 
after A.I). 70. Onkelos uses for Argob (Dent, iii, 4, 
14; so also Jonathan, 1 Kings iv, 13) the name Tra- 
chona (X312-0)— Trachonitis (Luke iii, 1); Josephus 
writes Tpo^omYic, sometimes b Tpaywr (Ant. xv, 10, 
1 and 3; xviii, 4, G ; xx, 7, 1). The Peshito of the 
Pentateuch did not follow this explanation (Luke iii, 
1, X 2 12 *113 “I X-lPX), probably because the division 
of Palestine at the time of Jesus did not exist in the 
Syrian translator’s days, or it was unintelligible to him 
(among the rabbins X312P33 is used in the sense of 
“palace,” *p3322 [Iluxtorf, Lex. p. 913 sq.J). All this 
indicates, or rather confirms, the supposition that this 
Targum belongs to the time of Jesus. There is a 
similar indication in Onkelos’s rendering of Bashan 
by ",3 Pi 12 (Syr. "p3P*2), Bata men (see Gesenins, Comm, 
zu Jes. ii, 13); PP32 0“', by Gennesaret, PC13^3l. 
This reminds one of the language of the New Test.; 
so also X3T212 (Mammon), “ the injustice with the 
Mammon” (',1 PISV 2^22 *,'2^ ; it is said, in Gen. 
xiii, 13, of the Sodomites). When Paul speaks of that 
“spiritual rock” that followed the children of Israel in 
the wilderness (1 Cor. x, 3), he undoubtedly refers to 
the tradition preserved by Onkelos (also by Pseudo- 
Jonathan), “The well which the princes digged, the 
chiefs of the people cut it, the scribes with their staves; 
it was given to them in the wilderness. And from [the 
time] that it was given to them it descended with them 
to the rivers, and from the rivers it went up with them 
to the height, and from the height to the vale which is 
in the field of Moab” (Numb, xxi, 18 sq.J. Hence the 
expression of the apostle, “spiritual, following rock.” 
The Syriac retains the proper names of the Hebrew text. 
After what has been said, we believe the Targum of On- 
kelos originated about the time of Philo — an opinion 


TARGUM 


206 


TARGUM 


which is also held by Zunz ( Gottesd , Vortrdge, p. G2). 
This being true, Onkelos and Akilas (or Aquila) are 
7 mt one and the same person — a view also expressed by 
Frankol (Zn deni Tanptm dm' Prophet en [ Breslau, 1872], 
p. G) ; and the Talmudic notices concerning Onkelos, the 
disciple of Gamaliel I (or elder), the teacher of the 
apostle Paul, are corroborated bv our argument, minus 
the notice that Onkelos was a proselyte, as we have al- 
ready stated above. For with the identity of Onkelos 
with Akilas (or Aquila), it is hardly conceivable that a 
man like Aquila, who, from a Christian, became a Jew, 
and such a zealous one that he prepared another Greek 
version for polemical purposes against the Christians, 
should have spent so much money at the death of 
Gamaliel I, whose liberal and friendly attitude towards 
Christianity was known, and who is even said to have 
become a Christian, as a tombstone covering his re- 
mains in a church at Pisa indicates: 

“ Hoc in sarcopbago reqniescnnt corpora sacra 
Sanctorum. . . . Sanctus Gamaliel . . . 

Gamaliel divi Pauli didascalns olim, 

Doctor et excellens Ismehtn fait, 

Concilii ningui tideiqne per omnia cnltor.” 

We now come to the work itself. 

2. Style, etc. — The language of Onkelos greatly ap- 
proaches the Biblical Chaldee, i. e. it has still much 
of Hebrew coloring, though in a less degree than the 
other. It also avoids many Aramaisms (such as the 
contraction of nouns) which at a later period became 
prevalent, and comprises a comparatively small num- 
ber of Greek words, and of Latin words none what- 
ever. Of Greek words we mention, Exod. xxviii, 
25, X2T2 =j3{]pv\\ot ; ; vor. 11, ; Gen. 

xxviii, 17, I2imn=/ciwr//£; Lev. xi, 30, 

K(o\ibrr)Qj Exod. xxviii, 10, X*pTE =$paKiag (Pliny, 
xxxvii,68); xxxix, 11, X2mETE:=icapx?/d6rioj; Dent, 
xx, 20, E *lZ~iZ=xapdico)pa ; Exod. xxviii, 20, 0113= 
Xpmpa; Numb, xv, 38, Dent, xxii, 12. XTSE'HD = 
icpaa 7rt$oi'; Exod. xxx, 34, r , i'2=/ci(rmc; Gen. xxxvii, 
28, ElEb Exod. xxiv, 1G, XET2 ~<pdpaoQ ; 

xxvi, G, X2T12 =7rop7n ) ; Gen. vi, 14, EmTp=Kf'epog; 
Exod. xxviii, 19, ">"C2p = KtyxP°€ ( Pliny, xxxvii, 
14). There are, besides, some obscure expressions which 
were partly unintelligible to the Talmudists, as XSNOE 
for w nr, etc., in Exod. xxxv, 23; xxviii, 4, XU.T3 
for -j’-’m,; ver. 17, -,p*P for HTJ2; ver. 18, m m:p 
for rrb; Lev. xxii, 20. rrmra "pmn for bbzr 
rr::, etc. 

The translation of Onkelos is, on the whole, very 
simple and exact. It is obvious from the character of 
the work that the author was in possession of a rich 
excgetical tradition; hence we never find him omitting 
any passage of the original. His elucidations of diffi- 
cult and obscure passages and expressions, perhaps less 
satisfactory, are commonly those most accredited by in- 
ternal evidence, and in this particular he is worthy of a 
more careful regard and assent than have usually fallen 
to his lot. Gen. iii, 15 he translates *V , 3l VP XT"! 

rrb rx- r-'A- •i-'b r;r- rra -jb 

XP23, i. e. “he shall remember thee what thou hast 
done to him from the beginning, and thou shalt watch 
him unto the end;” iv, 7 he translates EE" 1 !") CX X5H 

c-b =--r xb =so -b -p=ir 

zi -ja-a xriEr.xb rr:T -r::: -x-jn x:—i, 
“shall not pardon be given to thee if thou doest well; 
but if thou doest not well, thy sin shall be preserved till 
the day of judgment, when it will be exacted of thee,” 
etc. Here rxr is taken from XE’D. in the sense of 
tollere peccata. Z e. “ taking-away of sin,” and not in the 
sense of “lifting-up of the countenance.” Onkelos did 


not understand the meaning of the verse, but (says 
Winer) “sensum hujus loci pnulciitissimos etiam inter- 
prets niirifiee vexavit,” Gen. vi, 3, Onkelos, like the 
Sept., Syr., Saad., and many recent commentators, gives 

xteje yi:sa bva -pm xrm xv E*pm xb 

(E3ET = E3 VX2), i. e. “this evil generation shall 
not stand before me forever, because they are flesh ;” 
xiv, 14, P" 1 ’PT’P, i. e. “he armed his young 

men,” but xv, 2, p wE“"p = XE2"2""jE, “governor,” is 
contrary to the true sense of the words; xx, JG, he 
did not rightly understand r.nz'2% for he translates 
rn:TX PTC XT FIE 7c be*"! “and with respect to 
all she said she was reproved;” xxiv, 55, "'X Em n 
TVEF, which the Sept, correctly translates i) pi pat; 
ioati ettea, Vulg. saltern decern dies , Onkelos, in accord- 
ance with all Jewish interpreters, explains by "TP 
"prim XT wC "X “TCC. i. e, “ a season of times, or ten 
months;” xxiv, 63, n“wb is translated by PX3E7, 
“to pray;” xxvii, 42, CHSP- is translated, by way of 
explanation, ~b EpEb ”b *|EZ, “plotteth against 
thee, to kill thee.” The difficult “TEX, in xli,43, is ex- 
plained by Xcbcb XEX, “a father to the king,” and 
n:es P22E bv mb "fba "pm~ET XTE3, “the man 
to whom mysteries are revealed.” The EE 'E* "jb "TF3 
-jnx, in xlviii, 22, is correctly given by ”7 PTEm 
TH pbin, “and I give thee one part and E"EZ TPI2, 
ill xlix, 4, by "EX CTpb nblX, “ thou hast been car- 
ried away by thine anger.” 

Explanatory additions, which evidently belong to 
Onkelos, are found in Gen. vi, 3 ("pEIPT EX, “if-they 
may be converted,” at the end of the verse); ix. 5 
(WXT XET Pi TVE*H, “ who sheddeth the blood 
of his brother”); xiv, 22 (where "iblSE, “in prayer,” is 
added to V' "'nvzmn); xliii, 32 (where we have 

"pbzx ^xtep mb "pbm ■'xtezh xtvevx. 

“because the Hebrews eat the animals which are 
sacred to the Egyptians”) ( comp. Winer, De On - 
keloso , p. 41). Larger additions and deviations from 
the original text are found mostly in the poetical parts 
of the Pentateuch (Gen. xlix, Numb, xxiv, Deut. xxxii 
and xxxiii). In the multiplicity of words which is 
here employed, the original text almost disappears. 
Thus Gen. xlix, 11, 12, which is referred to the Mes- 
siah (the parallel being Numb, xxiv, 17), is rendered, 
“ Israel shall dwell in the circuit of his city; the people 
shall build his temple; and there shall be the righteous 
in his circuit, and the makers of the law in his doe- 
trine; the best purple shall be bis clothing; his cover- 
ing shall be silk dyed with purple and with various 
eolors. His mountains shall be redder in their vine- 
yards; his hills shall drop wine; his fields shall be 
white with his grain and with flocks of sheep.” 

In passages relative to the Divine Being, we perceive 
the effect of a doctrinal bias in certain deviations from 
the Hebrew text. Anthropomorphic and anthropo- 
pathic expressions are avoided, lest human attributes 
should be assigned to the Deity. Thus, ETI7X and 
mm are rendered XTmE, “ the Word of God ;” or 
m-j XTp’ 1 , “the splendor of God or ■>*H XF2EE, “the 
Shechinah of God.” Akin to this peculiarity is the 
avoidance of E*'n7X, when it is applied to men or idols, 
and the employment of ET, X*2m, "pFE, "7m. In cases 
where divine qualities or ornaments appear to be assigned 
to men, Onkelos modifies and smooths the meaning, and 
substitutes a different idea. Thus, "pEPIETZ 1"nr»l, 
i.e. “ye shall be as princes,” is substituted for Epmn 
Em7XZ, in Gen. iii, 5; or12EE THXZ mn ETXPI *jn, 


TARGUM 


207 


TARGUM 


in ver. 22, is translated by "rn' (lin CIS 

J-PS'E, “behold Adam is the only one in the world of 
himself.” 

Onkelos shows an apparent desire to present the 
great men of his nation in as favorable a light as pos- 
sible (comp. (ten. xvi, 12; xxv, 27 ; xlv, 27). Difficult 
words are not un frequently retained, as in Gen. ii, 12; 
Exod. xii, 7 ; Lev. xiii, 30 ; and Dent, xxii, 12. Names 
of peoples, cities, and mountains are given as they were 
common in his time. Thus, in Gen. viii, 4, instead of 
mix *nn, he has Hip ^TJ, as in Syr. and Arab.; 
‘-iraia px, in x, 10, becomes bnn NriN; tnTIPES, 
in ver. 14, becomes “^NpwlEp; 5 N" in xxxvii, 

25, becomes etc. (see Winer, op. eit. p. 39). In 

perusing Onkelos as a source of emending the Hebrew 
text, great caution is necessary, and the more so be- 
cause we have not .as yet a critical edition of this Tar- 
gum. The only safe rule in emending the Hebrew text 
is when the same variety of readings which the Chaldee 
presents is found in several Hebrew MSS. Thus, e. g., 
in Exod. ix, 7, we read in the Hebrew PXIw* 1 nap' 
but in the Chaldee The orig- 
inal reading was probably nSp’S'S, which 

is found in several MSS. of Kennieott and I)e Rossi, 
and in most of the ancient versions. The Targum of 
Onkelos has always been held in high regard among the 
Jews, who also composed a Masorah upon it. Such a 
Masorah has lately been published, from a very ancient 
codex, by Dr. Berliner, Die Massorah zum Tar yum On- 
kelos , enthaltend Massorah Magna und Massorah Parva 
(Leips. 1877). 

3. Manuscripts of Onkelos are extant in great num- 
bers. Oxford has tive, London (British Museum) two, 
Vienna six, Augsburg one, Nuremberg two, Altdorf one, 
Carlsruhe three, Stuttgart two, Erfurt three, Dresden 
one, Leipsic one, Jena one, Dessau one, Helmstiidt 
two, Berlin four, Breslau one, Brieg one, Ratisbon one, 
Hamburg seven, Copenhagen two, Upsala one, Amster- 
dam one, Baris eight, Molsheim one, Venice six, Turin 
two, Milan four, Leghorn one, Sienna one, Geneva one, 
Florence tive, Bologna two, Padua one, Trieste two, 
Parma about forty, Rome eighteen, more or less com- 
plete, etc., containing Onkelos. For a full description 
.of these MSS., see Winer, De Onkeloso , p. 13 sq. 

4. Editions. — The Targum of Onkelos was first pub- 
lished with Rashi’s commentary on the Pentateuch 
(Bologna, 1482, fob). It was subsequently reprinted 
quite frequently, and may be found in the Rabbinic 
and Polyglot Bibles. Buxtorf was the first to add the 
vowel-points to the Targum. As yet, we have no criti- 
cal edition of this Targum. Dr. Berliner purposes to 
publish a new and critical edition according to that 
ofSabioneta (1557). This Targum has been translated 
into Latin by Alphonsode Zamora in the Complutensian 
Polyglot, by Paul Fagius, and by John Mercier (1508). 
That of Fagius is the best. It was rendered into Eng- 
lish by Etheridge (Lond. 18G2-65). 

5. Literature. — Jes. Berlin (Pik), or 

glosses and comments upon the Targum of Onkelos 
( Breslau, 1827 ) ; Luzzato, ‘lA Philoxenus, sire 

de Onkelosi Chaldaica Pentafeuchi Versione Dissertatio, 
etc. (Vienna, 1830), distributes the deviations from the 
Hebrew into thirty-two classes, and endeavors to emend 
the text from MSS., although the genius of the version 
is not well described in it (the writer of the art. “ Tar- 
gum” in Smith’s J>ict. of the Bible , besides a great deal 
of useless ballast, thought it necessary to copy Luz- 
zato); Berkowitz, n-"”, on the hermeneutics of 
Onkelos (Wilna, 1843); id. mb'Sia ms^n (ibid. 
1874); Levy, in Geiger’s Zeitschrift , 1844, v, 175-198; 
Fiirst, Liter at urblatt, 1845, p. 337 sq., 354; Smith, Dia- 
tribe de Chald. Paraphrastis eorumque Versionvm (Oxf. 
1G62); Winer, De Onkeloso ejusque Paraphrasi Chal- 


daica (Lips. 1820); M ay bau m, Die Anthropomorphicn 
und A nth ropopathien bei Onkelos, etc. (Breslau, 1870); 
Geiger, Judische Zeitschrift, 1871, p. 85-104; niT.D 
or a commentary on Onkelos by Dr. Adler in the 
edition of the Pentateuch with ten commentaries (Wilna, 
1874); and the literature given in the art. Onkelos in 
this Cgclopadia. 

111. Jonathan ben-Uzziel on the Prophets, i. e. Joshua, 
Judges, Samuel, Kings, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and 
the twelve minor prophets, stands next in time and im- 
portance to Onkelos. 

1. Authorship and Sources. — As to Jonathan himself, 
we read in the Talmud — (1.) “ Eighty disciples had Ilil- 
lel the elder, thirty of whom were worthy that the She- 
chinah [Divine Majesty] should rest upon them, as it 
did upon Moses our Lord; peace be upon him. Thirty 
of them were worthy that the sun should stand still at 
their bidding, as it did at that of Joshua ben -Nun. 
Twenty were of intermediate worth. The greatest of 
them all was Jonathan ben-Uzziel, the least R. Joehanan 
ben-Zaehai; and it was said of R. Joehanan ben-Zachai 
that he left not [uninvestigated] the Bible, the Mishna, 
the Gemara, the Halachahs, the Ilaggadahs, the subtle- 
ties of the law, and the subtleties of the Sopherim . . . ; 
the easy things and the difficult things [from the most 
awful divine mysteries to the common popular prov- 
erbs], ... If this is said of the least of them, what is 
to be said of the greatest, i. e. Jonathan ben-Uzziel?” 
( Baba Bathra, 134 a ; comp. Sukkah, 28 a). (5.) A sec- 
ond passage, referring more especially to our present sub- 
ject., reads as follows: “The Targum of Onkelos was 
made by Onkelos the Proselyte from the mouth of R. 
Eliezer and R. Jehoshua, and that of the prophets by 
Jonathan ben-Uzziel from the mouth of Haggai, Zech- 
ariah, and Malachi. And in that hour was the land of 
Israel shaken three hundred parasangs. . . . And a voice 
was heard, saying, ‘ Who is this who has revealed my 
secrets unto the sons of man?’ Up rose Jonathan ben- 
Uzziel and said, ‘ It is I who have revealed thy secrets 
to the sons of man. . . . But it is known and revealed 
before thee that not for my honor have I done it, nor 
for the honor of my father’s house, but for thine honor, 
that the disputes may cease in Israel.’ . . . And he fur- 
ther desired to reveal the Targum to the Ilagiographa, 
when a voice was heard, ‘ Enough.’ And why? Be- 
cause the day of the Messiah is revealed therein” ( Me - 
gillah, 3 a). 

There is some exaggeration in this description of 
Jonathan’s paraphrase, but it only shows the high es- 
teem in which it stood. Fabulous as the whole may 
appear, yet there is no doubt as to the high antiquity 
of this paraphrase. Many doubts w’ere raised as to the 
authorship of this Targum. Some, w ho would not deny 
the. existence of Jonathan, hesitate to believe that he 
had any share in the Targum commonly ascribed to 
him. It lias also been suggested by Lnzzato and Gei- 
ger that “ Jonathan is the same with the Greek Theodo- 
tion, and that the Babylonians gave this name to the 
paraphrase — especially as they were acquainted w r ith 
that of Jonathan ben-Uzziel — to indicate that the Tar- 
gum w r as after the manner of Theodotion, like the re- 
puted origin of the name Onkelos in connection with 
the Greek Akilas or Aqnila .” But this more ingenious 
than true suggestion has no support, and needs no 
refutation. It has also been suggested b\ r most of the 
modern critics that because this Targum is never once 
quoted as the Targum of Jonathan, but is invariably in- 
troduced with the formula r ) D ,, i“’ "1 CIHPE12, “as R. 
Joseph interprets,” that not Jonathan, but R. Joseph, is 
the author of this Targum; and this supposition is 
based upon the fact that the. Talmud relates that this 
R. Joseph, in his latter years, occupied himself chiefly 
with the Targum when he had become blind. This re- 
lation of the Talmud, and perhaps the fact, that Jona- 
than’s Targum, which was called, by way of abbrevia- 


TARGUM 


208 


TARGUM 


tion. T, i. e. C'ilD, made Joseph the author 

of this Targum, since "'H may also mean 75V 1 C’tt'lP, 
or something else, and the real Targum is now quoted 
under Joseph’s name. That Jonathan’s Targum was 
really extant before the time of 11. Joseph we sec 
from Meyillah, 3 a, where on Zech. xii, 12 K. Joseph 
remarks, “ Without the Targum to this passage, we 
could not understand it,;” but when the writer of the 
art. “Targum” in Smith’s Diet, of the Bible, remarks, 
“Twice even it is quoted in Joseph’s name, and 
with the addition , i Without the Targum to this verse 
(due to him ), we could not understand it,’” he only 
betrays his carelessness as to the Talmudic sentence. 
After all, we do not sec why we should not rely upon the 
Talmudic notice concerning Jonathan equally as much 
as upon that concerning 11. Joseph. The language con- 
cerning the former, we admit, is a little hyperbolical, but 
this does not exclude the truth of the matter. Besides, 
there is nothing to militate against Jonathan having 
written a Targum on the prophets; and even the ex- 
pression that this Targum was made “from the mouth 
of Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi” is not so absurd as 
the writer of the art. “Targum” in Kitto’s Cyclopaedia 
would suppose, for if it means anything, it means this, 
that the explanation of Jonathan contains the transmit- 
ted exposition in the spirit of ITillel, and, as Znnz re- 
marks ( Gottesd . Vortraye, p. 332), “Jonathan’s Targum 
on the prophets, as a result of studies which were in- 
strumental in forming fixed national opinions, proves 
that a considerable time before it was customary to ex- 
plain the contents of the prophetical books, by means 
of Targumical prelections or otherwise, to the public. 
Nay, he commends the teachers for — even in evil times 
— teaching the law in the synagogues at the head of 
the congregations” (Targ. on Jndg. v, 2,0). From the 
New Test, wc know that Moses and the prophets were 
read in the synagogues, and, deducting all hyperbolical 
language, there is no reason for doubting the high an- 
tiquity of this Targum. The text is rendered, in the 
same manner as by Onkclos, free from all one-sided and 
polemical considerations, which the Jews since the 2d 
century followed. Many passages are referred to the 
Messiah, even such as do not rightly belong to him, 
so that no polemical tendency against Christians ap- 
pears in the version. The following is a list of 
them: 1 Sam. ii, 10; 2 Sam. xxiii, 3; 1 Kings iv, 33; 
Isa. iv, 2; ix, G; x, 27 ; xi, 1, 6; xv, 2; xvi, 1-5; 
xxviii, 5; xlii, 1; xliii, 10; xlv, 1; lii, 13; liii, 10; 
Jer. xxiii, 5; xxx, 21; xxxiii, 13, 15; Hos. iii, 5; 
xiv, 8; Mic. iv, 8; v, 2, 18; Zech. iii, 8; iv, 7 ; vi, 12; 
x, 4. 

2. Character , etc.— In the historical books the exe- 
gesis is simple and tolerably literal. A few words are 
added occasionally, which have no representatives in 
t lie original, but they are not many. The interpreta- 
tion is good, giving the sense fully and fairly; but in 
the prophetic books the tex v is more freely handled, for, 
as Znnz justly remarks (op. cii. p. G3), “The propheti- 
cal writings, not containing anything of the nature of 
legal enactment, admitted of a greater latitude in hand- 
ling the text. This became even unavoidable because 
of the more obscure language and the predictions con- 
cerning Israel’s future by which they are characterized. 
Even in the case of the historical books, Jonathan often 
acts the part of an expositor. In the case of the prophets 
themselves, this course of exposition — in reality becom- 
ing a Haggadah — is pursued almost uninterruptedly.” 
“This pervading, often misunderstood, characteristic,” 
says Jlavernick, “constitutes the chief proof, confirmed 
also by external evidence, of the oneness of the author- 
ship of this Targum; for not only do parallel passages 
(such as Isa. xxxvi-xxxix ; comp. 2 Kings xviii, 13 sq. ; 
Isa. ii, 24; Mic. v, 1-3) literally harmonize, but he is 
also in the habit of furnishing, particularly the poet- 
ical portions of the historical books (Judg. v; 1 Sam. 
ii; 2 Sam. xxiii), with profuse additions. These ad- 


ditions often very much resemble each other (comp. 
Judg. v, 8 with Isa. x, 4; 2 Sam. xxiii, 4 with Isa. 
xxx, 20).” 

Another peculiarity of this Targum are the Jewish 
dogmatical opinions of that day with which the work 
is interwoven, and the theological representations, in 
introducing which a special preference was given to the 
book of Daniel. Examples of this are the interpreting 
of the phrase “stars of God” by “people of God” (Isa. 
xiv, 13; comj). Dan. viii, 10; 2 Macc. ix, 10) ; the ap- 
plication of the passage in Dan. xii, 1 to that in Isa. iv, 
2. In Isa. x, 32 the author introduces a legend framed 
in imitation of the narrative in Dan. iii, which is re- 
peated by later Targumists (comp. Targ. Jerns. ; Gen. 
xi, 28; xvi, 5; 2 Chron. xxviii, 3); in Isa. xxii, 14 and 
Ixv, 35 he has interwoven the doctrine concerning the 
second death (comp. Kev. ii, 11), which the wicked 
should die in the next world or kingdom of the Messiah ; 
and in Isa. xxx, 33 he mentions Gehenna. In various 
places the notices respecting the Messiah’s offices, char- 
acter, and conduct, the effects of his advent and per- 
sonal influence, harmonize with those of the New-Test, 
writers (comp. Isa. xlii, 1 sq. ; Matt, xii, 17 sq.); but 
from this the Sept, differs, and at other times the N. T. 
writers differ from this Targum. Isa. liii it recognises 
as referring to the Messiah, and assumes a suffering and 
expiatory Messiah. Its author nevertheless here, as well 
as elsewhere (Mic. v, 1), indulges in many perversions, 
lie seems to have entertained — in germ, at least — the 
idea, which became further developed in the Talmud, 
of a Messiah submitting to obscurity for the sake of the 
sins of the people, and then appearing in glory (comp. 
Mic. iv, 8 with Zech. iii, 8; iv, 7). 

There is little doubt that the text has received sev- 
eral interpolations. To this head Zunz (op. cit. p. G3, 
282) refers all that is hostile to liome, e. g. Exod. xxxix, 
16: 1 Sam. ii, 5; Isa. xxxiv, 0. So, too, A rmiltus. in 
Isa. xi, 14. To these may be added perhaps Germania , 
from Gomer, in Ezek. xxxviii, G; the superstitions leg- 
end inserted in Isa. x, 32 relative to the army and 
camp of Sennacherib; and the peculiar story about Sis- 
era (Judg. v. 8). Even Kashi, speaks of interpolations 
in the text of Jonathan (Ezek. xlvii, ID); and Wolf 
says ( Bibl . Jieb. ii, 1165), “Qua? vero, vel quod ad voces 
et barbaras, vel ad res ictate ejus inferiores, aut futilia 
nonnulla, quamvis pauca triplicis hujus generis exstent, 
ibi occurrunt, ea merito falsarii cujnsdam ingenio ad* 
serfbuntur.” The printed text of the Antwerp I’oly- 
glot conti rms this supposition of interpolations, since 
several of them are wanting there. So long as we have 
no critical edition of this Targum, we must be careful 
to draw the inference, as did Morinus and Voss, in favor 
of a very late origin of the Targum ; for a perusal of the 
recently published edition of this Targum by Lagarde, 
from the Codex Keuehlin, and its comparison with our 
present editions, will only show the corrupt state in 
which the text at present is. 

The style of Jonathan is, upon the whole, the same 
as that of Onkclos. Eichhorn and Berthold asserted 
that this Targum teems with “exotic words.” Yet, 
notwithstanding their assertion, we believe that Carp- 
zov ( Ci it. Sucra , p. 461 ) is correct when he says, 
“Cujus nitor sermonis C bald an ct dictionis laudatur 
puritas, ad Onkclosum proxime accedens et purum de- 
flcctens a puro tersoque Chaldaismo Biblico.” The 
text lying at the basis of the Targum is the Masoret- 
ic one; yet it differs from the Mnsoretie text in vari- 
ous places, where it appears to follow preferable read- 
ings. Iiut the freedom which the translator took 
makes it difficult to tell in every case what particu- 
lar form of the text lay before him. Hence great 
caution must be used in applying the Targum to crit- 
ical purposes, and the more so as we have not as yet 
a critical edition. 

We subjoin from the art. “Targum” in Smith’s Diet, 
of the Bible the following specimens of this Targum 
from different books : 


TARGUM 


209 


TARGUM 


JUDG. V. 


Tar gam. 

1. And Deborah and Barnk, the 
son of Abinoam, gave jiraise for the 
miracle and the salvation which 
were wrought for Israel on that 
day, and spake : 

2. When the children of Israel re- 
bel against the law. then the na- 
tions come over them ami drive 
them out of their cities ; but when 

they return to do the law, then they are mighty over their enemies, 
and* drive them out from the whole territory of tbe land of Israel. 
Thus has been hrokeu Sisera and all his nriiiies to his punishment, 
and to a miracle and a salvation for Israel. Then the wise return- 
ed to sit in the houses of the synagogue . . . aod to teach unto the 
people the doctrine of the law. Therefore praise ye and bless the 
Lord. 

3. Hear, ye kings (ye who came 
with Sisera to the battle-array); 
listeo, ye rulers [ye who were with 
Jnbin, the king of Reiman : not with 
your armies nor with your power 

have ye conquered and become mighty over the house of Israel] — 
said Deborah in prophecy before God: I praise, give thanks aod 
! L< ‘ 


Authorized Version. 

I. Then sang Deborah and Barak, 
the son of Abiaoam, oq that day, 
saying, 


2. Praise ye the Lord for the 
avenging of Israel, when the people 
willingly ottered themselves. 


3. Hear, O ye kings; give ear, O 
ve princes; I, will sing unto 

th8 Lord ; 1 will sing praise to the 
Lord God of Israel. 


4. Lord, when thou wentest out 
of Seir, when thou marchedst out 
nf the field of Edom, the earth trem- 
bled, and the heavens dropped, the 
clouds also dropped water. 


blessings before the Lord, the God of Israel. 

4. [O Lord, thy law which thou 
gavest to Israel, when they trans- 
gress it, then the nations rule over 
them : but when they return to it, 
then they become powerful over 
their enemies.] O Lord, on the day 
when thou didst reveal thyself to give it unto them from Seir, thou 
becamest manifest unto them in the splendor of thy glory over 
the territories of Edom ; the earth trembled, the heavens showered 
down, tbe clouds dropped rain. 

5. The mountains melted from be- 5. The mountains trembled before 
fore the Lord, ei>ea that SiDai from the Lord, the mountains of Tabor, 

before the Lord God of Israel. the mountain of Hermon, and the 

mountain of Carmel, spake with 
ench other, and said one to the other: L T pon me tbe Shechinah 
will rest, and to me will it come. But the Shecbinnh rested upon 
Mount Sinai, which is the weakest and smallest of all the moun- 
tains. . . . This Sinai trembled and shook, and its smoke went up 
as goes up the smoke of an oven : because of the glory of the God 
of Israel which had manifested itself upon it. 

6. When they transgressed in the 


6. In the day*9 of Shamgar, the 
son of Amith, in the days of Jael, 
the highways were unoccupied, and 
the travellers walked through by- 
ways. 


days of Shamgar, the son of Anath, 
in the days of Jael, ceased the way- 
farers : they who had walked in 
well - prepared ways had again to 
walk in furtive paths. 


7. The inhabitants of the villages 
ceased, they ceased in Israel, until 
that I, Deborah, arose, that I arose a 
mother in Israel. 

8. They chose new gods ; then was 
war in the gates : was there a shield 
nr spear Been among forty thousand 
in Israel 1 


7. Destroyed were the open cities 
of the laud* of Israel : their inhabi- 
tants were shaken off and driven 
about, until I, Deborah, was sent to 
prophesy over the house of Israel. 

8. When the children of Isrnel 
went to pray tin to new idols [er- 
rors], which recently had come to be 
worshipped, with which their fa- 
thers did not concern themselves, 

there came over them the nations and drove them out of their 
cities ; but when they returned to the Jaw, they could not pre- 
vail against them until they made themselves strong, and Sisera 
went up against them, the enemy and the adversary, with forty 
thousand chiefs of troops, with fifty thousand holders of the sword, 
with sixty thousand holders of spears, with seventy thousand hold- 
ers of shields, with eighty thousand throwers of arrows and slings, 
besides nine hundred iron chariots which he had with him, and his 
own chariots. All these thousands and all these hosts could not 
stand before Barak and the ten thousand men he had witb him. 

9. Spake Deborah in prophecy : 1 
am sent to praise the scribes of Is- 
rael, who, while this tribulation 
lasted, ceased not to study in the 
law : and it redounds well unto 

them who sat in the houses of congregation, wide open, nnd taught 
the people the doctrine of the law, and praised and rendered thanks 
before the Lord. 


9. My heart is toward the gov- 
ernors of Israel, that offered them- 
selves willingly among the people. 
Bless ye the Lord. 


10. Speak, ye that ride on white 
asses, ye that sit in jndguient, and 
walk by the way. 


10. Those who had interrupted 
their occupations are riding on asses 
covered with many-colored capari- 
sons, nnd they ride about freely in 
all the territory of Israel, and congregate to sit in judgment. 
They walk in their old ways, aod are speaking of the power thou 
hast shown in the land of Israel, etc. 


Jud 

39. And it came to pass, at the 
end of two months, that she return- 
ed unto her father, who did with 
her according to Ins vow which he 
had vowed : and she knew no man. 
And it was a custom in Israel. 


. XI. 

39. And it was at the end of two 
months, and she returned to her fa- 
ther, and he did nnto her according 
to the vow which he hnd vowed: 
and she had known no man. And 
it became a statute in Isrnel. 

Addition (PECTH), tbnt no 


man should offer up his son or his daughter as a bn rn t-o fieri ng, as 
Jephthah the Gileadite did, who asked not Phinehas the priest. 
If ne had asked Phinehas the priest, then he would have dissolved 
his vow with money [for animal sacrifices]. 


My henrt rejoiceth in the Lord ; 
mine horn is' exalted in the Lord; 
iny mouth is enlarged over mine 
enemies ; because I rejoice in thy 


1 Sam. II. 

1. And Hannah prayed, and said, 1. And Hannah prayed in the 
.. v-__. - *i- ■« t--- spirit of prophecy, and said, [Lo, 

my son Samuel will become a proph- 
et over Israel ; in his days they w ill 
be freed from the hand of the" Phil- 
istines ; and through his hands shall 
be done unto them wondrous and 
mighty deeds : therefore] Be strong, my heart, in the portion which 
God gave me. [And also Heman the son of Joel,tne son of my 
son Samuel, shalt arise, he and his fourteen sons, to say praise with 
nablia (harps?) and cithers, with their brethren the Levitea, to 
sing in the house of the sanctuary • therefore] Let my hora be 
exalted in the gift which God granted unto me. [And also on the 
miraculous puaishment that would befall the Philistines who would 

X.-O 


bring back the ark of the Lord in a new chariot, together with a 
sin-offering : therefore let the congregation of Isrnel say] 1 will 
open inv month to speak great things over my enemies; because I 
rejoice In thy salvation. 

2. There is none holy as the Lord : 2. [Over Sanherib, the king of 

for there is none beside thee, neither Ashur, did she prophesy, and she 
t* there aoy rock like our God. said, lie will arise with all his ar- 

mies over Jerusalem, nnd a great 
sign will be done with him. There shall fall tbe corpses of his 
troops : therefore praise ye all the peoples and nations and 
tongues, and cry :] There is none holy but God ; there is not be- 
side thee ; aod thy people shall say, There is oone mighty hut our 
God. 


3. Talk no more so exceeding 3. [Over Nebuchadnezzar, the king 

proudly ; let nut arrogancy come of Babel, did she prophesy and say, 
out of your mouth : for the Lord is Ye Chaldteatis, nnd nil nations who 
n God of knowledge, and by him ac- will once rule over Israel] Do not 
tions are weighed. speak grandly ; let no blasphemy 

go out from your mouth : for God 
knows all. nnd over all his servants he extends his judgment ; also 
from you ne will take punishment of your guilt. 

4. The bows of tbe mighty are 4. [Over the kingdom Javan she 

broken, and they that stumbled are prophesied and said] The bows of 
girded with strength. tbe mighty ones [of the Javauites] 

will be broken ; [and those of the 
house of the Asmona^ans] who nre weak, to them will be done mira- 
cles and mighty deeds. 


8. And he stood 
the armies of Israel, end said unto 
them: Why are ye come out to set 
your battle in array? Am not I 
a Philistine, and ye servants to 
Saul ? choose you a man for you, 
aud let him couie down to me. 


1 Sam. XVII. 
d cried unto 8. And he arose, and he cried nnto 


the armies of Israel, and said unto 
them: Why have you put your- 
selves in brittle array ? Am I not 
the Philistine, nnd you the servants 
of Saul? [I am Gi»linth the Philis- 
tine from Gath, who have killed the 
two sous of Eli, the priests Cholna 
and Phinehas, and carried captive the nrk of the covenant of the 
Lord, I who have carried it to the house of Dagon, my Error, ami 
it has been there in the cities of the Philistines seven mouths. And 
in every battle which the Philistines have had I went at the head 
of the army, and we conquered in the battle, and we threw the 
killed like the dust of the earth, and until now hnve the Philis- 
tines not thought me worthy to become captain of a thousand over 
them. And you, O children of Israel, wlmt mighty deed has Saul 
the son of Kish I'toin Gibeah done for you that you made him king 
over you ? If he is a valiant man, let him coine out aud do battle 
with me; but if he is a weak man], then choose for yourselves a 
man, and let him come out against me, etc. 


I Kings XIX. 


11,12. And he said, Go forth, and 
stand upon the mount before the 
Lord. And, behold, the Lord passed 
by, nnd a great and strong wind 
rent tbe mountains, nnd brnke iu 
ieces -the rocks, before the Lord; 
ut the Lord was not in the wind : 
and after the wind an earthquake ; 
but the Lord was not in the earth- 
quake: and after the earthquake a 
lire ; but tbe Lord was not in the 
fire : and after the fire a still small 
voice. 


11, 12. And he said [to Elijah], 
Arise and stand on the mountain 
before the Lord. Aod God revealed 
himself: and before him a host of 
angels of the wind, cleaving the 
mountain and breaking the rocks 
hefore the Lord ; but not in tbe host 
of angels was the Shechinah. And 
after the host of the angels of the 
wind came a host of angels of com- 
motion ; but oot in the host of the 
angels of commotion was the She- 
chinah of the Lord. And after the 
host of the angels of commotion 


came a host of angels of fire ; but not in the best of the angels of 
fire was the Shechinah of the Lord. But alter the host of the an- 
gels of the fire came voices singing io silence. 


13. Aod it was so, when Elijah 
heard it, that he wrapped his face in 
his mantle, and went out, and stood 
in the entering io of the cave : and, 
behold, there came a voice unto him, 
and said, What doe9t thou here, 
Elijah ? 


13. And it was when Elijah heard 
this, he hid his face in his mantle, 
and he went out and he stood at the 
door of the cave ; and, lo ! with him 
was a voice, saying, What doest 
thou here, O Elijah? etc. 


Isa. XXXIII. 


22. For the Lord is our judge, the 22. For the Lord is our judge, who 
Lord is our lawgiver, the Lord is delivered us with his power from 
our king; ha will save us. Mizraim; the Lord is our teacher, 

for he has given us the doctrine of 
the Torah from Sinai; the Lord is our king: he will deliver us, 
aod give us righteous restitution from the army of Gog. 


Jer. X. 

11. This is the copy of the letter 
which Jeremiah the prophet sent to 
the remaining ancient ones of the 
captivity in Bnbel: “And if the na- 
tions among whom you nre will say 
unto you, Pray to our Errors, O 
bouse of Israel, then you shall nnswer thus, and speak in this wise : 
The Errors unto which you pray are Errors which Hre of no use : 
they cannot rain from heaven ; they cannot cause fruit to grow 
from the earth. They nnd their worshippers will perish from the 
earth, and will be destroyed from under these heavens. 


11. Thus shall ye say unto them. 
The gods that have not mnde the 
heavens and the earth, even they 
shall perish from the earth, and from 
under these heavens. 


Mic. VI. 


4. For 1 brought thee up out of 
the land of Egypt, and redeemed 
thee out of the "house of servants ; 
nnd 1 sent before thee Moses, Aaron, 
and Miriam. 

Aaron, to atone for the peop 


4. For I have takea thee out from 
the land of Mizraim, and have re- 
leased thee from the house of thy 
bondage : and have sent before thee 
three prophets : Moses, to teach thee 
the tradition of the ordinances ; 
nnd Miriam, to teach tbe women. 


3. Literature . — For tbe editions, translations, and old- 
er literature, see Fiirst, Bill.. Jud. ii, 106 sq. ; Wolf, Bill. 
Ilebr. ii, 1166 ; Le Long (ed. Masch), II, i, 39 sq. ; Kosen- 
miiller, Haiidbuch, iii, 9 sq.; Frank el,/??/ dem Targum der 
Propheten (Breslau, 1872) ; Lagarde, Pruphetce Ckaldaice. 
E fide Codicis Reuchliniani (Lips. 1872 sq.) ; Bacher, Kri- 
tische U ntersuchungen zum Propketentargum, iu the Zeit- 


TARGUM 


210 


TARGUM 


schrift d. deutsch. morgen!. Gesellschaft. 1874, xxviii, 1 
sq. ; 1875, xxix, 157 sq., 319 sq. See Jonathan ben- 
Uzzikl. 

IV. The Targum of Pseudo- Jonathan and Jerushalmi 
on the Pentateuch. — The greater simplicity which char- 
acterized the older Targums soon ceased to satisfy t lie 
progressively degenerating taste of the Jews, especial- 
ly alter the Talmud began to assume a written form, 
lienee Targums marked W greater laxity soon began 
to be written which embraced more the opinions pecul- 
iar to the age, and furnished the text with richer tra- 
ditional addenda. Of these latitudiuarian Targums we 
possess two on the Pentateuch — the one known by the 
name of Pseudo -Jonathan, inasmuch as writers of a 
later period ascribe it to the author of the Targum on 
the Prophets; and the commonly so-called Targum lli- 
erosolvmitanuin. or Jerushalmi. 

1. Pseudo- Jonathan. — This paraphrase is falsely as- 
cribed to Jonathan ben-Uzziel. It extends from the 
first verse of Genesis to the last of Deuteronomy. The 
way in which it came to be regarded as his is supposed 
to have been the mistake of a copyist, who made out of 
n P, i. e. Targum Jerushalmi — ‘jrS'P P, Targum Jona- 
than. Proof is not needed at the present day to show 
that the Jonathan of the prophets is not the Jonathan 
of the Pentateuch, for he could have little to do with a 
Targum which speaks of Constantinople (Numb, xxiv, 
19,24). describes very plainly the breaking -up of the 
West-Koman empire (ver. 19-24), mentions the Turks 
(Gen. x, 2), and even Mohammed’s two wives, Chadija 
and Fatima (xxi, 21), and which not only exhibits the 
fullest acquaintance with the edited body of the Baby- 
lonian Talmud, by quoting entire passages from it, but 
adopts its peculiar phraseology: not to mention the 
complete disparity between the style, language, and 
general manner of the Jonathanic Targum on the 
Prophets, and those of this one on the Pentateueh, 
strikingly palpable at first sight. This was recognised 
by early investigators (Morinus, Pfeiffer, Walton, etc.), 
who soon overthrew the old belief in Jonathan ben- 
Uzziel’s authorship, as upheld by Menahem Ilekanati, 
Asariah de Kossi, Gedaljah, Galatin, Fagius, etc. The 
work of the Pseudo -Jonathan is not a version. It is 
rather a paraphrase, though by no means exclusively 
so. Neither is it a llaggadic commentary. Version and 
paraphrase are interwoven throughout, the author sel- 
dom confining himself to simple explanation, but pro- 
ceeding to large Midrashim. llalachah and llaggadah 
are richly imbedded in the work, the latter especially. 
His legends are rich and copious. 1 1 is llaggadah is not 
historical; it is ethical, religious, metaphysical, lvrieal, 
and parabolic. It lias been well observed that he is only 
the interpreter of the ideas prevailing in his time — the 
narrator of traditions, religious and national, not their 
inventor, because mo*t of them are found in preceding 
literature, or, as Znnz states it, “almost all his expla- 
nations and embellishments coinciding with the llag- 
gadah we find occurring in the other Ilaggadie writ- 
ings; the few which are peculiar to him he has not 
devised, any more than Jonathan has devised his inter- 
pretation of the prophets. In both the culture of the 
age and the potency of traditional ideas are manifest” 
( Gottesd . Vortrdge, p. 72). To these embellishments he- 
longs the manner in which events and characters are 
dressed out hyperbolically in Jonathan’s Midrashim; 
not only the Biblical heroes, as was natural, but even 
the enemies of the Jewish nation. Thus Og carries on 
his head a piece of rock sufficient to hurv all the camp 
of Israel beneath its weight (Numb, xxi, 35). A moun- 
tain possessed of divine virtues is suspended in the air 
over the children of Israel (Exod. xix, 17), etc. Many 
examples are given by Zunz {op. cit. p. 72, note b) to 
show, against Winer and I’etermann, that all these sto- 
ries were not invented by Pseudo- Jonathan, but bor- 
rowed from traditional usage. The ethical llaggadah 


is perhaps the best part of the work, for here the exe- 
gete becomes didactic. Thus we are told in Gen. xl 
that Joseph suffered two additional years of imprison- 
ment because he built on man’s rather than God’s help, 
a view also espoused by Kashi. The region of the su- 
pernatural is treated very freely by Jonathan. Ilis an- 
gelology is marvellous, lie has the names of many 
angels outside the circle of the Bible, as Samael, Ga- 
briel, Uriel. Sagnugael, etc. We find rhetorical or poet- 
ical digressions in Gen. xxii, 14 (the prayer of Abraham 
on Mount Moriah), Dent, xxxiv, G (the hymn on Moses’ 
death); (Jen. xlix, 4; Numb. xxi. 84; Dent, xxxii, 50 
(parables). Like Onkelos and others, he avoids an- 
thropomorphic ideas, and is averse to ascribe super- 
human attributes to heathen gods. The llalachah is 
also brought within the circle of his paraphrase, and 
its results employed in the exposition. This part of 
Jonathan’s version has of late been treated by Dr. S. 
Gronemann, in his Die jonathanische Pentateuch- Ueber- 
setzungin ihrem Verhiiltniss zur Halacha (Leipsie, 1879). 
The language of this Targum shows it to be of Pales- 
tinian origin, as it is in what is called the Jerusalem 
dialect, like that of the Jerusalem Talmud, but with 
many peculiarities. It is far from being pure, because 
the Syriac had deeply affected it. Foreign elements 
enter into it largely, such as Gen. i, 7, C*i 
arog (ii, G; Numb, xxxiv, G) ; ver. 9, = co- 

or do \h\ ver * 20, "I = ii, 12, "j"'b'Vn= 
jSijpvWog, Syr. iii, 4, delator ; iv, G, 

l^np^Xrrfi/coi'fc; vi, 2, CpS, from TreiKio, or tteiKm, 
or 7Tf/cai; ver. 9, X'D'H—ysvtotg, yhnajotg, yiroc; Syr. 
C33 and N033, etc.; comp. Petermann, De D^labus 
Pentateuchi Paraph rasibus Chaldaicis , particula i, p. GG 
sq., where a collection of these foreign words is given. 
The names of Constantinople and Lombardy, and even 
of two of Mohammed’s wives, which occur in this para- 
phrase, besides the many foreign words, prove the Tar- 
gum to have originated in the second half of the 7th 
eentur\ r . That Jonathan had Onkelos before him, a 
very slight comparison of both will show. Many places 
attach themselves almost verbally to Onkelos, as Gen. 
xx, 1-15. Indeed, one object which the Pseudo- Jona- 
than had in view was to give a criticism upon Onkelos. 
lie corrects and alters him more or less. Where Onke- 
los paraphrases, Jonathan enlarges the paraphrase. The 
same attention to the work of his predecessor is shown 
in his Flalaehic as in his llaggadic interpretation; as 
also in the avoidance of anthropomorphisms and anthro- 
popathisms. Sometimes the divergences from Onkelos 
are slight, sometimes important; and they are often su- 
perior to Onkelos, but sometimes the reverse. As bis 
object was different, his production presents a great 
contrast on the whole, because he intended to interpret, 
not to translate. Besides, this divergence from Onkelos 
must be accounted for in another way: he did not base 
his work primarily on the latter, but upon another par- 
aphrase; or, in other words, he worked upon Onkelos 
indirectly in the first instance because his whole pro- 
duction rests on the basis of the Jerushalmi, or Jerusa- 
lem, Targum. But, before proceeding with our obser- 
vation on the Pseudo-Jonathan, let us speak of 

2. The Jerushalmi, or Jerusidem , Targum. — The Je- 
rusalem Targum, written in the same dialect substan- 
tially as that of the Pseudo -Jonathan, and interpreting 
single verses, often single words only, is extant in the 
following proportions: a third on Genesis, a fourth on 
Deuteronomy, a tilth on Numbers, three twentieths on 
Exodus, and about one fourteenth on Leviticus. Judg- 
ing from the rounded and complete form in which the 
different parts are given, we may infer that it is now in 
its primitive state. If so, it eannot be a fragmentary 
recension of Jonathan. Yet their similarity is striking. 
The Haggadah of the one regularly appears in the other, 
and has usually a more concise form in the Jerusalem 


TAR-GUM 


211 


TARGUM 


Targum. Indeed, there is often a verbal agreement, or 
nearly so, between them, so that one might at first be 
inclined to assume their original identity, if not that 
they are fundamentally the same work — the Jerusalem 
Targum containing variations from the other, or being 
a fragmentary recension of it. The latter opinion is 
held by Zunz. But against this there are many argu- 
ments, especially the fact that the work is complete and 
rounded off in many parts. And though the similarity 
of the Jonathan and Jerusalem Targums is considerable, 
there is so much divergence as to prove diversity of 
authorship. Thus Jerushalmi knows very little of an- 
gels: Michael is the only one ever occurring. In Jona- 
than, on the other hand, angelologv nourishes with great 
vigor : to the Biblical Michael, Gabriel, Uriel, are added 
the Angel of Death, Samael, Sagnugael, Shachassai, 
Usiel ; seventy angels descend with God to see the 
building of the Babylonian tower; nine hundred mill- 
ions of punishing angels go through Egypt during the 
night of the Exude, etc. Jerushalmi makes use but 
rarely of Ilalachah and Haggadah, while Jonathan sees 
the text as it were only through the medium of llag- 
gadah : to him the chief end. Hence Jonathan has 
many Midrashim not found in Jerushalmi, while he does 
not omit a single one contained in the latter. There 
are no direct historical dates in Jerushalmi, but many 
are found in Jonathan; and since all other signs indi- 
cate that but a short space of time intervenes between 
the two, the late origin of either is to a great extent 
made manifest by these dates. The most striking dif- 
ference between them, however, and the one which is 
most characteristic of either, is this, that while Jeru- 
shalmi adheres more closely to the language of the 
Mislma, Jonathan has greater affinity to that of the 
Gemara. It is also perceptible that the reverence of 
Onkflos for the name of God, shown in substituting the 
Alemra, or something intermediate, is not so excessive 
in Jonathan as in the Jerusalem Targum. If such be 
the diversity of Jonathan and the Jerusalem Targum, 
they are not one work fundamentally; nor is the one a 
recension, now in fragments, of the other. But how is 
their resemblance to be explained? Only by the fact 
that both have relation to Onkelos. The author of the 
Jerusalem Targum worked upon that of Onkelos, his 
object being to correct it according to certain principles, 
and to insert in it a selection of Haggadahs current 
among the people. Pseudo- Jonathan afterwards re- 
sumed the same office, and completed what his prede- 
cessor had begun. The Jerusalem Targum formed the 
basis of Jonathan, and its own basis was that of Onke- 
los. Jonathan used both his predecessors’ paraphrases, 
the author of the Jerusalem Targum that of Onkelos 
alone. There is no doubt that the small glossarial pas- 
sages of the Jerusalem Targum are intended as a criti- 
cal commentary upon Onkelos, and from his standpoint 
the author proceeds freely in using his predecessor. 
Thus he rejects his acceptations of words, and gives 
closer acceptations for his freer ones. In many places 
where Onkelos’s scrupulosity about removing anthropo- 
morphisms from the text had obscured the sense, the 
Jerusalem Targum restores the original meaning by 
some addition or change. Thus in Gen. vi, 6, where 
Onkelos omits the name Jehovah and paraphrases, 
the Jerusalem Targum comes near the original text. 
Sometimes, where Onkelos Aramaizes a Hebrew word, 
the Jerusalem Targum substitutes a genuine Aramae- 
an one, as in viii, 22, where the of Onkelos is 

displaced for So in xxxiv, 12, where Onke- 

los has “J 3 Pi 12*1 ■j-nJTTS, the Jerusalem Targum puts 
'j'VQ. Vice versa , the Jerusalem Targum 
often prefers a Hebrew word to Onkelos’s Aramaean one, 
perhaps because the latter was better known in Pales- 
tine, as in xxii, 24. There is, indeed, no uniformity 
between Onkelos and Jerusalem in the use of Ar- 
amaean words, while consistent divergences mav be 


readily traced. After all that has been said there can 
be no doubt that the general object of the author of the 
Jerusalem Targum was to correct and explain Onkelos, 
adapting it to a later time and different country by en- 
riching it with the Haggadic lore which had accumu- 
lated, so that its deficiencies might be removed. From 
being a version, be wished to supplement it in various 
parts, so that it should be a paraphrase there. That he 
lias made many mistakes, and departed in not a few 
cases from Onkelos for the worse, we need not remark, 
nor enumerate his errors, since Petermami has collated 
them (op. cit. p. 00 scj.). It is this fragmentary Jeru- 
salem Targum to which Jonathan had regard in the 
first instance. lie uses the larger paraphrases and Hag- 
gadic parts of it, as well as the smaller variations from 
Onkelos, but always with discretion. More commonly 
the Haggadah of the Jerusalem Targum is simplified 
and abridged. Nor does Jonathan follow Onkelos im- 
plicitly, but often diverges. If he does nut adhere con- 
sistently to the Jerusalem Targum, we need not expect 
to see him copying Onkelos. Thus in Gen. vii, 11; 
xxii, 24, he leaves Onkelos for the Jerusalem Targum. 
Tt should also be observed that Jonathan relies upon 
Onkelos much more than the Jerusalem Targum, which 
is freer and more independent. Thus the former fol- 
lows Onkelos, and the latter departs from him in Gen. 
xi, 30; xii, 6, 15; xiii, G; xiv, 5, 21; xvi, 7, 15; xix, 
31 ; xx, 13, etc. The interval of time between the Je- 
rusalem Targum and Jonathan cannot be determined 
exactly, but it must have been a century. From these 
observations it will no longer be uncertain “ whether the 
Targum of Jerusalem hath been a continued Targum, or 
only the notes of some learned Jew upon the margins 
of the Pentateuch, or an abridgment of Onkelos” (Affix, 
Judgment of the Ancient Jewish Church , etc., p. 88). All 
the guesses are incorrect. The only objection to this 
hypothesis is the statement of Zunz that because many 
citations made by older authors from the two Targums 
in question are now missing, an older and complete Je- 
rusalem Targum must have existed, which is now lost. 
But when we consider the probable chances of passages 
being lost in the course of transcription, and of others 
being interpolated, as also the fact of variations in the 
editions, it need not be assumed, in the face of internal 
evidence, that they are very different now from what 
they were at first. Many of the passages cited by au- 
thors and now wanting, which Zunz lias brought to- 
gether, need a great deal of sifting and correction, as 
lias been ably shown by Seligsohn in Frankel’s J/o- 
natsschrift , 1857, p. 113. The view of the relation 
now given between Onkelos, the Jerusalem Targum, 
and Pseudo-Jonathan was briefly advocated by Fran- 
kel (op. cit. I84G, p. Ill sq.) with ability and success. 
His view has again been taken up bv Seligsohn 
and Traub, and satisfactorily established by them in 
a prize -essay, published in Frankel’s MonatsschriJ’t , 
1857. 

3. Editions and Commentaries. — The Pseudo -Jona- 
than Targum was first published at Venice in 1531 ; 
then at Hanau, 1618; Amsterdam, 1640; Prague, 1646; 
Amsterdam, 1671 and 1703; Berlin, 1705; Wilna, 1852; 
Vienna, 1859, etc. — all these, as well as the editio prin - 
ceps, having Onkelos and the Jerusalem Targum. It is 
also in the London Polyglot, vol. iv, together with a 
Latin translation made by Antony Chevalier. It was 
translated into English by Etheridge (Loud. 1862-65). 
The Jerusalem Targum was first printed by Bomberg 
(Venice, 1518) in bis Kabbinical Bible, and reprinted in 
the subsequent Iiabbinical Bibles issued by him, and in 
the great Polyglots. Since its publication by Walton 
in 1657, it has also appeared at Wilna (1852), Vienna 
(1859), and Warsaw (1875). Francis Taylor made a 
Latin version of this Targum (Loud. 1649); but the 
more correct one is that of Antony Chevalier above 
noticed. 

A commentary was written upon the Pseudo-Jona- 
than and Jerusalem Targums by David ben-Jacob Ze- 


T AU GUM 


212 


TAR GUM 


brecyn (Prague. 1609), entitled 5PH X* 'i'lrs 
by Mordeeai ben-Kaphtali Hirsch 
(Amsterdam, 1671), entitled map, but 'jms 

■•-VwITI "(P:^ C iPP b;' is given in the Pentateuch 
edition published at Wilna in 1859. K. Pheibel ben- 
David (Uanau, 1614), author of r*b*cn T'.fiO, did not 
compose, as the writer of the art. “Targum” in Kitto 
states, a commentary on Pseudo-Jonathan and Jeru- 
slialmi, but an elucidation of difficult words found in 
Jonathan’s Targum. 

We subjoin the following specimens from Genesis and 
Deuteronomy, selected at random : 


j 8, 18). The extraneous insertions are very numerous, 
uncertain, fabulous, and incorrect. Thus at ii, 1 we 
read, “And the three friends of Job heard of all the 
evil that had come upon him when they had seen t he 
trees of his garden burned up, and the bread of his food 
changed into living flesh, and the wine of his drink 
into blood; and they came each one from his place, 
and for this service they were delivered from the place 
appointed them in Gehenna.” In i, 15 t he words of the 
original N" - bv bsni are rendered r ] m ZT"2 Sib Ell 
“and the queen of Samar- 
eand (?) suddenly rushed in.” If Samareand be really 


Onkeloa. 

17. And to Adam he said. For that thou hast 
accepted the word of thy wife, and hast eaten 
Irom the tree of which l have connnunded unto 
thee, and said, Thou shalt not eat from it : cursed 
shall the earth be for thy sake; with trouble 
shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life ; 

18, And thorns and thistles it shall prow for 
thee ; and thou shalt eat the grass of the field. 


Gen. Ill, 17, IS. 
Targum Jerushalmi. 


18. And thorns and thistles shall it multiply 
for thee ; and thou shalt eat the grass that is oh 
the face of the earth. Then begun Adam and 
said, 1 pray, through the Mercy that is before 
thee, Jenovah, let us not be accounted before thee 
as the beasts that eat the grass on the face of the 
field : may we be permitted to arise and toil with 
the toil of our hands, and eat food from the fruits 
of the earth ; and thus may there be a difference 
before thee between the sons of man and the off- 
spring of cattle. 


Targum l^eudo-Jonalhan. 

17. And to Adam be said, Because thou hast re- 
ceived the word of thy wife, and hast eaten from 
the fruit of the tree, of which 1 commanded thee, 
Thou shalt not eat from it : cursed he the earth, 
because it has not shown nnto thee thy fault ; in 
sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days "of thy life ; 

18. And thorns and thistles shall grow aDd 
multiply for thy sake; and thou shalt eat the 
grass that is on the face of the field. Adam an- 
swered and said, 1 pray, by tire Mercy that is be- 
fore thee, lehovah.that we may not be deemed 
like unto the beasts, that we should eat grass 
that is on the face of the field ; may we be allow- 
ed to arise and toil with the toiling of our hands, 
and eat food from the food of the earth, and thus 
may there be a distinction now before thee be- 
tween the sons of men and the offspring of cattle. 


Deut. XXXIV, 1-3. 


]. And Moses ascended from the encampment 
of M nab to the mountain of Nebo: the head of 
the height that is opposite Jericho. And Jehovah 
showed him all the laDd of Gilead unto Dan. 


1. And Moses ascended from the plnio of Moab 
tn the mountain of Nebo, the summit of the hill 
which is opposite Jericho. And God showed him 
the whole land ; Gilead unto Dau of Caesarea. 


1. And Moses ascended from the plains of Moah 
to the mountain of Nebo, the summit of the 
height which is over against Jericho ; and the 
word of Jehovah showed him all the mighty ones 
of the land : the powerful deeds which Jephtbah 
from Gilead would do, and the victories of Sam- 
son the son of Mnnoah, from the tribe of Dan. 


2. And all Xaphtali and the land of Ephraim 
ami Manasseh, and all the land of Judah to the 
hindmost sea. 


3. And the west and the plain of tbe valley of 
Jericho the city of tbe palms, unto Zoar. 


2. And all the land of Xaphtali, and the Innd 
of Ephraim and Manasseh, and the whole laud 
of Judah, to the hindmost sea. 


3. And west, and the plain of the valley of 
Jericho the city which produces the palms, "that 
is Zeer. 


2. And the thousnnd princes from the house of 
Nnphtali who joined issue with Balak, Hnd the 
kings whom Joshua the son of Nun, from' the 
tribe of Ephraim, would kill, Hnd the power of 
Gideon the son of Joasli from the tribe of Mimas- 
seh, and all the kings of Israel, and the kingdom 
of the house of Judah who would rule in the land 
until the second Sanctuary would be laid low. 

3. And the king of the south who would join 
the king of the north to destroy the inhabitants 
of the land, and the Ammonites and Moabites, 
the inhabitants of the valleys who would oppress 


Israel, and the exile of the disciples of Elijah who would be driven out from tbe plain of Jericho, and the exile of the disciples of Elisha who 
would be driven out from tbe city of palms bv their brethren, the house of Israel : two hundred thousand men. And the woes of eneb genera- 
tion Hnd the punishment of Arinalgus [Armilius] the evil one and tbe battle-array of Gog. Aud io this great misery Michael will arise with 
tbe sword : to save, etc. 


4. Literature . — Winer, De Jonathanis in Pentateu- 
ckunt Paraphrasi Chnldaica (Erlangen, 18*23) ; Peter- 
mann, De Duabus Pentateuchi Paraphrasibus Chaldaicis , 
pt. i ; De Indole Paraphraseos qmt Jonathanis esse elici- 
tin' (Berolin. 1829); lliir, Geist des Jernschalmi (Pseudo- 
Jonathan), m Frankel’s Monutsschrift , 1851-52, p. 235- 
242 ; Seligsolin and Tranb, Ueber den Geist der Ueberseiz- 
vng des Jonathan ben- Usui znm Pentateuch und die Ab- 
fassung des in den Editionen dieser Uebersetzung beige - 
druchten Targum Jernschalmi, in Frankel’s Monats- 
schrift , 1857, p. 96-114, 138-149; Geiger, Das Jerusa - 
lemische Targum zum Pentateuch , in the Urschrift it. 
Uebersetzung der Bibel (Breslau, 1857), p. 457-480; Se- 
ligsohn, De Duabus Jlierosolymitanis Pentateuchi Para- 
phrasibus (ibid. 1858); Gronemann, Die Jonathan'sche 
Pentateuch- Uebersetzung, etc. (Leips. 1879). 

V. Targums on the Ifagiographa. — These Targums 
are generally divided into three groups, viz.: a. Job, 
Psalms, Proverbs ; b. The live Megilloth ; c. Daniel, 
Chronicles, and Ezra. Tradition ascribes to II. Joseph 
the Blind the authorship of this Targum, but this is 
contradicted by writers even of the 13th century (see 
Zunz, op. cif. p. 65). 

1. The Targum on the Book of Job. — A feature of 
this Targum is its Haggadical character. As early as 
the middle of the 1st century a paraphrase on the book 
of Job is mentioned. Its difficulty, but more especially 
its adaptation to allegorizing fancies, presented a pe- 
culiar temptation to Chaldee expositors. In many 
places we rind a double Targum. After one interpre- 
tation, which is always free in character, another still 
more paraphrastic is annexed with the introductory, 
XP., i. e. 'nnx Ciyir, another Targum (comp, xviii, 7, 


mentioned, the date is late. The language is inter- 
mixed with Greek and Latin words in the same degree 
as the Palestinian Targumim and Midrashim. Thus 
the word ofyygXoc (angel), is used in xv, 15; 

xx, 27 ; xxxv, 10. Bacher also finds in this Targum 
the Latin word delator, and comes to the conclusion 
that the author lived in Palestine, under Homan do- 
minion, in the 4th or 5th century, while the writer of 
the art. “ Targum” in Kitto states that “the work is a 
growth belonging to various times and writers, of which 
the beginning and end cannot be precisely determined.” 

With regard to the INlasoretic text, the Targum of 
Job agrees sometimes with the Sept, (as xix, 29: 
Targ. rrn, Sept, iv avrip\ xxii, 21 : “jnXT-n, Targ. 
~rb2i*, Sept. KapTroQ gov, xxxi, 32 : nvxb, Targ. 

Sept. £ei>oq, both n'llX^or with the Peshito 
(comp, iii, 8 ; vi, 16; vii. 4: ix, 7 ; xvi, 10; xxvi, 10; 
xxxiii, 28). Often the reading of the Targum has to 
be explained from an interchange of letters, thus: 


"l and “I— xxiv, 24; 

x “ n— V, 5; 

XXX, 3 ; 
xxviii, 7 ; 
X “ E— vii, 4; 

PI “ xxx, 12 ; 

II “ ri— xvii, 2; 


Tar. VC1 (ir^X). 


bx, 

nsr.ir, 

rrx, 

nrrs, 


trr.^nn, 


“ in ci-c-i'S). 
“ nmr <xnvi'>. 
“ rrn (mri). 

11 “nso (r^-H: 1 :). 
“ ems 
“ nrvr.Ensi 


cprnsr,^ £i“). 


“ “1- xix, 28; "Q, 


■C tfTO). 


TARGUM 


213 


TARGUM 


i and 1— xxviii, 7 ; ITX, Tar Plin (HITT. 

xxii, 29; CWV, “ (X:rn*!D). 

XXXVI, 10; *,1X, “ 'P'STJ). 

3 “ r- vil, 9; y.V, “ (posn 

.(x::n 

xxxvi, 20; tjxirn, “ qxsn o^r.). 

In two cases the variation is to be accounted for by 
bearing amiss, viz, xxix, 22. where, instead of CpH, 
E^nClBwH). and xxxix, 23, where, for Mann, 
nEin^T^n) is read. The number is greater where 
the vowel-points differ from those of the Masorah. Va- 
riations of this kind may amount to about thirty. 

'Fhe Targum on Job was published by John Tcren- 
tius (Franek. 1603) [the text being that of Buxtorf, and 
the Latin translation that of Arias Montanos], with 
notes, consisting of various readings and explanations 
of Chaldee words. The Latin version of Alphonso de 
Zamora was published with notes by John Mereier 
(ibid. 1663), and Victorius Seialai translated it into 
Latin (Rome, 1618). This Targum lias been treated 
by Bacher, in Griitz’s Monatsschrift , 1871, p. 208-223, 
and by Weiss, De Libri Jobi Paraph rasi Chaldaica 
(Vratisl. 1873). 

2. The Targum on the Psalms . — This Targum is not 
so Haggadic or diffuse as that of Job. Sometimes it 
follows the original with a tolerable degree of closeness, 
as in i, iii, v, vi, etc. In more cases, however, it in- 
dulges in prolix digressions, absurd fables, and common- 
place remarks. Two or three different versions of the 
same text occasionally follow one another without re- 
mark, though the introductory notice S<n, i. e. 

-inx, sometimes precedes (comp, cx, 1). The additions 
to the text are often inappropriate, the sense distorted, 
the titles wrongly paraphrased, and fables are abundant. 
Thus in cx, 1 the paraphrase has, “The Lord said in 
his word that he would appoint me lord of all Israel; 
but he said to me again, Wait for Saul, who is of the 
tribe of Benjamin, till he die, because he does not agree 
in the kingdom with an associate; and afterwards I 
will make thine enemies thy footstool,” to which is sub- 
joined 2$n, thus, “The Lord said in his word that he 
would give me the dominion because I was intent upon 
the doctrine of the law of his right hand: wait till I 
make thine enemy the footstool of thy feet.” Devia- 
tions from the Masoretic text are numerous. On the 
whole, the linguistic character of this Targum corre- 
sponds with that on Job, and resembles that of the 
Jerusalem Targum. It abounds in Greek words; thus, 
besides the dyyeAoi, occurring also in Job, we meet 
with (hopor, xx, 4; 7T£/\ayoc, xlvi, 3; tevpvog. liii, 1, 
and xcvii, 10; vijaog, Ixxii, 10; tt Xarela, lviii, 12; kv- 
ptog, lxxiii, 13; oyAoc, lxxxix, 7; avredptov, Ivii, 32; 
XaXiciofia, xviii, 34, etc. According to Bacher, Das 
Targum zn den Psalmen , in Gratz’s Monatsschrift , 1872, 
p. 408-416; 463-473, the author of this Targum is the 
same as of that on Job. Davidson, in Kitto’s Cyclop, s. v. 
“Targum,” thinks that, “like the Targum on Job, this 
one is an accumulation of expositions extending over 
centuries.” The Targum on the Psalms was printed in 
Justiniani’s Polyglot Psalter (Genoa, 1516), and in the 
Ilexaglot edition of the Psalter, published at Rostock, 
1643. It is also printed in the latest Rabbinical Bible 
(Warsaw, 1875). The Antwerp and following Poly- 
glots (1572, 1645, 1657) contain the Latin version of 
Arias Montanos. From the Codex Keuchlin it was 
published by Lagarde in his JJagiographa Chaldaice 
(Leips. 1873), and republished by Nestle in his Psalteri- 
nm Tetraglottum (Tub. 1877-79). 

3. The Targum on Proverbs. — This Targum is not 
Haggadic, and adheres more closely to the original 
text. Its remarkable agreement with the Syriac ver- 
sion has often been noticed — an agreement which 


extends even to the choice and position of words, 
comp, i, 1-6, 8, 10, 12, 13; ii, 9, 10, 13-15; iii, 2-9; 
iv, 1-3, 26; v, 1, 2, 4, 5; viii, 27; x, 3-5; xxvi, 1; 
xxvii, 2, 5, 6, 8; xxix, 5, 6; xxxi, 31. Dathe, in his 
De Pat tone Consensus Cersiouis Ckaldaicte et Syriacai 
Proverbiorum Solomonis (Lips. 1764), was the first who 
gave special attention to this fact, and came to the con- 
clusion that the Chaldee interpreter was dependent on 
the Syriac. He endeavors to prove his position by many 
pertinent arguments, such as that the Syriac explains 
Aramaean departures from the Hebrew most naturally, 
and that many Syriaeisms in words, forms, and orthogra- 
phy appear in the version which are otherwise unknown 
to Chaldee, or at least are very rare. Eichhorn and 
Volck take the same view. Iliivernick denies the use 
of the one by the other, endeavoring to account for 
their similarity by the cognate dialects in which both 
are written, the identity of country in which they had 
their origin, and their literality. Davidson, in Kitto’s Cy - 
cloptedia, is inclined to believe that, the Targum having 
been made in Syria, the Syriac as well as the Hebrew 
was consulted, or rather the Greek through the medium 
of the Syriac. While the Hebrew was the basis, the 
Syriac was freely used. Different entirely is the opin- 
ion of Mavbaum, who takes the opposite ground to 
that of Dathe, Eichhorn, and others. lie believes that 
the Syriac interpreter was dependent on the Chaldee. 
The statements in the art. Syriac Version, its Re- 
lation to the Sei*titagtnt and Chaldee, in this 
Cyclopcedia, confirm this view. The greatest obstacle 
in all these disquisitions is the want of a critical 
text, and Maybaum, who compared the different read- 
ings together with an ancient codex preserved at 
Breslau, has come to the conclusion that Dathe’s evi- 
dence is based upon corrupt readings. As to the orig- 
inal language of this Targum, Dathe (op. cit. p. 125) 
expresses it as his opinion that it was originally writ- 
ten in Syriac, the Chaldaisms which we find at present 
having been interpolated by Jews: “Nempe Judah 
utebantur versionibus Syriacis, quas legere atque intel- 
ligere ob summam utriusque linguse consensionem pa- 
terant. Sed mutabant eas passim, partim ad sure dia- 
lecti proprietatem. partim ad lectionem textus Ilebraei 
inter eos receptam.” llis hypothesis is based upon t lie 
fact that the Chaldee in xviii, 22 agrees with the He- 
brew E'E JTE*5< and while the other ver- 

sions read !1E"E after iTEX, the Chaldee agrees with 
the Hebrew. But it is evident that because the word 
is wanting in one IMS., this inference cannot be drawn 
concerning all others. The fact in the matter is, that 
only in Walton’s edition does the Chaldee agree with 
the Hebrew text; while others, as Dathe himself admits, 
have the word nE'E - . And, after all, how is it that the 
Chaldee so often deviates from the Masoretic text? 
Whence is it that so many Chaldaisms are found even 
in those codices which, in the passage quoted above, do 
not agree with the Masoretic text? The answer is that, 
as the Chaldaisms in our Targum are as original as the 
Syriaeisms, we have here evidently to do with a mixed 
dialect; and from the analysis given on the linguistic 
peculiarities, Maybaum comes to the conclusion that the 
language of the Targum on Proverbs is Syro-Chaldaic, 
and the original language of the author. The relation 
of the Chaldee to the Syriac version having already 
been treated at some length in the art. Syriac Version, 
its Relation to the Seetuagint and Chaldee, 
we can only refer to it. If the hypothesis of Maybaum, 
which we have adopted, be true, viz. that the Syriac 
depended upon the Chaldee, not vice versa — for even 
Davidson admits that “a uniform dependence of the 
Aramiean upon the Syriac cannot be sustained” — the 
Targum on Proverbs must have existed at a very early 
period; at any rate, Davidson acknowledges that the 
Targum on Proverbs is older than those on Job and 
Psalms, in this respect following Zunz. This being so, 
we do not err in assuming that the Targum on Proverbs 


TARGUM 


214 


TAI4GUM 


belongs to the 2d or 3d century. It is generally found 
in the Polyglot and Rabbinical Bibles. It was trans- 
lated into Latin by Alphonso de Zamora anil John 
Mercier. See, besides Bathe’s treatise, already men- 
tioned. Maybaum, Ueber i lie Sprache lies Targum zu den 
Spriichen mid dessen Ye rhd.lt niss zum Spier, in Merx’«s ' 
Archil' Jiir wissenschoj’tliche For sc hung des Altai Testa- 
ments, ii, GG sq. 

4. The Targum on the Fire Megilloth, i. e. on Ruth, 
Esther, Ecclesiastes, Canticles, and the Lamentations, 
is, according to Zunz, a Midrashic paraphrase, exceed- 
ingly loose and free in character, containing legends, 
fables, allusions to Jewish history, and many fanciful 
additions. The whole bears the impress of a date con- 
siderably posterior to the Talmudic time, and is written 
in an intermediate dialect between the West Aramaean 
of Job, Psalms, and Proverbs, and the East Aramaean of 
the Babylonian Talmud. The least llaggadic is Ruth, 
the most rhapsodical that of Canticles. Delitzsch 
( Gesch . d.jihh Poesie, p. 135) thinks that “ the Targums 
on the five Megilloth are the most beautiful national 
works of art, through which there runs the golden 
thread of Scripture, and which are held together only 
by the unity of the idea.” Whether these Targums 
are the work of one or different persons cannot be well 
decidetl. The former is the opinion of Zunz, Volck, 
and Deutsch, the latter that of Davidson. 

(1.) The Targum on Ruth was published separately 
with a Latin translation and scholia by John Mercier 
(Paris, 1504), and the following specimen will give a fair 
idea of the same : Ruth ii, 10, 11,“ Why have 1 found pity 
in thine eyes to know me, and I of a strange people, of the 
daughters of Moab, and of a people who are not clean to 
enter into the Church of the Lord ? And Boaz answered 
and said to her, In telling it has been told me by the 
saying of the wise men, that when the Lord decreed, he 
did not decree respecting women, but men; and it was 
said to me in prophecy that kings and prophets are 
about to spring from thee on account of the good thou 
hast done,” etc. 

(2.) The paraphrase on Lamentations is more Mi- 
drashic than that on Ruth, but of the same type, being 
copiously interwoven with pieces of history, allegory, 
fables, reflections, etc. 

(3.) The paraphrase on Ecclesiastes is more Mi- 
drasbic than the former, the author having given a free 
rein to his imagination and made copious insertions. 
The following verses will best illustrate the character 
of this paraphrase. In i, 2, we read : 

“ When Solomon the king of Israel foresaw, by the 
spirit of prophecy, that the kingdom of liehobonm his 
son would be divided with Jeroboam the sou of Nebat, 
and that Jerusalem and the holy temple would be de- 
stroyed, and’ that the people of Israel would be led into 
captivity, he said, by the Divine Word, Vanity of vanities 
is this world: vanity of vanities is all which I and my 
father, David, have labored for, all of it is vanity . . . (ver. 
12,13). When king Solomon was sitting: upon the throne 
of his kingdom, his heart became very proud of his rich- 
es, and he transgressed the Word of God, and he gathered 
many horses and chariots and riders, and he amassed 
much gold and silver, and he married from foreign na- 
tions, whereupon the anger of the Lord was kindled 
against him; and he sent to him Ashmoda, the king of 
the daemons, who drove him from the throne of his king- 
dom, and took away the ring from his hand, in order that 
he shoidd roam and wander about in the world to re- 
prove it; ami he went about in the provincial towns and 
the cities of the land of Israel, weeping and lamenting, 
and saying, I am Coheleth, whose name was formerly 
called Solomon, who was king over Israel in Jerusalem : 
aud 1 gave my heart to ask instruction of God at the time 
when he appeared unto me in Giheon, to try me, and to 
ask me what I desire of him ; and I asked nothing of him 
except wisdom, to know the difference between good and 
evil, and knowledge of whatsoever was done under the 
sun in this world, and I saw all the works of the wicked 
children of men — a sad business which God gave to the 
childreu of meu to be afflicted by it.” 

As this Targum has been translated into English bv 
Ginsburg, in his Commentary on Ecclesiastes (London, 
1881), the reader, by perusing the same, will be enabled 
to judge for himself better than by any extracts. 


(4.) The Targum on Canticles is the most llaggadic 
of all, and hardly deserves the name of a paraphrase, be- 
cause the words of the original are completely covered 
by extravagant and inflated expressions (“nugae atque 
fri volitates”) which refer to another subject. “The para- 
i phrast lias indulged in the greatest license, and allowed 
his imagination to run riot in a multiplicity of ways.” 
lie lias composed a panegyric on his people, describing 
prophetically the history of the Jewish nation, begin- 
ning with their exode from Egypt, and detailing their 
doings and sufferings down to t lie coming of the Mes- 
siah and the building of the third Temple. Thus, ac- 
cording to this allegory, i, 3 relates Jehovah’s fame 
which went abroad in consequence of the wonders he 
wrought when bringing the Israelites out of Egypt : 
ver. 12 describes the departure of Moses to receive the 
two tables of stone, and how the Israelites in the mean- 
time made the golden calf ; ver. 14 particularizes the 
pardon of that sin and the erection of the tabernacle; 
iii, C— 1 1 refers to the passage of the Israelites, under the 
leadership of Joshua, over the Jordan, their attacking 
and conquering the Canaanites, and the building of Solo- 
mon’s Temple; v, 2 describes the Babylonian captivity ; 
vi, 2 represents the deliverance of Israel through Cyrus, 
and the building of the second Temple ; ver. 7, etc., 
names the battles of the Maccabees; vii. 11,12 represents 
the present dispersion of the Jews, and their future anx- 
iety to learn the time of their restoration ; viii, 5, etc., 
describes the resurrection of the dead, the final ingath- 
ering of Israel, the building of the third Temple, etc. 

The very first verse of this Targum reads thus: 

“The songs and praises which Solomon the prophet, 
king of Israel, sang by the spirit of prophecy, before God, 
the Lord of the whole world. Ten songs were sung in 
this world, but this song is the most celebrated of them 
all. The first song Adam sang when his sins were for- 
given him, and when the Sahhath-dav came and protect- 
ed him he opened his month and said, ‘A song for the 
Sabbath-day, ’ etc. (Psa. xcii). The second song Moses and 
the children of Israel sang when the Lord of the world di- 
vided the Red Sea for them. They all opened their months 
and sang as one man ihe song as it is written, ‘Then 
sang Moses and the children of Israel’ (Exnd. xv, 1). The 
third song the children of Israel sang when the well <4* 
water was given to them, as it is written, ‘Then sang 
Israel’ (Numb, xxi, 17). The fourth song Moses the 
prophet sang when his time came to depart from this 
world, in which he reproved the people of the house of 
! Israel, as it is written, ‘Give ear, O heavens, and I will 
speak’ (Dent, xxxii, 1). The fifth song Joshua the son 
of Nun sang when he waged war in Giheon, and the snti 
and moon stood still for him thirty-six hours; and when 
they left off singing their song, he himself opened his 
month and sang this song, as it is written, ‘Then sang 
Joshua before the Lord’ (Josh, x, 12). The sixth song 
Barak and Deborah sang in the day when the Lord de- 
livered Sisera and his army into the hands of the chil- 
dren of Israel, as it is written, ‘Then sang Deborah,’ etc. 
(Judg. v, 11). The seventh song Hannah sang when a son 
was given her by the Lord, as it is written, ‘And Hannah 
prayed prophetically and said’ (1 8am. ii, 1, and the Tar- 
gum, ad loc.). The eighth song David the son of Israel 
sang for all the wonders which the Lord did for him. lie 
opened his month and sang a hymn, as it is written, ‘And 
David sang itt prophecy before the Lord’ (2 Sam. xxii.l, 
and the Targnm, ad loc.). The ninth song Solomon the 
king of Israel sang by the Holy Spirit before (tod, the 
Lord of the whole world. And the tenth song the chil- 
dren of the captivity shall sing when they shall be deliv- 
ered from their captivity, as it is written and declared by 
Isaiah the prophet, ‘This song shall be limo yon for joy, 
as in the night in which the feast of the Passover is cele- 
brated : and gladness of heart as when the people go to 
appear before the Lord three times in the year, with all 
kinds of music, and with the sound of the timbrel, to go 
up to the mountain of the Lord, and to worship before 
the Lord the mighty one of Israel’ (Isa. xxx, 29).” 

From this specimen it will be seen how far the learned 
Broughton was correct in saying that the paraphrase 
“is worth our study, both for delight and profit.” This 
Targum is found in the Rabbinical Bibles; it has been 
translated into Latin, and is also accessible to English 
readers in the translation of Gill, at the end of his Com- 
mentary on the Song gf Solomon (Lond. 1751), p. 535 sq. 

(5.) The Targnm , or rather Targums, on Esther . — 
The book of Esther, enjoying, both through its storv- 
i like form and the early injunction of its being read or 


TARGUM 


215 


TARGUM 


heard by every one on the Feast of Purim, a great circu- 
lation and popularity, has been targumized many times. 
One translation of concise form, and adhering closely to 
the text, occurs in the Antwerp Polyglot (vol. iii) ; it was 
issued enlarged with glosses by Tailer in Tar yum Priiis 
it Post arius in Esther , studiis F. Taileri (Lond. 1655), 
and forms the Targum Pritis which is contained in 
the London Polyglot. Much more prolix, and ampli- 
fying still more the legends of this Targum (comp, 
i, 2, 1 1 ; ii, 5, 7 ; iii, 1 ; v, 14, etc.) is the Tin-gum Paste - 
rins in Tailer, it being “a collection of Eastern ro- 
mances, broken up and arranged to the single verses; 
of gorgeous hues and extravagant imagination, such as 
are to be met with in the A dsharib or Chamis , or any 
Eastern collection of legends and tales.” Its final re- 
daction probably belongs to the 11th century. This is 
the view of Dr. Monk, the latest editor of this second 
Targum, one of the tales of which runs as follows: 

“One day when the king (Solomon) was again full of 
wine, he commanded that all wild animals, the fowls of 
i he air, and the creeping animals of the earth, as well as 
the devils, daemons, and spirits, be brought to him, that 
they might dance before him, and behold, with all the 
kings who were with him, his glory. The royal scribe 
called them by their name, and they all congregated be- 
fore the king, with the exception of the wild cock. At 
this the king angrily commanded that he should be sought 
for, and when found, should be brought in, intending to 
kill him. Then said the wild cock to the king, My lord 
king, give heed and hear my words 1 For three mouths 
I weighed in my mind, and flew about in the whole 
world in search of a town which does not obey thee. 

1 saw then a city in the East, of the name of Kitor , 
in which are many people, and a woman governs them 
all ; she is called queeu of Sheba. If it please thee, my 
lord king, I shall go to that city, bind their kings in 
chains, and their rulers with iron fetters, and bring them 
hither. As it pleased the king, writers were called who 
wrote letters and bound them to the wings of the wild 
cock. He came to the queen, who, observing the letter 
tied to the wing, loosened it and read the following con- 
tents: From me, king Solomon, greeting to thee and to 
Ihy princes! Thou knowest well that God has made me 
king over the beasts of the held, over the birds of heaven, 
over daemons, spirits, and goblins. The kings from all 
regions of the earth approach me with homage: wilt thou 
do this, thon slialt have great honor; if not, I will send 
upon thee kings, legions, and horsemen. The kings are 
the beasts of the field; the horsemeu the birds of heaven, 
the hosts, daemons and spirits; the goblins are the le- 
gions who shall strangle yon in your beds. When the 
queen had read this, she rent her garments and called for 
the elders and lords, saying, Know ye what king Solo- 
mon has sent to me? They answered, We neither know 
nor esteem him. The queen, however, trusting them not, 
called for sailors and sent presents to the king, and after 
three years she came herself. The king, on hearing of 
her arrival, sat in a crystal hull to receive her, which made 
her fancy that he was sitting in water; she therefore un- 
covered her feet to pass through. On seeing his glory, 
she said, May the Lord thy God be praised who has found 
pleasure in thee and made thee sit ou the throne to exer- 
cise mercy and justice.” 

We have purposely selected this piece from the first 
chapter, because it is also found in an abridged form 
in the Koran (sura xxvii). With a commentary, the 
second Targum is found in the Warsaw Rabbinical Bi- 
ble. A separate edition, with various readings, notes, 
etc., was published by Munk, Targum Scheni zum Buche 
Esther (Berlin, 1876). It has lately been translated by 
Cassel, in an appendix to his Das Pitch Esther. Ein 
Beitrag zur Geschichte lies Aforgenlandes (ibid. 1878). 
It has been treated in an essay by Reiss, Das Targum 
Scheni zu Jem Buche Esther , in the At onatsschrift ed- 
ited by Griitz, 1876, p. 161 sq.. 276 sq., 308 sq. 

5. The Targum on the Bonks of Chronicles. — This is 
preserved in three codices. The oldest, bearing the 
date of 1294, is in the Vatican, known as Cod. Urhin. /, 
and is still awaiting a critical edition or perusal. A 
second codex, of the year 1343, belonging to the Erfurt 
Library, was published by Beck (Augsburg, 1680-83, 

2 vols.), and edited with a Latin translation and learned 
annotations. The Erfurt MS. has many chasms, espe- 
cially in the first fourteen chapters. The third codex, 
of the year 1347, and belonging to the University of 
Cambridge, was published by David Wilkins (Amster. 


1715). Here the text is complete, so that the lacuna ? 
in Beck’s edition are filled. Like its predecessor, it has 
also a Latin version, but there are no notes. Great as 
was Wilkins’s ability for editing this Targum, yet it 
speaks badly for his knowledge that he has put on the 
title-page R. Joseph as the author (though Beck was 
of the same opinion), and that he has made him rector 
of the academy in Syria, instead of Sera in Babylonia. 
Wilkins’s edition was lately republished from a copy 
found at Fragile by Dr. Rahmer, under the title 

b'Zj (Thorn, 1866), and the deviations 
from Beck’s edition are given in notes. We cannot en- 
ter here upon a comparison of the Erfurt codex with 
that of Cambridge. As to the authorship of this Targum, 
its ascription to R. Joseph the Blind must be regarded 
as exploded. Whether it is the work of one author or of 
more cannot now be decided. Language, style, manner, 
and Ilaggadic paraphrase show its Palestinian origin. 
Zunz remarks that it sometimes transcribes the Jerusa- 
lem Targum on the Pentateuch verbally, as in the ge- 
nealogical table of the first chapter (comp. ver. 51 with 
the Jerusalem Targum on Gen. xxxvi, 39). So, also, 
in the psalm passages in 1 Chron. xvi, its words often 
coincide with the Targum on Psa. cv and xevi. The 
origin of this Targum cannot be put earlier than the 
8th century; or, as the most recent writer on this Tar- 
gum thinks, the older text, as preserved in the Erfurt 
codex, belongs to the middle of the 8th century, and 
the later, as preserved in the Cambridge codex, to the 
beginning of the 9th. Owing to the late origin of this 
Targum, we must not be surprised at finding the name of 
Hungary occurring in it, as well as some other foreign 
words, besides many fables, especially in the explana- 
tion of proper names. For critical purposes both edi- 
tions must be used— the first, Paraphrasis Chaldaica 
Libr. Chronicornm , cur a M. F. Beckii, for the learned 
notes; the second, Paraphrasis . . . auctore R.Josepho , 
etc., fur the more correct and complete text. The writer 
of the art. “Targum” in Smith’s Diet. of the Bible states 
that “ the science of exegesis will profit little by it” (this 
Targum). What we know of the subject induces us to 
hold an opposite opinion (see Frankel, M anatsschrift, 
1867, p. 349 sq. ; but, more especially, Rosenberg, Das 
Targum zur Chronik, in Geiger’s Judische Zeitsch rift, 
1870, p. 72 sq., 135 sq., 263 sq.). 

6. The Targum on Daniel. — The existence of this 
work was first noticed by Munk, who thinks that he 
found it in a MS. in the Imperial Library at Paris (No. 
45 du Funds de St.-Germain-des-Pre's). The MS., how- 
ever, contains only a Persian Targum, giving an apoc- 
ryphal account of Daniel. According to the learned 
writer, this ^X n 2*1 H up, or History of Daniel, was taken 
from a Targum on Daniel in Chaldee. The first words 
are written in Chaldee, they are then repeated in Per- 
sian, and the history continues in the latter lan- 
guage. After several legends known from other Tar- 
gums, follows a long prophecy of Daniel, from which 
the book is shown to have been written after the first 
Crusade. Mohammed and his successors are mention- 
ed, also a king who. coming from Europe ("X^l-l 7X). 
will go to Damascus, and kill the Ishmaelitic (Moham- 
medan ) kings and princes; he will break down the 
minarets (mx: -), destroy the mosques (Xm^CC), 
and no one will .after that dare to pronounce the name 
of the Profane (blD3=^Iohammed ). The Jews will 
also have to suffer great misfortunes (ns, indeed, the 
knightly Crusaders won their spurs by dastardly mur- 
dering tlie helpless masses — men, women, and children 
— in the Ghettos along the Rhine and elsewhere, before 
they started to deliver the holy tomb). By a sudden 
transition, the prophet, then passes on to the “Messiah, 
son of Joseph,” to Gog and Magog, and to the “true 
Messiah, the son of David.” Munk rightly concludes 
that the book must have been composed in the 12th 
century, when Christian kings reigned for a brief period 


TARGUM 


21 G 


TARGUM 


over Jerusalem (Xotice sur Saadia [Par. 1838], p. 8*2). 
According to the description here given, there can he 
no doubt that it is the same which Zoteuberg publish' 
(>d some years ago, in Persian, with a German transla- 
tion, in Merx’s Archie, i, 385 sq., and beginning thus: 
“History of Daniel (peace be upon him). 1 am Dan- 
iel, of the children of Jeconiah, king of the house of 
Judah.” Davidson says, “We must express our doubts 
about such a Chaldee paraphrase on Daniel, in the 
absence of all proof that the Persian was made from 
the Chaldee; for a few Chaldee words at the beginning 
are no argument in favor of it. All that Munk com- 
municates — i.e. part of a page — is insufficient to war- 
rant us in accepting the fact. Yet Steinschneider has 
referred to ‘a Targum on Daniel,’ simply on the author- 
ity of Monk’s notice ( Cataloyns Librorum JJebra orum 
in Bibliotheca Bodleiana). No Targum upon Daniel is 
extant, so far as we yet know, and it is very doubtful 
whether one was ever made. The reason assigned in 
the Talmud lor not rendering the book into Chaldee is 
that it reveals the precise time of the Messiah’s advent. 
A good part of the book is already in Chaldee.” To 
this it may be answered that, at the time when Davidson 
wrote, this Targum was not yet published, otherwise he 
would have thought differently. Its contents show that 
the original Chaldee was the basis of it. A number of 
Hebrew words occur in it, and it closes with quoting 
Psa. exlvii, 2. / 

7. There is not any Targum, so far as is known, upon 
Ezra and Nehemiah. Part of Ezra is already Chaldee, 
and Nehemiah was counted with it as one book. 

8. To the Roman edition of the Sept, of Daniel, pub- 
lished in 1772, a Chaldee version is added of the Apoc- 
ryphal pieces in Esther. This has been printed by De 
Rossi, accompanied by a Latin version, remarks, and dis- 
sertations ( Specimen Variorum Lectiomnn Sucri Text us 
et Chaldaira Esfheris A dditamenfa, etc. [Tub. 1783, 8vo]). 

An edition of the Chaldee Hagiographa was publish- 
ed by Lagarde (Leips. 1873). 

VI. Fraymentury Taryvms on the Other Boohs. — Ac- 
cording to Zunz, the Jerusalem Targum — or rather, as 
it should be called, the Palestinian one — extended to the 
prophetic books also, and he justifies his opinion by the 
following particulars, which we give in his order : Abud- 
raham cites a Jerusalem Targum on 1 Sam. ix, 13, and 
Kimchi has preserved several passages from it on Judges 
(xi, 1, consisting of 47 words), on Samuel (i, 17, 18: 10G 
words), and Kings (i, 22, 21 : G8 words; ii, 4. 1 : 174 
words; iv, G: 55 words; ver. 7: 72 words; xiii, 21 : 9 
words ), under the simple name of Tosephtah , i.e. Ad- 
dition, or Additional Targum. Luzzato has also lately 
found fragments of the same, under the names “ Targum 
of Palestine,” “ Targum of Jerushalmi,” “ Another Head- 
ing.” etc., in an African codex written A.M. 5247=: A. D. 
1487, viz., on 1 Sam. xviii, 19; 2 Sam. xii. 12: 1 Kings 
v, 9, 11, 13 ; x, 18, 2G ; xiv, 13 ; on I los. i, 1 ; Obad. i, 1. 
On Isaiah (eh. Ixvi), Ilashi, Abudraham (liv. 11), and 
Farissol (Ixvi) quote it, agreeing in part with a frag- 
ment of the Targum on this prophet extant in Cod. 
l T rbin. Vatican. No. 1, containing about 190 words, and 
beginning, “Prophecy of Isaiah, which he prophesied 
at the end of his prophecy in the days of Manasseh the 
son of Ilozokiah. the king of the tribe of the house of 
Judah, on the 17th of Tamuz, in the hour when Manas- 
seh set up an idol in the Temple,” etc. Isaiah predicts 
in this his own violent death. Parts of this Targum 
are also found in Hebrew, in Pesiktah B abbot hi. G a, 
and Yafkut Jso. 58 d. A Jerusalem Targum on Jere- 
miah is mentioned by Kimchi ; on Ezekiel by Ii. Simon, 
Nathan (Arueh), and likewise by Kimchi, who also 
speaks of a further additional Targum on Jonathan for 
this book. A Targum Jerushalmi on Micah is known 
to Ilashi, and of Zechariah a fragment has been pub- 
lished by Prims ( Pepert . pt. xv, p. 174) from a lieueh- 
linian MS. (Cod. Kennic. 154), written in 110G. The 
passage, found as a marginal gloss to Zcch. xii, 10, reads 
as follows ; 


1 “ Tarrnnn Jerushalmi. — And I shall pour out upon the 

house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem the spirit 
of prophecy and of prayer for truth. And after this shall 
go forth Messiah the Son of Ephraim to wage war against 
Gog. Ami Gog will kill him before the city of Jcrusa- 
I lem. They will look up to me ami they will ask me 
| wherefore the heathens have killed Messiah the Soil of 
Ephraim. They will then mourn over him as mourn father 
and mother over ail only son, and they will wail over him 
as one wails over a first-born.” 

A Targum Jerushalmi on the third chapter of Ilabak- 
kuk, quoted by Kashi, is mentioned by De Rossi (Cod. 
2G5 and 405, both of the 13th century). 

To these quotations, which led Zunz to draw the in- 
ference that the Jerusalem Targum extended to the 
prophetic books also, a large number of fragments and 
variations must now be added since the publication of 
the Reuchlinian codex by Lagarde. These fragments 
and variations deviate from the common translation, 
and are introduced by five different designations, as 

sir. inxiso, 

iTTP, and JT32. These additions, as found in the 
Reuchlinian codex, have been analyzed in a very schol- 
arly manner by Dr. Pacher, in the Zeitsehrift dev dent - 
schen tnoryenl. Gesellschoft , 1874, xxviii, 1 sq., and they 
extend to the following books, viz. : Joshua, Judges, 
Samuel, Kings, Isaiah. Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Ilosea, Joel, 
Amos, Jonah, Micah, Habakkuk. Zephaniah, and Zech- 
ariah. Obadiali, Nahum, Ilaggai, and Malachi are not 
included. Zunz, after referring to the conjecture that 
the Jerusalem Targum on the prophets embraced noth- 
| ing more than the Uaphtaroth, or lessons, remarks that 
the idea is untenable, because the expressions of the au- 
thors who allude to it go to show that they had seen 
Targums upon entire books ( Gottesd . Vortraye , p. 78). 
This may be so; but the existence of an entire Targum 
1 of Palestine on all the prophets is problematical. Wc 
have seen above, if the Reuchlinian MS. may be taken 
| as a standard, that on four prophets, viz. Obadiah. Na- 
hum, Ilaggai, and Malachi, such fragments are not 
given. Some books may have received such a para- 
phrase; on others, and those the great majority of the 
prophetical books, there is reason to doubt its existence. 
It is more probable that portions were treated para- 
phrastically in the spirit of the later llaggadah — por- 
tions selected on no definite principle, but adopted by 
the fancy or liking of paraphrasts; and we are the more 
justified in this conclusion when comparing Dr. Racher’s 
parallels from the Talmud and Midrash with these frag- 
mentary additions. Dentsch, the writer of the art. 
“Targum” in Smith’s I Bet. of the Bible, thinks “the 
Babylonian version — the Jonathan Targum — though 
paraphrastic, did not satisfy the apparently more imagi- 
native Palestinian public. Thus from heaped-up ad- 
ditions and marginal glosses, the step to a total rewrit- 
ing of the entire codex in the manner and taste of the 
later times and the different locality was easy enough.” 
Be it as it may, this question will always remain, as Dr. 
Bacher says, “one of the darkest points in the disquisi- 
tion of the Targum on the prophets.” 

VII. Character and Value of the Taryums in General. 
— There is nothing to indicate that the Targums were 
written at first with vowels. Buxtorf endeavored to 
correct the punctuation and bring it as near as possible 
to the standard of that in Daniel and Ezra, for which 
some censured him, though, we believe, unjustly. It is 
no reproach to his memory to say that he did not per- 
fect their vocalization. As there is at present no criti- 
cal text of the Targums, they can only be carefully em- 
ployed in the criticism of the Hebrew original, although 
they show the substantial integrity of the Masoretic text. 
They may be advantageously used in suggesting read- 
ings of some importance and value. Perhaps they are 
more useful in interpretation than the lower criticism. 
On the whole, Richard Simon’s view of the Targums 
deserves to be noted here. In his Hist. Crit. Vet. Test. 
lib. ii, c. 18, he says, “Ornnes ista? paraphrases, pra?ter 
illam Onkelosi et Jonathanis. non magnai milii utilitatis 


TARNOCZY 


217 


esse videntnr, nee forsan multum e re fecit, illas curiose 
qu:esiisse. Non quanta tamen multis exist imatur, il- 
larum utilitas: ex adverso Judafi ex illisarma adversns 
Christianos depromunt, sibi fingentes, nobis ipsorum su- 
perstitiones aniles et absurdas probari, quasi veteribus 
versionibusquibus conjunguntur a nobis fuqwipararentur. 
Prieto re a videntnr Judaiei ritus et cerinumiie iis magis 
quam tides Christiana contirmari : ineerta itaque et an- 
ceps ex illis ducta contra Judieos victoria. Quid quod 
quie nostraj tidei faventia credimus, pleraque vene sunt 
allegoria?, quas non operosum verbis alio convertere; 
neque enim religio allegoriis probatur.” 

VII T. Literature. — Since we have already mentioned 
under the different heads the special literature, we will 
here name the works on the Targumim in general. Here 
belong — besides the general introductions to the Old Test, 
of Eichhorn, Iliivernick, De Wette, Bleek, Kaulen, and 
Kleinert — Prideaux, Connection (ed. Wheeler, Lond. 
1805), ii, 443 sq.; Walton, Prolegomena (ed. Dathe); 
Smith, Dint riba de. Chaldaicis Paraphrasibus ; Wolf, 
Bibl. llebraia, ii, 1135-1191 ; iv. 730-734; Zunz, Die 
gottesd. Vortrdge der Juden (Berlin, 1832), p. 61-83; 
Gfrorer, Das Jahrhundert des i fells, i. 36-59 ; Fiirst, t Pi- 
ter uturblatt des Orients , 1840, Nos. 44-17 ; ici. Bibl. Jud. 

ii, 105-107; iii, 48 ; Frank el, Phages zu den Targumim, 
in the Zeitschrift fur die religiosen Interessen des Ju- 
denth. 1846, p. li0-L20; llerzleld, Gesch.d. Yolkes Israel, 

iii, 61 sq., 551 sq.; Geiger, Urschrift und U ebersetznngen 
der Bibel, p. 162-167; Volck, s. v. “Thargumim,” in 
Herzog’s Real-Encyklop. xv, 672-683; Deutseh, s. v. 
“Targum,” in Smith’s Diet, of the Bible; Davidson, id. i 
in Kitto’s Cyclopaedia ; id. Biblical Criticism, i, 224 sq. ; 
Langen, Das Judenth. in Palastina, p. 70-72, 209-218, 
268 sq., 418 sq. ; Ndldeke, Die alttestamentliche Literatur, 
p. 255-262; Sehiircr, Lehrbuch der neutestamentlichen 
Zeitgeschichte (Leips. 18744, p. 476 sq. The best lexi- 
con on the Targums is that of Levy, Chaldaisches I Vdr- 
ferbuch iiber die Targumim (ibid. 1867) ; the latest Ara- 
maean grammar is that of Lerner, “Vl'b 

(Warsaw, 1875). See Chaldee Language. 

(B. P.) 

Tarnoczy, Maximilian von, a Roman Catholic 
ecclesiastic, was born Oct. 24, 1806. at Schwaz, in Tyrol. 
Having graduated at the gymnasium at Innsbruck, he 
entered, in 1824, the clerical seminary at Salzburg, and 
received the first orders in 1829. lie completed his 
studies at Vienna, and, after having been honored in 
1832 with the theological doctorate, he was appointed 
professor of dogmatics at Salzburg. In 1814 he became 
a member of the Salzburg chapter, and from that time, 
being the trusty adviser of the cardinal and prince- 
archbishop Schwarzenberg, he took an active part in 
ecclesiastical affairs. When Schwarzenberg received 
the archbishopric of Prague in 1850, Tarnoczy was ap- 
pointed his successor at Salzburg, and was consecrated 
dune 1, 1851, for that office. In his new position he 
labored for twenty-five years, and his labors were ac- 
knowledged by Pius IX, who made him a member of 
the eollege of cardinals, Dec. 22. 1873. After a long ill- 
ness, Tarnoczy died at Salzburg, April 4, 1876. See the 
Literarischer IJandweiser, 1876, p.285. (B. P.) 

Tarnov, Johann, a German doctor and professor 
of theology, was born April 19, 1586, at Grevismiihlen, 
in Mecklenburg, and died Jan. 22, 1629, at linstock, i 
where he had lectured since 1614. lie wrote: Decla- 
ratio eorum qua} ad Dicti Ksai. c. 45 v. 8 Beusu Litcrali 
Investig. in Exercit. Biblic. allitta sunt (linstock, 1621) : 1 
— Exercitt. Biblic. Libri IV in qnibns Veras et Gennin. 
Sensus Locorvm Sacrornm Multorum Inqmritnr ac. De- , 
fenditur (2d ed. ibid. 1621, and often): — In Threnos Jere- 
mice Comment. (Hamburg. 1707): — In Prophet as M mo- 
res Comm. (Leipsic, 1688, 1706) :—In Prophet am Jluggai- 
vm Comm. (Rostock, 1624):— In Prophetam Mala chi am j 
Comm. (ibid. 1624): — Comment, in Epistol. Pauli ad 
Ephes Philipp., Coloss., et Thessal. (ibid. 1636). See 
Winer, Ilandbuch der theol. Literatur, i, 188, 220, 222, | 


TARQUINI 

[ 253; Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 411 ; Diestel, Geschichte des 
\ Alien Testaments , p.399,456. (B. P.) 

Tarnov, Paul, a German doctor and professor of- 
theology, uncle of Johann, was born April 29, 1562, at 
Grevismiihlen, and died at Rostock, March 6, 1633. He 
is the author of, In Joann. Erang. Commentarius (Ros- 
tock, 1629): — Libri III de Conjngio (ibid. 1614): — De 
Bacros. AHuisterio Libri III (ibid. 1623). See Winer, 
Ilandbuch der theol. Literatur, i, 248, 460, 464; ii, 797, 
(B. P.) 

Tar'pelite (Chald. only in the plur. emphat. Tar- 
pelayC, ; Se\A.Tap<pa\aioi v. r. 'YaptyaWawi ; 

Vulg. Tharphalici ), the Arannean designation of a race 
of colonists who were planted in the cities of Samaria 
after the captivity of the northern kingdom of Israel 
(Ezra iv, 9). Junius and others have found a kind of 
resemblance in name to the Tarpelites in the Tapyri 
{TuTrovpoi, Ptolemy, vi, 2, 6; Arrian, Alex, iii, 8, 7; 
Ycnrvpoi, Strabo, xi, 511, 515, 520, 523), a tribe of Media 
who dwelt eastward of Elymais, but the resemblance is 
scarcely more than apparent. Others, witli as little 
probability, have sought to recognise the Tarpelites in 
the Tarpetes (Tap7rpTec, Strabo, xi,495), a Mieotic race. 
In the Peshito-Svriac the resemblance is greater, for 
they are there called Tarpoye. Fiirst (Handicb. s. v.) 
says in no case can Taipei, the country of the Tarpelites, 
be the Phoenician Tripolis; although Schwarz ( Palest . 
p. 62) assumes this. 

Tarphon, or Tryphon, a Jewish rabbi of the 2d 
century A. D., belonged to a sacerdotal family. He was 
a friend and contemporary of rabbi Akiba. and for some 
time rector of t lie school at Lvdda. lie was noted as 
a bitter enemy of Christianity, and declared that, al- 
though the gospels and t lie other writings of the “Min- 
im,” or Christians, contained the sacred name of the 
Deity, they ought to be burned; that heathenism was 
less dangerous than Christianity: that heathens of- 
fended from ignorance, while Christians did so with full 
knowledge; ami that he would prefer seeking shelter 
in a heathen temple rather than in a meeting-place of 
the Minim (Talm. Shi dibath, fol. 116, col. 1). This, his 
animosity against Christianity, induced some, as Light- 
foot, Carpzov, and others, to maintain that rabbi Tar- 
phon is the same Trypho who is the interlocutor in 
Justin Martyr's Dialogue, an opinion which probably 
I owes its origin to Eusebius ( Eccl. Hist, iv, 18), but 
which has little or no probability in its defence. In 
the Pirke A both, ii, 20 sq., we have the recorded max- 
im of this sage: “The day is short, the labor vast; 
but the laborers are slothful, though the reward is 
great, ami the Master presseth for despatch. It is not 
incumbent upon t lice to complete the work, and yet 
thou art not at liberty to be idle about it. If thou 
bast studied the law much, great reward will be given 
thee; for faithful is thy employer, who will award to 
thee the hire of thy labor, and be aware that the award 
of the righteous will be in the future which is to come.” 
See Basnage, Histoire. des Juifs (Taylor’s Eng. transl.), 
p. 524 ; De Rossi, Dizionario Storico degli A utori Ebrei 
(Hamburger’s Germ. transl.), p.321, s. v. “Try foil ;” Eth- 
eridge, Introduction to Hebrew Literature, p. 65; Fried- 
liinder, Patristische und talmudische Studien (Vienna, 
1878), p. 136 sq., 147 ; Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 449. (B. P.) 

Tarquini, Camillo, an Italian Jesuit, was born 
Sept. 27, 1810, at Marta, near Montefiascone. He be- 
longed to a noble family and studied at Rome. In 1837 
he joined the Society of Jesus. From 1850 he was pro- 
fessor of canon law at the Collegium Komamim, and was 
one of the editors of the Cinlta Cattolica. Besides a 
number of monographs, he published Juris Ecclesiastici 
Public i Institutiones (Rome, 1862; 3d ed. 1873). He 
also wrote a grammar and lexicon on the ancient Etrus- 
can language, which he left in manuscript. In 1873 
he was made cardinal-deacon, and died Feb. 15, 1874. 
Tarquini was the first cardinal who, since 1713, was ap- 


TARSHISH 


TARRAGONA, COUNCILS OF 21 S 


pointed from the members of the Society of Jesus. See 
the Literarischtr llandiveist ?•, 1863, p, 182; 1874. p. 17(5. 
(II. 1’.) 

Tarragona, Councils of. These two councils 
were so called because they were held in the city of 
that name in Spain. This city (anciently Tarraco ), 
capital of the province of the same name, is situated at 
the mouth of the Francoli, has a population of about 
18,000, is the seat of an .archbishop, and, besides other 
schools of learning, has an ecclesiastical seminary. 

I. The 'first council of Tarragona was held in 516, 
during the reign of Theodorie, king of Italy, and guar- 
dian of Amalric, king of Spain. Ten bishops were pres- 
ent, and thirteen canons published. 

3. Forbids usury among clerks, 

4, Forbids bishops, priests, and clerks to judge any 
cause on Sundays; allows them to do so on other days, 
provided they do not interfere in criminal cases. 

7. Directs that the priest or deacon appointed to any 
country parish shall remain there during his week (i. e. 
that the priest shall remain there one week, and then the 
deacon shall succeed him aud keep his week) in order to 
celebrate divine service with the clerks; and that on Sat- 
urday all ihe clergy shall attend in order to begin the 
Sunday office. It also orders that matins and vespers 
shall be said daily. 

II. Forbids monks to leave their convent in order to 
perform any clerical function without leave from their su- 
perior. See Mansi, Cone, iv, 15(52. 

II. The second council was held in 1242. by Feter 
the archbishop, against the Waldenses in Aragon. 
Part only of the acts remain. See Mansi, Cone. xi, 592. 
— Landon, Manual of Councils, s. v. 

Tar'shish (lleb. Tarshish subdued [Ge- 

scn.] or established [Fiirst] ; Sept. D dpcnig [but k«p- 
\)]Cow in Isa. xxiii; Kap^fdi'iot in Kzek. ; SdXacraa 
in Isa. ii, 16]; Ynig. usually Thar sis; A. V. “Tharshish,” 
l Kings x, 22; xxii, 48; I Cbron. vii, 10; once lleb. 

Tarshishah ', I Cbron. i, 7), the name of three 
men, of a country, and of a gem. 

1. Second-named of the four sons of Javan, the son 
of Jftpheth (Gen. x, 4; 1 Chron. i, 7). B.C. post 2514. 
lie may have been the founder of the city noticed be- 
low. See Ethnology. 

2 . Sixth -named of the seven sous of Bilhar, the 
grandson of Benjamin (1 Cbron. vii. 10). B.C. post 
1875. 

3 . Fourth-named of the seven ‘‘princes” of Persia 
in the time of Artaxerxes (Esth. i, 14). B.C. 483. As 
a Persian name the word stands in relation with Teresh 
(ii. 21 ; vi, 2), and with Tirshatha ; all probably' from 
the root torsh, severe (Gesenius, Thesavr. s. v.). 

4 . A famous port or region the location of which 
has been much disputed. Josephus (A nf. i, 6, 1) con- 
founds it with Tarsus in Cilicia; and in the Sept, 
version of Isa. xxiii, 1, 10-14, it is rendered Kap- 

Carthage. A similar rendering is found in 
Ezek. xxvii, 12; xxxviii. 13, Kapyifovioi. Carthagin- 
ians, aw identification urged by Davis (Carthage. c h. i). 
As the Vulg. translates it by “sea” in the passage cpiot- 
ed above, so the Sept, in Isa. ii, 16 renders it SaXdoaiig. 
a translation followed by Saadias and Luther. The 
Targums adopt the same translation in some places, and 
Jerome apologizes for the blunder by saying that “ the 
Hebrews thought Tharsis was their original term for 
sea; the noun in common use among them, being 
a Syriac one."’ In other places, as 1 Kings xxii, 48, 
and Jer. x.9, the Targum gives the peculiar rendering 
of Np"H£>C Africa. Most interpreters, however, are 
agreed that (with the possible exception of the passage 
in Chronicles) the allusion is to Tartessus in Spain. 
(In the following review of the Scripture references we 
chiefly' follow the article in Kitto’s Cyclop.') 

In the great genealogical table (Gen. x, 4, 5) it is 
placed among the sons of Javan; “ Elisbah and Tar- 
shish, Kittim and Dodanim. By these were the isl- 
ands of the Gentiles divided.” This refers the mind at 
once to the north-western parts of the Mediterranean. 


To a similar conclusion does other scriptural language 
lead. In Psa. lxxii, 10 it is said, “The kings of Tar- 
shish and of the isles shall bring presents;” and in 2 
Cbron. ix, 21 we read, “The king’s (Solomon’s) ships 
went to Tarshish with the servants of Hiram; every 
three years once came the ships of Tarshish bringing 
gold and silver, ivory, and apes and peacocks.” Now 
Hiram’s city, Tyre, lay on the Mediterranean coast, and 
it is easy to see bow Solomon’s vessels might be asso- 
ciated with his in a voyage towards the west to fetch 
merchandise. In Isa. Ixvi, 19 we find Tarshish men- 
tioned in a way' which confirms this view; “And 1 will 
set a sign among them, and 1 will send those that es- 
cape of them unto the nations (or Gentiles); to Tar- 
shish, Pul. and Lud that draw the bow, to Tubal and 
Javan, to t lie isles afar oil.” These passages make it 
clear that Tarshish lay' at a distance from Judaea, and 
that that distance was in a north-westerly' direction; 
and the mention of such names as Lud, Javan, and the 
isles carries the mind to the extreme north-west, and 
suggests Spain as the place for Tarshish. But Tar- 
shish must, have been on the sea-coast, lor it was fa- 
mous for its ships. “The ships of Tarshish” were cel- 
ebrated under that designation, which may have been 
used in that wide sense in which we speak of an East- 
lndiaman, reference being made rather to the place 
whither the vessel traded than to that where it was 
built; or the phrase may have come to denote a particu- 
lar kind of vessel, i. e. trading or merchant ships, from 
the celebrity' of Tarshish as a commercial port (1 Kings 
x, 22; Psa. xlviii,7; Isa. ii, 16; xxiii, 1-14; lx, 9; Ezek. 
xxvii, 25). These six times do we meet with the phrase, 
ships or navy of Tarshish; which of itself shows how 
noted a seaport we have under consideration, if it does 
not prove also that in process of time the terms had 
come to describe vessels according to their occupation 
rather than their country, as we say' “ a slaver,” denot- 
ing a ship engaged in the slave-trade (comp. Herat, 
“saevis Lihurnis,” Carm. i.27: “ Bithvna earina,” i,35; 
“trabe Cvpria,” i, 1). In Ezek. xxvii, 12-25 the place 
is described by its pursuits and its merchandise — “Tar- 
shish (here again in connection with a western country, 
Javan, ver. 13) was thy' (Tyre’s) merchant, in all riches, 
with silver, iron, tin, and lead, they' traded in thv fairs. 
The ships of Tarshish did sing of thee in thy market, 
and thou wast replenished and made very glorious in 
the midst of the seas.” The last words are admirably 
descriptive of the south-western coast of Spain. How 
could a Hebrew poet better describe the locality' where 
the songs of the sailors of Tarshish made the name of 
Tyre glorious? Let the reader turn to the map and 
cast his eye on the embouchure of the Guadalquivir, 
and say' if this spot is not pre-eminently', when viewed 
from Palestine, “in the midst of the seas.” There is a 
propriety*, too, in the words found in Psa. xlviii,7 (comp. 
Ezek. xxviii, 26), “Thou breakest the ships of Tarshish 
with an east wind,” if we suppose merchant vessels 
working eastwardly up the Mediterranean towards Tyre, 
encountering an east, or rather north-east, gale, which 
is a very' violent and destructive wind to this day. 
Jeremiah (x, 9) tells us that “silver spread into plates” 
was brought from Tarshish; and from the connection 
the silver appears to have been elaborately wrought; 
whence we infer that at one period there was in Tar- 
shish the never-failing connection found between com- 
merce, wealth, and art. An important testimony’ occurs 
in Ezek. xxxviii. 13, “Sheba and Dcdan. and the mer- 
chants of Tarshish, with all the young lions thereof, 
shall say’ unto thee, Art thou come to take a spoil? to 
carry' away’ silver and gold? to take away cattle and 
goods, to take a great spoil?” whence it is clear that 
Tarshish was an opulent place, abounding in cattle and 
goods, in silver and gold. We are not sure that the 
words “the young lions thereof” are intended to be 
taken literally'. They may refer to the lion-hearted 
chiefs of the nation: hut if they’ are understood as im- 
plying that lions were literally’ found in Tarshish. they' 


TARSHISII 


219 


TARSIIISII 


only concur with other parts of Scripture in showing 
that the name is to be taken in a wide acceptation, as 
denoting, besides modern Andalusia, those parts of Af- 
rica which lie near and opposite to Spain. Nor is it 
impossible that a part of the trade of Tarshish lay in 
these and in other auimals; for we certainly know that 
Solomon’s ships brought that prince apes and peacocks: 
the lions may have been caught in Africa and convey- 
ed in ships of Tarshish to Tyre. Sheba and Dedan, 
however, are mentioned here in connection with Tar- 
shish, and they were certainly Eastern countries, lying 
probably on the western side of the Persian Gulf in 
Arabia. But the object of the writer may have been 
to mention the countries placed at the extremities of 
the then known world — Tarshish on the west, Sheba 
and Dedan on the east. In Isa. xxiii, 1-14 we read, as 
a part of the burden of Tyre, that the ships of Tarshish 
are called on to howl at her destruction, because Tyre 
afforded them no longer a commercial port and a ha- 
ven: words which entirely agree with the hypothesis 
that makes Tarshish a city on the seaboard of Spain, 
trading up the Mediterranean to T}Te. Nor are the 
words found in ver. 6 discordant — “Pass ye over to 
Tarshish ; howl, ye inhabitants of the isles.” Let us 
now turn to the book of Jonah (i, 1-3; iv, 2). The 
prophet was commanded to go and prophesy against 
Nineveh on the Tigris. For this he should, on quitting 
Jerusalem, have gone in an easterly direction ; but he 
shunned the duty and tied. Of course he naturally 
tied in a direction the opposite of that in which the 
avoided object lay; he proceeded, in fact, to Tarshish. 
Tarshish, then, must have been to t lie west, and not to 
the east, of Jerusalem. In order to reach Tarshish, he 
went to Joppa and took ship for the place of his desti- 
nation, thus still keeping in a westerly course and show- 
ing that Tarshish lay to the west. In Tarshish, in- 
deed, placed in the extreme north-west, he might well 
expect to be distant enough from Nineveh. It is also 
worthy of notice that, when he arrived at Joppa, on the 
coast of Palestine, “ he found a ship going to Tarshish ;” 
which fact we can well understand if Tarshish lay to 
the west, but by no means if it lay on the Red Sea. 
See Oi’ihr. 

Thus far all the passages cited agree, with more or 
less evidence, in fixing Tarshish somewhere in or near 
Spain. But in 2 Chrun. xx, 36 it is recorded that Je- 
hoshaphat, king of Judah, joined himself with Ahazi- 
ah, king of Israel, “to make ships to go to Tarshish, 
and they made the ships in Ezion-geber.” that is, on 
the Elanitic gulf on the eastern arm of the Red Sea. 
If, then, these vessels built at Ezion-geber were to go 
to Tarshish, that place must lie on the eastern side of 
Palestine, instead of the western ; for we cannot sup- 
pose they circumnavigated Africa; not because such a 
voyage was impossible, but because it was long and 
tedious and not likely to be taken when a nearer and 
safer way to Tarshish lay from the ports of the Pales- 
tinian coast. But in the parallel passage, found in 1 
Kings xxii,49, these vessels are described as “ships of 
Tarshish” (merchant vessels), which were intended to 
go to Ophir , not to Tarshish. This removes the diffi- 
culty at once, for Ophir was in the East, and accounts 
for the fact that the fleet was built on the Red Sea, 
since it was an eastern, not a western, voyage which 
was intended. The reference appears to be to the same 
eastern trade of which mention is made in x, 22, where 
we find Hiram and Solomon importing from the East 
in ships of Tarshish, or merchantmen, gold and silver, 
ivory, apes and peacocks. We have not space to en- 
ter into the critical questions which this contrariety 
between the books of Kings and Chronicles suggests for 
consideration ; but we may remark that, in a case in 
which a diversity appears in the statements of these 
two authorities, no competently informed theologian 
could hesitate to give the preference to the former. 
The alternative of two places by the name of Tarshish, 
one in Spain and the other in India, was adopted by 


| Bochart, Phaleg , iii, 7, and has probably been the ordi- 
nary yew of those who have perceived a difficulty in 
, the passages of the Chronicles; hut the above recon- 
ciliation, which was tirst suggested by Yitringa, has 
! been adopted by the aeutest Biblical critics of our own 
time, such as De Wette, Introduction to the Old Testa- 
ment (Parker’s translation, Boston, 1843). ii, 267 ; Winer, 
Biblisckes Reahcorterbuch , s. v. ; Gesenius, Thesaurus 
Linguae Ileb. et Chald. s. v. ; and Ewald, Geschichte des 
Polices Israel (1st ed.), iii, 76; and is acknowledged by 
Movers, Ueberdie Chronikeln (1834), p. 254, ami Hiiver- 
nick, Spezielle Einleitung in das Alte Testament (1S39), 
ii, 237. 

It appears, then, clear, from this minute review of 
the scriptural accounts and allusions, that Tarshish was 
an old, celebrated, opulent, cultivated, commercial city, 
which carried on trade in the Mediterranean and with 
the seaports of Syria, especially Tyre and Joppa, and 
that it most probably lay on the extreme west of that 
sea. Was there, then, in ancient times any citv in 
these parts which corresponded with these clearly as- 
certained facts? There was. Such was Tartessus in 
Spain, said to have been a Phoenician colony (Arrian, 
A lex. iii, 86), a fact which of itself would account for its 
intimate connection with Palestine and the Biblical 
narratives. As to the exaet spot where Tartessis (so 
written originally) lay, authorities are not agreed, as 
the city had ceased to exist when geography began to 
receive attention; but it was not far from the Straits 
of Gibraltar, and near the mouth of the Guadalquivir, 
consequently at no great distance from the famous Gra- 
nada of later days. The reader, however, must enlarge 
his notion beyond that of a mere city, which, how great 
soever, would scarcely correspond with the ideas of mag- 
nitude, affluence, and power that the Scriptures sug- 
gest. The name, which is of Phoenician origin, seems 
to denote the district of South-western Spain, compris- 
ing the several colonies which Tvre planted in that 
country, and so being equivalent to what we might 
designate Phoenician Spain. We are not, however, con- 
vinced that the opposite coast of Africa was not in- 
cluded, so that the word would denote to an inhabitant 
of Palestine the extreme western parts of the world. 
We seem, however, authorized, by considerations be- 
sides those which have already been elicited, in identi- 
fying the Hebrew Tarshish with the Spanish Tartessus, 
whatever may have been the extent of the neighboring 
country over which the latter held dominion or possess- 
ed immediate influence. Among these considerations 
we mention : 1. That the two names are similar, if they 
are not the same; the Greek T aprijerang with the Ara- 
maic pronunciation would be 'cj^PPn, a fact which 
would of itself seem to settle the question in the ab- 
sence of conflicting evidence and claims. 2. Spain was 
one of the chief scats of Phoenician colonization; and 
if we unite therewith the north-west of Africa, we shall 
have some idea of the greatness ol' the power of Tvre 
in these parts, for Tyre is reported to have founded not 
fewer than three hundred cities on the western coast 
of Africa, and two hundred in South-western Spain 
(Strabo, ii, 82). Here, then, was found the chief object 
of the Phoenician sea-trade. These countries were to 
Tyre what Peru was to Spain. Confining our remarks 
to Spain, we learn from Heeren that the Phoenician col- 
onies on the European side of the sea were situated in 
the south of the present Andalusia. Here, with other 
important places, lay Tartessus, a name which is borne 
by a river, an island, a town, and a region. Heeren 
distinctly says that to Orientalists the word indicated 
the farthest west generally, comprising, of course, many 
places. In the commercial geography of the Phoeni- 
cians, he adds, the word obviously meant the whole of 
their colonial dependencies in Southern Spain. In the 
same general way, we use the term West Indies; and 
thus arose the river, the town, the district of Tartessus, 
since the country included them all (Heeren, Ideen, ii, 


TARSIIISII 


220 


TARSUS 


•14 sq.). 3. It docs much to confirm our view that all 

the articles reported in Jeremiah and Ezekiel have 
been brought from Tnrshish might have come from 
South-western Spain. Here there were mines of gold 
and silver, and Tartessus is expressly named as afford- 
ing the latter mineral (Strabo, iii. 157 ; Diod. Sic.v, 35), 
Tin was brought by the Phoenicians from Britain into 
Spain, and thence carried to the Oriental markets. Ac- 
cording to Diodorus Siculus (v, 38), tin was procured in 
Spain also, as well as lead, according to Pliny (Hist. 
Xat. iii, 4). Pliny’s words are forcible: ‘‘Nearly all 
Spain abounds in the metals — lead, iron, copper, silver, 
gold.” We add one or two corroborations of the above 
identification. Heeren {liken, ii, 64) translates Ezek. 
xxvii, *25, “ The ships of Tarshish,” etc., bv ‘‘Spanish 
ships were the chief object of thy merchandise; thou 
(Tyre) wast a full city, and wast honored on the seas.” 
The Pluenicians were as eager in their quest of gold 
and gold countries as were the alchemists and the Eu- 
ropeans of the 16th century. The lust for gold urged 
them over the deserts of Arabia and the cliffs of the 
lied Sea as far as Yemen and Ethiopia; and the same 
passion carried them westwardly to the coasts of Spain 
and the Pillars of Hercules. “Spain,” says lleeren, 
“ was once the richest land in the world for silver; gold 
was found there in great abundance, and the baser met- 
als as well. The silver mountains were in those parts 
which the Pluenicians comprised under the general 
name of Tartessus, or Tarshish. The immeasurable af- 
fluence of precious metals which, on their first arrival, 
they found here so astounded them, and the sight 
thereof so wrought on the imagination of the people, 
that fact called fable to its aid, and the story gained 
currency that the first Phoenician colonists not only fill- 
ed their ships with gold, but made thereof their various 
implements, anchors not excepted.” See Commerce. 

In the absence of positive proof, we may acquiesce in 
the statement of Strabo (iii, 148) that the river Baetis 
(now the Guadalquivir) was formerly called Tartessus, 
that the city Tartessus was situated between tbe two 
arms b}‘ which the river flowed into the sea, and that 
the adjoining country was called Tartessis. Put there 
were two other cities which some deem to have been 
Tartessus; one, Gadir, or Gadira (Cadiz) (Sallust, Fritgm . 
lib. ii; Pliny, flint. Xat. iv, 36; and Aviemis, Deseript. 
Orb. Terr. p. 614); and tbe other, Carteia, in tbe Bay of 
Gibraltar (Strabo, iii, I5J ; Ptolemy, ii, 4 ; Pliny, iii, 3; 
Mela, ii, 6). Of the three, Carteia, which has found a 
learned supporter at the present day (Ersch and Gru- 
ber, Encyclop. s. w), seems to have the weakest claims, 
for, in the earliest Greek prose work extant, Tartessus 
is placed beyond the Columns of Hercules (Herodotus, 
iv, 152); and in a still earlier fragment, of Stesichorus 
(Strabo, iii, 148) mention is made of the river Tartes- 
sus, whereas there is no stream near 
Carteia ( = E1 Peccadillo) which de- 
serves to be called more than a rivu- 
let. Strictly speaking, the same ob- 
jection would apply to Gadir; but, 
for poetical uses, tbe Guadalquivir, 
which is only twenty miles distant, 
would be sufficiently near. It was, 
perhaps, in reference to the claim of 
Gadir that Cicero, in a letter to At- 
ticus (vii, 3), jocosely calls Hal bus a 
native of that town, “ Tartessium is- 
tum tmim.” But Tartessius was like- 
wise used by poets to express the ex- 
treme west where the sun set (Ovid, 

Metam. xiv, 416 ; Silius ltalieus, x, 

358; comp. id. iii, 303). See Smith, 

Diet, of Class. Geog. s. v. “Tartes- 
sus.” See, in addition to the works 
cited by Bochart and Winer, ut sup m) 
the Journ. ofiSac. Lit. Oct. 1S51, p. 

226 sq. 

5. (A. V. “beryl.”) A precious 


stone, so called as brought from Tarshish, as Ophir is 
also put for the gold brought thence (Exod. xxviii, 20; 
xxxix, 13; Ezt'k. i, 16; x, 3; xxviii, 13; Cant, v, 14; 
Dan. x, 6). The Sept., followed by Josephus, makes it 
the “chrysolite,” i. e. the topaz of the moderns, which is 
still found in Spain : so Braun, De Yestitu Sacerd. ii, 17. 
Others suppose it to be “amber;” but this docs not 
agree with the passages in Exodus, which make the 
Tarshish to have been one of the engraved stones of 
the high-priest’s breast plate. See Beryl. 

Tar'sus (T apoof), tbe chief town of Cilicia, “no 
mean city” in other respects, but illustrious to all time 
as the birthplace and early residence of the apostle 
Paul (Acts ix, 11; xxi, 33; xxii. 3). The only other 
passages in which the name occurs are Acts ix, 30 and 
xi, 25, which give the limits of that residence in his 
native town which succeeded the first visit to Jerusa- 
lem after his conversion, and preceded his active min- 
isterial work at Antioch and elsewhere (comp, xxii, 21 
and Gal. i, 21). It was during this period, no doubt, 
that he planted the Gospel there, and it has never since 
entirely died out. There is little doubt that Paul was 
there also at the beginning of his second and third mis- 
sionarv journeys (xv, 41 ; xviii, 23). See Paul. 

Tarsus was situated in a wide and fertile plain on 
the banks of the Cydnus, the waters of which are fa- 
mous for the dangerous fever caught by Alexander 
when bathing, and for the meeting of Antony and Cleo- 
patra. The river flowed through it and divided it into 
two parts. Hence it is sometimes by Greek writers 
called Tapaoi in the plural, perhaps not without some 
reference to a fancied resemblance in the form of the 
two divisions of the city to the wings of a bird. This 
part of Cilicia was intersected in Human times by good 
roads, especially one crossing the Taurus northward by 
the “Cilician Gates” to the neighborhood of Lvstra 
and leonium, the other joining Tarsus with Antioch 
and passing eastward bv the “Amanian” and “Svrian 
Gates.” 

Tarsus was founded by Sardanapalns, king of Assyria. 
The Greeks, however, claimed a share in its coloniza- 
tion ; and Strabo (xiv, 673) has preserved an ancient 
legend of certain Argives having arrived there with 
Triptolemus in search of lo. It appears first in authen- 
tic history in Xenophon's time, when it was a city of 
some considerable consequence (.4 nab. i, 2, 23). It was 
occupied by Cyrus and bis troops for twenty days and 
given up to plunder. After Alexander’s conquests had 
swept this way (<). Curt, iii, 5) and the Seleuoid king- 
dom was established at Antioch, Tarsus usually belong- 
ed to that kingdom, though for a time it was under the 
Ptolemies. In the civil wars of Home it took Caesar’s 
side, and on the occasion of a visit from him had its 
name changed to Juliopolis (Caesar. Bell. A lex. 66 ; Dion 



Map of the Coast of Tarsus. 


TARSUS 


221 


TARSUS 



Tarsus. 


Cass, xlvii, 2G). Augustus made Tarsus free (Appian, 
Bell. Cir. v, 7). This seems to have implied the privi- 
lege of being governed by its own laws and magistrates, 
with freedom from tribute: but did not confer the jus 
coloniarum nor the jus civ it at is ; and it was not, there- 
fore, as usually supposed, on this account that Paul en- 
joyed the privilege of Roman citizenship. Tarsus, in- 
deed, eventually did become a Roman colony, which 
gave to the inhabitants this privilege; but this was not 
till long after the time of Paul (Deyling, Obscrvat. Suer. 
iii, 391 s<j.). See Citizenship; Colony. We thus 
find that the Roman tribune at Jerusalem ordered Paul 
to be scourged, though he knew that he was a native 
of Tarsus, but desisted on learning that he was a Ro- 
man citizen (Acts ix, 11; xxi, 89; xxii, 24, 27). We 
ought to note, on the other hand, the circumstances in 
the social state of Tarsus, which had, or may be con- 
ceived to have had, an influence on the apostle’s train- 
ing and character. It was renowned as a place of 
education under the early Roman emperors. Strabo 
compares it in this respect, to Athens and Alexandria, 
giving, as regards the zeal for learning shown bv the 
residents, the preference to Tarsus (xiv, G73). Some 
distinguished names adorn its annals; among others, 
Athenodorus, the tutor of Augustus, and Nestor, the tu- 
tor ofMarcellus, the nephew of Augustus; Artemidorus 
and Diodorus, celebrated grammarians, and Dionvsides, 
a tragic writer. Tarsus, also, was a place of much com- 
merce, and Basil describes it as a point of union for 
Syrians, Cilicians, Isaurians, and Cappadocians (Ep. Eu- 
seb . Samos. Episc .). Owing to its commercial advan- 


tages, Tarsus continued to flourish under the Roman 
emperors, until it fell into the hands of the Saracens. 
It was taken from them after a memorable siege by the 
emperor Nicepborus, but soon afterwards restored to 
them. In the time of Abulfeda, that is, towards the 
end of the 13th and beginning of the 14th century, Tar- 
sus was still large and surrounded by a double wall, and 
in the occupation of Armenian Christians (Tab. Syr he, 
p. 133). It still survives, though greatly reduced, un- 
der the modern name Tersits. Kinneir, who spent a 
week in Tarsus, states ( Travels , p. P21) that hardly a 
vestige of the former magniticence of Tarsus remains; 
nor does, perhaps, the modern town occupy one fourth 
part of the area of the ancient city. Me observed a 
few ancient ruins, but not a single inscription or any 
monument of beauty or art. The houses are intersect- 
ed by gardens and orchards; they seldom exceed one 
story in height, are flat-roofed, and the greater part of 
them are constructed of hewn stone, to furnish which 
the more ancient edifices have been levelled with the 
ground. The inhabitants amount to about thirty thou- 
sand souls, mostly Turks and Turcomans. The adjoin- 
ing villages are chiefly inhabited by Greeks, who prefer 
agricultural pursuits to a town life. The sea is not visi- 
ble from the town. The Cydnnsis there about forty yards 
wide, and small canals are cut from it for irrigation. 

See Ileumann, De Claris Ta rsenensib. (Gbtt. 1748) ; 
Altmann, Exerc. de Tarso (Bern. 1731); Zeibicb, Siyt- 
pucTct Autiq. Tar sens. (Vitcb. 1700) ; Mannert, ii, 97 sq. ; 
Rosenmuller, Bibl. Geoy. iii, 38; Beaufort, Karamania, 
p.275; Irbv and Mangles, Travels , p. 502-50G; Bellev. 




TARTAR 


222 


TASSCIIEMACIIEI 


in vol. xxvii of tlie Academie ties Inscript.; Renncll, 
Geotj . of West. A sia, ii, 87 ; Cramer, A sia Minor , ii, 844 ; 
Leake, Asia Minor, p. 214 ; Barker, Lares and Penates, 
p, 31, 173, 187 ; Smith, Diet, of Class. Geotj. s. v. ; Lcwin, 
St. Paul, i, 78 sq.; Murray's Handbook for Turkey in 
A sia, p. 37 0. 

Tar'tak (lleb. Tartak Sept. GapSt'ac; 
Vulg. Tharthac ), one of the gods of the Avite, or Av- 
vite, colonists who were planted in the cities of Sama- 
ria after the removal of the tribes by Shalmaneser (2 
Kings xvii, 31). According to Rabbinical tradition, 
Tartak is said to have been worshipped under the form 
of an ass (Talm. Babyl. Sanhedrin, fob 63 b). From 
this it has been conjectured that this idol was the 
Egyptian Typho ; but, though in the hieroglyphics the 
ass is the symbol of Typho, it was so far from being re- 
garded as an object of worship that it was considered 
absolutely unclean (Plutarch, Is. et Os. c. 14). A Per- 
sian or Pehlvi origin has been suggested for Tartak, 
according to which it signifies either “ intense darkness,” 
or “ hero of darkness,” or the underworld, and so, perhaps, 
some planet of ill-luck, as Saturn or Mars ((lesenius, 
Thesanr. s. v.; Fiirst, liamhcb. s. v.). The Carmanians, 
a warlike race on the Persian Gulf, worshipped Mars 
alone of all the gods, and sacrificed an ass in his honor 
(Strabo, xv, 727). Perhaps some trace of this worship 
may have given rise to the Jewish tradition. — Smith. 

Tar'tan (lleb. Tartan', Sept. GapSav v. r. 

T avaSav or TapaSdc; Vulg. Tharthaii). which occurs 
only in 2 Kings xviii, 17 and Isa. xx, 1, has been gen- 
erally regarded as a proper name (Gesenius, Lex. lleb. 
s. v.)., Winer assumes, on account of the identity 1 ' of 
name, that the same person is intended in the two 
places ( Realw . s. v.). Recent discoveries make it prob- 
able that in Tartan, as in Rabsaris and Rabshakeli, we 
have not a proper name at all, but a title or official des- 
ignation, like Pharaoh among the Egyptians, or Surena 
among the Parthians (Tacit. A nn. vi,42). The Assyr- 
ian Tartan is a general, or commander- in -chief. It 
seems as if the Greek translator of 2 Kings had an ink- 
ling of the truth, and therefore prefixed the article to 
all three names, which he very rarely prefixes to the 
names of persons where they are first mentioned. If 
this be the true account of the term Tartan, we must 
understand in 2 Kings xviii, 17 that Sennacherib sent 
“a general,” together with his “chief eunuch” and 
“chief cup-bearer,” on an embassy to Hezekiali, and in 
Isa. xx, 1 that “a general” — probably a different per- 
son — was employed by Sargon against Ashdod, and suc- 
ceeded in taking the city. — Smith. See Tribute. 

Tascodrugites ( TatTKoCpovyyirai , Tatjicovpovyt- 
rai, from ranunc, a wooden nail or stake, and Ipovyyog, 
nose, in Epiphanius, II caret. 48, n. 14), a heretical sect of 
Galatia (Hieron. Comm, in Kp. ad Gal.) belonging prob- 
ably to the 4th century. arc by some included among the 
Gnostics of the school of Mark [see M Auers the 11k- 
UESiAucn], e. g. by Theodoret, llecret. Fab. i, 9, 10, and 
by others among the Montanists, e. g. by Epiphanius, 
ut sup. The term is unquestionably a nickname, ap- 
plied to these heretics because they "were accustomed 
during prayer to place a finger to the nose or mouth 
like a pole, at the same time observing the profoundcst 
silence. Sec Augustine, De 11 teres. 63; Phi last r. Uteres. 
76; and Epiphanius. Theodoret says that they ridi- 
culed the sacraments, rejected the creeds, repudiated all 
revelation; and others charge on them a denial of the 
incarnation. Their assemblies were legally prohibited 
after the 4th century, but traces of them are seen in 
Theodore Studita in the 9th. They are by some sup- 
posed to be identical with the Passalorvnchites. — Her- 
zog, Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Tasmania, formerly Van Diemen’s Land, is a 
considerable island in the South Pacific Ocean, lying 
between 40° 4</ and 43° 40' south lat. and 144° 30' and 
148° 30' east long., at the south of, and separated from 


Australia by Bass’s Strait. Its greatest length from 
Cape Grim on the north-west to Cape Pillar on the 
south-east is 240 miles, and its greatest breadth from 
east to west 200 miles. Its area, including the adjacent 
islands, is about 26,000 square miles. Its capital is Ho- 
bart-Town, with a population of 19,000. In 1870 the 
total population of Tasmania was 99,328. 

I. History. — Tasmania was first discovered by Tas- 
man, Dec. 1, 1642, and named by him Van Diemen’s 
Land in honor of his patron, the then governor of the 
Dutch West Indies. In 1803 Lieut. Bowen was de- 
spatched from Sydney with a few r soldiers and convicts 
to form a settlement in the south of the island, which 
was finally fixed upon the spot where Hohart-Town now 
stands. From 1817 commenced a rapid increase in the 
number of free settlers; and in 1825 Tasmania was de- 
clared independent of New South Wales. The trans- 
portation of convicts ceased in 1853, and on Jan. 4, 1856, 
on petition of the Legislative Council to the home gov- 
ernment, the name of the colony was olficiallv changed 
to Tasmania. Of the 3000 aborigines found in the 
country the number rapidly decreased, until now not 
one remains. 

II. Climate, Soil, etc. — The climate of Tasmania is 
line and salubrious; the mean temperature of the hot- 
test month (January) is 63° 57', of the coldest (July) 
45° 82', and of the whole year 54° 92'. The agricult- 
ural lands may be divided into three classes — alluvial 
deposits, Tertiary clays, and loamy soils. In their vir- 
gin state some of the lands are marvellously productive; 
but in many cases, through improvident management, 
the soil has deteriorated. 

III. Administration. — Since the passing of the Con- 
stitutional Act in 1854, the governing authority has 
been vested in a Parliament, consisting of the governor, 
as the queen’s representative, and two elective Houses — 
the Legislative Council of fifteen, and the Assembly of 
thirty, members. The qualification of voters is, for the 
former, a freehold of the annual value of fifty pounds, 
and, for the latter, a freehold valued at one hundred 
pounds or a ten pounds rental. 

I Y. Reliyion and Education. — By the Constitutional 
Act, fifteen thousand pounds is annually reserved for 
the support of religion, and is at present divided among 
the various religious denominations according to their 
respective nnmbers at the census. They were, in 1870 : 
Church of England, 53,047 ; Roman Catholic, 22,091 ; 
Presbyterians, 9064 ; Wesleyans, 7187; Independents, 
3931 ; Baptists, 931 ; Jews, 232. For the support of el- 
ementary education twelve thousand pounds a year is 
appropriated by Parliament, the disbursement of which 
is intrusted to a Central Board holding its sittings at 
Hobart -Town. The teachers are appointed by the 
board, and are under the supervision of the inspector 
of the schools. There were, in 1873, 141 public schools; 
10,803 pupils, with an average attendance of 7047 ; 105 
male teachers, 108 female teachers, and 32 pupil teach- 
ers. There are lour superior schools — Horton College, 
Iligh-school, Hutchins’s School, and the Church Gram- 
mar-school. 

The efforts of the Wesleyan missionaries in Tasma- 
nia have been directed mainly to the English popula- 
tion. The mission was begun in 1820 hv the Rev. Mr. 
Horton, who was on his way to New South Wales. 
The mission was approved bv the governor of the colo- 
ny, and another missionary was soon sent out, who was 
followed by two more in 1827, and by a fifth in 1832. 
The following is the report of the mission for 1876: 
Chapels and other preaching places, 95; missionaries 
and assistants, 16; local preachers, 70; full members, 
P2S6; persons on trial, 202; Sunday-schools, 47 ; teach- 
ers, 401 ; scholars, 3076; attendants on worship, 9176. 

The Primitive Methodist mission reported in 1873: 
Principal stations, 4; ministers, 4; members, 223. 

The United Methodist Free Churches had, in the same 
year, 3 lay agents and 38 members. 

Tasschemacher (Dutch, Tesschenmaeker), 


TASSEL 


223 


TATI AX 


Petrus, one of the earliest ministers of the Reformed 
(Dutch) Church in the United States, was horn in Hol- 
land, and educated at the University of Utrecht, lie 
was settled in the United States tirstat Kingston, N. Y., 
in IG70-77, then went to Dutch Guiana, S. A., 1 077—78, 
and in 1G79-80 wc find him at New Amstel, now New 
Castle, Del. Here difficulties arose which induced 
him to leave that people. He supplied the Church on 
Staten Island occasionally. 1G82-83. In 1G84 lie took 
charge of the Church at Schenectady, N. Y., which lie 
retained until his death. Meantime, in IG84> as the 
records show, he organized the Church at Hackensack, 
N. with thirty-three communicants. He was never 
their pastor, but seems to have made them occasional 
visits, to preach and receive members and dispense the 
Lord’s supper, until 1789. This service must have cost 
him then much time and labor; hut in this apostolic 
method of journeying.* and visitations many of the 
old churches were planted and sustained in their prim- 
itive worship. At Schenectady Mr. Tasschemachcr was 
the first pastor, although the Church was probably or- 
ganized before he went to them, lie was the most 
prominent victim of the Indian massacre and burning 
of that city. Feb. 8. 1G90. “The French, in order to 
control the Indian trade, had planned the. capture of 
Albany and New York the year before. The plan was 
not wholly carried out; but a party of French and In- 
dians left Montreal, and, proceeding by way of Lake 
Champlain, intended attacking Albany. But, the Indi- 
an chiefs not consenting, they turned off towards Sche- 
nectady. They gave orders that Tasschemacher’s life 
should be saved on account of the information they 
could obtain from him; but his house was not known, i 
and before he could be personally recognised be was 
slain and his house and papers burned. His head was 
cloven open and his body burned to the shoulder- 
blades.” Sixty persons lost their lives on that fatal Sat- 
urday midnight before, they could escape or defend 
themselves from their stealthy and cruel foes. The 
remnant that escaped kept the Church of Schenectady 
alive. Without a pastor to instruct them, they met for 
worship amid the ruins of the city, chose their elders 
and deacons from year to year, who were ordained bv 
the Rev. Godfriedus Dellius, of Albany, and his succes- 
sor, Rev. Petrus Van Dressen, until, in 1702, the little 
flock thus kept alive, and having gained in numbers 
and strength, called the Rev. Rernardus Freeman and 
received him as their pastor. Little more is known of 
INI r. Tasschemacher’s history. He died a martyr among 
his flock, and his ministry and death illustrate the per- 
ils amid which the Gospel was preached and church- 
es were established in their early days upon the fron- 
tier. See Corwin, Manual of the lief. Church , p. 48G. 
(W.J. R.T.) 

Tassel. In mediaeval times the sacred vestments 
of the ministers of the Church were adorned with tas- 
sels, to which, in the case of dalmatics and tunics, balls 
of crystal were attached. The word also denotes a thin 
plate of gold or silver worn on the back of the cope and 
episcopal gloves. 

Tate, Nahum, a well-known psalmodist, was born 
in Dublin, Ireland, in 1G52, and at the age of sixteen 
was admitted to Dublin College, but docs not appear to 
have followed any profession. He succeeded Shadwell 
as poet- laureate, and continued in that offiee till his 
death, which happened Aug. 12, 1715, in the Mint, where 
he resided as a place of refuge from his creditors. He 
was the author of nine dramatic performances and a 
large number of poems; but is at present better known 
for his version of the Psalms, in which he was joined 
by Dr. Brady. For a complete list of his works, see Al- 
ii bone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors , s. v. ; Chal- 
mers, Biog. Diet. s. v. See Psalmody. 

Tatian, a notable Christian writer of the 2d cen- 
tury, was a native of Assyria, though Clemens Alexan- 
drinus and later fathers term him a Syrian, lie had 


mastered the Graeco-Roman culture of his day, largely 
through extended travels; and his reading was very 
wide, no fewer than ninety-three classic authors being 
referred to in his works. In the course of his wanderings 
as a strolling rhetorician he came to Rome, at that time 
the great centre for all intellectual interests and tenden- 
cies, ami there turned his attention to Christianity. To 
justify this action he wrote his Aoyog npog 
a work in which he confesses himself a convert to the 
barbarian philosophy of the despised sect, and invites his 
contemporaries to examine it, that they too might ob- 
serve the astonishing contrasts it presents, with its sim- 
plicity and its clearness, to the darkness of the heathen- 
ism of that and every other age. At Rome Tatian was 
associated with Justin, perhaps as a pupil; but he soon 
became himself a teacher of Christianity. Ilis attitude 
was apologetic, and necessarily involved the most mark- 
ed antagonism to paganism. Stern and even harsh in 
his morality, he could recognise no truth in heathen 
philosophy, and feel no sympathy, even though but of 
a scientific or jesthetical nature, with heathen life and 
culture. To him, as to his Contemporary Christians, 
the belief in one God was of the highest moral signifi- 
cance. The loss of this faith, he taught, had exposed 
the soul of man to the rule of the dark powers of mate- 
rial nature, the dinmons with whom polytheistic views 
originate. Its recovery delivers from servitude to the 
wandering daemons (the planets) upon which astrolog- 
ical fate is based. In opposition to the materialistic 
pantheism of the Stoics, Tatian defended the supermun- 
dane spirituality of the one God, the Creator and First 
Cause of all things, In whom, as the Great Source of be- 
ing, all things, including matter, potentially existed at 
the first. At the beginning the Logos sprang into be- 
ing as the first-born work of the Father, that he might, 
produce the world, himself creating the material. The 
created universe is everywhere pervaded by the spirit 
of material life, which is inferior to the Divine Spirit — 
being in man the soul, which is indissolubly connected 
with the body, and in the world the world-soul (jn'Evga 
v\ik6i>). Human nature in its pure state is, however, 
privileged to a substantial and intimate union (avZvyta) 
with the perfect nature, the Spirit of God himself. 
This throws a significant light upon Tatian’s conception 
of the Trinity. He teaches that as the Father is (in his 
essence) Spirit, so the Logos proceeding from the Father 
is Spirit; and the latter, that he might imitate the Fa- 
ther, has made man in the image of immortality, to the 
end that man might have part in God and attain to 
immortality. The Spirit thus became the life-compan- 
ion of the soul. In this way God himself lives in man 
by his ministering Spirit, by which is to be understood 
simply the hvpostatized efficiency of the Logos. The 
fall involved the removal of the Divine Spirit from the 
soul, and plunged the latter deeper into the condition 
of the merely hylic, so that but faint sparks of the Spirit 
and dim longings after God remain. It is possible, 
however, lor the soul to turn away from evil and towards 
God in the exercise of its freedom — how, Tatian does 
not clearly state. The fame which Tatian acquired 
through his apology, from which the foregoing sketch 
is principally taken, was lost in consequence of his per- 
version to Gnosticism, lie went to Syria, it would 
seem, after the death of Justin (in 1GG?). He is charged 
with holding to the existence of a?ons after the fashion 
of Valentinus (q. v.),and similar speculations; with an 
ascetical course of life, carried even to the extent of 
using water instead of wine; with rejecting marriage 
as a state of practical fornication; with promulgating 
Docctic ideas respecting the person of Christ, etc. — all 
of which must be regarded as substantially a truthful 
indictment. He would seem, however, to be more near- 
ly related to Saturninus (q. v.) than to Valentinus in his 
views. The time of Tatian’s death is not exactly 
known, but it seems to have been prior to the date of 
the work by Iremeus, Aele. Ilcer. (c. 175). His most 
famous work was a harmony of the Gospels, the Diates- 


TATI AN I EVAXGELIUM 


224 


TAULER 


saron , of which t lie Jacobite bishop Bar-Salibi (12th 
century") reports that Ephraem Syrus (q. v.) wrote a 
commentary on it, ami Theodoret the genealogical ta- 
bles and all t he passages by which the Lord’s descent 
from David is made apparent. The Onitio ad Cnee. 
was first published at Tigur. 1540, fob, and afterwards 
often. See Daniel, Tatianas . , tier . 1 pologet. ( l Inlle, 1837); 
Moldcr, Patrologie ; Hitter, thsch. if. chrisfl. Pbifosvphit 
vol. i ; Dorner, fYrson Christ i, i, 438 ; 31 oiler, Kosmologit 
d. grit ch. K irche, p. 168 sq.; Stiickl, 0 a H'h. d. J'hilos. in 
d.jnitrist. /tit, p. 1 18 sq,; 1 1 uber, Philos. d. Kirchenriiter, 
p. ‘JO S(|. ; Dunekor, Apologtt. Secitntl, iStvr, de Essential. 
Xutnnr Hum . Part Unis Placita (Gott. 1850), pt. ii ; and 
Herzog, Heal-Encyklop. s. v. For monographs, see Yol- 
betling. Index J'rogrummutum, p. 104. 

Tatiani Evangelium. Epiplianius (//rrjvs.xlvi, 

1 : xlvii. 1) mentions a Gospel of Tatian as being used by 
the Kncratites, and even among the Catholic Christians 
of Syria. 1 icing compiled from the four gospels, it is 
also called tvayyt\. cut Ttatrapiov (Theodoret. Hard. 
Eabul. i, *20; Coll. .1 m hr os. Proa in. in Luc: Enseb. Hist. 
Eccf. iv.20). Kpiphaniiis erroneously identified it with 
the Erangt limn si c. Hebnvos (see Fabric, i, 377). See 
Semisch, Tatiani Diutessuron, .1 nfir/nissimnm X. T. 
Erangeliornm in xtmnn Digestornm .Specimen (Breslau, 
1850). Tatian is otherwise also censured ns being a 
dangerous eompilator and falsifier of Holy Writ (Fabric, 
ii, 538). The still extant gospel harmony (reprinted in 
Orthodorogrnph is and Bib/. Pat rum , s. v. Tatian), as- 
cribed to Tatian by Victor Capuanus in Profit, ud A no - 
vi/ in i Harmonium Erungelicum, does not belong to him. 
See Fabrieius, Codex Apocryphus X. T. i, 378; ii, 510. 
(I>,1\) 

Tatianists, followers of Tatian (q. v.). See also 

luNCUATlTKS. 

Tat'nai (lleb. Tatnay \ *:rr. ; Fers., perhaps gift ; 
Sept. v. r. Darornt, Dormer rot, etc.; Vulg. 

Thathanai), a Persian governor (“"5, i. e. pasha) who 
succeeded Helium in the ride of Samaria, and probably 
of other provinces north of Jndiea, in the time of Da- 
rius llystaspis and Zerubbnbel (Ezra v, 3, 6; vi, 0, 13), 
1>.(J. 5*20. lie appears to have been a more just person, 
and more friendly to the Jews, than his predecessor. 
An adverse report of their proceedings at Jerusalem 
reached him; but he resolved to suspend his judgment 
till be had examined into the matter on the spot, lie 
accordingly repaired thither, accompanied by another 
great officer, named Shethar-boznai (<p v.), and their 
colleagues, and, finding that the Jews alleged the au- 
thority of a royal decree for their proceedings, he sent 
to the supreme government a temperate and fair report, 
founded on the information he had obtained, suggesting 
that the statement made by the Jews as to the decree 
of Cyrus and other matters should be verilied by refer- 
ence to the archives at Babylon. Then, without one 
word to influence the decision or to prejudice the claim 
advanced, Tatnai concludes with intimating that he 
awaits the royal orders. This official letter of the Per- 
sian governor is quite a model of exactness, moderation, 
and truth, and gives a very favorable idea of the ad- 
ministrative part of the Persian government. The re- 
script being favorable to the claim of the Jews, whose 
statement had been verified by the discovery of the 
original decree of Cyrus, Tatnai and his colleagues ap- 
plied themselves with vigor to the execution of the 
royal commands. — Kit to. See Fzha, 

Tattam, Uenhy. a learned English divine, was born 
in Ireland. Dec. ‘2*. 178S; and was educated at Trinity 
College, Dublin, and at the universities of Gottingen 
and Leyden, where he received bis doctorate in laws, 
theology, and philosophy. lie took orders in the 
Church of England; was rector of St. Cuthbert’s, Bed- 
ford, 1818-45; and Ibr a portion of that time was rector 
also of (ireat Woolstone, Bucks. Jn 1815 he became 
archdeacon of Bedford, and in 1819 rector of Stamford 


Rivers, Essex, lie was afterwards chaplain in ordinary 
to the queen, lie died at Stamford Livers, Jan. 8, 18G8. 
Travelling in the East, he laid the foundation of an in- 
timate knowledge of Oriental languages, and became 
the chief modern authority concerning the Coptic. lie 
discovered at the Convent of Nitria, in the NAV. desert 
of Egvpt, a splendid collection of ancient Syriac MSS., 
which he secured for the British Museum, lie is the 
author of Helps to Deration (*2d ed. Loud. 1862, P2mo) : 
— Compendious Hrammar of the Egyptian Language 
( 1828 , Svo): — Lexicon , Egypt iuco- La fintnn ex Yeteribus 
Lintpup - Egypt it tetr M ointment is, etc. (Oxon. 1835, Svo) : 

Du ode rim Prophetarnm Minoru m Libros, in Lingua 

xEgyptiaca , rid go ('optica si it Memphi/ica, etc. (Latino 
ediiiit ; Lat. et Copt. 1836, Svo) Defence of the Church 
of England against the, Attacks of a Homan Catholic 
(Loud. 1843, 12 mo) :—Thc Ancient Coptic Version of the 
Hook of dob the Just (transl. into English ami edited, 
1817 , 8*vo) : — Apostolical Constitutions in Coptic (Engl, 
transl. 1849, Svo): — Prophetic Majores in Dialecto Lin - 
gnee xEgi/ptiaae (Oxon. 1852, 2 vols. 8vo). See Alli- 
bone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer . A uthors, s. v. 

Tati Cross is a cross formed like the Greek letter 
T (Tan), and one of the most ancient forms. See Staff, 
Pantokal. 

Tauler (original form Tauweler), Johannes, the 
famous Dominican preacher and mystic, was born at 
Strasburg in A.D. 1290 — though authorities differ with 
respect to both time and place. He was of honorable 
family and early devoted to the priestly office. In 
(about) 1308 he became a monk and went to Paris, to 
the College of St. James, to study theology, lie found 
greater pleasure in the study of the writings of the 
Areopagite St. Bernard, and the two Victors, and espe- 
cially of Augustine, than in the popular philosophy; 
his attention was also given to the Xeo-I’latonists, and, 
among schoolmen, to Aquinas with respect to ethics. 
On his return to Strasburg, Tauler came under the 
inlluence of Master Eekart, and also of a more simple 
and practical company of mystical thinkers among the 
monks, including Nicholas of Strasburg and others. He 
became a preacher, and associated himself with the 
Friends of God — a society formed to teach and comfort 
the people upon whom rested the ban of the Church 
imposed by pope John XXII; and in this society he 
labored all his life. His sermons were clear and adapt- 
ed to the popular needs, hut not, it would seem, at this 
time pervaded by the power of a personal union of t lie 
preacher with Christ. In 1340 occurred an event of 
decisive importance to Tauler. He was then visited by 
Nicholas of Basle (q. v.), and by him led to realize his 
need of a personal conversion to God. During two 
years, in which he refrained from preaching and became 
an object of ridicule to his lellow-monks. who were una- 
ble to understand the reason for such struggles as he 
was passing through, did lie wrestle with his sense of 
sin and his need of pardon. Finding peace at length, 
he passed through further discipline by reason of a dis- 
graceful failure in an attempt to preach ; but from that 
time he preached persistently, and with a power not 
previously possessed. W icked clergymen were unable 
to endure the faithful rebukes with which lie visited their 
sins, and they prohibited him from preaching; but the 
magistracy prevented the enforcement of their order. 
Under the preaching of the first sermon after his con- 
version a number of persons fell down as dead, and he 
was besought to discontinue the sermon. He was one 
of the few who refused to cease from preaching to the 
people in obedience to the papal interdict, and braved 
the anger of his immediate superiors in the execution 
of that duty. In 1348 the ’* black death” swept over 
Strasburg, carrying off sixteen thousand victims, and 
adding to the. horrors of the situation. Only Tauler 
and two other monks had pity upon the people, and 
they appealed in writings (whose circulation was at 
once prohibited) to the other clergy to do what they 


TAULEI 


TAW BUTTE 


could that the “ poor ignorant populace should not thus 
die under the ban.” Charles IV soon afterwards came 
to Strasburg and caused the three monks to be brought 
before him, and, after inquiring into their principles, 
dismissed them with the admonition not to “offend 
against the Church and its interdict again.” Taulcr re- 
tired to Cologne, and became preacher in the nunnery 
of St. Gertrude, but after a few years returned to Stras- 
burg, where he had a last interview with Nicholas of 
Basle. He committed to the care of that friend the 
writings he wished to have given to the world, and died 
June 16, 1361. He was buried in his convent, and the 
stone which- covered his grave is preserved in the New 
Church” of Strasburg. 

Tauler’s works consist of sermons, homilies, and an 
Imitation of the Life of Christ in its Poverty. The ser- 
mons are extant in manuscript in several libraries, the 
oldest MS. being a parchment at Strasburg. In printed 
form the first ed. appeared at Leipsic, 1498, in 4to, and 
others at Augsburg (1508, fol.) and Basle (1521 and 1522, 
fob), the latter being superior to the former. Of mod- 
ernized editions that of Frankfort (1826, 3 pts. 8vo) is 
best. The Imitation of Christ also exists in different 
MSS. and editions, the best ed. being that of Schlosser 
(Frankf. 1833, 8vo). A number of other writings are 
attributed to Tauler, but without authority. 

The teachings of Tauler are »not presented in his 
works in systematic form. His aim was practical, and 
the edifying element predominates over the speculative 
in his theology. As with Eckart, the speculative ideas 
may be traced back to the concept Being — the absolute, 
simple, uncreated entity, which involves neither dis- 
tinctions nor relations, and which no name is adequate 
to express. It is the hidden Deity, whose nature re- 
quires, however, revelation and operation. Revelation 
is the process of the Trinity; operation, with the Deity, 
is begetting. Hence the Deity in operation becomes 
Father, as he knows himself, and in that act of knowl- 
edge expresses himself, the word which he speaks being 
the Son. Between them exist reciprocal approval and 
love, and this love is the Holy Spirit, proceeding from 
both the Father and the Son. This conception of the 
Trinity evidently involves a distinction of relations 
rather than of hypostases in the Godhead. The Son is 
eternal. With reference to the creation, Tauler comes 
very near to the teachings of pantheism at times, but 
nevertheless preserves the distinction between the Cre- 
ator and the creature, and was constantly opposed to 
the teachings of the Beghards and Brethren of the Free 
Spirit. The human soul came forth from God, and con- 
tains a divine spark , in which the Trinity is reflected, 
and which strives to return to God, while the sensual 
part of man yearns for the creature world. Sin consists 
in giving way to the latter impulse. It cannot wholly 
deprive the soul, which is at bottom noble and in har- 
mony with the good, of its yearning for reunion with 
God; but man possesses in himself no power to return 
to God. Righteousness can be recovered only through 
faith in the merits of Christ. Meditation on the work 
and imitation of the life, especially the sufferings, of 
Christ form the way by which to return to God. This 
imitation should be outward, but also inward, transform- 
ing the entire man. By this way the soul rises supe- 
rior to all creature control; God enters in with all his 
blessing, and supplies the place of grace with his im- 
mediate operation. As the soul becomes, in this way, 
“free from grace,” so it also becomes “free from virtue,” 
i. e. it no longer practices an isolated virtue, but, with a 
being transformed into love, he permits God to work in 
him all virtues as the outflow of that love. No idle 
contemplation or passive asceticism finds the approval 
of Tauler, but a life of active love and pity, of patience 
and meekness — a life in the imitation of Christ. Tau- 
ler did not contradict the doctrines of his Church, but 
he was animated by an exalted reformatory spirit; his 
mysticism displayed a free, practical, evangelical ten- 
dency which has given it historical importance; and we 
X.— P 


may appropriately retain for him the title, early be- 
stowed, of Doctor IUuminatus . 

See the preface to Tauler’s works; Bohringer, Die 
Kirche Christ i u. Hire Zeugen ; Schmidt, Joh. Tauler von 
Strasburg ; Noack, Christ l iche Mystik (1853) ; Biblioth. 
Sacra , xv, 253 sq. ; Meth. Quar. Rev. 1869, I, art. iii; 
and Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. See Nicholas of 
Basle. 

Tausan (or Tagesen), Joiian, a Danish Reformer, 
was born at Birkinde, island of Funen, 1494; and was 
educated at Aarhuus and Odense. Becoming a monk, 
he entered the convent of the Order of St. John of Jeru- 
salem at Ant worskow, where he became acquainted with 
the writings of Luther. He visited Wittenberg, and 
formed the acquaintance of Melancthon. Returning to 
his native country, he delivered lectures on theology in 
the University of Copenhagen, and in 1524 avowed him- 
self a disciple of Luther. After being expelled from one 
convent and imprisoned in another, he was, in 1526, ap- 
pointed chaplain to Frederick I, king of Denmark; and 
in 1529 was appointed to the Church of St. Nicholas at 
Copenhagen, where he remained till 1537. He was then 
appointed professor at Roeskilde, and in 1542 was made 
bishop of Ripen, and died in 1561. He published sev- 
eral theological treatises, some Danish hymns, and a 
Danish translation of the Psalms. See Hook, Eccles . 
Biog. s. v. ; Jcicher, Gelehrten-Lex . iv, 1030. 

Tav. See Alphabet. 

Tavern. See Three Taverns. 

Taverner, Richard, a learned and pious layman, 
was born at Brisley, England, in 1505. He is said to 
have studied at Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, and 
afterwards at Oxford, and then law in the Inner Tem- 
ple. Having been appointed one of the clerks of the 
signet in 1537, he held that office until the reign of 
queen Mary. He was a friend of the Reformation, and, 
in order to promote it, undertook a new translation or 
edition of the English Bible (Lond. 1539, fol.). It was 
dedicated to the king and allowed to be read in the 
churches; but in 1545 the Romish bishops committed 
him to the Tower. He was, however, soon released, 
restored to the king’s favor, and elected a member of 
Parliament in 1545. Taverner’s edition of the Bible is 
a correction of what is called Matthewe’s Bible, many 
of whose marginal notes are adopted, many omitted, 
and others inserted by the editor. Oil the accession of 
king Edward, Taverner, although a layman, received a 
special license in 1552 to preach throughout the king’s 
dominions, from which he was obliged to desist upon the 
accession of queen Mary. He resumed his preaching 
when Elizabeth came to the throne, and, besides receiv- 
ing other commissions, was made high sheriff of Oxford 
County in 1569. He died July 14, 1575. Besides his 
Bible, we have the following list of his publications: The 
Sum and Pith of CL Psalms of David , etc. (Lond. 1539, 
8vo): — The Epistles and Gospels, with a Brief Post ill, 
etc. (ibid. 1540, 2 pts. 4to): — Fruit of Faith, etc. (ibid. 
1582, 12mo) : — The Garden of Wisdome, etc. (ibid. 1539,2 
bks.): — Flores aliquot Sententiarum ex Yariis Scripto - 
ribus (translated from Erasmus) : — Catonis Disticha Mo - 
ralia (ibid. 1 553, 8 vo ; 1555, 4to) : — In Minium Publianum 
Lib. I (ibid. 1562): — Catechismus Fidei: — Proverbs, or 
A dages (ibid. 1545, etc.). See Masters, History of Corpus 
Christi College; Ward, Gresham Professors; Newcombe, 
English Biblical Translations; Chalmers, Biog. Did. s. v. 
See Authorized Version. 

Tavthe, the Babylonian name for “the mother of 
the gods,” thought to be the same as Tihamtu or Tiha- 
mat, “ the sea.” 

Tawals, in Slavonic mythology, was a god of the 
fields, bestower of blessings, worshipped by the Toland- 
ers. 

Tawbutte, a talbot (i. e. a hunting dog), frequent- 
ly used in mediaeval heraldic devices. In an inventory 
of church goods at Easington, Oxford, is the follow- 


TAWDRY 


TAX 


226 


ing: “Item, a vestment powdered with stars and taw- 
buttes.” 

Tawdry, a name given to t lie necklace worn of old 
bv English peasant girls, in memory and honor of St. 
Ethelreda, or Awdry, patroness of the diocese of Ely, 
who, after she had become religious, mourned for the 
vanity in which she had indulged by wearing gold 
necklaces.— Lee, (/loss. of J Mu ry. Terms, s. v. 

Tax, Hebrew (some form of *° arrange). 

Taxes of some kind must have been coeval with the 
origin of civilized society. The idea of the one is in- 
volved in that of the other, since society, as every or- 
ganization, implies expense, which must be raised by 
the abstraction of property from the individuals of which 
it consists, either by occasional or periodical, by self-im- 
posed or compulsory, exactions. In the history of Is- 
rael, as of other nations, the student who desires to form 
a just estimate of the social condition of the people must 
take into account the taxes which they had to pay. Ac- 
cording as these are light or heavy may vary t lie hap- 
piness and prosperity of a nation. To them, though 
lying in the background of history, may often be traced, 
as to the true motive power, many political revolutions. 
We find a provision of income made at the very com- 
mencement of the Mosaic polity. Taxes, like all other 
things in that polity, had a religious origin and import. 
While the people were in the migratory stage during 
their marches through the desert, only such incidental 
taxes were levied, or rather such voluntary contribu- 
tions were received, as the exigencies of the time de- 
manded. It was not till their establishment in Canaan 
that taxation assumed a regular and organized form. 
We propose, therefore, in the following article (which 
we largely adopt from Smith’s Diet, of the. Bible) to con- 
sider the subject chronologically from that point. See 

Ass ESS M EXT. 

]. Under the judges, according to the theocratic gov- 
ernment contemplated by the law, the only payments 
obligatory upon the people as of permanent obligation 
were the tithes (q. v.). the first-fruits (q. v.), the redemp- 
tion-money of the tirst-born (q. w), and other offerings 
as belonging to special occasions. See Priest. The 
payment by each Israelite of the half-shekel as “atonc- 
meut-money” for the service of the tabernacle, on taking 
t he census of the people (Exod. xxx, 13), does not ap- 
pear to have had the character of a recurring tax, but 
to have been supplementary to the free-will offerings of 
Exod. xxv, 1 7, levied for the one purpose of the con- 
struction of the sacred tent. In later times, indeed, af- 
ter the return from Babylon, there was an annual pay- 
ment for maintaining the fabric and services of the Tem- 
ple ; but the fact that this begins by the voluntary com- 
pact to pay one third of a shekel (Neb. x, 32) shows 
that till then there was no such payment recognised as 
necessary. A little later the third became a half, and 
untler the name of the didrachma (Matt, xvii, 24) was 
paid by every Jew. in whatever part of ihe world he 
might be living (Josephus, Ant. xviii, 9, 1). From the 
Talmudieal tract /Shekalim (Mislma, ii, 4). the time of 
payment appears to have been between the 15th and 
the 23th of the month Adar, that is, in March. After 
the destruction of the Temple, this didrachm was order- 
ed by Vespasian to be paid into the Capitol, “as,” says 
Josephus, “they used to pay the same to the Temple at 
Jerusalem” (I I'd/*. vii, 0, (>). During the prosperity of 
Palestine, large sums were thus collected in Babylon 
.and other Eastern cities, and were sent to Jerusalem un- 
der a special escort (Josephus, A nt. loc. eit. ; Cicero, ] Vo 
Flacc. c. 2-S). We have no trace of any further taxa- 
tion than this during the period of the judges. It was 
not in itself heavy : it was lightened by the feeling that 
tt was paid as a religions act. In return for it the peo- 
ple secured the celebration of their worship, and the 
presence among them of a body of men acting more or 
less efficiently as priests, judges, teachers, perhaps also 
ns physicians. We cannot wonder that the people 


should afterwards look back to the good old days when 
they had been so lightly burdened. 

H. Under the monarchy, its centralized government 
and greater magnificence involved, of course, a larger 
expenditure, and therefore a heavier taxation. This 
may have come, during the long history of the king- 
dom, in many different forms, according to the financial 
necessities of the times. The chief burdens appear to 
have been (1) a tithe of the produce both of the soil 
and of live-stock, making, together with the ecclesiasti- 
cal tit lie, twenty per cent, on incomes of this nature (1 
Sam. viii, 15, 17); (2) forced military service for a 
mouth every year (ver. 1*2; 1 Kings ix, 22; 1 Chron. 
xxvii, 1); (3) gifts to the king, theoretically free, like 
the old benevolences of English taxation, but expected 
as a thing of course at the commencement of a reign (1 
Sam. x, 27) or in time of war (comp, the gifts of Jesse, 
xvi, 20; xvii, 18). In the case of subject princes the 
gifts, still made in kind — armor, horses, gold, silver, etc. 
— appear to have been regularly assessed (1 Kings x, 
25; 2 Chron. ix, 24). Whether this was ever the ease 
with the presents from Israelite subjects must remain 
uncertain. Besides the foregoing, there were (4) im- 
port duties, ehietfy on the produce of the spice districts 
of Arabia (1 Kings x, 15); (5) the monopoly of certain 
branches of commerce, as, for example, that of gold (ix, 
28; xxii,48), fine linen or bvssus from Egypt (x. 28), 
and horses (ver. 29) ; (fi) the appropriation to the king’s 
use of the early crop of hay (Amos vii, 1). This may, 
however, have been peculiar to the northern kingdom, 
or occasioned by a special emergency (Ewald, Proph. 
ad loc.). 

It is obvious that burdens such as these, coming upon 
a people previously unaccustomed to them, must have 
been almost intolerable. Even under Saul exemption 
from taxes is looked on as a sufficient reward for great 
military services (1 Sam. xvii, 25). Under the outward 
splendor and prosperity of the reign of Solomon there 
lay the deep discontent of an overtaxed people, and it 
contributed largely to the revolution that followed. The 
people complain, not of Solomon’s idolatry, but of their 
taxes (1 Kings xii, 4). Of all the king’s officers be 
whom they hate most is Adoram, or Acloniram (q. v.), 
who was “over the tribute” (ver. 18). At times, too, 
in the history of both the kingdoms, there were special 
burdens. A tribute of fifty shekels a head had to be 
paid by Menahem to the Assyrian king (2 Kings xv, 
20), and under his successor, Hoshea, this assumed the 
form of an annual tribute (xvii. 4; amount not stated). 
After the defeat of Josiah by Pharaoh-Necho, in like 
manner, a heavy income-tax had to be imposed on the 
kingdom of Judah to pay the tribute demanded by 
Egypt (xxiii,35), and the change of masters conse- 
quent on the battle of Carchemish brought in this re- 
spect no improvement (Josephus, Ant. x, 9, 1-3). 

III. Under the Persian empire , the taxes paid by the 
Jews were, in their broad outlines, the same in kind as 
those of other subject races. The financial system which 
gained for Darius Ilystaspis the name of the “shop- 
keeper king” ( K('an)\o<;, ilerod. iii, 89) involved the 
payment by each satrap of a fixed sum as the tribute 
due from bis province (ibid.), and placed him accord- 
ingly in the position of a publicanus , or farmer of the 
revenue, exposed to all the temptation to extortion and 
tyranny inseparable from such a system. Here, ac- 
cordingly, we get glimpses of taxes of many kinds. In 
Judiva, as in other provinces, the inhabitants had to 
provide in kind for the maintenance of the governor’s 
household (eomp. the case of Themistocles, Tlnicyd. i, 
138, and Herod, i, 192; ii, 98), besides a money-payment 
of forty shekels a day (Xeh. v, 14, 15). In Ezra iv, 13, 
20; vii, 21, we get a formal enumeration of the three 
great branches of the revenue. 1. The HI *2, fixed, 
measured payment, probably direct taxation (Grotius). 
2. the excise, or octroi , on articles of consumption 
(Gesenius, s. v.). 3. TR'th probably the toll payable at 


TAX 


TAXATIO 


bridges, fords, or certain stations on the high-road. The 
influence of Ezra secured for the whole ecclesiastical or- 
der, from the priests down to the Netliinira, an immu- 
nity from all three (Ezra vii, 24); but the burden 
pressed heavily on the great body of the people, and 
they complained bitterly both of this and of the dyya- 
pi'jio r, or forced service, to which they and their cattle 
were liable (Neh. ix, 37). They were compelled to 
mortgage their vineyards and fields, borrowing money 
at twelve per cent., the interest being payable appar- 
ently either in money or in kind (v, 1-11). Failing 
payment, the creditors exercised the power (with or 
without the mitigation of the year of jubilee) of seizing 
the persons of the debtors and treating them as slaves 
(ver. 5; comp. 2 Kings iv, 1). Taxation was leading 
at Jerusalem to precisely the same evils as those which 
appeared from like causes in the early history of Home. 
To this cause may probably be ascribed the incomplete 
payment of tithes or offerings at this period (Neh. xiii, 
10, 12; Mai. iii, 8), and the consequent necessity of a 
special poll-tax of the third part of a shekel for the ser- 
vices of the Temple (Neh. x, 32). What could be done 
to mitigate the evil was done by Nehemiah, but the 
taxes continued, and oppression and injustice no doubt 
marked the government of the province in a large de- 
gree. The miseries of an Oriental system of taxation 
have in modern times received their most revolting il- 
lustration in the history of Turkey over these same re- 
gions, the settled policy of whose government has ever 
been to grind the people by the utmost extent of extor- 
tion, peculation, and espionage, in all the grades of offi- 
cial administration. 

IV. Under the Egyptian and Syrian lings the taxes 
paid by the Jews became yet heavier. The “farming” 
system of finance was adopted in its worst form. The 
Persian governors had been obliged to pay a fixed sum 
into the treasury. Now the taxes were put up to auc- 
tion. The contract sum for those of Phoenicia, Judaea, 
and Samaria had been estimated at abont 8000 talents. 
An unscrupulous adventurer (e.g. Joseph, under Ptole- 
my Euergetes) would bid double that sum, and would 
then go down to the province, and by violence and cru- 
elty, like that of Turkish or Hindu collectors, squeeze 
out a large margin of profit for himself (Josephus, A nt. 
xii. 4, 1-5). 

Under the Syrian kings we meet with an ingenious 
variety of taxation. Direct tribute (tpopoi), an excise 
duty on salt, erown-taxes (artipavoi, golden crowns, or 
their value, sent yearly to the king), one half the prod- 
uce of fruit-trees, one third that of corn land, a tax of 
some kind on cattle: these, as the heaviest burdens, are 
ostentatiously enumerated in the decrees of the two De- 
metriuses remitting them (l Maec. x, 29, 30; xi, 35). 
Even after this, however, the golden crown and scarlet 
robe continue to be sent (xiii, 39). The proposal of the 
apostate Jason to farm the revenues at a rate above the 
average (460 talents, while Jonathan [xi, 28] pays 300 
only), and to pay 150 talents more for a license to open 
a circus (2 Maec. iv. 9), gives us a glimpse of another 
source of revenue. The exemption given by Ant inch us 
to the priests and other ministers, with the deduction 
of one third for all the residents in Jerusalem, was ap- 
parently only temporary (Josephus, Ant. xii, 3, 3). 

V. Roman taxation , in its pressure, if not absolutely 
heavier, was probably more galling, as being more thor- 
ough and systematic, more distinctively a mark ol bond- 
age. The capture of Jerusalem by Pompev was follow- 
ed immediately by the imposition of a tribute, and with- 
in a short time the sum thus taken from the resources 
of the country amounted to 10,000 talents (Josephus, 
A nt. xiv, 4, 4, 5). The decrees of Julius Caesar showed a 
characteristic desire to lighten the burdens that pressed 
upon the subjects of the republic. The tribute was not 
to be farmed. It was not to be levied at all in the sab- 
batic year. One fourth only was demanded in the year 
that followed (ibid, xiv, 10, 5, 6). The people, still un- 
der the government of llyrcanus, were thus protected 


against their own rulers. The struggle of the republi- 
can party after the death of the dictator brought fresh 
burdens upon the whole of Syria, and Cassius levied not 
less than 700 talents from Judaea alone. Under Herod, 
as might be expected from his lavish expenditure in 
public buildings, the taxation became heavier. Even 
in years of famine a portion of the produce of the soil 
was seized for the royal revenue (ibid, xv, 9, 1), and it 
was not till the discontent of the people became formi- 
dable that he ostentatiously diminished this by one third 
(ibid, xv, 10, 4). It was no wonder that when Herod 
wished to found a new eity in Traehonitis, and to at- 
tract a population of residents, he found that the most 
effective bait was to promise immunity from taxes (ibid. 
xvii, 2, 1), or that on his death the people should be 
loud in their demands that Archelaus should release 
them from their burdens, complaining specially of the 
duty levied on all sales (ibid, xvii, 8, 4). 

When Judaea became formally a Homan province, the 
whole financial system of the empire came as a natural 
consequence. The taxes were systematically farmed, 
and the publicans appeared as a new curse to the 
country. See Publican. The jwfoWti were levied at 
harbors, piers, and the gates of cities. These were the 
rk\ij of Matt, xvii, 24; Horn, xiii, 7. In addition to 
this, there was the Ktjvaoc, or poll-tax (Cod. 1) gives 
t 7 TiK€(pd\aio\> in Mark xii, 15), paid by every Jew, and 
looked upon, for that reason, as the special badge of ser- 
vitude. It was about the lawfulness of this payment 
that the rabbins disputed, while they were content to 
acquiesce in the payment of the customs (Matt, xxii, 
17 ; INI ark xii, 13; Luke xx, 20). It was against this 
apparently that the struggles of Judas of Galilee and 
his followers were chiefly directed (Josephus, Ant. xviii, 
1,6; JUttr, ii, 8, 1). United with this, as part of the 
same system, there was also, in all probability, a prop- 
erty-tax of some kind. Quirinus, after the deposition 
of Archelaus, w r as sent to Syria to complete the work — 
begun, probably, at the time of our Lord’s birth — of 
valuing and registering property, and this would hardly 
have been necessary for a mere poll-tax. See Cyre- 
nius. The influence of Joazar, the high-priest, led the 
people generally (the followers of Judas and the Phari- 
see Sadduc were the only marked exceptions) to ac- 
quiesce in this measure and to make the required 
returns (.4«L xviii, 1,1); but their discontent still con- 
tinued, and, under Tiberius, they applied for some alle- 
viation (Tacitus, A mi. ii, 42). In addition to these gen- 
eral taxes, the inhabitants of Jerusalem were subject to 
a special house-duty about this period; Agrippa, in his 
desire to reward the good-will of the people, remitted it 
(Josephus, A nt. xix, 6, 3). 

It can hardly be doubted that in this, as in most oth- 
er cases, an oppressive taxation tended greatly to de- 
moralize the people. Many of the most glaring faults 
of the Jewish character are distinctly traceable to it. 
The fierce, vindictive cruelty of the Galikeans, the 
Zealots, the Sicarii, was its natural fruit. It was not 
the least striking proof that the teaching of our Lord 
and his disciples was more than the natural outrush of 
popular feeling — that it sought, to raise men to the high- 
er region in which all such matters were regarded as 
things indifferent — and, instead of expressing the popu- 
lar impatience of taxation, gave, as the true counsel, 
the precept “Render unto Caesar the things that are 
Caesar’s,” “ Tribute to whom tribute is due, custom to 
whom custom.” See Tribute. 

TAX, Clerical. See 'Paxes. 

Taxatio Ecclesiastica. Anciently the first-fruits 
of all ecclesiastical benefices were paid to the pope. In- 
nocent IV, in 1253, gave the same for three years to 
Henry 111, which occasioned a taxation made by Wal- 
ter, bishop of Norwich, who was delegated to the task 
by the pope in the following year. It was sometimes 
called the Norwich Taxation, and sometimes Pope Inno- 
cent's Valor, In 12S8 Nicholas IV granted the tenths 


TAXES 


228 


TAXING 


to Edward I for six years towards defraying the ex- 
pense of an expedition to tiie Holy Land: and in order 
to their collection a taxation by the king’s precept was 
begun in that year, and tinished, as to the province of 
Canterbury, in 12111, and as to York in the following 
year: the whole being superintended by John, bishop 
of Winchester, and Oliver, bishop of Lincoln. A third 
taxation, entitled nova taxatio, as to some part of the 
province of York was made in 1318 by virtue of a man- 
date directed by Edward II to the bishop of Carlisle, 
principally because the Scottish invasion had rendered 
the border clergy unable to pay the tax. Pope Nicho- 
las’s taxation is an important record, because all taxes 
were regulated by it until the valor benejhiorum of 
Henry VI 11 was completed; and because the statutes 
of colleges founded antecedently to the Reformation 
were interpreted by this criterion, according to which 
their benefices under a certain value were exempted 
from the restriction respecting pluralities in the 21st 
Henry, c. 13. It was published in 1802 by the Record 
Commission, and the original rolls for many dioceses are 
still preserved in the Exchequer. In pursuance of an 
act of Parliament of llenrv VIII, commissioners were 
appointed to inquire “of and for the true and just whole 
and yearly values of all the manors, lands, tenements, 
hereditaments, rents, tithes, offerings, emoluments, and 
other prolits, etc., appertaining to any archbishopric, 
bishopric,” etc. The result of their inquiries was the 
Valor Ecvlesdasticus, sometimes called the King's Books. 
It has been published by the Record Commission. In 
1 G 47 Parliament issued commissions for surveying all 
the Crown and Church lands in England, and copies 
of the surveys returned were deposited in most of the 
cathedrals, but tbe originals were destroyed in the great 
fire of London. In 1835 a report of the ecclesiastical 
commissioners for England and Wales was laid on the 
table of both houses of Parliament, which contained the 
results of their inquiry into the revenues of the Church 
of England. — Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop . s. v. See First- 
fruits. 

Taxes, Clergy Exempted from. By the favor 
of Christian emperors, the clergy were exempt from 
some of the taxes which were laid upon the rest of the 
Roman empire. They did not, however, claim this ex- 
emption as a divine right, but freely acknowledged it 
to be owing to the pious munificence and favor of the 
Christian princes. Baronins does the clergy great in- 
justice in pretending that they claimed a freedom from 
tribute by the law of Christ; and that no emperor 
ever imposed any tax upon them except only Julian 
the Apostate, Valens the Arian, and the younger Yal- 
entinian, who was wholly under the influence of his 
mother. Jnstina, an Arian empress (An. 378, iv, 538). 
Bcllarmine asserts ( De Clericis, i, 28) that the exemp- 
tion of the clergy in political matters, whether relating 
to their persons or their goods, was introduced by hu- 
man right only, and not by divine. The following is 
a table of the taxes levied in the empire showing the 
exemptions of the clergy : 

1. Census Capitum (or personal tribute). Clergyexempted. 

2 . Jngaiio, Juga, Cupitatio, etc. (tax on lands, etc.). Cler- 

gy exempted in special cases. 

3. Anrum Tironicum, etc. (soldiers and horses furnished to 

the emperors). Clergy (probably) exempted iu special 

cases. 

4. Chrysargyrnm (or Lustrnl Tax). Clcrgv exempted. 

r>. Metatum (entertaining emperor or reiiuue). Clergy 

exempted. 

«> Superindicta et Extraordiuaria (or special taxes). Cler- 
gy exempted. 

T. Road and Bridge Tax. Clergy sometimes exempted. 

8. Angaria* et Purungaria* (conveying corn for the army). 

Clergy sometimes exempted. 

9. Denarisnins, or tJncisc, aud Dcscriptio Lncratiornm 

(tax paid to the curia of every city). Clergy exempt 

under Justinian. 

The clergy were also exempt from all civil personal of- 
fices; from all sordid otliees (e. g. building and repair- 
ing roads, etc.), both predial and personal; and from all 
curial or municipal otliees. In order to check the prac- 


tice of rich men seeking to avoid taxes by taking or- 
ders, Constantine made a law that no rich plebeian who 
was qualified by bis estate to serve in curia and bear 
civil offices in any city should become an ecclesiastic. 
The laws respecting exemption of the clergy were fre- 
quently changed, but the above is their general tenor. 
See Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. v, ch. iii. 

Taxing is the rendering, in the A. Y„ of a Creek 
word, which occurs in two passages, ») diroypaepi} (Yulg. 
dcscriptio, Luke ii, 2; pmfessio, Acts v, 37). The cog- 
nate verb H7royp«0err3 , ar in like manner is rendered by 
“to be taxed” in tbe A. Y., while the Yulg. employs 
“ut deseriberetur universus orhis” in Luke ii, Land 
“lit profitereutur singuli” in ver. 3. In Ilob. xiii, 23 
{irpsororoKoiv diroyfypaf.iph'u)v tv ovpavoig), where 
the idea is that of the registration of the first-born as 
citizens of the heavenly Jerusalem, the A. V. has sim- 
ply “ written,” the Yulg. “qui conscripti sunt.” Both 
the Latin words used in the two passages first cited 
above are found in classical writers with the meaning 
of a registration or formal return of population or prop- 
erty (Cicero, I "err. ii, 3, 47 ; I)e Off, i, 7 ; Sueton. Tiber. 
30). The English word conveys to us more distinctly 
the notion of a tax or tribute actually levied, but it ap- 
pears to have been used in the JGth century for the 
simple assessment of a subsidy upon the property of a 
given county (Bacon, Ilenry VII , p. 07), or the registra- 
tion of the people for the purpose of a poll-tax (Cam- 
den, Hist, of Elizabeth ). This may account for the 
choice of the word by Tyndale in lieu of “ description” 
and “profession,” which Wvcliffe. following the Yulg., 
had given. Since then “taxing” has kept its ground 
in most English versions with the exception of “trib- 
ute” in the Geneva, and “enrolment” in the Rhemish 
of Acts v, 37. The word cnroypa<pi} by itself leaves the 
question undetermined whether the returns made were 
of population or property. Josephus, using the words 
i) cnrorifnjrrtQ tmv ovauov (Ant. xviii, 1, 1) as an 
equivalent, shows that “ the taxing” of which Gama- 
liel speaks included both. That connected with the 
Nativity, the first stop towards the complete statisti- 
cal returns, was probably limited to the former (Gres- 
well, Harmony, i, 542). In either case “census” would 
have seemed the most natural Latin equivalent; but 
in the Greek of the New Test., and therefore probably 
in the familiar Latin of the period, as afterwards in 
the Yulg., that word slides off into the sense of the 
tribute actually paid (Matt, xxii, 17 ; xvii, 24). See 
Census. 

Two distinct registrations, or taxings, are mentioned 
in the New Test., both of them by Luke. The first is 
said to have been the result of an edict of the emperor 
Augustus that “all the world (i. e. the Roman empire) 
should be taxed” (inroypa<pto$at irctaav ti)v oiicovpk- 
I't/v) (Luke ii, 1), and is connected by the evangelist 
with the name of Cvrenius, or Quirinus. The second, 
and more important (>} c’r7roypa<pi/, Acts v, 37), is re- 
ferred to in the report of Gamaliel’s speech, and is there 
distinctly associated, in point of time, with the revolt 
of Judas of Galilee. The account of Josephus (Ah/. 
xviii, 1, 1 ; ITt/r, ii, 8, 1) brings together the t\yo names 
which Luke keeps distinct, with an interval of several 
years between them. Cvrenius comes as governor of 
Syria after the deposition of Archelaus, accompanied 
by Coponius os procurator of J udiea. He is sent to 
make an assessment of the value of property in Syria 
(no intimation being given of its extension to the 
oitcovgir/j ), and it is this which rouses Judas and his 
followers to their rebellion. The chronological ques- 
tions presented by these apparent discrepancies have 
been discussed, so far as they are connected with the 
name of the governor of Syria, under Cvrenius. An 
account of the tumults caused by the taxing will be 
found under Judas of Galilee. 

There are, however, some other questions connected 
with the statement of Luke ii, 1-3, which call for some 
notice. The truth of the statement has been ques- 


TAXING 


229 


TAXING 


tioned by Strauss ( Leben Jesu , i, 28) and De Wette 
{Comment, ad loc.), and others, who conclude, from va- 
rious objections, that this statement belongs to legend, 
not to history; that it was a contrivance, more or less 
ingenious, to account for the birth at Bethlehem (that 
being assumed in popular tradition as a preconceived 
necessity for the Messiah) of one whose kindred lived, 
and who himself had grown up at Nazareth ; that 
the whole narrative of the infancy of our Lord, in 
Luke’s Gospel, is to be looked upon as mythical. We 
summarize these objections, and under each we pre- 
sent, within brief limits, what appears to us a suthcient 
answer. 

1. The foremost ground of objection is that neither 
Josephus nor any other contemporary writer mentions 
a census extending over the whole empire at this period 
(A.IT.C. 750). An edict like this, causing a general 
movement from the cities where men resided to those 
iu which, for some reason or other, they were to be 
registered, must, it is said, have been a conspicuous 
fact, sueh as no historian would pass over. 

On the other hand, it must be remembered that our 
history of this portion of the reign of Augustus is de- 
fective. Tacitus begins his Annals with the emperor’s 
death. Suetonius is gossiping, inaccurate, and ill-ar- 
ranged. Dion Cassius leaves a gap from A.U.C. 748 
to 756, with hardly any incidents. Josephus does not 
profess to give a history of the empire. It might eas- 
ily be that a general census, cir. A.U.C. 749-750, should 
remain unrecorded by them. If the measure was one 
of frequent occurrence, it would be all the more likely 
to be passed over. The testimony of a writer like 
Luke, obviously educated and well informed, giving 
many casual indications of a study of chronological data 
(Luke i, 5 ; iii; Acts xxiv, 27), and of acquaintance with 
the Herodian family (Luke viii, 3; xxiii, 8; Acts xii, 
20; xiii, 1) and other official people (ch. xxiii-xxvi), 
recognising distinctly the later and more conspicuous 
cnroypacpi)., must be admitted as fair presumptive evi- 
dence, hardly to be set aside in the absence of any evi- 
dence to the contrary. How hazardous sueh an infer- 
ence from the silence of historians would be, we may 
judge from the fact that there was undoubtedly a ge- 
ometrical survey of the empire at some period in the 
reign of Augustus, of which none of the above writers 
take any notice (comp, the extracts from the Rei Agra- 
rian Scriptorcs in Greswcll, Harmony , i, 537). It has 
been argued further that the whole policy of Augustus 
rested on a perpetual communication to the central 
government of the statistics of all parts of the empire. 
The inscription on the monument of Aneyra (Gruter, 
Corpus Inscript, i, 230) names three general censuses 
in A.U.C. 726. 746, 767 (eomp. Sueton. Octal', e. 28; 
Greswell, Harm, i, 535). Dion Cass, (lv, 13) mentions 
another in Italy in A.U.C. 757. Others in Gaql are as- 
signed to A.U.C. 727, 741, 767. Strabo (vi, 4, 2), writing 
early in the reign of Tiberius, speaks of pia rmv icaS’ 
ijpcig npifoeiov, as if they were common things. In 
A.U.C. 726, when Augustus offered to resign his power, 
he laid before the senate a “rationarium imperii” (Sue- 
ton. Octac. e. 28). After his death, in like manner, a 
“breviarium to tins imperii” was produced, containing 
full returns of the population, wealth, resources of all 
parts of the empire, a careful digest apparently of facts 
collected during the labors of many years (ibid. c. 101 ; 
Dion Cass, lv ; Tacitus, Ann. i, 11). It will hardly seem 
strange that one of the routine official steps in this 
process should only be mentioned by a writer who, like 
Luke, had a special reason for noticing it. A census, 
involving property- returns, and the direct taxation 
consequent on them, might excite attention. A mere 
cnroypcKpi) would have little in it to disturb men’s 
minds, or force itself upon a writer of history. 

There is, however, some evidence, more or less cir- 
cumstantial, in confirmation of Luke’s statement. (1.) 
The inference drawn from the silence of historians may 
be legitimately met by an inference drawn from the 


silence of objectors. It never occurred to Celsus or Lu- 
cian or Porphyry, each questioning all that he could in 
the Gospel history, to question this. (2.) A remarkable 
passage in Suidas (s. v. ’ ATroypatyi)) mentions a census, 
obviously differing from the three of the Ancvran mon- 
ument, and agreeing, in some respects, with that of 
Luke. It was made by Augustus, not as censor, but by 
his own imperial authority (<56£«i' acre); eomp. i£ij\5e 
doypa, Luke ii, 1). The returns were collected by 
twenty commissioners of high rank. They included 
property as well as population, and extended over the 
whole empire. (3.) Tertullian, incidentally, writing 
controversially, not against a heathen, but against Mar- 
eion, appeals to the returns of the census for Syria un- 
der Sentius Saturninus as accessible to all who cared to 
search them, and proving the birth of Jesus in the city of 
David (Tertull. Adv. Marc, iv, 19). Whatever difficul- 
ty the difference of names may present [see Cyhenius], 
here is, at any rate, a strong indication of the fact of a 
census of population, cir. A.U.C. 749, and therefore in 
harmony with Luke’s narrative. (4.) Greswell (Harm. 
i, 476; iv, 6) has pointed to some circumstances men- 
tioned by Josephus in the last year of Herod’s life, anti 
therefore coinciding with the time of the Nativity, 
which imply some special action of the Roman govern- 
ment in Syria, the nature of which the historian care- 
lessly or deliberately suppresses. When Herod attends 
the council at Berytus there are mentioned as present, 
besides Saturninus and the procurator, oi nepi YltOcn iov 
7rpi(Tf3tic, as if the officer thus named had come, ac- 
companied by other commissioners, for some purpose 
which gave him for the time almost co-ordinate influ- 
ence with the governor of Syria himself ( War, i, 27, 2). 
Just after this again, Herod, for some unexplained rea- 
son, found it necessary to administer to the whole peo- 
ple an oath, not of allegiance to himself, but of good-will 
to the emperor; and this oath six thousand of the 
Pharisees refused to take (Josephus, Ant. xvii, 2, 4; 
War, i, 29, 2). This statement implies, it is urged, 
some disturbing cause affecting the public tranquillity, 
a formal appearance of all citizens before the king’s 
officers, and lastly, some measure specially distasteful to 
the Pharisees. The narrative of Luke offers an unde- 
signed explanation of these phenomena. 

2. As a further objection, it is urged that Palestine 
was, at this time, an independent kingdom under Herod, 
and therefore would not have come under the operation 
of an imperial edict. 

This objection admits of as satisfactory an answer as 
the foregoing. The statistical document already re- 
ferred to included subject kingdoms and allies, no less 
than the provinces (Sueton. loc. cit.'). If Augustus had 
any desire to know the resources of Juda?a, the position 
of Herod made him neither willing nor able to resist, 
j From first to last we meet with repeated instances of 
subservience. He does not dare to try or punish his 
sons, but refers their eause to the emperor’s cognizance 
(Josephus, Ant. xvi, 4, 1 ; xvii, 5, 8). He holds his 
kingdom on condition of paying a fixed tribute. Per- 
mission is ostentatiously given him to dispose of the 
succession to his throne as he likes best (ibid, xvi, 4, 5). 
He binds his people, as we have seen, by an oath of 
allegiance to the emperor (ibid, xvii, 2, 4). The threat 
of Augustus that he would treat Herod no longer as an 
ally, but as a subject (ibid, xvi, 9, 3), would be followed 
naturally enough by some such step as this, and the de- 
sire of Herod to regain his favor would lead him to ac- 
quiesce in it. 

3. Another objection alleged is that if sueh a meas- 
ure, involving the recognition of Roman sovereignty, 
had been attempted under Herod, it would have roused 
the same resistance as the undisputed census under 
Quirinus did at a later period. 

In reply to this, we may say that we need not won- 
der that the measure should have been carried into ef- 
fect without any popular outbreak. It was a return of 
the population only, not a valuation of property; there 


TAYGETE 


TAYLOI 


2 no 


was no immediate taxation as the consequence. It 
might o tie ml a party like the Pharisees; it was not 
likely to excite the multitude. Even if it seemed to 
some the prognostication of a coming change, and of 
direct government by the Homan emperor, we know 
that there was a large and influential party ready to 
welcome that change as the best thing that could hap- 
pen for its country (Jo>ephus, Ant. xvii, 1 1, *2). 

4. The statement of Luke that “all went to be taxed, 
every one into his own city,” is said to be inconsistent 
with the rules of the Kotnan census, which took cogni- 
zance of the place of residence only, not of the place of 
birth. 

On the other hand, this apparent inconsistency of what 
Luke narrates is precisely what might be expected un- 
der the known circumstances of the case. The census, 
though Kotnan in origin, was effected by Jewish instru- 
mentality, and was in harmony, therefore, with Jewish 
customs. The alleged practice is, however, doubtful; 
ami it has been maintained (Huschke, Caber den Census, 
etc., in Winer, s. v.“ Schatzung”) that the inhabitants of 
the provinces were, as far as possible, registered in their 
forum oriyinis — not in the place in which they were 
only residents. It may be noticed incidentally that 
the journey from Nazareth to Bethlehem belongs to a 
time when Galilee and Jmhea were under the same rider, 
ami would therefore have been out of the question (as 
the subject of one prince would certainly not be regis- 
tered as belonging to another) after the death of llerod 
the Great. The circumstances of the Nativity indicate, 
if they do not prove, that Joseph went there only for 
personal enrolment, not because lie was the possessor of 
house or land. 

5. It is asserted that neither in the Jewish nor the 
Homan census would it have been necessary for the wife 
to travel with her husband in order to appear personally 
before t he registrar ( censitor ). 

This objection is, perhaps, the most frivolous and vex- 
atious of all. If Mary were herself of the house and 
lineage of David, there may have been special reasons 
for her appearance at Bethlehem. In any case, the 
Scripture narrative is consistent with itself. Nothing 
could be more natural, looking to the unsettled state of 
Palestine at this period, than that Joseph should keep 
his wife under his own protection instead of leaving her 
by herself, in an obscure village, exposed to danger and 
reproach. In proportion to the hopes he had been taught 
to cherish of the birth of a Son of David; in proportion, 
also, to his acceptance of the popular belief that the 
Christ was to be born in t lie city of David (Matt, ii, 5; 
John vii, 42), would be his desire to guard against the 
accident of birth in the despised Nazareth out of which 
“no good thing” could come (i,4G). — Smith. 

The literature connected with this subject is, as might 
be expected, very extensive. Every commentary con- 
tains something on it. Meyer, Wordsworth, ami Alford 
may be consulted as giving the latest summaries. A 
very full and exhaustive discussion of all points con- 
nected with the subject is given by Spanheim, Dubia 
Evany, ii, 3-0; and Kichardus, Piss. de Censu Auyusti, 
in Menthen, 7'hrsaurus,\\, 128; comp, also Ellicott, Jlul- 
sean Lectures, p. 57. 

Tayg£td, in Greek mythology, was a daughter of 
Atlas and I’leione, mother of Lacethvmon and Eurotas 
by Jupiter. She became one of the Pleiades after death. 
Others aflirm that, she was transformed into a cow bv 
Diana, in order to escape the embraces of Jupiter. The 
mountain Taygetns was named after her. See Smith, 
lRct. of Class. Jiioy. and Mythol. s. v. 

Taylor, Charles C.,a clergyman of the Protestant 
Episcopal Church, died Fell. ‘2, 1*55, at Kalamazoo, Mich. 
In 1*14 he went to Michigan and took charge of St. An- 
drew’s Church, Ann Arbor; ami in July, 1*53, became 
rector of St. Luke’s Church, Kalamazoo, where he labor- 
ed until the last, lie had frequently represented his 
diocese in the General Convention, and had for a long 


time been a member of the standing committee. He 
was a faithful and eloquent preacher. See Atner. Quar . 
Church Revkic, 1 *55, p. 161. 

Taylor, Chauncey, a Congregational minister, 
was born in Williamstown, Vt.. Feb. 17, 1*05. After 
preliminary study at Hinesburgh, he entered the Uni- 
versity of Vermont, from which he graduated in 1831, 
and then studied theology with Kev. Ira Ingraham, of 
Brandon. Jan. 21, 1835, was the date of his ordination, 
when he was installed pastor at Chittenden, and re- 
mained until 1837. One year, from 1838, he preached 
at James’s Island, near Charleston, S. C. ; from 1839 to 
1841 he was acting pastor at Chittenden, Vt. The two 
years following lie was without charge, living at one 
time in Winooski and at another in Milton. From 
1843 to 184G he was acting pastor at Alburgh. In the 
latter year he was reinstalled at Chittenden, where he 
remained until August, 1854, when lie went to Langdon, 
N. II., and served there as acting pastor for two years. 
Then he became a home missionary at Algona, Kossuth 
Co., Ia., beginning his ministry there in 185G. gathering 
a Church in 1858, and being installed in 18G7. After 
serving this congregation until July, 1873, he was dis- 
missed, and never resumed the care of a parish. He 
died there Feb. 29, 187G. See Cony. Quar. Rev. 1877, 
p. 42G. 

Taylor, Cornelius H., D.D., a Presbyterian min- 
ister, was born in 1821. Soon after the completion of his 
theological studies he became pastor of the Church of 
Huron, O. From thence he removed to Illinois, and was 
installed pastor of the Church at Alton, where he labor- 
ed ten years. In 18G8 he received a call from the Third 
Presbyterian Church at Cincinnati, O. lie was a lead- 
ing man in the Church in all places where he labored. 
He died at Cincinnati, Feb. 25, 1875. See Presbyterian, 
March 13, 1875. (W. P. S.) 

Taylor, David, one of Wesley’s early helpers, be- 
gan to preach the Gospel in Cheshire and Derbyshire 
about the time that Wesley began his public labors. 
Many were saved through his instrumentality, among 
whom was John Bennett. He lived for a time in the 
family of lady Huntingdon (q. v.). On one occasion 
he was waylaid, with Charles Wesley, and severely 
wounded, lie eventually erred with respect to mar- 
riage, not submitting to the mode prescribed by law. 
and his usefulness became neutralized thereby. He 
united with the Moravians, but soon left them and at- 
tended the meetings of the Quakers. He afterwards 
returned to his old friends the Methodists, and attempt- 
ed to preach once more ; “ but, alas !” says Atmore, ids 
gifts wore gone.” lie died, in obscurity, about 1780. 
See Atmore, Meth. Memorial, s. v. ; Smith, Hist. ))>$/. 
Methodism, i, 182, 19I-19G, 201. 

Tayfor, Edward, a Congregational minister, was 
born (according to president Stiles) at Coventry, Eng- 
land, in 1G42, and received an excellent education in 
his native country. Upon the restoration of Charles, 
he resolved not to conform, and sailed lor the United 
States April 22, 1G68, arriving at Boston July 5. On 
July 23 he entered Cambridge University, from which 
he graduated in 1G7L Invited to preach at Westfield, 
he consented, and arrived there Dee. 3, 167 1. The pau- 
city of population and the insecurity of person and 
property delayed for a long time the formation of a 
Church ; but this was done Aug. 27, 1G79, O. S., and Air. 
Taylor was ordained as its pastor, lie continued to 
labor here until his death, June 29, 1729. He left in 
manuscript, A Commentary on the Four Gospels, theo- 
logical treatises, sermons, and poems, none of which 
have been published. See Sprague, A mials of the Amer . 
Pulpit, i, 177. 

Taylor, Ellison, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in South Carolina, Feb. 19, 1788. lie first re- 
ceived license to exhort, and afterwards, April 13, 181G, 
to preach. Soon after this he joined the travelling con- 


TAYLOI 


231 


TAYLOR 


nection, and in due time was made deacon and elder. 
He died in 1826. Mr. Taylor possessed excellent tal- 
ents, was uniformly acceptable, and greatly beloved by 
the friends of true religion. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences , i, 541. 

Taylor, Ezekiel Dunton, a Congregational min- 
ister, was born in Bristol, Vt., June 2, 1817 — the young- 
est of five brothers, all ministers. His early education 
was received at St. Lawrence Academy, Potsdam, N. Y., 
and Western Reserve Teacher’s Seminary. After leav- 
ing the latter institution he became principal of Shaw 
Academy, Euclid, O., and remained in that position un- 
til he began the study of theology, which he prosecuted 
under the direction of the Grand liiver Presbytery and 
with his brother Chauncey. From Jan. 1, 1845, to 1847, 
he was acting pastor at De Buy ter, N. Y. ; and after 
one year’s labor was ordained at West Stockholm, Dec. 
29, 1847, where he remained three years, until 1850, at 
which time he was dismissed. 11 is next field was at 
Heuvelton and De Peyster as acting pastor, at which 
places he preached one year (from 1850 to 1851); then 
at Chagrin Falls, O., four years, until 1855. At Claren- 
don he preached eighteen years, until 1873, from which 
time successively, until his death, he served at South 
Newbury, Park man, and Troy. He died at his home 
in Troy, Dec. 19, 1878. (W. P. S.) 

Taylor, Fitch W., a clergyman of the Protestant 
Episcopal Church, died in Brooklyn, N. Y., July 24, 
1865, aged sixty-two years. He was the oldest chap- 
lain in the United States Navy, and served under com- 
modore Reed in his expedition against the Malays; was 
in the Mexican War; and was chaplain of the flag-ship 
“Hartford,” in command of admiral Farragut, during 
the Rebellion. See Amer. Quar . Church Review , Oct. 
1865, p. 499. 

Taylor, Henry, an English Baptist and Methodist 
minister, was born at Rossendalc, Lancashire, and began 
to preach, in a local capacity, in the Methodist connec- 
tion at an early period of his life. He soon after united 
with the Close-communion Baptists, and was for several 
years a respectable minister in that Church, and a pas- 
tor of a congregation in Birmingham. In 1788 he of- 
fered himself to the Methodist Conference, was accepted, 
and appointed to Liverpool. He was a popular preach- 
er, especially in Sheffield, in 1796, where several persons 
were converted. Some circumstances coming to light, in 
1797, which reflected upon his moral conduct, he was 
suspended by the district meeting until the next Con- 
ference. lie retired to Liverpool, and was sent, before 
the Conference met, by an owner of possessions in the 
West Indies to teach school on bis plantations. Taylor 
died on the passage across, in 1798. See Atmore, Meth. 
Memorial , s. v. ; Smith, llist. of Wesl. Meth. ii, 294. 

Taylor, Isaac (1), a Dissenting minister, known 
as “Taylor of Ongar,” was born in London in 1759, and 
was for a time a successful engraver in that city. He 
removed to Lavenham, Suffolk, in 1786. He was min- 
ister of an Independent Church at Colchester, Essex, 
1796-1810, and of another at Ongar, Essex, from 1811 
until his death, Dec. 11, 1829. Besides other works, 
he published, Book of Martyrs for the Young (12mo) : 
— Runyan Explained to a Child (2 vols. 12mo): — Child's 
Life of Christ (12mo) : — Self-cultivation Recommended 
(12mo; Boston, 1820, 12mo): — The. Glory of Zion: — and 
other single Sermons. For a fuller list of publications, 
see Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors , s. v. 

Taylor, Isaac (2), LL.D., a Christian philosopher, 
was born at Lavenham, Suffolk, Aug. 17, 1787. He was 
designed by his father for an artist, began to study for 
a Dissenting minister, but became a member of the 
Established Church and settled down at Stanford Riv- 
ers as a literary recluse. In 1862 he received a civil- 
service pension of one hundred pounds for his services 
to literature in the departments of history and philos- 
ophy. He died at his home, Stanford Rivers, J une 28, 


1865. He published, among other works, Elements of 
Thought (Loud. 1823, 8vo; N. Y. 1851 j 12mo; 11th ed. 
1867, 8 vo) : — The Process of Historical Proof Exempli- 
fied and Explained (ibid. 1828, 8vo; 1859, 8vo) : — Balance 
of Criminality , or Mental Error Compared irith Immoral 
Conduct (ibid. 1828, 12 mo): — Natural History of Enthusi- 
asm (ibid. 1829, 8vo ; Boston, 1830, 12mo; 10th ed.Lond. 

1 845, 8vo) : — New Model ofCh ristian M issions ( i bid. 1 829, 
8vo; new ed. 1866, Svo) : — Fanaticism (ibid. 1833, 8vo; 
N. Y. 1834, 12mo ; 1866, fp. 8vo) : — Spiritual Despotism 
(ibid. 1835, 8vo; 2d ed. 1835, 8vo; N. Y. 1835, 12mo) : — 
Physical Theory of A not her Life (Loud. 1836, 12mo; N.Y. 
1836, 1852, 1853, 1866, 12mo) : — Home Education (ibid. 
1838, fp. 8vo; 7th ed. 1867, 8vo; 2d Am.ed.N.Y. 1838, 

1 6mo) : — A ncient Christianity, and the Doctrines of the Ox- 
ford Tracts for the Times (ibid. 1839-40, in eight 8vo 
parts ; 4th cd. with supp. and indexes, 1844,2 vols.8vo) : 
— Man Responsible for his Dispositions , etc., a lecture 
(ibid. 1840, 8vo): — Loyola and Jesuitism in its Rudiments 
(Loud. 1849, 1850, 1863, Svo; N. Y. 1849, 1851, 12mo) 
Wesley and Methodism (Loud. 1851, 1863, 1865, 8vo; 
N. Y. 1852, 12mo) : — The Restoration of Belief (Lond. 
1855, 8 vo; Phila. 1855, l2mo; Camb. 1864, 8 vo) : — Logic in 
Theology, and other essays (Lond. 1859, fp. 8vo; with a 
sketch of author’s life and catalogue of his writings, N. Y. 
1860, 12mo) : — The Liturgy and the Dissenters (Lond. 1860, 
8vo) : — The Spirit of the Hebrew Poetry (ibid. 1861 ; N. Y. 
1861, Svo; 1862, Svo): — Considerations on the Penta- 
teuch, etc. (ibid. 1863, 8vo). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, 
and Amer . .4 uthors, s. v. ; Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. 

Taylor, James A., a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was received on trial in the Ohio Conference in 
1847, and appointed to Goshen Circuit; in 1848, to Mad- 
isonville; in 1850, to Gallipolis Circuit ; and in 1851, to 
Jackson, which was his last appointment. He died 
Aug. 10, 1851. He was a young man of undoubted pi- 
ety, good mind, and remarkable zeal. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences, iv, 665. 

Taylor, James Brainerd, a young Congrega- 
tional minister of ardent piety and great promise, was 
born at Middle Haddam, Conn., April 15, 1801. His 
parents being members of the Protestant Episcopal 
Church, he was trained up in religious associations, and 
while clerk in a store in New York city was converted, 
and joined the Church of Dr. Romeyn. He early be- 
came useful in all Christian activities. The departure 
of Dr. Scudder for India turned his attention to the 
ministry, and after a preparatory course of two years at 
Lawrenceville Academy, N. J., he went to Princeton 
College as a sophomore in 1823. On his graduation in 
1826, he entered the Yale Theological Seminary, but he 
soon had symptoms of lung-disease, which compelled 
him to seek relief in a tour through the South. He 
was licensed to preach by the Middlesex Convocation 
at East Haddam, Oct. 8, 1828, but the state of his health 
was such that he resolved to spend the winter at the 
Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. He died there 
March 29, 1829, leaving a bright example of the power 
of divine grace and the triumph of Christian hope. See 
his Memoir by Dr. Rice (N.Y. 1833). 

Taylor, Jane, daughter of the Rev. Isaac Taylor 
of Ongar, and as a writer for youth the worthy rival of 
Mrs. Barbauld, was born Sept. 23, 1783, in London, where 
her father then resided in the practice of his profession 
as an artist. Even from her third and fourth year, in 
connection with her sister Anne, who was two years 
older, she is said to have composed little tales and songs, 
which they would sing together; and Jane especially 
seemed to live in a fairv-land of her own imagination. 
Her father removed to Colchester in 1796. There Jane, 
in her fifteenth year, gave decided indications of per- 
sonal piety. She was also one of a select society ol 
young friends for the reading of original essays and 
the promotion of intellectual improvement. A visit to 
London in 1802 first brought her before the public. Her 
first contribution, The Beggar's Boy, appeared in the 


TAYL01 


232 


TAYLOE 


Minor's Pocket-book fur 1801. It was followed not long 
after by the two volumes of Original Poems for Infant 
Minds. I thyme* for the Xursery , etc., the joint produc- 
tion of Jane and Iter sisters, which quickly gained the 
favor of the public, were reprinted in America, amt 
translated into German. Few books have been found 
more agreeable to children, or more useful in the busi- 
ness of early education. In 1801) she contributed to 
The Associate Minstrels, and soon after engaged with 
her sisters in the more difficult task of composing Hymns 
for Children. This volume must be pronounced equal, 
if not superior, both in merit and popularity, to Dr. 
Watts’s Divine Songs. Its success called forth a second 
volume adapted for Sunday-schools, the contents of 
which have been incorporated with almost every subse- 
quent collection for that purpose, and are now continu- 
ally sung by millions of infant voices in different parts 
of the world. In IS 14 she published Display , and in 
1 S 1 G her Essays in Rhyme on Morals and Manners, which 
gained her a large increase of well-merited reputation. 
Iler Contributions of(l. (). to the Youth's Magazine were 
among her last and best literary efforts. They have 
since been republished in two vols. 12mo. She died at 
Ougar, April 13, 18*24, confiding, calm, and happy in the 
Lord. .See Memoirs and Remains, by her brother. 

Taylor, Jeremy, D.D.. a distinguished Anglican 
divine, was born at Cambridge in Id 13. He entered 
as a sizar in Cains College, Cambridge, in 1020, and 
became chaplain to archbishop Laud and to Charles 1 ; 
was made fellow of All-Souls’ College, Oxford, in 1032; 
and was rector of Uppingham, Rutlandshire, 1038; se- 
questered by Parliament in 1642: and after the de- 
feat of the Loyalists suffered frequent but short im- 
prisonments. During the first year of the Protectorate, 
lie kept a school in Wales in conjunction with William 
Nicholson, and officiated as chaplain to the earl of 
Carberry at Golden Grove, Carmarthenshire. In 1658 
he settled in Ireland and preached alternately at Lisburn 
and Portmore. He returned to London in the spring 
of 1GG0, and signed the loyal Declaration of the Nobili- 
ty uml Gentry April 24, thirty-live days before the Res- 
toration. He was consecrated bishop of Down and Con- 
nor in January, lGGl,made a member of the Irish Privy 
Council in February, intrusted with the diocese of 
Dromore in March, and in the same year w*as elected 
vice-chancellor of the University of Dublin. He died 
at Lisburn, Aug. 13, 1GG7, and was interred in the choir 
of the cathedral at Dromore. II is funeral sermon was 
preached by his chaplain, Dr. George Rust, who said of 
him: ‘‘His endowments were so many and so great as 
really made him a miracle. lie was a rare humanist 
and deeply versed in all the polite arts of learning, and 
thoroughly concocted all the ancient moralists, Greek 
and Roman poets and orators. He had the good-hu- 
mor of a gentleman, the eloquence of an orator, the fan- 
cy of a poet, the acuteness of a schoolman, the pro- 
foundness of a philosopher, the wisdom of a chancellor, 
the sagacity of a prophet, the reason of an angel, and 
the piety of a saint. He had devotion enough lor a 
cloister, learning enough for a university, and wit 
enough for a college of virtuosi .” To sum up all his 
attainments, Thompson calls him, in his Blog. Hist., the 
“Homer of divines;” Hannah More, the “ Shakspeare 
of the Church;” carl Shaftesbury, the “ Spenser of Eng- 
lish theological literature.” An account of his writings 
and the various editions would till a volume. We give 
an outline of his works, and simply the first editions: 
The Sacred Order and Offices of Episcopacy (Oxford, 
1G42, 4to): — A Discourse concerning Prayer (Loud. 
1640, 1 to) : — New and Easy Institution of Grammar: — 
Discourse of the Liberty of Prophesying (1617, 4to): — 
The Great Exemplar of Sanctity and Holy Life (1649, 
4 to) : — The Rule and Exercise of Holy Living (1650, 
12mn): — The Rule and Exercise of Holy Dying (1651, 
12mo): — A Discourse of the Office Ministerial (Lond. 
1651, 8 vo) : — Sermons for all Sundays in the Year (ibid. 
1653, 2 vols. fol.) : — Manual of Daily Prayers (1655, 


Svo ) : — Doctrine and Practice of Repentance (Lond. 1655, 
8vo ) : — Polemical and Moral Discourses (1657, fol.) : — 
Discourses of the Nature, Offices , and Measures of 
Friendship (1662, 12mo ): — Offices or Forms of Prayer 
(1658, Svo) : — 'The Rule of Conscience (1660, 2 vols. fol.) : 
— The Worthy Communicant (1660, 8vo ): — Rules and 
Advices to the Clergy of the Diocese of Down and Con- 
nor (Dublin, 1661, 8vo) : — Discourse of Confirmation 
( 1664, 8 vo ): — Dissuusives from Popery ; addressed to 
the People of Ireland (ibid. pt. i, 1864, 4 to ; pt. ii, 1867, 
4to, some 8vo ) : — Contemplations of the State of Man 
(1681, 4 to and 8vo). There have also been published 
separately, Christian Consolations Taught from Religion 
(24mo ) : — Guide to Eternal Happiness (12mo): — Bap- 
tists Justified , with Notes by Dr. Anderson (12mo): — 
Reverence Due to the Altar; Preparation for the Sacra- 
ment (12mo ): — Comforts of Piety (12mo ): — Marriage 
Ring (Lond. 1838, 32mo ): — Warning Vain (1848, 
18mo ) : — Godly Fear (1867, 32mo ) : — Selections from his 
Prayers (1811, Svo) : — Beauties of Jeremy Taylor (Lond. 
1845 ): — Selections from his Writings (in Sparks, Essays 
and Tracts in Theology, vol. vi, No. 11). There have 
been numerous editions of Dr. Taylor’s w ? orks: Select 
IForFs (1819, 6 vols. Svo, Longman); Select Works, by 
Hradlcv (2 vols.); Select I For As, by T. S. Hughes, D.L). 
(5 vols. Svo) ; Practical IForFs, by George Croly, D.D. 
(2 vols. Svo) ; Whole 1 1 'orks, with Essay Biographical 
and Critical, by Henry Rogers (1835.3 vols. imp. 8vo) ; 
Whole IFonks*, by Rev. J. R. Pitman, with life of the au- 
thor and a critical examination of his writings; Life of 
Bishop Taylor, by bishop Heber; and also Life by 
Rev. J. Wheeldon, in which the pure spirit of bis writ- 
ings is extracted and exhibited for the general bene- 
fit. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors , 
s. v. ; Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. (W. P. S.) 

Taylor, John (1), “the Water Poet,” was born at 
Gloucester, England, in 1580, and was educated at a 
free school in that town. He w*ent to London, "where 
he w*as apprenticed to a w’atcrman, and followed this 
occupation for the most of his life; hence his appella- 
tion of “ the Water Poet.” He w r as also collector of the 
w ine fees for the lieutenant of the Tower, and keeper of 
a public-house at Oxford and Westminster, lie died 
in 1654. His productions, in prose and verse, number 
about 140, among which we notice, Urania , etc., with a 
Narration of the Thirteen Sages and Six Sackings of 
Jerusalem, etc. (1615, 8vo ) : — Snperbice Flagellum, or the 
Whip of Pride (1621, 8vo ): — Against Cursing and 
Swearing, in prose and verse (ITorAv, i, 39-55 ): — The 
Life and Death of the Most Blessed among Women, the 
Virgin Mary, etc. (1022, 8vo ): — Verbuni Sempitemum , 
an epitome of the Old Test, in verse (IForLs, pt. iii) : — 
Salvator Mundi, an epitome of the New Test, in verse 
( with preceding, in 1693, 64mo, called The Thumb 
Bible ): — Book of Martyrs ( 1639, 18mo) (IForFs, iii, 
136-141 ): — The Church's Deliverances, from t lie year 
1565 to 1630, in verse ( 1 1 r orks, iii, 142-146 ) : — A Swarm 
of Sectaries and Schismatiques (1641, 4to). For full 
list and description of w*orks, see Allibone, Diet, of Brit, 
and Amer. Authors, s. v. 

Taylor, John (2), D.D., a learned English Dissenter 
and educator, was born near Lancaster in 1694, and was 
educated at Whitehaven. He settled first at Kirkstead, 
Lincolnshire, where he preached to a small congrega- 
tion and taught a grammar-school for nearly twenty 
years. In 1733 he was settled over a Presbyterian 
Church at Norwich, but in 1757 went to Warrington, in 
Lancashire, to superintend an academy, and died there, 
March 5, 1761. Among his publications are, The Script- 
ure Doctrine of Original Sin (Lond. 1738 and later) : — 
A Paraphrase on Romans (ibid. 1745 ): — A Scripture 
Catechism with Proofs (ibid. 1745 ): — A Collection of 
Times, etc., with a Scheme for Supporting the Spirit and 
Practice of Psalmody (ibid. 1750 ) : — The Scripture Doc- 
trine of Atonement (1753 ) : — A Hebrew- English Concord- 
ance (ibid. 1751, 2 vols. fol.) : — The Lord's Supper Ex- 


TAYLOR 


233 


TAYLOR 


plained upon Scripture Principles { 17 51) : — The Covenant 
of Grace in Defence of Infant Baptism (1755 ) : — A Sketch 
of Moral Philosophy (1760). His greatest work is his 
Hebrew Concordance, adapted to the English Bible, in 
which every word in the Hebrew Bible, with all its 
forms and significations, is to be found. His Scripture 
Doctrine of Original Sin called forth the celebrated an- 
swer of Edwards, in his treatise on Onginal Sin, which, 
whatever else may be said, it was not in the power of 
Taylor of Norwich to answer. In his Paraphrase on 
the Romans, with notes, he also found opportunity to 
broach freely his Arian sentiments, although the work 
also contains many valuable illustrations and com- 
ments on the Epistle. See Chalmers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. 

Taylor, John (3), an English divine, was born at 
Shrewsbury, and baptized at St. Alkmund’s Church, 
June 22, 1704, and was educated at the expense of Mr. 
Owen, of Condover, at St. John’s College, Cambridge, 
where he took his A.B. in 1727. He afterwards became 
both fellow and tutor of this college, and in March, 1732, 
was appointed librarian, which office he held but a short 
time, being, in 1734, appointed registrar of the univer- 
sity. In 1744 he was made chancellor of the diocese 
of Lincoln, and in April, 1751, was preferred to the rec- 
tory of Lawford, in Essex; while in January, 1753, he 
became archdeacon of Buckingham, lie was made 
canon residentiary of St. Paul’s in July, 1757, and re- 
moved to Loudon, where he resided until his death, 
April 14, 1766. See Chalmers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. 

Taylor, John (4), a Revolutionary patriot and pro- 
fessor of natural philosophy and mathematics in Queen’s 
College. He was elected by the trustees at their first 
meeting in 1771, and Rev. Dr. Jacobus Kutsen Ilarden- 
bergh was chosen as president. The college went into 
operation at once, and before the war several students 
were graduated. When the war broke out, these two 
illustrious men threw themselves ardently into the cause 
of independence. Professor Taylor drilled the students 
as a military company, and they were quite expert in 
the use of arms. The irruption of the British troops 
who occupied New Brunswick broke up the college. 
An advertisement is still extant that the exercises of 
the college would be continued at a private house at 
the head of the Raritan during one of these years. 
Subsequently professor Taylor became colonel of the 
New Jersey State regiment; but he continued to dis- 
charge his professional duties for a time. In a letter to 
governor Livingston, Sept. 25, 1779, he speaks of “the 
necessity of attending the examination of the students; 
and as the trustees insist upon my fulfilling my engage- 
ments, I hope I shall be discharged from the regiment 
as soon as possible.” Of his subsequent life there is no 
public record accessible to the writer; but his name 
and relationship to the college are important and in- 
teresting as showing the patriotism of both officers and 
students of the infant college, and the close connection 
between enlightened academic education and the spirit 
of independence in that period of New Jersey history. 
Among those whom Prof. Taylor drilled in the com- 
pany of students the most eminent was the first grad- 
uate of the college, Simeon De Witt, who was Wash- 
ington’s chief “geographer to the army,” or topograph- 
ical engineer, as the office is now termed. See Revolu- 
tionary Coi'respomlence of N. J. p. 177 ; Hist, of Rut- 
gers College. (W. J. R. T.) 

Taylor, John S., a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in Delaware County, Pa., Aug. 29, 1795; ‘con- 
verted March 10, 1827; admitted on trial in the Phila- 
delphia Conference in 1833, and appointed to Milford Cir- 
cuit; in 1835, to Cambridge Circuit; in 1836-37, to Ac- 
comacCircuit; in 1838, to Northampton Circuit; in 1839- 
40, to Snow Hill Circuit ; in 1841-42, to Dorchester Cir- 
cuit; in 1843-48, to Mariners’ Bethel, Philadelphia; in 
1849, superannuated. He died Aug. 21, 1849. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences , iv, 423. 

Taylor, Jonathan, a minister of the Societ 3 r of 


Friends, was a resident of Mount Pleasant, iit the State 
of Ohio, lie was much esteemed by the society of 
which he was a member. He was sent as a delegate 
to the societies in England and Ireland in the year 1831. 
During his journey he was attacked with inflammation 
of the lungs, and died at Kilnock, near Carlow, Ireland, 
June 11, 1831. See Annual Monitor, 1833, p. 57. 

Taylor, Joseph, a Congregational missionary to 
India, was born in 1786; commenced his labors in India 
in 1812, laboring some time in the Bellarv Mission, and 
removing thence to Belgaum, where he continued until 
1852, when he retired to Bombay. Here he died, Nov. 

19, 1859. See (Loud.) Cony. Year-book, 1861, p. 242. 

Taylor, Joshua, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born at Princeton, N. J., Feb. 5, 1768. 
At the age of seventeen he was apprenticed to a cabinet- 
maker, and continued in his employ three years, when 
the death of his mother awakened his mind to his spir- 
itual condition. After a severe struggle against scep- 
ticism, he entered fully into communion with the Church 
in 1791 ; became an itinerant preacher, and was appoint- 
ed to Flanders Circuit, N. J. The next year he went to 
New England, and labored in the circuits of Fairfield, 
Middletown, Granville, and Trenton, in Connecticut. In 
1797 he was transferred to Maine, and appointed pre- 
siding elder of the newly formed district in that, State. 
In 1798 he united with his duties as presiding elder the 
care of Readfield Circuit. In 1801 Mr. Taylor was ap- 
pointed to the Boston District; in 1803 he was returned 
to the “District of Maine.” and in 1804 was stationed at 
Portland, Me. He located in 1806, continuing to preach 
in Portland and vicinity, and teaching a private school. 
In 1824 he was chosen one of the presidential electors 
of Maine, and cast his vote for John Q. Adams. From 
1826 to 1848 he confined his labors principally to Cum- 
berland. In the latter year he re-entered the Confer- 
ence, was entered as superannuated, and was appoint- 
ed chaplain to the almshouse, where he attended to the 
duties of his office till June, 1852, when he was disabled 
by paralysis. He died at his home in Portland, March 

20, 1861. About 1802 he was engaged in a pamphlet 
controversy with a Rev. Mr. Ward, a Congregational 
minister who attacked Methodist doctrines. “The 
Methodist party was entirely satisfied with the result 
of the controversy.” See Zion's Herald, April 3, 1861. 

Taylor, Michael S M a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born in Scott County, Ky., Oct. 28, 1798; 
licensed to preach September, 1824, and some time af- 
terwards received on trial in the Kentucky Conference. 
He travelled about four years in the Kentucky Confer- 
ence ; was then transferred to the Illinois Conference, 
and thence to the Indiana; was subsequently retrans- 
ferred to the Illinois Conference, and appointed pre- 
siding elder in the Wabash District, where he contin- 
ued his labors for four years. In 1836 he was appoint- 
ed presiding elder of the Quincy District. He died 
July 20, 1838. In all the relations of life he was irre- 
proachable. See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1839, 

p. 661. 

Taylor, Nathaniel (1), an English clergyman, 
was assistant minister in Westminster in 1683, and ap- 
pointed pastor of a congregation at Salter’s Hall in 1695. 
He died in 1702, at the age of about forty. He publish- 
ed, Sermons (Loud. 1688, 4to) : — Funeral Sermon (1691, 
4to ) : — Preservative against Deism (1698, 4to): — Fune- 
ral Sermon (1699, 4to ) : — Discourse of Faith in Jesus 
Christ, etc. (1700, 4to): — Dr. William Sherlock's Cases 
and Letter of Church Communion , etc., Considered (1702, 
8vo ) ; — Practical Discourses (1703, 8vo). See Allibone, 
Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors , s. v. 

Taylor, Nathaniel (2), a Congregational minis- 
ter, w\as born at Danbury, Conn., Aug. 27, 1722 (O. S.). 
lie graduated at Yale College in 1745, and was ordained 
pastor, June 29, 1748, at New Milford, Conn., where he 
remained until his death, Dec. 9, 1800. For twenty-six 


TAYL01 


234 


TAYLOU 


years lie was one of the Vale College board of trustees. 
11 is only publications were two occasional Sermons. 
Jn 1759 he was chaplain, under Col. X. Whiting, at and 
around Crown Point and Ticonderoga. See Sprague, 
*4 n mils of the .1 mer. P nlpit , i, 407. 

Taylor, Nathaniel William, D.D., an eminent 
Congregational preacher and divine, and the grandson 
of the preceding, was born at New Milford, Conn., June 
23, 1 7 SO. lie spent his early years on a farm, was pre- 
pared for college by Kev. Dr. Azcl Hack us, and gradu- 
ated at Vale College in 1807. having had twice to relin- 
quish his studies on account of disease of the eyes, lie 
was private tutor for a year in Albany and Montreal, 
studied theology four years with Dr. Dwight, and in 
1812 succeeded Moses Stuart in the pastorate of the 
First Church, New Haven, where lie labored with great 
success for ten years. Of his preaching, Dr. Dutton 
thus speaks: “The intellectual qualities of his preach- 
ing were thorough and profound, yet lucid and scriptu- 
ral: exposition and discussion of weighty themes; a 
marshalling of comprehensive forces of luminous and 
enkindled logic, to bear, with compacted and converg- 
ing unity and climacteric power, on the one question in 
hand; a full and frank meeting of difficulties; bold, de- 
fiant, and powerful grappling with objections; fearless 
reference, in defence of scriptural doctrine and precept, 
to reason and common-sense; close and pungent appli- 
cations to conscience, and earnest and tender appeals to 
the heart.” Dr. Taylor was considered one of the ablest 
preachers of his time, and in certain aspects was thought 
to have had no equal. After he became theological in- 
structor, especially in times of revival, his labors were 
widely sought by the Church and freely given. Jn 
18*22. upon the formation of the theological department 
in Vale College, he was chosen Dwight professor of di- 
dactic theology, which position he held until March 10, 
1858, when he quietly and peacefully passed away from 
earth. It was as a teacher of theology that his influ- 
ence has been most widely felt. In this held, he was 
an original investigator, and few men have left a deeper 
impress upon American divinity. In several important 
respects lie diverged from the traditional theology of 
New England. lie held that the mind, however af- 
fected by sin in intellect, sensibility, or will, is yet a 
free agent, capable by intellect to perceive and under- 
stand the objects and motives of choice, capable by sen- 
sibility to feel their influence, and capable bv will to 
choose or refuse any one of them; and that the power 
of will, by which it makes a given choice, is a power 
that could in the time and circumstances have chosen 
differently and oppositely, lie repudiated the predi- 
cating of the words “ predestinated” and “decreed” to 
(lod, and substituted the word “ purposed.” While de- 
pravity is universal to the race, it is not to be ascribed 
to any property, propensity, or disposition of the soul, 
prior to actual transgression, as sinful in itself, or as the 
necessary cause of sin, nor to a sinful nature corrupted 
in or derived from Adam, sin being traced to the con- 
stitutional propensity of man for natural good, as per- 
verted by his own moral agency. “ Sin comes in as an 
unavoidable result, so far as divine prevention is con- 
cerned, of such materials as (lod uses, and must use, in 
a moral universe— to wit, free agents.” God, having 
created man moral and responsible, cannot prevent, the 
entrance of sin without contradicting himself. He ad- 
mitted and taught that sin is among the things which 
are according to the counsel of God’s will, yet only in 
an indirect and remote sense, God preferriiig a moral 
system in which sin is necessarily incidental to the non- 
existence of a moral system. * As to the originality 
and soundness of Dr. Taylor’s views concerning sin, 
much difference of opinion has prevailed. Some of his 
followers have claimed that they are original with 
him; others quote Whatelv, Woodward, and Dr. John 
Young as having enounced views in consonance with 
Ids.. Dr. Fond charges him with reviving “ the old Ar- 
m i uian deistieal hypothesis, ’’ while Dr. Dutton claims, 


on the contrary, that “time has fully proved that his 
mode was altogether best for the refutation of Armiu- 
ianism.” Dr. Whedon says that while Dr. Taylor “vin- 
dicated the divine government by introducing into his 
system the Armininn view of sin, he overthrows his 
own work by admitting the principle of preordination.” 
At all events, the enunciation of Dr. Taylor’s views gave 
rise to a prolonged and exciting controversy, which was 
carried on with unusual persistency and ability between 
himself and his colleagues, on the one hand, and Drs. 
Tyler, Woods, and other prominent Congregational di- 
vines, on the other. Dr. Tavlor never admitted that 
his opinions were heretical, judged hy the standard 
theologians of New England, but labored hard to'prove 
their substantial conformity to the latter. Defended 
and enforced by his intense earnestness and eloquence, 
and by his powerful logic, his theology has won many 
adherents, and — so it has been claimed — has silently 
modified, and in a true sense rationalized, the Calvinis- 
tic theology. Dr. Taylor attached much importance to 
the truths of natural religion, and he also laid much 
stress upon true theories of mind. A correct mental 
philosophy he deemed fundamental, and elaborated with 
much care a system of his own. With Dwight and 
Edwards, he held that all motives find their ultimate 
ground of appeal in the desire of personal happiness, 
and that the idea of right in its last analysis is resolved 
into a tendency to the highest happiness. As a teacher, 
I)r. Taylor won the admiration and affection of his pu- 
pils, nearly seven hundred being under bis training, and 
inspired them with enthusiasm and pleasure in the pur- 
suit of their studies. In his social and domestic rela- 
tions, he was peculiarly attractive and lovely, and pe- 
culiarly beloved. As an author, Dr. Taylor is known 
principally by posthumous works. His controversial 
articles were contributed principally to the Monthly ami 
Quarterly Christian Spectator and to the Spirit of the 
Pilyrims. Since his death there have appeared the fol- 
lowing, edited by Noah Taylor, D.I>. : Practical Ser- 
mons (N. Y. 1858, 8vo) Lectures on the Moral Govern- 
ment af God (ibid. 1859, 2 vols. 8vo), his greatest anti 
most celebrated performance: — Essays, Lectures, etc., 
upon Select Topics in Revealed Theology ( ibid. 1859, 
8vo). See the Conyreyational Quarterly, I860, p. 245 
sq. (hy Dr. Dutton); Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. 
Authors, s. v. ; Appletons ’ Cyclopaedia, s. v. ; also the 
Christ. Quar. Spec. vols. ii, iv, v ; Spirit of the PifgHms , 
vols. v, vi; Xe iv- Englander, Nov. 1859 (by Prof. Mar- 
tin) ; A mer. Theol. Rev. 1859, p. 391 sq. (by Dr. Pond) ; 
Meth. Quar. Rev. 1859, p. 317, 667 ; 18G0, p. 146, 656- 
669 (by Dr. Whedon) ; Memorial of Xathaniel IP. Tay- 
lor, D.D. (New Haven, 185S, 8vo), comprising sermons 
by Drs. Bacon, Dutton, and Fisher. Sec Theology; 
Tylek, Ben net. 

Taylor, Oliver Alden, a Congregational minis- 
ter, was born at Yarmouth, Mass., Aug. 18, 1801. He 
graduated at Union College, 1825; entered the ministry 
November, 1828; and, spending the next eleven years 
in study and teaching, he became pastor at Manchester 
Sept. 18, 1839, and died Dec. 18, 1851. lie published, 
Cataloyue of the Andover Theological Seminary (1838) : 
— Piety in Humble Life (1844, by the Mass. S. S. Soci- 
ety): — and numerous articles, original and translated, 
and some poems, in various periodicals. A memoir of 
his life by Bcv. T. A. Taylor, his brother, was published 
in 1853, a second edition uf which appeared in 1856. 
See Sprague, Annals of the Amer, Pulpit, ii, 725. 

Taylor, Richard Cowling, an eminent English 
antiquary, was born at Hinton, Suffolk, Jan. 18, 1^789, 
and emigrated to the United States in July, 1830, settling 
in Philadelphia. He was a surveyor and geologist, and 
was greatly useful in developing the mineral resources 
of various parts of the country. He died Oct. 26, 1851. 
In addition to scientific works, he published Index Mo- 
nasticus, or the A bbeys and other Monasteries, A lien Pri- 
ories, Friaries, Colleges, Collegiate Churches , lJospitals } 


TAYL01 


2-35 


TAYLOR 


etc., in the City of Norwich (Loud. 1821, fol.). See Al- 
Hbone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. A uthors, s. v. 

Taylor, Rowland, LL.I)., an English clergyman 
and martyr, is supposed to have been a Yorkshireman ; 
and after being educated at Cambridge, became the head 
of Border I lostle, near Cains College. He was presented 
by archbishop Cranmer to the rectory of lladleigh, where 
lie attended faithfully to the spiritual needs of his pa- 
rishioners. In 1553 he was summoned before Gardiner 
for resisting the popish mass at lladleigh. He defended 
Ills cause with firmness, but was committed to the King’s 
Bench Prison, where he remained till dan. 22, 1555, when 
lie was sentenced to be burned. The execution took 
place Feb. 8. 1555, on Aldham Common, near lladleigh. 
See Fox, Book of Martyrs ; Hook, Bccl. Biog. s. v. 



; Or - TA^TEtt - IN BE ' 

l FEEING • THAT 
WAS GOOD AT 
T'l-frS PIAS LEFT, 


Martyr’s Stone at lladleigh. 


Taylor, Samuel, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Nova Scotia, Sept. 14, 1795; graduated at the 
Princeton Theological Seminary in 1825; was licensed 
to preach the same year, and shortly after was ordained 
and installed pastor of the Millersburg and Stoner Mouth 
churches of Bourbon County, Ky. In 1831 became pas- 
tor of the Nieholasville and Cedar Creek churches, Ky.; 
in 1830, at Frankfort, 1 ml. ; in 1845, Wavcland, Iml. ; in 
1852, Washington, Ind.; in 1854, Waco, Texas. He died 
June 9, 1855. Mr. Taylor was a close student and a man 
of literary tastes. As a theologian he was acute, pro- 
lific, and systematic. He was for a number of years an 
active member of the Board of Trustees of Hanover Col- 
lege, Ind., and of the New Albany Theological Seminary, 
Iml. See Wilson, Fresh, Hist. Almanac , 18G7, p. 200. 
(J.L.S.) 

Taylor, Stephen, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born at Tyringham, Berkshire Co., Mass., Feb. 20, 
1790. He pursued his preparatory studies at Lenox 
Academy; graduated at Williams College, with the 
highest honor, in 1810; was preceptor of the academy 
at Westfield, 51 ass., for one year, and tutor in Williams 
College 1817-19; studied theology in Andover Theo- 
logical Seminary, and afterwards privately; was licensed 
to preach in 1824. and shortly after was ordained pastor 
of a church in Halifax Co., Ya. In 1826 he became 
pastor of the Shoekoe Hill Church, Richmond. Va. ; in 
1835 was appointed professor of ecclesiastical history in 
the Union Theological Seminary in Prince Edward Co.; 
in 1838 resigned, and shortly after became pastor of a 
church in Abingdon, Va.; in 1843, of the High Street 
Church in Petersburg, Va. ; in 1847 returned to Rich- 
mond, and engaged in teaching; in 1850 became pastor 
of the Duval Street Church, Richmond, and continued 
in charge of it until his death, March 4, 1853. Mr. 
Taylor was an instructive preacher, an excellent pastor, 
and a learned tutor. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. 
Pulpit , iv, 073. (J. L. S.) 

Taylor, Thomas (I), a learned Puritan divine, 
was born at Richmond, Yorkshire, in 1570; and was ed- 
ucated at Christ’s College, Cambridge, of which he be- 
came fellow, and afterwards Hebrew lecturer. On leav- 
ing the university, he settled first at Watford, Hertford- 
shire; then at Reading, Berkshire; and in 1025 he ob- 
tained the living of St. Mary Aldermanburv, London, 
which he retained during the remainder of his life, lie 
died early in 1032. His contemporaries unite in giving 


him a high character for learning, piety, and useful- 
ness. Among his works are, Commentary on the Bpistle 
of St. Paul written to Titus (Camb. 1012, 4to; 1010, 
1019, best ed. 1058, fol.); — Treatise of Christian Relig- 
ion (1610, 4to) : — Exposition upon Parable of the Sower, 
etc. (Loud. 1021, 4to; 1031, 1034): — Christ's Victory 
orer the Dragon (1033, 4 to) ; — Christ Perea led, or the 
Old Testament Explained, etc. (1035, sm. 4to). Other 
works, with Life, appeared (Loud. 1053, fol.). See Alli- 
bone, Did. of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. ; Chalmers, 
Biog. Did. s. v. 

Taylor, Thomas (2), “ the Platonist,” was born in 
London, May 15, 1758. He studied for three years at St. 
Paul’s school, with the design of becoming a Dissenting 
minister, but afterwards entered Lubbock’s banking- 
house. Later he received the appointment of assistant 
secretary to the Society for the Encouragement of Arts, 
Manufactures, and Commerce, which post he held sev- 
eral years. During the last forty years of his life he 
resided at Wal worth (partially supported by an income 
of £100 from his friend W. Meredith). He died Nov. 
1, 1835. His works comprise sixty-three volumes, of 
which twenty-three are large quartos. Besides treatises 
on arithmetic and geometry, and a few minor essays, 
etc., his principal work was the translation of Plato, 
Aristotle, and other Greek and Latin authors. The 
Works of Plato, viz. his Fifty-jive Dialogues and Twelve 
Epistles; Nine of the Dialogues by the late Floyer Syden- 
ham, and the Remainder by Thomas Taylor, etc. (1804, 5 
vols. 4 to), was printed at the expense of the duke of 
Norfolk, who locked up nearly the whole edition in his 
house, where it remained till 1848, when it was sold. 
Of his t ranslation of Aristotle (1806-12, 10 vols.4to) only 
fifty complete copies were struck off, the expense being 
defrayed by W. Meredith, llis latest works were trans- 
lations of Proclus, On Providence and Evil (1833, 8vo; 
1841, 8vo) ; and Plotinus, On Suicide (1834, 8vo). His 
translations have been commended by some, but by oth- 
ers very severely criticised. For full catalogue of Tay- 
lor’s works, see Allibone, Did. of Brit, and Amer. Au- 
thors, s. v. 

Taylor, Thomas House, D.D., a clergyman of 
the Protestant Episcopal Church, was born of English 
parents in Georgetown. S. C.. Oct. 18, 1799. llis early 
education was acquired at Guilford, Conn.; he gradu- 
ated from South Carolina College, Columbia, as valedic- 
torian of his class; studied theology under bishop White; 
was ordained deacon in 1821, and priest in 1820. For 
nine years he was rector of St.John’s Church, Colleton, 
John’s Island. S. C. In April, 1834, he became rector 
of Grace Church, New York city, where he remained 
until the close of his life. He died at West Park, on 
the Hudson, Sept. 9, 1807. Dr. Taylor was a fine schol- 
ar, a man of marked character, and retained the respect 
and affection of his people. He held several positions 
of honor and trust. See American Quar. Church Per. 
Jan. 1808, p. 065. 

Taylor, Timothy, an English clergyman, was 
born at Hempstead, Hertfordshire, in 1009, and enter- 
ed Queen’s College, Oxford, in 1G26. He became vicar 
of Almeley, Hertfordshire; subsequently a Presbyte- 
rian, and then an Independent, In 1008 he removed 
to Dublin, and became assistant to Samuel Mather, 
and afterwards to Nathaniel Mather, and died there 
in 1081. He wrote Defence of Sundry Positions and 
Scriptures alleged to Justify the Congregatioital Way 
(Loud. 2 pts. 4to: pt. i, 1045; pt. ii, 1046). They were 
answered by Richard Hollingworth in his Certain Que- 
ries (1646, 4to). See Allibone, Did. of Brit, and A mer. 
A uthors, s. v. 

Taylor, Timothy Alden, a Congregational min- 
ister and author, was born at Hawley, Mass., Sept. 7, 
1809. He graduated at Amherst College in 1835, anil 
at the Andover Theological Seminary in 1838. He w-as 
ordained at Slatersville, R. I., 1839, where he preached 
until his death — cut off suddenly in the midst of his 


TAYLOI 


236 


TEARS 


usefulness, March 2, 1858. Mr. Taylor was honest and 
unflinching in his attachment to his principles, earnest 
and faithful, lie was a diligent student, and wrote 
much for the periodical press. He also published a Me- 
moir of his brother, Rev. Oliver Alden Taylor (Boston, 
T2mo, 1855 ; 2d ed. 1850):— The Solace (32 mo) :—The 
Tiro Mothers (32mo) :—Zion (32mo) Zion's Pathicay 
(12mo) : — Bible Vietc of the Death Penalty (8vo). See 
Cony. Quarterly , 1859, [). DO; Alliboue, Diet, of Brit, and 
Amer. Authors, s. v. 

Taylor, Veron D., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born at llinesburg, Vt., in 1708; received an academ- 
ical education; studied theology privately ; was licensed 
by the Addison Congregational Association, Vt., and or- 
dained by a Congregational council in 182(1. His fields 
of labor were as follows: Elizabethtown, N. 1. ; Litch- 
field, South Farms, Conn.; Amenia, N. Y. ; Galesburg, 
Mich.; Iluntsburg and Dover, Ohio; and was Seaman’s 
chaplain at Buffalo, X. Y., and Cleveland, Ohio, lie 
died Sept. G, 18G4. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac , 
18GG, p. 228. 

Taylor, William Cooke, LL.D., an Irish author, 
was born at Youghal in 1800, and was educated at Trinity 
College, Dublin, lie went to London in 1820, where he 
remained until 1847, when he returned to Ireland, to 
serve the viceregal household in the capacity of statis- 
tician. lie died in Dublin, Sept. 12, 1840. In addition 
to many works on secular subjects, he wrote, Catechism 
of the Christian Religion (Lond. 1828. 12mo) : — History of 
Mohammedanism and its Sects (1834, 12mo) : — History of 
Popery (new cd. 1837, 8vo) : — Illustrations of the. Bible 
and Coujinnations of Sacred History from the Monu- 
ments of Kyypt (1838, 12 mo) : — History of Christianity 
from its Promulyation to its Leya l L'stabl ishment in the 
Roman Empire (1844, 8vo). See Allibone, Did. of Brit, 
and .1 mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Tchu-chor, the prayer-mill used by the Buddhist 
priests in Chinese Tartary. It is constructed in two 
forms. (1.) One is a small wheel with Hies, which move 
either by wind or water. On these flies are written 
prayers, and it is supposed that all the merit of their 
recitation is conferred upon him that sets the wheel in 
motion. (2.) The other is a huge egg-shaped barrel, 
as large as a hogshead, upon an upright spindle, com- 
posed of endless sheets of paper pasted one over the 
other, and on each sheet is written a different prayer. 
At t lie bottom of this pasteboard barrel is a cord, which 
gives to it a rotary motion. The lamas make this spin 
rapidly, and acquire the merit of the repetition of all 
the prayers written on all the papers at every rotation 
of the barrel. The lamas spend much of their time in 
plying the tchu-chor by way of interceding for the peo- 
ple. In return they receive from each person a small 
compensation for their trouble. — Gardner, Euiths of the 
World, s. v. 

Teach (11 eb. prop. but also many other words ; 
Gr. prop. ctcdfjKu), but often other terms). Teaching 
is an important branch of the commission which Christ 
gave to his apostles before he left t lie earth. “Go,” 
said lie, “teach all nations,” or, as we have it recorded 
by another of the evangelists, “Breach the Gospel to 
every creature.” In this way they were to make dis- 
ciples, as the word paSijTtrnare imports. It is one of 
the precious promises of the new covenant that all its 
subjects shall be “taught of the Lord” (Isa. liv, 13). 
The Lord Jesus quoted these words in the days of his 
public minUtrv (John vi, 45), and describes the effect 
of this teaching thus: “ Even' man, therefore, that hath 
heard, and hath learned of the Father, cometh unto me,” 
which he afterwards explains to mean neither more 
nor less than believing on him. See Fkeacui.no. 

Teachers , or “doctors” (v. r.), are mentioned among 
divine gifts in Ephes. iv, 11, and it is possible that t lie 
apostle does not mean such ordinary teachers (or pas- 
tors) as the Church now enjoys; but as he seems to 


reckon them among the extraordinary donations of 
God, and uses no mark of distinction or separation be- 
tween apostles, with which he begins, and doctors, with 
which he ends, it may be that he refers to the nature 
of the otlice of the Jewish doctors; meaning well-in- 
formed persons, to whom inquiring Christian converts 
might have recourse for removing their doubts and dif- 
lieulties concerning Christian observances, the sacra- 
ments, and other rituals, and for receiving from Script- 
ure the demonstration that “this is the very Christ;” 
and that the things relating to the Messiah were ac- 
complished in Jesus. Such a gift could not but be very 
serviceable in that infant state of the Church, which, 
indeed, without it, would have seemed, in this particu- 
lar, inferior to the Jewish institutions. With this agrees 
the distinction (Kom.xii,7) between doctors ( teaching , 
Ci (Move air) and exborters, q. d. # “ he who gives advice 
privately , and resolves doubts, etc., let him attend to 
that duty; he who exhorts with a loud voice ( Trapa - 
KaXuiv), let him exhort” with proper piety. The same 
appears in 1 Cor. xii, 28, where the apostle ranges, 
1st, apostles, public instructors; 2d, prophets, occasional 
instructors; 3d (h^d<jKci\oi), doctors or teachers, pri- 
vate instructors. See Gifts. 

For monographs on our Lord as the Great Teacher, 
see Hase, Leben Jesu, p. 130 sq. See Jesus Christ. 

Tears (n2"E^, daicpva) are the well-known em- 
blem and usual accompaniment of grief; and as grief 
is generally most violent when it is indulged for the 
dead, so in the two following passages the wiping- 
away of tears is connected with the abolition of death : 
Isa. xxv, 8, “And the Lord Jehovah shall wipe away 
the tear from off all faces;” Rev. vii, 17, “And God shall 
wipe away all tears from their eyes.” Tears are wont 
to be poured out on occasions of mortality: thus in Jer. 
xxxi, 15, “A voice was heard in Iiamah, lamentation 
and bitter weeping, Rachel weeping for her children 
refused to be comforted for her children, because they 
were not;” again in xxii, 10, “Weep ye not for the 
dead, neither bemoan him, but weep sore for him that 
gocth away, for he shall return no more, nor see his 
native country.” Tears are sometimes shed for na- 
tional calamities: thus in Lam. i, 2, “She weepeth sore 
in the night, and her tears are on her checks;” again 
in Numb, xiv, 1, “And all t lie congregation lifted up 
their voice and cried, and the people wept that night.” 
In Gen. xxi, 15, 10, Ilagar’s pitiable case is thus de- 
scribed, “ And the water was spent in the bottle, and 
she cast the child under one of the shrubs. And she 
went and sat her down over against him a good way 
off, as it were a bow-shot; for she said, Let me not see 
the death of the child. And she sat over against him, 
and lifted tip her voice and wept.” Tears are often 
the symbol of divine judgments, as they are sometimes 
also of human oppressions. (See Eccles. iv, 1 ; Acts xx, 
19; Jer. xiv, 17.) They are sometimes the fruit of re- 
pentance and contrition. (See Mcb, xii, 7 ; Matt, xxvi, 
15.) But commonly they are the result of natural af- 
fection deploring a beloved object, of which the exam- 
ples are too obvious and numerous to cite. But what- 
ever the causes of tears to the righteous, all these shall 
be abolished, which is what is meant by “God’s wiping 
away all tears from their eyes.” For death, oppression, 
calamity, repentance, shall have no place in the heav- 
enly region. Weeping may endure for a night, but joy 
cometh in the morning. Those who sow in tears shall 
reap in joy. See Gkief. 

For the valley of tears (Fsa. Ixxxiv, G), see Baca. 

For monographs on the tears of Christ over Jerusa- 
lem (Luke xix, 41), see Yolbeding, Index Proyrumma- 
tnm, p. 53. Comp. Riesling, De Lacrimis Vatum (Lips. 
1747). See Jesus Christ. 

The so-called lachrymatories , or “tear-bottles,” sup- 
posed by some to have been used for collecting the 
tears of the mourners at the graves of the ancients 
(Thomson, Land and Book , i, 147), were rather ves- 


TEASHUR 

sels for perfumery or flowers (see the Penny Cyclop. 

s. v.). 

Teashur. See Box-tree. 

Te'bah (Heb. Te'bach , rQ2, slaughter, as often; 
Sept. Ta/3ev; Josephus, TajSaiog , Ant. i, 6, 5; Vulg. 
Ttibee ), the oldest of the four sons of Nahor by his con- 
cubine Reumah (Gen. xxii, 24). B.C. cir. 2050. 

Tebali'ah (Heb. only in the prolonged form Te- 
balya'hu , purified [Fiirst, protected’] by Jeho- 

vah ; Sept. Tafitktag v. r. T«/3\m; Vulg. Tabelias'), 
third of the four sons of Ilosah “of the children of Me- 
rab” (1 Chron. xxvi, 11). B.C. 1014. 

Te'betk (Heb. Tebeth', apparently of As- 

syrian origin, Tibitno), the tenth month (Esth. ii, 1G) 
of the sacred year of the Hebrews, corresponding in the 
main to January. Jerome has the following comment 
upon Ezek. xxix, 1: “Decimus mensis, qui llebrtvis 
appellatur Tebeth , et apud ^Egyptios [with whom it 
was the fifth month] Tvj3i [or T Coptic Tobi], 
apud Romanos Januarius.” In Arabic it is called 
Tubah , in Greek Tvj3i or T i)(3, and in Sanscrit Tapas. 
See Calendar, Jewish. 

Tebul Y om. See Talmud. 

Te Deum laudamus (i. e. “We praise thee, O 
God”). This hymn, which is written in honorem Sanc- 
tissimm Trinitatis , commonly called Ilymnus SS. Am- 
brosii et A ugustini, ami known as the Ambrosian Hymn , 
is erroneously ascribed to Ambrose. In a manuscript 
chronicle preserved at Milan, and erroneously ascribed 
to Decius (d. 553), bishop of Milan, we are told that 
at the baptism of Augustine, which Ambrose performed 
in the year 387, both the baptist and the candidate 
spontaneously, as if inspired bv the Holy Ghost, in- 
toned this hymn. This tradition would seem to have 
been corroborated by a passage of a spurious (the 9'2d) 
sermon of Ambrose which treats of the baptism of Au- 
gustine. But, in truth, the tradition owes its origin 
to this passage. Augustine himself, who speaks, in his 
Confessions , of his conversion and baptism, does not 
mention anything of the kind. Some have ascribed 
this hymn to Athanasius, bishop of Alexandria; others 
to Nicetius, about the year 535; and a third class to 
Hilary of Poitiers. The whole tenor of this hymn 
proves its Eastern origin, and at a very early time. 
Indeed, the Codex Alexandrians contains a morning 
hymn commencing Ka-;’ i.KdoTi]v i]f.npav tvko yijou) at 
teat aho'jou) to bvopci gov tig rbr aiwva; and this cir- 
cumstance, together with the fact of its great resem- 
blance with the Te Deum , induced Daniel ( Thesaur . 
Ifymnol. ii, 289 sq.) to say, “The Te Deum is based upon 
an ancient Greek hymn which, extensively known in 
the East, has found many translators, which fact not 
only accounts for the variety of readings, but also for 
the various authors to whom it is ascribed. Of these 
versions, the one which Ambrose made for the service 
of the Milan Church met with the most approval and 
was finally adopted, and this explains why it was com- 
monly called the Ambrvsian Hymn.” 

Even before the time of Charlemagne, this hymn 
was sung on special occasions in both churches of the 
East. The Roman Breviary uses it as one of the morn- 
ing hymns to be sung throughout the year, with the 
exception of the Sundays in Advent, Lent, and the 
Feast of the Holy Innocents. Long before the Refor- 
mation, it was known in a German translation. In 1533 
it was translated by Luther, “ Herr Gott, dich loben wir,” 
and since that time it has been translated into German 
and English by different authors. We subjoin a few 
lines of the original: 

“Te Deum laudamus, te Dominnm confitemur. 

Te sternum Patrem omnis terra veneratur. 

Tibi omnes angeli, tibi cceli et nniversse potentates, 

Tibi Cherubim "et Seraphim incessabili voce proclnmant : 

Sanctns, Sanctns, Sanctus Dominus Dens Sahaoth. 

Pleni suut coeli et terra majestatis gloriee tute.” 


TEIvOA 

This beautiful and inspiring composition is read or 
chanted at the morning service of the Church of Eng- 
land after the reading of the first lesson. The rubric 
enjoins that it shall be said or sung daily through- 
out the year in the vernacular language. The ancient 
offices of the English Church gave this hymn the 
title of the “Psalm Te Deum” or the “Song of Am- 
brose and Augustine” indifferently. As used it may 
be considered as a responsory psalm, since it follows a 
lesson ; and here the practice of the Church of England 
resembles that directed by the Council of Laodicea, 
which decreed that the psalms and lessons should be 
read alternately. The hymn consists of three equal 
parts — praise, confession of belief, and supplication. See 
ltambach, Anthologie christlicher Gesiinye , i, 87 sq. ; 
Bassler, Auswahl alt christlicher Lieder, p. 44 sq. ; Her- 
zog. Real-Encyklop. i, 275 sq. (2d ed. p. 328 sq.) ; Ten- 
tzel, Exercitationes X de Hymno Te Deum Laudamus 
(Lips. 1G92) ; Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. xiv, eh. xi, 
§ 9; and the monographs cited by Volbeding, bidex 
Proyrumnuttum , p. 134. (B. P.) 

Te Igitur (i. e. “ Thee therefore”), the first two 
words of the canon of the Latin mass. This part of 
the cucharistic service is said to have been drawn up 
under the direction of Gregory the Great, though por- 
tions of it are doubtless of much earlier date. It was 
also called (Jbsecratio. This service, as distinct from 
the missal, was used, and is still used, by bishops, prel- 
ates, and other dignitaries; and as the canon is the 
most sacred part of the service, oaths upon the Te lyi - 
fur were regarded as especially solemn. The Te Igitur 
appears to have been used in the ordeal of compur- 
gation. 

Teen (Chinese, heaven), a word generally used by 
the early Roman Catholic missionaries to denote the 
Supreme Being; but, to render it more evidently de- 
scriptive of a person, the Inquisition ordered the addi- 
tion to it of the word Chon, “Lord.” Thus Teen-Choo 
meant “ Lord of heaven,” and came to be the recognised 
appellative of God by Romish converts. The Protes- 
tant missionaries rejected Teen, and substituted Shin or 
Shang-te. — Gardner, Faiths of the World, s. v. 

Teenah. See Fig. 

Tehaph'nekes (Ezek. xxx, IS). See Taiipanhes, 

TehinTiah (Heb. Techinnah' , riSHin, supplication, 
as often; Sept. 0am v. r. 0 aipciv, Vulg. Tehiima ), a 
name occurring in the obscure list of the descendants of 
Judah (1 Chron. iv, 12) as the last-named of the three 
sons of Eshton (q. v.), and grandson of Chelub (q. v.) ; 
with the added epithet “the father of the city of Na- 
hash” (Abi-Ir- Xachash), and the statement “These 
are the men of Recliah” (q. v.). From all this, we can 
only gather that Tehinnah was probably related to the 
family of David. B.C. cir. 1083. See Naiiasii. 

Tehoroth. See Talmud. 

Teil-tree is properly the linden-tree, or Tilia Eu - 
ropcens of botanists. It is mentioned in the A. V., in 
Isa. vi, 13, “as a teil-tree, and as an oak;” but as in 
the Hebrew the word is eldh, usually rendered 

“oak,” by many supposed to be the terebinth , or “tur- 
pentine-tree,” there is no reason forgiving it a different 
signification in this from what it has in other passages. 
See Oak. 

Teind, the name given in the law of Scotland to 
Tithes (q. v.). 

Te'kel (Chald. TekeV, bpn, weighed, as immediate- 
ly explained in the context; Sept.SeieiX; Vulg. thecel), 
the second of the ominous words in the sentence of the 
Babylonian king (Dan. v, 25, 27). See Mene. 

Tekeleth. See Blue. 

Teko'a (Heb. id. 2ipn [once with h directive, 
nripn, 2 Sam. xiv, 2], a stockade ; Sept. 0f\w£ and 
06youf, Josephus Otvwa and 0 dcw£ ; Vulg. Thecue; A.V. 


237 


TEKOA 


238 


TEKOA 


« Tekonh'’ in 2 Sam. xiv), a town in the tribe of Judah 
(2 Chron. xi, G, as the associated places show : and in- 
sorted in its place in Josh. xv. 59. GO in the Sept, [see 
Kcil, rtf/ /<><*.]), oil the ratine tif hills which rise near He- 
bron. and stretch eastward towards the Dead Sea. These 
hills, bound the view of the spectator as he looks to the 
sooth from the summit of the Mount of Olives. Je- 
rome (/a .'1 mos, /Vofi'wtD says that. I ekoa was six Eo- 
tnan miles from Bethlehem. and that as lie wrote (in 
Jer. vi, 1) he had that village daily before his eyes 
(■* Thekoam quotidieoculisecrnimus”). In his Onomasti- 
con (s. v. Ecthel ’Ktf&iuce) he represents Tekoa as nine 
miles only from Jerusalem: but elsewhere he agrees 
with Eusebius in making the distance twelve miles. In 
the latter case lie reckons by the way of Bethlehem, the 
usual course in going from the one place to the other; 
but there may have been also another and shorter way, 
to which he has reference in the other computation. 
Some suggest (Bachiene, J'altislitm, ii. GO) that an error 
may have crept into Jerome’s text, and that we should 
read twelve there instead of nine. In 2 Chron. xx, 20 
(see also 1 Mace, ix, 33) mention is made of “ the wil- 
derness of Tckoa,” which must be understood of the ad- 
jacent region on the east of the town (see infra), which 
in its physical character answers so entirely to that des- 
ignation. It is evident from the name (derived from 
•‘pr, ** to strike,” said of driving the stakes or pins into 
t lie ground for securing the tent), as well as from the 
manifest adaptation of the region to pastoral pursuits, 
that the people who lived here must have been occu- 
pied mainly as shepherds, and that Tekoa in its best 
days could have been little more than a cluster of tents, 
to which the men returned at intervals from the neigh- 
boring pastures, and in which their families dwelt during 
their absence. 

The Biblical interest of Tekoa arises, not so much 
from any events which are related as having occurred 
there as from its connection with various persons who 
are mentioned in Scripture. It is not enumerated in 
the Hebrew f catalogue of towns in Judah (Josh, xv, 49). 
but is inserted in that passage by the Sept. The “wise 
woman” whom Joab employed to ctfect a reconciliation 
between David and Absalom was obtained from this 
place (2 Sam. xiv, 2). Here, also, Ira, the son of Ik- 
kesh, one of David's thirty “ mighty men” (C^£y), was 
born, and was called on that account “the Tekoite” (2 
Sam. xxiii. 2G). It was one of the places which Bcho- 
boam fortified, at the beginning of his reign, as a de- 
fence against invasion from the south (2 Chron. xi, G). 
Some of the people from Tekoa took part in building 
the walls of Jerusalem after the return from the Cap- 
tivity (Neh. iii, 5, 27). Tn Jer. vi, 1, the prophet ex- 
claims, •* Blow’ the trumpet in Tekoa and set up a sign 
of lire in Beth-haccerem” — the latter probably the 
“Frank Mountain,” the cone-shaped hill so conspicuous 
from Bethlehem. It is the sound of the trumpet as a 
warning of the approach of enemies, and a signal-tire 
kindled at night for the same purpose, which are de- 
scribed here as so appropriately heard and seen, in the 
hour of danger, among the mountains of Judah. Blit 
Tekoa is chiefly memorable as the birthplace of the 
prophet Amos, who was here called by a special voice 
from heaven to leave his occupation as “a herdman” 
and “ a puneturer of wild figs.” and was sent, forth thence 
to testify against the sins of the kingdom of Israel 
(Amos vii, 14). Accustomed to such pursuits, he must 
have been familiar with the solitude of the desert, and 
with the dangers there incident, to a shepherd’s life. 
Some effect of his peculiar training amid such scenes 
may be traced, as critics think (Dc Wette. Einl. ins A Ite 
Test. p. 35G). in the contents and style of his prophecy. 
Jerome (rtf/ A mos i,2> says, “ . . . ctiam Amos prophe- 
tam (pii pastor de pastoribus fuit et pastor non in locis 
cult is et arboribus ae vineis consitis, aut ccrte inter 
sylvas et prata virentia, sed in lata crcmi vastitate, in 
qua versatur leonum feritas ct intorfectio pccorum, avtis 


sme usum esse sernwnibusE Comp. Amos ii, 13; iii, 4, 
12: iv, 1 ; vi, 12; vii, 1 ; and see the striking remarks 
of Dr. 1‘usey, Jut rod, to A mos. 

In the genealogies of Judah (1 Chron. ii, 24, and iv, 
5), Ashur, a posthumous soli of Hczron and a brother 
of Caleb, is mentioned as the father of Tekoa, which 
appears to mean that he was the founder of Tekoa, or 
at least the owner of that village. See Bodiger in Ge- 
sen. Thesuur. iii, 1518. 

The common people among the Tekoites displayed 
great, activity in the repairs of the wall of Jerusalem 
under Nehemiah. They undertook two lengths of the 
rebuilding (Neh. iii, 5, 27). It is, however, specially 
mentioned that their “lords” (CHTpX) took no part in 
the work. 

Tekoa is known still as TefoVct, and, though it lies 
somewdiat aside from the ordinary route, lias been vis- 
ited and described by several recent travellers. Its dis- 
tance from Beit-Lahm agrees precisely with that as- 
signed by the early writers as the distance between 
Tekoa and Bethlehem. It is within sight also of the 
“ Frank Mountain,” beyond question the famous Hero- 
dium, or site of Herod’s Castle, which Josephus (HAir, 
iv, 9,5) represents as near the ancient Tekoa. It lies 
on an elevated hill, which spreads itself out into an irreg- 
ular plain of moderate extent. Its “ high position” (Bob- 
inson, Bill, Res. i, 48G) “gives it a wide prospect. To- 
wards the north-east the land slopes down tow ards Wady 
Khureitun ; on the other sides the hill is surrounded by 
a belt of level table-land; beyond which are valleys, 
and then other higher hills. On the south, at some dis- 
tance, another deep valley runs off south-east towards 
the Dead Sea. The view in this direction is bounded 
only by the level mountains of Moab, with frequent 
bursts of the Dead Sea, seen through openings among 
the rugged and desolate intervening mountains.” In 
the spring there are often encampments of shepherds 
there, consisting of tents covered with the black goat- 
skins so commonly used for that purpose; they are sup- 
ported on poles and turned up in part on one side, so as 
to enable a person without to look into the interior. 
Flocks pasture near the tents and on the remoter hill- 
sides in every direction. There are horses and cattle 
and camels also, though these are not so numerous as 
the sheep and goats. A well of living w'ater, on the 
outskirts of the village, is a centre of great interest and 
activity, the women coming and going with their pitch- 
ers, and men tilling the troughs to water the animals 
w r hich they have driven thither for that purpose. The 
general aspect of the region is sterile and unattractive; 
though here and there are patches of verdure, and some 
of the fields, which have yielded an early crop, may be 
seen recently ploughed up, as if for some new species 
of cultivation. Fleecy clouds, white as the driven snow, 
float towards the Dead Sea, and their shadows, as they 
chase each other over the landscape, seem to be fit em- 
blems of the changes in the destiny of men and nations, 
of which there is so much to remind one at such a time 
and in such a place. Various ruins exist at Tekoa, such 
as the walls of houses, cisterns, broken columns, and 
heaps of building-stones. Some of these stones have 
the so-called “bevelled” edges which are supposed to 
show a Ilebrew r origin. There was a convent here at 
the beginning of the Gth century, established by St. 
Tabus, and a Christian settlement in the time of the 
Crusaders; and undoubtedly most of these remains be- 
long to modern times rather than ancient. Among 
these should be mentioned a baptismal font, sculptured 
out of a limestone block, three feet nine inches deep, 
with an internal diameter at the top of four feet, and 
designed evidently for baptism as administered in the 
Greek Church. It stands in the open air, like a simi- 
lar one at Jufnn, near Beit in, the ancient Bethel. See 
more fully in the Christum Review (N. Y.), 1853. p. 519. 

Near Teku’n, among the same mountains, on the brink 
of a frightful precipice, are the ruins of Khureitun, pos- 


TEIvOITE 


239 


TELASSAE 


sibly a corruption of Kerioth (Josh, xv, 25), anti in that 
case perhaps the birthplace of Judas the traitor, who 
was thence called Iscariot, i. e. “man of Kerioth.” It 
is impossible to survey the scenery of the place and not 
to feel that a dark spirit would find itself in its own ele- 
ment amid the seclusion and wildness of such a spot. 
High up from the bottom of the ravine is an opening in 
the face of the rocks which leads into an immense sub- 
terranean labyrinth, which many suppose may have 
been the Cave of Adnllam, in which David and his fol- 
lowers sought refuge from the pursuit of Saul. It is 
large enough to contain hundreds of men, and is capa- 
ble of defence against almost any attack that coidd be 
made upon it from without. When a party of the Turks 
fell upon TekiVa and sacked it, A.D. 1138, most of the 
inhabitants, anticipating the danger, fled to this cavern, 
and thus saved their lives. It may be questioned (Rob- 
inson, i, 481) whether this was the actual place of Da- 
vid’s retreat; but it illustrates, at all events, that peculiar 
geological formation of the country which accounts for 
such frequent allusions to “dens and caves*’ in the nar- 
rations of the Bible. It is a common opinion of the na- 
tives that some of the passages of this particular exca- 
vation extend as far as to Hebron, several miles distant, 
and that all the cord at Jerusalem would not be suffi- 
cient to serve as clue for traversing its windings. See 
Odollam. 

One of the gates of Jerusalem in Christian times 
seems to have borne the name of Tekoa. Arculf, at 
any rate, mentions the “gate called Tecuitis” in his 
enumeration of the gates of the city (A.D. 700). It ap- 
pears to have led down into the valley of the Kedron, 
probably near the southern end of the east wall. But 
his description is not very clear. Possibly to this 
Jerome alludes in the singular expression in the Epit. 
Pauhe (§ 12), * . . . revertar Jerosolymam et per The- 
cuam atque Amos, rutilantem montis Oliveti crucem 
aspiciam.” The Church of the Ascension on the sum- 
mit of Olivet would he just opposite a gate in the east 
wall, and the “glittering cross” would be particularly 
conspicuous if seen from beneath its shadow. There is 
no more prima facie improbability in a Tekoa gate than 
in a Bethlehem, Jaffa, or Damascus gate, all which still 
exist at Jerusalem. But it is strange that the allu- 
sions to it should be so rare, and that the circumstances 
which made Tekoa prominent enough at that period to 
cause a gate to be named after it should have escaped 
preservation. — Smith. See, in addition to the above 
authorities, Reland, Pidiest. p. 1028; Schubert, Reisen , 
p. 24; Raumer, Palastina, p. 219; Turner, Tour, ii, 240 ; 
Irby and Mangles, p. 344; Trist ram, Land of Israel, p. 
402 ; Schwarz, Palest, p. 114; Thomson, Land and Book, 
ii. 424; Porter in Murray's Handbook, p. 251 ; Biideker, 
Palestine , p. 252. 

Teko'ite (Heb. with the art. liat-TekoV , “ l “1pr'q [ 
[in 2 Sam. xxiii, 2G; Neh. ii i, 27, patrial from 

Tekoa ; Sept. 6 Bmoirtjt; and o 0f on. v. r. QtKwviTt g 
and Ot/ca; Vulg. Thecuites, Thecuenus, and de Thecua), 
an inhabitant of Tekoa (q. v.), an epithet of Ira the son 
of Ikkesh, one of David’s warriors (2 Sam. xxiii, 26 ; 
1 Chron. xi, 28; xxvii, 9). The name survived the 
Captivity (Neh. iii, 5, 27). 

Tela Stragula, a term used to designate the up- 
per covering for the holy table when not being used 
for the sacrifice. It is commonly called the altar pro- 
tector. 

Tel-a'bib [many Tel , -abib~\ (Chald. Tel-Abib', 
corn-hill; Sept. MerHapoc; Vnlg. Ad acer- 
vum novarum frugum), was probably a city of Chaldrca 
or Babylonia (Ezra iii, 15), not of Upper Mesopotamia, 
as generally imagined (Calmet, ad loc. ; Winer, ad loc.). 
The whole scene of Ezekiel’s preaching and visions 
seems to have been Chahkea proper; and the river 
Chebar, as already observed [see Cmebar], was not the 
Khabbur, but a branch of the Euphrates. Ptolemy has 


in this region a Thel-bencane and a Thal-atha {Geoy. 
v, 20) ; but neither name can be identified with Tel- 
abib, unless we suppose a serious corruption. Thiluta 
and Thelsaphata of Ammian. Marc, (xxiv, 2; xxv, 8) 
have likewise been compared ; but, they are equally un- 
certain. The element “Tel,” in Tcl-abib, is undoubt- 
edly “hill.” It is applied in modern times by the 
Arabs especially to the mounds or heaps which mark 
the site of ruined cities all over the Mesopotamian 
plain, an application not very remote from the Hebrew 
use, according to which “Tel” is “especially a heap of 
stones” (Gesenius, ad loc . ). It thus forms the first 
syllable in many modern as in many ancient names 
throughout Babylonia, Assyria, and Syria (see Asse- 
mani, Bibl. Orient. HI, ii, 784). — Smith. 

Te'lah (lleb. Te'lach, H^n, breach [Gesenius] or 
vigor [Fiirst] ; Sept. BaXe v. r. BuXe^c; Vulg. Thale), 
son of Kesheph and father of Tahar, in the lineage be- 
tween Ephraim and Joshua (1 Chron. vii, 25). B.C. 
ante 1058. 

Tel'aim [some Tela'uri] (Heb. with the art. hat- 
TelainT , the young lambs [in Isa. xl, 11]; Sept. 

in PoXyaXoit;; Vulg. quasi agues'), a place where Saul 
collected and numbered his forces before his campaign 
against the Amalekites (1 Sam. xv, 4). It is strange 
that both the Sept, version and Josephus (Ant. vi, 7,2) 
read Gilgal, which was in the valley of the Jordan, near 
Jericho, and certainly not a fitting place to marshal an 
army to war with the Amalekites, seeing it would have 
to march through the wild passes of the wilderness of 
Judah (Ewald, Gesch. iii, 50). The Targum ren- 
ders it “lambs of the Passover,” according to a curious 
fancy, mentioned elsewhere in the Jewish books (Yal- 
kut on 1 Sam. xv, 4, etc. ), that the army met at the 
Passover, and that the census was taken by counting 
the lambs. This is partly endorsed by Jerome in the 
Vulg, A similar fancy is found in the Midrash in refer- 
ence to the name Bezek (l Sam. xi, 8), which is taken 
literally as meaning “broken pieces of pottery,” where- 
by, as by counters, the numbering was effected. Bezek 
and Telaim are considered by the Talmudists as two of 
the ten numberings of Israel, past and future. It is 
probably identical with Tklem (q. v.), the southern 
position of which (Josh, xv, 24) would be suitable for an 
expedition against Amalek; and a certain support is 
given to this by the mention of the name (Thailam or 
Thelam) in the Sept, of 2 Sam. iii, 12. — Kitto; Smith. 

Telas'sar (lleb. Telassar', [in Isa.], fully 

“itexbn [ in Kings], Assyrian hill; Sept. VaiaSh', Bte- 
pciS v. r. QaXaoodp, Bar pdS ; Vulg. Thelassar, Thalas- 
sar) is mentioned in 2 Kings xix, 12 (A. V. “Thelas- 
sar”) and in Isa. xxxvii, 12 as a city inhabited by “the 
children of Eden,” which had been conquered and was 
held in the time of Sennacherib by the Assyrians. In 
both passages it is connected with Gozan (Gauzanitis), 
Ilaran (Carrhaj, now llarran), and Iiezeph (the Razap- 
pa of the Assyrian inscriptions), all of which belong to 
the hill country above the Upper Mesopotamian plain, 
the district from which rise the Khabur and Belik 
rivers. See Gozan; Haras; Mesopotamia. It is 
(piite in accordance with the indications of locality 
which arise from this connection to find Eden joined 
in another passage (Ezek. xxvii, 23) with Ilaran and 
Asshur. Telassar, the chief city of a tribe known as 
the Beni-Eden, must have been in Western Mesopota- 
mia, in the neighborhood of Harran and Orfa. The 
name is one which might have been given by the 
Assyrians to any place where they had built a temple 
to Asshur, and hence perhaps its application bv the 
Targums to the Resen of Gen. x, 12, which must have 
been on the 'Tigris, near Nineveh and Calah. See 
Rusks. — Smith. Ewald (Gesch. iii, 301, Note 3) iden- 
tifies it with a heap of ruins called Teleda, south-west 
from Racca, the Theleda of the Pent. Tab. (xi, c), not 
far from Palmyra. It is in favor of this that in that 


TELEIOI 


240 


TEL-IIAIISA 


case the places mentioned along with it in the passages 
cited stand in the order in which they would naturally 
be attacked by a force invading the territory from the 
east, as would the Assyrians (Thenius, Exeget. //and- 
hitch , ad Inc.).— Kitta 1 Uivernick’s identification {Ezek. 
p. 476) with the Thalatha (Ba\«3d) of Ptolemy (v. 20, 
*1) would place it too far sout h. The , Jerusalem Targum 
(on (leu. xiv, 1) and the Syriac take it from Ellassar 
(q. v.), in the territory of Artemitia (Ptolemy, vi, 176; 
Strabo, xvi, p. 744). Lavard thinks ( Miner eh, i, 257) 
that it may be the present Tel Afer , or perhaps Arban 
{Situ and Uab. p. 2t>3), although no name like it is found 
there now. 

Teleioi {riXtioi or rtXeiovpfvoi, the perfect), a 
name of early Christians, which had relation to the sa- 
cred mysteries, and denoted such as had been initiated. 
Baptism was denominated reXert); to join the Church 
was styled tXSfTi' ini to riXtio v. to attain to perfection ; 
the participation of the eucharist, which followed im- 
mediately on baptism, was called rtXen) reXiTotr, per- 
fection of perfections; and the absolution granted in 
the eucharist was called ro tiXhov, the perfection of a 
Christian. The word is, however, used frequently in 
the New Test., not indeed in this sense, but in relation 
to Christian perfection. 

Teleion. See Telkiot. 

Teleioteroi ( rsXtubrepoi , more perfect) ', 'one of the 
different classes of catechumens among the ancients; 
the perfect ones, or the proficients, who were the imme- 
diate candidates for baptism. 

Te'lem (lleb. id. oppression [Gesenius; but 
Fhrst,/?/ace of lambs']'), the name of a town and also of 
a man. 

1. (Sept. T*\f/f v. r. M aivdp; Vulg. Telem . ) One 
of the cities which are described as “the uttermost of 
the tribe of Judah towards the coast of Edom south- 
ward” (Josh, xv, 24, where it is mentioned between the 
southern Ziph and Bealoth). It is not again mentioned 
except we regard it as identical with Telai.m (q. v.) — a 
theory which seems highly probable (Belaud, Palast. 
p. 1020). Tclein is mentioned by Eusebius and Jerome 
as a city of Judah, but they appear to have been igno- 
rant of its site ( Onomast. s. v. “Talem”). The Sept. 
(Vat.) in Josh, xix, 7 adds the name OaX^d, between 
Remmon and Ether, to the towns of Simeon. '1 his is 
said hy Eusebius {Onomast.) and Jerome to have been 
then existing as a very large village called Thella, six- 
teen miles south of Eleutheropolis. The Sept, of 2 Sam. 
iii, 12, in both MSS., exhibits a singular variation from 
the Hebrew text. Instead of “on the spot” (*'* 1 Ipn*i)? 
A. V. incorrectly “on his behalf”), they read “to Thai- 
lam (or Thelam) where he was.” If this variation 
should be substantiated, there is some probability that 
Telem or Tclaim is intended. David was at the time 
king, and quartered in Hebron, but there is no reason 
to suppose that he had relinquished his marauding hab- 
its; and the south country, where Telem lay, had for- 
merly been a favorite held for his expeditions (1 Sam. 
xxvii, £ 11). The opinion of Wilton that a trace of 
the ancient Telem is found in the Arab tribe Dhnlldnt, 
which gives its name to a district lying south-east of 
Beersheba, is not altogether improbable, especially as 
the Arabic and Hebrew words are cognate {The Segeb, 
f). S7; comp, Robinson, Jiibl. Res. ii, 102). Rabbi 
Schwarz (/ \ilest . p. 100) thinks Telem was different 
from Tclaim, and he states that there is still “a district 
south ol Madura called Tnlam ,” doubtless referring to 
the above Dhullnm. He also cites a reference from the 
Midrash {Kohehth, v, 10) to a certain Men ah cm Talmia, 
as if a resident of Telem. If a more precise location of 
the town be sought, it may perhaps be found in the 
“small site with foundations, called Bndeidfi men- 
tioned by l)r. Robinson as lying in the above region 
( Ribl. Rts. i, 102), six miles south-east of Tel Arad. 
See Toe hex. 


2. (Sept. T tXX))p v. r. T tXtjp and TeX/o/i;; Yulg. 
Telem). One of the Temple porters who renounced his 
Gentile wife after the Captivity (Ezra x, 24). B.C. 
458. 

Telemachus, an Asiatic monk and martyr who is 
justly renowned for the act of daring self-devotion by 
which he caused the gladiatorial combats at Rome 
to be abolished. In the year 404, in the midst of the 
spectacles of the amphitheatre, Telemachus rushed into 
tlic arena and tried to separate the gladiators. The 
spectators stoned him to death, but the emperor Hono- 
rius proclaimed him a martyr, and soon after abolished 
the gladiatorial combats. Some doubt has been thrown 
upon the story on account of the absence from theThco- 
dosian Code of any edict by Constantine in existence, 
and no evidence can be produced to show that there 
were any gladiatorial tights after this period, although 
we know that the combats of wild beasts continued till 
the fall of the Western Empire. See Smith, Viet, of 
Riog. and Mythol. s. v. 

Teleology (rtXor, an end , and Xnyoc, discourse) is 
the doctrine or general philosophical discussion of the 
subject of causes. It may be ultimate, reaching to God, 
or proximate, contemplating the more immediate pur- 
pose. The word teleology is applied to the argument 
from design in proof of t lie Deity. Also, when a nat- 
ural philosopher assigns the purpose or end of any nat- 
ural arrangement, as the offensive or defensive weapons 
of an animal, he is said to give a teleological explana- 
tion. “Existences must be considered as standing in 
relation, not merely to causie efiicientes (to their imme- 
diate causes), but also to causee f miles ; indeed, the 
causee efiicientes themselves must be conceived as moved 
by the causee f miles, or, in other words, by the eternal 
rational ends meant to be subserved by created objects, 
which ends, although in one respect yet awaiting reali- 
zation in t lie future, must in another respect be sup- 
posed to be already operative. We cannot fully under- 
stand realities unless we look forward to the results in- 
tended finally to be attained. Present actualities thus 
acquire a double significance and receive a double ex- 
planation. The whole of modern speculation has a 
teleological character” ( Martensen, Christ. Dogmat. p. 
78 sq.). 

Telepta (or Telia), Council of, properly Zella 
(q. v.). 

Telesphorus, pope, is said to have been of Grecian 
family, and to have occupied the see of Rome from A. I). 
128 to 139. Our knowledge of him is altogether legend- 
ary. An interpolated passage in the Chronicon of Eu- 
sebius and a discourse smuggled into the works of Am- 
brose make the statement that Telesphorus had made 
the regulations of fasting more strict, that he had ex- 
tended the fast before Easter to cover seven weeks, and 
that he directed three masses to be said and the Gloria 
in Excelsis to be sung in the night before Christmas. 
He is reputed to have energetically contended against 
the heretical teachings of Marcion and Valentine, and 
to have died a martyr’s death. See Herzog, Reul-En- 
cyklop. s. v. ; comp. Hoefer, Sow. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Teletarches ( TtXtTdpxiis), a Greek term for a 

consecrator. 

Teletarchikos {reXETapxncog), a Greek term sig- 
nifying consecrating. 

Telete, a term in the Latin Church for the holy 
eucharist. See Teleioi. 

Tel-hare'sha (Neh. vii, 61 ). See Tel-harsa. 

Tel-har'sa (lleb. [for Chald.] Tel-charsha', "bpl 
X'i’in, hill of the artificer [Gesenius, of the ivood; 
Furst, of the Magus ]; Sept. D tXapjjod v. r. OtXapad', 
Vulg. Thelharsa), one of the Babylonian towns, or vil- 
lages, from which some Jews, who “ could not show 
■ their father’s house, nor their seed, whether they were 
I of Israel,” returned to Judaea with Zerubbabel (Ezra ii, 


TELINGA VERSION 


241 


TELLER 


59; Neb. vii, G1 [A. V. “Tel-haresha]). It probably 
was in the low country near the sea. in the neighbor- 
hood of Tel-melah and Cherub, places which are asso- 
ciated with it. Herzleld’s conjecture (Gtseh. Isr. i, 452) 
that the name is connected with the river llama , in 
Susiana (Amrniau. Marc, xxiii, p. 325, Dip.) is very pre- 
carious. 

Telinga (or Telooooo) Version. The Telinga 
language is spoken within twenty-three miles of Ma- 
dras, and prevails for about five hundred miles along 
the coast, from the vicinity of Pulicat to the borders of 
Orissa. The superficial extent of the entire region in 
which this language is predominant has been estimated 
at 1 18,010 square miles. The natives are Hindus and 
number about 10,000,000. The Telinga language is also 
diffused to a greaier or less extent through various 
countries of Southern India, in which the Tamul and 
Canarese are the proper vernacular languages. This 
diffusion in part arises from the early conquests, dating 
from the 14th century, achieved by the people of Telin- 
ga in the South. Like the Ilomans, they endeavored 
to secure their conquests and to keep the natives in 
subjection by the establishment of military colonies; 
and the Telinga language is still spoken by the descend- 
ants of the Telinga families who were deputed by the 
kings of Vidianagara to found these colonies. The 
roaming tendencies of the Telinga people also serve to 
account, in part, for the diffusion of the language. On 
this subject the missionaries have remarked that “in 
intelligence, migratory habits, secular prosperity, and 
infrequency of return to their native land this people 
are in relation to other parts of India what the Scotch 
are in relation to England and the world.” Benjamin 
Schultze, the laborious Danish missionary, was the first 
who engaged in a Telinga version of the Bible, lie 
commenced his translation in 1726, immediately after 
his completion of the Tamul version (q. v.). He trans- 
lated from the Greek and Hebrew texts, and finished 
the Telinga version of the New Test, in 1727, and of 
the Old Test, in 1732, the whole bearing the title Bi- 
bliu Telngica ex Ihbraico et draco Textn, adhibitis 
nnrttis alas Tersiombas , in Linguam Telugicam Trans- 
hita a Benjamino Schidtzio Missionario ad Indos Ori- 
entates Ao. 1732. From some cause hitherto unex- 
plained, this work was never printed ; and Marsch, in 
the Bibliotheca Ni/cra, ii, 202, says: “Quo vero tempore 
in publicum prodituri siut Biblia Telugice impressa, di- 
vinm providentire reservation manebit.” Schultze died 
in 1760 at Halle, and it has been thought that his Te- 
linga MSS. may still be preserved in that city. In 
1805 the S.erampore missionaries commenced another 
version of the Scriptures in this language, and in 1809 
they had translated the whole of the New 'Pest, and 
part of the Old. Owing to various causes of delay, the 
New Test, was not printed till 1818, and in 1820 the 
Pentateuch was published. 

While the Serampore version was in progress, the 
Iiev. Augustus Desgranges, of the London Missionary 
Societ}', had commenced another version and carried it 
on to the close of the First Epistle to the Corinthians. 
Mr. Desgranges, who had been stationed at Yizagapa- 
tam since 1805, had the assistance of the Rev. George 
Cran, also stationed there, and of Anunderaver, a Telin- 
ga Brahmin of high caste who had been converted to 
Christianity. Jn 1808 Mr. Cran died, and, two years 
later, Mr. Desgranges. On examination it was found 
that the first three gospels w'ere the only portions of 
the translation that were in a state of readiness for the 
press. Of these one thousand copies were printed at 
Serampore in 1812, under the care of Anunderaver. 

In the meantime another version of the Telinga New 
Test, had been commenced. Rev. Messrs. Pritchett and 
Lee, agents of the London Missionary Society, arrived 
at Yizagapatam a short time prior to the decease of 
Air. Desgranges. Air. Lee undertook a translation of 
the book of Genesis, but the preparation of the version 
afterwards devolved almost exclusivelj' on Mr. Prit- 
X.-Q 


diet t, who betook himself, in the first place, to the trans- 
lation of the Neiv Test. In 1813 Mr. Pritchett’s New 
Test, w as issued by the Madras Bible Society. He now 
commenced the translation of the Old Test., but in 1820 
he was stopped, in the midst of his w'ork, by death. 

In 1823 another version of the Scriptures w r as offered 
to the Calcutta Bible Society by the Rev. J. Gordon, 
also of the London Missionary Society. It w’as very 
difficult to decide upon the relative merits of Mr. Prit- 
chett’s and Mr. Gordon’s translation; but finally Mr. 
Gordon’s prevailed, ami the committee of the Madras 
Society resolved upon adopting his version, requesting 
him, before he sent it to the press, to compare it care- 
fully with Mr. Pritchett’s translation. Mr. Gordon’s 
important labors were closed by death in 1827. After 
his decease, it was found that Mr. Pritchett’s version 
was, after all, more correct than had been expected, 
and, alter introducing certain emendations, an edition 
of two thousand copies of the New Test. w r as printed in 
1828, accompanied by two thousand copies of Mr. Gor- 
don’s version of Luke. An edition of three thousand 
copies of the Old Test., based upon the versions of Prit- 
chett and Gordon, was issued from the Madras press in 
1855, together with large editions of particular portions 
of the Teloogoo Scriptures both of the Old and of the 
New Testament. From the different reports we learn 
the following facts. The report for 1856 states that “an 
entirely new translation of the w hole Bible, executed by 

C. P. Browm, Esq., has been deposited by that gentleman 
with this auxiliary with a view to future publication; 
and extracts from Genesis, Proverbs, Psalms, Malachi, 
51 ark, and Ephesians are in press, and will be circu- 
lated for the opinions and criticism of the Teloogoo 
scholars.” That for the year 1858 states that the Te- 
loogoo revision committee appointed in 1857 had com- 
pleted a new translation of Paul’s epistles to the Ro- 
mans, Colossi ans, and Philemon, and of the general epis- 
tles of James, John, and Jude, together with the four 
gospels and Acts, all of which were ready for the press. 
In 1863 we read: “The Old Test, has been published for 
the first time, the New Test, newly translated and a 
revised edition recently published.” In 18G6 the report 
states that the “Madras auxiliary has taken up the 
question of a revision of the Teloogoo Old Test., and 
has appointed a committee for that purpose, on the 
same plan as that of the Tamil revision committee. 
The version of the Teloogoo New Test, now in use was 
adopted in 1858, and, after revision by a committee ap- 
pointed for the purpose of bringing the Rev. Messrs. 
Hay and Wardlaw’s translation into accordance with 
the textus receptus and the rules of the society, w r as pub- 
lished in 18G0.” As to the revision of the Old Test., w'e 
learn from the report for I8G7 that “a committee has 
been formed bv the Rev. John Hay, w r ho has already 
revised the books of Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Num- 
bers, Deuteronomy, and Joshua. The remainder of the 
work is in progress.” At present, according to the last 
report for 1879, the following parts are printed and cir- 
culated: the entire Bible according to the Yizagapatam 
version, the book of Genesis according to the revised 
version, and the Pentateuch and New Test, published in 
1858. See The Bible in Every Land , and the A nnual Re- 
ports of the British and Foreign Bible Society. (B. P.) 

Teller, Romanus, a Lutheran divine, w\as born 
Feb. 21, 1703, at Leipsie, w here he also died, April 5, 
1750, as doctor and professor of theology and pastor of 
St. Thomas’s. He w'rote, Dissertation. Sacrur. ad 
Caussas Ilermeneut. Spectantinm Decas (Lips. 1740): — 

D. Ilollaz: Examen Theol. A cronm. denuo edidit et An- 

imadverss. auxit; Demonstratt. II o m He t. -theological (ibid. 
1728); new edition, Tnstitutt. Theologies Homilet. Metho- 
do Scientiis tiacris Digna Adornatce (ibid. 1741). In 
connection with Baumgarten, Brucker, and Dietelmaier, 
he published. Bibel, d. i. vollstdndige ErHarung der heili - 
gen Sehrift aus dem Englischen (ibid. 1748, 19 vols). See 
Winer, Ilandbuch der theol. Literal ur, i, 107, 186, 297 ; 
ii, 59, 798 ; Filrst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 413. (B. P.) 


TELLE! 


TEMA 


l 2 - 

Teller, Wilhelm Abraham, a leading theolo- 
gian of the *• enlightenment" party of Germany in the 
last century, was born in 1734 at Lcipsie, where his 
father was then professor and pastor. In 1755 he was 
made catechist and bachelor of theology, and began 
with his earliest literary production to display his sym- 
pathy with the liberal school of theologians, lie turn- 
ed his attention more immediately to the criticism of 
the text id' the Old 'lest, after the manner of Michaelis. 
In 17, "Hi he published a Latin translation of Ivcnni- 
cott’s dissertation on Hebrew text-criticism. In 1701 
he was made general superintendent and professor at 
llelmstedt. in 1701 he issued his Lehrbnch dis christ- 
lidun Clan bens, which revealed the advanced theolog- 
ical views to which he had attained, and alarmed the 
faculties and consistories. Its position was that of the 
rirst stage of rationalistic “enlightenment,” and its most 
noticeable trait a revulsion against the authority of tra- 
ditional beliefs. The excitement occasioned by its ap- 
pearance was such that the whole edition was eonlis- 
cated in Electoral Saxony, and that he retained his po- 
sition at llelmstedt with serious difficulty. From this 
unpleasant situation he was extricated hv an appoint- 
ment to Gologne on the Spree as provost and member 
of the high consistory, where was the very heart of the 
party of progress, and where he felt free to publish to 
the world his views without reserve, lie did this in a 
Workrbuch d. Xenen Testaments (1772, and afterwards 
in six editions'), whose preface contained an appeal to 
preachers that they should expound not only the words, 
but also, and much more, the ideas, of Scripture, because 
the latter contains not only Hebrew and Greek forms 
of expression, hut also Hebrew and Greek forms of 
thought. A further opportunity of showing his inde- 
pendence occurred in 1702 in connection with the trial 
of a preacher named Schulz, of Gielsdorf, for departure 
from the standards of the Lutheran Church. The opin- 
ion of the high consistory having been required, Tel- 
ler voted for acquittal on the grounds that under the 
Lutheran form of Church government every person 
is constituted his own judge in matters pertaining to 
the faith, and that all such matters must be determined 
by Scripture. Schulz was acquitted, but the members 
of the chamber were afterwards lined and provost Tel- 
ler was suspended for three months because of this ac- 
tion. The latter nevertheless proceeded, in the. same 
year, to publish a more complete statement of his views 
in the work 1 tie Religion tier Vollkommeneren , whose 
theme was the perfectibility of Christianity. In 1798 lie 
received an address from Jews resident in Berlin de- 
manding admission into the Christian Church without 
the imposition on them of a Christian creed; but the 
high consistory negatived the request, though with re- 
gret, and with a promise, to impose on the petitioners 
no new disabilities. Teller died Dec. 9, 1804. His 
more important works have been mentioned above, 
lie was not popular as a preacher, but his sermons were 
printed in a third edition as early as 1792. He pub- 
lished the X eues Magazin fur Rreiliger, whose tenth 
volume appeared in 1801, which was also well received, 
even among 1 Ionian Catholic clergyman. In addition 
to original work, he edited Turretin’s Tract, de /Script. 
Sacr. Interpretation ; and he was an important contrib- 
utor to the AVgem. deutsche Bihliothek. .See Nicolai, 
( 1 *da ch tnisssch rift avf Teller (1807); Summarische Le- 
bensnachr.. appended to T rose h el's memorial discourse; 
Herzog, Real- Encyliop. s. v. ; Hagcnhach, l list, of 
Church in 1* th and 1 Wi Cent, i, 347, 366, 571, 499. 

Tellier, Michael le, a Jesuit and father confessor 
to Louis X I V, was born at Yire, in Normandy, in 1043. 
He entered the Order of Jesuits in his eighteenth year, 
and at first devoted himself to historical studies, whose 
fruit was an edition of Quintus Curtins in 167s ; but he 
eventually engaged in theology, becoming one of the 
most violent opponents of the • Janscnists. In 1072, 
1075, and 10*4 he published Culminations against the 
Mons (properly Amsterdam) version of t he Bible by 


o 

De Sacy and other Port -Loyalists, lie co-operated 
with father Bonhours in his translation of the Scriptures, 
however, and zealously defended the Jesuit missiona- 
ries to China against t lie well-founded complaints raised 
against them. In 1099 he issued a l/istoire des Cinq 
Propositions de Jausenius under the name of Dumas, 
and in 1705 lie assailed Quesnel (q. v.) as a rebel and 
heretic. lie now became provincial of his order, and in 
1709 confessor to the king. In the latter capacity he 
succeeded in inducing the king to procure from pope 
Clement XI the condemnation of the New Test, with 
Quesnel’s notes. 'Flic hull Unigenitvs, which occasion- 
ed so much controversy in France, and was forcibly ex- 
ecuted by the king, is to be charged primarily upon 
Tellier. His dominion ended, however, in 1715, on the 
death of Louis, and he was removed iirst to Amiens and 
afterwards to La Fleclic. lie died at the latter place 
in 1719. — llerzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Tel-me'lah (Heb. Tel-nuTach, salt hill; 

Sept. SfXpeXsx and 0eA^eAi3, v. r. 0fA/.<f\4A and 0qo- 
ptXtjd; Vulg. Thehnula) is joined with Tel-harsa and 
Cherub as the name of a place where the Jews returned 
who had lost their pedigree after the Captivity (Ezra ii, 
59; Neh. iii, fil). It is perhaps the Thehne of Ptolemy 
(v. 20), which some wrongly read as Theanie (0EAMH 
for 0EAMH), a city of the low salt tract near the Per- 
sian Gulf, whence probably the name (Gesen. Lex. Jleb. 
s. v.). Cherub, which may be pretty surely identified 
with Ptolemy’s Chiripha (Xipapei), was in the same re- 
gion. Ilerziekl ( Gescli . Tsr. i, 452) insists that it desig- 
nates the province of Melitene according to Ptolemy (vi, 
3), adjoining Susiana west of the Tigris; but Ptolepiy 
(v, 7, 5) and Pliny (vi, 3) know only a Melitene on the 
border of Cappadocia and Armenia Major. 

Te'ma (lleb. Teyma', [in Job vi, 19 mitre 

concisely Tenia', N*cn] = the Arab, teyma, “ a desert " 1 
[but Gesen. = Tenrmn, i. e. the South’}; Sept. Oaipdy, 
Vulg. Thema [but in Isa. Austerf), the name of a per- 
son and of a tribe or district. 

1. The ninth son of Ishmael (Gen. xxv. 15; 1 Chron. 
i, 30). B.C. post 2020. 

2. The tribe descended from him mentioned in Job 
vi, 19, “The troops of Tema looked, the companies of 
Sheba waited for them,” and by Jeremiah (xxv, 23), 
“ Dedan, Tema. and Buz;” and also the land occupied 
by this tribe : “The burden upon Arabia. In the forest 
in Arabia shall ye lodge, O ye travelling companies of 
Dedanim. The inhabitants of the land of Tema brought 
water to him that was thirsty, they prevented with 
their bread him that fled” (Isa. xxi, 13, 14). 

The name and the tribe appear to have been known 
to classic writers. Ptolemy mentions the city of Them - 
me (0 tpptj) among those of Arabia Deserta, and appar- 
ently in the centre of the country ( Geoyr . v, 19). Plinv 
states that “to the Nabataei the ancients joined the 
Thimanei" (/list. Xat. vi, 32). It may be questioned, 
however, whether he refers to the Biblical Teman or 
Tema. 

There can be little doubt that the Themme of Ptol- 
emy is identical with t he modern Teima , an Arab town 
of some five hundred inhabitants, situated on the west- 
ern border of the province of Nejd. Wallin, who visit- 
ed it in 1848, thus describes it: “Teima stands on a 
mass of crystalline limestone, very slightly raised above 
the surrounding level. Patches of sand, which have 
encroached upon the rock, are the only spots which can 
be cultivated. The inhabitants, however, have consid- 
erable date plantations, which yield a great variety of 
the fruit, of which one kind is esteemed the best flavored 
in all Arabia. Grain is also cultivated, especially oats 
of a remarkably good quality, but the produce is never 
sufficient for the wants of the inhabitants. The great- 
er portion of the gardens are watered from a copious 
well in the middle of the village. The hydraulic con- 
trivance by which water is raised for distribution through 
channels among the plantations is the same as is used 


TEMAN 


243 


TEMNEH VERSION 


through Mesopotamia as well as in Nejd, viz. a bucket 
of camel-skin hung to the end of a long lever moving 
upon an upright pole fixed in the ground” (Journal R. 
G. S. xx, 33*2). Arab writers state of Teima that “ it is 
a town in the Syrian desert, and that it is commanded 
by the castle called El-Ablak [or El-Ablak el-Fard], of 
Es-Semawal [Samuel] Ibn-’Adiyn the Jew, a contem- 
porary of Imra-el-Keys” (A.D. cir. 550) ; but according 
to a tradition it was built by Solomon, which points at 
any rate to its antiquity (comp. El-Bekri, in Mardsid, 
iv, 23). Wallin says no remains of the castle now ex- 
ist, nor does even the name “live in the memory of the 
present inhabitants. A small ruined building, construct- 
ed of hewn stone, and half buried in sand and rubbish, 
appeared to me to be too inconsiderable to admit of its 
being identified with the celebrated old castle” (nt sup. 
p. 333). This fortress seems, like that of 1) u mat-el- Jen- 
del. to be one of the strongholds that must have pro- 
tected the caravan route along the northern frontier of 
Arabia; and they recall the passage following the enu- 
meration of t lie sons of Ishmael : “ These [are] the sons 
of Ishmael, and these [are] their names, by their towns, 
and by their castles; twelve princes according to their 
nations’’ (Gen. xxv, 16). 

It seems probable that the ancient Arab tribe of Beni- 
Teim , of whom Abulfeda speaks {/list. Anteislanu ed. 
Fleischer, p. 198), were connected with this place, and 
were the more recent representatives of the children of 
Tema. Forster would further identify the tribe of Tema 
with the Beni-Temim , who had their chief stations on 
the shores of the Persian Gulf; but his proof does not 
seem satisfactory (Geog. of Arabia, i, 289 sq.). 

It is interesting to find memorials of the nation found- 
ed by this son of Ishmael, not merely referred flo by 
classic and Arab geographers, but existing to the pres- 
ent day, in the very region where we naturally look for 
them (see D'Anville, Geog. Ancienne , ii, 250; Abulfeda, 
Rescript . Arab. p. 6 sq.; Seetzen, in Zach, Monatl. Cor- 
responded, xviii. 374). Like other Arab tribes, the chil- 
dren of Tema had probably a nucleus at the town of 
Teima, while their pasture-grounds extended westward 
to the borders of Edom, and eastward to the Euphrates, 
just as those of the Beni Shummar do at the present 
time. — Kit to. 

Te'man (Heb. Teyman, the right, also the 

south, as often ; Sept. Oatpdv v. r. Qtpdv and 0 apdv ; 
Yulg. Theman v. r. Mer hlies, A lister), the name of a 
man, and also of a people and country. 

1. The oldest son of Eliphaz the son of Esau (Gen. 
xxxvi, 11). B.C. cir. 1960. It would appear that Te- 
man was the first duke or prince (rp^N) of the Edom- 
ites (v, 15); and that, having founded a tribe, he gave 
his name to the region in which it settled (v, 34). 

2. The country of the Temanites, which formed in 
after -ages the chief stronghold of Idumrean power. 
Hence, when the Lord by the mouth of Ezekiel pro- 
nounced the doom of Edom, he said, “I will make it 
desolate from Teman” (xxv, 13). The Temanites were 
celebrated for their courage; hence the force and point 
of Obadiah's judgment: “Thy mighty men, O Teman, 
shall be dismayed” (ver. 9). The} r were also famous Ibr 
wisdom ; in allusion to which characteristic, and per- 
haps with special reference to Job’s friend Eliphaz the 
Temanite, Jeremiah mournfully asks, “Is wisdom no 
more in Teman? is counsel perished from the prudent? 
is their wisdom vanished?” (Jer. xlix, 7; Job ii. 11; 
comp. Baruch iii, 22. See Pusey, On Obadiah, ver. 8). 

The geographical position of “the land of Teman,” or, 
more literally, the “land of the Temanite,” as it is called 
in Gen. xxxvi, 34 Sept. U Tijg yijg 

Qaipayiby, A. V. “ Temani”), is nowhere defined in 
Scripture ; but there are several incidental notices which 
tend to fix it with considerable certainty. 1. It is in- 
timately connected with Edom, and manifestly either 
formed a province of it, or lay upon its border (Jer. xlix, 
7, 20). In one passage it is included in the same curse 


with Bozrah, the capital of Edom : “I will send a fire 
upon Teman, which shall devour the palaces of Bozrah” 
(Amos i, 12). 2. llabakkuk joins Teman in parallelism 

with Mount Paran (iii, 3) ; and this might probably in- 
dicate that the portion of Edom lying over against Ka- 
desli, beside which rose Mount Paran (q. v.), was called 
Teman. Perhaps, as the northern section of Edom was 
called Gebal, the southern section may have got the 
name Teman. 3. Ezekiel groups Teman in such a way 
with Edom and Dcdan as would lead to the conclusion 
that it lay between them, and therefore on the south 
and south-east of t lie former (Ezek. xxv, 13). See De- 
pan. On the whole, it would appear that Teman was 
the name given by Esau's distinguished grandson to his 
possessions in the southern part of the mountains of 
Edom. As the tribe increased in strength and wealth, 
they spread out over the region extending southward 
along the shore of the Gulf of Akabah, and eastward 
into Arabia. This view is confirmed by a passage in 
the book of Joshua, hitherto considered obscure and dif- 
ficult, but which the advances recently made in Biblical 
geography tend to elucidate. The sacred writer com- 
mences his description of the territory of Judah in these 
words : “ This, then, was the lot of the children of Judah ; 
even to the border of Edom the wilderness of Zin south- 
ward was the uttermost part of the south coast” (xv, 1). 
Besides being unintelligible, this is not a literal transla- 
tion of the Hebrew; and the renderings of the Sept, 
and Yulg. are still worse. The Hebrew may be trans- 
lated as follows; Towards (or along, 5X) the border of 
Edom, the wilderness of Zin to the Negeb ("2“<3) from 
the extremity of Teman” 0‘3 n n n^jT^). The writer 
is describing the south-eastern section of the territory. 
It extended along the border of Edom, including the 
wilderness of Zin from the extreme (north-western) cor- 
ner of Teman to the Negeb. Teman is unquestionably 
a proper name, as is shown hv the word niip'S being 
placed before it. So also is Negeb. The wilderness of 
Zin extended up as far as Kadesh, and a part of it was 
thus allotted to Judah. Teman included the mountains 
of Edom as far north as Mount llor, opposite Kadesh; 
and thus the territory of Judah reached to its extreme 
north-western corner. The Negeb included the downs 
along the southern base of the Judaean hills, aud lay be- 
tween them and the wilderness of Zin. The above trans- 
lation is found in part in the Arabic version, and is 
adopted by Houbigant. 

The accounts given by Eusebius and Jerome of Te- 
man are not consistent. They describe it as a region 
of the rulers of Edom in the land of Gebalitis; and they 
further state that there is a village of that name fifteen 
(Jerome has jive) miles from Petra. But in another 
notice they appear to distinguish this Teman from one 
in Arabia (Onomast. s. v. “Tlieman”). On the map in 
Burckhardt’s Travels in Syria, Theman is identified with 
the modern village of Maan, east of Petra; but for this 
there seems to be no authority (Winer, Biblisches Real- 
ivdi'terb. s. v. “Theman.” See Porter, Handbook for Syr. 
and Pal . p. 58). — Kitto. The occupation of the country 
by the Nabathaeans seems to have obliterated almost all 
of the traces (always obscure) of the migratory tribes 
of the desert. See Edom. 

Te'mani (Gen. xxxvi, 34) or Te'manite (Heb. 
Teymani', ; Sept. Qaipain or Qaipaidryg') is the 

title (1 Chron. i, 45; Job ii, 11 sq.) of a descendant of 
Teman or an inhabitant of that land. See Teman. 

Tem'eni [some Te'meni or Teme'nf] (Heb. Teyme- 
ni', 7 7 cm«»z7c[Gesen.] or fortunate [Fiirst]; Sept. 

Qaipdv, Yulg. Themani), second-named of the four sons 
of Ashur (q. v.), the “ father” of Tekoa by his wife Naa- 
rah (1 Chron. iv, 6). B.C. cir. 1618. 

Temneh (or Tinmeh) Version. Temneh is the 
language spoken in the Kuiah country, near Sierra Le- 
one, in West Africa. At present there exists a transla- 


TEMPE1 


244 


TEMPERANCE REFORM 


tion of the New Test., Genesis, and Bsalms. The Gos- 
pel of St. Matthew, translated by the Kew C. F. Schlen- 
ker, was printed only in 1866, the other parts now pub- 
lished having been added since that time. Comp, lie- 
ports of the British ami Foreign Bible Society. (B. 1\) 
Temper, the disposition of the mind, the sum of 
our inclinations and tendencies, whether natural or ac- 
quired. The word is seldom used by good writers with- 
out an epithet, as n good or a bad temper. Temper 
must l>e distinguished from passion. The passions arc 
quick and strong emotions, which by degrees subside. 
Temper is the disposition which remains after these 
emotions are past, and which forms the habitual pro- 
pensity of the soul. See Evans. Practical Discourses on 
the Christian Temper; and the various articles Forti- 
tude. Humility, Love, Patience, etc. 

Temperance (iynpareia, self-restraint ), that vir- 
tue which a man is said to possess who moderates and 
restrains his sensual appetite. 1 1 is often, however, used 
in a much more general sense, as synonymous with mod- 
eration. and is then applied indiscriminately to all the 
passions. “ Temperance,” says Addison, “ has those par- 
ticular advantages above all other means of health, that 
it may be practiced by all ranks and conditions at any 
season or in any place. It is a kind of regimen into 
which every man may put himself without interruption 
to business, expense of money, or loss of time. Physic, 
for the most part, is nothing else but the substitute of 
exercise or temperance.'’ In order to obtain and prac- 
tice this virtue, we should consider it, l.As a divine 
command (Phil. iv. 5; Luke xxi,34; Prov. xxiii, 1-3) ; 
2. As conducive to health ; 3. As advantageous to the 
powers of the mind; 4. As a defence against injustice, 
lust, imprudence, detraction, poverty, etc. ; 5. The ex- 
ample of Christ should be a most powerful stimulus to 
it. — Buck, 

Temperance Reform. As an organized move- 
ment, the temperance reformation is of very modern 
origin. For ages, indeed, wise men have deplored the 
miseries of the habit at whose extinction it aims; yet 
it is but recently that the enormous magnitude of 
those evils seems to have been fully apprehended, the 
true ba^is of reform recognised, and united and per- 
sistent effort made for the suppression of the gigantic 
mischief. 

I. The Habit of Drunkenness. — An interesting fact 
lies at the foundation of the habit of indulgence in in- 
toxicants. Man discovered, long ago, that his mental 
state is affected by the action of certain drugs, and that 
they have power, not only to lend increased enjoyment 
to social hours, but to lessen pain, cheer the desponding, 
and, for a brief period, lift even the despairing out of 
the depths. Tims Homer describes the effects of ne- 
penthe ( Odyssey , bk. iv) : 

“Meantime, with cental joy to warm the sonl, 

Bright Helen mixed a mirth-inspiring bowl, 

Tempered with drugs of sovereign use, to assuage 
The boiling bosom of tumultuous rage; 

To clear the cloudy front of wrinkled Care, 

And dry the tearful sluices of Despair. 

Charmed with that potent draught, the exalted mind 
All sense of woe delivers to theAvind. 

Though on the blazing pile his father lay, 

Or a loved brother groaned his life away; 

Or darling son, oppressed by ruffian force, 

Fell breathless at his feet, a mangled corse; 

From morn to eve, impassive and serene, 

The man, eutrauced, would view the death fill scene.” 

This is a true portrait, and fits our own times as accu- 
rately as it did those of Ilomer. This state, which we 
have been accustomed to characterize by the term in- 
toxication, or drunkenness, is in reality a combination 
of two effects, narcosis and exhilaration. Not only when 
the victim has become visibly drunk, hut from the mo- 
ment when the dose begins its impression, the circula- 
tion loses force, the blood cools, physical strength de- 
clines, the nerves are less sensitive, mental acumen is 
dulled, and every power of mind and body is lessened. 


But at the very time when the drug is working this re- 
sult, there is a mental exhilaration, a delusive lifting-up 
of the spirits, which cheats the victim with a false con- 
sciousness of augmented powers. He never before felt 
so strong, or realized that he was so intellectual, so 
wise, so witty; he never before had so much confidence 
in his own powers, or contemplated himself generally 
with so much satisfaction. This delusion continues, 
and even increases, while he is sinking rapidly into ut- 
ter imbecility, mental and physical. 

There are various substances which have lessor more 
of this strange potency. Those chiefly used for the de- 
liberate purpose of producing these effects are alcohol, 
opium, the hemp poison ( Cannabis Irnlica ), tobacco, the 
coca-leaf, the betel-nut, and the thorn-apple. While 
the general effect of these substances is the same, there 
is some variety in their action. Alcohol benumbs the 
body more rapidly than opium and Indian hemp, and 
tends more to noise and violence at first, and a paralytic 
stagger afterwards. The thorn-apple produces tempo- 
rary delirium as the final symptom. The coca -leaf, 
tobacco, and the betel-nut are milder forms of the in- 
toxicating principle, and seem to be used chiefly to al- 
lay mental and physical disquiet, and superinduce a 
feeling of ease and comfort. 

But continued indulgence tends to the formation of a 
tyrannical habit, whose force grows out. of the fact that 
repeated druggings produce an abnormal condition of 
the brain and of the whole nervous system. The novice 
experiences his dreamy joys for a brief space, and then 
comes out of them in a condition more or less morbid, 
according to the power of the dose. He generally re- 
covers his usual condition in a day or two, and perhaps 
has no desire to repeat his experience; but if he repeats 
it again and again, it will not be long before he finds 
himself in the clutches of a new appetite, and burdened 
by a new and pressing want. Now, when the force of 
the last dose of the drug has been spent, he is in a con- 
dition of unrest, mental and physical, which may be 
only a slight degree of uneasiness, or amount to direst 
agony, according to the stage which he has reached in 
his downward road. From this disquiet, or distress, he 
knows of only one method of quick relief, and that is 
another dose of the same drug. And so the drug be- 
comes the tyrant and he the slave. As the coils of the 
serpent tighten about him, he sinks, mentally, morally, 
socially. At last he cares only for his drug, or rather 
is driven to it by the lash of remorse and horror, which 
come upon him whenever he is not under the spell. 
He cares not for poverty, rags, and dirt, for cold and 
hunger. lie cares less for his wife and children than a 
tiger does for his mate or a wolf for his cubs. The pity 
of the good, the scorn of the brutal, the prayers and 
tears of those who love him, the wrath of the living 
God, have no power to move him, and in passive and 
hopeless shame and despair, alternating with brief sea- 
sons of attempted reform, he goes down to his doom. 

II. Extent and Evils of Intoxication. — Thus the Asiat- 
ic peoples bear the burden of evil caused by indulgence 
in opium and the hemp intoxicant. Thus Europe and 
America groan under the woes inflicted by alcohol. 
During the fiscal year ending June 30, 1879, there were 
156,122 retail dealers in ardent spirits in the various 
states and territories of the Union, and the total re- 
ceipts from the taxes levied on distilled liquors were 
over $52,000,000. This is an increase over the previous 
year of 1082 in the number of dealers, and $2,000,000 in 
the receipts. The same year, 327,000,000 gallons of 
malt liquors paid into the Treasury over $10,000,000, 
making the total receipts from taxes on alcoholic 
liquors $63,000,000. The increased consumption of 
malt liquors the same year was 25,000,000 gallons. 
The total annual outlay in the United States for dis- 
tilled and malt liquors cannot be less than $700,000,000. 
In England, during the year ending Sept. 30, 1878, there 
were 156.589 licensed venders of intoxicating liquors, 
and, as the report of the committee of the House of 


TEMPERANCE REFORM 


245 


TEMPERANCE REFORM 


Lords sliows, the drinking habits of the people cost 
them the sum of $7 18,000,U00. 

lint this enormous waste, which swallows up so large 
a part of the earnings of the people, is only the begin- 
ning of woes. Vice, crime, pauperism, public evils, and 
public burdens of every kind multiply in direct propor- 
tion to the prevalence of the alcoholic habit. What .are 
usually called the dangerous classes in onr cities are its 
creation. It is a prolific source of political corruption. 
Powerful in votes and money, and with an instinctive 
dread of integrity in public men, the liquor interest 
gravitates to the wrong side of every public question. 
By its aid bad men are exalted to office, the laws are 
imperfectly administered, life and property are rendered 
insecure, and taxes increase. In all Christian lands, the 
liquor habit and the liquor interest are recognised more 
and more clearly as the direct antagonists of morals, re- 
ligion, and every element of the welfare of men and na- 
tions. On these grounds the temperance reform bases 
its argument. 

III. History of the Temperance Movement. — The first 
efforts to stay this tide of death date back many years. 
In all nations — even in ancient times — there were per- 
sons who abstained, generally through religious mo- 
tives, from the intoxicating drinks of their day. Such 
were the Nazarites among the Jews, and the Vestals 
among the Romans. All through the ages, excess has 
been condemned by the thoughtful, while the moderate 
use of intoxicants was long deemed allowable, if not nec- 
essary. Thus the colonies of Massachusetts and Con- 
necticut, as long ago as 1G39, passed laws designed to 
lessen the excessive use of distilled liquors. 

John Wesley was the pioneer of the modern reform. 
In the year 1743 he prepared the “General Rules” for 
the guidance of his societies, and in warning his people 
against the sins of the times he names drunkenness , 
buying or selling spirituous liquors , or drinking them , un- 
less in cases of extreme necessity. This is one of the 
rules which, as he declares, “ we are taught of God to 
observe, even in his written Word;” and the rule stands 
to-day, in the exact words of Wesley, in the Jtiscipline 
of the Methodist Episcopal Church. Wesley was equal- 
ly outspoken in the pulpit. In his sermon On the Use 
of Money is the following passage: 

“Neither may we hurt our neighbor in his body; 
therefore we may not sell anything which tends to im- 
pair health. Such is, eminently, all that liquid fire com- 
monly called drains, or spirituous liquors. It is true- these 
may have a place in medicine . . . although there would 
rarely be occasion for them, were it not for the unskilful- 
ness of the practitioner; therefore such as prepare and 
sell them only for this end may keep their conscience 
clear. . . . But all who sell them in the common way to 
any that will buy are poisoners general. They murder 
his majesty’s subjects by wholesale, neither does their eye 
pity or spare. They drive them to hell like sheep; and 
what is their gain? Is it not the blood of these men? 
Who, then, would envy their large estates and sumptuous 
palaces? A curse is iu the midst of them; the curse of 
God cleaves to the stones, the timber, the furniture of 
them. The curse of God is iu their gardens, their walk, 
Their groves; a fire that bnrns to the nethermost hell. 
Blood^ blootl is there ; the foundation, the floor, the walls, 
the roof, are stained with blood. And canst thou hope, 
O thou man of blood! though thou art clothed in scarlet 
and fine liuen, and farest sumptuously every day — canst 
thou hope to deliver down thy fields of blood to the third 
generation ? Not so, for there is a God iu heaveu ; there- 
fore thy uaiue shall soon be rooted out.” 

These bold words were uttered at a time when the use 
of intoxicating liquors was universal, both in England 
and America. Thus John Wesley leaped at once to a 
position which other reformers did not reach in almost 
a hundred years. Indeed, in regard to another matter, 
somewhat akin to alcoholic indulgences, he at once ad- 
vanced to a position towards which his followers in our 
own day are feebly struggling, but which no Church, as 
such, has yet reached. lie strongly counselled his peo- 
ple not to use snuff or tobacco, and, in regard to his 
preachers, made it a positive rule that none of them 
was “ to use tobacco for smoking, chewing, or snuff, un- 
less it be prescribed by a physician.” 


In IGol the people of East Hampton, on Long Island, 
resolved, at a town meeting, that no one should retail 
liquor but such as were regularly authorized to engage 
iu the business, and even then not to furnish “above 
half a pint at a time among four men.” Something like 
a prohibitory law is saitl to have been passed by the 
Virginia colony in 1G7G. but what the novel experiment 
amounted to cannot now be ascertained. The practice 
of providing liquor on funeral occasions generally pre- 
vailed; and it was not until about the year 17G0 that 
an earnest combined effort was made by the various 
churches to abolish it, and even this small reform was 
not accomplished till many years afterwards. 

On Feb. 23, 1777, the Continental Congress, then in 
session in Philadelphia, passed unanimously the follow- 
ing resolution : 

“ Resolved , That it be recommended to the several legis- 
latures of the United States immediately to pass laws the 
most effective for putting an immediate stop to the per- 
nicious practice of distilling grain, by which the most ex- 
teusive evils are likely to be derived if not quickly pre- 
vented.” 

This, however, seems to have been a war measure rath- 
er than an attempt at reform. It makes no mention of 
present effects, but is prompted by the fear of some fut- 
ure evil, probably a scarcity of grain, caused by the 
gathering of farm laborers into the army, and the con- 
sequent lessened production. 

In 1789 two hundred farmers of Litchfield, Conn., 
united in a pledge not to use distilled liquors in their 
farm-work the ensuing season. In 1790 a volume of 
sermons, the authorship of which has been attributed 
to Dr. Benjamin Rush, an eminent patriot and philan- 
thropist of Philadelphia, and a signer of the Declaration 
of Independence, made a powerful impression in regard 
to the evils of the alcoholic vice, and the physicians of 
the city united in a memorial to Congress, in which 
they compare “the ravages of distilled spirits upon life” 
to those of “plague or pestilence,” only “ more certain 
and extensive,” and pray the Congress to “impose such 
heavy duties upon all distilled spirits as shall be effect- 
ual to restrain their intemperate use.” 

In 1794 Dr. Rush published an essay entitled A 
Medical Inquiry into the Effects of A relent Spirits upon 
the Body and Mind , in which he argues that the habit- 
ual use of distilled liquors is useless, pernicious, ami uni- 
versally dangerous, and that their use as a beverage 
ought to be wholly abandoned. Still the blow was 
aimed at distilled spirits only, and the true ground of 
reform was not yet reached. 

In 1808 a society was formed in Saratoga County, 
N. Y., which seems to have been the first permanent or- 
ganization founded for the purpose of promoting tem- 
perance. It was called “The Union Temperate So- 
ciety of Moreau and Northumberland.” The members 
pledged themselves not to drink any distilled spirits or 
wine, nor offer them to others, under a penalty of twenty- 
fee cents. The penalty for being intoxicated was fifty 
cents. All this looks ridiculous now; but it was a bold 
movement for those days, and the projectors of it were, 
no doubt, duly abused as madmen and fanatics. 

Still, the day was dawning. Religious bodies began 
to awake. In 1812 the General Assembly of the Pres- 
byterian fchurch adopted a report which urged all the 
ministers of that denomination to preach on the subject, 
and warn their hearers “not only against actual intem- 
perance, but against all those habits and indulgences 
which may have a tendency to produce it.” The Gen- 
eral Association of Connecticut, the same year, adopted 
a report prepared by Rev. Lyman Beecher, which rec- 
ommended entire abstinence from all distilled liquors. 
Thus they reached, in 1812, the position which John 
Wesley occupied and inculcated in his “General Rules” 
in 1743. The same year (1812), the Consociation of 
Fairfield County, Conn., published an appeal which 
goes one step further. It says, “The remedy we would 
suggest, particularly to those whose appetite for drink 
is strong and increasing, is a total abstinence from the 


246 


TEMPERANCE REFORM 


TEMPERANCE REFORM 

use ot all intoxicating liquors.” This, they admit, u mav | 
be deemed a harsh remedy,” but they apologize for if on 
the ground that “the nature of the disease absolutely 
requires it.” The consociation, at the same time, made 
a practical beginning of reform by excluding all spiritu- 
ous liquors from their meetings. 

In 1813 the Massachusetts Society for the Suppres- 
sion of Intemperance was formed in Boston. The so- 
ciety, however, aimed only to suppress* 1 the too free use 
of ardent spirits and its kindred vices,” anti therefore 
accomplished little. Still, all these movements called 
public attention to the evil, and kept men thinking. 
The spell of indifference was broken, the discussion be- 
came more earnest and thorough, and appeals, sermons, 
and pamphlets began to issue from the press. Fore- 
most among these writers was Rev. Justin Edwards, 
pastor of the Church at Andover, Mass., who afterwards 
occupied a still more prominent place in the reform 
movement. In 1823 Dr. Eliphalet Nutt, president of 
Union College, published a volume of Sermons on the 
Evils of Intemperance, which greatly aided the reform. 
In January, 1826, Rev. Calvin Chapin published in the 
Connecticut Observer a scries of articles in which he took 
the ground that the only real antidote for the evils dep- 
recated is total abstinence, not only from distilled spir- 
its, but from all intoxicating beverages. 1 1 is position, 
however, was generally regarded as extreme, and he 
had lew immediate converts to his opinions. 

In February, 1826, chiefly through the instrumental- 
ity of Dr. Edwards, a few friends of the reform met in 
the city of Boston, and organized the American Tem- 
perance Society. The pledge was still the old one — ab- 
stinence from ardent spirits — but the movement was 
nevertheless an advance, inasmuch as the object of the 
society was to inaugurate a vigorous campaign through- 
out the country. In April, Rev. William Collier estab- 
lished in Iloston the first newspaper devoted to the 
cause. It was called The National Philanthropist, and 
was published weekly. This same year (1826), Lyman 
l»eecber published his famous Six Sermons on Temper- 
ance , which in burning eloquence and powerful con- 
densations of truth have not been surpassed by any- 
thing since written on the subject. The reform was 
now fairly begun. In 1827 there were state societies 
in New Hampshire, Vermont, Pennsylvania, A'irginia, 
and Illinois, while two hundred and twenty local socie- 
ties. scattered through these and other states, enrolled 
an aggregate of thirty thousand members. Men of the 
highest character and position were identified with the 
reform, such as Dr. Justin Edwards, Dr. Day (president 
of Yale College), Hen. Lewis Cass, Edward C. Dclavan, 
and eminent physicians, such as Drs. Massey, Hosack, 
and Sewell. About this time L. M. Sargent published 
his Temperance Tales , thus bringing into the battle a 
new and powerful weapon. 

The reform made rapid progress. In 1831 there were 
state societies in all but live states, while the local or- 
ganizations numbered 2200. In 1832 Hen. Cass, the 
secretary of war, abolished the spirit ration in the army, 
and issued an order prohibiting the sale of distilled liq- 
uors by sutlers. This action, however, seems to have 
been repealed by some one of bis successors in office, as 
we find Hen. McClellan, thirty years afterwards, issuing 
an equivalent order in reference to the Army of the Po- 
tomac. The secretary of the navy also issued, in 1832, 
an order offering the men extra pay and rations of cof- 
fee and sugar instead of the spirit ration. In 1833 there 
were 5000 local societies, with more than a million of 
members, of whom it was estimated that 10,000 had 
been intemperate, 4000 distilleries had been closed, and 
1000 American vessels sailed without liquor. 

This year (1833) is notable for another advanced step. 
Experience was daily demonstrating the insufficiency 
of a reform which interdicted distilled liquors only. 
Not a few drunkards signed the pledge against, such 
beverages and kept it, and were drunkards still. Pub- 
lic opinion was steadily moving towards the true ground 


I — total abstinence from all intoxicating drinks. Air. 
Luther Jackson, of the city of New York, prepared a 
pledge of this character, and secured a thousand signa- 
tures. To him belongs the honor of inaugurating a new 
a:ra in the history of the reform. 

In May, 1833, the first National Temperance Conven- 
tion was held in the city of Philadelphia. Four hun- 
dred and forty delegates, representing nineteen states 
and one territory, counselled together three days. Two 
important conclusions were embodied in their resolu- 
tions — first, that the traffic in distilled liquors as a bev- 
erage is morally wrong; second, that it is expedient 
that the local societies should accept, as soon as practi- 
cable, the total-abstinence pledge. A permanent so- 
ciety was formed, which, under the name of the Ameri- 
can Temperance Union, accomplished much for the cause. 

The contest from this time assumed a twofold direc- 
tion — one line of argument and effort aiming to dissuade 
the people from all use of intoxicants, and the other tak- 
ing the shape of an attack upon the traffic and the laws 
which sanction it. Public sentiment was fast approach- 
ing the conclusion that instead of being protected by law, 
under the pretence of regulating it, the traffic should 
be prohibited by law. The Grand Jury of the city and 
county of New York put on record their deliberate judg- 
ment that three fourths of the crime and pauperism are 
caused by tbe drinking habits of the people, and added, 
“It is our solemn impression that the time has now ar- 
rived when our public authorities should no lunger sanc- 
tion the evil complained of by granting licenses.” Sev- 
eral state conventions the same year adopted resolu- 
tions of the same tenor as those of the National Conven- 
tion. 

In 1834 Rev. Albert Barnes, of Philadelphia, published 
two sermons on the iniquities of the traffic; and Sam- 
uel Chipman made a personal inspection of the alms- 
houses and jails in the state of New York, and publish- 
ed a report, showing how largely the alcoholic vice was 
responsible for crowding them with inmates. In 1835 
Rev. Heorge B. Cheever, then the youthful pastor of a 
church in Salem, Mass., published, under the title of 
Deacon Giles's Distillery, what purported to be a dream. 
Daemons were represented as working in the deacon’s 
distillery, and manufacturing “ liquid damnation,” “mur- 
der,” “suicide,” etc., for the human employer. The 
stinging satire took effect. Air. Cheever was assaulted 
in the streets of Salem, and was also prosecuted for slan- 
der by a certain rum-distilling deacon, M ho thought he 
recognised his own portrait in the deacon Hiles of the 
dream. Air. Cheever M r as convicted and imprisoned for 
a feM' days, but on his release returned at once to the 
attack in another dream concerning Deacon Jones's 
Brewery , in which devils are described as making beer, 
and, as they dance about the caldron, chanting the spell 
of the witches in Shakespeare’s Macbeth — 

“Bound about the caldron go; 

In the poisoned entrails throw; 

Drugs that in the coldest veins 
Shoot incessant pains ; 

Herbs that, brought from hell’s black door, 

Do their business slow and snre — 

Double, double toil and trouble: 

Fire, burn ; and caldron, bubble.” 

The assault and the prosecution called universal atten- 
tion to the affair; the dreams M*ere published every- 
where, and produced great effect. About the same time 
another local excitement aided the general cause. Air. 
Delavan exposed the methods of the Albany breM'ers, 
whom he charged M-ith procuring water for their busi- 
ness from a foul pond covered with green scum and de- 
filed with the putrid remains of dead cats and dogs. 
Eight brewers brought suits against him, claiming 
damages to the amount of three hundred thousand dol- 
lars, but did not succeed in recovering a dime. 

In 1836 a second National Temperance Convention, 
attended by four hundred delegates, and presided over 
by Chancellor Walworth, was held at Saratoga, N. Y. 
The most important business done M’as the passing of a 


TEMPERANCE REFORM 


247 


TEMPERANCE REFORM 


resolution that henceforth the pledge should be total 
abstinence from all that intoxicates. This, resolution, 
though offered by Dr. Edwards, supported by Lyman 
Beecher, and adopted unanimously by tbe convention, 
was not approved by all who claimed to die friends of 
the cause. Not a few, whose temperance zeal consisted 
in an ardent desire to reform other people from rum and 
brandy, while they themselves drank wine without scru- 
ple, fell out of the ranks of the reform, and were seen no 
more. Societies disbanded in every direction, promi- 
nent workers under the old pledge became silent when 
the new one was adopted, and once more the cry of 
“fanaticism” filled the air, this time with some new 
voices in the chorus. Still, not until this hour had the 
reform planted itself on the right ground and grasped 
the true weapons of its warfare. The people rallied 
around the new banner, and the work went on with 
more efficiency than ever before. In January, 1X37, the 
Journal of the American Temperance Union, edited by 
Rev. John Marsh, was established, and did valiant ser- 
vice till 1805, when it was superseded by the National 
Temperance Advocate. 

In 1838 began the legislative war against the traffic 
— a contest which has seen many victories and defeats, 
and will probably see many more before the final vic- 
tory. In response to growing public sentiment, the li- 
cense laws of several states were made more stringent. 
Massachusetts passed a law prohibiting the sale of al- 
coholic liquors in less quantity than fifteen gallons. In 
1839 Mississippi followed with a “one gallon law,” and 
Illinois adopted what would now be termed “local op- 
tion.” The universal agitation on the subject created 
general alarm among those interested in the manufact- 
ure and sale of alcoholic drinks, and they, too, began to 
organize and collect funds to be used at the polls and in 
legislative halls to arrest the reform. Still the good 
cause advanced. Temperance organizations, temper- 
ance journals, lectures, and labors of every kind were 
multiplying. Good news of progress came from Eng- 
land, and from father Mathew, a Catholic priest in Ire- 
land, who had given himself to reform work and had 
achieved marvellous successes. 

In 1840 the “ Washingtonian” movement began in 
Baltimore. Six hard drinkers, who had met for a night’s 
carousal, suddenly resolved to reform, signed a total-ab- 
stinence pledge, and formed a society for active labor. 
They held meetings, recited the simple story of their 
former errors, and how they were rescued, and invited 
the most hopeless victims of the vice to join them. 
Wonderful results followed, the work spread, and in the 
space of two or three years it is estimated that one hun- 
dred and fifty thousand inebriates had signed the pledge. 
Immense good was done, and yet the movement soon 
began to wane. The demand for reformed drunkards as 
lecturers became so great as to bring into the field a 
crowd of irresponsible men ; some without sufficient in- 
telligence for their position, others lacking in principle. 
These made a trade of the business; they sneered at all 
workers who had no drunken experiences to relate, 
abused the churches, and sought to outdo each other in 
extravagant descriptions of their past lives. Soon that 
which began as an agonizing struggle for life became 
a merrv popular amusement; the funniest lecturer got 
the most invitations and the best pay; and the move- 
ment, powerful as it was at one time, broke down under 
the load of the ignorant, unprincipled, and foolish oper- 
ators who, for their own profit, piled their weight upon 
it. Still, bitterly as the friends of temperance were dis- 
appointed by the collapse of the Washingtonian episode, 
the general cause continued to advance. In the ten 
years ending in 1840, while the population of the Tinted 
States had grown from 12,000,000 to 17,000,000, the con- 
sumption of distilled liquors had fallen from 70,000,000 
to 43,000,000 gallons. In thirty years the number of 
distilleries had fallen from 40,000 to 10,306. 

In 1842 the order of the Sons of Temperance was 
founded in the city of New York. This order is the 


oldest of the compact organizations which not only 
pledge their members to total abstinence, but unite them 
on a plan of mutual systematic relief in times of sick- 
ness. During the thirty-eight years of its existence 
the order has varied greatly in numerical strength. In 
1850 it numbered 232,233 members. Suffering severely 
during the late war, the “Sons” in 1866 numbered only 
54,763. Since that date they are again making prog- 
ress, and now number about 100,000 members. The In- 
dependent Order of Iiechabites, a society of similar char- 
acter, established in England in 1835, was introduced 
into the United States in 1842, and spread with consid- 
erable rapidity. In 1845 another order, the Templars 
of Honor and Temperance, was established in New York 
city. This fraternity was originally designed to be a 
branch of the Sons of Temperance, whose members 
should pass through various degrees, and be known to 
each other everywhere by signs and passwords; but it 
was organized as an independent society. They num- 
ber about 17,000 members. 

The discussion in regard to the morality of the license 
system went on with vigor. In 1845 the matter was by 
law submitted to the people of Connecticut and Michi- 
gan, and the vote was strongly against license. In 
1846 the question was submitted to the people of the 
state of New York (the city of New York being except- 
ed) ; several whole counties voted “ no license,” and five 
sixths of the towns and cities gave large majorities in 
the same direction. In 1846 Maine passed a prohibitory 
law, which, with many changes, made from time to 
time to render it more stringent and effective, has re- 
mained for thirty-four years the will of the people and 
the policy of the state, and it is to-day in full and suc- 
cessful operation, the glory of the commonwealth and 
the strong defence of its citizens. 

For the next ten years (1846 to 1856) the question 
of license or no license was agitated in almost every 
part of the Union, but to give the history of the strug- 
gle in the several states would require a volume. Maine, 
New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut, 
Rhode Island, New York, Delaware, Michigan, Indiana, 
Iowa, Minnesota, Kansas, and Nebraska passed prohib- 
itory laws — some of them more than once. In most of 
these states, if not all, the question was submitted in 
some form to the popular vote, and the prohibitory prin- 
ciple received emphatic endorsement. In New Jersey, 
also, the popular voice was strongly in its favor, but the 
liquor interest succeeded in thwarting the will of the 
people. In two states, Pennsylvania and Illinois, a 
small majority appeared against prohibition. 

The legislative reform was resisted at every step, fierce- 
ly, desperately, and by the use of the most unscrupulous 
means. After the prohibitory law had been strongly 
approved by a direct popular vote, and passed by both 
Houses of the Legislature of New York, in 1854 govern- 
or Horatio Seymour vetoed it on trivial grounds. Gov. 
Seymour of Connecticut in 1853 did the same thing 
under similar circumstances. In both cases the people 
at the next election carried their point by defeating 
those who had temporarily defeated them. In several 
states the law was declared unconstitutional by the 
courts. In New York it was set aside in 1856 on the 
ground that it destroyed the value of property, to wit, 
of the liquors already in the hands of the dealers. In 
several of the states the law was passed, submitted to 
the people for their approval, approved by large major- 
ities, and then declared unconstitutional by the courts, 
because thus submitted to the people. An attempt was 
made in 1846 by the liquor interest to settle the ques- 
tion once for all for the whole country. With Daniel 
Webster and Rufus Choate as their counsel, the dealers 
in alcohol carried their case into the Supreme Court of 
the United States; but the unanimous decision of the 
court was that each state has a constitutional right to 
regulate or even totally suppress the liquor traffic. 

In 1849 the first Civil Damage Law, as it has been 
called, was passed in Wisconsin, prohibiting the retail 


24S 


TEMPERANCE REFORM 


TEMPERANCE REFORM 

trade in intoxicating liquors, unless the vender first gave 
bonds “to support all paupers, widows, and orphans, 
and pay the expenses of all civil and criminal prosecu- 
tions, growing out id' or justly attributable to such traf- 
fic.” Several other states followed the example of Wis- 
consin, and these laws have been found to be of consid- 
erable practical value. 

This same year, liS 10, the cause received a new im- 
pulse from the presence and labors of father Mathew, 
the Irish apostle of temperance, who came to America 
in June, and spent sixteen months of bard work, chiefly 
among the Irish Catholics. Crowds greeted him every- 
where, and large numbers took the pledge at his hands. 
It is not surprising that a reaction followed this swift 
success. Many pledged themselves bv a sudden im- 
pure. moved thereto by the enthusiasm of assembled 
multitudes, with little, clear, intelligent, fixed conviction 
of the evils inseparable from the habits which they 
were renouncing. The pope, their infallible teacher 
both in regard to faith and morals, had never pro- 
nounced moderate drinking a sin, cither mortal or ve- 
nial; and even occasional drunkenness had been treated 
in the confessional as a trivial offence. The retail traf- 
fic, especially in the cities, was more largely in the hands 
of 1 rish Catholics than any other class of people. More- 
over. the Catholic Church wanted donations of land from 
city authorities, and subsidies from the public treasury 
for the support of its sectarian institutions, and it could 
obtain what it wanted only by a political alliance with 
the liquor interest. For these reasons the Catholic cler- 
gy. as a body, seem to have made no vigorous effort to 
hold the ground which the venerable father Matthew 
won ; and the laity, of course, have felt no obligation to 
be wiser than their teachers. 

During the period named, while the battle was raging 
in reference to the legalizing of the traffic, and year af- 
ter year went on as fiercely as ever, the liquor interest 
received powerful reinforcements from an unexpected 
quarter. During the twenty years previous to 1840 the 
immigration from Germany numbered 155,000 persons. 
During the twenty years between 1840 and 1800 the 
German immigration numbered 1,330.000. This vast 
multitude brought with them their predilection for beer 
and Sunday holidays. Under their auspices the manu- 
facture of beer became a great business interest, and, 
especially in the towns and cities, saloons sprang up 
without number, until, in some places, there was a sa- 
loon for every score of legal voters. The distillers, 
brewers, and dealers of all. sorts, uniting their forces, 
became a power in the political arena which no party 
dared to leave out of its calculations, and before which 
every mean and mercenary demagogue hastened to fall 
on his knees. 

The temperance cause is so pure, its logic so com- 
plete, so utterly unanswerable, that it might have rout- 
ed all its enemies had the contest gone on without in- 
terruption. lint while the line of battle, notwithstand- 
ing local repulses and temporary defeats, was steadily 
advancing, its progress was stayed by another overmas- 
tering appeal to the patriotism of the people. The se- 
ries of events which preceded the late civil war were 
culminating in an agitation which swept all the streams 
of popular enthusiasm into its mighty current. The 
same principles and convictions which made men the 
foes of the alcoholic curse made them feel keenly the 
national peril; while those who were coining their ill- 
gotten gains out of the blood of their neighbors could 
be expected to care little for the life of the nation. 
Thus, while the true patriot laid aside all else to save 
his country from the awful peril of the hour, the selfish 
and traitorous liquor interest had the better chan’cc to 
plot for the accomplishment of its own sordid ends. 

•Still, while the popular demand for better laws in re- 
gard to the traffic in alcohol almost ceased for a time to 
be felt in current politics, the moral reform made some 
progress. In 185C the American Juvenile Temperance 
Society was founded in the city of New York, and the 


next year a monthly paper for children, called the Ju- 
venile Temperance Banner , was established. In Janu- 
ary, 1850, four young men, who had met one Sunday 
evening in a liquor saloon in Sail Francisco, suddenly 
resolved to change their evil course, formed a society 
which they called the “ Dasliaways,” and inaugurated 
an extensive movement on the Pacific coast much like 
the Washingtonian campaign of 1840. The next year 
a similar reform organization, originating in Chicago, 
spread through the state under the name of the Tem- 
perance Flying Artillery, In 18G2 the spirit ration in 
the United States navy, which was made optional in 
1832, totally ceased by order of Congress; and coffee 
was substituted for whiskey in the army of the Poto- 
mac. The friends of the cause were everywhere active 
in their benevolent labors among the soldiers and sail- 
ors during the war. 

The fifth National Convention, held at Saratoga in 
August, 1865, organized the National Temperance So- 
ciety and Publication House, whose headquarters are 
at 58 Peade Street. New’ York, and which, by its two 
periodicals, the Xational Temperance Advocate and the 
Youth's Temperance Banner , and its numerous volumes 
and tracts, has been an efficient instrument in enlight- 
ening and stirring the public mind. In April, 1866, 
Congress voted to banish the liquor traffic from the 
Capitol and the public grounds at Washington, and the 
next winter a Congressional Temperance Society, Hon. 
Henry Wilson president, was organized. In 18G8 the 
‘‘Friends of Temperance” and the “Vanguard of Free- 
dom,” the one a society of white people and the other 
of the freedmen, were organized in the South. In July, 
1868, the sixth National Convention met in Cleveland, 
Ohio. Its most important resolution declares that the 
temperance cause “demands the persistent use of the 
ballot for its promotion.” In I8G9 women began to 
form associations for the suppression of the traffic. The 
first were organized in Rutland, Vt. ; Clyde, O. ; and 
Jonesville and Adrian, Mich, This was the beginning 
of a tidal-wave of enthusiasm which culminated in the 
Ohio crusades, and crystallized in the establishment of 
the Woman’s National Chri^ian Temperance Union. 
The churches were actively at work. “Bands of Hope” 
were formed among the children. The iniquities of the 
license system, and the wisdom of separate political ac- 
tion on the part of temperance men, were everywhere 
discussed; and the liquor-dealers, in alarm, were busy 
organizing leagues and collecting funds, because, as they 
confessed, “ of the damage being done to the liquor busi- 
ness.” 

In January, 1873, the Hon. Henry Wilson introduced 
in the United States Senate a bill providing for a Com- 
mission of Inquiry, whose aim was to secure a thorough 
investigation of the evils of the alcoholic habit, and as- 
certain what measures are most efficient in removing or 
lessening those evils. This bill has been repeatedly 
brought forward in Congress, backed by memorials from 
all parts of the country, but has been defeated every 
time by the influence of the liquor interest. The guilty 
alone fear the light. In August, 1873, the seventh Na- 
tional Convention was held at Saratoga. It declared 
again that the legal suppression of the traffic is the only 
effective policy, and that the time had arrived “fully to 
introduce the temperance issue into state and national 
polities,” hut counselled the friends of the cause to co- 
operate with existing political parties “where such will 
endorse the policy of prohibition.” 

In the winter of 1873-74 a novel movement began 
which, under the name of the Woman’s Crusade, at- 
tracted universal attention. In the town of Hillsbor- 
ough, Highland Co., O., the liquor trade was doing its 
deadly work, and at the same time the enemies of that 
traffic were earnest in their labors to lessen its ravages. 
At a public meeting, Dr. Dio Lewis, of Boston, told how 
a drunkard’s wife, forty years ago, after long and fervent 
prayer, gathered a band of Christian women and wait- 
ed upon the liquor-dealer, imploring him to give up his 


TEMPERANCE REFORM 


249 


TEMPERANCE REFORM 


dreadful business, and how their prayers were answered. 
The next day seventy-five Christian women, led by 
Airs. E. J. Thompson, a daughter of ex-governor Trim- 
ble, began a systematic visitation of the drug-stores, 
hotels, and saloons of Hillsborough, and continued it till 
victory crowned their efforts. In eight days all the sa- 
loons were closed. The work spread from town to town 
and from city to city, in not a few encountering fierce 
opposition, but moving on in triumph, and accomplish- 
ing great and permanent good. This wonderful move- 
ment spread into other states, reclaiming thousands of 
inebriates, closing thousands of saloons, and giving a 
mighty impulse to all forms of temperance work. 

At this present time (January, 1880) the reform seems 
to be even more prominently before the public mind 
than it was before the war. The iniquities of the traf- 
fic have been urged upon the attention of the legisla- 
tures of the states, and the laws are constantly chang- 
ing, generally for the better, occasionally for the worse, 
as Israel or Amalck prevails, so that it is almost impos- 
sible to classify them. Maine, Vermont, New Hamp- 
shire, Ohio, and North Carolina prohibit the traffic in 
all intoxicating liquors. Iowa prohibits the traffic in 
distilled liquors, but not in wine and beer. Bhode 
Island, Connecticut, Illinois, Kentucky, Minnesota, Mis- 
souri, Arkansas, Texas, and the District of Columbia are 
under Local Option laws. The people of Kansas are to 
vote this fall (1880) on a proposed amendment to the 
State Constitution, which, if adopted, will prohibit both 
the manufacture and the sale of alcoholic intoxicants. 
Some of the states, as New York, Ohio, and Illinois, 
have Civil Damage laws, which make the dealers re- 
sponsible before the courts for mischief done by means 
of their wares. Nevada has no law on the subject. In 
many of the states special laws give particular counties 
or towns the power to prohibit, by popular vote, the 
trade in alcohol. Experience has given ample demon- 
stration that where prohibitory legislation is fully sus- 
tained by public sentiment the liquor traffic can be 
stamped out as thoroughly as any other form of crime. 
All through the land the active friends of temperance, 
with scarcely an exception, are fixed in the conviction 
that the common traffic in alcoholic drinks is a crime 
against society, and that to license it is to commit an- 
other crime against the public welfare. This convic- 
tion grows more intense from year to year, and from 
this position it may be safely predicted that there will 
be no retreat. 

During the last decade the field of battle has become 
as broad as the national domain, and new and powerful 
forces have come into the contest. Previous to 1860, 
there were only about half a score of local temperance 
societies among our Catholic population. Now there 
are probably a thousand, with an aggregate of 200,000 
members. The Woman’s National Christian Temper- 
ance Union, which grew out of the Ohio crusade move- 
ment, and was organized in 1874, lias spread its network 
of societies over more than half the United States, and, 
by its conventions, publications, and earnest labors, is 
wielding a powerful influence. The Independent Order 
of Good Templars, which originated in Central New 
York in 1851, leads all the other compact temperance 
organizations in numbers and continued success. It 
now has about 400,000 members in the United States, 
and perhaps 300,000 more chiefly in England and her 
colonies. The friends of temperance are organized, 
more or less thoroughly, in every state of the Union. 
Forty-one newspapers, the organs of the various tem- 
perance bodies, are disseminating information on all 
sides. 

All the great religions denominations among us have 
given emphatic utterance to their sentiments, not only 
endorsing fully the principle of total abstinence, but 
some of them declaring, as did the General Conference 
of the Methodist Episcopal Church in 1872, that they 
“regard the manufacture, sale, or the using of intoxi- 
cating drinks morally wrong;” recommend the use of 


nnfermented wine on sacramental occasions; and record 
their conviction that the traffic in alcoholic beverages 
should be suppressed by the strong arm of the law. 
There probably is not in Christendom any other body 
of people so large, and so free from the use of intoxi- 
cants, as the evangelical Protestants of the United States. 
The agitation among us cannot cease till the right is 
victorious. 

TV. The Temperance Cause in Foreign Countries . — 
The first temperance society in the I Iritish isles was 
formed in New Boss, Ireland, in August, 1821). A soci- 
ety was formed at Greenock, Scotland, in October of the 
same year. Early in 1830 a society was organized at 
Bradford, England. The reform began, as in America, 
in opposition to the use of distilled spirits only; but 
in 1833 a society was formed at Preston, England, oil 
the principle of total abstinence from all intoxicating 
drinks. The British Association for the Promotion of 
Temperance was formed at Manchester in September, 
1835, on this basis; and the new pledge in a few years 
wholly superseded the old. This organization after- 
wards changed its name to that of “The British Tem- 
perance League.” It is still laboring, with accumulating 
power. The United Kingdom Alliance was formed in 
1853, and is still in vigorous operation and doing ex- 
cellent service. Its specific aim is the “ total legislative 
suppression of the traffic in intoxicating beverages.” 
The form of law which the Alliance is laboring to se- 
cure is one giving “ the rate-pavers of each parish and 
township a power of local veto over the issue of licenses.” 
A bill, drawn up by Sir Wilfred Lawson, in accordance 
with this aim, has been offered in Parliament every 
year since 1863 without success, but not without en- 
couraging gains. The Alliance, meanwhile, is spending 
a hundred thousand dollars annually in advocating the 
measure. The Scottish Temperance League, formed in 
1844, combines both branches of the work — the reform 
of the victim and the legal suppression of the traffic. 
The temperance sentiment of the Scottish people found 
expression, in 1854, in what is called the “ Forbes McKen- 
zie Act,” a law which closes all public-houses in Scot- 
land during the whole of the Sabbath, and on other 
days of the week from 11 1\M. to 8 A.M. The League 
has an income of about $35,000, maintains a vigorous 
Publication House, and keeps eight or ten lecturers con- 
stantly in the field. The Irish Temperance League was 
organized in Belfast in 1859, for “the suppression of 
drunkenness by moral suasion, legislative prohibition, 
and all other lawful means.” It has an income of about 
$ 1 0,000, publishes a journal, and employs agents to labor 
throughout the island. The women of Great Britain 
have also organized a Christian Temperance Associa- 
tion, meeting for that purpose at Newcastle-on-Tyne in 
April, 1876, and they are engaging heartily in the good 
work. 

In Sweden a temperance society w T as formed in Stock- 
holm in 1831, and some five hundred more in various 
parts of the kingdom during the next ten years. King 
Oscar himself became a' member, and also caused tracts 
and papers to be regularly distributed in the army and 
the navy. Great benefits have followed among the 
people, and the reform is still progressing. 

In Australia, Madagascar, India, and China the re- 
form has begun its work, which, we trust, will never 
cease, in all its broad field, till the enormous vice and 
crime at whose extinction it aims shall be found no 
more among men. 

V. Literature. — Many valuable works have been pub- 
lished which treat of the matters that form the basis 
of the temperance movement, among them the follow- 
ing: Beecher [Lyman], Six Sermons on Temperance 
(1823); Nott, Lectures on Temperance (1857); Perma - 
nent Temperance Documents (1837-42) : Bacchus (Loud.) ; 
Anti-Bacchus (ibid.); Carpenter, Physiology of Intem- 
perance; Wilson, Pathology of Drunkenness ; Pitman, 
Alcohol and the State ; Biehardson, Alcohol , and Tem- 
perance Lesson Book ; Farrar, Talks on Temperance ; 


TEMPLE 


250 


TEMPLE 


Lee, Text-book of Temperance ; Crane, Arts of Intoxi- 
cation; Hargreaves, Our Watted Resources: Lizars. 
Alcohol and Tobacco; The Prohibitionist's Text-book; 
Bacchus Dethroned; Ihmt, Alcohol as a Pood and 
Medicine ; Ration, Bible Witus. or Laics of Ptrmeuta- | 
tion : Richardson. Action of Alcohol on the Body and 
on the Mind; Edmunds, Medical i'se of Alcohol; Rich- 
ardson, Medical Profusion and Alcohol* and Moderate 
Drinking ; Storey, Alcohol , its Mature and BJfects ; The 
Centennial Tempt ran ce \’olume. (J, T. C.) 

Temple, a word used to designate a building dedi- 
cated to the worship of a deity. In this article we 
treat only of the series of editices erected lor that pur- 
pose at Jerusalem, and in doing so we use, in part only, 
the treatment of the subject in the Biblical dictionaries 
of Kitto. Smith, and Fairbairn. See 1 ’alacis. 

I. Xames. — The usual and appropriate lleb. term for 
this structure is 52*n, heykdl, which properly denotes 
a royal residence, and hence the sacred name rRRP, Je- 
hovah, is frequently added; occasionally it is also qual- 
ified by the epithet IL'jp, kodesh, sanctuary, to designate 
its sacredness. Sometimes t he simpler phrase r.*2 
HVP, beyth yehovtih , house of Jehovah , is used; and in 
lieu of the latter other names of the Deity, especially 

ilohim , God, are employed. The usual Greek 
word is ivt.V, which, however, strictly denotes the cen- 
tral building or fane itself ; while the more general term 
itphv included all the associated structures, i. e. the 'sur- 
rounding courts, etc. 

The above leading word is a participial noun 

from the root ~zn. to hold or receive, and reminds us 
strongly of the Roman templum , from rs/m'ot;, ripvoj, 
locus liberatus et ejfatus. When an augur had defined 
a space in which lie intended to make his observations, 
he fixed his tent in it {tuber naculum cape re), with planks 
and curtains. In the arx this was not necessary, be- 
cause there was a permanent augu raculum. The Sept, 
usually renders 72"'n, “temple,” by oIkoq or vauc, but 
in the Apocrypha and the New Test, it is generally called 
to Upor. Rabbinical appellations are wlppn r“’3. 
beyth ham- Mikddsh, the house of the sanctuary, 
r'T.zn, the chosen house, P.*2, the house of \ 

ages , because the ark was not transferred from it, as it I 
was from Gilgal after 24, from Shiloh after 309, from j 
Nob after 13, and from Giboon after otM'ears. It is also 
called a dwelling, i. e. of God. 

In imitation of this nomenclature, the word temple 
elsewhere in Scripture, in a figurative sense, denotes 
sometimes the Church of Christ (Rev. iii, 12): “Him 
that overcometh will 1 make a pillar in the temple of 
iny God.” l’aul says (2 Thess. ii, 4) that Antichrist “ as 
God sittetli in the temple of God, showing himself that 
he is God.” Sometimes it imports heaven (Psa. xi. 4) : 
“The Lord is in his holy temple; the Lord’s throne is 
in heaven.” The martyrs in heaven are said to be 
“ before the throne of (iod, and to serve him day and 
night in his temple” (Rev. vii. 15). The soul* of a 
righteous man is the temple of God, because it is in- 
habited by the lloly Spirit (1 Cor. iii, lfi, 17; vi, 19; 

2 Cor. vi. it>). 

II. History of the Temple and its Several Successors. 
— 1. The First Temple . — After the Israelites had ex- 
changed their nomadic life for a life in permanent habi- 
tations, it was becoming that they should exchange also 
their movable sanctuary or tabernacle for a temple. 
There elapsed, however, after the conquest of Palestine, 
several centuries during which the sanctuary continued 
movable, although the nation became more and more 
stationary. It appears that the first who planned the 
erection of a stone -built sanctuary was David, who, 
when he was inhabiting bis house of cedar, and God 
had given him rest from all his enemies, meditated the. 
design of building a temple in which the ark of God 


| might be placed, instead of being deposited “within 
j curtains,” or in a tent, as hitherto. This design was at 
first encouraged by the prophet Nathan; but he was 
afterwards instructed to tell David that such a work 
was less appropriate for him, who had been a warrior 
from his youth, and had shed much blood, than for his 
son, who should enjoy in prosperity and peace the re- 
wards of his father’s victories. Nevertheless, the de- 
sign itself was highly approved as a token of proper 
feelings towards the Divine King (2 Sam. vii, 1-12; 1 
Chron. xvii, 1-14; xxviii). See I)avii>. AVe learn, 
moreover, from 1 Kings v and 1 Chron. xxii that Da- 
vid had collected materials which were afterwards em- 
ployed in the erection of the Temple, which was com- 
menced four years after his death, in the second month 
(comp. 1 Kings vi, 1 ; 2 Chron. iii, 2). This corresponds 
to May, B.C. 1010. We thus learn that the Israelitish 
sanctuary had remained movable more than four cen- 
turies subsequent to the conquest of Canaan. “ In the 
fourth year of Solomon’s reign was the foundation of 
the house of the Lord laid, in the month Siv; and in 
the eleventh year, in the month Bid, which is the eighth 
month, was the house finished throughout all the parts 
thereof, and according to all the" fashion of it. So was 
he seven years in building it.” See Sodom ox. 

The workmen and the materials employed in the erec- 
tion of the Temple were chiefly procured by Solomon 
from Iliram, king of Tyre, who was rewarded by a liberal 
importation of *heat. Josephus states (.4wLviii.2) that 
duplicates of the letters -which passed between Solomon 
and king Hiram were still extant in his time, both at 
Jerusalem and among the Tyrian records, lie informs 
us that the persons employed in collecting and arrang- 
ing the materials for the Temple were ordered to search 
out the largest stones for the foundation, and to prepare 
them for use on the mountains where they were pro- 
cured, and then convey them to Jerusalem. In this 
part of the business Hiram’s men were ordered to assist. 
Josephus adds that the foundation was sunk to an as- 
tonishing depth, and composed of stones of singular mag- 
nitude, and very durable. Being closely mortised into 
the rock with great ingenuity, they formed a basis ade- 
quate to tbe support of the intended structure. Jose- 
phus gives to the Temple the same length and breadth 
as arc given in 1 Kings, but mentions sixty cubits as 
the height. He says that the walls were composed en- 
tirely of white stone; that, the walls and ceilings were 
wainscoted with cedar, which was covered with the 
purest gold: that the stones were put together with 
such ingenuity that the smallest interstices were not 
perceptible, and that the timbers were joined with iron 
cramps. It is remarkable that after the Temple was 
finished, it was not consecrated by tbe high-priest, but 
by a layman, by the king in person, by means of extem- 
poraneous prayers and sacrifices. See SuicriiiXAii. 

The Temple remained the centre of public worship 
for all the Israelites only till the death of Solomon, af- 
ter which ten tribes forsook this sanctuary. But even 
in the kingdom of Judah it was from time to time des- 
ecrated by altars erected to idols. For instance, “Ma- 
nasseh built altars for all the host of heaven in the two 
courts of the house of the Lord. And lie caused his 
son to pass through the fire, and observed times, and 
used enchantments, and dealt with familiar spirits and 
wizards: lie wrought much wickedness in the sight of 
the Lord to provoke him to anger. And he set a grav- 
en image of the grove that he had made in the house,” 
etc. Thus we find also that king Josiah commanded 
llilkiah, the high-priest, and the priests of the second 
order to remove the idols of Baal and Asherah from the 
house of the Lord (2 Kings xxiii, 4, 13): “And the al- 
tars that were on the top of the upper chamber of Ahaz 
which the kings of Judah had made, and the altars 
which Manasseh had made in the two courts of the 
house of the Lord, did the king beat down, and brake 
them down from thence, and cast the dust of them into 
the brook Kidron.” In fact, we are informed that, in 


TEMPLE 


251 


TEMPLE 


spite of the better means of public devotion which the 
sanctuary undoubtedly afforded, the national morals de- 
clined so much that the chosen nation became worse 
than the idolaters whom the Lord destroyed before the 
children of Israel (xxi, 9)— a clear proof that the pos- 
session of external means is not a guarantee for their 
right use. It appears also that during the times when 
it was fashionable at court to worship Baal the Temple 
stood desolate, and that its repairs were neglected (xii, 
6, 7). We further learn that the cost of the repairs 
was defrayed chiefly by voluntary contribution, by of- 
ferings, and by redemption money (ver. 4, 5). The 
original cost of the Temple seems to have been defray- 
ed by royal bounty, and in great measure by treasures 
collected by David for that purpose. There was a treas- 
ury in the Temple in which much precious metal was 
coileeted for the maintenance of public worship. The 
gold and silver of the Temple were, however, frequent- 
ly applied to political purposes (l Kings xv, 18 sq. ; 2 
Kings xii, 18; xvi, 8; xviii, 15). The treasury of the 
Temple was repeatedly plundered by foreign invaders: 
for instance, by Shishak (1 Kings xiv, 2(5); by Jeho- 
ash, king of Israel (2 Kings xiv, 14) ; by Nebuchadnez- 
zar (xxiv, 13) ; and, lastly, again by Nebuchadnezzar, 
who, having removed the valuable contents, caused the 
Temple to be burned down (xxv, 9 sq.), summer, B.C. 
588. The building had stood since its completion 415 
years (Josephus has 470, and Rutin us 370, years). Thus 
terminated what the later Jews called *jV<L*SOn 
the first house . See Jerusalem. 

2. The Second Temple. — In the year B.C. 536 the 
Jews obtained permission from Cyrus to colonize their 
native land. Cyrus commanded also that the sacred 
utensils which had been pillaged in the first Temple 
should be restored, and that for the restoration of the 
Temple assistance should be granted (Ezra i and vi; 2 
Chron. xxxvi, 22 sq.). The tirst colony which return- 
ed under Zerubbabel and Joshua having coileeted the 
necessary means, aud having also obtained the assist- 
ance of Phoenician workmen, commenced in the second 
year after their return the rebuilding of the Temple, 
spring, B.C. 535. The Sidonians brought rafts of ce- 
dar-trees from Lebanon to Joppa. The Jews refused 
the co-operation of the Samaritans, who, being thereby 
offended, induced the king Artaehshashta ( probably 
Smerdis) to prohibit the building. It was only in the 
second year of Darius Hvstaspis (summer, B.C. 520) that 
the building ivas resumed. It was completed in the 
sixth year of this king, winter, B.C. 516 (eomp. Ezra v 
and vi ; Hagg. i, 15). According to Josephus (A nt. xi, 
4, 7), the Temple was completed in the ninth year of 
the reign of Darius. The old men who had seen the 
first Temple were moved to tears on beholding the sec- 
ond, which appeared like nothing in comparison with 
the first (Ezra iii, 12; Hagg. ii, 3 sq.). It seems, how- 
ever, that it was not so much in dimensions that the 
second Temple was inferior to the first as in splendor, 
aud in being deprived of the ark of the covenant, which 
had been burned with the Temple of Solomon. See 
Captivity. 

After the establishment of the Seleucidse in the king- 
dom of Syria, Antiochus Epiphanes invaded Egypt sev- 
eral times. During his tirst expedition, B.C. 171, the 
renegade Menelaus (q. v.) procured the death of the 
regular high-priest Onias III (q. v.) (2 Mace, iv, 27 sq.); 
during his second campaign, on retiring for winter-quar- 
ters to Palestine, Antiochus slew 7 certain other persons, 
B.C. 170; and, finally, he pillaged and desecrated the 
Temple, and subdued and plundered Jerusalem, June, 
B.C. 168. He also ordered the discontinuance of the 
daily sacrifice. In December of the same year he caused 
an altar for sacrifice to Jupiter Olympius to be placed 
on the altar of Jehovah in the Temple (vii, 2, 5). This 
was “the abomination that maketh desolate.” At the 
same time, he devoted the temple on Mount Gerizim, in 
allusion to the foreign origin of its worshippers, to Ju- 


piter o£. The Temple at Jerusalem became so 
desolate that it was overgrown w ith vegetation (1 Maec. 
iv, 38; 2 Maec. vi,4). Three years after this profana- 
tion (Dec. 25, B.C. 165) Judas Maeeabteus, having de- 
feated the Syrian armies in Palestine, cleansed the 
Temple, aud again commenced sacrificing to Jehovah 
upon the altar there. He repaired the building, fur- 
nished new utensils, and erected fortifications against 
future attacks (1 Macc. iv, 43-60; vi, 7; xiii, 53; 2 
Macc. i, 18; x, 3). Forty-five days after cleansing the 
sanctuary, Antiochus died. Thus w 7 ere fulfilled the pre- 
dictions of Daniel: from “the casting down sonic of 
the host and stars,” i. e. slaying some of the pious and 
influential Jews by Antiochus, especially from the death 
of Onias, B.C. 171, to the cleansing of the sanctuary, 
B.C. 165, w r as six years (of 360 days each) and 140 days, 
or 2300 days (Dan. viii, 8-14); from the reduction of 
Jerusalem, B.C. 168, to the cleansing of the sanctuary, 
B.C. 165, was three years and a half, i. e. “ a time, times, 
and a half,” or 1290 days (vii, 25; xii, 7, 11); and from 
the reduction of Jerusalem, B.C. 168, to the death of 
Antiochus, which occurred early in B.C. 164, forty-five 
days after the purification of the Temple, 1335 days. 
As to the 140 days, we have no certain date in histo- 
ry to reckon them; but if the years are corrective 
may w r ell suppose the days to be so (ver. 12; Josephus, 
Ant. xii, 7, 6; War, pref. 7 ; i, 1, 1 ; 1 Maec. i, 46, 47 ; iv, 
38-61; 2 Maec. v, 11-27; vi, 1-9). See Antiochus. 
Alexander Jann&us, about B.C. 106, separated the court 
of the priests from the external court by a wooden rail- 
ing (Josephus, A nt. xviii, 5). During the contentions 
among the later Maccabees, Pompey attacked the Tem- 
ple from the north side, caused a great massacre in its 
courts, but abstained from plundering the treasury, al- 
though he even entered the holy of holies, B.C. 63 (ibid. 
xiv, 4). Herod the Great, with the assistance of Roman 
troops, stormed the Temple, B.C. 37 ; on which occasion 
some of the surrounding balls were destroyed or dam- 
aged. See Palestine. 

3. The Third Temple. — Herod, wishing to ingratiate 
himself with the Chureh-and-State party, and being 
fond of architectural display, undertook not merely to 
repair the second Temple, but to raise a perfectly new 
structure. As, how r ever, the Temple of Zerubbabel was 
not actually destroyed, but only removed after the prep- 
arations for the new Temple were completed, there has 
arisen some debate whether the Temple of Herod could 
properly be called the third Temple. The reason why 
the Temple of Zerubbabel was not at once taken down 
in order to make room for the more splendid structure 
of Herod is explained by Josephus as follows (.4hLxv, 
11, 2): “The Jews were afraid that Herod would pull 
down the whole edifice and not be able to carry his in- 
tentions as to its rebuilding into effect; and this danger 
appeared to them to be very great, and the vastness of 
the undertaking to be such as could hardly be accom- 
plished. But wdiile they were in this disposition the 
king encouraged them, and told them he would not pull 
down their Temple till all things were gotten ready for 
building it up entirely. As Herod promised them this 
beforehand, so he did not break his word with them, 
but got ready a thousand wagons that were to bring 
stones for this building, and chose out ten thousand of 
the most skilful workmen, and bought a thousand sacer- 
dotal garments for as many of the priests, and bad some 
of them taught the arts of stone-cutters, and others of 
carpenters, and then began to build; but this not till 
everything was well prepared for the work.” The work 
was actually commenced in the nineteenth year of the 
reign of Herod — that is, the beginning of B.C. 21. 
Priests and Levites finished the Temple itself in one year 
and a half. The out-buildings and courts required eight 
years. However, some building operations were con- 
stantly in progress under the successors of Herod, and 
it is in reference to this we are informed that the Tem- 
ple was finished only under Albinos, the last procurator 
but one, not long before the commencement of the Jew- 


TEMPLE 


252 


TEMPLE 


Eh war in which the Temple was .again destroyed. It 
is in reference also to these protracted building opera- 
lions that the Jews said to Je*us, “ Forty and six years 
was this Temple in building'’ (John ii, ‘20). See 11ek- 
ui>. 

Under the sons of llerod the Temple remained ap- 
parently in good order, and llerod Agrippa, who was 
appointed by the emperor Claudius its guardian, even 
planned the repair of the eastern part, which had prob- 
ably been destroyed during one of the conflicts between 
the Jews and Romans of which the Temple was repeat- 
edly the scene (Josephus, A nt. xvii, 10). During the 
dual struggle of the Jews against the Romans, A.D. TO, 
the Temple was the last scene of the tug of war. The 
liomans rushed from the Tower of Antonia into the sa- 
cred precincts, the halls of which were set on tire by 
the Jews themselves. It was against the will of Titus 
that a Human soldier threw a firebrand into the north- 
ern out-buildings of the Temple, w hich caused the con- 
flagration of the whole structure, although Titus him- 
self endeavored to extinguish the tire (ll’i/r, vi, 4). 
Josephus remarks," One cannot but wonder at tbe accu- 
racy of this period thereto relating; for the same month 
ami day were now observed, as 1 said before, wherein 
the holy house was burned formerly by the Babylonians. 
Now' tiie number of years that passed from its first 
foundation, which was laid by king Solomon, till this 
its destruction, which happened in the second year of 
the reign of Vespasian, are collected to be one thousand 
one hundred and thirty, besides seven months and fif- 
teen days; and from the second building of it, which 
was done by llaggai in the second year of Cyrus the 
king, till its destruction under Vespasian there were six 
hundred and thirty-nine years and forty-five days.” 

The sacred utensils, the golden table of the shew- 
bread. the hook of the law, and the golden candlestick 
were displayed in the triumph at Home. Representa- 
tions of them are still to be seen sculptured in relief on 
the triumphal arch of Titus (see Fleck, Wissenschaft- 
liche Reise, i, 1, plate i-iv; and Reland, De Spoliis Tem- 
pi i II ierosolymitani in Aren Titiano , ed. E. A. Schulze 
[Traj.ad Hh. 1775]). The place where the Temple had 
stood seemed to be a dangerous centre for the rebell- 
ious population, until, in A.D. 136, the emperor Hadrian 
founded a Homan colony under the name ..Elia Capito- 
lina on the ruins of Jerusalem, and dedicated a temple 
to Jupiter Capitolinus on the ruins of the Temple of 
Jehovah. Henceforth no Jew was permitted to ap- 
proach the site of the ancient Temple, although the 
worshippers of Jehovah were, in derision, compelled to 
pay a tax for the maintenance of the Temple of Jupiter 
(see Dion Cassius [Xiphil.]. lxix, 12; Jerome, Ad Jes. 
ii, 9; vi, 11 sq. ; Eusebius, Hist. Eccles. iv, 6; Demon- 
strut io E range l tea, viii, 18). Under the reign of Con- 
stantine the Great some Jews were severely punished 
for having attempted to restore the Temple (see Fabri- 
cii Lux Evanyciii , p. 124). 

The emperor Julian undertook, in 363, to rebuild the 
Temple; but, after considerable preparation and much 
expense, he was compelled to desist by flames which 
burst forth from the foundations (see Ammianus Mar- 
celliuus, xxiii, 1 ; Socrates, Hist. Eccles. iii, 20; Sozomen, 

v. 22: Theodoret, iii, 15; Schrbckh, Ki rch en yesch ichte, 

vi, 3*5 sq.). Repeated attempts have been made to 
account for these igneous explosions by natural causes; 
fur instance, by the ignition of gases which had long 
been pent up in subterraneous vaults (see Miehaelis, 
Zerstr. kl. Schrift. iii, 453 sq.). A similar event is men- 
tioned by Josephus (An/, xvi, 7, 1), where we are in- 
formed that llerod, while plundering the tombs of Da- 
vid and Solomon, was suddenly frightened by fiames 
which burst out and killed two of his soldiers. Bishop 
Warburton contends fur the miraeulousnessof the event 
in his discourse Concerniny the Earthquake and Fiery 
Eruption which Defeated Julian's Attempt to Rebuild the 
Temple of Jerusalem. .See also Lotter, Historia /«- 
staurutionis Templi Hicrosolyuitaui sub Juliano (Lips. 


1728, 4to); Miehaelis (F. Ilolzfuss), Diss. de Templi Hi - 
erosulymiiuni Juliani Mandato per Judeeos frustra Ten- 
tata Rest itut tone (Hal. 1751, 4to) ; Lardner, Collection 
of Ancient Jewish ami Heathen Testimonies, iv, 57 sq. ; 
Ernesti, Theol. Dill, ix, 604 sq. R. Tourlet’s French 
translation of the works of Julian (Baris, 1821), ii. 435 
sq., contains an examination of the evidence concern- 
ing this remarkable event. See also Jost, Geschichte 
dev Jsraeliten, iv, 211. 254 sq.; and id., Allycmeine Ge- 
schichte des jiidischen Volkes, ii, 158. See J i man. 

A splendid mosque now stands on the site of the 
Temple. This mosque was erected by the caliph Omar 
after the conquest of Jerusalem by the Saracens in 636. 
Some think that Omar changed a Christian church 
which stood on the ground of the Temple into the 
mosque which is now called El Aksa, the outer, or 
northern, because it is the third of t lie most celebrated 
mosques, two of which, namely, those of Mecca and Me- 
dina, are in a more southern latitude. See Mosque. 

HI. Situation and Accessories of the Temple. — 1 . The 
site of the Temple is clearly stated in 2 Chron. iii, 1 : 
“Then Solomon began to build the house of the Lord 
at Jerusalem in Mount Moriah, where the Lord appear- 
ed unto David, his father, in the place that David had 
prepared in the threshing-floor of Oman (or Araunah) 
the Jebusite.” In south-eastern countries the site of 
the threshing-floors is selected according to the same 
principles w'hich might guide us in the selection of the 
site of windmills. We find them usually on the tops 
of hills w'hich are on all sides exposed to the winds, the 
current of which is required in order to separate the 
grain from the chalk It seems that the summit of Mo- 
riah, although large enough for the agricultural pur- 
poses of Araunah, had no level sufficient for the plans 
of Solomon. According to Josephus (JUnr, v, 5), the 
foundations of the Temple were laid on a steep emi- 
nence, the summit of which w f as at first insufficient for 
the Temple and altar. As it w'as surrounded by preci- 
pices, it became necessary to build up walls and but- 
tresses in order to gain more ground by filling up the 
interval with earth. The hill w'as also fortified by a 
threefold w’all, the lowest tier of which was in some 
places more than three hundred cubits high; and the 
depth of the foundation was not visible, because it had 
been necessary in some parts to dig deep into the ground 
in order to obtain sufficient support. The dimensions 
of the stones of which the walls w f ere composed were 
enormous; Josephus mentions a length of forty cubits. 
It is, however, likely that some parts of the fortifica- 
tions of Moriah were added at a later period. 

As we shall eventually see, the position and dimen- 
sions of the present area of the llaran reasonably cor- 
respond to the requirements of the several ancient ac- 
counts of the Temple. There can be little doubt, look- 
ing at the natural conformation of the rocky hill itself, 
that the central building always occupied the summit 
where the Mosque of Omar now stands. The theory of 
Fergusson (in Smith’s Did. of the Bible, and elsewhere) 
that it was situated in the extreme south-west corner 
of the present platform has not met with acceptance 
among archaeologists. See Moriah. 

The Temple was in ancient warfare almost impregna- 
ble, from the ravines at the precipitous edge of which 
it stood : but it required more artificial fortifications on 
its western and northern sides, which were surrounded 
by the city of Jerusalem ; for this reason there was 
erected at its north-w'estern corner the Tower of Anto- 
nia, which, although standing on a low'er level than the 
Temple itself, was so high as to overlook the sacred 
buildings, with which it was connected partly by a large 
staircase, partly b}- a subterraneous communication. 
This tower protected the Temple from sudden incur- 
sions from the city of .Jerusalem, and from dangerous 
commotions among the thousands who were frequently 
assembled within the precincts of the courts; which 
also were sometimes used for popular meetings. See 
Antonia. 


TEMPLE 


253 


TEMPLE 


2. Many savants have adopted a style as if they pos- 
sessed much information about the archives of the Tem- 
ple; there are a few indications from which wc learn 
that important documents were deposited in the Taber- 
nacle and Temple. Even in Dent, xxxi, 26, we find that 
the book of the law was deposited in the ark of the cov- 
enant; and according to 2 Kings xxii, 8, Hilkiah redis- 
covered the book of the law in the house of Jehovah. 
In 2 Mace, ii, 13 we find a fiij3\ioS{]Kri mentioned, ap- 
parently consisting chiefly of the canonical books, and 
probably deposited in the Temple. In Josephus ( War , 
v, 5) it is mentioned that a book of the law was found 
in the Temple. It appears that the sacred writings 
were kept in the Temple (Ant. v, 1, 17). Copies of po- 
litical documents seem to have been deposited in the 
treasury of the Temple (1 Macc. xiv, 49).. This treas- 
ury, 6 1 epdg S/jrravpog, was managed by an inspector, 
yaZv<pv\a$, “CU, and it contained the great sums 
which were annually paid in by the Israelites, each of 
whom paid a half-shekel, and many of whom sent dona- 
tions in money and precious vessels, avaSijpaTa. Such 
costly presents were especially transmitted by rich pros- 
elytes, and even sometimes by pagan princes (2 Mace, iii, 
3 ; Josephus, A nt. xiv, 16, 4 ; xviii, 3, 5 ; xix, 6, 1 ; War, 
ii, 17. 3; v, 13, 6; Cont. Apion. ii, 5; Philo, Opp. ii, 59 
sq., 569). It is said especially that Ptolemy Philadel- 
phus was very liberal to the Temple, in order to prove his 
gratitude for having been permitted to procure the Sept, 
translation (Aristeas, De Translat. LXX, p. 109 sq.). The 
gifts exhibited in the Temple are mentioned in Luke 
xxi, 5; we find even that the rents of the whole town 
of Ptolemais were given to the Temple (1 Macc. x, 39). 
There were also preserved historical curiosities (2 Kings 
xi, 10), especially the arms of celebrated heroes (Jose- 
phus, Ant. xix, 6, l) : this was also the case in the Tab- 
ernacle. 

The Temple was of so much political importance that 
it had its own guards ( <pvXctictg rov iepoo), which were 
commanded by a a rpar/jyog. Twenty men were re- 
quired for opening and shutting the eastern gate (Jose- 
phus, War, vi, 5, 3 ; Cont. A pion. ii, 9; A nt. vi, 5, 3 ; xvii, 
2, 2). The arparfjyog bad his own secretary (Ant. xx, 
6, 2 ; 9, 3), and had to maintain the police in the courts 
(comp. Acts iv, I and v, 24). He appears to have been 
of sufficient dignity to be mentioned together with the 
chief priests. It seems that his Hebrew title was 

-n, the man of the mountain of the house (Mid- 
cloth, i, 2). The priests themselves kept watch on three 
different posts, and the Levites on twenty-one posts. 

It was the duty of the police of the Temple to pre- 
vent women from entering the inner court, and to take 
care that no person who was Levitically unclean should 
enter within the sacred precincts. Gentiles were per- 
mitted to pass the first enclosure, which was therefore 
called the Court of the Gentiles; but persons who were 
on any account Levitically unclean were not permitted 
to advance even thus far. Some sorts of uncleanness, 
for instance that arising from the touch of a corpse, ex- 
cluded only from the court of the men. If an unclean 
person had entered by mistake, he was required to offer 
sacrifices of purification. The high-priest himself was 
forbidden to enter the holy of holies under penalty of 
death on any other day than the Day of Atonement 
(Philo, Opp. ii, 591). Nobody was admitted within the 
precincts of the Temple who carried a stick or a basket, 
and who wanted to pass merely to shorten his way, or 
who had dusty shoes (Middoth, ii, 2). 

IV. General Types of the Temple. — There is perhaps 
no building of the ancient world which has excited so 
much attention since the time of its destruction as the 
Temple which Solomon built at Jerusalem, and its suc- 
cessor as rebuilt by Herod. Its spoils were considered 
worthy of forming the principal illustration of one of 
the most beautiful of Roman triumphal arches, and Jus- 
tinian’s highest architectural ambition was that he 
might surpass it. Throughout the Middle Ages it in- 


fluenced to a considerable degree the forms of Christian 
churches, and its peculiarities were the watchwords and 
rally ing-points of all associations of builders. Since the 
revival of learning in the 16th century its arrangements 
have employed the pens of numberless learned antiqua- 
rians, and architects of every country have wasted their 
science in trying to reproduce its forms. 

But it is not only to Christians that the Temple of 
Solomon is so interesting; the whole Mohammedan 
world look to it as the foundation of all architectural 
knowledge, and the Jews still recall its glories and sigh 
over their loss with a constant tenacity, unmatched by 
that of any other people to any other building of the 
ancient world. 

With all this interest and attention, it might fairly be 
assumed that there was nothing more to be said on such 
a subjeet — that every source of information had been 
ransacked, and every form of restoration long ago ex- 
hausted, and some settlement of the disputed points ar- 
rived at which had been generally accepted. This is, 
however, far from being the case, and few things would 
be more curious t han a collection of the various restora- 
tions that have been proposed, as showing what differ- 
ent meanings may be applied, to the same set of simple 
architectural terms. 

When the French expedition to Egypt, in the first 
years of this century, had made the world familiar with 
the wonderful architectural remains of that country, 
every one jumped to the conclusion that Solomon’s Tem- 
ple must have been designed after an Egyptian model, 
forgetting entirely how hateful that land of bondage 
was to the Israelites, and how completely all the ordi- 
nances of their religion were opposed to the idolatries 
they had escaped from — forgetting, too, the centuries 
which had elapsed since the Exode before the Temple 
was erected, and how little communication of anv sort 
there had been between the two countries in the inter- 
val. Nevertheless, as we shall presently see, the Egyp- 
tian monuments remarkably confirm, in many respects, 
the ancient accounts of the Temple at Jerusalem. 

The Assyrian discoveries of Botta and Layard have 
within the last twenty years given an entirely new .di- 
rection to the researches of the restorers, and this time 
with a very considerable prospect of success, for the 
analogies arc now true, and whatever can be brought to 
bear on the subject is in the right direction. The orig- 
inal seats of the progenitors of the Jewish races were 
in Mesopotamia. Their language was practically the 
same as that spoken on the banks of the 'Tigris. Their 
historical traditions were consentaneous, and, so far as 
we can judge, almost all the outward symbolism of their 
religion was the same, or nearly so. Unfortunately, 
however, no Assyrian temple has yet been exhumed of 
a nature to throw much light on this subject, and we 
are still forced to have recourse to the later buildings 
at Persepolis, or to general deductions from the style of 
the nearly contemporary secular buildings at Nineveh 
and elsewhere, for such illustrations as are available. 
These, although in a general way illustrative, yet by no 
means, in our opinion, suffice for all that is required for 
Solomon’s Temple. For some architectural features of 
that erected by Herod v r e must doubtless look to Rome. 
Of the intermediate Temple erected by Zcrubbabel we 
know very little, but, from the circumstance of its hav- 
ing been erected under Persian influences contempora- 
neously with the buildings at Persepolis, it is perhaps 
the one of which it would be most easy to restore the 
details with anything like certainty. Yet we must re- 
member that both these later temples were essentially 
Jewish, i.e. Phoenician, in their style; and we may there- 
fore presume that the original type, which we know’ was 
copied in plan, was likewise imitated in details to a very 
great degree. There are, however, two sources of illus- 
tration with v’hich the Temple v r as historically con- 
nected in a very direct manner, and to these we there- 
fore devote a brief attention before considering the sev- 
eral edifices in detail. 


TEMPLE 


‘254 


TEMPLE 



that the height of the whole structure was 120 cubits.” 
It is difficult to reconcile this statement with that given 
in 1 Kings, unless we suppose that the words iaoi; roTg 
pirpoa^, equal in measures, do not signify an equality 
in all dimensions, but only as much as equal in the 
number of cubits; so that the porch formed a kind of 
steeple, which projected as much above the roof of the 
Temple as the roof itself was elevated above its founda- 
tions. As the Chronicles agree with Josephus in assert- 
ing that the summit of the porch was 120 cubits high, 
there remains still another apparent contradiction to be 
solved, namely, how Josephus could assert that the Tem- 
ple itself was GO cubits high, while we read in 1 Kings 
that its height was only 30 cubits. We suppose that in 
the book of Kings the internal elevation of the sanctu- 
ary is stated, and that Josephus describes its external 
elevation, which, including the basement and an upper 
story (which may have existed, consisting of rooms for 
the accommodation of priests, containing also vestries 
and treasuries), might be double the internal height of 
the sanctuary. The internal dimension of the “holy,” 
which was called in preference was 40 cubits long, 

20 cubits wide, and 30 cubits high. The holy was sep- 
arated from the “ holy of holies” by a partition, 

a large opening in which was closed by a suspended 
curtain. The holy of holies was on the western extrem- 
ity of the entire building, and its internal dimensions 
formed a cube of 20 cubits. On the eastern extremity 
of the building stood the porch, Trporaog. At 

the entrance of this pronaos stood the two columns called 
Jacliin and Boaz, which were 23 cubits high. 

The Temple was also surrounded by a triple 
story of chambers , each of which stories was five cu- 
bits high, so that there remained above ample space 
for introducing the windows, somewhat in the man- 
ner of a clear-story to the sanctuary. Now the state- 
ment of Josephus, who says that each of these sto- 
ries of chambers (rh“b“) was 20 cubits high, cannot 
be reconciled with the Biblical statements, and may 
prove that he was no very close reader of his authori- 
ties. Perhaps he had a vague kind of information that 
the chambers reached half-way up the height of the 
building, and, taking the maximum height of 120 cubits 
instead of the internal height of the holy, he made each 
story four times too high. The windows which are 
mentioned in 1 Kings vi, 4 consisted probably of lattice- 
work. The lowest story of the chambers was five cu- 
bits, the middle six, and the third seven cubits wide. 
This difference of the width arose from the circumstance 
that the external walls of the Temple were so thick 
that they were made to recede one cubit after an eleva- 
tion of five feet, so that the scarcement in the wall of 
the Temple gave a firm support to the beams which 
supported the second story, without being inserted into 
the wall of the sanctuary; this insertion being perhaps 
avoided not merely for architectural reasons, but also 
because it appeared to be irreverent. The third story 
was supported likewise bv a similar scarcement, which 
afforded a still wider space for the chamber of the third 
story. These observations will render intelligible the 
following Biblical statements: “And against the wall 
of the house he built stories round about, both of the 
Temple and of the oracle; and he made chambers round 
about. The nethermost story was five cubits broad, and 
the middle was six cubits broad, and the third was 
seven cubits broad ; for without in the wall of the house 
he made narrowed nests narrowings or re- 

batements) round about, so that the beams should not 
be fastened in the walls of the house. The house, when 
it. was in building, was built of stone made ready before 
it was brought thither; so that there was neither ham- 
mer, nor axe, nor any tool of iron heard in the house 
while it was building. The door of the middle story 
was in the right side of the house; and they went up 
with winding stairs into the middle story, and out of 


1. The Tabtrnacle erected by Moses in the desert was 1 
unqucsiiiinablv the pattern, in all its essential features, 
of its Solomonic successor. In the gradually increasing 
sanctity of the several divisions, as well as in their 
strikingly proportionate dimensions, we find the Tem- 
ple little more than the Tabernacle on an enlarged scale, 
and of more substantial materials. This is so obvious 
that we need not dwell upon it. See Tabernacle. 

2. The Egyptian Temples, in their conventional style, 
evince, notwithstanding their idolatrous uses, a won- 
derful relation to both the Tabernacle and the Temple. 
As will be seen from the accompanying plan of the 
Temple of Denderah, which is one of the simplest and 
most symmetrical as well as the best preserved of its 
class, there is a striking agreement in the points of the 
compass, in the extra width of the porch, in the anterior 
holy place, in the interior shrine, in the side-rooms, in 
the columnar halls; and in the grander Egyptian tem- 
ples, such as the earlier portions of those at Luxor and 


Ground-plan of the Temple at Denderah. 

A. Front hnll, with zodiac in ceiling. B. Hall of Processions. C, D. An- 
nexes for altars. E. Shrine for sacred boat (ark), covered with a vail. 
F, O. Chambers for oil ami offerings. H, 1. Passage-ways. J. Treasure- 
chamber. K. Chamber for vestments. L-Q, Chambers for New-yeur 
celebration. R. Stairs. T-Z, a-d. Chapels for particular deities. 

Karnak.wc have the two obelisks at the portal like the 
pillars Jacliin and Boaz. These coincidences cannot 
have been accidental. Nor is this general adoption of 
a plan already familiar to the Hebrews inconsistent 
with the divine prescription of the details of architect- 
ure (Exod. xxv, 0; 1 Citron, xxviii, 12). See Egypt. 

V. Detailed Description of * Solomon's Temple. — 1. A ri- 
de nt Accounts . — The Temple itself and its utensils are 
described in l Kings vi and vii, and 2 Citron, iii and iv. 
According to these passages, the Temple was GO cubits 
long, 20 wide, and 30 high. Josephus, however (Ant. 
viii, 3. 2), says, “ The Temple was GO cubits high and 
GO cubits in length, and the breadth was 20 cubits : 
above this was another stage of equal dimensions, so 



TEMPLE 


TEMPLE 


255 


the middle into the third. So he built the house, and 
finished it; and. covered the house with beams and 
boards of cedar. And then he built chambers against 
all the house, five cubits high ; and they rested on the 
house with timber of cedar” (1 Kings vi,7). From this 
description it may be inferred that the entrance to these 
stories was from without; but some architects have sup- 
posed that it was from within; which arrangement 
seems to be against the general aim of impressing the 
Israelitish worshippers with sacred awe by the seclusion 
of their sanctuary. 

In reference to the windows, it should be observed 
that they served chiefly for ventilation, since the light 
within the Temple was obtained from the sacred can- 
dlesticks. It seems, from the descriptions of the Tem- 
ple, to be certain that the oracle , or holy of ho- 

lies, was an adytum without windows. To this fact Sol- 
omon appears to refer when he spake, ‘‘The Lord said 
that he would dwell in the thick darkness” (1 Kings 
viii, 12). 

The “PIl'l, oracle , had perhaps no other opening 
than the entrance, which was, as we may infer from the 
prophetic visions of Ezekiel (which probably correspond 
with the historic Temple of Solomon), six cubits wide. 

From 1 Kings vii, 10, we learn that the private dwell- 
ings of Solomon were built of massive stone. We hence 
infer that the framework of the Temple also consisted 
of the same material. The Temple was, however, wain- 
scoted with cedar wood, which was covered with gold. 
The boards within the Temple were ornamented by 
beautiful carvings representing cherubim, palms, and 
flowers. The ceiling of the Temple was supported by 
beams of cedar wood (comp. Pliny, Hist. Nat. xvi, 69). 
'Fhe wall which separated the holy from the holy of 
holies probably consisted not of stone, but of beams of 
cedar. It seems, further, that the partition partly con- 
sisted of an opus reticulatum , so that the incense could 
spread from the hoi}’- to the most holy. This we infer 
from 1 Kings vi, 21 : “So Solomon overlaid the house 
within with pure gold; and he made a partition by the 
chains of gold before the oracle, and he overlaid it with 
gold.” 

The floor of the Temple was throughout of cedar, but 
boarded over with planks of fir (I Kings vi, 15). The 
doors of the oracle were composed of olive-tree,* but 
the doors of the outer temple had posts of olive-tree 
and leaves of fir (ver. 31 sq.). Both doors, as well that 
•which led into the Temple as that which led from the 
holy to the holy of holies, had folding-leaves, which, 
however, seem to have been usually kept open, the aper- 
ture being closed by a suspended curtain — a contrivance 
still seen at the church-doors in Italy, where the church- 
doors usually stand open ; hut the doorways can be 
passed only by moving aside a heavy curtain. From 2 
Chron. iii. 5, it appears that the greater house was also 
ceiled with fir. It is stated in ver. 9 “that the weight 
of the nails employed in the Temple was fifty shekels 
of gold;” and also that Solomon “overlaid the upper 
chambers with gold.” 

The lintel and side posts of the oracle seem to have 
circumscribed a space which contained one fifth of the 
whole area of the partition; and the posts of the door 
of the Temple one fourth of the area of the wall in which 
they were placed. Thus we understand the passage 1 
Kings vi,31-35, which also states that the door was cov- 
ered with carved work overlaid with gold. 

Within the holy of holies stood only the ark of the 
covenant; but within the holy were ten golden candle- 
sticks and the altar of incense. See Altar; Candle- 
stick. 

The Temple was surrounded by an inner court, which 
in Chronicles is called the court of the priests, and in 
Jeremiah the upper court. This, again, was surround- 
ed by a wall consisting of cedar beams placed on a stone 
foundation (I Kings vi, 36); “And he built the inner 
court with three rows of hewed stone, and a row of ce- 


dar beams.” This enclosure, according to Josephus (.4 mL 
viii, 3, 9), was three cubits high. Besides this inner 
court, there is mentioned a great court (2 Chron. iv, 9): 
“ Furthermore, he made the court of the priests, and the 
great court, and doors for the court, and overlaid the 
doors of them with brass.” It seems that this was also 
called the outward court (comp. Ezek. xiv, 17). This 
court was also more especially called the court of the 
Lord’s house (Jer. xix, 12 ; xxvi. 2). These courts were 
surrounded by spacious buildings, which, however, ac- 
cording to Josephus (JI r m*, v; 5, 1), seem to have been 
partly added at a period later than that of Solomon. 
For instance (2 Kings xv, 35), Jotham is said to have 
built the higher gate of the house of the Lord. In Jer. 
xxvi, 10 and xxxvi, 10 there is mentioned a new gate 
(comp, also Ezek. xl, 5-47 ; xlii, 1-14). But this pro- 
phetic vision is not strictly historical, although it may 
serve to illustrate history (comp, also Josephus, Ant. 
viii, 3, 9). The third entry into the house of the Lord 
mentioned in Jer. xxxviii, 14 does^not seem to indicate 
that there were three courts, but appears to mean that 
the entry into the outer court was called the first, that 
into the inner court the second, and the door of the 
sanctuary the third. It is likely that these courts were 
quadrilateral. In the visions of Ezekiel they form a 
square of four hundred cubits. The inner court con- 
tained towards the east the altar of burnt-offering, the 
brazen sea, and ten brazen lavers; and it seems that 
the sanctuary did not stand in the centre of the inner 
court, but more towards the west. From these descrip- 
tions we learn that the Temple of Solomon was not dis- 
tinguished by magnitude, but by good architectural 
proportions, beauty of workmanship, and costliness of 
materials. Many of our churches have an external form 
not unlike that of the Temple of Solomon. In fact, 
this Temple seems to have been the pattern of our 
church buildings, to which the chief addition has been 
the Gothic arch. Among others, the Roman Catholic 
church at Dresden is supposed to bear much resem- 
blance to the Temple of Solomon. 

2. Modern Reconstructions. — It thus appears that as 
regards the building itself we have little more than a 
few fragmentary notices, which are quite insufficient to 
enable us to make out a correct architectural represen- 
tation of it, or even to arrive at a very definite idea of 
many things belonging to its complicated structure and 
arrangements. All attempts that have been made in 
this direction have utterly failed, and. for the most part, 
have proceeded on entirely wrong principles. Such 
was remarkably the case with the first great work upon 
the subject by professedly Christian writers, namely, 
the portion of the commentary on Ezekiel by the Span- 
ish Jesuits Pradus and Villalpandus (1596-1604) which 
treats of the Temple. It was accompanied by elaborate 
calculations and magnificent drawings; but the whole 
proceeded on a series of mistakes — first, that t he Tem- 
ple of Ezekiel was a delineation of that which had been 
erected by Solomon ; secondly, that this was again ex- 
actly reproduced in Herod’s; and, thirdly, that the style 
of architecture from the first was of the Graeco-Roman 
character — all quite groundless suppositions. Their 
idea of Solomon’s Temple was that both in dimensions 
and arrangement it was very like the Eseurial in Spain. 
But it is by no means clear whether the Eseurial was in 
process of building while their book was in the press in 
order to look like the Temple, or wdiether its authors 
took their idea of the Temple from the palace. At all 
events, their design is so much the more beautiful and 
commodious of the two that we cannot but regret that 
Herrera was not employed on the book and the Jesuits 
set to build the palace. Various other writers, chiefly 
on the Continent, followed in the same line — llaffen- 
reffer, Capellus (Tpnrdyioi', printed in the Crit. Sacri), 
Light foot, Sturm (in LTgolino), Lamy, Semmler, Mel — 
a notice of whose treatises, some of them large and 
ponderous, may be seen in Biihr, Salomonische Tempel 
(§ 3). They are now of comparatively little use; 


TEMPLE 


TEMPLE 


25G 



A, The porch. B, The holy pliice. C, The most holy place, aa. Side walls of the porch, hh, The two front pillars, c, Entrance into the holy place. 
d. Entrance into the most holy. c. Entrance into side chambers, f, Winding stair to the stories iu the side chambers, gg, The side chumbers. 
h, The ark. «, Altar of incense, kk, The ten golden candlesticks. }l, The ten tables of shew-bread. 


Lightfoot's, as liiihr admits, is the best, of the whole, 
being more clear, learned, and solidly grounded in its 
representations. Hut it has chiefly to do, as its title 
indicates ( The Temple, especially as it stood in the 





Days of Our Sariour ), with the Temple of Herod, 
and but very briefly refers to the Temple of Solo- 
mon. An essentially different class of writings on the 
Temple sprang up after the middle of last century, 
introduced by J. D. Michaelis, which, in the spirit 



of the times, made little account of anything but the 
outward material structure, this being regarded as a 
sort of copy — though usually in a very inferior style of 
art. — of some of the temples of heathen antiquity. It 
is only during the present century that anv serious ef- 
forts have been made to construct an idea of Solomon’s 
Temple on right principles; that is, on the ground sim- 
ply of the representations made concerning it in Script- 
ure. and with a due regard to the purposes for which it 
was erected, and the differences as well as the resem- 
blances between it and heathen temples of the same 
a*ra. A succession of works or treatises with this view 
has appeared, almost exclusively in Germany, several 
of them bv architects and antiquarians, with special ref- 
erence to the history of the building art. They differ 
very much in merit; and in one of the latest, as per- 
haps also the ablest, of the whole, the treatise of Biihr 


LOWER. 



Ground-plan of Solomon’s Temple according to Fergnsson 
1 (showing the disposition of the chambers iu the two 
stories). 


already referred to (published in 1848), a review is giv- 
en of the aim and characteristics of preceding investi- 
gations. As a general result, it has been conclusively 
established on the negative side, and is now generally 
acquiesced in, that t lie means entirely fail ns lor pre- 
senting a full and detailed representation, in an archi- 
tectural respect, of the Temple and its related buildings. 
Its being cast in the rectilinear and chest form plainly 
distinguished it from erections in the Greek and Koman 
style; ami, if the employment of Phoenician artists 
might naturally suggest some approach in certain parts 
to Phoenician models, it is, on the other hand, admitted 
by t he most careful investigators in this particular de- 
partment of antiquarian study that little or nothing is 
known of the Phoenician style of building (Pahr, p.46). 

We here present the delineations of several later an- 
tiquaries, which show how variously the historical de- 
scriptions are interpreted and applied. 


TEMPLE 


257 


TEMPLE 




Perspective of Solomon’s Temple, with its Accompanying Structures (according to .Paine), as seen from the East. 


Entirely different from the foregoing is Prof. Paine’s 
idea of the Temple, arising from his interpretation of 
the “enlarging and winding about still upward” of 
Ezek. xli, 7 to mean an overjutting of the upper cham- 
bers by galleries ( Temple of Solomon, p. 38). A serious 


thereof be strongly laid; the height thereof threescore 
cubits, and the breadth thereof threescore cubits; with 
three rows of great stones, and a row of new timber.” 
Josephus quotes this passage almost literally (Atif. xi, 4, 
6), but in doing so enables us to translate “row” (Chald. 


objection to such an arrangement is the insecurity of a "27?, layer) as story (bopog, so also the Sept.) — as, in- 


building thus widening at the top. 


deed, the sense would lead us to infer — for it could only 


VI. ZerubbabeVs Temple .— We have very few partic- j apply to the three stories of chambers that, surround- 
ulars regarding the Temple which the Jews erected af- ed Solomon’s, and afterwards Ilerod’s, Temple ; and 
ter their return from the Captivity, and no description with this again we come to the wooden structure which 
that would enable us to realize its appearance. But surmounted the Temple and formed a fourth storv. It 
there are some dimensions given in the Bible and else- maybe remarked, in passing, that this dimension of six- 
where which are extremely interesting as affording ty cubits in height accords perfectly with the words 
points of comparison between it and the temples which which Josephus puts into the mouth of Herod (ibid, xv, 
preceded it or were erected after it. 11, 1) when he makes him say that the Temple built 

The first and most authentic are those given in the after the Captivity wanted sixty cubits of the height 
book of Ezra (vi, 3) when quoting the decree of Cyrus, of that of Solomon. For, as he had adopted, as we 
wherein it is said, “ Let the house be builded, the place have seen above, the height of one hundred and twen- 
where they offered sacrifices, and let the foundations ty cubits, as written in the Chronicles, for that Temple, 

1 this one remained only sixty. 

The other dimension of sixty 
cubits in breadth is twenty cu- 
bits in excess of that of Solo- 
mon’s Temple; but there is no 
reason to doubt its correctness, 
for we find, both from Josephus 
and the Talmud, that it was the 
dimension adopted for the Tem- 
ple when rebuilt, or rather re- 
paired, by Herod. At the same 
time, we have no authority for 
assuming that any increase was 
made in the dimensions of either 
the holy place or the holy of 
holies, since we find that these 
were retained in Ezekiel’s de- 
scription of an ideal Temple, 
and were afterwards those of 
Herod's. As this Temple of 
Zerubbabel was still standing 
in Herod's time, and was, more 
strictly speaking, repaired rath- 
er than rebuilt by him, we can- 
not conceive that any of its di- 
mensions were then diminished. 
We are left, therefore, with the 
alternative of assuming that 
the porch and the chambers all 
round were twenty cubits in 
width, including the thickness 
of the walls, instead of ten cu- 
bits, as in the earlier building. 
This may, perhaps, to some ex- 
tent, be accounted for by the in- 
troduction of a passage between 
the Temple and the rooms of 
the priest’s lodgings, instead of 
each being a thoroughfare, as 
must certainly have been the 
casein Solomon’s Temple. This 
alteration in the width of the 
Pteromata made the Temple 
one hundred cubits in length 
by sixty in breadth, with a 
height, it is said, of sixty cu- 
bits, including the upper room, 
Solomon’s Temple according to Paine .* 1. Front View ; 2. West End ; 3. Interior- or Talar, though wc cannot help 
X. — R 


TEMPLE 


TEMPLE 25S 


suspecting Hint this last dimension is somewhat in ex- 
cess of the truth. 

The only other description of this Temple is found in 
1 locations the Abderite, who wrote shortly after the 
death ol Alexander the Great. As quoted by Josephus 
( Coni. Ap. i. *2-). he says that ‘‘in Jerusalem, towards 
the middle of the city, is a stone-walled enclosure about 
live hundred feet in length (tut; rr€i'r«ir\€^jt>oc) and one 
hundred cubits in width, with double gates,” in which 
he describes the Temple as beitig situated. It may be 
that at this age it was found necessary to add a court 
for the women or the Gentiles, a sort of' Narthex or 
Galilee for those who could not enter the Temple. If 
this, or these together, were one hundred cubits square, 
it would make up the “nearly rive plethra” of our au- 
thor. licentious also mentions that the altar was twen- 
ty cubits square and ten high. Although he mentions 
the Temple itself, he unfortunately does not supply us 
with any dimensions. 

The Temple of Zerubbabel had several courts (oi’Xoi) 
and cloisters or cells (irpoSi’fxi). Josephus distinguish- 
es an internal and external iqodr, and mentions clois- 
ters in the courts. This Temple was connected with 
the town by means of a bridge (.4 m/. xiv,4). 

VII. Ezekiel's Temple . — The vision of a temple which 
the prophet Ezekiel saw while residing on the banks 
of t lie Chebar in Babylonia, in the twenty-fifth year of 
the Captivity, does not add much to our knowledge of 
the subject. It is not a description of a temple that 
ever was built or ever could be erected at Jerusalem, 
and can consequently only be considered as the. beau 
ideal of what a Shemitic temple ought to be. -As such 
it would certainly be interesting if it could be correctly 
restored; but. unfortunately, the difficulties of making 
out a complicated plan from a mere verbal description 
arc very great indeed, and are enhanced in this instance 
by our imperfect knowledge of the exact meaning of 
the Hebrew architectural terms, and it may also be from 
the prophet describing not what he actually knew, but 
only what he saw in a vision. 

Be this as it may, we find that the Temple itself was 
of the exact dimensions of that built by Solomon, viz. 
an adytum (Ezek. xl. 1-4) twenty cubits square, a naos 
twenty by forty, and surrounded by cells of ten cubits’ 
width, including the thickness of the walls; the whole, 
with the porch, making up forty cubits by eighty. 
The height, unfortunately, is not given. Beyond this 
were various courts and residences for the priests, and 
places for sacrifice and other ceremonies of the Temple, 
till he comes to the outer court, which measured five 
hundred reeds on each of its sides; each reed (ver. 5) 
was six Babylonian cubits long, viz. of cubits each of 
one ordinary cubit and a handbreadth, or, at the lowest 
estimate, twenty-one inches. The reed was therefore 
at least ten feet six inches, and the side consequently 
live thousand two hundred and fifty Greek feet, or with- 
in a few feet of an English mile, considerably more than 
the whole area of the city of Jerusalem, Temple included. 


It has been attempted to get over this difficulty by 
saying that the prophet meant cubits, not reeds; but 
this is quite untenable. Nothing can be more clear than 
the specification of the length of the reed, and nothing 
more careful than the mode in which reeds are distin- 
guished from cubits throughout ; as, for instance, in the 
next two verses (G and 7), where a chamber and a gate- 
way are mentioned, each of one reed. If “cubit” were 
substituted, it would be nonsense. Nevertheless, Prof. 
Paine has given a reconstruction of this as well as the 
actual Temple, for the description and dimensions in 
the vision are consistent with themselves and capable 
of being plotted down. 

Notwithstanding its ideal character, the whole is ex- 
tremely curious, as showing what were the aspirations 
of the Jews in this direction, and how different they 
were from those of other nations; and it is interesting 
here, inasmuch as there can be little doubt but that the 
arrangements of Ilerod’s Temple were in some measure 
influenced by the description here given. The outer 
court, for instance, with its porticos measuring five 
hundred cubits each way, is an exact counterpart, on a 
smaller scale, of the outer court of Ezekiel’s Temple, and 
is not found in either Solomon’s or Zerubbabel’s; and so 
too, evidently, are several of the internal arrangements. 
See Ezekikl. 

VIII. Herod's Temple . — The most full, explicit, and 
trustworthy information on this subject is contained in 
that tract of the Jewish Talmud entitled Middoth (i. e. 
“measures”), which is almost as minute in its descrip- 
tions and dimensions (no doubt by parties who had seen, 
and as priests been familiar with, the edifice) as a modern 
architect’s specifications. Besides this, the two descrip- 
tions of the Temple incidentally given by Josephus (jut 
sup.) are the only consecutive accounts of the ancient 
structure. Our principal attempt will therefore be to fol- 
low these where they agree, and to reconcile their seem- 
ing discrepancies, noting at the same time all important 
allusions in the Bible and uninspired historians of antiq- 
uity, and constantly comparing the whole with the indi- 
cations on the modern site. Occasional use, for verifica- 
tion, may be made of the measures in the spiritual temple 
of Ezek. xl-xlii. but with great caution, as but few of 
them seem to have been borrowed from the actual type, 
which, moreover, was Solomon’s Temple, and not Herod's. 

(I.) Tiik Outer Circuit of tue Temple. 

We assume that the present enclosure of the Harnm 
corresponds to the areas of the Temple and of the Tower 
Antonia t,aken together; and the most convenient mode 
of considering the general contour of the outer wall will 
be after presenting the following arguments: 

i. Remains of cyclopean masonry are still found at in- 
tervals on all the sides of the present enclosure of the pe- 
culiar bevelled character which marks their antiquity. 
The English engineers engaged in the late Ordnance sur- 
vey traced these all along the southern end, and found 
them resting on the native rock, some of them still re- 
taining the marks of the original Tyrian workmen (see 
Jlecovery of Jerusalem, p. 10S). Now Josephus informs us 
(Ant. xv, 11, 3; Mar, v, 5, 1) that the area of Moriah was 
enlarged by building up enormous walls from the valleys 



| mumiiuim 


Perspective of Herod's Temple, with all its Conrts (according to Paine), as seen from the East. 



TEMPLE 


259 


TEMPLE 



7 5 /o nanc e Survey, averages 1540 ft 
=—!„ again ft feet for the thickness 


feet, leaving 


St me C of the Second Course from the Bottom of the E; 

Ilaram at Jerusalem. (The marks are in red paint, and 

they are now upside-down, showing that the stones were 

ed in the quarry.) 

and filling them in with earth. The lower courses of 
these seem to have been buried under the rubbish that 
fell upon them from the demolition of the upper part of 
the walls, and have thus escaped. It is difficult, to sup- 
pose that such masonry could have been the work of later 
times, or that the area would have been altered after such 
prodigious bounds had been set to it. Particular coinci- 
dences of ruins on the eastern, southern, and western 
sides will be noted in giving the circuit of the wall in de- 
tail. The “Jews’ Wailing-place” along the western wall 
is agreed upon all hands to be a veritable mark of antiq- 
uity, going back at least as far as the time of Herod. 

ii. The enormous vaulted substructions found under 
the southern end of the Ilaram are evidently the same 
which would be left between these embankments and tbe 
native rock; and it was apparently among these that the 
tyrant Simon subsisted till after t he destruction of tbe 
city (Josephus, bar, vii, 2, 4). But especially does Mai- 
m on ides speak expressly of the arches supporting the 
ground on this part in order to prevent graves and oth- 
er pollution beneath (Lightfoot, Prospects of the Tem])le, 
ch. i). 

iii. That the platform (not the mere building) of the 
Tower Antonia occupied the whole northern end of this 
enclosure we think is nearly certain from the following 
facts : 

a. The scarped rock and wall on this side can be no 
other than the precipice, rendered more inaccessible by 
art, above which Josephus states that tins tower, as well 
as those at. the other corners of its courts, was reared 
(UVtr, v, 5, S). No such ridge can be found to the north 
of this. 

b. The presence of the fosse (found in the modern “Pool 
of Bethesda”) on this part seems to limit its site. This 
ditch is not only referred to in the several notices of An- 
tonia by Josephus above cited, but in Anf, xiv, 4, 1, 2 he 
speaks of it as being “broad and deep,” “of immense 
depth ;” so that it could hardly have failed to remain as 
a landmark in all ages. 

c. The projecting bastions at the north-west and north- 
east angles appear to he the relics of the towers at these 
corners, and the projection at the Golden Gate may have 
been connected with the tower at the south-east corner. 

d. The present barracks of the Turkish troops are on 
the traditionary site of the Tower of Antonia at the north- 
west corner of'the Ha ram. 

iv. The actual size of the present, enclosure agrees re- 
markably with the dimensions of the Temple’s and An- 
tonia’s areas. According to the Talmud (Mai doth, ii, 1), 
the outer court of the Temple was 500 cubits square, 
which, taking the most approved estimate of the Jewish or 
Egyptian cubit at 1.S24 feet [>ee Cubit], would give 912 
feet as the length of each side. Now the total length of the 
southern wall of the Ilaram is 922 feet, which will allow 
5 feet for the thickness (at the surface) of each wall, a coin- 
cidence that cannot be accidental. Again, .Josephus gives 
the distance around the whole enclosure of the Temple 
and Antonia together as being six stadia (War, v, 5, 2) ; 
and if we subtract from this his estimate of four stadia 
for the circuit of the Temple (Ant. xv, 11, 3), we have one 
stadium, or about 606 feet, for the additional length of 
the court of Antonia northward on each side. Now this 
added to the square whose base has just been found will 
give ahout 1521 feet for the sides of the entire enclosure 
on the east and west ; aud it is a remarkable fact, that the 
length oftheUaram in this direction, according to the Ord- 


the three walls. We are not sure, how- 
ever, but that a somewhat greater thick- 
ness should be allowed the outer wall, 
which (on the west side, at least) Jose- 
phus says was “broad’’ (Her, vi, 3, 1), 
and on all sides “very stroug” (Ant. 
xiv, 4, 1). 

On this point, however, there are 
some considerations that at first seem 
to he powerful objections: 

(a) Josephus, in the passage last re- 
ferred to, makes the Temple area only 
a stadium square. But this is evident- 
ly nothing more than a round number 
from mere recollection, measured only 
by the eye; whereas the Talmud is so 
minute in its interior specification that 
there can be little doubt which to fid- 
low. The 500 reeds in the measurement 
of the spiritual temple by Ezekiel (xlii, 
16-20) seem to have been taken from 


(b) The modern area is not rectangu- 
lar, nor are its opposite sides parallel 
or of equal length ; the south-west cor- 
ner is the only one that has been po>i- 
- „ , tively settled as being a right angle, and 

, astern Wall ot the lu >ith side is certainly longer than 
in some instances t p at <)n t j ie S( , n th. We do not conceive, 
drafted and mark- i lierefore, that the term “ square" in the 
Mishmt and Josephus need be so strict- 
ly taken, but only to mean that the area 
was a quadrilateral, apparently rectangular to the eye, and 
of equal dimensions on the east, south, and west sides, 
which are exposed to view. This mode of reconcilement, 
we think, is better than to suppose the line on either of 
these sides to have been shifted, in the face of every pos- 
sible evidence of identity. By running the dividing line 
between the Temple and the court of Antonia immediate- 
ly south of the Golden Gate (so as to make this latter, 
which is evidently ancient, the entrance to Antonia, and 
not to the Temple, which had but one eastern gate), we 
obtain another right angle, and make the four sides of 
the Temple area nearly equal. 

Having thus settled the general line of the outer wall 
of the Temple, it remains to trace the objects of interest 
lying along it, both on the inner aud outer sides, in which 
endeavor we will begin — 

1. On the south-west corner. Here was the famous 
bridge of which Josephus so often speaks (Ant. xiv, 4, 2, 
twice; U’flr, i, 7, 2; ii, 10. 3; vi, G, 2; S, 1). Accordingly, 
in the foundation-stones on the western side of the pres- 
ent wall, 39 feet from the south corner, may still be seen 



South-west Angle of the Temple Wall. (From a photo- 
graph.) 

the three lower courses (50 feet long) of the first arch, evi- 
dently, of this bridge, which spanned the Tvropceou. A 
measurement of the curve indicates that, the span of the 
entire arch was about 45 feet (see these details in the Ord- 
nance Surrey, p. 27), so that seven such arches wouid con- 
veniently extend across the valley (350 feet, the remaining 
125 feet io the wall being embankment) and allow suitable 
piers between them. This was evidently the “passage 
over the intermediate valley,” through which 
2. The first gate (from the south) on the western side 
of the Temple “led to the king’s palace” on Zion (Jo- 
sephus, Ant xv, 11, 5). This passage seems to have been 
originally built by Solomon (1 Kings x, 5 ; 2 (Miron, ix, 4). 
The arches, however, may belong to the time of the re- 
construction of the bridge, perhaps by Herod. Here, we 
think, must he located “the gate Shallecheth (literally, a 
“casting down,” perhaps with reference to the steepness 
of the valley), by The causeway of the going np” to Zion 
(1 Chron. xxvi/l6; comp. ver. IS); although Lightfoot 
places them both at the northern end of the Temple wall, 


TEMPLE 


2G0 


TEMPLE 


reading Josephus’s four gates in a southward order 
(Works, ix, 220). There exists still, in fact, a sort of em- 
bankment not far north of this spot, across which the 
“upper level" aqueduct from Bethlehem is probably car- 
ried to Moriah. This is apparently the same with the 
gate anciently named Sur (2 Kings xi, 0), otherwise called 
the Gate of the Foundation (2 Chron. xxiii, ft). The reason 
of the name “Sur” (literally, “ removed”) is quite uncer- 
tain. The “foundation" may refer to the high base of 
the wall supporting the bridge adjoining. It seems to 
have been this passage between the abode of the usurp- 
ing Athaliah on Zion and the refuge of the young king in 
the Temple proper that was specially guarded ; the guards 
were three and the same in each, but differently named: 
one section was at the llorse Gate (at “the king’s 
house”), another at the other end of the bridge (at this 
“gate of Sur,” or “of the foundation”), and the third at 
the gates of the inner enclosure (“the doors” generally, 
“the gate behind the [former] guard”); so that if any 
enemy passed the first two among “ the people in the 
[outer] courts,” he should still be intercepted by the last 
before reaching the prince. Lightfoot interprets differ- 
ently (II 'orks, ix, 320). In the Talmud it is explicitly said 
that there was (apparently but) one gate in the western 
Temple wall, and in the same connection the gates are 
repeatedly referred to as being five in number, of which 
four arc assigned to the other sides (Middot h, i, 1, 3). This 
single western one is there called Kipnnus (ibid. i, 3). That 
this was the same with the gate in question, we think to 
be probable, from the consideration that this being the 
principal entrance on this side — as is evident not only 
from its position and the points connected, but also from 
t lie slighting manner in which the rest are referred to and 
their destination mentioned— will account for the silence 
in the Talmud respecting the others. From the name it- 
self little can be safely argued; see Light foot’s attempts 
to define it ( Works, ix, 226). Each of the gates in the 
outer wall of the Temple (as well as those in the inner 
wall) was ‘20 cubits high and 10 wide ( Middot h , ii, 3), which 
Josephus, apparently including side and cap ornaments, 
extends (in the case of the inner, and therefore probably 
also the outer, wall) to 30 cubits high and 15 wide (llW, 
v, 5. 3). 

3. The second gate northward seems to have been that 
anciently called Parbar , from a comparison of the follow- 
ing facts: 

a. In 1 Chron. xxvi, IS, it is mentioned in connection 
with “the causeway,” as if next to Shallecheth. 

b. In 2 Kings xxiii, 11 is made mention of a gate lead- 
ing from “the suburbs” into the Temple, apparently not 
far from the palace; and this precisely agrees with the 
southern one of the two middle gates which Josephus 
states led to “the suburbs” ( Ant. xv, 11,5). The word 
“parbar” (which only occurs in these two Biblical pas- 
sages, and in Ezek. xxvii, 2S) is used hy the rabbins as 
meaning “ suburb,” although its radical sense would ap- 
pear to be an open building or space (see Gesenius and 
Buxtorf, Lex. s. v.). 

c. At a point 2G5 feet north of the south-west corner of 
the llaram there still exists a gate (Bab el-Mugharibeh, 
“the gate of the Western Africans”) in the modern wall, 
leading into the llaram, and in the nature of the case 
there must always have, been a gate near this spot. 

d. Beyond this point, as we shall presently sec, there is 
no opportunity for a gate south of the point where the 

.north wall of Zion would have joined the Temple; but 
that wall must have included one of these “gates to the 
suburbs,” both for the sake of convenience and to prevent 
an undue crowding of three gates in the western Temple 
wall north of its junction with the Zion wall. Here, how- 
ever, there is just convenient space for a gate, and a suit- 
able locality about half-way between the bridge and the 
Zion wall. 

e. These views are confirmed by the following point : 

4. Josephus mentions ( War, vi, 3, 2) as lying along this 
wall “ John's Tower, which lie built in the war he made 
against Simon, over the gates that led to the Xystus,” bv 
which gate we understand this of Parbar, and that the 
tower was constructed over an enlargement of its gate- 
way lying opposite Simon’s or the Lying-out Tower. 

5. The next object of interest is “the Council -house" 
mentioned by Josephus as the termination of the old wall 
at the Temple (H'«r, v, 4, 2), which plainly implies that it 
lay in the corner where the city and Temple walls met, 
and immediately joined them both. This building we 
therefore locate on that part of the llaram which adjoins 
the termination of the present Street of David, for the 
reasons following: 

a. The courses of old foundation-stones forming “the 
Jews’ Wailing-place” show that there was no structure 
anciently adjoining them, and therefore the Council- 
house must be located north of this spot. 

b. The space here unappropriated (about 100 feet, be- 
tween the Jews’ Wailing-place and David Street) would 
be a suitable one for a public building with its interior 
court and connected offices. 

c. The Mukhnmn, or “ town-ball,” of the modern city is 
exactly on this spot, and “some of it has more the ap- 
pearance of being in situ than many of the other remains 
in the city” (Oru nance Survey, p. 2S). 


6. Just north of the Zion wall thus located, we would 
place one of the gates of Asuppim, referred to in 1 Chron. 
xxvi, 17 as lying on the western side of the Temple, iden- 
tical with Josephus’s other gate leading to the suburbs, at 
a convenient place, and uniformly situated with respect to 
t lie gate above and that below, and just at the present 
Bab es-Silsileh, or “ Cate of the Chain,” at the head of the 
modern “ Street of David,” which is the principal entrance 
to the llaram. 

7. Adjoining this on the inside rnnst have been tne 
House of A sujtpiin, or “collections” (1 Chron. xxvi, 15), 
occupying (part of) the cloister between the two gates 
of the same name. It probably was the place of deposit 
for the Temple offerings (see Lightlbot, ll'w/A'.v, ix. 230). 
This is apparently “that northern edifice which was be- 
tween the two gates” mentioned by Josephus ( I I’m-, vi, *2, 
7), for that these were the two gates' of Asuppim is evident 
from several considerations: 

a. The Homans, although then assaulting the outer 
Temple wall, evidently attacked its north-west corner, 
where the Temple proper was nearest to them, and there- 
fore won Id not have reared their engines south of the 
junction of the old wall with the Temple, which leaves 
but these two gates for the sphere of their operations on 
the west. 

b. That this building was on the west side of the Tem- 
ple is clear from the fact that of the four engines the first 
was opposite the north-west angle of the inner court 
[from a northerly point of attack], and the last one far- 
ther along the north side ; if, then, this second one be op- 
posite the same north-west corner of the inner court from 
a westerly direction, the third will be farther south on the 
west side, between the south gate of Asuppim and the old 
wall — a natural and consistent arrangement. The Tower 
of Antonia proper prevented any being reared nearer the 
extreme north-west corner of the outer wall. 

S. The other Gate of Asuppim we therefore place at a 
corresponding distance northward, opposite where a gate 
enters the llaram from the modern “Cotton Mart,” and 
hence called Bab el-Kattanin. Lightfoot asserts that this 
gate (which, however, he calls Shallecheth) was diametri- 
cally opposite the eastern gate (!TorA*s, ix, 220), but appar- 
ently without any authority. This is evidently also Jo- 
sephus’s “last [gate on this side that] led to the other 
city,” i. e. Acra ( A nt. xv, 11, 5). 

9. In this last passage, also, Josephus states that on 
passing out of this gate “the road descended down into 
the valley [of the Tyropceon] by a great number of steps , 
and thence up again by the ascent,” which agrees with 
the fact that the detritus adjoining the wall is here 72 feet 
deep (Ordnance Survey, p. 29). 

10. We next arrive at the north-west corner of (he Tem- 
ple enclosure, about 1000 feet from the east as well as the 
south side. Near this corner were private passages for 
the Homan guard from Antonia to the galleries within 
the wall (Josephus, War, v, 5, S). 

11. On the north side there was but one gate (the “two 
gates” of Josephus [H r ar, vi,2, 7] have been shown above 
not to belong to the north side), which the Talmud calls 
Tedi (Mid doth, i, 3), a word of uncertain signification, but 
apparently indicative of “privacy” from its being less 
used, and therefore less ornamented, than the other gates 
(so Lightfoot from the Talmud), which the obstruction 
of Antonia would naturally occasion. We place it in the 
middle of the wall, nearly opposite both the Gate of Song 
and the present “ Gate el-Ilitta,” on the north side of the 
llaram. 

12. The north-east corner of the square would thus 
fall just south of the Golden Gate, considered as repre- 
senting the lower at that angle of the enclosure of An- 
tonia, possibly the old tower of Meah (Neb. iii, 1 ; xii, 
39). 

13. On the east side there was hut one gate, that of 
Shuskan (Mkldoth, i, 3), so called from a representation of 
that city on the walls of one of its chambers. It was op- 
posite the entrance of the porch of the Temple, in order 
that the priest, when he burned the red heifer on the 
Mount of Olives, might exactly face the altar; on which 
account the tower over the gate was lower thau those 
surmounting the other gates, so as not to intercept his 
view. So infers Lightfoot from the Talmud and Maimon- 
ides ( IPorA'S, ix, 218, 219); which location, however, Mr. 
Williams finds it necessary to dispute (Holy City, ii, 355, 
note 5). This position shows that this gate and the altar 
were in a range with the other gates between them. By 
an inspection of the sectional view of the Temple on the 
map, it will appear that at a certain height on the Mount 
of Olives the fire on the altar might be seen through the 
inner gates and over this gate. We find no traces of this 
gate mentioned by travellers. 

14. At the south-east corner Josephus says there was a 
tremendous precipice (Ant. xv, 11, 3,5), apparently “the 
pinnacle of the Temple” on which the tempter placed 
Christ (Luke iv, 9), still to be recognised in the steep de- 
scent at this point, and proved to have been anciently 
more profound by the vaulted substructions beneath the 
inside of the Haram, raising this angle of Us platform 
above the old bed of the valley. The wall is here about 
6<* feet high, and about 80 feet deep from the present sur- 
face of the ground outside. From Josephus’s language 


TEMPLE 


261 


TEMPLE 


in War, vi, 3, 3, it is evident I hat the precipice at the north- 1 
east angle was also very considerable. 

15. On the south side, according to the Talmud, were j 
two gates, both named Iluldah (Mid doth, i, 3), perhaps 
from the prophetess of that name. These are evidently 
the “gates in the middle” of this side mentioned by Jo- 
sephus (Ant. xv, 11,5). We conclude that they lay very 
near together, and (with I)r. Robinson) identify them with 
the double gateway still found in the sonth llaram wall 
at the point where the modern city wall joins it. Its en- 
tire breadth is 42 feet (Robinson, Hi hi. lies, i, 450) and it 
is reached by a sloping passage from the platform of the 
Unram, as the embankment here could never have other- 
wise admitted an exit, nor even then without exterior 
steps. Light foot, however, makes these gates divide the 
wall into three equal parts ( llorfcs, ix, *224), apparently 
merely arguing from the statement of Josephus. It is 
worthy of note that in 1 Chron. xxvi, 14-18 but one set of 
guards is constantly assigned to the south side, in like 
terms as to the single gates on the north and east, where- 
as four sets are, in both enumerations, assigned to the 
west side. The other modern vestiges of portals on this 
side are of inferior size and antiquity. 

1C. On the several sides of the Court of the Gentiles 
that lay within the outer wall (called also the Outer 
Court, Lower Court, and by the rabbins usually “Moun- 
tain of the Lord’s House”) there were several objects wor- 
thy of special note : 

(1.) On the north and west sides were double interior 
porticos or cloisters, each 15 cubits wide, supported by 
colnmns and sustaining a roof on cedar beams (Josephus, 
War, v, 5, 2). 

(*2.) On the east side was Solomon's Porch (John x, 23 ; 
Acts iii, 11), of the same size and style with those on the 
Dorth and west (Josephus, Ant. xv, 11,3; xx, 9, 7). 

(3.) On the south side was the lioj/al Portico (apparent- 
ly so called after Herod, who rebuilt it; Josephus, War, 
g 21, 1), which differed from the rest in being triple, the 
two side aisles being 30 feet broad, and the middle one 
once and a half as broad (Ant. xv, 11, 5). Light foot has 
strangely set these down as being respectively 15 and 421 
cubits broad (Pitman’s edition of his Horns', ix, 239, with 
which his own map agrees; the English folio edition, i, 
lOCt, has the same numbers; hut the Latin edition in Ugo- 
lino. Thesaurus , ix,59C, has for the middle aisle forty-one 
cubits), in which we suspect some oversight (perhaps from 
thinking of the dimensions of the other cloisters), as all 
editions of Josephus here read alike, and the Middot h 
does not particularize on this point. The hypothesis 
of Williams (Holt/ City, ii, 401 ) that would throw the. 
Royal Portico outside the Temple area is opposed to 
all ancient authority; so much so that even bis coadju- 
tor Prof. Willis is constrained to disseut from him (ibid. 
i, 103). 

(4.) These cloisters were adorned with Corinthian col - 
unins of solid marble, 162 in number (of such size that 
three men could just span them with their outstretched 
arms, making about a diameter of six feet), which sepa- 
rated the aisles, besides another row half imbedded in 
the outer wall (Josephus, Ant. xv, 11, 5). We understand 
this to be the number of all the columns that stood alone 
in all the circuit of this court, and not those of the Royal 
Portico merely; for they would then be unduly crowded, 
and the average space between them which we have made 
(about 45 feet) is no greater span for the roof timbers 
than across the middle aisle of the south cloister. The 
harmony with which the several gates fall in between 
them when thus distributed is no little corroboration of 
the entire scheme. In the substructed vaults the rows of 
piers are 15 feet apart, and thus certain rows of them 
would fall exactly under these pillars, these piers also av- 
eraging about half the distance apart of the columns 
above. (See Prof. Willis’s remarks in Williams’s Holy 
City , appendix, i, 125-12S; although we caunot see why 
he should think that a column stood over each pier one 
way when they could have been only over every other, or 
every third one, the other way.) These columns were 25 
cubits high on three sides, which determines the height 
of the roof on those sides (Josephus, Hur, v, 5, 2); but on 
the south side the (shafts of the) two exterior rows were 
27 feet high, the capitals and double bases raising the 
roof to 50 feet, and the middle aisle was twice as high, 
probably by another series of columns of the same size 
surmounting the tirst (Ant. xv, 11, 5). Balustrades doubt- 
less guarded the edges of the flat roofs, and the gates 
were probably capped with turrets, for ornament as well 
as defence. 

(5.) q’here were porters' lodges adjoining at least five of 
the gates ( Middot h , i, 1), and probably similar structures 
for the accommodation of the Levites guarding each of 
the gates (1 Chron. xxvi, 12, 13). 

(6.) The Talmud also speaks of shops in this court, where 
articles used in sacrifice were kept for sale, as well as of 
a room in which the Jewish “Council of Twenty-three,” 
and afterwards the Sanhedrim, sat ; these Lightfoot lo- 
cates near the Shnshan Gate, the former on the ground- 
floor and the latter oveihead (UorArs, ix, 241-244). It was 
probably an abuse of this privilege of sale that led to 'be 
introduction of cattle, sheep, and pigeons by the traders 
whom Christ expelled. 


(II.) The Saorf.b Enolobure, 

Brevity will require that in the consideration of the de- 
tails of the interior portions of the Temple the simple di- 
mensions and statements should be exhibited, together 
with their authority, with as little discussion as possible. 

1. A lattice-wall all around, 1 cubit broad, 3 cubits high, 
with equidistant pillars containing notices of non-admis- 
sion (Josephus, A nt. xv, II, 5; llur, v, 5, 2) ; called chel 
(Lam. ii, S). 

2. This stood 12 steps, each one half cubit high and 
broad, above the Gentiles’ Court [on the north and south 
sides] (Middoth, ii, 3), but 14 [on the east side] (liar, v, 5, 
2 ). 

3. Adjoining was a platform, 10 cubits wide (War, v, 5, 2). 

(III.) Tub Court or the Women. 

1. This court (called also New Court, 2 Chron. xx, 5; 
Outer Court, Ezek. xlvi, 21 : Treasury, John vi ii, 20) was 
135 cubits square [internally] (Middoth, ii, 5); “four- 
square” ( War, v, 5, 2). 

2. A gate on each side (War, v, 5, 2). These were 30 cu- 
bits wide [including ornaments], supported by pillars at 
the side, and having rooms above (War, v, 5, 3). 

3. The east gate (called “ Beautiful,” Acts iii, 2) was 40 
cubits wide [including side ornaments of 5 cubits] (War, 
v, 5, 3). 

4. There were 5 steps from the platform [i. e. the differ- 
ence between the floors of this court and that of the Is- 
raelites] ( War, v, 5, 2, 3). 

5. There were 15 steps to the Court of the Israelites 
( If w ar, v, 5, 3) ; circular for the “ Psalms of degrees” (Mid- 
doth, ii, 5). 

6. Corner courts of the Women’s Court, each 40 cubits 
from east to west [and 30 broad], with interior open spaces, 
20 cubits by 14, for boiling sacrifices; the coveted rooms 
around that in the north-east corner fAr performing the 
ceremony of release from a Nazarite’s vow, in the south- 
east for a wood repository, in the south-west for cleans- 
ing lepers, in the north-west chambers for wine and oil 
for offerings (Middoth, ii, 5 ; Ezek. xlvi, 21-24). Lightfoot, 
however, makes the Nazarites’ room in the south-east, 
the wood-room 4 n the north-east, the lepers’ room in the 
north-west, and the wine and oil rooms in the south-west, 
from the rabbins ( Works, ix, 307). 

7. Single galleries of two stories [men below, women 
above] between the corner courts [on the north, east, and 
west sides] (Middoth, ii, 5) ; supported by columns similar 
to those of the Gentiles’ Conrt (War, v, 5, 2). 

8. There were eleven treasure-chests distributed in front 
of the columns in this court, besides the two at the gate 
Shusban for the half-shekel tax (Lightfoot, from the rab- 
bins, floras, ix, 315). 

9. Underground rooms for musical instruments on each 
side of the gate between this and the Israelites’ Court 
(Middoth, ii, 0). 

10. There was a tower over the east [Beautiful] gate 
with an occult [subterranean] passage from the Tower An- 
tonia for the Roman guard (Ant. xv, 11,7). 

(IV.) Tim Court or the Israelites. 

1. This was 1ST cubits from east to west, 135 from north 
to south, 8 cubits wide on the north and south, and 11 on 
the east and west (Middoth, ii, 6). 

2. Surrounded by a portico similar to those of the Gen- 
tiles’ Court, but single ( liar, v, 5. 2). 

3. Had three gates on the north and south, none on the 
west (Middoth, i, 4 ; War, v, 5, 2). Those on the north and 
south equidistant (.4?R. xvi, 11, 5; Middoth , v, 3). 

4. East gate called Higher Gate (2 Kings xv, 35 ; 2 Chron. 
xxvii,3), New Gate (Jer. xxvi, 10 ; xxxvi, 10), Gate of En- 
trance (Ezek. xl, 15), Gate of Sica nor (Middoth, i, 4). 

5. Gates and rooms in the wall adjoining as follows, be- 
ginning at the south-west corner (for the authority of 
most of these points it is sufficient to refer to Lightfoot’s 
citations [ Works, ix. 333-380], as there can be no dispute 
respecting them. We have not in all cases arranged the 
rooms precisely like Lightfoot, but have made a few slight 
changes where* they seemed requisite): 

(1.) Sentinel's Hall, west of the first gate. 

(2.) Gate of Kindling. 

(3.) Guard-mom , adjoining east. 

(4.) Gate of Firstlings, in the middle. 

(5.) Guard-room adjoining it. 

((>.) Wood-room for the use of the altar, adjoining the 

(7.) Water-gate, the last on this side. 

(8.) Well-room, with its draw-well connected with a res- 
ervoir [the aqueduct from Bethlehem ?] deriving its waters 
from a westerly direction, and an engine for forcing it 
into the priests’ Inver. 

(9.) House Gazlth, at the south-east corner, consisting 
of two parts : 

[1.] The Session-room of the Sanhedrim, with its triple 
semicircles for seatiug the members, and its desks. From 
a comparison of the number of members with the size of 
the room, we find that the space in the wall could by no 
means contain them, and have therefore enlarged it out- 
wardly. 

[2.] A room for the priests to pray and cast their lots 
in. 

(10.) On the south side of the Gate of Nicauor, the 


TEMPLE 


TEMPLE 


2G‘2 


Pastry-man's Chamber, for baking tbe salt cakes burned 
with the daily sacrifice. 

(II.) On the north side of the same gate, the Priest# 
Wardrobe, for the pout ideal dresses. 

(12.) In the north-east corner, tbe Earthenware-room , for 
the sacred pottery. 

(13.) A Guard-room, adjoining on the cast. 

(14.) The Gate of Sony. 

( 15 .) Adjoining this, a HWi-rawi for cleanstng the eu- 
traiK etc., of sacrifices. 

(16.) A Room for Hides of victims, and 
(l?.) The Salt-room, for the salt used in preserving them, 
both in order, adjoining 
(is.) The Gate of U7>»w». Adjoining this, 

(lt>.) A Treasure-room , for the more permanent deposit 
of the money from the House of Asuppim. 

(‘JO.) A Guard-room, and next, 

(21.) The other Treasure-room, for the same purpose as 
the former. These adjoined 
(22.) The Gate of Burning, the last of the six. 

(23.) The interval between this gate and the western 
wall was called the House of Burning, and was divided 
into three equal parts. This building projected inwardly 
into the Court of the Israelites, like one portion of the 
House Gnzith. These two buildings alone had entrances 
from the sacred enclosure, all the other rooms being en- 
tered only from the court within: 

[1.] Adjoining the gate, the House of the Consecrated 
Stones of the former altar (removed after the rededication 
under the Maccabees, as having been desecrated byAn- 
tiochus Epiphanes), in the northern subdivision; aud on 
the south the Skew-bread Bakery. 

[2.1 In tbe middle the Priests ’ Hall, where was a tire 
for the use of the guards at uight. 

[3.] The western portion was occupied, on the north for 
a /'nests' Bathing-room, and on the south for keeping the 
Lambs selected for the daily sacrifice. 

0. The principal difficulty connected with this court is 
the number of steps, and t'lieir height, leading into it on 
the north and south, and arises from a confusion in the 
terms by which Josephus mentions them. He says (H«r, 
v, 5, •-) that betwecu the sacred platform and the interior, 
court “ were other steps, each of 5 cubits apiece ,” which 
we understand to mean that the Court of the Israelites 
was entered by [two flights of] steps, each [flight] rising 
5 cubits, thus ‘making 20 steps, in two sets of half-cubit 
steps. Again he says {ibid. § 4) that “there were If* steps 
[those of the “degrees”] which led away [i. e. eastward] 
from the [west] wall of t lie Court of the Women to [i. e. to- 
wards] this greater gate [the Beautiful Gate], whereas those 
that led thither [i. e. to the platform down to which the 
Beautiful Gate led] /row the other gates [opening towards 
this platform] were five steps shorter by which we can 
only understand (according to the above interpolations) 
that tile number of the steps leading out of the Court of 
the Israelites on the east exceeded by 5 the number [in 
each flight] of those on the north and south ; for if these 
latter were hut 10 iu all, each must have been one cubit in 
the rise (7>£ cubits at the Nicanor Gate + 2^ at t lie Beauti- 
ful Gate- 10), an impracticable ascent. Finally, he says 
{ibid. 5 2) that “the height of its buildings [those of the 
Women’s Court], although it were on the outside 4ft cubits, 
was hidden by the steps, and on the inside that height 
was but 2. r > cubits,” which we take to denote that the top 
of the wall enclosing the Court of the Israelites (which 
was continuous with that of the Court of the Women) 
was 40 cnbits from the level of the floor of the Court of 
the Gentiles, the intervening steps making the difference 
(15 cubits) of its internal altitude— as would be true with- 
in a single cubit 10 =1G^ . The gate -turrets 

were still higher than this. The steps mentioned by Jo- 
sephus (Tar, v, 1, 5) as preventing the erection of John’s 
engines on any other spot than “behind the inner court 
over against the west end of the cloister” seem to be 
those that ran around the three sides of the Priests’ 
Court, at the railing separating it from the cloistered 
Court of the Israelites. 

7. The thickness of ibis wall is nowhere stated in the 
Mishna, but is given by Josephus as being S cubits (Tar, 
vi, 5. 1, at the close) ; and the numerous rooms contained 
within it would seem to justify a greater thickness than 
in any of the other walls. 

(V.) Tije Court of tub Prikstb, the Great Altar, and 
the Te.mim.k Proper. 

These are treated of in the Mishna in the fullest detail, 
and the minuted points— to the thickness of the walls and 
partitions, the number, size, and position of the doors, the 
dimensions, order, and situation of the rooms and pas- 
sages, with all their peculiarities and contents— are given 
with the precise explicitness of specifications for a build- 
er’s contract ; so that as to everything, great or small, 
contained within these hounds there is such full and 
trustworthy authority that all one has to do is to collect 
and plot them down on t lie plan. This the reader will 
find so carefully and completely done to his hand by 
Light foot, in his Prospects of the Temple, so often referred 
to, that to detail it here would be but to repeat his state- 


ments : we have examined his authorities and conclusions 
in detail, and believe that no accurate description can do 
much more than follow his digest on this subject. We 
have embodied the results iu our map accompanying this 
volume. The points iu which we have varied from his 
plan are too few and unimportant to he worth enumerat- 
ing. One particular, however, requires special considera- 
tion, because its settlement involves the discussion of the 
few points that have not been determined above; and to 
this we add such other remarks as will convey a suffi- 
ciently definite idea of the main edifice. 

1. The Position of the Great Altar. — Its distance from 
the northern boundary of the Court of the Israelites is 
given in the Mishna in the following words: “From 
north to south [ihe Israelites’ Court was] 135 cubits 
[wide], as follows: from the ascent to the extremity of 
the altar [i. e. the whole leugth of the altar including its 
inclined ascent] were 62 cubits [i. e. horizontal measure, 
for the altar is elsewhere given as 32 cubits square, ami 
the slope of the ascent as another 32 cubits, which would 
give 64 instead of 62 cubits, measured superficially (see 
Light foot, Works, ix, 413)], from the altar to the rings 8 
cubits; the place of the rings was 24 cubits, thence from 
the rings to the tables were 4 cubits, from tbe tables to 
the columns 4, from the columns to the wall of the court 
S cubits [making thus 110 cuhits] ; the rest [25 cubits] were 
as well the space between the ascent, and wall as a ])lace of 
columns" {Middoth, v, 1). This last clause is somewhat 
ambiguous, but is generally understood as meaning that 
there was a space of 25 cubits between the south wall and 
the foot of the “ascent,” which contained some extra 
posts (like those on the north side) for sacrificing on 
crowded occasions— an interpretation from which we do 
not see any good reason for dissenting. So L’Empereur 
(in his separate commentary on the Middoth, p. 173) ex- 
plains, "Partly for an [open] space and partly for the 
place of [extra] columns,” assigning 12>£ cubits to eacli 
portion, which amounts to the ^ame thing as to the point 
til question. So also Lightfoot (Ifork ix, 413). The po- 
sition of the altar from east to west is fixed with regard to 
the court in which it lay in terms which are free from any 
ambiguity. 

In common with most antiquarians, we are disposed to 
find the native rock, on which the altar is assumed to have 
been reared, iu the remarkable Sacred Rock under the dome 
of the central mosque of the ITarnm. This is 50 or 60 feet 
broad, occupying nearly the whole space immediately un- 
der the dome, and rising about 5 feet above the floor of 
the building, which is 12 feet higher than the rest of the 
enclosure. The centre of the rock is about 7s5 feet from 
the southern and 61ft from the eastern wall of the llarani. 
The frequent supposition that it stood within the most 
holy place, or at least within the Temple proper, is neg- 
atived by the relative distances presently to be noticed 
from the Talmud. The positive reasons for making the 
altar coincide with the Sacred liock may be stated as fol- 
lows : 

(a.) Tradition — Jewish, Christian, and Moslem— favors 
it (see Williams, Jloly City, ii, 340-343). 

(6.) This rock is prominent above all other spots, and 
we know that the great altar was higher than even t lie 
floor of the Temple itself. 

(c.) The upper platform of the Haram thus most nearly 
coincides with that of The sacred enclosure of the Temple. 

(d.) The cave and sewer at the south-east corner of the 
present rock would thus be identical with the ancient 
cesspool and drain for the blood sprinkled around the 
altar. 

This site of the great altar fixes the general position of 
the Temple and sacred enclosure generally within the 
great area, aud agree.- with ihe only definite statement in 
the Mishna on the subject, namely, that “the greatest 
space between the Temple and the wall of the outer court 
was on the south side, ihe next greatest on the east, the 
next on the north, and the least, on the west” {Middoth, ii, 
1). According toonr arrangement, the spaces (at the near- 
est point) between the chel, or sacred fence, and the inner 
surface of the outmost wall are respectively on the west 
about 78 feet, on the north about 8ft feet, on the east 
about 239 feet, on the south about 643 feet. Lightfoot’s 
plan has nearly the same. Dr. Wm. Brown (of Scot- 
land), in his work on the Antiquities of the Jews (i, 7ft), 
lays them down in cuhits, as follows: south, 259; east, 
Oft; north, 72; west, 49. Fergnsson arbitrarily refers these 
measurements to the inner court of the Temple {Temples 
of the Jews, p. 1 IS), on the ground that the Talmud states 
that “in the place largest in measurement was held most 
service” {Middoth, ii, 1) ; but the text obviously means the 
space in the outer court, as that alone is the subject there 
treated of. 

The position of the altar also fixes the line of the boun- 
dary between the tribes of Judah and Benjamin, which 
at this date cut off one cnbit from tbe south-east corner 
of the altar— a circumstance of which the rabbins take 
frequent notice (see Lightfoot, HocLs, ix, 395). This boun- 
dary originally ran entirely south of the holy city (Josh, 
xv, 7-9; xviii, 15-17), but the conquest of Jehus by David 
appears to have annexed Mount Zion permanently to 
Jutlali (2 Sam. iv, 7). The subsequent purchase of the 
I threshing-floor of Araunab the Jebusite by David (xxiv, 


TEMPLE 


203 


TEMPLE 


24; 1 Chron. xxi, 25) as the site of his altar, and event- 
ually of the Temple (2 Chron. iii, 1), does not seem to 
have removed it entirely out of the tribe of Benjamin. 

2. General Description of the Temple Pro} ter . — This we 
find well summarized in Winer ( lieulworterb . ii, 5S3 sq.), 
from the combined statements of the Talmud and Jose- 
phus (the latter, however, although a priest by birth, and 
therefore entitled to admission to the building, so con- 
stantly mixes the description of Herod’s with that of Sol- 
omon’s Temple that we must often distrust his details). 

This edifice was constructed upon new foundations 
(Josephus, Ant, xv, 11, 3), and of white marble, the blocks 
being in some instances 45 cubits loug, G broad, and 5 
high (ir«r, v, 5, G; comp. Jnf. xv, 11,3). The entire width 
(from north to south) of the porch was (exteriorly) TOO cu- 
bits; but the remainder (rear part) of the building was 
only GO cubits (according to the Talmudists 70, including 
the side chamber of 5 cubits, the wall of G cubits, etc.), 
so that the porch projected 20 (or 15) cubits on each side 
beyond the rest of the structure. Its length was also loo 
cubits, and its height the same ; but Josephus says (Juf. 
xv, 11,3) that eventually it sank 20 cubits (the original 
height being 120), a statement which Ilirt (p. 10) regards 
(probably with justice) as a mere legend. The interior 
space was, according to Josephus, so divided that the 
porch had a length (from north to south) of 50 cubits, a 
breadth of 20, and a height of 00 (comp. Hu/*, v, 5, 5) ; the 
holy place a length of 40 cubits, a breadth of 20, and a 
height of GO; and the most holy place a length and breadth 
of 20 cubits, and a height of Go ; hut the Talmud (Middot h, 
iv, G) makes the height of both the latter rooms to have 
been only 40 cubitsj by which we suspect it means the 
extra height above the ceiling of the most holy place, 
since this last was a perfect cube. The entire building 
also seems to have been 100 cubits in each dimension, as 
Josephus in the main indicates, although his numbers in 
several passages appear to be confused or corrupt. This 
likewise is the statement of the Talmud (ibid, iv, 7), 
according to which the length (from east to west) of the 
porch was only 11 cubits, that of the sanctuary 40 cubits, 
and that of the shrine 20 cnbits ; while on the west, below 
the holy of holies, was a space (for a chamber) of G cubits 
(comp, also ibid, iv, 3), besides 23 cnbits for the thick- 
ness of the walls and partitions. If, as Josephus and the 
Talmud both state, the porch was 100 cnbits high, but (as 
the latter states) only 90 high on the inside, the difference 
of 10 cubits may have been that of the peaked roof, if a ga- 
ble; but the difference in their numbers as to the height 
of the rear portiou of the building gives probability to the 
statement of the Talmud (ibid, iv, 6) that there was an 
tipper room over the holy and most holy places, 


containing trap-doors in the floor, through which work- 
men were let down into the most holy place to make re- 4 
pairs {ibid, iv, 5). Josephus calls this part of the building 
to inrt^wov mpor, ii ud the Talmud gives it a height of 40 
cubits, which apparently refers only to the intermediate 
space left by the difference between the holy and the most 
holy place. As to the style of the roof (whether flat or 
peaked) Josephus says nothing; he only remarks ( Har, 
v, 5, G) that it was surmounted (amu Ka]>v<}>t}v) by golden 
spikes (ufieKoi), probably of gilded iron, fastened with lead, 
for scaring away the birds; the same are mentioned in 
the Talmud Mid doth, iv, 6), where they are 

said to have been one cubit iu height. The roof itself ap- 
pears, according to the Mishna, to have been a low gable 
(see L’Emperenr, ad Middoth, iv, 6), with a balustrade 
(!"ipr*2) three cubits high. The space above the 
is thus divided ( Middoth , iv, 6) : 1 cubit TV'S (? ceiling); 

2 cubits nsbl r*- (place of raiu-water) ; 1 cubit mp?2 
(timber); 1 cubit rC'7 VQ (flooring) ; 3 cubits railing; 1 
cubit scarecrows. On both sides of the interior apart- 
ments was a space of 20 cubits devoted to a suite of rooms 
(oiKot TpiaTe^ai), which, however, extended only GO cubits 
high (Josephus. Ant. xv, 11, 3 ; War, v, 5, 5). According to 
the Talmud (Middoth, iv, 3), these (C'Xri) were in all 38; 
namely, 15 on the north and south side each, and S ou the 
west or rear (comp, the “many mansion*,” /uvai noWai, 
of John xiv, 2). The shoulder or projecting space (north 
and south) on each side of the porch (40 cubits in Jose- 
phus, 30 in the Talmud) was used as a depository of the 
sacrificial implements (T) "-Eb-'nn mn, lueus secespita - 
rum, Middoth , iv, 7). 

The most holy place, which was entirely empty (fkuto 
ou5ev ! ,\ok fit avrtZ, Josephus, War, v, 5, 5), except the stone 
("'iinilj pX) which occupied the place of the ark (Mish- 
na, Yoma, v, 2), and ou which the high-priest set the cen- 
ser (the rabbins relate many marvels concerning it), was 
separated at the doorway from the holy place (Josephus, 
War, v, 5, 5) by a vail KuTrtnFTadna), which was torn by 
the earthquake at Jesus’ death (Matt, xxvii, 51 ). The 
rabbins speak of a double vail ; according to the Talmud 
these occupied a space of 1 cubit between the apartments 
(*pOp"il3, Middoth, iv, 7). The holy place had an entrance 
with two gold-plated door-leaves, which, according to Jo- 



Iie&toratiou of Herod’s Temple (oblique view of the front of the ceutral building), according to Fergussou. 


TEMPLE 


2G4 


TEMPLE 


eenhus (Mar, v, 5, 4), were r>0 cubits high and 1G broad; 
Jnii, according to the Minima ( Middoth , iv, 1), ‘20 cubits 
high and t<» broad— a difference wliicli Lighifoot recon- 
ciles by supposing that Josephus includes the decorations 
(cornice, entablature, etc.). The Talmudists also speak 
of a double door at this passage, which the thickness ol 
the walls rentiers probable. The sanctuary stood open, 
or was closed only by a screen of embroidered Uabyloniaii 
tapestry of hvssiis. See Vail As furniture ol t lie holy 
place Josephus mentions only the seven-armed candela- 
hru m, the table of sbew-brea‘il, and the altar of incense. 
The porch had a doorway 7(> cubits high and 2b broad 
t.Mishna, 40 high and ‘Jit broad, Middoth , iii, 7 : probably to 
be reconciled as above). The porch contained two ta- 
bles. one of marble, the other of gold, on which the priests 
daiiv set respectively the old and the fresh shew-bread 
taken from and carried into the Temple (^lislma, Shekal. 
vi. 4). ... 

hi front of tbe porch, within the priests’ court, stood in 
close proximity (but somewhat to the south, Middoth, iii, 
<*,) ;he Inver v*V2): nnd there (22 cubits from the porch) 
stood the great altar [see Buunt-ofikuino], the iuterveu- 


170G], Green [ibid. 1737], and Ilnldrich [Zur. 17S2]). Her- 
od, in imitation of the Greeks and Romans, suspended ill 
the porch several of the rich spoils and trophies which he 
had taken from the Arabs and other barbarous Tribes of 
the East. This was a common custom among tiie hea- 
then nations; Virgil introduces ^Eneas boasting of hav- 
ing suspended the spoils which lie took from the Greeks 
on" the portals of a Grecian temple LL'/t. iii). See Gam- 

.MA1HM. 

IX. The Apocalyptic Temple. — In the vision of John 
on Rat m os he expressly tells us respecting the New 
Jerusalem, “ I saw no temple therein, for the Lord God 
Almighty and the Lamb are the temple thereof” (Rev. 
xxi, 22). The celestial city itself, in other words, is to 
be one vast temple filled with the perpetual Shechinah. 
We here give 1 ‘nine’s sketch of the ideal city on the. 
mountain, the length of which was equal to its breadth, 
and this again was equal to the height of the city 
above the plain (vcr. IG). 


The Celestial City (after Paine). 


ing space being regarded as especially holy fMishnn, Che- 
lim , i, 9). North of this were 6 rows of rings (in the pave- 
ment), to which the animals to he slaughtered were fast- 
ened ; a little beyond were S low pillars with cedar beams 
across them, from which (he sacrifices were suspended: 
and between these pillars stood marble tables (P'SH^w 
— " — ), on which their fle>h and entrails were laid 

( Middoth , iii, 5; v, 2; Tumid , iii, 5; Shekalim, vi, 4). West 
of the altar stood two tables ; one of marble, ou which the 
fat of the victims was deposited ; the other of silver (?), 
upon which were kept the implements lor this service. 
See Saouii iriAi. Offering. 

3. Maanifirence of the Central Building. — The vast sums 
which Herod laid out in adorning this structure gave it 
the most magnificent and imposing appearance. “Its 
appearance,” says Josephus, “had everything that could 
strike the mind and astonish the sight. For it was on 
every side covered with solid plates of gold, so that when 
the sun rose upon it, it reflected such a strong and daz- 
zling effulgence that the eve of the beholder was obliged 
to turn away from it, being no more able to sustain its 
radiance than the splendor of the suit” ( Hur, v, 5, 4). To 
strangers who approached the capital, it appeared, at a 
distance, like a huge mountain covered with snow. For 
where it wa> not decorated with plates of gold, it. was ex- 
tremely white and glistening. The historian, indeed, says 

1 hat the Temple of Herod was the most astonishing struct- 
ure he had ever seen or heard of, ns well on account of 
its architecture as its magnitude, and likewise the rich- 
ness and magnificence of its various parts, and the fame 
and reputation of its sacred appurtenances. Tacitus calls 
it immense* opvlentur templvm (Hist, v, 12). Its exter- 
nal glory, indeed, consisted not only in the opulence and 
magnificence of the building, but also in the rich gifts with 
which it was adorned, and which excited the admiration 
of those who beheld them (Luke xxi, 5). In the portico 
the various votive offerings made both bv Jews nnd for- 
eigners were deposited (see Richter, ’ak^oto Templi Hi - 
erased. [Lips. ITG4]). Among these treasures (2 Macc. iii 

2 lx, 16: Josephus, Ant. xiv, 1G, 4: xviii, 3, 5; xix G, 1 • 
Hlir ii, 17,3: v,13,G; Apian, ii, 2 : Philo, Opp. ii, SCO, 501) 
we tin (1 specially mentioned a large golden table, present- 
ed by Pompey the Great, and several golden vines of ex- 
H incite workmanship and immense size: for Josephus 
:»«snie« ns that some of the clusters of golden grapes were 
as tall as a man (liar, v, 5, 4). One such golden vine 
( — "I “S3, Middoth , iii, S) especially seems to have 
been trained up over the entire front of the building (Jo- 
sephus Ant. xv, 11, 3; comp. Tacit. Hist. v. r>). See the 
monographs De Yitc Anna in Templo by Janus [Lips. 


X. Sacred Observances Connected with the Temple . — 
1. The Daily Service. — The following is an outline of 
the regular duties of tbe priesthood: 

(1.) The morning service. After having enjoyed their 
repose, the priests bathed themselves in the rooms pro- 
vided for that purpose and waited the arrival of the pres- 
i ideut of the lots. This officer having arrived, they divid- 
ed themselves into two companies, each of which was 
provided with lamps or torches, and made a circuit of the 
Temple, going in different directions, and meeting at the 
pnstryman’s chamber on the south side of the gate Nica- 
nor. Having summoned him to prepare the cakes for the 
high-priest’s meat-offering, they retired with the presi- 
dent to the south-east corner of the court and cast lots 
for the duties connected with t lie altar. The priest being 
chosen to remove the ashes from the altar, he again wash- 
ed his feet at the Inver, and then with the silver shovel 
proceeded to his work. As soon as he had removed one 
shovelful of the ashes, the other priests retired to wash 
their hands and feet, and then joined him in cleansing 
the altar and renewing the fires. The next act was to 
cast lots for the thirteen particular duties connected with 
offering the sacrifice; which being settled, the president, 
ordered one of them to fetch the lamb for the morning 
sacrifice. While the priests on this duty were engaged in 
fetching and examining the victim, those who carried the 
keys were opening the seven gates of the Court of Israel 
and the two doors that separated between the porch and 
the holy place. When the last of the seven gates was 
opened, the silver trumpets gave a flourish to call the Le- 
vite« to their desks for the music, and the stationary men 
to their places as the representatives of the people. The 
opening of the folding-doors of the Temple was the es- 
tablished signal for killing the sacrifice, which was cut 
j in pieces and carried to the top of the altar, where it was 
salted and left while the priests once more retired to the 
room Gazith to join in prayer. While the sacrifice was 
slain in the court of the priests, the two priests appointed 
to trim the lamps nnd cleanse the altar of incense were 
attending to their duties in the holy place. After the 
conclusion of their prayer and a rehearsal of the ten 
commandments and their phylacteries, the priests again 
cast lots to choose two to offer incense on the golden al- 
tar, and another to lay the pieces of the sacrifice on the 
tire of the brazen altar. The lot being determined, the 
two who were to offer the incense proceeded to discharge 
their duty, the time for which was between the sprink- 
ling of the blood and the laying the pieces upon the altar, 
in the morning, and in the evening, between the laying 
the pieces upon the altar and the drink-offering. As they 
proceeded to the Temple they rang the megemphita. or 
great bell, to warn the absent priests to come to wor- 



TEMPLE 


2G5 


TEMPLE 


ship, the absent Levites to come to sing, and the station- 
ary men to bring to the gate Nicanor those whose puri- 
fication was not perfected. The priest who carried the 
censer of coals which had been taken from one of the 
three fires on the great altar, after kindling the fire on 
the incense altar, worshipped and came out into the porch, 
leaving the priest who had the incense alone in the holy 
place. As soon as the signal was given by the president, 
the incense was kindled, the holy place was rilled with 
perfume, and the congregation without joined in t lie 

wavers (Luke, i, 9). These being ended, the priest whose 

ot it was to lay the pieces of the sacrifice upon the altar 
threw litem into the fire, and then, taking the tongs, dis- 
posed them in somewhat of their natural order. The 
four priests who had been in the holy place now appear- 
ed upon the steps that led to the porch, and, extending 
their arms so as to raise their hands higher than their 
heads, one of them pronounced the solemn blessing 
(Numb, vi, 24-26). After this benediction, the daily meat- 
offering was offered ; then the meat-offering of the high- 
priest ; and last of all the drink-offering: at the conclu- 
sion of which the Levites began the song of praise, and 
at every pause in the music the trumpets sounded and 
the people worshipped. This was the termination of the 
morning service. It should be stated that the morning 
service of the priests began with the dawn of day, except 
in the great festivals, when it began much earlier; the 
sacrifice was offered immediately after sunrise. 

(2.) During the middle of the day, t he priests held them- 
selves in readiness to offer the sacrifices which might be 
presented by any of the Israelites, either of a voluntary or 
an expiatory nature. Their duties would therefore vary 
according to the number and nature of the offerings they 
might have to present. 

(3.) The evening service varied in a very trifling: meas- 
ure from that of the morning; and the same priests min- 
istered, except when there was one in the house of their 
Father who had never burned incense, in which case that 
office was assigned to him, or, if there were more than 
one, t hey cast jots who should be employed. See Daily 
Offering. 

2. Holiness of the Place . — The injunction of Lev. xix, 
3, “Ye shall reverence my sanctuary,” laid the people 
under an obligation to maintain a solemn and holy be- 
havior when they came to worship in the Temple. We 
have already seen that such as were ceremonially un- 
clean were forbidden to enter the sacred court on pain 
of death ; but in the course of time there were several 
prohibitions enforced by the Sanhedrim which the law 
had not named. The following have been collected by 
Lightfoot out of the Kabbinical writings ( Temple Ser- 
vice , ch. x) : 

(1.) “No man might enter the mountain of the house 
with his staff.” 

(2.) “None might enter in thither with his shoes on his 
feet, 1 * though he ‘might with his sandals. 

(3.) “Nor might any man enter the mountain of the 
house with his scrip mi.” 

(4.) “Nor might he come in with the dust on his feet,” 
but lie must wash or wipe them, “and look to his feet 
when he entered into the house of God,” to remind him, 
perhaps, that he should then shake off all worldly thoughts 
and affections. 

(5.) “Nor with money in his purse.” lie might bring 
it in his hand , however; and in this way it was brought 
in for various purposes. If this had not been the citse, 
it would seem strange that the cripple should have been 
placed at the gate of the Temple to ask alms of those who 
entered therein (see Acts iii, 2). 

(6.) “None might spit in the Temple; if he were neces- 
sitated to spit, ifmust be done in some comer ofhis gar- 
ment.” 

(7.) “He might not use any irreverent gesture, espe- 
cially before the gate of Nicanor,” that being exactly in 
front of the Temple. 

($.) “lie might not make the mountain of the house a 
thoroughfare,” for the purpose of reaching the place by a 
nearer way ; for it was devoted to the purposes of relig- 
ion. 

(9.) “lie that went into the court must go leisurely and 
gravely into his place ; and there he must demean him- 
self, as in the presence of the Lord God, iu all reverence 
and fear.” 

(10.) “ He must worship standing, with his feet close to 
each other, his eyes directed to the ground, his hands 
upon his breast, with the right one above the left” (see 
Luke xviii, 13). 

(11.) “No one, however weary, might sit down iu the 
court.” The only exception was in favor of the kings of 
the house of David. 

(12.) “None might pray with his head uncovered. And 
the wise men and their scholars never prayed without a 
veil.” This custom is alluded to in 1 Cor. xi, 4, whfcre 
the apostle directs the men to reverse the practice adopt- 
ed in the Jewish Temple. 

(13.) Their bodily gesture in bowing before the Lord 


was either “bending of the knees,” “bowing the head,” 
or “falling prostrate on the ground.” 

(14.) Having performed the service, and being about to 
retire, “they might not turn their backs upon the altar.” 
They therefore went backwards till they were out of the 
court. 

Concerning the high veneration which the Jews 
cherished Ibr their Temple, I)r. Harwood has collected 
some interesting particulars from Philo, Josephus, and 
the writings of Luke. Their reverence for the sacred 
edifice was such that rather than witness its defilement 
they would cheerfully submit to death. They could 
not bear the least disrespectful or dishonorable thing to 
be said of it. The least injurious slight of it, real or 
apprehended, instantly awakened all the choler of a 
Jew, and was an affront never to be forgiven. Our Sav- 
iour, in the course of his public instructions, happening 
to say, “Destroy this Temple, and in three days 1 will 
raise it up again” (John ii, 19) — it was construed into a 
contemptuous disrespect, designedly thrown out against 
the Temple — his words instantly descended into the 
heart of a Jew and kept rankling there for several 
years; for, upon his trial, this declaration, which it was 
impossible for a Jew ever to forget or to forgive, was 
alleged against him as big with the most atrocious 
guilt and impiety (Matt, xxvi, G1 ). Nor was the rancor 
and virulence which this expression had occasioned at 
all softened by all the affecting circumstances of that 
excruciating and wretched death they saw him die ; 
even as he hung upon the cross, with infinite triumph, 
scorn, and exultation, they upbraided him with it, con- 
temptuously shaking their heads and saying, “O thou 
who couldst demolish our Temple and rear it up again 
in all its splendor in the space of three days, now save 
thyself, and descend from the cross” (xxvii, 40). Their 
superstitious veneration for the Temple further appears 
from the account of Stephen. When his adversaries 
were baffled and confounded by that superior wisdom 
and those distinguished gifts he possessed, they were so 
exasperated at the victory lie had gained over them 
that, they went and suborned persons to swear that 
they had heard him speak blasphemy against Moses 
and against God. These inflaming the populace, the 
magistrates, and the Jewish clergy, lie was seized, drag- 
ged away, and brought before the Sanhedrim. Here 
the false witnesses whom they had procured stood up 
and said, “This person before you is continually utter- 
ing the most reproachful expressions against this sacred 
place” (Acts vi, 13), meaning the Temple. This was 
blasphemy not to be pardoned. A judicature composed 
of high-priests and scribes would never forgive such 
impiety. We witness the same thing in the case of 
Paul when they imagined that he had taken Trophi- 
mus, an Ephesian, with him into the Temple; for which 
insult they had determined to imbrue their hands in 
his blood (xxi, 2N, etc.). 

XL Literature . — As we have said above, the two clas- 
sical authorities on the Temple are the general descrip- 
tion of Josephus {Ant. xv, 11, and IlTir, v, 5) and the 
minute account of the llerodian building in the Tal- 
mudic tract Middoth (Mishna, v, 10). which has been 
edited and commented upon by L’Empcreur of Op- 
pyck (Lngd. Hat. 1030, 4to). Among the older works 
on the subject we especially name vols. viii and ix of 
Antiqnitates Hebraicce , by Ugolino, which contain, in 
addition to other dissertations, Moses Maimonides, Con- 
stitutiones de Domo Electa; Abraham ben -David, l)e 
Templo ; see also Schulze, l)e V arils J ndrrorum Errori- 
bus in Description Templi Secundi (F. ad 31. I75G; also 
prefixed to his edition of Poland, De Spoliis Templi 
Ilierosohpnitani [Ultraj. 171G]); Hasenrafcr, Templum 
Ezech. (Tubing. 1G13); Villalpando and Prado, In Eze - 
ckiel ; Jutl. Leo, Libri Quatuor de Templo Ilieros. tarn 
Priori qnam Poster . ex Hebr. Lat. Vers, a J. Saubert 
(H el m st-. 1GG5, 4to); Cappellus, Tpurecyiov, sire Triplex 
Templi Delineatio (Amst. 1643, 4to; also inserted in t lie 
Critici Anylicani, vol. viii, and in vol. i of Walton’s 
Polyglot) ; Harenberg, In d. Brem. u. Verdisch. Diblioth. 


TEMPLE 


2GG 


TEMPORAL POWER 


iv. 1 sq.,573 sq., 870 sq. ; Lamv, De Titbern . AW., Urbe 
Hhros.et ile Templo (Tar. 17*20 sq.) ; Cromer, De Salom. 
Templo (Ilarderov. 1748); Ernesti, De Templo Herod. 
(laps. 1752); Grulick, De Dicino in Templo Ezeeh. Con - 
silio (Vi tomb. 1775). Monographs on the Temple in 
Hebrew have been written by C. Altschul (Amst. 17*21), 
, 1 . M. Altschul (ibid. 1782), W. Altschul (Sklov, 17111; 
Warsaw, 18111. Leone (Amst. 1660: Middelb. 164*2; in 
Latin b v Saubert [1 lelmst. 1665J). lleller (Prague, 160*2; 
V. ad M. 1714), Che fez (Veil. 16D6), Wilna (Sklov, 180*2), 
Suizler (Loud. 18*25). The principal later works on the 
subject are those of Lightfoot, Descript io Templi I Hero- 
solymitani, in Opp. i, 533 sq.; llirt, Dir Tempel Salo- 
mons (Berlin. 1800. 4 to); Stieglitz. Gesch.der liankunst 
(Xu rem b. 1827), p. 1*25 sq. ; Less, Dei t rape zur Geschich. 
d. anshild. liankunst (Leips. 1831), i, 63 sq.; Meyer, Der 
Tempel Salom. (Berlin, 1830; inserted also in /Hatter f. 
/where Wahrheit. i) ; (Iriineisen, in tbe Kunstblatt z. 
Morpenbl. 1831, Xo. 73 75, 77-80. Other works are 
mentioned by Meusel, Jiiblioih. Ilistor . i; ii, 113 sq. ; 
and Winer, Uealworterb. s. v. ** Tempel.” See also Leu- 
nett, The Temple of Ezekiel (Lond. 1824); lsrcels, Eze- 
kiels Temple (ibid.* 1827); Kirchner, Der Tempel zu Je- 
rus. (Neu-Ebers. 1834); El-Sinti, /list, of the Temple 
(from the Arabic by Levnolds, Lond. 1837); Keil, Der 
Tempel Salomons (Dorj). 1830); Kopp, id. (Stuttgart, 
18301; the Stud. u. Krit. 1844, ii, 320, 361; Thenius, 
Erkliir. d. Konige , in the Knrzgef. exeej. Handb. ix, 
Anhang, p. 25 sq.; Biihr, Der Salom. Tempel (Carlsr. 
1848); Balmcr-Linck. Gesch.d. Tempel- A rchitectur (Lud- 
wigs!). 1858). The latest works are those of Bannis- 
ter, The Temples of the Hebrews (Lond. 1861); Paine, 
Solomons Temple, 'etc. (Lost. 1861) ; Unrnh. D.alte Je- 
rus. u.s. Hauirerke (Lagensatz, 1861) ; liosen, Der Tem- 
pel - Platz des Morin (Gotha, 1866); Fergusson, The 
Temples of the. Jews (Lond. 1878). This last and most 
pretentious effort at reconstructing the Jewish Temple 
is thoroughly vitiated by two favorite preconceptions 
of the author — namely, a false location of the structure 
at the south-west angle of the llaram, and an over- 
weening estimate of modern architectural taste as a 
guide on so ancient a subject. Thus he flippantly dis- 
misses the explicit and repeated Labbinical statement 
of the dimensions of the Court of the Women as “ab- 
surd” (p. 1)8) and “impossible” (p. 117), because it can- 
not be got within his imaginary “rectangle 600 feet 
square” (Josephus’s round number for the entire Tem- 
ple areal, lie falsely asserts that this Labbinical ac- 
count “is borrowed avowedly, but uuintelligentlv, from 
Ezekiel” (p. 117). ignoring tbe fact that the Mishna, 
which contains these measurements, has come down, 
traditionally if not in writing, from contemporaries of 
Herod’s Temple itself. What a pity that these author- 
ities, or even Herod himself, did not have the beuefit of 
such learned criticism on their work! 

TEM 1'LK. This name was scarcely ever used in the 
first three ages by any Christian writer for a church, 
hut only for the heathen temples; but when idolatry 
was destroyed, and temples were purged and consecrat- 
ed as Christian churches, then the writers of the fol- 
lowing ages freely gave them the name of temples. At 
first no idol temples were made use of as churches, but 
were generally tolerated until the twenty-fifth year of 
Constantine, A.l). 333. In that year he published his 
laws commanding the destruction of temples, altars, 
and images. This policy was continued until the reign 
of Theodosius, when another method was adopted, and 
we find the emperor turning the famous temple of He- 
liopolis, called Lalanium, into a Christian church, llo- 
norius (A.l). 108) published two laws forbidding the de- 
struction of temples in the cities, because, being purged, 
they might, serve for ornament or public use. Lode 
(lib. i, c. 30) tells us “that Gregory the Great gave 
Austin the monk instructions about the temples among 
the Saxons in Britain, that if they were well built they 
should not be destroyed, but only converted to the ser- 
vice of the true God.” Sometimes the temples were 


pulled down, and the materials were given to the Cluireh, 
out of which new edifices were erected for the service 
of religion. Sometimes additions were made, to the 
emoluments of the clergy by the donation of heathen 
temples and the revenues that were settled upon them, 
although the latter were usually appropriated by the 
emperors themselves. See Bingham, Christ. A utiq. bk. 
v, cli. iv, § 10; bk. viii, cl), i, § 6; eh. ii, § 4. 

Temple, Daniel, a Congregational minister, was 
born at Leading, Mass., Dec. 23, 1780. lie was em- 
ployed in mechanical labors until he was twenty-one 
years old. In 1810 he was converted, and joined the 
Church. His attention was called to t lie missionary 
field by reading Buchanan’s Hi searches , and he com- 
menced the work of preparation by entering Phillips 
Academy at Andover. He subsequently entered Dart- 
mouth College, from which he graduated in 1817. His 
influence for good in college was great, lie spent three 
years at the Andover Theological Seminary, and was 
licensed to preach at Billerica by the Andover associa- 
tion in August, 18*20. After being employed one year 
in Massachusetts by the American board, he was or- 
dained at the same time with the Lev. Isaac Bird at 
North Bridgewater, Oct. 3. 18*21. After his marriage 
i with Miss Laehel B. Dix, he sailed from Boston for 
Malta, dan. 2, 182*2, carrying with him the first print- 
ing-press, which has since proved such a blessing to the 
people of the Orient. 1 1 is wife died in Malta in 18*27. 
Two of his four children survive, and are now preach- 
ing the Gospel, lie returned to America in 1830, and 
after remaining a short time, during which he married 
again, he went back to Malta, where he remained until 
1833. when he left for Smyrna, taking with him the 
whole printing establishment. Though he first set up 
the press in Malta, its productions were for regions be- 
yond. The authorities ordered the press away from 
Smyrna, yet he retained it until lie left the coast. He 
established schools there among the Greeks, but who- 
ever w’ould see what he accomplished must go to Con- 
stantinople, Aintab, and elsewhere in that land. He 
continued his connection with the press until he left 
the mission, in 1844, and returned to America. After 
his return, he commenced preaching at Phelps, Ontario 
Co., N. Y., where his labors were greatly blessed. His 
acquaintance with the Scriptures was womlerful*being 
familiar with every part of them. For some time be- 
fore his end lie was not able to preach ; but in sickness 
and in health, in suffering as in labors, he glorified his 
Master until his death, which took place at Leading, 
Mass., Aug. 11, 1851. See Sprague, A nnuls of the A mer. 
Pulpit , ii, 677 sq. (W. P. S.) 

Temporal, a term often used for secular , in a dis- 
tinction from spiritual or ecclesiastical; likewise for 
anything belonging to time in contrast with eternity. 

Temporal Power of the Lope is a phrase sus- 
ceptible of two meanings, which are very distinct from 
each other, and the confusion of which lias led to fre- 
quent and serious misunderstanding. 

I. In one of these senses it means the sovereign pow- 
er possessed by the pope as ruler of the Papal States, or 
States of the Council (q. w), where the history of 
its origin, progress, and downfall is briefly detailed. 
The question as to the necessity or utility of such a 
power vested in the hands of a spiritual ruler, and even 
its lawfulness and its compatibility with his spiritual 
duties, has been warmly debated. This controversy is 
not of entirely recent origin, for many of the mediaeval 
sectaries urged the incompatibility of the spiritual with 
the temporal power in the same person, not only in re- 
lation to the pope, but also to the baron-bishops. Such 
were the doctrines of the Vaudois, of Pierre de Bruis, 
and especially of Arnold of Brescia. In the centuries 
following, the anti papal controversies turned so entirely 
upon doctrine that there was little attention paid to this 
question. It did not enter in any way into the conflict 
of Galliean and Ultramontane principles. Even Bossuet 


TEMPORAL POWER 


267 


TEMPT 


not only admitted the lawfulness of the pope’s temporal 
sovereignty, but contended that it was in some sense 
necessary to the free exercise of his spiritual power. 
The controversy only assumed any practical interest 
during the conflict between Tins VI I and Napoleon I, 
the design of the latter of annexing papal territory to 
France being one of the main causes of dispute. No 
formal and authoritative judgmentofthe Roman Church 
has been pronounced regarding the question of tempo- 
ral power, but a strong and almost unanimous expres- 
sion of opinion was tendered to the late pope, Pius IX, 
in the form of letters and addresses from bishops and 
others in every part of Catholic Christendom. They 
profess that the possession of temporal power is no es- 
sential part of the privileges of the successor of Pe- 
ter, but they regard it as the means providentially es- 
tablished for the protection of the spiritual independence 
of the pope and the free exercise of his functions as spir- 
itual ruler of the Church. 

II. By the second signification of the phrase “tem- 
poral power of the pope” is understood what would more 
properly be called the claim of the pope, in virtue of his 
office, to a power over the temporalities of other kings 
and states. This power may be of two kinds : 1 . Direc- 
tive, or the power, as supreme moral teacher, to instruct 
all members of his Church, whether subjects or sov- 
ereigns, in the moral duties of their several states. 2. 
Coercive. If the power be regarded as coercive, it is 
necessary to distinguish the nature of the coercion 
which may be employed. Coercion may either consist 
in the threat or infliction of purely spiritual censures , or 
it may involve temporal consequences, such as suspen- 
sion or deprivation from office, forfeiture of the alle- 
giance of subjects, and even liability to the punishment 
of death. In the former sense it may be regarded as 
the natural consequence of the spiritual headship of the 
Church, which is acknowledged by all Catholics. But 
the claim to authority over the temporalities of kings 
has gone far beyond these limits. From the 10th cen- 
tury popes have claimed and repeatedly exercised a 
power of coercing kings, and have punished them w hen 
refractory by suspension, by deprivation, and by the 
transfer of the allegiance of their subjects. This claim 
has been a subject of controversy between the Gallican 
and Ultramontane schools, and in the latter tw r o theories 
have been devised for its explanation. The first and 
most extreme supposes that this pow’er was given di- 
rectly by God to Peter and his successors; that the two 
pow'ers are foreshown by the “two sw r ords” (Luke xxii, 
38) ; and that the temporal pow'er is a privilege of the 
primacy by divine law equally with the spiritual sover- 
eignty itself. The second, or indirect , theory holds that 
the temporal pow r er is not directly of divine institution, 
but is an indirect though necessary consequence of the 
spiritual supremacy, and is only given as a means of 
completing and, in a corrupt and disorganized state, 
rendering more efficacious the work which the spiritual 
supremacy is directly instituted to accomplish. In this 
latter form the theory of the temporal power was de- 
fended by cardinal Bellarmine, anil the celebrated dec- 
laration of the Gallican clergy in I8G2 w r as directed 
against it. 

A third view of the temporal pow'er was propounded 
by Fenelon,and is generally described as the “ historical 
theory of the temporal power.” According to this, the 
pope does not possess, whether by direct divine appoint- 
ment. or in virtue of the necessities of his spiritual of- 
fice, anv temporal power whatsoever; but he possesses 
the plenitude of spiritual power which is required for 
the government of the Church, and is empowered to en- 
force it by spiritual penalties, and especially by excom- 
munication. Although these penalties are purely spir- 
itual, yet the religious sentiment and awe with which 
the Church is regarded by many invest them with 
certain temporal effects. In several countries, as Eng- 
land (A.D. 859), France, Spain (A.D. 638), and Germany, 
the forfeiture of certain civil rights was attached, in the 


case of private persons, to the spiritual censure of ex- 
communication. The same spirit of the age is seen in 
the form of the oath taken at the coronation of the sov- 
ereign in many countries, by which the monarch swore 
to be the protector and defender of the sovereign pontiff 
and the holy Catholic Church — thus making their king- 
doms feudatory to the see of Home. From these and 
similar indications of the public feeling of the mediaeval 
time, the advocates of this theory of the temporal pow'- 
er infer that orthodoxy and obedience to the pope 
w’ere accepted as a condition of the tenure of supreme 
civil authority. On the other hand, it is difficult, if not 
impossible, to reconcile this theory with the language 
used by the popes in enforcing their claims to temporal 
authority, and with the fact that such pow r er continued 
to be claimed and exercised until very recent times. 
See Barn urn, Romanism As Lt Is; Elliott, Delineation 
of Romanism; and the articles Papacy and States of 
T il E CllCKCIl. 

Temporalities of Bishops, in law', are the lay 
revenues, lands, tenements, and fees belonging to the 
sees of bishops or archbishops, as they are barons and 
lords of Parliament, including their baronies. They are 
defined as all things which a bishop hath by livery from 
the king, as manors, lands, tithes. From the time of 
Edward l to the Reformat ion, it was customary, when 
bishops received their temporalities from the king, to 
renounce in writing all right to the same by virtue of 
any provision from the pope, and to admit that they re- 
ceived them from the king alone. The custody of these 
temporalities is said by Blackstone to form part of the 
king’s ordinary revenue, and thus, a vacancy in the 
bishopric occurring, is a right of the crown, originating 
in its prerogative in Church matters, the king being, in 
intendment of law', preserver of all episcopal sees. For 
the same reason, before the dissolution of religious 
houses, the sovereign had the custody of the temporali- 
ties of all such abbeys and priories as were of royal 
foundation. There is another reason in virtue of which 
the king possesses this right, which is, that as the suc- 
cessor is not know'll, the property of the see would be 
liable to spoil and devastation. The law, therefore, has 
wisely given to the king the custody of these temporali- 
ties until a new' election, with power to take to himself 
all intermediate profits, and to present to all preferments 
falling vacant during the vacancy of the see. This rev- 
enue cannot be granted to a subject; but the 14 Edward 
III, stat. iv, ch. iv, v, empowers the king, on a vacancy 
occurring, to lease the temporalities to the dean and 
chapter, with a reservation of all advowsons, escheats, 
and the like. To remedy the wrongs to the Church 
perpetrated by former sovereigns, who sometimes kept 
bishoprics vacant in order to enjoy the possession of 
their temporalities, and when they did supply the va- 
cancy compelled the new bishop to purchase back his 
temporalities at an exorbitant price, Henry I, by char- 
ter, agreed neither to sell, let to farm, nor take anything 
from the domains of the Church until the successor was 
installed. By Magna Charta provision w r as made that 
no waste should be committed in the temporalities of 
the bishoprics, and that neither should the custody of 
them be sold. At present this revenue of the crown is 
of very small account ; for as soon as the new bishop is 
consecrated and confirmed, he usually receives restitu- 
tion of his temporalities entire and untouched from his 
sovereign, to whom he at the same time does homage, 
and then possesses, which he did not before, a fee sim- 
ple in his bishopric, and may maintain an action for the 
profits. — Eadie, Kccles. Cyclop, s. v. 

Tempt is used in the Bible in the Latin sense of 
prove , as a rendering especially of jns, bachun , and 
7 r££pd£w, w'hich both signify to test or try. It is applied 
to various beings in different senses, not alw ays involv- 
ing an evil purpose wherein the temptation is present- 
ed to the mind as an inducement to sin. See Tempta- 
tion. 


TEMPTATION 


208 TEMPTATION OF CIIPJST 


1. God is said to have tempted Abraham by com- 
manding him to offer up his son Isaac (den. xxii, 1), 
intending to prove his obedience and faith, to contirm 
and strengthen him by this trial, and to furnish in his 
person an example and pattern of perfect obedience tor 
all succeeding ages. God docs not tempt or try men 
in order to ascertain their tempers and dispositions, as 
if he were ignorant of them, but to exercise their vir- 
tue. to purify it, to render it conspicuous to others, to 
give them an opportunity of receiving favors from his 
hands. When we read in .Scripture that God proved 
his people, whether they would walk in his law or not 
(Kxod. xvi. 4). and that he permitted false prophets to 
arise among them, who prophesied vain things to try 
them whether they would seek the Lord with their 
whole hearts, we should interpret these expressions l>v 
that of James (i, 13-14), “Let no man say when he 
is tempted, ‘ 1 am tempted of God,’ for God cannot be 
tempted with evil, neither tempt eth he any man. But 
every man is tempted when he is drawn away by his 
own lust and enticed.” 

2. The devil tempts us to evil of every kind, and lays 
snares for us, even in our best actions. Satan, having 
access to the sensorium, lays inducements before the 
minds of men to solicit them to sin (1 Cor. vii. 5; 1 
Thess. iii, 5; James i, 13, 14). Hence Satan is called 
that old serpent, the devil, and ‘‘the tempter” (liev. xii, 
0; Matt, iv, 3), and the temptation of our first parents 
to sin is expressly recognised as the work of the devil 
(Gen. iii, 1-15; John viii, 44; 2 Cor. xi, 3; 1 John iii, 
8). He tempted onr Saviour in the wilderness, and en- 
deavored to infuse into him sentiments of pride, ambi- 
tion, and distrust (Matt, iv, 1 ; Mark i, 13; Luke iv, 2). 
He tempted Ananias and Sapphira to lie to the Holy 
Ghost (Acts v, 3). In the prayer that Christ himself 
has taught us, we pray God *■ to lead us not into temp- 
tation” (Matt, vi, 13); and a little before his death, our 
Saviour exhorted his disciples to “watch and pray, that 
they might not enter into temptation” (xxvi,41). Paul 
says, “ God will not suffer us to be tempted above what 
we are able to bear” (1 Cor. x, 13). 

3. Men are said to tempt the Lord when they unsea- 
sonably require proofs of the divine presence, power, or 
goodness. Without doubt, we are allowed to seek the 
Lord for his assistance, and to pray him to give us what 
we need; but it is not allowed us to tempt him, nor to 
expose ourselves to dangers from which we cannot es- 
cape unless by miraculous interposition of his omnipo- 
tence. God is not obliged to work miracles in our favor; 
he recpiires of ns only the performance of such actions 
as are within the ordinary measures of our strength. 
The Israelites in the desert repeatedly tempted the 
Lord, as if they had reason to doubt his presence among 
them, or his goodness, or his power, after all his ap- 
pearances in their favor (Exod. xvi, 2, 7, 17; Numb, 
xx, 12; Psa. lxxviii, 18, 41, etc.). 

4. Men tempt or try one another when they would 
know whether things are really what they seem to he, 
whether men are such as they are thought or desired to 
he. The cpieen of .Sheba came to prove the wisdom of 
Solomon hv proposing riddles for him to explain (l 
Kings xi, 1; 2 Chron. ix, 1). Daniel desired of him 
who had the care of feeding him and his companions to 
prove them for some days whether abstinence from food 
of certain kinds would make them leaner (Dan. i, 12, 14). 
The scribes and Pharisees often tempted our Saviour, 
and endeavored to decoy him into their snares (Matt, 
xvi. 1 ; xix, 3; xxii, 18). — Calmef. 

Temptation (“3*2. 7rtipaopn£, both meaning tri- 
al). in the modern usage of the term, is the enticement 
of a person to commit sin by offering some seeming ad- 
vantage. There are four things, says one, in tempta- 
tion— (1) deception, (2) infection, (3) seduction. (4) per- 
dition. The sources of temptation are Satan, the world, 
and the flesh. We are exposed to them in every state, 
in every place, and in every time of life. They "may be 


wisely permitted to show us our weakness, to try our 
faith, to promote our humility, and to teach us to place 
our dependence on a superior Power; yet we must not 
run into them, but watch and pray; avoid sinful com- 
pany; consider the love, sufferings, and constancy of 
Christ, and the awful consequences of falling a victim 
to temptation. The following rules have been laid 
down, by which we may in some measure know when 
a temptation comes from Satan: 1. When the temp- 
tation is unnatural, or contrary to the general bias 
or temper of our minds; 2. When it is opposite to 
the present frame of the mind; 3. When the tempta- 
tion itself is irrational, being contrary to whatever we 
could imagine our own minds would suggest to us; 
4. When a temptation is detested in its first rising 
and appearance; 5. Lastly, when it is violent. See 
Brooks, Owen, Gilpin, Capel, and Gillespie on Temp- 
tation; South, Seven Sermons on Temptation, in vol. 
vi of his Seimions ; Pike and Hayward, Cases of Con- 
science; and Bishop Porleus, Sermons, vol. i, ser. 3 and 
4. — Buck. 

TEMPTATION of Ciiktst. Immediately after the 
inauguration of his ministry, Jesus was led up of the 
Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil; 
and after enduring for forty days the general assault of 
Satan, he suffered three special solicitations, which are 
recited in detail (Matt, iv, 1-11 ; Mark i, 12, 13; Luke 
iv, 1-13). See Jesus Cjiiust. 

I. Particulars and Drift of the Trial. — In the first 
temptation the Kedeemer is ahungered, and when the 
devil bids him, if he be the Son of God, command that 
the stones may be made bread, there would seem to be 
no great sin in this use of divine power to overcome the 
pressing human want. Our Lord’s answer is required 
to show us where the essence of the temptation lay. 
lie takes the words of Moses to the children of Israel 
(Deut. viii, 3), which mean, not that men must dispense 
with bread and feed only on the study of the Divine 
Word, but that our meat and drink, our food and rai- 
ment, are all the work of the creating hand of God, and 
that a sense of dependence on God is the duty of man. 
He tells the tempter that as the sons of Israel standing 
in the wilderness were forced to humble themselves and 
to wait upon the hand of God for the bread from heaven 
which he gave them, so the Son of man, fainting in the 
wilderness from hunger, will be humble and will wait 
upon his Father in heaven for the Word that shall 
bring him food, and will not be hasty to deliver him- 
self from that dependent state, but will wait patiently 
for the gifts of his goodness. 

In the second temptation, it is not probable that they 
left the wilderness, but that Satan was allowed to sug- 
gest to our Lord’s mind the place and the marvel that 
could be wrought there. They stood, it has been sug- 
gested, on the lofty porch that overhung the valley of 
Kedron, where the steep side of the valley was added to 
the height of the Temple (Josephus, Ant. xv, 11, 5). and 
made a depth that the eye could scarcely have borne to 
look down upon. “Cast thyself down” — perform in the 
holy city, in a public place, a wonder that will at once 
make all men confess that none but the Son of God 
could perform it. A passage from Psalm xci is quoted 
to give a color to the argument. Our Lord replies 
by an allusion to another text that carries us back 
again to the Israelites wandering in the wilderness: 
“ Ye shall not tempt the Lord your God, as ye tempted 
him in M assail” (Deut. vi, 10). Their conduct is more 
fully described by the psalmist as a tempting of God : 
“They tempted God in their heart by asking meat for 
their lust; yea, they spake against God: they said, 
Can God furnish a table in the wilderness? Behold he 
smote the rock that the waters gushed out and the 
streams overflowed. Can he give bread also? Can 
he provide flesh for his people?” (Fsa. Ixxviii). Just 
parallel was t lie temptation here. God has protected 
thee so far, brought thee up, put his seal upon thee by 


TEMPTATION OF CHRIST 2G9 TEMPTATION OF CHRIST 


manifest proofs of his favor. Can he do this also? 
Can he send the angels to buoy thee up in thy descent? 
Can he make the air thick to sustain and the earth soft 
to receive thee? The appropriate answer is, 4i Thou 
shalt not tempt the Lord thy God/’ 

In the third temptation it is not asserted that there 
is any mountain from which the eyes of common men 
can see the world and its kingdoms at once displayed; 
it was with the mental vision of One who knew ail 
tilings that these kingdoms and their glory were seen. 
Satan has now begun to discover, if he knew not from 
the beginning, that One is here who can become the 
King over them all. lie says, “ All these things will 1 
give thee if thou wilt fall down and worship me.” In 
Luke the words are fuller: “All this power will 1 give 
thee, and the glory of them, for that is delivered unto 
me, and to whomsoever 1 will, I give it;” but these 
words are the lie of the tempter, which he uses to mis- 
lead. “Thou art come to he great — to be a King on 
the earth; but I am strong, and will resist thee. Thy 
followers shall be imprisoned and slain ; some of them 
shall fall away through fear; others shall forsake thy 
cause, loving this present world. Cast in thy lot with 
me; let thy kingdom be an earthly kingdom, only the 
greatest of all — a kingdom such as the Jews seek to see 
established on the throne of David. Worship me by 
living as the children of this world live, and so honor- 
ing me in thy life: then all shall be thine.” 'Hie Lord 
knows that the tempter is right in foretelling such trials 
to him ; but though clouds and darkness hang over the 
path of his ministry he must, work the work of him that 
sent him, and not another work: he must worship God, 
and none other. “ Get thee hence. Satan ; lor it is writ- 
ten, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only 
shalt thou serve.” As regards the order of the tempta- 
tions, there are internal marks that the account of 
Matthew assigns them their historical order. Luke 
transposes the last two, for which various reasons are 
suggested by commentators (Matt, iv, I— 1 1 ; Mark i, 12, 
13 ; Luke iv, 1-13). 

The three temptations are addressed to the three 
forms in which the disease of sin makes its appearance 
on the soul — to the solace of sense, and the love of 
praise, and the desire of gain (1 John ii, 16). But there 
is one element common to them all — they are attempts 
to call up a wilful and wayward spirit in contrast to a 
patient self-denying one. — Smith. See Tempt. 

The author of Ecce Homo, although he takes too sub- 
jective a view of the last temptation scene, has admi- 
rably developed the thought, as lying at the foundation 
of Christ’s whole public demeanor, that he was con- 
stantly on his guard against the prevailing notion of 
an establishment of the Messiah’s kingdom by force in- 
stead of the influence of love; and he well observes 
that the temptation to this course was one that must 
have presented itself at some time to the Redeemer’s 
mind. 

II. Credibility and Design of the Narrative. — That 
when our Lord retired to the interior part of the wil- 
derness the enemy of mankind should present the most 
plausible temptation to our Redeemer, under these try- 
ing circumstances, is perfectly consistent with the ma- 
levolence of his character. The grand question is, Why 
was Satan suffered thus to insult the Son of God? 
Wherefore did the Redeemer suffer his state of retire- 
ment to he thus disturbed with the malicious sugges- 
tions of the fiend? It maybe answered that herein (l) 
he gave an instance of his own condescension and hu- 
miliation, (2) he hereby proved his power over the 
tempter, (3) he set an example of firmness and virtue 
to his followers, and (4) he here affords consolation to 
his suffering people by showing not only that he him- 
self was tempted, but is able to succor those who are 
tempted (Heb. ii, 13; iv, 15). — Ruck. 

III. Historical Character of the Scene. — As the bap- 
tism of our Lord cannot have been for him the token of 
repentance and intended reformation which it was for 


sinful men, so does our Lord’s sinlessness affect the nat- 
ure of his temptation, for it was the trial of one who 
could not possibly have fallen. This makes a complete 
conception of the temptation impossible for minds where- 
in temptation is always associated with the possibility 
of sin. lint while we must be content with an incom- 
plete conception, we must avoid the wrong conceptions 
that are often substituted for it. The popular view of 
this undoubted portion of our Saviour’s history is that 
it is a narrative of outward transactions; that onr 
Saviour, immediately after his baptism, was conducted 
by the Spirit into the wilderness — either the desolate 
and mountainous region now called Quarantania by the 
people of Palestine (Kitto, Phys. Hist. p. 39, 40), or the 
great desert of Arabia, mentioned in Dent, viii, 15; 
xxxii, 10; llos. xiii, 5; Jer. ii, 6, etc. — where the devil 
tempted him in person, appeared to him in a visible 
form, spoke to him in an audible voice, removed him to 
the summit “of an exceeding high mountain,” and to 
the top of “a pinnacle of the Temple at Jerusalem;” 
whereas the view taken by many learned commenta- 
tors, ancient and modern, is that it is the narrative of a 
vision , which was designed to “ supply that ideal expe- 
rience of temptation, or trial, which it was provided in 
the divine counsels for onr Lord to receive previously 
to entering upon the actual trials and difficulties of his 
ministry” (Bishop Maltby, Sermons [Lond. 1822], ii, 
276). Farmer also considers it a “ divine vision,” and 
endeavors with much learning and ingenuity to “illus- 
trate the wise and benevolent intention of its various 
scenes as symbolical predictions and representations of 
the principal trials attending Christ’s public ministr}'” 
(Inquiry into the Nature and Hesiyn of Christ's Tempta- 
tion [Lond. 1776, 8vo], preface). 

On behalf of the popular interpretation, it is urged 
that the accounts given bv the evangelists convey no 
intimation that they refer to a vision; that the feeling 
of hunger could not have been merely ideal; that a vis- 
ion of forty days’ continuance is incredible; that Moses, 
who was a type of Christ, saw no “ visions,” and that 
hence it may be concluded Christ did not; that it is 
highly probable there would be a personal conflict be- 
tween Christ and Satan when the former entered on his 
ministry. Satan had ruined the first Adam, and might 
hope to prevail with the second (Trollope, A mdecta 
[Lond. 1830], i, 46). Why, too, say others, was our 
Lord taken up into a mountain to see a vision? As 
reasonably might Paul have taken the Corinthians into 
a mountain to “show them the more excellent way of 
charity” (L Cor. xii, 31). 

On the contrary side, it is rejoined that the evangel- 
ists do really describe the temptation as a vision. Mat- 
thew savs, dvi)x^} £»€ Tt)v tpi]yov inrb rov TrvevfXaroQ ; 
Mark, to 7n’tvya avrbv lKj3ct\\er, and Luke,Vjyfro r<y 
TtvevficiTi . Do these phrases mean no more than that 
Jesus went by the guidance or impulse of the Spirit to 
a particular locality? Do they not rather import that 
Christ was brought into the wilderness under the full in- 
fluence of the prophetic spirit making suitable revelations 
to his mind? With regard to the hunger, the proph- 
ets are represented as experiencing bodily sensations in 
their visions (Ezek. iii,8; Rev. x, 10). Further argu- 
ments, derived from an unauthorized application of 
types, are precarious — that the first Adam really had no 
jiersonal encounter with Satan ; that all the purposes 
of our Lord’s temptation might be answered by a vis- 
ion, for, whatever might be the mode , the effect was in- 
tended to be produced upon his mind and moral feel- 
ings, like Peter’s vision concerning Cornelius, etc. (Acts 
x, 11-17); that commentators least given to speculate 
allow that the temptation during the first forty days 
was carried on by mental suggestion only, and that the 
visible part of the temptation began “when the tempt- 
er came to him” (Matt, iv.3 ; Luke iv, 3; Scott, ad loci ) ; 
that with regard to Christ’s being “taken lip into nil 
exceeding high mountain,” Ezekiel says (xl, 2), “in 
the visions of God brought he me into the land of Is- 


TEMPTATION OF CHRIST 


270 TEMPTATION OF CIIPJST 


rack and set me upon a very high mountain,” etc. ; and 
that John says, “he carried me away in the spirit to a 
great and high mountain, and if Inured me that great 
city, the holy .Jerusalem” (Bev. xxi, 10), Hut certain 
direct arguments are also urged on the same side. Thus, 
is it consistent with the sagacity and policy of the evil 
spirit to suppose that ho appeared in his own proper 
person to our Lord uttering solicitations to evil? Was 
not this the readiest mode to frustrate his own inten- 
tions? Archbishop Seeker says, “certainly he did not 
appear what he was. for that would have entirely frus- 
trated his intent” (Sermons, ii, 111). Chandler says, 
“The devil appeared not as himself, for that would have 
frustrated the effect of his temptation” (Sewn, iii, 178). 
Seeker supposes that “Satan transformed himself into 
an angel of light;” hut was it likely that he would put 
on this form in order to tempt our Lord to idolatry? 
(Matt. iv. 9). Chandler thinks he appeared as “ a good 
man;” but would it have served his purpose to appear 
as a good man promising universal dominion? The 
supposition that the devil disguised himself in any form 
might indeed constitute the temptation a trial of our 
Lord’s understanding, but not of his heart, Besides, 
Christ is represented as addressing him as “ Satan” (ver. 
10). It is further urged that the literal interpretation 
does but little honor to the Saviour, whom it represents 
as carried or conducted “by the devil at his will,” and 
therefore as accessory to his own temptation and dan- 
ger; nor does it promote the consolation of his follow- 
ers, none of whom could ever be similarly tempted. 
Our Lord indeed submitted to all the liabilities of the 
human condition: but do these involve the dominion 
of Satan over the body to the extent thus represent- 
ed? The literal interpretation also attributes miracu- 
lous powers to the devil, who, though a spiritual being, 
is represented as becoming visible at pleasure, speaking 
in an audible voice, and conveying mankind where he 
pleases — miracles not inferior to what our Lord’s preser- 
vation would have been had he cast himself headlong 
from the Temple. Suppose we even give up the old no- 
tion that “the devil hurried Christ through the air, and 
carried him from the wilderness to the Temple” (Benson, 
Life of Christ, p. 35). and say, with Doddridge and oth- 
ers, that “the devil took our Lord about with him as 
one pe rson takes another to different places,” yet how 
without a miracle shall we account for our Saviour’s 
admission to the exterior of the Temple, unless he first, 
indeed, obtained permission of the authorities, which is 
not recorded (comp. Josephus, Ant . xv, 1 1 ; iii, 5; War, 
v, 5). The difficulty is solved by the supposition sim- 
ply of a change in our Lord’s perceptions. How can 
we further understand, except by the aid of a vision or 
a miracle, that the devil “showed our Lord all the king- 
doms of the world and the glory of them in a moment 
of time” (m> ariygy ^poron). «** phrase referring to the 
mathematical point, and meaning the most minute and 
indivisible portion of duration, that is, instantaneously; 
vet in this space of time, according to the literal inter- 
pretation, “ the devil showed our Lord all the kingdoms 
ol the world and all the glory of them,” i. e. whatever 
relates to their magnificence, as imperial robes, crowns, 
thrones, palaces, courts, guards, armies, etc. Seott and 
Doddridge resort to the supposition of an “illusory 
show;” but it may be asked, if one of the temptations 
was conducted by such means, why not the other two? 
Macknight endeavors to explain “all the kingdoms of 
the world and the glory of them” as relating only to 
the land of promise (Harmony of the Gospels [Lond. 
1^22], p. 350. note). Farmer conceives that no moun- 
tain in Palestine commands so extensive a prospect. 
It is a further difficulty attending the literal interpre- 
tation that Satan represents all the kingdoms of the 
world and their glory to be at his disposal; an assertion 
not denied by our Lord, who simply rejects the offer. 
It may readily be conceived that it would answer all 
purposes that Jesus should seem to have the proposal 
in question made to him. It is next observed that 


many things are spoken of in Scripture as being done 
which were only done in vision. See the numerous in- 
stances collected bv bishop Law (Considerations of the 
Theory of Religion [Loud. 1820], p. 85, 8G). The read- 
er may refer to Gen. xxxii, 30; IIos. i, iii; Jer. xiii, 
xxv, xxvii; Ezck. iii. iv, v. Paul calls his being 
“caught up into the third heaven and into Paradise” a 
vision and revelation of the Lord (2 Cor. xii, 1-4). it 
is plain from this instance in the case of Paid, and from 
that of Peter (Acts xii, 7-9), who had already experi- 
enced visions (x, 10, etc.), that neither of the apostles 
could at first distinguish visions from impressions made 
on the senses. In further illustration it is urged that 
t lie prophets are often said to be carried about in vis- 
ions ( Kzek. viii, 1-10; xi, 24, 25; xxxvii, 1 : xl, 1, 2). 
The phrase “ by the spirit,” etc., is said to be equivalent 
to “ the hand of God,” etc., among the prophets (1 Kings 
xviii, 4G: 2 Kings iii, 15; Ezek. i, 8). A comparison 
of the parallel phrases in the Sept, of Ezekiel and in 
the evangelists, in regard to Christ’s temptation, is 
thought to cast much light upon the subject; the 
phrase “the devil leaveth him” being equivalent to 
the phrase “the vision I had seen went up from me” 
(xi. 24). — Kit to. 

Another form of the above theory is that the pres- 
ence of the tempter, the words spoken, etc., were mere- 
ly conceptual, i. e. mental phenomena or impressions 
I upon the Saviour, similar to the suggestions ordinarily 
experienced by saints in temptations of peculiar vivid- 
[ ness or pungency. This view is confuted by the fol- 
lowing considerations: 1. The language (“came,” “said,” 
“taketh him,” etc.) implies, if not a physical, certainly 
at least, a virdonal presentation as distinct as if actual. 
Such expressions as “ The word of the Lord came,” 
urged as parallel, are not in point ; for in these the sub- 
ject presented being necessarily immaterial of itself, de- 
fines the presentation as being merely mental. 2. The 
comparison of onr Saviour’s psychology in this case 
1 with that of common mortals is inapposite, since they, 
being fallen, are always, in some sense at least, tempted 
1 ab infra (James i. 14), whereas Jesus, being immaculate, 
could have no evil thoughts of his own surmising; nor 
coidd they arise in his mind except as directly suggest- 
ed from some absolutely external source. And even 
supposing they could have occurred as an intellectual 
proposition to his mental perception, they must have 
instantly passed away without any of that vividness 
and pertinacity which the whole narration implies, un- 
less they had been enforced and sustained by the per- 
sonal solicitation of a palpable being and a formal con- 
versation. 3. The parallel with the temptation of 
Adam in Paradise requires more than an imaginary 
scene. Some, indeed, have by a like process of inter- 
pretation taken the record of the Fall in Eden likewise 
out of the province of actual history: and it is difficult 
to see why one event is not as fit a subject for this evis- 
cerating rationalism in hermeneutics as the other (see 
Townsend, Chronological Arrangement [Lond. 1828], i, 
92). In short, there must have been a substantial ba- 
sis of fact in the ease of onr Saviour to justify the 
marked character of the transaction as recorded by the 
evangelists. 

We conclude, therefore, that all these suppositions set 
aside the historical testimony of the gospels; the temp- 
tation as there described arose not from the sinless mind 
of the Son of God, where, indeed, thoughts of evil could 
not have harbored, but. from Satan, the enemy of the 
human race. Nor can it be supposed that this account 
is a mere parable, unless we assume that Matthew and 
Luke have wholly misunderstood their Master’s mean- 
ing. The story is that of a fact, hard indeed to be 
understood, but not to be made easier by explana- 
tions such as would invalidate the only testimony on 
which it rests (Heubner, Practical Commentary on 
Mat their'). 

IV. I literature. — See. besides the works cited above, 
Bagot. Temptation in the Wilderness (Lond. 1840); Hall, 


TEMPUS CLAUSUM 


271 


TEX ARTICLES 


Sermons on Our Lord's Temptation (ibid. 1845); Dallas, 
Christ's Temptation (ibid. 1848); Krummaclier, Christ 
in the Wilderness (from the Germ., 3d ed. ibid. 1852); 
Smith [T, T.], Temptation of Our Saviour (ibid. 1852) ; 
Monod, Temptation of Christ (from the French, ibid. 
1854); Macleod, Temptation of Our Lort/ (ibid. 1872); 
and the A m. Theof. Ter. July, 1801; Dost. Rev. March, 
1803; also the monographs cited by Wolf, Curve in 
X. T. i, 00; by Volbedi ng, Index Programnuitum , p. 23; 
by Hase, Lehen Jesu , p. 89; and by Meyer, Commentary 
on Matt, ic (Edinb. ed.), i, 129. 

Tempus Clausum (Feuiatum, Saoratum), a 
closed time , is the period during which noisy festivities 
are prohibited in the Church of Rome, particularly such 
as are common in connection with the celebration of a 
marriage. The origin of such prohibitions is to be 
found in the ideas which exercised, in some degree at 
least, a determining influence over the regulation of 
fasts. See Fasting. Prayer and continence were em- 
ployed as a preparation for the worthy observance of 
leasts among the Israelites (Exod. xix, 14 sq.; 1 Sam. 
xxi, 4), and the custom is endorsed by Paul in 1 Cor. 
vii, 5. The most ancient ecclesiastical regulations upon 
this subject date back to the middle of the 4th century 
(e. g. Cone. Laodicen. c. 51, 52). The civil authorities 
confirmed the prohibitions imposed by the Church (e. g. 
Cod. De Feriis , e. 1 1, iii, 12 of Leo, and Anthemius 4G9), 
and thereupon the Tempus Clausum was generally made 
to apply to the Lenten period, and its extension over 
the Advent and other festal periods recommended. No 
general and indexible rule for the dies obsei'vahiles ex- 
isted during the Middle Ages, and none has since been 
established. The usual time is contained between the 
first Sunday in Advent and the octave of Epiphany, 
Septuagesima and Easter, Rogation and Trinity Sun- 
days. Quiet weddings, as they are termed, are permit- 
ted to be celebrated during those periods, but never 
without a dispensation from the local bishop. 

The tempus clausum was adopted bv the Protestant 
churches of Germany (see Goschen, Doctr. de Matri- 
vion. ex Ordinat. Keel. Evany, etc. [Halis, 1848, 4to], p. 
38,39; art. 133-140), and the subject received careful 
consideration so late as 1857 in the conference of Eise- 
nach (see Moser, Allyem. Kirchenbl. f d. evangel. 
J)eutschl. 1857, p. 325 sq., 343; 1858, p. 197 sq.). The 
Tempus Clausum Quadrugesiime in such churches com- 
monly extends over the period between Ash-Wednes- 
day and Easter-Sunday, though it includes only the 
Passion week in some regions, and in others is not rec- 
ognised at all. 1 ts observance also varies greatly. Pub- 
lic amusements are prohibited, and marriages are some- 
times wholly forbidden or are compelled to be quietly 
celebrated. Where such legal prohibitions are in force, 
dispensations from their operation may usually be ob- 
tained, except in Altenburg and the principality of 
Lubeck and lieuss. On the subject, see Hartzlieim, 
Concilia Germanice, iii, 50; Cone. Trident, sess. xxiv, 
10, De Reform. Matrimon. ; Bobmer, Jus Eccles. Prot. 
lib. iii, tit, xlvi, § 45; lib, iv, tit. xvi, § 2 sq. ; Kliefoth, 
Lituryische Abhandlunyen, i, 55 sq. — llerzog, Real-En- 
cyklop. s. v. See Lent. 

Temurah. See Talmud. 

Ten (*TJ3*, eser, or some modification of it; dLca; 
the Ileb. plur. C“nb3\ esrim, means “twenty;” the 
root lbs*, asdr, is thought by Fiirst and Miihlau to sig- 
nify heaping , but Gesenius regards it as primitive), the 
number which lies at the basis of modern numeration, 
having its natural origin in the twice five fingers used 
for counting, and largely employed as such even by 
the Hebrews, notwithstanding their peculiar regard for 
seven as containing the notion of completeness. See 
Number. 

In the civil and ecclesiastical usages of the Israelites 
this numerical idea especially appears in their word for 
“tithe” (“'2.*V.rr Lev. xxvii. 30,31, 32, etc. ; Sept. Sticd- 


ti], scil. po7pa, “a part;” Yulg. decimal), plainly derived 
from *VJ3',“ ten,” which also (in the form “111*3?) means 
“to be rich ;” hence ten is the rich number, perhaps be- 
cause including all the units under it. The same idea 
has been rather hastily conceived as being retained in 
the Greek; thus, dinm, dt^opai, “to receive,” “hold,” 
etc., diica, “ ten,” because the ten fingers bold everything; 
and in the Latin, teneo ; French, contenir; English, con- 
tain, ten. Pythagoras speaks of the Decade, which is 
the sum of all the preceding numbers 1+2+3 +4, as 
comprehending all musical and arithmetical proportions. 
For a view of his doctrine of numbers and the probabil- 
ity of its Egyptian origin, see Wilkinson, Manners and 
Customs of the Ancient Egyptians , iv, 193-200. For 
Aristotle’s similar ideas of the number ten, see Probt. iii, 
15. This number seems significant of completeness or 
abundance in many passages of Scripture. Jacob said 
unto Laban, “Thou hast changed my wages these ten 
times” (Gen. xxxi, 41); “Am not I better to thee than 
ten sons?” (I Sam. i, 8); “These ten times have ye re- 
proached me” (Job xix, 3); “Thy pound hath gained 
ten pounds” (Luke xix, 16), etc. This number, as the 
end of less numbers and beginning of greater, and as 
thus signifying perfection, sufficiency, etc., may have 
been selected for its suitableness to those eueliaristic 
donations to religion, etc., which mankind were required 
to make, probably, in primeval times. Abraham gave 
to Meleliizedec, “priest of the Most High God,” a tenth 
of all the spoils he had taken from Chedorlaomer (Gen. 
xi v, 20 ; Heb. vii, 4), The incidental way in which this 
fact is stated seems to indicate an established custom. 
Why should Abraham give tithes of the spoils of war 
and not of other things? For instances of the heathen 
dedicating to their gods the tenth of warlike spoils, see 
Wettstein, On Heb. vii, , 4, Jacob’s vow (Gen. xxviii, 22) 
seems simply to relate to compliance with an establish- 
ed custom; his words are, literally, “And all that thou 
shall give me 1 will assuredly tithe it unto thee,” T3?3? 
"5 !3 Twj 3?N. On the practice of the heathen, in vari- 
ous and distant countries, to dedicate tithes to their 
gods, see Spelman, On Tithes, ch. xxvi; Selden, eh. iii ; 
Lesley, Divine Right of Tithes, § 7 ; Wettstein, On Ihb. 
vii , 2. The Mosaic law, therefore, in this respect, as 
well as in others, was simply a reconstitution of the 
patriarchal religion. Thus the tenth of military spoils 
is commanded (Numb, xxxi, 31). For the law concern- 
ing tithes generally, see Lev. xxvii, 30, etc., where they 
are first spoken of as things already known. These 
tithes consisted of a tenth of all that remained after 
payment of the first-fruits of seeds and fruits, and of 
calves, lambs, and kids. This was called the first tithe, 
and belonged to God as the sovereign. See Tithe. 

Ten Articles. In the year 1536 convocation un- 
der Henry VI 11 gave sanction to the “Ten Articles,” 
entitled “Articles devised by the king’s highness maj- 
esty to stablish Christian quietness and unity among 
us.” These were probably compiled by Cranmer, though 
ostensibly emanating from the crown. Five of the ar- 
ticles related to doctrines and five to ceremonies. The 
former were; 1. That Holy Scriptures and the three 
Creeds are the basis and summary of a true Christian 
faith. 2. That baptism conveys remission of sins and 
the regenerating grace of the Holy Spirit, and is abso- 
lutely necessary as well for children as adults. 3. That 
penance consists of contrition, confession, and reforma- 
tion, and Is necessary to salvation. 4. That the body 
and blood of Christ are really present in the ele- 
ments of the eucharist. 5. That justification is remis- 
sion of sin and reconciliation to God by the merits of 
Christ; but good works are necessary. The latter 
were: 1. That images are useful as remembrancers, but 
are not objects of worship. 2. That saints are to be 
honored as examples of life, and as furthering our 
prayers. 3. That saints may be invoked as intercessors, 
and their holvdnvs observed. 4. That ceremonies are 


TEX COMMANDMENTS 


TEX COMMAXDMEXTS 2 

to be observed for the sake of their mystical significa- 
tion, and as conducive to devotion. 5. I hat prayers 
for t lie dead are good and useful, but the elHcacv of 
papal pardon, and of soul-inasses offered at certain local- 
ities, is negatived. L T pon these articles was founded 
the work entitled Institution of a Christian Man (q. \\), 
commonly known as “ The Bishops’ Book” (q. \\). — Lar- 
rar, A 'celts. Diet. s. v. See Autk'Lks. 

Ten Commandments, Tut:, the common desig- 
nation of the Decalogue, or that portion of the law of Mo- 
ses which contains the moral law. See Law ok Mosks. 

I. Title. — The popular name in this, as in so many 
instances, is not that of Scripture. There, we have 
the “ ten words” ( asereth haddeba- 
rim.the decade of the words; Sept, rd etna pi) gar a ; 
Vulg. verba decern), not the ten commandments (Exod. 
xxxiv. 23; Dent, iv, 13; x, *1. Heb.). The difference is 
not altogether an unmeaning one. The word of (iod, 
the “word of the Lord,” the constantly recurring term 
for the fullest revelation, was higher than any phrase 
expressing merely a command, and carried with it more 
the idea of a self-fulfilling power. If, on the one side, 
there was the special contrast to which our Lord refers 
between the commandments of (iod and the traditions 
of men (Matt, xv, 3), the arrogance of the rabbins showed 
itself, on the other, in placing the words of the scribes 
on the same level as the words of (iod. See Sckibk. 
Nowhere in the later books of the Old Test, is any direct 
reference made to their number. The treatise of Philo, 
however, - npi non cUa \oyiwv, shows that it had fixed 
itself on the Jewish mind, and, later still, it gave occa- 
sion to the formation of a new word (the “Decalogue,” 
i) cticdXoyoi;, first in Clem. Al. Pted. iii, 12), which has 
perpetuated itself in modern languages. Other names 
are even more significant. These, and these alone, are 
“the words of the covenant,” the unchanging ground 
of the union between Jehovah and his people, all else 
being as a superstructure, accessory and subordinate 
(Exod. xxxiv, 23). They are also the tables of testi- 
mony’, sometimes simply 11 the testimony,” the witness 
to men of the divine will, righteous itself, demanding 
righteousness in man (xxv, Ifi; xxxi, 13, etc.). It is 
by virtue of their presence in it that the ark becomes, 
in its turn, the ark of the covenant. (Numb, x, 33, etc.), 
that the sacred tent became the tabernacle of witness, 
of testimony (Exod. xxxviii, 21, etc.). See Tabkkna- 
< ' lk. They remain there, throughout the glory of the 
kingdom, the primeval relics of a hoar antiquity (1 Kings 
viii. 9). their material, the writing on them, the sharp 
incisive character of the laws themselves, presenting a 
striking contrast to the more expanded teaching of a 
later time. Not less did the commandments themselves 
speak of the earlier age when not the silver and the gold, 
but the ox and the ass, were the great representatives 
of wealth (comp. I Sam. xii, 3), 

Ewald is disposed to think that even in the form in 
which we have the commandments there are some ad- 
ditions made at a later period, and that the second and 
the fourth commandment were originally as briefly 
imperative as the sixth or seventh (tiesch. !sr. ii, 20(3). 
The difference between the reason given in Exod. xx. 
1 1 for the fourth commandment and that stated to have 
been given in Dent. v. 15 makes, perhaps, such a con- 
jecture possible. Scholia, which modern annotators put 
into the margin, are. in t lie existing state of the Old 
Test., incorporated into the text. Obviously botli forms 
could not have appeared written on the two tables of 
stone, yet Dent, v, 15,22 not only states a different rea- 
son, but affirms that “all these words” were thus written. 
Keil (Comment, on Exod.xx) seems on this point disposed 
to agree with Ewald. — Smith. 

II. Double Record. — The Decalogue is found in two 
passages, tirst in Exod. xx, 2-17, again in Dent, v, <3- 
21: and there are certain differences between the two 
forms, which have been taken advantage of by ration- 
alistic interpreters, sometimes for the purpose of dis- 


2 

paraging the historical correctness of either form, and 
sometimes as a conclusive argument against the doc- 
trine of inspiration. The differences are of three kinds: 
(1.) Simply verbal, consisting in the insertion or omis- 
sion of the Hebrew' letter 1, which signifies and ; in 
Exod. it is only omitted once where it is found in 
Dent., namely, between graven image and any likeness , 
in the second commandment; but in Dent, it occurs 
altogether six times where it is wanting in Exod.; and 
of these, four are at the commencement of the last four 
commandments, which are severally introduced with an 
and, joining them to what precedes. (2.) Differences 
in form, where still the sense remains essentially the 
same: under the fourth commandment, it is in Exod. 
“nor thy cattle,” while in Deut.it is “nor thine ox, 
nor thine ass. nor any of thy cattle” — a mere amplifica- 
tion of the former by one or two leading particulars; 
and in the tenth commandment, as given in Exod., 
“thy neighbor's house” comes first, while in Dent, it is 
“ thy neighbor’s wife;” and here also after “ thy neigh- 
bor’s bouse,” is added “ bis field” — another slight ampli- 
fication, (3.) Differences in respect to matter: these are 
altogether four. The fourth commandment is intro- 
duced in Exod. with remember, in Dent, with keep; the 
reason also assigned for its observance in Exod. is de- 
rived from God’s original act and procedure at creation, 
while in Dent, this is omitted, and the deliverance of 
Israel from the land of Egypt is put in its stead ; in 
Dent, the fifth commandment runs, “ Honor thy father 
and thy mother, as the Lord thy Cod commanded thee," 
the latter words having no place in Exod.; and in the 
tenth commandment, instead of “Thou shall not covet 
thy neighbor’s wife,” it stands in Dent. “Thou shalt 
not desire thy neighbor’s wdfe” — differing only, how- 
ever, in this, that the one (covet) fixes attention more 
upon the improper desire to possess, and the other upon 
the improper desire itself. 

It is obvious that these differences leave the main 
body or substance of the Decalogue, as a revelation of 
law, entirely untouched; not one of them affects the 
import and bearing of a single precept; nor, if view'ed 
in their historical relation, can they be regarded as in- 
volving in any doubt or uncertainty the verbal accuracy 
of the form presented in Exod. We have no reason to 
doubt that the words there recorded are precisely those 
which w'ere uttered from Sinai, and written upon the 
tables of stone. In Dent. Moses gives a revised account 
of the transactions, using throughout, certain freedoms, 
as speaking in a hortative manner, and from a more 
distant point of view; and, while he repeats the com- 
mandments as those which the Lord had spoken from 
the midst of the fire and written on tallies of stone 
(Dent, v, 22), he vet shows in his very mode of doing 
it that he did not aim at an exact reproduction of the 
past, but wished to preserve to some extent the form of 
a free rehearsal. This especially appears in the addi- 
tion to the fifth commandment, “ as the Lord thy (Iod 
commanded thee,” which distinctly pointed back to a 
prior original, and even recognised that as the perma- 
nently existing form. The introducing also of so many 
of the later commands with the copulative and tends 
to the same result; as it is precisely what would be 
natural in a rehearsal, though not in the original an- 
nouncements, and came from combining with the legis- 
lative something of the narrative style. Such being 
plainly the character of this later edition, its other and 
more noticeable deviations — the occasional amplifica- 
tions admitted into it, the substitution of desire for cov- 
et, with respect to a neighbor’s wife, in the tenth com- 
mand; and of t lie deliverance of Israel from Egypt, for 
the divine order of procedure at the creation, in the 
fourth — must be regarded as slightly varied and ex- 
planatory statements, which it was perfectly competent 
for the authorized mediator of the covenant to intro- 
duce, and which, in nature and design, do not materially 
differ from the alterations sometimes made by inspired 


TEX COMMANDMENTS 


273 


TEN COMMANDMENTS 


writers of the New Test, on the passages they quote 
from the Old (see Fairbairn, Ilermen. Manual, p. 354 
sq.). They are not without use in an exegetical re- 
spect; and in the present ease have also a distinct his- 
torical value, from tlie important evidence they yield in 
favor of the Mosaic authorship of Dent.; since it is in- 
conceivable that anv later author, fictitiously person- 
ating Moses, would have ventured on making such al- 
terations on what had been so expressly ascribed by 
Moses to God himself, and which seemed to bear on it 
such peculiar marks of sacredness and inviolability 
( Hiivernick, Introduction to the Pentateuch, § 25). — 
Fairbairn. 

III. Source. — The circumstances in which the ten 
great words were first given to the people surrounded 
them with an awe which attached to no other precept. 
In the midst of the cloud, and the darkness, and the 
Hashing lightning, and the fiery smoke, and the thun- 
der, like the voice of a trumpet, Moses was called to re- 
ceive the law without which the people would cease to 
be a holy nation. Here, as elsewhere, Scripture unites 
two facts which men separate. God, and not man, was 
speaking to the Israelites in those terrors, and yet in the 
language of later inspired teachers, other instrumental- 
ity was not excluded. Buxtorf, it is true, asserts that 
Jewish interpreters, with hardly an exception, maintain 
that “Dens verba Decalogi per se immediate locutus 
est” ( Piss, de Dead.). The language of Josephus, 
however (.1 nt. xv, 5, 3), not less than that of the New 
Test., shows that at one time the traditions of the Jew- 
ish schools pointed to the opposite conclusion. The law 
was “ordained by angels” (Gal. iii, 19), “spoken b\ r an- 
gels’’ (Ileb. ii, 2), received as the ordinance of angels 
(Acts vii, 53). '['he agency of those whom the thoughts 
of the Fsahnist connected with the winds and the darn- 
ing tire (Psa. civ, 4 , lleb. i, 7) was present also on Sinai. 
The part of Moses himself was, as the language of 
Paul (Gal. iii, 19) affirms, that of “a mediator.” He 
stood “between” the people and the Lord “to show 
them the word of the Lord” (Dent, v, 5), while they 
stood afar off to give form and distinctness to what 
would else have been terrible and overwhelming. The 
“ voice of the Lord” which they heard in the thnnder- 
ings and the sound of the trumpet, “full of majesty,” 
“dividing the Haines of fire” (Psa. xxix, 3-9), was for 
him a divine word, the testimony of an eternal will, just 
as in the parallel instance of John xii, 29, a like testi- 
mony led some to say “it thundered,” while others re- 
ceived the witness. No other words were proclaimed in 
like manner. The people shrank even from this near- 
ness to the awful presence, even from the very echoes 
of the divine voice. The record was as exceptional 
as the original revelation. Of no other words could it 
be said that they were written as these were written, 
engraved on the tables of stone, not as originating in 
man’s contrivance or sagacity, but by the power of the 
Eternal Spirit, by the “finger of God” (Exod. xxxi, 18; 
xxxii, IG). See Uath-Kol. 

IV. The number ten was, we can hardly doubt, itself 
significant to Moses and the Israelites. The received 
symbol, then and at all times, of completeness (Biihr, 
Sijmbolik , i, 175-183), it taught the people that the law 
of Jehovah was perfect (Psa. xix, 7). The fact that 
they were written not on one, but on two tables, proba- 
bly in two groups of five each (infra), taught men 
(though with some variations from the classification of 
later ethics) the great division of duties towards God 
and duties towards our neighbor, which we recognise as 
the groundwork of every true moral system. It taught 
them also, five being the symbol of imperfection (Biihr, 
i, 183-187), how incomplete eacli set of duties would be 
when divorced from its companion. The recurrence of 
these numbers in the Pentateuch is at once frequent and 
striking. Ewald ( Gesch . Isr. ii, 212-217) has shown by 
a large induction how continually laws and precepts 
meet us in groups of five or ten. The numbers, it will 
be remembered, meet us again as the basis of all the pro- 

X.-S 


portions of the tabernacle (q. v.) and temple. It would 
show an ignoranee of all modes of Hebrew thought to 
exclude this symbolic aspect. We need not, however, 
shut out altogether that which some writers (e. g. Gro- 
tius, De Dead. p. 3G) have substituted for it, the connec- 
tion of the ten words with a decimal system of numera- 
tion through the ten lingers on which a man counts. 
Words which were to be the rule of life for the poor as 
well as the learned, the groundwork of education for all 
children, might well be connected with the simplest 
facts and processes in man’s mental growth, and thus 
stamped more indelibly on the memory. Biihr, ab- 
sorbed in symbolism, has nothing for this natural sug- 
gestion but two notes of admiration (! !). The analogy 
of ten great commandments in the moral law of Bud- 
dhism might have shown him how naturally men crave 
a number that thus helps them. A true system was 
as little likely to ignore the natural craving as a false 
(see note in Ewald, Gesch. Isr. ii, 207). See Ten. 

V. Tables. — In what way the ten commandments 
were to be divided has, however, been a matter of much 
controversy. At least four distinct arrangements pre- 
sent themselves. 

1. In the received teaching of the Latin Church rest- 
ing on that of Augustine (Qu. in Ex. 7 1 ; Ep. adJanuar. 
c. 1 1 ; De Decal, etc.), the first table contained three 
commandments, the second the other seven. Partly on 
mystical grounds, because the tables thus symbolized 
the trinity of divine persons and the eternal Sabbath, 
partly as seeing in it a true ethical division, he adopted 
this classification. It involved, however, and in part 
proceeded from, an alteration in the received arrange- 
ment. What we know as the first and second were 
united, and consequently the Sabbath law appeared at 
the close of the first table as the third, not as the fourth, 
commandment. The completeness of the number was 
restored in the second table bv making a separate (the 
ninth) command of the precept, “Thou shalt not covet 
thy neighbor’s wife,” which with us forms part of the 
tenth. It is an almost fatal objection to this order that 
in the first table it confounds, where it ought to dis- 
tinguish, the two sins of polytheism and idolatry; and 
that in the second it introduces an arbitrary and mean- 
ingless distinction. The later theology of the Church 
of Borne apparently adopted it as seeming to prohibit 

I image- worship only so far as it accompanied the ac- 
knowledgment of another God (Catech. Trident, iii, 2, 20). 

2. The familiar division — referring the first four to 
our duty towards God, and the six remaining to our 
duty towards man — is, on ethical grounds, simple and 
natural enough. If it is not altogether satisfying, it is 
because it fails to recognise the symmetry which gives 
to the number five so great a prominence; and perhaps, 
also, because it looks on the duty of the fifth command- 
ment from the point of view of modern ethics rather 
than from that of the ancient Israelites and the first 
disciples of Christ (infra). 

3. A modification of 1 has been adopted by later Jew- 
ish writers (Jonathan ben-Uzziel, Aben-Ezra, Moses ben- 
Nachman, in Suieer, Thesanr. s. v. AefedXoyoc). Retain- 
ing the combination of the first and second command- 
ments of the common order, they have made a new 
“ word” of the opening declaration, “ I am the Lord thv 
God which brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out 
of the house of bondage,” and so have avoided the ne- 
cessity of the subdivision of the tenth. The objection 
to this division is (1), that it rests on no adequate au- 
thority, and (2) that it turns into a single precept what 
is evidently given as the groundwork of the whole body 
of laws. 

4. Rejecting these three, there remains that recog- 
nised by the older Jewish writers — Josephus (.4 nt. iii, 
G, G) and Philo (De Decal, i), and supported ably and 
thoughtfully by Ewald (Gesch. hr. ii, 208), which places 
five commandments in each table, and thus preserves 
the pentad and decad grouping which pervades the 
whole code. A modern jurist would perhaps object that 


TEX COMMANDMENTS 


274 


TEX COMMANDMENTS 


this places the fifth commandment in a wrong position; 
that a duty to parents is a duty towards our neighbor. 
From the Jewish point of view, it is believed, the place 
thus given to that commandment was essentially the 
right one. Instead of duties towards God. and duties 
towards ottr neighbors, we must think of the first table 
as containing all that belonged to the Kraffitia of t lie 
Greeks, to the Pittas of the Unmans — duties, i. e., with 
no corresponding rights; while the second deals with 
duties which involve rights, and come, therefore, under 
the head of Justitia. The duty of honoring, i. e. sup- 
porting. parents came under the former head. As soon 
as the son was capable of it. and the parents required it, 
it was an absolute, unconditional duty. Ilis right to 
any maintenance from them had ceased. He owed 
them reverence as he owed it to his Father in heaven 
(lleb. xii, 9). He was to show piety (ei'(rej3c7r) to 
them (1 Tim. v, I). What made the “Corban” casu- 
istry of the Scribes so specially evil was that it was, 
in this way, a sin against the piety of the first table, 
not merely against the lower obligations of the sec- 
ond (Mark vii, 11). It at least harmonizes with 
this division that the second, third, fourth, and fifth 
commandments all stand on the same footing ns 
having special sanctions attaching to them, while 
the others that follow are left in their simplicity 
by themselves, as if the parity of rights were in itself 
a sufficient ground for obedience. A further confirma- 
tion of the truth of this division is found in Kom.xiii,9. 
Paul, summing up the duties “briefly comprehended” 
in the one great law, “Thou shalt love thy neighbor as 
thyself,” enumerates the last five commandments, hut 
makes no mention of the fifth. 

VI. Addition . — To these ten commandments we find 
in the Samaritan Pentateuch an eleventh added: 

“Rut when the Lord thy God shall have brought thee 
into the land of ( -a naan, whither thou goest to possess it, 
thou shall !*et thee up two great stones, and shalt plaster 
them with plaster, aud shalt write upon these stones all 
the words of this law. Moreover, after thou shalt have 
passed over Jordan, thou shalt set up those stones, which 
I command thee this day, on Mount Gerizim, and thou 
shalt build there an altar to the Lord thy God, an altar of 
stones: thou shalt not lift up any iron thereon. Of un- 
hewn stones shall thou build that altar to the Lord thy 
God, aud thou shalt offer on it burnt-offerings to the Lord 
thy God, and thou shalt sacrifice peace-offerings, aud shall 
eat them there; and thou shalt rejoice before the Lord 
thy God iu that mountain beyond Jordan, by the way 
where the sun goeth down, in the land of the Canaanite 
that dwelleth in the plain country over against Gilgal, by 
the oak of Moreh, towards Sicliem” (Walton, Dili. Poly- 
fflott.). 

In the absence of any direct evidence, we can only guess 
as to the history of this remarkable addi- 
tion. (I.) It will be seen that the whole 
passage is made up of two which are found 
in the Hebrew text of Dent, xxvii, 2-7 and 7 , 

xt. oO, with the substitution, in the former. Dual 

of Gerizim for Ebal. (2.) In the absence of 
confirmation from any other version, Ebal 
must, so far as textual criticism is concerned, Reciprocal. 
he looked upon as the true reading; Gerizim 
as a falsification, casual or deliberate, of the 
text. (3.) Probably the choice of Gerizim as the site of 
the Samaritan temple was determined by the fact that 
it had been the Mount of Blessings, Ebal that of Curses. 
Possibly, as Walton suggests {Proleg. e. xi), the difficul- 
ty of understanding how the latter should have been 
chosen instead of the former as a place for sacrifice and 
offering may have led them to look on the reading Ebal 
as erroneous. They were unwilling to expose them- 
selves to the taunts of their Jmhean enemies by build- 
ing a temple on the Hill of Curses. They would claim 
the inheritance of the blessings; they would set the au- 
thority of their text against that of the scribes of the 
Great Synagogue. One was as likely to he accepted 
as the other. The “Hebrew verity” was not then ac- 
knowledged as it has been since. (4.) In other repeti- 
tions or transfers in the Samaritan Pentateuch we mav 


Social.. 


perhaps admit the plea which Walton makes in its be- 
half ( loc.cit .) that, in the first formation of the Penta- 
teuch as a Codex, the transcribers had a large number 
of separate documents to copy, and that consequently 
much was left to the discretion ol the individual scribe. 
Here, however, that excuse is hardly admissible. The 
interpolation has every mark of being a hold attempt 
to claim for the schismatic worship on Gerizim the sol- 
emn sanction of the voice on Sinai, to place it on the 
same looting as the ten great words of God. The guilt 
of the interpolation belonged, of course, only to the first 
contrivers of it. The later Samaritans might easily 
come to look on their text as the true one; on that of 
the Jews as corrupted by a fraudulent omission. It is 
to the credit of the Jewish scribes that they were not 
tempted to retaliate, and that their reverence for the sa- 
cred records prevented them from suppressing the his- 
tory which connected the rival sanctuary with the bless- 
ings of Gerizim. See Samaritan Pentateuch. 

VII. Targum . — The treatment of the ten command- 
ments in the Targum of Jonathan ben-Uzziel is not 
without interest. There, as noticed above, the first and 
second commandments are united to make up the sec- 
ond, and the words " I am t lie Lord thy God,” etc., are 
given as the first. More remarkable is the addition of 
a distinct reason for t lie last five commandments no less 
than for the first five. “Thou shalt commit no mur- 
der, for because of the sins of murderers the sword goeth 
forth upon the world.” So, in like manner and with the 
same formula, “death goeth forth upon the world” as 
the punishment of adultery; famine as that of theft; 
drought as that of false witness; invasion, plunder, 
captivity, as those of covetousness (Walton, Bill. Poly- 
» ylott .). See Targum. 

VIII. Talmud . — The absence of any distinct reference 
to the ten commandments as such in the Firke Aboth 
(^Maxims of the Fathers) is both strange and signifi- 
cant. One chapter (eh. v) is expressly given to an 
enumeration of all the scriptural facts which may be 
grouped in decades — the ten words of Creation, the ten 
generations from Adam to Noah and from Noah to Abra- 
ham, the ten trials of Abraham, the ten plagues of Egypt, 
and the like; hut the ten divine words find no place in 
the list. With all their ostentation of profound rever- 
ence for the law, the teaching of the rabbins turned on 
other points than the great laws of duty. In this way, 
as in others, they made void the commandments of God 
that they might keep their own traditions. Comp. 
Stanley , Jewish Church, lect. vii, in illustration of many 
of the points here noticed. — Smith. See Talmud. 

IX. Economical Importance . — The giving of the ten 

Analysis of tue Moral Law. 

To Superiors. To Equals. 


1. Polytheism. 

2. Idoiatrv. 


- 6. Murder. 

- 7. Adultery. 

3. Profanity. S. Theft. 

4. Sabbath-breaking. /%. 9. Perjury. 

5. Filial Impiety. = 10. Covetousness. 


Capital. 

Criminal. 

Uate/ul. 


Sacred. 


Secular. 


commandments marks an a?ra in the history of God's dis- 
pensations. Of the whole law this was both the first 
portion to he communicated, and the basis of all that fol- 
lowed. Various tilings attested this superiority. It 
was spoken directly by the Lord himself — not communi- 
cated, like other parts of the old economy, through the 
ministration of Moses — and spoken amid the most im- 
pressive signs of his glorious presence and majesty. Not 
only were the ten commandments thus spoken by God, 
hut the further mark of relative importance was put 
upon them of being written on tables of stone — written 
by the very finger of God. They were thus elevated to 
a place above all the statutes and ordinances that were 
made known through the mediator of the old covenant; 
and the place then given them they were also destined 
to hold in the future: for the rockv tablets on which 


TEXEB1EE 


275 


TEXXEXT 


they were engraved undoubtedly imaged an abiding 
validity and importance. It was an emblem of relative 
perpetuity. 'File very number of words, or utterances, 
in which they were comprised, ten, bespoke the same 1 
thing; fur in the significancv that in ancient times was 
ascribed to certain numbers, ten was universally regard- 
ed as the symbol of completeness (Spencer, De Leg. lleb. 

1, iii; Biihr, Symbolik, i, 175). See Dkcalogue. 

Tenebrae (darkness), an office for the Wednesday, 
Thursday, and Friday of Holy Week, commemorating 
the sufferings and death of our Blessed Saviour. The 
name of the office has been traced to the fact that it 
was formerly celebrated at midnight, as an allusion to 
Christ walking no more openly with the Jews, as Cran- 
mer says. Others suggest that it is derived from the 
gradual extinction of lights, which originally were put 
out one bv one as the morning began to grow clear; or 
in symbol of grief and mourning; or, as Beleth suggests, 
of the eclipse of three hours at the Passion. The num- 
ber of lights varied. In some churches there was a 
candle corresponding to each psalm and lesson of the 
office. Thus we find seven, nine, twelve, fifteen, twen- 
ty-four, twenty-five at York, thirty, seventy-two, or 
even as many as each person thought fit to bring. 
These were extinguished sometimes at once, or at two 
or three intervals. In some places they were quenched 
with a moist sponge, and in others with a hand of wax 
to represent Judas. St. Gregory of Tours says that on 
the night of Good-Fridav the watchings were kept in 
darkness until the third hour, when a small light ap- 
peared above the altar. Cranmer explains that the Lam- 
entations of Jeremiah were read in memory of the Jews 
seeking our Lord’s life at this time. The Reproaches 
and Trisagion were not sung until the 14th century on 
Good-Friday. — Westeott, Sacred A rchccol. s. v. 

Tenison, Thomas, a learned English prelate, was 
born at Cottenham, Cambridgeshire, Sept. 20, 1630; and 
receiving his primary education at the free school at 
Norwich, entered Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, 
where be graduated in Lent term, 1656-7. He began 
to study medicine, but on the eve of the Restoration 
decided upon the theological profession, and was or- 
dained privately at Richmond in Surrey by the bishop | 
of Salisbury. Being admitted fellow of bis college 
March 24, 1662, he became tutor, and in 1665 was chosen 
one of the university preachers, and about the same 
time was presented to the cure of St. Andrew the Great 
in Cambridge. In 1667 he received the rectory of 
Holywell and Nedingworth, Huntingdonshire, from the 
earl of Manchester, and in 1674 was chosen principal 
minister to the Church of St. Peter’s Mancroft, Nor- 
wich. In 1680 he took the degree of D.D., and in Oc- 
tober of the same year was presented by Charles II, be- 
ing then a royal chaplain, to the vicarage of St. Mar- 
tin’s-in-the-Fields, London. Immediately after the Rev- 
olution he was promoted to be archdeacon of London ; 
was consecrated bishop of Lincoln, Jan. 10, 1692; and 
was raised to the archbishopric of Canterbury in 1694. 
In 1700 he was appointed one of a committee to recom- 
mend to the king proper persons for all ecclesiastical 
preferments in his gift above the value of «£20 per an- 
num. lie attended his majesty during his last illness, 
and crowned queen Anne. He was, in April, 1706, made 
first commissioner in the treaty of union between Eng- 
land and Scotland ; and afterwards crowned George I. 
His death occurred at Lambeth Palace Dec. 14, 1715. 
By his will be bequeathed large sums to charitable pur- 
poses, and proved a liberal benefactor to Benedict Col- 
lege, Cambridge, the library of St. Paul’s Cathedral, the 
Society for the Promotion of the Gospel, Bromley Col- 
lege, etc. He published, The Creed of Mr. ( Thomas ) 
Hobbes Examined (Loud. 1670. 18mo) : — Idolati'y : a Dis- 
course (1678, 4to) : — Baconiana ; or Certain Genuine Re- 
mains o f Lord Bacon (1679, Svo; 1674, 4to). See Alli- 
bone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer . A uthors , s. v. ; Chalmers, 
Biog. Diet. s. v. 


Tennent, Gilbert, an eloquent Presbyterian di- 
vine, and eldest son of the Rev. William Tennent, Sen., 
was born in the County of Armagh, Ireland, Feb. 5, 1703; 
emigrated with his father to America in 1718; received 
his education under the paternal roof; had the honorary 
degree of master of arts conferred upon him by Yale, 
College in 1725; studied theology privately; was licensed 
to preach in May, 1725; and was ordained and installed 
minister of a Presbyterian congregation at New Bruns- 
wick, N. J., in 1726. In 1740 he was prevailed on by 
Whitefield to accompany him on a preaching tour to 
Boston ; and this tour constituted one of the great events 
of his life. The effect of his preaching in Boston is 
thus described by the Rev. Mr. Prince, minister of the 
Old South Church : “It was both terrible and search- 
ing. ... By bis arousing and spiritual preaching, deep 
and pungent convictions were wrought in the minds of 
many hundreds of persons in that town; and the same 
effect was produced on several scores in the neighboring 
congregations. And now was such a time as we never 
knew. The Rev. Mr. Cooper was wont to say that more 
came to him in one week in deep concern than in the 
whole twenty-four years of his preceding ministry. I 
can say also the same as to the numbers who repaired 
to me.” lie had much to do in bringing about the di- 
vision of the Presbyterian Church in 1741 ; indeed, it 
was owing, in a great measure, to one sermon called 
the “Nottingham Sermon,” which Dr. Alexander de- 
clares to be “ one of the most severely abusive sermons 
that were ever penned,” that that schism occurred. It 
is to his honor, however, that, seventeen years after, he 
was a principal instrument in a reunion of the two 
parties. In 1743 he became pastor of a Presbyterian 
congregation (disciples of Whitefield) in Philadelphia, 
where he continued the residue of his ministry and life, 
which was about twenty years. He died July 23, 1764. 
Mr. Tennent, as a preacher, had few equals in his vigor- 
ous days. “His reasoning powers were strong; his 
thoughts nervous and often sublime; his style flowery 
and diffusive; his manner of address warm and pathet- 
ic — such as must convince his audience that be was in 
earnest.” Henry B. Smith, D.D., says of him, “ Gilbert 
Tennent, that soul of fire.” lie was of a truly pub- 
lic spirit, needing no other motive to exert himself 
than only to be persuaded that the matter in question 
was an important public good. He published Sermons 
(Phila. 1744, 8vo) : — Discourses (1745, 12mo) : — Ser- 
mons (1758, 12mo). lie also published many occasional 
sermons, some pamphlets, etc. See Sprague, Annals of 
the Amer. Pulpit, iii, 35-41 ; Ser?n. on his Death , by S. 
Finley, D.D. (1764, Svo); Alexander, Hist, of the Log 
College , p. 91-94 ; Sermons and Essays by the Tennents 
and their Contemporcn ies (1855, 12mo) ; Allibone, Diet, 
of Brit, and Amer. Authors , s. v. ; Gillies, Hist. Coll. 
(J.L.S.) 

Tennent, John, a Presbyterian minister, and third 
son of the Rev. William Tennent, Sen., was born in the 
County of Antrim, Ireland, Nov. 12, 1706. His parents 
emigrated to America when he was twelve years old. 
lie was educated at the Log College, and licensed to 
preach Sept. 18, 1729. On Nov. 19, 1730, he was in- 
stalled pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Freehold, 
Monmouth Co., N. J. He had but a brief ministry, his 
death occurring April 23, 1732. He was distinguished 
for a clear, discriminating mind and earnest manner. 
One of bis sermons, on regeneration, was published, 
with a short memoir ol'liis life, by bis brother Gilbert Ten- 
nent. See Sprague, A nnals of the Amer. Pulpit , iii, 41. 

Tennent, William (1), a Presbyterian minister 
and educator, and the father of Gilbert, John, and Will- 
iam Tennent, was born in Ireland in 1673. He received 
a liberal education in his native country, and was prob- 
ably a graduate of Trinity College, Dublin. He entered 
the ministry originally in the Episcopal Church, and 
was ordained deacon by the bishop of Down, July 1, 
1704 ; and priest, Sept. 22, 1706. He emigrated to Amer' 


270 


TENNEY 


TENNENT 


ica in 1718, and immediately changed his ecclesiastical | 
relations, being received into the Presbyterian Church 
September 17 of the same year, lie supplied Past 
Chester and Bedford, X. Y. ; Bcnsnlcm and Smithtield, 
Pucks Co., Pa.; and in 1726 accepted a call from the 
Church at Xeshaminy. in the same county, where he ' 
spent the remainder of his life, lie was but fully set- 
tled when he was impressed with the conviction that 
there were other duties than those of a pastor de- 
manding his attention. The country was in a forming 
state, and he felt that it was all-important that it 
should have a right direction. 11 is four sons followed in 
the footsteps of their godly father, and were consistent 
Christians. Ilis attention was early directed to the 
vonng men who wa re growing up around him, and 
who he saw must he educated to become useful mem- 
bers of society. As there were no schools or colleges in 
that region, he determined to erect a building for edu- 
cational purposes. His means were limited, and conse- 
quently the building must correspond with them. In 
process of time a log house was erected of humble pro- 
portions about a mile from Xeshaminy Creek, near to 
the church. This building was afterwards designated 
the “Log College,” and was the first literary and theo- 
logical institution of the Presbyterian Church in this 
country. It was the immediate parent of Princeton 
College and Theological Seminary, and of all other in- 
stitutions of a similar character in the Church. The 
site of the Log College was in every way desirable, 
commanding as it did an extensive prospect of level, 
fertile country, hounded by distant hills. The dis- 
tinguished Whitelield, who visited ii in 1789, says of 
it : 

“ The place wherein the vonng men study is a log house 
about twenty feet long and nearly as many broad, and to 
me it seemed to resemble the school of the old prophets, 
for their habitations were mean; and that they sought 
not great things for themselves is plain from those pas- 
sages of Scripture wherein we are told that ‘each of them 
took a beam to build them a house;’ and that at a feast 
of the sons of the prophets ‘one of them put on the pot, 
while the others went to fetch some herbs out of the field.' 
All we can say of most of onr universities is, that they are 
glorious without. From this despised place seven or 
eight worthy ministers of Jesus have lately been sent 
forth; more are almost ready to he sent, and the founda- 
tion is now laying for the instruction of many others.” 

Of Air. Tennent, the founder of this college, but little is 
known outside of his connection with the institution. 
AY hitefiehl’s journal refers to him thus; 

“At my return home was much comforted by the com- 
ing of one Mr. Tennent, an old gray-headed disciple and 
soldier of Jesus Christ, tie keeps an academy about 
twenty miles* from Philadelphia, and has been blessed with 
four gracious sons, three of which have been, and still 
continue to be. useful in the Church of Christ. lie is a 
great friend of Mr. Erskine of Scotland, and he and his 
sons are secretly despised by the synod generally, as Mr. 
Erskine aud his friends are hated by the judicatories of 
Scotland, and as the Methodist preachers are by the breth- 
ren in England.” 

Whitefield further says : 

“Set out for Xeshaminy, where old Mr. Tennent lives, and 
where l was to preach to-day according to appointment. 
About twelve o’clock we came together and found 30(H) peo- 
ple assembled in the meeting-lsoii>e yard. Air. Win, Ten- 
nant, Jr., as we stayed beyond the time, was preaching to 
them. When 1 came up he soon stopped, gave out a psalm, 
which was sung, and then I began to speak as the Lord gave 
me utterance. At first the people seemed unaffected, but 
in the midst of my discourse the power of the Lord Jesus 
came upon me, and I felt such a struggling within myself 
for the people as I scarce ever felt before; the hearers be- 
gan to be melted down immediately and to cry much, and 
we had good reason to hope the Lord intended good for 
many. After I had finished. Mr. Gilbert. Tennent gave a 
word of exhortation to confirm what had been delivered. 
After onr exercises were over, we went to old Mr. Tett- 
neiu’s, who entertained ns like one of the ancient patri- 
archs. Ilis wife tome seemed like Elizabeth, and he like 
Zachary. Both, as far a* I can learn, walk in the command 
of the Lord blameless. Though (iod was pleased to hum- 
ble my soul so that I was obliged to retire for a while, yet 
we had sweet communion with each other, and spent the 
evening in concerting what measures had best be taken 


for promoting onr dear Lord’s kingdom. It happened 
very providentially that Mr. Tennent and his brethren 
are’ appointed to be a presbytery by the synod, so that 
they intend bringing up gracious youths ’and sending 
them out from time to time into the Lord's vineyard.” 

Among the ministers sent out from Log College to 
preach the Gospel were his four sons, (iilbert, William, 
John, anil Charles; Lev. Messrs. Samuel Illair, Samuel 
J. Finley (afterwards D.D. and president of Princeton 
College), W. Lobinson, John Lowland, and Charles 
Beatty. In 1742 this venerable man became unable to 
perform his duties as pastor, and his pulpit was supplied 
by t he presbytery. In 1743 Mr. Beatty was ordained 
as his successor. Ilis work was nearly done, and of 
him it may be said, in the language of Dr. Alexander, 
“The Presbyterian Church is probably not more in- 
debted for her prosperity, and for the evangelical spirit 
which has generally pervaded her body, to any indi- 
vidual than to the elder Tennent.” lie died at his 
loved home in Xeshaminy, May 6, 1746. Ilis published 
works consist mostly of sermons, twenty-three of which 
appear in one volume, 8vo. Two other discourses were 
also published. Many occasional sermons and pam- 
phlets were published in Philadelphia in 1758. Lev. 
Samuel Finley, D.D., his former pupil, preached his fu- 
neral discourse, which was also published. See Sprague, 
Annals of the A mer. Pulpit, iii, 23; Gen. Assemb. Miss. 
J lay. or Evangel. Intell. ii; Alexander, Hist, of Log Col- 
lege ; Tennent' s Family Record. (W. P. S.) 

Tennent, William (2), a Presbyterian minister, 
and brother of (Iilbert Tennent, was born in the County 
of Antrim, Ireland, Jan. 3, 1705., He emigrated with 
his father, the Lev. William Tennent, Sen., to America 
in 1718, where he received his education under the in- 
struction of his father, and studied theology by the aid 
of his brother. He was licensed by the Philadelphia 
Presbytery, and ordained pastor of the Presbyterian 
Church at Freehold, X.J., (Jet. 25, 1733, where he re- 
mained until his death, March 8, 1777. About the time 
that Air. Tennent completed his theological course, he 
was the subject of a remarkable trance, which has per- 
haps given him his greatest celebrity. A full account 
of this extraordinary incident was published by Elias 
Boudinot. Air. Tennent contributed sermons to Ser- 
mons on Sacramental Occasions (1739), and a Sermon 
upon Matt, v , 23-24 (1769). See Sprague. Annuls of 
the A mer. Pulpit , iii, 52; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, ami 
A mer. A uthors , s. v. ; Steel, Burning and Shining Lights 
(1864); Gen. Assemb. Miss. Mag. vol. ii ; Alexander, 
Hist. Log College; Prince, Christ. Hist.; Life of Will- 
iam Tennent, with an Account of his being Three Dags 
in a Trance (N. Y. 1847, 18mo); Sermons and Essags 
by the Tennent s and their Contemporaries (1855, 12mo); 
Blackwood's Mag. iv, 693; Storr, Constitution of the Hu- 
man Soul (1857), p. 317. (J. L. S.) 

Tennent, William (3), a Presbyterian minister, 
and son of the Lev. William Tennent (2), was born in 
Freehold, N. J., in 1740. He graduated at the College 
of Xew Jersey in 1758, was licensed to preach hv the 
presbytery of New Brunswick in 1762, ordained by the 
same presbytery in 1763. and installed as junior pastor 
of the Church in Norwalk, Conn., in 1765. In 1772 
he became pastor of an Independent Church in Charles- 
ton, S. C. lie died Aug. 11, 1777. Air. Tennent was 
an eloquent preacher. Elegance of style, majesty of 
thought, and clearness of judgment characterized all his 
discourses. See Sprague, Annuls of the A mer . Pulpit, 
iii, 242; Hall, Ilist. of Norwalk; Lamsey, Hist, of 
South Carolina, vol. ii ; Hist, of the Church of Charles- 
ton ; Alison, Funeral Sermon. (J. L. S.) 

Tenney, Asa Peaslee, a Congregational minis- 
ter, was horn in Corinth, Vt., Feb. 14, 1801. lie worked 
at an anvil in Haverhill, N. H.: studied theology with 
Lev. Grant Powers and President Tvler of Dartmouth 
College; preached his first sermon in father Goddard’s 
meeting-house in Norwich, Vt.; and when twenty-sev- 
en vears old took a five years’ commission under the 


TENNEY 


2 t i 


TENT 


New Hampshire Missionary Society, laboring in He- 
bron and Groton. In March, 1833, he became first pas- 
tor of the Congregational Church in Concord (West), 
X. II. , where he died, March 1, 1867. Mr. Tenney was 
original, eloquent, and a mighty revivalist. He had 
wonderful knowledge of the Bible and human nature, 
and was a prodigious worker, his sermons for over thir- 
ty-four years averaging more than four a week. See 
A Blacksmith in the Pulpit and in the Parish, in the 
Congregational Quarterly , 18C7, p. 359 sq., 380. 

Tenney, Caleb Jewett, D.D., a Congregational 
minister, was born at Hollis, N. II., May 3, 1780. lie 
graduated at Dartmouth College in 1801, entered the 
ministry Aug. 20, 1802. and was ordained Sept. 12, 1804, 
pastor at Newport, R. I., where he remained until May, 
1814, when he resigned and became eo-pastor in Wethers- 
field, March 27. 1816, but, on account of his voice fail- 
ing, was dismissed in 1840, and removed to Northamp- 
ton, Mass., where he died, Sept. 28, 1847. He acted as 
agent for both the American and the Massachusetts 
Colonization Society. His publications were Tiro Dis- 
courses on Baptism (1816) and a few Occasional Ser- 
mons. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, ii, 
472. 

Tenney, Ephraim, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Dummerston, Vt., Nov. 12. 1813. He grad- 
uated at Wheaton College, 111., in 1841, and entered the 
Union Theological Seminary the same year, and in the 
vear following he died in Brooklyn, N. V., March 8. 
(W. P. S.) 

Tenney, Roswell, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Hanover. N. IT. in 1706. He was educated at 
Dartmouth College, studied theology in the Union 
Theological Seminary, Prince Edward Co., Va., was li- 
censed by the Hanover Presbytery April 2G, 1828, and 
ordained by the same Nov. 28, 1820. II is tirst preach- 
ing was as a home missionary; after that he preached 
successively at Salem, Unity, Somerset, and New Lex- 
ington, Va.; three points in Perry County, O. — Logan, 
Belpre, and Warren; two points in Washington Coun- 
ty, O. ; Dover, Mass.; Hanover Centre, N. H.; again 
in Salem and Fearing, O.; and finally at Amesville, in 
Athens County. He died Aug. 6, 1866. See Wilson, 
Presb. Hist. Almanac , 1867, p. 321. (J. L. S.) 

Tenney, Samuel Gilman, a Congregational 
minister, was born at Rowley, Mass., April 12, 1703. 
He sought an education with a view of entering the 
ministry, being impressed that it was his duty to 
preach. He was fitted for college at Meriden, N. H., 
after which he entered Dartmouth College, from which 
lie graduated in 1823. He studied theology under 
the Rev. Dr. Chapin at Woodstock, Vt. He was or- 
dained June 20, 1825, and installed pastor of the Lyndon 
Church. AT, Here he labored for six years with suc- 
cess. He was subsequently pastor in the following 
places : Bakersville, AT., four years ; AVaitsfiold, AT., two 
years; Hillsborough, N. H., five years; YTordsborough. 
AT., seven years; and Alstead, N. II., seven years, when 
he retired, after an unbroken ministry of forty -nine 
years, in the sixtv-fourth year of his age. J 1 is labors 
were blessed in many places by special and powerful 
revivals. He died in Springfield, AT., Dee. 5, 1874. 
(W. P. S.) 

Tent (usually and properly ohel, so called from 
glittering [Gesenius] or being round [Fiirst], orgvi) ; 
both occasionally “ tabernacle;” elsewhere '\2'~'2,mish- 
kdn, a dwelling [Cant, i, 8], the regular term for “ taber- 
nacle ;” nsp, sukkah [2 Sam. xi, 11], a “booth;” or 
H2p, kubbdh, a dome-like pavilion, only in Numb, ii, 8), 
a movable habitation, made of curtains extended upon 
poles. See Tabernacle. 

Among the leading characteristics of the nomad 
races, those two have always been numbered whose 
origin has been ascribed to Jabal the son of Lantech 


(Gen. iv, 20), viz. to be tent-dwellers (-HN comp, 

xxv, 27 ; GKtji'tTijc, Pliny, vi, 32, 35) and keepers of 
cattle. Accordingly the patriarchal fathers of the Is- 
raelites were dwellers in tents, and their descendants 
proceeded at once from tents to houses. We therefore 
read but little of huts among them, and never as the 
fixed habitations of any people with whom they were 
conversant. Bv huts we understand small dwellings, 
made of the green or dry branches of trees interwined, 
and sometimes plastered with mud. In Scripture they 
are called booths. Such were made by Jacob to shelter 
his cattle during the first winter of his return from 
Mesopotamia (Gen. xxxiii, 17). In after-times we 
more frequently read of them as being erected in vine- 
yards and orchards to shelter the man who guarded the 
ripened produce (Job xxvii, 18; Isa. i, 8; xxiv, 20). 
It was one of the Mosaieal institutions that during the 
Feast of Tabernacles the people should live for a week 
in huts made of green boughs (Lev. xxiii, 42). In ob- 
serving the directions of the law respecting the Feast 
of Tabernacles, the Rabbinical writers laid down as a 
distinction between the ordinary tent and the booth, 
sukkah , that the latter must in no case be covered by a 
cloth, but be restricted to boughs of trees as its shelter 
( Sukkah , i, 3). In hot weather the Arabs of Mesopota- 
mia often strike their tents and betake themselves to 
sheds of reeds and grass on the bank of the river (Lav- 
ard, Nineveh, ii, 215; Burekhardt, Notes on Bed. i, 37, 
46; ATdnev, Tran Is, i, 398). 

In Egypt the Hebrews, for the most part, left off tent 
life, and lived in houses during their bondage: but on 
their deliverance, and during their protracted sojourn in 
the wilderness, tent life was again resumed by the na- 
tion (Exod.xvi, 16; Josh, vii, 24). and continued for some 
time even after their settlement in the Holy Land (xxii, 
8). lienee the phraseology of tent life remained among 
the people long after it had ceased to be their normal 
condition (1 Kings xii, 16). Here we may observe that 
tent life is not peculiar to nomads only, for we find set- 
tled elans, occupied in agricultural pursuits, still dwell 
in tents, and such, probably, was the ease in Palestine in 
all ages. The family of Ileber the Kenite was appar- 
ently of this class (Jtidg. iv, 11-22), and even the pa- 
triarchs seem partly to have adopted that mode oflife. 
Isaac not only “had possession of flocks and possession 
of herds,” but also he “sowed in the land, ami received 
in the same year a hundredfold” (Gen. xxvi, 12). It 
was not until the return into Canaan from Egypt that 
the Hebrews became inhabitants of cities, and it may 
be remarked that the tradition of tent-usage survived 
for many years later in the tabernacle of Shiloh, which 
consisted, as many Arab tents still consist, of a walled 
enclosure covered with curtains (Mislma, Zebachim , xiv, 
6 ; Stanley, Sinai and Palest, p. 233). 

The Midianites, the Philistines, the Syrians, the de- 
scendants of Ham, the Hagarites, and Cushanites are 
mentioned in Scripture as living in tents. But the peo- 
ple most remarkable for this unsettled and wandering 
mode of life are the Arabs, who, from t lie time of Ish- 
mael to the present day, have continued the custom of 
dwelling in tents. Amid the revolutions which have 
transferred kingdoms from one possessor to another, 
these wandering tribes still dwell, unsubdued and wild 
as was their progenitor. This kind of dwelling is not, 
however, confined to the Arabs, but is used throughout 
the continent of Asia. In one of the tents shown in As- 
syrian sculptures a man is represented arranging a couch 
for sleeping on, in another persons are sitting conversing, 
and in others cooking utensils and the process of cooking 
are shown. In the smaller one (on next page), a man is 
watching a caldron on what appears to be a fire between 
some stones. Among tent-dwellers of the present day 
must be reckoned (1) the great Mongol and Tartar 
hordes of Central Asia, whose tent-dwellings are some- 
times of gigantic dimensions, and who exhibit more 
contrivance both in the dwellings themselves and in 


TEXT 


TEXT 


27S 



Assyrian Tents (Koyunjik sculptures). 1. Tent of Sen- 
nacherib before Lachish; 2. Ordinary Teut. 

their method of transporting them from place to place 
than is the case with the Arab races (Horace, rw?v??.iii,24, 
10; Marco Polo, Trav. [ed. Bohn], p. 1*28, 185, *211 ; Gib- 
bon, ch. xxvi [vol. iii, p. 288, ed. Smith]) ; (2) as above 
observed, the 'Bed aw in Arab tribes, who inhabit tents 
which are probably constructed on the same plan as 
those which were the dwelling-places of Abraham and 
of Jacob (II eb. xi, 9). 

The first tents were undoubtedly covered with skins, 
of which there are traces in the Pentateuch (Exod. 
xxvi, 14) ; but nearly all the tents mentioned in Script- 
ure were doubtless of goats’-hair, spun and woven by 
the women (xxxv, 20; xxxvi, 14), such as are now, 
in Western Asia, used by all who dwell in tents. Tents 
of linen were, and still are, only used occasionally for 
holiday or travelling purposes by those who do not 
habitually live in them. Some modern tents are con- 
structed of most costly materials, and are very beautiful. 
Chardin mentions that a late king of Persia had one 
made which cost upwards of two millions sterling. It 
was called the “golden house,” because gold glittered 
everywhere about it (see Piet. Bible, note on Cant, v, 1). 
A tent or pavilion on a magnificent scale, constructed 
for Ptolemy Philadelphia at Alexandria, is described 
by Athemeus (Exod. v, 196 sq.). This class of tents is 
furnished with Turkey carpets for the door and cushions 
to recline upon, according to the wealth of the owner, 
though the inside arrangements vary among different 
elans and tribes. Those who are too poor to afford them- 
selves a proper tent merely hang a piece of cloth from a 
tree to give them shelter. 

An Arab tent is called beit, “house;” its covering 
consists of stuff, about three quarters of a yard broad, 
made of black goats’-hair (Cant, i, 5; Shaw, Travels , 
p. 22U), laid parallel with the tent’s length. This is 
sufficient to resist the heaviest rain. The tent-poles, 
called annul, or columns, 

are usually nine in limn- „ r _^ -- 

her, placed in three groups, 
but many tents have only 
one pole, others two or 
three. The ropes which 
hold the tent in its place 
arc fastened, not to the 
tent -cover itself, blit to 
1 oops co n si st i n g of a 1 ea th- 
em thong tied to the ends 
of a stick, round which 
is twisted a piece of old 
cloth, which is itself sewed 
to the tent -cover. The 
ends of the tent-ropes are 



fastened to short sticks or pins, called wed or wetted, 
which are driven into the ground with a cfutkuj, or 
mallet. Of the same kind was the nail (q. v.), 

and the hammer (q. v.), which Jael used (Judg. 

iv, 21). Bound the back and sides of the tents runs a 
piece of stuff removable at pleasure to admit air. The 
tent, is divided into two 
apartments, separated by 
a carpet partition drawn 
across the middle of the 
tent and fastened to the 
three middle posts. The 
men’s apartment is usual- 
ly on the right side on en- 
tering. and the women’s 
on the left ; but this usage 
varies in different tribes, 
and in the Mesopotamian 
tribes the contrary is the 
rule. Of the three side 
posts on the men’s side, 
the tirst. and third are 
called yed ( hand ), and 
the one in the middle is 
rather higher than the other two. Hooks are attach- 
ed to these posts for hanging various articles (Gen. 
xviii, 10; Judg. xiii. 6; Niebuhr, Voyage, i, 187; Lay- 
ard, A ’in. and Bab. p. 261). See ITli.au. In the men’s 
apartment the ground is usually covered with carpets 
or mats, and the wheat sacks and camel bags are 
heaped up in it around the middle post like a pyramid, 
at the base of which, or towards the back of the tent, 
are arranged the camel pack-saddles, against which the 
men recline as they sit on the ground. The women’s 
apartment is less neat, being encumbered with all the 
lumber of the tent, the water and butter skins, and the 
culinary utensils. The part of the tent appropriated 
to the women is called harem; and no stranger is per- 
mitted to enter it, unless introduced. Hence, perhaps, 
Sisera’s hope of greater security in the harem of Jael. 
See Hospitality. “The tents are arranged in a sort 
of square ; they are made of black hair-cloth, not large ; 
and are mostly open at one end and on the sides, the 
latter being turned up. The tents form the common 
rendezvous of men, women, children, calves, lambs, and 
kids” (Bobinson, Researches , i, 485). Few Arabs have 
more than one tent, unless the family be augmented 
by the families of a son or a deceased brother, or in 
case the wives disagree, when the master pitches a tent 
for one of them adjoining his own. An encampment 
is generally arranged in the form of an enclosure, with- 
in which the cattle are driven at night, and the cen- 
tre of which is occupied by the tent or tents of the 
emir or sheik. If he is a person of much consequence, 
lie may have three or lour tents, for himself, his wives, 
his servants, and strangers, respectively. The tirst two 
are of the most importance, and w r c know T that Abra- 
ham’s wife had a separate tent (Gen. xxiv, 67). It is 
more usual, however, for one very large tent to be di- 
vided into two or more apartments by curtains. The 



Arab Tents. 


TENTH DEAL 


279 


TERAH 


holy tabernacle was on this model (Exod. xxvi, 31-37). 
The individual tents of Leah, Rachel, Zilpali, and Bilhali 
may thus have been either separate tents or apartments 
in the principal tent in each ease (Gen. xxxi, 33). 
When the pasture near an encampment is exhausted, 
the tents are taken down, packed on camels, and re- 
moved (Isa. xxxviii, 12; Gen. xxvi, 17,22,25). The 
beauty of an Arab encampment is noticed by Sliaw 
(Trarels, p. 221; see Numb, xxiv, 5). In choosing 
places for encampment, Arabs prefer the neighborhood 
of trees, for the sake of the shade and coolness which 
they afford (Gen. xviii, 4, 8; Niebuhr, loc. cif .). Some 
tribes have their tents constructed so as to house their 
fioeks at night. Grant describes such a one among the 
Ilertush Kurds: “Our tent was about forty feet long 
and eighteen or twenty wide, one side left quite open, 
while a wall of reeds formed the other sides. The am- 
ple roof of black hair-cloth was supported by a number 
of small poles, and seeured with cords and wooden pins 
driven into the earth. About one fourth of the tent 
was fenced off with a wicker trellis for the lambs of the 
flock, which are kept there during the night” (Aesto- 
ritms , p. 93). 

The manufacture of tents formed a regular and lucra- 
tive trade ( cnct}vo 7 roii>g ), at which Paul occasionally 
labored, especially in connection with Aquila, at Corinth 
(Acts xviii, 3). See Paul. 

A feature of Oriental life so characteristic as the tent 
could not fail to suggest many striking metaphors to 
the Biblical writers, and accordingly the Hebrew has 
special terms for pitching (!T23 or and striking 

(p^nrn) a tent. The tent erected and its cords 
stretched out are often figuratively alluded to in the 
Scriptures. Thus Isaiah represents God as the one 
“that streteheth out the heavens as a curtain, and 
spreadeth them out as a tent to dwell in” (xl, 22). lie 
also says, in speaking of the glorious prosperity of the 
Church and the need of enlargement, “ Enlarge the 
plaee of thy tent, and let them stretch forth the cur- 
tains of thine habitations; spare not, lengthen tbv 
cords, and strengthen thy stakes” (liv, 2; see also 
xxxiii, 20). It is a work of some effort to pitch a tent 
properly, especially a large one, requiring the united ef- 
forts of willing hands. Hence the pathetic language 
of Jeremiah in mourning over the desolations of God’s 
people : “My tabernacle is spoiled, and all my cords are 
broken; ray children are gone forth of me, and they are 
not ; there is none to stretch forth my tent any more 
and to set up my curtains” (x, 20), These tents are 
rapidly struck and removed from place to place, so that 
the eye which to-day rests on a large encampment ac- 
tive with life may to-morrow behold nothing but a wil- 
derness. Tims Isaiah says, “ Mine age is departed, and 
is removed from me as a shepherd's tent” (xxxviii, 12). 
The facility with which tents are taken down and the 
frailty of their material are beautifully alluded to by 
Paul in 2 Cor. v, 1 (see also 2 Bet. i, 13, 14). See Hack- 
ett, Illustr . of Script . p. 33-40; Van Lennep, Bible 
Lands , eh. iii; Rhodes, Tent -life from the Earliest 
Times (Bond. 1858); Conder, Tent-icork in Palest , ii, 
275 sq. 

Tenth Deal CjinJSJ*, issaron, a tenth ; Sept, fcm- 
tov ), the tenth part , a measure of things dry, specially 
for grain and meal (Exod. xxix, 40; Lev. xiv; Numb, 
xv, xxviii, xxix) ; more fully the tenth of an ephah 
(as the Sept, and Yulg. explain at xv, 4), i. e. an omer, 
or about three and a half quarts (comp. Lev. v, 15; vi, 
13; Numb, v, 15). See Metrology. 

Tenths, in English law, are the tenth part of the 
yearly value of every spiritual benefice as it is valued 
in the Liber Refs. This was an impost formerly paid 
to the pope, and was annexed to the crown by the 20 
Henry VIII, c. 3, and the 1 Elizabeth, e. 4 ; but by the 
2 Anne, c. 1 1, was granted, together with the first-fruits, 
towards the augmentation of poor clergymen. A tax 


on the temporality, and also certain rents reserved bj T 
the king out of the monastic possessions he granted to 
his subjects, were also called tenths. Tenths of eccle- 
siastical benefices and lauds were first paid in 118.x to- 
wards Henry Il’s crusade. See Taxatio Ecclesiasti- 
ca; Temporalities of Bishops; Tithes. 

Tentzel, Wilhelm Ernst, a German theologian, 
was born July 11, 1059, at Groussen, in Thuringia. He 
became lecturer at the gymnasium at Gotha in 1085, and 
was appointed in 1090 historiographer there, and died 
at Dresden, Nov. 24, 1707. In the theological depart- 
ment he is especially known by his controversy with the 
Jesuit Schelstrate on the arcani disciplina (q. v.) : Dis- 
sertatio de Disciplina Arcani (Wittenb. 1083; also in 
his Exercitationes Selectte (Leips. and Frank ft. 1G92), 
written against the .4 ntiquitas Jllnstrata . Tentzel also 
published Exercitationes X de Ilymno Te L)eum Lau- 
damus (ibid. 1092). Of great interest is also his his- 
torical narrative of the beginning and first progress of 
Luther’s Reformation, thus explaining Seckendorf’s his- 
tory of Lutheranism, edited by Cyprian (ibid. 1718, 3 
vols.) : — De Prosen ch is Samaritarum (Wittenb. 1082): 
— Dissertatio de Ritu Lectionnm Sacrarum (ibid. 1085). 
See Theol. Universal- Lexicon, s. v. ; Winer, Ilandbvch 
der theol. Liter at nr , i, 609, 628, 738, 849, 854; ii, 799 ; Fa- 
brieius, Biblioth. Ecclesiast . (Hamburg, 1718), vol. i ; Rt- 
gensburger Real- Encgldop. s. v, (B. P.) 

Teo. See Antelope. 

Teocalli (Aztec, teotl, “gQd,” and calli, “house”), 
a name given to the aboriginal temples, many remains 
of which are still in existence. Recent investigations 
have rendered it probable that many structures which, 
on Spanish authority, have been received as temples 
and palaees were in reality multiple houses. See John- 
son, Pincers. Cyclop, s. v. 

Teotl, the name for God among the ancient Mexi- 
cans. He is called “ the Cause of causes” and “ the Fa- 
ther of all things.” He was identified with the sun- 
god, which, on this aeeount, was designated the Teotl. 

Tephillin. See Phylactery. 

Te'rah (Heb. Te'rach , fPS-1, station [see also Ta- 
rah] ; Sept. Sdppa, Qdpa ; Josephus, Bdppoc, A nt. i, 6, 
5; Vulg. Thare ), the father of Abram, Nahor, and Ha- 
ran, and through them the ancestor of the great fami- 
lies of the Israelites, Ishmaelites, Midianites, Moabites, 
and Ammonites (Gen. xi, 24-32). B.C. 2293-2088. The 
aeeount given of him in the Old-Test, narrative is very 
brief. We learn from it simply that he was an idola- 
ter (Josh, xxiv, 2 ) ; that he dwelt beyond the Eu- 
phrates in Ur of the Chaldees ( Gen. xi, 28 ) ; that 
in the westerly migration which he undertook in his 
old age he went with his son Abram, his daughter-in- 
law Sarai, and his grandson Lot, “to go into the land 
of Canaan, and they came unto Ilaran and dwelt there” 
(ver. 31); and, finally, that “the days of Terali were 
two hundred and five years; and Terali died in Haran” 
(ver, 32). Taking the language of Abraham about Sa- 
rah being the daughter of his father but not of his 
mother (xx, 12) in its natural sense, Terali must have 
had children by more wives than one; but we have no 
particular aeeount of his domestic relations in this re- 
spect. 

In connection with this migration a chronological 
difficulty has arisen which may be noticed here. In 
the speech of Stephen (Acts vii, 4) it is said that the 
further journey of Abraham from Haran to the land of 
Canaan did not take place till after his father’s death. 
Now as Terah was two hundred and five years old (the 
Samar, text and version make him one hundred and for- 
ty-five, and so avoid this difficulty) when he died, and 
Abram was seventy-live when he left Haran (Gen. xii, 
4) it follows that, if the speech of Stephen be correct, 
at Abram’s birth Terah must have been one hundred 
and thirty years old; and therefore that the order of 


TEH All 


2S0 


TER API I IM 


his sons— Abram. Xahor, llaran— given in Cion. xi. 20, 
27 is not their order in point of age. I^ord Arthur ller- 
vev says (Jiumtl. \\ 82. 83). "The difficulty is easily got 
over by supposing that Abram, though named first on 
account of his dignity, was not the eldest sou, but prob- 
ably the youngest of the three, born when his father 
was one hundred and thirty years old— a supposition 
with which the? marriage of Xahor xwth his elder broth- 
er llaran's daughter, Milcah, and the apparent nearness 
of age between Abram and Lot, and the three genera- 
tions from Xahor to Kebekah corresponding to only 
two, from Abraham to Isaac, arc in perfect harmony.” 
—Smith. See Auuaiiam. 

From Acts vii, 2 I it appears that the first call which 
prompted the family to leave L T r was addressed to Abra- 
ham. not to Torah, as well as the second, which, after 
the death of his father, induced him to proceed from 
llaran to Canaan. The order to Abraham to proceed to 
Canaan immediately after Terah’s death seems to in- 
dicate that the pause at llaran was on his account. 
Whether he declined to proceed any farther, or his ad- 
vanced age rendered him unequal to tiie fatigues of the 
journey, can only be conjectured. It appears, however, 
from Josh, xxiv, 2, 14 that Terah was given to idolatry, 
or rather, perhaps, to certain idolatrous superstitions, 
retained together with the acknowledgment and wor- 
ship of Jehovah, such as existed in the family in the 
time of his great-grandson Laban (Gen. xxxi,30). This 
may suggest that it was not in the divine wisdom deem- 
ed proper that one who hail grown old in such practices 
should enter the land in which his descendants were 
destined to exemplify a pure faith. 

From the simple facts of Terah ’s life recorded in the 
Old Test, lias been constructed the entire legend of 
Abram which is current in Jewish and Arabian tradi- 
tions. Terah the idolater is turned into a maker of 
images, and “ l T r of the Chaldees” is the original of the 
‘•furnace” into which Abram was cast (comp. Ezck. v, 
2). Kashi’s note on Gen. xi, 28 is as follows : “ ‘ In the 
presence of Terah his father:’ in the lifetime of his fa- 
ther. And the Midrash llaggadab says that lie died be- 
side his father, lbr Terah had complained of Abram his 
son before Nimrod that he had broken his images, and 
ho cast him into a furnace of lire. And llaran was sit- 
ling and saying in his heart, If Abram overcome, 1 am 
on his side; and if Nimrod overcome, 1 am on his side. 
And when Abram was saved, they said to llaran, On 
whose side art thou? lie said to them, I am on 
Abram’s ;>idc. So they cast him into the furnace of 
tire and he was burned; and this is [what is meant by] 
Ur Casdim (Cr of the Chaldees).” In Bereshith Bab- 
bu (par. 17) the story is told of Abraham being left to 
sell idols in his father’s stead, which is repeated in 
Weil, Biblical Legends, p. 49. The whole legend de- 
pends upon the ambiguity of the word which sig- 
nifies “ to make” and “ to serve or worship;” so that Te- 
rah, who in the Biblical narrative is only a worshipper 
of idols, is in the Jewish tradition an image-maker; 
and about this single point the whole story has grown. 
It certainly was unknown to Josephus, who tells noth- 
ing of Terah except that it was grief for the death of 
his son llaran that induced him to quit- Cr of the Chal- 
dees (. 1 nt. i, G, ll ). 

In the Jewish traditions Terah is a prince and a 
groat man in the palace of Nimrod (Jellinek, Bet ham- I 
Midrash, p. 27), the captain of his army (Sepher Hag- 
yushar). his son in-law according to the Arabs (Beer, ! 
Leben Abrahams , p. 97). 11 is wife is called in the Tal- 

mud (Baba JUithra , lol. 91 a) Amtelai, or Emtclai, the 
daughter of Carncbo. In the book of the Jubilees she 
is called Edna, the daughter of Arcm.or Aram : and by ' 
the Arabs Adna (ITIlcrholot, Bibliothe(jne Orient ale , s. v. 
“Abraham;” Boer, p. 97). According to D’Hcrbelot, j 
the name of Abraham’s father was Azar in the Arabic j 
traditions, and Terah was his grandfather. Elmakin, 
quoted by llottinger (Smegma Orient ale, p. 281), says 


that, after the death ofYuna, Abraham’s mother, Terah 
took another wile, who hare him Sarah. He adds that 
in t he days of Terah the king of Babylon made war 
upon the country in which he dwelt, and that llazrun, 
the brother of Terah, went out against him and slew 
him; and the kingdom of Babylon was transferred to 
Nineveh and Mosul. For all these traditions, see the 
hook of Jasher and the works of llottinger, DTlerbelot, 
Weil, and Beer above quoted, Philo (l)e Samuils) in- 
dulges in some strange speculations with regard to Te- 
rah’s name and his migration. — Smith. 

Ter'apllim (Hell, teraphim, CT£“n; only thus in 
the masc. plur. in the Bible, but in the fern. plnr. r*£“>ri, 
teraphdlh, in Kabbiuical writers) seems to denote tutelar 
household images, by whom families expected, for rever- 
ence bestowed, to be rewarded with domestic prosperity, 
such as plenty of food, health, and various necessaries of 
domestic life. This word is in the A. V. always ren- 
dered either by “ teraphim,” or by ** images” with “ tera- 
phim” in the margin, except in I Sam. xv, 23; Zech. x. 
2, where it is represented by “idolatry,” “idols.” The 
singular of the word does not occur, though in l Sam. 
xix, 13, IG it appears that only one image is referred to. 
Possibly, as in the case of the I Ionian Kenates (which 
word, also, lias no singular), these representative images 
were always two or three in number. Strange to say, 
in the Sept, they arc represented by a different render- 
ing in nearly every book where the word occurs: in 
Gen. xxxi by tidtoXa ; in Judg. xvii. xviii by ^epatpin 
or to Stpatpfiv; in 1 Sam. xix by KtvoTiaf>ia\ in Ezek. 
xxi, 21 by yKanra ; in Ilos. iii, 4 by CtjXoi ; and in 
Zech. x, 2 by «7ro03£yyo/i£j'ot. In the Vulg. \vc find 
nearly the same variations between theraphim , statint, 
idola, simulacra, fgune. idolorum, idololatria. (In t he 
following art. we chiefly make use of that found in 
lvitto’s Cyclopaedia.) 

1. Derivation of the Term . — The etymology and mean- 
ing of this word may be inferred from the various modes 
in which it is represented by the Greek translators, such 
as Stpcifeiv, to Stpatyeh*, or ra Sepatyiv, reminding us 
of the etymological connection ofr~I2, ?fr,to nourish , 
with r/ 060 -tii'. Its remote derivatives in modern lan- 
guages, viz. the Italian tarifa , French Utrif and even the 
English tripe, throw a little light upon our subject. Ac- 
cording to its etymology, the word teraphim has been lit- 
erally t ranslated nvtritores, nourishers. It seems that the 
plural form was used as a collective singular for the. per- 
sonified combination of all nourishing powers, as the plu- 
ral teraphim signifies God, in whom all superior powers 
to be revered with reverential awe are combined (comp, 
the classical epithets of gods— Sol, Phoebus, Ceres, Venus, 
Cybelc, Pales, Trivia, Fidcs, Sibylla, etc., alums, bpirviog, 
Tpcxpiftoe). The word teraphim signified an object or 
objects of idolatry, as we may learn from some of the 
above renderings of the Sept., tihoXov, yXinTTor; and 
that it was in meaning similar to the Penates is indicat- 
ed by Ktvoratyiov. Aquila renders it poptympara, 7rpo- 
Topai, arSutyaiptaig, imXvoic, tiCioXa ; Symniachus 
also translates it eiPioXa. 

The book Zohar derives the name teraphim from 
Cp H r, turpitude, but mentions also that rabbi Jehuda 
derives it from n£"i, to slacken, because they slackened 
the hands of men in well-doing. The rabbi adds that 
they uttered a !“!£“ nS‘ZZ, prophet ia bora, inanis, vana, 
a loose sort of prediction. Hence rabbi Bechai says 
that C^S-r are the same as feeble, objects not 

to he depended upon. But in Tanchuma the former 
etymology is produced, since the teraphim were 

opus turpitndinis seu foeditatis (see Buxtorfii Lex . 
Talmud, et Babb. s. v. rpr, which root occurs in the Lat. 
turpls). Onkclos renders teraphim in Gen. xxxi by 
iU'Z'Z'zZ, and Jonathan in Judg. xvii and xviii by 
images. The Targum on llos. iii, 4 has "‘lira, 


TERAPHIM 


281 


TERAPHIM 


indicant, expounder of oracles, where the Greek has tb)- < 
\(ov ; and the Targura on 1 Sam. xv, 23 idols. 

Goussetius, under wpr, goes so far as to assert that the J 
word di'$pi*) 7 rog is formed from C^SPm. Lnd. de 
Dicu, and after him Spencer, in Leg. Hit. Ilebr. Dissert. 
(vii, 1. 3, c. 3, § 7), urges the frequent interchange of the 
sounds t and $ and sh, in order to show that teraphim 
and seraphim are etymologically connected. Ilot- 
tinger, in his Smegma, and Ki relic r, in the first vol- 
ume of his QCdipus _ Egypt iacus. exhibit the etymo- 
logical progression thus: Sor Apis (aiop «7r, ark of the 
ox), Sara pis, Serapis, Terapis, Teraphim. The Ara- 
bic author Aben Neph also asserts the identity of Tera- 
phim and Serapides. Others appeal to NEp Bepa- 
7 m'etr, to heal (comp. Wiehmannshauscn, Dissertatio 
de Teraphim; Witsius, Aiyyptiaca, i, 8; Ugolino, Thes. 
xii, 786). Coin, in his Biblische Theologie , derives 
teraphim from the Syriac araph , peirontari. Gesen- 
ius ( Thesaur. p. 1519) refers it to the Arabic root 
t araph, “to live in comfort;” and compares it with 
the Sanscrit trip, “to delight,” and the Greek rspno- 
pai. F first (lleb. Lex.) returns to the root tpr, in the 
sense of nourishing. 

II. Biblical References. — 1. Teraphim are first men- 
tioned in Gen. xxxi, 19. where we are told that Kachel 
stole the teraphim of her father Laban, and successfully 
concealed them from his search under the hiran, or 
coarse carpet which is used to cover the wicker-work 
pack-saddle of the camel. Aben-Ezra says that she 
stole them in order that her father might not, by means 
of their oracles, discover the direction of Jacob’s flight 
(and we note that Laban .adopted this or some other 
mode of augury from his use of the word nichdshthi, 
“I have augured” [xxx, 27]); but Josephus says that 
she carried off these ru7roi;c; rwr Beiov that they might 
serve as a material protection to her if overtaken, al- 
though she herself disbelieved in them (/carer fipo two 
ph> rye; roiavnjg ripijg rw v Bsiov bidct^avrog avrijv 
rou T atetofiov [Am/. i, 19,8]); and, lastly, some sup- 
pose that she was tempted by the precious metals of 
which they were made. It is far more probable that, 
like her father, Kachel, whose mind was evidently taint- 
ed with superstition (Gen. xxx, 14), regarded the tera- 
phim as tutelary “gods” (xxxi, 30). Laban’s eagerness 
to recover them shows the importance in which they 
were held ; and it is important to observe that, although 
a believer in Elohim (ver. 53), he openly paid to these 
teraphim, which were probably ancestral divinities of 
his family (ibid.), an idolatrous worship. Jtirieu (/list, 
des Dogmes et des Cidtes, ii, 3. 45G), after elaborately 
entering into the question, thinks that they may have 
been images of Shem and Noah. From this Biblical 
notice it would seem that they were usually somewhat 
large figures, which could not very easily be secreted. 

2. It is extremely probable that these household de- 
ities were among the “strange gods” and talismanic 
earrings which Jacob required his family to give up, 
and which were buried by him under the boughs of 
Allan- Meonenim, “the sorcerers’ oak” (Judg. ix, 37). 
l>ut an isolated act would naturally be ineffectual to 
abolish a cult which had probably existed for centuries 
in the Aramaean home of the Shemites; and, conse- 
quently, in the time of the Judges we find the worship 
of teraphim existing in full vigor. The 17th and 18th 
chapters of Judges are entirely occupied with the story 
of Micah, an Ephraimite, who in those wild and igno- 
rant times had fancied that he could honor Jehovah 
(xvii, 13) bv establishing a worship in his own house. 
To the ephod and teraphim which he already possessed 
(ver. 5) his mother added a Reset and M assekdh (possibly 
“a graven and a molten image”) made out of the gold 
which she had consecrated to Jehovah and which he 
had stolen. When Jonathan, the grandson of Moses, 
arrived at the house in his accidental wanderings, Mi- 
cah engaged him as a regular priest, and anticipated, in 


consequence, the special blessing of Jehovah. The five 
Dauite. spies consulted these oracular l’enntes of Micah 
through the intervention of Jonathan (xviii, 5), and in- 
formed the Danites on their way to Laish of the images 
which the house contained. The Dauite warriors, with 
the most unscrupulous indifference, violently carried off' 
the whole apparatus of this private cult, including the 
priest himself, to their new city; and we are informed 
that it continued to be celebrated till “the day of the 
captivity of the land,” which, as we see from the next 
verse, may perhaps mean till the capture of Shiloh by 
the Philistines. What is most remarkable in this nar- 
rative is the fact that both Micah, who was a worship- 
per of Jehovah, and the Danites, who acknowledged 
Elohim (ver. 5, 10), and Jonathan, the grandson of Mo- 
ses himself, should, in spite of the distinctest prohibi- 
tions of the law, have regarded the adoration of tera- 
phim and other images .as harmless, if not as laudable; 
and that this form of idolatry, without any political mo- 
tive to palliate it as in the case of Jeroboam, should 
have been adopted and maintained without surprise or 
hesitation, nay, even with eager enthusiasm, by an entire 
tribe of Israel. This is very much as at present some 
forms of image-adoration arc blended with the service 
of God. That such will-worship, however, was only 
comparatively innocent, and originated in an obstinate 
pruritus of improving rather than obeying God’s reve- 
lation, Samuel clearly expressed in reproving Saul (l 
Sam. xv, 23) : “Stubbornness is as iniquity and idola- 
try” (literally teraphim). We do not read that the 
stubbornness of Saul led him actually to worship tera- 
phim. However, his daughter possessed teraphim, as 
we shall see presently. 

3. The next notice of teraphim which wc find is in 1 
Sam. xix, 13-16, where Michal, to give David more time 
to escape, deceives the messengers of Saul by putting 
“ the teraphim” in his bed. “ with a pillow of goats’-hair 
for his bolster.” The use of the article shows that “the 
teraphim” was something perfectly well known (Theni- 
us, ad loc .) ; and the fact that we thus find it (or them) 
in the house of a man so pious as David entirely con- 
firms our inference as to the prevalence of these images. 
The suggestions of Miehaelis that Michal may have 
worshipped them unknown to David, and that barren 
women were especially devoted to them, are wholly 
without foundation. The article (2'ETTfl) explodes 
the arguments of Miehaelis ( De Theruphis, Comment. 
Soc. Gott. 1763), Bochart ( Hieroz . i, 623), etc., that the 
teraphim in this instance was a mere hastily made doll 
of rags; in fact, a sort of malkin. We may legitimately 
infer from the passage that they had some rude resem- 
blance to the human shape, being, perhaps, something 
like the llermie; hence Aquiln in this place renders the 
word by 7rporopai. The Sept, rendering Kerord<pia 
very probably points to the belief that the teraphim 
were images of deceased ancestors (KtroTatyid n vet 
gcrav tKiaavfieva u >g rv7rag rt/epor. Suid. rid. Bo- 
chart, Hieroz. 1, ii, 51), and the rendering of “put a 
pillow of goats’-hair for his bolster” by /cat ?'}7r op twv 
aiyojv tBero 7 rpog k'e<pa\ijg avrov, “she placed the 
goats’ liver at his head,” shows that they read 223, 
“liver,” for “T32, “mattress.” Now if this ancient 
reading were correct, it brings the passage into remark- 
able parallel with Ezek. xxi, 21, where Nebuchadnezzar 
is said to have decided his course by belomautia, togeth- 
er with consultation of teraphim and looking into the 
liver (extispicium). It is possible that Michal may have 
bVen divining by means of a sacrifice to the teraphim 
, when Saul’s messenger arrived, and that she put the 
l yet palpitating liver on the. bed with the image, which 
in a small, dark, narrow recess might well enough pass 
i for a human being. Josephus, with his usual want of 
: honesty, omits all mention of the teraphim, and only 
, says that she put the liver under the bedclothes, hop- 
■ ing that its motion would make the men more easily 
i believe that David was gasping! (Ant. vi, 11, 4). The- 


TERAPIIDI 


TERAP1ILU 282 


odoret (Qinest. *10, in 1 Reg.) repeats tins preposterous 
notion. 

On every revival of the knowledge of the written 
revelation of God the tcrnphim were swept away, to- 
gether with the worse forms of idolatry (2 Kings xxiii, 
24): -The workers with familiar spirits, and the wiz- 
ards, and the images (teraphim), and the idols, and all 
t He abominations that were spied in the land of Judah 
and in Jerusalem, did Josinh put away, that he might 
perform the words of the law which were written in t lie 
book that llilkiah the priest found in the house of the 
Lord.” 

4. The next passage in historical order about the ter- 
aphim is 1 Ins. iii, 4. which is encompassed by difficul- 
ties. The prophet, purchasing Gomer to himself, bids 
her he chaste for many days, - for the children of Israel 
shall abide many days without a king, and without a 
sacrifice, and without an image (mutsebdh), and without 
an ephod, and without teraphim.” Here it would cer- 
tainly be the prima facie impression of every unbiassed 
reader that the matzebah and the teraphim are men- 
tioned without blame as ordinary parts of religious wor- 
ship. Without, however, entering into the question 
(which, perhaps, cannot be decided) whether llosea did 
or did not mean to commend or tolerate these material 
adjuncts to a monotheistic worship, it is certainly not 
surprising that the reverence paid to the teraphim 
should have continued in Israel side by side with that 
paid to the calves, which beyond all doubt were intend- 
ed to be mere Elohistic symbols; and this is the less 
surprising when we remember that one of these cheru- 
bic emblems was set up in the very city (Dan) to which 
the teraphim of Micah had been carried; and probably, 
indeed, because of the existence there of the irregular 
worship established bv Moses grandson. But here, 
again, the Sept, version is curious and perplexing, for it 
uses the word fiijXoi (sc. Aijoi, bright gems), a word 
which, like efjXtomt;, it uses elsewhere of the Urim and 
Thummim (Numb. xxvii, 21 ; 1 Sam. xxviii, 6) ; and 
Aquila seems to have had the same notion in adopting 
the word tpiorarpovg, and it is even countenanced by 
Jerome, who in this passage includes the teraphim 
among the “instrument;! sacerdotalis habitus.” This is 
one starting-point for the theory, supported with such a 
mass of splendid but unconvincing learning by Spencer 
(/)<? Ihbr. lib. iii, dissert, vii, p. 920-1038), that the 
teraphim and urim were identical. He argues not only 
from this rendering Ci)\ot, but also (1) from the frequent 
union of ephod with teraphim ; (2) from the supposition 
that urim means “tires,” and that teraphim means the 
same, being a mere Aramaic equivalent for seraphim, 
“the burning ones;” (3) from the constant use of tera- 
phim for oracular purposes. He concludes, therefore, 
that they were small images, permitted as a kind of 
necessary concession to deeply rooted idolatry, placed in 
tin* folds of t he ephod and believed to emit predictions 
of the divine will. How ill the theory accords with the 
data before us will be obvious at once. This passage 
seems to indicate that as the use of teraphim, like that 
of the Penates and Lares among the Romans, was con- 
nected with nationnlity.it necessarily perished with the 
nationality itself. 

5. The teraphim were consulted even after the Cap- 
tivity by persons upon whom true religion had no tirm 
hold, in order to elicit some supernatural omnia, simi- 
lar to the anrjuriti of the Romans. Thus (Zech. x, 2) : 
“ For the idols (teraphim) have spoken vanity,” etc. 
In like manner at a previous age, in connection with 
the haruspicia instituted by the king of Babylon, We 
read (Ezek. xxi, 21, 23) that he consulted images (tera- 
phim). 

The main and certain results of this review are that 
the teraphim were rude human images; that the use of 
them was an antique Aramaic custom; that there, is 
reason to suppose them to have been images of deceased 
ancestors; that they were consulted oracularly; that 
they were not confined to Jews; that their use contin- 


ued down to the latest period of Jewish history; and 
lastly, that, although the more enlightened prophets and 
strictest later kings regarded them as idolatrous, the 
priests were much less averse to such images, and their 
cult was not considered in any way repugnant to the 
pious worship of Elohim ; nay, even to the worship of 
him “under the awful title of Jehovah,” as in the 
case of Aaron, Jonathan, Uriah, etc. (See some acute 
remarks on this subject in Nicolas, Etudes Crit.su r la 
Bible, p. 129-135.) In fact, they involved a monothe- 
istic idolatry, very different indeed from polytheism; 
and the tolerance of them by priests as compared with 
the denunciation of them by tbe keener insight and 
more vivid inspiration of the prophets offers a close 
analogy to the views of the Roman Catholics respecting 
pictures and images as compared with the views of 
Protestants. It was against this use of idolatrous sym- 
bols and emblems in a monotheistic worship that the 
second commandment was directed, whereas the lirst is 
aimed against the graver sin of direct polytheism. But 
the whole history of Israel shows how early and how 
utterly the law must have fallen into desuetude. The 
worship of the golden calf and of the calves at Dan and 
Bethel, against which, so far as we know, neither Elijah 
nor Elisha said a single word; the tolerance of high- 
places, teraphim, and bnety ti la; the offering of incense for 
centuries to the brazen serpent destroyed by Hezekiab ; 
tbe occasional glimpses of the most startling irregulari- 
ties sanctioned, apparently, even in the Temple worship 
itself, prove most decisively that a pure monotheism and 
an independence of symbols were the result of a slow and 
painful course of God’s disciplinal dealings among the 
noblest thinkers of a single nation, and not, as is so con- 
stantly and erroneously urged, the instinct of the whole 
Shemitic race; in other words, one single branch of the 
Shcmites was, under God's providence, educated into pure 
monotheism only by centuries of misfortune and series 
of inspired men. in fact, we have most remarkable 
proofs that the use of teraphim coexisted with the wor- 
ship of Jehovah even in comparatively pious families; 
and we have more than one instance of the wives of 
worshippers of Jehovah not finding full contentment 
and satisfaction in the stern moral truth of spiritual 
worship, and therefore carrying on some private sym- 
bolism by fondling the teraphim. It seems, however, 
that this swerving from truth was comparatively inno- 
cent. It was never denounced and suppressed with the 
same rigor as the worship of Moloch. There is, in fine, no 
positive evidence that the teraphim ever were actually 
worshipped. They seem rather to have been cherished 
as talismans than as idols. See Magic. 

III. Opinions of Later Scholars . — Besides Spencer’s 
theory, to which we have already alluded, we may men- 
tion others, utterly valueless indeed, yet curious as bear- 
ing on the history of the subject. 

I. Rabbins. — According to the great rabbi Eliezer, 
who was the son of l Iv rcanus and the brother-in-law 
of Gamaliel II, who seems to have been the tutor 
of Paul (in Pirke Aboth, and the Targnm of Jona- 
than on Gen. xxxi, 19), the worship of teraphim was 
connected with atrocities. “The makers of teraphim 
slaugl itered a man who was a first-born, cut his head 
off’ and salted it, and cured it with spices and oil. Af- 
ter this, they wrote the name of an impure spirit and 
sentences of divination on a golden plate, which they 
placed under the tongue of the head, which was fas- 
tened to the wall, and lighted lamps before it, and knelt 
down in adoration, upon which the tongue began to 
utter divinations.” Rabbi Salomo, or Rashi (2 Kings 
xxiii, 24), says, “The teraphim uttered divinations by 
magical and horoscopic arts.” On 1 Sam. xix, 13 sq., 
he adduces the opinion that the teraphim were horo- 
scopic and astrological instruments made of brass; but 
be confesses that this opinion, to which he is himself 
much inclined, is not consistent with the account of 
Miehal, from which it is evident that the teraphim 
had the shape of man. On Gen. xxxi, Aben-Ezra ad- 


TERAPIIDI 


283 TEREBINTH 


duces the opinion that the teraphim were automata , 
made by astrologers so as to show the hours and to 
utter divinations. Hence the Persian Tawas in Gen. 
xxxi translates astrolabia . Aben-Ezra also adduces 
the opinion that Iiachel stole the teraphim of Laban 
in order to prevent him from idolatry, and from asking 
the teraphim whither his children had fled. Rabbi 
Levi ben-Gersom (on Genesis) states that the teraphim 
were human figures, by which the imagination of di- 
viners was so excited that they supposed they heard 
a low voice speaking about future events with which 
their own thoughts were tilled, although the image did 
not speak, an operation which can only be performed 
by such natural organs as God has provided for that 
purpose. 

2. Modems . — Michaelis, in Commentationes Soeietati 
Gottinyensi oblatie (Brern. 1703), p. 5 sq., compares the 
teraphim to the Satyri and Sileni, referring to the 
statement of Pausanias (vi, 24, 0), that there were 
graves of Sileni in the country of the Hebrews; and 
alluding to the hairy ones ("devils,” of Lev. 

xvii, 7. Creuzer asserts that the teraphim had some- 
thing of asses in them ( Commentationes Herod, i, 277 ; 
Symb. iii, 208 sq.) ; and refers to the old calumny that 
the Jews worshipped the head of an ass (Tacit. Hist, v, 
4; Rutilius, i, 387). Creuzer appeals also (Symb. ii, 340) 
to Gen. xxxi, in order to prove the fertilizing, or rather 
fecundizing, power of the C'B-'P, which scarcely can 
be proved from ver. 19 (comp, here Rosenmulleri Scho- 
lia ; Jahn, iii, 506 sq.). 

IV. Recent Illustrations. — M. Botta found in cavities 
under the pavement of the porch of the palace at 
Khorsabad several small images of baked clay of fright- 
ful aspect, sometimes with lynx head and human body, 
and sometimes with human head and lion’s or bull’s 
body. Some have a mitre encircled at the bottom with 

a double pair of horns, and 
others have their hair 
rolled in large curls. In 
front of several doors he 
saw the same cavities, of 
the size of one of the bricks, 
and about fourteen inches 
in depth, lined with tiles, 
and having a ledge round 
the inside, so that they 
might be covered by one 
of the bricks of the pave- 
ment, without betraying 
the existence of the cav- 
ity. It has been sug- 
gested that these images 
are the teraphim, or 
household gods, of the 
ancient. Assy rians, which, 
being secreted under the 
pavement near the doors, 
were intended to protect the entrances of the palace 
from the admission of evil. See Bononri, Nineveh, p. 
156. 

Figures somewhat similar but less hideous have been 
found among the Egyptian ruins and elsewhere, which 
seem to have been employed with a like significance. 
See Thomson, Land and Book , ii, 25. 

V. Literature. — The principal authorities concerning 
the teraphim are Michaelis, De Ter aphis, in the Com- 
ment. Soc. Goff. (Brem. 1763), p. 5 sq.; Hersen, De Tera- 
phim (Yiteb. 1665) ; Wickmannsliausen, ])e Teraphim 
(ibid. 1705) ; also in Ugolino, Thesanr. xxiii, 7 ; Antast, 
De Diis Faimliuz Jacobi (Lips. 1744) ; Buxtorf, Lex. 
Talm. p. 2660-64 ; Pfeiffer, Exerc. Bibl. p. 1-28 ; Hot- 
tinger, Hist. Orient, p. 296; Selden, l)e Diis Syris 
Syntayw. i, 2/ Spencer, De Leytj. Hebr. p. 920-1038; 
Boehart, Jlieroz. i, 623; Carpzov, Appar. Crit. p. 537- 
546; Jurien, Hist. Crit. des Doymes, ii, 3; Gesenius, 



Aucient Assyrian Teraphim. 



Aucient Figures, possibly Teraphim. 


Thesanr. s. v. ; Winkler, Aniuiadvers. Philol. ii, 351 sq. 
See Idolatry. 


Terebinth, a majestic Oriental tree, which has 
been made by many a rival of the oak. as a represen- 
tative of the Ileb. PlTX, flbx, or jliX. See 
Plain. So Celsius ( Ilierob . ii, 34-58), and naturalists 
generally since. Travellers frequently confound the two 
trees. They are, however, quite different in many par- 
ticulars. The bark, shape, and general character are re- 
markably alike, but the wood, the leaf, and the blossom 
differ very obviously. See Topographical Terms. 

The terebinth is the Pistachio terebinthus of bota- 
nists, called by the Arabs the betm or butm. and well 
known in the Greek islands as the turpentine-tree. See 
Teil. In Chios especially a considerable quantity of 
turpentine is extracted from it by tapping the trunk; 
but this is not practiced in Palestine, where the inhabi- 
tants seem to be ignorant of its commercial value. It 
is a very common tree in the southern and eastern parts 
of the country, being generally found in situations too 
warm for the oak, whose place it there supplies, although 
they are occasionally found immediately adjoining, as 
at ’fell el-Kady (Tristram, Land of Israel , p. 581). It is 
seldom seen in chimps or groves, never in forests, but 
stands isolated and weird-like in some bare ravine or 
on a hillside, where nothing else towers above the lower 
brushwood. The butm is not an evergreen, as is often 
represented, but its small feathered lancet-shaped leaves 
fall in the autumn and are renewed in the spring. They 
are pinnate, the leaflets larger than those of the len- 
tisk, and their hue is a very dark reddish-green, not 
quite so sombre as the locust-tree. The flowers are in 
clusters like those of a vine, inconspicuous, and are fol- 
lowed by small oval berries, hanging in clusters from 
two to five inches in length, resembling much the clus- 
ters of the vine when the grapes are just set. They are 
of a ruddy purple and remarkablvjuicy. Another fruit, 
or rather excrescence, is found on the tree, scattered 
among the leaves, of the size of a chestnut, of a pur- 
ple color variegated with green and white. The people 
of Cyprus believe that it is produced by the puncture 
of a fly; when opened it appears full of worms (Ma- 
riti, i, 209; ii, 114). From incisions in the trunk there 


TEREBINTH 


2S4 


TERMINISM 



Hows a sort of transparent balsam, constituting a very 
pure ami fine species of turpentine, with an agree- 
able odor, like citron or jessamine, and a mild taste, and 
hardening gradually into a transparent gum. It is called 
Cyprus or Chian turpentine, and is obtained in July by 
wounding the hark in several places, leaving a space 
of about three inches between the wounds. From these 
the turpentine is received on stones, upon which it be- 
comes so much condensed hv the coldness of the night 
as to admit of being scraped oil' with a knife, which is 
always done before sunrise. It is again liquefied in the 
sun and passed through a strainer, in order to free it 
from all extraneous matters. The quantity produced 
is very small, four large trees, sixty years old, only 
yielding two pounds and a half: it may be somewhat, 
more in favorable situations. In consequence of this, 
and its superior qualities, the turpentine is very costly, 
and is often adulterated with inferior substances (Kitto, 
J'hys. Hist, o f Palest. p. cexxxviii). The tree is found 
also in Asia Elinor (many of them near Smyrna), Greece, 
Italy, the south of France, Spain, and in the north of 
Africa, and is there described as not usually rising to the 
height of more than twenty feet. It often exceeds that 
size, however, in the mountains, and in the plains of 
Syria it is very much larger. See Oak. 



Many terebinths remain to this day objects of vene- 
ration in their neighborhood, and the favorite burying* 
place of a Bedawin sheik is under a solitary tree. East- 
ern travellers will recall the “Mother of rags” on the 
outskirts of the desert— a terebinth covered with the 
votive offerings of superstition or affection. The “oak 
of Mature,” near Hebron, was said to he a terebinth, 
which remained till the 4th century (Jerome, he hoc . 
H<b. 87 ; Sozoinen, Fccles. Hist. ii, 4; comp. Josephus, 
v, 0, 7), and on its site Constantine erected a 
church, the ruins of which still remain. It is said that 
the tree dried up in the reign of Theodosius the Young- 
er; hut that the trunk produced a new tree, from which 
Broca n l (vii, (14), Salignac (x, 5b, and other old travel- 
lers declare that they brought slips of the new and old 
wood to their own country (Znallart Voyage de Jeru- 
salem, iv, 1). The tree was accidentally destroyed by 
lire in A.l). 104(5 (Mariti. p. 520). Its modern repre- 
sentative, however, is a true oak. as is proved both by 
its leaves and actual acorns. The tree on which Ju- 
das hanged himself is said to have been a terebinth, 
and its descendant is yet shown to the credulous, over- 
hanging the valley of llinnom. Towards the north 
of Palestine the tree becomes more scarce; but in an- 
cient Moab and Ammon, and in the region around 
llcshhon, it is the only one that relieves the monot- 
ony of the rolling downs and boundless sheepwalks; 
and in the few glens south of the Jabbok there are 
many trees of a larger size than others which remain 
west of the Jordan (Tristram, Eat. Hist, of the Bible, 
p. 401). In Turkey the burial-grounds of Christians, 
particularly the Armenians, are planted with terebinth- 
trees, the cypress being reserved for the Mohammed- 
ans (Calcott [Lady], Script, lhrbal, p. 504). See 
T u UP E N T IS E-T UEE. 

Te'resh (Heb. id. U^ri, prob. Pers. strictness ; Sept, 
[in some copies only] B apcig or Bdppoc; Yulg. 7 lanes), 
the second-named of the two eunuchs who kept the 
door of the palace of Ahasucrus. ami who were hanged, 
their plot to assassinate the king being discovered by 
Mordeeai ( Esth. ii, 21 ; vi, 2). B.C. 470. Josephus 
calls him Theodestes (BsoGotj/c, Ant. xi, 0. 4 and 10), 
and says that, the conspiracy having been detected by 
Barnnbazns, a servant, of one of the eunuchs, who was a 
Jew by birth, and who revealed it to Mordeeai, the con- 
spirators were crucified. 

Terminism and the Tehmixistio Controversy. 
The word Terminism has reference to the terminus of 
the period of grace accorded to man as an individual or 
in the mass. The basis of the dispute which arose 
upon this matter was the Middle-Age, Angustinian 
theory, that the end of this earthly life is in every in- 
stance the end of gracious opportunity, so that, even 
unbaptized children become at death the prey of hell. 
The Keibrmation led the consciousness of Christians 
back to the dynamic conditions of salvation, namely, 
on the one hand, to the free grace of God, and, on the 
other, to the internal, religious, and moral state of re- 
pentance. In the light of the former condition it. was 
possible to suppose that the terminus gratae might be 
extended beyond the terminus rUw : under the latter 
it could he contracted to even narrower limits than the 
duration of earthly life. A recognition of the possibil- 
ity of widening the period of grace led to the develop- 
ment of the doctrine of the Apocatastasis (q. v.), while 
its contrary gave rise to Terminism. 

The leading promulgators of Terminism were the 
Friends, who taught that every person has a special 
day of visitation, which is but transient and may end 
before the close of the life of earth (see Winer, Comp. 
Darstellung, p. 87). The Pietists also contributed to- 
wards the growth of that idea bv their depreciation of 
the worth of repentance late in life. The controversy 
upon the subject was fairly opened by the appearance 
of a work by J. (4. Bose, deacon at Sorau (died 1700), 
entitled Terminus Pereinptorius Salutis Humana, etc. 


TERMS 


285 


TERRITORIAL SYSTEM 


(1G98). A number of responses were written, the more 
important of them hv Neumann, professor at Wit- 
tenberg, Diss. de Term. Saint, etc. (Yiteb. 1700), ami 
Biss, de Tempore Gratice . etc. (1701); also Ittig, pro- 
fessor at Leipsic, Yurtriirje lib. d. prophet., apostol. u. 
evang.-luth. Lehre , etc., with other works. Iteclienberg. 
the son-in-law of Spener, came to the assistance of Bose 
with his Diss. de Grat. Rerocatricis Termino ( Lips. 
1700). The dispute was dropped on the death of Ittig, 
in 1710, and the advance of rationalism deprived the 
question of interest. For the theology of our time, the 
only importance of the discussion lies in its possible in- 
lluence in occasioning profounder determinations wirh 
regard to the possibility of becoming hardened against 
grace in this life, and the infinite consequences depend- 
ing upon the hour of death and the free sovereignty 
of (Lid. 

The literature of the controversy is largely given in 
the works of Kechenberg and Ittig. See also Winer, 
Theol. Lite rat nr, p.446; Bretschneider, Systemat. Ent- 
tcickl. p.693. Oil the dispute itself, see Einem, Kirchen- 
yesch. d. 18. Jahrh. ii, 737 ; Walch, Einl. in d. Reliyions - 
streitiyk. d. evany.-lath. Kirche , ii, 551 sq. ; Bauingarten, 
Geschichte d. Religionsparteien , p. 1282 sq. — Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Terms, in him, are the periods in England when 
the courts of law hold their sittings at Westminster for 
the discharge of their judicial functions. There are 
four in every year, namely, Hilary term, Easter term, 
Trinity term, and Michaelmas term; but. the last of 
these is usually at the commencement of the legal year. 
They were supposed by Selden to have been established 
by William the Conqueror; but Spelman has shown 
that they originated in the observances of the Church, 
and were no more than those leisure periods when there 
was neither fast nor festival nor rural avocation to 
withhold the suitor from attending the court. At first 
the courts in Christian countries continued open all the 
year round, but the Church interposed. The saered sea- 
son of Advent and Christmas originated the winter va- 
cation; the time of Lent and Easter gave rise to that 
of the spring; the third we owe to Pentecost; and the 
requisitions of agricultural pursuits account for the long 
space that intervenes between Midsummer and Michael- 
mas. Sundays and other holvdays were included in 
the prohibition which, in 517, was established by a can- 
on of the Church, and, says Blackstone, fortified by an 
imperial constitution of the younger Theodosius, com- 
prised in the Theodosian Code. In the commencement 
and duration of these terms, these regulations of the 
Church were kept in view. Edward the Confessor, in 
one of his laws, says that from Advent to the octave 
of Epiphany, from Septuagesima to the octave of Eas- 
ter, from the Ascension to the octave of Pentecost, and 
from four in the afternoon of every Saturday until the 
end of the succeeding Monday, the peace of God and 
holy Church should be kept throughout the realm {An- 
cient Laws and Institutions of England, p. 190). We 
learn from Britton that in the reign of Edward I no 
secular plea could be held, nor any man sworn on the 
evangelists during Advent, Lent, Pentecost, or the 
times of harvest and vintage, and the days of the great 
litanies ami all solemn festivals. The bishops, how- 
ever, he adds, granted dispensations that assizes and 
juries might be taken at these seasons; and afterwards, 
by statute Westminster 1, 3 Edward I, c. 51, it was 
enacted that assizes of novel disseisin mort d’ancester 
and darrein presentment should be taken in Advent, 
Septuagesima, and Lent. The portions not included 
in the prohibitions became what are called terms, and 
were denominated according to the saint to whose feast 
they occurred most nearly. — Eadie, Ecchs. Cyclop, s. v. 

TERMS of Communion, those conditions on which 
the members of a particular Church are agreed, and 
which are the basis of their fellowship. Terms of com- 
munion are not to be identified with terms of salvation : 


nor should terms of lay communion be as comprehen- 
sive and theological as those of clerical fellowship. 

Terrace mesilldh , 2 Cliron. ix, 11 ; Sept. 

dvdfiaaiQ ; a highway, as elsewhere usually rendered), 
a staircase, constructed by Solomon for his edifices out 
of the algum-trees imported from the East Indies. See 
Palace; Temple. 

Terrasson, Andre, a French clergyman, and first 
of a literary family of considerable note in France, was 
born at Lyons in IG69, became a priest of the Oratory, 
preacher to the king, and afterwards preacher to the 
court of Lorraine. His pulpit services were much ap- 
plauded, and attended by crowded congregations. His 
exertions during Lent in the metropolitan church at 
Paris threw him into an illness from which he died, 
April 25, 1723. llis Sermons were printed in 172G (4 
vols. 12mo) and 1736. See Chalmers, Bioy. Diet. s. v.; 
lloefer, None. Bioy. Generate, s. v. 

Terrasson, G-aspard, brother of the preceding, 
was born at Lyons, Oct. 5. 1G80, and was sent, at the 
age of eighteen, to the house of the Oratory at Paris. 
He resided afterwards in different houses of his order, 
chiefly at Troyes, where he delivered a funeral oration 
for the dauphin, son of Louis X1Y. For some time he 
employed himself in delivering exhortations in the 
seminaries, but after Andre’s death he accepted solicita- 
tions to preach, and soon acquired a reputation superior 
to that of his brother. He preached in Paris during 
five years; but various circumstances, particularly bis 
attachment to the Jansenists, obliged him to leave both 
the Congregation of the Orator}' and the pulpit at t he 
same time, lie was appointed curate of Treigny in 
1735 ; but, persecution still following him, he was sent to 
the Bastile, which he left in 1744 to be confined with 
the Minims at Argenteuil. He was at length set at lib- 
erty, and died in Paris, Jan. 2, 1752, leaving Sermons (4 
vols. 12mo), and an anonymous book, Lettres sur la 
Justice Chretienne, which w r as censured by the Sorbonne. 
See Chalmers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. 

Terrasson, Jean, brother of the two preceding, 
was born at Lyons in 1G70, where he also studied, and 
entered the Oratory. In 1707 he was admitted into 
the Academy of Sciences, and he entered into the liter- 
ary discussions of the day. In 1721 he became profess- 
or of philosophy in the College of France, and in 1732 
he was made a member of the French Academy. To- 
wards the end of his life he lost his memory. He died 
in Paris, Sept. 15, 1750. He published a number of 
historical works. See lloefer, Xour. Bioy. Gene rale, s. v. 

Terrier, a formal survey and plan or schedule of 
Church property, ordered by English canon law to lie 
made and preserved in the bishop’s registry. A terrier 
of glebe lauds made under queen Elizabeth is preserved 
in the British Exchequer. 

Territorial System. This title is applied to 
that theory of Church government which assumes that 
the ruler of a country possesses, by virtue of his sover- 
eignty, the right to govern the Church, if Protestant, 
which has been established within his realm. 

The Middle Ages had witnessed a constant associa- 
tion of the Church with the State, which was at times 
carried so far as to include the one under the other as 
one of its parts. When the principles of the Jewish 
theocracy could be asserted, the Church would attempt 
to subject the State to its authority ; but when a re- 
lapse into heathen principles took place, the State was 
ready to enforce the authority of the civil power over 
the religion of the land. When the reformatory move- 
ments of the 15th century had failed, the renewed agi- 
tation, of which Zwingli, Luther, etc., were the repre- 
sentatives, addressed itself to the princes and estates of 
the land. The sovereign powers of either party as- 
sumed the right, to dictate the creed of their subjects. 
The Roman Catholic prince who became a Protestant 
sought to carry his country with him over to Protes- 


TERRY 


2S6 


TERSTEEGEY 


tantism; the Lutheran who passed over into the lie- | 
turmoil Church assumed to transfer his subjects also. 
The belief of the prince was to determine the creed of 
the hind. The Peace of Westphalia ended this anom- 
alous practice, but expressly recognised the sovereignty 
of the prince as the source of thv jus reformandi. 

The dangerous character of the principle which de- 
rived all the rights belonging to an evangelical Church 
from the head of the State was soon recognised, and led 
to the development of the theory which is usually known 
as tin* episcopal system. 

The territorial system was formulated at the close 
of ihe 17th century as a foil to that theory, finding its 
leading advocates in Christian Thomasius (q. v.) and 
his pupil Brenneisen ( l)e Jure Principis circa Adia - 
jdtora [I lake, 1075], in Thomasius, .1 userlesene deutsche 
Schriften , 1090, p. 70 sip), and its principal opponent in 
Johann Benedikt Carpzov (q. v.). As formulated by 
Thomasius, the reigning prince possesses, as a natural 
right, the authority to regulate the ecclesiastical af- 
fairs of his country, and of banishing persons who dis- 
turb the peace of the Church, lie may dismiss a 
preacher who dispenses false teachings, and may for- 
bid the introduction of new confessions, etc. ; but he 
cannot impose his own creed upon his subjects, nor 
finally determine in matters of religion. 'Hie theory 
found many supporters, jurists as well as theologians, 
among them J. 11. Bohmer and Job. Jac. Closer (q. v.). 
It has been defended in quite recent times, in connec- 
tion with their liturgical disputes, by M filler, Mar- 
heinecke, Augusti, and others. The collegial system 
deprived the territorial theory of every support ; and 
the present tendency towards an entire separation be- 
tween State and Church is wholly antagonistic to its 
prevalence, lloth legislation and praxis have suffered 
from its influence to the present day. 

On the entire subject, see Stahl, Kirchenrerf assung 
fiach Lehre u. Recht d. Protest anten, p. ‘22 sq. ; Bichter, 
Gesch.d. erang. Kirchenverfassung in Deutschland , p. 212 
sq.*, Tried berg, De Fiuibus inter Ecclesiam et Civ it (item , 
etc. (Lips. 1801); Lehmann, De Pace Religiose , i, 23; 
Nettelbladt, Observed. Juris Ecclesiastici (Hala?, 1783, 
Svo) ; the works of Thomasius, Carpzov, etc. ; Bohmer, 
ConsUia et Decisiones , tom. i, pars i,respons. xv. — ller- 
zog, Real- Encyklop. s. v. See Church and State; 
Colleihal System. 

Terry, Parshalr, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
at Aquebogue, Long Island, N. Y., Nov. 3, 1800 ; was 
licensed to preach by the Methodist Protestant Church 
of New York; preached at Aquebogue for two years; 
was ordained by the Congregational Convention of 
Long Maud in 1831, and labored fora number of years 
at Patchogue; but, feeling the need of a more thor- 
ough course of theology, studied iti the seminary at- 
tached to Yale College, graduated in 1840, and became 
a member of Onondaga Presbytery. In 1813 he was 
editor of the Religious Recorder at Syracuse, N. Y. ; in 
1818 removed to Marathon, N. Y., and was received by 
Cortland Presbytery; thence, in 1853. to Painesville, O., 
where he ministered three years. lie subsequently la- 
bored, in 1857, at Cnionville, ().; 1858, Thompson ; 1SG1, 
Hudson; 18(52, Franklin Mills; 18(53, Troy. He died 
Oct. 20, 18(55. He was a man of more than usual tal- 
ents, which he improved by culture. See Wilson, Fresh. 
Jlist. A linanac , 18(57, p. 322. (J. L. S.) 

Ter Sanctus is tlie triumphal hymn of the an- 
cient liturgies, “Holy, holy, holy. Lord God of hosts, 
heaven and earth are full of thy glory,” etc., and is based 
on the three holies (Isa. vi, 3 ; Bev. iv, 8). In all an- 
cient liturgies the Ter Sanctus comes near, but before, 
the prayer of consecration, and is sung by the choir 
and the people. “The pontiff who is to celebrate ap- 
proaches the altar and praises the works of God, and, 
giving thanks for all, associates himself with the an- 
gels. and vociferates with them the triumphal hymn 
Holy, holy, holy; and the people also recite it, typify- 


ing the equality of peace which we shall hereafter en- 
joy with the angels, and our union with them” (Simeon 
of Thessalonica, Comm, on Lit. of St. Chrysos.'). This 
hymn formerly concluded with the words “ Hosanna 
in the highest, blessed is lie that cometh in the name 
of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest.” This is the 
case in the liturgies of .St. James, St. Chrysostom, St. 
Basil, the Malabar, Mozarabic, and Sarum. In that of 
St. Clement the Sanctus and Hosanna are separate, and 
the Mozarabic has the further addition “llagios, hagi- 
os, hagios, Kvrie ho Theos.” The prefaces of Ter Sunc- 
(us are very various, being adapted to different festi- 
vals and seasons. But they invariably end with the 
doxological form represented by the “Therefore with 
angels and archangels,” etc., of the Prayer-book. In all 
liturgies ihe preface is sung or said by the celebrant 
alone, the choir and people joining in at the hymn it- 
self. Hence in the Sarum INI issal. followed by the Pray- 
er-books of 1549 and 1552, the Sanctus is printed as a 
separate paragraph. The hymn is also called Trisagi- 
on (ij. v.). See Blunt, Diet, of Theol. s. v. 

Tersteegen, Gerhard, the mystic and sacred poet, 
was born at Meurs, on Nov. 25, 1 097. He early acquired 
a thorough knowledge of ancient languages, including 
the Hebrew, and friends advised his preparation for a 
learned career; but, li is lather having died, his mother 
was induced, from domestic considerations, to choose a 
mercantile life for him instead. Tie was apprenticed to 
his brother-in law at Miilheim in 1713, and in the fol- 
lowing year was powerfully wrought upon by the grace 
of God. Miilheim was at that time the scene of an ex- 
alted and vigorous piety which was kept alive through 
the holding of weekly convocations, and made itself felt 
in all the affairs of life. These convocations became an 
occasion of offence to the Church at large, and Hoff- 
mann, the Miilheim pastor, was cited before the Classis 
of Duisburg, which decided that lie must refrain from 
holding them in future, and induced the Synod of 
Cleves to take similar action. Nothing has been found, 
however, to show that Hoffmann was guilty of hetero- 
doxy, or that the convocations served any other pur- 
pose than that of leading many souls to Christ. In 
spite of these inquisitorial measures, the convocations 
were obstinately continued at Miilheim, and Terstee- 
gen, for his part, was alienated from the Church to 
such a degree as to refrain from participating in the 
public worship, and particularly in the sacrament of 
the Lord’s supper, of which evident sinners were allow- 
ed to partake. lie finished his apprenticeship, but two 
years afterwards, in 1719, under the impulse of religious 
sentiment, renounced his business for one of a more re- 
tired character, lie now became a ribbon-weaver and 
an ascetic. lie had no companion save the girl who 
wound bis silk. His clothing was poor, his food scanty 
and simple; but his charities, whatever might be his 
income, were numerous. He considered this ascetical, 
hermit life the ideal condition of a Christian on the 
earth, and for a time endured its trials and privations 
with unwavering confidence in the care of his heavenly 
Father; but gradually he became, the prey of internal 
anxieties which tortured him during five years with but 
occasional and transient interventions of hope. But in 
1724 that period of suffering came to its close. He cel- 
ebrated the return of his Saviour’s smile in the hymn 
II 7e hist f)u mir so innig gut , mein llohepriester Du! 
and entered into a covenant with his Lord which he 
signed with his own blood — probably in imitation of 
the marquis de Bentv, whose life he had treated with 
great pleasure in his book Leben heiliger Sceletu i, 3. 

With the conclusion of this period of spiritual dark- 
ness his preparation came to an end. lie was thence- 
forward, though much against his will, thrown among 
men and obliged to take an active part in the affairs of 
religion. lie resided with his brother, and while em- 
ployed in the tuition of that brother’s children was led 
to undertake a work which initiated his career as a 
mystical writer — the Cnparteiischer A briss christ licher 


TERSTEEGEN 


287 


TERTI ARIES 


Grundwahrheiten , a catechetical manual, first printed 
in 1801 aiul again in 1842. In this book he evidently 
leaned on the French mystic Fierro Poiret (q. v.) as re- 
spects both its arrangement and matter. The first 
three centuries of the Church are represented as having 
been pure, and the succeeding ages, from Constantine 
to the 15th century, as a period of great apostasy. The 
light broke through with power in the Reformation, 
but afterwards again declined. Christianity exists more 
generally in name than in fact. Upon this work fol- 
lowed a number of translations and prefaces, in the 
preparation of which Tersteegen was accustomed to 
spend the time after six o’clock in the evening. The 
list includes Labadie, Manuel tie Piete (with preface 
dated Miilheim, May 21, 1726); Jean de Beruieres Lou- 
vi guy’s works" ( Das verboryene Leben mit Christo in 
Gott, etc., with preface dated Dec. IS, 1726) ; Thomas 
a Kempis, Imitatio Ckristi; Gerlaeh Petersen, tSoli/o- 
quia (1727). In 1733 he began the publication of the 
work entitled Auserlesene Ltbensbeschr. heil . Seeleii , the 
final (third) volume of which appeared in 1753, follow- 
ed by a second edition of the whole work in the next 
year. The saints so commemorated belong altogether 
to the Roman Catholic communion — a fact which Ter- 
steegen excused on the ground that, others had render- 
ed a similar service to Protestantism; but there is sat- 
isfactory proof that he possessed an especial fondness 
for the peculiar piet} r cultivated by the mystical ascet- 
ics of the former Church. In 1749 he published a trans- 
lation of a poetical composition by Madame Guvon il- 
lustrative of the inner life, and with this work com- 
pleted the series of his mystical writings. In them all 
lie takes Poiret — sometimes Godfrey Arnold (q. v.) also 
— for his master. His mystical tendency is sometimes 
exaggerated into Quietism (q. v.) in them, so that he 
can speak in glowing terms of approval of a state of 
perfect rest for the soul which begins and continues 
through the direct operation of God on the soul with- 
out any mediation whatever, even though it be that of 
Scripture or of Christ. 

Tersteegen yielded to the persuasions of Hoffmann 
and others, and began to address public assemblies at 
about the time when his first literary efforts were put 
forth. In 1728 he renounced his handicraft and gave 
himself wholly to the care of souls. His wants were 
supplied by the contributions of friends and by several 
legacies, so that he was even able to exercise a liberal 
benevolence. His advice was desired by great numbers 
of people living everywhere in the territories of Cleves 
and Berg. Otterbeck, a farm between Miilheim and 
Elberfeld, became a station where a number of his ad- 
herents lived together in the practice of industry, self- 
renunciation, and piety. He furnished them twelve 
rules of conduct (given at the close of vol. iii of his let- 
ters), and watched over them with jealous care. A 
work written in their behalf in 1727 became a bulwark 
against Antinomianism (q. v.), and saved them from the 
excesses into which other, but kindred, associations 
were drawn. A second centre of his influence was El- 
berfeld, and subsequently Barmen. This region was 
troubled with the fanatical influence of Eller (q. v.) and 
his supporters. To counteract that influence, Terstee- 
gen wrote an effectual admonition (comp. Wey derWahr- 
heit , xi). Solingen was a third station, and it was there 
that Tersteegen delivered the only sermon ever preach- 
ed by him. At Crefeld extraordinary manifestations 
accompanied a work of grace, which were controlled 
through his judicious counsel. He was also brought 
into relations with the Moravian Brotherhood, and was 
solicited by Zinzendorf, Dober, and other leaders to cast 
in his lot with theirs; but he steadily refused, less on 
the ground of their unusual methods than because he 
believed their teachings to be erroneous. lie charged 
them with identifying sanctification with justification 
and with misrepresenting the legal and the evangelical 
elements of religion. He found in them no earnest 
striving in the way of a progressive sanctification, and 


no willingness to receive the doctrine of the necessity 
for thorough-going self-denial and persistent watchful- 
ness and prayer, which they denounced as legalism. 
His position hindered the Moravians from securing an 
establishment in the regions of the Lower Rhine. 

In 1740 an occurrence at Solingen led the authorities 
to issue a positive prohibition of conventicles, and Ter- 
steegen saw his extended and successful labors inter- 
rupted. During ten years he was able to hold public 
gatherings only in Holland, whither he frequently jour- 
neyed; but his correspondence and private labors in- 
creased enormously. He regarded the prohibition as a 
trial, and counselled submission. But when in 1750 a 
new awakening took place, he began once more to as- 
sert the right of “private assemblies.” He wrote an 
awakening sermon at this time on 2 Cor. v, 14, which 
was favorably received and led to the ultimate publica- 
tion of a series of discourses under the title Geistliche 
Brosamen, etc. (1773, 2 vols. in 4 pts.). They represent 
the culmination of his powers, and are equalled in con- 
tents and method by but few of the productions of his 
contemporaries. 

The favor with which these sermons were received 
brought their author into general notice, and led to the 
appointment of a royal commissioner to inquire into 
the work of Tersteegen among his adherents. The 
person selected for this duty was a member of the high 
consistory named Decker, a native of the Rhine prov- 
inces and a friend to Tersteegen. Through him the 
latter was induced to draw up a confession of his faith, 
and subsequently a critique of the ( Kuvres du Philo- 
sophe de Stms-souci, which elicited the approval of the 
king. A steady approximation on the part of Terstee- 
gen and his friends towards the State Church is notice- 
able from this period, but he was never formally identi- 
fied with it because of its tolerance of open sinners as 
communicants. He discussed this question in a tract 
issued in 1768, shortly before his decease. A feeble and 
broken constitution troubled him all his days; but he 
attained to the age of seventy-two years, passing away 
in a quiet slumber April 3, 1769. 

As a poet, Tersteegen was prolific, and thoroughly, 
though evangelically, mystical. His apprehension of 
the idea of self-renuneiation and a blessed loss of self 
in God was so profound as to prevent the Church of his 
day from appreciating his merit. His hymns are now 
found, however, in the collections of every German 
Church. His principal collection of hymns was pub- 
lished in 1729 under the title Geistliches Blumenyinilein 
(15th ed. Essen, 1855). lie also rendered the mystical 
poems of Labadie into German, and contributed to the 
collection known as Gottyeheiliytes l/arfenspiel d. Kin- 
der, etc. 1 lis works have been published in Germany by 
G. D. Biideeker. I lis life was written by Dr. Kerlen 
(Mulheim, 1853), and Gbbel in his Geschichte d.christl. 
Lebens , etc., iii, 289-447. See Herzog, Real-Encyhlop . 
s. v. 

Tertia (Lat. third), the name given in the early 
Church to the third hour of prayer; that is, nine in the 
morning. Different theories are given of its origin; 
some saying that it was observed in regard to our Sav- 
iour’s being condemned by Pilate at that time, others 
that it is in memory of the Holy Ghost coming upon 
the apostles at that hour. This is the reason assigned 
by Cassian and Basil. On all festivals this service 
was omitted, because on Sundays the communion was 
used, which always began at this hour. See Bingham, 
Christ. A ntiq. bk. xiii, eh. ix, § 11. 

Tertiana, the term applied to the third part of all 
Church revenues in the Isle of Man, which third part 
was received by the bishops of that island. See Bing- 
ham, Christ. A ntiq. bk. ix, eh. viii, § 6. 

Tertiaries (Tertius Okdo de Pognitentia ; Ter- 
tiarii; Fratres CoxvEHsr: also Sorores Tertii Or- 
dinis) is the name given to the members of a union 
organized primarily in connection with the mendicant 


TEKTI US 


2S8 


TERTULLIAN 


orders, but subsequently connected also with other or- j 
dc-rs. Tliev are not required to live in the convent or 
undergo ihe three principal vows, and were designed to 
retain their place in the world and represent the order 
in whose privileges they shared in the common walks 
of life. Their origin is traced back to Norbert, the 
founder of the Order of l*ra»rnon.stratenses. The Tem- 
plars. too. had a similar institution connected with their , 
organization. The actual introduction of the Order of 
Tertiaries was due. however, to Francis of Assisi, and 
dates back to 1221, the occasion for its creation being 
the effect produced by his preaching at Carnario, where 
men and women in great numbers dissolved the matri- 
monial relation in order to give themselves to repent- 
anee. AH virtuous and orthodox persons were received 
into the order. The rule forbade participation in fes- 
tivities. disputes, and offensive wars, and required works 
of charity, diligent religious exercises, an annual con- 
vocation for penance, and masses for the souls of the 
Tertiaries, living or dead. The order was governed by 
superiors periodically chosen. Its costume was to be 
of inferior stuff, neither wholly white nor hlack, and 
without ornament— an ash-colored coat and rope being 
finally chosen, over which ordinary secular clothing is 
permitted to be worn. The female tertiaries adopted 
a similar rule ami costume, with the occasional addition 
of a white veil. The rule was confirmed by popes IIo- 
norius III, Gregory IX, and Nicholas IV. The order 
grew rapidly, and found favor in the highest circles, 
having numbered among its members the emperor 
Charles IV, kings Louis of France, Bela of Hungary, 
and Fhilip of Spain, queen lllanca of Castile, princess 
Anna of Austria, etc. 

Towards the close of the 13th century a branch order 
was established among the male, and a century later 
among the female, Tertiaries to satisfy the craving of 
some for a stricter ride — the Regulated Order of Tertia- 
ries ( Tertiurii Regulares ). After a rapid extension, this 
secondary order separated into different congregations, 
which, in substance, followed the Franciscan rule. The 
latter, in turn, gave rise to a series of congregations of 
Hospital Brothers and Sisters. They take the simple 
vows, and an additional one which binds them to care 
for the sick, and to live in hospitals or unions known as 
“families'’ and amenable to the bishops. 

Tradition credits Dominic with the founding of an 
order of Tertiaries, male and female. An association of 
nobles and knights was formed by him, after the con- 
version of the Albigenses. to recover the alienated prop- 
erty of the Church and convents. They were accord- 
ingly styled Millies de Militia Christi. Their vow 
bound them to that work, to diligent attendance on 
public worship, etc., and to the wearing of a garb of 
asliv line. Their wives were pledged to promote the 
objects of the order, and were not allowed to marry 
again nf.er becoming widows. In the middle of the 
13th century this association became an order of peni- 
tents, assumed the Dominican rule, and was placed un- 
der the 1 tominiean general, receiving the title of “ Broth- 
ers and Skiers of the Penance of St. Dominie.” Other 
orders, e. g. t he Augustinus, Minims, Servit.es, Trappists, 
etc., subsequently organized associations of Tertiaries. 
See Musson, Pragma/. Gesch. d. vornehmst. Monchsor- 
dtn, etc. (Paris, 1751 sq.). — Herzog, Reul-Fuqjklnp. s. v. 

Ter'tius (Tt/wnor, Gnecized from the Lat. tertins , 
third; Vulg. Tertins) was the amanuensis of Paul in 
writing the Fpistle to the Homans (xvi, 22). A.I). 55. 

lie was at Corinth, therefore, and Cenehrea?, the port 
of Corinth, at the time when the apostle wrote to the 
Church at Home. It is noticeable that Tertins inter- 
cepts the message which Paul sends to the Homan 
Christians, and inserts a greeting of his own in the First 
person singular (auiraZopai lye b Tf prior*). Both that 
circumstance ami the frequency of t lie name among the 
Homans may indicate that Tertins was a Homan, and 
was known to those whom Paul salutes at the close of 
the letter. Secundus (Acts xx, 4) is another instance 


of the familiar usage of the Latin ordinals employed as 
proper names. The idle pedantry (indulged in by Bur- 
mann, Fxercit. Theol. ii. 101 sq. ) which would make 
him and Silas t lie same person because tertins and 
mean the same in Latin and Hebrew, hardly 
deserves to be mentioned (see Wolf, Curie Philologicie , 
iii, 295); and equally idle is KolofFs conjecture ( De 
Trih. Xu win. Pauli [Jen. 1731]) and Storck’s ( Fxercit. 
de Tertio , in the Foriges. niitzl. Sannnl. p. 23) that Ter- 
ries is but a pseudonym for Paul himself. In regard to 
the ancient practice of writing letters from dictation, 
see Becker’s Callus , p. 180. No credit is due to the 
writers who speak of him as bishop of Iconium (see Fa- 
bricius, Lux Erangelica, p. 117). — Smith, See also 
Briegleb, De Tertio (Jen. 1754); Fckhard, De Signo 
Pauli (Viteb. 1 G87); I lertzog, De Subscript ionibus Pauli 
(Lips. 1703). See Paul. 

Tertre, Jacques (as a priest Jean Baptiste) or, 
a French missionary, was born at Calais in September, 
1610. After travelling for some time, he returned to 
France, and entered the Dominican order at Paris in 
1635. Five years after he was sent as a missionary to 
the American islands, returned to France in 1658, and 
died at Paris in 1687. He published IJistoire Generate 
des Antilles Ilabitees par les Francois (1667-71, 4 vols. 
4to). See Iloefer, Xouv. Bing. Generate, s. v. 

Tertullian(us), Qutx'rus Septlmius Florens, is 
the most ancient of the Latin fathers whose works are 
now extant, and one of the Vnost noteworthy personages 
belonging to the early Church. Our knowledge of his 
personal history is extremely limited. He was born at 
Carthage in A.D. 160, or near that date, his father be- 
ing a Homan centurion in the service of the proconsul 
of Africa. 1 1 is natural endowments were great, and 
they were supplemented by a comprehensive course of 
studies whose fruit appears in the wealth of histori- 
cal, legal, philosophical, physical, and antiquarian ele- 
ments contained in his writings. He was destined for 
the civil service of the empire, and was accordingly 
trained in Homan jurisprudence and the art of forensic 
eloquence (comp. Eusebius, 11. A’, ii, 2, where Tertullian 
is described as one of the most highly esteemed Ho- 
mans — not as Hutinus renders it. “one of the most dis- 
tinguished writers of the Latin Church” — “inter nostros 
scriptores admodum clarus”). II is mode of argumen- 
tation and terminology everywhere reveal the legal 
turn of his mind, and his writings in many places throw 
light on disputed points of the Roman civil law. 

Tertullian was converted to Christianity when be- 
tween thirty and forty years of age, and he immediate- 
ly became its fearless champion against pagans, Jews, 
and heretics, especially Gnostics. He was the First re- 
ligious teacher after the apostles who attained to a clear 
recognition of the mighty contrast between sin and 
grace, and who presented it. in all its force to the mind 
of the Church. He was married (see his tract Ad 
Urorem ), hut nevertheless entered the ranks of the 
clergy. Jerome says that he was first a presbyter of 
the Catholic Church, but his own writings do not deter- 
mine whether he was a member of the spiritual order 
prior to his lapse into Montanism or not. It is certain, 
however. that he sojourned for a time in Home (see De 
Cnlin Fern. c. 7 ; Eusebius, 11. K. ii, 2). 

The transition to Montanism occurred a few years 
after Tertullian’s conversion, and about A.D. 202. The 
act doubtless had its origin in his eccentric disposition 
and rigorous moral views, which predisposed him to re- 
gard that heresy with favor and to dislike the Homan 
Church. Jerome attributes it to personal motives ex- 
cited by the jealousy and envy of the Homan clergy, 
and modern writers have ascribed it to disappointed 
ambition. We know, however, that the penitential 
discipline of the Church was administered at Home 
with exceeding laxity, and that such indifference was 
an abomination in the eyes of Tertullian ( Phifosophu - 
mena [ed. Miller, Oxon. 1851], ix, 290). Assuredly he 


TERTULLIAX 


289 


TERTULLIAN 


did not regard Montanus as the Paraclete, lie recog- 
nised in the latter simply an inspired organ of the Spir- 
it. He, rather than Montanus, became the head of the 
Montauistic party in Africa, giving to their undefined 
views a theological character and a conceded influence 
over the life of the Church, and establishing it on foun- 
dations sufficiently firm to enable it. to protract its be- 
ing down to the 5th century. lie died in old age, be- 
tween A.I>. 220 and 240. The assertion that he re- 
turned to the Catholic Church before he died is some- 
times made, but cannot he substantiated, and the con- 
tinued existence of the sect of Tertullianists would seem 
to contradict the assumption (see Neander, Tertull. [2d 
ed.], p. 462; August. De /he?'. II. 86). It is a signifi- 
cant fact, and an argument in behalf of the liberal in- 
terpretation of ancient Church history for which Prot- 
estantism contends, that it was precisely this great de- 
fender of Catholic orthodoxy against Gnostic heresy 
who was a schismatic to sucii a degree that he has nev- 
er been included by the Church of Rome among the 
number of her saints, or among that of the paties as 
distinguished from the mere sodptores ecclesiastic i. 

As a writer, Tertullian was exceedingly fresh and 
vigorous, but also angular, abrupt, and impetuous. He 
possessed a lively imagination, a fund of wit and satire, 
as well as of acquired knowledge, and considerable depth 
and keenness; but he was deficient in point of logical 
clearness and self-possession, as well as of moderation, 
and of a thorough and harmonious culture. He was a 
speculative thinker, though the bitter opponent of phi- 
losophy. 1 1 is aspiring mind sought in vain for ade- 
quate language in which to express itself, and struggled 
constantly to force the ideas of Christianity within the 
forms of the Latin tongue. His style thus became ex- 
ceedingly forcible, nervous, vivid, concise, and pregnant. 
11 is adversaries were assailed without mercy and with 
all the weapons of truth and of art, and nearly always 
appear in his writings in ridiculous plight. He was the 
direct opposite to Origen, holding the extreme position 
of realism on the borders of materialism. He was, fur- 
thermore, the pioneer of orthodox anthropology and 
soteriologv, the teacher of Cyprian, and forerunner of 
Augustine, in the latter of whom his spirit was repro- 
duced in twofold measure, though without its eccen- 
tricities and angularities. It is possible, also, to trace 
resemblances between him and Luther with respect to 
native vigor of mind, profound earnestness, unregulated 
passion, polemical relentlessness, etc.; but the father 
lacked the childlike amiability of the Reformer, who was 
both a lion and a lamb. 

Tertullian’s writings are usually of brief extent, but 
they traverse nearly all fields of the religious life, and 
they constitute the most prolific source for the history of 
the Church and of doctrines in his time. No satisfac- 
tory classification of them can be executed, because but 
few of them afford the necessary data on which to base 
a scheme. The classification here presented rests upon 
the nature of the several writings as being either Cath- 
olic or Anticatholic, in which light the former are con- 
siderably more numerous than the latter. 

(1.) Catholic Writings, or such as Defend Orthodox 
Christianity against Unbelievers and IIe?'ctics. — Most of 
these works date from the Montanist cera of the au- 
thor’s life. 

1. Apologies against Pagans and Jetts. — First of all, 
th c Apologetic?? s, addressed to the Roman magistracy, 
A.D. 11)8 (M older) or 204 (Kaye), and forming one of 
the best rebuttals of the charges raised bv the heathen 
of the time against Christianity. Similar in character 
are the Ad Xationes IJbri II. In J)e Testimonio Animee 
the author develops an argument for the unity of God 
and the reality of a future state from the innate percep- 
tions and feelings of the soul. In the work Ad Scapu- 
la m he remonstrates with the African governor of that 
name, who was bitterly persecuting the. Christians. 
The Adrersus Judreos Liber draws from the Old-Test, 
prophets the proof that the Messiah has appeared in* the 
X.-T 


person of Jesus of Nazareth (comp. Ilefele, Tertull. als 
Apologet, in the Tub. Quartalschrift , 1838, p. 30-82). 

2. Doctrinal and Polemical Writings Aimed against 
Heretics . — Here belongs, first, the De P rescript iotie I fer- 
ret iconnn, or rules to be observed by Christians in deal- 
ing with heretics. The argument involves, as its funda- 
mental principle, the idea that heretics, as innovators, 
are under the necessity of proving their positions, while 
the Catholic Church is assured in its sole right to the 
allegiance of Christendom by the uninterrupted current 
of apostolical tradition and an unimpaired succession, so 
that it need not enter into controversy with heretics. 
After the defection to Montanism, Tertullian wrote 
against various individual heretics, c. g. in the fifteenth 
year of Septimius Severus (A.I). 207 or 208) , .■ I deet'sus 
Mareiotiem Libri F, his most extensive and learned po- 
lemico-dogmatical work, and a principal source for the 
study of Gnosticism : — Adrersus Hermogenem, a painter 
at Carthage, who had adopted the dualistic theory of 
the eternity of matter : — Adrersus Valent inunios, a trag- 
ico-comical representation of the Valentinian Gnostics: 
— j-and Scorpiace , an antidote against the scorpion-poison 
of such heretics. 

Particular Gnostical doctrines are assailed in De Bap- 
fismo, a defence of water-baptism against the Cainites 
and their peculiar theory of a mystical spiritual bap- 
tism : — De .1 tiima, an inquiry into the nature, etc., of the 
soul : — De Came Christ i, a defence of the true humanity 
of Christ t— and De Pesunrctione Carnis, a confutation 
of the heresy which denied the resurrection of the body. 
The tract Adrersus Praxeam assails the Phrygian Anti- 
montanist Praxeas, and confutes his patripassionist er- 
rors in the interest of the orthodox view of the Trinity. 

3. Ethical and Ascetical Writings . — This class is com- 
posed of works of small size, but of considerable value 
to the regulation of practical life and the administration 
of ecclesiastical discipline. The list includes, De Ora- 
tione, an exposition of t lie Lord’s Prayer and rules for 
prayer and fasting : — De Spectaculis , a warning against 
theatrical exhibitions : — De Idololatria : — Ad Uxorem 
Libri 11, advice to his wife to govern her action in case 
she should outlive him : — De Pceniteniia, a Catholic and 
Antimontanistic presentation of the doctrine of repent- 
ance, dating from the earlier period of his Christian life : 
— De Patientia , a commendation of the virtue of pa- 
tience, accompanied with a lamentation because of bis 
own lack of that virtue: — /I d Mart pros, an exhortation 
addressed to the confessors who in the time of Septimius 
Severus awaited in prison the martyr’s death. 

(II.) Anticatholic Writings, in which Montauistic Di- 
vergences from Catholic Customs are Expressly Defended. 
— De Pudicitia , a retraction of the principles laid down 
in the earlier work De Poenitentia, and violent advocacy 
of the rigoristic view on which deadly sins, like murder, 
adultery, and flight from persecution, should never be 
condoned : — De Monogamia, an emphatic denunciation 
of second marriages (comp. Haubcr, in Stud. u. Krif. 
1845, No. 3 ): — De Exhort utione Castitatis, in which three 
degrees of chastity are distinguished — the first, absolute 
and lifelong restraint; the second, continence from the 
time of baptism; the third, refraining from contracting 
a second marriage: — J>e Virginibus Velamlis , denouncing 
the habit of unmarried women appearing in public un- 
veiled as being contrary to nature, the will of God, and 
the discipline of the Church generally : — De llabitu Mu- 
liebri et de Cult a Eeminarnm condemns the adorning of 
the person by females with ornaments, etc .: — DeJejuniis 
adrersus Psychicos (Catholics) is a defence of exag- 
gerated fasting : — De Euga denies the right of Christians 
to flee from persecution : — De Corona Mi litis commends 
a Christian soldier who refused to wear the festive chap- 
let on a great occasion and suffered punishment for his 
act : — De Pallio is a witty explanation of his conduct in 
wearing the pallium instead of the ordinary Roman 
toga, difficult for us to understand because of its numer- 
ous allusions to obscure customs of the time. 

The earliest edition of the collected works of Tertul- 


TERTULLUS 


290 


T ESSE 1 EE 


lian was that of Beatus Hhenanus (Basle, 15*21). It 
was followed hv those of Bamelius (Antw. 1579), Higal- 
tiiis (Haris, 1091 ; Venice, 1 744 5, Sender (llalle, 1770- 
75,0 vols. ), Leopold in Gersdorf, Bibl. Pair. Perl. Latin. 
Belecta (laps. 1839 H), parts iv vii, and ^ligne (Baris, 

J 1)„ The latest and best edition is that of Odder, 
({. Bepf. Flo r rut. 7'< rtull. etc. (Lips, 1853, 3 vols.). \ *»1. 
iii contains the dissertations on Tertullian of Bamelius, 
Alii -x. Nic. de Nourry. Mosheiin, Mdssell. Sender, and 
Kaye. The life of TemiUian has been written by 
Neamler. . I ntiynosticns, Crist des Trrtnl. u. Einl. in (lessen 
B chriften (Berl. 1825; 2d ed. 1849); Uesselbcrg, Ter- 
t nil id n's Left re (1 )orpat, 1818), pt.i,“ Life and Writings;" 
Kaye [Anglican bishop of Lincoln], Keel. I list . of the '2d 
andod ('enturies Illnst.from the 1 1 'ritinys of Tertnllian 
(Loud. 1845; 3d ed. 1848). See Mbiilcr, Patruloyie 
(ed. Keith may r, liatisbon, 1810), i, 701-790; Bdhringer, 
Kirche Christi (Zurich, 1812). I, i, 270-374; 1 1 ase, Kir- 
chmyesch. (7th ed,), § 84. p. 109; Kurtz, I /until. d. Kir- 
chenyrsch. (3d ed.), i, 307; llauck, Trrtnlliau's Lrben 
nnd 11 Yr£e ( Erlang. 1877 ) ; 1 1 erzog, Real - Pncyklop. 
s. v.; Smith, Diet, of Cr. and Pom. Bioy. s. v. 

Tertul'lus (TtoriAXof, a diminutive from the Ho- 
man name Tertius , analogous to Lu at Hits from Lucius , 
FabuUus from Fubins , etc.), ‘*a certain orator” (Acts 
xxiv, 1) who was retained by the high-priest and San- 
hedrim to accuse the apostle Baul at Csvsarea before 
the Homan procurator Antonins Helix. A.D. 55. See 
Hai;u He evidently belonged to the class of profes- 
sional orators, multitudes of whom were to be found not 
only in Home, but in other parts of tlte empire, to which 
they had betaken themselves in the hope of finding oc- 
cupation at the tribunals of the provincial magistrates. 
Both from his name, and from the great probability 
that the proceedings were conducted in Latin (see es- 
pecially Milman, Bampton Lectures for 1827, p. 185. 
note), we may infer that Tertullus was of Homan, or at 
all events oITtalian, origin. The Sanhedrim would nat- 
urally desire to secure his services on account of their 
own ignorance both of the Latin language and of the 
ordinary procedure of a Homan law-court; for the Jews, 
as well as the other peoples subject to the Homans, in 
their accusations and processes before the Homan mag- 
i.-t rates, were obliged to follow the forms of the Homan 
law, of which they knew little. The different prov- 
inces, and particularly the principal cities, consequent- 
ly abounded with persons who, at the same time advo- 
cates and orators, were equally ready to plead in civil 
actions or to harangue on public affairs. This they did, 
cither in Greek or Latin, as the place or occasion re- 
quired. 

The exordium of his speech is designed to conciliate 
the good will of the procurator, and is accordingly over- 
charged with flattery. There is a strange contrast be- 
tween the opening clause — i roWtjc reyydj'oi- 

rid guv — and the brief summary of the procurator’s 
administration given bv Tacitus (/list, v, If) : “Anto- 
nins Helix per omnem sawitiam ac libidinem, jus reginm 
servili ingenio exercuit” (comp. Tacit. Ann. xii, 54). 
But the commendations of 1 ertullus were not altogether 
unfounded, as Helix had really succeeded in putting 
down several seditious movements. See Fklix. It is 
not very easy to determine whether Luke has preserved 
the oration of Tertullus entire. On the one hand, we 
have the elaborate and artificial opening, which can 
hardly be other than an accurate report of that part of 
the speech; and, on the other hand, we have a narra- 
tive which is so very dry and concise that, if (here were 
nothing more, it is not easy to sec why the orator should 
have been called in at all. The difficulty is increased 
if, in accordance with tlte greatly preponderating weight 
of external. authority, we omit the words in Acts xxiv, 
ti 8, Kot Kara Tun itptTffiov . . . to\i-G'7ut tV; <r#, On 
the whole, it seems most natural to conclude that the 
historian, who was almost certainly an ear -witness, 
merely gives an abstract of the speech, giving, howev- 
er, in full the most salient points, and those which had 


the most forcibly impressed themselves upon him, such 
as the exordium and the character ascribed to Baul 
(ver. 5). 

The doubtful reading in vers. 0-8. to which reference 
has already been made, seems likely to remain an un- 
solved diflieulty. Against the external evidence there 
woidd be nothing to urge in favor of the disputed pas- 
sage*, were it not that the statement which remains af- 
ter its removal is not merely extremely brief (its brevi- 
ty may be accounted for in the manner already suggest- 
ed), but abrupt and aw kward in point of construction. 
It may be added that it is easier to refer 7 rap ov (ver. 
8) to the tribune Lysias than to Baul. For arguments 
founded on the words tcai Kara . . . Kpiviiv (ver. 6) — 
arguments which are dependent on the genuineness of 
the disputed words — see Lardncr, Credibility of the Cos- 
pel History , bk. i, eh. ii ; Biseoe, On tlte Acts, vi, 10. 

We ought not to pass over without notice a strange 
etymology for the name Tertullus proposed by Calmet, 
iu the place of which another has been suggested by his 
English editor (ed. 1830), who takes credit for having 
jrejected “fanciful and improbable” etymologies, and 
substituted improvements of his own. Whether the 
suggestion is an improvement in this ease the reader 
will judge: •‘Tertullus, TfprnXXoc, liar , impostor, from 
TeparoXvyoc. a teller of stories, <1 cheat. [C£y. — Was his 
true appellation Ter-Tullius , 4 thrice 'fully,’ that is, ex- 
tremely eloquent, varied by Jewish wit into Tcrtul- 
lusV]” — Smith; Kitto. 

Teschenmacher, Weknkr, a minister of the He- 
formed Church in Juliers-Cleves-Berg, and a writer of 
some prominence in ecclesiastical and political literature. 

. w as born at Elberfeld in September, 1589. lie was ed- 
ucated at Hcrborn and Heidelberg, and afterwards served 
the Church from 1010 or 1011 until 1033 in her pulpits, 
where he gained the reputation of an eloquent and able 
preacher of the Word. His services were much in re- 
quest by the churches, Elberfeld, Cleves, and Emmerich, 
at that time the seat of the Brandenburg government, 
being his principal fields of labor, lie was also greatly 
esteemed for his fine tact and skill in diplomacy, quali- 
ties that led to his selection for the conduct of many 
affairs in which the preservation and welfare of the 
Brotestant churches of the duchy were at stake during 
that stormy period of religious wars. He was, however, 
of hasty temperament and exceedingly self-willed, so 
that lie frequently came into confiict with other clergy- 
men, and occasioned the government, which w ished him 
well, considerable trouble in the effort to sustain him. 
His retirement from the pulpit was the result of a col- 
lision with Stover, a newly appointed colleague to his 
charge. lie removed to Xanten and gave himself to 
literary labors until his death, on Good-Hridav, April 2. 
1038. Tcschenmacher’s writings are chiefly historical 
in character, ami of brief extent. They are. Repel it io 
Brevis Cat hoi. et Orthodox. Rel., (par, Binyxdaris Dei Be- 
lief eio ante Breen him a Papatu Reform, in Clirice, Juliir, 
Montium Jhicatibus , etc. (Yeselia?, 1035, 43 pp.) :—A n- 
nales Keefes. Reformat ionis Kce lesiarum Cliriee, etc. 
(1633) : — A unales Clivier , etc. (1038; 2d ed. by Difhmar. 
Frank f.-on-t lie-< )der, 1721), a political work which is 
still valuable. Works in IMS.: Bermons: — A Commentary 
on the Epistles to the Corinthians, in Latin: — Annalium 
1 Keel. Epitome in qua prercipue Crarissirna Qneestio ex- 
plicatin' de Buccessione et Btatu Keel. Christ, etc. An 
autobiography in extenso. and a biography by B. Tesch- 
enmachcr, are both lost. — Herzog, Reul-Encyklop. s. v. 

Tesserae (tokens). The early Christians, when com- 
pelled to travel, were careful to secure a recognition by 
their fellow-Christians wherever they went. They were 
always provided with letters of recommendation; and 
when arriving in a strange town had only to inquire 
for the church, and to produce these letters, when they 
were received as brethren, and provided with every ac- 
commodation during their stay, — Farrar, Kecks. Viet. 
s. v. 


TEST 


201 TESTAMENTS, PATRIARCHAL 


Test, the imposition of an oath, or any other act by ' 
which the religious principles of any individual are put 
to proof. Tests and disabilities are distinct from pen- 
alties properly so called: it would be absurd to talk of 
punishing any one for being a woman, a minor, a per- 
son destitute of natural capacity, or opportunities of ed- 
ucation, etc., on the ground that these are excluded as 
unlit for certain offices and privileges. Vet test laws 
do operate as a punishment; not because they are cause 
of pain, but inasmuch as they tend to produce that 
change of conduct which punishment is designed to 
produce. 

Test Acts, also called Corporation Acts, the 
popular name given to two English statutes imposing 
certain oaths on the holders of public offices. Act 13 
Charles H. c. 2, directs that all magistrates shall take 
the oaths of allegiance and supremacy, as well as an 
oath renouncing the doctrine that it is lawful to take 
arms against the king; and provides that they must re- 
ceive the communion according to the rites of the 
Church of England within a year before election. Act 
25 Charles II, c. 1, imposed the like conditions on the 
holders of all public offices, civil and military, and 
obliged them, in addition, to abjure all belief in the doc- 
trine of transubstantiation. These acts, which were 
practically evaded to a large extent by means of an act 
of indemnity passed every year, were repealed by 9 
George IV, c. 17, in so far as regarded the administra- 
tion of the sacrament, for which a declaration set forth 
in that act was substituted. A statute of William IV 
substituted a declaration for an oath in most govern- 
ment offices. A new form of oath has been substituted 
for the oaths of supremacy, allegiance, and abjuration 
by 21 and 22 Victoria, c.48. — Chambers's Encydop. s. v.; 
see Skeats, Hist, of Free Churdies of England (see In- 
dex). 

Testament is the frequent rendering, in the New 
Test., of the Creek dia5i)ici] (literally a disposal), and 
both are used in two distinct senses (see Creiner, Lex . 
of X.-T. Greek , p. 570 sq.). 

1. The natural, and in classical Creek, as in ordinary 
English, the only, signification is a devisement, by will 
or legacy (Plutarch, l)e Adulat. 28; Plato, Legg. 922; 
Demosth. 1130, 12), and in this sense the word occurs 
iti Ileb. ix, 10, 17. See Inheritance. 

2. But the more common signification in the New 
Test, is one that has come over from the Sept., which 
often uses Cmcbj/o/ as a rendering of the Ileb. 7^*13, or 
covenant : and in this sense ‘•testament” is the render- 
ing in the A. V. of the Greek word in Heb. vii,22; ix, 
20: Rev. xi, 19; and especially in the phrase the new 
testament (Matt, xxvi, 28; Mark xiv, 24; Luke xxii, 
20; 1 Cor. iii. 0; Heb. ix, 15 [i. e. “new covenant,” as 
in Ileb. viii, 8; xii, 24]), which has gained currency as 
the title of the Christian Scriptures as a whole. See 
Xew- Englander, May, 1857, Land. (Wesleyan) Quar. 
Itev. July, 1857. See Covenant. 

TESTAMENT, Oli> and New. When the books 
written by the apostles of Jesus Christ, or by apostolic 
men, came to be placed alongside the sacred books of 
the Hebrews, as comprising the entire scriptural canon, 
it became necessary to distinguish the two divisions by 
appropriate designations. A usage which already pre- 
vailed furnished the designations required. The gra- 
cious engagements into which God was pleased to enter 
with individuals and communities bear in the Old Test, 
the name of rv"3, or covenant (q. v.), and to this cor- 
responds the Greek &«37 /kv/ in the Sept, and New Test. 
Of these covenants two stand out from all the rest as 
of pre-eminent importance — God's covenant with Israel 
mediated by Moses, and that covenant which he prom- 
ised to establish through the Messiah. In the Jewish 
Scriptures this latter is designated iT^n rP"i2, t) Kaivi / 
iW37j/o; (Jer. xxxi, 31), and this, adopted by our Lord 
(Matt, xxvi, 28), and familiarly used by the apostles, (2 


Cor. iii, 6; Heb. ix, 15, etc.), would naturally suggest 
the application of the phrase ?/ 7ra\aid diaSi'iia] to the 
former. Among the Jews such expressions as nirflb 
rvnSH, TrXiuctt; rr~]C diaSijKtjc, for the tablets on which 
the law was inscribed (L)eut. ix, 9) ; ~SD, /3i- 

(3Xioi ’ ri'jc dta^yKijg (Exod. xxiv,7; 2 Kings xxiii,21 ; I 
Macc. i, 57), og oiaSrjKvjt,’ (Eeclus. xxiv, 23). were 
in common use. From these it is an easy transition to 
such ail expression as that of the apostle (2 Cor. iii. 14), 
i) dvayiaomi; ri/c 7 raXatiig CiaSi'iKyc, where the name 
appropriate to the thing contained is used of that which 
contains it. There thus arose in the Greek Church the 
usage of the phrases i) TraXaid c'onSVpc/j and i) tea tin) 
faaSi'iKi) as designations of the Jewish and Christian 
sacred writings respectively. In the Latin Church the 
usage prevailed of calling these He/ws et Xovum Testa- 
mentum. Why the word Testamentum was selected to 
represent rather than Foedus or Pactum may 

be explained hv the fact that the former rather than 
the latter is the proper equivalent of the Greek word. 
Hence in the old 1 tala made from the Sept, it is always 
used where the Greek has ; and in the Vulgate 

it is used similarly in those books that remain in the 
old version, whereas in those which Jerome translated 
from the Hebrew rP"Q is represented by feedus or pac- 
tum. That this usage was an early one in the Latin 
Church is evident from the words of Tertullian (.4r/c. 
Marc . iv, 1) : “Duos Dcos dividens (Marcion) alterum 
alterius Instrumenti vel. quod magis usui esidicere, Tes- 
tamenti.” The use of Testamentum, however, does not 
seem to have been universally accepted till a much later 
period. In the passage quoted Tertullian evidently 
gives the preference to the word instrumentum, a term 
used technically to denote a writing by which anything 
is to be attested or proved (comp. Quint il. Inst. Orat. 
xii, 8, 12) ; and this is the word lie generally uses (comp. 
A dr. Marc, iv, 2; De Pudic. c. 12, etc.). Rufinns also 
has “novum et. vetus instrumentum” (Expos. Symb. 
Aposiol .) ; and Augustine uses both instrumentum and 
testamentum in the same context (De Civ. Dei, xx, 4). 
Lactantius, however, freely uses testamentum as a well- 
accredited term when he wrote (Inst. Dir. iv, 20). 

From the Vulgate and the usage of the Latin fathers. 
Testament has naturally passed into the title of the two 
divisions of the Scriptures in the English and most of 
the European versions. — Kitto. See New Testament*. 
Old Testament. 

Testaments of the Twelve Patriarchs, The. 
is one of the seventy-two Apocryphal books of the Old 
Test, which were at one time in circulation, and, accord- 
ing to Epiphanius (Lib.de Mensuris et Ponderibus. § 10), 
it formed one of the twenty-two canonical books sent by 
the Jews to Ptolemy, king of Egypt. See Apocrypha. 

I. Author of the Work and his Object . — There can be 
no dispute that the writer’s main object and purpose 
was the conversion of the Jewish nation to the Chris- 
tian faith. To gain his object his appeal is based not 
on the authority of Moses or the law of Sinai, but is re- 
ferred back to the earlier period of the patriarchs, where, 
underlying the simple covenant between God and man. 
were latent the first germs of Christianity. From this 
it has been inferred that the writer himself was a Jew. 
Grabe. the first who treated at length of the Testaments, 
thought that, the writing in question was the work of a 
Jew shortly before the Christian ivra; and to account 
for t he presence of passages which no Jew could possi- 
bly have written, lie had recourse to the theory of inter- 
polation. This opinion, however, has found but little, 
favor, and critics have generally agreed to tl* 1 conclu- 
sions of Nitzsch, who definitely attributed the work to a 
Judaso-Christian writer, an opinion adopted now even 
by Ritschl, who in 1850 maintained that author was a 
Christian of Pauline tendencies. Without entering upon 
the different views advanced on this point, we pass on 
to the . 


TESTAMENTS, PATRIARCHAL 292 TESTAMENTS, PATRIARCHAL 


II. Time of Composition.— That it was not composed 
before A.D. 70 wc may infer from t lie author's allusion 
to the destruction of Jerusalem, which assigns to the 
Testaments a date subsequent to this event. On the 
other hand, it is already quoted by Tertullian (A dr. 
Marc. v, 1 ; Scarp. e. Id) and Origen (Horn, in Jos. tv, 
e. 6) : and thus we may safely infer, without quoting 
the different, opinions, that the most probable date for 
its composition is 8<M 10 or 1*20 of our tern. 

III. Laiujuaye in which the Work teas Written . — The 

Testaments , as wc have it now, was no doubt written 
in the Hellenistic Greek. in which we now possess the 
work, Grabe maintained that it was originally writ- 
ten in Hebrew and was translated into Greek with the 
canonical hooks of the Old Test. But against this view 
it has been argued that already the title of the book, at 
eiaSTiKai rwv tfi' \\arpiap\ibv, indicates its Greek orig- 
inal, because the Hebrew or would have 

been presented by the Greek tvXoytca, ivroXai, or pup- 
rvpta. We also find a number of instances of parono- 
masia, hardly possible on the hypothesis of a Hebrew 
original. Such are ddtTfiv . . . vovSeruv, d^atptaig 
. . . di>aip«rig ('Test. Judah, note 23), \ipvr . . . \ otpog 
(ibid .) ; tv rd&t . . . draicTov ( Xapht . note *2), rd^ig . . . 
nra£ia (ibid. 3). We lind various ex]>ressions pertain- 
ing to the Greek philosophy, as Sa'&tatc, aiaStjotg, 
6vatg rt\oc, CtafiovXtov, arpfiovXtruv nvt. Taking 
all in all, we are led to the supposition that it was orig- 
inally written in Greek (see Xitzseh, />e Test. XII Patr. 
[Witeinb. 1810], p. 16; Vorstman, Disquis. de Test am. 
XU Patriarch, p. 8 sq.). 

IV. Contents of the 'Testaments . — The work professes 
to be, as its name implies, the utterances of the dying 
patriarchs, the sons of Jacob, to their children. In these 
arc given, more or less briefly, the narrative of their 
lives, with some particulars not. to be found in the 
scriptural account, and there are built thereon various 
moral precepts for the guidance of their descendants, who 
may thereby be preserved from the snares into which 
their fathers fell. “ Still,” says Vorstman, “all the pa- 
triarchs are convinced that their children will deal wick- 
edly. falling away from < Jod. detiling themselves with the 
sins of every nation. They therefore prophesy what is 
to come; they foretell the troubles impending on their 
children. But they venture to raise more joyous strains 
that) these. God himself is to put an end to their trou- 
bles; he will visit his people; ho will break the power 
of sin. Prophecies of a Messiah are brought forward by 
the patriarchs. With such hopes they die. Their dis- 
courses, therefore, may justly be called Testaments, when 
at the point of death they speak to their children their 
last words. They leave to them nothing save injunc- 
tions and prophecies. The words of Benjamin (c. 10) 
will apply equally to all: ravra yap dvri Tzdatfg k\ji~ 
povoptag vpdg ItdaaKoj." 

V. Messianic Ideas of the Pooh . — The Messianic views 
arc strongly tinged by national feeling. The Messiah, 
combining in himself the functions of high-priest, and 
of king, is to arise from the tribe of Levi as well as from 
the tribe of Judah. Still there is a tendency through- 
out which aims at teaching that his high-priestly office 
is greater than his kingly one. The Messianic passages 
having reference to the promised Messiah of Israel may 
be divided into such as speak of him as divine — as God 
coming into the world in the likeness of man — and into 
such as refer to him as man alone. Of the latter wc 
read in Test. Leri. e. HI. “And the man (iivlpa) who 
rcncwetli the law by the power of the Most High shall 
ye call a deceiver; and at. last, as ye suppose, ye will 
slay him, not knowing his resurrection (cmirrri//m), 
wickedly taking the innocent blood upon your own 
heads. And because of him shall your holy places be 
desolate.” . . . Judah (c. 21) says, “And after these 
things a star shall arise to you out of Jacob in peace, 
and a man (dvSpioirog) shall rise up of my seed, as a 
sun of righteousness, walking with the sons of men in 


meekness and righteousness, and no sin shall be found 
in him.” Naphtali says (c. 4), “ Lutil the compassion 
(cr7r\dyyroi') of the Lord shall come, a man (dv^ptn- 
7ror;) working righteousness and showing mercy to all 
that arc afar off* and to those that are near.” 

Such are the only passages which dwell merely on 
the human nature of the Messiah. Let us look at those 
which refer to his divine nature. Thus the patriarch 
Dan (c. (I) bids his children “draw near to God and to 
the angel that intereedeth for you (rtp Ot(p teal rtp ayyi- 
\tp Ttp 7r<(j oatronptvtp rpuc). He is called “the me- 
diator between God and men” (oen.’e lari piainiQ Dfou 
Kai avSpwirtov'). “llis name shall be in every place 
in Israel, and among the Gentiles, Saviour” (rb bi oro- 
pa avrov iarcii Iv Travri romp ’\opcn)\ ferri tv roig iSrvt- 
ai Sioriip). Levi (c. 4) speaks of the Messiah as otig 
K vpiov. Simeon (c. 6) speaks of “the Lord, the Great 
God of Israel, who shall appear upon the earth as man, 
and who shall save all the Gentiles and the race of Is- 
rael.” Judah (c. 22) tells his children, “Among the 
Gentiles shall my kingdom be consummated, until the 
salvation shall have come to Israel ; until the appearing 
of the God of righteousness to give quietness in peace 
to Jacob and all nations.” Asher (e. 7) tells his chil- 
dren that they should be dispersed throughout the 
world until “the Most High should visit the earth, 
himself coming as a man (uv3 r poj~oc). eating and drink- 
ing with men. ... lie shall save Israel and all the Gen- 
tiles; God speaking in the person of man” (DhV tig dr- 
epa VTTOKpu'dpivog). Joseph (c. ID) says to his children, 
“And I saw that from Judah was born a virgin wearing 
a linen garment, and from her went forth a lamb with- 
out spot” (a ft vug dptopog). That reference is here 
made to the sinlessness of the Messiah there can be no 
doubt, llagenbach (in his Doymenpesch tch/e, p. 143, ed. 
3) refers to llippolytus as furnishing the first instance of 
the application of the word “spotless” to our Lord, hut 
we have here an earlier example. Thus Benjamin (c. 3) 
speaks of “the Lamb of God and the Saviour of the 
world,” that “spotless he shall be delivered up for the 
wicked, and sinless shall he die for the ungodly.” Levi 
tells his children that they shall slay the Messiah and 
“wickedly take the 1 innocent (nSrtpog) blood upon their 
heads.” Judah (c. 24) says, “No sin shall be found in 
him.” 

As to the office of the Messiah, he is continually spo- 
ken of both as king and liigh-priest (Hint. c. 7 ; Gad, c. 8; 
Dan, c. 5; Jos. c. ID). As king springing from the tribe 
of Judah (Sim. c. 7), he is to wage war ami to triumph 
over Beliar, the personification of the kingdom of evil 
(Levi, c. 18 ; Dan, c. 5. G ; Benj. c. 3). As liigh-priest lie 
was to have no successor (Levi, c. 18), i. e. with him the 
offering of sacrifices was to come to an end. The Mes- 
siah is a Saviour; Levi is bidden to “proclaim concern- 
ing him who shall redeem Israel” (e. 2; Dan,c.h\ Jos. 
c. ID ; Benj. c. 3) ; and another patriarch adds, “He that 
believes in him shall reign in truth in the heavens” 
(Dan, c. 5). The Messiah was to suffer: “Thy sons 
shall lay hands upon him to crucify him” (Levi, c. 4); 
“and he shall enter into the front of the Temple (rbv 
rrpCoTor ratal), and there shall the Lord be treated with 
outrage and he shall be lifted up upon a tree” (Benj.e. 
D; see also Leri,c. 10, 14, 1G). The rending of the Tem- 
ple vail is alluded to as the act in which the Spirit of God 
went over to the ( Jentiles : “ 'l’he vail of the Temple shall 
be rent,” says Benjamin (c. D), “and the Spirit of God 
shall be removed unto the Gentiles as fire poured forth.” 
Levi (c. 10) says, “The vail of the Temple shall be rent, 
that it shall not cover your shame.” As to the Messiah’s 
ascension and triumphant reception into heaven, see 
Levi, c. 18; Benj. c. D. That he was to return to future 
judgment, comp. Leri , c. 16. 

VI. Dogmatical and Ethical Ideas. — The salvation of 
the Messiah is to be obtained by faith as the means of jus- 
tification with ( I od : The kingdom of evil is to come to an 
end “on the day on which Israel shall believe” (Dan, c. 
G), “As many as have believed in him on earth shall 


TESTAMENTS, PATRIARCHAL 293 TESTAMENTS, PATRIARCHAL 


rejoice with him when all shall rise again, some to glory [ 
anti some to shame” (Benj.c. 10). Allusion is made to 
the importance of baptism for this end. Thus Levi (c. 
1G) tells his children the punishment that shall befall 
them for their treatment of the Messiah: “Ye shall be 
a curse among the Gentiles and shall be scattered abroad 
until he shall again visit you and in pity shall take you 
to himself Iv 7 ti<ttei /cat vdart.” The same patriarch 
(c. 1JS ) again says of the Messiah, “In water shall 
he himself give the glory of the Lord of his sons in 
truth forever.” Both the righteous and the wicked 
shall rise again; the former to rejoice with the Messiah, 
the latter to weep and lament and to be destroyed for- 
ever (comp. Judah, c. 25; a Sim, c. G; Levi , c. 18; Zeb. 
c. 10). Benjamin declares (c. 10), “Then shall ye be- 
hold Enoch, Noah, Sliem, and Abraham and Isaac and 
Jacob, arising on the right hand in joy; then shall we 
also arise, each one in our tribe, and worship the king of 
heaven. . . . And as many as believed on him upon earth 
shall rejoice with him when all shall arise, some to glory 
and some to contempt. And the Lord shall judge Is- 
rael first, even for the wrong they did to him; for when 
he came as a deliverer, God in the flesh, they believed 
him not. And then shall he judge all the nations, as 
many as believed him not when he appeared upon earth.” 

Man, who has been formed in the image of God 
(Xapht. c. 2), is composed of two parts, body and spir- 
it, conformable to each other. To man seven spirits 
were given at his creation by God, in themselves not 
necessarily either good or bad, referring, as they do, 
mainly to external sensations. These spirits were £wi; 
(i.e. the ITS 3, the mere animal life), opaeng, iikoi), bcrcppi)- 
(7 tg. XaXid, yevmg, and arropd , all of which, as £w/y, refer 
exclusively to the mere animal life of man, as does also 
a supplementary eighth spirit, that of vrrroc. Super- 
added to these are seven other spirits, given to man 
by Beliar, representing seven principal evil tendencies 
(. Reub . c. 2, 3). The latter, which are spoken of gen- 
erally as Ta 7 rveupara rpg TrXavpg, are wholly bad, and 
represent different evil tendencies of humanity. They 
are the spirits of 7ropveia, d7r\i]aria, pdyij, dpea/ctia or 
payyavtta, i)TTepi]<pavta , xf/tvcog, and acacia. Within 
man war is waged by his two selves. Judah speaks of 
t he two spirits that “attend (cryoAn^ouin) upon man, 
t he spirit of truth and the spirit of error; and in the 
midst is the spirit of the understanding of the mind,” 
which may turn to either side it will (c. 20). The 
spirit of truth seems to be almost equi valent to con- 
science, for it is added “The spirit of truth testifieth all 
things, and accuseth all.” Reuben, too, speaks of his 
conscience ( [avveilpcng ) troubling him all his life long 
for his crime of incest. Man has a free will to choose 
between the two ways that God has given to him. He 
can choose either “the darkness or the light, either the 
law of the Lord or the works of Beliar” ( Levi , c. 19) ; 
and, though man is weak and ever prone to error, yet if 
he persevere in his attempts to do right, “every spirit 
of Beliar will fly” (Sim. c. 2, 5; Judah , c. 18, 19, 21 ; Is- 
sach. e. 7 ; Zeb. c. 9 ; Gad, e. 4) from him. 

Sin, therefore, being especially regarded as proceeding 
from r« TrvtvpaTa rpg 7rXdri]g, is constantly spoken of 
as dyvoia , rucpXioatg, and the like, for which pardon is 
readily granted by God. Ignorance, however, though 
affording a plea for pardon, cannot of itself be accounted 
an excuse for the sin ; the appeal is still to be made to 
the mercy of God. But as from sins ignorantly com- 
mitted man passes on to those done against light and 
knowledge, so is there a deeper cast of sins than dyvoia. 
Thus it was dyvoia on the part of Zebulon (c. 1 ; comp. 
l>an, c. 1 ; Gad, c. 2) not to reveal to his father his 
brethren’s crime of selling Joseph ; that crime, however, 
was dvopi a on their part. And this is alike true for a 
sin actually committed and for one as yet in embryo in 
the thoughts of the heart; for Simeon (c. 2), whose 
hatred for Joseph had led him to contemplate the sin 
of murder, is accounted in God’s sight guilty of that 


crime, and therefore punished. We. see here the doc- 
trine of the apostle endorsed: “lie that hateth his 
brother is a murderer.” 

The doctrine of God’s retributive justice is fully 
believed in. Sin brings its own punishment in this 
world (comp. Iieub. c. 1 ; Sim. c, 2; Gad, c. 5), therefore 
man should follow God’s laws (comp. Iieub. c. 4; Sim. 
c. 4; Levi, c. 13; Benj. e. 3 ; Zeb. c. 8). The fear of 
God appears as the chief motive for the fulfilment of 
righteousness (comp. Iieub. c. 4, TropeveoSe tv cnrXbrpTi 
icapliac, kv <pol3('j K rpiou ; Sim. c. 3. /y Xvaic tou (pSbyor 
hd 0o/3 on Kojo/oo yn'erai ; Gad, c. 5, o (p<)j3og too Gtoo 
i >acq. ro fuvoi ; ; Benj. c. 3, b yap cpofiouptvog tov Qeov, 
/cat dya7T(nv tov 7 rXijaiov avrov, inrb tov depiov nveu- 
parog tov IRAmp ov Cvvcitcu TrXpyrji’ar, Jos. c. 11; 
Levi, c. 13). 

It is also worthy of remark that most of the patri- 
archs dwell more especially on some one particular form 
of vice to be shunned, ordinarily that vice wherein 
each severally had succumbed to temptation. Thus 
the system of ethics which prevails throughout the 
Testaments presents a very high and noble code of mor- 
als to us, not unworthy of a teacher who sought to win 
over his countrymen to the Christian faith. 

YI1. Sources. — Having given, in the main, an outline 
of the most important points contained in the Testa- 
ments, the question as to the sources for the work can- 
not be superfluous. From the work itself we infer that 
the book of Enoch must have been known to the author. 
Thus seven Testaments out of twelve allude to it as ypaepi ) 
’Ei'oiy, /3i73\o^(/3i/3A/oi',/3</3X(a,\6yot)’Ej'd>y rovbneui- 
ov, ypaepi) vupov ’ Evib\ (see Sim. c. 5 ; Levi, c. 9, 10, 14 IG ; 
Xapht. e. 4 ; Judah, c. 18; Dan, c. 5 ; Benj. c. 9), and other 
similar expressions. Zebulon refers to the ypaepi) tt ore- 
pojv (c. 9), and Levi (c.5)and Asher (c. 7) refer tool 7rA«- 
Ktg ro>v o vpavu/v, “ heavenly tablets.” As to the latter, 
whether they were a book containing what is foreknown 
and foreordained in heaven as to the course of the fut- 
ure, and were appealed to when some oracular declara- 
tion of weighty import was needed, or whether they were 
something else, we are at a loss to state, although they 
are often quoted in the book of Enoch and Jubilees. 
Besides the works mentioned, there can be no doubt 
that the author of the Testaments knew the book of Ju- 
bilees, since the amount of coincidence between the two 
writings is very great (comp. e.g. Reub. e. 3 with Jubilees. 
c. 33 ; Levi, c. 2, 4, 5, 8 with Jubilees, c. 32 ; Levi, c. 9 with 
c. 31; c. 1 1 with c. 31; Judah, c. 3-7 with c. 34, 38; c. 9 
with e. 37 ; c. 10 with c. 41 ; c. 19 with e. 41 ; Reub. c. 7, 
Sim. c. 8, Levi, c. 19, Judah, c. 2G, Zeb. c. 10, Dan, c. 7, 
Xapht. c. 9, Gad, c. 8, Asher, c. 8, Benj. c. 12 with Jubi- 
lees, c. 4G, etc.). lie also made use of the Targums, Jo- 
sephus, the Midrashim,and the like. Of greater impor- 
tance is it to know that the author also made use of the 
New Test., and for the latter fact we refer to the elab- 
orate article of Warfield, The Apolocjetical Value of the 
Testaments of the XII Patriarchs, in the (N. Y.) Pres- 
byterian Review, Jan. 1880, p. 57 sq. 

VIII. History of the Work . — “ Ilabent sua fata libelli.” 
It is remarkable that this work, which was known to 
Tertullian (.1 dr. Marcionem, v, 1 ; Scorpiuce, c. 13) and 
Origen (Horn, in Josuam xr, c. G), became first known to 
the world at large through the Latin version of Robert 
Grosseteste, or Greathead, bishop of Lincoln, of the 13th 
century. This version soon spread over Europe, and, 
in the course of time, translations into a large number 
of languages were made from it — into English. French, 
German, Dutch, Flemish, Danish, Bohemian, and Ar- 
menian. More than four centuries had passed since 
Grosseteste’s Latin version, when at last the Greek 
text was for the first time published by Grabe, in his 
Spicilegium Pat rum et II mreticorum (Oxford, 1698), 
from a MS. in the university library of Cambridge, col- 
lated with one at Oxford. In 1713 Fabricius published 
the Greek text in his Codex Psemlepigraphus V. T. 
(Hamburg), adding but slightly to the criticism of the 
text. In 1714 Grabe published a second edition, re- 


TESTAMENTS, TATUIAliCIIAL 294 TESTIMONY OF DISOWNMENT 


tabling the true text in several passages, but in many 
places altering Grosseteste's Latin version, which wit- 
nessed to the true reading, to suit (i robe's incorrect text. 
Fabricius also published a second edition in 1722. on the 
whole less accurate than his lirst. Afterwards the text j 
and notes as given in (I rube’s second edition were re- 
printed, with hut few additions, by Gnlland, in his Pibli- 
otheca Veternm Patrum (Venice. 17(55), i. 193 sq. In 
1 SGI) Hubert >inker ptihlished an accurate transcript of 
the t’ambridge MS., carefully collated with the Oxford, 
to which he added, in 1*71), a collation made from two 
other MSS., viz. a Homan MS. in the Vatican Library 
(Cod. Gr:ve. 731), and a Patinos MS. in the library of 
the Monastery ol St. John the Kvangelist (Cod. 411). 

1 X. 1 'ersions. — As already indicated, there existed ver- 
sions in different languages before the Greek text was 
published. 'Hie editions of the Latin version are nu- 
merous. That which is presumably the edti'w princeps 
bears neither date, printer’s name, nor place of printing, 
'fhe title is Testam'eft thr interim | Patriarchnrh \ Fiti- j 
arum Jacob, j e Greco in Latinii | reran Roberto \ Jar- \ 
conimsi | Kpiscopo | interpre \te. From this was taken 
the edition printed at llagcnau in loo ’2 by John Se- 
cerius, at the instance of Menrad Molther. The work 
of Jidianus Pomerius Contra Jttdaos is published in 
the same volume. Besides the separate editions, the 
Testament* is published in the Pibliutheca Patrum. 

In English there exist at least three independent 
translations — one from the Latin, the others from the 
Greek, 'fhe translation from the Latin lirst appeared 
in 1577, and was often reprinted, especially in t lie 17th 
century. The lirst edition is of great rarity, and there 
exists no copy of it even itj the British Museum. The 
second edition, of 1581, of which there is a copy in the 
British Museum, has the following title-page: 

“The Tcstamentes of the Twelne | Patriarches, the 
Sonnes of Jacob: tran- slated out of Greek e into Latine 
by Robert | Gmslhed, sometime bishop ofLineolne, | and 
out of hys copy into French and [ Dutch by others: Now 
eng- lisdied by A. G. | To the credit whereof an nuneient 
Groeke eopyc | written in parchment, is kept in the Vni-J 
nersity Library of Cambridge. [ At London | Printed by 
John Dave, dwelling oner Aldersgate. 15S1. [ Cum prill i- 
legio Regia* j Muiesinlis.” 

There are about forty other English editions printed 
after the year 1581. A translation was made directly 
from the Greek (of Grabc and Fabricius) bv Whis- 
ton in his Collection of Authentic Records belonging to 
the Old and Xiw Testament (Lend. 1727), i, 294 sq. In 
Clark’s A nie-Xioene Christian Library (vol. xxii), Mr. 
Sinker published a translation from his edition of the 
Greek text. It may be mentioned here that the Mug- 
gletcmians (q. v.) in England receive the Testaments of 
the XII Patriarchs as inspired, together with the Old 
and New Tests., the book of Enoch, and the works of 
Reeve and Muggleton. From the English a Welsh ver- 
sion was published at Carnarvon (1822), Testament y 
deuddeg Patru irch, sef Meibion Jacob. . . . 

There are at least two translations in French, both 
taken from the Latin. One was published in 1548 at 
Paris, another in 1713. The latter was also republished 
in Mi gne’s Fncyclopedie Theohufujue, vol. xxiii ( lJict.de* 

. 1 j >oc ryj dies, vol. i), coll. 854 sq. 

In Germany the Testaments have evidently been very 
popular, as may be inferred from t lie number of editions 
that have appeared. The oldest German translation is 
t he one published in 1559 at l»asel : Pas Testament der 
zn'olf J 'atria rr/ten der Riinen Jacobs ; the latest, the one 
published at Tubingen in 1857, Aechte apocryphische 
/Richer der Ileiligen Svhrift . . . (ii) Pas T.d.zicblfPa- 
tria rehen. 

The Dutch and Flemish editions are also very nu- 
merous. There are two editions without any date, 
but which must have appeared before 1544, since an 
edition was published in that same year. Altogether 
there exist about fourteen editions in Dutch and Flem- 
ish, the last published in 1G79. 

The Testaments was translated into Danish bv Hans 


Mogcnssbn, and four editions of his translation were 
published, the first in 1580, the last in 1701. 

in the Icelandic there exist some MS. translations; 
but whether one or the other has ever been printed we 
are at a loss to state. 

The Bohemian version can claim to he the first of the 
translations from the Latin, having been made long be- 
fore the invention of printing. It is referred to by 
Thomas Stitny about t lie year 1370. There exists a 
MS. at Ereslau, in the library of the Dominicans at St. 
Adalbert, dated 1491, and another in the university 
library at Prague (xvii, E. 15, No. 0) dated 14(55. The 
oldest printed translation bears the date 1545. Only 
two copies, each of a different, edition, are extant— one 
in the library of the National Museum at Prague, ami 
the other in the university library there. 

An Armenian version exists in MS., dated 837, 5. e. 
A.D. 1388, in t lie library of the Mechitarists at A r ienna, 
which appears not to have been printed. 

X. Literature. — Resides Grabe, see Vorstman, Disqui- 
sitio de Testumentorum XII Patriarcharum Origine et 
Pretio (Rotterdam, 1857) ; Nitzsch, Commentatio Critica 
de Testamentis XII Patriarcharum. Libra F. T. Pseude- 
pigrapho (Wittenb. 1 S 1 0) ; Hitschl, Pie Entstehnng der 
alikatholischen Kirche (Bonn, 1850); Kavser. in Eeuss 
mid Cunitz’s Frit rage zu den theol. Wissenschaften 
(Jena, 1851), p. 107-140; Wiescler, Die 70 Wochen mid 
die 153 Jahncoehen des Propheten Daniel (Gbtt. 1839); 
Langen, Pas Judeuthum in Palastina zur Zeit Christi 
(Freiburg, 18(5(5), p. 140 sq. ; Geiger, Judische ZeitschriJ't 
fur Wissensehajl mid Leben (Ercsl. 18(59), p. 1 1 G sq. ; 
Warfield. The Apologetical Value of the Testaments of 
the XII Patriarchs , in the (N. V.) Presbyterian Recieir, 
Jan. 1880, p. 57 sq.; but, above all, Sinker, Testamenta 
XII Patriarcharum (Camb. and Lond. 1869); and his 
1 ppendix (ibid. 1879). (E. P.) 

Testes Synodales, persons chosen to help the 
church-wardens in fullilling their duties, and in pro- 
mining order, quiet, and decorum at visitations, syn- 
ods, and clerical meetings. They were also called 
Sidesmen, synodsmen, or Questmen (q. v.). 

Testimonial. Every candidate for admission to 
holy orders in the Church of England is required to 
present to the bishop a testimonial of good conduct 
from his college, or from three benefieed clergymen. 
The usual form of this document is as follows: 

“ Whereas our well-beloved in Christ, A. B., hath de- 
clared to ns his intention of offering himself a candidate 
for tiie sacred office of [a deacon], and for that end hath 
requested of ns letters testimonial of his learning and 
good behavior, wo, therefore, whose names are heienhto 
subscribed, do testify that ihe said A. B., having been 
previously known tons for the space of [three] years last 
past, hath, during that time, lived piously, soberly, and 
honestly, and diligently applied himself to his studies: 
nor hath he at any time, so far as we know and believe, 
held, written, or taught, anything contrary to the doctrine 
or discipline of the united Church of England and Ire- 
land: and, moreover, we believe him in onr consciences 
to be a person worthy to lie admitted to the sacred order 
of Deacons. In witness whereof,” etc. 

A similar testimonial is required from candidates by fhe 
Protestant Episcopal Church of the United States. As 
this is one of the safeguards which ecclesiastical rule 
has t st thlished to preserve the purity of its ministers, it 
would lie a fatal error to allow it to become a mere mat- 
ter of form. No conscientious man can safely sign such 
a document unless fully assured of the facts to which he 
hears such solemn testimony. 

Testimony of Disownment, an official document 
issued by the monthly meeting of the Society of Friends 
against an obdurate and impenitent member. The tes- 
timony of disownment is a paper reciting the offence, 
and sometimes the steps which have led to it ; next, the 
means unavailingly used to reclaim the offender; after 
that a clause disowning him, to which is usually added 
an expression of desire for his repentance and for his 
restoration to membership. In case the expelled mem- 
ber repents, he is bound to send in a written acknowl- 


TETA 


295 


TETRAPvCII 


edgment of his offence, his penitence, and his desire for do Confessionnm (Lips. 1810), p. 83 sq.; comp. Baum,' 
restoration to the membership of the society. — Eadie, | Capito und liucer ( Elherfeld, 1800), p. 486 sq., 595; 


Eccles. Cyclop . s. v. 

Te'ta (Tjjrd v. r. ’Arr?/r«; Vulg. Topa), a corrupt 
Gnecized form (1 Esdr. v, 28) of the name IIatita (q.v.) 


Planck, Gesclt. d.prot. Lehrbeyrifs (2d ed, Leips. 1 790), 
III, i, 68 sq. — Herzog, Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Te'trarcll ( rtrpdpxpr, from Terrapa, four, and 


tiraicizea lorm t i r^sur. v, zo; im lmu name i ii i a ^q. , , 1 \ 

„f the 11,1,. lists or Temple doorkeepers ( Ezra it, 42; «PX>b government) properly denotes the governor ol a 
XT _,. : : 4 x\ j province or district which was regarded as the (mirth 

part of a larger province or kingdom, while the district 


Neh. vii, 45). 

Tetragrammaton (rirrapa, four, and ypappa, 
letter ), a term to designate the sacred name of the Deity, 
Jehovah , in four letters, niD 1 . By the possession of 
this name the early Jewish opponents of Christianity 
declared that the miracles of Christ were performed. 
The mystical word Oni of the Buddhists of India and 
Thibet is supposed to possess similar virtues to the pres- 
ent day. 

Tetrapla, a Greek term used to designate a certain 
edition of the Ilolv Scriptures, being four independent 
and separate Greek versions, ranged side by side, viz. 
those of Aquila, Syinmaehus, the Seventy -two, and 
Theodotion. 

Tetrapolitana Confessio (also Suevica and 
Aucjenti nensis) is the title by winch the confession 
of faitli submitted to the Diet of Augsburg in 1530 by 
the four cities of Strasbnrg, Constance, Memmingen, 
and Lindau is known. 

The endeavor to construct a confession which should 
fairly represent the views of all the sections of the evan- 


itself was called a tetrarchy (rerpap\ia or rtrpacap\ia). 
The earliest use of the word which seems to have been 
discovered is in connection with the division of Thes- 
saly as originally constituted (Eurip. Alcest. 1 154; Stra- 
bo, ix, 5) and as reconstructed in t lie time of Philip of 
Maeedon (Demosth. Phil, iii, 26), and of Galatia be- 
fore its conquest by the Bo mans, B.C. 180. 'The first 
of these countries was then divided into four parts, each 
of which was named a tetrarchy, and its ruler a tctrarch, 
subordinate to the tagus (Thirlwall, Hist, of Greece , vi, 
13 sq.). Tlie second was divided into three sections, 
each of which was again subdivided into four smaller 
ones, to which and to their governors the same terms 
were applied (Fischeri Prolusiones , p. 428, note); and 
these were ultimately fused into one iirapftci under 
Deiotarus, cir. B.C. 54 (Strabo, 566; Plutarch, De P. J/. 
[ed. Wvtt], vol. ii). In the later days of the Bomaii. 
republic, and during the empire, the etymological mean- 
ing was almost entirely lost sight of, and it was applied, 
like “ethnarch” and “ phvlarch,” to the petty tributa- 
ries, “the creatures of a proconsul's breath, and the pup- 


gelical party failed through the stubborn refusal of the pets of his caprice” (Meri vale, Hist. of the Rom. iv, 167), 


Saxons to unite in any way with the Zwinglians of the 
cities, and the Strasbnrg deputies consequently invited 
Bucer and Capito to prepare a separate symbol for the 
use of the latter. Capito had previously prepared a 
sketch of the Reformed faith by order of the Council of 
Strasbnrg, and this paper became the basis of the new 
confession. The latter was completed by July 1 1, 1530, 
and, after having been submitted to the confederated 
cities and received their signatures (with the single ex- 
ception of Ulm), was placed in the hands of the imperial 
vice-chancellor, Merkel, lor transmission to the emperor. 

'The confession contains twenty-three articles, and is 
characterized by great clearness and moderation of state- 
ment. completeness, and thoroughness of elaboration. 


whose importance did not warrant their receiving the 
title of “king” (see Sallust. Cafil. xx, 7; Cicero, Milo , 
xxviii, 76; ) 'a tin. xii, 29; Horace, Sat. i, 3, 12; Veil. 
Bat. ii, 51 ; Tacitus, Ann. xv, 25). It is in this second- 
ary sense that in all probability the word is used in the 
New Test, of the tetrarehs of Syria, the heirs and suc- 
cessors of Ilerod the Great. Niebuhr (Hist, of Rome , 
ii, 135) compares them to the zemindars of Bengal after 
their recognition by lord Cornwallis (1791-93) as pro- 
prietors of the soil, and enjoying some amount of sover- 
eign rights within the limits of their zemindarv. 'The 
title oftetrarcli was certainly given by Antony to Herod 
the Great in the early part of his career (B.C. 41) and his 
brother Phasael (Josephus, Ant. xiv, 13, 1), without ref- 


its first article asserts the chief formal principle of Prot- . erence to territorial divisions; and though it appears 
cstautism, wholly wanting in the A uynstana, that the that the tetrarehs Antipas and Philip did actually re- 
Bible is the only source and rule of doctrine. It teach- ceive a fourth part of their father’s dominions, while 
os that the disciples of Christ partake of his body and Arehelaus as “ethnarch” inherited half (ibid, xvii, 11, 
blood in the sacrament in a spiritual sense only. The 4; 115/r, ii, 6, 3), this correspondence of the name and 
form of expression, however, is everywhere conformed the share may be considered accidental, or, at furthest, 
to that of t lie A uynstana — a feature which reveals the the exact use of the term in t lie New Test, must- be 
hand of Bucer (q. v.), who was already at work upon confined to Antipas and Philip. — Kitto. 
plans for the promotion of union among Protestants. 

A reply to this confession, written by Pick, P’aber, 


In the New Test, we meet with the designation, 
either actually or in the form of its derivative re- 


nnd Cochkeus, was returned Oct. 24. This Confutation Tpapxfir, applied to three persons: 
was filled with perversions and insults, and was read be- 1. Herod Antipas (Matt, xiv, 1 ; Luke iii, 1. 19; ix, 
fore deputies and theologians of the four cities. A copy i 7 ; Acts xiii, 1 ), who is commonly distinguished as 
of this reply was denied them, but they succeeded in “ Herod the tetrarch,” although the title of “king” is 
obtaining one, which was appended to the first edition also assigned to him both by Matthew (xiv, 9) and by 
of the Tetrapolitana , published in German by Bucer at 
Strasbnrg in 1531. A Latin edition followed a month 
I iter, in September. Bucer was compelled to publish 
the confession in order to put an end to false representa- 
tions of its character; but his own persistent efforts in 
behalf of union between the Protestant churches con- 
tributed to subordinate it to the Saxon confession. In 
1 532 the Strasburgers consented to subscribe the .4 uyus- 
tana , though with the express understanding that the 
'Tetrapolitana should be regarded as their proper sym- 
bol. Penally, when Bucer was dead and Martyr (q. v.) 
was gone from Strasburg, a rigid Lutheranism took pos- 
session of the city. An attempted reprint of the first 
edition of the Tetrapolitana by Sturm in 1580 was pre- 
vented by a decree of the council. 'The last edition, 
which includes the Confutation and Apology , appeared, 
so far as is known, at Zweibriicken in 1604. 

P'or the literature and editions, see Niemever, Collec- 


Mark (vi, 14, 22 sq.). Luke, as might he expected, in- 
variably adheres to the formal title which would be 
recognised bv Gentile readers. This Herod is described 
by the last-named evangelist (iii. 1) as “tetrarch of 
Galilee;” but his dominions, which were bequeathed to 
him by his father, Herod the Great, embraced the dis- 
trict of Ponca beyond the Jordan (Josephus, Ant. xvii, 
8, l): this bequest was confirmed by Augustus (IPor, 
ii, 6, 3). After the disgrace and banishment of Anti- 
pas. his tetrarchy was added by Caligula to the king- 
dom of Ilerod Agrippa 1 {Ant. xviii, 7. 2). See Hkkoi> 
Antipas. 

2. Herod Philip (the son of Ilerod the Great and 
Cleopatra, not the husband of llerodias), who is said by 
Luke (iii, 1) to have been “tetrarch of Itunea and of 
the region of Trachonitis.” Josephus tells us that his 
father bequeathed to him Gaulonitis, 'Trachonitis, and 
Paneas {Ant. xvii, 8, 1 ), and that his father’s bequest 


TETRASTYLE 


296 


TEXT 


was confirmed by Augustus, who assigned to him Ilata- 
nam, I raehonitis, and Anranitis. with certain parts about 
Jamnia belonging to the “bouse of Zenodorus” ( War, 
ii, t>, 3). Accordingly, tbe territories of Philip extended 
eastward from tbe Jordan to t he wilderness, and from 
the borders of lYrtva northward to Lebanon and tbe 
neighborhood of Damascus. After the death ol Philip 
bis tetrarchy was added to tbe province of Syria by Ti- 
berius {Ant. xviii. 4, t>), and subsequently conferred by 
Caligula on Herod Agrippa 1, with the title of king (ibid. 
xviii. d. 10). See Ih-:ium A<;uirr.\ 1; Hkkod Pim.ti* I. 

3. Lysanias. who is said (Luke iii, 1) to have been 
“tetrarch of Abilene,” a small district surrounding tbe 
town of Ahila, in tbe fertile valley of the llarada or 
Chrvsorrboas, between Damascus and the mountain- 
range of Atttilihanus. See Aiiu.ok, There is some 
difficulty in tixing the limits of this tetrarchy, and in 
identifying the person of the tetrarch. See Lysanias. 
We learn, however, from Josephus (.Htf. xviii, 0, 10; 
xix, 5, 1) that a Lysanias had been tetrarch of Ahila be- 
fore the time of Caligula, who added this tetrarchy to 
the dominions of llerod Agrippa I -an addition which 
was continued by the emperor Claudius. — Smith. 

Tetrastyle (rfrp«<TruXov),a name given to the pe- 
riphery of the area or court be- 
tween the porch and the church 
building proper in ancient 
times. This court was with- 
out any covering except that 
each side had porticos or clois- 
ters, built upon columns. In the 
porch or in the porticos stood 
the tirst class of penitents to 
beg the prayers of the faithful 
as they went, into the chureh. 

Tetzel, Johann, the noto- 
rious Dominican monk whose 
shameless traffic in indulgences 
impelled Luther to take the tirst 
step towards the Keformation, 
was born and reared at Leip- 
sic, where his father, Johann “■ 

Tietze, pursued the business of 
goldsmith. In J4.S7 Tetzel received tbe degree of bach- 
dor of philosophy, having distinguished himself in tbe 
examination above all tbe other competitors. lie pos- 
sessed an imposing figure, a sonorous voiee, ami consid- 
erable skill in dialectics and oratory, and was accord- 
ingly selected to preach the indulgence connected with 
the year of jubilee, after be had associated himself with 
the Dominican fraternity in his native town, and had 
displayed great zeal in his monastic duties, lie en- 
tered on tlie traffic in indulgences in 1502, and prose- 
cuted it to his own great pecuniary advantage and 
equal notoriety, making use of even blasphemies and 
obscenities to enforce his appeals for money. Nor was 
he more circumspect with regard to his conduct. The 
drinking-rooms of taverns were favorite plaeos of resort 
in which to ply bis trade; be permitted himself to com- 
mit. crimes of violence; and an adulterous connection 
with the wife of a citizen led to his being sentenced to 
death by drowning at Innspruck. Having been par- 
doned, and, after a time, liberated from imprisonment, 
be resumed bis traffic, and became, if possible, more bold 
and shameless than before. 

When pope Leo X appointed commissaries for tbe 
sale of indulgences for the alleged purpose of obtaining 
funds with which to complete the editiee of St. Peter’s 
at Lome, Tetzel was made an under-commissary, lie 
held a special concession from tbe emperor for the pros- 
ecution *>f lii>. business, and after a time obtained a papal 
brief permitting him to sell indulgences everywhere in 
Germany. To these advantages be added that of being 
made an inquisitor. In 1517 be began to issue letters 
of indulgence in his own name, having previously acted 
as the agent of archbishop Albert of Mayencc. lie pro- 



Tct vast vie. 

. Church ; b. Outer porch ; 
Court; dd. Tetrastyle. 


I nounced absolutions, for money, from the most heinous 
1 crimes, without regard to repentance and with the as- 
surance of complete exemption from the tires of purga- 
tory. His peculiarly impudent and frivolous bearing 
shocked all who possessed intelligence, wit bout at all 
restraining his conduct, until be arrived on the borders 
of Saxony. At this point of Tetzel’s progress Luther 
was made aware of the hurtful consequences of his op- 
erations through the confessional, and at once denounced 
the Dominican's business from the pulpit. Tetzel re- 
plied, ami Luther drew up the famous Ninety-jive Theses. 

. which Tetzel, for his part, burned in the market-place of 
J iiterbock. He then obtained tbe degree of licentiate 
1 and doctor of theology from Frankfort -on-the-Oder, in or- 
der to combat Luther from a more favorable position, and 
be enlisted the. services of Wimpina, rector of that uni- 
versity. in bis cause. The latter drew up 100 theses 
antagonistic to those of Luther, which were in turn 
burned by tbe students at Wittenberg, and afterwards 
fifty additional theses, upon which Tetzel disputed in 
January, 1518. 

! The. dispute had in the meantime excited attention 
in Lome, and aroused the conviction that more positive 
measures must be employed to preserve tbe authority 
of tbe Church. Tbe negotiations of Cajetan with Lu- 
ther had failed, and the legate Miltitz was sent to Sax- 
ony to manage the affair. Having arrived at Alten- 
' berg, the legate cited Tetzel to appear before him; but 
( the latter declined to obey, on tbe ground that the jour- 
ney would involve His life in danger at the hands of 
Luther’s adherents. He appeared, however, on the re- 
I peated summons of the legate, after the latter had 
reached Leipsic; and, having been found guilty of im- 
moralities and shameless conduct, was harsh I}” repri- 
manded and threatened with the anger of the pope and 
j expulsion from his order. lie wished to dee from the 
I country in order to avoid the dangers which he now 
saw to be threatening his peace, but sickened before be 
could execute his purpose, and died in the Dominican 
convent at Leipsic in July, 1519. Luther pitied t Ho 
man in his wretchedness, and forwarded him a letter of 
consolation. The statement that Tetzel died of the 
plague is without support. 

Literature. — Cyprian, Frid. Myconii Hist. Reform. 
etc. (Lips. 1718); Lose her, Yollst. Ref.- A eta u. J)ocu- 
mewta (ibid. 1720), i, 415; tbe works and letters of Lu- 
ther as gathered by Walch, De Wette, etc. ; Hechtius, 
Vita Jo. Tezelii (Wittenb. 1717); Mayer, Diss.de Jo. 

\ Tezelio (Vitemb. 1717); Kapp, Disp. JJist.de Nommllis 
Indulgent. Qiuest. S( ec. AT et AT/ (Lips. 1720); and 
; Fxereit. in Ambros. Altamur. Elogium Joh. Tezelii (ibid. 

1721); Kappen, Schauplutz des Tetzclischen A blasxkrams , 
j etc. (ibid. 1720), and Fa mm lung einiger Schrifttn iibtr 
I d. A Mass, etc. (ibid. 1721); Vogel. Leben . . . Joh. 77- 
j tzel's (ibid. 1717, 1727) ; Deutsche Ditcher u. Schrijhn , pt. 
viii; Hofmann, Lebensbeschveibuvg . , . TetztPs (cd. 
! Poppe, ibid. 1844); Seidemaun. Carl r. Miltifz (Dresd. 
1N44) ; id. Luther's Brief e , ete. (IJerl. 1850), p. 10, 18, 099 ; 
Grone, Tetzel u. Luther, etc. (Soest, 1853). — Herzog, JleaU 
Encyklop. s, v. 

Texerants. A local name given to the Albi- 
oknses (q. v.) in those districts ol Southern France 
where the members of that wide-spread sect were most- 
ly found among the weavers — “ ab nsu texendi” (Ek- 
bert, A dr. Cathar. in Bill. Max. l.ugd. xxiii, 001). See 
PJunt, Diet, of Sects , s. v. 

Text. The application of tbe word text to the 
Word of God is derived from the Latin. From the sim- 
ilarity between spinning and weaving, and tbe art of 
composition, both in prose and verse, the Latin authors 
applied to the latter several expressions proper to the 
former. Horace says, “ Tcnui deducta peemata flo and 
I Cicero uses tbe terms texere orationem and contexere 
carmen. Among later Roman writers, textus occurs often 
in the sense of a piece or composition ; and, by excel- 
I lence, came to denote tbe Word of God, just as the word 


TEXT OF SCRIPTURE 


297 


THACIIER 


Scriptura did. The meaning of the words text and 
gloss may be ascertained from the method of writing 
the Scriptures before the art of printing was invented. 
The following may be taken as a specimen : 


Non novit lux 
tenebnts. lion 
aspicit, quns si 
aspiceret, tene- 
brar nou easeut. 


(Matt, vii, 23.) 

Et tune contitebor illis quia 

in nulla npprobavi, seJ reprobavi. 

liiiiiquaiii novi vos. dis- 

cedite a me omnes qui opcra- 
qniii 

non hos novit, ergo eos, qui mandata 
ejus custodiunt 

mini iniquitatem. 


qmopernmini, 
non dicit, qui 
opernti estis, 
ne tollat poeni- 
tentiain, sed 
qui injudicio 
licet non ha- 
beatis facnlta- 
tein peccandi 
tanien babetis 
affectum. 


The sentences at the sides are the gloss; the middle, 
which is in larger type, is the text ; and between the 
lines of that is put the interlinear gloss, in which place 
a translation, or version, in some ancient manuscripts in 
the Cottonian and other libraries, is sometimes inserted. 
The text here means the Word of God, as opposed to 
the gloss ; and because the text was usually written in 
a large and strong hand, hence such writing was called 
text-hand. l\y gloss was generally meant a commen- 
tary or exposition taken out of the Latin fathers; but 
afterwards it came to signify any exposition or larger 
commentary, lienee our English phrase, to put a gloss 
on anything, that is, a favorable construction; gloss, a 
shining outside; and to gloze. to Hatter. — Farrar, Eccles. 
Diet. s. v'. 


TEXT of Scripture. This term is used to signify 
a portion of the text; i.e. a short sentence out of Script- 
ure, used either as the groundwork of a discourse from 
the pulpit, or brought forward to support an argument 
or in proof of a position. The custom of taking a text 
for a sermon is probably eoeval with that of preaching 
set discourses; and the use of texts as authority in doc- 
trinal points is of the very essence of true theology, and 
was ever the custom even of those who, professing the 
name of Christians, denied the truth of Christ. One 
must therefore be on his guard against receiving ev- 
erything for which a text is quoted, not accepting it 
as proof until its true sense is known; “otherwise, so 
many sentences, so many authorized falsehoods.” In 
the application of a text we should always consider its 
meaning in the passage with which it is connected, else 
we may be putting forward as truth what is in fact but 
an authorized falsehood; we should also guard against 
the practice of taking a text from Scripture in a sense 
which, however sound and true, is not that of the pas- 
sage itself, as, for instance, “Hear the Church,” em- 
ployed as if it were a precept, in the imperative mood. 
The non-observance of the latter caution has a tendency 
to lead others to the neglect of the former. 

Textus is a technical term for the book of the Gos- 
pels as used at the Christian sacrifice. Copies of the 
Gospels, richly illuminated, and bound in gold and sil- 
ver, are often exposed on the high-altars of Continental 
churches. Sometimes they are kept in shrines, and only 
brought out for use in the mass at the highest and most 
important festivals. Ileferenees to such exiat in large 
numbers in early writers, and many remarkable exam- 
ples are preserved in the sanetuaries on the Continent, 
two of which, at Aix-la-Chapelle and Mayenee, are known 
to antiquaries. Numerous rieh examples are reckoned 
up among the treasures of old St. Paul’s in London, Lin- 
coln Minster, and Salisbury Cathedral. That in the 
wood-cut at head of next column is from an early Flem- 
ish specimen. See Lee, Gloss, of IAinrg. Terms , s. v. 

Textus Receptus (i. e. the received text ), a phrase 
generally employed bv critics to denote the currently 
accepted text of the Greek Testament. This is usually 
considered to be that of the Elzevirs, especially the 
edition of 1633, the preface of which contains the ex- 
pression “ Editionem omnibus acceptam denuo doetorum 
oeulis snbjeeimus,” referring to the edition of which 
that was a reprint. The most commonly printed text, 
hqwever, is that of Stevens, usually Mills’s edition. 



Illumination of an Aucieut Textus , or Book of the Gospels. 

Sometimes the phrase textus receptus is in like manner, 
extended to the Masoretie text of the Hebrew Bible, 
especially Van der Ilooght’s edition, which has been re- 
printed by Hahn. See Criticism, Biblical,. 

Tezcatlipoca {Shining Mirror ), the chief of the 
thirteen greater gods of the ancient Mexicans. On the 
monuments and in the paintings he is often represented 
as encircled by the disk of the sun. Lord Kingsbor- 
ough {Antiquities of Mexico) states that “all the attri- 
butes and powers which were assigned to Jehovah by 
the Hebrews w T ere also bestowed upon Tezcatlipoca by 
the Mexicans.” Mr. Hardwick, however, inclines to the 
belief that this deity was merely the deified impersona- 
tion of the generative powers of nature, and as such his 
highest type was the sun. A festival in his honor was 
held annually in May, when a young and beautiful per- 
son was sacrificed, and the heart of the victim, still 
warm and palpitating, was held up towards the sun, 
then thrown down before the image of the god, while 
t he people bowed in adoration. — Gardner, Faiths of the 
I Vo rid, s. v. 

Thaborium {Qafid>piav or Ntrapoptyiomc, Test tun 
Transjigvrationis, s. Patefactionis Christi ), the Feast, of 
the Transfiguration of Christ. It was exalted to a feast 
of universal observance by pope Calixtus III in 1157, the 
day assigned to it being August 6. The ancient Church 
had not altogether ignored, but none the less greatly 
neglected, its observance. The purpose of its modern 
revival was the commemoration, first, of the transfigura- 
tion of Christ, and, second, of the defeat of the Turks at 
the siege of Belgrade in 1456. See Augnsti, Christi . A /•- 
chdologie (Leips. 1820), iii, 292 sq. ; Herzog, Real-Ency- 
klop. s. v. 

Thacher, George, D.D., a Congregational minis- 
ter, was born in Hartford, Conn., July 25, 1817. II is ear- 
ly education was received at Hopkins Grammar-sehool. 
Hartford. He was graduated from Yale College in 1840, 
and in the same year entered Yale Theological Semina- 
ry, w'here, after a full three years’ course of study, In' 
w'as regularly graduated in 1843. His first pastorate 
was at Derby, Conn., where he went in June, 1843; on 
Jan. 4, 1844, he was ordained, preaching there until 
Oet. 10, 1848, when he was dismissed. lie next re- 
ceived and accepted a call to Nantucket, Mass., where 
he was installed Nov. 14, 1848, and remained until 
May 14, J850, when he was dismissed to the pastorate 
of the Allen Street Presbyterian Church, New York 
city, where he was installed May 26, 1850, and dis- 
missed Oct. 9, 1854. lie was then successively in- 


298 


THACHER 


TIT AC II Ell 


stalled at the First Church, Meriden, Conn., Nov. 16, ! 
IS54. dismissed Sept. IS, I860; Keokuk, lo.. Oct. 30, 
l«s<;n, dixnissed April 8, 1867. At this latter date he 
went to Kurope, where lie spent a few mouths, Ke- 
niruing to New York in 1808, he supplied Mercer Street 
Church from May to October of the same year, lie 
was then acting pastor at Waterloo, Io., from October, 
]m;,s. to March. 1871. In 1871 he was elected president 
of the State l T ni verity of Iowa, in which position he 
remained until June, 1877. lie was then, from 1877 to 
1878, acting pastor at Iowa City. In 1871 he received j 
the honorary degree of L>.L>. from Iowa and Knox col- 
leges. Me died in Hartford of disease of the brain and 
heart, Dee. *27, 1878. Dr. Thacher published Tiro Ser- 
, non.>! at Meriden, one of which was suggested by the 
career of John Brown: — 1 Lennon: “A T o Fellowship 
with Slavery” (Keokuk, 1861) : Inaugural Address, as 
president of Iowa University (1871). (W. P. S.) 

Thaclier, Peter (1), a Congregational minister, 
was horn at Salem, Mass., in 1651, and was the son of 
Kev. Thomas Thacher, tirst pastor of the Old South 
Church, Boston. lie graduated at Harvard College in 
1671, and was tutor there lor several years following, 
lie then went to England to prepare himself more fully 
lor his profession, hut his friend Samuel Danfort h 
dying shortly after, Mr. Thacher returned to America, 
lie refused several tempting offers to enter the Estab- 
lished Church: and in September, 1681, was ordained 
pastor of the Church in Milton, Mass. Here be la- 
bored effectively until a week before bis death, which 
occurred Dec. 17, 1727. “ lie was a person of eminent 

sanctity, of a most courteous and complaisant behavior, 
cheerful, affable, humble, and free of speech to the mean- 
est be met.” lie published several theological trea- 
tises and single sermons (1708-23), for a list of which 
see Sprague, Annals of the A mcr. Pulpit , i, 19G. 

Thaclier, Peter (2), a Congregational minister, the 
son of Thomas Thacher, Jim., and grandson of Thomas 
Thacher, the first minister of flic Old South Church, 
was horn in Boston in 1677. He graduated at Harvard 
in 1696, and immediately after his graduation began to 
leach at 1 1 at field, and is supposed to have studied di- 
vinity under the Kev. William Williams of that place. 

< )n Nov. 26, 1707, he was ordained pastor of the Church 
at Weymouth, where he remained between eleven and 
twelve years. In January, 1720, lie returned to Boston 
and was installed pastor of the New North Church as 
colleague with Mr. Webb. Here he labored until bis 
•leatli, Feb. 26, 1738. Mr. Thaclier published an Elec- 
tion Sermon (1726), and a Sermon on the Death of Airs, 
dee (1730). See Sprague, Annals of the Amer . Pulpit , 
i. 266. 

Thacher, Peter (3), a Congregational minister, 
was born in 1688, and graduated at Harvard College in 
17(16. He w.is ordained pastor of the Church in Mid- 
dlehorough. Mass., in 1709, and died there April 22, 
1711. He published an account of the revival of re- 
ligion in Middleborough, in Prince’s Christian History. 
See Allibone. I Hot. of Jirit. and Amer. A uihors, s. v. 

Thacher. Peter (4), D.D., an eminent Congrega- 
tional minister, was horn at Milton, Mass., March 21, 
1752. He graduated at Harvard College in 1769, and 
was ordained pastor Sept. 19, 1770, at Malden, Mass., 
from which charge he was dismissed to allow his ac- 
ceptance of a call from Brattle Street Church, Boston. 
Dec. 8, 1784. He entered upon his new charge Jail. 12, 
178.5, and there continued until his health failed. He 
died in Savannah Dee. 10. 1802. He was an active 
member of the convention which met in Boston in 1780 
to frame a state constitution, and opposed the reten- 
tion of the governor’s office. The University of Edin- 
burgh made him D.D.in 1791. lie published, ,1« Ora* 
tion against Standing A rmies (1776) : — Three Sermons in 
Proof of the Eternity of Future Punishments (1782): — | 
Observations on the. State of the Clergy in Xew England , 
with Strictures upon the Power of Dismissing them 


Usurped by some Churches (1783): — A Reply to Strict- 
ures upon the Preceding (1788) : — Memoirs of Dr. Boyls- 
ton (1789): — and several occasional sermons. See 
Sprague. .1 mails of the Amer. Pulpit , i. 718. 

Thacher, Samuel Cooper, a Unitarian preacher 
and son of Peter (4), was horn in Boston, Mass., in 1785. 
lie graduated at Harvard College in 1801, and immedi- 
ately after his graduation commenced his theological 
studies under the direction of Kev. William E. dimming. 
In the early part of 1805 Mr. Thaclier took charge of 
the Boston Latin Grammar-school. hut in the summer 
of 1806 was chosen to be the travelling companion of 
Kev. Mr. Buckminster. Kcturuing in September, 1807, 
be was shortly after appointed librarian of Harvard 
College, and entered on bis duties in 1808. lie prose- 
cuted bis theological studies at Cambridge, and suc- 
ceeded Dr. Kirkland as pastor of the New South Church, 
May 15, 181 1, retaining this connection until his death, 
at M culms. France, Jan. 2, 1818. II is principal publi- 
cations were, Apology for Rational and Evangelical 
Christianity , a discourse (Bost. 1815, 8vo): — Unity of 
God , a sermon (Liverpool, 1816, 8vo; 2d Amer. ed. 
Worcester. 1817, 8vo) : — Sermons , with a J/< moir by Kev. 
F. W. P. Greenwood (Bost. 1824, 8vo): — Evidence Xee- 
essary to Establish the Doctrine of the Trinity (1828, 
12mo). See Allibone. Diet, of Brit, and A mer. . 1 uihors , 
s, v. ; Sprague, A nnals of the A mcr. Pulpit, viii, 435 sq. 

Thaclier, Thomas, a Congregational minister, 
was born at Salisbury, England, May 1, 1620. lie 
declined the offer of his fat her to send him to an Eng- 
lish university, preferring to emigrate to America. On 
June 4, 1635, he arrived at Boston, Mass., and soon al- 
ter entered the family of the Kev. Charles Chauney, of 
Scituate. He was ordained pastor of the Weymouth 
Church, Jan. 2, 1644, where he labored for more than 
twenty years. He then removed to Boston, where he 
| preached occasionally, but was principally engaged in 
I the practice of medicine, till he was chosen first pastor 
I of the Third (Old South) Church. His installation 
took place Feb. 16, 1669, and after a happy ministry he 
died Oct. 15, 1678. He wrote, A Brief Pule to Guide 
the Common People of Xew England how to Order Them- 
selves and Theirs in the Small Pocks or Measles (Bost. 
1677 ; 2d ed. 1702), said to be the first modieal tract pub- 
lished in New England: — A Fast of God's Ch using, a 
sermon (1674, 4to; 1678), See Sprague, Annals of the 
A mer. Pulpit , i, 126. 

Thacher Tyler, a Congregational minister, was 
born at Princeton, 31 ass., Sept. II. 1801. ‘‘Ilis ances- 
tors for several generations, both in this country and 
in England, had been Puritan ministers, some of them 
of high distinction. Among them were Kev. Peter 
Thacher, of Salisbury, England : Kev. Thomas Thaclier. 
of Boston, Mass.; Kev. Peter Thaclier, of Milton, Mass, ; 
and Kev. Peter Thaclier, of Attleborough. Mass. In all 
not less than nine generations of the family have had 
representatives in the Christian ministry either in Eng- 
land or in America.” The subject of this sketch was a 
graduate of Brown University in the class of 1824, and 
was licensed to preach April 26, 1825, and ordained as 
an evangelist in Wrenthain, Mass., Dec. 4, 1827. lie 
did not permanently settle in the ministry until May 
14. 1834. when lie became colleague pastor with Kev. 
Jonathan Grant over the Congregational Church at 
Hawley, Mass., where he remained about nine years 
(1834-43) and then returned to Wrenthain. For sever- 
al years lie supplied the Church in North Wrentliam, 
until he moved to California in f851. Here he remain- 
ed the rest of his life, teaching and preaching, and en- 
gaged in such employments as suited his tastes. “ He 
was distinguished among his brethren for his theolog- 
ical and literary attainments, and even in the wilder- 
ness where he made his home he kept up his studies in 
the Hebrew and Greek languages and in philosophy. 
He was a man of quiet, scholarly, and devout habits, 
and much given to the study of nature and the proh- 


THACKER 


290 


THAMER 


Jems of theology.” Mr. Thacher died at Cache Creek, 
Cal.. Dec. 4, 18G9. (J.C.S.) 

Thacher, Washington, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born at Attleborough, Mass., Feb. 23. 1794. He re- 
ceived his classical education under the Rev. Lyman 
Richardson; studied theology under the Rev. John 
Truair; was licensed to preach by the Otsego Presby- 
tery in 1821 ; was ordained in 1822; officiated as stated 
supply at Morrisville, N. Y„ 1822-20; was pastor of the 
Church in Jordan, N. Y., 1820-42; resigned his charge 
on account of ill-health; was afterwards a stated supply 
at Eaton, N. Y., three years; was appointed secretary 
and agent of the Central Agency of the American Home 
Missionary Society in July, 1847; and died June 29, 
1850. He was an eminently devout man and an ear- 
nest and effective preacher. (J. L. S.) 

Thaddaei Acta. The mission of Thaddneus to 
king Abgar of Edessa, the correspondence between 
Christ and Abgar, and the picture of Christ which pur- 
ports to have been taken for Abgar are very old tradi- 
tions, first mentioned by Eusebius, Hist. Eccles. i, 13. 
Whether these Acts formed the basis for these traditions 
cannot be decided. Tischendorf has published the Creek 
text from a codex Paris, of the 1 1 th century in his Ada 
A postolorum A pocrypha{ Lips. 1851 ), p. 2(51-205. (P>. P.) 

Thaddasi Evangelism, mentioned in the Deere t. 
tie lasii de Libris A pocryphis (in Jus Canonic um, xv, o'). 
Euless there is an erroneous reading for Matthew , it 
would either belong to the apostle Judas Thaddreus or 
to a Judas belonging to the seventy whom Thomas 
sent to Edessa to king Abgar (Eusebius, Hist. Eccles. 
i, 13; see Fabricius, Codex Apocryphus. i, 13G, 379). 
lint tradition does not determine whether Thaddams 
who was sent to Abgar belonged to the twelve or the 
seventy, on which point Eusebius and Jerome dis- 
agree. See Eusebius, Hist. Ecdes. (ed. Reading), p. 38, 
note 5, G. 

On the correspondence between Abgar and Jesus, 
see especially' Hofmann, Leben Jesu ntich den Apokry- 
phen (Leips. 1851), p. 307 sq. (B. P.) 

Thaddas'us (OaecaToc; Vulg. Thaddceus), a name 
in Mark’s catalogue of the twelve apostles (iii, 18) in 
the great majority of MSS. In Matthew’s catalogue 
(x, 3) the corresponding place is assigned to Daccaiog 
by the Vatican MS. (B), and the Sinaitic (X), and to 
A efifiaiog by the Codex Bezrc (D); while the re- 
ceived text, following the first correction of the Codex 
Kphraemi (C) — where the original reading is doubtful 
— as well as many fragmentary uncial and several cur- 
sive MSS., reads Af/3/3ato£ 6 t7ruc\}]Stig QaSfiaiog. 
We are probably to infer that Aej3iSalog alone is the 
original reading of Matt, x, 3, and iAaddaiog of Mark 
iii, 18 (so Tischendorf ; but Tregclles has Oaddcti og in 
both passages). By these two evangelists the tenth 
place among the apostles is given to Lebbauis or Thad- 
dieus, the eleventh place being given to Simon the 
Canaanite. Luke, in both his catalogues (vi, 15; Acts 
i, 13), places Simon Zelores tenth among the apostles, 
and assigns the eleventh place to AovCag ’laKMj3ov. 
As the other names recorded by Luke are identical with 
those which appear (though in a different, order) in the 
first two gospels, it seems scarcely possible to doubt 
that the three names of Judas, Lebbieus, and Thaddams 
were borne by one and the same person. — Smith. See 
J cm*:; Lebb.eus; Tiiadixei Acta and Evangelium. 

ThaTiash (II eb. Tach'ash , unri, badyer [q. v.] ; 
Sept. Toyoc ; Josephus, T avaoc. A nt. i, G, 5 ; A’Mlg. Tha- 
has), third named of the four sons of Nahor by his con- 
cubine Reumah (Gen. xxii, 24). B.C. eir. 2050. 

Thalemann, Christoph Wilhelm, a Lutheran 
divine, was born in 1727 at Weberstiidt, in Thuringia, 
and died, as doctor and professor of theology, at Leipsic, 
March 10, 1778. Tie wrote, Tructatus de Xube super 
1 rat Foederis Commento Jiulaico (Lips. 1752) : — Trada- 
tus de Philonis et Josephi .4 uctoritate in Historia Rituum 


Sacrorvm (ibid. 1771 ) : — De Sensu Veri et Falsi hi Inter - 
pretutione. Librorum Sucrorum (ibid. 1775 ): — Dissertatio 
de Ernditione Pauli Apostoli dudaica non Gruca (ibid. 
1709): — 1 'ersio Latina Ecanyeliornm Matth., Lnc., et 
Joh.,itemque A ct. App.. edita a K.Ch.Tittmann (Berlin, 
1780). See Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 419 ; Winer, Ilundbuch 
der theol. Literatur , i, 138. IG5, 5G9, 89G; ii, 799. (B. P.) 

Thales, a celebrated Greek philosopher, and the 
first of the seven wise men of Greece, was born at 
Miletus about B.C. <>40. After acquiring the usual 
learning of his own country, he travelled into Egypt 
and several parts of Asia to learn astronomy, geometry, 
mystical divinity, natural knowledge, or philosophy, 
etc. Returning to his own country, he communicated 
the knowledge he had acquired to many disciples, 
among the principal of whom were Anaximander, 
Anaximenes, and Pythagoras. He was the founder of 
the Ionian sect of philosophers. Laertes and several 
other writers agree that he was the father of the Greek 
philosophy, being the first that made any researches 
into natural science and mathematics. His doctrine 
is that water is the principle of which all the bod- 
ies in the universe are composed ; that the world is 
the work of God; and that God sees the most secret 
thoughts in the heart of man. He taught that in 
order to live well we ought to abstain from what we 
find fault with in others; that bodily felicity consists 
in health; and that of the mind in knowledge. That 
the most ancient of beings is God, because be is uncre- 
ated; that nothing is more beautiful than the world, 
because it, is the work of God; nothing more extensive 
than space, quicker than spirit, stronger than necessity, 
wiser than time. He used to observe that we ought 
never to say that to any one which may be turned to 
our prejudice; and that we should live with our friends 
as with persons that may become our enemies. In ge- 
ometry Thales was a considerable inventor as well as 
an improver; while in astronomy his knowledge and 
improvements were very considerable. His morals 
were as just as bis mathematics well-grounded, and his 
judgment in civil affairs equal to either. lie died 
about B.C. 550. Concerning his writings, it remains 
doubtful whether he left any behind him; at least, 
none have come down to us. See Chalmers, Bioy. 
Diet. s. v. ; Smith, Diet, of Class. Bioy. s. v. 

Tha'mah (Heb. Te'mach, TY2J-). in pause Ta'mach , 
n^D, laughter [Gesenius], or combat [Fiirst] ; Sept. 
Oejua ; Vulg. Them a ), one of the Nethinim whose “ chil- 
dren” returned from Babylon with Zerubbabel (Ezra ii, 
53 ; “ Tamali,” Neh. vii, 55). ^>.C. ante 53G. 

Tha'mar (Matt, i, 3). See Tamar. 

Thamer, Theobald, a theological agitator in the 
time of the Reformation in Germany. He was a na- 
tive of Rossheim, in Alsace, and studied at Wittenberg 
under Luther and Melancthon, taking the degree of 
master in 1539. lie had been supported while a student 
by the landgrave Philip of Hesse, who wished to train 
the youth for serviee in his employment; and after a 
time spent as professor of theology at Frankfort-on-the- 
Oder, Thamer responded to the landgrave’s call and be- 
came professor and preacher at Marburg. To the cha- 
grin of his prince, however, he showed himself a rigid 
Lutheran, whose influence was directly opposed to the 
compromises which Philip hoped to bring about be- 
tween the contending evangelical factions. In the 
Smalcald war Thamer served in the field as a chaplain, 
lie there saw reason to lose faith in the cause of the 
Reformation, and to discover the occasion of all the 
troubles of the situation in the Lutheran doctrine of 
justification; and on his return to Marburg he assailed 
that doctrine in the pulpit and the lecture- room, lie 
emphasized the ethical side of Christianity, and sepa- 
rated it from the doctrinal side, thus gradually coming 
to occupy rationalistic ground. The government dealt 
with him mildly, at first transferring him to Cassel, and 


TIIAMXATIIA 


300 


THANKSGIVING-DAY 


then entering into extended negotiations with him ; 
but as he persisted in disturbing the peaee of the 
Church, he was dismissed from all his offices Aug. 15, 
151th lie secured a position as preacher at Frank fort - 
oii-tlie-Mnin, whence he continued to asperse the Lu- 
theran doctrines, until he exhausted the patience o! his 
new patrons, lie then turned to the landgrave with 
the oiler to defend his views before competent judges, 
and be actually visited Melancthon, dresser, Sehnepf, 
and Ihdliuger. No settlement was reached in their 
discussions, however, and Thatner was dismissed from 
the dominions of Hesse, lie. went to Italy and in 1557 
entered the L'omish Church. In time he was made 
professor of theology at Freiburg. lie died May 23, 
15G9. See Neander, Theobald 'Thinner , etc. (Herb 1812) ; 
id. Hint, of Dogmas, p. (53 L ; IVstalo/.zi, Ballinger, p. 101 
s(j.; Sclienkel, Ii>se« </. Protestant hums, i. Ill sip ; 1 loch- 
lmth, De Th. Thameri Vita et Script is (Mark 1858), and 
the article in Niedner’s Zeitsch.f hist. Theoloyie, 1801, 
No. 2. — Herzog, Ileal- Em yklop. s. v. 

Tham'natha (»/ tfafivaSa; Vulg. Thamnata),- one 
of the cities of Jiukva fortified bv Baechides after he 
had driven the Maccabees over the Jordan (1 Macc. ix, 
50); no doubt an ancient Timnatii, possibly the present 
Tibneh, half-wav between Jerusalem and the Mediter- 
ranean. Whether the name should be joined to Phara- 
thoni, which follows it. or whether it should be indepen- 
dent, is a matter of doubt. — Smith. See Piiauatiiox. 

Thane, Danif.l, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Scotland and received bis classical education at 
Aberdeen. After coming to America, he entered the 
Princeton Theological Seminary, from which he grad- 
uated in 1718. lie was ordained by the New York 
Presbytery and installed pastor at Connecticut Farms, 
N. J., Aug. 20, 1750. lu 1754 he was sent by the Syn- 
od of New York to Virginia and the Carolina?. Pam- 
sey, in his History of South Carolina , says that he 
preached on the fork of Broad and Saluda rivers, where 
there were only six families. These were driven away 
by the Indians between the years 1755 and 17G3, but 
they returned and set up congregations, served in after- 
times by Dr. Joseph Alexander and others. In 1808 
there was a flourishing congregation, with a meeting- 
house on the spot where Thane preached, in 1754, un- 
der a tree, lie was dismissed in 1757, and left at lib- 
erty to join the Presbytery of Newcastle or Lewes, 
lie was settled in the united congregations of New- 
castle and Christina Bridge, where he remained until 
17(53, when the pastoral relation was dissolved, lie 
died soon after. l>r. llosack, in his Memoir of De Witt 
('l inton, says that this eminent man was under Thane’s 
tuition, and that he was minister of New Windsor, N. Y. 
(W. P.S.) 

Thank-offering (UTitf nzT, Lev. xxii, 29; or 
briefly PiTTi. 2 Oliron. xxix, 3; Psa. Ivi, 13; Jer. xvii, 
2(5; literally praise or thanksgiving, as often rendered), 
a variety of the peace-offering (hence the full expres- 
sion rvn nzt, Lev. vii, 13, 15), the other 

two kinds being the votive offering, specifically such 
HZ7), and the ordinary free-will offering (HZ* 
nzi2). As its name implies, it was a bloody or ani- 
mal sacrifice, and its specific character was the praise 
which it embodied towards God. Like all the other 
divisions of the peace-offering, it was entirely volun- 
tary, being placed in the light of a privilege rather 
than a duty. It is intimately associated with the 
‘‘ meat-offering” (rp v.). 

The nature of the victim was left to the sacrifices; 
it might, be male or female, of I lie flock or of the herd, 
provided that it was unblemished; the hand of the 
sacrifieer was laid on its head, the fat burned, and the 
blood sprinkled as in the burnt-offering; of the flesh, 
the breast and right shoulder (the former of which the 
offerer was to heave and the latter to wave) were given 


to the priest; the rest belonged to the sacrifieer as a 
sacrificial feast (1 Cor. x, 18), to be eaten, either on the 
day of sacrifice or on the next day (Lev. vii, 11-18,29- 
34), except in the case of the firstlings, which belonged 
to the priest alone (xxiii, 20). The eating of the flesh 
of the meat-offering was considered a partaking of the 
“table of the Lord;” and on solemn occasions, as at the 
dedication of the Temple of Solomon, it was conducted 
on an enormous scale, and became a great national feast, 
especially at periods of unusual solemnity or rejoicing; 
as at the first inauguration of the covenant ( Exod. 
xxiv, 5), at the first consecration of Aaron and of the 
tabernacle (Lev. ix. 18), at the solemn reading of the 
law in Canaan by Joshua (Josh, viii, 31), at the acces- 
sion of Saul (1 Sam. xi. 15), at the bringing of t lie ark 
to Mount Zion by David (2 Sam. vi, 17), at the conse- 
cration of the Temple, and thrice every year afterwards, 
by Solomon (1 Kings viii, G3 ; ix, 25), and at the great 
Passover of llezekiah (2 Chron. xxx. 22). In two cases 
only (Judg. xx, 2G; 2 Sam. xxiv, 25) are these or any 
other kind of peace-offering mentioned as offered with 
burnt -offerings at a time of national sorrow and fasting. 
Here their force seems to have been precatory rather 
than eneharistic. The key to the understanding of 
this is furnished by 1 Iengstenberg : “ To give thanks for 
grace already received is a refined way of begging for 
more.” As prayer is founded on the divine promise, it 
“may be expressed in the way of anticipated thanks.” 

Among thank-offerings, in the most extensive sense, 
might be reckoned the presentation of the first-born 
(Exod. xiii. 12, 13) ; the first-fruits, including the fruit 
of all manner of trees, honey, oil, and new wine (Lev. 
xxiii, 10-13; Numb, xviii, 12 ; 1 Chron. ix. 29; Nell, x, 
37 ; 2 Chron. xxxii, 5); the second tithe (Dent, xii, 17, 
18; xiv, 23); and the lamb of the Passover (Exod. xii, 
3-17). Leaven and honey were excluded from all of- 
ferings made by fire (Lev. ii, 11); and salt was required 
in all (ii, 13; Mark ix, 49; Col. iv. G). So also the He- 
brews were forbidden to offer anything vile and con- 
temptible (Deut. xxiii, 18; Mai. i, 7, 8). See Peace- 
offeiuxg. 

Thanksgiving, the act of giving thanks or ex- 
pressing gratitude for favors or mercy received. It im- 
plies, according to Dr. Barrow (Sermons, i, ser. 8, 9), (1) a 
right apprehension of the benefits conferred ; (2) a faith- 
ful retention of benefits in the memory, and frequent re- 
flections upon them ; (3) a due esteem and valuation of 
benefits; (4) a reception of those benefits with a willing 
mind, a vehement affection; (5) due acknowledgment 
of our obligations; (G) endeavors of real compensation, 
or, as it respects the Divine Being, a willingness to 
serve and exalt, him; (7) esteem, veneration, and love 
of the benefactor. 

The blessings for which we should be thankful are 

(1) temporal, such as health, food, raiment, rest, etc.; 

(2) spiritual, such as the Bible, ordinances, the Gospel 
and its blessings, as free grace, adoption, pardon, justifi- 
cation, calling, etc.; (3) eternal, or the enjoyment of 
God in a future state; (4) also for all that is past, what 
we now enjoy, and what is promised ; for private and 
public, for ordinary and extraordinary blessings; for 
prosperity, and even adversity, so far as rendered sub- 
servient to onr good. 

The obligation to tliis duty arises (I) from the rela- 
tion we stand in to God; (2) the divine command; (3) 
the promises God has made ; (4) the example of all good 
men ; (5) our unworthiness of the blessings we receive; 
(6) the prospect of eternal glory. Whoever possesses 
any good without giving thanks for it deprives him 
who bestows that good of his glory, sets a bad example 
before others, and prepares a recollection severely pain- 
ful for himself when lie comes in his turn to experience 
ingratitude. See Chalmers, Sermons; Hall, Sermons; 
1 ) wigh t , Theology. — 11 end erson-Buek. 

Tliauksgiving-day, an annual religious festival 
observed in the United States. It owes its origin to 


TIIAYER 


THANKSGIVING SERVICE 301 


the desire of the Puritans for greater simplicity in the 
forms of worship of the Established Church, and a pur- 
pose not to celebrate any of the numerous festival -days 
observed by that Church. An occasional day of thanks- 
giving has been recommended by the civil authorities 
of Europe, and such a day was observed in Leyden, Hol- 
land, Oct. 3, 1575, the first anniversary of the deliver- 
ance of that city from siege. I»c fore the adoption of an 
annual thanksgiving-day, we find mention of several ap- 
pointed for special reasons. After the first harvest at 
Plymouth, in 16*21, Gov. Bradford sent four men out 
fowling, that they “ might after a more special manner 
rejoice together.” In July, 1623, the governor appoint- 
ed a day of thanksgiving for rain, after a long drought, 
and the records show a similar appointment in 1632 be- 
cause of the arrival of supplies from Ireland. There is 
also record of the appointment of days of thanksgiving 
in Massachusetts in 1632, 1633, 1634, 1637, 1638, and 
1639, and in Plymouth in 1651, 1668, 1680 (when the 
form of the recommendation indicates that it had be- 
come an annual custom), 1689, and 1690. The Dutch 
governors of New Netherland in 1644, 1615, 1655, and 
1664, and the English governors of New York in 1755 
and 1760, appointed days of thanksgiving. During the 
1 {evolution, Thanksgiving-day was observed by the na- 
tion, being annually recommended by Congress; but 
there was no national appointment between the general 
thanksgiving for peace in 1784 and 1789, when presi- 
dent Washington recommended a day of thanksgiving 
for the adoption of the constitution. Since that time 
special days have been set apart both by presidents and 
governors until 1864, w hen the present practice w'as 
adopted of a national annual thanksgiving. The presi- 
dent issues an annual proclamation, followed by the 
governors of the several states and mayors of the prin- 
cipal cities. Custom has fixed the time for the last 
Thursday in November. 

Thanksgiving Service. There are various 
modes under the Old Test, of offering thanksgiving. 
Sometimes it was public, sometimes in the family. It 
was frequently accompanied by sacrifices (2 Chron. 
xxix, 31) ami peace-offerings, or offerings of pure de- 
votion, arising from the sentiments of gratitude in the 
offerer's own mind (Lev. vii, 12, 15; Psa. evii, 23 ; cxvi, 
7). It is usually connected with praise, joy, gladness, 
and the voice of melody (Isa. li, 3), or (as Neh. xi, 17) 
with singing and with honor (Kev. vii, 12) ; but occa- 
sionally, if not generally, with supplication (Phil, iv, 6) 
and prayer (1 Tim. ii, 3; Neh. xi, 17). 

In the Book of Common Prayer there are various 
forms of thanksgiving, particidar and general, as espe- 
cially the “General Thanksgiving,” which was added at 
the last, revision, and appointed for daily use, and more 
particularly the “ Office for the Holy Communion.” But 
there are, besides, particular thanksgivings appointed 
for deliverance from drought, rain, famine, war, tumult, 
and pestilence; and there is an entire service of thanks- 
giving for women after childbirth; and certain days on 
which are commemorated great deliverances of the 
Church and nation are marked also with a solemn ser- 
vice of thanksgiving. 

Thanner, Ignaz, a Homan Catholic divine, was 
horn Feb. 9, 1770, at Neumarkt, in Bavaria. In 1802 
lie w’as appointed professor of catcchcties at Salzburg; 
in 1805 professor of philosophy at Landslmt; in 1808 he 
was called to Innspruck, and in 1810 to Salzburg again, 
where he died, May 28, 1856. At first he belonged to 
the Kantian philosophical school, but soon became con- 
verted to that ofSchelling. He wrote, Der Transcen- 
dentulismus in seiner dreifachen Steigerung (Munich, 
1805 ): — Die Idee des Organismus (ibid. 1806): — Hand - 
Inch der Vorbereitung zum selbststdndigen u'issenseh aft- 
lichen Studium (ibid. 1807, 2 vols . ) : — Darstelhmg der 
absoluten Identitatslehre (ibid. 1810 ): — Logische A pho- 
rismen (Salzburg, 1811): — Lehr- vnd Jlundbuch der 
theoretiseken und pruktischen Philosophic (ibid. 1811,2 


vols .): — Wissenschaftliche A phorismen der kathol. Dog - 
matik (ibid. 1816). See Winer, Uandb. der theoL Li- 
terature i, 306; ii, 800; liegensbiu'ger Heal - Encyklop. 
s.v. (B.P.) 

Tha'ra (Luke iii. 34). See Teraii. 

Thar'ra (Vulg. Thant, for the Greek fails here), a 
corrupt form found in the Apocryphal addition to the 
book of Esther (xii, 1) for Teiiesh (q. v.). 

Tliar'shish, a less exact form of Anglicizing the 
word Tarshisu (q. v.), applied in the A. Y. to (a) the 
place (l Kings x, 22; xxii, 48) and (b) the man (1 
Chron. vii, 10). 

Thas'si (0 coral, OmxeriV; Vulg. Thasi, Hassii), the 
surname of Simon the son of Mattathias (1 Maec. ii, 3). 
The derivation of the word is uncertain. Michaelis 
suggests lirnn (Chald.), “ the fresh grass springs up,” 
i. e. “ the spring is come,” in reference to the tranquillity 
first secured during the supremacy of Simon (Grimm, 
Comment, ad loc.). This seems very farfetched. Winer 
( Realtvb. s. v. “ Simon”) suggests a connection with 
Z)^jV\,fervere, as Grotitis (ad loc.) seems to have done 
before him. In Josephus (Ant. xii, 6, 1) the surname is 
written MarSi/t;, v. r. GaSfa OaS/yf. — Smith. See 
Maccabee. 

Thaumatopcei (favparo7roioi), a term applied 
by the early Greek writers to those who pretended to 
w'ork miracles by the pow*er of magic, such as James 
and Jambres, Simon Magus, and Apollonius Tyaiueus. 
See Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. xvi, ch. v, § 7. 

Thaumaturgy. See Miracles, Ecclesiastical. 

Thaxter, Joseph, a Unitarian minister, was born 
at Gingham, Mass., April 23, 1742. He graduated at 
Harvard College in 1768, expecting to enter the medi- 
cal profession, but, deciding upon the ministry, he stud- 
ied theology under Dr. Gay, and began to preach in 
1771. On Jan. 23, 1776, he received a commission as 
chaplain in the army, and probably held that position 
for tw'o or three years. He was installed pastor of the 
Church in Edgarton, Martha’s Vineyard, in 1780. The 
last Sunday that he preached he fell in the pulpit, was 
assisted home, and died July 18, 1827. Mr. Thaxter 
acted as chaplain at the laying of the corner-stone of 
the Bunker Hill monument, July 17, 1825. His only 
publication, so far as known, w*as a Catechism for Sab- 
bath-schools. See Sprague, A muds of the A mer. Pulpit , 
viii. 83. 

Thayer, Elihu, D.D., a Congregational preacher, 
was born at Braintree, Mass., March 29, 1747. He was, 
as a child, very forward in his studies, having read the 
Bible through three times at the age of seven years. 
He entered Princeton College, one year in advance, in 
1766, and graduated in 1769. 11 is theological studies 

were prosecuted partly under Iiev. John Searle, Stone- 
ham, and partly under llev. Air. Weld, Braintree. Li- 
censed to preach, he supplied for nearly a year the church 
in Ncw'buryport. He w'as then (Dec. 18, 1776) set apart 
to take the pastoral care of the Church in Kingston, 
N. H. 1 le was chosen president of the New Hampshire 
Missionary Society in 1801, and continued to hold the 
office till i 8 1 1. lie died April 3, 1S12. A volume of his 
Sermons was published after his deaili (1813. Svo). See 
Sprague, A nnuls of the A mer. Pulpit, ii, 104. 

Thayer, Nathaniel, D.D.. a Unitarian minister, 
w’as born at Hampton, N. 11., July 11, 1769, studied at 
the Phillips Academy, Exeter, and graduated from Har- 
vard College in 1789. lie immediately took charge of 
the grammar-school in Medford, and at the same time 
commenced the study of theology under Dr. Osgood. 
At the end of a year he returned to Cambridge, and 
continued to study under Dr. Tappan, divinity professor 
in the college, lie held the position of tutor in col- 
lege for about a year, and, being licensed to preach, 
spent the greater part of a year at Wilkesharrc, Pa., 
supplying a congregation there. On his return to Mas- 


TI IE A X D1 1 IC O PER ATI OX 302 

saehusetts, he preached to the New South Cluireh, Bos- 
ton, and at Dorchester. He was ordained and installed 
colleague pastor of the Church in Lancaster, Oct. ‘J, 1793. 
The pastor, Lev. Timothy Harrington, lived about two 
years, and at his death 31 r. Thayer succeeded to the sole 
charge of the Church, lie was a man whose services 
were greatly esteemed and frequently employed; Vie 
was a member of no less than 150 ecclesiastical coun- 
cils; preached the Artillery Election sermon in 1798, 
and the annual sermon before tile Legislature of Massa- 
chusetts in 18->3. He received his D.D. in 1817 from 
Harvard. When Lafayette made his tour through the 
United States in 1825, 31 r. Thayer addressed him in be- 
half of the people of Lancaster. Being somewhat debili- 
tated, he, in dune, 1810, set out to travel. He reached 
Boehester on the 22d of that month, retired to rest at his 
usual hour, and died at two o'clock the next morning. 

11 is remains were carried back to Lancaster. 31 r. Thayer 
published a number of sermons and discourses, for a list 
of which see Sprague, A nnals oj the Amer. Pulpit, viii, 

2-1 G sq. 

Tlieandric Operation ( [Qtavcpua) ) tvkpystn), a 
theological term first used in the 7th century, and in- 
tended to express that unity of operation in the two 
natures and the two wills of our Lord Jesus Christ by 
which they act as the nature and will of one invisible 
Person, God and man. It was called a novel term by 
thc Council of Lateran (A.l). G49), and discouraged as 
such in its 15th canon, which speaks of the “heretics” 
who had introduced il(r/)i» Itt' aory 'AtavCpiKy tcai \n)v 
pijaiv), which makes it seem likely that it lias been 
used by some of the 3Ionothelite sect in justification of 
their principles. John Damascene ( De Orthod. Fide, 
eh. Ixvi) thus explains the term : “ The 'Tlieandric oper- 
ation, then, signifies this, that when God became man 
both his human operation was divine, that is, deified, 
and not void of participation in his divine operation, 
and his divine operation was not void of participation 
in his human operation, but either is contemplated in 
connection with the other. And this manner is styled 
‘ periphrasis’ when a person embraces any two things by 
one expression; for as we call the divided cauterizing 
and the in darned incision of a heated knife the same 
thing, but call the incision one operation and the cau- 
terizing another — calling them operations of different 
natures, the cauterizing of tire and the incision of iron 
— so, also, speaking of one Tlieandric operation of Christ, 
we understand of the two natures to be two — the divine 
that of his divinity, and the human that of his humani- 
ty.” !5ce Blunt, Diet . of Thtol. s. v. 

Theatines, an order of regular clergy in the Church 
of Borne, which was founded in the beginning of the lfitb 
century for the purpose of defeating the efforts towards 
n reformation outside the Church by reorganizing the 
clergy, enforcing discipline in the convents, restoring an 
apostolical simplicity of life, and infusing a religious 
spirit into the Church by means of the public worship 
and the sermon. The order was founded by Cajetau of 
Thienc (thence called Order of the Caftans), bishop 
John Peter Caraffa of Thente, subsequently pope Paul 
IV. who was usually called Chieti (hence Chief ines and 
Paulines) and Boniface of Colle. It was confirmed by 
Clement VII in 1521 (June 21). Caraffa was its first 
superior, and his bishopric gave the order its name. 
The members renounced all worldly possessions, and re- 
fused either to laborer beg. depending, instead, on gifts 
which Providence should confer on them. Their num- 
ber was never very considerable; but as they were chief- 
ly of noble rank, the reputation of the order was great, 
and they acquired houses in many cities of Italy, Spain, 
Poland, and Bavaria. 3Iazarin conferred on it, in 1G44, 
t lie only establishment it has been able to secure in 
France. It attempted missions in Tartary, Georgia. 
an»l Circassia, which have been unproductive of results. 
The garb ofthe order is the usual black robe of the reg- 
ular clergy, with the addition of white stockings. See 


THEATRE 



A Theatiue. 


Caraccioli, De Vita Pauli IV; id. Cajetani Thiemei, 
Bomfadi a Colle . . . cum Paulo / U . . . Ord. ('hri- 
corum Repul. Punda rerun f Vitcv (Col. Ubiorum, 1G12); 
31 ira?i ReguUe et Const it utiones Clericorum in Cong. 17- 
ventium (Antverp. 1038). 

Two congregations of Sisters are attached to the Or- 
der of 'Theatines. both of which were founded by the 
hermit-virgin Ursula Benincasa. She was aided by the 
Spanish priest Gregory of Navarre, and recommended 
by Philip Neri, founder of the Oratorians (q. v.J. The 
rule given to the congregation founded by her in 1583 
bound the nuns by the three simple vows (to a common 
life of poverty, affection, and humility), permitted secu- 
lar employments, ete., and enforced mortifications of 
the body. Their number was fixed at sixty- six, be- 
cause the Virgin Mary was said to have attained the 
age of so many years. Ursula prophesied a world-wide 
extension of her order, but it was able to obtain only a 
single house in Palermo. It was attached to the Thea- 
tines by pope Gregory XV. 

'The second congregation was founded in lfilO at Na- 
ples. Its members were to be thirty-six in number in 
each convent, and they were governed by a more rigid 
rule than the former class. Complete separation from 
the world and its affairs was enforced, severe penances 
and mortifications imposed, and stringent vows exacted. 
A novitiate of two years was required before entering 
the order. 'This congregation secured but one addi- 
tional house, also in Palermo. Clement IX united the 
sisterhood with the Theatines. Its garb consists of a 
white robe, black girdle, blue seapulary and mantle, and 
black veil for the head and neck (see llelyot, .1 w*- 
fului. Gesch. oiler geistl. n. weltl. Piaster- n. Ritfer- 
Orden [Lc-ips. 1753-5G], iv, 103 sq.). — llerzog, Reul-En- 
eyklop, s. v. 

Theatre (rcWpor). The Greek term, like the cor- 
responding English one. denotes the place where dra- 
matic performances arc exhibited, and also the scene it- 
self, or spectacle, which is witnessed there. 1. It occurs 
in the first or local sense in Acts xix, 29, where it is said 
that the multitude at Ephesus rushed to the theatre, on 
the occasion of the excitement stirred up against Paul 
and his associates by Demetrius, in order to consider 


THEATRE 


303 THEATRE AND THE CHURCH 



Plan of a Greek Theatre. 

a. Seats for spectators ; b. Passage-way ; c. Covered portico ; d. Altar of Bacchus ; e. Orcheslra ; f. Stage ; 
t. Ornamental door ; m. Entrance for the players. 


lias in mind, no doubt, the agonis- 
tic scene, in which Christians are 
viewed as running a race, and not 
the theatre or stage where the 
eyes of the spectators are fixed 
on them. — Smith. 

Among the Greeks and the 
states of Greek origin, the the- 
atre — the proper appropriation 
of which was for the celebration 
of the public games — was also 
used as the place of assembly for 
be every kind of public business; 
and served for town-hall, senate- 
house, forum, etc., and harangues 
to the people were there deliver- 
ed. Indeed, all important public 
business was transacted in these 
places — war was declared, peace 
proclaimed, and criminals were 
executed. Antioch ns Epipha- 
nes introduced public shows and 
games in Syria (2 Maec. iv, 10- 
16); and in a later age theatres 
and amphitheatres were erected 
by the llerods in Jerusalem and 
other towns of Syria (Josephus, 
A nt. xv, 8, 1 ; xvi, 5, 1 ; xix, 7. 5 ; 
War, i, 21,8). in which magnifi- 
cent spectacles were exhibited, 
principally in honor of the Ho- 
man emperors. The remains of 


what should be done in reference to the charges against t one of these near Caesarea are still clearly traceable 
thenu it may be remarked also (although the word (Thomson, Land and Book , ii, 237). For the history 
does not occur in the original text or in our English and construction of such buildings in that day, see 
version) that it was in the theatre at Ciesarea that Smith, Diet, of Class. Antiq. s. v. Wettstein well ob- 


Ilerod Agrippa I gave audience to the Tyrian deputies, 
and was himself struck with death, because he heard so 
gladly the impious acclamations of the people (Acts xii, 
21 23). See the remarkable confirmatory account of 
this event in Josephus {Ant. xix, 8,2). Such a use of 
the theatre for public assemblies and the transaction of 
public business, though it was hardly known among the 
Homans, was a common practice among the Greeks. 
Thus Valor. Max. ii, 2, Legati in theatrum, lit est con- 
suetudo Gncciaj, introdueti Justin, xxii,2, “ Vcluti rei- 
public:e statum format urus in theatrum ad contionem 
vocari jussit;” Corn. Xep. Timol. 4, § 2, “Venicbat in 
theatrum, cum ibi concilium plebis haberetur.” 2. The 
other sense of the term “theatre” occurs in ! Cor. iv, 9, 
where the Common Version renders, “ God hath set forth 
us the apostles last, as it were appointed to death; for 
we are made (rather, were made , Siarpov iysriftqptv) 
a spectacle unto the world, and to 
angels, and to men.” Instead of 
“ spectacle” (so also Wvclilfe and the 
Hhemi&h translators after the Vul- 
gate), some might prefer the more 
energetic Saxon “gazing-stock,” as 
in Tyndale, Cranmer, and the Gene- 
va version. But the latter would 
be now inappropriate, if it includes 
the idea of scorn or exultation, since 
the angels look down upon the suf- 
ferings of the martyrs with a very 
different interest. Whether “the- 
atre” denotes more here than to be 
an object of earnest attention (ora- 
/i«), or refers at the same time to 
the theatre as the place where crim- 
inals were sometimes brought for- 
ward for punishment, is not agreed 
among interpreters. In lleb. xii, 1, 
where the writer speaks of our hav- 
ing around us “so great a cloud of 
witnesses” (tovqvtov tynurff 7rqot- 
Ktipevov i)pb> rapoc paprupwr), he 


serves that t lie very situation of the theatre at Ephe- 
sus would not a little promote and increase the tumult 
in the case of Paul, since, as we find from the accounts 
of those who have surveyed the situation of the Temple 
of Diana, it was within view of the theatre. See Ephe- 
sus. The shell of this theatre remains unmistakably to 
be recognised on Mount Priar, though the marble seats 
have been removed. Its ruins are described bv Fellows 
(Asia Minor i p. 274) as “a wreck of immense gran- 
deur, 7 ’ ami it is said to be tbe largest of any that have 
come down to us from ancient days. See Lewin, St. 
Paul, ii, 328 ; Wood, Discoveries in Ephesus (Lond. 1877), 
eh. iv. 

THEATRE and the Cnutinr. The writers of the 
early Church were very severe in their invectives 
against all frequenters of the theatre and public stage 
plavs, and such frequenters were excluded from the 



Ruins of the Theatre at Ephesus. 


THEBES 


THEATRE AND THE CHURCH 304 


privilege of baptism. For this sentiment respecting 
t lie theatre there are two reasons assigned: 1. The sev- 
eral sorts of heathen games and plays were instituted 
upon a religious account, in honor of the gods, and men 
thought they were doing a grateful thing to them while j 
they were engaged in such exercises. Christians could 
not' therefore, he present at them as spectators without 
partaking, in some measure, in the idolatry of them. 
‘2. Tliev were the great nurseries of impurity, where in- 
cest and adultery were represented with abominable 
obscenity. Venus was represented in all her lewd be- 
havior, Mars as an adulterer, and Jupiter no less a prince 
in his vices than in his kingdom. The theatres, by rea- 
son of their impurities, were places of unavoidable temp- 
tation, and were considered as the devil’s own ground 
and property. Tertulliau (He Spectuc. c. 26) says the 
devil was once, asked, when a woman was seized by 
him in a theatre, how he durst presume to possess a 
Christian, and be answered, confidently, “ 1 had a right 
to. for 1 found her upon my own ground.” In the time 
of Tertulliau, and when t lie author of the Constitutions 
drew up his collections, a ('hristian becoming a specta- 
tor of these plays lost his title to Christian communion. 
Later, when the theatres were purged from idolatry, but 
not from lewd ness, the lathers contented themselves with 
declaiming against them with sharp invectives, — Biug- 
ham, t 'foist. 1 ntiq. bk. xi, ch. v, § 1); bk. xvi, ch. xi, § 12. 

It is well known, nevertheless, that the dramatic rep- 
representation of modern Europe grew up under the 
wing of the Church, and only slowly detached itself 
from this its earliest shelter. Of the dramatic element 
which was allowed to lind place in its own services we 
have a curious illustration inVthe manner in which the 
ottering of the magi was set forth in some churches on 
the festival of Epiphany (llinterim, I fenkteurdigkeiten, 
v, old). Three boys, clothed in silk, with golden crowns 
upon their heads, and each a golden vessel in his hand, 
represented the wise men of the East. Entering the 
choir, and advancing towards the altar, they chanted 
the following strophe: 

“O qnam dignis eelebranda dies ista lnndibus, 

In qua Christi genitura propalatur gentibus, 

Pax terrenis nhnciatiir, gloria ccelesribus ; 

Novi partn sigmnu fidget Orientis pairia. 

Cumint irges Orientis Stella sibi praevia, 

Cumint reges et adorant Dcnm ad praesepin, 

Ties adorant reges unnm, triplex cst oblatio.” 

During the singing of these verses they gradually ap- 
proached the altar; there the lirst, lifted up the vessel 
which he held in his hand, exclaiming, 

“ Aurmn priuio. 

And the second : 

thus seenndo, 

And the third : 

myrrham dante tertio.” 

Hereupon, the first onee more: 

“Aurmn regum, 

The second : 

thus eoelestem, 

And the third : 

mori nntat nnctio.” 
Then one of them pointed with his hand to the star 
hanging from the roof of the church, and sang in a loud 
voice, “Hoc siginim magni Bcgis;” and all three pro- 
ceeded to make their offerings, singing meanwhile the 
responsal, “ Eamus, inquiramus enni, et otteraimis ei iiiu- 
nera, aurum, thus, et. myrrham.” At the. conclusion of 
this responsal. a younger hoy lifted up his voice, which 
was meant to imitate the voice of an angel, from be- 
hind the altar, and sang, “ Nimtinm vobis fero de sti- 
pends; Xatus est Christus dominator orhis In Bethle- 
hem Judea* ; sic enim prophet a dixerat ante.” There- 
upon the three who represented the kings withdrew 
into the sacristy, singing, “In Bethlehem natus est Bex 
coelom m, ” etc. 

See the Latin monographs on theatrical representa- 
tions cited by Volbeding, Index Proyrammatum , p. 172. 
See Mystekies. 


Thebes (Tiier.e, or Dtospolis Magna) was the 
Greek name of a city of Egypt, and its capital during 
the empire, called in the Bible No- A man (jl-N N3; 
Sept, fttpie ’App/ov; Nab. iii, s>) or Ac (X: ; Sept. Aid<r- 
TroXit;; der. xlvi, 25; Ezek. xxx, 14, 15, 10), famous in 
all ancient history. 

I. Name . — The ancient. Egyptian names of Thebes 
are, as usual, two. The civil name, perhaps the more 
ancient of the two, is .1 p-t, Ap-tu (Brngsch. Gjographi- 
sche Inschrijten , i. 177, pi. xxxvi, No. 73S 1 784). lienee 
the Coptic tape , which shows that the fem. article t was 
in this case transferred in pronunciation, and explains 

’ t lie origin of the classical forms, D?/j(3?/, Viij3ai, Thebe , 
Thebce (see Wilkinson, Modem Egypt and Thebes, ii, 130, 
137). The sacred name has two forms, Pa- A men or 
perhaps Par- A men (Brugsch, Geographische Insehriften , 
i, 177, No. 780), the “house of Amen,” or Jupiter-Am- 
mon, preserved in the Coptic piamonn : and Nit-A men, 
the “city of Amen,” the sound of t lie first part of which 
lias been discovered by M. Chahas, who reads Ao-^i mun 
| ( Recherches sur le Non/ Egypt, de Thebes, p. 5\ The lat- 
ter form of the sacred name is transcribed in the Hebrew 
No-Amon, and it is easy to understand the use of its 
lirst part Xu, “ the city,” instead of the whole, at a time 
when Thebes was still the most important city of Egypt. 
'Ibis sacred name of Thebes, “the abode of Amon,” the 
Greeks reproduced in their Diospolis (Afot,* 7roXif)> cs " 
pecially with the addition the Great (?) ptyaXtf), de- 
noting that this was the chief seat of Jnpiter-Ammon, 
and distinguishing it from I )iospolis the Less (?) ptKpd). 
Of the twenty nomes, or districts, into which L T pper 
Egypt was divided, the fourth in order, proceeding 
northward from Nubia, was designated in the hiero- 
glyphics as Za'm — the Bhathyrite of the Greeks — and 
Thebes appears as the “ Z«’?/?-eity,” the principal city 
or metropolis of the Za'm nome. In later times the 
name Za'm was applied in common speech to a partic- 
ular locality on the western side of Thebes. 

II. Position . — The situation of Thebes with reference 
to the rest of Egypt well suited it to be the capital of 
the country. Though farther from the Mediterranean 
and Syria than Memphis, it was more secure from inva- 
sion ; and if it was far from the northern trade, it com- 
manded the chief line of commerce from the Bed Sea. 
The actual site is, perhaps, the best of any ancient town 
of LTpper Egypt. Here the valley, usually straitened by 
the mountains on one side, if not on both, opens out into 
a plain which is comparatively spacious. On the west 
bank the mountains leave a broad hand of cultivable 
land; on the east they recede in a semicircle. On the 
former side they rise to a line peak about 1200 feet 
high, unlike the level cliff-like form of t lie opposite 
range, a form seldom varied on either hank throughout 
the whole valley. The plain between is about two 
miles long, and has an extreme breadth of about four 
miles, no large space for a great capital except in Egypt. 
Through the centre of this plain flows the river Nile, 
usually at this point about half a mile in width, but at 
the inundation overflowing the plain, especially upon 
the western bank, for a breadth of two or more miles. 

The monuments do not arrest the attention of the trav- 
eller as he sails up the river as do the pyramids of Mem- 
phis. On the east the massive fort-like winged portal 
of El-Karnak and the colonnade of El-Uksnr (Luxor), 
and on the west the hills honeycombed with sepulchral 
grottos, are the most remarkable objects to be seen, but. 
being far apart, they are singly seen from the river. If 
viewed from the western mountain, the many monu- 
ments of Thebes give an idea of the grandeur of this 
, ancient city, the greatest in the world for magnifi- 
cence. 

III. History. — 1. Classical . — The origin of the city is 
lost in antiquity. Niebuhr is of opinion that Thebes 
was much older than Memphis, and that “after the 
centre of Egyptian life was transferred to Lower Egypt, 

| Memphis acquired its greatness through the ruin of 


TIIEBES 


305 


TIIEBES 


Thebes” ( Lectures on Ancient History, leet. vii). Other 
authorities assign priority to Memphis. But both cities 
date from our earliest authentic knowledge of Egyptian 
history. The first allusion to Thebes in classical liter- 
ature is the familiar passage of the Iliad (ix, 38 1-385) : 

“ Egyptian Thebes, where are vast treasures laid up in 
the houses; where are a hundred gates, and from each 
two hundred men go forth with horses and chariots.” 
Homer — speaking with a poet’s license, and not with 
t lie accuracy of a statistician — no doubt incorporated 
into his verse the glowing accounts of the Egyptian 
capital current in his time. Wilkinson thinks it con- 
clusive against a literal understanding of Homer that 
no traces of an ancient city-wall can be found at Thebes, 
and accepts as probable the suggestion of Diodorus Sic- 
ulus that the “gates” of Homer may have been the 
propyhea of the temples: “Non centum portas habuisse 
urbem, sed niulta et ingentia templorurn vestibula” (i, 
45, 7). In the time of Diodorus, the citv-wall, if any 
there was, had already disappeared, and the question 
of its existence in Homer’s time was in dispute. But, 
on the other hand, to regard the “gates” of Homer as 
temple-porches is to make these the barracks of the 
army, since from these gates the horsemen and chariots 
issue forth to war. The almost universal custom of 
walling the cities of antiquity, and the poet’s reference 
to the gates as pouring forth troops, point strongly to the 
supposition that the vast area of Thebes was surround- 
ed with a wall having many gates. 

Homer’s allusion to the treasures of t lie city, and to 
the size of its standing army, numbering 20,000 chari- 
ots, shows the early repute of Thebes for wealth and 
power. Its fame as a great capital had crossed the 
sea when Greece was yet in its infancy as a nation. It 
has been questioned whether Herodotus visited Dpper 
Egypt, but he says, “ I went to Heliopolis and to Thebes , 
expressly to try whether the priests of those places 
would agree in their accounts with the priests at 
Memphis” (ii, 3). Afterwards he describes the feat- 
ures of the Nile valley, and the chief points and dis- 
tances upon the river, as only an eye-witness would 
be likely to record them. lie informs us that “from 
Heliopolis to Thebes is nine days’ sail up the river, the 
distance 4800 stadia . . . and the distance from the 
sea inland to Thebes 0120 stadia” (ii, 8, 9). In eh. 
xxix of the same book he states that he ascended the 
Nile as high as Elephantine. Herodotus, however, 
gives no particular account of the city, which in his 
time had lost, much of its ancient grandeur, lie alludes 
to the Temple of Jupiter there, with its ram-headed 
image, and to the fact that goats, never sheep, were of- 
fered in sacrifice. In the 1st century before Christ, 
Diodorus vistLed Thebes, and he devotes several sec- 
tions of his general work to its history and appearance. 
Though he saw the city when it had sunk to quite 
secondary importance, lie preserves the tradition of its 
early grandeur — its circuit of 140 stadia, the size of its 
public edifices, the magnificence of its temples, t lie num- 
ber of its monuments, the dimensions of its private 
houses, some of them four or five stories high — all giv- 
ing it an air of grandeur and beauty surpassing not 
only all other cities of Egypt, but of the world. Dio- 
dorus deplores the spoiling of its buildings and monu- 
ments by Cambyses (i, 45. 40). Strabo, who visited 
Egypt a little later — at about, the beginning of the 
Christian ;era — thus describes (xvii.810) the city under 
1 lie name Diospolis: “Vestiges of its magnitude still 
exist which extend eighty stadia in length. There 
are a great number of temples, many of which Cam- 
byses mutilated. The spot is at present occupied by 
villages. One part of it, in which is the city, lies in 
Arabia; another is in the country on the other side of 
the river, where is the Memnonium.” Strabo here makes 
the Nile the dividing line between Libya and Arabia. 
The temples of El-Karnak and El-LTksur (Luxor) are 
on the eastern side of the river, where was probably the 
main part of the citv. Strabo gives the following de- i 
X.-U 


scription of the twin colossi still standing upon the west- 
ern plain: “ Here are two colossal figures near each oth- 
er, each consisting of a single stone. One is entire; the 
upper parts of the other, from the chair, are fallen down 
— the effect, it is said, of an earthquake. It is believed 
that ohee a day a noise, as of a slight blow, issues from 
the part of the statue which remains in the seat, and on 
its base. When 1 was at. those places, with .Elius Gnllus. 
and numerous friends and soldiers about him, 1 heard a 
noise at the first hour of the day, but whether proceed- 
ing from the base or from the colossus, or produced on 
purpose by some of those standing around the base, I 
cannot confidently assert. For, from the uncertainty 
of the cause, I am inclined to believe anything rather 
than that stones disposed in that manner could send 
forth sound” (xvii,4G). Simple, honest. sceptical Strabo! 
Eighteen centuries later some travellers have inter- 
rogated these same stones as to the ancient mystery of 
sound; and not at sunrise, but in the glaring noon, the 
statue has emitted a sharp, clear sound like the ringing 
of a disk of brass under a sudden concussion. This was 
produced by a ragged urchin, who, for a few piastres, 
clambered up the knees of the “vocal Memnon,” and. 
there effectually concealing himself from observation, 
struck with a hammer a sonorous stone in the lap of 
the statue. Wilkinson conjectures that the priests 
had a secret chamber in the body of the statue, from 
which they could strike it unobserved at the instant of 
sunrise, thus producing in the credulous multitude the 
notion of a supernatural phenomenon. It is difficult to 
conceive, however, that such a trick, performed in open 
day, could have escaped detection, and we are therefore 
left to share the mingled wonder and scepticism of 
Strabo (see Thompson, Photographic Views of Egypt , 
Past and Present , p. 156). 

Pliny speaks of Thebes in Egypt as known to fame 
as “a hanging city,” i. e. built upon arches, so that an 
army could be led forth from beneath the city while 
the inhabitants above were wholly unconscious of it. 
lie mentions also that the river flows through the mid- 
dle of the eitv. But he questions the story of (lie arch- 
es, because, “ if this had really been the ease, there is no 
doubt that Homer would have mentioned it, seeing that 
he has celebrated the hundred gates of Thebes.” Do 
not the two stories possibly explain each other? May 
there not have been near the river-line arched buildings 
used as barracks, from whose gateways issued forth 
20,000 chariots of war? 

2. Monumental . — The oldest royal names found at 
Thebes are those of kings of the Nantef line, who are 
known to have been there buried, and wlm are vari- 
ously assigned to the 9th and the 11th dynasty, hut 
undoubtedly reigned not long before tbe 12th. The 
11 tli dynasty, which probably ruled about half a cen- 
tury, began about 2000 years B.C*. ; and the 12th was. 
like it, of Theban kings, according to Manetho, the 
Egyptian historian. The rise of the city to importance 
may therefore he dated with the beginning of the first 
Theban dynasty. With the 12th dynasty it became 
the capital of Egypt, and continued so for the 200 years 
of the rule of that line. Of this powerful dynasty (he 
el lief monument there is only part of the ancient sanct- 
uary of the great temple of Amen-ra, now called that of 
El-Karnak. The 12th dynasty was succeeded by the 
13th, which appears after a time to have lost the rule 
of all Egypt by the establishment of a foreign Shep- 
herd dynasty, the 15th to the 17th. Theban kings of 
t he 12th and 13th dynasties continued, however, to gov- 
ern a limited kingdom, tributary to the Shepherds, un- 
til an insurrection arose which led to the conquest of 
the foreigners and the capture of their capital Zoan by 
Aahmes, the head of the 18th dynasty and founder of 
the Egyptian empire, which was ruled by this and the 
19th and 20th dynasties, all of Theban kings, for about 
400 years from B.C. cir. 1492. During this period Thebes 
was t lie capital of the kingdom, and of an empire of 
which the northern limit was Mesopotamia, and the 


THEBES 


30G 


TIIEBES 


southern a territory upon the Upper Nile; and then, 
especially by the kings of the l> s 'th and 19th dynasties, 
those great monuments which make Thebes the most 
wonderful site in Egypt were founded or excavated. 
The kings who have left the finest works are Thothines 
111 and Amenopli 111 oft lie ItSth dynasty. Set hos 1 and 
] Jameses 11 of the 19th. and 1 Jameses 111 of the 20th 
(19th): but throughout the period of (be empire the 
capital was constantly beaut ilicd. During t lie 20th 
dynasty the high-priests of Amen-rn gained tiie sover- 
eign power, perhaps corresponding to Manetlio’s 21st dy- 
nasty, which he calls of Tanites, and which must in this 
case be considered as of Thebans. They continued to 
add to the monuments of the capital, though, like the 
later kings of the empire, their constructions were not 
of remarkable size. The 22d dynasty, beaded by She- 
slienk I. the Shisliak of the Bible, seems still to have 
treated Thebes as the capital, although they embel- 
lished their native city, Bubnstis, in the Delta, ruder 
them and the kings of the 23d, who were evidently of 
the same line, some additions were made to its temples, 
but no great independent structures seem to have been 
raised. The most interesting of these additions is Shi- 
slink's list of the countries, cities, and tribes conquered 
or ruled by him, including the names of those captured 
from Uehoboam, sculptured in the great temple of El- 
Karnak. Under the 23d dynasty a period of dissension 
began, and lasted for some years until the Ethiopian con- 
quest. and establishment of an Ethiopian dynasty, the 
25th. about B.C. 714 (see Do Rouge's interesting paper, 
Inscr. Hist.dn Roi Pianchi-M eruunonn. in the Per. A reh. 
A’. viii, 94 sq.). At t his time the importance of Thebes 
must have greatly fallen, but it is probable that the 
Ethiopians made it their Egyptian capital, for their 
sculptures found there show that they were careful to 
add their records to those of the long series of sover- 
eigns who reigned at Thebes. It is at the time of the 
25th dynasty, to which we may reasonably assign a 
duration of fifty years, that Thebes is first mentioned in 


Scripture, and from this period to that of the capture 
of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar it is spoken of as one 
of the chief cities of Egypt, or as No, 11 the city.” Un- 
der the Ethiopians it was no more than a provincial 
capital; immediately after their rule it was taken twice 
at least bv the Assyrians. Asshur-bani -pal, son and 
successor of Esar-h addon (Asshur-akh-idanna), who came 
to the throne about B.C. 007-000, in a first expedition 
defeated the troops of Tirhnkah, and captured the city 
of Ni’a; a second time he invaded the country, which 
had revolted, and again captured NVn, The exact time 
of these events has not been fixed, but it is evident that 
they occurred either at the close of the rule of the 
Ethiopian dynasty, or early in that of the Saite 201 li, 
when Egypt was governed by the Dodeearchv. Tir- 
hnkah and Niku, evidently Neclm i, the father of 
Psammeticlms 1. are mentioned almost as late as the 
time of tiie second expedition. Psammetiehus I came 
to the throne B.C. 004, and therefore it is probable that 
these events took place not long before, and about the 
time of. or a little after, his accession. These dates are 
especially important, as it is probable that the prophet 
Nahum refers to the first capture when warning Nine- 
veh by the fate of her great rival. But this reference 
may be to a still earlier capture by the Assyrians, for 
Esar-haddon conquered Egypt and Ethiopia, though it 
is not distinctly stated that he captured Thebes (see 
Rawliuson, Illustrations of Egyptian History , etc., from 
the Cuneiform Inscriptions , in the Transactions of the 
IJ. S. Lit., 2d ser. vii, 137 sq.). The SaTtc kings of the 
20th dynasty continued to embellish Thebes, which 
does not seem to have suffered in its monuments from 
the Assyrians; but when their rule came to an end with 
the Persian conquest by Canibyses, it evidently endured 
a far more severe blow. Later Egyptian kings still 
added to its edifices, and the earlier Creek sovereigns 
followed their example. The revolt against Ptolemy 
X Lathyrus, in which Thebes stood a siege of three 
years, was the final blow to its prosperity. 



Map of the Plain of Thebes. 

Referkncks - Urtf Bank: 1. Temple of Kurneh. 2 Colossal Statue of Raineses. 8. Avenue of Sphinxes. 4. Peir el-Bahri. 5. Enclosure of Un- 
bnk.-a Brick. 6. Peir .* -Mclmeh. Broken Statue of Rameses.— Ea.it Bank: a. Landing of Luxor, b. French Consufate. r. Temple and Obelisk. 

1 " f * lo , : ni >7 «• A , vt 7Y, ie ,? f /• Avenue of Ram-headed Sphinxes, g. Pond. h. Principal Entrance of the Groat Tem- 

ple. r. Exterior Court. k. Colonnade. /.Obelisks, m. Temple of Amenopliis. n. Propvltoa. 


TIIEBES 


307 


THEBES 


In subsequent times its population dwelt in small 
villages, and Thebes no longer existed as a city, and 
this has been the case ever since; no one of these vil- 
lages, or those that have succeeded them — for the same 
sites do not appear in all cases to have been occupied — 
having risen to the importance of a city. At. the pres- 
ent time there are two villages on the eastern bank, El- 
Karnak and El-Uksur (Luxor); the former, which is in- 
considerable, near the oldest part of ancient Thebes ; the 
latter, which is large and the most important place on 
the site, so as to deserve to be called a small town, ly- 
ing some distance to t lie south on the river’s bank. 
Opposite El- Karnak is the ruined village of El-Kurneh, 
of which the population mainly inhabit sepulchral grot- 
tos; and opposite El-Uksur is the village of El-Ba’irat, 
which, indeed, is almost beyond the circuit of the mon- 
uments of Thebes. 

IV. Description . — The plan of the city, as indicated 
by the principal monuments, was nearly quadrangular, 
measuring two miles from north to south, and four from 
east to west. Its four great landmarks still are El-Kar- 
nak and El-Uksur upon the eastern or Arabian side, and 
El-Kurneh and Medinet-llabu upon the western or Liby- 
an side. There are indications that each of these tem- 
ples may have been connected with those facing it upon 
two sides by grand dromoi , lined with sphinxes and 
other colossal figures. Upon the western bank there 
was almost a continuous line of temples and public edi- 
fices for a distance of two miles, from El-Kurneh to Mcdi- 
net-Habu ; and Wilkinson conjectures that from a point 
near the latter, perhaps in the line of t he colossi, the 
“ Royal Street” ran down to the river, which was cross- 
ed by a ferry terminating at El-Uksur on the eastern 
side. 

As Memphis is remarkable for its vast necropolis. 
Thebes surpasses the other cities of Egypt in its tem- 
ples. The primeval kings of Egypt who ruled at the 
northern capital were tomb -builders, those who pre- 
ferred the southern capital were rather temple-builders; 
and as the works of the former give us the best insight 
into the characteristics of the national mind, those of 
the latter tell us the history of the country under its 
most, powerful kings. Thebes is the most thoroughly 
historical site in Egypt. The temples are not only cov- 
ered with the sculptured representations and histories 
of the chief campaigns of the conquering kings and the 
similar records of their presents to the shrines, and 
many other details of historical interest, but they have 
the advantage of showing, in the case of the most im- 
portant temple, or rather collection of temples, what was 
added under each dynasty, almost each reign, from the 
IGth century B.C. to the Roman dominion; and thus 
they indicate the wealth, the power, and the state of art 
during the chief part of the period for which Thebes was 
either the capital or an important city of Egypt. The 
following is the plan of an Egyptian temple (q. v.) of the 
age of the empire; An avenue of sphinxes, with, at in- 
tervals, pairs of colossal statues of a king, usually seated, 
led up to its entrance. The gate was flanked by lofty 
and broad wings, extending along the whole front of 
the temple, the long horizontal lines of which were re- 
lieved by tapering obelisks. Tbe first hall was usually 
liypsethral, unless perhaps it had a wooden roof and 
was surrounded by colonnades. The second, but some- 
times the third, was filled with columns in avenues, the 
central avenue being loftier than the rest, and support- 
ing a raised portion of the roof. Beyond were the naos 
and various chambers, all smaller than the court or 
courts and the hall. This plan was not greatly varied 
in the Theban temples of which the remains are suffi- 
cient for us to form an opinion. — The great temple of 
El -Karnak, dedicated to Amen-ra, the chief god of 
Thebes, was founded at least as early as the time of the 
12th dynasty, but is mainly of the age of the 18th and 
19th. The first winged portal, which is more than 3G0 
feet wide, forms the front of a court 329 feet wide, and 
275 long. Outside the eastern portion of the south 


IVest 



East 

Plan of the Great Temple at Karnak. 


A. First Propylon. B. Open Area, with corridors, and a s’ngle column 
erect. C. Second Propylon. D. Great Hall, E. Third Propylon. F. 
Fourth Propyl mi. G. Hall with Osiride figures. H. Granite Sanctuary 
and adjoinin'; Chambevs. T. Open Court. K. Columnar Edifice of Thoth- 
mes HI. L. Temple of Rameses HI a. Sculptures of Seth os 1. 6. Sculpt- 
ures of Shishak. c. Sculptures of Raineses II. d. Small Obelisk, e. Large 
Obelisk. /. Pillars of Osirtesen I. g. Hall of Ancestors. 

wall of this court is sculptured the famous list of the 
dominions and conquests of Sheshenk I, the Shishak 
of Scripture, which has already been mentioned. See 
Shishak. The great hall of columns is immediately 
beyond the court, and is of t lie same width, but 170 feet 
long: it was supported by 134 columns, the loftiest of 
which, forming the central avenue, are nearly seventy 
feet high, and about twelve in diameter; the rest more 
than forty feet high, and about nine in diameter. This 
forest of columns produces a singularly grand effect. 
The external sculptures commemorate the wars of Se- 
thos I and his son Raineses 1 1, mainly in Syria. Beyond 
the great hall are many ruined chambers, and two great 
obelisks standing in their places amid a heap of ruins. — 
More than a mile to the south-west of the temple of El- 
Karnak is that of El-Uksur (Luxor), a smaller but still 
gigantic edifice of the same character and age, on the 
bank of the Nile, and having within and partly around it 
the houses of the modern village. — On the western hank 
are three temples of importance, a small one of Set bus I, 
the beautiful Ramcseum of Rameses II, commonly called 
the Mcmnomum, and the stately temple of Rameses 


THEBES 


308 


THEBES 



III, the Eameseitm of Medinot-Habu. extending in this 1 in two remote valleys behind the mountain. These 
order towards the south. Between the Kameseum of tombs are generally very deep galleries, and are renin rk- 
1 Jameses II ami that of 1 Jameses III was a temple raised able for the extreme delicacy of their paintings, which, 
by Amenoph III, of which scarcely any remains are now like most of the historical records of Thebes, have sul- 
standing, except the two great colossi, the Vocal 3lern- fered more at the hands of civilized barbarians in this 
non and its fellow, monoliths about forty-seven feet high, century than from the effects of time. For fuller de- 
exclusive of the pedestals, which have a height of 'about scriptions, see the numerous histories and books of 
twelve feet. They represented Amenoph, and were part travel on Egypt. The ruins have been copiously de- 
of the dronios which led to his temple. — Besides these picted photographically. See Egypt. 
temples of Western Thebes, the desert tract beneath the V. Biblical Notices . — The most remarkable of the no- 
mounrain bordering the cultivable land and the lower tices of 1 hebes in the Bible is that in Nahum, where 
elevations of the mountain, in addition to almost count- the prophet warns Nineveh bv lier rival’s overthrow, 
less mummy-pits, are covered with built tombs, and lion- “Art thou better than No-Amon, that was situate 
ey-combed with sepulchral grottos, which, in their beau- among the rivers, [that had] the waters round about it. 
Mini paintings, tell us the lives of the former occupants, whose rampart [was] the sea, [and] her wall [was] from 
or represent the mystical subjects of the soul’s existence the sea?” Notwithstanding her natural as well as po- 
after death. The latter are almost exclusively the dec- litical strength, Thebes ha<l been sacked and the peo- 
orat ions of the Tombs ol the Kings, which are excavated pie carried captive (iii, 8-10). The description of the 



The Meranoniuin at Thebes. 


TIIECLA 


THEBES. SEVEN HEROES OF 309 


city applies remarkably to Thebes, which alone of all 
the cities of Egypt was built on both sides of the river, 
here twice called, as now by the modern inhabitants, 
the sea. The prophecy that it. should "be rent asunder” 
(Ezek. xxx, 10) probably primarily refers to its break- 
ing-up or capture; but t he traveller can scarcely doubt 
a second and more literal sense when he looks upon its 
vast torn and heaped-up ruins. The other notices are 
in Ezek. xiv, 15, and in Jer. xlvi, '25. — Kitto; Smith. 
►See No. 

THEBES, The Seven Heroes of, in (Ireeian my- 
thology, were a body of chief, aius who engaged in the first 
Theban war. Joeaste, the mother of (Edipus. was inad- 
vertently guilty of incest with her son, and bore him the 
twin-brothers Eteocles and Polyniees, though some au- 
t horities name Eurygania as their mother. After the dis- 
covery of his incest (Edipus was banished, and tied, leav- 
ing hiscurse upon his children. Eteocles and Polyniees 
agreed to reign alternately, a year at a time. and the for- 
mer ascended the throne by virtue of seniority: but when 
the year expired lie refused to make way lbr his brother, 
who thereupon fled to Adrastus, king of Argos, bearing 
with him the necklace and mantle of Ilarmouia, both 
of which were covered with jewels and were exceeding- 
ly precious, having been made by Vulcan, but which were 
to bring misfortune to the person into whose possession 
they might come. Polyniees reached Argos at night, 
and met Tvdeus, who had just arrived from vEtolia, and 
the two became involved in a quarrel, which Adrastus 
settled. An ancient oracle having commanded that the 
daughters of Adrastus should wed a lion and a boar, they 
Avere given to the visitors because they bore correspond- 
ing devices — Polyniees a lion’s, and Tvdeus a hoar’s, head. 
Adrea became the wife of the former, and Deipvle of the 
latter. Adrastus promised to recover the lost thrones 
for his sons-in-law. and directed his lirst efforts towards 
Thebes in behalf of Polvniees — the Avar of the Seven 
against Thebes (see *Eschylus). The leading heroes of 
t lie Argives having been summoned, Amphiaraus, Cap- 
aneus, llippoinedon, and Partheuopajus joined the ex- 
pedition, thus completing the list of seven. Amphiaraus, 
a favorite of Jupiter and Apollo, a seer, foresaw the fail- 
ure of the attempt, and endeavored to avoid participating 
in it by concealing himself, but Avas discovered, and com- 
pelled by his sense of honor to unite with his comrades. 
In the forest of Nemea the heroes suffered much from 
thirst; but, meeting with Hvpsipyle of Lemnos, the 
nurse of young Opheltes, son of Lycnrgus, they induced 
her to direct them to a spring, which she did — to the 
harm of Opheltes, hmvever, Avhom a serpent destroyed in 
her absence. Funeral games were held in honor of the 
dead, but the gods had decreed the min of the expedition. 
Tvdeus was sent in advance to negotiate, but without 
other result than that fifty men surprised him Avbile 
returning, whom, with the single exception of Ma<>n. he 
slew with his own hand. The heroes then took posses- 
sion of all approaches to the city, and established them- 
selves before the several gates. The seer Tiresias 
Avarned the Thebans that the city must fall, unless some 
one should voluntarily sacrifice himself for its deliver- 
ance. Menneeeus accordingly threw himself headlong 
from the wall, and the Avar began. Capaneus had al- 
ready mo an ted the Avail when Jupiter’s lightning smote 
him to the ground, and Avith him fortune fled. Eteocles 
and Polyniees slew each other in single combat. Five 
of the seven heroes fell. Amphiaraus fled, and was re- 
ceived by Jupiter into the earth, while Adrastus escaped 
on his divine steed Arion. the offspring of Neptune. 
The victorious Thebans forbade the burial of their ene- 
mies on pain of death; and Creon caused Antigone, who 
had performed the last rites of love on the remains of 
her brother Polyniees, to he buried alive. The humane 
intercession of Theseus, king of Athens, ultimately in- 
duced the Thebans to withdraw their cruel prohibition. 
Adrastus subsequently took up the sword again, and led 
the sons of the heroes, the so-called Epigoni, in a vic- 
torious campaign against Thebes. 


The'bez (Ileb. Tebets ', conspicuous; Sept. 

[V. r. Ooqtfmt;] and ttajiuart ; Vulg. Thebes'), a 
place mentioned in the Bible only as the scene of the 
death of the usurper Ahitnelech (Judg. ix, 50). After 
suffocating a thousand of t lie Nheehemites in the hold 
of Piaal-berith by the smoke of green wood, he went off 
Avith his band to Thebez, whither, no doubt, the rumor 
of his inhumanity had preceded him. The town was 
soon taken, all Init one tower, into which the people of 
the place crowded, and which Avas strong enough to 
hold out. To this he forced his Avav, and was about to 
repeat the barbarous stratagem Avliieh had succeeded 
so avcII at Sheehem, when a fragment of millstone de- 
scended and put an end to his turbulent career. The 
story was well known in Israel, and gave the point to a 
familiar maxim in the camp (2 Sam. xi,21). The geo- 
graphical position of Thebez is not stated; but the nar- 
rative leaves the impression that it was not far distant 
from Sheehem. Eusebius defines its position with his 
usual minuteness. He says, “It is in the borders of 
Neapolis ... at the thirteenth mile on the road to 
Sevthopolis” ( 0 nomast . s. v. “ Thebes”). Just about the 
distance indicated, on the line of the old Koman high- 
way, is the modern village of Tubas , in which it is not 
difficult to recognise the Thebez of Scripture. It Avas 
known to Hap-Parchi in the loth century (Zunz, Ben- 
jamin, ii, 420), and is mentioned occasionally by later 
travellers (Schwarz, Palest, p. 152). It stands on a hill- 
side at the northern end of a plain surrounded by rocky 
mountains. The hill is skirted by tine olive groves, 
and the an hole environs hear the marks of industry and 
prosperity. It is defective, however, in water; so that 
the inhabitants are dependent on the rain-Avater they 
keep in cisterns, and when this supply fails, they must 
bring it from a stream, Fari’a, an hour distant (Kobiu- 
son, Bill. lies, iii, 805). Some large hewn stones in the 
Avails of t he modern houses, and a number of deep Avells 
and cisterns in and around the village, are the only 
traces of antiquity hoav remaining (Van de Velde, Trav- 
els , ii, 335; Porter, Handbook, p.348). 

Thebutes, or Thebuthis. All that is known of 
this person is the statement that Eusebius {Hist. Bedes. 
i v, 22) quotes from Hegesippus to the effect that Tin - 
hutes made a beginning secretly to corrupt the Church 
of Jerusalem, because Simon the son of Cleophas was 
appointed to be bishop of the Christians of that city in- 
stead of himself. 

Theca a case), or Perse (bursa, a “purse”), 

a ease-cover containing the corporals, and presented to 
the priest at. mass. It was of square form, made usually 
of rich stuff, and lined like a hag with line linen or silk; 
on the upper side was a sacred image or cross. One of 
the loth century, of canvas, remains at Ilessett, painted 
with the Veronica (q. v.) and the Holy Lamb. — Wal- 
cott, Sacred A rchieol. s. a*. 

Thecla, the name of several saints of the Romish 
Church. 

1. The daughter of people living at Tconium. Avho is 
occasionally mentioned by Epiphanius. Ambrose. Augus- 
tine, and other Church fathers, and of whom tradition 
relates that she Avas converted through the preaching 
of Paul in the house of Onesiphorus, and that she there- 
upon renounced all worldly possessions and separated 
from her betrothed, a wealthy man named Thamyris. 
No arguments or appeals could change her course. 
Both she and Paul were imprisoned; and she was con- 
demned to death by fire, while the apostle was banished. 
A cloud, hoAvever, extinguished the tire, and Thecla, 
uninjured, accompanied Paul to Antioch. To escape 
the persistency of a second wooer of noble rank named 
Alexander, she took refuge with a noble widow whose 
name Avas Tryphama. Again she was condemned to 
die, this time by the teeth of wild beasts, and again she 
escaped uninjured, the animals crouching at her feet or 
being killed by thunder-holts. She now assumed male 
clothing and followed Paul to 31vra, where she received 


Til EC LA AND PAUL 


310 


TIIECLA AND PAUL 


direction from him to tench the heathen the truths of 
Christianity. She thereupon returned to her native 
city, and afterwards went to Seleueia, where she suc- 
ceeded in converting many people and in healing large 
numbers of the sick. A shining cloud accompanied her 
as she went about. When she died, many miracles were 
wrought at lu-r grave and by her relics. Her day is 
variously given — -May IS or 19, or Sept. 23 or 21. A 
treatise entitled ruptodoi Pauli et Theche, probably the 
work of an Asiatic presbyter, was in circulation as early 
as the 3d century. It mentioned her missionary tours 
in the company of Caul, and her miracles; recommended 
the celibate state, and asserted its holiness; inculcated 
the duty of praying for the dead, and belief in purgatory; 
and was branded as Apocryphal by Tertullian, Jerome, 
and pope (lelasius 1. See Ada SS. 23. Sept. (Antw. 
1757), vi, 51G-5G8: Baronins, A mini. Eccf. (Col. Agrip. 
lt>09), i, 398 -102: Eusvhuftl. Savin', v. alten u. neuen 
theoloy. Sachen (Leips. 1702). p. 130 sq. See Tiiucla 
and Pail (.1 cti s* of). 

2. A reputed native of Sicily of noble rank. She was 
instructed in Christianity by her mother, Isidora, aid- 
ed many persecuted Christians, and gave burial to the 
bodies of many martyrs which she had purchased. For 
this she was brought to trial, hut escaped the threaten- 
ing danger. Afterwards she instructed many heathen 
people, lmilt a number of churches, and endowed with a 
rich income a bishopric which she founded. Jan. 10 is 
consecrated to her memory. 

3. An alleged martyr, the associate of Mariana. Mar- 
tha, Mary, and Knneis. She is reported to have lived 
near Asa, in Persia. A priest named Paul endeavored to 
persuade these virgins to renounce the Christian faith, 
and when they refused he caused them to be terribly 
scourged and then beheaded. Soon afterwards he be- 
came himself the victim of a violent death, as they had 
predicted. The memory of these martyrs is honored 
on June 9. See Ausfuhd. IPil.-Lexikon (Cologne and 
Fraukf. 1719), p. 2132 sq. — Herzog, Real-Eneyklop. s. v. 

TUFA LA and Fai l. A c/s of. The name Thecla, 
which nowhere occurs in Scripture, occupies an impor- 
tant position in the Apocryphal writings of the New 
Test., because it is closely connected with that of the 
apostle Paul. Under the title . I cfa Pauli ef Theche (first 
edited by tirabe.in his Spivilerjium SS. PP. [t Axon. 1098; 
2d ed. 1700]; then by Jones, A Xete wul Pull Me tit oil of 
Settling the Canonical Authority of the Xew Testament 
[Lotid. 1720] ; and dually l>v Tischendorf, in his Acta 
- 1 posit. A pocn/pha [ Lips. 1851 ]. and Wright, A pocn/phal 
Ads of the A pasties [Syriac and Lnglish, Loud. 1871, 2 
vols.]), we have an Apocryphal work extant which has 
furnished rich material for the so-called “ Thecla Legend.” 

1. The Contents of it are as follows: 

“ When Paul had fled from Antioch and went up to Ico- 
nium, he was accompanied by Dennis and llermogenes,two 
men full of hypocrisy, who pretended unto Pa til as though 
ihey loved him, but they loved him not. On the way Paul 
made the oracles of the Lord sweet unto them, teaching 
them the great things of Christ. Onesiphorns, having 
heard that Patti was coming to Iconium, went out to meet 
him, that he might bring him into his house. Now he 
had not seen Paul in the tlesli, but Titus had told of him. 
lie therefore went along the road to Lvstra. looking for 
Paul among them that passed hv. And when lie saw Paul, 
he beheld a man small in stature, bald-headed, of a good 
complexion, with eyebrows meeting, and a eounteimnce 
full of grace. For sometimes he appeared like a man, and 
sometimes he had, as it were, the face of an angel. And 
when Paul saw Onesiphorns, he smiled upon him. Hut 
Onesiphorns said, ‘ Hail, servant of the blessed God.’ 
And Paul answered, ‘Grace be with thee, and with thy 
house.’ Hut. Dennis and llermogenes were full of wrath 
and hypocrisy. 

“ \\ hen Paul had come into the house of Onesiphorus, 
there was great joy, and they bowed their knees and brake 
bread. And Paul preached unto them the word, saving, 

“ ‘ Hlessed are t lie pine in heart, lor they shall see* God. 

“ * Blessed are they that bear rule over themselves, for 
God shall speak with them. 

“ ‘Blessed are they that have kept chaste their flesh, for 
they shall become the temple of God. 

“ ‘ Blessed are they that have kept themselves apart from 
this world, for they shall be called righteous. 


“ * Hlessed are they that have wives as though they had 
none, for they shall have God as their portion. 

“ ‘ Hlessed are they which retain the fear of God, for they 
shall become as the angels of God. 

“ * Hle*sed are they that have kept the. baptism, for they 
shall have rest with the Father and the Son. 

“ * Hlessed are the merciful, for they shall obtaiu mercy, 
aud shall not behold the hitter day of judgment. 

* Hlessed aie the bodies of the virgins, for they shall he 
well pleasing unto Gocl, and they shall not lose the reward 
of their chastity. 

“ ‘ Blessed are they that tremble at the words of God, for 
they shall receive consolation. 

“‘Blessed are they that are partakers of the wisdom of 
Jesus Christ, for they shall be called the sons of the Most 
High God. 

“ ‘ Blessed are they who, for the love of Christ, arc de- 
parted from conformity to this world, for they shall judge 
the angels, and shall he hlessed at the right hand of the 
Father, and they shall have rest for ever and ever.’ 

“ While Paul was thns speaking, there was a certain vir- 
gin, called Thecla, the daughter of Tlieacleia, betrothed to 
a man whose name was Tliamyris; and she sat at a win- 
dow which was close by, listening attentively to Paul’s 
discourse concerning virginity and prayer; and she gave 
earnest heed to the things which were spoken, rejoicing 
with all her heart. And when she saw many women going 
in to hear Paul, she, also, had an eager desire that she 
might he deemed worthy to stand in his presence aud 
hear the word of Christ. 

“ For three days and three nights Thecla listened to the 
apostle, till her mother sent for Thamyris to see whether 
he could induce her to come home. His endeavors were 
in vain, for Thecla only listened to the things which were 
1 spoken by Paul. Then Thamyris started up, and went 
form into the street of the city,' watching those that went 
in and came out of the house of Onesiphorns. And he 
I saw two men striving bitterly one with t lie other, and he 
said, ‘Tell me, 1 pray you, who is this that leadeth astray 
the souls of youug men, and deceiveth virgins, so that they 
do not marry, hut remain as they are? I promise to give 
yon money, for I am one of the chief men of this city.’ 
The men, who were Demas aud llermogenes, said nifro 
him, ‘ Who indeed he is we know not, but this we know, 
that he deprives young men of wives, and maidens of hus- 
bands, saying unto them that in no other way can they 
have a resurrection than by not polluting the flesh, and by 
keeping it chaste.’ At the supper which Thamyris gave 
them in his house, they advised him to bring the apostle 
I before the governor, charging him with persuading the 
' multitudes to embrace this new doctrine of the Christians. 
The governor, they said, will destroy him, and thou wilt 
have Thecla to thy wife; and we will teach thee that the 
resurrection which this man speaks of has taken place 
already, for we rose again in onr children, and we rose 
again when we came to the knowledge of the true God. 

“The next morning Paul was brought, before the govern- 
or by Thamyris, who acted in accordance with the words 
of his advisers. The governor said to Paul, ‘Who art thou, 
and what dost thou teach? for they bring no small ac- 
cusation against thee.’ But Paul, lifting up his voice, 
said, ‘Forasmuch as I am this day examined concerning 
what I teach, listen, O governor! The living God, the God 
of retributions, he who is a jealous God, a God who is in 
need of nothing (u7r/>o<x<k>)c), a God who taketh thought 
for the salvation of men, hath sent me to reclaim them 
from uncleanness and corruption, from all pleasure, and 
from death, so that they may not sin. Wherefore, also, 
God sent his own Son, whom 1 preach unto von, teaching 
men that they should rest their hope on him, who alone 
hath had compassion upon a world that was led astray, 
that. men may no longer be under condemnation, hut that 
they may have faith, aud the fear of God, and the kuowl- - 
edge of holiness, and the love of the truth. If 1 therefore 
teach that which has been revealed to me by God. wherein 
do 1 go astray?’ When the governor had heard this, he 
ordeied Paul to he bound and he put in ward, saying, 
‘When I shall be at leisure,! will hear him more atten- 
tively.’ 

“ Thecla, having bribed the keeper of the door, was ad- 
mitted by night to the imprisoned apostle, and sitting at 
his feet, heard the wonderful works of God. When she 
] was found there, she was brought before the governor to- 
gether with Paul; the latter was scourged and cast out 
of the city, but. Thecla was ordered to he burned. Soon 
a pile was erected, and after she had made the sign of the 
! cross she went up thereon, and the wood was kindled. 
When the tire was blazing, a heavy rain and hail came 
down from heaven, and thus Thecla was saved. 

I “Now Paul was fasting with Onesiphorns and his wife 
and children, in a new tomb, ou the way from Iconium to 
Jnphne. After several days, when the children were 
j ahungered, Paul took oft’ his cloak and gave it to one of 
the children, saying, ‘Go, my child, and bhybread.’ On the 
way the boy met Thecla, who was looking'for Paul. When 
she was brought to him, he thanked God for her safe de- 
liverance. Thecla said to Paul, ‘I will cut. mv hair, and 
will follow thee whithersoever thou goest.’ But he an- 
swered, ‘This is a shameless age, and thou art very fair. 

1 fear lest another temptation come upon thee worse than 


TIIECLA AND PAUL 


311 


TIIECLA AND PAUL 


the first, anti that thou withstand it not.’ Thecla said, 
‘Only make me a partaker of the seal that is in Christ, 
and temptation shall not touch me.’ But Paul answered, 
‘U Thecla, wait with patience ami thou shalt possess the 
water.’ 

“And Paul sent away Onesiphorus and all his house unto 
Iconium, and went to Antioch with Thecla. As they were 
entering into the city, a certain ruler of the Syrians, Alex- 
ander by name, seeing Thecla, chive unto her in love, and 
would have given gifts and presents unto Paul. But he 
said, ‘ 1 know not t he woman of whom thou speukest, nor 
is die mine.’ At this Alexander embraced her in the street 
of the city. But as Thecla would not suffer this, she took 
hold of Alexander and tore his cloak and pulled off his 
crown. Ashamed of what had happened, Alexander had 
her brought before the governor, who condemned her to 
i he wild beasts, allowing her, however, at her own request 
—that she might remain pure until she should right with 
the wild beasts— to stay with a certain woman named 
Trvphjenn. 

“ When the games were exhibited, they bound Thecla to 
a fierce lioness, but the beast licked her feet. And the 
people marvelled greatly. And the title of her accusation 
was ‘Sacrilegious.’ And the women cried out, ‘An im- 
pious sentence has been passed in this city.’ After the 
show’, Trvphiena again received Thecla, for her daughter 
Pa Icon ill a was dead, and had said to her mother, in a 
dream, ‘Mother, take this stranger, Thecla, in my stead, 
and she will pray for me, that I may be transferred to the 
place of the just..’ And Thecla prayed, saying, ‘O Lord 
God, who hast made the heaven and the earth, Son of the 
Most High, Lord Jesus Christ, grant unto ibis woman ac- 
cording to her desire, that her daughter Faleonilla may 
live forever.’ 

“The next day Alexander came again to fetch Thecla. 
But Trvphiena cried aloud, so that Alexander (led away. 
And straightway the governor sent an order that Thecla 
should he brought. And Trvphiena, holding her by the 
hand, said, ‘My^daughter Faleonilla, indeed, 1 took to the 
tomb: and thee, Thecla, 1 am taking to the wild beasts.’ 
And Thecla wept very bitterly and said, ‘O Lord God, in 
whom 1 have believed, to whom I have tied for refuge, 
thou who didst deliver me from the fire, do thou grant a 


recompense to Tryphtena, who hath had compassion on 
thy servant, and hath kept me pure.’ When Thecla had 
been taken out of the hands of Tryphtena, they stripped 
her of her garments, and a girdle was given to her, and 
she was thrown into the theatre. And lions, and bears, 
and a savage lioness were let loose against her. But in- 
stead of killing Thecla, they tore one another. While she 
was praying, many more wild beasts were sent in. And 
when she had euiled her prayer, she turned and saw a 
trench filled with water, and she said, ‘ Now it is time for 
me to wash myself.’ And she cast herself in, saying, ‘In 
the name of Jesns Christ, I baptize myself on the last day.’ 
And the seals saw the glare of the fire of lightning, and 
floated about dead. And as she stood naked, there was a 
fiery cloud round about her, so that neither was she seen 
naked, nor could the wild beasts do her hurt. And when 
other beasts were cast into the theatre, the women wept 
again. And some of them threw down sweet-smelling 
herbs, so that there was an abundance of perfumes. And 
all the wild beasts, even as though they had been restrained 
by sleep, touched her not. When fierce bulls were let. loose, 
Trvphiena fainted, and the multitude cried, ‘Queen Try- 
phaena is dead.’ Alexander now r asked the governor to 
release Thecla, saying, ‘If Ciesar hear of these things, he 
will destroy the city, because his kinswoman queen Trv- 
phsena had died beside the theatre.’ And the governor 
called for Thecla out of the midst of the wild beasts, and 
said unto her, ‘Who art ihou? and what hast thon about 
thee, that none of the wild beasts tonebeth thee?’ y\ud 
she said, ‘I, indeed, am a servant of the living God ; and 
as to what there is about me, I have believed in the Son of 
Goil, in whom God is well pleased. Therefore hath not 
one of the beasts touched me. For he alone is the way 
of salvation, and the ground of immortal life. He is a 
refuge to the tempest-tossed, a solace to the afflicted, a 
shelter to them that are in despair; and, once for all, who- 
soever idiall not believe in him shall not live eternally.’ 
When she was released, she stayed with Trvphiena eight 
days. And she instructed her in the word of God, so that 
most, even of the maid-servants, believed. But Thecla 
desired to see Paul. When she was told that he was stay- 
ing at Myra of Lvcia, she went there, being dressed in 
man's attire. And when she saw him, she said, ‘I have 
received the baptism, O Paul! For he that wrought to- 
gether with thee for the gospel hath been effectual also 
with me for the baptism.’ When Thecla told him that 
she was going to Iconium, Paul said to her, ‘Go and teach 
the word of God.’ 

“In Iconium she went into the house of Onesiphorus 
‘where Christ made ilie light first to shine upon her.' 
After having tried in vain to convert her mother— 1 Thamy- 
ris having died in the meantime — she went to Seleucia, 
where she enlightened many by the word of God, ancl 
where she died in peace.” 


This is the legend of Thecla. How great or how 
little the substratum of truth in it, we cannot decide. 


The fact is that churches w r ere built in honor of the 
“beata virgo martyr Thecla in prose and rhyme the 
deeds of our heroine were celebrated; and Sept. 24 is 
commemorated in her honor. 

II. Date of Compilation. — We have a long line of 
Greek and Latin fathers by whom Thecla is mentioned 
in such a manner as to lead to the supposition that 
whatever is said of her is the same as we find it in the 
Acta Pauli et Theche. As one writer has followed the 
other, our examination will he confined to the earliest 
testimony — to that of Tcrtullian. In his treatise De 
Baptismo , ch. xvii, we read : “ lint if any defend those 
things which have been rashly ascribed to Paul, under 
the example of Thecla, so as to give license to women to 
teach and baptize, let them know that the presbyter in 
Asia, who compiled the account, as it were, under the title 
of Paul, accumulating of his own store, being convicted of 
what he had done, and confessing that he had done it out 
of love to Paul, was removed from his place. For how 
could it seem probable that he who would not give any 
firm permission to a woman to learn should grant to a 
female power to teach and baptize?” It has been taken 
for granted that the meaning is that a presbyter of Asia, 
somewhere towards the end of the 1st century, compiled 
a history of Paul and Thecla. and, instead of publishing 
it as a true narrative, either in his own name or with 
any name at all, but in good faith, published it falsely, 
and therefore wickedly, under the name of Paul, as 
though he were himself the writer; that he was con- 
victed of his forgery, and deposed from the priesthood. 
This account has been marvellously dressed up, and 
some of its advocates have ventured to say that a Mon- 
tanist writer of the name of Leueius was the real author 
of these Acts (Tillemont, Me moires, ii, 440). .Jerome 
( Catalogue Script. Keel. c. 7), commenting upon the pas- 
sage of Tertullian, says that the presbyter who wrote 
the history of Paul and Thecla was deposed for w hat he 
had done by John (apud Johannem') the apostle. That 
Jerome relied upon Tertullian is evident from his state- 
ment ; but his conduct, in fathering the story of the dep- 
osition by John upon Tertullian is inexcusable, because 
no such statement was made by Tertullian. On the 
other hand, w f e must bear in mind that, according to 
tradition, alleged or real events which occurred in Asia 
Minor and touched upon the life of the Church have 
been brought in connection with John. Jims he is said 
to have confuted Ccrintluis, Ebion, Marcion, and even 
Basil ides. Even miracles which were first narrated by 
disciples of the apostles or by bishops of Asia Minor 
were afterwards referred to him (comp. Patr. A post. Opp. 
ed. Gebhardt, tlarnack, Zahn, i [ed. i], 194). Our pas- 
sage is a proof of this. Tertullian speaks of an Asiatic 
presbyter, Jerome adds apud Johannem. and his copyists 
write, instead of “apud Johannem,” a Johanne. 

Now r , putting aside Jerome’s commentary and the 
other patristic testimonies, which will be found collect- 
ed at great length in Baronins, Tillemont, and Schlau, 
w'e see from the external evidence as contained in Ter- 
tullian’s passage that the A cts of Paul and Thecla must 
have existed in his time. To this external evidence 
of antiquity we have the internal, furnished by the 
Acts themselves. This will determine nothing as to 
who was their author, but will be valuable in helping 
us to assign an approximate date. An indication of the 
early origin of a Christian document is the absence of 
quotations from the New Test. True, -this is only a 
negative evidence; but when found in connection with 
sayings attributed to Christ or the apostles which are 
not found in the canonical Scriptures, it tends to estab- 
lish antiquity. Now there is not a single direct citation 
from the New- 'Pest..; and when Paul preaches upon the 
Beatitudes, words are boldly put into his mouth which 
are not in Scripture. This was becoming enough in a 
contemporary of the apostle, or in a writer of the 2d 
century who had received them through a not far-dis- 
tant tradition; hut it would have been unbecoming in a 
I writer of the 3d century, and, speaking in general terms, 


Til EC LA ANI) PAUL 


312 


T1IECLA AND PAUL 


it was what writers of the 3d century seldom did. Thus 
we could quote Clement of Home. Ignatius of Antioch, 
Justin Martyr, Polyearp, besides referring to the art. 
Savings. Tk apitionai., ok Cm i: 1st, that such has been 
l he case; and it is therefore not a matter for surprise, but 
it is exactly what we might be prepared to expect, if the 
. t (7.< of Theda are. in the main, a document of the 2d 
century, that the writer should represent Paul not only 
as saying “ Blessed are the merciful, for they shall ob- 
tain mercy,” but ** Blessed are they which have kept 
the baptism, for they shall have rest with the Father 
and the Son.” A further indication of the comparatively 
early date of this composition is its teaching the sal- 
eability of departed heathens. All early Christendom 
believed in the efficacy of prayers for those who had 
fallen asleep in the fait it of Christ. But it was only the 
two centuries which taught that prayer was of avail 
for such as had died without, baptism and without the 
knowledge of ( -hrist on earth. I 1ms we have a parallel 
ca^e to the prayer of Theda for Falconilla in the Pas&io 
Ptrjhtmv et Pelicifatis. where we read that Perpetua, 
Through her prayers. saved her brother Dinocrates, who 
had died without baptism, “from the dark place;” and 
from the place of suffering* he comes to the place full 
of light. Augustine, comment iug upon this (he Origin? 
Aitimir.u BP iii, 9), says that Dinocrates must, have been 
baptized, and that he was suffering in consequence of 
some childish fault committed after baptism. But Au- 
gustine's statement that the boy was baptized is arbi- 
trary, because best suited to bis own theory. But is it 
i.i the lea*t likely that Dinocrates had heen baptized, 
when Perpetua herself was unbaptized, and only received 
baptism shortly before her martyrdom? Now in the 2d 
century it was not an uncommon thing to pray for non- 
< ’hristiaus: but after the 2d century, not. only do we lose 
all trace of prayer for non-Christians who had departed 
this life, but we find the contrary opinion firmly main- 
tained. So entirely was this the case that, as we have 
seen, August ine, “ in order to get rid of the plain infer- 
ence to bo drawn from St. Porpetua’s prayer for her broth- 
er. was driven to invent the ingenious but scarcely amia- 
ble explanation that a lit tie child who had died at the ear- 
ly age of seven years was suffering purgatorial torments 
for some infantile fault committed after his baptism.” 

Another indication of an early date, is the fact that 
the name Xpiartarot, which occurs twice in the A cts, 
only used by the two companions of Paul, who call 
tin* attention of Thamyris to this fact as a point for ac- 
eusatioii. This would place the compilation of thedete 
at a time when the name “Christian” was sufficient 
to condemn any one, i. e. at about the time of Tra- 
jan. in the year 115. We may feel a reasonable conti- 
denee, then, that, whether the legend of Thecla be true or 
false, it was composed at least before A.D. 200, perhaps 
somewhere between 105 and 195, and most probably 
within a few years of the middle of that period, 

III. Object of the Author . — Whoever may have been 
tlie author of the A c/s, the question lias been asked, 
W hat was his object? It has been said that he intend- 
ed to defend and maintain the Moutanist theory, and 
the most important evidence in favor of the MoutanisL 
authorship of t lie .lc/.s' was taken from the concluding 
words, “she illuminated many by the word of God;” by 
which is meant — illumination being taken as a synonym 
1 >r baptism — she also baptized those whom she convert- 
ed. Now. leaving aside the statement of Jerome that 
“Thecla baptized a lion,” a statement which he himself 
calls a fibula, and which he. did not find in Tertidlian, 
whom he follows, and who would have undoubtedly 
stigmatized it as nonsense, Ibr such it is; and, without 
investigating how be came to make such a statement, 
or whether it was originally meant that, Thecla baptized 
a person of the name of Leo (which means, in Latin, 
“lion”), we know that Thecla baptized none except 
herself. The only point in the argument now are the 
words 7ro\/\ot'£' ttyotTHTtv ~<rj Xtiyip roe Dtoe, “she il- 
luminated many by the word of God.” which, as Basil , 


of Seleneia (whether lie is the author of the .1 cts or 
merely their editor) says, mean that “Thecla baptized 
those whom she converted to Christ.” Now it is true 
that (jnoTtZtir has been used by Gregory of Nazianzum, 
Gregory of Xyssa, Fusebius (/fist. Perl, iii, 2d, is), and 
Methodius (Conr. Orcein 1 irg.) in the sense of “ baptize,” 
and 0u>ri<T/td(; for “ baptism,” and by Clemens Alexandri- 
nus, Athanasius, Chrysostom, Justin Martyr (A/>ol. i, G1 ; 
comp. 05); but this is not the only meaning, for, as Justin 
himself says, KaXtinu rorro to Xovrpur ipioTio pig tot; 
ifnoriZofurioV n)v ciaroiar Ttor tuvtu pa r^u rumor, 
thus deriving the new signification of the word from the 
old ; and Dionysius Areopagita, Clemens Alexandrinus, 
Chrysostom, and Cyril of Alexandria use the word 0um- 
( Tfiiii ; for “illumination,” “instruction,” which significa- 
tion is required here by the addition nj Xoytp ror Of or. 
We have here the same n&us loqnemli that we lind in Fph. 
iii, 9; Ileb.vi.4: x,32; and so also in the Sept,, where 
it is used for niin. For examples, comp, Stephanus, 
Thes. Cnee. Ling. s. v. (piori^tir . We are not told that 
she instructed in public, which is the main point; anil 
if site had preached at all, it probably was no sermon in 
the strict sense of the word, but a missionary discourse. 
This inference we make from t he Acts themselves, ac- 
cording to which she lived among heathen; there was 
not as yet a congregation, consequently also no office. 
That women taught in the apostolic age was nothing 
uncommon, for of Aquila and Priscilla we are told (Acts 
xviii, 20) that they took Apollo Kat (iKpifiiortpor tiling 
t&Zfrro Ti)r bear rov Of or : and in Bom. xvi. 3 sq. 
Paul calls them rove rrvvtpyovg pov ir Xparr tjj. 

After all, we cannot perceive any Moiitanistic tendency 
in the author of the A cts, for his Thecla does not remind 
us of the Montauistic prophetesses, who even performed 
ecclesiastical functions. '1 hat Thecla baptized others we 
are not told; and when Basil of Seleneia states this of 
her, he does it because of his interpretation of (jaoTiZtir, 
and indicates that in the beginning of Christianity in 
Asia Minor such things had happened. We need only 
refer to the letter of Firmilian, bishop of Cmsarca, ad- 
dressed to Cyprian against pope Stephen (the 75th of 
Cyprian’s Letters), and to the Apostolic Constitutions 
(iii, 9). The latter expressly forbid women to baptize 
and teach, it being tTnaipaXkg, pciXXor dt rcapdropor 
teal aotfUc, as well as against the Scriptures. We can 
very well perceive how. in the face of such tendencies, 
which in the 3d century could have been only of a very 
rare occurrence, a book must have been welcomed out 
of which the authority of an apostle could be quoted in 
favor of female prerogatives in the Church. Being dis- 
posed to generalize a single case, the difference in the 
time and persons was overlooked, and this special case 
was applied erroneously to different cases. For what 
we know of Theela’s baptism is, that she asked the apos- 
tle for that rite, but he exhorted her to be patient and 
wait. At Antioch, when in the arena, and believing 
that she will surely die without having received the 
baptism, she throws herself into the trench. After her 
deliverance she remains eight days with Trypluena, and 
instructs her in the word of God. We are not told that 
she baptized some, but that most of the maid-servants be- 
lieved, and that there was great joy in the house. Then 
she comes to Paul at Myra, saying, tXafior to Xovrpor, 

I lornAe * 6 yeip croi ovrtpyiiaag etc to ecayytXior icdpoi 
(Tvn)pyij(Ttr tig to Xo i’traoSeu (ch. xl). Paul does not ut- 
ter his disapprobation, but keeps quiet. But when she is 
about to leave, he does not say to her that she should teach 
and baptize, but “go and teach.” The faculty which Je- 
sus gives to his disciples (Matt, xxviii, 19, 20) is entirely 
different, from the one which Paul gives to Thecla. 

Thecla’s case is exceptional on account of her two- 
fold martyrdom; being left by Paul and the adherents 
to his teaching, and being in perictilo mortis, she bap- 
tizes herself, using the Christian formula. According 
to the whole narrative, Paul cannot make any objection, 
because God has made himself known in delivering her, 


TIIECLA AND PAUL 


313 


TIIECLA AND PAUL 


anti the .action of a martyr cannot be prescriptive as to 
others. Besides, the author brings before us a time in 
which ecclesiastical affairs had not yet taken a definite 
form, and there is not the least evidence that the object 
of the author of the A cts was to support Montanistie 
doctrines, and to establish the same bv the authority 
of the apostle Paul. The only object which the author 
could have had in view was to describe the apostolic 
time, in which he succeeded only in part. It is a time 
when the Church commences to develop herself. But, 
using his own judgment in this respect, it becomes fa- 
tal, since the author connects the person of an apostle 


with deeds and doctrines which in this connection must 
be detrimental to the order of the Church. Such a 
writing could only be a great hindrance to the leaders 
of the Church; and in order to rentier it of no effect.it 
was severely criticised, ami its author called to account 
and deposed. Yet the possibility of a historical sub- 
stratum in the . 1 cts is not precluded, although it is dif- 
ficult to say where history ends and legend commences. 

IV. Sources of the .1 c/s. — We have already stated that 
the Acts contain not a single direct citation from the 
New Test., vet the student cannot fail to discover many 
instances in which the New Test, has been used. Thus : 


Matt, iii, 17, 
v. S, 7, 
viii, 19, 
x, 42, 
xii, 45, 


comp, with Acta P. et Th. ch. xxxvii, 
“ “ “ v, vi, 


xvi, 


n 


vi, 

XXV, 


xvii, 5, 
xxi, it, 
xx vi, 47, 55, 
xxvii, 13, 
Mark vi, 20, 
vi, B4, 

xiv, 71, 

xv, 20, 
Luke vii, 3$, 

X, 39, 
xiv, 33, 
xviii, 7, 
x viii, 43, 
xxiii, IS, 
John i, 14, 
iv, 51, 

V, 24, 


xxii, 

iv, 

XV, 

xvi, 

XX, 

xxi, 
xx vi, 
xxviii, 
xviii, 
xviii, 

v, 

xvii, 
xxxviii, 
xx, 

iii, 

xxxix, 

vi, xvii, 


vi, 51, 5S, 
xvii, 9, 
xix, 20 sq. 
Acts i, 24, 
ii, 11, 

ii, 42, 

iii, 20, 


xxix, xxxvii. 

xxiv. 

xxxvii, 

xxiv, 

i, xviii, 

v, 

xvii, 


iv, 27, 30, 

iv, 9, 

v, 17, 

vi, 15, 

vii, 55, 

vii. 58, 
ix. 7, 

xi, 24, 20, 
xiii, 12, 
xiii, 34, 

xiii, 50, 

xiv, 15, 
xvi, 15, 
xvi, 17, 
xvi. 20, 
xvi; 22, 
xvi, 20, 

xvi. 34, 

xvii, 25, 
xviii, 13, 
xxii, 7, 
xxiv, 20, 
xxvi, 10, 

Rom. viii, 17, 

viii, 21, 

1 Cor. i. 7, 

iii, 10, 17, 


XXIV, 

xvii, 


xxi, xxvi, 
i, 

xv, 

ix, 

xx, xxv, 
xi, 

xvii, xxiv, 

iv? 

xxix, 

ix, 

xv, 

xxxviii, 

xxvi, 

xvii, 

xiv, 

xiii, 

xvii, 

iii, 


iv, 1, 
vii, 29, 
x, 13, 

xv, 53, 54, 
2 Cor. i, 3, 
x, 15, 

Gal. ii, 8, 

Eph. i, 6, 

Phil, i, 11, 

2 Thess. i, 7, 
lleh. xi, 5, 0, 
James iii, IS, 

v. 12, 

1 John ii, 22, 24, 
Rev. xii, 9, 
xiv, 11, 


iv, 

v, 

xxv, 

xxxviii, 

xxiv, 

xviii, 

xl, 


iv, 

xxxvii, 

vi, 

iv, 

xvii, 

vi, 

xvii, 

vi, 


els ov ev&nnvfTe v 6 6en? vidv avrov (comp, also Matt, xii, IS ; xvii, 5). 
where the Beatitudes are formed according to those of Matt. 
uKoAoi/S7j<Ta) o ot vnov S' th* TTopei'ti (cotup. also Luke ix, 57). 

ovk inro\taov(Tiv tov ptcSrav. 

fit] uAAo? tre iretptxapnv Xtpl/trai xetpov tov irptitTOV (COlIip. also 

Alai t . xxvii, 04 ; John v, 14 ; 2 Pet. ii, 20). 

i'606A>i t'ivto^ev eneoK tuaev. 
e vAoy n/uevo?. 
fltTU pvAaJV. 

ov ydp fuKpiti? aov KaT€^opov<rtv (comp. also Mark XV, 4). 
t.dt-w? 6c tjKot’ev 6 avSinraTO? tov llavAov (comp, also xii, 37). 

,'j St ifi? up i/o? tv tptjpty TreptoKonel. tov irotpitu. 
ovk oiSa t tjv ^vvatKa, rjr At yet? 

aiTta tT,? 67rt7pa</>>,?. 

KaTu0tAoi'<7ar tu Seapt't avTov. 

KtlXlOaOa Ttopn TOV? 7Tu8ci? tlUTOV >]KOVeV K. T. A. 

unoTut-ripevot Tut Koouty (ClUUp. ix, 01). 

6 Geo? t\dih;cr£wi(. 
a7rtdftjKui' an ov Tty Otto, 
u-pe avTov. 

X'iptTOf 7rA»/pr|?, 

OTt TO TtKVOV pOV £f}. 

ovk u^oiTiii i,/i(pov Kptaea )? ; IVo pn kcti vtto Kptotv &otv (comp. 

also James v, 12). 

, tva fyfcreTai ti? tov? ulfova?. 

OTt O if fcOTIV. 

Ttpi ptvtjv T<tvT)jv GetcAav tfet? et? tov e/tov tottov. 

Gee KupStoyvG'ora (comp, xv, S). 
t t ptyuXeiu too xptoTov, resp. tov Geov (Luke i, 49). 

KAtftjt? iipTuv (comp, xx, 7 ; Luke xxiv, 35. a. o. in N. T.). 
did tirep*l/ev (one codex, u7rtffTetAev) 6 Geo? tov euvTOv 7ratda, ov 
eyo> euayyeXt^oput kui StSdoKto tv tKtuty t'xetv T»yv tXmSu tow 
uvS’pdyirow (comp, v, 4, 2 ; xvii, 3; xxiii*, 6 ; Rom. viii, 24, a. o. 
inN.T.). 

6 TOV tty tov (TOV TTCtlSSs TTaTtfp. 

et eyiv (Tt-fiepov uvaKpivopai ti SiSuokw k.t.X. (comp. XXiv, 21 ; 
xxiii, 0). 

7rA»itr3'e<s £>/\ov k at Sypov (comp, xiii, 45 ; Luke iv, 2S). 
uyytXou npoaunrov eixcv (COinp. Gal. iv, 14). 

epfiXt\l/a(Ta ei? tov dxAov idev tov Kvptot* Ktt~t)peiov . . . ode el? 

oopuvov? huet (comp, also xviii, 9, 10; xxiii, 11). 

IlctvAov . . . t/iaAev epto tT|? 7rdAea>? (colli)), xiii, 50; xiv, 19). 

676 vfjS’atrav txvvodevovTt? at’ Tip. 

peTu . . . oxXtw iKavov (comp, xix, 26 ; Mark x, 46 ; Luke vii, 12). 

avT‘? T ijv 6K7r\tlfiV . . . KUTt XC £ tKTrXtJKTOV . . . TT up U71 X >,£ . 
t« ooia tpya tov XpttJTOv. 

apt yap Trp<7*To? tv? 7roAe&)?: Ulld xxvi, ’(go vie tov €>p't nputTt) (comp, 
also xvii, 4, 12). 

Geo? £»7>v. 11 <tTcp 6 noirioas tov ovpuvov \at t)]v 7i”v. 

et 6t t ( tt€ rtvt?, 5evTe Kat v/tet? et? tov oikov pou Kai uvairavaaoSe. 

6 Geo? o i>)|/t<TTo?. 

0 av^ptoTTOV ovto? Ttp ’tKovttwv 7roAtv avatretct. 
erwe 7rt<TT,j 7ra? 6 6'xAo?. 

utoT€ tJuAev^tjVot Ttt 2’e/ieXta too 2’ettTpov. 

TcavotKt. 

Geo? cnrpoaSe* ?. 
avu7ret^ovTa tov? oxXovi. 
tneotv et? to idacpos. 

TI tlStKW. 

vntiptTa tov ehXoynptvov Geov (comp. Luke i, 2;’ John xviii, 
30 ; 1 Cor. iv, 1). 

KXr\povopi]aou(Ttv tov Geov. 

O7TC0? UTTO t7j? (jj^Opuf U TT O (TTT It 0(0 QVT OV?. 

u7reK6exoM ei ' 0? * 

ot u 7 vi;v t tjv odpKa T,jp»/travTe? . . . vao? Geov ycvroovTat (COIU]). 

vi, 1S-20). 

VTTtfptTU TOV Geov, 

01 e’xoVTC? ■jvvuiKa? to? pi j e'xoi'Te?. 
pi] tiAAo? tre 7r etpaopov A>j\lt€T at. 

auTO? . . . tv^i tret oe ott)Tt]ptav (comp. 2 Cor. V, 2, 3). 

6 TTUTijp TOV Kvpiou ri/utvv ’I tjerot/ Xptoruv (CtUlip. xi, 31, a. O. ill N.T.). 
tjvfatev t] ntOTtf, 

6 yap trot ervi epytycra? ti? to evayytXiov Kupoi ovvtjpyrioev etc to 
Aoi'tratrS’tu. 

tov dyaTrrjuet ot< (of Christ). 

Kupnov dtKatotrvva?. 

S-At/Joptvot? uveert?. 

evapeoTtfoovoiv tov Geov (COllip. xiii, 1C). 

Kapirov SlKatOOVV))?. 

tva pt)KtTt VTTO KptOtV WOtV, 

7rpd? TOV IT OTt pa KQC tov Viov (comp. 2 John Vd*. 9). 

nXai topttiy koo/xw. 

avanavoiv tf-ovotv et? uitova a tvvo?. 


TIIECOE 


314 


TIIEIXEIi 


That the author of the Acts was acquainted with the 
second epistle to Timothy is unquestionable, because 
there are many striking parallels between that epistle 
and the Acts, which need not be mentioned. 

V. Literature. — Lspenciei (tpera Omnia ( Parisis, 

1 G 1 1> ) , j>. 998 sq.; Baronins, Martyruloyium Romanum 
(Venetiis. 1593), ad 2d Sept. p. 131-451; id. Annates 
L 'cclesiustici ad Annum 47 ( Luca?, 1758), i, 358 sq.; 
Pantinus. Xotie in Ed. Librarian It Basilii Sdeuciic in 
I sau ria Episcopi de I ’it a ac Miracufis IK Thee be (An tv. 
1G08), p. 222-238; Uorucjus, Hist. Eccl. ( Brunsvicii, 
1049), i. 10-42; Vetustins Occidental is Eerie site Murfy- 
roloyium , etc. (ed. Franc. M. Florentimis [ Lucie, 1008 J), 
notie ad 12 et 2d Sept.; Combofis, Bihliothicie G neco- 
rum Pat rum Auctarinni Xorissimuni (Par. 1072). pt. i; 
Xot. ad X ice tie Paphl. Orat. in Theda m , p. 500-509; 
Tillemont, Me mo ires pour serrir a l' II is to ire Ecclesias- 
tique. etc. (ibid. 1001), ii, 05-70. 528-530; lttig. De 
Ileeresiarchis (Lips. 1090); Appendix Dissertationum de 
II <e resin rchis (ibid. 1090); De Pseudepiyr aphis , i, 128, 
120; De Dibliathecis et Catenis Pat rum (ibid. 1707), p. 
700-705; Grabe, Spicileyinm EE. Patrum (pxniiia?, ed. 
ii, 1700; ed. i, 1098), i, 87-94, resp. 128, 830-335; Des 
heiliyen Clement is Historic ran denen Rcisen and Lebcn des 
A pastels Petri , mit einem Vorberichte E. A molds (Berlin, 
1702); Acta Sanctorum (Autv. 1717), mens. Jun. vii, 
552, 553 (auctore Job. Bnpt. Sollerio); llieronymi Cata- 
hf/u/n Scriptorum Ecclesiasficorum , ciun notis Frasmi 
Poterdami, Mariani Victorii. 11. tlravii, A. Miriei, et Jo. 
Alb. Fabrieii— Krnestus Salomo Cyprianus recensuit et 
annotationibus illustravit (Franco!'. et Lips. 1722); Dom. 
Georgius, in an annotation to the Martyroloyy of Ado 
of Vienne, in his edition of tiie same (Korn. 1745 fob), 
p. 403; Lardner, The Credibility of the Gospel History 
(2d ed. Loud. 1748b 11, ii. (107-703; A eta Sanctorum 
(Antv. 1757), ad 23 Sept, vi, 54(1 sq. (auctore Jo. Stit- 
tingo); Fabricius, Bibliotheca Gneca (llamh. 1807), 
ed. llarles. x,331 ; Thilo. Acta S. Thomce Apostuli (Lips. 
1823), prol. p. lix, lx; Schwegler, I hr Montanismus 
('I’Hb. 18 II), p. 2(52-2(5(1 ; Tischendorf, .1 eta Apostoloruni 
Apocrypha (Lips. 1851), prol. p. xxi-xxvi; Kbstlin, 
Die pseudonyme Literatur tier dltesten Kirche, in the 
Theol. Jahrbiicher (Tub. 1851), p. 175, 177; Ewald, 
Uebersicht tier 1851-52 erschiem uen Schriften zur bib!. 
Wissenschuft. in the Jahrbiicher zur bibl. WisseuschaJ't. 
1852. p. 127 ; Kitsclil. Die Entstelnnu / der altkatholischen 
Kirche (2d ed. Bonn, 1857), p. 202-204; Neudeeker, art. 
‘■Tliekla” in Herzog, lteid-Encyklop. xv, 704, 705; Gut- 
sehmid. Die Koniysnamen der apocryph. A post dy esc h ichte 
(Rhein. Af us. 18(51), new series, xix, 17(1-179, 390,397 ; 
Keuss, Gesch. d. he il. Schriften (llrunswiek, 1804), § 207, 
p. 204, note; Ililgenfcld, Xorum Testamentum extra 
(\inanem Ileceptum (Lips. 180(1), iv, (19; Kenan. Saint - 
Paul (Par. 1809), 1,40; >1 idler, Erkluntny des Barnabas- 
Brief es (Leips. 1809). p. 4; Wright, Apocryphal Acts of 
the. Apostles (Loud. 1871, 2 vols.); llatisrath, Xeutesta- 
mentl. Zeityesch ichte (1872), ii, 547 ; Lipsius, Ceber den 
U rspruny und dltesten G< -branch des Christennamens 
(Jena, 1873); p. 8; Mossman, .1 History of the Catholic 
Church of Jesus Christ from the Death of St. John to the 
Middle of the Sicond (Xntnry (Loud. 1873), p. 351-400 ; 
Der Katholik , Nov. 1875, j). 101 ; but more especially 
Schlau, Die Aden des Panins und der Theda und die 
dltere Theda- Leyende (Leips. 1877); and the review by 
Lipsius in Schiirer, Thiol. Lite rat urzeituny (ibid. 1877), 
p. 543. (B.P.) 

Theco'e (Betrwi). the Greek form (1 Macc. ix, 33) 
of the Heb. name (2 Cl iron. xx. 20) Tekoa (q. v.). 

Theft (PC 2 3, rXippet or kXm t/;) is treated in the 
Mosaic code in its widest hearings (Fxod. xxii, 1 sq.), 
especially when accompanied by burglary or the nbrep- 
tion of animals (Josephus, Ant. xvi. 1, 1; Philo, Opp. ii. 
33(1). If the stolen property had already been sold or 
rendered useless, the thief was required to make five- 
fold restitution in cases of horned cattle (comp. 2 Sam. 
xii,G; Philo, Opp. ii, 337), or fourfold in ease of sheep i 


or goats; but only twofold in case the living animal 
was restored. Put the statute likewise included the 
stealing of inanimate articles, as silver and gold (Jose- 
phus, .1 nt. iv, 8, 27). The prominence given to the for- 
mer kind of theft is explainable on the ground of the 
pastoral character of the Hebrews (comp. Justin, ii, 2; 
Walther, Gesch. d. rum. Rechts. p. 807 ; Sachs. Criminal- 
Codex. art. 220 ; M arezoll, Criminal-Codex , p. 388 ). Any 
other kind of property might easily be found and recov- 
ered, and hence its theft was punished by its simple 
restoration, with a fifth part of the value added for lo>s 
of use (Lev. v, 22 sq.; vi,3sq.). Kahhinical legislation 
on this point may be seen in the Mishna ( Baba Met slab. 
ii). From Prov. vi, 30, Michaelis infers a sevenfold res- 
titution in Solomon’s time, hut the passage probably 
speaks only in round numbers. On the ancient Greek 
laws, see Potter, Antiq. i, 304 sq. ; and on that of the 
twelve tables, Adam, llom. . 1 ntiq. i, 420 ; Abegg, Straf- 
rechtsiriss. p. 449; or generally Gellius, xi, 18; on that 
of the modern Arabs, see Wellsted, Trarels. i, 287 ; on 
the Talmudic, see Otho, Lex. Babb. p. 253. The Kab- 
binical interpretations of the law are given in the Mish- 
na, Baba Kamma , vii sq. If the burglar suffered a fa- 
tal wound in the act by night, the act was regarded as a 
justifiable homicide (Exod. xxii, 2). So likewise in So- 
lon’s laws (Demosth. Timocr. p. 730) and among the an- 
cient Komans (Hoinecc. Antiq. J nr. Bom. IV, i, 3, 499), 
as well as Germans (Hanke, Gesch. d. dentsch. pend. 
Rechts, p. 99). Kidnapping (pluyinm) of a free Israelite 
was a capital crime (Exod. xxi, 10; Dent, xxiv, 7), pun- 
ishable with strangulation {Sanhedr. xi, 1); and was an 
act to which a long line of defenceless sea-coast like Pal- 
estine was peculiarly liable from piracy. A similar pen- 
alty prevailed among the ancient Greeks (Xenoph. Me- 
ntor. i, 2, 02; Demosth. Philipp, p. 53) and Komans af- 
ter Constantine (see Marezoll, Criminalrecht , p. 570; 
Keim, Criminal)', el. Bom. p. 390); comp. Philo, Opp. ii, 
338. Sec generally Micliaclis, Mas. Recht , vi, 00 sq., 83 
sq. — Winer. See Steal. 

THEFT, Christian Treatment of. In the early 
Church theft was reckoned among the great crimes 
which brought men under public penance. Among St. 
Basil’s canons there is one that particularly specifies the 
time of penance. The thief, if he discover himself, 
shall do one year’s penance; if he be discovered bv oth- 
ers, two: half the time as a pmstrator. the other half 
a costander. — Bingham, Christ.. 4 ntiq. bk. xvi. eh. xii,§ 4. 

Theile, Carl Gottfried Wiiaielm, doctor and pro- 
fessor of theology, was horn at Grosseorbetha, near Mer- 
seburg. Feb. 25, 1799, and died at Leipsie, Oct. 8, 1853. 
He wrote, De Trinm Evanydiorum Xecessitudine (Ups. 
1823) : — Xotitia Xot'i Commentarii in Xorum Testamen- 
tum (ibid. 1829): — Tabula 1 Rerum Doymaticarum Com- 
pemfiariie. (ibid. 1830): — Chris/us und die Vernnnft 
(ibid. 1850): — t'ommentarins in Epistolam Jacobi (ibid. 
1859):- — Zur Bioyraphie Jesn (ibid. 1837): — Thesaurus 
Literatures Theo/oyica 1 Academics, sire Recensus Disse r- 
tationum , etc. (ibid. 1840): — Pro Confession is Reliyione 
adrersus Couf ssionnm Theoloyiam (ibid. 1850). Be- 
sides the above, he edited, together with K. Stier, Poly - 
y! often - Bibel sum llandyebranch (Bielefeld, 1854, and 
often, (1 vols.) ; he also edited Van der Ilooglit’s Hebrew 
Bible (Leips. 1849, and often), together with ICx plica tin 
Epicriseou Masorethicurnm ; Conspectus Lectinnnm , etc. 

I bis is one of the best editions of the Hebrew Bible, 
lie also published, Xorum Testamentum, Gnvc.e et Ger- 
m a nice (ibid. 1852, and often); and Xorum Testamen- 
tum Grace, ex rceoguitione Knapii emendatius edidit 
argumentornmque notationes locos parallelos annotatio- 
nem criticam et indices adjecit (7th ed. ibid. 1858; 1 1th 
ed. ibid. 1875, by Oscar von Gebhardt). See Fiirst, 
Bib/. Jud. iii. 419; Winer, Handbnch der theoloy. Litera- 
tur, i. 85, 237, 302, 552: ii, 809; Znehold, Bibl. Theol. 
ii, 1520 sq. ; Sclitircr, Theoloy. Literaturzeituny , 1870, 
p.lSq. (B.P.) 

Tlieiner, Augustin, a Roman Catholic divine, 


TIIEINER 


315 


THEISM 


was born April 11, 1804, at Breslau, in Silesia. lie first 
studied theology, afterwards philosophy and jurispru- 
dence, and at Halle, in 1829, was made doctor u tri- 
usque juris. For several years he collected material at 
the libraries of Vienna, Paris, and London for canonical 
disquisitions. Shortly before his promotion he pub- 
lished, together with his brother Johann Anton (q. v.), 
Die Finftihrnng cler erzicuugenen Fhelosigkeit bei den 
christ lichen (deist lichen nnd ihre Folgen (Altenburg, 1828, 
2 vols.); but he soon perceived his errors, and went to 
1 ionic, where, he entered the Congregation of St. Philip 
Neri, and received holy orders, lie remained in Pome, 
and in 1855 Pius IX appointed him prefect of the 
Vatican archives. In 1870 he retired from his office, 
and died Aug. 10, 1874. Of his many writings we 
mention, Comment at io de. Romnnorum Pontifcum Kpisto- 
laruni Decretalium Ant ignis Collect ionibus et de Gregorii 
IX P. M. Decretalinm Codice (Lips. 1820 ): — Rechcrches 
snr qilusieurs Collections Jnedites de Dec ret ales dn Moyen- 
dye (Paris, 1833) : — Geschichte dec geist lichen BUdungs- 
anstalten (1835 ): — Cardinal Frankenberg nnd sein 
Kawpf file die Kirche (Freiburg, 1850) : — Zustdnde dec 
kathol. Kirche in S cities 'ten con 1740 bis 1758 (Patisbon, 
1852, 2 vols.) : — Geschichte des Bout ijict its Clemens XI P 
(Paris, 1853,2 vols.): — Vetera, Monumenta Historian 
Jlungariam Saeram Illustrantia (Pome. 1850, 1800, 2 
vols.): — Vett, Momim. Polonice et Lithuaniie Gentinmque, 
Finitimarnni Ilistoriam Illustrantia (ibid. 1800-03, 3 
vols.): — V<tt. M onion, iSlacorum Meridionalium His- 
tor. Illnstr. (1803 ) : — Codex Dominii Temporalis Set net <c 
Set /is (1801 sc]., 3 vols.). He also published a new edi- 
tion of the Annals of Baronins, and worked assiduously 
upon the continuation of this gigantic work. See Wi- 
ner, Handbucli dvr theolog. Literatnr , i, 003, 828; ii, 5, 
800: Zuchold, JJibl. TheoL ii, 1323 sq. ; Theolog. Uni- 
versal- Lex, s. v. ; Regensbarger Real- Fncgklop, s. v. ; 
Lift rarischer JIanthceiser Jur das kathol. Deutschland , 
1804, p. 148 sq. ; 1874. p. 303 sq. (B. P.) 

Theiner, Johann Anton, brother of Augustin, 
was born at Breslau. Dec. 15, 1700. lie studied theol- 
ogy, was made chaplain in 1823 in Zobten on the Bo- 
ber, and in 1824 was appointed professor of exegesis 
and canon law at Breslau. The lively interest, which 
he took in the reformatory movements of his Church 
obliged him to give up his lectures, and he entered 
upon ministerial dirties at different places. In 1845 he 
sided with the Merman Catholic movement, from which 
he soon withdrew, in 1848, and lived excommunicated 
by bis Church until 1855, when he was made ettsfos of 
the university library at Breslau, where he died. May 15, 
18U0. lie wrote, Deseriptio Codici.s qni I ’ersioneni Pen- 
tateuchi Arabicam eontinet (Berlin, 1822): — I)ie zwblf 
kleinen Propheten (Leips. 1828 ): — Dasjunfte Duck Mo- 
sis (ibid. 1831 ): — De Pseudoisidonana Canonum Collec- 
tione (Breslau, 1837 ): — Die reformatorischen Bestre- 
bungen der kathol. Kirche (Altenlmrg, 1845 ): — Das Se- 
ligkeitsdogma in der kathol. Kirche (ibid. 1847): — Ent- 
hullungen liber Lehren v. Leben der kathol. Geisf/ichkeit. 
See Winer, Hamlin eh der theolog. Literatnr. i, 174,003; 
ii, 22, 800; Thctdogisches Universal- Lex. s. v. ; Regens- 
burger Real- Fncyldop. s. v.; Znchold, Dili. Theol. ii, 
1322 ; Fiirst, Bib). Jud. iii, 410. (B. P.) 

Theism. The etymological opposite of theism can 
only be atheism, since the word designates a conception 
of the universe according to which a Deity rules over 
nature and men, and the atheistic view denies the ex- 
istence ol the Deity and divine powers. Various spe- 
cific contrasts are, however, contained under this gen- 
eral meaning of the term, as monotheism and polythe- 
ism, or deism and pantheism. 

The dispute between monotheism and polytheism is 
no longer open. Philosophy and theology have long 
been agreed that the Deity can be hut one, and that the 
idea of a multiplicity of gods involves a contradict ia in 
adjecto. There can be but one supreme, perfect, abso- 
lute Being, and such a Being is required even if the 


! superior orders generally of supernatural beings be in- 
| chided under the idea of the Deity. '1 his doctrine has, 
moreover, the support of human experience, since his- 
tory shows that in every instance where a thorough de- 
velopment of polytheism has been readied, it eveutu- 
j ates in monotheism to the extent of subordinating the 
many gods to one who is supreme, or of regarding them 
as simple modes of conceiving of his nature, powers, or 
manifestations. It may be added that the converse 
idea, on which the origin of polytheism is found in pan- 
theistic identifications of the Deity with nature and its 
forces, affords the most satisfactory explanation possible 
of the beginnings and growth of this error. 

The monotheistic conception once received, however, 
opens the way to discussions respecting the nature of 
the Deity and of his relations to the universe, and com- 
pels recognition of the issue between deism and panthe- 
ism. For the conceptions which underlie the terms, we 
refer to the articles Pantheism and Deism, and in this 
place note merely that the term deism designates that 
conception of the world on which God is not only dif- 
ferent, but also distinct, from the universe, and which 
therefore denies the immanence of God in the world 
under any form, and constitutes the direct contradiction 
to pantheism. It is evident that this deism harmonizes 
with Christianity as little as does pantheism itself. It 
is to be noted, however, that the Scriptures return no 
direct and positive answer to the question, How is the 
relation of God to the universe to be conceived? and 
speculation is accordingly compelled to attempt the so- 
lution of the problem after its own fashion. Theology 
has attempted the solution — with what degree of suc- 
cess it does not belong to this article to determine, since 
theism is not a theological, but a philosophical, term. 

The modern literature of philosophy apprehends the 
idea of theism in a more limited meaning than that in- 
dicated above, and understands by the term that, ten- 
dency and those systems which attempt to mediate be- 
tween pantheism and deism, and seek to solve the the- 
ological problem in question bv the method of free phil- 
osophical inquiry. Such endeavors grew directly out 
of the development of the modern philosophy of Ger- 
many, beginning with Kant and passing through Fichte, 
j Schelling, Hegel. Herbart, etc., until deism and panthe- 
ism came to be direct contradictories within the domain 
of philosophy itself. A removal of the difficulty was 
evidently demanded by the state of philosophy; by the ' 
considerations that pantheism inevitably leads to atbe- 
■ ism or anthropotheism by including the world of nature 
i ami mankind in the essence of the Deity, and that it 
contradicts the indestructible and undeniable facts of 
human consciousness; while deism renders an infinite 
and absolute Being impossible by its denial of any sub- 
stantial bond which connects God and the world, and 
its consequent assertion of the Imitation of the Deity. 

The object of tlieistie speculation, it may be assumed, 
was correctly stated by the younger Fichte in his essav 
Ueber den Unterschied zirischen ethischem vntl natura- 
listischem Theism ns. in the Zeitschr. fur Philosophie u. 
philosopisehe Kritik (Halle, 1853), p. 220, in these words: 
“Theism denotes for us the altogether general idea that 
the absolute world-principle, whatever differences of 
opinion respecting the limits within which it may be 
objectively apprehended may obtain, can yet in no case 
be conceived of as blind and unconscious power under 
the category either of a universal substance or of an 
abstract impersonal reason, and must be apprehended as 
a being having existence ia and for itself, to whose fun- 
damental attribute human thought can find no other 
analogy and form of expression than that of absolute, 
self-consciousness. Connected with this conception of 
t lie Absolute Spirit, and necessarily leading up to it, is 
the equally general idea that the universal fact of the 
interconnection of the world indicates a beginning in 
accident and blind chance no more than it affords room 
for the thought of an absolute necessity which could 
not be otherwise. The only appropriate thought, in 


THEISM 


31 G 


THENIUS 


view of the conditions of the world, is the intermediate ' 
idea or adaptation to an end, which, on t lie one hand, im- 
plies the possibility of a differently conditioned world- 
order, but, on the other, asserts that the existing order 
is most perfect, and projected in harmony with the ideas 
of the good and the beautiful. This result of an empir- 
ical observation of the world, which may infinitely en- 
large itself by the study of particulars in all the depart- 
ments of nature, and may advance to a steadily in- 
creasing degree of certainty, compels metaphysical 
thought to ascend to the idea of an absolute original 
reason which determines the end; to whose attributes, as 
demonstrated in t he universe, human language is once 
more nimble to find other designations than perfect 
thought and a will which requires the good.” ft will 
be observed that the leading idea in this definition is 
the existence of Hod in and for himself or of his abso- 
lute self-conscious being. The prevalence of this idea 
determined the general current of speculation to disa- 
gree with the Hegelian doctrine of the Absolute, accord- 
ing to which Hod is impersonal and unconscious reason, 
and attains to consciousness of himself only in man. 
Tile distinction between ethical and naturalistic theism 
is of secondary importance, but, nevertheless, deserves 
notice to the extent of observing that it grew out of 
Schelling’s advance towards theistie views, in which he 
attained to the recognition of tied as an independent 
Being, and as the “ Lord of Being;” but as lie persisted 
in retaining the theoeentric position of his early teach- 
ings, and “derived” the finite world out of the absolute 
essence of Hod. he really conceived of (lod simply as a 
cosmieal principle, as the younger Fichte observes. 
Other philosophers followed in his track, e. g. the Ho- 
man Catholic Uaader (q. v.) ; but the representatives of 
the theistie tendency belonged rather to the school of 
Hegel than that of Schelling, as a rule, though they 
‘‘passed beyond” the master and differed widely among 
themselves, as they adhered more or less closely to his 
views. The principal names in this class are J. 11. 
Fichte {Jiedingungen eines specula firm Theisntvs [Elber- 
feld, 1835]) and K. l\ Fischer ( Envy Id. d.philos. 1 1 T issen- 
sehaften [ Frankf.-on-M ain, 1848; vol. iii 1855]). 

The present status of philosophical theism is signifi- 
cantly illustrated in the works of (’hr. ll.Weisse. This 
writer regards the dialectics of Hegel as the “ completed 
form of philosophical inquiry," but rejects the panthe- 
ism to which its application brought Hegel, lie holds 
that the teleological proof is necessary to lead to the 
theistie idea of Hod and counteract the pantheistic ten- 
dency of the ontological and cosmological arguments. 
I'he world was created for (lod, and finds its end in him. 
In his absolute essence (lod is absolute personality, but 
necessarily a trinity of persons; and in this trinity t lie 
second person, or Son, prior to the creation, and inde- 
pendently of it, represents the eternal reason and possi- 
bility of the creation of the world, hut irifh the creation 
is “infused into it,” “enters into it,” “gives himself to 
it.” This second person of the trinity is, however, to 
be regarded as the absolute Primus of the world, and 
not be identified with the latter, etc. To avoid the 
contradiction of an absolute dualism in the Deity, it be- 
comes necessary to postulate a third person in the trin- 
ity, who proceeds from the Father and the Son. and is 
coequal with them. In harmony with this view, the 
creation is not to be regarded as “the effect of a suffi- 
cient reason, but as the result of the self-renunciation of 
the second Divine Personality.” Phis self-renunciation, 
though represented as the free act of Hod, comes to 
pass, however, because only in creation can Hod become 
the “ Hod who exists as Hod,” the “ really Supreme Be- 
ing,” since “it is only thus that he can he the all-em- 
bracing, supermundane, self-conscious Divine Spirit in 
whom all newly originating beings are preformed, and 
all existing ones are combined into a higher unity of 
expression or idea.” At the point of his renunciation, 
the idea of Hod is seen to coincide with that which is 
usually termed mutter ; the activity of the Deify be- 


coming the matter of the creation. See Weisse, Philo- 
sopb. Dogmatik oder Philosophic d. Chrisfenthnms (Leips. 
1855). 

A review of the progress of theistie speculation re- 
veals the fact, that the demands of pantheism (monism) 
have been fully met in the principal endeavors to estab- 
lish the theistie conception of the world on a philo- 
sophical basis. The world is represented as having 
emanated from the being — the nature, essentiality, sub- 
stance — of the Deity, as the realizing, renunciation, 
viewing, completing, of himself; his self- consciousness 
and subjectivity, however, being regarded as existing 
independently of the world, lint no similar justice has 
been done to the claims of deism: for the leading and 
fundamental demand of the deist ic conception of the 
world is the idea of Hod as the Absolute Spirit who is 
eternally complete in himself through his absolute power 
and goodness, as contrasted with the world, which is 
bound bv conditions and constantly engaged in tin* proc- 
ess of becominy and developing. This idea is contra- 
dicted by every view which makes the world to be in 
any way a part of the essence of Hod himself, since such 
a view transfers the becoming and developing condition 
of the world into the nature of Hod. The absolute is 
necessarily complete and perfect. 

Literature . — Schelling, Philosophie d. Mytholoyie ; id. 
Philosophic d.OJenbarung ; Fischer, Pie Idee d. (lot the it 
( Stuttg. 1839), and the Encyldop. mentioned above; 
Wirtli, Pie Spekitl. Idee flottes, etc. (Stuttg. 1845); ('lialv- 
ba?ns, System d. 1 1 'issmschaftslehre ( Kiel. 1 S4(> ) ; Schwarz, 
Weiterbildnug d . Theism us, in Zeitsehr. f Philosophie 
(Halle, 1847), vol. xviii : u\.ilott,Xa(urn. Mensch (1 lanov. 
1 857 ) : Von Sehaden, (legensatz d. t heist, u. pantheist. 
Stundpnnkts (Erlangen, 1848) : flayer, 7 'he ism ns n. Pan- 
theismns (Freiburg, 1849 i; Schenach, Metaphysik (Imi- 
spruck, 1856): Eckart. Theistisehe Jlegriindnng d. Aesthe- 
dk (Jena, 1857); lloffmann, Theismus u. Puntheismus 
(Wurzburg, 1861); L T lrici, (luff n. die Xa/ur ( Lcips. 
1861); Bowne, Studies in Theism (N. Y. 1879). — llcrzog. 
Real- Eucyklop. s. v. 

Thela'sar (2 Kings xix, 12). See Tkl-assah. 

Tlieler'sas (OeXqoffdc v. r. 0£/\(7«c)> a (Leek form 
(1 Esdr. v, 36) of the name Hebraized (Ezra ii, 59) Tl:l- 
1 1 A USA (q. V.). 

The'man, or Tilemax < [Gatpav ). the Greek form 
(Baruch iii, 22, 23) of the Heb. name Ticman (q. v.). 

Tliemistians, an early school of theorists which 
took its name from a deacon. Themistius. An answer 
given him hv the patriarch Timothy led him to con- 
clude that if the body of Christ was corruptible (subject, 
that is, to the decay arising from the wear and tear of 
life), then he must also have been so far subject to the 
defects of human nature that his very knowledge of the 
present and the future was imperfect, and there were, 
therefore, some things of which he was ignorant. The 
patriarch himself repudiated this conclusion, but a 
' school of theorists grew up under the leadership of 
rhemistius. and became known as Acnokt.k (q. v. ). 
See Blunt, Piet, of Sects, s. v. 

Thenius, Otto, doctor of theology and philosophy, 
was horn in 1801 at Dresden, where he also died, Aug. 
13, 1876. Although Thenius occupied the pulpit for 
more than twenty years, yet his main renown is as 
an exegete, and as such he will always hold an honor- 
able position among scholars, lie published, Erkldmng 
der Piicher Samuels (Lcips. 1842; 2d ed. 1864): — Er- 
kl lining der Pitcher der Konige (ibid. 1849; 2d ed. 1873), 
with an Appendix, which was also published separately. 
Pas rore.rilisehe Jerusalem nnd (lessen Tempel: — Er- 
kl lining der Klagelleder Jeremid (ibid. 18.35) : — Pe Loco 
Joh. ariii, 21-28 Pissertaduncu/a (l)resdse. 1837); — Quis 
Ps. It A uctorfuisse v ideatin' (ibid. 1839): — Die tlrdber 
der Konige ran Juda , in Illgen’s Zeitschrift fur die his - 
tnrische Theohgie , 1844: — Veher die Stufenpsahnen , in 
Studied und Kritilcen, 1854, vol. iii. Thenius’s works 


TIIEOCANUS 


317 


THEODICY 


will always be consulted for textual criticism. See 
Fiirst, Bill. Jnd. iii, 419; Zuchold, Bill. Theol.W, 1323; 
Theologisches Universal- Lex. s. v. (L5. P.) 

Theoc'anus (OEiuieardc v. r. Do navng and Gmko- 
voc), a corrupt Greek form (1 Esdr. ix, 14) lor the Tleb. 
name (Ezra x, 15) Tikvaii (q. v.). 

Theocatagnostae, a name used bv John of Da- 
mascus apparently as a general ten* for heretics who 
held unorthodox opinions about God, and therefore 
‘■thought, evil'’ (Karayvuuaig') respecting him. See 
Blunt, Diet, of Sects, s. v. 

Theocracy (StoKparia , rule of Cod), a form of 
government such as prevailed among the ancient Jews, 
in which Jehovah, the God of the universe, was direct- 
ly recognised as their supreme civil ruler, and his laws 
were taken as the statute-book of the kingdom. This 
principle is repeatedly laid down in the Mosaic code, 
and was continually acted upon thereafter. See King. 
Moses was but the appointee and agent of Jehovah in 
giving the law and in delivering the people from ISgypt ; 
and throughout the Ex ode the constant presence of God 
in the pillar and the cloud, as well as upon the mercy- 
seat, was on every occasion looked to for guidance and 
control. So, likewise, Joshua and the .Judges were spe- 
cial "legates of the skies” to perform their dictatorial 
functions. Even under the monarchy, God reserved 
the chief direction of affairs for himself. The kings 
were each specifically anointed in his name, and proph- 
ets were from time to time commissioned to inform them 
of his will, who did not hesitate to rebuke and even veto 
their actions if contrary to the divine will. The whole 
later history of the chosen people is but a rehearsal of 
this conflict and intercourse between the Great Head 
of the kingdom and the refractory functionaries. Un- 
der the New Economy, this idea passed over, in its spirit- 
ual import, to the Messiah as the heir of David’s per- 
petual dynasty, and thus Christ becomes the ruler of 
Ins Church and the hearts of its members. See Spen- 
cer, De Theocratia Judnica ('Pub. 1732); Witsius, ])e 
Theocratia Israel. (Lugd. 1 G95) ; Blechschmidt. I>e Theo- 
cratia in Populo Sancto Instituta ,• Deyling, De Israeli 
Jehoret Dominio ; Goodwin, De Theocratia I sraelitarvm 
(Ultraj. 1(190); Hulse, De Jehora Deo Rcge ac Ducel 
Militari in Prison Israele; Dannhaner, Politico Biblica ; 
Conring, De Politia Ilebrevorum (llelmst. 1048); Mi- 
chaelis, De Antiquitatibus (Economic Patriarchalis ; 
Schickard, Jus Regittm Ilebncorum , cum animadver- | 
sionibus et notis Carpzovii (Lips. 1074, 1701); Abarba- 
nel, De Statu et Jure Regio , etc., in Ugoliuo, Thesaurus, 
vol. xxiv. See Kingdom of IIeavex. 

Theodemir, a Goth who was abbot of Psalmodi, in 
t lie diocese of Nismes, at the beginning of the 9th cen- 
tury. He was reputed to be very learned, so that even 
bishop Claudius of Turin (q. v. ; comp, lllgen, Zeiischr. 
Jur die hist. Theologie, 1843, ii. 39 sq.) dedicated many 
of bis commentaries to him. Theodemir wrote a letter 
to Claudius, in which be mentioned the approval which 
t he writings of the latter received, especially from the 
Frankish bishops; but he subsequently discovered ex- 
pressions in the commentaries, particularly those on 
Corinthians, which be regarded as being questionable 
and erroneous, the principal objection being raised 
against the treatment of the subject of image and relie 
worship. Claudius thereupon wrote an Apolngeticum 
(see Claud. Tour. Episc. Died. Operum Specimena. etc., 
exhilmit. A. Bndelbaeh [ Havn. 1824]; Peyron, Tull. 
Cieemnis Orationnm Fragment a Died It a [Stuttg. 1824], 
p. 13), to which Theodemir replied. The dispute was 
ended by the death of Theodemir. about A. D. 825 (see 
Gieseler. Lelirb. der Kirchengesch. vol. ii ; Neander, 
Church Hist, iii, 433). — Herzog, Reed-Encyklop. s. v. 

Theodicy ( vindication of the divine government, 
from Deoc, God, and I act], justice). This word dates 
back, in the sense in which it is now currently employ- 
ed, no farther than the celebrated essay by Leibnitz, 


whose first edition appeared at Amsterdam in 1710. It 
designates the attempt to justify God with reference to 
the imperfections, the evil, and especially the sin. which 
exist in the world, or, in other words, any attempt to 
show that God appears in the creation and government 
of the world ns the highest wisdom and goodness, de- 
spite sin, evil, and apparent imperfections. 

Leibnitz preceded such evidence with a Discours de 
la Confonnite de la Eoi avec la Raison , because a the- 
odicy must evidently proceed on the assumption that 
reason and revelation do not contradict each other, and 
that the former has the ability to recognise the facts 
presented by the latter, whether in nature or in history. 
As the aim of theodicy is to refute by reason the objec- 
tions of superficial reasoners against the wisdom and 
goodness of God, the work necessarily demands agree- 
ment between faith and reason. It is consequently the 
primary object of Leibnitz to show that such agreement 
exists, or that it must he presumed to exist so soon as n 
correct view of the idea and nature of reason is enter- 
tained. Beason is the ‘‘rightful combination” of truths 
which we recognise, either directly or by means of rev- 
elation, and there can he no conflict between it and the 
truth which God reveals. There are two classes of 
truths, and, so to speak, two forms of reason. In a nar- 
row meaning of the word, reason lias to do only with 
such truths as it derives from itself or recognises with- 
out assistance from without; and in this character it 
contrasts with experience, and also with faith in so far 
as the latter is based on authority and forms a sort of 
empirical certainty. Its truths are ‘‘eternal and neces- 
sary truths,” in no wise dependent on sense-perception, 
and, a priori, such as reason alone can apprehend and 
formulate, because they are founded on logical, meta- 
physical, or geometrical necessity. Another class of 
truths presents to view definite facts, e. g. the laws of 
nature (verites de fait), such as come immediately with- 
in the province of experience and faith. This class of 
truths likewise involves necessity, and is so far set forth 
within the domain of reason also; but this necessity is 
physical, instead of logical or metaphysical. The con- 
trary to such truths is not logically impossible and un- 
thinkable, hut cannot he because its existence would he 
an imperfection, a fault. This physical necessity is thus 
shown to he at the bottom a moral necessity, founded 
in the attributes of God as the highest wisdom and 
goodness; and as moral necessity it appertains also to 
the doctrines of the faith, being ascertainable by reason, 
and forming ground on which to comprehend and ac- 
cept such doctrines. 

With respect to the creation of the world, Leibnitz 
teaches that it was i lie free act of God, performed that 
lie “might most effectually, and in a manner most wor- 
thy of his wisdom and goodness, reveal and impart his 
perfection.” He could create only a relative perfection, 
however; the creation of absolutely perfect beings, i. e. 
gods, was not possible, and the world and its inhabitants 
were accordingly created relatively imperfect. This 
condition of things may be denominated metaphysical 
evil, whose existence was directly conditioned in the 
will of God by which was determined the creation of 
limited and imperfect beings. Physical evil, or suffer- 
ing, and moral evil, or sin, on the other hand, are not 
directly willed hv God, hut only indirectly, as serving to 
promote the good and secure the attainment of a higher 
perfection of the ** whole,” though themselves evil as re- 
spects the individual. The ground of metaphysical evil 
was, therefore, the good which God willed to seeure in 
the creation of limited beings-, while that of physical 
and moral evil is “the better” which could only thus he 
secured. 

To the objection that God might have created a 
world in which physical and moral should have no 
place, or that he might have altogether refrained from 
the work of creating, Leibnitz replies that physical evil 
may serve to help the world to achieve a higher degree 
of good; and that moral evil, which is possible because 


THEODORA 


31S 


THEODORA 


Ci od has endowed man with powers of volition, is like- 
wise so wonderfully controlled as io increase the beauty 
of his universe as a whole. To the further objection 
that God thus becomes the author of sin. he replies that 
sin has no positive cause in so lar as it is actualized in 
consequence of the imperfections of the creature, but 
onl v a causa dejiciens, which, moreover, does not work 
siu tlirectly and of its own motion, but oulyyw/r acci- 
dent by reason of the existence of a higher good than 
sense can recognise or desire. The final objection, that 
as t rod foreknew all that is future, and consequently 
inaugurated a causal connection which must inevita- 
bly lead to whatever mav come to pass, including sin. 
the latter is unavoidable and its punishment unjust, 
is met by Leibnitz by formulating a distinction be- 
tween predestination and necessity. No volitional act 
need be performed by man unless he will. Koreor- 
dinntion is not compulsion; and the intervention of 
foreordained events serves only to influence the will 
with motives, and not at all to constrain the will with 
force. 

The review of Leibnitz’* work shows that it' is far 
from satisfying the demands of the problem with which 
it deals. The reason for its failure lies in the philosoph- 
ical views which that author laid at the basis of his 
scheme— his ideas of the monads, of God as the primi- 
tive monad, of the relations between reason and the will, 
of freedom and necessity, respecting which see the art. 
Lkikmtz. Nor is this the place to attempt a new and 
independent solution of the problem of theodicy, which 
necessarily must involve the development of an entire 
system of philosophy. Suffice it. to say that the gen- 
eral method of Leibnitz must ever be regulative to those 
inquirers who approach this problem from tbe stand- 
point of* Christian theism, and that the main attempt 
must he to separate more clearly between the concep- 
tions of physical and moral evil, and connect the former 
nmre intimately with morality and the moral consum- 
mation of the world — to show more clearly the profound 
reasons for the necessity bv which the possibility of sin 
is included in the concept of human freedom, and the 
existence of the latter is involved in the idea of the 
(fond — and. finally, to tone down certain theological ex- 
aggerations of the power of evil, and present freedom 
and morality in their gradual development out of the 
natural life and human naturalness, as well as in de- 
cided negative contrast with nature. 

Most of the philosophers of more recent times who 
have treated this subject have approximated more or 
less closely to Leibnitz, and have endeavored by criti- 
cism or modification, either avowedly or silently, to cor- 
rect the faults of his essay. We can only name a series 
of the older writers, e. g. Balguy, ] Heine Benevolence 
I 'indicated (2d ed. Loud. l*o:5, 12mo) ; Werdermann, 
Yersuch. znr Theodicec , etc. (Dessau and Leips. 1784- 
93): Benedict, Theodicaai (Annaburg, 1822); Blasche. 
Ban Bone, etc. (Leips. 1827); Wagner, Theodicee (Bam- 
berg, IN 10); Erichson, Yerlu’iltn. der Theod. znr speku- 
latir. Kosnm/ogie (Greifswald, 183(1) ; Sigwart. Problem 
den Bit sen, etc. (Tub. 1840); Von Schaden, Theodicee 
(Carlsruhe, 1812); Maret,77/m//m>( Paris, 1857); Young, 
Kvil and (iod, a Mystery (2d cd. Loud. 18(51). — Ilerzog, 
Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Theodora (l), the wife of the emperor Justinian, 
was the daughter of Acacius, who had charge of the 
wild beasts of rbe 1 Tasini at Constantinople. The de- 
cease of her father and remarriage of her mother obliged 
her to earn her living as an actress, and she also became 
a notorious courtesan. She accompanied Ecebolns as 
his mistress to Peutapolis when that wealthy Tyrian 
was appointed pnefect of that government, but was soon 
deserted by him and obliged to return in poverty to 
Constantinople. She then altered her mode of living 
anti sought to earn a virtuous name; and while living 
in retirement she won the favor of the imperial prince 
Justinian, and so excited his passion that on the death 
of the empress he persuaded the reigning emperor, Jus- I 


tin, to suspend a law which stood in the way of his mar- 
riage with Theodora (see Cod. Junt. lib. v, tit. 4, “ De 
Nuptiis.” i, 23). They were married in A.D. 525; and 
on Justinian’s accession, in 527, Theodora was publicly 
proclaimed empress and coregent of the empire. Her 
influence over him became unbounded, and continued 
even after her decease. 

Theodora participated actively in the Monophysite 
controversy, lending her intlueuce secretly to the propa- 
gation of that error, and endeavoring to win her consort 
from the orthodox view. Colloquies instituted between 
bishops of the two conflicting parties in 531 accomplish- 
ed no substantial result; but the empress succeeded, in 
535, in promoting the Monophysite bishop Anthimus 
to the patriarchate of Constantinople, and afterwards, 
through the assistance of Belisarius, the famous general, 
in advancing Yigilius to the same position. She was 
twice visited with the ban of tbe Church, but was not 
thereby intimidated to such a degree as to prevent her 
.intervention in the controversy of the Three Chapters. 
She died, however, before the dispute was determined, 
at the early age of forty years. Historians describe her 
as having been proud and tyrannical; but no charge is 
raised against her chastity after her marriage with the 
emperor. She bore the latter one child, a daughter, 
who died early. 

Literature. — Procopius, Hint. Arcana; id. A need. c. 
9, 10; id. De uEdif'. i, 11; Nicephorus Callistus. xvi, 
37; Mansi, Collatio Cat hoi. cum Severian. a. 531, viii, 
817 sq. ; id. Joannis JCpisc. Asia’ , in Assemani, Bill. 
Orient, ii. 89; Acta Syn. Const, a. 536. in Mansi, viii, 
873 sq. ; Evagrius, ch. iv; Liberat. Breviar. p. 21 sq. ; 
Anastasias, Yitm J'onlif; Yigilii Epist. ad Justin, et ad 
Mennaui, in Mansi, ix, 35. 3s ; Wernsdorf, De Silrerin et 
Yiyilio; Gregor. Nazian. Epint. ix. 36; Theophancs, 
Chron. p.350; Viet. Tummens. Chrou.; Ludewig, Yita 
Justinian i Imp. et Theodnne (Ilal. 1731, 4to) ; lnver- 
nizzi, De Rebus fiestis Just imam (Bom. 1783); Gibbon, 
Decline ami Pail, ch. xl ; Wnlch, Ketzeryench. pt. vi. vii; 
Gieseler. Monophys. Yett. Yarite de Christi. etc. (Gbtt. 
1835-38) ; and the Church histories. Also Smith, Diet, 
of Bioy. and Mythol. s. v., and Ilerzog, Ueal-Encyklop. 
s. v. 

Theodora (2), wife of the emperor Theophilus, who 
succeeded his father, Michael II, on the throne in A.D. 
829. She obtained the regency of the empire on the 
death of her husband, in 842. and hastened to restore 
the worship of images, which had until then been sav- 
agely repressed. She banished John Grammaticus, the 
patriarch of Constantinople, and gave his place to Me- 
thodius, who was in sympathy with her plans, and then 
called a synod which decreed the restoration of image- 
worship throughout the empire. To commemorate this 
event she ordained an annual “festival of orthodoxy.” 
Not content with having thus ended a dispute which 
had agitated the empire during 150 years, she inaugu- 
rated a persecution of the Panlicians (q. v.), and there- 
by occasioned a succession of wars in which entire prov- 
inces were devastated and depopulated by the allied 
Panlicians and Saracens (see Cedreuus. p. 541 sq. ; Zon- 
aras, Qhron. xvi, 1 ; Petr. Sicnli Hist. Munich, p. 70 sq.; 
Pilotin'?, Contra Munich, ix, 23; Constantin. Porphy- 
rog. Continual or. iv, 16, 23-26). 

A more creditable work was the conversion of the 
Bulgarians, which was accomplished by tbe Tbessalo- 
| nian monks Cyril and Methodius in 862. The empress, 
however, was not permitted to see this success. Her 
son Michael 111 compelled her to resign the regency, 
and incarcerated her in a convent, where she died of 
grief in A.D. 855 (sec Dalheus, f>e J mar/inibus [Lugd. 
1642]; Spanheim, Hist. Dnayimun Rest it ut a [ibid. 
1686]; id. Opp. vol. ii : Schlosser, Bench, der bilder- 
ntiirm. Kaiser , ('to. [1812]; Marx, Bihlerntreit der by- 
zant. Kaiser [1839]; Walch, Ketzerrjesch. pt. x, xi: 
Schrbckli, (' hristl . Kirch enrjesch. vol, xx ; Gieseler, Kir- 
chcnyesch. [4th ed.], ii, 1, 9). — Ilerzog, Real-Encyklop. 
s. v. 


THEODORE 


319 


THEODORE 


Theodore (Theodores), St., of the 4th century, 
was a Syrian or Armenian, or of Amasen as some more 
definitely state. Gregory of Nyssa relates that Theo- 
dore joined the Iioman army (thence called tiro ) when 
Maximin and Galerius were persecuting the Christians, 
but was himself denounced. His youthful appearance 
won for him three days’ respite, at the end of which 
he was to die unless he should recant. While engaged 
in earnest prayer, a Christian disguised as a soldier, 
named Didymus, approached and exhorted him to dee, 
which he did. Didymus was thereupon seized as a 
Christian and condemned to decapitation. Theodore 
returned and steadfastly endured horrible tortures un- 
til he died by fire. 11 is body was rescued by Chris- 
tians, and is reported to have been brought to Brindisi 
in the 12th century, while his head is said to be still 
preserved at Gaeta. Gregory pronounced a eulogy in 
his memory. The Greek Church dedicates to him Feb. 
17, the Latin, Nov. 0. See Greg. Xyssw Opp. (Far. 
1G15), ii, 1002 sq.; Herzog, Rtal-Encyklop. s. v. 

Theodore, archbishop of Canteruury, succeeded 
Deusdedit, who died in the year GG4. When the elect- 
ed Anglo-Saxon presbyter Wigheard died in Home, 
where he had gone to receive ordination, pope Vitalian 
declared that he intended to send a worthy substitute. 
The Homan abbot Hadrian, a native of Afriea, refused 
to be elected, and called attention to Theodore of Tar- 
sus as a man well qualified in every respect for that po- 
sition. In March, G68, he left Home for his new post, 
and was accompanied by Hadrian, who was to act as 
his adviser, but who. in fact, was to see that nothing of 
the Homan ritual was replaced by the Greek. Theo- 
dore acted in the spirit of Home; he founded monas- 
teries and schools, and died Sept. 11), GOO, in London. 
11 is eorpse was the first buried in St. Peter’s at York. 
He left a penitential book and a collection of canons 
(reprinted in the collection of Latin penitential books 
of the Anglo-Saxons by Kunstmann [May cnee, 1844]). 
See the Introduction to Knnstmann’s collection ; llax- 
mann, Politik der Pdpste, i, 180, 184; Theologisches Uni- 
versal- Lexikon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Theodore, surnamed GriArTUS, a monk of St, Saba 
who is somewhat prominent among the monkish mar- 
tyrs of ieonolatry. He was born at Jerusalem, attained 
to the rank of presbyter, and was sent by tbe patriarch 
Thomas of Jerusalem to Constantinople about 818 to 
labor in defence of the images. In the execution of 
this purpose he remonstrated so vehemently to the em- 
peror’s face that Leo the Armenian caused him to be 
scourged and transported to the coast of Pont us. Three 
years later he was pardoned, but again imprisoned and 
banished, this time by Michael the Stammerer. The 
next emperor, Theophilus, caused him to be scourged 
and carried to the island of Aphusia. Having return- 
ed after several years and renewed his passionate advo- 
cacy of image-worship, he was threatened and tortured, 
and finally banished as incorrigible to Apamea. But 
few writings are ascribed to him; among them are a 
disputation of the patriarch Nicephorus, given in Combe- 
fis, Grig. Const antinop. p. 159 : — a letter by John of Cyz- 
icum narrating the sufferings endured under Theoph- 
ilus, also in Combefis: — a manuscript, T)e Fide Ortho- 
dox a contra I conomachos, from which a fragment is giv- 
en in Combefis, p. 221. See Vita Theod. Gr. in Combe- 
fis, p. 191, Latin by Surius, Dec. 2G ; and comp, the no- 
tices in Cave, and Waleh, Gesch, d. Ketzereien , x, G77, 
717. — Herzog, Peal- Envy klop. s. v. 

Theodore Lector (the Reader), a Church histo- 
rian in the Fast, was reader in the Constantinopolitan 
Church in or about the year 525. He furnished an ab- 
stract of the history from the twentieth year of Con- 
stantine to the accession of Julian, taken from the 
works of Socrates, Sozomen, and Theodoret, which is | 
known under the name IFistoria Tripartita, and is still j 
extant in manuscript form. Yalesius published so much 
of its contents as was found to vary from Theodore’s | 


sources. A second and more important work begins an 
independent record at the point where the history of 
Socrates ends, and carries it forward to the year 439. 
Neither of these works can be regarded as a completed 
whole, and between them is an untouched space of sev- 
enty years. The latter history, which was contained 
in two books, has been lost; but extended fragments 
have been preserved in John of Damascus, Nilus, and 
especially Nicephorus Callistus, and published by Hubert 
Stephens and Yalesius. These remains show that the 
histories of Theodore contained much important matter 
in relation to politics and the progress of the Church. 
Comp, the literary notices in Cave, Fabricius, Hambcr- 
ger, and Stdudliu- Hemsen, Gesch. v. Lit . d. Kirchcn- 
gesch. p. 70. Editions: Stephanos, ’Fk* t //t* tKKXijota- 
OTiKijC ioTOpiag Oeofiiopov dvayrtbrjTQV ticXoyai, cum 
Eusebio (Far. 1544); Heading, Excerpt a ex Eccl. /list. 
Theod. Led. et Fragmenta alia //. Valesio Interpr. cum 
Theod. llistoria (Cantabr. 1720). — Herzog, Real-Eney- 
klop. s. v. 

Theodore of Mopsuestia. bishop, and leader in 
the so-called theological sehool of Antioeh, was born at 
Antioch about the year 350. He studied philosophy 
and rhetoric, the latter in company with John Chrysos- 
tom at the school of the famous Libanius. Stimulated 
by Chrysostom to a fervor of Christian enthusiasm, he 
renounced his proposed secular career in order to devote 
himself to Christian studies and monastic asceticism; 
and though affection for a lady named Hermione inter- 
rupted liis course, lie was recalled to it by the zealous 
efforts of his friend, and, through the infiuence of his 
teacher, Diodorus of Tarsus, w ho introduced him to the 
study of sacred literature, was confirmed in it for life. 
Two of Chrysostom’s letters to Theodore in relation to 
this subject are yet extant, lie became a presbyter at 
Antioeh and rapidly acquired reputation, but soon re- 
moved to Tarsus, and thence to Mopsuestia, in Cilicia 
Secunda, as bishop. In 394 he attended a council at 
Constantinople, and subsequently other synods. When 
Chrysostom was overtaken by his adverse fortunes, 
Theodore sought to aid his cause, but without suc- 
cess. Theodore himself enjoyed a notable reputation 
throughout the Church, especially in the Eastern branch. 
Even Cyril of Alexandria deemed him worthy of praise 
and esteem. He was accused, indeed, of favoring the 
heresy of Pelagitis, but died in peace in 428 or 429, 
before the Christological quarrel began between the 
schools of Antioch and Alexandria, in which his char- 
acter for orthodoxy was so seriously impaired. After 
his death, the Nestorians appealed to his writings in 
support of their opinions, and at the Fifth (Ecumenical 
Council Theodore and his writings 'were condemned. 
11 is memory was revered among the Nestorians, and his 
works were held in repute in the churches of .Syria. 

The theological importance of this father grows chief- 
ly out of his relation to the Christological controversies 
of his time, and, in a lower degree, out of his exegeti- 
cal labors, lie w*as an uncommonly prolific writer, and 
expended much effort on the exposition of the Script- 
ures; but of his exegctical works only a commentary 
on the minor prophets in Greek has been preserved in- 
tact to the present time. Other expositions of minor 
books, e. g. the Pauline epistles, which had been pub- 
lished in Latin by Hilary of Poitiers, have lately 
been recognised as tbe property of Theodore. Frag- 
ments of still other exegctical labors by this father 
are scattered through the compilations of Wegner. Alai, 
and Fritzsehc (see below). Theodore’s method was 
that of sober, historical exposition, although his results 
are not always satisfactory; and to this he added inde- 
pendent criticism of the canon. He distinguished the 
hooks of the Bible into prophetical, historical, and di- 
dactic writings, the latter class including the books of 
Solomon, Job, etc., whose inspiration lie denied. 

In Christology Theodore was opposed to Augustini- 
anism. and thus naturally approximated to Pelagian- 
ism, though his position was intermediate. Adam was 


TIIEODOEE 


320 


TIIEODORET 


created mortal. The human will, in its earthly envi- 
ronment, would necessarily be drawn into sin. Adam’s 
sin was not transmitted, and Christ’s work had for its 
ihject the enabling of a created and imperfect nature 
to realize the true end of its being rather than the res- 
toration of a ruined nature. All intelligent beings were 
included in this purpose, and it would consequently ap- 
pear that Theodore taught t lie impossibility of eternal 
punishment. 

Thu works of this author which are still extant are, 
,| (Commentary on the Minor Prophets (Wegner [ Berol. 
1831 ]; Mai. Script . Vet. Xor. Cut/. [ Bom. 1 tS.'I2 ], vol. vi), 
and Erayments, in Mai, .Nor. Pafr. Pth/. 1854. vol. vii. I lie 
Creek fragments are more completely given in Fritzsche, 
'Theod. Moj)s. in X. Test. Comm. (Turici, 1 S 1 7). I’itra, 
in Spirit. Snlesm. ( Bar. 1854), vol. i, has Latin versions 
of Theodores commentaries on Philippians. Colossians, 
and Tltessalonians. See. also Mercator, Opp. ed. Ualuz., 
on the councils growing out of the controversy of the 
Three Chapters, etc. 

Literature. — Pupin. Xouv. Bill. vol. iii ; Cave, Script. 
Bed. Hist. Lit. p. 217 ; Tillemont, Me moires, vo\. xii ; Fa- 
bricius Hi hi. Crura, ix, 1 53 sq. (ed. 1 lari, x, 34tJ) ; Xorisii 
I)iss.de Synodo Quinta, in his Hist. Pelaff. Pat. 1373, and 
Garner in bis I Abe rut ns ; the Church histories; 
Fritzsche, Pe Theod. Mops. 17 fa et Script. (1833); Kle- 
lier, Symbol. Lit. ad Theod. Mops. Perth, (Gbtt. 1833). 
ANo, with reference to cxegetical questions. Sicffert, 
Theod. Mops. I 'et. Test, sobrie Interpr. Vhd. (Ilegioni. 
1827): Kuhn. Theod. Mop. u. dun. Africa tms ids Exetje- 
ten (1’reib. 1880) ; and the histories of interpretation. 
With reference to doctrines, the literature of the Pela- 
gian controversy, and especially Horner, Enttciddiniys- 
ijesch. vol. ii. — Smith, Piet, of Biop. and My (hot. s. v. ; 
and Herzog, Beal- Encyldop. s. v. 

Theodore I, pope, was a Greek by birth, and reign- 
ed from 342 to 340. lie excommunicated Paul, the pa- 
triarch of Constantinople, in 343, Ibr holding Monothe- 
lite views, and recognised ill his stead the banished pa- 
triarch Pyrrhus, who had recanted his Monothelite er- 
rors while at Pome. Pyrrhus, however, returned to his 
heretical opinions, and Theodore thereupon pronounced 
the ban against him. Shortly before his death, in 340, 
this pope convened a synod at Pome which rejected the 
Typos promulgated by the emperor Constans 11 : and lie 
also sent a vicar, in the person of the bishop of I lore, to 
Palestine in order to dismiss all bishops who should he 
found to hold the Monothelite heresy, and thus stamp 
out the sect’s adherents, lie wrote Epistola Synodica 
ad Pauluni Bate. Const., and Exemplar Propos'd. Con- 
stautinup. Transmissca adc. Pyrrhum. 

Theodore II, pope, a native Poman, reigned only 
twenty days in 897. 

Theodoret (Ofocojp/jroc ; also TitEonoRiirs) was 
one of the most eminent ecclesiastics of the 5th centu- 
ry. lie was horn of reputable, wealthy, and pious peo- 
ple at Antioch in 383 (Gamier) or 393 (Tillemont, Me- 
moires, xx, 839). His mother was especially devout, 
and susceptible to the iutluence of a number of hermit 
monks, one of whom had relieved iter of an apparentlv 
incurable affection of the eyes, and another of whom 
announced to her. after thirteen years of sterile wed- 
lock, that she should give birth to a son. In obedience 
to their directions. Theodoret was dedicated to the ser- 
vice of ( rod. At tlie age of seven years he entered the 
monastery presided over by St. Euprepins, near Anti- 
och ; and there he remained for twenty years engaged 
in theological study. The works of Diodorus ol Tar- 
sus, Chrysostom, and Theodore of Mopsuestin formed 
his mind, and it appears that the latter was the chief 
of his actual teachers. In time he was appointed lector 
in Antioch, and afterwards deacon; and in the latter of- 
fice he acquired such reputation that he was, against his 
will i Ep. 81), consecrated to the bishopric, 120 or 123. 1 

The diocese intrusted to bis care bad for its scat the [ 
impoverished town of Cyrus, or Cyrrlms, the capital of j 


the Syrian district of Cyrrliestia, two days’ journey to 
the westward of Antioch, and it included eight hundred 
parishes. 11 is life as bi.Miop was exemplary, and char- 
acterized by charity, public spirit, thorough unselfish- 
ness, successful guidance of his clergy, and great zeal 
for the faith. Though great numbers of Arians, Mace- 
donians, and especially Mareiouites were found in his 
diocese, he succeeded by 119 in regaining them all to 
the Church, lie reports the baptism of no less than 
ten thousand Mareiouites alone. These labors he pros- 
ecuted often at imminent risk to his life, and always 
without invoking the aid of the temporal power. 

The quiet tenor of Theodoret’s life was interrupted 
by the Nestorian controversy, whose progress and re- 
sults imhittcred his later career. Gamier states (in 
Life of Theodoret , v. 350) that Nestorius had been The- 
odoret’s fellow-pupil in the monastery of St. Euprepins, 
and charges the latter with holding, in fact, the views 
which caused the ruin of the former representative of 
the Antiochian school. It appears, however, that The- 
odoret. was concerned rather to resist the intolerance of 
Cvril of Alexandria and combat his errors, opposite to 
those of Nestorius, than to advocate the views of the 
latter. With his school, he opposed the unification of 
the two natures in Christ, and taught that the Logos 
had assumed, but had not become, flesh. He denied 
that God had been crucified, and thereby implied that 
God had not been born, and that the term Sforocot; 
could not, in any proper sense, be applied to Mary. It 
was, of course, impossible that while holding such views 
he should become an avowed antagonist of Nestorius. 
In 430 Theodoret addressed a letter to the monks of 
Syria and surrounding countries in which lie charges 
Cyril with having promulgated Apollinarism, Arianism, 
and other similar errors in the twelve Capitula. In 
431, at the Synod of Ephesus, he urged delay in the 
transaction of business until the Eastern bishops could 
arrive; and when that advice was disregarded, he unit- 
ed with those bishops in a synod which condemned the 
proceedings of the council and deposed Cyril, lie also 
headed, with John of Antioch, the delegation which the 
Orientals sent to the emperor with their confession of 
faith, whose rejection closed the series of incidents con- 
nected with the Ephesian synod. After his return from 
that mission, Theodoret wrote live books on the incar- 
nation (ll£»;r«\oyioj ), with the intent 

of setting forth his views and exposing the heretical 
tendency of Cyril’s tenets and the unjust conduct of his 
party in the proceedings at Ephesus. Of this work 
only a few fragments remain, which are derived from 
the Latin version of Marius Mercator, a bigoted adhe- 
rent of Cyril Ha n views. He also wrote a work in de- 
fence of the memory of his master. Theodore of Mop- 
suestia, against the charge of having originated Nesto- 
riauism (see 1 lardouin, . I cf. Cone, iii, 103 sq.). lie was. 
however, induced to yield to the pressure brought to 
bear by John of Antioch on the opponents of the policy 
of the emperor, and to acknowledge the orthodoxy of 
Cyril. He also submitted, under protest, to the deposi- 
tion of Nestorius. lhit when the Xestorians were treat- 
ed with extreme severity in 435. he renounced the idea 
of peace, and once mure stood forth the decided oppo- 
nent of ('nil. 

With the accession of Dioscnrus as the successor of 
Cyril, Tlieodorot’s position became more unfavorable. 
He opposed Eutyehianism. as Cyril’s doctrine now came 
to be called, with indexible energy; and the new patri- 
arch, in 448, procured an order which forbade him, as a 
mischief-maker, to pass beyond bis diocese. Theodoret 
defended himself in several letters addressed to promi- 
nent personages ( Ep. 79-82), and wrote repeatedly also 
to Dioscnrus; hut the latter responded with publicly 
anathematizing the troublesome bishop, and finally with 
causing him to he deposed, in 449, by a decree of the 
" Bobber Synod” of Ephesus. Theodoret now invoked 
the assistance of the see of Borne, which was readily 
granted by Leo I; and be also applied to other Ocei- 


THEODORET 


321 


THEODOSIUS 


dental bishops ( Ep . 119). In the meantime he had ! 
been sent to the monastery of Apamca, where he was 
subjected to rigorous treatment until the emperor The- 
odosius died, in 450, and I’ulcheria, with her husband, 
Marcian, ascended the throne. The imperial policy 
now changed, and the deposed bishops were set at lib- 
erty. Theodoret appeared before the oecumenical syn- 
od of Chalcedon in 451 as the accuser of Dioscurus and 
as a petitioner for the restoration of his bishopric. In 
this synod he found himself charged with being a Nes- 
torian,and was prevented from making any explanation 
of his views until he consented to pronounce an anathe- 
ma on Nestorius. He was thereupon unanimously re- 
stored (llardouin, Cone, ii, 496). This action has been 
very generally condemned by students of history as the 
one blot upon an otherwise spotless career; but there 
are not wanting apologists to defend even this (see 
Smith, Diet, of Biog. and Mythol. s. v. “Theodoret”). 
It would undoubtedly have been more creditable to him 
to have resisted the clamor of his enemies at that time. 
He left the synod with a crusty “ farewell,” and return- 
ed to his bishopric, where he died in 457. The Eu- 
tychians anathematized his memory at their synods of 
499 and 512, and his name was involved in the contro- 
versy of the Three Chapters. See Chapters, the Three. 

Theodoret was the author of many works in exege- 
sis, history, polemics, and dogmatics, the exegetical be- 
ing of chief consequence. He was generally free from 
the disposition to allegorize, and iiad a taste for simple 
and literal exposition. His method is partly exposito- 
ry. partly apologetic and controversial. On the histor- 
ical books of the Old Test, he rather discusses difficult 
passages than presents a continuous commentary. He 
treated the first eight books, and also Kings and Chron- 
icles, on the plan of simply stating and meeting the dif- 
ficulties they present to the thoughtful mind, without 
entering into a consecutive commentary of the several 
books; but upon other books he wrote expositions in 
the usual form. II is commentaries on Psalms, Canti- 
cles, and Isaiah exist no longer save in fragmentary 
extracts. He wrote also on the remaining prophets, 
the Apocryphal book Baruch, and the Pauline epistles; 
and Schrdckh preferred Theodoret’s commentary on the 
latter to all others, though it is very defective as re- 
gards the statement of the doctrinal contents of the 
several books. The apologetical work 'EWgvticun' 06- 
pa7TEVTiia) UaSri] parior, etc., was intended to exhibit the 
confirmations of Christian truth contained in Grecian 
philosophy, and affords evidence of the author’s varied 
learning, as do also his ten discourses on Providence. 
His dogmatico-polemical works are, a censure of Cyr- 
il’s twelve heads of anathematization : — Era?nstes , sen 
Polymorphus , containing three treatises in defence of 
the Antiochian Christology, and directed against Eu- 
tvclies, in 447, one year before the condemnation of that 
heretic at Constantinople: — a compendium of heretical 
fables, whose statements are evidently inexact and very 
superficial; this work contains so harsh a judgment of 
Nestorius as to lead Gamier to deny its authenticity: 
— twenty -seven books against Eutvehianism, an ab- 
stract of which is supplied by Photius (Bill. Cod. 4G). 
The historical works are two in number — .1 History of 
the Church , in five books, extending from 325 to 429, 
which serves to complement Socrates and Sozomen : — and 
a very much inferior '\oTopia, or Religiosa His- 

toria, which contains the lives of thirty celebrated her- 
mits, and is rather the work of a credulous ascetic than 
of a learned theologian. 

There are only two complete editions of Theodoret’s 
works, the first by the Jesuits Sirmond and Gamier 
(Paris, 1G42-84), in five volumes. The last volume was 
added after Garnier’s death by llardouin. The other 
edition, by Schulze and Nosselt (Halle, 1769-74, 5 vols. 
in 10 pts. 8vo), is based on the former, and contains all 
that is good, while it corrects much that is faulty in its 
predecessor. For an account of editions of separate 
works, see Hoffmann, Lex. Bill. Script. Grcec. 

X.-X 


See Gamier, Dissert at iones, in vol. v of Schulze’s cd. ; 
Tillemont, Me moires, vol. xi v ; Cave, Hist. Lit. s. v. “423.” 
p. 405 fol. ed. Basil. ; Fabricius, Bill. Grceea, vii, 429 ; viii, 
277 ; Schulze, De Vita et Script is Theod. Dissert, prefixed 
to vol. i of his edition ; Noander, Geseh. d. ehristl. Bel. u. 
Kirehe, vol. ii passim ; Schrockh, Christ l. Kirchenyesch. 
xviii, 3G5 sq. ; Oudin, Comment, de Seriptor. Lecl . — 
Smith, Diet, of Biog, and Mythol. s. v. ; Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. s. v. 

Theodonis. Sec Theodore; Tiieodclus. 

Theodosians, a sect of dissenters from the Russo- 
Greek Church, who separated some years since from the 
Pomoryans, partly because they neglected to purify by 
prayer the articles which they purchased from unbe- 
lievers. They are noted for their honesty and strict 
observance of the Sabbath. An early Protestant sect 
bearing this name was formed in Russia in 1552 by The- 
odosius, one of three monks who came from the interior 
of Muscovy to Vitebsk, a town in Lithuania. These 
monks condemned idolatrous rites, and cast out the im- 
ages from houses and churches, breaking them in pieces, 
and exhorting the people, by their addresses and writings, 
to worship God alone, through our Lord Jesus Christ. 
The inhabitants renounced idolatry, and built a church, 
which was served by Protestant ministers from Lith- 
uania and Poland. — Gardner, Faiths of the World , 
s. v. 

Theodosius I, Roman emperor, whose services to 
the State and the Church earned for him the title of 
“ the Great,” was descended from an ancient family, and 
born about A.D. 34G at Cauca or at Italica, in Spain. 
His father was Comes Theodosius, the soldier who re- 
stored Britain to the empire, lie was trained in the 
camp of his father, and entered on a military career, ap- 
proving his talents in a campaign in Moesia in 374, 
where he defeated the Sarmatians; but he renounced 
his brilliant prospects when the emperor Gratian caused 
the elder Theodosius to be beheaded at Carthage in 
376, and retired to his estates, where he engaged in ag- 
ricultural pursuits, 'fhe incursions of the Goths soon 
rendered his services necessary in the field. Gratian 
called him to fill the place of his colleague Valens, who 
had fallen at Hadrianople, and he was proclaimed Au- 
gustus Jan. 19,379. lie received the government of 
the East. His conduct of the war was distinguished 
by the prudence with which he handled the dispirited 
troops, so that victory was gained without the fighting 
of pitched battles. On his return he passed through a 
severe sickness, and, in the belief that his end was near, 
received baptism at the hands of Ascolius, the orthodox 
bishop of Thessalouica. His baptism was followed, Feb. 
28, 380, by an edict which imposed the Nicene Creed 
on his subjects as the faith of the land. Other laws, 
having regard to the improvement of morals and the 
welfare of the State, followed on his restoration to health, 
The Goths were subdued in successive campaigns, and 
admitted into the empire as allies. 

At the time of the accession of Theodosius, Constan- 
tinople was the principal seat of Arianism. Hemophi- 
lus, the Arian prelate, preferred to resign his dignities 
rather than subscribe the Nicene Creed, and Gregory of 
Nazianzum was invited to become his successor. He 
declined the place, but induced the emperor to deprive 
the Arians of the possession of all churches and oth- 
er property, and to expel them from the metropolis. 
The Eunomians experienced similar treatment. The 
Manichaian heresy was made punishable with death af- 
ter the Second (Ecumenical Council had, in 381, con- 
firmed the Nicene Creed and condemned all heretics. 
Theodosius also exempted bishops from obedience to 
the civil tribunals; and to his reign belongs the infamy 
of first establishing inquisitors of the faith. Measures 
were also taken to prevent the sacrifice of bloody offer- 
ings and the practice of augury among the adherents of 
heathenism, which induced such votaries to retire from 
the cities to more distant and unimportant places. This 


THEODOSIUS 


322 


TIIEODOTIOX 


gave rise to the terms pagan .and paganism in popular 
usage when speaking of the polytheistic religions. 

In the year 385 the princess Puleheria died, and 
soon afterwards the empress Flaeilla, panegyrics being 
pronounced in their honor hv Gregory of Nyssa; and in 
the following year Theodosius married Galla, the sister 
of Valenti uian II, emperor of the West. The latter, 
with his mother, was expelled from Italy in 387 by 
Maximus, the usurper who ruled in Spain, Gaul, and 
Britain; and Theodosius, after he had heard that Max- 
imus favored the pagans, marched against and defeated 
him. lie entered Home on June 13, 3*9. In 391 oc- 
curred the famous incident in which Ambrose, the arch- 
bishop of Milan, forbade the emperor to enter his church, 
and required of him the acknowledgment of his guilt 
in having delivered over to death 7000 (chiefly inno- 
cent) inhabitants of Thessalonica, in retaliation for the 
murder of his governor, Boteric. The emperor laid aside 
the insignia of his rank, and entreated pardon for his 
great sin before the congregation in the Church of Mi- 
lan ; and he issued an edict by which an interval of 
thirty days was fixed between every severe sentence 
and its execution. 



The affairs of the Western Empire were at length set- 
tled. and Vnlentinian re-established on the throne, so 
that Theodosius was at liberty to return to bis own cap- 
ital. On the way, he delivered Macedonia from the 
robbers who lurked in its forests and swamps, and en- 
tered Constantinople in November, 391. Valentinian, 
however, was slain on May 15, 39*2, probably at the 
instigation of Arbogastes, a soldier of Frankish race, 
whose influence with the army made him more power- 
ful than his lord. Eugenius. a learned rhetorician and 
skilful courtier, the mere instrument of Arbogastes, be- 
came emperor. Theodosius met the usurper in the 
plains of Aquileia, and achieved a victory which de- 
stroyed both Eugenius and Arbogastes, and secured the 
submission of the West. Four months later Theodosius 
died, Jan. 17, 395, of dropsy. His body was brought 
to Constantinople, and buried in the mausoleum of Con- 
stantine the Great. 

See Zosimus, Hist. lib. iv, passim ; Clamlian, L. Seven. 
50 sip; De IV Cons. Hororii , etc.; Pacatus, Paneggr. 
Theod. .1 tig.; The mist ins, Oratt. 5, G, 16, 18; Sozomen, 
Hist. Keel. lib. v, vii ; Socrates, lib. v; Theodoret, Hist. 
Keel. lib. v ; Ammiamis Marcellimis, lib. xxii, xxix ; Je- 
rome, ad an. 379, and De Viris lllnstr. cxxxiii, 103; Am- 
brose, Epp. 17, 21, 27, 2*, 51, 67, etc. ; id. De Obitu Theod. 
passim ; Idathius, Chron. p. 10 sq., anil Fast. p. 110; Oro- 
sius, lib. vii ; Cod. Theod. passim ; Augustine, De Cicitate 
Dei , lib. v; I bi fin us, Hist. Feel. II, vi; Prosper, Chron.; 
Cedrenus, p. 552 sq. ; Greg. Naz. Carm. p. 21 ; id .Orat. 25 ; 
Theophanes, p. 105 sq. ; Eibaniiis, Orat. pro Tempi is , eil. 
Ueiske; Symmachus, Epist. x, 17 sip; Greg. Nyss .Opp. 
tom. iii, eil. Paris; Evagrius, Hist. Keel, i, 20; Eunap. 
/Edes, c. 1. p. GO sq. ; Paulin, 1 'it a A mbros. c. 24 ; Philo- 
storgius, II, xi; Ambrose, De Valent. Obitu Cons. p. 1 173. 
Also Flechicr, Hist, de Theodose le Crund (Paris, 1G80, 
8vo ; Tillemout, Hist. des Emperenrs. vol. v ; Gibbon, ch. 
iv and v; Paumgarten, A llgem. Wdtgesch. (Halle, 1754) 
vol. xiv; M idler (_P. E."]. Com ment. Hist, de . . . Theodos. 
(Gbtt. 1797 sq.); Kiidiger, De Statu Petgunorum sub 
Impp. Chiistianis ; Suffken, De Theod. M. etc. (Lugd. 
1828) ; Pauly, Rea l- Encyklop. s. v. ; Ullmann, Gregor r. 
Xazianz (Darmst. 1825) ; Olivier, De Theod. Af. Const i- 
tut iambus (Lugd. Pat. 1835) : Schriiekh, Chrisfl. Kirrhen- 
gcsch. vol. vii ; Gieseler, Kirchengcseh. vol. i; Smith, Diet, 
of Biog. and M ythol. s. v. ; Herzog, Real- Encyklop. s. v. 


Theodotians, a name given to the Monarciiiaxs 
(q. v.), from their founder, Theodotus (q. v.). 

Theodotion is the name of one of the Greek trans- 
lators of the Old Test, after the time of the Septuagint 
(ip v.). According to Epiphanius {De Pond, et Mens. 
c. 17, 19), lie was a native of Sinope, in Pontus, and for a 
time sided with the Marcionites, but left them after- 
wards and became a Jew. I renieus, however, calls him 
Ejdiesitus, i. e. a native of Ephesus; while Jerome and 
Eusebius call him an Ebionite, or semi-Christian. Pleek 
thinks it most probable that Theodotion was a Juila- 
izing heretic, a semi-Christian and Ebionite, according 
to Jerome’s prevailing description of him. 11 is reasons 
for thinking it probable that he professed to belong to 
the Christian Church are these two: a. “ We iiuil no 
trace of the Jews ever making use of his translation, 
and still less of its having been held in esteem by them : 
much more was this the case in the Christian Church, 
which accepted his translation of Daniel for ecclesiasti- 
cal use. b. He has translated a clause in Isa. xxv, 8, 
Korf7ro3’// 6 Scwarog tit; vhcog, precisely as in 1 Cor. 
xv, 54, but thoroughly deviating from the Sept. . . . 
This concurrence is probably not purely accidental, but 
is to be explained by Theodotion having appropriated 
to himself the Pauline translation of the passage; and 
this, again, makes it extremely probable that he was a 
Christian at the time of making the translation.” 

As to the time when this translation was made, ac- 
cording to Epiphanius it was published under the em- 
peror Commoilus (A.D. 180-182), which, as Keil re- 
marks, ‘*is not impossible, and can perfectly well be 
reconciled with the mention of him by Iremeus; yet it 
is by no means certain. In any case, his translation is 
not so ancient as that of Aquila, but more ancient than 
that of Svmmachus” (q. v.). 

As to the character of the translation, if we receive 
the testimony of those who had the version in their 
hands, it approached the Sept, very nearly in sense and 
phraseology. 4 he mode of translation adopted by The- 
oilotion holds an intermediate place between the scru- 
pulous literalitv of Aquila and the free interpretation of 
Symmachus. The translator appears, indeed, to have 
made the Alexandrian version the basis of his own, and 
to have abided by it as long as it represents the Hebrew 
faithfully; departing from it and freely translating for 
himself only where it inadequately expresses the sense 
of the original. His object was rather to supply the 
defects of that version than to give a new and inde- 
pendent one; hence the additions found only in t he for- 
mer reappear in his work. From the remaining frag- 
ments, it may be inferred that his knowledge of Hebrew 
was not great. He has retained Hebrew words not very 
diflicult or obscure, expressing them in Greek letters 
from ignorance of their meaning: “ Pr.Tter alia minus 
docti interpret is signa qu?e ermlito lectori exploranda 
remittimus, persaepe ilia verba Hebraica, quorum inter- 
pretatio non ita diflicilis erat ut vertendi molestiam 
ileclinaret, Gratis literis expressit” (Monfaucon, Preeli- 
minaria, VII, iii, 129, ed. Bahrdt). Thus, Isa. iii, 24, 
^^rE=<p&iyt \ ; xix, 15, *p m 2^—aypd)i>; xliii, 20, 
i-j'ii' ; Joel ii, 17, = ov\ap ; Job viii, 

11, inx=«yi'. But Jahn {Einleitung, i, 178 sq.) con- 
jectures that they were used among the Ebionites, and 
therefore retained by him — a supposition as improbable 
as that of Owen, that they were left so for particular 
reasons, such as the honor of the Jewish nation {Inqniiy 
into the Present State of the Sept. Version , p. 108). Among 
Christians the version of Theodotion was held in higher 
estimation than that of Aquila and Symmachus; and 
Origen, in his Ilexapla, supplied the omissions of the 
Sept, chiefly from it. At a later period his version of 
the book of Daniel was universally adopted in the Greek 
Bible among Christians, instead of the Alexandrian ver- 
sion. According to Bleek, this change occurred some 
time between the age of Origen aud that of Jerome. 


THEODOTUS 


323 


TIIEODULUS 


The latter says, in his Prcef. in Daniel. “ Danielem juxta 
LXX interpretes Domini Salvatoris ecclesue non legunt, 
utentes Theodotionis editione, et cur hoc accident nescio. 
Sive enim quia sermo Chaldaicus est, et quibusdam pro- 
prietatibusa nostro eloquio discrepat, nolnerunt Septua- 
ginta interpretes easdem lingua) lineas in translatione 
servare; sive sub nomine eorum a nescio quo non satis 
Chaldaicam linguam sciente editus est liber, sive aliud 
quid causa) exstiterit ignorans; hoc iinum affirmare pos- 
sum, quod multum a veritate discordet, et recto judicio 
repudiatus sit.” Delitzsch (De llabaciici Prophet a Vita 
atque MCtate Commentatio 11 isto rico-ist igogica [Grima?. 
1844], p. 28) says, “ Quapropter ego (donee proferan- 
tur argumenta contrarii) versionem Danielis Theodo- 
tionianam ab ecclesia non prius adoptatam esse censeo, 
quam ab Origene tanquam castigata Alexandrime editio 
in Ilexapla recepta et ab Eusebio et Painphilio, cum ex 
his textum septuagintaviralem ederent, septuagintavi- 
rali substituta est.” Credner thinks that the Christians 
were so long under the pressure of contradictions, as- 
saults, and mockeries, from Jews and heathens combined, 
that finally (though, to be sure, not in general before 
the end of the 3d century) they gave up their Greek 
translation of the Sept., and set that of Theodotion in 
its place. From a passage by Jerome on Jer. xxix, 17, 
“Theodotiointerpretatus est sndrinas; secunda pessima; 
Svmmachus novissimas,” it has been conjectured that 
there also existed a second edition of Theodotion’s ver- 
sion; but Hody (De Bibliorum Textihus , p. 584) thinks 
that the text of Jerome here is corrupt, and that after 
sudrinas we should insert AquiUe prima editio. 

Besides the literature given in Fiirst, Bill. Jud. iii, 
420 sip, see also Davidson, Biblical Criticism , i, 217 sq. ; 
Keil, Introduction to the Old Test, ii, 232 sq. ; Geiger, 
Nachgelassene Schriften (Berlin, 1877), iv, 87 ; Kauleu, 
Einleitung in die heil. Schrift (Freiburg, 1870), p. 78; 
Delitzsch, op. cit., p. 28 sq. ; Ginsburg, Commentary on 
Ecclesiastes (Lond. 1801), p. 407 sq. See Greek Ver- 
sions. (B. P.) 

Tlieod'otus (GsocWoe, God - given = Johanan), 
one of the three messengers sent by Nicanor to Judas 
Maccalueus to negotiate peace (2 Macc. xiv, 19). B.C. 
cir. 102. 

Theodotus the Fuller (o gkvtwq) was a leather- 
dresser who went from Byzantium to Pome about the 
end of the 2d century, and there taught Ebionitish doc- 
trines; but the Romish bishop Victor is said to have 
excommunicated him from the Church. Theodotus 
maintained that Jesus, although born of the Virgin ac- 
cording to the will of the Father, was a mere man, and 
that at his baptism the higher Christ descended upon 
him. But this higher Christ Theodotus conceived as 
the Son of him who was at once the supreme God and 
Creator of the world, and not (with Cerinthus and other 
Gnostics) as the son of a deity superior to the God of 
the Jews. Epiphanius (I/teres. 54) associates him with 
the Aloji. He must not be confounded with another 
heretical Theodotus (o rpa7re^injg or dpyvpapoifiui;) 
who was connected with a party of the Gnostics, the 
Melchisedekites. See Xeander, Hist, of Christ. Church, 
i, 580 ; Ueberweg, Hist, of Philosophy, i, 308. 

Theodromi (Geofyo/uoO, a term applied to cou- 
riers in the early Church. It was their duty to give 
private notice to every member where and when the 
Church assemblage was to be held (Baronins, A rial. 58, 
n. 108). See Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. viii, ch. vii, 
§ 15 . 

Theodulph, termed A urelianensis, probably a Goth, 
was one of the men whom Charlemagne invited to 
France for the advancement of learning. He was in 
Gaul as early as 781, and in his classical tendency resem- 
bled Alenin, whose commendation he received, lie was, 
in fact, one of the foremost representatives of the pe- 
culiar renaissance poetry called into being by Charle- 
magne’s forcible promotion of culture. His poems are 
not without value to an understanding of the social con- 


ditions of his time. As a theological writer he is less 
important, his works being limited to tracts — De Online 
Baptismi , De Spiritu Banc to — fragments of sermons, 
and Capitula addressed to the presbyters of his parish. 
The Capitula reveal his care for his clergy, and espe- 
cially his concern for the establishing, by the clergy, of 
popular schools throughout the diocese. Charlemagne 
gave him the abbey of Flenry and the bishopric of Or- 
leans, and employed him in affairs of state. In 794 
Theodulph was present at the Council of Frankfort. 
After the death of Charlemagne, he appears to have at 
first connected himself with the party of Louis the Pi- 
ous, but afterwards to have desired a more powerful 
ruler. The complaint laid against him at Aix-la-Cha- 
pelle accused him of conspiring with Bernard of Italy, 
and he was imprisoned in the monastery of Angers. 
He was pardoned by Louis, but was soon afterwards 
snatched away by death, in 821. 

Literature. — Hist. Lit. de la France, iv, 459; Tira- 
boschi, St aria della Lett. Ital. Ill, ii, 190; Biihr, Gesch.d. 
rom. Lit. in Carol. Zeitalter (Carlsruhe, 1840), § 34, 35, 
139; Guizot, Cours d'llistoire A loderne, ii, 334, Brussels 
ed. ii, 334; id. Hist, de la Civilisation en France, ii, 197- 
204. Theodulph’s poems were collected by Sirmond 
(Paris, 1640, 8vo). Also in Bibl. T'atr. Max. (Lugd. 
1677), xiv, 28; and in Migne, Patrol. 105. See Herzog, 
Real-Encyldop. s. v. 

Theodulus (or Tueodorur), the name of three 
bishops who at different times presided over the see of 
Valais in Switzerland. 

1. Theodores 1 was the first bishop of the Church 
of Valais. He was present at the Synod of Aquileia 
in 381, which condemned the Arian bishops Palladios 
and Secundianus, as directed by the command of the 
emperor Gratian; and his zeal for orthodoxy was such 
that he refused to recognise Palladios as a Christian 
and priest. He was especially meritorious in enhanc- 
ing the welfare and glory of his own Church, where he 
is said to have established orthodoxy on an assured 
basis, and to have discovered the relics of the Thebaic 
martyrs, in wdiose honor he subsequently built a church 
near where the Church of St. Maurice now stands. The 
influx of pilgrims to this church caused him to devise 
an appropriate cult, and thereby to give occasion for 
the organization of a monastery. Theodorus also for- 
warded relics to Vitricius of Rouen and Martin of Tours, 
for which thanks are rendered by the former in Ins De 
Laudibus Sanctorum ; and he furnished Isaac, bishop 
of Geneva, with information respecting the discovery 
of the famous relics which became the basis of the leg- 
end written by Eucherius. Theodorus 1 thus appears 
to have been the actual apostle of the country, as he 
was its first consecrated bishop, and also the founder of 
the Church of Valais and of the cult which became its 
boast. His name appears in the oldest liturgical man- 
uscripts of the country, the very ancient Miss ale Sede~ 
nnm, an ancient M artyrology preserved in the Castle of 
Valeria in Sion, and in the Martyrol. Gallic. His 
name occurs also among those of the ten bishops who 
wrote to pope Siricius from Milan in 390. After this 
he disappears, and is accordingly supposed to have died 
about 391. See the ancient Acta Cone.; S. Eueheri 
Passio A ga unesinm Martyr.; ancient martyrologies ; 
Vita Theodul. Episc. in the Bollandists, ad Aug. 16, iii, 
278-280. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop, s. v. 

2. Theodulus or Theodorus II, bishop of Valais, 
is mentioned in the spurious articles of endowment by 
king Sigismund to the Convent of St. Maurice, and was 
evidently confounded by the author of that document 
with Theodorus I, as he is made to urge the erection 
of a new convent and an appropriate endowment, on the 
ground that the bones of the Thebaic martyrs were yet 
unburied; all this so late as A.D. 515. Despite the 
doubts raised by this anachronism, he must be supposed 
to have existed, as his name occurs in the ancient and 
trustworthy list of Agannensian bishops, and in all sub- 
sequent lists as well. He is also mentioned by an 


324 TIIEOLOGIA GERMANIC A 


THEOGNOSTUS 


anonymous contemporary, in the- life of abbot Ambrose 
of St* Maurice, as having raised collections in behalf of 
the new church edifice, and as having assisted in the 
collection of relics for its endowment. A new bishop, 
Constnntius, appears in the Synod of Kpaon in A.l). 
517; the death of Theodurus was accordingly prior to 
that date. See Holland, ad Aug. ‘27. 

3. TiiKOnouis 111, preferably called Tueodulus, 
the most famous, but also the most imperfectly authen- 
ticated. bishop of Valais of this name, is reputed to have 
lived in the time of Charlemagne. The only source for 
the assumption that lie lived is the legend of St. 1 heo- 
d nl us, by Uundpert, which runs as follows: Theoduhis, 
of the noble family of Grammont, in Burgundy, was in- 
vited by Charlemagne to a general council which was 
to devise means for restoring his peace of mind. All 
the bishops responded to the monarch’s tears with the I 
promise of twenty, and even more, prayers and sacrifices, 
but Theodulns promised only a single one. His prayer 
was continued day and night and followed with the 
mass, so that God sent an angel who revealed to The- 
odulus the emperor's crime, and assured him that it was 
forgiven. Thus attested, the emperor could not doubt 
the bishop’s assurance, and rewarded the latter with 
the prefecture of his country, that he might be able to 
control the rude inhabitants, while exempting the cler- 
gy from the civil authorities. A later addendum to this 
legend relates that Theoduhis had revealed to him by 
an angel that the pope intended to spend a night in 
the embraces of a concubine. While thinking upon 
this revelation, the devil drew near in female form. 
Theoduhis seized him, leaped on his shoulders, and 
compelled him to serve as a medium of transportation 
t<> Home, where he was able to prevent the papal sin. 
The Bollandists add to the above a miracle, through 
which Theoduhis tilled all obtainable vessels with the 
juice of a single grape which he had blessed at a time 
when the vintage had failed. This miracle elevated 
him to the rank of patron saint of the country, in which 
character he is still commemorated with great rejoic- 
ings on Aug. 16. No mart vrologies or similar docu- 
ments mention this Thendulus. Ruodpert is clearly a 
mvthical personage. The bishop under consideration 
is imaginary, and probably developed out of the fact 
that donations to the Church of Valais were made in 
honorem S. Marue or S. Theodori ( Theoduli ), and the 
other fact that Charlemagne had a court bishop named 
Theodore, who dedicated the Church of Zurich. See 
Golpke, Kirchengesch. d. Schireiz, i, 91 sq., 120 sq. ; ii, 
95 sq. ; Briguet, Valletta Christiana (1744), p. 48 sq., 95 
sq. ; Hivaz. De la Legion Thebeenm (1779), p. 37, etc. ; 
Comment, Pnerius Gulielmr Cuperi y cte, — Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. s. v. 

Theognostus. A person of this name is said by 
Philip of Sida (see Dodwcll, Dissert, in Ire n, [Oxon. 
1689], p. 488 sq.) to have presided over the catechetical 
school of Alexandria in the second half of the 3d cen- 
tury. Photius calls him an Alexandrian and an ex- 
egetc; and he was unquestionably an Origenist, in the 
strict sense, rhotius also expressly states that Theog- 
nostus shared the errors of Origon with respect to the 
Trinity, and termed the Son KTirr/tce (comp. Dionvs. Al- 
exand., and see Athanasius, De Blasph . in Spirit, Sanc- 
tum ; also Origen, De Princ. i, 3. 7, 63). Theognostus 
wrote seven hooks of Hypotheses, which, according to 
Photius, constitute a doctrinal work constructed in the 
»>r<ler of loci — (1) of God the Father as the exclusive 
originator of the world (against an assumed eternity of 
matter); (2) of the Son; (3) of the Holy Spirit; (4) 
of angels and daemons; (5 and 6) of the incarnation; 
(7) of the world-order. The brief extracts from this 
work which were preserved hv Athanasius in De Decret. 
Xic. Synod. § 25, and a fragment, from that father’s work 
On the Blasphemy of the llaly Ghost (Athan. Ep, 4 ad 
Serap. § 11) may he found in Booth, Reliq. Sacr. iii, 
221 sq. See Galland, Bill. Vet. Patr. iii; Guericke, De 
Schola Alexand, (Halle, 1824), i, 78; ii, 325 sq. 


Theogony (SfoyoWa), the name given in ancient 
Greece to a class of poems recounting the genealogy of 
the gods, M listens is said to have written the earliest 
Theogony; but his work, as well as the theogonies of 
Orpheus (q. v.) and others, have perished; that of 
Hesiod being the only one that has come down to us. 
This lias been translated by Thomas Cook (Loud. 1728, 
2 vols. 4 to). 

Theologal. The third Lateran Council, held in 
1 179, ordered that teachers should be appointed to the 
various churches and monasteries who should instruct 
the clergy, and be rewarded for their labors with suit- 
able benefices. The fourth Lateran Council repeated 
this ordinance, and provided in Canon 10 that only ca- 
pable men should be appointed in cathedrals and con- 
vent churches, who should, in their capacity of masters, 
assist the bishops in preaching, hearing confessions, im- 
posing ecclesiastical penalties, and otherwise promoting 
the welfare of Christians. Canon 11 provided, in ad- 
dition, that, where the means of a church permitted, 
a good teacher of grammar should be appointed; while 
metropolitan churches should appoint a theologian, 
whose business it should be to instruct the clergy and 
other religionists in the knowledge of Holy Scripture 
and all other matters which are important to the care of 
souls. 'I'll is teacher should be allowed the income from 
a prebend so long as he continued to perform the func- 
tions of his oflice, but should not rank as a canon; and 
it was to such instructors that the name of theologal 
was given. The Council of Basle ordered the more 
general employment of theologals. Sec Eortgesetzfe 
Sannnl. v. alien n. ueuen theol. Sachen (Lcips. 1721), 
p. 968 ; 51 ansi, Sacr. Cone. Xova et A mpliss. Collectio 
(Venet 1778), xxii, 998 sq. — Herzog, Real- Encyklop. 
s. v. 

Theologia Germamca (the German title is 
Biichlein von der deutschen Theologie') is the title of 
the famous theological work, by an unknown author, 
which was discovered bv Luther and published for the 
first time by him in 1516. The title implies merely 
that it is a German theological work, and is not to be 
understood as asserting the spirit of exclusiveness to 
which Poiret objected, in any degree. 

The contents of the book are entirely in harmony 
with the writings of Tauler, Suso, and other mystics 
connected with the Friends of God of the 14th century. 
Its object is to teach self-renunciation, the laying-aside 
of our own and the accomplishing of the Divine will. 
It declares that only our self-will separates man from 
God, the perfect one; it was self-will that changed an- 
gels into devils, and it is this alone which feeds the 
llames of hell. Haughty and opinionated minds, it as- 
serts, aim at perfection in other ways than that of hu- 
mility and obedience. In this their conduct resembles 
that of the devil, and they can accordingly end only in 
ruin. Communion with God is to be had only when 
the soul passes through repentance and is purified from 
sin and selfishness, thus attaining to enlightenment. 
Love and the practice of virtue are also requisite to 
true enlightenment, as is, in addition, a cheerful en- 
durance of trials and temptations. Thus enlightened, 
a soul attains to union with God and enters into un- 
ending perfection. 

The book has been attributed to various authors, e. g. 
Eblendus, Tauler, etc., hut without authority. Luther’s 
preface declares that it was written by a priest and 
custos in tlic “ Deutsehherrn” house at Frankfort-on- 
tbe-Main. A manuscript copy, discovered by Dr. Rcuss 
of WUrzbnrg, ealls it simply Der Franckfui'ter. Bam- 
berger, in Herzog, Real- Encyklop. s. v., thinks that 
the priest Heinrich of Rodelheim has been shown be- 
yond controversy to he its author. The question of 
authorship is a difficult one, because the writer, who 
was associated with the Friends of God , intentionally 
followed the custom of those mystics in writing anony- 
mously. 


THEOLOGIAN 


325 


THEOLOGY 


The fact that Luther first gave publicity to the work 
caused it to be regarded in time as the special property 
of Protestants. The Romish Church at first paid no 
attention to it, though it gave occasion to the Bavarian 
bishop Pirstinger to write a Teictsche Theologey from 
his point of view. In March, 1(521, however, the Ger- 
man Theology was placed on the Index. A recent Ro- 
mish theologian, Gunther, has charged it with pan- 
theistic tendencies; but this is evidently malicious, 
since it strains the language of a book which does not 
pretend to a strictly scientific character further than 
the case will warrant. Luther's edition of 151G was 
incomplete; but the second edition comprehended the 
whole work, and was accompanied with a preface from 
his pen. Numerous editions followed in rapid succes- 
sion, Luther himself adding five to those already men- 
tioned. The most desirable edition is perhaps that of 
Johann Arndt, who supplements Luther’s preface with 
an excellent one by himself (1G31). The manuscript 
discovered by Dr. Reuss was edited by Dr. Pfeiffer, of 
Vienna (2d ed. 1855). This version is more complete 
than Luther’s, particularly in the first third and near the 
end of the work. Repeated translations have been made 
into Low-German, Flemish, English, Latin, and French ; 
the best -known English version being that of Miss 
Susanna Winkworth, with preface by Rev. C. Kingsley, 
and introduction by Prof. Stowe (Andover, 185G). — 
Lisco, JJtilslekre dev Theologia Germunica , etc. (Stutt- 
gart, 1857), and Herzog, Real- Ency Hop. s. v. 

Theologian, one who treats of theology, or the sci- 
ence of things divine. The most ancient Greeks used 
the latter term in the sense of nurratio de deo , and those 
who wrote the history of the gods, their works and ex- 
ploits, were called $to\oyoi. Moses is called by Philo 
StoXoytip when he gives the history of the creation. 
Among the Romans, from the time of Numa Pompilius 
to that of the emperors, the knowledge and worship 
of the gods were made subservient to the interests of 
the State. Thus, according to Augustine (De Civ. Dei , 
vi, 1), there were three kinds of theology — the poet- 
ical, or that of the poets; the physical , or that of the 
philosophers; and the political , or that of the legisla- 
tors. The Greek Christians originally designated any 
deep philosophical apprehension of the truths of relig- 
ion by the term Gnosis (knowledge), which was op- 
posed to Pistis (faith). First, during the 3d and 4th 
centuries, the word theology came into use especially 
in connection with such of the. fathers as defended the 
doctrine of the deity of the Logos. In this sense the 
evangelist John and Gregory of Nazianzum were term- 
ed theologians. During the same period, the word the- 
ology was applied to the doctrine of the Trinity. In 
the century following, Theodoret widened its applica- 
tion by applying it to the whole circle of theoretical 
instruction in religion. Finally, in the 12th century, 
Abelard, in his Theologia Christiana , gave the word 
that comprehensive signification it still bears, as ex- 
pressive not only of a theoretical, but also of a prac- 
tical, exposition of religious truth. In general, there- 
fore, theology is the knowledge of God carried to the 
highest degree of perfection in respect to correctness, 
clearness, and evidence of which it is susceptible in this 
world. 

Theology is divided into two great branches — (1) 
Natural , or that which relates to such disclosures of 
himself as God has made in the outward world; and 
(2) Revealed , or such as he has made through his spo- 
ken and written word. Eminent writers in the latter 
department of theology, as Sehleiermaeher, llagenbach. 
Pelt, Godet, and others, present different methods of 
arranging the different subjects embraced in this study. 
See Theology. The arrangement adopted by Dr. J. 
M‘Clintoek is given in the article M etiiodology (cp v.). 

The different branches are discussed under their several 
heads. See also Apologetics; Ecclesiastical His- 
tory; Ecclesiastical Polity; Ethics; Polemics, 
etc. 


Theologns is the title of a clerical instructor of the 
clergy associated in chapters, etc., who was appointed, 
by the authority of several councils, to teach the Holy 
Scriptures; the Theologal (q. v.). 

Theology (from St 6c, God , and \oyoc, discourse) 
is not to be interpreted simply as its etymology re- 
quires, as the doctrine of God, nor yet historically, as 
the doctrine of the Trinity, but is to be understood with 
reference to a definite range of life which it is to bring 
into the consciousness and apprehend both theoretical- 
ly and practically, rheology is not, consequently, the. 
doctrine of the Christian religion, nor of the self-con- 
sciousness of God in man, as speculative theology is 
wont to speak, nor yet of the feeling of the Absolute. 
It is primarily the shaping of a life in man ; in the lan- 
guage of Steenstrnp, the Danish divine, it is an inter- 
nal habit which lies deeper than the intellect. This 
has been conceded since the. time of Sehleiermaeher 
with reference to both religion and theology. Rudel- 
bach describes it as a science of divine things mediated 
by the Spirit of God. Vilmnr teaches that true theol- 
ogy” is esoteric in form, because truly scientific; but also 
practical, because it involves piety and the entire con- 
tents of religion. It sustains to the practical life, how- 
ever, only the relation of idea to practice. The heart 
of the Christian life is, moreover, not religion, but the 
kingdom of God, or God’s organic revelation to the 
world — the Church (see Storr, Sehleiermaeher, Banm- 
garten-Crusius, and many Romish theologians; also 
Kling, in Herzog, Real-Encyldop. xii, GOO-606). Theol- 
ogy thus becomes the science of the unfolded, objective 
self-manifestation of the Divine Spirit in the phenome- 
nal kingdom of God — a practical science which devel- 
ops progressively and side by side with that kingdom. 
But it is none the less a positive science also through 
its relation to the kingdom. Sehleiermaeher ( Kurze 
Darstell. etc.) describes Christian theology as the com- 
prehension of all that scientific knowledge and those 
scientific methods without whose possession and use a 
harmonious direction of the Christian Church, i. e. a 
Christian Church government, is not possible. This 
definition is, however, too external; for in the material 
of theology all truth finds its goal, and that fact should 
be expressed in its definition. Both the object and the 
scientific character of theology will be retained if the 
latter be defined as the scientific self-consciousness of 
the Church with reference to its development through 
the Holy Spirit, or, more briefly, its self-consciousness 
with respect to its self-edification. 

From this definition theology branches out into par- 
ticular departments. The self-consciousness has for its 
first task the apprehension of the Church in actuality 
by determining its historical origin, development, and 
present state. Historical theology is the history of the 
kingdom of God consciously apprehended. It subdi- 
vides into the three special branches of Sacred History, 
Ecclesiastical History, and Ecclesiastical Statistics. 

The determination of sources and portrayal of the 
outworking and development of the leading principles 
by which events are governed are of primary importance 
in historical study. The first source here is wholly 
unique, being the might of the Divine Spirit. The 
source for the beginnings of the Christian Church is, 
at the same time, a regulative guide and vivifying prin- 
ciple to the Church. By the side of other sources it 
affords knowledge respecting the time of the origin of 
the Old Covenant, and its development until it became 
the New, and it possesses unquestionable authority as 
the earliest witness to the operative power of the Di- 
vine Spirit in the world, and consequently as its medi- 
ating principle, or as the Bible, the only sacred book. 

The first part of historical theology is consequently 
a knowledge respecting the Bible (Biblical theology, in 
the wider meaning). It is all-important to determine 
what books belong to the Bible, and this is the business 
of the Canon. The whole Bible is to be authenticated 
both in its parts and its text ; to accomplish this is the 


THEOLOGY 


32G 


THEOLOGY 


work of historical and textual criticism. Introduction ' 
to the books of the Old and New Tests, (hayoyics), or, 
more exactly, the History of the Canon and oj Hiblical 
Literature, presents the collective material to view, and 
is followed by philological and theological exposition. 
The scientific conception of this expository work is Her- 
meneutics, or the art of interpretation. The history of 
the Word of God, the Divine Revelation, and the pres- 
entation of its contents which have attained to their 
development are given in Sacred History (and Archie- | 
ology) and in Biblical Dogmatics and Ethics— usually 
termed, in Germany, Biblical Theology of the Old and 
New Tests.: the latter being the final and gradually de- 
veloping phase of the Divine Revelation, whose central 
point is the. establishing of the kingdom of divine grace . 
through Jesus Christ. This science is theologico-his- 
torical, and therefore deals largely with details, e. g. the 
particular doctrinal contents of separate Old-Test, books, 
etc. I 

Personal convictions are of great importance in this 
connection. Without being rooted in the Divine Rev- 
elation, no apprehension of its meaning is possible. 
The contents of the Revelation as appropriated both by 
the individual and the Church must accordingly be re- 
ceived into the scientific consciousness, which indicates 
the task of scientific thndoyy. The latter, however, does 
not derive its contents directly from the Bible, hut 
through numerous intermediate agencies, to contem- 
plate which is the work of Ecclesiastical History, and, 
in so far as they belong to the present age of the 
Church, of Ecclesiastical Statistics. 

Ecclesiastical 11 istory portrays the history of the king- 
dom of God in time from the founding of the Christian 
Church on the day of Pentecost to the present day, 
having the end of prophecy continually in view as its 
goal. It directs its attention more prominently either 
to the outward development of that kingdom in the 
Church and the life as renewed and inspired by Chris- 
tianity (Church History), or to the consciousness of 
that development and its contents — the History of Doc- 
trines and the connected History of Christian Ethics, 
Literature, and Art. The study of Sources, Geography, 
Chronology, etc., likewise involves much that is pecul- 
iar, and requires the separate theological treatment of 
those branches, in consequence of which originate Pa- 
tristics. Ecclesiastical Archaeology, History of Liturgies, 
etc. 

The present not only forms the limit of development 
at which the kingdom of God lias arrived, but also the 
ground on which we stand. The description of this 
ground is the work of Ecclesiastical Statistics. It in- 
cludes both external and internal conditions, both of 
the faith and t he life, and gives rise, on the one hand, 
to Statistics of Churches in different countries and of 
different denominations and sects, and, on the other, to 
Historical Symholies. 

Inquiry into the faith and morals of different denom- 
inations leads from Statistics over to Systematic Theoloyy. 
The nature of the latter is determined by the nature 
of the Christian consciousness as based on a new life in 
the individual and t lie race. The development of that 
consciousness into scient ific knowledge requires, first, an 
assured recognition of the principles which underlie the 
kingdom of God as manifested in Christianity; next, 
an unfolding of the contents of such principles in sys- 
tematic form; and, finally, a recognition of the relation 
of this knowledge to the universe of human knowledge. 
In this way is obtained a science of t lie principles and 
the particular phenomena of Christianity as they are 
given in its history (the science of Christian principles 
or fundamentals), a science of their doctrinal and ethi- 
cal contents generally, and also in the particular confes- 
sions (tlictical theology), and a philosophy of Christian- 
ity (parallel to the philosophy of law in a different field 
of ethics). 

As Systematic Theology does not proceed from the 
Christian convictions of the individual, but from those 


of the entire Church or of one of its subordinate parts, 
it provides room for Ecclesiastical Tradition. The start- 
ing-point is the idea of the kingdom of God which rests 
on the Word of God as objectively presented to us in 
t he Canon, as approved in the heart in the character of 
Christ, and as given in Tradition in the forms of faith, 
custom, constitution, and methods. The consummation 
is in the Dogma, in which God's kingdom is the object 
of the seiontilie consciousness of the general Church, or, 
under historical limitations, assumes u definite form in 
the particular denomination (Denominational Principles 
or Systematic Symbolics). At this point the doctrinal 
consciousness discovers its variation from the systems 
of other denominations and of morbid apparitions with- 
in t he Church to which it belongs. The latter obser- 
vation gives rise to Polemics, or, better, the Discussion 
of ethical and doctrinal excrescences in the Church 
(analogous to pathology in medicine). 

The ground lias thus been prepared for the founding 
and establishing of Thetical Theology, the confessional 
Dogmatics and Ethics as traditionally determined on the 
basis of the underlying faith. Here the dogma, in its 
character of scriptural truth subjectively apprehended 
and handed down in the Church by authoritative tra- 
dition, attains to its complete development; and here 
the various doctrines are combined into a system through 
the labors of critical, religiously ethical, and systematic 
scholars. The true relation is accurately indicated by 
the oxymoron in the phrase “the science of the faith.” 
Unquestionable certainty is given in the faith, but the 
mind transmutes this successively and partially into 
knowledge. 

This dogmatico-ethical process begets a system of 
knowledge respecting God and divine things. This 
constitutes Speculative Theology, the last result of a phi- 
losophy of Christianity which was conceived in mysti- 
cism, unfolded in theosophy, sifted by criticism, and 
formed by speculation, and now presents Christianity 
with the science of it as the centre and goal of all cult- 
ure and as the crown of the scientific labors of the en- 
tire human race. Christianity is here presented as a 
religion, and as the highest manifestation of religion, 
and also as the complete realization of the kingdom of 
God on earth through a progressive development winch 
reaches down to the final consummation; and in this 
light Christianity is presented as the central feature in 
the philosophy of human history. 

The duty of the Church to insure its own edification 
through the power of the Holy Spirit comes into prom- 
inence here, as it does in the historical department. 
That edification is Ecclesiastical Praxis, and the scien- 
tific understanding of its foundations and methods con- 
stitutes Practical Theology, the third principal branch 
of theological science. The starting-point of this sci- 
ence is the energy of the Christian life which is to lie 
perfected. Practical theology is the science of human 
operations within the kingdom of God and as enabled 
by the Holy Spirit, to the end that that kingdom may 
be fully developed. Only through God can we arrive 
at God, in knowledge as in feeling or in practice. 

The setting-lbrtii of these fundamentals, and of the 
methods hv which the organism of God’s kingdom, par- 
ticularly in the Church, is to be erected on them, is the 
work of the science of Ecclesiastical Foundations, other- 
wise the science of t lie principles of Practical Theology, 
which finds its completion in the science of Church or- 
ganization. We next discover a separate department 
of Church law, which constitutes the second part of 
Practical 'rheology, and subdivides into Church law and 
Church government (in a restricted sense, Church poli- 
ty; in an unrestricted, the care of souls). The process 
of self-edification under the Holy Spirit’s intluence, 
moreover, gives rise to a recognition of the means 
through which this is achieved, and thereby originated 
a third technical part, covering the theories of art meth- 
ods in the different Christian churches, which are known, 
with reference to the shaping of the external forms of 


THEOLOGY, BIBLICAL 327 THEOLOGY, YEW ENGLAND 


worship so that they may represent the worship of the 
inner man, as Liturgies; with reference to the proclama- 
tion of the Word of God, as Homiletics or Kervktics; 
with reference to the training of the young, as Chris- 
tian Pedagogics and Catecheties; with reference to the 
conversion of heathen and other false religionists, as 
Halieuties and Theory of Missions; and with reference to 
the organization of scientific instruction for the Church, 
as Ecclesiastical Pedeutics, which has to do with the 
Christian organization of institutions of learning, as the 
placing of theological faculties in universities, the found- 
ing of theological seminaries, etc. Theological litera- 
ture cannot, of course, be brought within any rule, but 
may be classified in conformity with its manner of en- 
tering upon the arena of the Christian and the Church 
life.— Herzog. Real-EneyMop . s. v. See Theologian. 

See Pelt,>W. Encyklop. (I lamb, and Gotha, 1843), 
with whose theory the above article is substantially 
agreed. See Encyclopaedia of Theology, with the 
literature there referred to. 

THEOLOGY, Biblical. See Biblical Theology. 

THEOLOGY, Dogmatical. See Dogmatical 
Theology. 

THEOLOGY, Exegetical. See Exegetjcal The- 
ology. 

Til EOLOGY, Natural. See Natural Theology. 

THEOLOGY, New England; including "New 
Divinity,” “Edwardean Divinity,” “Ilopkinsianism,” 
etc. 

I. Origin and Development. — The original theology 
of New England was the strict Calvinism of the lie- 
formed standards. In 1G48 the Westminster Confession 
was formally adopted by the synod convened at Cam- 
bridge, and it remained the standard of faith for all 
“the New English churches” until 1G80, when “the 
elders and messengers of the churches in the colony 
of the Massachusetts in New England” substituted the 
confession drawn up by the Congregationalists of the 
mother country, and known as the “ Savoy Confession.” 
In 1708 the Connecticut churches made the same change. 
This substitution was in neither case demanded by a 
changed theological sentiment in the churches, the Sa- 
voy Confession being almost word for word identical 
with the Westminster, except on points connected with 
Chnreh polity. Its Calvinism was equally strict. Not 
long after this, however, strong and independent minds 
began to appear in the ranks of the New England min- 
istry, whose philosophical acumen and practical earnest- 
ness could not rest satisfied with a theological system 
which to them seemed palpably inconsistent in parts, 
and morally paralyzing as a whole. These, prompted 
partly by their own subjective difficulties, and partly by 
the exigences and influences of the period which wit- 
nessed the rise of New England Unitarianism, the in- 
troduction of Universalism, the visits of Charles Wes- 
ley and George Whitefield, the planting of Methodism, 
the Revolutionary War, the abolition of slavery in the 
New England states, the defection from orthodoxy of 
Harvard College and the largest churches of Massa- 
chusetts, the end of the compulsory support of religion 
by taxes, the fall of the Lockean and the rise of a tran- 
scendental school of philosophy, the extension of the 
Baptist and of the Methodist Episcopal and Protestant 
Episcopal churches over all the New England States, 
the founding of the noble missions of the American 
Board — not to mention remoter and less important 
events — commenced a series of modifications in the tra- 
ditional Calvinistie system of doctrine designed to ren- 
der it more rational, more palatable to the believer, and 
more easily defensible against the assailant. The proc- 
ess has been going forward with a good degree of stead- 
iness ever since the days of president Edwards. One 
has suggested change in one part, another in another; 
one has brought forward a metaphysical novelty, an- 
other a theological one, a third an ethical; liberal and 


progressive influences have become incorporated in or- 
gans and institutions; free pulpits have popularized the 
various innovations; new generations have grown up 
under the influence of the improved doetrination ; in 
short, an almost complete theological revolution has 
gradually taken place. In their earliest development, 
the more generally received of these new views were 
styled “New-light Divinity;” then “New Divinity,” 
afterwards “Edwardean;” sometimes “ Hopkintonian” 
or “ llopkinsian.” From the fact that Edwards, Hop- 
kins, West, and Catliu resided in Berkshire Comity, the 
system was at one time called “ Berkshire Divinity.” 
When embraced in Great Britain by Andrew Fuller, 
Dr. Rvland, Robert Hall, Sutcliffe, Carey, Jay, and Ers- 
kine, it was called “American Theology,” to distinguish 
it from the European systems. In this country it has 
often been denominated “ New England Theology,” in 
order to discriminate it from systems that have prevail- 
ed in other parts of the land. This term, however, is 
far from satisfactory, partly because the New England 
theology of to-day is very different from the New Eng- 
land theology of a hundred and filtv years ago, and part- 
ly because, in speaking of the New England theology 
of recent times, the term must be used in a sense suf- 
ficiently wide and vague to include differing types of 
doctrine historically associated with various individual 
divines and with the Andover, New llaven, and East 
Windsor (now Hartford) schools. 

The precise relation sustained by the elder Edwards 
(1703-58) to this theological development has long been, 
and still remains, a subject of controversy. The advo- 
cates of the most advanced new views are anxious to* 
claim him as the real father of the whole movement, 
while the Old-school writers, with equal zeal, endeavor 
to guard the good man’s memory from so “slanderous” 
an allegation. The former appeal to the “Ten Im- 
provements in Theology,” enumerated by the younger 
Edwards (IFo/’&s, i, 481) as having been “made by his 
father,” and claim that such a list entitles their author 
to the very first rank among the innovators upon New 
England orthodoxy. The latter find in this enumera- 
tion of the younger Edwards only an effort on the part 
of its author to magnify the number and character of 
his father’s theological novelties, in order the better to 
prepare the way for the introduction of his own more 
radical and dangerous ones. One writer (in Princeton 
Rev. Oct. 1858) has attempted to show that president 
Edwards’s only deviations from the current Calvinism 
of his age were confined to two points — viz., he held to 
mediate instead of immediate imputation ; and, secondly, 
advocated “an eccentric philosophical theory of virtue.” 
The true state of the case would seem to be that Ed- 
wards, without intending to initiate, or even to occasion, 
such a grand revolution, really advanced principles and 
made statements which afterwards suggested, and al- 
most logically necessitated, the peculiar views and even 
phraseology of his successors (see Park, On the Rise of 
the Edtrardean Theory of the Atonement). 

To present a complete delineation of New England 
theology, it would be necessary to write a critical his- 
tory of New England speculation. Contributions and 
modifying influences have come from so many sources 
that even then it would be exceedingly difficult to ap- 
portion to each of the original elaborators his precise 
due. This difficulty is greatly enhanced by the inti- 
macy of the relations which subsisted among Jhem. So 
close were those relations that in some instances it is 
next to impossible to determine the real authorship of 
important modifications. Edwards. Bellamy, and Hop- 
kins, the “great triumvirate of New England theologi- 
ans,” were not merely contemporaries, they were confi- 
dential friends, reciprocal teachers and learners, mutual 
givers and receivers, allied investigators of divine truth. 
Each had peculiarities of belief, each held fast to the 
substance of the old Calvinistie system; but there was 
substantial agreement in much that was new and revo- 
lutionary. For many years they enjoyed the most fa- 


THEOLOGY. NEW ENGLAND 328 THEOLOGY. NEW ENGLAND 


vorablc opportunities for the interchange of sentiments, ; 
mutual stimulation, and influence. Their relations to 
the generation succeeding were also intimate. The 
first was father of Dr. Edwards, the second his theologi- 
cal teacher, the thin! was his most valued counsellor, 
and was intimately associated with him in the exami- 
nation of his father’s M>>S. West was a contidential 
companion of Bellamy and 1 lopkins, intimate also with 
Drs. Edwards, Smalley, and Emmons. Through Dr. 
Edwards the spirit of the triumvirate was transmitted 
to his pupils Dwight and Griffin, to his friends Backus 
and Smalley. Smalley was a pupil of Bellamy, the in- 
structor of Emmons, the friend of Hopkins and West. 
To ascertain the exact contribution of any one of these 
to the actual development is evidently a task of the 
greatest dilHculty. 

About the year 1756 there were four or five clergy- 
men whose views had come to be popularly distinguish- 
ed as ** Edwardcan.” In 1773 the number bad increased, 
according to 1 >r. Stiles, to about forty-live. During this 
year Dr. Hopkins published his Inquiry info the A uture 
of True Holiness, elaborating the Kdwardean theory 
more perfectly than Edwards had done; and, in a volu- 
minous appendix, defending it against the objections 
which Mr. Hart and others had published against it. 
Thenceforth the Edwardeans were generally denomi- 
nated “ Hopkinsians.” This now term, though first ap- 
plied to the New Divinity with special reference to its 
doctrine of the utter sinfulness of all acts preceding re- 
generation, was soon used to designate all Calvinistic 
divines who favored the doctrines of general atonement, 
natural ability, the active nature of all holiness and sin, 
and the justice of Hod in imputing to men none but 
i heir own personal transgressions. Their number in 
171)6, according to Dr. llopkins, was upwards of a hun- 
dred. 1 >r. Stiles enumerates as among the champions of 
the new system in 1787 the two Edwardses. Bellamy, 
Hopkins, Trumbull, Smalley, Judson, Spring, Bobinson 
(father of Dr. Edward llobinson), Strong, Dwight, Em- 
mons. In 1799 Hopkins appended the names of West, 
Levi Hart, Backus, presidents Balch and Fitch. A later 
pen has added the honored names of Dr. Catlin, presi- 
dent Appleton, and l)r. Austin. At the present time 
the peculiarities of New-school New England theology 
have very general prevalence in the orthodox Con- 
gregational churches of the New England and West- 
ern States, and are favored by many in other Calvinis- 
tic bodies, '[’hey are taught in the theological semi- 
naries of Andover, New Haven, Bangor, and Chicago. 
They are disseminated by quarterly and other organs 
of marked ability, among which the Bibliotheca Sacra 
and The New- Englander hold the first rank. They 
have affected the current theological teachings of the 
Baptist churches not a little; and the great schism which 
divided the Presbyterian Church in 1837 was chiefly 
traceable to their influence in that communion. See 
PitKsKVTicitiAN Ciirnrii in run Unttko States. 

11. Relation to Original Calvinism . — The metaphysi- 
cal and ethical principles accepted by tbe New-scbool 
representatives of modern New England theology, and 
fundamental to their system of doctrine, are the follow- 
ing: (1.) There is a radical distinction between necessi- 
ty and certainty. (2.) All sin is of an active and vol- 
untary nature; the same is true of all holiness. (3.) 
Although in every exercise the human will possesses 
the natural power of contrary choice, still, as a matter 
of fact, it is invariably determined by motives. In oth- 
er words, although the will always can choose the least 
apparent good, it always will choose the, greatest appar- 
ent good. (1.) Natural ability must in all cases equal 
obligation. (.V) Moral character or deserts are in no 
case transferable. In logically adhering to these prin- 
ciples and such as these in all their theological applica- 
tions. the Kdwardean divines have deviated from the 
old Calvinistic system in the following important theo- 
logical, anthropological, and soteriological points; 

1. Predestination . — They do not teach that God de- 


crees the volitions of moral agents in such a sense as to 
make those volitions necessary, but only that be has ue- 
termined so to make and place men that they will act 
just as they do. In this manner God’s decrees secure 
the certainty of men’s choices, but do not secure their 
necessity. He predetermines all that lies back of tbe 
volition — the sensibilities of the agent and whatever 
may act on these — which predetermination enables him 
to foresee the result. At the same time, the agent is 
able in any case to choose otherwise than he actually 
does; and ought to make a holy choice even where God 
foresees that the choice will be sinful, and actually de- 
crees to do that which will in fact result in the sinful 
choice or to omit that which would prevent it. 

2. Original Sin. — Denying that there can be any ill 
desert prior to personal transgression, they repudiate 
the old Calvinistic doctrine respecting the imputation 
of Adam’s guilt to his posterity, both in its mediate and 
immediate forms, with their realistic and diathetic jus- 
tifications or theodieies. In its place they maintain that, 
in consequence of Adam’s transgression, all men are so 
made and placed that they will uniformly, certainly, but 
freely, choose wrong rather than right. This constitu- 
tion is not sin, but merely the sure occasion of it. 

3. The Atonement. — (1.) As to its nature , they teach 
that the sufferings of Christ were a satisfaction, not to 
the distributive, but only to the general, justice of God. 
lie suffered not the exact penalty of the law, but pains 
substituted for that penalty and answering its purpose 
in the seenrement of the ends of the moral government. 
(2.) As to the ground of its tiecessitg. The necessity for 
an atonement was governmental, not arbitrary or onto- 
logical. (3.) Fruits: (//) simply release from tbe curse 
of the law. and thus mediately the blessings to the re- 
ception of which that curse was a bar (Emmons), or (&), 
all blessings whatsoever (Griffin and the main body). 
(4.) Extent. Tbe atonement was not designed for tbe 
elect alone, but was made for all men as truly as for 
any. 

4. Justification does not consist in any real or hypo- 
thetical transfer of tbe righteousness of Christ to the 
believer, but in pardoning bis sins for Christ’s sake and 
treating him as if innocent (Emmons), as if holy (main 
body). 

5. Regeneration. — Objecting to old Calvinistic descrip- 
tions of this work, the New England theologians define 
it (a) as a divine communication of a new spiritual taste 
or relish (elder Edwards, Dwight, etc.) ; or (b), as a spir- 
itual illumination (Bellamy); or (c), as a (human) change 
of governing purpose under the influences of the Holy 
Spirit (Taylor, Finney, etc.); or ( d ), as a gradual con- 
version by the moral suasion of the Holy Spirit (pecul- 
iar to Gilbert and bis sympathizers); or (^), as that 
radical change of the soul which is produced by tbe in- 
terposition of the Holy Spirit, and which consists in a 
change in the balance of the sensibilities and a change 
of preference from wrong to right (Prof. Bark); or (f), 
as a restoration of that life-communion with which God 
was lost by sin (Bushnell). Professor Park would ap- 
ply the term regeneration to the work instantaneously 
wrought by the llolv Spirit on the nature of tbe soul, 
and the term conversion to the first holy act of the soul 
itself, the work of God preceding the free act of the 
soul in the order of nature, though not of time. By 
some the soul in this change is called wholly active 
(Emmons, Spring, Pond); by others, wholly passive 
(Smalley, Burton); by others, both active and passive 
(Park). 

6. Perseverance. — The elect can fall awav after regen- 
eration, even totally and finally, but never will. This 
is maintained by most on purely Biblical, as distinguish- 
ed from psychological, grounds. 

Other points might be adduced on which original 
Calvinism and the new tenets are far from accordant; 
but these are the most fundamental, and the differences 
above indicated will be found a key to tbe whole sys- 
tem. Perhaps nothing better illustrates the spirit of 


THEOLOGY, NEW ENGLAND 320 THEOLOGY, NEW ENGLAND 


the two than their respective views of the final end of 
God in creation and providence. According to Old Cal- 
vinism, that end— the end to which all minor ones are 
subordinated— is the manifestation of God’s character, 
particularly his justice and merev, to intelligent creat- 
ures; according to Dr. Taylor, of New Haven, as under- 
stood by many, it is the production of the largest amount 
of happiness possible, holiness being simply a means 
thereto; according to Andover, and perhaps the main 
body of New England Calvinists of the New School, it 
is t lie securemcnt of the largest amount of holiness, the 
highest happiness being simply a natural consequence. 
(But see a somewhat different representation of Taylor’s 
views by president Porter in The Neic- Englander for 
I860, p. 7*26-773.) 

The controversy respecting the “Doings of the Un- 
regenerate” has been quite too prominent in the history 
and development of this New Divinity to be passed 
over in silence. There have been three theories: (1.) 
That man is under obligation to repent at once, and 
that all moral choices before repentance are sinful and 
must be utterly forbidden (Emmons, Spring, Park). (2.) 
That man is under obligation to repent immediately, 
but he may perform preliminary acts which are neither 
sinful nor holy, and hence are not forbidden (Taylor). 
(3.) (Corresponding with the Old-school theory) That 
while all acts of choice are sinful before repentance, it 
is still right to exhort men to the performance of cer- 
tain acts before repentance, as this is the most probable 
method of securing their repentance (Dwight). 

III. Relation to Original Arminianism. — The repre- 
sentatives of old-fashioned Calvinism have often charged 
that the modifications introduced by the Edwardean di- 
vines have simply brought about a substitution of the 
Arminian system for the Calvinist ic one of the primi- 
tive New England churches. The teachings of New 
England theology with respect to the absolute depend- 
ence of individual salvation upon individual divine elec- 
tion, as also with respect to “special” grace and to 
human ability considered apart from the gracious aids 
of the llolv Spirit, do not sustain this charge ; but in al- 
most every other principle and doctrine the allegation is, 
in our view, susceptible of the fullest substantiation. 

1. Take the “live points” of the original Arminian 
controversy. The Calvinists affirmed and the Armin- 
ians denied (1) that the decrees of God respecting the 
eternal salvation or damnation of individual men are 
irrespective of the use they may make of their own 
freedom; (2) that in the divine purpose and by divine 
decree the benelits of the atonement are limited to un- 
conditionally elected individuals; (3) that in conse- 
quence of original sin all persons naturally engendered 
from Adam are in such a condition of spiritual death 
that without that effectual calling and supernatural 
renovation which is by divine decree limited to the 
elect they can do absolutely nothing either towards 
the fulfilment of God’s law or towards an effectual ap- 
propriation of the benefits of redemption ; (4) that those 
gracious influences of the Holy Spirit which are adapted 
and sufficient to lead a sinner to true repentance and 
salvation are restricted to a portion of the race, name- 
ly, to the unconditionally elect: and (5) that true be- 
lievers cannot, bv any possibility, totally and finally fall 
from grace. In every one of these memorable issues 
of the Remonstrant and Contra-Remonstrant parties 
the representatives of New England theology stand 
with the original Arminians. 

2. The same metaphysical and ethical principles un- 

derlie the two systems. We will review them in the 
order before given : (1.) Certainty as distinguished 

from necessity. This was a favorite Arminian distinc- 
tion (see Arminius, i, 280, 281; iii, 402, 41 1, 416, 423, 
425; Epistohe Theologicce, epist. xix, lxxii [Arminius]; 
Curcellams, p. 774, etc.). (2.) Active and voluntary 
nature of sin and holiness, universally maintained by 
the Arminian divines (see, for instance, Episcopius, ii, 
92 b; Curcelkeus, p. 136, 137, 902, 904; Limborch, II, 


xxiii, 15; III, iv, 8; V, iii, 2). (3.) Self-determination 

in view of motives. According to New -school New 
England theology, the will invariably chooses the 
greatest apparent good. This may be deemed incom- 
patible with Arminian principles. Properly explained, 
however, it does not seem to be so. The theory is not 
that the will invariably chooses the greatest real good 
proffered for choice, nor even the greatest apparent 
good as estimated by the cool exercise of judgment, but 
simply that it chooses that good which appears to the 
subject, organized, circumstanced, and disposed as he is, 
as most desirable. It is only saying, in other words, that 
a man invariably chooses just as under the circumstances 
at that moment the state of his mind prompts him to 
choose. But, («)• the Arminian authorities never denied 
this position. They denied that the mere absence of co- 
action constituted liberty (Episcopius, i, 356, 357 a) ; but 
New England divines do the same. They denied that 
mere spontaneity is liberty in its full sense (ibid. p. 198 b; 
Curcelkeus, p. 158,159) ; but the New England divines do 
the same. They denied, as did Leibnitz, that the deci- 
sion of the will is invariably determined “ ab ultimo judi- 
cio rationis practico” (Episcopius, i, 209 b sq.; Curcelke- 
us, p. 985; Limborch, p. 131, etc.); but in the form pro- 
pounded to them, the divines of New England would in 
like manner repudiate it. They denied that the will is 
necessarily determined by motives; but this doctrine is 
rejected with equal explicitness by champions of New- 
school New England theology. (5.) The will in all 
rational choices invariably acts in view of a good (Epi- 
scopius, i, 202 b. et al.). (c.) The will is able to choose 

(he least apparent good. This follows from the Armin- 
ian doctrine of power to the contrary. It is also illus- 
trated in choices between objects of equal apparent de- 
sirableness. “Si paria offerat, quorum alterum tan turn 
eligendum est., libertas plenaria locum habebit” (ibid, 
p. 207). (ff.) In all deliberate choices men ordinarie 

follow the decision of the judgment; when not, it is 
because “alia quiedam causa impediat” (ibid. De Libero 
A rbitrio, VI II, ix ). (e.) They will never choose evil 

as evil, or “sub ratione mali” (ibid, i, 215 b, 318 sq.). 
(f.) Though the will does not invariably choose the 
greatest good according to the decision of the judg- 
ment, it does in all rational choices invariably choose 
that good which seems the most desirable to the whole 
man. This doctrine seems to be clearly implied in cap. 
x of Episcopius, Exanten Eententice Cameronis. The 
apparent contradiction found in cap. viii of his Respon- 
sio ad Defensionem Cameronis is easily solved by ob- 
serving that according to the doctrine of Episcopius, as 
according to that of the New England divines, the w ill 
does not invariably follow the dictate of reason, nor in- 
variably follow the dictate iff the natura appetitiva , 
both which maintenances are perfectly consistent with 
the doctrine in question — to w it, that the will invariably 
chooses the good w hich to the whole man under the in- 
ward and outward conditions seems the most desirable. 
On this point, then, so far is the doctrine of the New- 
school divines of New England from being incompati- 
ble with Arminian teachings that, on the contrary, that 
doctrine finds in Remonstrant literature some of its 
earliest and most carefully guarded enunciations. (4.) 
Obligation cannot transcend ability — an axiom with the 
Arminians (see Arminius, Declaration passim; Curcel- 
lam s, p. 96 b; also VII, ii, passim ; Limborch, III, iv, 
7, etc.). Here we may remark that the distinc- 
tion betw'een natural and moral ability is much older 
than its emergence in New England theology, being 
clearly laid down in several of the elder Arminian di- 
vines (see Episcopius, ii, 94 a ; Curcelkeus, p. 156, 421). 
(5.) Intransferableness of moral character and deserts, 
strongly asserted by Episcopius, ii, 151 b; by Curcel- 
keus, p. 131-137, 424, 470, 896-902; by Limborch, V, 
lxxvii, 18; HI, iii. 1 1, etc. 

3. In positive theological , anthropological , and soteri - 
ological teachings the two systems are in marked accord. 
(1.) The Decrees of God. — The Nev*-school divines of 


THEOLOGY, NEW ENGLAND 330 THEOLOGY, NEW ENGLAND 


New England bold to a universal foreordination, ab- 
solute as respects all divine acts, effectual as regards all 
consequences of those acts. One of the consequences 
of those acts is the establishment and maintenance of 
human freedom. What said Arminian theology? («.) 
All divine acts are absolutely decreed — “ Dens nihil 
facit, nisi prius apud se id decreverit facere” (Curcel- 
lams, p. 82). (b.) God foreordains (positively or per- 

missively) whatsoever cometh to pass — “Nihil absque 
ipsius permissu ant directione evenit” (ibid. p. 87). (c.) 
God decrees to do things which he knows will occasion 
sinful choices on the part of men, and to abstain from 
acts which, if wrought, he knows would prevent sinful 
choices. This also is clearly involved in what is laid 
down by Arminius (iii, 4 18-420), Fpiscopius, Curcellanis, 
and Limborch on Pennissio , Excwcatio , and Indy ratio, 
(d.) God decrees to do that which he knows will occa- 
sion sin, for a specific end, and that end is the best pos- 
sible (Arminius, iii, 419). (e.) A decree to do that which 
will as a matter of fact occasion sin does not in anywise 
necessitate that sin (Curcelheus. p.382, 1021). 

(2.) The Constitution of Men not Sin, but the Invaria- 
ble Occasion of Sin . — No New England divine has pro- 
duced an abler exposition and defence of this view than 
are found in Curcelheus, Disscrtatio de Peccato Originis , 
and in Limborch, III, iv. 

(3.) The A tonement .— The identity of the Edwardean 
theory of the atonement with the Dutch Arminian, as 
respects the nature of the atonement, ground of its ne- 
cessity. and its extent, is articulately proveu in art. iii of 
the Aleth. Quar. Rev. July, 1800. 

(4.) Just if cation. — Arminius’s definition of justifica- 
tion could be subscribed to by the whole body of New 
England divines with perhaps the exception of Em- 
mons. “Justification is a just and gracious act of God 
as a judge, by which, from the throne of his grace and 
mercy, he absolves from his sins man, a sinner, but who 
is a believer, on account of Christ and the obedience 
and righteousness of Christ, and considers him righteous 
Q/W«w],to the salvation of the justified person, and to 
the glory of divine righteousness and grace” (ii, 110). 

(5.) Regeneration . — By the elder Arminian, Calvinis- 
tic, and Lutheran divines this operation of the Spirit is 
not sharply and definitely distinguished from sanctifica- 
tion, but in the definitions of the representative New 
England divines there is nothing to which Arminius or 
his disciples wotdd have objected. 

(0.) Perseverance. — (a.) The regenerate can fall away. 
This is universally maintained by the Arminians. (6.) 
The regenerate in point of fact never do fall away. Ar- 
minius did not decide, lie says, “At no period have I 
asserted that believers do finally decline or fall away 
from faith and salvation” (ii, 281). Like New England 
Calvinists, he asserted the possibility, but not the fact, 
of a total and final defection of t he elect. 

From the foregoing it is evident that the evangelical 
New r England reaction against Calvinism, while re- 
markably indigenous and original, resembles in a most 
striking manner the earlier Arminian reaction. The 
Remonstrants repudiated no part of standard Calvinism 
which these New England theologians do not repu- 
diate; they revolted from traditional tenets from the 
same honorable motives; they anticipated by two cen- 
turies nearly every favorite idea of their New England 
successors, and would perhaps have anticipated every 
one explicitly, had it not been for the backwardness of 
the psychological and ethical sciences. Nevertheless, 
there ever remains this radical difference, that accord- 
ing to New England theology, as according to original 
Calvinism, the real reason why one man is saved and 
another is not, is always in the last analysis to be found 
in the different foreordinatimis of God respecting the 
two. and this difference of foreordinations is referable 
solely to the sovereign good-pleasure of God. 

IV. Variations and Side-issues . — Several noteworthy 
views and speculations, to which their respective authors 
owed no small share of their reputation, are either not 


adopted or positively repudiated by the great mass of 
recent New r England Calvinists. For example : 

1. 'l’he Edwardean notion of human liberty. Presi- 
dent Edwards is generally understood to have accepted 
the definition of Locke and of the sensational school, 
making the liberty of the human will “ the power, op- 
portunity, or advantage that any one has to do as he 
pleases;” in other words, one’s ability freely to execute 
volitions philosophically or coactivelv necessitated. The 
inadequacy of this definition is now universally admit- 
ted. See Edwards. 

2. Hopkins’s doctrine of disinterested benevolence. 
This was at one time the most vital and essential ele- 
ment in the New Divinity. With llopkins it was the 
corner-stone of systematic theology. See Hopkins. 

3. Emmons’s hypothesis of God’s efficient causality of 
every moral act of man. Emmons held that God was 
the efficient originator of every volition of the human 
mind, good or evil, holy or sinful. He has had but few 
adherents, and doubts are expressed as to whether he 
has been correctly understood by many on this point 
(Park, Memoir, p. 385 sq.). See Emmons. 

4. Nathaniel W. Taylor’s view of the non-preventa- 
bilitv of sin, his doctrine of the basis of virtue, and his 
metaphysical explanation of the Sacred Trinity. See 
Taylor. 

5. The perfectionism of Prof. Finney. See Chris- 
tian Perfection; Oberlin Theology. 

6. Dr. Edward Beecher’s doctrine that all the descend- 
ants of Adam have enjoyed an equitable probation in a 
previous state of being, and that they are born under 
the curse of original sin on account of having sinned in 
that pre-existent state. See his Confict of Ages and 
Concord of Ages. See Pre-existence. 

7. Dr. Horace Bushnell’s view of Christ and of the 
Sacred Trinity, of revelation, sin, and the atonement. 
See literature below. 

V. Literature . — 1. In General. — Memoirs and IForZ'S of 
the Edwardses, Bellamy, Hopkins, Stephen and Samuel 
West, Samuel Spring, John Smalley, Emmons, Dwight, 
Leonard Woods, N. W. Taylor, Bcnnet Tyler, Lyman 
Beecher, Horace Bushnell, and others above mentioned ; 
Park, Essay on the Development of the Edwardean Theory 
of the Atonement (prefixed to his collection of Discourses 
and Treatises on the Atonement by Edwards. Smalley, 
Maxev, Emmons, Griffin, Burge, and Weeks); Woods, 
Old and Xew Theology (from an Old-school Presbyterian 
standpoint) ; Hodgson [Meth.], New Divinity Exam- 
ined; Fisk [Meth.], The Calvinistic Controversy ; Ellis 
[Unit.], Fifty Years of the Unitarian Controversy ; Fiske 
[Cong.], Niw Eng. Thtol. in Bibl. Sue. xxii, 477, 5G8; 
Lawrence, in Amer. Theol. Rev. May, I860; Bibl. Sac. 
and Princeton Bibl. Repertory, 1851-52, and passim ; The 
Church Review, ii. 89 ; v, 349 ; Smith, Church History in 
Tables, p. 78; Ueberweg, Hist, of Phil. (Amer. ed.), ii, 
443-400; Sherman, New England Divines; Sprague, 
A nnals. 

2. The Pre-Edwardcan Period. — See Sprague, A nnals, 
vol. i; Cotton, John; Davenport, John; Mather, 
Cotton, Increase, and Richard; Stoddard, Solo- 
mon; Wiogleswokth, Edward. 

3. Jonathan Edwards and his Theology . — Reviews of 
bis work on the Will bv Dr. James Dana (1770). J. Dav 
(1841), A. T. Bledsoe (1845), D.D. Whedon (1859); Oli- 
ver Wendell Holmes’s art. in the International Rev. July, 
1880. The Bibliotheca Sacra will give some of Ed- 
wards’s yet unpublished manuscripts in 1881. One on 
Trinity and Redemption, ed. by Smyth, N. Y. 1880. 
See Edwards. 

4. Hopkins and IJopkinsianism. — Memoir and Works, 
3 vols. ; Bibl. Sac. ix, 174 sq. ; x, 03 sq. ; xix, 033 ; Ely, 
Calvinism and IJopkinsianism. See Hopkins. Samuel. 

5. Emmons and Emmonsism. — Memoir anil IPorXvf, 0 
vols.; abstract of his theology in Bibl. Sac. vii, 254 sq., 
479 sq. ; see also ix, 170 sq., and xxii, 4G7 sq. ; Smith, 
Faith and Philosophy, p. 215-2G3. 

G. Taylor and Taylorism. — Memoir and Works, 4 


331 


TIIEOPASCIIITES 


THEOLOGY, PRACTICAL 


vols. ; Bibl. Sac. xvii, 355 sq., 452 sq. ; Lord, in the 
Evang. Afag. 1832-3G; Tyler, Letter to ])r. Hawes; es- 
says in Christian Spectator and Spirit o f Missions, pas- 
sim ; Pigeon, New Haven Theology , in Lit. and Theol. Re - 
view , v, 149 sq. ; vi, 121, 280,557 ; Fisher, Discussions in 
History and Theology (1880), p.285 sq.; Thasher, Taylor- 
ism Examined (1834, 12mo); Meth. Quar. Rev. Oct. 18G0, 
18G2; New- Englander, 1859, 18G0. 

7. Bushnell and Bushnellism. — Life and letters; 
J Forks', especially God in Christ: — Forgiveness and 
Laic : — Vicarious Sacrifice ; Turnbull, Review of Bush- 
nell's Theories ; TIovey , God with i r s,an Exam, of Bush- 
nell' s Vic. Sac. ; Bartol, Principles and Portraits , p. 3GG 
sq. ; The New- Englander, ii, 309, 440 ; v, G; Meth. Quar. 
Rev. 18GG. 

8. New Divinity in the Presbyterian Church. — Memoirs 
and writings of Lev. Albert Parties; Reman, On the 
Atonement; Duffield, Regeneration ; Whelplev, Trian- 
gle; E. 8. Ely, E. l>. Griffin, etc.; Hodge, Essays and 
Reviews; Bibl. Sac. xx, 5G1. See Presbyterian 
Church, New-sciiool. 

9. The l 'Old School" in New England Theology. — Tvler, 
Memoir and Lectures ; Woods, HW£s (G vols.) ; Burton, 
Essays ; Fisher, Discussions in History and Theology , 
p.227 sq.; Bibl. Sac. xx, 31 1 sq.; xxx, 371 sq. ; Par- 
sons Cooke, New England Puritan ; Recorder , etc. 
(W. F. W.) 

THEOLOGY, Practical. See Practical Theol- 
ogy. 

THEOLOGY, Scholastic. See Scholastic The- 
ology. 

THEOLOGY and Science. See Science and Re- 
ligion. 

THEOLOGY, Speculative. This title has come 
into use, particularly in Germany, to designate that 
method in systematic theology which, availing itself of 
all the helps subsidiary to theology, collects its material 
under the guidance of a philosophical, or speculative, 
survey of the held, and combines it into a systematic 
whole. 

1. The necessity for such a term is shown by the fact 
that neither systematic theology nor Christianity itself 
can be compressed within the compass of a system of prac- 
tical doctrines only. Christianity is designed to benefit 
the entire man, his intellect as well as his feelings and 
will. Indeed, Christian piety is based on the truth ; and 
Christianity is the revelation of the truth and the abso- 
lute religion. To attain a direct objective knowledge of 
God, as distinct from the indirect knowledge obtained 
from the contemplation of his works, etc., is evidently 
the work of speculation ; and the same is true of that 
defence of Christianity which not only undermines the 
arguments of assailants, but establishes the reasons for 
Christianity in truth. 

2. The material of speculative theology is gathered 
from the realm of experience everywhere, mundane 
and supermundane, and more directly still from the 
Christian faith. The task of speculative theology is to 
combine the experimental facts of the religious life into 
a harmonious system in which thought and scientific 
knowledge are the other elements. Its method is to 
seize on the historical facts connected with Christianity 
and trace them up until it arrives at the great central 
fact — the divine life incarnated in the person of Jesus 
Christ. Faith, by which we mean an immovable foot- 
ing on the truths and realities of Christianity, is there- 
fore a prerequisite for this science; but this can never 
become fanaticism, because the science is equally based 
on the safe ground of known historic fact. 

Christianity is specially adapted for speculative treat- 
ment by reason of its possessing a point of internal unity 
which combines both idea and fact, God and man, and 
therefore concentrates in itself the power to overcome 
all contrasts. The ancient Church correctly fixed that 
point in the incarnation of the Logos (Ignatius, Iremeus, 
Origen, Athanasius, Gregory of Nyssa). The dangers 


of speculation in theology are well illustrated in the in- 
tellectual ism of contemplation as displayed in the East- 
ern Church. The more practical and ethical tendency 
of the West served to complete, and, to some extent, cor- 
rect, the Eastern intcllectualism. Tertnllian and Au- 
gustine gave themselves to practical speculation; but 
Anselm was the father of genuine Christian speculation 
(Cur Deus Homo ?). Aquinas and Duns Scot us, though 
inferior to him, rendered good service in the same field. 
The Reformation was concerned rather with the dis- 
tinctively religions than the speculative interests of 
Christianity, though Anselm’s ideas were carried for- 
ward and established in its progress. Not until after 
fundamental inquiries into the philosophy of knowledge 
and into the facts connected with God and the world 
which we possess had been made was it entirely possi- 
ble to utilize, fur speculative purposes, the treasures of 
Christianity for defence, attack, and positive develop- 
ment. The fruitage of such investigations may be seen 
in the works of Schlciermacher, Daub, Marlieineeke, 
Rothe, Martensen, etc. Sec Philosophy. 

Upon the whole subject consult Baur, Christl. Gnosis 
(1835); Ritter, Gesch. d. christl. Philosophic (1841-51, 
G vols.). Sec Ilerzog, Real-Eneykiop. s. v. 

Tlieomancy (Otoe? God, and pavreia, divination), 
a kind of divination drawn from the responses of the 
oracle among heathen nations. 

Theonas, or Tlieon (see the extract from Philo- 
storgius given by Photius), was bishop of Marmariea, in 
Cyrenaica, in the 4th century, and one of the most de- 
voted adherents of Arius. The synodal circular given 
in Athanasius, i, 398 sq. (ed. Montfaueon), from bishop 
Alexander, which mentions the earliest measures taken 
against Ariiis, contains the names of Theonas and his 
colleague and neighbor Secundus of Ptolemais. The 
circular referred to indicates that both Theonas and Se- 
cundus had been deposed; but it would seem that the 
deposition was not enforced, since they appeared at the 
Council of Nice in the character of qualified members. 
They achieved notoriety in that synod by resisting the 
Ilomoousion more firmly even than did their leaders, 
Eusebius and others; and as they refused to unite in 
the condemnation of Arius, they were again deposed and 
banished. Philostorgius (i, 2, 1) states that Theonas 
was recalled by the emperor Constantine; but be would 
seem to have taken no further part in the ecclesiastical 
conflicts of the time. His name occurs no more in the 
lists of combatants. See Theodoret, Hist. Eccles. i, 7 sq. ; 
Socrates, Hist. Eccles. i, 9 (Decrees of Nice) ; Epiphanius, 
liter, lxix, 8, and comp, lx vi ii, G, and Ixix, 1 1 ; Tillemont, 
Memoires pour servir a VHistoire Eccles. (Brussels, 8vo 
ed.), vi, 2; Hist. Abregee des Ariens, art. vi, vii ; and 
History of the Council of Nice, art. vi, xi. — Herzog, Real- 
Eneykiop. s. v. 

Tlieopaschites (from 0foU) God , and 7rorryw, to 
suffer). This term was applied to those persons in the 
ancient Church who pronounced in favor of the formula 
that God had suffered and been crucified, and occurs for 
the first time in the letters of Isidore of Pclnsium (q. v.) 
(Epp.x, 102, 124). The addition of the clause 0fo£ iarau- 
pioSi] to the Trisagion by Peter Fullo (q. v.) gave great- 
er currency to its use (Theophanis, Chronographia, p. 97, 
184), and formed an element in the Monophysite dis- 
putes. Fulgentius Ferrandus and Fulgentius of Ruspe 
declared in favor of the formula “One belonging to 
the Trinity has been crucified” (see Gieseler, i, 2, 3G5; 
Schrbekb, xviii, 582), which was subsequently approved 
by the Fifth (Ecumenical Synod of Constantinople in 
553 (Anathema 10). Fullo’s addition to the Trisagion 
was in use among the Catholics of Syria until its rejec- 
tion by the Concilium Quinsextnm in G92 (Canon 81), 
after which only Monophvsites and Monothelites con- 
tinued its use. The Catholics, in the meantime, had 
reached the conclusion that every addition to the Tris- 
agion involved a quaternity. Tbeopaschitism is a very 
general conception of the popular mind, even in Protes- 


TIIEOr ATIIETICS 


332 


THEOPHANY 


tant countries, and has found support in many hymns 
which have been admitted into use in the churches. It 
is also most intimately connected with the conception 
which underlies the expression ‘‘Mother of God;’’ for 
if it may be said that God was horn of Mary, it may 
with equal propriety be said that God was crucified. 
See the Church Histories; Smith’s llagcnbach, Hist, 
of Doctrines, § 102; Herzog, Real- Ency klop. s. v. 

Theopathetics, a designation of those mystics 
who have resigned themselves, more or less passively, to 
an imagined divine manifestation. Among these may 
be mentioned Tanehehn, who appeared in the 12th cen- 
tury, and announced himself as the residence of Deity; 
tiichtel, who believed himself appointed to expiate by 
his prayers and penance the sins of all mankind; and 
Kuhlmanu, who traversed Europe the imagined head of 
the tifth monarchy, summoning kings and nobles to sub- 
mission. — Gardner, Faiths of the World, s. v. 

Theopathy ( Ded^, God, and adzac, feeling}, a 
word used bv Dr. Hartley as synonymous with piety or 
a sense of Deity. 

Theophaues ok Byzantium, the designation of 
two early ecclesiastical characters. 

1. A historian who is supposed to have lived at Con- 
stantinople at the close of the 6th century. He wrote 
a history of the war waged with Persia from <567 to 
573, and also, it is said, a history of the reign of Jus- 
tinian. Photius mentions both works, and quotes from 
the former {Cod. 64). Sec Labbeus, Excerpta Legatio- 
nnm (Paris, 1617). 

2. The chronographer, confessor, and saint. Of this 
man an ancient biography, said to be the work of Theo- 
dore Studita (q. v.), relates that he was born in or about 
the year 578, and that the emperor Constantine Copron- 
vinus became his guardian. The monastic impulse led 
him to bind himself to a life of continence on the eve of 
his marriage with the daughter of a wealthy patrician 
chosen to be his bride by the emperor himself, and sub- 
sequently to separate himself from his wife altogether. 
Leo IV called him to court, laid upon him official re- 
sponsibilities, and placed him over the public buildings 
in Mysia; but, in Irene’s reign, Theophaues became a 
monk in Lesser Mysia, and in time abbot of the mon- 
astery of Ager, which he had built. He was a zealous 
image-worshipper, and present as such at the second 
Council of Xice in 787. In 816 Leo the Armenian 
sought to persuade him to renounce the worship of 
images, and punished his obstinate refusal with impris- 
onment and banishment to the island of Samothrace, 
where Theophaues died about 816. A Chronographg 
by him is extant, which records both ecclesiastical and 
secular matters from the tirst. year of the reign of Dio- 
cletian to the first year of Leo the Armenian. It lacks 
many excellences, and has been attributed, though with- 
out sufficient reason, to other authors ; but its statements 
possess considerable value as sources for the Iconoclastic 
troubles. The best edition is that of Classen (Bonn, 
1839. 2 vols.), preceded by a Greek Vita and an Oj/ici- 
vm X. Fatris Xost. Theophanis , etc., of March 12. Sec 
Vossius, Da Hist . Gr. ii, 21; Cave; Gudin; Fabr., 
Jiihl. Or. vi, 151 (old ed.j, etc. — Herzog, Reul-Encyklop. 
s. v. 

THEOPHAXES, styled Ceramets, archbishop of 
Tauromemium. between Syracuse and Messina, in the 
former half of the lltli century (? see his own IJomily 
26, and Leo Allatius; but comp. Seorsus , vt infra'), lie 
also bore, it would seem, the name of Gregory, which 
occurs in several MSS. He wrote Homilies, sixtv-two 
of which were published in 1611 by the Jesuit Seorsus 
at Paris, with notes and two proems setting forth the 
life, teachings, and literary qualities of Theophaues, etc. 
The Homilies arc written in Greek, and t lie style is 
llowing and easy, but vitiated by an excessive tendency 
to allegorize. Image -worship and invocation of the 
Virgin are taught everywhere. Consult Cave, Hist, Lit. 
ii, 162, and see llerzog, Real- Ency klop. s. v. 


Theophany. The ancient Greeks were accustom- 
ed, during a certain festival named rd Seotimna, to dis- 
play at Delphos before the public gaze the images of all 
their gods. Otocpdvtta denoted the apparition of one 
or more gods. The term thus understood was applied 
by ancient Christian writers to the manifestations of 
God under the Old Covenant and to the incarnation of 
Christ; in the latter instance with reference to the 
birth, the baptism, and the second advent of Christ. 
H hrapdveia was, however, a usual substitute for its 
employment as respects his birth. See Epiphany. 
Later usage has given to the term a doctrinal meaning, 
1 by which it is made to designate a special form of the 
divine revelation, to determine which form it is neces- 
sary to examine the entire series of modes of the divine 
manifestation (see Bret Schneider, Fystemut. Entwicklnng. 
p. 196). 'Without delaying to undertake a survey of 
this kind, we sketch the scriptural view of the theoph- 
any in the following paragraphs. 

1. The theophany is never an immediate revelation 
of the supermundane Deity itself (John i, 18; 1 Tim. vi, 
16). God reveals himself only in Christ (Matt, xi, 27). 
The theophany is therefore more accurately defined as a 
Christophany, or an epiphany of God in Christ ; and all 
nature is a storehouse of signs of the divine presence, 
which uniformly point to Christ (Bom. i, 20; Col. i, 16). 
See Logos. 

2. The theophany, regarded as a Christophany, is de- 
veloped in three great stages: (l) under the Old Test.; 
(2) in the incarnation; (3) in Christ’s second advent. 
In that advent the theophany, or revelation of the di- 
vine glory, will reach its consummation (Titus ii, 13). 
The first advent was also a revelation of the kindness 
and love of God (iii, 4) and of his grace and truth (John 
i, 14-17 ; xiv, 9); and with that revelation corresponded 
the fact that Christ saw the Father in all his work, even 
as the. future manifestation of Christ shall be accompa- 
nied with the blessed vision of the saints (1 John iii, 2). 
Our attention is. however, confined by dogmatics to the 
modes of manifestation which occurred under the Old 
Test, prior to the advent of Christ, or under the Xew as 
accompanying or representing his presence. See Ad- 
vent. 

3. The theophany or Christophany of Scripture is the 
epiphany of the coming Christ, mediated through the 
angel of the Lord (Gen. xvi, 7, etc.), of the face (Exod. 
xxxiii, 14; Isa. iii, 9), or of the covenant (Mai. iii, 1). 
This angel was not a created being. Ilis symbolic sign 
was the pillar of cloud and fire ; his attribute the display 
of the glory or majesty of God (t)o£«, ‘VCS) ; his later 
Babbinical and theological designation the Shechinah 
(q. v.). 

4. The manifestation of God in Christological theoph- 
any begins with the voice or the miracle of hearing (the 
voice of God and of heaven being identical, but different 
from the Bath-Kol of the later Jews), and progresses 
towards apparition proper, which is a miracle addressed 
to the eye, and in which the angel of the Lord appears 
escorted by actual angels, at first only two, but in later 
instances myriads in number. See Batii-Kol. 

5. Theophany, the objective mode of revelation, never 
takes place without being accompanied in the mind of 
the observer with an ecstatic vision. This connection 
with the theophany distinguishes the vision Irom the 
ordinary historical occurrence (2 Kings vi, 17 ; John xx, 
12; Acts ix, 7; comp, xxii, 9; xii, 11). On the other 
hand, no vision is without its element of theophany, 
which fact distinguishes it from mere subjective hallu- 
cination (Isa. vi, T sq. ; the book of Daniel; Zeehariah; 
Acts x. 3). See Vision. 

6. The various modes of manifestation can be distin- 
guished, therefore, only when the predominantly ob- 
jective facts of the theophany are compared with the 
predominantly subjective facts of the vision. See 
Prophecy. 

7. Theophanic Christophany enters fully into earthly 


333 


TIIE0PI1ILUS 


TIIEOPIIILANTIIROPISTS 

conditions by being incorporated in elements of nature 
and of soul-life. It completes itself in one direction by 
the apparition of angels, and in the other by symbolical 
representations of an earthly nature ((leu. iii, 24 ; Exod. 
iv, IG; Psa. xviii, 11; civ, 4; Isa. lxi,2; Mai. ii, 7); but 
most of all by the Uriin and Thunnnim (q. v.). 

8. Vision takes place in the way of a momentary va- 
cating of the body or an ecstasy (2 Cor. xii, 4). It ex- 
pands in an abundance of symbolical and allegorical vi- 
sions (Ezek., Dan., Zech., Dev.), and finds its completion 
in the prophetic dream. The latter is conditioned in a 
higher determination of the ordinary life of the person 
chosen, and occurs chiefly where the common life has 
not been developed to any considerable extent, as with 
the Old-Test. Joseph ; or where it is involved with a 
secular calling, as in the ease of the New-Test. Joseph. 
See Dr kam. 

9. The life of Christ combined into a higher unity 
all the fragmentary features of pre-Christian theopha- 
nies ( 7 ro\vTpo 7 riog , Heb. i, 1). His personal life reveal- 
ed God to the world, and the entire universe became for 
him, in turn, a theophanic environment attesting him- 
self; because his whole inner life became an incessant 
subjective vision, in which the contrast between ecstasy 
and ordinary consciousness of the world no longer ex- 
ists. Consult Ilerzog, Real-Encyldop. s. v. ; Buttstedt, 
l)e Adparitionibus Deorum GentUium (Ger. 1744) ; Mil- 
lies, De Variis Generibus OeotyavtHov (Hal. 1802) ; Stud, 
u. Krit. 1859, No. ii. See Cn histology. 

Theophilanthropists (Gr. lovers of God and 
man ), the name assumed by a party of French deists 
during the Reign of Terror to indicate their adherence 
to a natural or theistie religion and worship which were 
intended to supersede Christianity. In February, 1795, 
freedom of religious opinion, and with it of religious wor- 
ship, was allowed ; and it was clear that neither Chris- 
tianity nor Catholicism in its usual forms had been 
driven out of the hearts of the people. The civil au- 
thorities were much concerned lest the old political 
sympathies for royalty should revive with Catholicism. 
Still, a felt consciousness of the necessity of some relig- 
ion led many to adopt a form of worship adapted to a 
natural religion. The foundation of this new religion 
was laid in 179G by five heads of fainiles, who. having 
declared themselves Theophilanthropists, met together 
every week for united prayer, to listen to moral re- 
marks, and to sing hymns in honor of God. In the 
same year a kind of catechism or directory for public 
or social worship was published at Paris under the title 
of Manuel des Theantrophiles . This breviary was based 
on the simple fundamental articles of a belief in the ex- 
istence of God and in the immortality of the soul. In 
1797 Lareveillere-Lepaux stood at the head of the so- 
ciety; the Directory assigned ten parish churches to the 
rapidly growing association, and the new worship soon 
spread over the provinces. As to their mode of wor- 
ship, there was a simple altar — whereon flowers and 
fruit, according to their season, were plaeed as thank-of- 
ferings — and a rostrum for the speaker. The walls 
were adorned with moral mottoes, such as, “Children, 
honor your parents and respect your elders;” “Hus- 
bands and wives, be kind to one another.” Instead of 
the traditional festivals, there now occurred those of 
nature, arranged according to the seasons of the year ; 
in the place of sacraments, there were arbitrary and 
highly sentimental ceremonies, which took place at the 
birth of a child, at the reception of new members, at 
celebrations of marriage, at distribution of prizes to 
children, and at funerals. They had four special festi- 
vals, in honor of Socrates, St. Vincent de Paul, Jean 
Jacques Bousseau, and Washington. As religious feel- 
ing began to revive, the Theophilanthropists began to 
decline. They and their sentimental trumpery were 
turned out of the churches; the Revolutionary govern- 
ment forbade them, Oct. 4, 1801, to use even the three 
churches which were left in their hands; and when 
their petition for holding their services elsewhere was 


refused, the Theophilanthropist religion soon died of in- 
anition, despised by the infidel party as well as by those 
who still remained Christians. An attempt to revive 
it after the revolution of 1830 utterly failed. See Blunt, 
Diet, of Sects, s. v. ; Gardner, Faiths of the World, s. v. ; 
Gregoire, JJistoire ties Sectes Religieuses ; Hagenbaeb, 
Fist, of the Church in the 1 8th and 19 th Centuries , ii, 
435. 

Theophilestati ( OeocpiXtOTaroi, most dear to 
God), a title of respect given to bishops in the early 
Church. This title frequently occurs in the emperor's 
rescript in the civil law, and was of such common use 
in those times that Socrates ( [Proecm . ad lib. vi) thinks 
himself obliged to make some apology for not giving it 
to the bishops that were then living. See Bingham, 
Christ. Ant iq. bk. ii, ch. x, § G. 

Theoph'ilus (OeixptXoq, friend of God), the name 
of two men associated with sacred history, one of them 
being mentioned in the New Test, and the other by Jo- 
sephus. 

1. The person to whom Luke inscribes his Gospel and 
the Acts of the Apostles (Luke i, 3 ; Acts i, 1 ). A.D. eir. 
5G. The important part played by Theophilus as hav- 
ing immediately occasioned the composition of these 
two books, together with the silence of Scripture con- 
cerning him, has at once stimulated conjecture, and left 
the field clear for it. Accordingly we meet with a con- 
siderable number and variety of theories concerning 
him. 

1. Several commentators, especially among the fa- 
thers, have been disposed to doubt the personality of 
Theophilus, regarding the name either as that of a ficti- 
tious person or as applicable to every Christian reader. 
Thus Origen (Horn. I in Luc.) raises the question, but 
does not discuss it. his object being merely practical, 
lie says that all who are beloved of God are Theophili, 
and may therefore appropriate to themselves the gos- 
pel which was addressed to Theophilus. Epiphanius 
(//ceres. Ii, 429) speaks doubtfully, sir ovv nvi Dto- 
(piXco rore ypacpio v tXeytr, ?; irai'ri civSptb7r<p Bfor 
ciycnrwvTi. Salvianns (Epist. 9 ad S a Ionium) appar- 
ently assumes that Theophilus had no historical exist- 
ence. He justifies the composition of a work addressed 
Ad Ecclesunn Catholicam, under the name ofTimotheus, 
by the example of the evangelist Luke, who addressed 
his gospel nominally to a particular man, but really to 
“the love of God:” “Nam sient Theophili vocabulo 
amor, sic Timothei honor divinitatis exprimitur.” Even 
Theophvlact, who believes in the existence of Theophi- 
lus, takes the opportunity of moralizing upon his name : 
Kai iraq fit ai’$pio7rog SrsocfnXiic, Kai Kpdrog Kant 
nov iraSuw di’afitiZapEvoQ O t o<f> iX6g tori k pa- 
ri cttoq, o£ Kai aZioq rip 6rn iariv cikovuv tov 
EuayytXiov (.4 rgum. in Luc.). Among modern com- 
mentators, Hammond and Leelerc accept the allegorical 
view; Erasmus is doubtful, but, on t lie whole, believes 
Theophilus to have had a real existence. 

2. From the honorable epithet Kpanare, applied to 
Theophilus in Luke i. 3, compared with the use of the 
same epithet as applied by Claudius Lysias and Tertul- 
lns severally to Felix, and by Paul to Festus (Acts xxiii, 
2G; xxiv, 3; xxvi, 25), it has been argued with much 
probability, but not quite conclusively, that be was a 
person in high official position. Thus Theophylaet 
(.1 rejum. in Luc.) conjectures that he was a Roman gov- 
ernor, or a person of senatorial rank, grounding his con- 
jecture expressly on the use of Kpanare. CEcumenius 
(Ad Act. Apost. i, 1) tells us that he was a governor, 
but gives no authority for the assertion. The tradi- 
tional connection of Luke with Antioch lias disposed 
some to look upon Antioch as the abode of Theophilus, 
and possibly as the seat of his government. Bengel be- 
lieves him to have been an inhabitant of Antioch, “ut 
veteres testantur.” The belief may partly have grown 
out of a story in the so-called Recognitions of St. Clement 
(lib. x), which represents a certain nobleman of Antioch 


TIIEOPIIILUS 334 TIIEOrillLUS 


of that name to have been converted by the preaching 
of Peter, ami to have dedicated Ins own house as a 
church, in which, as we are told, the apostle fixed his 
episcopal seat. Kengel thinks that the omission of 
KpurtOTt in Acts i, 1 proves that Luke was on more fa- 
miliar terms with Theophilus than when he composed 
his gospel. 

3. In the Syriac lexicon, extracted from the Lexicon 
lleptaylot. of Castell, and edited by j\ 1 ichaelis (p. 018), 
the following description of Theophilus is quoted from 
liar- liahl ul, a Syrian lexicographer of the 10th century : 
‘•Theophilus, primus crcdentium et ccleberrinms aprnl 
Alcxandrienses, qui cum aliis .Egypt iis Lucam rogabat, 
lit eis evangelium scribcret.” In the inscription of the 
Gospel according to Luke in the Syriac version, we are 
told that it was published at Alexandria. Hence it is 
inferred by llase {Bill. Bremensis Class, eh. iv, fasc. iii, 
diss. 4, quoted by HI ichaelis, Int rod. to the Xcw Test. 
[ed. Marsh], vol. iii, ch. vi, § 4) and by Kengel (Ordo 
Temporum [’2d ed.], p. 106) that Theophilus was, as as- 
serted by Bar-Rahlul, a convert of Alexandria. This 
writer ventures to advance the startling opinion that 
Theophilus, if an Alexandrian, was no other than the 
celebrated Philo, who is said to have borne the Hebrew 
name of Jedidiah (•"P'7 n ‘]ri i. e. Bc 60 i\o£). It hardly 
seems necessary to refute this theory, as Michaelis has 
refuted it, by chronological arguments. 

4. Alexander Morus (Ad Quadam Loca Xov. Feed. 
Notie : ad Luc. /, 1 ) makes the rather hazardous con- 
jecture that the Theophilus of Luke is identical with 
the person who is recorded by Tacitus (A mud. ii, 55) to 
hove been condemned for fraud at Athens bv the court 
of the Areopagus. (Irotius also conjectures that he 
was a magistrate of Achaia baptized by Luke. The 
conjecture of (irotius must rest upon the assertion of 
Jerome (an assertion which, if it is received, renders 
that of Morns possible, though certainly most improb- 
able), namely, that Luke published his gospel in the 
parts of Achaia and Bceotia (Jerome, Comm, in Matt. 
Procem.). 

5. It is obvious to suppose that Theophilus was a 
Christian; but a different view has been entertained. 
In a series of dissertations in the Bill: Bremensis, of 
which Michaelis gives a resume in the section already 
referred to, the notion that he was not a Christian is 
maintained by different writers and on different grounds. 
lIeumann,one of the contributors, assuming that he was 
a Pom an governor, argues that he could not be a Chris- 
tian, because no Christian would be likely to have such 
a charge intrusted to him. Another writer (Theodore 
llase) believes that the Theophilus of Luke was no other 
than the deposed high-priest Theophilus the son of Ana- 
nus (see below). Michaelis himself is inclined to adopt 
this theory, lie thinks that the use of the word Kemjxp- 
S)]Q in Luke i, 4 proves that Theophilus had an imperfect 
acquaintance with the facts of the gospel (an argument 
of which bishop Marsh very properly disposes in his 
note upon the passage of M ichaelis), and further con- 
tends, from the tr i)fu v of Luke i, 1, that he was not a 
member of the Christian community, lie thinks it 
probable that the evangelist wrote his gospel during 
the imprisonment of Paul at Caesarea, and addressed it 
to Theophilus as one of the heads of the Jewish nation. 
According to this view, it would be regarded as a sort 
of historical apology for the Christian faith. 

In surveying this series of conjectures, and of tradi- 
tions which are nothing more than conjectures, we find 
it easier to determine what is to be rejected than what 
we are to accept. In the first place, we may safely re- 
ject the patristic notion that Theophilus was either a 
fictitious person or a mere personification of Christian 
love. Such a personification is alien from the spirit of 
the New-Test, writers, and the epithet icpdriart is a 
suilicient evidence of the historical existence of Theoph- 
ilus. It does not, indeed, prove that he was a govern- 
or, but it makes it most probable that he was a person 


of high rank, llis supposed connection with Antioch, 
Alexandria, or Achaia rests on too slender evidence 
either to claim acceptance or to need refutation; and 
the view of llase, although endorsed by Michaelis, ap- 
pears to be incontestably negatived by the Gentile com- 
plexion of the third gospel. The grounds alleged by 
llcnmann for his hypothesis that Theophilus was not a 
Christian are not at all trustworthy, as consisting of two 
very disputable premises; for, in the first place, it is not 
at all evident that Theophilus was a lioman governor, 
and, in the second place, even if we assume that at that 
time no Christian would be appointed to such an office 
(an assumption which we can scarcely venture to make), 
it does not at all follow that no person in that position 
would become a Christian. In fact, we have an exam- 
ple of such a conversion in the case of Sergius Taulus 
(Acts xiii, 12). In the art. Luke, Gospel according 
to, reasons are given for believing that Theophilus was 
“not a native of Palestine . . . not a Macedonian, nor 
an Athenian, nor a Cretan, lint that he was a native 
of Italy, and perhaps an inhabitant of Kome, is probable 
from similar data.” All that can be conjectured with 
any degree of safety concerning him comes to this, that 
he was a Gentile of rank and consideration, who came 
under the influence of Luke, or (not improbably) under 
that of Paul, at Kome, and was converted to the Chris- 
tian faith. It has been observed that the Greek of 
Luke, which cdsewhere approaches more nearly to the 
classical type than that of the other evangelists, is purer 
and more elegant in the dedication to Theophilus than 
in any other part of his gospel. — Smith. Prom all these 
circumstances, and especially from the fact that both the 
gospel and the Acts were dedicated to Theophilus — 
botli, therefore, being written, in all probability, about 
the same time, and that time being Paul’s imprison- 
ment at Kome, where the latter ends — we may reason- 
ably infer that Theophilus was one of the apostle’s con- 
verts in the imperial city during the two years’ sojourn of 
Paul there, for a part, if not the most, of which Luke was 
his companion, and hence likely to be acquainted with, 
and interested in, the noble convert. See Luke; Paul. 
Monographs in Latin have been written on Theophilus 
by Heumann (in the Bib/. Bremensis , iv. 483). Osiander 
(Tub. 1650), Stoltze (Yiteb. 1693), and Schelvig (Ged. 
1711). 

2 . A Jewish high-priest, the son of Annas or Ananns, 
brother-in-law to Caiaphas [see Annas; Caiaphas], 
and brother and immediate successor of Jonathan. The 
Roman prefect Vitellius came to Jerusalem at the Pass- 
over (A.D.37), and deposed Caiaphas, appointing Jona- 
than in his place. In the same year, at the feast of 
Pentecost, he came to Jerusalem, and deprived Jonathan 
of the high -priesthood, which he gave to Theophilus 
(Josephus, Ant. xviii, 4,3; 5,3). Theophilus was re- 
moved from his post by llerod Agrippa l after the ac- 
cession of that prince to the government of Judaea in 
A. I). 41, so that he must have continued in office about, 
five years (ibid, xix, 6, 2). — Smith. Theophilus is not 
mentioned in the New Test., as no events occurred dur- 
ing his pontificate in which the apostles were specially 
involved. See IIigii-phtest. 

Theophilus of Alexandria, a bishop in the lat- 
ter part of the 4th and the beginning of the 5th century, 
is distinguished for his persecution of the Origenists, 
for his hostility to Chrysostom, and as being one of the 
most violent and unscrupulous even among the ecclesi- 
astics of the 5th century. He succeeded Timothous as 
bishop of Alexandria in A.D. 385, and soon after se- 
cured the favor of the emperor by a characteristic ma- 
meuvre. When the fate of the empire was suspended 
on the battle which was to decide between Maximus 
and Theodosius (388), he sent his legate, Isidore, to 
Kome provided with letters to both, the one or the oth- 
er of which he was to deliver with certain presents, ac- 
cording to the issue of the battle. lie was also very 
zealous against heathenism, and in 391 obtained t lie 
emperor’s consent to use severe measures against the 


TIIEOPIIILUS OF ANTIOCH 335 THEOPHYLACT 


pagans in his district, which resulted in the most of 
them being driven out of Egypt. II is behavior to the 
different sects of Christians was marked by the same 
unscrupulous inconsistency, lie appears to have pass- 
ed a part of his early life among the monks of Nitria, 
some of whom were Origenists and others Anthropo- 
morphites. At first he declared himself decidedly 
against the latter, and, in opposing them, he sided open- 
ly with the Origenists, drawing his arguments from the 
works of Origen. When, however, it became evident 
that the majority of the Egyptian monks were Authro- 
pomorphites, Theophilus went over to them about 399, 
condemned the writings of Origen, commanded all his 
clergy to burn them, and commenced a cruel persecu- 
tion of all who opposed the Authropomorphites, while 
he himself continued to read the works of Origen with 
admiration. In 401 he issued a violent letter in which 
he condemned the writings of Origen and threatened 
the latter’s adherents; in the following year he sent 
forth another of like character, to the unbounded de- 
light of Jerome. Theophilus was subsequently called 
to Constantinople bv the empress Eudoxia, and secured 
the deposition and banishment of Chrysostom (q. v.) 
in 403. During the tumult which followed, Theophilus 
escaped and returned to Alexandria, where, in 404, he 
issued a third Paschal letter against the Origenists, and 
where he died in 412. The works of Theophilus men- 
tioned by the ancient writers are, npoG(poji’i)riKuv 7rpbg 
rovg (ppovovyrag ra ’ Qpiytvovc , quoted by Theodoret 
(Dial, ii, 191), and which Gennadius (33) calls “adversus 
Origenem unum et grande voluinen:” — Letter to Por- 
phyry, Bishop of Antioch, quoted in the Acta Condi. 
Ephes . pt. i, c. 4: — the three Paschal Letters already 
mentioned and one more: — and some other unimportant 
orations, letters, and controversial works. The Paschal 
Letters are still extant in a translation by Jerome, and 
arc published in the Antidot. contra Divers. Omnium 
Sieculontm llceresias (Basel, 1528 fob); and the whole 
of his extant remains are contained in Galland, Biblioth. 
Patr. vii, 003 fol. ; Cave, Hist. Lift. s. a. 385, p. 279, 280 ; 
Murdock, note to Mosheim, Eccles. Hist, i, 444 (Engl, 
ed.). — Smith, Diet, of Greek ami Latin Biog. s. v. 

Theophilus of Antioch, a writer and bishop of 
the primitive Church, was educated a heathen, and af- 
terwards converted to Christianity, lie was ordained 
bishop of Antioch, succeeding Eros, about A.D. 170, and 
governed the Church twelve or thirteen years, at the 
end of which he died. Having been converted from 
heathenism by the study of the Scriptures, he wrote an 
apology for the Christian faith, addressed in the form 
of a letter to his friend Antolycus. The work shows ! 
much learning and more simplicity of mind. In its 
general structure it resembles the works of Justin Martyr 
and the other early apologists; but it contains a more 
detailed examination of the evidence for Christianity, 
derived both from Scripture and from history. The 
three books of Theophilus to Antolycus were first pub- 
lished in the collection of the monks Antonins and 
Maximus entitled Sententiarum sive Capitum, Theologi- 
corum preecipue, ex Sacris et Profanis Lihris, Tomi 
Tres. There have been a number of editions, the most 
complete being that of Johann Christoph Wolf (Hamb. 
1724, 8 vo), and an English translation by Joseph Betty 
(Oxford, 1722, 8vo). Theophilus was the author of 
several other works which were extant in the times of 
Eusebius and Jerome. Among them were works against 
the heresies of Marcion and Hermogenes: — Commentary 
on the Gospels (still extant in Latin, and published in 
the Bibliotheca Patrum [Paris, 1575, 1598, 1009, 1654, 
etc.]). Jerome refers to his Commentaries on the Prov- 
erbs. Sec Smith, Diet, of Greek and Roman Biog. s. v. ; 
Fabric. Bibl. Grcec.x ii, 101-106; Mosheim, Eccles. 1 list.; 
Herzog, Reul-Encyklop. s. v. 

Theophilus of Caesarea, a bishop who presided 
over the Council of Caesarea in Palestine, and signed 
the letter of that council, which appears to have been 


drawn up bv himself, on the Paschal controversy, A.D. 
198. 

Theophilus of Cilicia, so often mentioned in 
legend, is said to have originally been the administrator 
of the Adana bishopric. Out of modesty, he declined 
the episcopal see, and was deprived of all his honors by 
the new bishop, lie now applied for help to a Jew- 
ish sorcerer, who brought him into a nightly conven- 
tion of devils. Here help was promised to him provided 
he would deny Christ and Mary and would assign his 
soul. He was restored to his former position; but, re- 
gretting what he had done, he prayed as a penitent to 
Mary, and through her intercession Christ took the 
assignment away from the devil and placed it upon his 
breast while asleep in the church, tired out by prayer. 
He now openly confessed his sin and died three days 
later. The author of the legend is said to have been 
a Greek cleric, Eutychiauus; while a Neapolitan priest, 
Paulus (9th century), made it known in the West. 
In the Acta SS. for Feb. 4 we find this legend in a 
poetical dress, by the bishop Marbod of Rennes. See 
Jubinal, ( Euvres de Rutebeuf vol. ii ; Pfeiffer. Marien- 
legenden (Stuttgart, 1846); Blomaert, Theophilus (Ghent, 
1836); Hoffmann von Fallerslcben, Theophilus (Hanov. 
1853-54); Meyer, Radeivins Gedicht iiber Theophilus 
(Munich, 1873; edited after a Munich MS. of the 13th 
century). (B. P.) 

Theophilus of the Indies, bishop of the Homer- 
ites, was born in the isle of Din. When yet a youth he 
was brought as a hostage to Constantinople, where he 
became a Christian (Arian). He was made deacon, and 
finally bishop for the Arabic mission about 350. Be- 
ing supplied by Constantius with rich presents for thS 
princes at home and with money for the building of 
churches, he converted the king of the Iloraerites, and 
built churches at Taphar, Aden, and Hormuz. The large 
number of Jews, however, residing in the country pre- 
vented a further propagation of Christianity. In the 
year 356 Constantius appointed him bishop of the Ethi- 
opic Church. From the isle of Socotra he went to 
Axum, but was soon obliged to leave the place. See 
Le Quien, Oriens Christianus , ii, 644; Theolog. Univer- 
sal-Lexikon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Theophori (Bto^opoi, God-bearers ), a name as- 
sumed by some of the early Christians, signifying that 
they carried about with them the presence of God. St. 
Ignatius gives himself this title in his inscriptions to 
his epistles, both of which begin Ayvdnog b tcai Ofo- 
( pbpog ; and explains his meaning in his dialogue with 
Trajan, “Theophorus is one that carries Christ in his 
heart.” “Dost thou, then,” said Trajan, “carry him 
that was crucified in thy heart?” Ignatius answered, 
“Yes; for it is written, ‘I will dwell in them and walk 
in them.’” Anastasius Bibliothecarius, indeed, gives 
another reason why Ignatius was called Theojihorus 
(SHxpopog, God-borne) — because he was the child whom 
our Saviour took and placed in the midst of his disciples, 
laying his hands upon him; and, therefore, the apostles 
would never presume to ordain him by imposition of 
hands after Christ. But, as bishop Pearson and others 
observe, this is a mere invention of the modern Greeks. 
Yincentius Bellovacensis and others advance this ridic- 
ulous reason: that Ignatius was so called because the 
name of Jesus Christ was found written in golden letters 
in his heart. But against these traditions we have the 
fact that the title was not peculiar to Ignatius, but com- 
mon to all Christians. See Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. 
i, ch. i, § 4. 

Theophylact, archbishop of Achridia and metro- 
politan of all Bulgaria, an eminent ecclesiastical writer, 
was born and educated at Constantinople. He was 
bishop in 1077, and perhaps some years later. The 
date of his death is uncertain, but probably about 1112, 
or later. After he was made bishop, he labored dili- 
gently to extend Christianity in his diocese, hut met 
with much opposition, of which he complained in his 


TIIEOPIIYLACTIANS 


33 G 


THERAPEUT^E 


epistles. The works of Theophylact are : Commentaria 
in Qnatuor Evangelia (Paris, 1031, fol.) -.—Commentaries 
on the Acts of ike Apostles, Greek and Latin (Colon. 
1 5 i;s) ; — Commentaries on St. Paul's Epistles , Creek and 
Latin (Loud. 1636, fol.) -.—Commentaries on Four of the 
Minor Prophets; namely, llahakkuk, Jonas, Nahum, 
and Uosea. in Latin (Paris, 1580, 8 vo). The Commen- 
taries on all the twelve minor prophets are extant in 
Creek in the library of Strasbnrg, and have been de- 
scribed by Michaclis in his Biblioth. Orientalis. These 
commentaries are founded on those of Chrysostom ; but 


and men. Thus man having been made a living image 
of the divine nature and endowed with immortality, lie 
exchanged the light, life, and Spirit of Cod for the light, 
life, and spirit of the world, lie died to the influences 
of the Spirit of Cod on the very day of his transgres- 
sion, but remained subject to all the external influences 
of the world; and the restoration of the influence of the 
Spirit constitutes the work of redemption and sanctifica- 
tion. Christ restored to men the germ of the paradisi- 
acal life, which is possessed by all through new birth 
and his indwelling. No son of Adam can be lost except 


his exegesis is so direct, precise, and textual, and bis by the wilful loss of this paradisiacal germ of the divine 
remarks'are often so felicitous and to the point, that his life; and its development is the development of salva- 
commentaries have always been highly prized :—Sev- t ion. In the hands of Law, the theosophy of Boclime as- 
e nty-fire Epistles, in Creek, with notes by John Mcur- sinned a much more reasonable form than that in which 
sins Leyden, 1617, 4 to), and also in the Bibliotheca Pa - it had been clothed by its author, whose language was 
trum .-—besides several tracts, some of which are rather a medley of alchemy, obscure analogies, and false etv- 
doubtful. A splendid edition of all his works in Creek mologies. It was then exhibited as a philosophy of re- 


am! Latin was published by J. F. Bernard Maria de Ku- 
beis (Tenet. 1754-63, 4 vols. fob). See Chalmers, Biog. 
Diet. s. v. ; Smith, Diet, of Greek and Latin Biog. s. v. 

Theophylactians, a name given to the orthodox 
Christians of Alexandria by the Jacobites in the 7th 
century. See Neale, Hist, of the Eastern Church , ii, 87. 

Theosebites, a sect which spread in Palestine and 
Phoenicia during the first half of the 5th century, and 
appear to have been similar to, if not identical with, the 
11 ypsistauiaxs (<|. v.). The Theosebites exalted the 
sun, moon, and stars into objects of worship, and yet ac- 
knowledged the Supreme Deity over all. Their relig- 
ion thus appears to have been an adulteration of Chris- 
tianity with Magianism. Probably these sects are to be 


demption and spiritual life, which only wanted the key- 
stone of sacramental psychology to make it a firm sys- 
tem of truth. For very full information on the subject, 
see Walton, Xotes and Materials for an Adequate Biog- 
raphy of William Law , comprising an Elucidation of 
the. Scope and Contents of the Writings of Jacob Bah me, 
and of his Great Commentator Dionysius A ndreas Freher, 
etc. ( 1 854). See Blunt, Diet, of Doctrinal Theology, s. v. ; 
Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. 

Theotokos (CeoroKrot;, God-bearing). 1. A title ap- 
plied by various Romish writers to the Virgin Mary as 
the “mother of Cod.” See Mariolatuy. 

‘2. An ecclesiastical term adopted at the councils of 
Ephesus and Chalcedon to assert the doctrine of the 
traced to the Therapeutic ami Essenes. who worshipped divinity of our Lord’s person. The truth which it was 
to ih; orW^urroe, kept the Jewish Sabbath, and Jew- designed to teach is that although two natures are 
ish observances respecting food. They professed a par- ‘ united in one Christ, yet there are not two persons, but 
tial belief in Christ, but were, at the 'same time, strict one. Our Lord was a divine person from all eternity, 
Unitarians. See Blunt, Diet, of Sects, s. v. and upon his incarnation he did not cease to be the 

„ . r . • 7 \ . i person he had been before. There was, therefore, no 

Theosophy (xsoooipia, divine u-isdom), the name i 1 


given to a so-called sacred science, which holds a 
place distinct as well from that of philosophy as from 
that of theology, even in questions where these latter 
sciences have the same object with it : namely, the nat- 
ure and attributes of Cod. In investigating the divine 
nature and attributes, philosophy employs as the basis 
of its investigation the ideas derived from natural rea- 
son, while theology superadds to the principles of natu- 
ral reason those derived from authority and revelation. 
Theosophy, on the contrary, professes to exclude all dia- 
lectical process, and to derive its knowledge of Cod from 
direct and immediate intuition and contemplation, or 
from the immediate communications of Cod himself. 
Theosophy, therefore, so far as regards the science of 
Cod, is but another name for mysticism (q. v.); and the 
direct and immediate knowledge or intuition of Cod, to 
which the Mystics laid claim, was, in fact, the foundation 
of that intimate union with Cod, and consequent ab- 
straction from outer things, which they made the basis 
of their moral and ascetieal system. Theosophy has 
existed from a very early date; and within the Chris- 
tian period we may number among Theosophs the Nco- 
Blatonists, especially Plotinus, lamhlichus, and Proclus; 
the Ilesvchasts of the Creek Church; all those of the 
mediaeval Mystics who laid claim to any dogmatical the- 
ory ; and in later times the Paracelsists, Bodcnstein and 
Thalhauser. Weizel, Jacob Budimc, and Swedenborg. 

Below is a brief outline of Theosophy as taught by 
Bcehrne (q. v.). Finite existences of every kind are an 
efilux from the One Infinite Existence, and such an etllux 
is a necessary attribute of Cod’s own being. All things 
come from a working-will of the holy, triune, incompre- 
hensible (iod. who manifests himself through an exter- 
nal efflux of fire, light, and spirit. Angels and men are 
the true and real offspring of Cod, their life originating 
in the divine fire from which light. and love are gener- 
ated in them. This triune life in Cod is the perfection 
of being, and the loss of it constituted the fall of angels 


hange or interruption of his identity, for the Codhead 
became incarnate, not by the conversion of the Godhead 
into flesh, hut by taking the manhood into God. Al- 
though the nature which he took of the substance of 
his mother was human, the person who was horn was 
divine, and this was the truth declared in the adoption 
of the term Btordiecc. It is not, of course, meant that 
the Virgin was the mother of the Codhead of our Lord, 
but that the human nature, which he had assumed of her 
substance, was so united to the divinity that the. person 
begotten of her was Cod as well as man. In this sense 
she might he called the mother of Cod. Equivalent 
expressions are used by Irenreus and Ignatius, while 
BforoKrof is used by Alexander of Alexandria, Athana- 
sius, Cyril of Jerusalem, Origen, and Gregory Tbeologns. 
This doctrine has been the cause of much debate, and 
of more than one council. See Cu histology. 

Therapentae (StpaTrtvTai [attendants, i. e. wor- 
shippers, sc. of Cod] and ^epaTZtvrpihf), a Jewish sect 
in Egypt, which is described by Philo in a separate 
treatise Flfpi /3tot> SeiopqrtKov /) Trepi ifemu/' cipirebr, 
or De Vita Contemplativa {Opp. [ed. Mangey], ii, 471- 
48G). It is strange that no other writer of that period, 
not even Josephus, knows anything about the Thera- 
peutic; for what we find in ecclesiastical writings about 
them since the time of Eusebius is nothing but a repro- 
duction of the Philonic narrative; and the erroneous 
opinion of Eusebius, who regarded the Therapeutic as 
Christians, has been followed by all Church fathers, 
with the exception of Photius. Modern critics have, 
with a few exceptions, identified the Therapeutic with 
the Essenes.but with this difference, that while the for- 
mer were only theorists, the latter were men of practical 
life. Of late the question as to who the Therapeuta? 
were has become superfluous, since some scholars, espe- 
cially the Jewish historian Criitz, believe Philo’s trea- 
tise to be spurious, and only an embellishment of Chris- 
tian monachism as it begau in Egypt. But, before dc- 


T1IERAPEUT./E 


337 


TIIE 1 l APEUTiE 


cidiug the question as to whether this treatise is spuri- 
ous or genuine, we must examine first what Philo tells 
us about the Therapeutic. 

I. Manners and Usages of the. Therapeufw. — The 
fatherland of the Therapeutic is Egypt, and beyond 
this country the order has probably not been propa- 
gated. When Philo speaks of their diffusion through 
the whole world (7roXXoyo?' pi v oun rtj g oiKovphaj g 
lari tovto to yeVot,-), we cannot take his words in their 
literal sense, as does Lucius ( Die Therapeutcn [Stras- 
burg, 1880], p. 16 sq.), but in a more general sense, be- 
cause we have no notice whatever of the Therapeutic 
outside of Egypt. What he meant to say is that, out- 
side of Egypt, there were also men of a similar tenden- 
cy, without believing that they really belonged to this 
order in Egypt. Iveim thinks, therefore, that Philo’s 
words are an exaggeration, or rather that he confuses 
the hermit life of the dews with like “phenomena 
among the Greeks and barbarians." Griitz, however, 
holds a different opinion, and adduces this as an argument 
for Christian monks, who were generally diffused at an 
early age (as early as the time of Eusebius or of Phi- 
lo?). “But," asks Dr. Iveim, “has not Philo compared 
both the Essenes and Therapeutic with the Gymno- 
sophists and Magi, with the wise man Kalanos, with 
Anaxagoras and Democritus?" It is evident that Phi- 
lo, in describing this order, had a certain colony in view 
near the Lake Mareotis, to the south of Alexandria, where 
the Therapeuta*. lived. They dwelt at no great dis- 
tance from each other, but every man in his own little 
house, his sanctuary, and his cell. They lived alone 
for the whole week, not stepping over the threshold, 
nor looking out ( ri)v avXUan oo\ hi TtpfiainonTtg, aXX’ 
ovck l£ cototctov 3ci opovvrtg). 

Simple as was their house, their raiment was equally 
so. being a cloak of some shaggy hide for winter, and a 
thin mantle or linen shawl in the summer; and in their 
religious assemblies they appeared in a white garment. 
As temperance was regarded as the highest virtue, 
their mode of living was very simple. None of them 
took any meat or drink before the setting of the sun, 
because they believed that the work of philosophizing 
was one worthy of the light, and that the care for the 
necessities of the body was suitable only to darkness; on 
which account they appropriated the day to the one oc- 
cupation, and a brief portion of the night to the other 
to pin (piXoaotytUr d% ion tywrog Kpinovotn tlnai, 
o kotov^ 8t rdf GuparacaQ dndyKug, o$tn rrp plv t)p(- 
pag, ralg 81 /3payo tl j ulpog rijg vvKrbg trttpan). 
Many fasted for three days, several for six. They ate 
nothing of a costly character, but plain bread with a 
seasoning of salt, which the more luxurious of them ( 
further seasoned with hyssop, and their drink was water 
from the spring. For such a simple mode of living they 
naturally had no need of great earthly possessions; but, 
as Philo says, they left their possessions to their rela- 
tives or friends, and without any property they went 
out, as if their mortal life had already come to an end, 
only anxious for an immortal and blessed existence 
(eira Cid toi > rgg d^rantiTov teal paKapiag froijg 'ipepon 
TtTtXtVTijKivai nopi^onreg i]8r] Ton Svijtov (3tov dnn- 
XUittovoi rdf o voiag violg r) Svyarpcioin, art Kai dX- 
Xoig ovyy enion*). 

They prayed twice every day, at morning and at 
evening. When the sun rose, they entreated God that 
the happiness of the coming day might be real happiness, 
so that their minds might be filled with heavenly light. 
The interval between morning and evening was devoted 
wholly to meditation on, and the practice of, virtue. 
They took up the Sacred Scriptures and philosophized 
concerning them, investigating the allegories of their 
national philosophy, since they looked upon their literal 
expressions as symbols of some secret meaning of nat- 
ure intended to be conveyed in those figurative expres- 
sions (tvTvyx<<vovTtg yap roig tepolg y pdppaai <pi- 
Xogo([)Ovol Ti)v irarpion (piXooocpian, dXXpyopovnTsg, 
ixu8i) GvpfioXa to. rijg pijTtjg ippip'tiag nopi^ovot 
X.—Y 


(f){’ouog dTTOKeKpvpplvrjg , tv vTTonotaig 8i]Xovph , rjc > ). 
As a canon of such allegorical exposition of Scripture, 
the real home of which was in Egypt, they used the 
writings left by the founders of their sect (tori 8i avroig 
Kai ovyypdppara 7 raXauon drdputr, ot rpg a’lppofwg 
dpxiiytrai. yenopenoi 7roXXd pnijpeia rgg aXXgyopov- 
penijg I8tag dnlXnron, olg KaScurep rioin cipxtTVTroig 
Xpiopenoi pipovnrai rpg Trpoaipeoeiog Ton rpo'Kon'), 
They also composed psalms and hymns to God in every 
kind of metre and melody imaginable, which they sang 
at their meetings. Having thus passed the day, they 
prayed again that their soul, being entirely lightened 
and relieved of the burden of the outward senses, might 
be able to trace out truth existing in its own consistory 
and council-chamber (tn rip lavrijg avntCp'up icai {3ov- 
Xtvrt/piip dXtfitio v lyiu/XortTt') ; and many of them, if 
Philo’s statement is to be given credence, are said to 
have spoken in their sleep, divulging and publishing 
the celebrated doctrines of the sacred philosophy (7roX- 
Xoi ovn Kai tKXaXovoin in virnolg dnttooTroXovptvoi 
rd rpg itpcig <piXoao<piag aoicipa Sbypara ). 

AYomen were also received into their order, the great- 
er part of whom, though old, were virgins in respect to 
their purity, and were animated hv the same admiration 
for, and love of, wisdom, in the exercise of which they 
were desirous to pass their lives. These women, like 
the male members of the order, lived separately, per- 
forming the same duties; but at the meetings and ban- 
quets both sexes were united. 

Slave-labor was dispensed with, because they look- 
ed upon the possession of slaves as something ab- 
solutely and wholly contrary to nature — for nature 
had created all men free; but the injustice and covet- 
ousness of some men who preferred inequality — that 
cause of all evil — having subdued the weaker, had 
given to the more powerful authority over the van- 
quished. At their common banquets, therefore, no 
slaves ministered to their wants, but young men who 
were selected from their order with all possible care, 
and whose dress was such that nothing of a slavish 
character could be seen in it, or, to use the words of 
Philo, aZoJoroi 81 Kai KaSttptnoi rovg ymovox/couc 
tiouimn vi Ti)pETi]GonTEg, tvEKa tov pi]8ln si8wXo v 
lm<pkpe.o$ai 8ovXoirpETrovg axiiparog, tig tovto to 
Gvp7rnGion, i. e. they were ungirdled and with their tu- 
nics let down, in order that nothing which bears any re- 
semblance to a slavish appearance might be introduced 
into this festival. 

At the banquet they were presided over by a presi- 
dent ( Trpotfyoc;), who addressed them and intoned a 
h vmn, in which all joined. They sat according to their 
age, i. e. according to the length of time they belonged 
to the order. We must not, however, think that the 
president or elders exercised any gubernatorial power, 
for this is nowhere inferred; their functions were only 
restricted to the assemblies, in which also yytportg and 
IXapxot were mentioned, who acted as leaders of the 
choruses. The seventh day was especially distinguished. 
They anointed their bodies, and, clothed in white gar- 
ments, they assembled in the common ojjprtto v. Here 
they sat down with all becoming gravity, keeping 
their hands inside their garments, having their right 
hand between their chest and their dress, and the left 
hand down by their side, close to their flank. Then 
the oldest of them, who had the most profound learn- 
ing in their doctrines, came forward and spoke with 
steadfast look and with steadfast voice, with great 
powers of reasoning, and great prudence — not mak- 
ing exhibition of his oratorical talent, like the rhet- 
oricians of old or the sophists of tlie> present day, but 
investigating with great pains and explaining with mi- 
nute accuracy the precise meaning of the laws, which pen- 
etrated through their hearing into the soul, and remain- 
ed there lastingly. Quietly they listened in silence, show- 
ing their assent only by nods of the head or the eager 
look of the eyes, in this sacred assembly the women 
also shared; but they had their own seats, being sepa- 


TIIERAPEUT.E 


33S 


THERAPEUT^E 


rated from the male members by a wall rising three or 
four cubits upwards, but in such a manner that they 
could hear the voice of the speaker. 

The seventh Sabbath, the ttevtiikooti), was espccial- 
I v distinguished. The number fifty was regarded by 
them as the most holy and natural of numbers, being 
compounded of the power of the right-angled triangle, 
which is the principle of the origination and condition 
of the whole (tart Ct irpotaprtoQ ptyiorip; copri/c, 
?ji' 7rtvTi}K0VTiti‘ t\a\tr, ayttbrarog teat (fivotKibrarog 
api 5 fiioi\ U ri/s; run opSoywviov rptytovov Iwuptioc, 
o«to torn* ap\i) rijc riov 6/\wc ytriotiog Kai avara- 
ot tot;). Clothed in white garments, they came together 
to t he common feast. Before they partook of the same, 
they lifted up their eyes and hands to heaven and 
prayed to God that it might be acceptable to him. After 
the’ prayer, they sat down, the men sitting on the right 
hand and the women on the left, on rugs of the coarsest 
material. Before the feast commenced, questions were 
asked and answered. A passage of the Scripture was 
explained and religious questions were settled. All list- 
ened attentively to the speaker, indicating their atten- 
tion and comprehension by their nods and looks. When 
the president appeared to have spoken at sufficient 
length, and to have carried out his intentions adequate- 
ly, so that his explanation had gone on felicitously and 
fluently through his own acuteness, and the hearing of 
the others had been profitable, applause arose from them 
all as of men rejoicing at what they had seen and heard ; 
and then some one, rising up, sang a hymn which had 
been made in honor of God, cither such as he had com- 
posed himself or some ancient one of some old poet. 
After him others also arose it) their ranks, and in be- 
coming manner, while every one else listened in de- 
cent silence, except when it was proper to take up 
the burden of the song and join in at the end. When 
each individual had finished his psalm, the young men 
brought in the table on which was the food — the leav- 
ened bread with a seasoning of salt, and mingled with 
some hyssop, out of reverence for the sacred table which 
was in the holy outer temple; for on this table were 
placed loaves and salt without seasoning, and the bread 
was unleavened, and the salt uuraixed with anything 
else. 

After the feast they celebrated the sacred festival 
during the whole night (ptra Ct to dttm'ov ri)v itpui' 
dyovm T7ai'vv\ka\ All stood up together, and in the 
middle of the entertainment two choruses were formed 
at first, the one of men and the other of women. Each 
chorus had its leader and chief, who was the most honor- 
able and most excellent of the band. Then they sang 
the hymns in honor of God in many metres and times, 
at one time all singing together, ami at another moving 
their hands, and dancing in corresponding harmony. 
When each chorus of the men and each chorus of the 
women had feasted separately by itself, they joined to- 
gether, and the two became, one chorus — an imitation 
of that one which, in old time, was established by the 
Bed Sea, on account of the wondrous works which were 
displayed there before Israel, and where both men and 
women together became all one chorus, Moses leading 
the men, and Miriam leading the women. When the 
sun arose, they raised their hands to heaven, imploring 
tranquillity and truth and acuteness of understanding. 
After the prayer, each retired to his own separate abode, 
again practicing the usual philosophy to which each 
had been wont to devote himself. 

II. Therapeutic and Essenes. — On account of the man- 
ifold similar traits which were found among the Thera- 
peutic and Essenes, it has been inferred that the Thera- 
peutic were but the Egyptian branch of Palestinian 
Kssenism. This hypothesis is seemingly confirmed by 
what Philo says at the beginning of bis treatise on the 
Therapeutic: “Having mentioned the Essenes, who in 
all respects selected for their admiration and for their 
especial adoption the practical course of life, and who 
excel in all, or what, perhaps, may be a less unpopular 


and invidious thing to say, in most of its parts, I will 
now proceed, in the regular order of my subject, to speak 
of those who have embraced the speculative life, and I 
will say what appears to me to be desirable to be said 
on the subject.” The majority of critics have therefore 
not hesitated to believe in a causative connection be- 
tween the two sects, and have thus, on account of Philo’s 
words, separated the Egyptian Therapeutic, as the theo- 
rists, from the Palestinian Essenes, whom they desig- 
nated the practitioners. In this assumption, there can 
only be a diversity of opinion as to which of the two sects 
justly claims the temporal precedence — whether the 
theory of the Therapeutic or the practice of the Essenes 
is the original, or, in other words, whether Egypt or 
Palestine is the fatherland of that tendency within Ju- 
daism which is designated by the name of Essenism. 
The opinion that the temporal precedence belongs to 
the Therapeutic, and that after Therapeutism bad been 
planted on the soil of Jiulica the Order of the Essenes 
originated, is advocated bvGfrorer (Kritische Geschichte 
des V rchristenthums [Stuttg. 183l],ii,335sq.), Lutterheck 
( Die neutestamenilkhen Lehrbeyrije [Mayence, 1852], i, 
275 sq.), Mangold ( Die I rrlehrender Past ora Ibriefe [Mar- 
burg, 1850], p. 57 sq.), and Iloltzmann ( Geschichte des 
1 kikes Israel ttnddie Entstehnnydes Christenthums [Leips. 
1867], ii, 70 sq.). The opposite opinion is represented by 
Bitschl (Theulogische Jahrbiicher [ed. Baiir and Zeller, 
1855], p. 343 sq.), Hilgenfeld (Die jiidische A pokalyplik 
in Hirer geschicht lichen Enticickhmy [Jena, 1857], p.278 
sq.), llerzfeld (Geschichte des Yolkes Israel [2d ed. Leips. 
1863], iii. 406), Zeller ( Geschichte der Philosophic der 
Griechen [ibid. 1868], III, ii, 288 sq.), Bellermann ( Xach - 
richten aus dem A Itcrthnm iiber Essener und Therapi uten 
[Berlin, 1821], p. 80, note), and Ilarnischmacher ( De 
Essenorum a pud Judcvos Eocktate [Bonn, 1866], p. 26), 
who admit a causative connection of both, without de- 
ciding the time of the origin. Now, denying, as we do, 
in opposition to the above-mentioned critics, any connec- 
tion between these sects, and thus dismissing altogether 
the question which of the two formed the connecting- 
link for the other, we will, for the sake of justifying our 
assertion, draw a parallel between the two sects, and first 
consider those points in which both agree. 

Both sects diligently studied the Scripture, and inter- 
preted the same allegorically. Besides the Old Test., 
both had a high consideration for the writings of the 
older members of their order. They favored the abol- 
ishing of slavery; lived in a very simple manner, and 
were accustomed to appear at their religious exercises 
in white garments. More common traits cannot be 
proved, excepting, perhaps, the fact that both led an un- 
married life. But even this is no proof, because, accord- 
ing to Josephus, at least one part of the Essenes, though 
perhaps only the minority, married. It cannot also be 
said that both agreed in leading a life entirely separated 
from the world. Of the Therapeutic, it is true, this can 
be said, but not of the Essenes, because, as Josephus 
tells us, they instructed the youth and took otherwise 
an active part in the weal and woe of their people, as 
they did, for instance, in the war against the Iiomans 
for the liberty of their country. 

But more numerous and important are the differences 
which exist between the Therapeutic and Essenes. We 
call attention to the following: 

1. The Therapeutic led a monastic, secluded life, given 
entirely to contemplation. The Essenes, according to the 
rules of their order, were obliged to work. Their labor 
was prescribed and regulated by officers purposely ap- 
pointed. They cultivated the fields, aud were engaged 
in manual labors as well as in arts, 

2. The Therapeutic lived separated from each other in 
cells, and only came together on the Sabbath and on 
special occasions. The Essenes, however, wherever they 
resided, had their common lodges, where they lived and 
dined together. 

3. The Therapeutic, upon entering the order, left every- 
thing to their relatives and friends. The Essenes deliv- 
ered their property to the order fur the benefit of all. 

4. The Therapeutic did not eat before the setting of the 
sun ; the Essenes enjoyed two meals daily. 


TIlERAPEUTiE 


339 


THERAPEUTIC • 


5. The Essenes were divided into four clnsses or grade.®, 
which were so marked that a member of the upper class 
had to bathe himself when he touched anything belong- 
ing to a lower class. The Therapeutic had no such dis- 
tinction. Of the Esseues we are told that the members 
of the higher degrees had the knowledge of mysteries, 
which was not communicated to the lower degrees; of 
the Therapeutic we know nothing of the kiud. 

G. Each Esseue had to bathe himself daily ; such lustra- 
tions were not in use among the Therapeutic. 

7. The Therapeutic revered the Temple at Jerusalem 
and the Levitical priesthood, and were nut so far apart 
from orthodox Judaism. The Essenes, on the contrary, 
believed their lustrations and their mode of living to be 
of greater importance than the ordinances prescribed to 
the priests for the service of the Temple. They furnished 
no offerings to the Temple at Jerusalem, and thus became 
guilty of apostatizing from an important part of the Mo- 
saic law. The Essenes were especially addicted to medi- 
cine and prophecy; we know nothing of these practices 
among the Therapeutic. 

It is obvious that the differences between the two 
sects cannot consist in that the one was given to theory 
and the other to practice, because the supposition of a 
like ground-principle is not sufficient for explaining so 
many, and at the same time very important, differences. 
After all that we know of both these sects, the supposi- 
tion of a causal connection between the two must ap- 
pear very hazardous; for if there really were such a 
connection between them, and if both were essentially 
one and the same sect, it is surprising that Josephus has 
not recorded the fact. As little as we believe with Philo 
in a real connection between the Jewish Essenes, the 
seven wise men of Greece, and the Indian Gymnoso- 
phists, whom he compares in his book Quod Omnis Pru - 
bus Liber, just as little connection is there between the 
Essenes and Therapeutic, because Philo divided them 
into the theorists ami practitioners. The Essenes did 
not originate from the propagation of Therapeutism in 
Palestine, because, as we know, Alexandrian religious 
philosophy did not find a fertile soil in Judiea, espe- 
cially at the time in which both these sects origi- 
nated. We cannot assume that the reverse should have 
taken place, otherwise the essential traits of Essenism 
would have been found again among the Therapeutic. 
The stamp of both sects is so different that they cannot 
he identical; and in treating of the Therapeutic no re- 
gard is therefore to be paid to the Essenes. 

III. TherapeuUe and Christianity. — Assuming that 
the Essenes were only consistent Chasidim has led 
the Jewish historian Griitz to make the assertion that 
Philo’s treatise on the Therapeutic, according to which 
they were hitherto regarded as an Egyptian offshoot 
of Palestinian Essenism, could not be genuine. Ac- 
cording to the same writer, it is not so much owing to 
the description of the Essenes by Josephus as to the 
book riept (3tov StujpijTiKov if iketujv aptrw v that 
those not coinciding with the former’s views have ar- 
rived at a false result regarding the essence and origin 
of the Essene sect. Griitz also asserts that a Jewish 
sect of the Therapeutic never existed, but that they were 
Christians, ascetics of a heretic tendency, who sprang up 
by the dozen in the 2d and 3d centuries. The author 
of the book which has caused so much confusion is not 
Philo, but a Christian “ who probably belonged either to 
the Encratico-gnosticor Montanistic party, and intended 
to write a panegyric on monasticism, the high antiq- 
uity of which Philo’s authority was to contirm.” This 
is the result at which Griitz arrives; and although lie 
takes it for granted that the attentive reader of the 
book llqoi /3iou Suopijracov must at once adopt the 
correctness of his assertion, he has nevertheless tak- 
en the pains to make good his hypothesis at great, 
length. 

This hypothesis of Griitz has been analyzed by Zel- 
ler, and the result is that the reasons adduced by the 
former are not sufficient and -acceptable at all. In 
resuming the question once more, and examining the 
argument of Griitz in order to establish the Christian 
character of the Therapeutic, we do so because of its 
close connection with the essence and origin of the 


sect — in this we differ with Zeller — and because there 
are some points to be proved against Griitz. The lat- 
ter has denied the existence of a Jewish sect of the 
Therapeutic, and consequently also the genuineness of 
the Philonic treatise llcpi jSiov SeiopiiTacov, on the 
ground of the silence of Josephus and Pliny, who wrote 
so much about the Essenes; while they know nothing 
of the Therapeutic, the alleged Egyptian branch of this 
sect. Against this. Zeller has argued that the silence 
of Josephus cannot be so remarkable, since the Thera- 
peutic were a branch of the Essenes restricted to Egypt 
alone, and because Josephus tells very little about the 
later affairs of the Jews in that country. But if, accord- 
ing to Zeller, the Therapeutic were really an Egyptian 
branch of the Palestinian Essenes, or had some connec- 
tion with them, the Essenes in Palestine ought to have 
known something about it; and even if Pliny’s silence 
could be explained because he only knows one Essenic 
colony living by the Dead Sea, it might be supposed — 
and in this Griitz is correct — that Josephus, who other- 
wise speaks very fully about the order, ought to have 
mentioned the The rape u tic. The silence of Josephus 
can therefore only he explained from the very fact that 
the Therapeutic had no connection whatever with the 
Essenes, but that they formed an independent sect 
within the Egyptian Judaism, the existence of which 
— since its number and activity were less important — 
was entirely unknown to Josephus. Wliat Philo nar- 
rates concerning the female Therapeutic (3cpa— tu- 
rpu^Ef), Griitz also finds incredible, because Josephus 
marks it as one of the characteristics of the Essenes to 
avoid all contact with the opposite sex; hence lie be- 
lieves that these female Therapeutic were nothing else 
than the sisters ( so? m ores subintruductce ) whom the 
Christian ascetics used to have about them for the sake 
of attaining, by constant temptation, a higher virtue, hut 
who, as is known, have been the cause of great scandals. 
Against this, Zeller remarks that in this respect the 
Egyptian Essenes or Therapeutic might have had oth- 
er institutions than those of the Palestinians, since their 
principles on the worth of an unmarried state were in 
the main not affected; and this difference of view does 
not indicate such a great deviation from t he principles of 
the order as the practice of one branch of the Palestin- 
ian Essenes who married. We agree with Griitz that, 
according to Josephus, the wives of the married Es- 
senes were not, like the female Therapeutic, members of 
the order. But this actual deviation — that while the 
Essenes excluded women entirely from the common 
leasts and meetings, this was not the case among the 
Therapeutic — is only another proof that Essenes and 
Therapeutic are not, as Zeller believes, one and the 
same sect. This being the case, it must not be sup- 
posed, as Gratz believes, that the Therapeutic, not being 
Essenes, were Christians. Griitz overlooks the circum- 
stance that while the so-called sarores subint roducUe lived 
in very close communication with the Christian ascetics, 
this cannot be said of the female Therapeutic. For can 
we safely infer, from the participation of women in the 
common feasts and meetings, that the Therapeutic real- 
13 ’’ lived each with a female companion? Against such 
a hvpothesis we have also the words of Philo, rag 
ptv ovv ifpipag x t0 P l G ucaaro i povovptvoi 7 rap’ 
iavrdig kv roig Af^fltTi, {.loi’aoTijpiotg 0i\o<7o0o<Vi, 
who emphasizes the fact repeatedly that the}' sought 
solitude and desired to be left to themselves in order 
not to be disturbed in their contemplative life (d^Ai/pdv 
yap Kai dvocipearov roig ipypiav e^ijXiokool Kai pera- 
CuoKnvaiv ai ytirvidotig). But, above all, we ask, where 
is the passage in this treatise which indicates, as Griitz 
tries to prove, that the Therapeutic, like the Christian 
ascetics, had aimed at a higher degree of perfection b}' 
living together with the female members? From the 
introductor)' words of the Philonic treatise, Griitz also 
infers that it cannot, be genuine, since it connects it- 
self with the treatise Iltpi rob tt dvra a7rovdaiov ilrai 
i\tv$tpov erroiieousl}', as with a writing on the Es- 


TIIEKAPEUT.E 


340 


THERAPEUT^E 


senes. 1 lie words in question are, 'Kooaioir rrspt eia~ 
Af\r€JC‘, oV TOV TTpUKTlKuV /j/\w(TflJ' Kfll Clf7TUVl}OCl}> 
piwv iv uTraan', k.t.X. Griitz thinks that Philo could 
not possibly say that he "wrote a treatise” on the Es- 
senes ( Leuruuej' 7 r-pi CiaXe\ 5 dg), " hen the passage in 
question only occupies the twelfth part of the treatise, 
and lie only mentions this sect as one of the many. 
Put against this it must be argued that ctuXiytoSat 
Trtpi nroi, ; does not mean “to write a treatise,” hut 
to "speak on something,” and this, as Zeller remarks, 
Philo has evidently done concerning the Essenes. More- 
over, such an association of topics is not comical at all, 
as Griitz thinks, because by this two Jewish sects which 
have at least some traits in common were brought into 
connection. Put the main point for the spuriousness 
of the treatise on the Therapeutic and for its being 
written by a Christian, Griitz thinks to lie in the fact 
that Christians — so Eusebius (Hint. Kecks, ii, 17) and 
others after him — recognised the Therapeutic as “flesh 
of their own flesh.” The holy cells of the Thera- 
peutic are called monasteries. It is evident, argues 
Griitz, that wc have here the beginning of the monastic 
cells, which existed even before Anthony of Thebes, 
the founder of monastieism. Put even if we admit 
that the entire mode of living of the '1 herapenta* is 
similar to that of the later Christian monks, we are not 
at ail justified to infer that the Therapeutic were Chris- 
tian monks. Why — and herein we agree with Griitz — 
should there not have been in Egypt, the fatherland 
and the proper home of monastieism, ascetics even be- 
fore Anthony of Thebes? And why should this not 
have been possible within the pale of Judaism? And 
are the Palestinian Essenes not a similar phenomenon? 
To impress on the Therapeutic the Christian character 
because of the word povaorypiov, which the Christian 
monks used for their cell, is not reasonable, because, as 
Zeller reminds us, the expressions povuonjpwv and 
mprdov were only used by the Therapeutic for a 
part, and not, as did the Christian monks, for the 
whole, of the dwelling. The supposition seems to be 
that the Therapeutic, or rather Philo himself, formed 
the words povaorijpiov and (Tf/irdor, and that Chris- 
tian monks borrowed this nomenclature from their 
Jewish predecessors. That Philo, who was the first to 
use these expressions, has also formed t lie same appears 
from the fact that he himself explains them when say- 
ing, iv tKaory ci o itciq ioriv tepbv o KciXdrai otpi'dov 
Kai povaorijpiov, i v op povovpevoi rd roe ofpvov j 3 iov 
pvoriipia rtXovvrai. The Therapeutic, Griitz goes on 
to argue, had not only a common feast, but after the 
least they hail a kind of Lord’s supper (TravayioraTov 
niTiov), consisting of unleavened bread, of which all 
did not. partake, hut only the better ones. Griitz evi- 
dently believes that we have here the difference be- 
tween the missu catechumenorum and the missa Jideli- 
mn. From the latter, which consisted in the celebration 
of the Lord’s supper and in a kind of liturgy, those who 
were not vet baptized, together with those who were 
excommunicated, were excluded; for, he asks, is this 
not Christian? Put this question we must also answer 
in the negative. Griitz, as Zeller remarks, has over- 
looked the fact that the so-called Lord’s supper did not 
take place after the common meal, but it was this com- 
mon meal itself. At this supper not unleavened, but 
leavened, bread was eaten ( dprog iZvpiopt roc ptru 
TTpofroii/ijpuToc, aXibvolg I'offimrog dvapipiKrai tV aicio 
TijQ dvciKtiptvijg h> Tip dyiip tt pa veno itpdg Tpa7riZrjg) 
out of reverence for the unleavened showhread in the 
Temple at Jerusalem. Put, above all, Griitz has erred 
in asserting that this supper was a prerogative of t lie 
better ones. Now the words 'inn iipioai Trpovopiai’ oi 
Kpeirrovtg do not refer to the Therapeutic, but to the 
Jewish priests, to whom alone the Therapeutic conceded 
the use of unleavened bread as a special prerogative. 
This unquestionably follows from the words of Philo: 
drav ?i tKaorog fiaTrcpdvijrai rov vprov, oi vein n)v 
7 Tpo piKpod Xeyfidoav TpcvmZ,av doKopiZovoiv, i<p’ jjc 


to 7rai'ayi(TTaTov airioi> i^vpiopivog ptru 7rpoooypij- 
parog «\wr 01 c vooiuTrog dvapipiKrai Cl aicio rijg 
dvaKtip'trt] g tv rip dy'ap Trpovdip itpdg TpaTrsZijg’ tTci 
yap ravnjg doiv iiproi Kai tiXtg dvtv ijCvoparog , dZv- 
poi pi v or tiprin, dptydg Ci kui ol aXeg. UpooijKov 
yap ijv, ra piv uTXovorara Kai dXncpivioTara ry 
Kpanory rwv \epwv dirovcptj^Tjvtn pepici,XtiTovpyiag 
dSXov, rovg £i dXXovg ni piv dpota Zij\ovi', a7T€y€- 
oZtai tuiv dprwv, ’iva i'\ioot 7rpovop\av oi Kpeirro- 
veg. That the Therapeutic were Christians, Griitz also 
finds in the fact that the presbyters among them occu- 
pied the first position; and that they were not presby- 
ters because of their age. but because of their strict ob- 
servance of the Therapeutic life (7rpwf3vripovg yap 
ov TzoXvtrdg Kai 7raXaiovg vopiZovoiv dXXu in ko- 
picy viovg rraidag idv oipi rijg 7rpoaipiofiog ipaaSCo- 
otv, dX/\« rorc Ik 7rpioT)jg ijXiKtag ivijfiijoavrac Kai 
ivoKpdoavrag Top StiopijTiKip pipti <piXoao<piag, 0 $ 1 ) 
koXXkttov Kai Stinrarov ion). We have thus, Griitz 
argues, the presbyters, or i7rioK07roi, of the Christian 
congregations, who held one and the same office in the 
ante-Nicene time. Put this conclusion is the less justi- 
fiable, since the olliee of presbyters was not exact lv 
a Christian institution, but existed even before the 
Christian icra, and was adopted by the Church from 
Judaism. Even among the Essenes wc find such a 
distinction of rank, and yet Griitz would he the last to 
call them Christians, although he firmly believes that. 
Christ belonged to the Essenes. The argument which 
Griitz takes from the vigils, so common among the 
Therapeutic, for the sake of making them Christians 
is also of no avail, because fasting was something pe- 
culiar to Judaism and was adopted by the Church; and 
as to the vigils, such nocturnal services existed before 
the Christian icra. It is therefore not necessary to 
think, as does Griitz, following Eusebius (Hist. Kecks. 
ii, 17), of Christian rites before Easter Sunday. From 
the liturgy, the metrical hymns, and typical mode of 
explaining the prophets, according to Griitz, other ar- 
guments for the Christian character of the Therapenta? 
might be made. Put even these alleged Christian 
traits are purely Jewish. Of the hymns of the Thera- 
peutic, Philo expressly states that they were formed 
after t lie hymn of Moses and Miriam ( Exod. xv ) ; 
and as to the allegorical interpretation, it was used 
among the Alexandrian Jews before the Christian awa, 
and even before Philo. Put as to what Griitz under- 
stands of the liturgy of the Therapeutic and of its Chris- 
tian character, he has not fully entered upon this point, 
nor can anything of the kind be deduced from Philo’s 
statement. Griitz refers to Eusebius, and to those after 
him who regarded the Therapeutic as Christians, but 
this proof is the least satisfactory. Eusebius regards 
the treatise Iltpi (3iov SfiopyTiKoi) as Philonian, and 
makes the Jewish philosopher a disciple of John 
Mark, who accompanied Paul on his first mission- 
ary tour, and afterwards labored at Alexandria. Ac- 
cording to Eusebius, the Therapeutic existed as Chris- 
tians in the 1st century. The opinion of Griitz that 
the Therapeutic were a Christian monastic sect of 
the 2d or 3d century of the Christian icra has there- 
fore no support in Eusebius. While, however, later 
Christian writers, with the exception of Photius ( My - 
riohiblon sice Bibliotheca [Pothomagi, 1653], ed. Dav. 
Halschelius, p. 275), identify Therapeutic with monks, 
and while the writings falsely ascribed to Diony- 
sius Areopagita use both expressions synonymously, 
Scaliger has called attention to the fact that the 
designation of Therapeutic lor monks depends solely 
upon the interpretation of Eusebius (Scaliger, l)e Kmev- 
datione Temparvm, vi, 252). With the exception of 
Griitz, no writer has regarded the Therapeutic as a 
Christian heretical sect, and he himself is yet unde- 
cided in what series of heretical sects, which sprang up 
l>v the dozen within the Church in the 2d and 3d 
centuries, he should place them. According to Griitz, 
the author of the treatise probably belonged to the En- 


THERAPEUTJE 


341 


TlIEIvAPEUTiE 


cratico-gnostic or Montanistic party. But he has not 
tried to state any plausible reason for his hypothesis, 
which, in fact, would be impossible; and he himself 
says that this point is outside of his object, and must 
be left to those critics who make this question their 
specialty. We ask, however, what reason could there 
have been for a Christian, even for a heretic, to father 
upon Philo such a book, for the sake of recommending 
monastic asceticism ? We nowhere hear, except from 
Eusebius, whose erroneous view concerning the Thera- 
peutic led him to the opinion, that Philo had such a 
good reputation within the Christian Church, and that 
Christians appealed to him for their views. And what 
is the more remarkable is the fact that in the whole 
treatise neither Christ nor the doctrines of Christianity 
are once mentioned. Where, then, is the Christian 
character of the Therapeutic? As for the linguistic 
character of the book riqot fiiov S’futpijrtKov, it entirely 
agrees with Philo’s mode of representation; and there 
is no internal nor external argument for denying Philo 
to be the author of the book. The Therapeutic, as we 
shall see further on, were Jews. 

IV. Character and Origin o f the Sect o f the Thera- 
peutic . — From the manner in which Philo speaks of 
the Therapeutic, there can be no doubt that he himself 
was very much prepossessed regarding them, for the 
book ITt/oi fiiov §£wpi]TiKov is nothing but a panegyric 
on the sect. This fact alone would lead to the supposi- 
tion — which, in truth, is also supported by the whole 
character of the sect — that the Therapeutic cultivated 
and adhered to Jewish religious philosophy, which 
numbered Philo among its most zealous disciples. It 
is hardly conceivable, as Gfrcirer ( Philo vnd die jiidisch - 
ulexandrinische Tkeosophie , ii. 281 sq.) has indicated, 
that in a time like that in which Philo wrote, when 
the religions movement was at a high pitch, and when 
the most tli verse religions parties existed side by side, 
a man wijh such peculiar religious views should write 
such a panegyric on a sect unless it represented his 
own views. 

Now there can he no doubt that the Therapeutic rep- 
resented a Jewish sect. They based their investiga- 
tions and researches upon the writings of the Old Test. 
In their aepvela they had only the law and the proph- 
ets ( I'ojuoi »cai Xoyia &£<77rt<x34i'r« cVt 7 Tpo(p}]Tojv). 
Philo calls them Mwafwc yvibptpoi. and further says 
that they gave themselves to philosophical specula- 
tion, according to the holy doctrines of the prophet 
Moses (Kara ra£ tov 7rpo r pi]Tov Mwo-fuit; i epiordraQ 
v(ptjy))(TEtg). The Therapeutic strictly observed the 
Jewish Sabbath, and had great reverence for the Tem- 
ple at Jerusalem and the Levitical priesthood. Their 
holy choruses are expressly said to be an imitation of 
those at the Fled Sea. All these traits show that, on 
the one hand, the Therapeutic strictly adhered to the 
traditions and views of Judaism, while, on t he other 
hand, they deviated in many particulars; hence they 
were characterized as a sect. 

As to their name, Philo leaves ns to choose between 
two views. They are called Therapeutic either because 
they profess an art of medicine more excellent than 
that in general use in cities (thus Therapeutic would he 
equivalent to “physicians for the soul”), or because 
they have been instructed by nature and the sacred 
laws to serve the living God (^epaTrevtiv to ”0)^); 
thus Therapeutic would signify those who “serve God.” 
The latter view is probably the more correct, since the 
Therapeutic, as the true spiritual “worshippers of God,” 
called themselves the contemplatives kut' and 

this appellation accords more fully with the whole 
tenor and character of the sect than the designation 
“ physicians for the soul.” Besides, Philo uses i/emu 
and $tpa7VEVTai y yh>og Stpa 7 T£ vtikov, and yh>og iictTi- 
kov synonymously, in order to designate the worship 
of God in the sense of Alexandrian theosophy, in op- 
position to the faith and worship of God of the great 
mass, ( Ue Vidimus ojfrentibus [Mangey], ii, 258 : 


uckrai Kai ^Epmrevrai tov oi >to)q bvTog. De Monar- 
chia , ii, 425: drftp'ug i/cirou Kai (piXoStov Qeov puvov 
Sepa irtvetv d^iovvTog. Vita Mosis. ii, 164: to Stpa- 
7rn’TiKov ai’Tov [sc. tov Ofof’] ytj'oc. De Profit gis , 
i, 552: to yap $ipa7rtvTtKov yivog avdSjjpd ttjTi thou 
Uptofitvov r/}r psydXtjv dp^iepioavvtjv aiiToj govtp.') 

From the Greek derivation of Therapeutic, we see 
that there existed a spiritual relationship between this 
sect and Jewish Alexandrian religious philosophy; and 
we are led to this assumption when we consider the ob- 
ject which formed the basis of their contemplative life. 
Its purpose was to lead to the knowledge of the Deity. 
To achieve this it was necessary to suppress the mate- 
rial man and elevate the spiritual. For this reason they 
lived in a very simple manner, restricting their wants 
to the smallest measure. Abstinence 'and moderation 
they regarded as the foundation of all virtues, because 
by these man is brought nearer to the simple, which 
enables him to see the simple essence of the Deity, and 
to indulge in the blessed intuition of the same. There- 
fore the Therapeutic lived secluded from the outside 
world; they denied themselves everything that could 
bring them in contact with others, thus living only to 
themselves and their contemplation. They denied 
themselves marriage, because they preferred to live to- 
gether with the divine wisdom; and sought not after 
the mortal, but. the immortal, fruits of a soul loved by 
God, and which the same only brings forth when she is 
impregnated by the spiritual rays of the heavenly Fa- 
ther. For this reason slavery was banished from their 
midst, because, in a community which was animated by 
such motives, men could not be tolerated who were de- 
graded below the dignity of men. If the entire aim 
of the Therapentaj accords with the object, and time of 
the Alexandrian religious philosophy, the relationship 
between the two shows itself more fully in the allegor- 
ical exegesis, which, distinguishing between spirit and 
letter, idea and symbol, endeavored to explain the writ- 
ings of the Old Test. According to Philo, the Thera- 
peutic had the writings of the ancients, who, as the 
founders of this tendency, left behind them many me- 
morials of the allegorical system. The same sym- 
bolic character we also find in their holy feast. The 
historical relation with which it connected itself was 
the exode from Egypt and the going through the Red 
Sea, as the choruses sung at this feast were in imita- 
tion of those songs which Moses and Miriam sang. 
*Now, according to the allegory of the Alexandrians and 
Philo, Egypt is the symbol of tbe sensual life in earthly 
lust and bodily pleasure; the song of Moses symbolizes 
tbe rapture which man feels after he has denied him- 
self every earthly thing and suppressed all sensual lust, 
and now, as a purely spiritual being, indulges in the 
intuition of the Deity. Thus the Therapeutic, like 
Philo and the Alexandrians, held the view that, the 
bod)’- being the seat of sin, the flight from a corporeal 
into a purely spiritual existence ought to he the true 
and highest aim of life. And Philo himself expressly 
states that the Therapeutic went into the desert, be- 
cause they had entirely broken with their earthly life, 
and intended to lead another, as it were immortal and 
blessed existence. The Therapeutic thus represent a 
sect which earnestly strove after carrying out and 
practicing those principles and views to which the 
Jewish Alexandrian religions philosophy did homage. 
At what time, however, this sect, with its ceremonies, 
originated it is hard to tell, since Philo does not say 
anything more definite about it. The only indication 
in the IDpi (3iov SeutpijriKov from which we may con- 
clude that the sect existed a long time before Philo, is 
the notice that the Therapeutic possessed writings of 
the ancients which the founders had left behind them 
as memorials of the allegorical system, and which the 
Therapeutic took as a kind of model. The founding 
of the sect probably took place at the time when the 
Jewish Alexandrian theosophy originated and devel- 
oped itself. We may trace it back to the beginning 


Til El v AS 


342 


THERESA 


of the 2d century befo're Christ, to Aristolmlns, wl»o in- 
troduced Jewish doctrines into the Orphic hymns be- 
cause he believed that Greek philosophers had derived 
their wisdom from an ancient version of the Penta- 
teuch. Whether we have any traces of a connection of 
Greek philosophy with Jewish theology in the Septua- 
gint, which, according to Josephus, was commenced in 
Ii.O. 2*5, is at least very doubtful; hut certain it is that 
with the beginning of the 2d pre-Christian century the 
conditions were already given for the origin of the sect. 
That the sect of the Therapeutic was propagated beyond 
Kgypt is not probable, and its number was, perhaps, not 
very large. 

After all, it is very interesting to know that about 
the time when Christ came into the world, among the 
Jews in Egypt the desire was felt to come into a nearer 
relation to the l)eitv, and to be freed from those rela- 
tions which were not satisfactory. The Therapeutic 
endeavored to reach this object by leaving all earthly 
possessions, and in this respect they resemble the Chris- 
tian monks, who borrowed from them many traits, as, in 
fact, Egypt was the real country of monastieism. But 
when Christians regarded them for a long time as flesh 
of their own flesh, they misunderstood the character 
and tendency of the Therapeutic entirely, because their 
whole history shows how far they were still from that 
goal which alone could satisfy the cravings of the heart, 
but which human reason and power alone cannot reach. 

V. Literature. — Gfrorer, Philo mid die jiidisch-alex- 
andrinische Theosophie ( Stilt tg. 1835); Dtihne, Ge- 
sehichtliche Darstellung der jiidisch - alexandrinischen 
Religions- Philosophic (Halle, 1834) ; Kuenen, De Gods - 
dienst ran Israel (Haarlem, 1870), ii, 382 sq. (Engl, 
trail si. by May, The Religion of Israel [Loud. 1874 
sq.]) ; Ritsehl, Die Entstehuvg der altkatholischen Kirch e 
(Bonn, 1857), p. 21G; Herzfeld, Geschichte des Volkes 
Israel (Leips. 1863). iii, 496; Delaunay, Ecrits Ilisto- 
riqnes de Philon (Bar. 1870), p. 55; id. Moines et Sibylles 
(ibid. 1874), p. 385; Baur, Drei A bhandlungen zur Ge- 
schichte der alten Philosophic (Leips. 187G), p. 21 G; 
Schwegler, Das nachapostolische Zeitnlter (Tub. 184G), 
i. 190; Lutterbeck, Die neutest ament lichen Lehrbegriffe 
(Mentz, 1852), i, 131, 271 ; Wegnern, Ueber das Ver- 
bal tniss des Christentliums zum Essenismus, in Illgen’s 
Zeitsch.f. d. hist. Theol. 1841, xi, 2, 1 sq.; Leroux, En- 
cyclopedic Xourelle (Bar. 1813), iv, G5G sq. ; Bauer, 
Christ us vrnl die Casaren (Berl. 1879), p. 307 sq. ; 
Griitz. Geschichte der Jvdm , 2d ed. iii, 4G4 sq. ; Jost, 
Gesch. des Judenthums , i, 224; Nicolas, Revue de The- 
ologie (Strasb. 1868), p. 36 sq. ; Derenbourg, Journal 
Asiatique (Bar. 1868), p. 282 sq, ; Renan, Journal des 
/Savants (ibid. 1874), p. 798 sq. ; Clemens, Die Thera - 
peuten (Kdnigsb. 18G9) ; Lucius, Die Therapeuien nnd 
ihre Stellung in der Geschichte der A skese. Eine kri- 
tische Untersuchvng der Schrift de Vita Contemplatira 
(Strasb. 1880). The last writer comes to the conclu- 
sion that the Therapeutic were not Jews, and that the 
treatise bearing the name of Philo was written towards 
the end of the 3d century as an apology for Christian 
asceticism. (B. B.) 

The'ras (Oqan), a corrupt Greek form (1 Esdr. viii, 
41. 61) of the name Hebraized (Ezra viii, 21, 31) Aiia- 
na (q. v.). 

Theremin, Ludwig Frikderich Franz, a cele- 
brated German preacher and professor, was horn at 
Gramzow, March 19, 1780. He was of Huguenot ex- 
traction, his family having emigrated from France after 
the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes, and his father 
was the pastor of the French congregation in the town 
where Franz was born. After suitable preparation, the 
latter was ordained at Geneva in 1805, and in 1810 was . 
chosen by the French congregation at Berlin to he its 
pastor. 'I bis post he exchanged, Dec. 29. 1814, for that 
of preacher to the court. In 1824 he was made a mem- 
ber of the high consistory and lecturer in the department 
of instruction of the ministry of worship; and in the same 


year the degree of Doctor of Divinity was conferred on 
him by the University of Greifswalde. In 1839 he add- 
ed to his former dignities that of extraordinary, and in 
1810 that of ordinary, honorary, professor in the Univer- 
sity of Berlin. He lectured on homiletics, and estab- 
lished a homiletical seminary in his house, devoting 
himself to the guidance of the latter with an enthusiasm 
which increased steadily, in proportion as physical in- 
firmities restricted the range of his activity as a preach- 
er. A cataract (brined over one of his eyes, and gave 
rise to the apprehension that he woidd become totally 
blind; but he w’as relieved from such fear by death, 
which came to him quietly and gently Sept. 26, 1846. 
His wife had preceded him into the eternal world hv 
more than twenty years. A son and an unmarried 
daughter survived him. 

Theremin was the representative of a specific homi- 
letical tendency which held that classical antiquity is 
the true school of eloquence and claimed Demosthenes 
as its master. Its characteristic was that it devoted 
exclusive attention to finished perfection of form, and 
consequently had nothing in common with that rugged 
German school of eloquence of which Luther is the rep- 
resentative, and whose peculiarity it is that “out of the 
fulness of the heart the month speaketh” and shapes its 
own forms of expression. Not Luther or Harms, but 
Massillon, was Theremin’s ideal; for Theremin’s mind 
was in its structure not German, but French. This pe- 
culiarity may partially explain the fact that Theremin 
did not found a school of pulpit orators in any actual 
sense; while Reinhard, to whom he was unquestionably 
superior, had numerous imitators. Theremin s funda- 
mental principle in homiletics was that eloquence is not 
an art, but a virtue (see his work Beredsamkeit eine Tu- 
gend ). The idea is evidently faulty, since eloquence is 
not, like other virtues, a duty; nor is the use of elo- 
quence confined altogether to the promotion of ethical 
results. As a preacher he was accustomed to use brief 
texts, and consequently to employ considerable latitude 
in the handling of his themes, often dragging in ex- 
traneous matter, instead of educing it from the text. 
Ilis bearing in the pulpit was that of quiet dignity; 
bis gestures were few and simple, bis voice good, his 
modulation perfect. The finish of his productions, how- 
ever, produced the impression of an aristocratic refine- 
ment, which, though evidently altogether natural in his 
case, prevented the achieving of such popular results as 
were secured by Luther, Heinrich Muller, Conrad Rieger, 
L. Hofacker, and others. Ten volumes of his Sermons 
have been published, most of them in repeated editions 
(Duneker and llumblot, Berlin). Other works of theo- 
logical and aseetical character emanated from his pen, 
and have received deserved recognition, e. g. Lehre vom 
gottl. Reiehe (Berlin, 1823): — Adalbert's Bekenntnisse (2d 
ed. 1835): — Abendstunden (5th ed. 1858). See Herzog, 
Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Theresa, or Teresa, St., was born at Avila, in 
Castile, Spain, March 28, 1515. Her full name was 
Theresa Sanchez de Cepeda. From early childhood she 
was accustomed, with a favorite brother, to read the 
lives of the saints and martyrs, until they both became 
possessed of a passionate desire to obtain the crown of 
martyrdom. When they were children eight or nine 
years old, they set off on a begging expedition into the 
country of the Moors, in hopes of being taken by the 
infidels and sacrificed for their faith. Disappointed in 
this, they resolved to turn hermits; but in this they were 
also prevented. Theresa lost her mother at the age of 
twelve, and in a few years became so worldly that her 
father placed her, at the age of sixteen, in a convent. 
Here her mind again took a religions turn, and when 
twenty years of age she obtained her father’s consent 
to take the vow, and entered the convent of the Car- 
melites at Avila. For nearly twenty years, however, 
she says, she lived without feeling that repose for which 
she had hoped when she sacrificed the world. But at 
length while reading the Confessions of St. Augustine, 


THERESA 


343 


THESSALON IANS 



she was led to pray with greater confidence, and her en- 
thusiastic and restless spirit found peace. She remain- 
ed in the convent in her native town till 1561, when she 
conceived the idea of reforming the Order of the Car- 
melites, into which several disorders had crept. In 
1562 she laid the foundation of the new monastery at, 
Avila, which she dedicated to St. Joseph, whom she had 
chosen as her patron saint. The branch of her order 
which she founded were the “ Barefooted Carmelites,” 
and also, after her, the Tiiekesiaxs (q. v.). It was the 
principle of Theresa that the convents of the Carmelites, 
under her new rule, should either have no worldly pos- 
sessions whatever, and literally exist upon the charity 
of others, or that they should be so endowed as not to 
require any external aid. This was a principle from 
which her spiritual directors obliged her to depart; and 
yet such was her success that at the time of her death 
she had founded seventeen convents for women and fif- 
teen for men. During the latter part of her life Theresa 
found ample occupation in travelling from one convent 
to another to promulgate her new regulations for the 
government of her order. In *1582 she was seized with 
her last illness in the palace of the duchess of Alva, but 
was, by her urgent request, carried back to her convent 
of San Jose, where she died a few days afterwards. She 
was beatified by pope Paul V, April 24, 1614, and canon- 
ized by Gregory XV, March 22, 1622, her feast being 
fixed on October 15. Philip III declared her the second 
patron saint of the Spanish monarchy after Santiago, 
a decree solemnly confirmed by the Spanish Cortes in 
1812. Her shrine is at Avila, in the church of her con- 
vent. The ascetic treatises and letters of Theresa, in 
which she describes the internal struggles and aspira- 
tions of her heart, are among the most remarkable docu- 
ments of the mystic literature of the Pom an Catholic 
Church. Five of them are extant : Discurso 6 Relation 
(le su 1 ’ida (1562 ) : — El C amino de la Perfection , prepared 
in 1563 as a guide for the nuns of the reformed order: — 
El Libro de las Fundaciones , an account of convents 
founded by her : — El Castillo Interior , 6 las Moradas 
(1577 ) : — Santos Conceptos del A mor de Bios . The orig- 
inal MSS. of the first four works are preserved in the 
library of the Escurial, that of the last was burned by 
order of her confessor ; but a copy had previously been 
taken by one of her nuns. The first complete edition of 
St. Theresa’s Works appeared at Salamanca (1587), and 
a recent one by Ochoa at Paris (1847 ): — Letters (Sara- 
gossa, 1658). The abbe Migne edited a complete col- 
lection of her works in French (Paris, 1840-46, 4 vols.) ; 
and pere Marcel Bouix published a French translation 


from the original MSS. (Le Mans, 1852-56, 3 vols. 8vo). 
For Lives of Theresa consult those of Kibera (Salamanca, 
1590), pere Bouix (Paris, 1865), Bollandist Yander- 
moere (Brussels, 1845), and Maria French (Loud. 1875). 
See Mrs. Jameson, Legends of the Monastic Orders , p. 
4 1 5 sq. 

Ther'meleth (QtpptXtS), a Greek form (1 Esdr. v, 
36) of the name Hebraized (Ezra ii, 59) Tkl-jielaii 
(q. v.). 

Thesaurarius, the treasurer of a cathedral or col- 
legiate church; the bursar (treasurer) of a college or 
monastery; the keeper of a shrine house or treasury. 

ThessaloTiian (0£<xrra\oi'tK£i'c), the designation 
(Acts xxvi, 4 ; 1 Thess. i, 1 ; 2 Thess. ii, 1 ; “of Thessa- 
lonica,” Acts xxvii, 2) of an inhabitant of Thessaloutca 
(q. v.). 

THESSALONIANS, First Epistle to the, is the 
eighth in order of the Pauline epistles as found in the 
New Test. (The following two articles are chiefly based 
upon those ill the Dictionaries of Kitto, Smith, and 
Fairbairn.) 

I. A uthorskip and Canonieity . — The external evidence 
in favor of the genuineness of the First Epistle to the 
Thessalonians is chiefly negative, but this is important 
enough. There is no trace that it was ever disputed 
at any age or in any section of the Church, or even by 
any individual, till the present century. On the other 
hand, the allusions to it in writers before the close of 
the 2d century are confessedly faint and uncertain — a 
circumstance easily explained when we remember the 
character of the epistle itself, its comparatively simple 
diction, its silence on the most important doctrinal ques- 
tions, and, generally speaking, the absence of any salient 
points to arrest the attention and provoke reference. 
In Clement of Rome there are some slight coincidences 
of language, perhaps not purely accidental (c. 38, Kara 
Ttavra tv^apioTtiv avT<f comp. 1 Thess. v, 18; ibid. 
mo^toSio ovv i)gh> oAop ro otopa tv X. I., comp. ver. 
23). Ignatius in two passages (Polye. 1, and Ephes . 10) 
seems to be reminded of Paul’s expression dhaXtiTVTojq 
7rpo<Ttv^t(T^rt (1 Thess. v, 17), but in both passages of 
Ignatius the word «cVtA£i7rro>c, in which the similarity 
mainly consists, is absent in the Syriac, and is therefore 
probably spurious. The supposed references in Poly- 
carp (ch. iv to I Thess. v, 17, and ch. ii to ver. 22) are also 
unsatisfactory. It is more important to observe that 
the epistle was included in the Old Latin and Syriac 
versions, that it is found in the canon of the Mnratori- 
an fragment, and that it. was also contained in that of 
Marcion and of the Council of Laodicea in 364. With 
Iremeus commence direct citations (Adv. Uceres. v, 6, 
1): “On account of this the apostle hath set forth 
the perfect spiritual man, saying in 1 Thess., ‘ But the 
God of peace sanctify you wholly, and may your whole 
body, soul, and spirit be preserved blameless to the com- 
ing of our Lord Jesus Christ’” (comp. 1 Thess. v, 23). 
Clemens Alex. ( Padag . i, 88) : “But this the blessed 
Paul hath most clearly signified, saying, ‘When we 
might be burdensome as the apostles of Christ, we were 
gentle among you, as a nurse cherisheth her children’” 
(comp. I Thess. ii, 7). Tertullian {De Resurrect. Car- 
nis , c. 24): “What these times were, learn along with 
the Thessalonians; for we read, ‘How ye were turned 
from idols to serve the living and true God, ami to wait 
for his Son from heaven, Jesus, whom he hath raised 
from the dead’” (comp. 1 Thess. i, 9, 10). This father 
quotes the epistle more than twenty times. To these 
citations w r e may add those by Cains (ap. Euseb. Hist. 
Eccles. vi, 20), by Origen ( Cant . Cels. lib. iii), and by oth- 
ers of the ecclesiastical writers (Lardner, u,pl. locc.'). 

On the other hand, the internal evidence derived from 
the character of the epistle itself is so strong that it 
may fairly be called irresistible. It would be impossi- 
ble to enter into the question of style here, but the read- 
er may be referred to the Introduction of Jowett, who 
has handled this subject very fully aud satisfactorily. 


TIIESSALOXIAXS 


344 


TIIESSALOXIAXS 


An equally strong argument may be drawn also from ' 
the mutter contained in the epistle. Two instances of 
this must sullice. hi the first place, the lineness and 
delicacy of touch with which the apostle’s relations to- 
wards liis Thessalonian converts arc drawn — his yearn- 
ing to see them, his anxiety in the absence of Timothy, 
and his heart-felt rejoicing at the good news— are quite 
beyond the reach of the clumsy forgeries of the early 
Church. In the second place, the writer uses language 
which, however it may he explained, is certainly color- 
ed by the anticipation of the speedy advent of the Lord 
— language natural enough on the apostle’s own lips, 
but quite inconceivable in a forgery written after his 
death, when time had disappointed these anticipations, 
and when the revival or mention of them would serve 
no purpose and might seem to discredit the apostle. 
Such a position would be an anachronism in a writer of 
the 2d century. 

The genuineness of this epistle was first questioned 
by Schrader {A pastel Paulas ), who was followed by 
Baur ( Pa ulus , p. -ISO). The latter writer has elaborated 
and systematized the attack. The arguments which 
lie alleges in favor of his view are briefly controverted 
by Liinemann, and more at length, and with great fair- 
ness, by Jowett. The following is a summary of Baur’s 
arguments, (o.) lie attributes great weight to the 
general character of the epistle, the difference of style, 
and especially the absence of distinctive Pauline doc- 
trines — a peculiarity which will be remarked upon and I 
explained below (§ iii). ( b .) In the mention of the 
“wrath” overtaking the Jewish people (ii, 1G), Baur 
sees an allusion to the destruction of Jerusalem, and 
therefore a proof of the later date of the epistle. The 
real significance of these words will be considered below 
in discussing the Apocalyptic passage in the second 
epistle, (e.) lie urges the contradictions to the ac- 
count in the Acts — a strange argument, surely, to be 
brought forward by Baur, who postdates and discredits 
the authority of that narrative. The real extent and 
bearing of these divergences will be considered below 
(§ iv). (d.) lie discovers references to the Acts, which 
show that the epistle was written later. It will be 
seen, however, that the coincidences are subtle and in- 
cidental, and the points of divergence and prima-facie 
contradictions, which Baur himself allows, and indeed 
insists upon, are so numerous as to preclude the suppo- 
sition of copying. Schlciermacher (Pin hit. ins X. T. 
p. 150) rightly infers the independence of the epistle on 
these grounds. (V.) lie supposes passages in this epis- 
tle to have been borrowed from the acknowledged let- 
ters of I ’aid. The resemblances, however, which he 
points out are not greater than, or, indeed, so great as. 
those in other epistles, and bear no traces of imita- 
tion. 

11. Date . — This has been approximately determined 
in the following way: During the course of his second 
missionary journey, which began in the year 47, Paul 
founded the Church of Thessaloniea. Leaving Thessa- 
loniea, lie passed on to Bercea. From Bercea he went 
to Athens, and from Athens to Corinth (Acts xvii, 1- 
xviii, 18). With this visit to Corinth, which extends 
over a period of two years or thereabouts, his second 
missionary journey closed, for from Corinth he return- 
ed to Jerusalem, paying only a brief visit to Ephesus on 
the way (ver. 20, 21 ). There is some uncertainty about 
the movements of Patti's companions at this time (see 
below); but, whatever view we adopt on this point, it 
seems indisputable that, when this epistle was written. 
►Silvan us and Timothy were in the apostle’s company 
(1 Thess. i, 1; comp. 2 Thess. i, 1) — a circumstance which 
confines the date to the second missionary journey, for, 
though Timothy was with him on several occasions af- 
terwards, the name of Silvanus appears for the last time 
in connection with Paul during this visit to Corinth 
(Acts xviii, 5; 2 Cor. i, 10). The epistle, then, must 
have been written in the interval between Paul’s lcav- , 
ing Thessaloniea and the close of his residence at Cor- i 


in tli, i. e. within the years 48-51. The following con- 
siderations, however, narrow the limits of the possible 
date still more closely. (1.) When Paul wrote, he had 
already visited, and probably left, Athens (1 Thess. iii, 
1). (2.) Having made two unsuccessful attempts to 

revisit Thessaloniea, he had despatched Timothy to 
obtain tidings of his converts there. Timothy had re- 
turned before the apostle wrote (ver. 2, G). (3.) Paul 

speaks of the Thessalonians as “ensatnples to all that 
believe in Macedonia and Achaia,” adding that “ in ev- 
ery place their faith to God-ward was spread abroad” (i, 
7, 8) — language prompted, indeed, by the overflowing 
of a grateful heart, and therefore not to be rigorously 
pressed, but still implying some lapse of time at least. 
(4.) There are several traces of a growth and progress 
in the condition and circumstances of the Thessalonian 
Church. Perhaps the mention of “rulers” in the Church 
(v, 12) ought not to be adduced as proving this, since 
some organization would be necessary from the very 
beginning. But there is other evidence besides. Ques- 
tions had arisen relating to the state of those who had 
fallen asleep in Christ, so that one or more of the Thcs- 
salonian converts must have died in the interval (iv, 
13-18). The storm of persecution which the apostle 
had discerned gathering on the horizon had already 
burst upon the Christians of Thessaloniea (iii, 4, 7). Ir- 
regularities had crept in and sullied the infant purity 
of the Church (iv, 4; v, 14). The lapse of a few months, 
however, would account for these changes, and a much 
longer time cannot well be allowed. For (5) the letter 
was evidently written by Paul immediately on the re- 
turn of Timothy, in the fulness of his gratitude for the 
joyful tidings (iii, G). Moreover (G), the second epistle 
also was written before he left Corinth, and there must 
have been a sufficient interval between the two to al- 
low of the growth of fresh difficulties, and of such com- 
munication between the apostle and his converts as the 
case supposes. We shall not be far wrong, therefore, 
in placing the writing of this epistle early in Paul’s res- 
idence at Corinth, a few months after he had founded 
the Church at Thessaloniea, i. e. during the }*ear 49. 

The statement in the subscription appearing in sev- 
eral MSS. and versions that it was written “from Ath- 
ens” is a superficial inference from 1 Thess. iii, 1, to 
which no weight should be attached, as is clear from 
the epistle itself. (1.) In i, 7. 8 Paul says that the 
Thessalonians had become “ensamples to all that be- 
lieve in Macedonia and Achaia: for from you [says 
he] sounded out the word of the Lord not only in Mac- 
edonia and Achaia, but also in every place your faith 
to God-ward is spread abroad.” Now, for such an ex- 
tensive diffusion of the fame of the Thessalonian Chris- 
tians and of the Gospel by them, a much longer period 
of time must have elapsed than is allowed by the sup- 
position that Paul wrote this epistle while at Athens; 
and, besides, his reference particularly to Achaia seems 
■ prompted by the circumstance of his being, at the time 
he wrote, in Achaia, of which Corinth was the chief 
city. (2.) His language in iii, 1,2 favors the opinion 
that it was not from Athens, but after he had left Ath- 
ens, that lie wrote this epistle; it is hardly the turn 
which one living at Athens at the time would have 
given his words. (3.) Is it likely that during the 
short time Paul was in .Athens before writing this epis- 
tle (supposing him to have written it there) he should 
have “over and again” purposed to revisit t lie Thessa- 
lonians, but have been hindered? And vet such pur- 
poses he had entertained before writing this epistle, as 
we learn from ii, 18; and this greatly favors the later 
date. (4.) Before Paul wrote this epistle, Timothy had 
come to him from Thessaloniea with good tidings con- 
cerning the faith and charity of the Christians there 
(iii, G). But had Timothy followed Paul to Athens from 
Benca, what tidings eouhl he have brought the apostle 
from Thessaloniea except such hearsay reports as would 
inform the apostle of nothing he did not already know? 

I From these considerations it follows that this epistle 


THESSALONIANS 


345 


TIIESS ALON I AN S 


was not written from Athens. It must, however, have 
been written very soon after his arrival at Corinth; for 
at the time of his writing Timothy had just arrived 
from Thessalonica ( dpn L\56ptq(; TipoSeov, iii, G), and 
Paul had not been long in Corinth before Timothy and 
Silas joined him there (Acts xvii, 1-5). 

Michuelis contends for a later date, but his arguments 
are destitute of weight. Before Paul could learn that 
the fame of the Thessalonian Church had spread through 
Achaia and far beyond, it was not necessary, as Michae- 
lia supposes, that he should have made several exten- 
sive journeys from Corinth ; for as that city, from its 
mercantile importance, was the resort of persons from 
all parts of the commercial world, the apostle had abun- 
dant means of gathering this information even during 
a brief residence there. As little is it necessary to re- 
sort to the supposition that when Paul says that over 
and again Satan had hindered him from fulfilling his 
intention of visiting Thessalonica he must refer to ship- 
wrecks or some such misfortunes (as Michaelis sug- 
gests); for Satan has many ways of hindering men 
from such purposes besides accidents in travelling. The 
views of critics who have assigned to this epistle a later 
date than the second missionary journey are stated and 
refuted in the Introduction of Koch (p. 23, etc.) and of 
Liinemann (§ 3). 

III. Relation to Other Epistles. — The epistles to the 
Thessalonians then (for the second followed the first 
after no long interval) are the earliest of Paul’s writ- 
ings — perhaps the earliest written records of Christian- 
ity. They belong to that period which Paul elsewhere 
styles “the beginning of the Gospel” (Phil, iv, 15). 
They present the disciples in the first flush of love and 
devotion, yearning for the day of deliverance, and strain- 
ing their eyes to catch the first glimpse of their Lord 
descending amidst the clouds of heaven, till in their 
feverish anxiety they forget the sober business of life 
absorbed in this one engrossing thought. It will be re- 
membered that a period of about five years intervenes 
before the second group of epistles — those to the Corin- 
thians, Galatians, and Romans — were written, and about 
twice that period to the date of the epistles of the Ro- 
man captivity. It is interesting, therefore, to compare 
the Thessalonian epistles with the later letters and to 
note the points of difference. These differences are 
mainly fourfold. 

1. In the general style of these earlier letters there is 
greater simplicity and less exuberance of language. 
The brevity of the opening salutation is an instance of 
this. “Paul ... to the Church of the Thessalonians 
in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, grace and 
peace to you” (1 Thess. i, 1 ; comp, 2 Thess. i, I). The 
closing benediction is correspondingly brief: “The grace 
of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you” (1 Thess. v, 28; 
comp. 2 Thess. iii, 18). And throughout the epistles 
there is much more evenness of style; words are not ac- 
cumulated in the same way, the syntax is less involved, 
parentheses are not so frequent, the turns of thought 
and feeling are less sudden and abrupt, and, altogether, 
there is less intensity and variety than we find in Paul’s 
later epistles. 

2. The antagonism to Paul is not the same. The di- 
rection of the attack has changed in the interval be- 
tween the writing of these epistles and those of the 
next group. Here the opposition comes from Jews. 
The admission of the Gentiles to the hopes and privi- 
leges of Messiah’s kingdom on any condition is repul- 
sive to them. They “forbade the apostle to speak to 
the Gentiles that they might be saved” (1 Thess. ii, 10). 
A period of live years changes the aspect of the contro- 
versy. The opponents of Paul are now no longer Jews 
so much as Judaizing Christians (Kwald,./u/?r5. iii, 249; 
Sendschr. p. 14). The question of the admission of the 
Gentiles has been solved by time, for they have “taken 
the kingdom of heaven by storm.” But the antago- 
nism to the apostle of the Gentiles having been driven 
from its first position, entrenched itself behind a second 


barrier. It was now urged that though the Gentiles 
mav be admitted to the Church of Christ, the only door 
of admission is the Mosaic covenant-rite of circumci- 
sion. The language of Paul speaking of the Jewish 
Christians in this epistle shows that the opposition to 
his teaching had not at this time assumed this second 
phase. He does not yet regard them as the disturbers 
of the peace of the Church, the false teachers who, bv 
imposing a bondage of ceremonial observances, frustrate 
the free grace of God. lie can still point to them as 
examples to his converts at Thessalonica (l Thess. ii, 
14). The change, indeed, was imminent; the signs of 
the gathering storm had already appeared (Gal. ii, 1 1), 
but hitherto they were faint and indistinct, and had 
scarcely darkened the horizon of the Gentile churches. 

3. It will be no surprise that the doctrinal teaching 
of the apostle does not bear quite the same aspect in 
these as in the later epistles. Many of the distinctive 
doctrines of Christianity, which are inseparably connect- 
ed with Paul’s name, though implicitly contained in 
the teaching of these earlier letters — as indeed they fol- 
low directly from the true conception of the person of 
Christ — were yet not evolved and distinctly enunciated 
till the needs of the Church drew them out into promi- 
nence at a later date. It has often been observed, for 
instance, that there is in the epistles to the Thessalonians 
no mention of the characteristic contrast of “faith and 
works;” that the word “justification” does not once oc- 
cur; that the idea of dying with Christ and living with 
Christ, so frequent in Paul's later writings, is absent in 
these. It was, in fact, the opposition of Judaizing 
Christians insisting on a strict ritualism which led the 
apostle, somewhat later, to dwell at greater length on 
the true doctrine of a saving faith and the true concep- 
tion of a godly life; but the time had not yet come. 

4. This difference appears especially in the eschatolo- 
gy of the apostle. In the epistles ‘to the Thessalonians, 
as has been truly observed, the Gospel preached is that 
of the coming of Christ, rather than of the cross of 
Christ. There are many reasons why the subject of 
the second advent should occupy a larger space in the 
earliest stage of the apostolical teaching than after- 
wards. It was closely bound up with the fundamental 
fact of the Gospel, the resurrection of Christ, and thus 
it formed a natural starting-point of Christian doctrine. 
It afforded the true satisfaction to those Messianic hopes 
which had drawn the Jewish converts to the fold of 
Christ. It was the best consolation and support of the 
infant Church under persecution, which must have been 
most keenly felt in the first abandonment of worldly 
pleasures and interests. More especially, as telling of 
a righteous Judge who would not overlook iniquity, it 
was essential to that call to repentance which must ev- 
erywhere precede the direct and positive teaching of 
the Gospel. “ Now he commandeth all men everywhere 
to repent, for he hath appointed a day in the which he 
will judge the world in righteousness by that Man w r hom 
he hath ordained, whereof he hath given assurance unto 
all men in that he raised him from the dead” (Acts xvii, 
30,31). 

There is no just ground, however, for the supposition 
that the apostle entertained precipitate expectations as 
to the Lord’s second coming. His language is suited 
to every age of the Church. Where an event is cer- 
tain of accomplishment, but uncertain as regards the 
precise time, it may be said to be always “at hand” to 
devout expectation; and this is the aspect which the 
topic in question, after all that has been w r ritten on the 
subject, wears in Paul’s writings taken as a whole. The 
task of proving that he was mistaken, and therefore 
that, the gift of inspiration was only partial, is as ardu- 
ous as one would suppose it must be ungrateful. 

IV. Relation to the Associated History. — A compari- 
son of the narrative in the Acts with the allusions in 
this and the Second Epistle to the Thessalonians is 
equally instructive with the foregoing comparison. 
With some striking coincidences, there is just that de- 


TIIESSA LON IANS 


34G 


TIIESSALONIANS 


gree of divergence which might be expected between a 
writer who had borne the principal part in the scenes 
referred to and a narrator who derives his information 
from others, between the casual half-expressed allusions 
of a familiar letter and the direct account of the pro- 
fessed historian. 

1. Passing over patent coincidences, wc may single 
out one of a more subtle and delicate kind. It arises 
out of the form which the accusation brought against 
Paul and his companions at Thessalouica takes in the 
Acts: "All these do contrary to the decrees of Oesar, 
saying that there is another king, one Jesus” (xvii, 7). 
The allusions in the epistles to the Thessalonians ena- 
ble us to understand the ground of this accusation. It 
appears that the kingdom of Christ had entered largely 
into his oral teaching in this city, as it docs into that 
of the epistles themselves, lie had charged his new 
converts to await the coming of the Son of God from 
heaven as their deliverer (i, 10). He had dwelt long 
and earnestly (;rpoe< Trn/m' ko\ ^npapTvpdpt^a) on the 
terrors of the judgment which would overtake the wick- 
ed (iv. G). lie had even explained at length the signs 
which would usher in the last day (2 Thess. ii, 5). 
Either from malice or in ignorance such language had 
been misrepresented, and he was accused of setting up 
a rival sovereign to the Homan emperor. 

2. On the other hand, the language of these epistles 
diverges from the narrative of Luke on two or three 
points in such a way as to establish the independence 
of the two accounts, and even to require some explana- 
tion. 

(1.) The first of these relates to the composition of 
the Church of Thessalouica. In the first epistle Paul 
addresses his readers distinctly as Gentiles, who had 
been converted from idolatry to the Gospel (i, 9. 10). In 
the Acts we are told that ‘•some (of the Jews) believed, 
. . . ami of the devout Greeks (i. c. proselytes) a great 
multitude, and of the chief women not a few” (xvii, 4). 
If for atfiopn’iov ‘EXX iji'wv we read otfiofiivwv tca'i 
‘EXX/'/ru/r, “ proselytes and Greeks,” the difficulty van- 
ishes; but though internal probabilities are somewhat 
in favor of this reading, the array of direct evidence 
(now reinforced bv the Codex Sinaitieus) is against it. 
Put even if we retain the common reading, the account 
of Luke docs not exclude a number of believers con- 
verted directly from heathendom ; indeed, if we may 
argue from the parallel case at Bercea (xvii, 12), the 
‘•women” were chiefly of this class; and if any diver- 
gence remains, it is not greater than might be expected 
in two independent writers, one of whom, not being an 
eye-witness, possessed only a partial and indirect knowl- 
edge. Both accounts alike convey the impression that 
the Gospel made but little progress with the Jews them- 
selves. 

(2.) In the epistle the persecutors of the Thessalonian 
Christians are represented as their fellow-countrymen, 
i. e. as heathens (in to t iov iSiiov <rcp<pu\tTu>i’, ii, 14), 
whereas in the Acts the Jews are regarded as the bit- 
terest opponents of the faith (xvii, 5). This is fairly 
met by Paley (lloriv Paul, ix. No. 5), who points out 
that the Jews were the instigators of the persecution, 
which, however, they were powerless of themselves to 
carry out without aid from the heathen, as may be gath- 
ered even from the narrative of Luke. We may add, 
also, that the expression Icioi <7 vp<pu\trai need not be 
restricted to the heathen population, but might include 
many Hellenist Jews who must have been citizens of 
the free town of Thessalouica. 

(3.) The narrative of Luke appears to state that Paul 
remained only three weeks at Thessalouica (xvii, 2), 
whereas in the epistle, though there is no direct men- 
tion of the length of his residence among them, the 
whole language (i, 4; ii. 4-11) points to a much longer 
period. The latter part of t lie assertion seems quite 
correct, the former needs to be modified. In the Acts 
it is stated simply that for three Sabbath days (three 
weeks) Paul taught in the synagogue. The silence of 


the writer does not exclude subsequent labor among the 
Gentile population; and, indeed, as much seems to be 
implied in t lie success of his preaching, which exasper- 
ated the Jews against him. 

(4.) The notices of the movements of Silas and Timo- 
thy in t lie two documents do not accord at first sight. 
In the Acts Paul is conveyed away secretly from Bercea 
to escape the Jews. Arrived at Athens, he sends to Si- 
las and Timothy, whom he had left behind at Bercea, 
urging them to join him as soon as possible (xvii, 14- 
1G). It is evident from the language of Luke that the 
apostle expects them to join him at Athens; yet we 
hear nothing more of them for some time, when at 
length, after Paul had passed on to Corinth, and sev- 
eral incidents had occurred since his arrival there, we 
are told that Silas and Timothy came from Macedonia 
(xviii, 5). From the first epistle, on the other hand, we 
gather the following facts: Paul there tells us that they 
i. e. himself, ami probably Silas), no longer able 
to endure the suspense, “consented to be left alone at 
Athens, and sent Timotheus their brother” to Thcssa- 
lonica (i ii, 1, 2). Timothy returned with good news 
(ver. G) (whether to Athens or Corinth does not ap- 
pear), and when the two epistles to the Thessalonians 
were written, both Timothy and Silas were with Paul 
(i, 1 ; 2 Thess. i, 1 ; comp. 2 Cor. i, 19). Now, though 
we may not be prepared, with Paley, to construct an un- 
designed coincidence out of these materials, yet, on the 
other hand, there is no insoluble difficulty; for the 
events may be arranged in two different ways, either 
of which will bring the narrative of the Acts into ac- 
cordance with the allusions of the epistle. 

(</.) Timothy was despatched to Thessalonica, not 
from Athens, but from Bercea, a supposition quite con- 
sistent with the apostle’s expression of “consenting to 
he left alone at Athens.” In this case Timothy would 
take up Silas somewhere in Macedonia on his return, 
and the two would join Paul in company ; not, however, 
at Athens, where he was expecting them, but later on at 
Corinth, some delay having arisen. This explanation, 
however, supposes that the plurals “ice consented, ice 
sent” (ti>doKi)(TctpEr< t7rtp\l/apiv'), can refer to Paul alone. 

(6.) The alternative mode of reconciling the accounts 
is as follows: Timothy and Silas did join the apostle 
at Athens, where we learn from the Acts that he was 
expecting them. From Athens he despatched Timo- 
thy to Thessalonica, so that he and Silas (pptlg) had 
to forego the services of their fellow-laborer for a time. 
This mission is mentioned in the epistle, but not in t lie 
Acts. ’ Subsequently he sends Silas on some other mis- 
sion, not recorded either in the history or the epistle; 
probably to another Macedonian Church — Philippi, for 
instance, from which he is known to have received con- 
tributions about this time, and with which, therefore, 
he was in communication (2 Cor. xi, 9; comp. Phil, iv, 
14-16; see Koch. p. 15). Silas and Timothy returned 
together from Macedonia and joined the apostle at Cor- 
inth. This latter solution, if it assumes more than the 
former, has the advantage that it preserves the proper 
sense of the plural “ice consented, ice sent.” for it is at 
least doubtful whether Paul ever uses the plural of him- 
self alone. The silence of Luke may in this case be ex- 
plained either by his possessing only a partial knowl- 
edge of the circumstances, or by his passing over inci- 
dents of which he was aware as unimportant. 

Whether the expected meeting ever took place at 
Athens is therefore a matter involved in much uncer- 
tainty. Michnelis, Eichhorn, De Wette, Koppe, Pelt, 
and others are of opinion that, at least as respects Timo- 
thy, it did take place; and they infer that Paul again 
remanded him to Thessalonica. and that he made a sec- 
ond journey along with Silas to join the apostle at Cor- 
inth. Hug, on the other hand, supposes only one jour- 
ney, viz. from Thessalonica to Corinth ; and understands 
the apostle, in 1 Thess. iii, 1, 2, as intimating, not that 
he had sent Timothy from Athens to Thessalonica, but 
that he had prevented his corning to Athens by send- 


THESSALONIANS 


347 


TIIESSALONIANS 


ing l\im from Bercea to Thessalonica. Between these 
two opinions there is nothing to enable ns to judge with 
certainty, unless we attaeh weight to the expression of 
Luke, that Paul had desired the presence of Timothy 
and Silas in Athens <5i; r«%iora, “as speedily as possi- 
ble.” His desiring them to follow him thus, without 
loss of time, favors the conclusion that they did rejoin 
him in Athens, and were thence sent to Thessalonica. 
See Silas; Tuiotiiy. 

V. Occasion of the Epistle . — We are now prepared to 
consider the circumstances of the Church at Thessalo- 
nica which drew forth this letter. These were as fol- 
lows : Paul had twice attempted to revisit Thessalonica, 
and both times had been disappointed. Thus prevent- 
ed from seeing them in person, he had sent Timothy 
to inquire and report to him as to their condition (iii, 
1-5). Timothy returned with most favorable tidings, 
reporting not only their progress in Christian faith and 
practice, but also their strong attachment to their old 
teacher (ver. 6-10). The First Epistle to the Thessalo- 
nians is the outpouring of the apostle’s gratitude on re- 
ceiving this welcome news. 

At the same time, the report of Timothy was not un- 
mixed with alloy. There were certain features in the 
condition of the Thessalonian Church which called for 
Paul’s interference, and to which he addresses himself 
in his letter. (I.) The very intensity of their Christian 
faith, dwelling too exclusively on the day of the Lord’s 
coming, had been attended with evil consequences. On 
the one hand, a practical inconvenience had arisen. In 
their feverish expectation of this great crisis, some had 
been led to neglect their ordinary business, as if the 
daily concerns of life were of no account in the immedi- 
ate presence of so vast a change (iv, 1 1 ; comp. 2 Thess. 
ii, 1; iii, 6. 11, 12). On the other hand, a theoretical 
difficulty had been felt. Certain members of the Church 
had died, and there was great anxiety lest they should 
be excluded from any share in the glories of the Lord’s 
advent (iv, 13-18). Paul rebukes the irregularities of 
the former, and dissipates the fears of the latter. (2.) 
The tlame of persecution had broken out, and the Thes- 
salonians needed consolation and encouragement under 
their sore trial (ii, 14; iii, 2-4). (3.) An unhealthy state 
of feeling with regard to spiritual gifts was manifesting 
itself. Like the Corinthians at a later day, they needed 
to be reminded of the superior value of “ prophesying,” 
compared with other gifts of the Spirit which they ex- 
alted at its expense (v, 19, 20). (4.) There was the dan- 
ger, which they shared in common with most Gentile 
churches, of relapsing into their old heathen profligacy. 
Against this the apostle offers a word in season (iv, 
4-8). We need not suppose, however, that Thessalo- 
nica was worse in this respect than other Greek cities. 
See Thessalonica. 

Yet, notwithstanding all these drawbacks, the condi- 
tion of the Thessalonian Church was highly satisfac- 
tory, and the most cordial relations existed between 
Paul and his converts there. This honorable distinc- 
tion it shares with the other great Church of Macedo- 
nia, that of Philippi. At all times, and amid every 
change of circumstance, it is to his Macedonian church- 
es that the apostle turns for sympathy and support. A 
period of nearly ten years is interposed between the First 
Epistle to the Thessalonians and the Epistle to the Phi- 
lippians, and yet no two of his letters more elosely re- 
semble each other in this respeet. In both he drops 
his official title of apostle in the opening salutation, 
thus appealing rather to their affection than to his own 
authority; in both he commences the body of his letter 
with hearty and unqualified commendation of his con- 
verts; and in both the same spirit of confidence and 
warm affection breathes throughout. 

VI. Contents . — The design of this epistle thus being 
to comfort the Thessalonians under trial, and to encour- 
age them to the patient and consistent profession of 
Christianity, the letter itself is rather practical than 
doctrinal. It was suggested more by personal feeling 


than by any urgent need, which might have formed a 
centre of thought, and impressed a distinct character on 
the whole. Under these circumstances, we need not 
expect to trace unity of purpose, or a continuous argu- 
ment, and any analysis must be more or less artificial. 
The body of the epistle, however, may conveniently be 
divided into two parts, the former of which, extending 
over the first three chapters, is chiefly taken up with a 
retrospect of the apostle’s relation to his Thessalonian 
converts, and an explanation of his present circum- 
stances and feelings; while the latter, comprising the 
4th and 5th chapters, contains some seasonable exhorta- 
tions. At the close of each of these divisions is a prayer 
commencing with the same words, “May God himself,” 
etc., and expressed in somewhat similar language. The 
epistle may therefore be tabulated as follows: 

Salutation (i, 1). 

I. Narrative portion (i, 2— iii, 13). 

1. The apostle gratefully records their conversion to 

the Gospel and their progress in the faith (i, 2—10). 

2. He reminds them how pure and blameless his life 

and ministry among them had been (ii, 1-12). 

3. He repeats his thanksgiving for their conversion, 

dwelling especially on the persecutions which 

they had endured (ii, 13-16). 

4. He describes his own suspense and anxiety, the 

consequent mission of Timothy to Thessalonica, 

and the encouraging report which he brought 

back (ii, 1 T— iii, in). 

5. The apostle’s prayer for the Thessalonians (iii, Il- 

ia). 

II. Hortatory portion (iv, 1-v, 24). 

1. Warning against impurity (iv, 1-8). 

2. Exhortation to brotherly love and sobriety of con- 

duct (iv, 0-12). 

3. Touching the advent of the Lord (iv, 13-v, 11). 

a. The dead shall have their place in the resurrec- 

tion (iv, 13-1S). 

b. The time, however, is uncertain (v, 1-3). 

c. Therefore all must be watchful (v, 4-11). 

4. Exhortation to orderly living and the due perform-. 

ance of social duties (v, 12-15). 

5. Injunctions relating to prayer and spiritual mat- 

ters generally (v, 16-22). 

6. The apostle’s prayer for the Thessalonians (v, 23, 

24). 

The epistle closes with personal injunctions and a ben- 
ediction (v, 25-28). 

VII. Commentaries. — The following are the special 
exegetieal helps on both the epistles to the Thessaloni- 
ans exclusively; to the most important of them we pre- 
fix an asterisk: Willieli, Commentarius (Argent. 1545; 
Basil. 1546. 8vo) ; Weller, Commentarius [inelnd. Phil.] 
(Norib. 1561, 8vo); Major, Enarratio (Vitemb. 1563, 
8vo); Museulus, Commentarius [includ. other ep.] (Ba- 
sil. 1564, 1578, 1595, fol.) ; Aretius, Commentarius [in- 
clud. Phil, and Col.] (Morg. 1580, 8vo); *Jewell, Ex- 
position (Loud. 1583, 12mo; 1811,8vo; also in Latin, 
and in lForA’s) ; Zanehius, Commentarius [inelnd. Phil, 
and Col.] (Neost. 1595, fol.; also in Opp.)', *Bollock, 
Commentarius (Edinb. 1598; Herb. 1601, 8vo); also 
Lectures (Edinb. 1 606, 4 to) ; II tin ni ns, Expositio (F rancof. 
1603, 8vo); Steuart [Bom. Catli.], Commentarius (In- 
golst. 1609, 4to); Crell [ Soei n. ] , Commentarius [from 
Pet. Moeov’s notes] (Bacov. 1636, 8vo; also in Opp.) ; 
Ferguson, Exposition (Loud. 1674, 8vo) ; Schmid, Para- 
phrasis [includ. other ep.] (Ilamb. 1691, 1696, 1704, 4to) ; 
Landresen, Erklaruny (Frankf. 1707, 4to); Streso, Meek- 
tatien (Amst. 1710, 8vo); Turretin, Commentarius (Basil. 
1739, 8vo; also in Opp.) ; Chandler, Notes [includ. Gal.] 
(Lond. 1777, 4to) ; Krause, Erklaruny [inelnd. Phil.] 
(Frankf. 1790); Sehleiermaeher, Notoe. (Berol. 1823, 8vo) ; 
*Pelt , Commentarius (Grvph. 1830, 8vo); Schott, Com- 
mentarius (Lips. 1834, 8vo) ; Tafel, Historia Thessalo - 
nicensium (Tub. 1835, 8vo) ; Sumner, Lectures (Lond. 
1850, 2 vols. 12mo); Lillie, Version (N. Y. 1856, 4to); 
also Lectures (ibid. 1870, 8vo); *Ellieott, Commentary 
(Lond. 1858, 1862, 1866, 8vo); Edmunds, Commentary 
(ibid. 1858, 8vo) ; Headland, Notes (ibid. 1866, 8vo) : 
*Eadie, Commentary (ibid. 1877, 8vo). See Epistle. 

On the first epistle alone there are the following: 
Sclatcr, Exposition (Lond. 1629, 4to) ; Martin, A naly- 
sis (Greening. 1669, 12mo); Van Alphen, Verklaeriny 


348 


Til ESSALOX I AXS 


TIIESSALOXIAXS 


(Ptrceht, 17 II, 4 to) ; Phillips, Explanation (Loud. 1751, 
lto>: Ihirgerliondr, he Arynmento, etc. (L. B. 18*25, 
8vo) ; Koch, Commentin' (Berl. 1818, 1855, 8vo); Pater- 
son. Commentary [inchul. James and 1 John] (Julinb. 
1857, 8vo). See Commentary. 

THESSALONIANS, Second Epistle to the, fol- 
lows immediately after the tirst in all the texts and 
version*' of the New Test. 

1. Author.— \. The external evidence in favor of the 
second epistle is somewhat more definite than that 
which can be brought in favor of the tirst. It seems to 
be referred to in one or two passages of Poly carp (iii, 
15, in Polve. c. 1 l,and possibly i,l in the same chapter; 
comp, l’oiyc. c. 3. ami see Larduer, ii, 0); and the lan- 
guage in which Justin Martyr (Dial. p. 336 1 ) ) speaks 
of the Man of Sin is so similar that it can scarcely be 
independent, of this epistle. With Irenams the direct 
testimony commences (Adv. liar. iii. 7, 2): “And 
again in the second epistle to the Thossalonians, speak- 
ing concerning Antichrist, ‘And then shall the un- 
godly one be revealed, whom the Lord Jesns Christ 
shall slay with the breath of his month,’ ’’etc. (comp. 
2 Thcss. ii, 8). Clemens Alexaudrinns ( Strom . v, 554) : 
“The apostle says, ‘Pray that we may be delivered 
from perverse and wicked men. for all have not faith’” 
(comp. 2 Thcss. iii, 2). Tertullian (he Res. C amis , 
xxiv. 339): ‘‘And in the second epistle to the same.” 
viz. the Thessalonians. “with greater earnestness he 
savs, ‘I beseech you, brethren, bv the coining of the 
Lord Jesns Christ, etc., that ye be not soon moved in 
your mind, nor shaken, neither by spirit nor by word,”’ 
etc. (comp. 2 Thcss. ii, 2, 3). 

The second epistle, like the first, is found in the can- 
ons of the Syriac and Old Latin versions, and in those 
of the Mnratorian fragment and of the heretic Marcion, 
and was universally received by the Church. 

2. The internal character of the epistle, as in the for- 
mer case, bears the strongest testimony to its Pauline 
origin (see Jowett, i, 143). .“The genuineness of this 
epistle.” remarks Eich horn, “ follows from its contents. 
Its design is to correct the erroneous use which had 
been made of some things in the first epistle; and who 
but the writer of that first epistle would have set him- 
self thus to such a task ? It, however, appears that the 
author of the first must also be the author of the sec- 
ond; and. as the former is the production of Paul, we 
must ascribe the latter also to him. It was essential 
to the apostle’s reputation that the erroneous conse- 
quences which had been deduced from his words should 
be refuted. Had he refrained from noticing the ex- 
pectation built upon his words of the speedy return of 
Christ, his silence would have confirmed the conclusion 
that this was one of his peculiar doctrines; as such it 
would have passed to the succeeding generation; and 
when they perceived that in this Paul had been mis- 
taken, what confidence could they have had in other 
parts of his teaching V The weight of this as an evi- 
dence of the genuineness of this Seeond Epistle to the 
Thessalonians acquires new strength from the fact that 
of all the other expressions in the epistle not one is 
opposed to any point either in the history or the doc- 
trine of the apostle” ( Eiuleit . ins ,V. T. iii, GO). 

3. Xotwithstanding these evidences in its favor, the 
genuineness of this epistle has been called into doubt 
by the restless scepticism of some of the Gorman crit- 
ics. The way here was led by John Ernest Chr. 
Schmidt, who, in 1801, published in his Bibliotheh fiir 
KrVik und Exeyese a tract entitled Yermuthnnyen liber 
die beitleu Briefe an die Tltcssa/onier , in which lie im- 
pugned the genuineness of the first twelve verses of 
the second. chapter, lie afterwards, in his Einleitnny , 
p. 25G, enlarged his objections and applied them to 
the whole epistle. He has been followed l>v Schrader 
(.4 post el Panins ), Kern ( Tit bitty. Zeitschr.f. Theol. 1839, 
ii. 145), and Haur (Panins tier Apostel). l)c Wette at 
first condemned this epistle, but afterwards withdrew 
his condemnation and frankly accepted it as genuine. 


His cavils are more than usually frivolous, and have 
been most fully replied to by Guericke ( Beitrdye zur 
hist.-krit. Eiuleit. ins X. T. [Halle, 1828], p. 92-99), by 
Keiche (Anthentiie Post, ad Thessalon. Epist. Yintliciie 
[Gbtt. 1829], and by Pelt, in the Prolegomena to his 
Commentary on the Epistles to the Thessalonians (p. 
xxvii). Sec also Grimm, in the Theol. Bind. u. Krit. 
1850, p. 753 s< j. ; Lipsius, ibid. 1854, p. 905 sq. ; Ililgen- 
feld, in his Zeitschr. f. miss. Theol. 1862, p. 225 sq. 

It will tints he seen that this epistle has been reject- 
ed by some modern critics who acknowledge t lie first to 
he genuine. Such critics, of course, attribute no weight 
to arguments brought against the first, such as we have 
considered already. The Apocalyptic passage (2 Thess. 
ii, 1-12) is the great stumbling-block to them. It has 
been objected to either as alluding to events subse- 
quent to Paul’s death — the Neronian persecution, for in- 
stance — or as betraying religious views derived from 
the Montanism of the 2d century, or, lastly, as contra- 
dicting Paul’s anticipations expressed elsewhere, espe- 
cially in the first epistle, of the near approach of the 
Lord’s advent. That there is no reference to Xero we 
shall endeavor to show presently. That the doctrine 
of an Antichrist did not start into being with Monta- 
nism is shown from the allusions of Jewish writers even 
before the Christian tera (see Bertholdt, Christ, p. 69; 
Glrorer, Jithrh. ties Ueils , ii, 257) ; and appears still more 
clearly from the passage of Justin Martyr referred to in 
the paragraph above. That the language used of the 
Lord’s coming in the second epistle does not contradict, 
but rather supplement, the teaching of the first,— post- 
poning the day, indeed, but still anticipating its ap- 
proach as possibly within the apostle’s lifetime — may 
be gathered bojth from expressions in the passage itself 
(e. g. ii, 7, “ is already working”) and from other parts nf 
the epistle (i, 7, 8), especially those which speak of the 
“ signs” of the coming. Other special objections to the 
epistle will scarcely command a hearing, and must nec- 
essarily be passed over here. 

II. hate.—' There is the strongest reason for believing 
that this second epistle was written very soon after the 
first, and at the same place, viz. Corinth, A. I), cir. 50. 
The circumstances of the apostle while writing the one 
seem very much the same as they were while writing 
the other; nor do those of the Thessalonians present 
any greater difference than such as the influences refer- 
red to in the second epistle may be supposed in a very 
short time to have produced. What seems almost to 
decide the question is that, while writing t he second 
epistle, the apostle had Timothy and Silas still with 
him. Now. after he left Corinth, it was not for a long 
time that either of these individuals was found again 
in his company (Acts xviii, 18; comp, xix, 22): and 
with regard to one of them, Silas, there is no evidence 
that he and Paul were ever together at any subsequent 
period. 

It will he seen presently that the teaching of the 
second epistle is corrective of, or rather supplemental 
to, that of the first, and therefore presupposes it. More- 
over, the first epistle bears on its face evidence that it 
is the first gush of his affectionate yearnings towards 
his converts after his departure from. Thessaloiiica ; 
while, on the other hand, the second epistle contains a 
direct allusion to a previous letter, which may suitably 
be referred to the first — “Hold fast the tradition which 
ye were taught either by word or by letter from ns” 
(ii, 15), We can scarcely be wrong, therefore, in main- 
taining the received order of the two epistles. It is 
due, however, to the great names of Grotins and of 
Ewald (Jahrb. iii, 250; Bendschr. p. 16), who are follow- 
ed in this by Baur, Hilgenfeld. Laurent, ami Davidson, 
to mention that they reverse the order, placing the sec- 
ond epistle before the first in point of time — on different 
grounds, indeed, but both equally insufficient to disturb 
the traditional order, supported as it is by the consider- 
ations already alleged. 

HI. Occasion and Design. — In the former letter we 


THESSALONIANS 


349 


THESSALONIANS 


saw chiefly the outpouring of strong personal affection 
occasioned by the renewal of the apostle’s intercourse 
with the Thessalonians, and the doctrinal and hortato- 
ry portions are there subordinate. In the second epis- 
tle, on the other hand, his leading motive seems to have 
been the desire of correcting errors in the Church of 
Thessalonica. We notice two points especially which 
call forth his rebuke. 

1. It seems that the anxious expectation of the Lord’s 
advent, instead of subsiding, had gained ground since 
the writing of the first epistle. They now looked upon 
this great crisis as imminent, and their daily vocations 
were neglected in consequence. There were expres- 
sions in the first epistle which, taken by themselves, 
might seem to favor this view; and, at all events, such 
was falsely represented to be the apostle’s doctrine. 
This notion some inculcated as a truth specially con- 
firmed to them by the Spirit; others advocated it as 
part of the apostolic doctrine; and some claimed for it 
the specific support of Paul in a letter (ii, 2). Wheth- 
er the letter here referred to is the apostle’s former epis- 
tle to the Thessalonians or one forged in his name by 
some keen and unscrupulous advocates of the notion 
above referred to is uncertain. The latter opinion has 
been very generally adopted from the time of Chrysos- 
tom downwards, and is certainly somewhat counte- 
nanced by the apostle’s statement in the close of the 
epistle as to his autograph salutation being the mark 
of a genuine letter from him (iii, 17). At the same 
time, it must be admitted that the probability of such 
a thing being done by any one at Thessalonica is, un- 
der all the circumstances of the case, not very strong, 
lie now writes to soothe this restless spirit and quell 
their apprehensions by showing that many things must 
happen first, and that the end was not yet. referring to 
his oral teaching at Thessalonica in confirmation of this 
statement (ii, 1—12 ; iii, 6-12). 

2. The apostle had also a personal ground of com- 
plaint. His authority was not denied by any, but it 
was tampered with, and an unauthorized use was made 
of his name, it is difficult to ascertain the exact cir- 
cumstances of the case from casual and indirect allu-* 
sions, and indeed we may perhaps infer from the vague- 
ness of the apostle’s own language that he himself 
was not in possession of definite information; but. at all 
events, his suspicions were aroused. Designing men 
might misrepresent his teaching in two ways, either by 
suppressing what he actually had written or said, or by 
forging letters and in other ways representing him as 
teaching what he had not taught. Paul’s language 
hints in different places at both these modes of false 
dealing. He seems to have entertained suspicious of this 
dishonesty even when he wrote the first epistle. At 
the close of that epistle he binds the Thessalonians by 
a solemn oath, “ in the name of the Lord,” to see that 
the epistle is read “ to all the holy brethren” (v, 27) — 
a charge unintelligible in itself, and only to be explain- 
ed by supposing some misgivings in the apostle’s mind. 
Before the second epistle was written his suspicions 
seem to have been confirmed, for there are two pas- 
sages which allude to these misrepresentations of his 
teaching. In the first of these lie tells them in vague 
lauguage, which may refer equally well to a false inter- 
pretation put upon his own words in the first epistle, or 
to a supplemental letter forged in his name, “not to be 
troubled either by spirit or by word or by letter, as 
coming from us, as if the day of the Lord were at hand.” 
They are not to be deceived, he adds, by any one, what- 
ever means he employs (<c«rd ptjosvct rpoirov, ii, 2, 3). 
In the second passage, at the close of the epistle, lie 
says, “The salutation of Paul with mine own hand, 
which is a token in every epistle: so I write” (iii, 17) 
— evidently a precaution against forgery. With these 
two passages should be combined the expression in iii. 
14, from which we infer that he now entertained a fear 
of direct opposition — “If any man ohev not our word 
conveyed by our epistle, note that man.” 


IV. Eschatology . — The most striking feature in the 
epistle is the apocalyptic passage, announcing the rev- 
elation of the Mail of Sin (ii. 1-12); and it will not 
be irrelevant to investigate its meaning, bearing, as it 
docs, on the circumstances under which the epistle was 
written, and illustrating this aspect of the apostle’s 
teaching. He had dwelt much on the subject; for lie 
appeals to the Thessalonians as knowing this truth, 
and reminds them that he told them these things when 
lie was yet with them. The following considerations 
may help to clear up this obscure subject. 

1. The passage speaks of a great apostasy which is 
to usher in the advent of Christ, the great judgment. 
There are three prominent figures in the picture — Christ, 
Antichrist, and the Restrainer. Antichrist is described 
as the Man of Sin, the Son of Perdition, as the Adver- 
sary who exalteth himself above all that is called God, 
as making himself out to be God. Later on (for appar- 
ently the reference is the same) he is styled the “ mys- 
tery of lawlessness,” “the lawless one.” The Restrain- 
er is in one place spoken of in the masculine as a per- 
son (6 Karkx *oi')r i n another in the neuter as a power, an 
influence (to Kare\ ov). The “ mystery of lawlessness” 
is already at work. At present it is checked by the 
Restrainer; but the check will be removed, and then it 
will break out in all its violence. Then Christ will ap- 
pear, and the enemy shall be consumed by the breath 
of his mouth, shall be brought to naught bv the splen- 
dor of his presence. 

2. Many different explanations have been offered of 
this passage. Each generation and each section in the 
Church has regarded it as a prophecy of that particular 
power which seemed to them and in their own time to 
be most fraught with evil to the true faith. A good 
account of these manifold interpretations will be found 
in Liinemann’s commentary on the epistle, p. 204, 
ScJdussbem. zu ii, 1-12 (see also Alford, Proleg.). By 911c 
class of interpreters it has been referred to circumstances 
which passed within the circle of the apostle’s own ex- 
perience, the events of his own lifetime, or the period 
immediately following. Others, again, have seen in it 
the prediction of a crisis yet to be realized, the end of 
all things. The former of these, the Pneterists, have 
identified the Man of Sin with divers historical char- 
acters, and have sought for a historical counterpart to 
the Restrainer in like manner. Among them may be 
mentioned Grolius, Wettstein, Whitby, Schottgeu, Nbs- 
selt, Krause, and Kern. Agreeing, however, in the main 
point of a past accomplishment, these writers differ 
widely from each other in the details of interpretation, 
'l’he Man of Sin was, according to Grotius, Caligula ; 
according to Wettstein, Titus; according to Hammond, 
Simon Magus; by many (Whitby, Le Clerc, etc.) the 
Jewish people are thought to have been thus indicated 
in their opposition to Christianity and to the Roman 
power (to /eaTfyoi'). Commentators of this class are, 
of course, compelled to consider the coming of Christ as 
already past, i. e. to interpret it of the destruction of 
Jerusalem; and this alone seems to render the view un- 
tenable. For Paul’s description of the parousia, or ap- 
pearance, of Christ (1 Thess. ii, 19) is far too exalted to 
correspond to any temporal event. The latter class of 
interpreters, the Futurists, have also given various ac- 
counts of the Antichrist, the mysterious power of evil 
which is already working. We hold, in general terms, 
that this view is substantially right, i. e. that the proph- 
ecy, however it may have been partially fulfilled in the 
past, yet awaits its complete fulfilment. But among 
the advocates of the Futurist opininu also differences 
of opinion prevail. To the Greek Church the Man of 
Sin was Mohammed, and the “mystery of iniquity” is 
Mohammedanism, which, it is held, will yet culminate 
in some fearfully Antichristian form. From the middle 
of the 11 th century the pope began to be considered the 
predicted Antichrist, and this view, as might have been 
expected, became the prevalent one in all the Protes- 
tant churches. By way of retaliation, Romanists main- 


TIIESSALON IAN S 


350 


TIIESSALON I AXS 


tained that Luther and Protestantism are pointed at in 
the passage. This seems to show the danger of limit- 
ing the prophecy to any one form of Antichristian er- 
ror. John writes that even in his time there were 
" many antichrists” (1 John ii, 18) ; the one he specifies 
as denying that "Jesus Christ had come in the fiesh” 
is descriptive neither of Mohammed nor of the pope 
nor of Luther, hut of the Gnostics. Many of the feat- 
ures of Antichrist as portrayed by Paul no doubt pre- 
sent themselves in the papacy, but others hardly so. 
At any rate, the papacy, so far as it contains elements 
of impiety, seems to have reached its culminating point; 
perhaps did so three hundred years ago, and yet Christ 
has not come. We are disposed, therefore, to adopt the 
vieiv that there have been, since the prophecy was writ- 
ten, many partial manifestations of Antichristian error 
— the Gnostics, the Jndaizing tendencies of the 1st cen- 
tury, Mohammed, the papacy, the French Involution, 
etc.; but that there still is in prospect some mystery of 
iniquity which will combine in itself the several evil 
tendencies which the Church has already witnessed, 
but in a greatly intensified form; and probably that 
this final outburst of impiety will be embodied in a 
personal head or representative, the Man of >Sin of our 
epistle. 11 is appearance will be the signal for the sec- 
ond advent of Christ. As regards the liestrainer (6 ica- 
r £\ u ) i ', to kuts\ov), the view' of the fathers does not 
seem far wrong — viz. that Paul obscurely alludes to the 
temporal power (in his'and their day the Roman em- 
pire), by which the excesses of lawless licentiousness 
are, to some extent, held in check, lienee, in Paul’s 
view, the mission of the State as such was a divine one 
(Rom. xiii). See Axtioiiklst. 

o. More particularly, therefore, in arbitrating between 
the Pneterists and the Futurists, we are led by the 
analogy of other prophetic announcements, as well as 
bv, the language of the passage itself, to take a middle 
course. Neither is wholly right, and yet both are, to a 
certain extent, right, it is the special characteristic of 
prophecy to speak of the distant future through the 
present and immediate. The persons and events falling 
within the horizon of the prophet’s own view are the 
types and representatives of greater figures and crises 
far off. and as yet but dimly discerned. Thus the older 
prophets, while speaking of a delivery from the tempo- 
rary oppression of Egypt or Pabylon, spoke also of Mes- 
siah's kingdom. Thus our Lord himself, foretelling the 
doom which was even then hanging over the holy city, 
glances at the future judgment of the world as typified 
and portrayed in this; and the tw'o are so interwoven 
that it is impossible to disentangle them. See Double 
Sense. Following this analogy, w*e may agree with 
the Pra*terists that Paul is referring to events which 
fell under his own cognizance; for indeed the Restrain- 
er is said to he restraining now, and the mystery of in- 
iquity to be already working; while, at the same time, 
we may accept the Futurist view 7 , that the apostle is 
describing the end of all things, and that therefore the 
prophecy has not yet received its most striking and 
complete fulfilment. This commingling of the imme- 
diate and partial with the final and universal manifes- 
tation of God’s judgments, characteristic of all proph- 
ecy, is rendered more easy in Paul’s case, because be 
seems to have contemplated the end of all things as 
possibly, or even probably, near at hand; and therefore 
the particular manifestation of Antichrist, which he 
witnessed with his own eyes, would naturally he merged 
in and identified with the final Antichrist, in which the 
opposition to the Gospel will culminate. See Escha- 
tology. 

4. If this view be correct, it remains to inquire what 
particular adversary of the Gospel, and what particular 
restraining influence, Paul may have had primarily in 
view. Rut, before attempting to approximate to an ex- 
planation, we may clear the way by laying down two 
rules. (1.) The imagery of the passage must lie inter- 
preted mainly by itself, and by the circumstances of the 


time. The symbols may be borrowed in some eases 
from the Old Test.; they may reappear in other parts 
of the New 7 . Rut we cannot be sure that the same im- 
age denotes exactly the same thing in both eases. The 
language describing the Man of Sin is borrowed, to some 
extent, from the representation of Autiochns Epiphanes 
in the Rook of Daniel, but Antiochus cannot be meant 
here. The great adversary in the Revelation seems to 
be the Roman power, but it may be widely different 
here. There were even in the apostolic age “ many 
antichrists;” and we cannot be sure that the Antichrist 
present to the mind of Paul was the same with the 
Antichrist contemplated by John. (2.) In all figura- 
tive passages it is arbitrary to assume that a person 
is denoted w'here w 7 e find a personification. Thus the 
Man of Sin here need not be an individual man; it 
may be a body of men, or a power, a spiritual influence. 
In the case of the Restrainer we seem to have positive 
ground for so interpreting it, since in one passage the 
neuter gender is used, "the thing which restraineth” 
(ro Kcirtx of), as if synonymous. (See Jowett, Essay 
on the Mun of Sin* i, 178, rather for suggestions as to 
the mode of interpretation than for the conclusion he 
arrives at; also Cowles, in the IHblioth. Sacra , xxix, 
023.) See Man of Six. 

5. When we inquire definitely, then, what Paul had 
immediately in view 7 when he spoke of the Man of Sin 
and the Restraiuer, w 7 e can only hope to get even an 
approximate answer by investigating the circumstanc.es 
of the apostle’s life at this epoch. Now 7 we find that 
the chief opposition to the Gospel, and especially to 
Paul’s preaching at this time, arose from the Jews. The 
Jew's had conspired against the apostle and his compan- 
ions at Thessalonica, and he only saved himself by se- 
cret flight. Thence they followed him to Rcroea, w hich 
he hurriedly left in the same way. At Corinth, w hence 
the letters to the Thessalonians w T ere written, they per- 
secuted him still further, raising a erv of treason against 
him, and bringing him before the Roman proconsul. 
These incidents explain the strong expressions he uses 
of them in these epistles: “They slew the Lord Jesus 
and the prophets, and persecuted the apostles; they are 
hateful to God; they are t lie common enemies of man- 
kind, whom the Divine w r rath (?) opy ?/) at length over- 
takes” (1 Thess. ii, 15, 1C). With these facts in view, it 
seems, on the whole, probable that the Antichrist, in its 
primary aspect, is represented especially by Judaism. 
With a prophetic insight the apostle foresaw, as he con- 
templated the moral and political condition of the race, 
the approach of a great and overwhelming catastrophe. 
And it is not improbable that our Lord’s predictions 
of the vengeance which threatened Jerusalem blended 
with the apostle’s vision, and gave a color to this pas- 
sage. If it seem strange that “ lawlessness” should be 
mentioned as the distinguishing feature of those whose 
very zeal for “the law 7 ” stimulated their opposition to 
the Gospel, we may appeal to our Lord's own words 
(Matt, xxiii, 28) describing the Jewish teachers, “ with- 
in they are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness {avoyia^). n 
Corresponding to this view of the Antichrist, we shall 
probably be correct, as already suggested, in regarding 
the Roman empire as the restraining power, fop so it 
was taken by many of the fathers, though without alto- 
gether understanding its bearing. It was to Roman 
justice and Roman magistrates that the apostle had re- 
course at this time to shield him from the enmity of 
the Jews, and to check their violence. At Philippi, his 
Roman citizenship extorted an ample apology for ill- 
treatment. At Thessalonica, Roman law 7 secured him 
fair play. At Corinth, a Roman proconsul acquitted 
him of frivolous charges brought by the Jew’s. It was 
only at a later date under Nero that Rome became the 
antagonist of Christendom, and then she also, in turn, 
was fitly portrayed by John as the type of Antichrist. 
Whether the Jewish opposition to the Gospel entirely 
exhausted Paul’s own conception of the “mystery of 
lawlessness” as he saw it “already working" in his own 


TH ESS ALONIC A 


351 


THESSALONICA 


day, or whether other elements did not also combine 
with this to complete the idea, it is impossible to say; 
but we may presume that he had at least a dim and 
general anticipation of the more distant future, and at 
least of the final earthly catastrophe which the Divine 
Spirit intimates in this striking prediction. Moreover, 
at this distance of time and with our imperfect informa- 
tion, we cannot hope to explain the exact bearing of 
all the details in the picture. But, following the guid- 
ance of history, we seem justified in adopting this as a 
probable, though only a partial, explanation of a very 
difficult passage. See Revelation, Book of. 

V. Contents.— This epistle, in the range of subject as 
well as in style and general character, closely resembles 
the first; and the remarks made on that epistle apply, 
for the most part, equally 7 well to this. The structure, 
also, is somewhat similar, the main body of the epistle 
being divided into two parts in the same way, and each 
part closing with a prayer (ii, 10, 17 ; iii, 10; both com- 
mencing with avrog de. 6 nupiog). The following is a 
tabular summary : 

The opening salutation (i, 1, 2). 

I. A general expression of thankfulness and interest, 
leading up to the difficulty about the Lord’s advent (i, 
3 — 11, lib 

1. The apostle pours forth his thanksgiving for their 

progress in the faith ; he encourages them to be 
patient under persecution, reminding them of the 
judgment to come, and prays that they may be 
prepared to meet it (i, 3-12). 

2. He is thus led to correct the erroneous idea that the 

judgment is imminent, pointing out that much 
must happen first (ii, 1-12). 

3. lie repeats his thanksgiving and exhortation, and 

concludes this portion with a prayer (ii, 13-17). 

II. Direct exhortation (iii, 1-10). 

1. He urges them to pray for him, and confidently an- 

ticipates their progress in the faith (iii, 1-5). 

2. He reproves the idle, disorderly, and disobedient, 

and charges the faithful to withdraw from such 
(iii, 0-15)^ 

This portion again closes with a prayer (iii, 10). 

The epistle ends with a special direction and benedic- 
tion (iii, 17, IS). 

VI. Commentaries . — The following exegetical helps 
are on the Second Epistle to the Thessalonians exclu- 
sively : Hoffmann, Commentarius [inchul.Tit.] (Erancof. 
1545, 8vo); Bradshaw, Exposition (Loud. 1620, 4to) ; 
Jackson, Exposition (ibid. 1621, 4to); Heiche, A u then- 
toe, etc. (Gott. 1829, 4to) ; Sclater, Exposition (Lond. 
1629, 4to). See Epistle. 

Thessaloni'ca (OeafraXoviK?), in classical writers 
also 0t(T<TrtAoFtK£m and DfrraAoi'boy), a large and im- 
portant town of Macedonia, visited bv Paul on several 
occasions, and the seat of a Church to which two of 
his letters were addressed. (In the present article we 
largely make use of that in Smith’s Diet. ofGr.and 
Rom . Geography .) 

I. Xante. — Two legendary" names which Thessalonica 
is said to have borne in early" times are Emathia (Zo- 
nar. I fist, xii, 26) and II alia (Steph. B. s. v.), the latter 
probably 7 having ref- 
erence to the mari- 
time position of the 
town. During the 
first period of its au- 
thentic history, it 
was known under the 
name of Therma ( O ip- 
pa, yEsch. ; Dfp/o), 

Herod., Thuevd.; 0«p- 
gat, Malelas, Ckro- 
noy. p. 190, ed. Bonn), 
derived, in common 
with the designation 
of the gulf (Thcr- 
maicus Sinus), from 
the hot salt -springs 
which arc found on 
various parts of this 


coast, and one of which especially" is described by Po- 
cocke as being at a distance of four English miles from 
the modern city (sec Scydax, p. 278, ed. Gail). Three 
stories are told of the origin of the name Thessalonica. 
The first (and by far the most probable) is given by 
Strabo (vii, Epit. 10), who say-s that Therma was rebuilt 
by Cassander, and called after his wife Thessalonica, 
the daughter of Philip; the second is found in Steph. 
B. (s. v.), who say r s that its new name was a memorial 
of a victory" obtained by Philip over the Thessalians 
(see Const. Porphvrog. l)e Them, ii, 51, ed. Bonn) ; the 
third is in the Etym. Mayn. (s. v.), where it is stated 
that Philip himself gave the name in honor of his 
daughter. Whichever of these stories is true, the new 
name of Thessalonica, and the new eminence connected 
with the name, are distinctly associated with the Mace- 
donian period, and not at all with the earlier passages 
of true Greek history". The name thus given became 
permanent. Through the Roman and Bvzantine pe- 
riods it remained unaltered. In the Middle Ages the 
Italians gave it the form of Salonichi or Saloniki , which 
is still frequent. In Latin chronicles we find Salonicia . 
In German poems of the 13th century the name ap- 
pears, with a Teutonic termination, as Salnek. The un- 
educated Greeks of the present day" call the place £«Xo- 
viKi), the Turks Selanik. 

II. Situation . — This is well described by Pliny (iv, 10) 
as “ medio tlexn litoris [sinus Thermaici].” The gulf ex- 
tends about thirty leagues in a north-westerlv direction 
from the group of the Thessalian islands, and then turns 
to the north-east, forming a noble basin between Capes 
Vardar and Kara bur nu. On the edge of this basin is the 
city, partly on the level shore and partly on the slope 
of a hill, in 40° 38' 47" N. lat., and 22° 57' 22" E.long. 
The present appearance of the city-, as seen from the 
sea, is described by Leake, Holland, and other travellers 
as very" imposing. It rises in the form of a crescent up 
the declivity", and is surrounded by r lofty whitened walls 
with towers at intervals. On the east and west sides of 
the city ravines ascend from the shore and converge 
towards the highest point, on which is the citadel called 
'EirTaTrepyiov, like that of Constantinople. The port 
is still convenient for large ships, and the anchorage in 
front of the town is good. These circumstances in the 
situation of Thessalonica were evidently favorable for 
commanding the trade of the Macedonian sea. Its re- 
lations to the inland districts were equally" advantageous. 
With one of the two great levels of Macedonia, viz. the 
plain of the “ wide-flowing Axius” (Homer, II. ii, 849), 
to the north of the range of Olympus, it was immediately 
connected. With the other, the plain of the Strymon 
and Lake Cercinitis, it communicated by a pass across 
the neck of the Chaleidic peninsula. Its distance from 
Pella, as given by- the Itineraries, is twenty-seven miles, 
and from Amphipolis (with intermediate stations; see 
Acts xvii, 1) sixty"-seven miles. It is still the chief cen- 
tre of the trade of the district. It contains a population 
of 60,000 or 70,000, and (though Adrianople may possibly 



View of Thessalonica. 


TIIESSALOXICA 


352 


T HESS ALOX IC A 


he larger) it is the most important town of European 
Turkey next after Constantinople. 

111. Political and Military History. — Thessalonica was 
a place of some importance even while it bore its earlier 
name of Therma. Three passages of chief interest may 
be mentioned in this period of its history. Xerxes rest- 
ed here on his march, his land-forces being encamped 
on the plain between Therma and the Axius, and his 
ships cruising about the Thermaic gulf; and it was the 
view from hence of Olympus and Ossa which tempted 
him to explore the course of the Pencil* (Herod, vii. 
1*28 sq.). A short time (1J.C. 421) before the break ing- 
out of the Peloponnesian war, Therma was occupied by 
the Athenians (Tliucyd. i. til) : hut two years later it 
was given up to Periliecas (ibid, ii, *211). The third men- 
tion of Therma is in .Esciiines ( Be Fa Is. Ley. p. 31, ed. 
Bekk.), where it is spoken of as one of the places taken 
by Pausanias. 

The true history of Thessalonica begins, as we have 
implied above, with the decay of Greek nationality. 
The earliest author who mentions it under its new name 
is Polybius. It seems probable that it was rebuilt in 
tbe same year (B.C. 315) with Cassandrea, immediately 
after the fall of Pvdna and the death of Olympias. We 
are told by Strabo (lor. cit .) that Cassander incorporated 
in his new city the population not only of Therma, but 
likewise of three smaller towns, viz. Anea and Cissus 
(which arc supposed to have been on the eastern side 
of the gulf) and Chalastra (which is said by Strabo 
[vii, Epit. 9] to have been on the farther side of the 
Axius, whence Tafel [p. xxii], by some mistake, infers 
that it lay between the Axius and Therma). It does 
not appear that these earlier cities were absolutely de- 
stroyed; nor, indeed, is it certain that Therma lost its 
separate existence. Pliny (loc. cit.) seems to imply that 
a place bearing this name was near Thessalonica; but 
the text is probably corrupt. 

As we approach the Homan period, Thessalonica be- 
gins to be more and more mentioned. From Livy (xliv, 
10) this city would appear to have been the great Mace- 
donian naval station. It surrendered to the Homans 
after the battle of Pvdna (ibid, xliv, 45), and was made 
the capital of the second of the four divisions of Mace- 
donia (ibid, xlv, *29). Afterwards, when the whole of 
Macedonia was reduced to one province (Flor. ii, 14), 
Thessalonica was its most important city, and virtually 
its metropolis, though not so called till a later period. 
See Macedonia. Cicero, during his exile, found a ref- 
uge here in the qu.estor’s house ( Fro Plane. 41); and 
on his journeys to and from his province of Cilicia he 
passed this way, and wrote here several of his extant 
letters. During the first, civil war Thessalonica was 
the headquarters of the Pompeian party and the Sen- 
ate (Dion Cass, xli, 20). During the second it took the 
side of t tetavius and Antonins (Plutarch, Brut. 46 ; Ap- 
pian, B. C. iv, 118), and reaped the advantage of this 
course by being made a free city (see Pliny, loc. cit.'). 
It is possible that the word iXei&tpiaQ, with the head 
of Octavia, on some of the coins of Thessalonica, has 
reference to this circumstance (see Eckhel, ii, 79); 
and some writers see in the Vardar gate, mentioned 
below, a monument of the victory over Brutus and 
Cassius. 

Even before the close of the Republic, Thessalonica 
was a city of great importance, in consequence of its 
position on the line of communication between Home 
and the East. Cicero speaks of it as “posit a in gremio 
imperii nnstri.” It increased in size and rose in impor- 
tance with the consolidation of the Empire. Strabo, 
in the 1st century, and Lucian, in the 2d, speak in 
strong language of the amount of its population, The 
supreme magistrates (apparently six in number) who 
ruled in Thessalonica as a free city of the Empire 
were entitled 7roXtrdp\ai, as we learn from the remark- 
able coincidence of Luke’s language (Acts xvii, 6) with 
an inscription on the Vardar gate (Rdekh, 1967. Bellev 
mentions another inscription containing the same term). 


1 In Acts xvii, 5 the crjftog is mentioned, which formed 
part of the constitution of the city. Tafel thinks that 
it had a fiovXi) also. 

During the first three centuries of the Christian a*ra 
Thessalonica was the capital of the whole country be- 
tween the Adriatic and the Black Sea : and even after 
the founding of Constantinople it remained practically 
the metropolis of Greece. Macedonia, and lllvriciiin. In 
the middle of the 3d century, as we learn from coins, 
it was made a Homan colon in ; perhaps with the view 
of strengthening this position against, the barbarian in- 
vasions, which now became threatening. Thessalonica 



Coins of Thessalonica, 


was the great safeguard of the Empire during the first 
shock of the Gothic inroads. Constantine passed some 
time here after his victory over the Sarmatians; ami 
perhaps the second arch, which is mentioned below, 
was a commemoration of this victory. He is said also, 
by Zosinnis (ii, 86, ed. Bonn), to have constructed the 
port, by which we are, no doubt, to understand that he 
repaired and improved it after a time of comparative 
neglect. Passing by the dreadful massacre by Theodo- 
sius (Gibbon, Borne , ch. xxvii), we come to the Sla- 
vonic wars, of which the Gothic wars were only the 
prelude, and the brunt of which was successfully borne 
by Thessalonica from the middle of the 6th century to 
the latter part, of the 8th. The history of these six 
Slavonic wars, and their relation to Thessalonica, has 
been elaborated with great care by Tafel. 

In the course of the Middle Ages, Thessalonica was 
three times taken ; and its history during this period is 
thus conveniently divided into three stages. ( Mi Sun- 
day, July 29, 904, the Saracen licet appeared before the 
city, which was stormed after a few days’ fighting. The 
slaughter of the citizens was dreadful, and vast numbers 
were sold in the various slave-markets of the Levant. 
The story of these events is told by Jo. Cameniata, who 
was crosier-hearer to the archbishop of Thessalonica. 
From his narrative it has been inferred that the popula- 
tion of the city at that time must have been 220.000 
( l)e Excitlio Thessalomeensi , in the volume entitled 
Theaphanes Continual vs of the Bonn ed. of the Byzantine 
writers [1838]). The next great catastrophe of Thessa- 
lonica was caused by a different enemy — the Normans 
of Sicily. The fieet of Tailored sailed round the Morea 
to the Thermaic gulf, while an army marched by the 
Via Egnatia from Dvrrhachitmi. Thessalonica was 
taken on Ang. 15, 1185, and the Greeks were barbar- 
ously treated by the Latins, whose cruelties are de- 


THESSALONICA 


353 


THESSALONICA 


scribed by Nicetas Ghoniates {De Andron. Comnena, p. | after this time; and the withdrawal of the provinces 


388, ed. Bonn, 1835). The celebrated Eustathius was 
archbishop of Thessalonica at this time; and he wrote 
an account of this capture of the city, which was lirst 
published by Tafel (Tub. 1832), and is now printed in 
the Bonn ed. of the Byzantine writers ( l)e Thessalonica 
a Latinis Capta , in the same vol. with Leo Grammati- 
cus [1842]). Soon after this period follows the curious 
history of Western feudalism in Thessalonica under 
Boniface, marquis of Moutferrat, and his successors, 
during the first half of the loth century. The city was 
again under Latin dominion (having been sold by the 
Greek emperor to the Venetians), when it was finally 
taken by the Turks under Amurath II, in 1430. This 
event also is described by a writer in the Bonn Byzan- 
tine series (Joannes Anagnostes, De Thessalonicensi Ex- 
culio Xarratio, in the same vol. with Phranzes and Ca- 
nanus [1838]). 

For the mediaeval history of Thessalonica see Mr. 
Finlay’s works, Mediceral Greece (1851). p. 70, 71, 135- 
147 ; Byzantine and Greek Empires (1853), i, 315-332; 
(1854), ii, 182, 2G4-2GG, G07. For its modern condi- 
tion we must refer to the travellers, especially Beaujour, 
Cousin ery, Holland, and Leake. 

1Y. Ecclesiastical History. — The annals of Thessa- 
lonica are so closely connected with religion that it is 
desirable to review them in this aspect. After Alexan- 
der's death the Jews spread rapidly in all the large 
cities of the provinces which had formed his empire. 
Hence there is no doubt that, in the 1st century of the 
Christian fera, they were settled in considerable num- 
bers at Thessalonica; indeed, this circumstance con- 
tributed to the tirst establishment of Christianity there 
by Paul (Acts xvii, 1). It seems probable that a large 
community of Jews has been found in this city ever 
since. They are mentioned in the 7th century, during 
the Slavonic wars ; and again in the Pith, by Eusta- 
thius and Benjamin of Tudela. The events of the 15th 
century had the effect of bringing a large number of 
Spanish Jews to Thessalonica. Paul Lucas says that in 
his day there were 30,000 of this nation here, with 22 
synagogues. More recent authorities vary between 
1(1,000 and 20,000. The present Jewish quarter is in 
the south-east part of the town. 

Christianity, once established in Thessalonica, spread 
from it in various directions, in consequence of the mer- 
cantile relations of the city (1 Thess. i, 8). During the 
succeeding centuries this city was the bulwark, not sim- 
ply of the Byzantine empire, but of Oriental Christen- 
dom; and was largely instrumental in the conversion 
of the Slavonians and Bulgarians. Thus it received 
the designation of “The Orthodox City.” It is true 
that the legends of De- 
metrius, its patron saint 
(a martyr of the early 
part of the 4th century), 
disfigure the Christian 
history of Thessaloni- 
ca ; in every siege suc- 
cess or failure seems to 
have been attributed to 
the granting or with- 
holding of his favor: 
but still this see has a 
distinguished place in 
the annals of the 
Church. Theodosius 
was baptized by its 
bishop; even his mas- 
sacre, in consequence 
of the stern severity of 
Ambrose, is chiefly con- 
nected in our minds 
with ecclesiastical as- 
sociations. The see of 
Thessalonica became 
almost a patriarchate 

X.-Z 


subject to its jurisdiction from connection with the 
see of Borne, in the reign of Leo Isauricus, became 
one of the principal causes of the separation of East 
and West. Cameniata, the native historian of the 
calamity of 904, was, as we have seen, an ecclesias- 
tic. Eustathius, who was archbishop in 1185, was, be- 
yond dispute, the most learned man of his age, and the 
author of an invaluable commentary on the Iliad and 
Odyssey , and of theological works, which have been re- 
cently published by Tafel. A list of the Latin arch- 
bishops of Thessalonica from 1205 to 1418, when a Bo- 
man hierarchy was established along with Western feu- 
dalism, is given by Le Quien {Orirns Christianas, iii, 
1089). Even to the last we And this city connected 
with questions of religious interest. Simeon of Thes- 
salonica, who is a chief authority in the modern Greek 
Church on ritual subjects, died a few months before the 
fatal siege of 1430; and Theodore Gaza, who went to 
Italy soon after this siege, and, as a Latin ecclesiastic, 
became the translator of Aristotle, Theophrastus, and 
Hippocrates, was a native of the city of Demetrius and 
Eustathius. 

V. Connection with the Apostle Paul. — Paul’s visit to 
Thessalonica (with Silas and Timothy) occurred during 
his second missionary journey, and to this is due the 
introduction of Christianity into Thessalonica. Timo- 
thy is not mentioned in any part of the direct narrative 
of what happened at Thessalonica, though he appears as 
Paul’s companion before at Philippi (Acts xvi, 1-13), 
and afterwards at Bernea (xvii, 14, 15); but from his 
subsequent mission to Thessalonica (1 Thess. iii, 1-7 ; see 
Acts xviii, 5). anti the mention of his name in the open- 
ing salutation of both epistles to the Thessalonians, we 
can hardly doubt that he had been with the apostle 
throughout. 

Three circumstances must here be mentioned, which 
illustrate in an important manner this visit and this 
journey, as well as the two epistles to the Thessalonians, 
which the apostle wrote from Corinth very soon after 
his departure from his new Macedonian converts. (1.) 
This was the ehief station on the great Korn an road 
called the Via Egnatia, which connected Borne with the 
whole region to the north of the yEgean Sea. Paul 
was on this road at Neapolis (Acts xvi, 11) and Philippi 
(ver. 12-40), and his route from the latter place (xvii, 
1) had brought him through two of the well-known mi- 
nor stations mentioned in the Itineraries. See Amphip- 
olts; Apolloxia. (2.) Placed as it was on this great 
road, and in connection with other important lioman 
ways, Thessalonica was an invaluable centre for the 
spread of the Gospel. It must be remembered that, be- 



Plan of Thessalonica. 


TIIESSALOXICA 


354 


TIIESSALOXICA 


s.ides its inland communication with the rich plains of 
Macedonia and with far more remote regions, its mari- 
time position made it a great emporium of trade by sea. 
lu fact, it was nearly, if not quite, on a level with Cor- 
inth mid Ephesus in its share of the commerce of tiie 
Levant. Thus we see the force of what Paul says in 
his tirst epistle, shortly after leaving Thessaloniea— dtp’ 
rfiwr o Xtfyoc rov \wpiov ov povov iv rg 

MawCoi'^i Ktti tv tij A\«ty, «W tv ~aVTi to7toj (i, 8). 
(3.) The circumstance noted in Acts xvii, l, that here 
was the synagogue of the Jews in this part of Macedo- 
nia. had evidently much to do with the apostle’s plans, 
and also doubtless with his success. Trade would inev- 
itably bring dews to Thessaloniea : and it is remarkable 
that, ever since, they have had a prominent place in the 
annals of the city. 

The tirst scene of the apostle’s work at Thessaloniea 
was the synagogue. According to his custom, lie began 
there, arguing from the ancient Scriptures (Acts xvii, 
2,3); and the same general results followed as in other 
places. Some believed, both .lews ami proselytes, and 
it is particularly added that among these were many 
influential women (ver. 4); on which the general body 
of the dews, stirred up with jealousy, excited the Gen- 
tile population to persecute Paul and Silas (ver. 5-10). 
It is stated that the ministrations among the Jews con- 
tinued for three weeks (ver. 2); but we are not obliged 
to limit to this time the whole stay of the apostles at 
Thessaloniea. A flourishing church was certainly form- 
ed there; and the epistles show that its elements were 
much more Gentile than Jewish. Paul speaks of the 
Thessalonians as having turned “from idols;” and he 
does not here, as in other epistles, quote the Jewish 
Scriptures, In all respects it is important to compare 
these two letters with t he narrative in the Acts; and 
such references have the greater freshness from the 
short interval which elapsed between visiting the Thes- 
salouiaus and writing to them. Such expressions as tv 
iroX\\j (1 Thess. i, 0), and tv tt o\\tp cty&vt (ii, 
2). sum tip the suffering and conflict which Paul and 
Silas and their converts went through at Thessaloniea 
(see also ver. 14, 15; iii, 3,4; 2 Thess. i, 4-7). The 
persecution took place through the instrumentality of 
worthless idlers (tojv uyopiucuj' live puQ rua it; 7roioy- 
poec, Acts xvii, 5), who, instigated by the Jews, raised 
a tumult. The house of Jason, with whom the apostles 
seem to have been residing, was attacked; they them- 
selves were not found, but Jason was brought bef ore the 
authorities on the accusation that the Christians were 
trying to set up a new king in opposition to the emper- 
or; a guarantee (ro iffni'or) was taken from Jason and 
others for the maintenance of the peace, and Paul and 
Silas were scut away by night southward to Iiertra 
(Acts xvii, 5-10), The particular charge 
brought against t lie apostles receives an illus- 
tration from the epistles, where the kingdom 
of Christ is prominently mentioned (1 Thess. 
ii, 12; 2 Thess. i, 5). So, again, t lie doctrine 
of the resurrection is conspicuous both in 
Luke’s narrative (xvii, 3) and in the lirst let- 
ter (i, 10; iv, I f. 10). If we pass from these 
points to such as are personal, we are enabled 
from the epistles to complete the. picture of 
Paul’s conduct and attitude at Thessaloniea, 
as regards his love, tenderness, and zeal, his 
care of individual souls, and his disinterested- 
ness (see i, 5; ii, 1 10). As to this last point, 

Paul was partly supported here by contribu- 
tions from Philippi (Phil, iv, 15, 10). partly by 
the labor of his own hands, which he diligent- 
ly practiced for the sake of the better success 
of the Gospel, and that he might set an exam- 
ple to the idle and selfish. (Me refers very ex- 
pressly to what lie had said and done at Thes- 
saloniea in regard to this point ; see 1 Thess, 
ii. 0; iv, 11 ; comp. 2 Thess. iii, 8 12.) .See 
TiiEs.SAt.oN jams. To complete the account 


of Paul’s connection with Thessaloniea, it must be no- 
ticed that he was certainly there again, though the 
name of the city is not specified, on his third missionary 
journey, both in going and returning (Acts xx, 1-3). 
Possibly be was also there again after his liberation 
from bis lirst imprisonment. See Phil, i, 25,23; ii, 24, 
for the hope of revisiting Macedonia, entertained by the 
apostle at Home, and 1 Tim, i,3; 2 Tim. iv, 13; Tit. iii, 
12, for subsequent journeys in the neighborhood of Thes- 
saloniea. 

Of the first Christians of Thessaloniea. we are able to 
specify by name the above-mentioned Jason (who may 
be the same as the apostle’s own kinsman mentioned in 
Rom. xvi,21), Demas (at least conjecturallv ; see 2 Tim, 
iv. 10), Gains, who shared some of Paul’s perils at Ephe- 
sus (Acts xix, 29), Secundus (who accompanied him 
from Macedonia to Asia on t lie eastward route of his 
third missionary journey, and was probably concerned 
in the business of the collection; see xx, 4), and espe- 
cially Aristarchus (who, besides being mentioned lure 
with Secundus, accompanied Paul on his voyage to 
Pome, and had therefore probably been with hint during 
the whole interval, and is also specially referred to in 
two of the epistles written during the first Human im- 
prisonment; see xxvii, 2; Col. iv, 10; Philem. 24 ; also 
Acts xix, 29, for his association with the apostle at 
Ephesus in the earlier part of the third journey), 

VI. Ancient Remains . — The two monuments of great- 
est interest at Thessaloniea are two arches connected 
with the line of the Via Egnatia. The course of this 
Roman road is undoubtedly preserved in the long street 
which intersects the city from east to west. At its 
western extremity is the Varda r gate, which is nearly 
in the line of the modern wall, and which has received 
its present name from the circumstance of its leading to 
the river Varda r, or Axius. This is the Roman arch 
believed by Reaujour, Holland, and others to have been 
erected by tbe people of Thessaloniea in honor of Octa- 
vius and Antonins, and in memory of the battle of Phi- 
lippi. The arch is constructed of large blocks of mar- 
ble, and is about twelve feet wide and eighteen feet 
high ; but a considerable portion of it is buried deep be- 
low the surface of the ground. On the outside face are 
two bas-reliefs of a Roman wearing the toga and stand- 
ing before a horse. On this arch is the above-men- 
tioned inscription containing the names of the politarchs 
of the city. Leake thinks from the style of the sculpt- 
ure, and Tafel from the occurrence of the name Flavius 
in the inscription, that a later date ought to be assigned 
to the arch (a drawing of it is given by Cousinery). 
The other arch is near the eastern (said in Clarke’s 
Travels , iv, 359, by mistake, to he near the western) ex- 
tremity of the main street. It is built of brick and 



Triumphal Arch of Constantine at Thessaloniea. 


THESSALONICA 


355 


TIIEUDAS 


faced with marble, and formerly consisted of three arch- 
ways. The sculptured camels give an Oriental aspect 
to the monument ; and it is generally supposed to com- 
memorate the victory of Constantine over Licinius or 
over the Sarmatians. 

Near the line of the main street, between the two 
above-mentioned arches, are four Corinthian columns 
supporting an architrave, above which are caryatides. 
'This monument is now part of the house of a Jew ; and, 
from a notion that the figures were petrified by magic, 
it is called by the Spanish Jews Las Incantadas. The 
Turks call it Suretk-Maleh. (A view will be found, 
with architectural details, in Stuart and lievett, Athen. 
A ntiq. iii, 53). This colonnade is supposed by some to 
have been part of the Propyliea of the Hippodrome, the 
position of which is believed by Beaujour and Clarke 
to have been in the south-eastern part of the town, be- 
tween the sea and a building called the Rotunda, now a 
mosque, previously the church Eski- Metropolis but for- 
merly a temple, and in construction similar to tbe Pan- 
theon at Home. Another mosque in Thessalonica, call- 
ed Eski-Juma, is said by Beaujour to have been a tem- 
ple consecrated to Venus Thermion. The city walls are 
of brick, and of Greek construction, resting on a much 
older foundation, which consists of hewn stones of im- 
mense thickness. Everywhere are broken columns and 
fragments of sculpture. Many remains were taken in 
1430 to Constantinople. One of the towers in the city l 
wall is called the Tower of the Statue, because it eon- 1 
tains a colossal figure of Thessalonica, with the repre- 
sentation of a ship at its feet. The castle is partly I 
Greek and partly Venetian. Some columns of verd 
antique, supposed to be relics of a temple of Hercules, 
are to be noticed there, and also a shattered triumphal 
arch, erected (as an inscription proves) in the reign of 
Marcus Aurelius, in honor of Antoninus Pius and his 
daughter Faustina. 

In harmony with what has been noticed of its his- 
tory, Thessalonica has many remains of ecclesiastical 
antiquity. Leake says that in this respect it surpasses 
any other city in Greece. The clmrch of greatest in- 
terest (now a mosque) is that of St. Sophia, built, ac- 
cording to tradition, like the church of the same name 
at Constantinople, in the reign of Justinian, and after 
the designs of the architect Anthemius. This church 
is often mentioned in the records of the Middle Ages, as 
in the letters of pope Innocent III, and in the account 
id the Norman siege. It remains very entire, and is 
fully described by Beaujour and Leake. The Church 
of St. Demetrius (apparently the third on the same site, 
and now also a mosque) is a structure of still greater 
size and beauty. Tafel believes that it was erected 
about the end of the 7th century; but Leake conject- 
ures, from its architectural features, that it was built by 
the Latins in the 13th. Tafel has collected with much 
diligence the notices of a great number of churches 
which have existed in Thessalonica. Dapper says that 
in his day the Greeks had the use of thirty churches. 
Walpole (in Clarke’s Travels , iv, 340) gives the number 
as sixteen. All travellers have noticed two ancient pul- 
pits, consisting of “single blocks of variegated marble, 
with small steps cut in them,” which are among the 
most interesting ecclesiastical remains of Thessalonica. 

VI I. Authorities. — 1 The travellers who have described 
Thessalonica are numerous. The most important are 
Lucas, Second Yoytiye (1705); Pococke, Description of 
the East (1743-45) ; Beaujour, Tableau du Commerce de 
la Grece , translated into English (1800); Clarke, Trav- 
els in Europe , etc. (1810-23): Holland, Travels in the 
Ionian Isles, etc. (1815); Cmisinery, Voyttye dans la 
Macedoine (1831) ; Leake, Xortheni Greece (1835); Za- 
chariii, Reise in dem Orient (1840) ; Griesbaeh, Reise dttrch 
Rumelien (1841); Bowen, Mount A thus, Thessaly , and 
Epirus (1852); Dodd, in the Biblioth . Sacra, xi, 830; 
xviii, 845. 

In the Memo ires de VAcctdemie des Inscriptions , tom. 
xxxviii, Sect. Hist. p. 121-140, is an essay on the subject 


of Thessalonica by the abbe Bellev. But the most elab- 
orate work on the subject is that bv Tafel, Hist. Thessa- 
lonicte usque ad A. I). 004, the first part of which was 
published at Tubingen in 1835; this was afterwards re- 
printed as Prolegomena to the Dissertatio de Thessa- 
lonica ejusque Ayro Geoyraphica (Berl. 1830). With 
this should be compared his work on the Via Eynatia. 
To these authorities we ought to add the introduction 
to some of the commentaries on Paul's Epistles to the 
Thessalonians — especially those of Koch (ibid. 1840) and 
Liinemann (Giitt. 1850). The early history of the Thes- 
salonian Church is discussed by Burgerhoudt, De Catn 
Chr. Tkessal., Ortu, Eatisque (Leid. 1825). A good de- 
scription of the modern place is given in Murray's Hand- 
book for Greece, p. 455. 

Tlieu'das, a person incidentally mentioned but 
once in tbe New Test. (Acts v, 3<>), and concerning 
whom much controversy lias arisen. 

I. The Name. — This, in the original, is (a form 

which likewise occurs in Josephus, Ant. xx, 5, 1), and, 
if Greek, may be for Htotfdy, as a contraction of 0t<ii)o- 
rog or Gfoiiwpoc, i. e, God-yiven — Johanan (comp. Vulg. 
Theodas'). A similar form, Oetmoug, occurs in Diogenes 
Laert. ix, l lfi. If Hebrew (Simonis, Onomast. X. T. p. 
72), it may = nvn, praise. The Mishna has a similar 
form, C'VIT ( Bechor . iv, 4). 

H . Scriptural Statement. — According to Luke’s report 
of Gamaliel’s speech before the Jewish Sanhedrim, on 
the occasion of the first arraignment of the apostles 
(A.D. 29), Theudas was the leader of a popular tumult 
some time previously (wpo tocthjv tCjv pptpmi>) (Acts 
v, 34-3G). He is spoken of as a religious impostor of 
high pretensions (Afyom tivai nca iavrov'), to whom 
a considerable body of adherents (d repair' ctpiSrpbg me 
TeTpoKootmv) closely attached themselves (7rqo<7£<coA- 
Xifii], npoveicXiS)], A. BA, but who was ultimately slain 
(dvtjptSi)), and his party annihilated (iyerorro tit ; ov- 
ttu). Gamaliel, it appears, was counselling prudent 
and temperate measures towards the apostles. Previous 
well-known examples, he said, had made it plain that 
the leaders of a bad cause would soon bring all to ruin, 
while those of a different kind would be sure to succeed. 
The first case he appeals to is that of Theudas, as above 
recited. He then goes on to notice the case of Judas 
of Galilee, who rose after Theudas in the days of the 
taxing, and after c'ollecting a considerable band was de- 
feated and slain. Now there can be no doubt that the 
Judas here spoken of was the Judas Gaulonites of Jose- 
phus, or Judas the Galihean, who, in the time of Cyre- 
nius, raised a disturbance by opposing the census then 
ordered to be taken by the Homan government, and 
was cut off (Josephus, Ant. xviii, 1, 2; War, ii, 12). 
Thus far there is no difficulty; it is only by a compari- 
son of contemporaneous history that a discrepancy is 
alleged as arising. 

III. Adjustment of the A ccount with Josephus. — No in- 
surgent of this name is mentioned by the Jewish histo- 
rian at the period to which Gamaliel must refer, but he 
gives statements of several somewhat similar occur- 
rences about that time. 

I. A religious impostor (y ojjg rig ainjp) named Theu- 
das is described by him as having raised a strikingly 
analogous commotion in the reign of Claudius, when 
Cuspius Fadus was procurator of Judaja. Josephus’s 
account of the matter (Auf. xx, 5, 1) is that this fanat- 
ic, laying claim to prophetical powers, persuaded a very 
large body (run ttXuotoi o^Aor) to follow him to the 
Jordan, taking their effects along with them, with the 
assurance that the waters would divide before him as 
they had done before Elijah and Elisha in the days of 
old; but being unexpectedly attacked by a squadron of 
cavalry sent out after him by Fadus, his followers were 
killed or taken prisoners, and the leader himself, being 
taken, was beheaded. The reign of Claudius and the 
procuratorship of Fadus fix this incident at about A.D. 44, 
i. e. some fifteen years later than the delivery of Gama- 


TIIEUDAS 


356 


TIIEUDAS 


lid’s spoceli ; and some forty after the scriptural event, 
since Luke places Ins Theudas. in the order of time, be- 
fore Judas the Galihvan, who made his appearance soon 
after the dethronement of Archelaus, i. e. A.T>. G or 7 
(Josephus. I To/', ii, 8, 1 ; Ant. xviii. LG; xx, 5,2). 

Now, if we are to regard it as certain that there was 
onlv one .Jewish insurgent named Theudas, it follows 
that either Luke or Josephus must he guilty of a chron- 
ological blunder. The hypothesis that Josephus lias 
misplaced Theudas, though not impossible, and main- 
tained by Michaelis { Fault it. in X. 7. i, Go) and Jalm 
(.1 rclutol. ii, 2), is a way of cutting the knot which no 
unbiassed critic would desire to resort to. That the er- 
ror is Luke’s, though taken for granted hv most modern 
German critics (Kiehhorn, Do Wette, Creditor, Id ever, 
llaur, etc.), is even more improbable when we take into 
account the great historical accuracy of his narrative, 
which closer researches are continually placing in a 
stronger light, and the date of the publication of the 
Acts. (It may not he amiss to remind the reader of 
some tine remarks, in illustration of Luke’s historical ac- 
curacy, in Tholuck’s Glauhivurdigkeit der era nr/. Ge- 
schichte, p. It'd - 177,375-3X9. See also Ebrard, E r an- 
gel itch e Kriliky p. 678 sq. ; and Lechler, Das A posfolische 
Zeitulter , p. G sij.) Fe\v things are, therefore, less cred- 
ible than that a careful author like Luke, writing with- 
in a few years of the event, should have been betrayed 
into such a glaring historical mistake as antedating the 
insurrection of Theudas bv nearly half a century. That 
he should have done this by an intentional prolepsis , as 
is supposed by some (Vales. A d Euseb. II. E. ii, 1 1), is as 
completely at variance with the simplicity and unartis- 
tic character of his narrative. It is the height of in- 
justice to charge that the writer of the Acts either fab- 
ricated the speech put into the mouth of Gamaliel, or 
that he carelessly or surreptitiously wrought into it a 
transaction which took plaee forty years or more after 


rian of the Jews ( Geschiehte der Israeliten, ii, Anh. p. 76), 
admits the reasonableness of such combinations, and 
holds in this case to the credibility of Luke, as well as 
that of Josephus. Moreover. Josephus was by no means 
infallible, as Strauss and critics of his school may al- 
most be saitl to take for granted; and it is possible cer- 
tainly (this is the position of some) that Josephus him- 
self may have misplaced the time of Theudas, instead 
of Luke, who is charged with that oversight. Galvin’s 
view that Judas the Galiheau appeared not after, hut 
before, Theudas {per a ravrov— insuper vel prrvterea ), 
and that the examination of the apostles before the 
Sanhedrim occurred in the time of Claudius (contrary 
to the manifest chronological order of the Acts), de- 
serves mention only as a way in ark of the progress which 
has been made in liiblieal exegesis since his time. 

2. Another explanation (essentially different only as 
proposing to identify the person) is that Luke’s Theu- 
das may have been one of the three insurgents whose 
names are mentioned by Josephus in connection with 
the disturbances that took place about the time of Her- 
od’s death. Son n tag ( Theol . Stud. v. Kritik. 1837, p. 
G22, etc.; translated in the Biblioth. Sacra, 1848, p. 409 
sq.) has advanced this view, and supported it w ith much 
learning and ability. He argues that the Theudas re- 
ferred to by Gamaliel is the individual who occurs in 
Josephus under the name of Simon (I lor, ii, 4, 2; Aid. 
xvii, 10, G), a slave of Herod, who attempted to make 
himself king amid the confusion which attended the 
vacancy of the throne when that monarch died. He 
urges the following reasons for that opinion: first, this 
Simon, as he was the most noted among those who dis- 
turbed the public peace at that time, would be apt to 
occur to Gamaliel as an illustration of his point; sec- 
ondly, he is described as a man of the same lofty pit— 
, tensions (Gnat uZtur; LXxiVroc Trap' brTn , ovv=\iyu)v 
tirai nva tavrbu); thirdly, he died a violent death, 


the time when it is said to have occurred (see Zeller, 
Die Apostelgeschichte , p. 132 sq.). 

Hut without resorting to cither of these violent meth- 
ods, the difficulty may be solved with perfect satisfac- 
tion l>v the simple hypothesis that there were two in- 
surgents of the same name. Sinee Luke represents 
Theudas as having preceded Judas the Galiheau (q.v.), 
it is certain that he could not have appeared later, at 
all events, than the latter part of the reign of Herod 
t lie Great. The very year, now', of that monarch’s death 
was remarkably turbulent; the land was overrun with 
belligerent parties, under the direction of insurrectionary 
chiefs or fanatics (? rtpa pvpia SopvjSiov ixopeva rt)v 
T ovcaiav KurtXdpfirn’t, Josephus. A nt. xvii, 12,4). The 
whole of these, with three exceptions, are passed over 
by Josephus without particularizing their leaders, so 
that it need create little surprise that one in which com- 
paratively so small a number were concerned (Gama- 
liel’s 400 can hardly be made to tally with Josephus’s 
7r\ttVjTOj,* o\\o(j) should have been omitted by him, or 
spoken of in equally general terms. The name Theu- 
das was one of no unfrequent occurrence (see above), 
while the fact that there were as many as three impos- 
tors of the name of Simon (Josephus, Ant. xvii, 12, 6; xx, 
4, 2), besides Simon Magus, and as many Judases (ibid. 
xvii. 12. 5; 11 'or. i. 33, 2-4). mentioned by Josephus 
ill the space of about ten years increases the probability 
that there may have been two named Theudas in the 
space of forty years. This mode of reconciling Luke 
with Josephus, which has commended itself to such crit- 
ics as llezn, Sealiger, Casaubon, and llengel, in earlier 
times, and Kuinol, Olshausen, Winer, and Ebrard, in 
later days, is ably supported by Anger (De Tentpp. in 
Act. A post. Itatione , p. 185), and also by Lardner (Credi- 
bility, 404-414), who remarks that “it is not at all 
strange that there should be tw’o impostors in Judsva of 
the same name in the compass of forty years, and that 
they should come to the same end; on the contrary, it 
is strange that any learned man should find this hard 
to believe.” ho impartial a witness as Jost, the liisto- 


wdiieh Josephus does not mention as true of the other 
two insurgents; fourthly, he appears to have had com- 
paratively few adherents, in conformity with Luke’s 
rbati TtrpaKoaiwv ; and, lastly, his having been origi- 
nally a slave accounts for the twofold appellation, since 
it was very common among the Jews to assume a dif- 
ferent name on changing their occupation or mode of 
life. It is very possible, therefore, that Gamaliel speaks 
of him as Theudas because, having borne that name so 
long at Jerusalem, he was best known by it to the mem- 
bers of the Sanhedrim; and that Josephus, on the con- 
trary, who wrote for Ilomans and Greeks, speaks of him 
as Simon because it was under that name that he set 
himself up as king, and thus acquired his foreign noto- 
riety (see Tacit. Hist, v, 9). 

3. Wieseler ( Citron . Synops. of Gospels, transl. p. 90- 
. 92) considers Luke’s Theudas to have been the same 
with Matthias or Matthew, the son of Margalotli (Mat- 
thias = rpr,*5 being the Hebrew' form of 0£otforo£= 
QtvSac), of whom Josephus (Ant. xvii, 6, 2-4) gives a 
! detailed account as a distinguished teacher among the 
Jews, who, in the latter days of llerod the Great, raised 
a band of his scholars to effect a social reform in the 
spirit of the old Hebrew constitution, by “destroying 
the heathen works which the king had erected contrary 
to the law' of their fathers.” A large golden eagle, 
which the king had caused to be erected over the great 
gate of the Temple, in defiance of the law that forbids 
images or representations of any living creatures, was 
an object of their special dislike, which, on hearing a 
false report that llerod was dead. Matthias and his 
companions proceeded to demolish; when the king’s 
captain, supposing the undertaking to have a higher 
aim than was the fact, eame upon the riotous reformers 
with a hand of soldiers, and arrested the proceedings of 
the multitude. Dispersing the mob, he apprehended 
forty of the holder spirits, together with Matthias and 
his fellow-leader Judas. Matthias was burned. Now’, 
had we used the term Theudas for the term Matthias, 


TIIEUUGISTS 


357 


THIBETAN VERSION 


the reader would at once have seen that what we have 
just given from the more minute narrative of Josephus 
is only a somewhat detailed statement of the facts of 
which Gamaliel gave a brief summary before the San- 
hedrim. The chronological difficulty then disappears. 
Matthias, or Theudas, appeared “ before these days,’' be- 
fore Judas of Galilee, and before the census; he appeared, 
that is, some four years anterior to the birth of our Lord. 

4. Other identifications are those of Usher (.4/t«. p. 
797) and Zusehlag, who regard Theudas as the same 
person with Judas the robber (Josephus, .!«/. xvii, 10, 
5), or with Theudion {ibid. 4, 2). Such attempts arise 
from an unwillingness to acquiesce in the fragmentary 
character of the annals of the period, and are simply 
curious as efforts of ingenuity. 

IV. Literature. — Among the works, in addition to 
those already mentioned, which discuss this question or 
touch upon it are the following : Casaubon, Exercit. 
Antibaron, ii, 18; Neander, Geschichte der Pjlanzung, i, 
75, 7G; Heinrichs, Exerc.ad Act. ii, 375; Guerieke, Bei- 
trdge zur Eivdeit. ins X. Test. p. 90 ; Ban mgarten, Apo- 
sttlgeschichte, i, 114 ; Lightfoot, //or. /Jeb. ii, 704; Bis- 
coe, //istory of the Acts , p. 428; Wordsworth, Commen- 
tary, ii, 2G: and the monographs De Thtitda by Gros 
(Viteb. 1G97), Kling (llafn. 1714), and Scheuffelhut 
(Lips. 1774). 

Theurgists, those mystics who claim to hold con- 
verse with the world of spirits, and to have the high 
power and prerogative of working miracles, not by mag- 
ic, but by supernatural endowment. Among these may 
be mentioned Apollonius ofTvana, Peter of Alcantara, 
and the large company of Romish saints. 

Theurgy {Oeovpyia. divine work) is the science con- 
cerning the gods and the various classes of superior 
spirits, their appearing to men and their operations; 
and the art , by means of certain acts, habits, words, and 
symbols, of moving the gods to impart to men secrets 
which surpass the powers of reason, to lay open to them 
the future, and to become visible to them. These com- 
munications were claimed as being held with the inferior 
orders of supernatural beings, with whom men rose to 
converse by the power of purificatory rites and by the 
possession of science. Magic of this kind was considered 
to be a divine work, as its name clearly shows, and its 
action entirely beneficent. The theurgical system at- 
tained perfection among the Neo-Platonists of the Al- 
exandrian school, particularly those of t he last epoch, 
and the propensity to demonological rites which was al- 
ready marked in the time of Porphyry triumphed com- 
pletely under lToclus. The magic of ancient Egypt was 
quite theurgic in origin and doctrine, and we cannot 
deny that the reveries of the later Neo-Platonists are in 
a great measure due to its influence ; although it did not 
take the place of all other w-orship, being considered in- 
ferior to the official religion, and not formally recognised 
as a rite. Sec Lenormant, Chaldiean Mayic , p. 74 sq. 

The vet, Andke, a writer of some note in the 16 th 
century, was born at Angouleme, France, and entered 
the Franciscan Order, and afterwards visited Italy, the 
Iloly Land, Egypt, Greece, and Brazil. On his return 
to France, in 155G, he quitted the Cordelier’s habit, took 
that of an ecclesiastic, and was appointed almoner to 
queen Catherine de Medieis. He had the titles of his- 
toriographer of France and cosmographer to the king, 
and received the profits of these offices. He died Nov. 
23, 1590. leaving Cosmographie dit Levant (Lyons, 1554, 
4to) : — A //istory of Illustrious Men (1G7 1, 8 vols. 12mo ; 
or 1G84, 2 vols. fob): — Singularites de la France Ant- 
arctiqne (Paris, 1558, 4to); and other works. — Chal- 
mers, Bing. Diet. s. v. 

Thiard, Cyrus de, a French prelate, became bish- 
op of Chalon-sur-Saone, Feb. 20, 1594, and assisted at 
the States-General held in Paris in 1G14, having re- 
ceived by letters-patent, Aug. 13, 1G02, the right to rep- 
resent Dijon. He died Jan. 3, 1G24, leaving only a Pas- 
toral addressed to his clergy (Chalon, 1G05). 


Thiard, Henri de, cardinal of Bissy, was born 
May 25. 1G57, and at the age of twelve received the ab- 
bey of Noaille, in reward for his father’s services to 
Louis XIV. He was educated at the Jesuit College 
of Dijon and at the Sorboune, and was made doctor of 
theology in the latter. In IG87 lie was named as bish- 
op ofToul, but was not consecrated until 1G92. In 1097 
lie was offered the archbishopric of Bordeaux, but de- 
clined ; and soon afterwards was given the abbeys of 
Trois-Fontaines and Saint-Germain, and the bishopric 
of Meaux. lie was raised to the cardinalate May 29, 
1715. Other papal honors were subsequently conferred 
upon him. lie died in Paris, July 2G, 1737, having pub- 
lished numerous ecclesiastical works, for which see Hoe- 
fer, A 'our. Biog. Gene rale , s. v. 

Thibaud, archbishop of Canterbury, of whose fam- 
ily nothing is known, was first made abbot of Bee after 
the year 113G, and soon after was called to England, 
where we find him raised to the see of Canterbury in 
1139. Under the influence of Thomas a Beeket, Thi- 
baud espoused the cause of the pope in the quarrels with 
the king of England, and was therefore treated by the 
latter as a public enemy. lie escaped to St. Omer, but 
was afterwards imprisoned by Eustachius for refusing 
to crowm the son of the latter. Some time after 1 153 he 
was restored to his diocese by the duke of Normandy, 
and died April 18, 11GI, leaving a number of Letters. 
See Hook, Lives of the Archbishops of Canterbury, s. v. 

Thibet, Religion of. The religion of Buddha w’as 
introduced into Thibet under king Srongstan Gampo, 
in A.D. G17-G98, by priests from Sinde. These priests 
brought w'ith them the art of writing, and translated 
the sacred books of the Indian Buddhists into Thibetan, 
and their monasteries became the centres of learned edu- 
cation and professional skill. In the 11th century, the 
Bom pa religion (the old w r orship of evil daemons) was 
once more established, but after eighty years the Bud- 
dhist priests again catne into power. These priests, in 
the 14th century, had become mere jugglers; and then 
arose a reformer, the monk Tsoukhapa, born in 1355, in 
the district of Amdo, where is now the famous monas- 
tery of Kunbum. He opposed the tricks and pretended 
miracles of charlatanism, and undertook the task of unit- 
ing and reconciling the dialectical and mystical schools 
of Thibetan Buddhism. Ilis innovations were never 
universally acknowledged. In the 15th century, Gednu- 
j Dub, provost of a large monastery, claimed to be an in- 
carnation of Buddha, ami assumed the title of the “very 
costliest teacher ocean.” The Mongols called him Gyas- 
to, or Dalai Lama, the “ priest ocean,” and thus w r as in- 
augurated Lamaism (q. v.), which became the establish- 
ed religion of the country. The election of the grand 
lama, although by lot, has been so managed as to pre- 
vent any child from being elected which might be dis- 
agreeable to the Chinese government. The last elec- 
tion took place in 1875, and a child from the western 
boundary, towards Ladak, was elected, which seems to 
indicate a decrease of the Chinese influence. Thibet is 
greatly oppressed by its ecclesiastical system. The 
number of monasteries and monks is almost incredible. 
Eighteen thousand live in and around Lassa; on an 
average every thirteenth, and in some places every sev- 
enth, man is a monk, and must be provided for by oth- 
ers. The poverty of the people is very great, their 
moral depravity still greater. Between 1854 and 18G4 
some French missionaries attempted to establish a Ro- 
man Catholic station at Bonga, in South-eastern Thibet, 
but were violently assailed by the lamas, and, unpro- 
tected by the Chinese authorities, they were obliged to 
leave. All other efforts to introduce Christianity have 
also failed; indeed, so jealous of Europeans are the au- 
thorities that they are rarely even admitted into the 
country. See Lama ism. 

Thibetan Version. The vast and mountainous 
tract of country in which the Thibetan language is 
spoken lies directly north of Hindustan, from which it 


Til IKK 


358 


THIERMES 


is separated by the Himalaya Mountains. Its eastern 
frontiers border on China; to the wot it extends as far 
as Cashmere, Afghanistan, and Turkestan ; while on tin 
north it is bounded by the countries of the Turks and 
the Mongols. It is. for the most part, comprised within 
the Chinese empire; the western parts, however, appear 
to be independent of China. On account of the extreme 
jealousy of t he Chinese government, Thibet has hitherto 
been almost inaccessible to foreigners, and our knowledge 
of the country is in consequence extremely limited. 

In liSlG an attempt was made by the Church Mis- 
sionary Society to furnish the Thibetans with a version 
of the Scriptures in their own language, but, unhappily, 
this important undertaking ultimately proved abortive. 
The matter rested until the year when Dr. Haber- 
lin, an agent of the British and Foreign Bible Society, 
after journeying through Thibet, again forced the neces- 
sity of a Thibetan version upon the attention of Chris- 
tian societies. Dr. Hiiberliu states, as the result of his 
observations and inquiries in Thibet, that ‘‘as far as the 
Thibetan language is spoken and the Lamas have any 
sway, so far literature exercises an important inti net ice 
on the people. If there were a version of the Scriptures 
in the Thibetan language, thousands of volumes might 
annually be sent into the interior of Asia from live dif- 
ferent points along the immense frontier of British In- 
dia; and the millions of people speaking that language, 
and inquisitive as the Chinese are, might thus have a 
profitable opportunity of being made acquainted with 
the things that belong to their salvation.” In spite of 
this encouraging tact, the object advocated by Dr. ll;i- 
berlin moved very slowly, for not until 1856 do we read 
of an effort made towards translating the Gospel of St. 
Matthew, which in 1863 was published by the Mora- 
vian Mission at Kyelang. About the same time, a 
Bible society for the Punjab, with its headquarters at 
Lahore, was formed, and one of the projects entertained 
by that society was the translation of the Scriptures into 
the Thibetan, which had already been commenced by 
Moravian missionaries. The difficulties, however, were 
very great, and the work of translation was naturally 
very slow. Hence we need not be surprised that about 
live years after the publication of the Gospel of St. Mat- 
thew those of John and Mark were published, while up to 
date the New Test, has not yet been completed. See 
Bible of Every Land, p. 20 sq. (B. 1*.) 

Thief (2S3, K\k~T7]c). Among the Hebrews, tbe 
restitution that was required in case of theft was 
double the amount taken (Exoil. xx, 3-8). If a sheep, 
however, was stolen, and had been slain or sold, fourfold 
was required; or if an ox, a fivefold restitution was to 
be made. The reason of this distinction was that sheep, 
being kept in the desert, were more exposed than other 
animals to he stolen; and oxen, being so indispensably 
necessary in an agricultural community, could not be 
taken from their owners without great injury and pe- 
culiar aggravation (xxii. 1). In case the thief was un- 
able to make the restitution demanded by the law, he 
was sold, with his wife and children, into servitude (ver. 
3; 2 Sam. xii, 6; 2 Kings iv, 1 ; eomp. Gen. xliv, 17). 
In later times, the tine is thought by some to have been 
increased (Prov. vi, 30,31). Whoever slew a thief who 
was attempting to break a house at night, i. e. any hour 
before sunrise, was left unpunished, since he did not 
know but that the thief might have a design upon his 
life, and he was unable also, owing to the darkness, to 
identify and thereby bring him to justice (Exod. xxii, 
2). See Theft. 

‘‘Men do not despise a thief,” says Solomon, “ if he 
steal to satisfy bis soul when he is hungry. But if he 
be found, he shall restore sevenfold; he shall give all 
the substanee of his house” (Prov. vi, of), 31). Bishop 
Hall is of opinion that Solomon, in this passage, does not 
so much extenuate the crime of theft as point out the 
greater criminality of adultery; but we have abundant 
evidence that theft, unaccompanied by violence, was 


viewed more leniently by ancient than bv modern leg- 
islators. Wilkinson says, “The Egyptians had a sin- 
gular custom respecting theft and burglary. Those who 
followed the profession of thief gave in their name to the 
chief of the robbers, and agreed that he should be in- 
formed of everything they might thenceforward steal 
the moment it was in their possession. In consequence 
of this, the owner of the hist goods always applied by 
letter to the chief for their recovery ; and having stated 
their quality and quantity, the day and hour when they 
were stolen, and other requisite particulars, the goods 
were identified, and on payment of one quarter of (heir 
value they were restored to the applicant id the same 
state as when taken from his house; for, being fully 
persuaded of the impracticability of putting an entire 
check to robbery, either by the dread of punishment or 
by any other method that could be adopted by tbe most 
vigilant police, they considered it more for tbe advan- 
tage of the community that a certain sacrifice should be 
made, in order to secure the restitution of the remain- 
der, than that the law, by taking on itself to protect the 
citizen and discover the offender, should be the indirect 
cause of greater loss; and that the Egyptians, like the 
Indians, and, l may say, the modern inhabitants of the 
Nile, were very expert in the art of thieving, we have 
abundant testimony from ancient authors” (/Ihc. Egyp- 
tians, ii, 216). See Steal. 

The criminals who were crucified with our Lord ap- 
pear to have been, not ‘‘thieves” in the ordinary sense 
of the word, but rather public robbers or highwaymen 
is carefully distinguished from k~\h rrjjr, John 
x, 8), i.e. fellow-i//iW/gv7ite with Barabbas; for it is said 
that he “lay bound with them that had made insurrec- 
tion with him in the city, who had committed murder 
in the insurrection” (Mark xv, 7). These malefactors, 
as bishop Maltby lias well observed, “ we-re not thieves 
who robbed all for proft, but men who had taken up 
arms on a principle of resistance to the Unman oppres- 
sion, and to wliat the} 7 thought an unlawful burden, the 
tribute-money ; who made no scruple to rob all the Bo- 
mans, and when engaged in these unlawful causes made 
less difference between Jews and llomans than they at 
first meant to do” (Sermons [1819-22], vol. i). See 
Bobber. 

Thiemon, otherwise Dietiimar, a Bavarian prelate 
and artist, was horn of noble parentage about 1045. 
Agreeably to the custom of his time, he was as well 
versed in mechanics as in the fine arts, lie executed 
many works in painting and sculpture for the churches, 
particularly for the Church of St. Blaise, near Ems. In 
1079 he was appointed abbe of tbe diocese of Salzburg, 
anil in 1090 was chosen archbishop of that city. He 
started for the Holy Land about 1099, and is said to 
have been taken prisoner hv the infidels, who, learning 
of his skill in sculpture, commanded him to restore the 
arms of a brazen idol, lleftising to do so on account of 
religious scruples, he was put to death, in 1101. See 
Spooner, Bioy. Hist, of the Fine Arts, s. v. 

Thiermes (or Tiermes), in the mythology of the 
Laplanders, was the son of the devil by a Lapland girl. 
The latter was sitting upon the ground under a tree, 
when Perk el (the devil), disguised as a stranger, came 
to her, and asked her to hang her fur coat upon a bundle 
of wood. This she complied with, but suddenly the bun- 
dle of wood began to burn, and she, vainly endeavoring 
to escape his embraces, became his victim. The child 
was removed to the highest heaven, and was there ques- 
tioned as to whose child it desired to be, the father’s or 
the mother’s. It decided in favor of the mother, after 
which the high ruler made of it a god of thunder. As 
such, pursued by its father, it flies about in the heavens, 
thundering and lightening, now uprooting trees, again 
splitting rocks, doing good and evil. The Laplanders 
have a poorly developed worship of the deities. Thus, 
it seems, there can be accredited to Thiermes only a 
general worship. — Yolltner, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 


TIIIERS 


359 


THIEVES 


Thiers, Jean Baptiste, a French divine, was born 
at Chartres, Nov. 11, 1630. lie was professor at the 
College du Plessis in Paris, and was, in 1666, appointed 
to the incumbency of Champrond in Gastine (Chartres). 
Here he came in conflict with the archdeacon of Char- 
tres, and went to Bibrave (Meuse), where lie died, Feb. 
28, 1703. lie wrote, De Festorum Dierum fmminutione 
(Lyons, 1668), which was placed on the Index “donee 
eorrigatur — Traite de V Exposition du S. Sacrament de 
1' Autel (Paris, 1673): — Traite des Superstitions selon 
VEcriture Sainte (ibid. 1679): — Dissert, sur la Sainte 
Larme de Vendunie (ibid. 1690), against which Mabillon 
wrote a rejoinder, Lettre d'un Benedictin <i Mgr. de 
Blois (ibid. 1700). Against the priesthood he wrote, 
IJ A vocal des Pauvres (ibid. 1070): — IJistoire des Pev- 
ruqnes (ibid. 1690). He also wrote some historical 
works, for which see Niceron, J femoires pour Servir, 
etc., vol. xi ; Dupin, Xouvdle Biblioth. vol. xix ; Theolog. 
Universal-Lex. s. v. ; Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 
(B. P.) 

Thiess, Johann O., a German doctor of theology, 
was ‘born Aug. 15, 1762, at Hamburg. For a number 
of years he lectured at the University of Kiel, retir- 
ing in 1805. lie died Jan. 7, 1810. lie wrote, llaml- 
bnch d. neueren bes. deutschen u. protest. Literat. d. Theol. 
(Leips. 1795-97, 2 vols.): — Xeuer b it. Continental' iiber 
das X. T. (pt. i, ii, Die Evangel, der A pastel und Jesus 
[Halle, 1804-6]): — Vorlesungen iiber die Moral (Gera, 
1810): — Fundament a Theol. Chiist. Critico-dognuiticie 
(Lips. 1792): — A Commentary on 2 Thess. ii, 1-12 and 
John x. 12-16 (Kiel, 1809): — Ueber die bibl. und kirchl. 
Meinung von der Eicigkeit der II ullenstrafen (Hamb. 
1791): — Ueber die Magier und ihren Stern (ibid. 1794): 
— Einleitung in die neuere Gesch. der Religion, der Kirche 
u. der theol. Wissenschaften (ibid. 1740, 1796; Sleswick, 
1797), etc. See Winer, Uandb. der theol. Literatur, i, 
6, 172, 237, 290, 294, 358, 478, 555, 580, 857, 868; ii, 31, 
59, 92, 125. 126, 331, 360, 366; F first, Bibl. Judaica , iii, 
422. (Ii. P.) 

Thietmar, a noble Saxon belonging to the family 
of Waldeck, and related to the imperial house, was born 
July 25, 976. In 989 he became canon of St. Maurice, 
and in 1002 provost of Waldeck, which his grandfather 
had founded. In 1009 he was made bishop of Merse- 
burg, and in 1018 he died, lie wrote a chronicle, with 
the purpose of transmitting to his successors in the bish- 
opric a history of Merseburg ; but the work grew into a 
history of the German State and of the neighboring Ger- 
manic and Slavonic countries. It is the most important 
of accessible sources for the time of the later emperors, 
since its statements cover almost the whole of the 10th 
century, and are largely the reports of what the author 
himself saw and knew. The book is deficient in point 
of literary excellences, hut is characterized by abun- 
dance of matter and truthfulness of spirit. It is as im- 
portant for the illustration of manners and customs in 
the days of the Saxon emperors as for the statement of 
historical events. 

Literature. — Lappenberg’s preface to Mon. Germ. Ilist. 
vol. iii of Scriptt. ; Giesebrecht, in Banke’s Juhrbb. II, 
i, 156-163, and Gesch. der Kais. i, 746, 780; ii, 517, 547 
sq.; Wattenbach, Geschichtsquellen Dentschlands im Mit- 
tehdter, p. 181 sq. ; Maurenbreeher, De Hist. Decimi Sir- 
en l i Scriptt. (Bonn, 1861) ; Lappenberg, ed. of Thietmar’s 
Chronik in M on. Germ. Hist, iii, 733-871. See also Hall, 
Allgem. Lit.-Zeitung, 1849, Nos. 204-206.— Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. s. v. 

Thieves, The Two, on the Cross (Matt, xxvii, 
38-44; Mark xv, 27 ; Luke xxiii, 39-43 ; comp. John 
xviii, 40). The men who under this name appear in 
the history of the crucifixion were robbers (Ayorai) 
rather than thieves ( tcXurrai ), belonging to the lawless 
hands by which Palestine was at that time and after- 
wards infested (Josephus, Ant. xvii, 10, 8; xx, 8, 10). 
Against these brigands every Koman procurator had to 
wage continual war (Josephus, War, ii, 13, 2). The 


parable of the Good Samaritan shows how common it 
was for them to attack and plunder travellers even on 
the high-road from Jerusalem to Jericho (Luke x, 30). 
It was necessary to use an armed police to encounter 
them (xxii, 52). Often, as in the case of Barabbas, the 
wild robber life was connected with a fanatic zeal for 
freedom which turned the marauding attack into a 
popular insurrection (Mark xv, 7). For crimes such as 
these the Bomans had hut one sentence. Crucifixion 
was the penalty at once of the robber and the rebel 
(Josephus, IFh/-, ii, 13,2). 

Of the previous history of the two who suffered on 
Golgotha we know nothing. They had been tried and 
condemned, and were waiting their execution before 
our Lord was accused. It is probable enough, as the 
death of Barabbas was clearly expected at the same 
time, that they were among the GVGTamaa-ai who had 
been imprisoned with him, and had taken part in the 
insurrection in which zeal, and hate, and patriotism, 
and lust of plunder were mingled in wild confusion. 

They had expected to die with Jesus Barabbas 
(q. v.). They find themselves with one who bore the 
same name, but who was described in the superscrip- 
tion on his cross as Jesus of Nazareth. They could 
hardly fail to have heard something of his fame as a 
prophet, of his triumphal entry as a king. They now 
find him sharing the same fate as themselves, con- 
demned on much the same charge (Luke xxiii, 5). 
They too would bear their crosses to the appointed 
place, while lie fainted by the way. Their garments 
would be parted among the soldiers. For them also 
there would be the drugged wine, which He refused, to 
dull the sharp pain of the first hours on the cross. They 
catch at first the prevailing tone of scorn. A king of 
the Jews who could neither save himself nor help them, 
whose followers had not even fought for him (John 
xviii, 36), was strangely unlike the many chieftains 
whom they had probably known claiming the same 
title (Josephus, Ant. xvii, 10, 8), strangely unlike the 
“ notable prisoner” for whom they had not hesitated, it 
would seem, to incur the risk of bloodshed. But over 
one of them there came a change. The darkness which, 
at noon, was beginning to steal over the sky awed him, 
and the divine patience and silence and meekness of the 
sufferer touched him. lie looked back upon his past 
life, and saw an infinite evil, lie looked to the mail 
; dying on the cross beside him. and saw an infinite com- 
passion. There, indeed, was one unlike all other “ kings 
of the Jews” whom the robber had ever known. Such 
a one must be all that he had claimed to be. To be 
forgotten by that King seems to him now the most ter- 
rible of all punishments; to take part in the triumph of 
his return, the most blessed of all hopes. The yearning 
prayer was answered, not in the letter, hut in the spirit. 
To him alone, of all the myriads who had listened to 
him, did the Lord speak of Paradise (q. v.), waking 
with that word the thoughts of a purer past and the 
hopes of an immediate rest. But its joy was to be more 
than that of fair groves and pleasant streams. “Thou 
shalt be with me.” He should he remembered there. 

We cannot marvel that a history of such wonderful 
interest should at all times have fixed itself on men’s 
minds, and led them to speculate and ask questions 
which we have no data to answer. The simplest and 
truest way of looking at it has been that of those who, 
from the great Alexandrian thinker (OrigenJ in Rom. 
iii ) to the writer of the most popular hymn of our own 
times, have seen in the “dying thief” the first great 
typical instance that “a man is justified by faith with- 
out the deeds of the law.” Even those whose thoughts 
were less deep and wide acknowledged that in this and 
other like cases the baptism of blood supplied the place 
of the outward sign of regeneration (Hilar. De Trinit. 
c. x; Jerome, Ep. xiii). The logical speculations ot the 
Pelagian controversy overclouded, in this as in other 
instances, the clear judgment of Augustine. Maintain- 
ing the absolute necessity of baptism to salvation, he 


THIEVES 


3G0 


THIGH 


had to discuss the question whether t he penitent thief 
had been baptized or not, and lie oscillates, with melan- 
choly indecision, between the two answers. At times 
lie is disposed to rest content with the solution which 
had satisfied others. Then again he ventures on the 
conjecture that the water which sprang forth from the 
pierced side had sprinkled him, and so had been a suf- 
ficient baptism. Finally, yielding to the inexorable 
logic of a sacramental theory, lie rests in the assump- 
tion that he probably had been baptized before, either 
in his prison or before he entered on his robber-life 
(August. De Amina, i, 11 ; iii, 1*2; ticnn.cle Temp. 130; 
Retract, i, 20; iii, 1*, 55). 

Other conjectures turn more on the circumstances of 
the history. Hengel. usually acute, here overshoots the 
‘mark, and finds in the Lord’s words to him, dropping 
all mention of the Messianic kingdom, an indication 
that the penitent thief was a Gentile, the impenitent a 
Jew, and that thus the scene on Calvary was typical of 
the position of the two churches (Gnomon X. T. in 
Luke xx iii). Slier (Words of the Lord Jesus, ad loe.) 
reads in the words of reproof (oh fie (j)of3ij ov tov Bedn) 
the language of one who had all along listened with 
grief and horror to the revilings of the multitude, the 
burst of an indignation previously suppressed. The 
Apocryphal gospels, as usual, do their best to lower the 
divine history to the level of a legend. They follow 
the repentant robber into the unseen world. He is the 
first to enter Paradise of all mankind. Adam and Seth 
and the patriarchs find him already there bearing his 
cross. Michael the archangel had led him to the gate, 
and the fiery sword had turned aside to let him pass 
(Eva nr/. Xicod. ii, 10). Names were given to the two 
robbers. Demas or Dismas was the penitent thief, 
hanging on the right, fiestas the impenitent on the 
left. (ibid, i, 10; Xarrat. Joseph, c. 3). The cry of en- 
treaty is expanded into a long, wordy prayer (Xarrat. 
Joseph, loe. eir.),and t lie promise sutlers the same treat- 
ment. The history of the Infancy is made prophetic of 
that of the crucifixion. The holy family, on their 
flight to Egypt, come upon a band of robbers. One of 
them, Titus (the names are different here), has com- 
passion, purchases the silence of his companion Duma- 
ehus, and the infant Christ prophesies that after thirty 
years Titus shall be crucified with him, and shall go be- 
fore him into Paradise (Ei'avg. Infant, c. 23). As in 
other instances [see Maci], so in this, the fancy of in- 
ventors seems to have been fertile in names, Bede 
( Collectan .) gives Matlia and Joca as those which pre- 
vailed in his time. The name given in the Gospel of 
Nieodemus has, however, kept its ground, and St. Dis- 
mas takes his place in the hagiologv of the Syrian, the 
Greek, and the Latin Church. — Smith. It has been as- 
sumed that the penitent thief had been very wicked; 
that he continued so till he was nailed to the cross; 
that he joined the other malefactor in insulting the 
Saviour; and that then, hv a miracle of grace, he was 
transformed into a penitent Christian; so Origen (Horn. 
35 in M att.\ Chrysostom (Horn. 88 in Matt.), and others 
(comp. Suicer, s. v. Aptm/c). Hut this view of the case 
seems to involve some misconception of the facts, which 
it may not be inexpedient to indicate. Whitby says, 
•• Almost all interpreters that I have read here say that 
this thief began his repentance on the cross.” With 
regard to his moral character, he is indeed styled by the 
evangelist one of t he “ malefactors (/cnKof'/oyoi) who were 
led with Jesus to be put to death” (Luke xxiii, 32); but 
the word is evidently used coZaoriKiog, i. c. malefactors 
as they were considered. Matthew (xxvii, 44) and 
Mark (xv, 27) call them Xijcrrat ; but this word denotes 
not only robbers, ete., but also brigands, rebels, or any 
who carry on unauthorized liostilit ies, insurgents (Thu- 
cvd. iv, 53). Insurrection was a crime, but it was a 
crime a person might have committed who had good 
qualities, and had maintained a respectable character. 
Again, this man’s punishment was crucifixion, which 
was not in use among the Jews, but was inflicted by the 


Homans, as we have seen, not on mere thieves, but 
rebels. Barabbas bad been one of these, and though he 
"lay bound with them that had made insurrection with 
him, who had committed murder in the insurrection,” 
Mark (xv, 27) has the same word, \goTi)g, “ robber,” 
which is applied to him by John (xviii, 40). It is most 
probable that these “malefactors” were two of his com- 
panions. ' Our Lord was condemned under the same 
charge of insurrection (Luke xxiii, 2), and the man 
whose ease we are considering says to his fellow-suf- 
ferer, "Thou art under the same sentence,” iv rig abno 
Kfiipari, and admits that they both were guilty of the 
charge, while our Lord was innocent of it (ver. 40, 41). 
It is impossible, then, to determine the degree of his 
criminality without knowing what provocations he had 
received under the despotic and arbitrary rule of a 
Roman governor such as Pilate, how far he had been 
active, or only mixed up with the sedition, etc. The 
notion that he was suddenly and instantaneously con- 
verted on the cross is grounded entirely upon the gen- 
eral statement of Matthew, “ the thieves also which 
were crucified with him cast the same in his teeth” 
(xxvii, 44); whereas Luke, in his relation of the inci- 
dent, is more exact. Instances of Matthew's style of 
speaking, which is called amplification , abound in the 
gospels, and in all writers. Thus, “ the soldiers brought 
him vinegar” (Luke xxiii, 3G; John xix, 29), “one of 
them did so” (Matt, xxvii, ,48 ; Mark xv, 30). “The 
disciples had indignation” (Matt, xxvi, 8), “some of 
them” (Mark xiv, 4), “one of them” (John xii, 4). So 
in Mark xvi, 5; Matt, xxviii, 2, there is mention of one 
angel only: but in Luke xxiv, 4; John xx, 12, there is 
mention of two. This is substantially the explanation 
given by Cyprian (De Pussione Domini), Augustine (De 
Cons. Evang. iii, 10), and others, which assumes a sy- 
necdoche or syllepsis or enallage. The captious objec- 
tions to the narrative of Luke as inconsistent with that 
of Matthew* and Mark, and the inference drawn from 
them that both are more or less legendary, are there- 
fore puerile (Strauss, Leben Jesu, ii, 519; Ewald, Chri- 
stas, \\\ Gesch. v, 438). It is far from certain that either 
faith or repentance of this “ thief ” was the fruit of this 
particular season. He must have known something of 
the Saviour, otherwise he could not have said o i(iv 
droTzov tTrpaZt, “he hath done nothing amiss.” lie 
may have been acquainted with the miracles and 
preaching of Jesus before he was cast into prison; he 
may have even conversed with him there, lie was 
convinced of our Lord’s Messiahsbip, “Lord, remember 
me when thou comest into thy kingdom.” His crime 
possibly consisted of only one act of insubordination, 
and he might have been both a sincere believer, and, 
with this one exception, a practical follower of Christ. 
Kocher (ap. Bloomfield, Reeen. tignop.) tells us that 
it is a very ancient tradition that the thief was not 
converted at the cross, but was previously imbued 
with a knowledge of the Gospel. — Kitto. See Kuinbl, 
Mackuight, etc. ; and the monographs cited by Yulbe- 
ding, Judex Prvgr animat urn, p. G3 ; Ilase, Leben Jesu, 
p. 212. 

Thigh (T^f.yarek; Sept, /njpog ; Yulg. femur’), 
properly t he part of the body from the legs to the trunk, 
of men, quadrupeds, etc. (Gen. xxxii, 25, 31, 32; Judg. 
iii, 1G, 21 ; l‘sa. xlv, 3; Cant, iii, 8), occurs in several 
phrases of special significance in the Bible. 

1. Putting the hand under the thigh appears to have 
been a very ancient custom, upon occasion of taking an 
oath to any one. Abraham required this of the oldest 
servant of his house, when he made him swear that he 
would not take a wife for Isaac of the daughters of the 
Canaauitos (Gen. xxiv, 2-9). Jacob required it of his 
son Joseph, when he bound him !>v oath not to bury 
him in Egypt, but with his fathers in the land of Ca- 
naan (xlvii, 29-31). The origin, form, and import of 
this ceremony in taking an oath are very doubtful. 
Aben-Ezra says, “It appears to me that it was the eus- 


TIIIGII 


361 


TIIILO 


tom in that age for a servant to place his hand on his 
master’s thigh, at the command of the latter, to show 
that he considered himself subject to, and undertook, his 
master's bidding; and such is at present the custom in 
India.” Grotius thinks that, as the sword was worn 
upon the thigh (comp. Judg. iii, 10, 21; Psa. xlv, 3; 
Cant, iii, 8), this custom was as much as to say, If 1 
falsify, kill me. Not a few commentators, ancient and 
modern, explain it of laying the hand on or near t lie 
spctio circumeisionis, to protest by that solemn covenant 
of God, whereof circumcision was the badge and type, 
in the Abrahamic family. So II. Eleazar says, “ Before 
the giving of the law, the ancient fathers swore by the 
covenant of circumcision” ( Pirke , c. 40). The Targum 
of Jonathan ben-Uzziel explains it Pi“PU-, 

“in seetione cireumeisionis mete;” the Jerusalem Tar- 
gum, “p"» Plnp,* £ sub femore fccderis mei.” Dr. 

Adam Clarke adopts the former of these two explana- 
tions ( Commentary on Gen. xxiv , 0). This interpretation 
supposes a meiosis, or metonymy such as is supposed by 
some to attend the use of the word with regard to the 
effect of the water of Jealousy (Numb. v. 21, 22, 27). 
Bochart adduces many similar instances ( Hieroz . 11, v, 
15). We may also refer to the margin or lleb. of Gen. 
xlvi, 20 ; Exod. i, 5 ; Judg. viii, 30. No further allusion 
to this ceremony in taking an oath occurs in Scripture, 
unless the phrase “giving the hand under” refer to it. 
(See lleb. or margin of 1 Chron. xxix, 24, and “giving 
the hand,” 2 Chron. xxx,8; Jer. 1, 15; Ezek. xvii, 18.) 
See Oath. 

2. Our translation states that “ the hollow of Jacob's 

thigh was out of joint by the touch of the angel who 
wrestled with him” (Gen. xxxii, 25). Some, however, 
prefer to render “J?P1, was sprained or wrenched , and 
adduce Jer. vi, 8; Ezek. xxiii, 17, 18. The Sept, ren- 
ders it /cm h'ctpn]ffe to 7r\drof roD piipou ; the Vulg. 
tetifit nercum femoris ejus, et statim e marc nit. Some 
such sense better suits ver. 31, where we find Jacob 
limping on his thigh; see Gesenius on The cus- 

tom of Jacob’s descendants, founded upon this incident, 
is recorded in ver. 32. which has been thus translated: 
“Therefore the children of Israel eat not of the nerve 
Nashe, which is upon the hollow of the thigh, unto this 
day; because he struck the hollow of Jacob’s thigh, on 
the nerve Nashe (Sept, to rtupov, Vulg. nervus). The 
true derivation of the word is considered by Dr. 
Fiirst, in his Concordance , to be still a secret ; but, along 
with Gesenius, he understands the nerve itself to be the 
ischiatic nerve, which proceeds from the hip to the an- 
cle. This nerve is still extracted from the hinder limbs 
by the Jews in England, and in other countries where 
pro’perly qualified persons are appointed to remove it 
(Xew Translation, etc., by the Bev. D. A. De Sola, p. 
333). 

3. (pVu3, shokl) The phrase “hip and thigh ” oceurs 
in Judg. xv, 8, in the account of Samson’s slaughter of 
the Philistines. Gesenius translates b^ in this passage 
with, and understands it as a proverbial expression for 
“he smote them all.” The Chaldee paraphrast inter- 
prets it, “He smote both footmen and horsemen, the 
one resting on their legs (as the word pV- should be 
rendered), the other on their thighs, as they sat on their 
horses.” Others understand that he smote them both 
on the legs and thighs. Some give another interpreta- 
tion : smiting on the thigh denotes penitence (Jer. xxxi, 
19), grief, and mourning (Ezek. xxi, 12). 

A fesv mistranslations occur. The word “thigh” 
should have been translated “leg” in Isa. xlvii, 2, pV£\ 
Kvi'ipag, crura . In Cant, vii, 1 , “The joints of thy 
thighs,” ete., the true meaning is “the cincture of thy 
loins (i. e. the drawers, trousers) is like jewelry.” Ladv 
Wortley Montagu describes this article of female attire 
as “composed of thin rose-eolored damask, brocaded with 
silver Jhwers” ( Letters , ii, 12; see llarmer, On Solomon's 


Song, p. 110). Coeceius, Buxtorf, Mcrcerus, and Junius 
all adopt this explanation. In Bev. xix, 10 it is said 
“the Word of God (ver. 13) hath on his vesture and on 
/us thigh a name written, King of kings and Lord of 
lords.” Sehlensner thinks the name was not written 
upon the thigh, but upon the sword. Moutfaneon gives 
an account, of several images of warriors having inscrip- 
tions on the thighs (.1 nt ignite Expliqnee , 111, ii, 208, 209; 
Grupter, iii, 1489; ami Zornii (Jpuscula S.S. ii, 759). — 
Kit to. 

Thilo, Johann Kail, a theologian of Halle, was 
born at Langensalza, in Thuringia, Nov. 28, 1794. While 
a student he began to distinguish himself by superior 
philological attainments, lie completed his studies at 
Leipsie and llalle, and in 1817 obtained t lie post of col- 
laborator in the Latin school of the Orphanage at llalle,’ 
and subsequently that of teacher in the Boyal Pedago- 
gium. He remained in the latter station five years, but 
joined to its duties those of theological tutor in the uni- 
versity, where he began to deliver lectures on exegeti- 
cal and patristieal subjects in 1819. In 1820 be visited 
Paris and Oxford in the company of Gesenius, and on 
his return assisted Knapp, who afterwards became his fa- 
ther-in-law, in the conduct of the Theological Seminary. 
In 1822 he was made extraordinary, and in 1825 ordina- 
ry, professor of theology. In 1833 he received the title 
of consistorial councillor, and in 1840 the badge of the 
Order of the Bed Eagle, lie was a member of the Or- 
der of Freemasons, and temporarily of the direction of 
Francke’s institutes. The lectures of Thilo extended 
into the fields of the history of doctrines and of the 
Church, and into symbolics and patristics. They were 
characterized by thoroughness of treatment and fulness 
of detail as well as simplicity of style; and they came 
in time to be recognised and valued by the entire uni- 
versity. The progress of his researches led him from 
the study of classical antiquity and the Greek philoso- 
phers to the antiquity of the Church, the Neo-Platon- 
ists, and the Greek fathers, lie was also led to give at- 
tention to the almost uncultivated field of the New- 
Test. Apocrypha. In 1823 he published .4 eta St. Thonuc 
Apostoli, ete. The fruit of subsequent labors was ac- 
cidentally lost in 1828, so that the appearance of the first 
volume of his Codex Apocryphus X. T.,e te., was delayed 
until 1832. This volume, containing the Apocryphal 
gospels, proved the greatest literary production of his 
life. His plans for the completion of the series were 
only partially executed. In 1838 appeared A eta .1 postal. 
Petri et Pauli, etc.: — in 1846, Acta . 1 postal. Andrew et 
Mutthiie, etc. and in 1847, Fragrn. A ctuum S. Joannis, 
ete. Thilo also furnished a contribution to the literature 
of the Old-Test. Apocrypha in the memorial written for 
Knapp’s jubilee in 1825, Specimen Exercit. Criticarvm 
in Sap. Salomonis (llalla?, 1825). Various dissertations 
display his acquaintance with the Neo-Plhtonists and 
the Church writers who followed in their steps; e. g. 
I)e Ccelo Empyren Comment ationes III (1839 sq.) : — 
Euseb. Alexandr. Oratio i tep'i darpovapwv preemissa de 
Mag is et Stella Qnwstione (1834): — Comment, in Synesii 
Hyninnm II (1842 sq.). He was long employed on a com- 
plete edition of the hymns of Synesius. but did not finish 
the undertaking. This was also the ease with his last 
important work, the Bibliotheca Patrum Griec. Dogmati - 
ca, a single volume, containing S. Athmmsii Opera Dog- 
matica Selecta, after the text of Mont fau con, being the 
extent to which it was published. Thilo was simply a 
student and an inquirer, lie connected himself with 
none of the theological parties in the Church, because 
he saw much to approve and something to condemn in 
them all. Nor did he found any school, because he was 
unable to regard his own mind as fully formed, lie 
gave himself simply to the work of inquiry, and became, 
in consequence, one of the most widely and accurately 
learned men of the modern Church within the field of 
his own chosen labors. lie was, withal, a devout lover 
of the Bible, a most genial associate in the friendly cir- 
cle, and a profoundly interested observer of all impor- 


THIRDS 


3G2 


THIRTY YEARS’ WAT 


tant events. lie died May 17, 1853. Pryander’s dis- 
course delivered at the funeral ofTliilo was published at 
Halle in 1 853 ; and a hriel characterization o| Thilo w as 
given by Airier in the Hall is< her E ekt iouskt itulog (1853- 
51); and another in Conn rs.- / ,cj* ikon d. (legemmrt 
(184 l ), i v, 2. by I lenke. See Herzog. Real- Encyklop . s. v. 

Thilo, Wilhelm, a Herman teacher, was born in 
the year 180*2. and died Feb. 17, 1870. at Berlin. For 
a number of years he stood at the head ol the Berlin 
seminary for the education of teachers, and published, 

E petit r als Katechet (Berlin, 1810 ): — /)as ye 1st licit? Lied 
in der evangel. I o Iksschule ! teutschlawls (ibid. 1842; 2d 
ed. 1855) : — Lu dirty Uelmbold nach Leben itnd Dichtcn 
(2d ed. 1856 ) : — Lmlumilia Elisabeth (Ini fin ron Echtrarz- 
bnrg-Ru didst adt. Ein Jieitrag zur Ceschichte der grist L 
Diddling ini \7.Jahrhundert (ibid. 1855 ): — Melunclithon 
ini Hienste an heiliger Ecbrift (ibid. 1800 ) : — Preiissiscltes 
1 D/ksschtdiresen nach (ieschirhte und Eta fist it (ibid. 
1807). See Xnchold, Rib!. 7 'held. ii, 1.132; Litcrurischer 
I land miser fur das kathol. Deutschland , 1808, p. 00; 
1870. p. 480. ' (B. I*.) 

Thini'natha (.lush. xix. 43). See Timx.ui. 

Thicmville, Councils ok (Concilia apnd Theodo- 
■n is- villa in' i. Thionville, now known as Diedenhofen , is 
a town of Germany, in Lorraine, situated on the Moselle; 
and has belonged in succession to the counts of Luxem- 
burg, to Burgundy, Austria, Spain, and France. It was 
ceded by the peace of May 10, 1871, to Germany. This 
town has been the seat of three councils. 

I. Held in 822; thirty- two bishops being present, 
among whom were Aistuphus of Mavenee and Lb bo of 
L’heims. Four or five articles were drawn up in defence 
of ecclesiastical persons and property. 8ee Mansi, Con- 
cil. vii. 1510. 

II. Held in February. 835; more than forty bishops 
being present. All the proceedings against Louis 1c 
Debonnaire were declared to be null and void, and he 
was conducted to the cathedral church of Metz, and sol- 
emnly restored to his rights and privileges. This done, 
the prelates returned to Thionville, where Agobard of 
Lyons and Bernard of Vienne, w ho were absent, were 
solemnly dej wised, together w ith Ebbo of I.’lieitns, who, 
being present, himself consented to the sentence, and 
renounced the episcopate. See Mansi, vii, i 695. 

III. Held in October, 814, in a place called at pres- 
ent “Just” (Judicium) ; Drogon, bishop of Metz, pre- 
sided. In this council Lothaire, Louis, and Charles I 
promised to observe brotherly concord among them- 
selves. Six articles were drawn up, which the princes 
promised to observe. They are exhorted, among other 
things, to live in unity and brotherly love; to fill with- 
out delay the sees which, owing to their quarrels, had 
remained vacant; to hinder the laity from appropriat- 
ing to themselves the property of the Church, etc. — 
Landon, Manual of Councils, s. v. 

Third Orders is the name given bv Homan Cath- 
olics to persons who desire to lead a religious life in 
their homes, and vet have connection with some regu- 
lar order. The first ment ion of such persons is in 1 199, 
in connection with the August i ties, though this order 
claims that it was established much earlier. There are 
third orders of nearly all the principal orders, as of Do- 
minicans, Minims, Carmelites, Trinitarians, etc. Their 
members take the vow of allegiance to the rules of the 
order, with the exception of that of perpetual chastity ; 
have directors and superiors, yet live in the world, mar- 
ry, and carry on business. Their only distinguishing 
mark is a scapularv and leather girdle, but these are 
often worn under their ordinary dress. 

Thirds, a peculiar arrangement, under Alary queen 
of Scots, for the support of the Protestant clergy. “ The 
barons,” says Knox, “perceiving that the Book of Dis- 
cipline was refused, presented to the nobility certain ar- 
ticles, requiring idolatry to be suppressed, the Kirk to 
be planted with true ministers, and some certain provis- 
ion to be made for them, according to equity and cou- 


! science. . . . And so devised they that the kirkmen” 
(the former clergy) “should have no intromission with 
the two parts of their benefices” (that, is, with two 
thirds), “and that the third part should be lifted up by 
such men as thereto should be appointed, for such uses 
as in the acts are more fully expressed.” The result 
w as that two thirds of the benefices were retained by the 
popish clergy, and the remaining third handed to a col- 
lector lor the queen. The ministers and superintend- 
ents were to have a sum modified for their support, and 
the surplus was to become a part of the revenue of the 
crown. Thus very little was left for the ministers of 
the Kirk. See Ladie, Eccles, Cyclop, s. v. 

Thirlwall, Connor, D.D.,an English clergyman and 
historian, was born at Stepney, Middlesex. Feb. 11, 171)7. 
His precocity was so great that his father published for 
him, at the age. of eleven, a volume of his compositions, 
Primitive , or Essays ami Poems on Wn totts * Subjects 
(1809). lie took the Craven and Bell scholarships at 
Trinity College, Cambridge, 1815; graduated as senior 
chancellor’s medallist, 1818; became tutor and fellow; 
and w*as called to the bar in 1825. In 1828 he entered 
the Church, and became rector of Kirhy-umler-Dale, 
Yorkshire. For several years he was examiner for the 
classical tripos at Cambridge, classical examiner in the 
University of London, and visitor of St. David’s College, 
Lampeter. He was created bishop of St. David’s in 
1840, which office he resigned in June, 1874. He died 
July 27, 1875. lie published a number of sermons, 
charges, letters, addresses, and essays, which, with oth- 
er writings, were issued under the title of Literary and 
Theological Remains , edited by canon I ’crown e (Loud. 
1875-6,3 vols.). 

Tlilist (S<~I£. citpoc ) is a painful natural sensation 
occasioned by the absence of moistening liquors from the 
stomach. As this sensation is accompanied by vehe- 
ment desire, the term is sometimes used in Scripture, in 
a moral sense, for a mental desire, as in Jer. ii, 25, “ With- 
hold thy throat from thirst; but thou saidst, I loved 
strangers, and after them will I go;” in other words, 
“I desire the commission of sin — I thirst for criminal 
indulgence.” Matt, v, 6, “ Blessed are they who hunger 
and thirst after righteousness.” Bsa. xliii, 2, “My soul 
thirsteth for God.” The same figure is employed in the 
discourse of our Lord with the woman of Samaria, 
“Whosoever drinkefh of the water which I shall give 
him shall never thirst,” an allusion which the woman 
mistook as if intended of natural water, drawn from 
some spring possessing peculiar properties (John iii, 14). 
— Calmet. See Hunger. 

Thirty -nine Articles. See Articles, The 
Thirty-nine. 

Thirty Years’ War, The, a German political and 
religious conflict, was not properly one war, but rather 
an uninterrupted succession of wars (1618-48), in Ger- 
many. Austria, most of the Catholic princes of Ger- 
many, and Spain were engaged on one side throughout, 
but against different antagonists. 

1. Causes of the 115//*. — For the influences which led 
to this struggle we must look back to the 16th century, 
when Germany was divided into two parties by the 
Reformation. Under Maurice of Saxony, Protestantism 
became triumphant, and by the Peace of Augsburg 
(1555) each State was allowed to prescribe the form of 
worship within its bounds, and subjects were allowed to 
move from those states where their worship was pro- 
hibited to those in which it was not. There still re- 
mained many unsettled questions whicli provoked strife. 
To guard against the future appropriation of prelacies 
by Protestants, the Catholic party, against the protest 
of the Lutheran members of the diet, inserted an article 
bv which all prelates w ho should thereafter abjure Ca- 
tholicism were to forfeit their benefices. Another mat- 
ter of dispute was the desire to secure for Protestants 
the right of worship in Catholic states. The Catholics 
refused to admit such an article, and all that could be 


THIRTY YEARS’ WAR 


363 


T1IISBE 


gained was a personal declaration to this effect from 
the emperor’s brother, Ferdinand, who presided over the 
diet at Augsburg. Under the reign of Maximilian 
(1564-76) Protestantism spread in Bohemia, Hungary, 
and Austria proper; but under his successor, Rudolf 11 
(157G-1G 12), there was a reaction. Swayed by the Jes- 
uits and the court of Spain, he proceeded to restrict, and 
even to abolish, Protestant worship. 

2. First Stage of the War. — Thoroughly aroused, the 
Protestant princes formed the Evangelical Union at An- 
hausen, in Franconia, May 4, 1608, under the lead of the 
elector-palatine, Frederick IV. The rival union of the 
Catholic powers, under the leadership of the duke of 
Bavaria, followed, July II, l GOB. The Bohemians had 
forced from Rudolf an edict of toleration (Mnjestiits- 
bn'rf), July 1 1, 1 GOO, which guaranteed them religious 
liberty; but his successor, Matthias, having signed it 
upon his accession, appointed his cousin Ferdinand of 
Stvria his heir. Ferdinand, educated by the Jesuits, 
had taken an oath to exterminate Protestantism from 
his kingdom; and immediately upon his accession, in 
1G17, persecutions began. Two Protestant churches, in 
Klostergraben and Braunau. having been pulled down, 
a lawsuit was instituted, and decided in favor of the 
Roman Catholic authorities. An appeal to the emper- 
or only elicited a harsh reply, which aroused the Prot- 
estants, who, under the leadership of count Thurn, pen- 
etrated into the Castle of Prague (May 23, 1618), threw 
the imperial councillors out of the window, and organ- 
ized a general rising. They routed the imperial troops, 
and actually besieged the emperor in Vienna. Frederick, 
whose sole allies were Bohemians, Moravians^ Hunga- 
rians, and a Piedmontese contingent of 3000, was op- 
posed by a well-appointed army of 30,000 under duke 
Maximilian, and totally routed at Weissenberg, Nov. 8, 
1620. The military operations of count Mnnsfeld and 
Christian of Brunswick, and the forced cession of large 
portions of Hungary and Transylvania to Bethlem Ga- 
bor, did much to equalize the success of the antagonistic 
parties. 

3. Second Stage of the War. — The fearful tyranny of 
Ferdinand over all the Protestants in his dominions, 
Hungary excepted, drove them to despair, and pro- 
longed the war. Christian IV of Denmark, smarting 
under some injuries indicted upon him by the emperor, 
and aided by a British subsidy, came to the relief of his 
German coreligionists in 1624. Holland aided with 
troops, and Christian of Brunswick and Mansfeld reap- 
peared in the Held. In April, 1G2G, Mansfeld’s army 
was nearly annihilated by Wallenstein at Dessau, w hile 
in August Till}’ overwhelmed the king of Denmark at 
Lutter. This victory w’as followed up by Wallenstein, 
who drove the Danes into Jutland and extended Ins op- 
erations to the Baltic. Christian IV Nvas compelled by 
the Peace of Lubeck, May 22, 1629, to withdraw’ alto- 
gether from the contest. Here, again, the w’ar might 
have ended; but Ferdinand, on March G, 1G29, issued 
the Edict of Restitution, ordering that all ecclesiasti- 
cal estates secularized since 1552 should be returned to 
the Church, and all immediate sees held by Protestants 
transferred to Roman Catholic prelates. Brandenburg, 
Saxony, Hesse, Magdeburg, and other states protested, 
but the edict was carried out by force in all the impe- 
rial cities; and Tilly w f as ordered to move northward 
and crush every attempt at resistance. At this junct- 
ure Gustavus Adolphus came to the rescue of German 
Protestantism, and thus began the 

4. Third Stage of the War. — Gustavus landed on the 
island of' Usedom, in June, 1630, and drove away the im- 
perial garrisons from Pomerania and Mecklenburg, where 
lie reinstated the expelled princes. He then formed 
alliances with Hesse, Saxe -Weimar, Magdeburg, and 
France; and was afterw r ard9 joined by the electors of 
Brandenburg and Saxony. With these last allies he 
joined battle with Tilly at Breitcnfcld, Sept. 17, 1631, 
and nearly annihilated his army. Defeating Tilly the 
second time, April 15, 1632, on the Lech, Gustavus and 


Frederick V entered Munich. Wallenstein w’as recalled, 
and, after a few’ months’ waiting, the battle of Liitzen 
was fought, Nov. 16, 1632, in which Gustavus fell, but 
Wallenstein was defeated. The death of Gustavus 
Adolphus w’as a severe blow’ to the Protestants, though 
the genius and indefatigable zeal of his chancellor, Ox- 
enstierna, and the superior ability of the Swedish gen- 
erals, preserved the advantages they had gained, till 
the crushing defeat of Bernard of Weimar at Nordling- 
en. Sept. 6, 1634, restored to the emperor a preponder- 
ating influence in Germany. Saxonv now' made peace 
at Prague, May 30, 1635, obtaining such satisfactory 
terms for the Lutherans that the treaty was, within 
three months, adhered to by all the princes of that sect. 
The Calvinists were left to their fate. Sweden, how- 
ever, resolved to continue the struggle, and Oxenstier- 
na propitiated Richelieu by giving him the direction of 
the war. Baner led the Sw’edes into Germany, atid won 
the great battle of Wittstock, Sept. 24, 1G36. Upon his 
death, in 1641, he was succeeded by Torstensson, who 
made the Swedish arms a terror throughout Germany. 
Conde and Turenne led the French to victory over the 
leaguers on the Rhine, until at last the emperor was de- 
serted by all his allies except the duke of Bavaria, 
whose territories w’ere already mostly in the hands of 
Turenne and Wrangcl. Preliminaries had been ar- 
ranged for negotiations as early as 1641. but it was not 
until Oct. 24, 1648, that the Peace of Westphalia was 
concluded at Minister. 

5. Residts of the IPu/v — These, ecclesiastically con- 
sidered, were that the possession of the ecclesiastical 
benefices was placed on the basis of Jan. 1, 1624; and in 
the case of the Palatinate, Baden, Durlach, and Wiir- 
temberg, the Catholics were obliged to accept 1618 as 
the normal year. An age of greater toleration w as in- 
troduced into Germany. In all religious questions the 
Protestants secured an equality with the Catholics, 
and gained equal weight in the diet and high courts of 
the empire. The Peace of Westphalia terminated the 
religious wars of Europe, and thus became an important 
landmark in its history. See Westimi alia. Peace of. 

For literature of the Thirty Years’ War, see Cost, hires 
of the Warriors of the Thirty Years' J Fur (Loud. 1865); 
Ranke, Geschichte Wallensteins (Leips. 1869); Stieve, 
Ursprung des dreissigjiih rigen Krieges (Munich, 1875), 
vol. i; and similar sketches bv Menzel (Breslau. 1 835— 
39,3 vols. ), Flat he ( 1840), Mehold ( 1840), Barthold 
(1842), Heilman (1851), Klopp (1861), Hausser (1862), 
Gindely (Prague, 1869), Gardner (Lond. 1874). 

This'be (f hV/3/j v. r. a name found only in 

Tob. i, 2, as that of a city of Naphtali from which To- 
bit’s ancestor had been carried captive by the Assyrians. 
The real interest of the name resides in the fact that it 
is maintained by some interpreters (1 1 ilIer,£b<ow?. p. 236, 
947 ; Reland, Palevst. p. 1035) to be the place w’hieli had 
the glory of giving birth to Elijah (q. v.) the Tishbite. 
This, however, is, at the best, very questionable, and 
derives its main support from the fact that the word 
employed in 1 Kings xvii, 1 to denote the relation of 
Elijah to Gilead, if pointed as it now stands in the re- 
ceived Hebrew text, signifies that he was not a native 
of Gilead, but merely a resident there, and came origi- 
nally from a different and foreign district. But it is 
also possible to point the word so that the sentence shall 
mean ‘’from Tishbi of Gilead,” in which case all rela- 
tion betw’een the great prophet and Thisbe of Naphtali 
at once falls to the ground. There is. however, a truly 
singular variation in the texts of the passage in Tobit, 
a glance at which (on the following page) will show 
how hazardous it is to base any definite topographical 
conclusions upon it. 

Assuming that Thisbe, and not Thibe , is the correct 
reading of the name, it has been conjectured (apparent- 
ly for the first time by Keil, Comm, iiber die Konige, p. 
247) that it originated in an erroneous rendering of the 
Hebrew’ word ^ 2’^ F1 12, which word, in fact, occurs in the 


THISTLE 


304 


TIIOLUCK 


A V. Vl'UJ ATK. SKPTI’AGIXT. 

Out of Tliisbe which Out of the tribe and| Out otThisbe which 
ai the right hand city of Nephthnliiis at the right hand 
„f that city which is which is in the upper of Radios of Nepli- 
called properly Neph- parts of Galilee above thnleini iu Galilee 
thali in Galilee above Nnasson, behind the above Aser. 

Aser.* [Mara. or I\e- road which leads to 
desh of Xepiithali in the west, having on 
Galilee, Jtnlg. iv, G.] the left hand the city 
of Sephet. 


* i. e. probably 
lhizor. 


Revised Greek Text. 

Out of Thibe which 
is at the right hand 
of Kiulibu of Neph- 
thalcim in Upper Gal- 
ilee above Asser, be- 
hind the setting sun 
>n the right of Pho- 
i'or (Peor). 


Yktes Latina. 

Out of the city of Bihil 
which is on the right 
hand of Edisse, a city of 
Nephthalim in Upper 
Galilee over against Naa-I 
son, behind ' the road 
which leads to tlie west 
on the left of Kaphain. 

[Another IMS. read.- Gc- 
briel, Cydiseus, and Ba- 
phaini, for Bihil, Edisse, 
and Uaphain.] 


Hebrew version of the passage, and may be pointed in 
two ways, so as to mean either “from the inhabitants 
of.” or *• from Tislibi, M i. e. Tliisbe. The reverse sugges- 
tion. in respect of t lie same word in l Kings xvii. 1, lias 
also been made. See Tisiimtk. Pint this, though very 
ingenious, and quite within the bounds of possibility, is 
at present a mere conjecture, since none of. the texts , 
support it. and there is no other evidence in its favor, j 

No name resembling Tliisbe or Thibe has been yet 
encountered in the neighborhood of Kedesor Safed, but 
it seems impossible to suppose that the minute defiiii- ! 
tion of the Latin and Iievised Greek texts — equalled in 
the sacred books only by the well-known description of j 
the position of Shiloh in Judg. xxi, 19— can be mere in- 
vention. — Smith. 

Thistle is the rendering, in the A. V., of two Ileb. 
and one Gr. word: l. dardiir, any thorny plant, 

especially of the weed-like sort: always collectively in 
parallelism with lots, “thorn” (Gen. iii, 18; llos. j 

x. 8): 2. run, chodch , a stronger or hook- like thorny 
bush (‘2 Kings xiv, 9; 2 Cliron. xxv, 18; Job xxxi,4<); 
elsewhere “thorn,” etc.); 3. rpifioX og, a three-promjnl 
thorn, the caltrop (Matt, vii, 16; “brier,” lleb. vi. 8). 
The tendency of all vegetation in Palestine to run into 
spines, noticeable in the merest weeds as well as in 
trees, is a subject of remark to all travellers (see Ilaek- 
ett. Illnst. of Script, p. 12G). The thistle (a common | 
name for various genera, especially Curduus cirsinm, I 
etc.) grows abundantly in most countries, and is a small 
plant: but iu the warm air of Palestine, and in rich soils 
like the plain of Esdraelon, t he large and luxuriant 
thistle will overtop the mounted horseman. On the 
road from Jerusalem to llama, llasselquist ( Travels . p. 
280) found six different sorts; and in t he south of Ju- 
da*a, in the course of one afternoon, Messrs. M’Cheyne 



and IJonar counted ten or eleven species. Miss Beau- 
fort speaks of giant thistles of the height of a man on 
horseback, which she saw near the ruins of Folham 
(A / fuptiun Sep. ami Syrian Shrines, ii, 45, 50), “The 
most common species of this weed iu Palestine are. No- 
tubas is Syriaca , a .tall flowering pink thistle with pow- 
erful spines; Scofymus macnlatns, a very noxious plant, 
with a bright-orange flower: and Carthemns oxycantha , 
another yellow-flowering thistle, whose formidable spines 
inflict irritating wounds, like the sting of a poisonous 
insect” (Tristram, Nat. Hist, of the Bible, p. 424 sq.). See 
Thorn. 

Tliiven, Synod of, was held by Nierses, the first 
bishop, or cathoficns, of the Armenian Church, in A. I). 
536. It was called through the influence of the Persian 
ruler Chosroes, who desired the separation of his Chris- 
tian subjects from the Christians of t lie Homan empire. 
At the synod the Monophvsite system was confirmed, 
and the anathema pronounced on the Chalcedonian 
council. See Neander, /list, of the Church, i, 553. 

Tholuck, Friedrich August Gottgetreu. one 
of the greatest Protestant divines of Germany, was born 
at Breslau, March 30, 1799, of humble parentage. lie 
continued at school till twelve years of age, when he 
was set to learn his father’s trade, which was that of a 
goldsmith. It is said that he had till late years a ring 
which he himself had made. Still he hated the trade 
so much that lie determined to get back to study. lie 
soon found bis way to the gymnasium, from which he 
graduated at the age of eighteen. His diligence was so 
great that he almost destroyed his sight, so that at times 
he has been on the verge of blindness. For a while he 
remained at the University of Breslau, lmt afterwards 
went to Berlin. In some way or other a taste for Orien- 
tal literature was awakened in him, and he sought from 
Prof. Kosegarten (then of Grcifswalde, but from 1817 
till 1824 professor at Jena), who was a great Oriental 
scholar, the means to carry on such studies. Prelate 
von Dietz, another distinguished Orientalist, took such 
an interest in him as to adopt him as his son ; and when 
t he prelate died. Von Altenstein secured for him all need- 
ful support. He went soon after to Jena, where be stud- 
ied under bis benefactor. Kosegarten, and graduated as 
doctor of philosophy. He always looked back upon 
these Oriental studies with delight, and said on Dec. 1, 
1870 (the evening before the fiftieth anniversary of his 
appointment as professor), in answer to a congratulatory 
address from Jena. “You may be assured, my friends, 
that when I look back upon these studies, it is not with 
feelings like those with which one recollects a forsaken 
love, but rather with those felt towards one that still in- 
flames and fills my spirit with youthful enthusiasm, and, 
at the same time, calls up a grateful remembrance of 
Prof. Kosegarten of Jena, who so lovingly encouraged 
and helped me on in the path of these studies.” Tho- 
lnck's progress in Oriental lore is proved by three works 
which he published, two of which are learned produc- 
tions. The first was written in 1821, from Turkish, 
Persian, and Arabic MSS., and entitled Suf sinus sire 
Theosophia Persnrnm Pantheistica , qnam e MSS. Pi - 
b/iothccu 1 Beyiu Berolinensis Persicis , A rabicis, 7'urcicis 
emit ct illnst ravit ( Berolini. 1821 ). The second was 
more popular, and appeared in 1825 with the title An 
1 ntholoyy of the Oriental Mystic Poems, with an Intro- 
duction on the Mystics Generally, and the Eastern in Par- 


9 


TIIOLUCK 


305 


TIIOLUCK 


ticuhtr. The third of these works appeared in 1826, and 
was one of learning — Speculations of the Later Oriental- 
ists respecting the Doctrine of the Trinity, 

While at Berlin, the great crisis in his religions life 
was approaching, and actually took place. In order to 
understand this, it is necessary carefully to read his 
work Sin and Redemption , or the True Consecration of 
a Sceptic. This was published in 1825, and was, in ef- 
fect, a refutation of De Wette’s Theodore , or the Conse- 
cration of the Sceptic. It describes the conversion of 
two young theologians, Julius and Guido, who were, no 
doubt, I)r. Julius Muller and the writer himself. This 
work was written in three weeks, and, like many books 
written off-hand, it has had remarkable success. Still 
more insight into Tholuck’s spiritual life is caught in 
his address on the evening preceding the jubilee of 
December, 1870. A few of its thoughts may here be 
reproduced, for they furnish the key to his extraordi- 
nary success in winning souls to Christ: 

“Those whom I see around me are not merely iny pu- 
pils, nor my admirers, but my friends — my friends in Christ, 
mauy of them also my children in Christ, whom I have also 
borne with much pain. My course has been designated a 
successful life among youth. I have had not merely to 
water like Apollos, but to plant with Paul, and introduce 
new life into dead, corrupt, and wayward youthful hearts. 
But this can only be where the spirit of tire is the beam 
of a divine influence from God. Nothing rills me more 
with adoring wonder than to think how this spirit of lire 
has ever been tri veil to me since the hour when I received 
the baptism of lire from above. From the age of seven- 
teen I have always asked myself, k What is the chief end 
of man's life V 1 could never persuade myself that the ac- 
quisition of knowledge was this end. Just then God 
brought me into contact with a venerable saint who lived 
in fellowship with Christ, and from that time I have had 
but one passion, and that is Christ , and Christ alone. Ev- 
ery one out of Christ I look upon ns a fortress which 1 
initst storm and win. I was in my eighteenth year when 
the Lord gave me my first convert, lie was an artillery 
officer, a Jew, a wild creature, without rest ; but soon be 
became such a true follower of Christ that lie put me to 
shame. And when I look back upon the thousands of 
youths whose hearts have opened up under my influence, 
I eau only saj' the Lord hath done it. In working thus to 
save souls, my life has been one of joy rather than toil. 
Amoug the students were many frivolous, careless ones. 
I just now remember one whom a mother laid on my 
heart, but who soon fell among companions who led him 
astray, so that he could be found at home only at six in 
the morning. More than once I have visited him at that 
hour, and also in prison, but all seemed in vain, till one 
day in the sermon I said, 'Ah, yes, we preachers should 
have hard work were it not that we have one in league 
with us iu every heart, even the most careless, that says, 
while we are preachers, “ Well, the preacher is right.”’ 
The uext evening I received a letter from him, in which 
he promised to give up evil and enter upon a new life. 
Alas! four or five days later a card came from him wiih 
only these words—' Tholuck is sighing, Thai nek is pray- 
ing, but I am drinking like a brute.' Vet my labor was 
not in vain, for he is now a noted preacher of the Gospel 
of Christ. And what a number of those who were once 
my students have risen up and can now say, each one, like 
myself, ‘ f have but one passion , and that is Christ , and 
Christ alone!' ” 

Happy the veteran saint and scholar who could, in a 
green old age, look back upon such labors! lie had all 
the more confidence in the power of Christianity from 
having felt it in his own heart. When he left the 
gymnasium to enter the university, his oration was on 
The Superiority of Mohammedanism orer Christianity. 
He was especially prejudiced against experimental 
Christianity, which was then called Pietism and Mysti- 
cism. He thought it checked all vigor of action and 
freedom of thought, and impressed on every counte- 
nance the pale hue of death, and that all who adopted 
it must turn their view from the boundless magnifi- 
cence of t lie starry heavens and dwell in t lie damp and 
gloom of a catacomb. Neander exerted a great influ- 
ence on him for good, lmt it was especially baron von 
Kottwitz w’ho was the instrument of his conversion, as 
well as of his friends Olshausen, J nlius M tiller, and Dieh- 
ard Hot he. 

On Dec. 2, 1820, Tholuck passed his examination as 
licentiate of theology at the Berlin University. This 
was a daring step, for he then suffered from a complaint 


which, according to three physicians whom he consult- 
ed at the request of baron von Kottwitz, was to end in 
speedy death. But a young physician, without curing 
him, removed the imminent danger, and he could go on 
in his work. Through the considerateness and liberal- 
ity of the Prussian government, he went to England in 
1825, and spent nearly a year there in travels under- 
taken for the purpose of prosecuting scientific researches. 
On his return to Berlin iu 1826, he was called to fill the 
chair of ordinary theology at Halle, made vacant by the 
death of Dr. Knapp. Notwithstanding his promotion 
to the position of extraordinary professor of theology at 
Berlin, so deeply was he imbued with the spirit and in- 
terested in the prosecution of the work of Francke at 
Halle that the daily longing of his heart was that he 
might be transferred to the. university founded by him. 
“Every dav,” says he, “ I prayed to God that he might 
be pleased to call me to that place where, a hundred 
years before, August H. Francke had built his Orphan 
Asylum, and had, by his addresses both from the pulpit 
and from the chair, gathered a faithful community, 
teaching that the first stage on the way to the tree of 
knowledge was by the tree of life.” Ilis prayer w r as an- 
swered, the mantle of Franeke fell upon him, and, by a 
remarkable coincidence of Providence, after laboring as 
his successor for more than fifty years, his burial took 
place within one day of the 150th anniversary of the 
burial of Francke, and tbe passage selected as the text 
of the preacher at the obsequies of Franeke served the 
same purpose at the funeral of Tholuck — “Lord, it is 
done as thou hast commanded.” from the Gospel for 
the Sunday (June 10) on which Tholuck died. 

The state of things which he found when he went to 
Halle in 1826 is described by himself as follow-s: 

“It is universally known how' a dead orthodoxy had, 
throughout the 17th century, been predominant in Ger- 
man churches and universities. . . . Almost throughout 
the breadth of the country the teudency to ‘rationalism,’ 
as it was termed, about the beginning of the present cen- 
tury, had taken an uncontented possession of the pulpits 
and academical chairs. ... At Halle there had been but 
one single man (Prof. Knapp) who, feebly indeed, and se- 
cretly enough, dared to resist all-powerful Rationalism. 
Out of nine hundred students he found five who, being re- 
vived by the aid of a Christian craftsman, believed in the 
divinity of Christ. They were called the ‘idiotic ortho- 
dox:’ they were the few, the little ones, faint-hearted, 
weak, and not gifted, and over against them the great 
multitude of the gifted, active, and assiduous stndeuts. 
The body of t he academic teachers, iu agreement with the 
whole mass of the students, had sent a petition to the 
mini-ter of state for ecclesiastical affairs against my ap- 
pointment to a professorship at Halle. That was the most 
trying period of my life, iu which T learned seeking and 
pursuing love.” 

Such was the state of Germany, its Established Church, 
and its institutions when Tholuck was called to Halle. 
Ilegel, who, as a philosophical lecturer, had imbibed 
Christian principles in the religious atmosphere of Ber- 
lin, urged Tholuck, in his parting wrnrds, that he should 
“deal a death-blow to the bald rationalism prevalent at 
Halle.” This w f as no easv task, considering that Ge- 
senius and Wegseheider had such wonderful influence 
there. 

Tholuck’s position was, therefore, at first exceedingly 
difficult in this reign of rationalism. He was scouted, 
hated, and ridiculed as a pietist, mystic, fanatic, Phari- 
see, etc. ; but lie persevered, and God most richly blessed 
bis labors. A radical revolution has been wrought in 
Halle, so far as theology is concerned. The Rev. L. 
Witte, one of his pupils, w'ho represented him at t he 
Evangelical Alliance, in 1873, at New York, and read 
the paper he had prepared on Evangelical Theology in 
Germany , says, 

“We know' that, in a great measure, the wholesome 
change from rationalism to faith which has been granted 
to our native conntry within the last fifty years is, next to 
God’s grace, owing to the restless zeal of this ‘miles 
Ghristi,’ a genuine good knight withnnt fear and without 
reproach. In dark and dreary days he has gallantly borne 
disgrace for Christ's.sake. He, a simile man, has won the 
field in the University of Halle; and all his colleagues, one 


TIIOLUCIv 


36G 


TIIOLUCIv 


by one, have been forced to yield t«» bis superiority of I 
Chiistiau energy and knowledge. Hut, more than that, | 
l Imu-ands upon' thousands cull him their spiritual father, 
their father in Christ.” 

Tholuek verilied the prophetic words of Prof. Hegel, 
drew the sword of the Spirit, and gave bald rationalism 
its death-blow in the University of Malle. It was only 
with t lie change of government and ministry in Prussia 
in 1810 that 1 holnek's inthienee assumed great dimen- 
sions. Frederick William IV and the minister of wor- 
ship, Eiehhorn. looked upon his theology as one which 
avoided all extremes and yet held the faith (irmly. 
They considered it the only justifiable form. When 
vacancies were to be filled in the Prussian universities, 
his advice was always valued, whether it had been for- 
ma 11 v asked or voluntarily proposed. Under the minis- 
ter Yon Pannier, his inthienee rather declined ; lmt under 
the succeeding minister, Von M Abler, it acquired itsolil 
power and dimensions, and many ol the appointments 
of that time were suggested by him. Mis earnest la- 
bor Ibr personal and experimental religion caused him 
to view with mildness smaller departures from ecclesias- 
tical orthodoxy. Divine truth was in his eyes too sub- 
lime to be sharply and exactly defined in formulae. In 
his 77 ue Consecration of the Sceptic, he does not even 
st idly demand an express belief in the personality of 
Hod if the self-consciousness and existence ot the Di- 
vine Being are admitted. Sternly to insist upon creeds 
seemed to him a departure from the faith, in his ser- 
mons he despised all rhetoric and display ol learning. 
There were, however, flashes of appeal that cut into the 
heart like lightning. And then his life, so warm and 
tender and loving, made him a universal favorite with 
his students. It is no wonder flint he exerted an al- 
most fascinating inllnenee over them. Indeed, he looked 
upon personal effort among students as his peculiar call- 
ing. Every day he spent two hours in walking, and 
generally had one or two with him, with whom he 
engaged in pleasant but earnest conversation. This 
gave him, after a time, such an extensive psychological 
knowledge that he could easily lind an entrance to the 
hearts of t lio*e whom he would save. Tholuek said him- 
self, in the address which he delivered at his jubilee, 

“Not without reason has it been said tbatl would rath- 
er he with candidates [for the ministry] than with pastors, 
and rather with students than with candidates. Not with- 
out cause have they called me a stvdenten-professor [a 
professor for students, as opposed to a book professor], | 
who everyw here had a home with students, and nowhere 
else would rather have had hi< home. I had my delight 
in many a sprouting shoot, and, as it were, their flower- 
buds as they unfolded petal after petal, and in the full-de- 
veloped flowers; but every blossom gradually developed, 
and in a different perfume and color. Yes, that is a bles-ed 
delight 1 and he w ho has once found his love and his pleas- 
ure m it, and to whom God lias given the gift of being a 
nofessor, will no longer lind the life of a professor to be ln- 
»or, but rather joy and pleasure. And thus have I spent 
my life, and up to the present day my life as a professor has 
mil been my work, bill rather my joy and my delight. 

“ Hut, at. the same time, t lie life of a professor is not all 
pleasure and enjoyment. If upon every word an echo 
would resound in* the awakened heart; if upon every 
warning spiritual breath green shoots would spring up; 
if on every bestowal of a gift there would follow its recep- 
tion— then it would tie nothing hut enjoyment. But thus 
it does not always happen, for there are also the silent, 
the dull, and the slow’ ones, whom one can call again and 
again, hut no echo resounds; where one can tlmist in the 
spade day after day before anything is heard resounding 
under the earth. And to he surrounded by such, that was 
mv lot in the beginning. 

“I have seen the secrets of many hundred young men 
disclosed to me*. I have seen them wander far, far from 
the real aim of human life. 1 have been able to show’ 
them this, and I have had the pleasure to know’ that 
m my a one perceived it who now’ enjoys this pleasure 
once unknown to him. , 

“This, then, is the life of a student professor; he has 
not onlv easy, joy- and pleasnre-briniring work, hut also I 
a heavy task in youth, seeking love. But what a precious ! 
task w hen such young men are found that sit at the feet 
of Christ, who have been awakened from their slumbers, 
.pr who have returned from their erring ways 1 Wherever 
giving is also a receiving, that is a work which affords a 
higher enjoyment than all others that are more easily per- 
formed.’ ’ 


With such a love for students, Dr. Tholuek became a 
verv popular professor, and students flocked to Ilallc 
from all parts of the world. Mis thorough knowledge 
of the English language made him an especial favorite 
with American students, large numbers of whom sat at 
his feet. Among the most distinguished of these we 
may mention Drs. Hodge, Addison, Alexander, Prentiss, 
M. B. Smith. Park, and others. The partiality manifest- 
ed Ibr Tholuek by American students was reciprocated 
bv him. Me regarded them with more than ordinary 
interest, and was in the habit of calling a number of 
those named his “special pets.” 

Besides the EngUsli.be was a master of a great many 
languages, and was only surpassed by cardinal Mezzo- 
fauti, w ho is said to have known fifty, including dia- 
lects. He was also gifted with poetic genius, and had 
acquired an immense store of varied learning. Me 
was not only a master in theology, but profoundly 
versed in philology, philosophy, history, and poetry; in 
ancient and modern, Oriental and Occidental, heathen, 
Jewish, Mohammedan, and Christian literature. lie 
was a voluminous writer. Me commenced his literary 
labors as an author in 1821, and. besides the works al- 
readv named, he wrote Commentaries on the Epistle to 
the Uotnans, the Hebrews, the Psalms, the Gospel of 
John; — a philosnphico- theological exposition on The 
Sermon on the Mount: — The Credibility of the Gospel 
History (an antidote to Strauss's Life of Christ) : — The 
Spirit o f the Lutheran Theoloyians o f Wittenberg in the 
17 th Century: — and The Academic Life of the 17 th Cen - 
! fury. In the last two productions he gives, mostly from 
MS. sources, a very interesting and graphic, hut by no 
1 means favorable, picture ol the palmy days of orthodox 
Lutheranism, for the instruction and warning of those 
contemporaries who would so zealously revive it as the 
best state of the Church, without considering that it was 
followed by the terrible apostasy of nationalism. These 
works were forerunners of an extensive history of na- 
tionalism. We mention the Hours of Devotion, togeth- 
er w ith several volumes ol' Sermons, as well as numerous 
articles published in t lie theological journals of Ger- 
many. Me also issued his miscellaneous writings in 
two volumes, and republished The True Consecration oj 
the Sceptic (182B). under the changed title of The Doc- 
trine of Sin and the Propitiator, in 1851. Most of his 
writings have been translated into the more widely 
spoken modern languages of Europe. 

Dr. Tholuek was also an able and popular preacher. 
11c breathed and exhibited the spirit of evangelical 
piety in all the circles in which he moved — domestic, 
social, literary, and theological. Me was simple and 
bland in his manners, social in his disposition, and kind- 
ly affecrioncd towards all men. Me did not eschew' 
pleasantry, but gave it its due place in conversation, 
and thus furnished the matter for many rclishable anec- 
dotes. He accepted the Prussian Union as consistent 
w ith (he catholicity of Christianity, as well as w ith the 
doctrines of the Lutheran Church as set forth in her 
catholic symbol, the A nyustana, and hence never allied 
himselfwith the separatist ic Lutherans in their attempt 
to revive and perpetuate the symbolic dogmatism of 
the Lutheran theologians of the 17th century. In spite 
of his frail physical constitution, he was permitted to 
celebrate his semi-centennial jubilee as a professor Dec. 
2, 1870, an occasion which was graced by the presence 
of a great number of his former pupils from all parts of 
the world. In responding to one of the addresses pre- 
sented to him at his semi-centennial jubilee, he referred 
to the bodily inlirmities he had been called upon to hear, 
and the comparatively small number of his days in which 
he was in the enjoyment of health. The performance 
of so much unintormirted labor, and the great age which 
he attained, are attributable to his abstemious habits and 
systematic exercise, as well as to the cheerfulness of dis- 
position inspired by his personal piety, and his extraor- 
dinary success in doing good and glorifying Christ. 

On June 10. 1877, Dr. T holnek’s wife sent t lie follow- 


TIIOMAS 


307 


THOMAS 


ing telegram to Dr. Sehaff, who was then at Slnttgart, 
announcing his death, together with his last words: 

“Il.vr.i.rc, June 10, 1877. 

“ This day, at 4 o’clock P. M., my dear husband. Dr. Au- 
gu.-t Tholuck, after long suffering, gently entered into 
that, blessed rest for which he had been longing from the 
days of his youth. Through the grace of God, his life, 
which was often threatened with an early termination, 
has been prolonged in indefatigable and fruitful labors to 
the age of seventy-eight years, two months, and ten days. 
Under the heavy pressure and painful anxiety of the last 
year, his friends around him were permitted to observe, 
in various ways, the growing assurance of his faith and 
the victory of love in his heart. His last intelligent 
words were a cheerful profession of the cross of Christ 
in view of approaching death: ‘I atn not afraid; Christ 
died for me’ {Ich fiirehte mich nicht; denn Christas atari 
far mich)." 

It was a fitting close of a long and useful career which 
was devoted to Christ. The sum and substance of his 
theology was that Jesus lived and died for the salvation 
of sinners. To him as the only blaster he led his in- 
numerable pupils. 1 1 is lecture-room and his pulpit were 
a school of Christ. Herein lie his significance and fame 
in the history of German theology and religion. The 
New York Observer (Aug. 16, 1877) thus announced 
Tholuck’s death to its readers: “The greatest theolog- 
ical light of Germany has just been extinguished;” 
while the Lutheran Observer (Aug. 3, 1877) winds up 
an article on Tholuck in the following words: 

“Although Tholuck is dead,* he nevertheless, like Abel, 
‘yet speaketh.’ He speaks on earth throusih the recol- 
lection of his conversations, exhortations, and sermons; 
speaks in the notes taken of his lectures; speaks in his 
articles published in theological reviews; speaks in the 
printed volumes written with his own hand; speaks 
through the sentiments, character, and labors of his stu- 
dents\vho have finished their course ; speaks through the 
faith, writings, and efforts of his students who still live; 
speaks through the moulding influence exerted upon the 
University of Halle, and the evangelical leaven infused 
into the institutions of Europe : speaks through the res- 
urrection of doctrinal orthodoxy, experimental piety, and 
religious activity iu the Lutheran and other Protestant 
churches; yea, speaks in his whole life as a Christian 
man, sis si popular writer, as a lesirned theologian, as an 
eloquent preacher ; and, over soul above all, ‘ he yet speak- 
etlijand will continue to speak as the studenten-professor 
till time shall be no more.” 

We have not as yet a complete biography of Dr. 
Tholuck, who will fill some chapters iu the Church his- 
tory of the 19th century. A sketch was published by 
Dr. Sell atf, in his Germany: its Universities , Theoloyy , 
and lleliyion (Phila. 1857), p. 278 s<j. Another sketch 
is given in the Theoloyisehes Universal- Lexikon, s. v. 
Our present article is made up from different necrologies. 
As to Tholuck’s works, it would he useless to try to enu- 
merate them. Zuehold alone (Gib/. Theol. ii, 1632 s<j.) 
gives four pages. 11 is Commentaries have been trans- 
lated into English, and so also have some others of his 
works. The last of these, so far as we are aware, is Hours 
of Christian Devotion (Edinb. 1870), a work which has 
repeatedly been edited in Germany. (1>. P.) 

Thom 'as (0w/<dc), one of the twelve apostles. 
A.D. 27-29. 

1. 11 is Xante. — This is evidently a Grneeized form of 
the Aramaic 5<^5<ri, Toma , which means the hvin; and 
so it is translated in John xi, 16: xx, 24; xxi, 2, 6 Ai- 
Cvfiot;, which has passed into a name, Didymns (q. v.). 
This name occurs also on Phoenician inscriptions in a 
form which reminds ns of the colloquial English ab- 
breviation, viz. ElXn and CXH (Geseuins, Monumentn, 
p. 356). In Heb. also (Cant, vii, 4) it is simply t5<D, 
team, almost exactly our “Tom.” The frequency of 
the name in England is derived not from the apos- 
tle, hut from St. Thomas of Canterbury. Out of the 
signification of this name has grown the tradition that 
he had a twin-sister, Lysia ( Pat res Apost. p. 272), or 
that he was a twin-brother of onr Lord (Tliilo, Acta 
Thomee , p. 94) ; which last, again, would confirm his iden- 
tification with Jude (comp. >1 at t. xiii. 55), with whom 
Eusebius expressly identifies him (IHst. Eccles. i, 13; so 


also the Aefit Thomee'). This may have been a mere 
confusion with Thaddieus (q. v.), who is mentioned in 
the extract. lint it may also be that Judas was his 
real name, and that Thomas was a surname. 

2. History and Character from the Xeiv Test. — (We 
here chiefly adopt Stanley’s art. in Smith’s Diet, of the 
Gible). Iu the catalogue of the apostles he is coupled 
with Matthew in Matt. x,3; Mark iii, 18; Luke vi, 15; 
and with Philip iu Acts i, 13. 

All that we know of him is derived from the Gospel 
of John; and this amounts to three traits, which, how- 
ever, so exactly agree together that, slight as they are, 
they place his character before us with a precision 
which belongs to no other of the twelve apostles, ex- 
cept Peter, John, and Judas Iscariot. This character 
is that of a man slow to believe, seeing all the difficul- 
ties of a case, subject to despondency, viewing things 
on the darker side, and yet full of ardent love for his 
Master (see Niemeyer, Charakt. i, 108). 

(a.) The first trait is found in his speech when our 
Lord determined to face the dangers that awaited him 
in Judiea on his journey to Bethany. Thomas said to 
his fellow-disciples. “ Let us also go (red ifpdc), that we 
may die with him” (John xi, 16). lie entertained no 
hope of his escape — he looked on the journey as leading 
to total ruin; but he determined to share the peril. 
“Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him.” 

(b.) The second occurs in his speech during the last 
supper: “Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not 
whither thou guest; and how can we know the way?” 
(John xiv, 5). It was the prosaic, incredulous doubt 
as to moving a step in the unseen future, and yet an 
eager inquiry to know how this step was to be taken. 

(c.) The third was after the resurrection, lie was 
absent— possibly by accident, perhaps characteristically 
— front the first assembly when Jesus had appeared. 
The others told him what they had seen, lie broke 
forth into an exclamation, the terms of which convey 
to us at once the vehemence of his doubt, and, at the 
same time, the vivid picture that his mind retained of 
his Master’s form as he had last seen him lifeless on 
the cross: “Except I see in his hands the print of the 
nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and 
thrust my hand into his side, I will not, I cannot, be- 
lieve” (oh ft) i 7rioTf/'frw, John xx, 25). On the eighth 
day he was with them at their gathering, perhaps in 
expectation of a recurrence of the visit of the previous 
week; and Jesus stood among them. lie pronounced 
the same salutation, “ l’eaee be unto you;” and then, 
turning to Thomas, as if this had been the special object 
of his appearance, uttered the words which convey as 
strongly the sense of condemnation and tender reproof 
as those of Thomas had shown the sense of hesitation 
and doubt: “Bring thv finger hither [<5c* — as if him- 
self pointing to his wounds] ami see my hands; and 
bring thy hand and thrust it iu my side; and do not 
become (fu) y iron) unbelieving (d7rirrro<;), but believing 
(7noTot'V’ “ answers to the words that Thomas 
had spoken to the ears of his fellow-disciples only; but 
it is to the thought of his heart rather than to the 
words of his lips that the Searcher of hearts answers. 
. . . Eye, ear, and touch at once appealed to and at once 
satisfied — the form, the look, the voice, the solid and 
actual body: and not the senses only, but the mind sat- 
isfied too; the knowledge that searches the very reins 
and the hearts; the love that loveth to the end, infinite 
and eternal” (Arnold, Germ, vi, 238). The effect oil 
Thomas is immediate. It is useless to speculate wheth- 
er he obeyed our Lord’s invitation to examine the 
wounds. The impression is that he did not. Be that 
as it may, the conviction produced by the removal of 
his doubt became deeper and stronger than that of any 
of the other apostles. The words in which he express- 
ed his belief contain a far higher assertion of his Mas- 
ter’s divine nature than is contained in any other ex- 
pression used by apostolic lips, “My Lord, and my God. ’ 
Some have supposed that Kvpiot; refers to the human, 


THOMAS 


3CS 


THOMAS 


S-foC to the divine nature. This is too artificial. It is 
more to the point to observe t he exact terms of the 
sentence, uttered, as it were, in astonished awe. “ It is, 
then, my Lord and iny hod I” (It is obviously of no 
dogmatic importance whether tlte words are an address 
or a description. That they are the latter appears from 
the use of the nominative o Kcptoc. The form b 
proves nothing, as this is used for the vocative. At the 
same time, it should be observed that the passage is 
mid (<• Christ, tbrtv cthrip.) The word “my” gives it 
a personal application to himself. Additional empha- 
sis is given to this declaration from its being the last 
incident related in the direct narrative of the gospel 
(before the supplement of eh. xxi), thus corresponding 
to the opening words of the prologue. “Thus Christ 
was acknowledged on earth to be what dolm had in the 
beginning of his gospel declared him to be from all 
eternity; and the words of Thomas at the end of the 
twentieth chapter do but repeat the truth which dolm 
had stated before in his own words at the beginning of 
the first” (Arnold, Semi, vi, 401). The answer of our 
Lord sums up the moral of the whole narrative: “ Be- 
cause [“Thoiflas” (Oc opa') is omitted in the best MSS. ] 
thou hast seen me, thou hast believed: blessed are they 
that have not seen me. and yet have believed” (xx, 
29). By this incident, therefore, Thomas, "the doubt- 
ing apostle,” is raised at once to the theologian in the 
original sense of the word. “Ah eo dubiiatum est,” 
says Augustine, ■* ne a nobis dubitarotur.” Winer and 
others find in the character of Thomas what they con- 
sider contradictory traits, viz. inconsiderate faith and a 
turn lor exacting the most rigorous evidence. We find 
that a resolute and lively faith is always necessarily 
combined with a sense of its importance, and with a de- 
sire to keep its objects unalloyed and free from error 
and superstition. Christ himself did not blame Thom- 
as for availing himself of all possible evidence, but only 
pronounced those blessed who woidd be open to convic- 
tion even if some external form of evidence should not 
be within their reach (comp. Niemeyer, A hidemische 
Prediytcn uml Jiedev, p. 321 sq.). Monographs have 
been written in Latin on this scene in Thomas’s life by 
Carpzov (Helmst. 1757), id. (Vim. 17G5), Lost (Budiss. 
17*5), and Cram (Norimb. 1318). 

In t lie New Test, we hear of Thomas only twice 
again — once on the Sea of Galilee with the seven disci- 
ples. where he is ranked next after Peter (John xxi, 2). 
and again in the assemblage of the apostles after the 
Ascension (Acts i. 13). 

3. Traditions. — Thomas is said to have been born at 
Antioch, and (as above stated) to have had a twin-sis- 
ter named Lysia (/litres A post. ed. Cotelcr. p. 272, 512). 
The earlier traditions, as believed in the 4th century 
(< trigen. ap. Kuseb. Hist. Eccles. i, 13; iii, 1 ; Socrates, Hist. 
Ecchs. i, 19), represent him as preaching in Part hi a 
(Clement. Pecoyn. ix, 29) or Persia (according to Je- 
ronie; see also Butinus, Hist. Eccles. ii,4), and as finally 
buried at Edessa (Socrates. Hist. Eccles. i v. 1 S'). Chrysos- 
tom mentions his grave ai Kdessa as being one of the 
four genuine tombs of apostles, the other three being 
Peter, Paul, and John (//ro«. in 1 1 eh. 23), With his 
burial at Kdessa agrees the story of his sending Thad- 
dseus to Abgarus with our Lord’s letter (Kuseh. llist. 
Ecchs. i, 13). According to a later tradition, Thomas 
went to India and suffered martyrdom there (Gregor. 
N az. (Jrut. .rxr ad Avian, p. 438, ed. Par.; Ambrose, in 
Psa.xlr, 10; Jerome, E]>. 148 [59 J ad Marcell.; Xiceph. 
Hist. Ecchs. ii, 40 ; Acta T honor, eh. i s<p ; Abdite Hist. 
A /tost. eh. ix; Paulin, a S. Bartlmlnm;vo, India Orient. 
Christiana [Bum. 1794]). This tradition has been at- 
tacked by Von Bolden {Indian, i. 375 s<p). The an- 
cient congregations of Christians in India who belong 
to the Syrian Church are called Tliomas-Christians, and 
consider tin* apostle Thomas to be their founder (Pa hr i- 
cius, Ln.r Evany* hi, p. 923 s<p; Asscmnni. Hihliofh. Orient . 
Ill, ii.435 sq. : Bitter. Erdhtnde, V. i. GW sq.). Against 
this tradition Thilo wrote in his edition of the Acta 


Thoma \ p. 107 sq, (comp. Augusti, Denkwii rdiyheiten, iii, 
219 sq.). This later tradition is now usually regarded 
as arising from a confusion with a later Thomas, a mis- 
sionary from the Ncstorians. His martyrdom (wheth- 
er in Persia or India) is said to have been occasioned 
by a lanec, and is commemorated bv the Latin Church 
on Dee. 21, by the Greek Church on Oct. 0, and by the 
Indians on July 1. (For these traditions and their au- 
thorities, see Butler, Lives of the Saints. Dee. 21.) 

4. The fathers frequently quote an Eranyelium secun- 
dum Thoma in and Jr/ri Thoma . the fragments of the 
former of which have been edited by Thilo, in his Co- 
dex Apocryphus Xori Test ament i , i, 275; and by Tiseh- 
eudorf, in his Evauyeliu Apocrypha (Lips. 1843); and 
the Acta Thomte separately by Thilo (ibid. 1823); and 
by Tischendorf, in his Acta Apocrypha (ibid. 1851). 
See Ai’ncnvpiiA ; Thomas, Whitings or. 

THOMAS (*S7.), CiiinsTiAxs of, a body of Syrian 
Christians dwelling in the interior of Malabar ami Trav- 
ancore. in the south-western part of Hindustan. When 
the Portuguese landed in India in the IGth century, 
they discovered what they supposed to be a Nestorian 
Church there, the members of which called themselves 
Christians of St. Thomas. They retained the Syrian 
language, held the validity of only two sacraments, and 
were governed by bishops under a metropolitan. They 
I rejected the authority of Peter, and did not enforce 
I sacerdotal celibacy. 'They neither invoked saints nor 
worshipped images. These churches were soon sub- 
jected to severe persecution, and many were forced into 
Bomanism. The inquisition, also, was established at 
Goa. Dr. Claudius Buchanan found, however, a rem- 
nant of them, in 1807, near Travancore. They still re- 
tain some ecclesiastical independence. According to a 
statement of some authority, the St. Thomas Christians 
number 70.000 individuals, and the Syro-Boman Cath- 
olics 90,000, that is, the party who have submitted to 
the papal jurisdiction. But the Church service in Syriac 
is not understood by the people, who are ignorant and 
prejudiced. That their creed is not directly Nestorian 
may be seen from the declaration of the metropolitan 
of Malabar made in 1803: “‘We believe in the Father, 
Son, and Holy Ghost, three persons in one God. neither 
confounding the persons nor dividing the substance; 
One in Three, and Three in One: the Father generator, 
the Son generated, and the Holy Ghost proceeding, 
j None is before or after tbe other; in majesty, honor, 
might, and power coequal ; ITiity in Trinity, and Trin- 
ity in ITiity.’ The metropolitan disclaims the heresies 
of Anus. Sabellius, Macedonius. Manes, Manianus, Juli- 
anus, Xestorius, and the Chaleedonians, adding ‘that 
in the appointed time, through the disposition of the 
Father and the Holy Ghost, the Son appeared on earth 
for the salvation of mankind; that lie was born of the 
Virgin Mary through the means of the Holy Ghost, and 
was incarnate God and man.’” They believe that the 
souls of departed men do not see God till the judgment- 
day; they allow three sacraments — baptism, orders, and 
the eueharist : and they abhor auricular confession. In 
the consecration of the eueharist they use small cakes 
made with oil and salt : instead of wine is water in which 
raisins have been steeped; they observe no age for or- 
ders, but admit priests at seven, eighteen, twenty, etc., 
who may marry as often as their wives die. Their 
children, unless in cases of sickness, are not baptized 
till the fiftieth day. At t he death of any friend the re- 
lations keep an eight days’ fast in memory of the de- 
ceased. They observe the times of Advent and Lent, 
and many other feasts and festivals, but especially those 
which relate to 4 humus — the Pomiuica in alhis, or Sun- 
day after Faster, in memory of the notable confession 
of Thomas; one on June L which is also celebrated by 
Moors and Fagans. The Church of England Mission- 
ary Society has established among these people an ex- 
tensive mission, occupying two or three stations; and a 
college has been established at Kotrayam for tbe in- 
struction of candidates for the ministry, which has been 


TIIOMAS 


3G9 


THOMAS 


liberally endowed. See Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop, s. v. ; Far- 
rar, Eccles. Did. s. v. See Nestokians. 

THOMAS (St.) , Day of, a festival observed, Dec. 21, 
in memory of Thomas the apostle, it was held by the 
Greek Church on Oct. 6. 

THOMAS (St.), Writings of. These are as fol- 
lows : 

1. Thom.e Acta (Acts of Thomas ), an Apocryphal 
work which belongs to a very high antiquity and was 
greatly esteemed among the Gnostics and Manichajans 
(comp. Euseb. Hist. Eccles. iii, 25; Epiphan. Uteres, xlii, 
1 ; li, I ; liii, 2, etc.). Augustine has undoubtedly referred 
to them in three places, viz. Coni. Faust, xxii, 70; Adi- 
mani. 17 ; De Sennone Domini , i, 20. In the Hist. A pos- 
tal. A bdice, ix, 1 (Fabricius, Codex A pocryph. i, 689) these 
A cts are especially referred to. They were tirst edited 
by Thilo, in Codex A pocryph us Nov. Test. (Lips. 1832), 
vol. i ; afterwards by Tiseheiulorf, in Acta A postolorum 
Apocrypha (ibid. 1851), p. 100-234; sec also the appen- 
dix to Apocalypses Apocrypha*, (ibid. I85G), p. 156-iGl. 
Connected with the Ada, is the — 

2. Thomas Consummatio ( Consummation of Thom- 
as ), which, like the former, was the source for the Hist. 
A post. .1 Inline. It was edited tirst by Tischeudorl' from 
a cod. Paris, of the 1 1 til century, and published in his 
Ada A postolorum, p. 235-242. More important than 
those is the — 

3. TiiomvE Evangeeium '(Gospel of Thomas'). Next 
to the P rote vangelin m of James, it was the oldest and 
best known. Irenauis probably knew it (comp. Adv. 
Jhei'es. i, 20), while Origen (Horn. 1 in Lucam) mentions 
the same explicitly; Pseudo-Origen. Philosophus (ed. 
Emm. jNIiller, Oxon. 1851), p. 101 (comp, p.94), speaks of 
its having been used by a Gnostic sect, the Naasencs, 
in the middle of the 2d century; Euseb. ( Hist. Eccles. iii, 
25) mentions this gospel also, and Cyril!. Hierosol. (Cu- 
tech. p. 98, ed. Oxon. 1702; comp. ibid. 4, p. GG) thinks 
that this Thomas was the disciple of Manes. The ori- 
gin of this, as well as of most of the Apocryphal gospels, 
must be sought among the Gnostics, and especially 
among those who embraced Doeetism with regard to 
the person of Christ; and the very large number of mi- 
raculous stories mentioned in this gospel, which found so 
much favor among the Manichajans, points to this Do- 
cetism. According to Iremeus, loc. cit., the author must> 
have belonged to the Marcosianie sect. 

We have no complete text of this gospel, blit frag- 
ments only. Cotelcrius tirst published, in the notes to 
bis Constit. Apostol. vi, 17, a fragment according to the 
Parisian IMS. of the 15th century; a larger portion was 
published by Mingarelli, Nuora llaccolta d' Opuscoli Sci - 
eutijici (Venet. J 7 G4) , xii, 73-155. Tischendorf found a 
larger number of MSS., but their variations caused him 
to publish a triple text in his collection — viz. two 
Greek and one Latin— with the following titles: Qujpd 
'1 apaijXiTov (jiiXoacnfiuv pgra eiq ra iraiCvca tov Ko- 
piov. This gives ns the childhood of Jesus from his 
iifth to his twelfth year in nineteen chapters, Yey- 
y pap pa too ayiov cnrooroXov 8 iopa ~ repi rijg 7 rawi- 
teijg dva<JTpo<pi)g too Knpion gives in eleven chapters 
the time from the fifth to the eighth year. Tracfatus 
de Pueritia Jesu secundum Thomam gives in fifteen 
chapters the time from the Hight into Egypt to the 
eighth year of Christ’s life. These texts are published 
by Tischendorf in his Evangel. A pocrypha (Lips. 1853); 
see also the LX I Prolegom. of the .1 pocul. A pocryph. 
A Syriac codex was published by Wright (Loud. 1S75), 
in his Contributions to the Apocryphal Literature of the 
New Test., Collected and Edited from Syrian MSS. in 
the British Museum. (B. P.) 

Thomas a Becket, or of Canterbury. Sec 
Becket, Thomas a. 

Thomas a Kemtis. See Kempis, Thomas 1. 

Thomas Aquinas. See Aquinas, St. Thomas. 

Thomas of Celano was a native of Celano, in 
X.-A a 


Abruzzo Ultra II. lie is noted as having written the 
earliest biography of Francis of Assisi, and the hymn 
Dies Irce, (q. v.). Neither the date of his birth nor of 
his death is known. It would appear from the preface 
to the biography that he was early associated with 
Francis, as many of the statements arc given as based 
on personal observation or the authority of Francis him- 
self. Caesar of Spires, the first provincial of the Order 
of Franciscans in Germany, appointed him to the olhee 
of custos over the Minorite convents of Cologne, Mav- 
ence, Worms, and Spires, as early at least as 1221. This 
statement is questioned by some, because the chronicle 
of the order compiled by Mark of Lisbon does not 
mention him among the twenty-five earlier and more 
important disciples of the saint, though more obscure 
names are found in that list. The biography ascribed 
to him is given, with notes, in the Acta Sanctorum, Oc- 
tober, tom. ii. There is no proof either for or against 
his claim to the authorship, which is nowhere asserted 
by himself. Nor is the honor of having composed the 
Dies Irce secured to him by any better evidence. The 
Franciscans attribute its composition to him, the Do- 
minicans to one of their own order, a Jesuit to an Au- 
gustinian monk, a Benedictine to Gregory the Great or 
to St. Bernard. Each of these statements is arbitrary, 
and some of them cannot be true. Bartholomew Albizzi 
of l’isa was the first to credit the hymn to Celano, in his 
Liber Conformitatum (1385); and his statement warrants 
the conclusions that the hymn was already at that date 
incorporated with the Missal, and therefore well known, 
and that Celano was generally held to be its author. 
Wadding, in Script ores Ordinis Minorum. states that 
Celano composed two additional sequences, the Fregit 
Victor Virtuulis, in honor of St. Francis, and the Sancti- 
tatis Nova Signa. See Mohnike. Eire hen- u. Uterar.- 
hist. Studien (1825), i, 31 ; H fiber, Dreifache Chromic d. 
dreifichen Franzisk.-O rdens (Munich, lG8G),p. IG; Wad- 
ding, .1 modes Minor, tom. ii, ad ami. 1222: llase, Franz 
v. Assisi, etc. (Leips. 1856), p. 17, note 17 ; Tholuck, Verm. 
Schriften , i, 1 10; Daniel, Tliesaur. Hymnol. i, 103-131. — 
Herzog, Real- Ency Hop. s. v. 

Thomas of Villanova. See Yilleneuve. 

Thomas, Barnabas, one of Wesley’s early help- 
ers, was a native of Cornwall,. England. He was ad- 
mitted on trial by the Conference in 17G4 and preach- 
ed in Wales, and was likewise stationed in Cork. He 
was named in the deed of declaration, lie at length 
desisted from an itinerant life, and settled in Leeds, but 
sank into obscurity, and died of a violent fever while 
the Conference was in session in that city (1793). See 
Atmore, Meth. Memorial, s. v. 

Thomas, Benjamin Calley, a Baptist mission- 
ary, was born in Massachusetts. lie graduated at 
Brown University in the class of 1847, and at the New- 
ton Theological Institution in the class of 1850. For 
eighteen years lie was a missionary of the American 
Baptist Missionary Union, being stationed during this 
period at various places— three years atTavov, Bengal; 
three years at Henzadah, Burmah; and two years at 
Bassein, Bombay. At one time he had under his charge 
a school for the education of native teachers. Return- 
ing to the United States, he died in the city of New 
York, June lit, 1869. (J. C. S.) 

Thomas, Benjamin Franklin, chancellor of 
Brown University, was horn in Boston, Mass., Feb. 12, 
1813, and was a graduate of Brown University in the 
class of 1830, having entered college at the early age of 
thirteen. He was admitted to the bar of Worcester in 
1834. By degrees he rose to an extensive practice, and 
occupied a high position among the able lawyers with 
whom he was contemporary. For four years (1844-48) 
he was judge of probate for Worcester County. In 1853 
he was appointed to a place made vacant on the bench 
of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, and 
held the office for six years ( 1853-59). Having re- 
signed his position on the bench, he removed to Boston, 


TIIOMAS 


370 


THOMAS 


where in his profession lie achieved eminent success, 
lie served one term (1861-03) as a representative in 
Congress from Iloston. He was elected chancellor of 
Brown University in 1874. 1 1 is death took place at 

Beverly, Mass., Sept. 27, 1878. (J. C. S.) 

Thomas, Christian, a modern philosopher, was 
horn at Leipsic in 1665, and graduated at the Leipsic 
University. Beading Puffondorfs Apology for Ihject- 
iny the Scholastic Principles of Morals and Laic , he de- 
termined to renounce all implicit deference to ancient 
dogmas. Brucker gives the following brief specimen 
of his peculiar tenets: “Thought arises from images 
impressed upon the brain, and t lie action of thinking is 
performed in the whole brain. Brutes are destitute of 
sensation. Man is a corporeal substance, capable of 
thinking and moving, or endued with intellect and will. 
Man does not always think. Truth is the agreement 
of thought with the nature of things. The senses are 
not deceitful, but nil fallacy is the effect of precipitation 
and prejudice. From perception arise ideas and their 
relations, and from these, reasonings. It is impossible 
to discover truth by the syllogistic art. . . . God is not 
perceived by the intellectual sense, but by the inclina- 
tion of the will; for creatures affect the brain, but God 
the heart. All creatures are in God; nothing is exte- 
rior to him. Creation is extension produced from noth- 
ing by the divine power. Creatures are of two kinds, 
passive and .active; the former is matter, the latter 
Spirit. . . . The human soul is a ray from the divine 
nature, whence it desires union with God, who is love,” 
etc. Thomas died at Halle in 1728. He published. An 
Introduction to Pujfendorf (UV 87) . I Defence of the Sect 
of the Pietists: — A n Introduction to Anlic Philosophy , 
etc.: — Introduction to Rational Philosophy : — .4 Loyical 
Praxis : — Introduction to Moral Philosophy : — A Cure 
for Irreyular Passions: — Essay on the Xature and Es- 
sence of Spirit, etc. See Chalmers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. 

Thomas, Christopher, a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was born in [Matthews County, Va., Get. 31, 
1797. He was converted in 18 1 6, admitted on trial in 
the Virginia Conference in 181*3, and appointed to the 
Sussex Circuit. In 1824 lie still held the same cireuit; in 
1825, Yadkin; in 1X2(5, Salisbury; in 1827, Iredell; in 
182s, Williamslmrgh ; and in 1829, Newbern, X. C., all 

which appointments he filled with ability and sue- 
eess. lie died Nov. 14, 1829. He was a plain man, of 
strict integrity, consistent Christianity, and highly re- 
spectable abilities. See Minutes of A nnual Conferences, 
1830, p. 75. 

Thomas, David (1), a minister of the Baptist de- 
nomination, was born at Loudon Tract, Pa.. Aug. 16, 
1732. In early life he enjoyed more than ordinary ad- 
vantages for obtaining a good education. He studied 
for some time at the Academy in Hopewell, under the 
tuition of Rev. Isaac Eaton, and in I7G9 received the 
honorary degree of A .M. from Brown University. When 
quite young he began to preach. lie removed to Vir- 
ginia in 17G0, and spent about a year and a half in 
Berkeley County. He then visited Fauquier County, 
and under his ministry the Broad River Church was 
formed, of which, for a time, he was the pastor. Sub- 
sequently, from this church, live or six other churches 
were constituted. He travelled as an evangelist in dif- 
ferent sections of the state, and his preaching was great- 
ly blessed in the conversion of souls, lie is said “to 
have been a minister of great distinction in the prime 
of his days. Besides the natural endowments of a vigor- 
ous mind, and the advantages of a classical and refined 
education, he had a melodious and piercing voice, a pa- 
thetic address, expressive action, and, above all, a heart 
tilled with love to God and his fellow-men.” Many per- 
sons in Virginia had been accustomed to hear but little 
evangelical preaching. 'They were attracted by the elo- 
quence of so accomplished a minister as was Mr. Thomas, 
and not a few who occupied high social positions were 
led to the Saviour. Near the close of his life he re- 


moved to Kentucky. He lived to a great age, and for 
some time before his death was nearly blind. The in- 
Ihtcnee of this faithful servant of Christ was good and 
permanent. See Lives of Virginia Baptist Ministers, 
p. 51-53. (J.C.S.) 

Thomas, David (2), a Welsh Congregational min- 
ister, was horn at Cow bridge, M ay 19, 1783. lie grad- 
uated at Wrexham Academy, studied theology with Dr. 
Jcnkin Lewis, and itinerated through the hamlets and 
villages about Magor and Penywaiu. In 1815 he set- 
tled over the parish of Wolvasnewtoii, rfnd in 1819 re- 
moved to Xebo. In 1824 he took the oversight of the 
Church at Llanvaehes, and continued his missionary 
labors through many neighboring parishes, lie died 
in Xovember, 1864. llis life was one calm, public, and 
unwavering testimony for truth and for God. See 
(Loud.) Cony. Year-book, 18GG, p. 285. 

Thomas, David (3), a Welsh Congregational min- 
ister, was born in 1793. lie graduated at the Presby- 
terian College, Carmarthen, and was ordained in 1820 
at Pembrokeshire, and shortly afterwards settled at 
Wotton-under-Edge, and retained this charge until the 
close ofhis life. He died March 28, 18G1. llis preach- 
ing was earnest, faithful, and evangelical. See (Loml.) 
Cony. Year-book, I8G2, p. 2G3. 

Thomas, David (4), A.B., an English Congrega- 
tional minister, was born at Merthyr-Tydvil, Aug. 1G, 

1811. lie was educated at Highbury College and Glas- 
gow University, where he took the first prize in logic, 
lie was ordained in 183G, at Zion Chapel, Bedminster. 
In 1844 he settled at Highbury Chapel, Gotham, and 
commenced that career of spiritual power and ministe- 
rial prosperity which lasted thirty years, growing more 
and more bright and beautiful from year to year. Mr. 
Thomas had a vigorous intellect, highly cultivated, and 
marked by large intelligence and the purest taste. “ His 
conversation on books, public men, and human affairs 
manifested a comprehensive grasp, a discriminating 
touch, and no small amount of genial humor.” He 
died Xov. 7, J875. See (Loml.) Cony. Year-book, 1876, 
p. 374. 

Thomas, Ebenezer, D.D., LL.D., a Presbyterian 
minister, was born at Chelmsford, England, Dee. 23, 

1812. llis father was an Independent minister, edu- 
cated at Hoxton College in London, and was ordained 
at Chelmsford in 1805, where he remained as pastor for 
a number of years. 1 le removed to Cincinnati. O., when 
his son was but a child, lie was engaged in preaching 
in Cincinnati and destitute neighborhoods for several 
years. With a view of supplying the destitute, lie or- 
ganized a Home Evangelization Society, and was its 
agent. He accepted a call to take charge of the Welsh 
Independent Church at Paddy’s Run, O. Here he es- 
tablished a boarding-school, and some of the first men 
of the country were his patrons and pupils. Under his 
father’s instruction, young Thomas was prepared for 
college. lie entered the [Miami University and grad- 
uated in 1834. lie possessed powers of mind of the 
highest order, and his scholarly attainments were rarely 
equalled, never surpassed. Immediately after his grad- 
uation, he commenced teaching at Rising Sun, lnd., 
and afterwards at. Franklin, <). When not engaged in 
teaching, he pursued the study of theology, lie was 
licensed by the Presbytery of Oxford in 1836. Al- 
though he had not had the advantage of training in a 
theological seminary, t Here were few f more thoroughly 
educated in every branch of theology. lie was called 
to take charge of the Church at Harrison, and he was 
ordained and installed over the same in duly, 1837. 
After remaining in Harrison over two years, he was 
called to the Hamilton Church, where he remained 
until 1849, when he was elected president of Hanover 
College. This position he occupied until 1854, when 
he resigned to accept the ehair of Biblical literature and 
exegesis in the Theological Seminary at Xew Albany, 
lud. Here he remained till the seminary was removed 


THOMAS 


3T1 


THOMAS 


to Chicago, when he resigned, but was re-elected by 
the new board at its first meeting, lie accepted the 
appointment, but on account of controversy in the 
Church in regard to his views and those of his col- 
league, Professor McMasters, in regard to slavery, the 
seminary was not opened for two years. In the mean- 
time he supplied the pulpit of the first Presbyterian 
Church in New Albany. In 1858 the synods in whose 
bounds the seminary was located voted to offer it to 
the General Assembly, and in 1859 it was accepted by 
the same, in the meantime the first Church of Day- 
ton, O., gave Dr. Thomas a call, which he accepted. 
Here he was duly installed, and entered on his work, 
which he prosecuted with energy and success for twelve 
years, when he resigned to accept the chair of New- 
Test. Greek and exegesis in Lane Seminary, Walnut 
Hills, Cincinnati, O. lie died there Feb. 2, 1875. 
Dr. Thomas was a general scholar, lie carried his 
studies outside of the curriculum, and was at home in 
history, geology, botany, entomology, mineralogy, as- 
tronomy, and microscopy. He was a model teacher, 
his thorough knowledge of every department and his 
unrivalled colloquial powers combined to make him a 
great favorite in the class-room.. As a theologian he 
was a sincere and sound Calvinist, and he was as rich 
in Christian experience as he was sound in the faith. 
As a preacher he was popular and successful in all the 
fields of his labor. In all that goes to make up excel- 
lences in writing and speaking, he was a prince. He 
was esteemed and honored by all. (M . P. S.) 

Thomas, Edward, an Episcopal clergyman, was 
born in St. Stephen’s Parish, S. C., Sept. 28, 1800, and 
received his early education at the grammar-school in 
Pineville. In 1817 he entered the sophomore class in 
the South Carolina College, Columbia, and graduated in 
1819. lie lived in Cambridge. Mass., in order to study 
at Harvard College; and, after a few months, transferred 
his residence to New Haven, prosecuting his studies at 
Yale. He entered the Theological Seminary, city of 
New York, in 1822; returned to his native state in the 
fall of 1824; and, in February, 1825, was ordained dea- 
con by bishop Ilowen, and became a missionary first 
to Fairfield District, and afterwards to Greenville. In 
April, 1826, he was admitted to priest’s orders by bish- 
op Bowen, and, after filling out his unexpired term at 
Greenville, became rector, February, 1827, of Trinity 
Church on Edisto Island. In 1834 he resigned his 
charge on account of ill-health, and went to reside at 
St. Augustine, Fla., where his health so improved that 
the rectorship of the Church there was offered to him. 
1 le declined, and after a further residence there returned 
to South Carolina, and in 1830 accepted a call to the par- 
ish of St. John’s, Berkeley Comity. In the winter of 
1837-38 the disease of which he died (an affection of 
the bowels) began to show itself, but he continued to 
labor on until May 24, 1840, when he gave up work en- 
tirely, dying July 11 of the same year. A volume of 
Sermons was published after his death, under the super- 
vision of his widow. See Sprague, Annals of (he Amer . 
Pulpit, v, 604. 

Thomas, Eleazer, D.D., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in the State of New 
York; received an academic education at Cazenovia; 
was converted when seventeen; and entered Genesee 
Conference as a probationer in 1839. He was trans- 
ferred to California in 1852, and was pastor one year of 
the Powell Street Church, San Francisco. In 1850 he 
was elected editor of the California Christian Advocate; 
and re-elected in 1800 and IN04. He was chosen book- 
agent in 1808, and, at the end of his four years’ term in 
1872, was appointed presiding elder of the Petaluma 
District. In the spring of 1873 he was appointed a 
member of the Peace Commission, and sent to treat 
with the Modoc Indians. On April 11 the commission- 
ers were decoyed into the Lava Beds, Southern Ore- 
gon, and Dr. Thomas and Gen. Can by were killed. Dr. 


Thomas was a man of good presence, fine address, and 
great zeal and energy as a minister. See Simpson, Cy- 
clop. of Methodism, s. v. 

Thomas, Enoch, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born Dec. 31, 1805, at St. George’s, Newcastle Co., Del. 
He was prepared for college at the Phillips Academy 
at Andover, Mass., under John Adams, principal, and 
was graduated from Amherst College in 1833. About 
this time he united with the Second Presbyterian 
Church of Wilmington, Del. He then engaged for six 
months as assistant teacher in a seminary at Newark, 
Del., after which he entered Princeton Seminarv, N. J„ 
and remained there until near the close of 1835, when 
he left because of feeble health. He was licensed by 
the Wilmington Presbytery Oct. 14, 1835. after which 
he began to labor as a missionary in Buckingham Coun- 
ty, Ya. He was ordained sine tute/a by the Lexington 
Presbytery at High Bridge Church, Ya., June 17, 1837. 
For about a year lie preached at Union, Port Republic, 
and Shiloh, where his labors were blessed and large con- 
gregations attended his ministry. Having accepted a 
call to Shemariah Church, Augusta Co., Ya., he was in- 
stalled as pastor Dec. 1, 1838, His health having im- 
proved, and the community having provided an acad- 
emy, M r. Thomas also commenced a classical school, 
which became in a short time quite flourishing. But the 
united duties of pastor and teacher were too onerous, 
and he was, at his own request, released from his for- 
mer charge, Oct. 12, 1843. This was his only pastoral 
charge. Thenceforth he resided about eighteen years 
at Beverly, Randolph Co., and labored as a missionary 
in that and several adjacent counties, ranging over a 
wide extent of wild and mountainous country, preach- 
ing in court-houses, jails, school-houses, barns, and pri- 
vate houses, wherever any would gather to hear the 
Word of God. There was no minister nearer on the 
west than Clarksburg, and on t he south-west than Par- 
kersburg. Much of the wide region he traversed was 
a mountain wilderness; often his only road was an ob- 
scure path; dangerous rivers were to be forded; and 
many of the best people were living in log-cabins, often 
in a single room. But he enjoyed the work, gladly 
breaking the bread of life to the hungry and the starv- 
ing. The breaking -out of the Civil War, in 1801, 
stopped his work, and his mission field became a scene 
of strife. Having removed his family from Beverly to 
Craigsville. Augusta Co., he occasionally supplied, during 
the war, the churches of Windy Cove, Warm Springs, 
and Lebanon. After 1805 he preached as opportunity 
offered. He generally taught school in the winter sea- 
son. For several of his last years he suffered severely 
from chronic throat-disease, lie died at Craigsville, Jan. 
25, 1879. (W. P. S.) 

Thomas, John (1), LL.D., an English prelate, was 
born at Carlisle, ( )ct. 14, 1712; was educated at the gram- 
mar-school at ( 'arlisle, and Queen’s College, Oxford. Af- 
ter his graduation lie became an assistant at a classical 
academy, Soho Square, London; then private tutor to 
the younger son of Sir William Clayton. He was or- 
dained deacon March 27, 1737, and priest Sept. 25. In 
the same year he was presented by George 11 to the 
rectory of Bleehi ugly, and was instituted Jan. 27, 1738. 
On Jan. 18, 1748, he was appointed chaplain in ordinary 
to the king; April 23. 1754, he was made prebendary of 
Westminster; and Dec. 12, 1700, was appointed chap- 
lain to George III. In 1702 lie was appointed sub- 
almoner to the archbishop of York: and in 1706 was 
instituted to the vicarage of St. Bride's, London, lie 
succeeded Dr. Pearce as dean of Westminster, 1708; 
and in November, 1774, became bishop of Rochester. 
He died Aug. 22, 1793. A valuable collection of his 
Sermons and Charges was published by Rev. G. A. 
Thomas (1790, 2 vols. Svo). See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. 
s. v. 

Thomas, John (2), a Welsh Congregational minis- 
ter, was born at Carmarthen, April 13, 1811. He was 


3*72 


TIIOMAS 


TIIOMAS 

converted at the age of eighteen, and became an efficient ' 
teacher in the Sabbath-school; removed to Newcastle 
in 1844, and, at the request of the Welsh population, 
became pastor of their chapel, lie accepted a call from ’ 
tilynneath in 1855; but after two years of labor with 
that people, under medical advice, resigned his charge. | 
lie died Aug. 3, 1870. See (Loud.) Cony. Year-book, 
1871, p. 353- 

Thomas, Joshua, a Welsh Congregational minis- 
ter, was born at Penman), Aug. 2, 1803. At an early 
age be was tbe subject of deep religions impressions, and 
at the age of seventeen joined the Church, lie gradu- 
ated at Brecon College, and was ordained pastor of the 
Church at Adullum Chapel Merthyr-Tydvil, where lie 
labored with- zeal and energy for eleven years. In 1843 
Mr. Thomas removed to Carmarthenshire, to take charge 
of the united churches of Bethlehem and Cape Isaac, 
where lie labored for six years with much acceptance 
and success. In 18 19 he removed to Aheravon. and 
devoted himself with indefatigable zeal to the spirit- 
ual improvement of the people; and. in spite of many 
difficulties, succeeded in erecting a spacious chapel 
and gathering a numerous congregation. His last 
charge was at Aberdare, where he labored till his death. 
Sept. 2, 1875. See (Loiul.) Cony. Year-book, 187G, 
p. 377. 

Thomas, Richard H., 5LD., a minister of the So- 
ciety of Friends, was horn in Anne-Arundel County, 5Id., 
June. 18»)5. “ Having received a liberal education and 

completed a course of medical studies, lie settled in Bal- 
timore, where he became eminent as a practitioner and 
teacher of medicine.” In the work of the ministry he 
labored with great diligence. lie held many meetings 
among other denominations, and preached with great 
acceptability. lie was a man of pleasing address; and, 
possessing great vivacity and extraordinary talents, he 
gained ready access to the most cultivated society, lie 
died at Ills residence, near Baltimore, Jan. 15, I860. See 
Annual Manila r f 18G0, p. 128. 

Thomas, Robert Jernain, A.B., a Welsh Con- 
gregational missionary, was born at Khavadar, Sept. 7, 
1840. He matriculated at the Loudon University at 
the age of sixteen, and gained the Mills scholarship and 
took high honors at the university, lie was ordained 
June 4, 18G3, at Hanover Chapel, and sailed the follow- 
ing month for Shanghai, under the direction of the Lon- 
don Missionary Society. He was afterwards appointed 
to the Pekin Mission, and on his way thither he un- 
dertook an extensive missionary journey through the 
peninsula of Corea, telling the glorious truths of the 
Gospel of Christ and distributing copies of the Script- 
ures. In 18G5 the French admiral prepared an expe- 
dition against the Coreans, and Mr. Thomas was per- 
suaded to act as an interpreter for the expedition. He 
was put to death by the Coreans while reading the 
Bible, Julv, L8GG. See (Loud.) Cony. Year-book, 18G8, 
p. 29G. 

Thomas, Samuel (1), a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, became a member of the society, in the early period 
of Methodism, in the State of New Jersey. He was an 
acceptable local preacher for a number of years, entered 
the itinerancy in 1700. and filled the following stations: 
In 179G 97, Flanders Circuit ; 1798, ‘Elizabethtown Cir- 
cuit ; 1799, Freehold; 1800 1, Newburg; 1802, Bethel; 
1803, Elizabethtown; 180 1-5, Freehold ; 180G, supernu- 
merary in Brooklyn; 1807, in New York; 1808. super- 
annuated, in which relation he continued until he died, 
in 1812. 51 r. Thomas was a man of much prayer and 

diligence in searching the Scriptures, strongly attached 
to the doctrines and discipline of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, and ever considered as a strict disciplina- 
rian. See Minutes of Annual Conferences, i, 208; Ste- 
vens, Hist, of M. K. Church, iv, 281. 

Thomas, Samuel (2), an Independent minister, 
was born in Jorat, Switzerland, in 1801. By his own in- 


dustry he obtained an education at Lausanne Academy, 
and was ordained at Grainy in 1825. After four years 
of usefulness at the latter place, Mr. Thomas was elected 
president of the Training Institute at Lausanne, a post 
ibr which he was eminently titled, both by his earnest 
piety and varied gifts and attainments. In 183G be was 
called to the Church of the Oratory at Yverdun, where 
he spent nineteen years of useful labor, and in 1855 set- 
tled at NeufchrUel. He died Jan. 12, 1807. Mr. Thom- 
as was a man of inflexible principles, yet of most gentle 
and tender disposition. He took a conspicuous part in 
the revival movement in Switzerland, and showed him- 
self a wise and experienced* counsellor. See (Loud.) 
Cony. Year-book, 18G8, p. 297. 

Thomas, Samuel (3\ an English Congregational 
minister, was born at Pontreyeh, Nov. 20, 1815. lie 
graduated at Brecon College in 1843, and was ordained 
to tbe pastorate of Ebenezer Chapel, Newport. Under 
his personal superintendence a new chapel was erected, 
and the Church membership greatly increased. In 18G0 
he removed to Bethlehem, and labored with tbe Church 
there until his death, April 5, 18G9. See (Loud.) Cony. 
Year-book , 1870, p. 322. 

Thomas, Thomas, a Welsh Congregational minis- 
ter, was born near Carmarthen in 1822, and was brought 
up under Unitarian influence ami educated for the med- 
ical profession; but the love of evangelical truth in- 
duced him to enter the ministry. He graduated at 
llomerton College, and accepted the pastorate of Fetter 
Lane Chapel, London; and labored also at Wellingbor- 
ough thirteen years. In 1858 lie removed to Bethnal 
Green Chapel, London, and labored with them until his 
death, March 13, 18G1. Mr. Thomas was a worker of 
the highest type, and his generous nature and vivid 
imagination endeared him to a large circle of friends. 
See (Loud.) Cony. Year-book, 18G2, p. 2G3. 

Thomas, William (1), an English prelate, was 
born at Bristol, Feb. 2, 1013, and received bis primary 
education in the school of Carmarthen, where liis 
grandfather lived. lie entered St. John’s College, 
Oxford, in 1G29, and removed, later, to Jesus College, 
of which he was afterwards chosen a fellow and ap- 
pointed tutor. II is ordination as deacon took place 
at Christ Church. June 4, 1G37, and as priest in the 
year following. II is first preferment was the vicarage 
of Penbryn, Cardiganshire. He became chaplain to tbe 
earl of Northumberland, who presented him to the vic- 
arage of Laugharne, with the rectory of Llansadwrhen 
annexed, in JG4I a party of Parliament horse came 
into town threatening to kill Mr. Thomas if they found 
him playing for the queen. They did interfere with 
the service, hut were so struck with li is composure and 
patience that they left him without further disturbance. 
Soon after, the Parliament committee deprived him of 
his living of Laugharne, from which time till the Kes- 
toration he endured great hardships, being obliged to 
teach a private school for his support. At the Bestora- 
tiou. 51 r. Thomas was reinstated in his living, and by 
the king’s letters-patent. made chanter of St. David’s. 
In 1GG1 he was presented to the rectory of Llanhedr in 
the 5 T alIev, Pembroke County, and made chaplain to 
the duke of York, through whose influence he was pro- 
moted to the deanery of Worcester, Nov. 25, 1GG5; and 
was presented to the rectory of Hampton Lovett in 1G70. 
Here he removed his family, quitting the living of 
Laugharne. In 1G77 he was promoted to the see of St. 
David's, and held the deanery of Worcester in cominen - 
dam. Having been bishop of St. David’s six years, be 
was translated to tbe see of Worcester, where he effect- 
ed several reforms. He died June 25, IG88. Bishop 
Thomas published, A n Apoloyyfor the Church of Eng- 
land ( If >78-79, Svo) : — Assize Sermon (1057): — The 
Mammon of Unrighteousness, a sermon. His Letter to 
the Cleryy, and an imperfect work, Roman Oracles Si- 
lenced. were published after his death. See Chalmers, 
Bioy. Diet . s. v. 


THOMAS 


373 


TIIOM LIN SON 


Thomas, William (2). an English clergyman I 
and antiquarian, was grandson of the preceding, and 
was born in 1070, He was educated at Westminster 
school, whence he was elected to Trinity College, Cam- 
bridge, June ‘25, 1688, Here he took bis master’s de- 
gree, and soon went into orders, and had the living of 
Exhall, in Warwickshire, given him bv the interest of 
lord Somers. Queen Anne was well disposed towards 
him, but he declined preferment or attendance at court. 
For the education of his family he removed to Worcester 
in 1721, and in 1723 was presented to the rectory of St. 
Nicholas in that city. lie died July 26, 1738. besides 
being skilled in the Greek and Latin languages, he also 
mastered the French, Italian, and Saxon. lie publish- 
ed, Antiquitates Prior at us Majoris J fulrernce (1725) : — 
an edition of Dngdales Warwickshire (1730) : — and Sur- 
rey of the Cathedral Church of Worcester (1746). lie 
intended to have published a history of Worcestershire; 
and, to gather material for this, visited every church in 
the county. To these labors Dr. Nash owns himself 
greatly indebted. See Chalmers, Biog. Diet . s. v. 

Thomasin of Zirkharia (Zerkldre), in the Italian 
Tyrol, wrote a lengthy didactic poem between August, 
1215, and May, 1216, entitled Per wcilsche Gast ( The 
Foreign Guest), by which production he began the ex- 
tended series of ethical poems that distinguish the loth 
century. Thomasin was a layman, and wrote for lay- 
men, and with him begins the distinction between a re- 
ligious morality for the people and a theological moral- 
ity of the Church. His work is characterized by vi- 
vacity and gracefulness, by clearness of expression and 
warmth of feeling, though not by icsthetical and lin- 
guistic beauties. Independence of thought is also a 
leading quality, and is carried to such a degree as to de- 
fend the principle that conscience is superior to ecclesi- 
astical institutions of every kind. Thomasin does not 
rage against the priesthood and the papacy, but rather 
esteems them very highly when they “bear the image 
of good doctrine;” but he does not, on the other hand, 
hesitate to utter in their ears the most cutting truths. 
His object, in brief, was to teach a practical morality; 
and his place is rather among the exponents of the re- 
ligious and ethical tendencies of his time than among 
the poets. He teaches that State, an inward and set- 
tled affinity for the good and the right, is the centre of 
all virtues. This is not the Constant ia of the stoical 
Seneca merely, but a positive energy which actually 
gives effect to the impulses of the heart. Evil is Un- 
state, or instability. Among particular virtues, humility 
is given the first place. The book existed in MS. form 
only until 1852, when it was issued by Kuekert under 
t lie title Her wcilsche Gast des Thomasin t'on Zirkluria 
(Quedlinburg and Leips.), with notes. Comp, the ex- 
tracts given in Gesch. d. poet. Xationalliteratur , by Ger- 
viuus, and see Dicstel, I )er wcilsche Gast u. d. Moral des 
13 ten Jahrh. in Kiel, Allgem . Monatsschrift, Aug. 1852, 
p. 687-714. — Herzog, lie a l- Encgklop . s. v. 

Tliomasius, Gottfried, a German Protestant di- 
vine, was born in the year 1802 at Egenhausen, in Fran- 
conia. In 1821 he graduated at the gymnasium in Ans- 
pach. and prosecuted his theological studies at the uni- 
versities of Erlangen, Halle, and Berlin. In 1820 he was 
preacher at the Church of the Holy Ghost in Nuremberg, 
and in 1830 religious instructor, also, at the gymnasium 
there. In 1842 he was called to Erlangen as professor 
of dogmatics and university preacher. For more than 
thirty years he filled that chair, and died as senior of the 
faculty, Jan. 24, 1875. He published, Origenes: ein Bei- 
trag zur Dogmengesch ichte des 3 ten Jahrh. (Nuremb. 
1837) : — Be Controversia I/ofmanniana Comment atio 
(Erlatigee, 1844): — Beit rage zur kirchlichen Christologie 
(ibid. 1845): — Dog mat is de Obedient ia Christi Actira 
Ilistoria et Progressionis hide a Confessione A ugnstana 
ad Formulam usque Concordia; (ibid. 1846): — Das Be- 
kenntniss der evang.-luth. Kirche in der Consequent seines 
Prinzipes (Nuremb. 1848): — Christi Person und Werk: 


Darstellung der lather. Dogmatih vom il fittelpnnkt der 
Christologie a us (Erlang. 1853-61,3 vols.; 2d ed. 1857) : 
— Das Bekenntniss der lather. Kirche von der Versbhnnng 
und die Versohnungslehre Dr. Chr. K. r. Hofmanns (ibid. 
1857). He also published several volumes of Sermons ; 
— a practical Commentary on Paul's Epistle to the Colos- 
sians (Erlang. 1860), etc. See Zuchold, Bill. I'heol. ii, 
1837 sq. ; Theologisches Universal- exikon, s. v. ; Lit < - 
rarischer Ilamlweiser fiir das kathol. Deutschland, 1868, 
p. 110; Ilerzog. Real-Encykiop. s. v. (B. P.) 

Thomassin, Lons he, a learned French divine, 
was born at Aix, in Provence, Aug. 28, 1610. At the age 
of fourteen he was admitted into the Congregation of the 
Oratory, where he remained as professor of moral philos- 
ophy until he was appointed to the chair of divinity at 
Saumur. lie removed to Paris in 1654, to hold confer- 
ences in positive theology in the Seminary of Saiute- 
Magloire, which he continued till 1688. From that time 
he was engaged principally with his writings until his 
death, Dec. 25, 1695. His principal works are, Ecclesi- 
astical Disd/dine (reprinted 1725,3 vols. fob in French): 
— Theological Dogmas (1680, 3 vols. foL in Latin): — 
Tracts on the Divine Office ; on the Feasts ; on the Easts ; 
on Truth and Falsehood; on A Inis ; on Trade and 
Usury (all 8vo) : — 77:. Dogma fique des Aloyens dont on 
s'est servi dans tons les Temps pour maintenir V Unite de 
VEylise (1703, 3 vols. 4to): — also Directions for Study- 
ing and Teaching Philosophy in a Christian Manner 
(8vo) : — A Universal Hebrew Glossary (Louvre, 1607, 
fol.) : — Dissertations on the Councils, in Latin (1667, 4to) : 
— M emoires sur la Grace (1682, 4 to). His life, by Bordes, 
is prefixed to his Hebrew Glossary. See Chalmers, Biog. 
Diet. s. v. ; Hook, Eccles. Biog. s. v. ; Ilerzog, Real-Ency- 
kloqi. s. v. ; Iloefer, Four. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Tkomists, a name often given to the followers of 
Thomas Aquinas, who, besides adopting the Aristotelian 
philosophy, in opposition to Duns Scotus, who held the 
Platonic, also taught the doctrines of Augustine on the* 
subject of original sin, free grace, ete. He condemned 
the dogma of the immaculate conception, in opposition 
to Scotus. The two sects were also divided on the 
question of the sacraments, as to whether grace was 
conferred by them physically or morally; the Thomists 
holding the former, the Scotists the latter. Dens, who 
was a Thomist, in his theology, explains what is meant 
by the view of ins party. He says, “The sacraments 
possess a physical causality, as the instruments of di- 
vine omnipotence, and truly and properly concur to- 
wards the production of their effects on the mind hv a 
supernatural virtue from rhe principal agent, communi- 
cated to and united with it in the manner of a tran- 
sient action; and. moreover, such a causality is more 
conformable to the declarations of Scripture, and dem- 
onstrates more fully the dignity of the sacrament, and 
the efficacy of the divine omnipotence and of the mer- 
its of Christ. Besides, they say that this is also more 
conformable to the sentiments of councils and fathers, 
who, as they explain the causality of the sacraments, 
use various similitudes which undoubtedly designate 
a causality more than moral.” On the contrary, the 
Scotists teach that “the sacraments do not cause grace 
physically, but morally; that is, they do not produce 
grace as physical causes do, but as moral causes ; inas- 
much as they efficaciously move God to produce the 
grace which they signify, and which God himself prom- 
ises infallibly to give as often as they are rightly ad- 
ministered and worthily received.” ete. The Thomists 
were Realists, while the Scotists were Nominalists; and 
although the Roman see naturally inclined to favor 
the doctrines of the Scotists, the prestige of Aquinas 
was so great that the Thomists ruled the theology of 
the Church up to the time of the controversy between 
the Molinists (q. v.) and the Jansen ists, when the views 
of the Scotists substantially prevailed. See Aquinas, 
Thomas a. 

Thomlinson, Joseph Smith, D.D., a minister of 


Til 031 01 


3*74 


THOMPSON 


pal Church. was born in George- } Thompson, Anthony, A.B., an English Congre- 
1*02 ; and, after serving a time at gational miniver, was born at Alnwick in 1835. lie 


town, Ky., March 15. 
the saddler's trade, entered Transylvania University, 
where he held a high rank as a scholar. When Lafay- 
ette visited t he institution, Thomlinson was the person 
chosen to tender him the greetings of his lellow-stu- 
dents. lie graduated in 1*25. and became professor of 
mathematics and natural philosophy in Augusta College. 
In rite same year he was admitted to the travelling con- 
nection, and in due time was ordained to the offices of 
deacon and elder. Having served as professor for some 
time, he was chosen president of the Augusta College, I 
and held that office till 1*10, when the institution was 
broken down by a withdrawal of the patronage of the S 
Kentucky Conference, and the repeal of its charter by 
tbe legislature of the State, lie was subsequently elect- 
ed to a professorship of tbe Ohio Wesleyan University, : 
Delaware. ()., but declined to accept it, though lie acted 
as agent for the institution for two years, lie accepted j 
an election as professor in the university at Athens, 

( ).. and, having served in this capacity for a year, was 
chosen president, which latter position he declined on 
account of ill-health. 1 1 is mind was so affected by the 
sudden death of a favorite son that he never fully re- 
covered; ami although elected to the presidency of the 
Springfield High-school and of tbe State University of 
Indiana, be declined both. He died at Neville. O., June 4, 
1853. See Sprague. .1 ninth of the .1 uter. Pulpit , vii, 700. 

Thoin'oi' (Ho/ioL Vulg. Coe.Pt), a corrupt Greek form 
(1 Esdr. v, 32) of the lleb. name (Ezra ii, 53; Neb. vii, 
55) Tam .vii or Tiiamaii (q. w). 

Thompson, Alexander Scroggs, a Presbyte- 
rian minister, was born April 28, 1834, at Pig Spring 
(Springfield), Cumberland Co., Pa. He received his 
early education at Newvillc Academy under Hew Hub- 
ert MeCacliren, and at Shippensburg Collegiate Insti- 
tute under Prof. H. L. Sibbct. At an early age he joined 
the United Presbyterian Church of Big Spring, near 
Newvillc. lie graduated from .Jefferson College, Pa., 
in 1804, and soon after entered Princeton Theological 
Seminary. N. J. There lie studied two years (1*04- 
00), and afterwards spent a third year (1800-07) at 
the Western Seminary at Allegheny, Pa. He was li- 
censed by New Brunswick Presbytery April 18, 1800, 
and supplied New Harmony Church in Donegal Pres- 
bytery during the summer of that year. He was or- 
dained bv t he Presbytery of Allegheny at Worthington, 
Armstrong Co.. I’a., Nov. 20. 1807, and on the same day 
installed pastor of Worthington Church. This relation 
continued until his death, which occurred suddenly, Dec. 
4, 1*7*. lie was retiring in his manners, true in his 
friendships, a very successful minister, and a model pas- 
tor. 11 is remains were buried at Newvillc, Pa. (W. P.S.) 

Thompson, Amherst L., a young Congrega- 
tional missionary, was born at Peru, Mass., in 1*34. 
Converted at the age of fourteen, he resolved to prepare 
himself for the ministry. Trusting in Providence and 
his own arm, he went through the curriculum of Monson 
Academy and Amherst College, graduating in 1 *50. He 
studied theology partly at New York and partly at An- 
dover, graduating at the latter place. He was ordained 
to the missionary work at Amherst Feb. 2, 1*00, and on 
t lie loth, in company with eight other missionaries, 
sailed from Poston for Urumiyah, Persia, where he ar- 
rived duly 1. On Aug. 10 he was taken with a severe 
chill, which soon developed into a terrible fever, complet- 
ing its fatal work on the 25th. He sleeps by the side of 
Stoddard in the little mission burying-ground in Mt.Seir, 
Urumiyah. Mr, Thompson had a vigorous ami keen in- 
tellect, coolness and strong common-sense, and a brilliant 
imagination. As a man and a Christian he is repre- 
sented as a model. At his graduation at Andover he 
delivered an essay on Congregational Church Polity 
Adapted to Foreiyn Missionary Work , which was pub- 
lished in the Cony. (Quarterly, Jan. 1800. See Cony. 
Quar. Per. 1801, p. 07. 


graduated at Spring Hill College, and matriculated at 
the London University. In 1*03 he accepted a call 
from Douglas, Isle of 31 an, and, full of zeal and hope, 
entered upon his labors, llis pulpit ministrations were 
marked by many tokens of blessings. He had a deep 
consciousness of the. responsibilities attending bis posi- 
tion, and faithfully fulfilled the duties devolving upon 
him. lie died April 5, 1800. See (Loud.) Cony. Year- 
book, 1807, p. 322. 

Thompson, Anthony F., a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was horn in Kentucky, Sept. 2, 1800. He be- 
came an exhorter in 1*24. and was soon after licensed as 
a local preacher, received on trial in 1829, appointed to 
Terre Haute Circuit, Indiana Conference, in 1832, and 
died May 19, 1*33. He was a young man of excellent 
talents. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , ii, 277. 

Thompson, Charles, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born at Salem, N. Y., Nov. 20, 1831. lie was con- 
verted in 1853; educated at Monmouth College and 
Theological Seminary, Monmouth, 111.; licensed by Chi- 
cago Presbytery April 3, 1803; ordained by Monmouth 
Presbytery pastor of Olena and Oquaka churches, 111., 
June 17, 1803; and died Dec. 31, 1805. He was a good 
man, “walked with God," and preached in demonstra- 
tion of the spirit, and with power. See Wilson, Presb. 
Hist. Almanac, 1807, p.363. 

Thompson, Frederick Bordine, a missionary 
of the Reformed Church in America to Borneo, was born 
in 1810, and united with the Church in New Brunswick, 
under Rev. Dr. James B. Hardenbergh, at the age of 
seventeen. II is pastor having induced him to prepare 
for the ministry, he graduated at Rutgers College in 
1831, and at the Theological Seminary in New Bruns- 
wick in 1*34. After being settled as pastor of the 
Church at Upper Red Hook, N. Y., from 1834 till 1830, 
he determined to devote himself to foreign missionary 
work, and was sent by the American Board of Commis- 
sioners for Foreign Missions, and the Board of Foreign 
Missions of his own Church, with the devoted William 
J. Rohlman, to join the mission in Borneo. He reached 
Singapore Sept. 17, 183*, and labored at Karangan, one 
of the two stations occupied by the mission (the other 
being Sambas), for several years, with great industry 
and devotion to his work, among the Dyaks. llis first 
wife, formerly a Miss Wyckoff, of New Brunswick, died 
in 1839. In 1*40 he married a Swiss lady, Miss Combe, 
a teaciier in the mission, who also died, in 1844. In 
1847 a hemorrhage of the lungs compelled him to de- 
sist from labor; and, by medical advice, he sailed for 
Europe with his motherless daughter, to place her with 
her relatives in Switzerland, and to try the benelit of 
the change of climate for himself. At first he im- 
proved, but the disease returned, and lie died Jan. 17, 
1848. Thus ended the brief career of one whose piety, 
talents, and consecration bade fair to place him, if he 
had been spared, among the very first of modern evan- 
gelists to the heathen, lie was a grave, quiet, devout, 
and intensely earnest man. llis missionary trials and 
last illness were borne with patient submission to the 
will of God, and with clear views of his acceptance and 
peace with the Lord. llis labors among the Dyaks, 
like those of the whole mission, seemed to be fruitless 
of immediate results; hut his name lives in the Church 
as a power for missions, and perhaps in future ages 
Borneo will enshrine it among her first evangelists. See 
Corwin, Manual of the Ref. Ch. p. 489. (W. J. R. T.) 

Thompson, George C., a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was born at Nanticoke, Luzerne Co., Pa., Jan. 
15, 1817. He was converted in December, 1832, edu- 
cated at Cazenovia Seminary, licensed to preach Aug. 0, 
1830, received on trial in the Oneida Conference in 1840, 
and appointed to Dundaff Station: in 1841. to Montrose 
Circuit ; in 1842, ordained elder and reappointed to the 
same circuit; in 1843 he became insane, and died Sept. 


THOMPSON' 


3 75 


THOMPSON 


IS, 1846, at the New York Lunatic Asylum in Utica. | 
His talents as a minister were elevated. “ In ministerial 
labors he was abundant, in mental application he was 
excessive.” See Minutes of A nnual Conferences , iv, 257. 

Thompson, George Washington, 1 ).!)., a 
Presbyterian divine, was born at New Providence, Es- 
sex Co., N. J., Oct. 10, 1810; converted in 1835; gradu- 
ated at Uutgers College, New lirunswick, N. J., and at 
the Princeton Theological Seminary; was licensed by 
the Presbytery of New Brunswick; ordained pastor of 
the churches of Mifflinsburg and New Berlin. 1842; be- 
came pastor of the Church of Lower Tuscarora in 1847, 
and remained there seventeen years, lie died Jan. 28, 
1864. Dr. Thompson had an acute, ready, practical 
mind. As a scholar he was thorough and critical; his 
Expository Lectures on Daniel and on the Romans dis- 
play a vast amount of patient research, deep thinking, 
critical analysis, and full knowledge of the teachings 
of the Bible. See Wilson, Presh. Hist, Almanac , 1865, 
p. 123. (J. L. S.) 

Thompson, John, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born near Chambersburg, Franklin Co., Pa., Nov. 11, 
1772. He received his literary training in the Ken- 
tucky Academy, Lexington, studied theology privately, 
was licensed bv Transylvania Presbytery in 1701), and 
ordained by Washington Presbytery, ( )., in 1801. He 
was pastor of Glendale Church, O., 1801-83; then re- 
moved to Indiana, became a member of Crawfordsville 
Presbytery, and labored as an evangelist, lie died Feb. 
15, 1850. lie was an earnest revival preacher, an elo- 
quent and successful minister, and many persons were 
hopefully converted under his labors. See Wilson, 
Presb . /list. Almanac, 1860, p. 123. 

Thompson, Jonathan, a Wesleyan Methodist 
preacher, was born at Torhonse, llaltwhistle, Northum- 
berland, England. In his early life he resided for a 
time in Ayr, Scotland. He was converted under Cowu- 
ley at Neweastle-upon-Tyne. In 1786 he returned to 
Ayr, where he officiated as a local preacher. In 1780 
he came out to labor in connection with the British 
Conference, and was sent to the Inverness Circuit. He 
was soon cut down by a fever in Elgin, Morayshire. 
He was interred in the same tomb that had received 
the remains of the holy Joshua Keighley only a year 
before. Young Thompson was a man of holiness and 
much prayer. “His great zeal for God, united with the 
fervor and imprudence of youth, led him to excessive 
labor in the work of his great Master, which proved the 
cause of his death.” See J Unities of Wesleyan Confer- 
ences, 1790; Atmore, Meth. Memorial , s. v. 

Thompson, Joseph Parrish, D.D., LL.D.,an em- 
inent Congregational divine, was born in Philadelphia, 
Aug. 7, 1819. He graduated at Yale College in 1838. 
Afterwards he pursued the study of theology at the An- 
dover and New Haven Theological schools. In Novem- 
ber, 1840, he was ordained pastor of the Chapel Street 
Congregational Church in New Haven. While occu- 
pying this position. Dr. Thompson assisted in establish- 
ing The Sew- Englander, lie published also, while at 
New Haven, a Memoir of Timothy Dwight. In 1845 he 
was called to the pastoral charge of the Broadway Tab- 
ernacle Church in New York city, and was installed on 
t he 1 5th of April of that year. For some years the Tab- 
ernacle continued to be a great centre of religious inter- 
est. The vast edifice was often thronged by a congre- 
gation composed of strangers, young men. and those v ho 
had no regular place of worship. The Tabernacle 
Church was the mother of several Congregational 
churches in New York and Brooklyn. The society de- 
termined to sell the Tabernacle in 1855, and the new 
church was built at the intersection of Broadway, Sixth 
Ave., and Thirty-fourth Street. This building was com- 
pleted in 1859, and dedicated April 24 of that year. Un- 
der the ministry of Dr. Thompson the society flourished 
exceedingly. When the church was dedicated there 
was a debt upon it of $65,000. No pews were sold, as 


it was resolved that there should be no private owner- 
ship in the building. In 1863 the society paid off 
$25,000 of this indebtedness; the remaining sum of 
$40,000 was paid in March, 1864. Notwithstanding Dr. 
Thompson's immediate pastoral labors, he was always 
busy with his pen. In 1845 he printed a Memoir of 
David Ilale (late editor of the Journal of Commerce), 
with Selections from his Miscellaneous Writings — a work 
which passed through various editions. In 1816 ap- 
peared his Young Men A dmonished, afterwards, in sub- 
sequent editions, which were numerous, entitled Lect- 
ures to Young Men. flints to Employers appeared in 
1847, and another edition in 1851. Stray Meditations 
was published in 1852; and in 1857 there was a revised 
edition, entitled The Believer's Refuge, lie was one of 
the first editors of the huh pendent, being associated in 
that service with the Lev. Dr. Storrs and the Lev. Dr. 
Bacon. In 1852 he originated the plan of the Albany 
Congregational Convention. He also served as a man- 
ager of the American Congregational Union and of the 
American Home Missionary Society. In 1852 he went 
abroad, visiting Palestine, Egypt, and other Eastern 
lands. This gave an Oriental cast to his subsequent 
studies and writings, and he became well known as an 
authority in Egyptology. Many of his writings upon 
this subject appeared itt the North American Review, 
the Bibliotheca Sacra , the Journal of the American Ge- 
ographical and Statistical Society, in Smith’s Diet, of 
the Bible, and the revised edition of Kitto’s Cyclop, of 
Biblical Literature. He published Egypt, Past and Pres- 
ent. in 1856. During the Civil War, Dr. Thompson oc- 
cupied a warmly patriotic position. He did a great 
deal for the Christian Commission. Twice he went to 
the South; he visited the army; and he was a member 
of the Union League Club. His son was killed in t he 
service of the country. Dr. Thompson published (1863) 
a souvenir of him entitled The Sergeant's Memorial, by 
his Father. When president Lincoln was assassinated, 
Dr. Thompson delivered a notable eulogy upon Him be- 
fore the Union League Club. In 1872 Dr. Thompson 
was compelled by ill-health to sever the relation which 
he had so long maintained with the society. One 
night, while working in his study, he imagined that he 
heard a terrible crash, as if the whole house were lall- 
ing, and he remembered nothing more until he regained 
consciousness at three o’clock in the morning. When he 
resigned his pastoral charge of the Tabernacle Church, 
it made him a gift, of $30,000, and individuals gave him 
$20,000 more. Having resolved upon going abroad, he 
took up his residence in Berlin, where he devoted him- 
self to study, especially in Egyptology. During the 
controversy between Bismarck and the pope, at the re- 
quest of the Prussian minister, he prepared and pub- 
lished a work on the relations of Church and State in 
America; and in the Centennial Year he delivered in 
different cities of Europe several addresses concerning 
the United States. Ilis oration occasioned by the death 
of Mr. Bayard Taylor, the American minister, delivered 
in Berlin, was a beautiful and much-admired production. 
He had prepared an address to be delivered before the 
Evangelical Alliance at Basle, Switzerland, on the sub- 
ject of the persecutions in Austria. When Mr. Taylor 
died, Dr. Thompson was spoken of as his successor. It 
is known that when the rumor reached his ears, he 
wrote that he could not accept the position, and con- 
sidered himself unfitted for it. lie spoke excellently 
both French and German, and he frequently had oc- 
casion to employ his accomplishments as a linguist 
in the public addresses which he delivered in Europe. 
Though always an invalid, Dr. Thompson’s last illness 
was caused by an accident which had happened to him 
during his visit to London, when, while standing upon 
the doorstep of a friend’s house, he was prostrated by 
vertigo, severely injuring his head. He died at Ber- 
lin, Sept. 20. 1879. Among his other productions may 
be noted The College as a Religious Institution (1859) : 
— Love and Penalty (1860): — Bryant Grey (1863):— 


THOMPSON 


37G 


THOMPSON 


Christianity and Emancipation (1863) : — The Holy Com- 
forter (lNiO) : — Man in Genesis and Geoloyy (1809): — 
ami Life nf Christ (1875) : — with a great variety of pam- 
phlets ami ol* contributions to periodical literature. He 
was understood, at his death, to be preparing a work on 
The Hebrews in Eyypt. See .V. Y. Tribune, Sept. 22, 1879. 

Thompson, Joseph Russell, a Presbyterian 
minister, was born Sept. 15, 1823. He received a good 
academical training, graduated at Jefferson College in 
1818. and at. the Associate Theological Seminary at 
( 'ammslmrg, Pa., in 1851; was licensed by the Associate 
I’resbvtery of Chartiers in 1852, and ordained and in- 
stalled pastor of the .Mount Pleasant Church April 25, 
1853. lie died Dec. 16, 18(11. Mr. Thompson was a 
popular preacher, a constant worker, and a tender and 
thoughtful pastor. Sec Wilson, Prcsb . Hist, Almanac^ 

1 863, p. 365. 

Thompson, Lewis, a Presbyterian minister, was 
horn at Volney, X. Y„ April 25, 1830. After receiving 
a classical education, he entered the tTiiun Theological 
Seminary in 1854. and, completing the course, graduated 
in 1857. He was ordained and installed pastor of the 
Church in Whippany, X. J., June 9, 1857. lie remained 
in this charge with great acceptability and usefulness 
until 1869, when he resigned to become editor of a relig- 
ious paper in llricksburg, X. J. lie occupied this post 
for two years, and then removed to Brooklyn, X. Y„ and 
became 'a classical teacher, in the occupancy of which 
position he died, April 19, 1873. (W. P. S.) 

Thompson, Otis, a Congregational minister, was 
born in 1773, and was a graduate of Brown University 
in the class of 1798. After his graduation he was a tutor 
iu the university for two years (1798-I80OY Having 
pursued his theological studies with Dr. Emmons, of 
Franklin, Mass., he was settled for life as pastor of the 
Congregational Church in Rehoboth. For many years 
he received and instructed pupils who w r ere looking for- 
ward to the ministry, lie was everywhere regarded as 
a profound theologian, and a man of more than usual 
ability, lie published several sermons and discourses, 
and for several years was the editor of a journal known 
as the Ilopkinsian Maytizine. lie died at North Abing- 
ton, Mass., June 26, 1859. (J. C. 8.) 

Thompson, Robert Gordon, a Presbyterian 
minister, was born < >et. 22, 1806, iu Conemaugh town- 
ship, Indiana Co., Pa. His education preparatory to 
the college was received in part from the Rev. Jesse 
Smith, pastor of the Ehenezer congregation in Indi- 
ana County, and in part in the preparatory depart- 
ment of Jefferson College at Canonsburg, Pa. He 
united, on profession of his faith, with the Chart iers 
Presbyterian Church, Washington Co., in 1827. lie 
was graduated from Jefferson College in September, 
18.30, and passed from college immediately into Prince- 
ton 'rheological Seminary, N. J., where lie spent, two 
and a half years (1830-33) in study. He was licensed 
by the Presbytery of Philadelphia, April 19, 1833; and 
was ordained bv the same presbytery, sine, tutela , in the 
Great. Valiev Presbyterian Church, Oct. 7, 1833. Mr. 
Thompson spent the first two years of his ministry 
(from June 1, 1833, to June 1, 1835) as stated supply at 
Poimdridge, Westchester Co., X. Y„ where his labors 
were accompanied by a blessed revival. Having ac- 
cepted a call to Yorktown, N. Y., lie was installed as 
pastor of t lie Church at that place. May 18, 1836; and 
after a most successful pastorate of ten years, having 
accepted a call to Tariffville, Conn., was released Feb. 5, 
1816. and installed pastor of the Presbyterian Church 
at Tariffville, March 17, 1846. I here he labored with 
ability and fidelity six and a half years, when, his health 
becoming impaired, he was released by his presbytery, 
Sept. 30, 1852, and removed to Wisconsin. Ills next 
lield was Roseoc, 111., where he preached as stated sup- 
ply from Oct. 24, 1852, to Oct. 8, 1854. From 1855 to 
1862 he supplied, lor longer or shorter periods, as his 
health permitted, the churches of liockford, Roscoe, 


Uelvidcre, and Willow Creek, ill.; and Janesville and 
lirodhead, Wis. From July 1, 1862, lie supplied Wil- 
low Creek Church for two years, when, having accept- 
ed a call from that Church, he was installed as pas- 
tor, July 6, 1864; and labored there very usefully until 
he was released. Nov. 16, 1868. He next preached as 
' stated supply at lirodhead from Dec. 5, 1869, to Oct. 9, 
1871. A lew weeks after the latter date lie removed 
to Greeley. Col., to take charge as pastor of a newly 
organized Presbyterian Church, but was never instali- 
I ed, although he continued as pastor elect to fill its pul- 
pit until March 1, 1877, From this time he was with- 
out any charge, but continued to be, so far as his age 
and increasing physical infirmities would permit, ac- 
tive in laying the foundation both ol the Church and 
i of the State in that new region. He died at Greeley, 
March 19, 1879. Mr. Thompson's views of truth were 
clear and strong, and his voice gave no uncertain sound. 
As a preacher he was solid and able, at the same time 
earnest and affectionate; as a presbyter he was unsur- 
passed in Christian uprightness; as the head of a family 
lie tenderly loved, and was beloved. (W. P. S.) 

Thompson, Samuel, a Methodist Protestant min- 
j ister, was born on the rocky shores of Maine, Oct. 5, 
1782; he was converted in 1802, and at once began to 
! preach. Three years later lie was ordained deaeon, and, 
after two more, elder. In 1812 he was located, and in 
1816 removed to Wheeling Creek, W.Ya., where he spent 
j six and a half years, and then w ithdrew from the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, and united in the movement, 
that eventually resulted in the Methodist Protestant 
Church. For fifteen years lie labored to build up this 
new branch of the Methodist denomination, when from 
conscientious impulses he united others in raising an 
antislavery Church (the Wesleyan). In 1848 he re- 
moved to Iowa, and continued in connection with the 
Wesleyans until 1800, when, learning of the antislavery 
element in the Methodist Protestant Church, he reunited 
with them at Mount Pleasant, la., and continued to labor 
in their interest till his death. Oct. 24, 1867. See Pas- 
sett, Hist, of the Meth. Prof, Church, p.348. 

Thompson, Samuel H., a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was born in Westmoreland County, Pa., March 
16, 1786, and carefully instructed in t lie principles of 
the Christian religion according to the views of the 
Presbyterian Church. In 1804 he joined the Methodist 
Episcopal Church; w r as received on trial in the West- 
ern Conference in 1809; and from that time until 1836, 
a period of twenty-seven years, his field of labor in suc- 
cessive years embraced large portions of the states of 
Ohio, Indiana, Kentucky, and the whole of the territo- 
ries of Missouri and Illinois. In all this vast region 
lie first assisted to plant the principles of the Gos- 
pel, and afterwards continued to cultivate them with 
the most assiduous labor. In 1836, his health failing, 
he was compelled to take a superannuated relation, and, 
as such, for the next four years he served the Church in 
the stations of Alton, Yandalia, Hillsborough, and Belle- 
ville. In 1840 he was again returned effective, and ap- 
pointed to Belleville station, hut died INI arch 19 of that 
year. He was a minister of fine abilities, and every- 
where he. breathed the peaceful spirit of Christianity 
around him. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , iii. 
346. (,J. 1,. S.) 

Thompson, Thomas, a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born in Reaver County, Pa. ; awakened at a 
camp-meeting under the preaching of the Rev. William 
Swayze, admitted on trial in the Pittsburgh Conference 
in 1831, and appointed to Leesburg Circuit, lie labored 
as follows: Ccntrevillc, Mercer, Newcastle, Richmond, 
Salem, Lumberport, and Grandview. In 1813 he be- 
came a supernumerary, and iu 1848 a superannuate, 
lie died Feb. 13, 1851. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences, i v, 602. 

Thompson, William, an eminent English Wes- 
leyan preacher, was born in the county of Fermanagh, 


THOMPSON 


377 


Ireland, in 1733. lie was converted young, and in 1757 
he commenced his ministry among the Methodists. In 
1758 he went to England, and soon learned what kind 
of a work it was which he had undertaken. On one oc- 
casion, when Mr. Thompson was preaching, a mob, insti- 
gated by a minister of the Church of England, arose and 
carried him and the principal Methodists on board a 
transport which was ready to sail with a war-tleet, 
England then being engaged in w ar on t lie Continent. 
Through the exertions of lady Huntingdon, how ever, the 
government ordered their release. In 1 7 GO Thompson 
labored in Scotland, but with little success. After 1782 
he travelled some of the principal circuits in England. 
His last was Manchester. lie died at Birmingham, 
May 1, 1799. of a disease the seeds of which had been 
sown in 1764 by sleeping in a damp bed — an indiscre- 
tion which killed many of the early Methodist preachers. 
William Thompson was one of the men who piloted the 
bark of Methodism through the troublous waters after 
the death of the great helmsman, Wesley. He was a 
man of that calmness, sagacity, and statesmanlike cast 
of mind which were so much needed at that time, and 
which led to his election as president of the first Confer- 
ence (179L) after Wesley’s death, lie was one of the 
committee appointed to converse with Kilhara. With 
the endorsement of Benson, Bradburn, Hopper, and oth- 
ers, he sent out the Halifax Circular , w hieh marked out 
a basis for the preservation and government of the in- 
fant Church. Mather and Bawson consulted him on 
the state of the connection. lie arbitrated in regard to 
the settlement of the Bristol disputes in which Ben- 
son was embroiled; he approved Mather’s Lette r to the 
Preachers ; and he gave to Methodism its district meet- 
ings and Plan of Pacification. lie was one of the 
ablest speakers and closest reasoners in the British Con- 
ference. “Few r er traces,” says Bunting (in bis Life of 
bis father, Jabez. Bunting, eh. vi), “are to be found of 
him than of any of bis eminent contemporaries. My 
father used to speak of the old man’s gravity of speech, 
spirit, and demeanor, and of the. advantages he himself 
derived from his example and ministry.” See Atmore, 
eth. Memorial , s. v. ; Minutes of Annual Conferences , 
1799; Stevens, Hist, of Methodism , iii, 25, 33, 140: Me- 
moir of Entwisle, ch. iii; Smith, Hist, of IBes/. Meth- 
odism, vol. i, ii (see Index, vol. iii). 

Thompson, William J\, a clergyman of the Re- 
formed Church, and a classical teacher of high reputa- 
tion, was born at Beadington, N. J., March 8, 1812. He 
was the grandson of John Thompson, a Scotch immi- 
grant w ho was killed by the Indians near Williamsport, 
Ba. After graduating at Butgers College in 1834, he 
taught successfully at Millston, X. J., until 1838, when 
he began to pursue the usual course of instruction in 
the 'fheological Seminary of the Beformed Church, lie 
entered the ministry in 1841, and w r as settled over the 
churches of Bonds and Wyckoff, N. J., for three years 
(1842-45), when he accepted the position of rector of the 
Grammar-school of Butgers College, lie held this im- 
portant place eighteen years (1845-63), when he resign- 
ed and became principal of the Somerville Classical In- 
stitute. lie died in 1867. lie was a thorough student, 
scholar, and teacher. 1 1 is standard of education was 
high ; his drill incessant, exacting, and minute. He was 
never satisfied until his pupils had been made familiar 
with their subjects. He w’as also tutor in the classics in 
Rutgers College (1838-41), during bis seminary course. 
Hundreds of his students have passed successfully into 
the learned professions and other honorable callings. 
A paralysis of the right side, w hich afflicted him at four 
years of age, and during his whole life, interfered mate- 
rially with his pulpit efficiency, but did not affect his 
voice or mental powers. He was an enthusiastic teach- 
er, sometimes stern and severe in discipline, but al- 
ways conscientious, capable, and successful in dealing 
with intelligent scholars wdio wished to learn. His 
mind was clear and logically exact ; his knowledge was 
always at command. II is character was distinguished 


TIIOXDRACIAXS 

for unyielding uprightness and an honorable spirit; his 
attainments in the sacred languages and theology were 
large and accurate. As a preacher, lie was plain, with- 
out any ornamentation of style or force of delivery, but 
evangelical in doctrine and practical in his aims. See 
Corwin, Manual of the lief. Ch. p. 492. (W. J. B. T.) 

Thomson, Andrew, IU).,a Scotch Presbyterian 
minister, was born at Sanquhar, Dumfriesshire, Julv 11, 
1779, and educated at the University of Edinburgh, 
lie was pastor of the Church at Sprouston, Roxburgh- 
shire, from 1802 till 1808; afterwards of the East Church 
of Berth till 1810; subsequently of the New Grey 
Friars’ Church, Edinburgh ; and finally of St. George’s 
Church, until his death, Feb. 9, 1831. Dr. Thomson was 
a man of unconquerable zeal, untiring energy, and com- 
manding eloquence. He attacked the British ami For- 
eign Bible Society for circulating the Apocrypha with 
the Holy Scriptures. He opposed the abuses of lay 
patronage in the Church of Scotland, effectually de- 
nounced British colonial slavery and other evils, and 
did much to promote education, morality, and evangel- 
ical religion in Scotland. Dr. Chalmers says of him, 
“ II is was no ordinary championship ; and although the 
weapons of our spiritual warfare are the same in every 
hand, w r e all know that there w as none who wielded 
them more vigorously than lie did, or who, with such an 
arm of might, and voice of resistless energy, carried, as 
if by storm, the convictions of his people.” Among Dr. 
Thomson’s works are, Lectures, Expository and Practi- 
cal, on Select Portions of Scripture (Edinb. 1816, 2 vols. 
8vo) : — Sermons m In fidelity (\S2\ f 18mo; 1824, cr.8vo) : 
— Sermons on Hearing the Word (1825, l8mo) : — The 
Scripture History (Bristol, 182(5, 12mo) '.— The Script- 
ure History of the Kent Testament (Loud. 1827, B2mo): — 
Sermons on Various Subjects (Edinb. 1829, 8 vo): — Doc- 
trine of Universal Pardon , being Sermons with Notes 
(1830, 12mo). lie also published a number of Cate- 
chisms, educational and religious works for children. 
He originated and edited the Edinburgh Christian In- 
structor (1810 sq.), and contributed to the Edinburgh 
Encyclopaedia. After his death appeared his Sermons 
and Sacramental Exhortations, with Memoir prefixed 
(1831, 8vo; Boston, 1832, 12mo), See Chambers and 
Thompson, Biog. Diet, of Eminent Scotsmen. (W. B. S.) 

Thomson, Edward, D.D., a bishop of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born at Bortsea, England. 
Oct. 12, 1810, and, with his father’s family, came to 
America in 1818, settling, in 1820, in Wooster, O. He 
studied medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, re- 
ceiving his diploma when nineteen years of age, and 
commenced his practice. In December, 1831, he w r as 
converted, and, although brought up a Baptist, entered 
the Methodist Episcopal Church, and was admitted into 
the Annual Conference in 1832. After filling appoint- 
ments in Norwalk, Sandusky City, Cincinnati, and Woos- 
ter, he was transferred to the Michigan Conference, 
and stationed at Detroit. From 1838 to 1843 he had 
charge of the Norwalk Seminary; in 1844 he was elected 
editor of the Ladies' Depository ; in 1846 president of 
the Ohio Wesleyan University, where he remained till 
18G0, w hen he was elected editor of the N. Y. Christian 
Advocate and Journal. In 1864 he was elected to the 
office of bishop, in which capacit} T he made his first offi- 
cial visit to India. He died of pneumonia at Wheeling, 
W. Ya., March 22, 1870. His published works are, Ed- 
ucational Essays (new ed. by 1). W. Clark, D.D., Cincin- 
nati, 1856, 12mo) -.—Letters from Europe: — Moral and 
Religious Essays: — Biographical and incidental Sketch- 
es. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer . A ut hors, s. v. ; 
Simpson, Cyclop, of Methodism, s. v. 

Thondracians, an Armenian sect, founded by Sem- 
bat about A.D. 840, and taking its name from Thon- 
drac, w'here be established himself. A Paulician by 
birth and education, he formed the acquaintance of 
Medshusic, a Persian physician and astronomer, whose 
influence led him to attempt a combination of I’arseeisrn 


37S 


TIIOR 


TIIOR 

and Christianity. This sect, though meeting with no | 
favor from the bishops, continually revived, and spread 
widely in Armenia. At one time in particular, about i 
A. I). 10(12, it made the most alarming progress, when it | 
was joined by bishop Jacob, spiritual head of the prov- 
ince of Ilarkh. lie was noted lor the austerity of his 
life, and both he ami his followers denounced the false 
confidence which was placed in masses, oblations, alms, 
ami Church prayers; and he declared himself opposed to 
the animal sacritice in the Armenian Church, lie was 
taken by the catholieos, branded with the heretical 
mark, proclaimed a heretic, thrown into a dungeon, from 
which he escaped, but was finally killed. Alanv of the 
reports respecting the doctrines and morals of the Thon- 
dracians, coming as they do from their enemies, are 
doubtless false, or at least exaggerated. See Neandor, 
Hist, of the Christ. Church, iii, st], 

Thor, the god of thunder, in Northern mythology, 
was. next to Odin, the highest and most feared of the 
gods. II is parents were Odin and Friggn. Nis wives 
were the beautiful gold -haired Sif, by whom lie had 
two sons, Loride and Mode ; and t lie Jotes maiden Jarn- 
saxa. a giantess of such beauty that Thor, although a 
sworn enemy of the Jotes, could not refrain from mak- 
ing her his wife. She bore him his favorite son Magni, 
who was most like his father in courage ami strength. 
Terrible is the flight of Thor through the heavens, roll- 
ing, thundering behind the clouds. Still more terrible is 
he when lie has buckled his girdle Megingjardar about 
him, which gives him double strength. Thus ready, 
grasping with his iron gloves the hammer Mjblnir, he 
appears as an annibilator among the enemies of the gods. 
Thor's kingdom is called Thrudvangr ; and the palace in 
his realm, Bilskirnir, is the largest that was ever built, 
and contains live hundred and forty halls. There is no 
one so wise as to he able to state all of Thor’s deeds, 
and a day would be too short to mention them all. The 
most remarkable, however, are the following: In com- 
pany with his two bucks and the evil Loki, he made a 
journey. Towards evening they came to a certain man 
whom they asked for a night’s lodging. Here Thor 
killed his bucks and ordered them to he fried, and then 
invited his host and family to partake of the repast, 
warning them, however, not to devour the bones, hut to 
place them on the spread-out hides of the bucks, Be- 
fore start ing farther on his journey the following morn- 
ing. Thor bewitched the hides with his mighty ham- 
mer, ami the bucks immediately came to life, fresh and 
young, with the exception that one of them limped, be- 
cause Thialti, the host’s son, had broken the hone of 
his foot in order to get at the marrow. Now Thor, en- 
raged, threatened to kill the whole family; but he al- 
lowed himself to he pacified, when t lie father offered 
him both his children, Thialti and Koskva, as servants, 
whom Thor carried away on his journey. They lodged 
in the iron glove of the giant lTtgartsloki, who accom- 
panied Thor under the false name of Skirner, and 
sought to dissuade Thor from journeying towards his 
O’rgartslokiV) castle. This, however, was useless, and 
ihe trilling hindrances with which l tgartsloki sought 
to obstruct his path — for example, tying together his 
cloak-sack, in which the provisions were kept — made 
Thor the more zealous. Thor attempted, at three dif- 
ferent times, to break the giant’s forehead, but without 
success. Finally they separated, and Thor continued 
his journey with his bucks and servants. About noon 
he noticed, in a large plain, a castle which was so high 
that it was impossible for Thor to look over it. The 
travellers arrived at a garden gate; and as Thor found 
it locked and was unable to open it, they managed to 
get through the space between the bars. Inside they 
found a spacious hall, in which there were seated upon 
two benches a great number of giants. King I Tgartslo- 
ki, distinguished by his height and dignity, sat in the 
centre, hut he did not even seem to notice the strangers, 
who saluted him. He only remarked, “ This small fel- 
low, I think, is Aukathor. Perhaps you are greater than 


you appear? What skilful things can you perform? 
In this place no one is permitted to remain who does not 
distinguish himself in some art or science.” Loki an- 
swered him that he thought himself to be a great eater, 
and did not belie v£ any one was able to cope with him. 

•* We shall see immediately,” said the king, and ordered 
one named Logi, who sat upon the bench, to try an 
eating- match with Loki. Thereupon a large trough 
filled with meat was placed on the ground. At one 
end of the trough sat Logi, at the other end Loki; and 
as the former had eaten nothing for quite a while, he 
devoured very much. Hut although Loki ate all the 
meat, Logi, besides having eaten his half, devoured the 
bones also. All were agreed that Loki had failed in 
the attempt. “What is that, young man able to do?” 
t lie king inquired further. Thialti answered he would 
try a walking-match with whomsoever l T tgartsloki de- 
sired. The king went out and called a young man 
named llitgi to try a running- match, pointed out a 
track, and fixed the limit. Hut llugi was ahead in 
three successive rounds. The king admitted, however, 
that of all previous racers, none could have beaten 
Thialti. Then the king asked Thor what he was able 
to do, as he had a great name among the Asas. Thor 
answered that he would try his skill in drinking. Then 
the king brought a large horn, and said, “It requires 
great skill to empty this horn in one drink; some have 
accomplished it in two, yet none have been so unskilful 
as not to be able to empty it in three draughts.” Thor 
put the horn to his lips three times: but when he look- 
ed into the horn, he saw that the water had hardly di- 
minished in quantity. Thor gave it up, and said he 
did not wish to attempt it any longer. Thereupon the 
king said, “Now it is evident that your power and 
skill are not so great as we supposed, and you will re- 
ceive very little praise should you, in other attempts, 
be again unsuccessful.” Thor answered that he was 
willing to attempt something else, and it surprised him 
much that what he had done was looked upon as a small 
affair. lTtgartsloki proposed that he should lift a eat 
from the ground, a feat- which the smallest boy could 
perform, and the king added that he should never have 
proposed this to Thor were he not persuaded that Thor 
was by no means the mighty king he had been repre- 
sented. A large gray eat was then brought forth, which 
Thor held around the body and attempted to lift from 
the ground, lhit the more he raised the eat from the 
1 ground, the more she would curve her hack ; and. after 
having exerted himself as much as possible, he found 
that only one of the cat's forepaws had been lifted 
from the ground. “Just as I expected.” said the king; 
j “the cat is large, and Thor is much behind those who 
l have tried to lift her before.” “If 1 am small,” an- 
[ swered Thor, “ I challenge each of you to a prize-fight, 
because now, as I am angry, 1 feel my entire strength 
has returned to me.” Upon this, Utgartsloki said, 
“There is no one here who would not consider it child’s 
play to light with you; however, call in my old nurse, 
wlm has fought with more men before; she will prob- 
ably be his match.” The king’s nurse, Elle, came, 
and, however much Thor exerted himself, he was not 
strong enough to move her one inch ; and when she ap- 
plied her strength, Thor fell on his knee, until the king 
separated them. After very hospitable treatment and 
a good night’s rest, the strangers left the castle, much 
chagrined. But when they were outside the door, the 
king said, “Now von are out of the castle, to which, 
as long as 1 have strength, you shall never again he 
admitted, and into which you would not have entered 
had F known Thor’s strength. Know now that all 
that has occurred was done through witchery. At first 
I mot you in the forest under the name of Skirner; 
there I fastened your provision - bag with iron cords, 
so that you were unable to untie them; then you 
struck at me thrice with your hammer, and the force 
with which you struck at me may be seen in the val- 
leys hewn out of the hard rocks which, unseen, I had 


THORN 


370 


THORN 


placed between yon and me. When you subsequently 
came to my castle and made your attempts, T selected 
a man to eat who certainly could eat more than any 
other man, because Logi is a consuming tire that de- 
vours wood and bones and everything. Thialfi ran 
with no one but my thoughts, and it is easy to con- 
ceive how these reached the limit before him. But 
you have accomplished something supernatural, be- 
cause the horn winch you attempted to empty was at 
one end sunk in the ocean, and you took such im- 
mense draughts of water that the ocean for a great dis- 
tance became dry, which is now called ebb. The cat 
which you lifted from the ground was the Midgard’s 
Serpent, and you were so strong as to lift her so high 
from the earth that only her head and tail were visi- 
ble. Finally, the old nurse with whom you wrestled 
was Old Age itself, and honor be to that man who 
flinches from decrepit old age no more than you. Now, 
farewell. Although t have numerous stratagems re- 
maining to shield my castle, still I hold it advisable that 
you and I should meet no more.” Thor, very wroth to 
see himself thus fooled, grasped his hammer to strike, 
but immediately Utgartsloki and the castle became in- 
visible, and afterwards they saw each other a great dis- 
tance apart on the great plain. To seek revenge at 
least upon the Midgard’s Serpent, Thor sailed shortly 
afterwards upon the oeean with the giant Ymer. and 
went out so far that the giant became afraid. Then he 
threw the head of a large ox, attached to a strong rope, 
into the water, which the Serpent seized upon. When 
she felt herself wounded, she started back with such 
force that Thor's hands, holding the line, struck against 
the ship. lie then applied his entire strength, and 
placed his font so firmly upon the bottom of the boat 
that it went through, and he stood upon the bottom of 
the ocean. The giant was very much frightened when 
Thor drew up the Serpent by the line, and gazed at 
her with his fiery eyes, as she aimed a stream of poi- 
son at him. Then Thor raised his hammer, but, be- 
fore he could strike, Ymer had cut the line, and the 
Serpent fell back into the water. Thor then threw the 
giant head-foremost into the ocean, so that his feet ap- 
peared above the water. He then waded ashore. An- 
other deed was done by Thor under Gejwdd and Tlrng- 
ner. The Wends also worshipped Thor as one of the 
highest gods. They ereet.ed to him numerous monu- 
ments, cut from a willow-tree, which was to represent 
the face of the god without any form. A platform 
built about the monument was used as an altar to wor- 
ship upon. — Volltner, Worterb. d. }fythol. s. v. 

Thorn is the rendering, in many passages of the 
A. V., of eleven different Hebrew words and two (accu- 
rately only of one) Greek words; but, as we will see 
below, there are no less than twenty - two words in 
the original languages of the Bible variously translated 
“thorn,” “thistle,” “ brier,” etc., and signifying thorny 
and prickly plants. Some of these, however, are prob- 
ably so interpreted only because they are unknown, and 
may merely denote insignificant shrubs. We have else- 
where treated most of these in detail, and we therefore 
briefly recapitulate them below alphabetically, though 
w r e can hardly hope to throw much additional light 
upon what has already bafiled so man} 7 inquirers. The 
difficulty of identifying them does not arise from any 
deficiency of thorny plants to which the Biblical names 
might be applied, but from the want of good reasons for 
selecting one plant more than another; for. as Celsius 
has said, “ Fuerunt in Judaea hand pauea loea a spinis 
divcrsorum generum denoniinata, quod esset haec terra 
non tantum lacte et melle Jiuens, sed herbis quoque inu- 
tilibus, et spinis multifariis passim infestata.” As exam- 
ples, we may mention the genera of which some of the 
species are thorny, such as Aeacia, Astragalus, Aean- 
thodium, Alhagi, Fagonia, Tribulus, Berberis, Brunus, 
Rubus, Crata?gus, Solanum, Carduus, Cnieus, Onopordon, 
Ervngium, Rhananus, Zizyphus; and of species which 
are named from thiseharacteristic, Anabasis spinosissima, 


Baliurus aeuleatus, Ruseus aeuleatus, Forskalea tenacis- 
sima, Aristida pungens, Salsola echinus, Echiuops spino- 
sus, Bunias spinosa, Lycium spinosum, Boterium spitio- 
sum, Atraphaxis spinosa, Brenantlies spinosa, Ononis 
spinosa, Smilax asper, Spartium spinosum, Zizyphus 
Spina Christi. See Botany. 

In the morphology of plants it is now recognised 
that thorns are abortive or undeveloped branches, and 
in many cases under cultivation thorns become true 
branches. A spine or thorn, of which we have exam- 
ples in the hawthorn and the sloe, must he distinguish- 
ed from the prickles (aculei) which belong to the in- 
tegumentary system of the plant, and which are really 
hardened hairs. Of these last we have examples in the 
bramble and tlie rose, and in the animal economy we 
have something analogous in the spines of the hedge- 
hog and the quills of the porcupine. “May we not see 
in the production of injurious thorns — an arrestment by 
the fiat of the Almighty in the formation of branches, 
and thus a blight passed on this part of creation — a 
standing memorial of the effects of sin on what was de- 
clared at first to be very good? It is remarkable to no- 
tice that when Christ became a curse for his people, the 
Jews mocked him by putting on him a crown of thorns, 
and thus what was an indication of the fall of man was 
used by them to insult the seed of the woman who came 
to bruise the head of the serpent. The removal of the 
curse from creation, which is now groaning and travail- 
ing in pain, is frequently set forth bv illustrations taken 
from the disappearance of briers and thorns (Isa.lv, 13; 
Ezek. xxviii, 24)” (Balfour, Bot. and ReJiy. p. 1 1 0— 115). 

Dr. Thomson (Land and Book, i, 81) illustrates Isa. 
xxxiii, 12, “The people shall be as the burning of lime, 
as thorns cut up shall they be burned in the fire,” by the 
following observation; “Those people yonder are cut- 
ting up thorns with their mattocks and priming-hooks, 
and gathering them into bundles to be burned in these 
burnings of lime. It is a curious fidelity to real life 
that when the thorns are merely to be destroyed they 
are never cut up, hut set on fire where they grow. 
They are cut up only for the lime-kiln” (see also ibid, i, 
527 sq. for other scriptural allusions). 

1. Akantha (uKarSa') occurs in Matt, vii, 1G; xiii, 
7, 22; xxvii, 27; and also in the parallel passages of 
Mark and Luke, and as forming the crown of thorns, in 
John xix, 2, 5. The word is used in as general a sense 
as “thorn” is with us, and therefore it would be incor- 
rect to confine it to any one species of plant in all 
the above passages, though, no doubt, some particular 
thorny plant indigenous in the neighborhood of Jerusa- 
lem would be selected for plaiting the crown of thorns. 
Hasselquist says of the Xabca Pa liurus A theiuei of Al- 
pinus, now Zizyphus Spina Christi , “In all probability, 
this is the tree which afforded the crown of thorns put 
upon the head of Christ. It is very common in the 
East. This plant is very fit for the purpose, for it has 
many small and sharp spines, which are well adapted to 
give pain: the crown might easily be made of these 
soft, round, and pliant branches; and what, in my opin- 
ion, seems to be the greater proof is that the leaves verv 
much resemble those of ivy, as they are of a very deep 
glossy green. Berhaps the enemies of Christ would 
have a plant somewhat resembling that with which 
emperors and generals were crowned, that there might 
be a calumny even in the punishment.” This plant is 
the nebk or dhom of the Arabs, which grows abundantly 
in Syria and Balestine, both in wet and dry places. Dr. 
Hooker noticed a specimen nearly forty feet high, spread- 
ing as widely as a good Quercus ilex in England. The 
nebk fringes the banks of the Jordan, and flourishes on 
the marshy banks of the Lake of Tiberias; it forms 
either a shrub or a tree, and, indeed, is quite common 
all over t lie country. It grows to the height of six feet 
or more, and yields a slightly acid fruit, about the size 
of the sloe, which is eaten by the Egyptians and Arabs. 
Like its cognate, Baliurus, it abounds in flexible twigs, 
which are armed with a profusion of sharp, strong 


T1I0RX 


380 


TIIORX 



prickles, growing in pairs, t lie one straight, the other 
somewhat recurved (Tristram. Nat. Hist, of the Bible. 
p. 4*21)). Some, however, have lixed upon Paliurus 
ueuleatns, and others upon Lycinm horridum. as the 
plant which furnished the thorny wreath in question. 
See Crown or Thorns. 

2. Ataii (“ILIX; Sept.?/ pctpvoQ; Yu\g. rhamnus') oc- 
curs as a proper name in Gen. 1, 10, 11 : ‘‘the threshing- 
door of Atad." See Ataii. In the fable in Judg. ix, 
11, 15, the atdd. or “ bramble,” is called to reign over 
the trees. From l’sa. lviii, 0 it is evident that t lie atdd 
was employed for fuel: " Befure your pots can feel the 
thorns." Atdd is so similar to the Arabic uusuj that it 
has generally been considered to mean t lie same plant, 
namely, a species of buckthorn. This is confirmed by 
atadmi being one of the synonyms of rhamnus, as given 
in the supplements to Dioscorides. A species of rha ta- 
ints is described both by Belon and by Kauwolf as being 
common in Palestine, and by the latter as found espe- 
cially in the neighborhood of Jerusalem. It has been 
described by Alpinus as having an abundance of long 
branches, on which are found many long and very 
sharp thorns. So Kauwolf, “It puts fort li long, slen- 
der, crooked switches, on which there are a great many 
long, strong, and acute thorns.” This has been sup- 
posed by some to be the above-mentioned true Christ's 
thorn, Phammis, now Zizyphus Bpinn Ch risti ; but bv 
others the plant in question is supposed to be Lycinm 
Enropavni. or L. afruni (box-thorn), both of which 
species occur in Palestine (see Strand, Elor. Pattest. 
Xos. 12-1. 125). Dioscorides ( Comm . i, llfi) thus speaks 
of the pa ft rot;: “I'he rhamnus, which some call jterse- 
phonion , others hvcacanthn. the Komans white-thorn, 
or cerbulis. and tin* Carthaginians atadin. is a shrub 
which grows around hedges; it has erect branches with 
sharp spines, like the o.ryacantha (hawthorn ?), but with 
small, oblong, thick, soft leaves.” Dioscorides mentions 
three kinds of rhamnus. two of which are identified by 
Sprengel. in his Com meat ary, with the two species of 
Lycinm mentioned above. In his Hist. Pci Herb., how- 
ever, he refers the pdpvoc to the Zizyphus vn) garis. See 
Delon. Observations de Plus. Stay, etc., II, lxxviii : Kau- 
wolf, Travels, III, viii ; Alpinus, l)c Plant. .Egypt, p. 21 ; 
Celsius. J/ierob. i. 1 0D. 

Lycinm Enropaum is a native of the south of Europe 
and the north of Africa; in the Grecian islands it is 
common in hedges ( English Cyclop, s. v. “ Lyeium see 
also the passages in Belon and Kauwolf cited above). 



3. B uikan only in the plur. ; Sept. B«picnr- 

vlp) occurs in Judg. viii, 7, lfi, where Gideon is de- 
scribed as saying, “Then I will tear your tlcsh with the 
thorns (kozini) of the wilderness, and with briers (barka- 
?«/«).” There is no reason for believing that briers, as 
applied to a rose or bramble, is the correct meaning; 
but there is nothing to lead us to select any one prefer- 
ably from among the numerous thorny and prickly 
plants of Syria as the burktnnni of Scripture, Kosen- 
miiller. however, says that this word signifies “a Hail,” 
and has no reference to thorny plants. It probably de- 
notes the sharp stones set in t lie bottom of the Oriental 
threshing-sledge. See Brier. 

4. Batos (?) B citoc. “bramble bush,” Luke vi, 44; 
elsewhere simply “bush"). See Bench , below. 

5. Boshaii (!TwX 2, literally stink-weed, from -XI 
to stink, hence to be worthless ,* Sept, fidroc; Ynlg. 
spina , and so the Targ.. Syr., and Arab. ; A. V. “cockle”) 
is the name of a plant or weed of a worthless or noxious 
kind (Job xxxi, 40), From the connection in which it. 
is introduced, it is probable that some particular and 
well-known herb is intended; it answers to “thorns” 

I ( chdiich ) in the parallel member. Fiirst pronounces it a 
useless, noxious, and spinosc herb of the cockle or darnel 
; species. Celsius (Hierob. ii. 201) makes it a poisonous 
plant, the bish of the Arabic writers, a species of aconite. 
Lee {Lex. s, v.) suggests hemlock as the probable syno- 
nym. Zunz gives lo/ch. and Kenan (Litre de Job, ad 
loc.) ivraie. Tristram remarks (A "at. Hist, of the Bible, 
i p. 430), “There is a shrub which attacks corn, and has a 
putrid smell (Credo fat id a). Some of the arums of 
the corn plains have an intolerably foetid stench, and 
may well suit t he derivation of the word. The stink- 
ing arums are common in Galilee.” See Cockle. 

0. Cii auCl (b-T-n, from an obsolete root 5 “in, which 
Gcsenius thinks = “Vj7> *° but Fiirst thinks = 

T~n, in the sense of pricking , and he compares the 
Phoenician xtpftdv, Dioseor. iii, 21; also the vul- 

I gar Ileb. blip, mustard, from its smarting taste), a 
prieklv shrub (A. V. “ nettles,” Job xxx, 7 ; Trov. xxiv, 


TIIORN 


381 


THORN 



31 ; Zeph. ii, 9), perhaps a kind of thistle. Tristram 
remarks (A r at. Hist, of the Bible, p. 475), “The chanil 
would appear to be different from the ordinary nettle. 
since in Prov. xxiv, 31 it is mentioned along with it. 
It cannot be a shrub like the Zizvphtts or the Pali unis, 
because it is evidently spoken of by Solomon as a plant 
of quick growth in the corn-fields. It must have been 
of some size, from the passage in Job, where the out- 
casts shelter under it. I am inclined to believe that it 
designates the prickly acanthus (Acanthus sjnnosa), a 
very common and troublesome weed in the plains of 
Palestine, and equally abundant among ruins. We have 
often seen it in the plain of Esdraelon choking the corn, 
and reaching to the height of six feet. Its sting is 
most irritating and unpleasant, and well supports the 
derivation of the Ileb. word, ‘ that which burns.’” See 
Nettle. 

7. Ciiepek (p^H; Sept. itKavSa, <t//£ ttcrpibyiov", 
Vulg. spina , palinrus ) occurs in Prov. xv, 19, “The 
way of the slothful is as a hedge of chcdek (A. V". 
‘thorns’),” and in Mic. vii, 4, where the A. V. has 
“brier.” The Alexand. MS., in the former passage, in- 
terprets the meaning thus, “ The ways of the slothful 
are strewed with thorns.” Celsius (Hie rob. ii, 35), re- 
ferring the lleb. term to the Arabic chadak , is of opin- 
ion that some spinous species of the solatium is intend- 
ed. The Arabic term clearly denotes some species of 
this genus, either the B. melonrjela, var. esculentum , or 
the B. Sodomettm (“apple of Sodom”). See Vine of 
Sodom. Both these kinds are beset with prickles, and 
some species of solatium grow’ to a considerable size. 
They are very common in dry arid situations. S. sanc- 
tum, the B. spinosnm of others, is found in Palestine. 
Dr. Harris is of opinion that chcdek is the Colutea spino- 
sa of Pbrskal, which is called heddad in Arabic, and of 
which there is an engraving in Bussell's A T at. Hist, of 
A leppo, tab. 5. See Brier. 

8. Ciioacii (rnn; Sept, dtzav, atcavSra, aK\ov\, 
Kiddtj; Vulg. paliurus, lappa, spina, tribulus'), a word 
of very uncertain meaning w hich occurs in the sense 
of some thorny plant, is rendered “thickets” in 1 Sam. 
xiii, 6 ; “ brambles” in Isa. xxxiv, 13 ; but usually either 
“thistle,” as in *2 Kings xiv, 9; 2 Chron. xxv, 18 (in 
both which passages it is spoken of as growing on Leb- 
anon ) ; Job xxi, 40 (“Let thistles grow r instead of 
wheat,” which shows that it w r as some rapidly matur- 
ing plant); or “thorns,” as in 2 Chron. xxxiii, 1 1 ; Job 


xli, 2 (which shows.it had a hard spine); Prov. xxvi, 
9; Cant, ii, 2; llos. ix, (5. Celsius (Hie rob. i, 477) be- 
lieves, from the similarity of the Arabic khosh, that the 
blackthorn (Primus sylvestris) is denoted; but this 
would not suit the passage in Job, as it is a slow-grow- 
ing tree. Perhaps the term is used in a wide sense to 
signify any thorny plant of quick growth in some fields 
and meadows. There are two classes of thorny wheels 
which choke the corn-fields of Palestine, the thistles 
and the centaureas or knapweeds. These last are chief- 
ly of two kinds, both commonly called star-thistle, name- 
ly, the Centaurea calcitrapa, w’hich is the most frequent 
and troublesome intruder in both cultivated and neglect- 
ed fields in Palestine, aiul the C. verutum , which is even 
more formidable. See Thistle. • 



9. Dardar ptntT) oceurs in Gen. iii, 18, “Thorns 
also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee;” and again 
in llos. x, 8, in both of which passages dardar is con- 
joined with kots. The rabbins describe it as a thorny 
plant which they also call accobita . The akktib of the 
Arabs is a thistle or wfild artichoke. The Sept, and 
Vulg., however, render dardar by the word rpifioAoc, 
tribulus, a caltrop, in both passages, and this will answer 
as well as any other thorny or prickly plant. See Tri- 
bolos, below. 

10. Kimosii (w“. -“JT) or kimmush (w*l£p) occurs in 
Isa. xxxiv, 13; llos. ix, 0, in both which passages it 
is spoken of as occupying deserted and ruined sites, ami 
is translated “ nettles.” Another form of the w r ord, kim- 
mashon (‘j'w'Sp), occurs in Prov. xxiv, 31, where it is 
used in connection wfith chart'd as descriptive of the neg- 
lected field of the sluggard, and is translated “thorns.” 
“All commentators agree that this is the sting-nettle 
(urtica), of which there are several varieties in Pales- 
tine. fhe most common is Urtica pilulifera, a tall and 
vigorous plant, often six feet high, the sting of which is 
much more severe and irritating than our common net- 
tle. It particularly affects old ruins, as near Tell Hum, 
Beisan, and the ruined khan by the bridge over the Jor- 
dan, and forms a most annoying obstacle to the explorer 
who wishes to investigate old remains” (Tristram, A \it. 
Hist, of the Bible, p.474). The ordinary nettle is a 
well-known w ild plant, the leaves of which are armed 
with stings, connected with a small bag of poison ; and 
wdien the leaves are slightly pressed by the hand, the 
stings penetrate the flesh, force in the poisou, and pro- 


TIIOlvX 


382 


THORN 


d nee a swelling with a sharp burning pain. The leaf, 
when wet or dead, does not possess this power. The 
presence of nettles betokens a waste and neglected soil. 
See Nettle. 

11. Ivors ("("‘P) occurs in several passages of Script- 
ure (Exod. xxii, d; Judg. viii,*7, 10; 2 Sam. xxiii. 0; 
I J sa. cxviii. 12: Isa. xxxii, 13; xxxiii. 12; Jer. iv. 3; 
xii. 13; Ezek. xxviii, 24; A. V. invariably “ thorns”) ; 
in two (tlen. iii, IS; 11 os. x. 8) it is mentioned along 
with dartbir, where the two words may be considered 
equivalent, respectively, to the English thorns and this- 
tles. The Sept, translates it in all the passages by 
and it probably was used in a general sense to 
denote plants which were thorny, useless, and indicative 
of neglected culture or deserted habitations, growing 
naturnllv in desert situations, and useful only for fuel. 
But if any particular plant be meant, the Ononis spitto- 
sd, or “ rest-harrow.” mentioned by Ilasselquist (p. 280), 
may be selected as fully characteristic: “ Spinosissitna 
ilia et pernieiosa planta, campus integros tegitiEgypti 
et Palestine. Non dubitandum quin bane indicaverint 
in aliquo loco scriptores sacri.” 



12. NaatsCts occurs only in two passages 

of Isaiah, in both of which it is translated “thorn” in 
the A. V. Tims (vii, 18, 10 ), “ Jehovah shall hiss for 
the fly that is in the uttermost part of the rivers of 
Egypt, and lor the bee that is in the laud of Assyria; 
and they shall come, and shall rest all of them in the 
desolate valleys, and in the holes of the rocks, and upon 
all the thorns" {naatsntsim ; Sept, gay etc ; Yulg^/W/fe- 
tum). By some this has been translated erf rices; but 
that it is a plant of some kind is evident from lv, 13: 
“Instead of the thorn (naatsiits ; Sept, (jroifii) : Ynlg. 
saliuuca) shall come up the lir-tree, and instead of the 
brier shall come up the myrtle-tree.” Some have un- 
derstood it generally as thorn, shrub, thorny shrub, small 
tree, or thicket. Others have attempted to detine it 
specifically, rendering it bramble, white-thorn, etc. (Cel- 
sius, l lie rob. ii, 1HO): but nothing certain has been de- 
termined respecting it. Celsius endeavors to trace ii to 
the same origin as the Arabic naaz , which he states to 
he the name of a plant of which the bark is employed 
in tanning leather. The meaning of the term, he con- 
tinues. in Chaldee, is infigere , tbjigere , “to stick into” or 
“fix,” and it is therefore supposed to refer to a prickly 
or thorny plant. B. ben-Melech says that commenta- 


tors explain naatsiits by the Arabic word sidr, which 
is the name of a well-known thorny bush of Eastern 
countries, a species of Xizyphus. This. Sprengcl says, is 
the Z. vnhjaris . found in many parts of Palestine, as well 
as in many of the uncultivated tracts of other Eastern 
countries. Others suppose the species to be the uabak 
of the Arabs, which is t lie Zizy phus lotus, and considered 
to he the lotus of the ancients. But from the context it 
would appear that the plant, if a zizyphus, must have 
been a less highly esteemed variety or species. But in 
a w ild state these are very abundant, bushy, prickly, 
and ol little value. Belou says, “Les haves, pour la 
plus part, sont de tamarisques, (enoplia (i. e. zizy phi 
species) et rhamnes.” In Frey tag’s A rabic Lexicon the 
above Arabic word naaz is said to be the name of a 
thorny tree, common in the Ilejnz, the bark of which 
is used in tanning hides, and from whose wood a denti- 
frice is prepared. This might be a species of acacia, of 
which many species are well known to be abundant in 
the dry and barren parts of Syria, Arabia, and Egypt. 

13. Sarah (^“D) occurs (in the plur.) only once 
(Ezek. ii, ft) as a synonym of salldn , and is thought by 
many (the rabbins Castell, Burst, etc.) to denote a 
thorny plant (A. V. “brier”), as cognate with sir; but 
Celsius (llierob. ii. 222) contends that it simply means 
rebels (from the Chald. to resist). 

14. Sek (T\~, literally a thorn-hedge , so called from 
the interlacing of the briers) occurs only once (in the 
plur.) as a synonym of tsin for a prickly object in gen- 
eral (Numb, xxxiii, 55; Sept. <yKo\o7rfg ; Yulg. ciari ; 
A.Y. “pricks”). It occurs in the feminine plur. form 
sakkotli (riZiT) in Job xli, 7, where it is translated 
“barbed irons.” Its resemblance to the Arabic sit ok. 
thorn, sufficiently indicates the probability of its mean- 
ing something of the same kind. 

15. Skxeii (n:p) occurs in the well-known passage 
of Exod. iii. 2, w here the angel of the Lord appeared 
unto Moses in a flaming fire out of the midst of a “bush” 
{sen eh), and the bush was not consumed. It occurs also 
in ver. 3 and 4, and in Deut. xxxiii, 10, but with refer- 
ence to the same event. The Sept, translates sen eh by 
fidrnc, which usually signifies the mbits , or bramble ; so 
in the New' Test, fid-rot; is employed when referring to 
the above miracle of the burning bush. Bdrog is like- 
wise used to denote the sen eh by Josephus. Philo. Cle- 
mens, Eusebius, and others (see Celsius, IJierob. ii. 58). 
The monks of the monastery of St. Catherine on Mount 
Sinai have a species of rubus planted in their garden 
near their Chapel of the Burning Bush; but this can- 
not be considered as any proof of its identity with the 
smelt from the little attention which they have usual- 
ly paid to correctness in such points. Bovc says of it, 
“C’est tme espcce de liubus. qui est voisin de notre Ii. 
fruticosus.” The species of rubus (our blackberry ) are 
not common either in Syria or Arabia. Hit bus sanctus, 
the holy bramble, is found in Palestine, and is mention- 
ed by Dr. Bussell as existing in the neighborhood of 
Aleppo, and Ilasselquist found a rubus among the. ruins 
of Scanderctta, and another in the neighborhood of 
Seide. It is also found among the ruins of Petra (?) 
(Calcott). Celsius and others quote Hebrew' authors 
as stating that Mount Sinai obtained its name from the 
abundance of these hushes (setteh), “Dictus est mous 
Sinai de nomine ejus.” But no species of rubus seems 
to have been discovered in a wild state on this moun- 
tain. This was observed bv Bococke. lie found, how- 
ever, on Mount lloreb several hawthorn bushes, and 
says that the holy bush was more likely to have been a 
hawthorn than a bramble, and that this must have been 
the spot where the phenomenon was observed, being a 
sequestered place and a Hording excellent pasture, where- 
as near the Chapel of the Holy Bush not a single herb 
grows. Shaw states that the Oxyacantha A rttbica grows 
in many places on St. Cat lierine’s Mountain. Bove says, 
on ascending Mount Sinai: “J’ai trouve entre les ro- 


TIIORN 


383 


THORN 



Acacia surrounded by a Brier Bush in Wady Saal, near 
Sinai. (From a photograph by the Editor.) 


chers de granit un mespilus voisin de l’oxyacantha.” Dr. 
Robinson tnentions it as called zarur, but it is evident 
that we cannot have anything like proof in favor of 
either plant. Tristram remarks (Xut. Hist, of the Bible, 
p. 438), “The seneh denotes some particular kind of 
bush, and appears to be equivalent to the Egyptian 
senh, the Acacia Xilotica , very like the Acacia sepal, or 
shittah tree, but smaller and closer in growth. The 
A. Xilotica is common in the Peninsula of Sinai, which 
mountain is by some conjectured to have derived its 
name from the seneh bush.” But as there is no ety- 
mological connection between the Arabic sunt (which 
is the same as shittah [q. v.]) and the seneh, and as the 
latter is a distinctive term, the basis of the identifica- 
tion of the latter with the acacia entirely fails, especial- 
ly as the Sept, so constantly understands the burning 
bush to have been a bramble-like plant ; moreover, had 
it been the well-known tree that yielded the shittim 
wood, we can see no reason for the use of a peculiar or 
different term to designate it. It was evidently not a 
tree at all, but a low bush, probably one of the many 
species of annual thorny plants still abounding on the 
mountain, and which, growing in the rainy season, re- 
main dry and bare during the summer, lienee the 
surprise of Moses that the highly combustible object 
was not consumed. The writer was struck with the 
habit of his native guide on Mount Sinai, who constant- 
ly set tire to these bushes as he met them. See Brsii. 

Iff. Shamir ("P*2*j) occurs in all the same passages 
as the next word, sliuyith , below, with the addition also 
of Isa. xxxii, 13 : “ Upon the land of my people shall 
come up thorns (kotsvn) and briers ” (shamir). It is 
variously rendered by the Sept., ^paoQ, \dproQ. hippie. 
aypojGTa;, Ki]pct. According to Ahu'lfadl, cited by Cel- 
sius ( ffierob . ii, 188), “the samiir of the Arabs is a 
thorny tree; it is a species of Sidra which does not 
produce fruit.” No thorny plants are more conspicu- 
ous in Palestine and the Bible lands than different 
kinds of Rhamnacece. The Arabs have the terms Su- 
lam, Sidra, Dhdl, Xabka, which appear to denote either 
varieties or different species of Paliurus and Zizyphus, 



or different states, perhaps, of the same tree; but it is 
a difficult matter to assign to each its particular signi- 
fication. I)r. Tristram states that “ the Arabs of the dor- 
dan valley confine the name sannir to the Paliurus acn - 
leatus, or Christ’s Thorn” (Xat. Jiist. of the Bible, p. 428). 

17. SiiAvrm occurs in several passages of 

Isaiah (v, 6; vii, 23, 24, 25; ix, 18; x, 17 ; xxvii, 4), in 
all of which it is associated with shamir, the two being 
translated thorns and briers in the A. Y. From the 
context of all the passages, it is evident that some weed- 
like plants are intended, either of a thorny or prickly 
nature, or such as spring up in neglected cultures and 
are signs of desolation, and which are occasionally em- 
ployed for fuel. Nothing has, however, heen ascertain- 
ed respecting the plant intended by shuyith, and conse- 
quently it has been variously translated in the several 
versions of the Scriptures. Gesenius thinks it is ety- 
mologically connected with the shittah tree (i. q. rrj). 
See Shittah. 

18. Sillon Cpfep) occurs in Ezek. xxviii, 24 : “And 
there shall be no more a pricking brier (silldn) unto the 
house of Israel, nor any grieving thorn (hots).” The 
Sept, here has GfcoXoip and the Vulg. offendiculum. So 
also Sallun Cpkp) occurs (in the plur.) in Ezek. ii. 6: 
“Though briers (sarabim) and thorns (sallonim) be with 
thee.” The Sept, and Vulg. here render both words 
vaguely (7rapoujrpi)<Tovcn icai iTriavoTpoovTai, ineredu- 
li et subrersores). Several Arabic words resemble it in 
sound ; as sil, signifying a kind of wormwood ; silleh. the 
plant /Alla Myagrum ; Allah, the rpdyoQ of the Greeks, 
supposed to be Sulsola kali and S. trayus ; sulal or su- 
lalon. which signifies the thorn of the date-tree, while 
the Chaldee word silleta signifies a thorn simply. It is 
probable, therefore, that silldn has something of the 
same meaning, as also sallonim; but. neither the con- 
text. nor the etymology affords us a clue to the particu- 
lar plant. Tristram, however, states that “the Arabic 
word sullaon is applied to the sharp points on the ends 
of the palm-leaf, and also to the buteher’s-broom (Ilus- 
cus aculeatus), a plant common enough in many parts 
of Palestine” (Xat, Hist, of the Bible , p. 431). 



TIIORX 


3S4 


TIIORX IX TIIE FLESH 



10. Sir (“•'O) occurs (in the plur.) in several pas- 
sages, e. g. in Eccles. xii, ti, “as t lie crackling of thorns 
{si rim) under a pot,” etc. ; Isa. xxxiv, 11, “And thorns 
( sirim ) shall conje up in her palaces,” etc. ; llos. xi, 6; 
Amos iv, 2; Nali. i, 10. The Sept, and other transla- 
tions have employed words signifying thorns as con- 
veying the meaning of sirim ; but the etymology does 
not lead us to select one plant more than another. 

20. Si urId (12 “D) is mentioned only once as a des- 
ert shrub (fsa. lv, 13), “And instead of the brier ( sir - 
pad, Sept. KovvZt], Vulg. urfica) shall come up the myr- 
tle.” Though this has generally been considered a 
thorny and prickly plant, it does not follow from the 
context that such is necessarily meant. It would be 
sufficient, for the sense that, some useless or insignificant 
plant be understood, and there are many such in desert 
and uncultivated places. In addition to Paliurus cur - 
dims, ( 'idea, Conyzn , species of Polygonum , of Euphorbia, 
etc., have been adduced; and also Ruscus aculeatus, or 
butcher’s-hroom. The etymology of the word is obscure. 

21. Tkiuoeos (rpifioX oc), Eat. tribulus , is found in 

Matt, vii, Hi, “I)o men gather tigs of thistles ?” (rpifio- 
\tov ) ; and again in Heb. vi,8, “But that which beareth 
thorns and briers (rpifioXoi) is rejected.” The name 
was applied by the Greeks to two or three plants, one 
of which was, no doubt, aquatic, Trapa nutans . ( )f the 

two kinds of land tribull mentioned by the Greeks (Di- 
oscoridcs, iv, 15; Theophrastus, Hist. Plant, vi, 7, 5), 
one is believed by Sprengel, Stackhouse, Hoyle, and 
others to refer to the Tribulus terrestris, Linn., the other 
is supposed to be the Fagonia Cretica ; but see Schnei- 


der’s commentary on Theophrastus, loc.cit.. and Du Mo- 
lin ( Flore Poetiquc A ncienne, p. 305), who identities the 
tribulus of Virgil with the Centaurea culcitrupu, Linn, 
(“star-thistle”). Celsius (// ierob. ii, 128) argues in fa- 
vor of the Fagonia A rubica, of which a figure is given 
in Shaw, Travels (Catal. Plant. No. 220); see also For- 
skal, Flor. Arab. p. 88. Moth or nearly allied species 
are found in dry and barren places in the East ; and, 
as both are prickly and spread over the surface of the 
ground, they are extremely hurtful to tread upon. The 
word rpifioXog is further interesting to us as being em- 
ployed in the Sept, as the translation of durddr (above). 
The presence of species of tribulus indicates a dry and 
barren uncultivated soil, covered with prickly or thorny 
plants. The Tribulus terrestris, however, is not a spiny 
or thorny plant, but has spines on the fruit. The Greek 
word means literally three-pronged, and originally de- 
noted the caltrop, or military crow-loot, an instrument 
composed of three radiating spikes, thrown upon the 
ground to hinder and annoy cavalry (Yegct. iii, 24; 
Plutarch, Moral, ii, 7 G). Sec \Ykki>. 

22. Tsen or Tsenin (Fr-^) occurs (only in the 
plur.) in several passages of Scripture, as in Numb, 
xxxiii, 5.3; Josh, xxiii. 13, where it is mentioned along 
with side ( sikkim ); also in Job v, 5 and Prov. xxii, 5. 
Both are invariably rendered “thorns” in the A. V. 
The Sept, has rpifioXoc; in Prov. xxii, 5, and / ioXiciQ in 
Numb, xxxiii, 55 and Josh, xxiii, 13. It has been sup- 
posed that ziunim might be the Hhamnus paliurus, but 
nothing more precise has been ascertained respecting 
it than of so many other of these thorny plants; and 
we may therefore, with Michaelis. say, “Nullum simile 
nomen liabent relitpue lingu;e Orientales; ergo fas cst 
sapienti, Celsio quocpie, fas sit et mild, aliquid ignorarc. 
Ignorantiaj professio via ad inveniendum verum, si quis 
in Oriente quivsierit.” See also Tiioux-iiedee. 

TlIOh'N in the Fresh (t tkoXoxI/ r/J crap/ci), an in- 
fliction (“a messenger of Satan to buffet me”) men- 
tioned by Paul as an offset to his extraordinary revela- 
tions (2 Cor. xii, 7). The expression has called forth 
very many, and some very absurd, conjectures (sec the 
commentators, ad foe.), which may be resolved into the 
following heads, the first two of which are, from the 
nature of the case, out of the question ; 

1. Spiritual Temptations. — Many have thought that 
the apostle refers to diabolical solicitations (“ interjecti- 
ones Satatiie”), such as blasphemous thoughts (so Ger- 
son, Luther, Cnlovius), or remorse for his former life 
(Osiander, Mosheim, etc.), or — according to Komish in- 
terpreters who seek a precedent for monkish legends — 
incitements to lost (so Thomas Aquinas, Lyra, Bellar- 
minc, Estius, Corn, a Lapide. etc.). These are all nega- 
tived, not only by their intrinsic improbability, but by 
the qualification “in the flesh.” 



Tribulus terrestris. 


2. Personal Hostil- 
ity. — T his we know 
Paul frequently ex- 
perienced, especially 
from dudaiziiig secta- 
ries, and hence this 
explanation has been 
seized upon by many 
ancient interpreters 
( o. g. Chrysostom, 
Theophylaet,(Ecume- 
nins, Theodoret ), as 
well as later ones (Cal- 
vin, Beza, etc.) ami 
moderns ( Fritzsclie, 
Schrader, etc.). Hut 
this, too, could hardly 
with propriety be call- 
ed a “fleshly” afflic- 
tion. 

3. Bodily Pain . — 
This view has been 


THORN-HEDGE 


THORN, CONFERENCE OF 385 


adopted by very many, who differ, however, as to the 
particular ailment. The ancients (Chrysostom, The- 
opliylact, GEcumenius, Jerome, on Gal. iv, 14) mention 
headache , but without assigning any special ground for 
the conjecture. Some have supposed hypochondriacal 
melancholy , which, however hardly answers the condi- 
tions of a oicoXoip, whereby acute suffering seems to be 
implied. So of other speculations, for which see Poli 
Synopsis , ad loc. 

On the whole (remarks Alford, ad loci), putting to- 
gether the figure here used, that of a thorn (or a point- 
ed stake, for so okoXo^ primarily signifies [see Xeuoph. 
A nab. v, 2, 5]), occasioning pain, and the KoXatpLerpbc, or 
buffeting (i. e. perhaps putting to shame), it seems quite 
necessary to infer that the apostle alludes to some dis- 
tressing and tedious bodily malady, which at the same 
time caused him mortification before those among whom 
he exercised his ministry. Of such a kind may have 
been the disorder in his eyes, more or less indicated in 
several passages of his history (see Acts xiii, 9; xxiii, 
1 sq. ; Gal. iv, 14; vi, 11). But as affections of the 
eyes, however sad in their consequences, are not usual- 
ly (certainly not to all appearance in the apostle's case) 
very painful or distressing in themselves, they hardly 
coine up to the intense meaning of the phrase. Paul 
was therefore probably troubled with some internal dis- 
ease of which the marks were evinced only in languor 
and physical anguish. There are few who do not thus 
“ bear about in their body” some token of mortal frailty. 

See, in addition to the monographs cited by Volbe- 
ding, Index Programmatum , p. 81 ; and by Danz, HTb- 
terb. p. 567, Bagot, Thorn in the Flesh (Loud. 1840); 
Princeton Review, July, 1863. See Paul. 

Thorn, Conference of, also known as “ the Chari- 
table Conference" ( Colloquium Charitativuni), was one 
of those efforts to explain away the differences between 
the several bodies of Christians, with a view to religious 
reunion, of which the 17th century furnishes more than 
one example. It was appointed in the city of Thorn, 
in October, 1645. by Ladislaus IV, at the suggestion of 
the Reformed preacher at Dantzic, Bartholomew Nigri- 
n us, who had become a Catholic, and persuaded the king 
that such a conference would be attended with good re- 
sults. At this all religious parties were to appear and 
confer together on religion, and come to an agreement. 
On the side of the Lutherans, some Saxon divines of 
Wittenberg, especially, were invited from Germany; 
for they were regarded as standing at the head of all 
the German theologians. The Konigsberg divines were 
accompanied and assisted by Calixtusof Brunswick, who 
had been invited by elector Frederick William. His con- 
duct and the question of precedence between the Kdnigs- 
berg and the Dantzic divines occupied the entire time of 
the conference, which broke up without any result, Nov. 
21, 1645. The official account of the proceedings of the 
conference are printed in Calovius, Uistoria Syncretisti- 
ca. See also Schrdckh, Kirchengeschichte seit der Refor- 
mation, i v, 509 ; Mosheitn, Eccl. Hist, iii, 293, 359, 373, note. 

Thorndike, Herbert, a learned English divine, 
was educated in Trinity College, Cambridge, and be- 
came proctor of that university in 1638. In July, 1642, 
he was admitted to the rectory of Barley, Hertford- 
shire; and in September, 1613, was elected master of 
Sidney College, Cambridge, but was prevented from oc- 
cupying that position, it being secured by a Mr. Min- 
shull. Later he was ejected from his living of Barley. 
At the Restoration he was replaced in this living, but 
resigned it on being made a prebendary of Westmin- 
ster. He died July, 1672. He assisted Dr. Walton in 
the edition of the Polyglot Bible, particularly in mark- 
ing the variations in the Syriac version of the Old Test.; 
and wrote several treatises: A Discourse concerning the 
Primitive Form of the Government of Churches (Camb. 
1641, 8vo) : — A Discourse of Religious Assemblies and 
the Public Service of God (ibid. 1642, 8 vo): — A Dis- 
course of the Rights of the Church in a Christian State, 
X.-Bb 


etc. (Loud. 1649, 8vo): — Just Weights and Measures, i. e. 
the Present State of Religion weighed in the Dalance, etc. 
(ibid. 1662, 4to) : — .f Discourse of the Forbearance of 
the Penalties, etc. (ibid. 1670, 8vo) : — Origines Ecclesia \ 
etc. (ibid. 1670) : — also his famous book, An Epilogue to 
the Tragedy of the Church of England (ibid. 3 parts, 
1670). See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Thorn-hedge (Sir^D'O, mesukdh ; for or 

perhaps simply from the interlacing of the briers; Sept. 
Kaviov, Vulg. sepes'), a hedge-row of thorny plants (Mic. 
vii, 4). The formidable character of the thorny thick- 
ets in Palestine is noted by almost every traveller. 
Near Jericho Mr. Tristram records as the principal tree 
“the Zizyphus spam Christ i, growing twenty or thirty 
feet high, with its subangular branches studded with 
long, pointed, and rather reflex thorns — a true wait-a- 
bit tree. No one can approach it with impunity unless 
clad in leather; and in three days the whole party were 
in rags from passing through the thickets” {Land of Is- 
rael, p. 202). In the same way Messrs. M‘Chevne and 
Bonar mention how Dr. Keith was baffled in his at- 
tempt to climb a verdant-looking hill by “strong briers 
and thorns,” through which he found it impossible to 
force a passage. They add, “Some time after, when 
sailing up the Bosphorus, conversing with a gentleman 
whom we had met in Palestine, who appeared to be a 
man of the world, we asked him if he had climbed Mount 
Tabor to obtain the delightful view from its summit. His 
answer was, ‘ No; why should I climb Mount Tabor to see 
a country of thorns?’ He was thus an unintentional wit- 
ness of the truth of God’s Word” {Mission of Inquiry, p. 
119). Such predictions as Isa. vii, 23, 24; xxxii, 12-15; 
IIos. ix, 6, acquire additional force from the circumstance 
that it is so often in the midst of magnificent ruins — 
once pleasant “tabernacles” — or in regions which must 
formerly have been rich and fruitful fields, that these 
thorns and briers now maintain their undisputed and 
truculent empire. Thus, at Beth-nimrah, the traveller 
says, “ The buildings may have been extensive, but the 
ruins are now shapeless, and generally choked by the 
prickly vegetation” (Tristram, Land of Israel, p. 522). 
Again, “We rode up the Ghor, through a maze of zizy- 
phus bush, which encumbers a soil of almost incredible 
richness; watered every mile by some perennial brook, 
but without trace of inhabitant or cultivation. Now 
ami then we saw a clump of palm-trees, the ruined heap 
of some old village, or a piece of a broken water-course, 
to tell us that once the hand of civilization was here. 
Myriads of turtle-doves peopled these thickets. We 
put them up absolutely by scores from every bush. 
The nests of the marsh-sparrow bore down the branch- 
es by their weight, and the chirping was literally deaf- 
ening. The bushes and weeds were laden with seeds” 
{ibid. p. 570). In his last words king David compares 
the sons of Belial to “ thorns thrust awav, because they 
can'not be taken with hands: but the man that shall 
touch them must be fenced with iron and the staff of a 
spear” (2 Sam. xxiii, 6, 7). A traveller tells how out of 
one of these bushes of nubk he tried to get a dove, 
which, when shot, had fallen into it; “but, though I had 
mv gloves on, each attempt made mv band bleed and 
smart most painfully, as the thorns will not yield in the 
least. I failed in like manner when I tried to cut a 
stick” (Gadsbv, Wanderings, ii, 60). When we remem- 
ber that a single thorn is sometimes a couple of inches 
long, “as sharp as a pin and as hard as a bone,” we can 
appreciate the force of the allusions in Numb, xxxiii. 
55; Prov. xxvi, 9; Ezek. xxviii. 24; 2 Cor. xii, 7 ; and 
we can understand what a hopeless barrier was a “ hedge 
of thorns” (Prov. xv. 19; Hos. ii, 6). The nubk, or zizy- 
phus, is much used for fuel. Occurring everywhere, it 
is easily obtained; its slender twigs, intensely dry, flash 
up at once in a fierce, brilliant flame, and, although very 
different from the steady glow of retem charcoal, “ coals 
of juniper,” a successive supply is sufficient to heat the 
kettle of the camping traveller. To its rapid ignition 


TIIORN-HEDGE 


3S6 


TIIORN WELL 



The Xtibk, or Dhoni ( Zizi/phus spina Christi). 


the psalmist alludes, “ Before your pots can feel the 
thorns, he shall sweep them away as with a whirlwind” 
(Psa. lviii, 9) ; where the brightness of the flame, the 
height to which it mounts in an instant, the fury with 
which it seems to rage on all sides of the vessel, give 
force and even sublimity to the image, though taken 
from one of the commonest occurrences of the lowest 
life — a cottager’s wife boiling her pot” (Horsley, adloc.'). 
Exploding so quickly, they arc as speedily quenched 
(Psa. cxviii, 12); and there is small result from their 
noisy crepitation (Eccles. vii, 6). “Ridicule is a facul- 
ty much prized by its possessors , yet, intrinsically, it 
is a small faculty. A scoffing man is in no lofty mood 
for the time; shows more of the imp than the angel. I 
This, too, when his scoffing is what wc call just and has 
some foundation in truth. While, again, the laughter 
of fools — that vain sound — said in Scripture to resemble 
‘the crackling of thorns under a pot’ (which they can- 
not heat, but only soil and begrime), must be regarded 
in these later times as a very serious addition to the 
sum of human wretchedness” (Carlyle, M iscellanies. ii, 
119). Dr. Tristram further remarks. “1 have noticed 
dwarf bushes of the zizyphus growing outside the walls 
of Jerusalem in the Kedron valley; but it is in the 
low plains that it reaches its full size and changes its 
name to the dhom tree. It is sometimes called the 
lotus-tree. The thorns are long, sharp, and recurved, 
and often create a festering wound. The leaves are a 
very bright green, oval, but not, as has been said, of the 
shape of the ivy. The boughs are crooked and irregu- 
lar, the blossom small and white, and the fruit a bright- 
yellow berry, which the tree continues to bear in great 
profusion from December to June. It is the size of a 
small gooseberry, of a pleasant, subacid flavor, with a 
stone like the hawthorn, and, whether fresh or dried, 
forms an agreeable dish, which we often enjoyed, mix- 
ing the berries with leben, or sour milk. There is no 
fence more impervious than that formed of nublc; and 
the Bedawin contrive to form one round their little corn- 
plots with trifling labor. They simply cut down a few 
branches and lay them in line as soon as the barley is 
sown. Xo cattle, goats, or camels will attempt to force 
it. insignificant as it appears, not more than a yard high; 
and the twigs and recurved spines become so interwoven 
that it is in vain to attempt to pull the branches aside” 
(,V at. I list . of the Bible, p.429). See Timex. 

'fhe fences of prickly pear or Indian tig {Opuntia vul- 
garis ), now so common in the lands of the Bible, were 
unknown in Bible times, the plant having only found its 


way to the Old World after the discovery of America 
(Tristram, Nat. Hist, of the Bible , p. 432). At present, 
however, it forms the common hedge-thorn of Palestine, 
especially in the villages of the plain of Sharon. It 
grows to the size of a large shrub, the stem of which is 
as thick as a man’s body. The leaf is studded with 
thorns, and is of oval shape, about ten inches long, six 
wide, and three fourths of an inch thick; the stem and 
branches arc formed by the amalgamation of a certain 
iiumber of those succulent leaves that grow together 
the year after their first appearance, when each is laden 
with fifteen or twenty yellow blossoms, which are rapid- 
ly matured into a sweet and refreshing fruit of the size 
and shape of a hen’s egg. See Hedge, 

Thornton, Thomas C., D.D., a minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, South, was born in Dum- 
fries, Ya., Oct. 12, 1790; graduated in his native place, 
and began to preach when sixteen years old. In 1813 
he entered the Baltimore Conference; and was trans- 
ferred to the Mississippi Conference to take charge of 
Old Centenary College in 1841. From some misunder- 
standing, he left the Methodist and joined the Protes- 
tant Episcopal Church, but refused ordination, not ac- 
cepting the doctrine of uninterrupted apostolical succes- 
sion. In 1850 he returned to the Methodist Church, 
and was readmitted into the Mississippi Conference in 
1853. He died March 23, 1800. He wrote Theological 
Colloquies and Slavery as it Js in the United States, in 
reply to Dr. Channing. See Simpson, Cyclop, of Meth- 
odism , s. v. 

Thornton, W\ !»., an eminent English Wesleyan 
minister, was horn in Yorkshire about 1810. and was a 
pupil of the venerable James Sigston, Leeds. He was 
accepted at the Conference of 1830. receiving as his 
first circuit an appointment to Glasgow, where he re- 
mained but a year, and in 1831 was stationed at Hull. 
After a three years’ residence in that north-eastern sea- 
port, he was removed to the First London Circuit in 
1834, from thence to the Leeds East Circuit in 1837, 
and to Bath in 1838. After a three years’ location at 
Bath, Mr. Thornton’s itinerant career terminated, and 
in 1841 he became the resident classical tutor of the 
first theological institute established in Methodism, 
which, commencing at Iloxton. was afterwards divided 
between Richmond and Didsbury; and in 1842 he went 
to its northern branch, near Manchester. He remained 
there till 1849, when he was appointed editor of the 
Wesleyan periodicals. In 1804 Air. Thornton repre- 
sented the British Conference at the General Conference 
of the Methodist Episcopal Church; he then proceeded 
to Canada, and presided over that conference, and also 
over that in Eastern British America. On his return 
home, he was elected president of the British Confer- 
ence, but died very suddenly, in his presidential year, 
March 5, 1805. Mr. Thornton was a man of fine talents 
and thorough culture. In early life he had given him- 
self to hard and systematic study. As a preacher he 
was eloquent, his style finished and elegant; as an ed- 
itor he was industrious and successful. 

Thornwell, James Henry. D.D., an eminent Pres- 
byterian divine and educator, was born in Marlborough 
District. S. C., Dec. 9, 1812. He received a good com- 
mon-school training; prepared for college at the Cheraw 
Academy, S. C. ; graduated at South Carolina College in 
1831 ; and subsequently studied at Harvard University 
and in Europe. After some attention to the law. he de- 
voted himself to theology, was licensed by Bethel Pres- 
bytery, and in 1834 was ordained and installed pastor of 
the Church at Lancaster Court-house. S. C. ; and soon 
after the churches of Waxhaw and Six Mile were added 
to his charge. This relation existed until 1837. when he 
was elected to the professorship of logic, belles-lettres, 
and criticism in the South Carolina College, to which 
metaphysics was soon added. In these departments he 
taught with uncommon ability and success. “ In Amer- 
ica he fully deserves the distinguished title which his 



TIIRACIA 


THORP, CONSTITUTIONS OF 387 


admirers have long bestowed upon him of ‘the Logi- 
cian.’ ” In 1840 he resigned his professorship, and was 
installed pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Colum- 
bia, S. C. ; in 1841 became professor of sacred litera- 
ture and evidences of Christianity in South Carolina 
College; in 1851, pastor of the Glebe Street Church, 
Charleston, S. C. ; in 1852 accepted the presidency of 
South Carolina College; in 1856 was elected professor 
of theology in the Theological Seminary, Columbia, and 
also pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of that 
place, in which labors he continued until his death, Aug. 
1, 1861. Dr. Thorn well published, The Arguments of 
Humanists from the Infallibility of the Church and Tes- 
timony of the Fathers on behalf of the A pocrypha, Dis- 
cussed and Refuted , etc. (N. Y. 1845). This is an an- 
swer to a series of letters by the Rev. I)r. (afterwards 
bishop) Lynch on the inspiration of the Apocrypha. 
“As a refutation, this work of Mr. Thorn well’s is com- 
plete” (Bib/. Iiep . and Prince. Rev. April, 1845, p. 268) : 
— Discourses on Truth (1855, 12mo; 1869, 8vo), deliv- 
ered in the chapel of the South Carolina College ; a 
work highly commended, lie also published single 
sermons, tracts, essays, etc., and papers in the Southern 
Presbyterian Review. Dr. Thornwcll was endowed with 
genius of an exalted character ; a clear, penetrating, log- 
ical mind, which was cultivated by profound study, and 
consecrated to the advancement of learning and relig- 
ion. “As a pastor, kind, affectionate, and worthy of all 
reliance; as a pulpit orator, a model of glowingzeal and 
fervid eloquence; as a teacher, gifted.” Kev. H. W. 
Beecher says concerning him, “By common fame. Dr. 
Thornwell was the most brilliant minister in the Old- 
school Presbyterian Church, and the most brilliant de- 
bater in its General Assembly. This reputation he early 
gained and never lost.” See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Alma- 
nac , 1863, p. 209 ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A u- 
thors , s. v. ; Duyckinck, Cyclop, of A mer . Lit. (1856), ii, 
334 ; La Borde, Hist, of South Carolina College , 1859 ; 
Presb. Mag. vol. vii. (J. L. S.) 

Thorp, Constitutions of. See York, Council 
of, 1363. 

Thorwaldsen, Albert Bertel, the renowned 
Danish sculptor, was born at Copenhagen, Nov. 19, 
1770, and was the son of Gottschalk Thorwaldsen, a na- 
tive of Iceland. A tradition had long been preserved 
in his family that “ the gods had promised Harold (king 
Harold Hildetand, who was killed in the battle of Bra- 
valla, in 735) a descendant whose fame should spread 
from the extremities of the North even to the sunny 
regions of the South.” He assisted his father (a carver 
in wood) at a very early age, and when eleven years 
old attended the free school of the Academy of Arts. 
Copenhagen, receiving when seventeen a silver medal 
from the academy for a bas-relief of Cupid Reposing, 
and at twenty the small gold medal for a sketch of 
Jleliodoj'us Driven from the Temple . Two years later 
he drew the grand prize entitling him to the roval pen- 
sion. but, this being then enjoyed by another, he was 
obliged to wait three years, during which time he con- 
tinued his professional pursuits and engaged in general 
study. Thorwaldsen set out for Italy May 20. 1796, 
arrived at Naples in January, 1797, and reached Pome 
March 8. After struggling against many discourage- 
ments. success waited upon him; his fame spread far 
and wide : and Christian (then crown-prince) of Den- 
mark wrote him a pressing invitation to return to Co- 
penhagen. telling him of the discovery of a white mar- 
ble quarry in Norway. In July, 1819, he started to 
make his first visit to his native land, and arrived at 
Copenhagen Oct. 3. He was entertained with public 
feasts and other expressions of gratitude for about a 
year, and then returned to Pome. There he remained 
until 1838, when he decided to return to Copenhagen, 
and the Danish government sent a frigate to convey 
him and his works to Denmark. In 1841, finding the 
climate to disagree with him, he felt compelled to re- 


turn to Italy, but returned to Denmark in the following 
year. He died suddenly, March 24, 1844. The favor- 
ite style of Thorwaldsen was basso-rilievo, in which he 
was the greatest master of his age. His principal 
works are, Christ and the Twelve A pasties : — Procession 
to Golgotha : — John the Baptist Preaching in the Wilder- 
ness, in the Church of Notre Dame, Copenhagen : — En- 
try into Jerusalem : — Rebecca at the Well. See English 
Cyclop, of Biog. s. v. ; Spooner, Biog. llist. of Fine A rts, 


Thoth. The Egyptian deity of written learning, 
the author of the mystical treatises on medicine and 
sacred literature, called by the Greeks the Hermetic 
books, and himself, as the author of them, Hermes Tris- 
megistus, and, in his character of introducer of souls in 
Hades, Hermes Psgclwpompos. He had many names 
and occupations, which led to his identification with 
many of the chief divinities by virtue of a parity of 
offices, lie was called on a statue in the Leyden Mu- 
seum “He who is the good Saviour;” and on some of 
the funeral papyri he takes the place of Anubis, or even 
Horns, with respect to the souls of the deceased. In 
the Hall of the Two Truths it was the duty of Thoth 
to weigh the souls of the deceased, and to read from his 
tablets a record of their actions in the past life. Thoth 
was also the god of all writing, and founder of all the 
sciences. He brought to the gods a translation of all 
the sacred books, and he was called the “Scribe of t he 
Gods,” and the “ Lord of 
the Divine Words.” In 
another form the god 
Thoth was identified 
with the moon, when 
he would he represented 
with the head of an ibis, 
surmounted bv the horns 
and lunar disk; but of- 
tentimes he was figured 
with a human head, hav- 
ing that of the ibis as a 
coiffure, anil wearing the 
Atef crown. As Thoth- 
Axah, or Thoth the 
Moon, he was generally 
entirely naked, and in 
the figure of an infant 
with thin bowed thighs, 
possibly to indicate the 
moon in its first quarter. 



Figure of Thoth. 


At other times he was repre- 
sented as an adult man, bearded, and wearing the short 
loin-cloth, or shenti, of the Egyptians ; sometimes he car- 
ried in his hand the eye of Horns, the symbol of the full 
moon, the Cucnfa or Uas sceptre, and the crux ansata. 
In his latter characteristics Thoth was regarded as one 
and the same with Khonsn of Thebes. The Cvnoceph- 
alus ape was also sacred to the god Thoth, and hiero- 
glvphically figured for him. It was Thoth who re- 
vealed to the initiated certain mysterious words and 
formulas, thus imparting a knowledge of divine things 
which was supposed to elevate man to the height of the 
gods. It was only necessary to pronounce these formulas 
in the name of the deceased over his mummy, and to 
place a copy of them by his side in the coffin, to insure 
for him the benefit of their influence in the dangers 
which he had to combat in the lower regions. Should 
any one take possession of the magic-book composed by 
the god Thoth before he has been initiated, supernatu- 
ral catastrophes will assail him. He was also wor- 
shipped by the Phoenicians, Scythians, Germans, Gaul*, 
anil other ancient nations. His symbol was the ibis; 
and his festival was celebrated on the first day of the 
first moon in the year. — Cooper , Archaic Diet. s. v. See 
Egypt. 

Thra'cia, or Thrace (9 pycif), occurs in the Bible 
in one passage of the Apocrypha only (2 Macc. xii, 35), 
where a Thracian horseman (run* iTnriwv Opqucwi’ tic , 
“a horseman of Thracia”) is incidentally mentioned, 


TIIRASEAS 


3SS 


THREE 


apparently one of the bodyguard of Gordias, governor 
of Llunnea under Antioelnis Epiphanes (comp. Josephus, 
ii, 10, l ; Appian, Syr. 1 ; Cir. iv, 88). Thrace at 
this period included the whole of the country within 
the boundary of the Strymon, the Danube, and the 
coasts of the .Kgean, Propontis, and Euxine (Herod, iv, 
00; Pliny, iv. 18); all the region, in fact, now compre- 
hended in Bulgaria and Kmnelia. Under the Romans, 
Mmsin Inferior was separated from it (Ptolemy, iii, 11, 
1). lu the early times it was inhabited by a number 
of tribes, each under its own chief, having a name of 
its own and preserving its own customs, although the 
same general character of ferocity and addiction to 
plunder prevailed throughout (Herod, v, 3). Thucyd- 
ides (ii, 97) describes the limits of the country at the 
period of the Peloponnesian war, when Sitalces, king of 
the Odrysre, who inhabited the valley of the Hebrus 
(Maritza), had acquired a predominant power in the 
country, and derived what was for those days a large 
revenue from it. This revenue, however, seems to have 
arisen mainly out of his relations with the Greek trad- 
ing communities established on different points of his 
seaboard. Some of the clans, even within the limits 
of his dominion, still retained their independence; but 
after the establishment of a Macedonian dynasty under 
Lysimachns, the central authority became more power- 
ful; and the wars on a large scale which followed the 
death of Alexander furnished employment for the mar- 
tial tendencies of the Thracians, who found a demand 
for their services as mercenaries everywhere. Cavalry 
was the arm which they chiefly furnished (see Homer, 
Odyss. ix, 49), the rich pastures of Kumelia abounding 
in horses. From that region came the greater part of 
Sitalces’s cavalry, amounting to nearly fifty thousand 
(see Herod, i, 94; v, 3 sq. ; Tacitus, A nnaL iv, 35; Hor- 
ace, Sat. i, 6 ; Pliny, /fist. Xat. xvii, 3, 5, 2 ; xviii, 12, 1 ; 
Justin, viii, 3; Mela, ii, 2; Cellarii Xotifia, ii, 15; Man- 
nert, Gsogr.v ii, 1 sq. ; Gatterer, in the Comment. Soc. 
Gutting, iv and v [ Germ, by Sehlickhorst, Gotting. 
1800] ; Smith, Diet, of Class. Geog. s. v.). 

The only other passage, if any, containing an allusion 
to Thrace to be found in the Bible is Gen. x, 2, where 
— on the hypothesis that the sons of Japhet, who are 
enumerated, may be regarded as the eponymous repre- 
sentatives of different branches of the Japetian family 
of nations — Tiras has by some been supposed to mean 
Thrace; but the only ground for this identification is a 
fancied similarity between the two names. A stronger 
likeness, however, might be urged between the name 
Tiras and that of the Tvrsi, or Tyrseni, the ancestors of 
the Italian Etruscans, whom, on the strength of a local 
tradition, Herodotus places in Lydia in the ante-histor- 
ical times. Strabo brings forward several facts to show 
that in the early ages Thracians existed on the Asiatic 
as well as the European shore; but this circumstance 
furnishes very little help towards the identification re- 
ferred to. See Tiras. 

Thrase'as, or rather Tiiras.e'us (Opaaatog, Vulg. 
Thrasoas), the father of Apollonius (q. v.), Syrian gov- 
ernor of Ceele-Syria and Pluenieia (2 Macc. iii, 5). 

Three (Thirty, etc.) (Shalosh, irb'j, *^*bd, etc.) 
frequently occurs as a cardinal number; thus.rrrj ’rb'j, 
three years (Lev. xix, 23); as an ordinal, t'b'i : ~rO’i : a, 
in the third year (2 Kings xviii, 1); in combination 
with other numbers, as rnb? thirteen; and it is 

also used in the plural as an ordinal for thirty, C^rblT 
(1 Kings xvi, 23). For other forms and uses of the 
words, see the Hebrew lexicons. 

The nouns U.*b‘L\ and UUSw, literally, accord- 

ing to one derivation, a third man, are used in the sense 
of a commander or general, sometimes as connected with 
war-chariots or cavalry. Thus (Exod. xiv, 7), “ Phara- 
oh took all the chariots of Egypt and captains pw 1 ) 1 :; 
third men) over all this armament” ('22 0V),not, as in | 


onr translation, “over every one of them;” Sept, rpt- 
(jrdrag k7ri TrdvTiov, tristatw over all; Vulg. duces to - 
tins exercitus. So it is said (xv, 4) that “ the choice 
of all Pharaoh’s captains” (■ ), rblT), or third men, were 
drowned; Sept. dva/3drag rpiordrag; Vi i\g. pruicipes. 
The Septuagint word seems chosen upon the assumed 
analogy of its etymology to the Hebrew, quasi rpiro- 
GTaTijg, “one who stands third.” According to Origen, 
tristates has. this meaning, because there were three 
persons in each chariot, of whom the first fought, the 
second protected him with a shield, and the third guid- 
ed the horses. Wilkinson, however, says, “ There were 
seldom three persons in an Egyptian war-chariot, ex- 
cept in triumphal processions. In the field each one 
had his own car with a charioteer” (.4 ncient Egyptians , 
i, 335). Jerome, on Ezekiel xxiii, says, “ Tristatw, 
among the Greeks, is the name of the second rank after 
the royal dignity.” But it is possible that the ideal 
meaning of the verb may be to rule or direct , as 
appears from its share in such words as C'U.'ST, “ex- 
cellent things,” or rather “rules and directions” (Pro v. 
xxii, 20), and bw*2, “a proverb,” from bll :,, 2, “to rule,” 
hence an authoritative precept. According to this 
sense, our translation renders the word 12" l b'^3 “lord:” 
“a lord on whose hand the king leaned” (2 Kings vii, 
2; comp, v, 17, 19). If the latter derivation of the He- 
brew word be admitted, it will cease to convey any al- 
lusion to the number three; of which allusion Gesenius 
speaks doubtingly of any instance, but which he decid- 
edly pronounces to be unsuitable to the first passage, 
where the word evidently stands in connection with 
war- chariots (see Gesenius, s. v. *C n ?‘d). See Cap- 
tain. 

Three days and three nights. “ For as Jonas was 
three days and three nights in the whale’s belly, so shall 
the Son of man be three days and three nights in the 
heart of the earth.” The apparent difficulty in these 
words arises from the fact that our Lord continued in 
the grave only one day complete, together with a part 
of the day on which he was buried and of that on 
which he rose again. The Hebrews had no word ex- 
pressly answering to the Greek word vv\^i]pwov, or 
natural day of twenty-four hours, an idea which they 
expressed by the phrases a night and a day or a day 
and a night. Thus (Dan. viii, 14), “ Unto two thousand 
and three hundred evening mornings (i.e. days, as it is in 
our translation), then shall the sanctuary be cleansed.” 
Thus, also, what is called “forty days and forty nights” 
in Gen. vii, 12, is simply “ forty days” in ver. 17 ; where- 
fore, as it is common in general computations to ascribe 
a whole day to what takes up only a part of it, when 
this was done in the Jewish language it was necessary 
to mention both day and night ; hence a part of three 
days was called by them three days and three nights. 
We have another example in 1 Sam. xxx, 12, where 
the Egyptian whom David’s men found in the field is 
said to have eaten no bread , nor drunk any water, three 
days and three nights . Nevertheless, in giving an ac- 
count of himself, the Egyptian told them that his mas- 
ter had left him “because three days ago I fell sick;” 
iu the Hebrew it is I fell sick this third day. that is, 
this is the third day since 1 fell sick. Indeed, among 
the Hebrews, things were said to be done after three 
days which were done on the third day (comp. 2 Chron. 
x, 5 with ver. 12; Dent, xiv, 28 with xxvi, 2). Agree- 
ably to these forms of speech, the prophecy of our Lord’s 
resurrection from the dead is sometimes represented as 
taking place after three days, sometimes on the third 
day (see Whitby, Macknight, Wakefield, Clarke, ad loc.). 

The phrase “ three and four,” so often repeated (Amos 
i), means abundance, anything that goes on towards ex- 
cess. It finds its parallel in Virgil’s well-known words, 
Oterque qnaterque beati (“O three and four times hap- 
py,” xEn. i, 94 ; see also Odyss. y, 306). 

Ihree has also been considered, both by Jews and 


THREE CHARTERS 


389 


THRESHING 


Christians, as a distinguished or mystical number, like I 
“seven.” Ainsworth, on Gen. xxii, 4, has collected 
many such instances, but they appear to be somewhat 
fanciful. — Kitto. A ternary or triual arrangement of 
subjects, however, is very prevalent in the Bible (see 
an anonymous monograph on The Triads of Scripture 
[Lynchburg, 18GG]). See Number. 

Three Chapters ( Tria Capitula ), the title of an 
edict published by the emperor Justinian. He having, 
in the year 542, been shocked by some of the writings 
of Origen. published an edict in which nine of the chief 
Origenist errors were set forth and condemned, Origen 
himself being also anathematized. Theodore, the Mo- 
nophvsite bishop of Caisarea in Cappadocia, devised a 
plan by which to avenge the memory of Origen, and to 
strengthen the position of the Monophy sites, fie per- 
suaded the emperor that the Acephali might be restored 
to the Church and reconciled to the decrees of Chalce- 
don, if the writings under three “ heads” or “chapters” 
which he named were condemned, and so ceased to be- 
come stumbling-blocks to them by seeming to support 
the Nestoriau heresy. These were (1) the Epistle of 
Theodoret against the twelve anathemas of St. Cyril, 
(2) the Epistle of Ibas of Edessa to Claris, and (3) the 
works of Theodore of Mopsuestia. All these writings 
having carried w r eight with them at the Council of 
Chalccdon, the condemnation of them by Justinian 
would be, to a certain extent, a repudiation of that coun- 
cil, and so a recognition of the Monophysites condemned 
by it. Attracted by the hope of reconciling the Aceph- 
ali, and not seeing these consequences, the emperor pub- 
lished the edict of the Three Chapters, A.D. 544; giv- 
ing a profession of his own faith, and anathematizing 
the three works above named. The edict was sub- 
scribed by the four Eastern patriarchs, and, after some 
hesitation, it w’as also assented to by Vigilins, bishop of 
Rome, with an added clause to the effect that in doing 
so he did not condemn the Council of Chalcedon. This 
assent he afterwards retracted when excommunicated 
by a council at Carthage, and in 550 declared the East- 
ern bishops separated from the communion of Koine. 
The condemnation of the Three Chapters, with a simi- 
lar reservation respecting the Council of Chalcedon, was, 
however, confirmed by the fifth General Council, A.D. 
553, the second Council of Constantinople. See Mansi, 
Concil. ix, 61, 181,487; Natal. Alex, v, 502. — Blunt, 
bid. of Sects, s. v. 

Three Denominations, a name given to the In- 
dependents, the Baptists, and the Presbyterians at the 
time when these three sects represented the great body 
of English Dissenters. They w'ere the Dissenters rec- 
ognised by the Act of Toleration (L William and Mary, 
c. IS), and had the privilege granted to them of pre- 
senting corporate addresses to the sovereign. — Blunt, 
bid. of Sects, s. v. 

Three Taverns (TpeTc Tafapvai, Graecized from 
the Latin Ties Taberna*), a station on the Appian Road, 
along which Paul travelled from Pnteoli to Rome (Acts 
xxviii, 15). The Roman Christians went, in token of 
respect, to meet Paul at these places, having been prob- 
ably apprised of his approach by letters or express 
from Pnteoli (ver. 13-15) — one party of them resting 
at the Three Taverns, ami the other going on to Appii 
Forum. When the apostle saw this unequivocal token 
of respect and zeal, he took fresh courage. There is no 
doubt that the Three Taverns was a frequent meeting- 
place of travellers. A good illustration of this kind of 
intercourse along the Appian Way is supplied by Jose- 
phus (.4??/. xvii, 12, 1) in his account of the journey of 
the pretender Herod Alexander. He landed at Pnteoli 
(Dicaearchia) to gain over the Jews that were there; 
and “when the report went about him that he was 
coming to Rome, the whole multitude of the Jews that 
were there went out to meet him, ascribing it to Divine 
Providence that he had so unexpectedly escaped.” See 
Paul, 


The word rafitpva is plainly the Latin taberna in 
Greek letters, and denotes a house made with boards or 
planks, quasi trabena . Wooden houses, huts, etc., are 
called taberna’. Thus Horace, “ Pauperum tabernas re- 
gumque turres” (Conn, i, 14, 13). Hence the word also 
means shops, as distinguished from dwelling-houses. 
Horace uses it for a bookseller’s shop (Sat. i, 4. 71), and 
for a wine-shop (bp. i, 14, 24). The shops at Pompeii 
are booths, connected* in almost ever}' case with dwell- 
ings behind, as they were in London three centuries 
ago. When eatables or drinkables were sold in a Ro- 
man shop, it was called taberna, tavern, victualling- 
house. Grotius observes that there were many places 
in the Roman empire at this time which had the names 
of Forum and Taberna?, the former from having mar- 
kets of all kinds of commodities, the latter from furnish- 
ing wine and eatables. The place or village called 
“ Three Taverns” probably, therefore, derived its name 
from three large inns, or eating-houses, for the refresh- 
ment of travellers passing to and from Rome. Zosimus 
calls it rpui KaTrijXeia (ii, 10). Appii Forum appears to 
have been such another place. Horace mentions the lat- 
ter, in describing his journey from Rome to Brundusium, 
as “ differtnm nautis, canponibus atquc malignis” — stuff- 
ed with rank boatmen, and with vintners base (Sat. i, 5, 
3). That the Three Taverns was nearer Rome than Ap- 
pii Forum appears from the conclusion of one of Cicero's 
letters to Atticus (ii, 10), which, when he is travelling 
south-eastwards from Antium to his seat near Formia;, 
he dates “ Ab Appii Foro, bora quarta” — from Appii Fo- 
rum, at the fourth hour; and adds, “Dederam aliam 
paulo ante, Tribus Tabernis” (I wrote von another, a 
little while ago, from the Three Taverns). Just at this 
point a road came in from Antium on the coast, as we 
learn from the same letter of Cicero (Att. ii, 12). The 
Itinerary of Antoninus places Appii Forum at forty-three 
Roman miles from Rome, and the Three Taverns at 
thirty-three ; and, comparing this with what is observed 
still along the line of road, we have no difficulty in 
coming to the conclusion that the Three Taverns was 
near the modern Cisterna (see Smith, bid. of Greek 
and Rom . Geog. ii, 1226 b, 1291 b). In the 4th century 
there was a bishop of Three Taverns, named Felix (Op- 
tatns, lib. i). It has been stated by some that the place 
still remains, and is called Tre Taverne. Thus, in Eve- 
lyn’s time (1645), the remains were “yet very faire” 
( Iiiarie , i, 134). But recent travellers have been una- 
ble to find more than a few unnamed remains, on the 
spot indicated (Chanpy,il/ms<m d' Horace, iii,383; D’An- 
villc, Analyse de VJtalie , p. 195; Westphal, Rom. Kam- 
pagne, p. 69 ; Fleck, Wissenschaftl. Reise, I, i, 375). See 
Appii Forum. 

Threshing (prop. but sometimes t0 

tread out, dXontir; and occasionally 12211). The He- 
brews made use of three different processes for separa- 
ting the grain from the stalk (comp. Isa. xxviii, 27 sq.), 
an operation always carried on in the open air. See 
Straw. 

1. In the earliest period, and even later for small quan- 
tities, especially in the former part of the harvest sea- 
son, and for the frailer kinds of grain, the seed w'as beat- 
en out with sticks (Z22n. Sept. pa(3$i%tiv'). This was 
a process applied toother agricultural products (Jerome, 
ad Isa. loc. cit.), as well as to field grain (Jndg. vi, 11 ; 
Ruth ii, 17 ; Isa. xxviii, 27 ; comp. Columcl. ii, 21 ; Stra- 
bo, iv, 201). It is a method still in use in the East 
(Robinson, ii, 650 ; iii, 233). See Harvest. 

2. Usually, however, horned cattle (Mishna, Slubiith, 
v, 8, as still in Egypt, Arabia, and Syria), seldom asses 
or (in modern times) horses (Shaw, p. 124; Bucking- 
ham, p. 288), w'ere driven around, usually yoked in pairs 
or several abreast, and these, by means of their hoofs 
(Mic. iv, 13), cut up and separated the chaff and straw 
from the grain (Isa. xxviii, 28; Jcr. 1. 11 ; llos. x, 11 ; 
comp. Yarro, be Re Rust, i, 51 ; Homer, 11. xx, 495 sq. ; 


THRESHING-FLOOR 


390 THRESHING-INSTRUMENT 


Plinv, xviii, 72). So also in ancient Egypt (Wilkinson, 
2U ser. i, 87, 90). See Threshing- floor. 

3. Hie most effectual method of threshing was by 
means of threshing-machines S’V'S [Arab, no - 

raj], or simply rspn, Isa. xxviii, 27 ; xli, 15; Job xli, 
22; also “p*^, Judg. viii, 7, 1G; sec Gesen. Thesaur. p. 
244 ; rgifioXov, tribubnn, Pliny, xviii, 72; Talm. 5^^"^). 
These consisted sometimes of a wooden plank {trahea, 
or trahti) set with sharp stones or iron points, which 
was dragged over the sheaves (ltaslii, on Isa. xli, 15; 
comp. Vnrro, i, 52 ; Columcl. ii, 21 ; Virgil, Georg. i, 1G4), 
sometimes of a sort of cart or wheeled sledge ( plosttllum 
rknnicnm ; comp. Jerome, ad Isa . xxv, 10, and xxviii, 
27). Such a wagon is mentioned in Isa. xxviii, 27 sq. 

and njjr See THRESHING-IN- 

STRUMENT. 

Cattle were used for this vehicle, as usually still 
among the Arabians (Wellsted. i, 194); and the Mosaic 
law forbade the voking-together of various kinds of 
beasts, as well as the muzzling of the animals (Deut. 
xxv. 4; Josephus, Aut. iv, 8, 21 ; 1 Cor. ix, 9; Talmud, 
Kelim, xvi, 7; comp. /Elian, A mm. iv, 25), a usage 
prevalent among the ancient Egyptians and other na- 
tions (Bochart, Hieroz. i, 401; comp. Michaelis, HI os. 
Reck t, i i i , 1 30) . Sec M uzz le. 

Threshing is frequently employed by the Hebrew 
poets as a figure of the divine or providential chastise- 
ments, especially national invasion (Isa. xli, 15; Jer. li, 
33; Mic. iv, 13; llab. iii, 12). In one passage (Isa. 
xxi, 10), the bruised grain is made an image of the 
captive Jews. See generally Schottgen, Triturce et Ful- 
lonia Antiquitates ( IT. ad Rh. 1727 ; Lips. 17G3) ; Paul- 
sen, Ackerbau, p. 110 sq. See Agriculture. 

Threshing-floor ('j’Vs goren, dXwv ; Chald. “HX, 
idddr. Dan. ii, 35), a level and hard-beaten plot in the 
open air (Judg. vi, 37 ; 2 Sam. vi, G), on which the 
sheaves of grain (Mic. iv, 12) were threshed (Isa. xxi, 
10; Jer. li, 33; Matt, iii, 12; the Mislma remarks that 



Oriental Threshing-floor. 

the threshers wore gloves, Keiim, xvi, G), so that the 
wind had free play (IIos. xiii, 3; Jer. iv, 41; comp. 
4 arro, I)e Re Rust, i, 51, 1, “ Aream esse oportet in agro 
suhlimiore loco, quam pertiare possit ventus”). The top 
of a rock is a favorite spot for 
this purpose. The sheaves were 
carried straight from the field, 
either in carts, or, as more com- 
monly happens in the present 
day, on the backs of camels and 
asses, to the threshing-floor. On 
this epen space the sheaves were 
spread out, and sometimes beaten 
with flails — a method practiced 
especially with the lighter kinds 
of grain, such as fitches or cum- 
in ( Isa. xxviii, 27 ) — but more 
generally by means of oxen. For 
this purpose the oxen were yoked 
side by side, and driven round 


over the corn, by a man who superintended the opera- 
tion, so as to subject the entire mass to a sufficient 
pressure; or the oxen were yoked to a sort of ma- 
chine (what the Latins called tribnlum or trahea) 
which consisted of a board or block of wood, with 
bits of stone or pieces of iron fastened into the lower 
surface to make it rough, and rendered heavy by some 
weight, such as the person of the driver, placed on 
it; this was dragged over the corn, and hastened the 
operation (ver. 27 ; xli, 15). The same practices are 
still followed, only mules and horses are occasionally 
employed instead of oxen, but very rarely. Dr. Kobiu- 
son describes the operation as he witnessed it near 
Jericho : “ Ilerc there were no less than five floors, all 
trodden by oxen, cows, and younger cattle, arranged 
in each case five abreast, and driven round in a circle, 
or rather in all directions, over the floor. The sled, or 
sledge, is not here in use, though we afterwards met with 
it in the north of Palestine. By this process the straw 
is broken up and becomes chaff. It is occasionally turn- 
ed with a large wooden fork having two prongs; and, 
when sufficiently trodden, is thrown up with the same 
fork against the wind, in order to separate the grain, 
which is then gathered up and winnowed. The whole 
process,” he adds, “ is exceedingly wasteful, from the 
transportation of the corn on the backs of animals to 
the treading-out upon the bare ground” ( Researches , ii, 
277). During this operation the Mohammedans, it 
seems, generally observe the ancient precept of not muz- 
zling the oxen while treading out the corn ; but the 
Greek Christians as commonly keep them tightly muz- 
zled. See Threshing. 

As in the East there is no rain during the harvest 
season (Hesiod, Opp. 558), the threshing-floors were in 
the open field, and were carefully selected and managed 
(Virgil, Georg, i, 178 sq. ; Pallad. vii, 1 ; Pliny, Hist. Nat. 
xii, 32: xv, 8; xvii, 14; xviii, 71, etc.). The farmers 
remained on the corn-floor all night in order to guard 
the product (Ruth iii, 4, G, 14). The threshing-place 
was of considerable value, and is often named in con- 
nection with the wine-press (Deut. xvi, 13; 2 Kings vi, 
27 ; Hos. ix, 2; Joel ii, 24), since wheat and wine and 
oil were the more important products of the land (Mish- 
ua, Baba Bathra, ii, 8). They often bore particular 
names, as that of Nachon (2 Sam. vi, 0) or Chidon (1 
Chron. xiii, 9), of Atad (Gen. 1, 10), of Oman, or Arau- 
nah (2 Sam. xxiv, IS, 20; 1 Chron. xxi, 15; Josephus, 
Ant. vii, 13, 4). See Thomson, Land and Book , ii, 314 ; 
llackett, Illustr. of Script, p. 100; Van Lennep, Bible 
Lands, p. 79; Cotider, Tent -Work in Palestine, ii, 259. 
See Agriculture. 

Threshing-instrument was a sledge for driving 
over the sheaves ami separating the grain. These 
sledges, called among the Hebrews by the general term 
barkanim, rendered “briers”in Judg. viii, 7, 1G, 
were of two kinds, corresponding respectively with two 
words, the first of which alone is rendered as above in 
the A. V. See Threshing. 

1. Mordg so called from triturating ; 2 Sam. 




THRESHOLD 


391 


THRONE 


xxiv, 22; 1 Chron. xxi, 23; Isa. xli, 15; by ellipsis 
chard ts, pointed. Job xli, 22; Isa. xxviii, 27; Amos i, 3) 
was a threshing-instrument still in use in the north of 
Palestine. ' Prof. Robinson, who frequently saw this rus- 
tic threshing-sledge, says, “It consists chiefly of two 
planks fastened together side by side, and bent upwards 
in front: precisely like the common stone-sledge of New 
England. Many holes are bored in the bottom under- 
neath, and into these are fixed sharp fragments of hard 
stone. The machine is dragged by oxen as they are 
driven round upon the grain ; sometimes a man or a boy 
sits upon it. The effect of it is to cut up the straw quite 
fine” ( Researches , ii,30G). 

2. Agaldh rendered “cart” or “wagon”) was 

a threshing-sledge with wheels or rollers of wood, iron, 
or stone, made rough and joined together in the form 
of a sledge (Isa. xxviii, 27, 28). Mr. Lane found it still 
in use in Egypt, perhaps somewhat improved. He says, 



Oriental Wheeled Threshing- sledges. A. Bottom; B. 

With seat. 

“For the purpose of separating the grain of wheat or 
barley, etc., and cutting the straw, which serves as fod- 
der, the Egyptians use a machine called norag, in the 
form of a chair, which moves upon small iron wheels, or 
circular plates, generally eleven, fixed to three thick 
axle-trees; four to the foremost, the same number to 
the hindmost, and three to the intermediate axle-tree. 
This machine is drawn in a circle, by a pair of cows or 
bulls, over the corn” (Mod. Egyptians, ii, 33). 

Threshold is the rendering in the A. V. of three 
Heb. words. 

1. Saph (CjD, so called perhaps from the attrition 
there, Judg. xix, 27; l Kings xiv, 17; Ezek. xl, 6, 7; 
xliii,8; Zeph. ii, 14; elsewhere “door” or “door-post”), 
the silly or bottom, of a door-way. See Gate. 

2. Miphtdn (‘jFlE'S, so called apparently from its 
firmness or stretch), obviously to be interpreted of the 
sill, or bottom beam, of a door (1 Sam. v, 4, 5 ; Zeph. i, 9 ; 
Ezek. xlvii, 1); but perhaps meaning sometimes, as the 
Targunj explains it, a projecting beam, or corbel, at a 
higher point than the threshold properly so called (Ezek. 
ix, 3 ; x, 4, 18). See Doon. 

3. A soph (r ( DN, only in the plur. Asnppim, E*ECN, 
collections; Sept, avvayayuv', Yulg. vestibula; Neh. 
xii, 25), a storehouse or depository (“Asuppim,” 1 
Chron. xxvi, 17 ), especially as connected with the 
western gates of the Temple, hence called beth- Asuppim 
(ver. 15). See Asuppim. 

Throne (N33, hisse; Spovog, a seat, as often ren- 
dered; twice H33, hissch, 1 Kings x, 19; Job xxvi, 9; 
Chald. horse, Dan. v, 20; vii, 9, so called as be- 

ing covered, i. e. either the seat itself or with a canopy) 
applies to any elevated seat occupied by a person in au- 
thority, whether a high-priest (1 Sam. i, 9), a judge 
(Psa. cxxii, 5), or a military chief (Jer. i, 15). In Neh. 
iii, 7 the term is applied to the official residence of the 
governor, which appears to have been either on or near 
to the city wall. In the holy of holies, between the 
cherubim, was the throne of Jehovah, the invisible king 
of the Hebrews (Exod. xxv, 22). See Pavilion. 

The use of a chair in a country where the usual post- 
ures were squatting and reclining was at all times re- 
garded as a symbol of dignity (2 Kings iv, 10; Prov. 
ix, 14). In order to specify a throne in our sense of the 
term, it was necessary to add to hisse the notion of roy- 
alty ; hence the frequent occurrence of such expressions 
as “the throne of the kingdom” (Deut. xvii, 18; 1 


Kings i, 46; 2 Chron. vii, 18). The characteristic feat- 
ure in the royal throne was its elevation : Solomon’s 
throne was approached by six steps (1 Kings x, 19; 2 
Chron. ix, 18); and Jehovah’s throne is described as 
“high and lifted up” (Isa. vi, 1; comp. Horn. Odyss. i, 
130; iv, 136; Curtins, v, 2, 13). The materials and 
workmanship were costly: that of Solomon is described 
as a “ throne of ivory” (i. e. inlaid with ivory), and over- 
laid with pure gold in all parts except where the ivory 
was apparent. It was furnished with arms or “stays,” 
after the manner of an Assyrian chair of state (see Raw- 
linson, Herod, iv, 15). The steps were also lined with 
pairs of lions, the number of them being perhaps de- 
signed to correspond with that of the tribes of Israel. 
As to the form of the chair, we are only informed in l 
Kings x, 19 that “the top was round behind” (appar- 
ently meaning cither that the back was rounded off at 
the top or that there was a circular canopy over it). In 
lieu of this particular, we are told in 2 Chron. ix, 18 that 
“there was a footstool of gold fastened to the throne.” 
but the verbal agreement of the descriptions in other 
respects leads to the presumption that this variation 
arises out of a corrupted text (Thenius, Comm, on 1 
Kings, loc. cit.) — a presumption which is favored by the 
fact that the terms £333 and the Hophal form 
occur nowhere else. The king sat on his throne on state 
occasions, as when granting audiences (1 Kings ii, 19; 
xxii, 10; Esth. v, 1), receiving homage (2 Kings, xi, 
19), or administering justice (Prov. xx, 8). At such 
times he appeared in his royal robes (1 Kings xxii, 10; 
Jonah iii, 6; Acts xii, 21). Archelaus addressed the mul- 



titude from “an elevated seat and a throne of gold” (Jo- 
sephus, War, ii, 1.1). A throne was generally placed 
upon a dais or platform, and under a canopy ; and in the 
sublime description of the King of kings (Rev. iv), this 
latter is compared to the emerald hue of the rainbow. 
In Rev. iv, 4; xi, 16 the elders who represent the 
Church as reigning with Christ are seated on thrones 
placed around his; and in ii, 13 Satan is represent- 
ed as imitating the royal seat of Christ. For mod- 
ern Oriental thrones, see Yau Lennep, Bible Lands, 
p. 643. 

Mr. Layard discovered in the mound at Nimrud, 
among other extraordinary relics, the throne on which 
the Assyrian monarclis sat three thousand years ago. It 
is composed of metal and of ivory, the metal being richly 
wrought and the ivory beautifully carved. The throne 
seems to have been separated from the state apartments 
by means of a large curtain, the rings bv which it was 
drawn and undrawn having been preserved (Y in. and 
Bab. p. 198). The chair represented on the earliest 
monuments is without a back, the legs are tastefully 
carved, and the seat is adorned with the heads of rams. 


392 


THUGS 


TIIUONE, EPISCOPAL 


The cushion appears to have been of some rich stuff, 
embroidered or painted. The legs were strengthened 
bv a cross-bar, and frequently ended in the feet of a lion 
or the hoofs of a bull, cither of gold, silver, or bronze 
(Nineveh, ii, 235). The throne of the Egyptian mon- 
arehs is often exhibited on the ancient monuments, 
bee On a nt. 



The throne was the symbol of supreme power and 
dignity (Gen. xli, 40), and hence was attributed to .Je- 
hovah both in respect to his heavenly abode (Psa. xi, 
4; eiii, 19 ^ Isa. lxvi, 1 ; Acts vii, 49; Uev. iv, 2) and to 
his earthly abode at Jerusalem (oer. iii, 17), and more 
particularly in the Temple (xvii, 12; Ezek. xiiii, 7). 
Similarly, k, to sit upon the throne'’ implied the exercise 
of regal power (I)eur. xvii, 18; l Kings xvi, 11; 2 
Kings x, 30; Esth. i, 2), and “to sit upon the throne 
of another person” succession to the royal dignity (1 
Kings i, 13). The term “throne” is sometimes equiva- 
lent to “ kingdom” (2 Chron. ix, 8; Acts ii, 30; Heb. i, 
8). So, also, “ thrones” designates earthly potentates 
and celestial beings, archangels (Col. i, 16). See Seat. 

TIIRONE, Episcopal, the official seat placed in the 
cathedral, or chief seat of a diocese, and occupied by 
the bishop on public occasions. This was the common 
honor and privilege of all bishops from very early times. 
Thus Eusebius calls the bishop of Jerusalem’s seat 
S’pcipo^ cnrooroXiKnc, the apostolical throne, because 
James, bishop of Jerusalem, first sat in it. It was also 
called (3 i) pa, rostrum ; and Spoi'oc v\pi]X6g, the high 
tkrone, because it was exalted somewhat higher than 
the seats of the presbyters, which were on each side of 
it, and were called the second thrones. It generally 



Ecclesiastical Throne and its Accessories. 

1. Episcopal throne , 2. I’reabyUTS* seats ; 3. Cornmnnion-tiiMe ; 4. Cibo- 
rium ; 5. Beina or chancel ; 6. Chancel rail. 


stood at the east end of the choir or sanctuary ; that is, 
in churches which were built in the form of basilicas, 
and were apsidal. This is still the case at Milan and 
Augsburg. In mediaeval times the bishop’s seat was 
frequently the best and most exclusive stall on the 
south side, and almost invariably occupied by him dur- 


ing the solemn recital of divine office. During mass, 
and on occasions when services took place at the altar, 
his throne was placed against the north wall within the 
sanctuary. Most of the English thrones are of wood, 
richly carved, while abroad they are frequently of stone. 
At St. Mark’s, Venice, the Cathedral of Malta, and at 
the Cathedral of Verona the episcopal thrones are of 
marble. At Ravenna, Spalatro, and Torcello they are 
of alabaster; at St. Peter’s, Rome, the throne is of 
bronze; and at Ravenna, St. Maximian’s throne is of 
ivory. In Portugal and Spain the episcopal throne is 
commonly that one which in England is occupied by 
the dean, the first on the decani side. See Bingham, 
Christ. Antiq. bk. ii, ch. ix, § 7 ; Lee, Gloss, of Liturcj. 
Terms, s. v. ; Walcott, Sacred A rchicol. s. v. 

Thrupp, Fkancis Joseph, an English clergyman, 
was born in 1827, and educated at Winchester School 
and Trinity College, Cambridge, where he obtained a 
fellowship. He took orders in the Church of England, 
travelled in the East, and became vicar of Barrington, 
Cambridgeshire, where be died, Sept. 24, 1867. He was 
the author of Ancient Jerusalem: a New Investigation 
into the History, Topography , and Plan of the City , etc. 
(Camb. 1855, 8vo): — Introduction to the Study and Use 
of the Psalms (1860, 2 vols. 8vo): — The Song of Songs: 
a New Translation, Commentary, etc. (1862): — and The 
Burden of Human Sin as Borne by Christ (three ser- 
mons). He also furnished articles for Smith’s Diet, of 
the Bible, and prepared part of the commentary on the 
Pentateuch for the Speaker's Commentary. See Alli- 
bone, Diet, of Brit . and A mer. A uthors , s. v. 

Thrym, in Norse mythology, was a giant king of 
great strength, who, being a born enemy of Thor, sought 
to deprive him of his weapons in order to make him less 
dreadful for the giants, lie succeeded in robbing Thor 
of his frightful hammer, Mjolnir, while Thor had fallen 
asleep. Loki discovered the thief and sought to nego- 
tiate with him. Thrym assured Loki that he did not 
intend to deliver up the hammer until the beautiful 
Freia was given him as his wife. When this was told 
secretly to Freia, the goddess of love, she became so 
angry that everything shook, and her golden necklace 
broke in twain. Then it seemed as if there were no 
remedy. Loki, however, who was always ready with 
advice, proposed that Thor should dress himself as the 
bride. Although this plan seemed too womanish for 
the mighty Thor, he nevertheless decided to try it; 
and went veiled, laden with riches, and accompanied by 
Loki as his chambermaid, to Thrvm. There the tre- 
mendous appetite of the bride caused great astonish- 
ment; but Loki knew how to excuse the goddess by 
the pretence of an eight days’ fast, to which he said 
she had subjected herself from longing for Thrym. So, 
also, her flaming eyes were excused from having been 
awake eight days. Thrym’s sister, more cautious than 
the fat giant, was suspicions of the matter, and would 
probably have detected the deception, as she had demand- 
ed to see the ring of Freia; but no sooner had Thrym 
brought him the hammer of Thor, to dedicate with it the 
bride, than Thor, seeing his Mjolnir, grasped it, and de- 
stroyed all the giants. — Vollmer, Wbrterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Tlmgs ( Himlft, thngna, “to deceive”), a religious 
fraternity in India, professedly in honor of the goddess 
Kali, wife of Siva, who were addicted to the committal 
of murders, and lived chiefly upon the plunder obtained 
from their victims. They were also called Phansigars , 
or “ stranglers,” from the Hindustani phansU a ‘‘noose.” 
The proceedings of the Thugs were generally these: 
banding together in gangs of from ten to fifty, and 
sometimes as high as three hundred, they assumed the 
appearance of ordinary traders; travelling, if able, on 
horseback with tents and other comforts; if not able 
to travel in this manner, they assumed more humble 
characters. Each gang had its jemadar, or leader; its 
j guru, or teacher; its sothcis , or entrappers; its bhuttotes, 
or stranglers; and its laghaees, or grave-diggers. 


TIIUGS 


393 


THUNDER 


Their mode of procedure was generally as follows: 
Some of the gang were employed to collect information 
respecting the movements of persons of means; and 
when they found one about to undertake a journey, en- 
deavored to insinuate themselves into his confidence. 
They then proposed to him to travel in their company, 
under the plea of safety or for the sake of society, or else 
followed him, waiting for ail opportunity to murder. 
This was generally accomplished by throwing a cloth 
around the neck of a victim, disabling him by strangula- 
tion, and then indicting the fatal injury. After the mur- 
der was perpetrated, the body was mutilated and secretly 
buried, so as to make detection the more difficult. The 
mode of dividing the plunder seems to have, been to 
appropriate one third to their goddess Kali, one third 
to the widows and orphans of the sect, and the remain- 
der to the partners in the assassination. 

The Thugs had for their patron goddess Devi or 
Kali, in whose name they exercised their profession, and 
to whom they ascribed their origin. Formerly they be- 
lieved Kali assisted them by devouring the bodies of 
their victims; but through the curiosity of one of the 
profession who pried into the proceedings of the god- 
dess, she became displeased, and condemned them in 
future to burv their victims. She, however, presented 
her worshippers with one of her teeth for a pickaxe, a 
rib for a knife, and the hem of her lower garment for a 
noose. The pickaxe was regarded with the highest rev- 
erence by the Thugs: it was made with the greatest 
care, consecrated by many and minutely regulated cer- 
emonies; intrusted to one selected for this dignity on 
account of his shrewdness, caution, and sobriety; and 
was submitted to special purifications each time after 
it had been used in the preparation of a grave. 

In honor of their guardian deity, there is a temple 
dedicated at Bindaehul, near Mirzapur, to the north of 
Bengal. When about to go out upon a murdering ex- 
pedition, the Thugs betook themselves to the temple of 
the goddess, presented their prayers, supplications, and 
offerings there, and vowed, in the event of success, to con- 
secrate to her service a large proportion of the booty. 
So implicit was their trust in Kali that no amount of 
misfortune, even death, could make them waver in their 
faith in her. All the evil that befell them they attrib- 
uted to a want of faithful observance of all the divinely 
appointed rules of their sanguinary craft. After every 
murder they performed a special solemnity called Tapuni , 
the principal feature of which consisted in addressing a 
prayer to the goddess, and in making the murderers 
partake of gaur, or consecrated sugar, the effect of 
which was believed to be irresistible. Another feast ob- 
served by the Thugs throughout India is Kurhae Kcmici , 
or Kote. It is also in honor of Kalt, and the requisites 
for its celebration are goats, rice, ghee (butter), spices, 
and spirits. The superstitions of the Thugs are all of 
Hindu origin; but they are also adopted by the Mo- 
hammedans, who, while stout adherents to the tenets 
of the Koran, yet pay divine honors to the Hindu god- 
dess of destruction. This inconsistency they sometimes 
reconcile by identifying Kali, whose other name is 
Bhavani, with Fatima, the daughter of Mohammed, 
and wife of Ali, and by saying that Fatima invented 
the use of the noose to strangle the great dtemon Ru- 
kutbTjdana. 

At various periods steps have been taken by the na- 
tive and English governments to suppress the Thugs, but 
it is only since 1831 that energetic measures have been 
adopted by the British authorities to counteract the evil. 
This has been successfully accomplished by captain 
(afterwards Sir William) Sleeman, who secured the ar- 
rest of every known Thug, or relative of a Thug, in In- 
dia. They were colonized at Jubbulpore, where tech- 
nical instruction was afforded them and their children. 
Their descendants are still under government supervis- 
ion there, and the practice of Thuggee has become ex- 
tinct. For a fuller account of the Thugs the reader is 
referred to Sleeman, Ramaseeana , or a Vocabulary of 


the Peculiar Language used bg the Thugs (183(5); Tay- 
lor, The Confessions of a Thug (Lond. 1858) ; Thornton, 
Illustrations of the History and Practices of the Thugs 
(ibid. 1837). 

Thumbstall, in ecclesiastical nomenclature, is a 
ring, set with pearls and rubies, or a rich ornament worn 
by the bishop over that part of the thumb of his right 
hand which had been dipped in the chrism, or holy oil. 
This was worn out of respect to the holy oil, and to pre- 
serve his garments from stains. It was removed at that 
part of the service when he washed his hands. This 
ring was anciently called a “ poueer.” 

Thum'mim. See Ukim and Thujimisi. 

Thunder (prop. OSH, rdam , fipovTi] ; occasionally 
[Exod. ix, 28, 29, 33, 34; xix, 1G; xx, 18; 1 Sam. vii, 
10; xii, 17, 18; Job xxviii, 26; xxxviii, 25] Vip, hoi, 
voice , as an elliptical expression for Jehovah's voice 
[Rsa. xxix, 3 sq., etc.] ; so also in the plur. f'b-p, thun- 
ders, Exod. ix, 23, etc.; which is likewise elliptical for 
the full voices of God [ix, 28] ; once [Job xxxix, 19 
(23)] erroneously in the A. V. for STCrn, raamdh , a 
shuddering , i. e. probably the mane of a horse as brist- 
ling and streaming in the wind). This sublimest of all 
the extraordinary phenomena of natur6 is poetically 
represented as the voice of God, which the waters 
obeyed at the Creation (Psa. civ, 7 ; comp. Gen. i, 9). 
For other instances see Job xxxvii, 4, 5; xl, 9; Psa. 
xviii, 13; and especially ch. xxix, whieh contains a 
magnificent description of a thunder-storm. Agree- 
ably to the popular speech of ancient nations, the poet 
ascribes the effects of lightning to the thunder, “The 
voice of the Lord breaketh the eedars” (ver. 5; comp. 
I Sam. ii, 19). In Jer. x, 13 the production of rain by 
lightning is referred to: “When he uttereth his voice, 
there is a multitude of waters in the heavens, he mak- 
eth lightnings with (or for) rain.” See Rain. Thun- 
der is also introduced into the poetical allusion to the 
passage of the Red Sea in Psa. lxxvii, 18. The plague 
of hail on the land of Egypt is very naturally repre- 
sented as accompanied with “mighty thundering*, ” 
which would be literally incidental to the immense 
agency of the electric fluid on that occasion (Exod. ix. 
22-29, 33, 34). It accompanied the lightnings at the 
giving of the law (xix, 1G; xx, 18). See also Psa. 
lxxxi, 7, which probably refers to the same occasion, 
“I answered thee in the secret place of thunder, ’’ liter- 
ally, “ in the covering of thunder,” i. e. the 

thunder-clouds. It was also one of the grandeurs at- 
tending the divine interposition described in 2 Sam.xxii, 
14; comp. Psa. xviii, 13. The enemies of Jehovah are 
threatened with destruction by thunder: perhaps, how- 
ever, lightning is included in the mention of the more 
impressive phenomenon (1 Sam. ii, 10). Such means 
are represented as used in the destruction of Senna- 
cherib’s army (Isa. xxix, 5-7; eomp. xxx. 30-33). 
Bishop Lowth would understand the description as 
metaphorical, and intended, under a variety of expres- 
sive and sublime images, to illustrate the greatness, the 
suddenness, the horror of the event, rather than the 
manner by which it was effected (new trails!., and notes 
ad loc.). Violent thunder was employed by Jehovah 
as a means of intimidating the Philistines in their at- 
tack upon the Israelites, while Samuel was offering the 
burnt-offering (1 Sam. vii, 10; Ecelus.xlvi, 17). Homer 
represents Jupiter as interposing in a battle with thun- 
der and lightning (Iliad, viii, 75, etc. ; x vii, 594; see 
also Spence, Polymetis, Dial, xiii, 211). The term thun- 
der was transferred to the war-shont of a military leader 
(Job xxxix, 25), and hence Jehovah is described as 
“causing his voice to be heard” in the battle (Isa. xxx, 
30). Thunder was miraculously sent at the request of 
Samuel (1 Sam. xii, 17, 18). It is referred to as a natu- 
ral phenomenon subject to laws originally appointed by 
the Creator (Job xxviii, 2G; xxxviii, 25; Eeclus. xliii, 


394 


THURIBLE 


THUNDER 

17); and is introduced in visions (Rev. iv, 5; vi, 1 ; viii, 
5; xi, 10; xiv, 2; xvi. IS; xix, G; Esther [Apoc.] xi, 
5). So in liev. x. 3,4, “seven thunders.” See Seven. It 
is adopted as a comparison. Thus “ as liglituing is seen 
before the thunder is heard, so modesty in a person before 
lie speaks recommends him to the favor bt the auditors” 
(Ecelus. xxxii, 10; Kev. xix, G, etc.). The sudden ruin 
of the unjust man is compared to the transitory noise 
of thunder (Ecclus. xl, 13) ; but see Arnald, ad loc. One 
of the sublimest metaphors in the Scriptures occurs in 
Job xxvi, 14. “ Lo, these are parts of his ways; but how 
little a portion is heard of him a mere whisper] ; 

but the thunder of his power, who can understand V” 
Here the whisper and the thunder are admirably op- 
posed to each other. If the former be so wonderful and 
overwhelming, how immeasurably more so the latter? 
In the sublime description of the war-horse (Job xxxix), 
he is said to perceive the battle afar off “ by the thunder 
of the captains, and the shouting” (ver. *25). That part 
of the description, however (ver. 19), “ hast thou clothed 
his neck with thunder?” appears to be a mistranslation. 
To the class of mistranslations must be referred every 
instance of the word “thunderbolts” in our version, a 
word which corresponds to no reality in nature. See 
TiiUNi>Ennoi/r. 

It is related (John xii, 28) that Jesus said, “ Father, 
glorify thy name. Then came there a voice from heav- 
en. saying, 1 have both glorified it, and will glorify it 
again.” Some of the people that stood by, but had not 
heard the words distinctly, said it had “thundered,” for 
the voice came from heaven; others who had caught 
the words supposed that God had spoken to Jesus by 
an angel, conformably to the Jewish opinion that God 
had never spoken hut by the ministry of angels. Per- 
haps, however, thunder attended the voice, either a lit- 
tle before or after; comp. Exod. xix, 1G, 19; Rev. iv, 5; 
vi, 1. See Bath-Kol. 

Thunder enters into the appellative or surname given 
by our Eord to James and John — Boanerges, o torn', 
vioi fipoiTiji says Mark, “sons of thunder” (iii, 17). 
Schleusner here understands the thunder of elo- 
quence as in Aristoph. ( .1 char. 530). Virgil applies 
a like figure to the tw r o Scipios.** Duo fulmina belli” 

(./;«. vi. 842). Others understand the allusion 
to be to the energy and courage, etc., of the two 
apostles (Larduer, llht. of the Apostles and Evan- 
gelists, ix, 1 ; Suicer. Thesaurus , s. v. BpovTij). 
Thcophvlact says they were so called because 
they were great preachers and divines, tog peya- 
\o Kppvtcag teat SsoXoyucordrovg. Others sup- 
pose the allusion to be to the proposal of these 
apostles to call fire from heaven on the inhospit- 
able Samaritans (Luke ix, 53. 54). It is not 
certain when our Lord so surnamed them. — Kit to. 

See Boanerges. 

In a physical point of view, the most noticeable 
feature in connection with thunder is the extreme 
rarity of its occurrence during the summer months 
in Palestine and the adjacent countries. From the 
middle of April to the middle of September it is 
hardly ever heard. Robinson, indeed, mentions 
an instance of thunder in the early part of May 
(flesfutrc/us, i, 430), and Russell in July {Aleppo, 
ii, 289): but in each case it is stated to be a most 
unusual event. Hence it was selected by Samuel 
as a striking expression of the Divine displeasure 
towards the Israelites; “Is it not wheat harvest 
to-day? I will call upon the Lord, and he shall 
send thunder and rain” (1 Sam. xii, 17). Rain in 
harvest was deemed as extraordinary as snow in 
summer (Prov. xxvi, 1), and Jerome asserts that 
lie had never witnessed it in the latter part of 
June, or in July {Comment, on Amos iv, 7); the 
same observations apply equally to thunder, 
which is rarely unaccompanied with rain (Rus- 
sell, i, 72; ii, 285). — Smith. Lieutenant Lynch, 


in the month of May, witnessed a thunder - storm 
in the mountains of Moab, near the Dead Sea. He 
says, “ Before we had half ascended the pass, however, 
there came a shout of thunder from the dense cloud 
which had gathered at the summit of the gorge, fol- 
lowed by a rain, compared to which the gentle showers 
of our more favored dime are as dew’-drops to the over- 
flowing cistern. The black and threatening cloud 
soon enveloped the mountain-tops, the lightning play- 
ing across it in incessant Hashes, while the loud thun- 
der reverberated from side to side of the appalling 
chasm. Between the peals we soon heard a roaring 
and continuous sound. It w r as the torrent from the 
rain-cloud, sweeping in a long line of foam down the 
steep declivity, bearing along huge fragments of rock, 
which, striking against each other, sounded like mimic 
thunder” ( Expedition , p. 353). Sec Lightning. 

Thunderbolt (wj—'n, resheph , a flame, or “coal,” 
Cant, viii, 6 ; hence lightning ; fig. for arrow, Psa. lxxvi, 
3; or fever , Dent, xxxii, 24). In accordance with the 
popular notion, “hot thunderbolts” (Psa. lxxvi ii, 48, 
C n 2«H, Sept, rig Tvvpi, Vulg, igm) means “lightnings.” 
“Then shall the right-aiming thunderbolts go abroad” 
(Wisd. v, 21), (3o\ictg darpaTTun', “ Hashes” or “strokes 
of lightning.” “ Threw stones like thunderbolts” (2 
Mace, i, 16), avvtKtpavvmaav. The word conveys an 
allusion to the mode in which lightning strikes the 
earth. See Lightning. 

Thundering Legion. Sec Legion, Thunder- 
ing. 

Thurarii, a name given by Tertullian to those who 
sold frankincense to heathen temples, and whose busi- 
ness could not be free from the imputation of idolatry, 
because it furnished what was necessary to the wor- 
ship of idols. 

Thurible, a censer used in some of the services of 
the Roman Catholic Church, made of metal, usually in 
the form of a vase, with a cover perforated to allow’ the 
scented fumes of the burn- 
ing incense to escape. It 
is usually carried by three 
chains which are attached 
to points around the lower 
portion, while a fourth is 
sometimes connected with 
the above, being united to 
the ring or handle, and is 
used at intervals to raise 
the upper portion or cov- 
ering of the censer and al- 
low the incense to escape 



Thuribles: 1. Silver-gilt; 2. Copper-gilt. 



THURIFER 


395 


TIIYATIRA 


more freely. In the 8th century thuribles were com- 
monly used and directions for their due adoption en- 
joined by the authority of the local synods. At Rome 
there are thuribles of gold in the treasury of the Church 
of St. John Lateran, reputed to have been given by 
the emperor Constantine. There is an old silver cen- 
ser at Louvain, more than twelve at Milan Cathedral, 
seven at Metz Cathedral, four of silver-gilt at Notre 
Dame, Paris, of the 14th century, and some remarka- 
ble specimens at Rheims and at Treves. There are 
a few examples still in use in England, and several 
at the South Kensington and the British Museum and 
in private collections. The thurible is used at high 
mass, at vespers, at the benediction with the blessed 
sacrament, at funerals, public thanksgivings, etc. It 
has often been used in the Church of England since 
the Reformation. See Lee, Gloss, of Liturg. Terms, 
s. v. ; Parker, Gloss, of A rchitect . s. v. 

Thurifer ( incense-bearer ), the ministering attend- 
ant in the Roman Catholic Church whose duty it is to 
carry the thurible or censer and swing it at the appoint- 
ed time during service. lie is ordinarily a chorister 
or acolyte, but on great occasions a subdeaeon, deacon, 
or even a priest. 

Thurificati, or Thurificatores (incense-offerers'), 
names for those who, during the pagan persecutions, 
consented to offer frankincense on an altar dedicated to 
an idol, in order to escape torture or death. This act 
of apostasy severed them from the Christian Church ; 
and it was not till, by long penance, they had given 
satisfactory proof of sorrow for their crime that they 
were readmitted. See Lapsed; Liuellatict. 

Thuringia, Council of ( Concilium Quintilmebur - 
gense or Xorthu sense), was held in 1105 by the emperor 
Henry, who had lately suc- 
ceeded in reuniting Saxony to 
the Roman obedience. The 
council was held in the palace. 

The decrees of the preceding 
councils were confirmed, and 
the heresy of the Nicolaitans 
(meaning the concubinage of 
the clergy) was condemned. — 

Landon, Manual of Councils , 
s. v. 

Thuroferary ( incense- 
bearer}, a priest who bears the 
censer during the services of 
the Greek Church. lie also 
assists the officiating priest to 
put on his sacerdotal vest- 
ments, and, during the anthem, 
spreads a veil over the conse- 
crated vessels. 

Thursday (Anglo-Saxon 
Thors -daeg, i. e. Thor’s Day), 
the liies Jovis of the Roman 
calendar, and sacred, in the 
Northern mythology, to Thor. It is called in German 
Uonnerstag, thunder day. In the early Church, Au- 
gustine complained that some of the Christians per- 
sisted in keeping Thursday as a holyday in honor of 
Jupiter. 

THURSDAY of tfie Great Canon, an Eastern 
phrase for the Thursday after Trinity Sunday. 

Thurston, David, D.D.,a Congregational minister, 
was born in Georgetown, Mass., Feb. 6, 1779. lie was 
the uncle of the Rev. R. B. Thurston and half-brother 
of the Rev. Stephen Thurston, D.I). He graduated at 
Dartmouth College in 1804, and was ordained at Win- 
throp. Me., in 1807, where he remained pastor until 1851, 
with no intermission except the year in which he was 
agent for the American Antislavery Society (1837), and 
the four months in 1850 when he attended the Peace 


Congress in Frankfort, Germany. During the remainder 
of his life, he labored four years each at Vassalborough, 
Searsport, and Litchfield, Me. lie died at the latter 
place, May 7, 18G5. Dr. Thurston was a man of emi- 
nent piety, an earnest speaker, and no mean theologian. 
In 1819 he declined a professorship in Bangor Theolog- 
ical Seminary, and in 1853 wished to decline the de- 
gree of D.D. from Dartmouth College, lie published 
twenty-two sermons, some in pamphlet form and some 
in periodicals: — Growth in Grace: — History of II T in- 
throp (247 pp.) : — Letters of a Father to a Eon: — and 
newspaper articles without number. See Cong. Quar- 
terly , 18G7, p. 313-328. 

Thyati'ra (QvaTEipa [rd], Vulg. c«Y?7rts Thyatire- 
norum ), a city in Asia Minor, the seat of one of the 
seven Apocalyptic churches (Rev. i, II ; ii, 18). It was 
situated on the confines of Mysia and Ionia, a little to 
the south of the river Ilyllus, and at the northern ex- 
tremity of the valley between Mount Tmolus and the 
southern ridge of Temnus. It was founded by Seleu- 
cus Nieator, and was regarded as a Macedonian colony 
(Strabo, xiii, 928), from the strong Macedonian ele- 
ment in its population, it being one of the many Mace- 
donian colonies established in Asia Minor, in the sequel 
of the destruction of the Persian empire by Alexander. 
The original inhabitants had probably been distributed 
in hamlets round about when Thyatira was founded. 
Two of these, the inhabitants of which are termed Areni 
and Nagdemi, are noticed in an inscription of the Ro- 
man times. According to Pliny, it was known in ear- 
lier times by the names Pelopia and Euhippia (Hist. 
Nat. v, 29). The Roman road from Pergamos to Sar- 
dis passed through it. The resources of the neighbor- 
ing region may be inferred both from the name Euhip- 
pia and from the magnitude of the booty which was 


carried off in a foray, conducted jointly by Eumenes of 
Pergamos and a force detached by the Roman admiral 
from Cana?, during the war against Antiochus. During 
the campaign of B.C. 190, Thyatira formed the base of 
the king’s operations ; and after his defeat, which took 
place only a few miles to the south of the city, it sub- 
mitted, at the same time with its neighbor Magnesia- 
on-Sipylus, to the Romans, and was included in the ter- 
ritory made over by them to their ally the Pergameiie 
sovereign. 

During the continuance of the Attalie dynasty, Thy- 
atira scarcely appears in history; and of the various 
inscriptions which have been found on the site, not one 
unequivocally belongs to earlier times than those of 
the Roman empire. The prosperity of the city seems 
to have received a new impulse under Vespasian, whose 
acquaintance with the East, previously to mounting 



T1IYATIRA 


396 


THYATIRA 


tlie imperial throne, may have directed his attention to 1 
the development of the resources of the Asiatic cities. 
A bilingual inscription, in Greek and Latin, belonging 
to the latter part of his reign, shows him to have re- 
stored the roads in the domain of Thvatira. From 
others, between this time and that of Caracalla, there 
is evidence of the existence of many corporate guilds in 
the city, linkers, potters, tanners, weavers, robemakers, 
and dyers (oi /3a0ttc) are specially mentioned. Of 
these last there is a notice in no less than three inscrip- 
tions, so that dyeing apparently formed an important 
part of the industrial activity of Thvatira. as it did of 
that of Colossal? and Laodic;ea. With this guild there 
can be no doubt that Lydia, the seller of purple stuffs 
(rop^opoTTwXfc), from whom Paul met with so favora- 
ble a reception at Philippi (Acts xvi, 14), was connected. 
The country around this city is fertile and well watered, 
abounding in oaks and acacias, and in its numberless 
streamlets are found the leeches used in medicine 
throughout Austria and the east of Europe in general. 
The mode of taking them is curious: a number of 
children are sent to walk barefooted among the brooks, 
and come back to their employers with their feet 
covered with leeches. The waters here are said to 
he so well adapted for dyeing that in no place can 
the scarlet cloth out of which fezzes are made be so 
brilliantly or so permanently dyed as here. The place 
still maintains its reputation for this manufacture, and 
large quantities of scarlet cloth are sent weekly to 
Smyrna. 

Thvatira is at present a populous and flourishing 
town; its inhabitants amount to seventeen thousand, 
and they are on the increase. Its modern name is 
Ak-hissur y or “the white castle.” The town consists 
of about two thousand houses, for which taxes are paid 
to the government, besides two or three hundred small 
huts; of the former, three hundred are inhabited by 
Greeks, thirty bj T Armenians, and the rest bv Turks. 
The common language of all classes is the Turkish ; 
but in writing it the Greeks use the Greek, and the 
Armenians the Armenian characters. There are nine 
mosques ami one Greek church. It exhibits few re- 
mains of antiquity, save fragments built into the walls 
of houses. There is, indeed, an ancient building in a 
very ruinous condition at a little distance from the 
city, to which tradition has given the name of the Pal- 
ace of the Caesars; it is impossible to determine either 
its date or its purpose. Put though there is little that 
can be identified, yet for miles around Thvatira are 
precious relics in the form of sarcophagi, capitals of 
columns, and similar fragments, used as troughs, cover- 
ings for wells, and such purposes. 

Thvatira was never a place of paramount political 
importance, and hence her history is less interesting to 
the classical student than those of Ephesus, Sardis, and 
Pergamos, which were the capitals of great kingdoms. 
Her chief hold on our consideration is that at Thvatira 
was seated one of those churches to which the Spirit 
sent prophetic messages by the beloved apostle. The 
message itself is one of peculiar interest, but presenting 
at the same time a remarkable difficulty. After much 
commendation on the virtues and progress of the Church 
— or the elder, pastor, bishop, or angel — the epistle con- 
tinues, “ Notwithstanding 1 have a few things against 
thee, because thou sufferest that woman (or as the cor- 
rect text has it, thy wife) Jezebel, which calleth her- 
self a prophetess, to teach and to seduce mv servants to 
commit fornication, and toeatthings sacrificed unto idols” 
(Kev. ii, 20). This is followed by threats of judgment 
upon herself, her lovers, and her children. The question 
naturally arises, What party is represented by this Jeze- 
bel? To understand this message rightly, it will have 
to be borne in mind that Thvatira was very near Per- 
gamos. and that the latter was by far the more important 
city, and probably possessed the more numerous Church; 
the influence and example of Pergamos would be like- 
ly to have a great influence on the smaller city and 


Church. See Pergamos. Now, at Pergamos, the Ba- 
laamites, who taught precisely the doctrine here attrib- 
uted to Jezebel, were numerous, as well as the Nico- 
lnitans (q. v.). We are not, therefore, at all to be sur- 
prised at finding a party espousing and endeavoring to 
propagate similar sentiments in Thvatira; but it would 
be a miserable literalism, and contrary to the whole 
genius of the Apocalyptic imagery, to suppose the lead- 
er of this heretical sect to be a woman of the name of 
Jezebel. We can only understand by this a person 
holding substantially the same relation to the official 
head of the Church in Thvatira which Jezebel of old 
did to the king of Israel; that is, a party that ought to 
have been in subjection usurping it, for wicked purposes, 
over the proper ruler. For this the leader is severely 
rebuked, and the heaviest judgments threatened both 
against him and the usurping party unless they re- 
pent. There was still, however, a faithful portion 
who stood aloof from the licentious teaching which 
was propagated. To them the Lord turns with words 
of encouragement, and exhorts them to hold fast what 
they had received. There is a small error also in 
the text at the commencement of this address. It 
should be “But unto you I say, the rest in Thvatira;” 
those, namely, who resisted the pollution. The re- 
ceived text confuses the meaning by putting it, “But 
unto von I say, and to the rest,” as if both parties 
were alike called to continue steadfast. See Jeze- 
bel. 

The principal deity of the city was Apollo, wor- 
shipped as the sun-god under the surname Tyrimnas. 
He was no doubt introduced by the Macedonian col- 
onists, for the name is Macedonian. One of the three 
mythical kings of Macedonia, whom the genealogists 
placed before Perdiccas — the first of the Temenidie that 
Herodotus and Thucydides recognise — is so called; the 
other two being Caranus and Ccenus, manifestly imper- 
sonations of the chief and the tribe. The inscriptions 
of Thvatira give Tyrimnas the titles of irpoTroXig and 
7rpo7rciTiop 3fcd£, and a special priesthood was attached 
to liis service. A priestess of Artemis is also men- 
tioned, probably the administratrix of a cult derived 
from the earlier times of the city, and similar in its 
nature to that of the Ephesian Artemis. Another su- 
perstition of an extremely curious nature which existed 
at Thvatira, seems to have been brought thither by 
some of the corrupted Jews of the dispersed tribes. A 
fane stood outside the walls dedicated to Sambatha — 
the name of the sibyl who is sometimes called Chal- 
dean, sometimes Jewish, sometimes Persian — in the 
midst of an enclosure designated “ the Chaldean’s 
court” (rou XaXdaiov 7TEpij3oXog). This lends an ad- 
ditional illustration to the above passage (Kev. ii, 20, 
21). which seems to imply a form of religion that had 
become condemnable from the admixture of foreign 
alloy, rather than one idolatrous ab initio. Now there 
is evidence to show that in Thvatira there was a great 
amalgamation of races. Latin inscriptions are frequent, 
indicating a considerable influx of Italian immigrants; 
and in some Greek inscriptions many Latin words are 
introduced. Latin and Greek names, too, are found ac- 
cumulated on the same individuals, such as Titus An- 
tonins Alfenns Arignotus and Julia Severina Stratonieis. 
But amalgamation of different races in pagan nations 
always Avent together with a syncretism of different 
religions, every relation of life having its religious sanc- 
tion. If the sibyl Sambatha was really a JeA\ T ess, lend- 
ing her aid to this proceeding, and not discountenanced 
by the authorities of the Jud:eo-Christian Church at 
Thvatira, both the censure and its qualification become 
easy of explanation. It seems also not improbable that 
the imagery of the description in Kev. ii, 18, 6 t\ojv 
rovg dtpSaXpovg avrov tog tpXbya, rat oi 7rvctg avrov 
op-otoi x a XtcoXif3(n'(ij, may have been suggested by the 
current pagan representations of the tutelary deity of 
the city. See a parallel case at Smyrna (q. w). Be- 
sides the cults which have been mentioned, there is 


THYINE WOOD 


397 


TIARA 


evidence of a deification of Rome, of Hadrian, and of 
the imperial family. Games were celebrated in honor 
of Tyrimnas, of Hercules, and of the reigning emperor. 
On the coins before the imperial times, the heads of 
Bacchus, of Athena, and of Cybelc are also found ; but 
the inscriptions only indicate a cult of the last of these. 
— Smith ; Fairbairn. 



See Strabo, xiii, 4 ; Pliny, Hist. Nat. v, 31 ; Livy, 
xxxvii, 8, ‘21, 44; Polybius, xvi, 1 ; xxxii, 25; /Elian, 
Var. Hist . xii, 35: Bockh, Inscript. Grcec. Thyatir.. es- 
pecially Nos. 3484-3499; Jablonski, De Ecclesiu Thyu- 
tirensi (Francof. ad V. 1739); Stosch, Antiq. Thyatiren. 
(Zwoll. 1763); Hoffmann, GriechenlanJ, ii, 1714; Svobo- 
da, Seven Churches of A sia Minor, p. 48 sq. ; Barber, Pat- 
inos and Seven Churches (Bridgeport, 1851), p. 187 sq. ; 
and the works cited under Asia Minor and Revela- 
tion. 

Thy'ine Wood (Zv\qv Svivov; Vulg. lignum thy - 
innm ) occurs once in Rev. xviii, 12 (margin “sweet” 
[wood]), where it is mentioned as one of the valuable 
articles of commerce that should be found no more in 
Babylon (Rome), whose fall is there predicted by John. 
Symmachus and the Vulg. also understand it to be 
meant by the algum-trees of 1 Kings x, 11. There 
can be little doubt that the wood here spoken of is that 
of the Thuya articuluta, Des Font., the Cullitris quadri - 
raids of present botanists. Most of our readers are 



familiar with the “arbor vitae,” Thuja accident alls, so 
common in our shrubberies. Closely allied to this — in 
the same cvpress-like division of the Conifers; indeed, 
until lately included in the genus Thuja — is the tree in 
question. This wood was in considerable demaud by 
the Romans, being much employed by them in the or- 


namental wood-work of their villas, and also for tables, 
bowls, and vessels of different kinds. It was also fra- 
grant (/Elian, I ar. Ilist. v, 6). It is noticed by most 
ancient authors from the time of Theophrastus (Plant. 
v, 5; see /Elian, Aniin. ii, 11 ; Strabo, iv, 202). It was 
the citron-wood of the Romans; thus Salmasius, “9t'« 
Theophrasti est ilia citrus, quae citreas mensas dabat 
Romanis inter lautissima opera” (Celsius, Hierobot. ii, 
25). It was produced only in Africa, in the neighbor- 
hood of Mount Atlas, and in Granada, “citrum, arborem 
Africa peeuliarem esse, ncc alibi nasci.” It grew to a 
goodly size, “quarum amplitmlo ac radices ajstimari 
possunt ex orbibus” (Pliny, Hist. Nat. xiii, 15). Fab- 
ulous prices were given for tables and other orna- 
mental furniture made of citrus-wood (see Pliny, loc. 
cit.). 

This cedar or citron-wood ( Cullitris quadrivalvis , the 
Thuja articuluta of Linnams) is a native of Mount At- 
las, and of other uncultivated hills on the coast of Afri- 
ca. It grows to a height of from fifteen to twenty-five 
feet. In the kingdom of Morocco, according to Brous- 
souel, this tree produces the Sandarach resin of com- 
merce. Captain Cook, in his Sketches in Spain (vol. ii), 
brought to light the fact that the wood-work of the 
roof of the celebrated mosque now the Cathedral of 
Cordova, built in the 9th century, is of this wood; it 
had previously been thought to be that of the larch, 
from the resemblance of the Spanish word alerce, which 
is applied to the wood of Cullitris quadrivalvis in Spain 
and Barbary, to the Latin word larix. “By a singular 
coincidence, the subject has been undergoing investi- 
gation about the same time in Africa. 31 r. Hay, the 
British consul at Tangiers, had, by tracing the Arabic 
etymology of the word alerce (no doubt al arz or eres), 
by availing himself of the botanical researches of the 
Danish consul in Morocco, and by collating the ac- 
counts of the resident Moors, made out that the alerce 
was the Thuja articuluta which grows on Mount Atlas. 
In corroboration of his views, a plank of its timber was 
sent to London. This plank, which is in possession of 
the Horticultural Society, is one foot eight inches in 
width. The Cordova wood is highly balsamic and 
odoriferous, the resin, no doubt, preventing the ravages 
of insects as well as the influence of the air” (Loudon, 
Arboret. iv, 2463). The wood is dark nut-brown, close- 
grained, and is very fragrant (Tristram, Nut. Hist, of 
the Bible , p. 402). Lady Calcott ( Script . Herbal, p. 2) 
regards it as the almug (q. v.) of the Old Test. See 
Botany. 

Thym, Joiiann Friedrich Wilhelm, a Protestant 
theologian of Germany, was born in Berlin, Sept, 5, 1768. 
and died there 31 ay 21. 1803. He wrote, De Vita Mosis 
a Philone Conscriptci (Halle, 1796): — Versuch einer hi - 
storisch-hritischen Durstellung der jud. Lehre von einer 
Fortdauer nach dem Tode (Berlin, 1795) : — Theol. Ency- 
klop. u. Metliodologie (Halle, 1797 ) : — Historisch - kri- 
tisches Lehrbuch der Ilomiletik (ibid. 1800). See Fiirst, 
Bibl.Jud. iii, 480 ; Winer, Handbuch der theol. Liter at ur, 
i, 2, 474, 604; ii, 48, 59, 312, 802. (B. P.) 

Thyrori (Gvpwpoi, door-keepers ), a lower order of 
the clergy in the Greek Church, which was done away 
with from the time of the Council of Trullo, A.D. 692. 
— Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. iii, ch. vi, § 1. 

Thysiasterium (Gr. 9 raiaarppior, altar-part'), a 
word usually applied to the altar itself, or the Lord’s ta- 
bic; yet, in some ancient canons, used to denote the 
whole sanctuary within the rails, where none but the 
clergy were allowed. — Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. viii, 
ch. vi, § 3. 

Tiamat was, in Acadian mythology, the goddess 
who presided over the creation. She was a form, or 
rather another name, of the goddess Tihamtu (the 
Sea). 

Tiara, the name of the pope’s triple crown, which is 
the badge of his civil rank as the keys are of his ecclc- 




TIBERIAS 


393 


TIBERIAS 


siastical functions. It is composed of a high cap of 
gold cloth, encircled by three coronets, with a mound 
(and cross) of gold on 
the top. The tiara was 
originally a round high 
cap, and was first used 
bv pope Damasus H, 

A.D. 1048. Pope John 
All I first girded it with 
a crown ; pope Boni- 
face VI II added a sec- 
ond crown in 1295; and 
pope lie ii edict XIII 
added the third in 1335, 
although some ascribe 
the latter to Urban V 
(1302-70). The tiara, 
when used as an im- 
perial portion of dress, 
had at the bottom of 
it one golden circle of a 
crown -like shape. See 
Pope. 

Tibe'rias (New Test, and Josephus TtfitpiaQ, Tal- 
mud the most important city on the Lake of 

Galilee in the time of Christ. (The following account 
of it is chiefly based upon that given in Smith’s Diet . 
of the Bible.) 

1. Origin and Early Associations. — The place is first 
mentioned in the New Test. (John vi, 1, 23, xxi, I), 
and then by Josephus {Ant. xviii, 2, 3; Tl't/r, ii, 9, 1), 
who states that it was built by Herod Antipas, and was 
named by him in honor of the emperor Tiberius. It 
was probably not a new town, but a restored or enlarged 
one merely; for Rakkath (Josh, xix, 35), ■which is said 
in the Talmud (Jerusalem Meg ilia h,fo\. 701; comp. Otho, 
Lex. Rail. p. 755) to have occupied the same position, 
lay in the tribe of Naphtali (if we follow the bounda- 
ries as indicated by the clearest passages), and Tiberias 
appears to have been within the limits of the same 
tribe (Matt, iv, 13). If the graves mentioned by Jose- 
phus (.la/, loc. cit.) are any objection, they must mili- 
tate against this assumption likewise (Lightfoot, CVzo- 
rog. Cent. c. 72-74). The same remark may be made 
respecting Jerome’s statement that Tiberias succeeded 
to the place of the earlier Chinnereth {0 nomast icon, s. v.) ; 
but this latter town has been located by some farther 
north and by others farther south than the site of Ti- 
berias. The tenacity with which its Roman name has 
adhered to the spot (see below) indicates its entire re- 
construction ; for, generally speaking, foreign names in 
the East applied to towns previously known under names 
derived from the native dialect — as, e. g., Epiphania for 
Ilammath (Josh. xix, 35), l’almyra forTadmor(2 Chron. 
viii, 4), Ptolemais fur Akko (Acts xxi, 7) — lost their 
foothold as soon as the foreign power passed away 
which had imposed them, and gave place again to the 
original appellations. 

Tiberias was the capital of Galilee from the time of 
its origin until the reign of Herod Agrippa II, who 
changed the seat of power back again to Sepphoris, 
where it had been before the founding of the new city. 
51 any of the inhabitants were Greeks and Romans, and 
foreign customs prevailed there to such an extent as 
to give offence to the stricter Jews. See Hekodian. 
Herod, the founder of Tiberias, had passed most of his 
early life in Italy, and had brought with him thence a 
taste for the amusements and magnificent buildings 
with which he had been familiar in that country, lie 
built a stadium there, like that in which the Roman 
youth trained themselves for feats of rivalry and war. 
lie erected a palace, which he adorned with figures of 
animals, ;; contrary,” as Josephus says {Life, § 12, 13, 
64). *’ to the law of our countrymen.” The place was so 
much the less attractive to the Jews, because, as the I 


same authority states (.!«/. xviii, 2, 3), it stood on the 
site of an ancient burial-ground, and was viewed, there- 
fore, by the more scrupulous among them almost as a 
polluted and forbidden locality. Tiberias was one of 
the four cities which Nero added to the kingdom of 
Agrippa (.Josephus, War, xx. 13, 2). Coins of the city 
of Tiberias are still extant, which are referred to the 
times of Tiberius, Trajan, and Hadrian. 



Obverse — Legend in Greek “ of Herod the Tetrarch palm-branch and the 
date 33 (A.D. 29). Reverse — Wreath with legend “ Tiberias.” 

2. Scriptural Mention. — It is remarkable that the 
Gospels give us no information that the Saviour, who 
spent so much of his public life in Galilee, ever visited 
Tiberias. The surer meaning of the expression, ” He 
went away beyond the sea of Galilee of Tiberias,” in 
John vi, 1 (iripav rpg $a\d(ro})<; rpc VaXiXaiaQ r//£ 
T ifiepidlof), is not that Jesus embarked from Tiberias, 
but, as Meyer remarks, that he crossed from the west 
side of the Galilcean sea of Tiberias to the opposite 
side. A reason has been assigned for this singular fact, 
which may or may not account for it. As Herod, the 
murderer of John the Baptist, resided most of the time 
in this city, the Saviour may have kept purposely away 
from it, on account of the sanguinary and artful (Luke 
xiii, 32) character of that ruler. It is certain, from 
Luke xxiii,8, that though Herod had heard of the fame 
of Christ, he never saw T him in person until they met at 
Jerusalem, and never witnessed any of his miracles. It 
is possible that the character of the place, so much like 
that of a Roman colony, may have been a reason why 
he who was sent to the lost sheep of the house of Israel 
performed so little labor in its vicinity. The head of the 
lake, and especially the Plain of Gennesarct, where the 
population was more dense and so thoroughly Jewish, 
formed the central point of his Galikean ministry. The 
feast of llerod and his courtiers, before whom the daugh- 
ter of Ilerodias danced, and, in fulfilment of the tetrarch’s 
rash oath, demanded the head of the dauntless reformer, 
was held in all probability at Tiberias, the capital of 
the province. If, as Josephus mentions {Ant, xviii, 5, 
2), the Baptist was imprisoned at the time in the castle 
of Machterus beyond the Jordan, the order for his exe- 
cution could have been sent thither, and the bloody 
trophy forwarded to the implacable Herodias at the 
palace where she usually resided. Gams {Johannes der 
Tdufer im Gefdngniss , p. 47, etc.) suggests that John, 
instead of being kept all the time in the same castle, 
may have been confined in different places at different 
times. The three passages already referred to are the 
only ones in the New Test, which mention Tiberias 
by name, viz. John vi, 1 ; xxi, 1 (in both instances 
designating the lake on which the town was situ- 
ated), and vi, 23, where boats are said to have come 
from Tiberias near to the place at which Jesus had 
miraculously supplied the wants of the multitude. 
Thus the lake in the time of Christ, among its other 
appellations, bore also that of the principal city in the 
neighborhood; and in like manner, at the present day, 

I Bahr Tubarieh , "Sea of Tiberias,” is almost the only 
name under which it is known among the inhabitants 
of the country. 

3. Later Jewish Importance. — Tiberias has an inter- 
esting history, apart from its strictly Biblical associa- 
tions. It bore a conspicuous part in the wars between 
the Jews and the Romans, as its fortifications were an 
important military station (Josephus, ITur, ii, 20, 6; Hi, 



TIBEUIAS 


399 


TIBERIAS 


10, 1 ; Life> § 8 sq.). The Sanhedrim, subsequently to original site, except that it is confined to narrower lim- 
tbe fall of Jerusalem, after a temporary sojourn at Jam- its than those of the original city. According to Jose- 
nia and Sepphoris, became fixed there about the middle phus (Life. § G5), Tiberias was 30 stadia from Hippo, 
of the 2d century. Celebrated schools of Jewish learn- GO from Gadara, and 120 from Scvthopolis; according 
ing flourished there through a succession of several cen- to the Talmud, it was 13 1 Ionian miles from Sepphoris. 
turies. The Mishna was compiled at this place by the The place is four and a half hours from Nazareth, one 
great rabbi Judah hak-lvodesh (A.D. 190). The Maso- hour from Mqjdel, possibly the ancient Magdala, and 
rah, or body of traditions, which has transmitted the read- thirteen hours, by the shortest route, from Hamas or 
ings of the Hebrew text of the Old Test., and preserved, Ctesarea Philippi. Near Tubarieli, about a mile farther 
by means of the vowel system, the pronunciation of the south along the shore, are the celebrated warm baths, 
Hebrew, originated, in a great measure, at Tiberias. The which the Homan naturalists (Pliny, Hist. Nat. v, 15) 
place passed, under Constantine, into the power of the reckoned among the greatest known curiosities of the 
Christians; and during the period of the Crusades it was world. The intermediate space between these baths 
lost and won repeatedly by the different combatants, and the town abounds with the traces of ruins, such as 
Since that time it has been possessed successively by the foundations of walls, heaps of stone, blocks of gran- 
Persians, Arabs, and Turks; and it contains now, under i it.e, and the like; and it cannot be doubted, therefore, 
the Turkish rule, a mixed population of Mohammedans, I that the ancient Tiberias occupied also this ground, and 
Jews, and Christians, variously estimated at from two was much more extensive than its modern successor, 
to four thousand. The Jews constitute, perhaps, one From such indications, and from the explicit testimony 
fourth of the entire number. They regard Tiberias as of Josephus, who says (Ant. xviii, 2, 3) that Tiberias 
one of the four holy places (Jerusalem, Hebron, Safed, was near Ammaus (’Ajtijtmoi'c), or the Warm Paths, 
are the others), in which, as they say, prayer must be there can be no uncertainty respecting the identifica- 
offered without ceasing, or the world would fall back in- tion of the site of this important city. (See also the 
stantlv into chaos. One of their singular opinions is Mishna, Skabb. iii, 4 ; and other Talmudical passages in 
that the Messiah, when he appears, will emerge from the Lightfoot’s Horce Ileb. p. 133 sq. Comp. Wichmanns- 
waters of the lake, and, landing at Tiberias, proceed to hausen, De Thermis Tiberiensibns, in Ugolino, Thesaur. 
Safed, and there establish his throne on the highest j tom. vii.) These springs contain sulphur, salt, and iron ; 



Town and Lake of Tiberias, from the North-west. 


summit in Galilee. In addition to the language of the [ and were employed for medicinal purposes. See Ham- 
partieular country, as Poland, Germany, Spain, from math. 

which they or their families emigrated, most of the! It stood anciently, as now. on the western shore, about 
Jews here speak also the Kabbinie Hebrew and modern two thirds of the way between the northern and south- 
Arabic. They occupy a quarter in the middle of the ern end of the Sea of Galilee. There is a margin or 
town, adjacent to the lake; just north of which, near strip of land there between the water and the steep 
the shore, is a Latin convent and church, occupied bv a hills (which elsewhere in that quarter come down so 
solitary Italian monk. There is a place of interment boldly to the edge of the lake), about two miles long 
near Tiberias, in which a distinguished rabbi is said and a quarter of a mile broad. The tract in question 
to be buried with 14,000 of his disciples around him. is somewhat undulating, but approximates to the char- 
The grave of the Arabian philosopher Lokman. as acter of a plain. Tubarleh, the modern town, occupies 
Burckhardt states, was pointed out here in the 14th the northern end of this parallelogram, and the Warm 
century. | Baths the southern extremity; so that the more ex- 

4. Position and Present Condition. — As above inti- tended city of the Homan age must have covered all, 
mated, the ancient name has survived in that, of the or nearly all, of t lie peculiar ground whose limits are 
modern Tubarieh , which occupies unquestionably the , thus clearly defined. 


TIBERIAS, SEA OF 


400 


TIBNI 


The present Tubarieh has a rectangular form, is 
guarded by a strong wall on the laud side, but is left 
entirely open towards the sea. A few palm-trees still 
remain as witnesses of the luxuriant vegetation which 
once adorned this garden of the Promised Land, but 
they are greatly inferior in size and beauty to those 
seen in Egypt. The oleander grows profusely here, 
almost rivalling that flower so much admired as found 
on the neighboring Plain of Gennesarct. The people, 
as of old, draw their subsistence in part from the adja- 
cent lake. The spectator from his position here com- 
mands a view of almost the entire expanse of the sea, 
except the southern part, which is cut off bv a slight 
projection of the coast. The precipices on the opposite 
side appear almost to overhang the water, but, on being 
approached, are found to stand back at some distance, so 
as to allow travellers to pass between them and the wa- 
ter. The lofty llermon, the modern Jebel esh-Sheikh, 
with its glistening snow-heaps, forms a conspicuous ob- 
ject of the landscape in the north-east. Many rock- 
tombs exist in the sides of the hills, behind the town, 
some of them, no doubt, of great antiquity, and con- 
structed in the best style of such monuments. The 
climate here in the warm season is very hot and un- 
healthy; but most of the tropical fruits, as in other 
parts of the valley of the Jordan, become ripe very 
early, and, with industry, might be cultivated iu great 
abundance and perfection. 

This place, in common with many others in Galilee, 
suffered greatly by an earthquake on New-year's-day, 
1837. Almost every building, with the exception of 
the walls and some parts of the castle, was levelled to 
the ground. The inhabitants were obliged to live for 
some time in wooden booths. It is supposed that at 
least seven hundred of the inhabitants were destroyed 
at that time. The place has even yet not fully recov- 
ered from the disaster. 

Tiberias is fully described in Raumer’s Paliistina , p. 
125; Robinson’s Biblical Researches, ii, 380 sq.; Porter’s 
Handbook , p. 421 sq. ; Thomson’s Land and Book , ii, 71 
sq. ; and most books of travel in Palestine. 

TIBF/RIAS, The Sea of (// SaXacai] rijc T</3qo<<7- 
voq ; Yulg. mare Tiberiadis). This term is found only in 
John xxi, 1, the other passage in which it occurs in the 
A. V. (vi, 1) being, if the original is accurately rendered, 
“ the sea of Galilee, of Tiberias.” John probably uses 
the name as more familiar to non-residents in Palestine 
than the indigenous name of the “sea of Galilee,” or 
“ sea of Gennesaret,” actuated, no doubt, by the same 
motive which has induced him so constantly to trans- 
late the Hebrew names and terms which he uses (such 
as Rabbi, Rabboni, Messias, Cephas, Siloam, etc.) iuto 
the language of the Gentiles. — Smith. See Galilee, 
Sea of. 

Tibe'rius (Tt^.oioe), in full, Tiberius Claudius 
Nero C.ksar, the Roman emperor, successor of Augus- 
tus, who began to reign A.D. 14, and reigned until 37. lie 
was the son of Tiberius Claudius Nero and Livia, and 
hence a stepson of Augustus. He was born at Rome Nov. 
16, li.C. 45. lie became emperor in his fifty-tifth year, 
after having distinguished himself as a commander in 
various wars, and having evinced talents of a high order 
as an orator and an administrator of civil affairs. His 
military exploits and those of Drusus, his brother, were 
sung by Horace (Cann. iv, 4, 14). lie even gained the 
reputation of possessing the sterner virtues of the Ro- 
man character, and was regarded as entirely worthy of 
the imperial honors to which his birth and supposed 
personal merits at length opened the way. Yet oil be- 
ing raised to the supreme power, lie suddenly became, 
or showed himself to be, a very different man. His 
subsequent life was one of inactivity, sloth, and solf-in- 
dulgcnce. lie was despotic in his government, cruel 
and vindictive in his disposition. He gave up the af- 
fairs of the State to the vilest favorites, while he himself 
wallowed in the verv kennel of all that was low and de- 


! basing. The only palliation of his monstrous crimes 
and vices which can be offered is that his disgust of 
life, occasioned by his early domestic troubles, may have 
driven him at last to despair and insanity. Tiberius 
died at the age of seventy-eight, after a reign of twenty- 
three years. The ancient writers who supply most of 
our knowledge respecting him are Suetonius, Tacitus 
(who describes his character as one of studied dissimu- 
lation and hypocrisy from the beginning), Annal. cli. 
i— vi ; Yell. Paterc. ii, 94, etc.; and Dion Cass. ch. xlvi- 
xlviii. See Smith, Did. of Gr. and Rom. Biog. s. v. ; 
and the monographs on Tiberius in German by Frcytag 
(Perl. 1870) and Stahr (ibid. 1873), and in English by 
j Beesley (Loud. 1878). 

It will be seen that the Saviour’s public life, and 
some of the introductory events of the apostolic age, 
must have fallen within the limits of his administra- 
tion. The memorable passage in Tacitus (Annal. xv, 
44) respecting the origin of the Christian sect places the 
crucitixion of the Redeemer under Tiberius : “ Ergo abo- 
leiulo rumori (that of his having set tire to Rome) Nero 
subdidit reos, et qmesitissimis pcenis afifecit, quos per 
flagitia invisos vulgus Christianos appellabat. Auctor 
nominis ejns Christus Tiberio imperitante per proeura- 
torem Pentium Pilatum supplicio aflfectus erat” (see the 
monographs cited by Yolbeding, Index Progrummatum , 

| p. 95; see also Chrestus). In Luke iii, 1 he is termed 
Tiberius Civsar ; John the Baptist, it is there said, began 
his ministry in the fifteenth gear of his reign (gyegoi da). 
This chronological notation is an important one in de- 
termining the year of Christ’s birth and entrance on his 
, public work. See Jesus Christ. Augustus admitted 
Tiberius to a share in the empire two or three years 
, before his own death; and it is a question, therefore, 
whether the fifteenth year of which Luke speaks should 
be reckoned from the time of the copartnership or from 
that when Tiberius began to reign alone. The former 
is the computation justified by other data. See Chro- 



nology. The other passages in which he is mentioned 
under the title of Ctesar offer no points of personal allu- 
sion, and refer to him simply as the emperor (Matt, xxii, 
17 sq. ; Mark xii, 14 sq.; Luke xx, 22 sq.; xxiii, 2 sq. ; 
John xix, 12 sq.). See Caesar. 

Tib'hath (Heb. Tibchath ', rniI2, slaughter or 
[Flirst] extension; Sept, [repeating the preposition], 
M aTafiiS; Vnlg. Thebath), a city of Hadadczer, king 
of Zobah (1 Chron. xviii, 8), which in 2 Sam. viii, 8 is 
called Betaii, probably by an accidental transposition 
of the first two letters. If Aram-Zobah be the country 
between the Euphrates and Ccele-Syria, we must look for 
Tibhath on the eastern skirts of the Antilibanus, or 
of its continuation, the Jebel Shahsbabn and the Jebel 
liieha. But Fiirst (Heb. Lex. s. v.) thinks that “the 
city Thcebata, \n the north-west of Mesopotamia (Pliny, 
Hist. Mat. vi, 30), or the place Otfitfid of Arrian ( in 
Steph. Byz.), which lay. according to the Peutinger 
Tables ( xi, e ), south of Nisibis, may refer to this 
name.” 

Tib'ni (Ileb. Tibni', perhaps intelligent; Sept. 

OajuW; Josephus, OajSi'aiO' - , Ant. viii, 12, 5; Yulg. 


TICKETS OF MEMBERSHIP 401 


TIGLATII-PILESER 


Thebni ), the sixth king of Israel, B.C. 926-922. After 
Zimri had burned himself in his palace, there was a di- 
vision in the northern kingdom, half of the people fol- 
lowingTibni the son ofGinath, and half following Omri 
(l Kings xvi, 21, 22). Omri was the choice of the 
army. Tibni was probably put forward by the people 
of Tirzah, which was then besieged by Omri and his 
host. The struggle between the contending factions 
lasted four years (comp. ver. 15, 23); but the only rec- 
ord of it is given in the few words of the historian : 
“The people that followed Omri prevailed against the 
people that followed Tibni the son ofGinath; so Tibni 
died, and Omri reigned.” The Sept, adds that Tibni 
was bravely seconded by his brother Joram. — Smith. 
But Josephus knows nothing of this apocryphal addi- 
tion. See Israel, Kingdom of. 

Tickets of Membership (English Wesleyan). 
The possession of a “ticket” is one of the evidences of 
membership in the Methodist society. Wesley decided, 
in 1743, to meet and talk with every member once in 
three months. If considered fit and proper, every mem- 
ber received a ticket. This quarterly ticket, with the 
member’s name written upon it, and signed by the min- 
ister, enables such a one to obtain everywhere the priv- 
ilege of membership. When a member of the society 
removes from one circuit to another, a “note of re- 
moval,” signed by the minister, introduces him or her to 
the minister of the circuit to which either goes. Minis- 
ters must not give tickets to those who have ceased to 
meet in class. All the financial questions are explained 
to those who are seeking to join the society, and notes 
of admission on trial, with a copy of the “rules,” are 
given. If any member has walked disorderly, the min- 
ister has power to withhold his ticket until he has con- 
versed privately with the offender; if not satisfied, he 
must inform the party that he may appeal to the leaders’ 
meeting. But he must report the case first to the next 
weekly meeting of ministers in the circuit, and then to the 
leaders’ meeting. See Simpson, Cydop . of Methodism, 
s. v. 

Ti'dal (Ileb. Tidal', hV'lF), if Shemitic= t /enr [Ge- 
senius] or renown [Fiirst] ; but. according to Lehormant, 
Accadian —great son; Sept. OapydX v. r. OaXyd; Jo- 
sephus, QdSaXog, Ant. i, 9, 1 ; Yulg. Thadal), the last 
named (Gen. xiv, 1,9) of the three subordinate “kings” 
who, in confederation with Chedorlaomer, attacked and 
defeated the rebellious princes of the Sodomitic pentar- 
chy in the days of Abraham, B.C. cir. 2070. He is called 
“ king of nations” (CY3, goyim), which Symmachus in- 
terprets Scythians, and others Galilee, both on very slen- 
der, if not inaccurate, grounds. Rawlinson suggests, for 
equally precarious reasons ( Ancient Monarchies, i, 55, 
note), that the name is probably Turanian ; but he justly 
remarks that, from the title given to Tidal, “ it is reason- 
able to understand that he was a chief over various no- 
madic tribes to whom no special tract of country could 
be assigned, since at different times of the year they in- 
habited different portions of Lower Mesopotamia. This 
is the case with the Arabs of these parts at the present 
day.” See Chedorlaomer. 

Tidhar. See Pine. 

Tiedebaik, in Chinese and Japanese mythology, 
was one of the head deities, who is said to be in the 
temple of Osaka. It is unknown what this deity rep- 
resented, unless the description of the image permits a 
conjecture. Tiedebaik, a powerful* four-armed giant, with 
a crown upon his head, stands in splendidly ornament- 
ed dress upon a figure whose horned head and dragon 
tail characterize it as an evil deity. • 

Tierce, the service for the third hour, or nine o’clock 
in the morning, in the early Church. See Matin ; 
Nones; Vespers. 

Tiercilits, the name given to the third order of 
Minims (q. v.). 

X.-Cc 


Tiffin, Edward, M.D., a local preacher in the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Carlisle, England, 
June 19, 1766. At an early age he commenced the 
study of medicine; removed to the United States in 
1784, and settled in Charlestown, Jefferson Co., Va., 
where he became a practitioner. In 1790 he entered 
the Methodist Episcopal Church, and was ordained 
deacon by bishop Asburv, Nov. 19, 1792. In 1796 Dr. 
Tiffin took up his residence in Chillicothe, in the terri- 
tory north-west of the Ohio River, where he continued 
the practice of medicine, and preached regularly on 
Sundays. In the autumn of 1799, Dr. Tiffin was elect- 
ed a member of the territorial legislature; in 1802 he 
was chosen a delegate from Ross County to the conven- 
tion which adopted the first constitution and formed a 
state government for Ohio, of which convention he was 
elected president. In 1803 he was elected the first gov- 
ernor. At the session of the legislature in 1806-7, 
governor Tiffin was chosen United States senator, but 
resigned March 3, 1809, on account of the death of his 
wife. The same year he was elected to the legislature 
and chosen speaker of the House. The next year 
(1810) he was returned to the House of Representa- 
tives and elected speaker. He was selected by presi- 
dent Madison a commissioner of the General Land Of- 
fice; but, not enjoying the society of Washington, he 
exchanged offices with Josiali Meigs, surveyor-general 
of public lands. He took up his residence in Chilli- 
cothe, still attending to ministerial duties. lie held 
the office of surveyor-general for nearly fifteen years, 
when he obtained leave to retire, July 1, 1829. He died 
Ang. 9 of the same j'ear. Three of his Sermons, preached 
in 1817, were published in the Ohio Conference Offering, 
(1851). See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, y ii, 
205. 

TigTath-pile'ser (ITeb. Tiylath' Pile'ser, 

2 Kings xv, 29; xvi, 10; or briefly Tiylath' 
Pele'ser, nobs rtsn, ver. 7), or (less correctly) Til’ - 
gath-pilne'ser (Heb. Tilgath' Pilne'ser, rsbn, 

I Chron. v, 6; 2 Chron. xxviii, 20; or briefly Tilgath' 
Pilne'ser ,^ Csbo r.sbr), 1 Chron. v, 26), an Assyrian 
king. The Sept. Graecizes the name OaXyaScptXXa- 
adp (v. r. VaXyaXfpeXXaodp, * AXyaStyeXXaadp, 
<b«XXa<rdp), Josephus, OtyXatyaXaoGdptig (A tit. ix, 12, 
3), and the Yulg. Theglath-Phalasar. The monument- 
al name is, according to Rawlinson, Tukulti-pal-zira ; 
according to Oppert, Tuklat-pal-asar (i.e. -assur); ac- 
cording to Hincks, Tiklat-pal-isri ; according to others, 
Tigulti -pal - tsdra. The signification of the name is 
somewhat doubtful. M. Oppert renders it, “Adoratio 
[sit] filio Zodiaci,” and explains “the son of the Zodi- 
ac” as Kin, or Hercules ( Expedition Scienf [pique en Me- 
sopotamie, ii, 352). It would seem to signify “ worship 
of the son of Assur,” perhaps as a royal sobriquet. 
The Assyrian king of this name mentioned in Scripture 
is Tiglath-pileser II, an earlier king of the same name 
having ascended the Assyrian throne about B.C. 1130; 
of whose reign, or a portion of it, two cylinders are 
preserved in the British Museum (Rawlinson, Ancient 
Monarchies, ii, 62-79). (The following account is 
chieflv based upon that found in Smith’s Piet, of the 
Bible.) 

1. Biblical Statements. — Tiglath-pileser is the second 
Assyrian king mentioned in Scripture as having come 
into contact with the Israelites, the first being Pul 
(q. v.). He attacked Samaria in the reign of Pekah 
(B.C. 756-736), on what ground we are not told, but 
probably because Pekah had withheld his tribute, and, 
having entered his territories, “took Ijon.and Abel-beth- 
maachah, and Janoah. and Kedesh, and Ilazor, and 
Gilead, and Galilee, and all the land of Naphtali, and 
carried them captive to Assyria” (2 Kings xv, 29): thus 
“lightly afflicting the land of Zebnlun and the land of 
Naphtali” (Isa. ix, I) — the most northern, and so the. 
| most exposed, portion of the country. The date of this 


TIGLATII-PILESEI 


402 


TIGLATII-PILESEr 


invasion cannot at present be fixed; but it was appar- I 
tuilv many years afterwards tliat Tiglath-pileser made 
a second expedition into these parts, which had more 
important results than his former one. It appears that ( 
alter the date of his first expedition a close league was 
formed between Kuzin, king of Syria, and Pekah, hav- 
ing for its special object the humiliation of Judies, and 
intended to further generally the interests of the two 
allies. At first great successes were gained by Pekah 
ami his confederate (2 Kings xv, 37 ; 2 Chrou. xxviii, 
fi-tS) ; hut on their proceeding to attack Jerusalem it- 
self, and to threaten Alias, who was then king, with 
deposition from his throne, which they were about to 
give to a pretender, “ the son of Tubea!” (Isa. vii, fi), the 
Jewish monarch applied to Assyria for assistance, and 
Tiglath-pileser, consenting to aid him, again appeared 
at the head of an army in these regions, lie first 
marched, naturally, against Damascus, which he took 
(2 Kings xvi, ‘J)> razing it (according to his own state- 
ment) to the ground, and killing Kezin, the Damascene 
monarch. After this, probably, lie proceeded to chas- 
tise Pekah, whose country he entered on the north- 
east, where it bordered upon “ Syria of Damascus.” 
Here he overran the whole district to the east of Jor- 
dan, no longer “lightly afflicting” Samaria, but injur- 
ing her far "more grievously. by the way of the sea, 
in Galilee of the Gentiles” (Isa. ix, l), carrying into 
captivity “the Keubeuites, the Gadites, and the half 
tribe of Manasseh” (l Chron. v, 2f>), who had previously 
held this country, and placing them in Upper Meso- 
potamia from llarran to about Nisibis (ibid.). Thus 
the result of this expedition was the absorption of 
t lie kingdom of Damascus, and of an important por- 
tion of Samaria, into the Assyrian empire; and it fur- 
ther brought, the kingdom of Judah into the condition 
of a mere tributary and vassal of the Assyrian mon- 
arch. 

Before returning into his own land, Tiglath-pileser 
had an interview with Ahaz at Damascus (2 Kings 
xvi, 10). Here, doubtless, was settled the amount of trib- 
ute which Judica was to pay annually; and it maybe 
suspected that here, too, it was explained to Ahaz by 
his suzerain that a certain deference to the Assyrian 
gods was due on the part of all tributaries, who were 
usually required to set up in their capital “the laws of 
Asslnir,” or “altars to the great gods.” The “altar” 
which Ahaz “saw at Damascus,” and of which he sent 
the pattern to Urijah the priest (ver. 10, 11), has been 
conjectured to have been such a badge of subjection ; 
but it seems to have been adopted only out of love for 
a prevalent fashion. 

This is all that Scripture tells ns of Tiglath-pileser. 
lie appears to have succeeded Pul, and to have been 
succeeded by Shalmaneser; to have been contemporary 
with Kezin, Pekah, and Ahaz; and therefore to have 
ruled Assyria during the latter half of the 8th century 
before our icra. See Assyria. 

2. Monumental Records. — From his own inscriptions 
we learn that his reign lasted at least seventeen years; 
that, besides warring in Syria and Samaria, he attacked 
Babylonia, Media. Armenia, and the independent tribes 
in the upper regions of Mesopotamia, thus, like the other 
great Assyrian monarchs, warring along the whole fron- 
tier of the empire; and. finally, that he was (probably) 
not a legitimate prince, but a usurper and the founder of 
a dynasty. This last fact is gathered from the circum- 
stance that, whereas the Assyrian kings generally glory 
in their ancestry, Tiglath-pileser omits all mention of 
his, not even recording his father’s name upon his mon- 
uments. It accords remarkably with the statements 
of Berosus (in Fusel). Chron. Can. i. 4) and Herodotus 
(i, 95), that about this time, i. e. in the latter half of the 
8th century B.O.. there was a change of dynasty in As- 
syria, the old family, which had ruled for 520 (526) 
years, being superseded by another not long before the 
accession of Sennacherib. The authority of these two 
writers, combined with the monumental indications, | 


justifies ns in concluding that the founder of the lower 
dynasty or empire, the first monarch of the new king- 
dom, was the Tiglath-pileser of Scripture, whose date 
must certainly be about this time, and whose monu- 
ments show him to have been a self-raised sovereign. 
The exact date of the change cannot he positively 
fixed; but it is probably marked by the ivra of Naho- 
nassar in Babylon, which synchronizes with B.C. 747, 
According to this view, Tiglath-pileser reigned certain- 
ly from B.C. 747 to 730, and possibly a few years longer, 
being succeeded by Shalmaneser at least as early as 
725. In the Assyrian Chronological Canon , of which 
there are four copies in the British Museum, all more 
or less fragmentary, the reign of Tiglath-pileser seems 
to be reckoned at either sixteen or seventeen years (see 
A themeum, No. 1812, p. 84). Bawlinson’s latest compu- 
tation places his accession in 744 (Ibid. Aug. 23, 1803). 
See Shalmaneser. 

The circumstances under which Tiglath-pileser ob- 
tained the crown have not come down to us from any 
good authority; but there is a tradition on the subject 
which seems to deserve mention. Alexander Polyhis- 
tor, the friend of Svlla, who had access to the writings 
of Berosus, related that the first Assyrian dynasty con- 
tinued from Nines, its founder, to a certain Beleus (Pul), 
and that he was succeeded by Beletaras, a man of low 
rank, a mere vine-dresser (</mroepyoe), who had the 
charge of the gardens attached to the royal palace. 
Beletaras, he said, having acquired the sovereignty in 
an extraordinary way, fixed it in Iris own family, in 
which it continued' to the time of the destruction of 
Nineveh (AV. Hist. Gr. iii, 210). It can scarcely he 
doubted that Beletaras here is intended to represent 
Tiglath-pileser, Beletar being, in fact, another mode of 
expressing the native Pal-tsira or Palli-tsir (Oppert), 
which the Hebrews represented by Pileser. Whether 
there is any truth in the tradition may, perhaps, he 
doubted. It bears too near a resemblance to the Ori- 
ental stories of Cyrus, Gvges, Amasis, and others, to 
have in itself much claim to our acceptance. On the 
other hand, as above mentioned, it harmonizes with the 
remarkable fact— unparalleled in the rest of the Assyrian 
records — that Tiglath-pileser is absolutely silent on the 
subject of his ancestry, neither mentioning Iris father’s 
name nor making any allusion whatever to his birth, 
descent, or parentage. 

Tiglath -pileser’s wars do not generally appear to 
have been of much importance. In Armenia he re- 
duced the rebel princes, ami afterwards conquered the 
city of Arpad after a year’s resistance. In Babylonia 
he took Sippara (Sepharvaim) and several places of less 
note in the northern portion of the country ; but he 
does not seem to have penetrated far, or to have come 
into contact with Nabonassar, who reigned from B.C. 
747 to 733 at Babylon. In Media and Upper Mesopo- 
tamia he obtained certain successes, but made no per- 
manent conquests. It was on his western frontier only 
that his victories advanced the limits of the empire. 
Among the conquered cities appear to be reckoned Me- 
giddo (Magidu) and Dor (Duru), both connected with 
Manasseh (Manatsuah). Before he left Syria, Tiglath- 
pileser received submission, not only from Ahaz, but 
from the kings of the neighboring countries. He re- 
cords his taking tribute from a king of Judah called 
Vahu-khazi — a name which might represent Jehoahaz; 
but, as shown by the chronology, it probably stands for 
Ahaz, whose name may have been changed by his As- 
syrian suzerain, as happened afterwards to Eliakim and 
Zedekiah (2 Kings xxiii,34; xxiv, 17). The destruc- 
tion of Damascus, the absorption of Syria, and the ex- 
tension o£ Assyrian influence over Judaea are the chief 
events of Tiglath-pileser’s reign, which seems to have 
had fewer external triumphs than those of most As- 
syrian monarchs. Probably his usurpation was not en- 
dured quite patiently, and domestic troubles or dangers 
acted as a check upon his expeditions against foreign 
countries. 


TIGRE VERSION" 


403 


TIGRIS 


No palace or great building can be ascribed to this 
king. H is slabs* which are tolerably numerous, show 
that he must have built or adorned a residence at Ca- 
lah (? Nimrud), where they were found ; but, as they 
were not discovered in situ, we cannot say anything of 
the edifice to which they originally belonged. They 
bear marks of wanton defacement; and it is plain that the 
later kings purposely injured them ; for, not only is the 
writing often erased, but the slabs have been torn down, 
broken, and used as building materials by Esar-hnddon 
in the great palace which he erected at Calah, the 
southern capital. The dynasty of Sargon was hostile 
to the first two princes of the Lower Kingdom, and the 
result of their hostility is that wc have far less monu- 
mental knowledge of Shalmaneser and Tiglath-pilcser 
than of various kings of the Upper Empire. Sec Ntx- 

EVKU. 

See Rawlinson, Ancient Monarchies* ii, 127-132; 
Smith, Assyria from the Monuments, p. 77 sq. (Am. ed.); 
Journ. Sac, Lit. April, 1854, p. 253. See Israel, King- 
dom of. 

Tigre Version. Tigre' is a language spoken 
throughout Eastern Abyssinia, from the eastern banks 
of the River Tacazze to the Shoho country, which sep- 
arates Abyssinia from the Red Sea. Consequently, the 
Tigre is spoken throughout five degrees of latitude, be- 
ginning three days’ journey from the Red Sea, and by a 
population amounting to about three millions. The 
characters of the Tigre alphabet are, like the Amharic, 
of Ethiopie origin, and the Tigre language itself is more 
closely related to the Ethiopie than the Amharic or 
any other dialect of Abyssinia. The first attempt to 
translate the New Test, into that language was made 
bv an Englishman named Nathanael Pearce about the 
year 1811). lie had acquired varied and extensive in- 
formation by constant wanderings through various coun- 
tries, and had resided for fourteen years in Abyssinia. 
He translated Mark and John; but as, owing to his 
restless habits, he had never acquired skill in form- 
ing the Ethiopie characters, he w T as obliged to write 
his translation in Roman characters. His MS. is in 
the possession of the British and Foreign Bible Society; 
it has never been published, and its comparative value 
is still unascertained. In 1831 part of Luke was trans- 
lated by Mr. Kugler, a missionary of the Church Mis- 
sionary Society; and after his death the work was con- 
tinued by Mr. Tsenberg, of the same society, who, at his 
death, in 1863, left a revised manuscript copy of the 
four gospels. This MS. having been put into the hands 
of the Rev. Dr. Krapf, the colleague of the deceased in 
Abyssinia, an application was made at once to the com- 
mittee of the British and Foreign Bible Society to have 
this translation printed. Dr. Krapf, who is well versed 
in the African languages, accompanied his application 
with a commendation of the character of 31 r. lsenberg’s 
translation. The committee consented to meet the ex- 
pense of an edition of the four gospels, and thus for the 
tirst time a portion of the word of God was published 
in this vernacular in 1865. Since that time nothing 
further has been done towards completing the New 
Test. See Bible of Every Land, p. 60. (B. 1\) 

Ti'giis (T iypig; Vulg. Tygris , Tigris ) is used in the 
Sept, as the Greek equivalent of the Hebrew' Chiddekel 
(bj^n) among the rivers of Eden (Gen. ii, 14), and is 
there described (so some render) as “ running eastward 
to Assyria.” After this we hear no more of it, if we 
except one doubtful allusion in Nahum (ii, G), until the 
Captivity, when it becomes well known to the prophet 
Daniel, who had to cross it in his journeys to and from 
Susa (Shushan). With Daniel it is “the Great River” 
— — an expression commonly applied to 
the Euphrates; and by its side he sees some of his 
most important visions (Dan. x-xii). No other men- 
tion of the Tigris seems to occur except in the Apocry- 
phal books, and there it is unconnected with any real 


history, as in Tobit (vi, 1), Judith (i, 6), and Ecclesias- 
tiens (xxiv, 25). The meaning and various forms of 
the word have been considered under Hiddekel (q.v.). 
It only remains, therefore, in the present article, to de- 
scribe more particularly the course, character, and his- 
torical relations of the stream. 

1. The Tigris, like the Euphrates, rises from two 
principal sources. The most distant, and therefore the 
true, source is the western one, which is in lat. 38° 10', 
long. 39° 20' nearly, a little to the south of the high 
mountain lake called Goljik, or Gblenjik, in the penin- 
sula formed by the Euphrates, where it sweeps round 
between Palou and Telek. The Tigris’s source is near 
the south-western angle of the lake, and eannot. be more 
than two or three miles from the channel of the Eu- 
phrates. The course of the Tigris is somewhat north 
of cast, but, after pursuing this direction for about 
twenty-five miles, it makes a sweep round to the south 
and descends by Arghani Maden upon Diarhekr. Here 
it is already a river of considerable size, and is crossed 
by a bridge of ten arches a little below that city (Nie- 
buhr, Voyage oi A rabie,'\). 326). It then turns sudden- 
ly to the east and Hows in this direction past Osman 
Kieui to Til, w here it once more alters its course and 
takes that south-easterly direction which it pursues, 
with certain slight variations, to its final junction with 
the Euphrates. At Osman Kieui it receives the sec- 
ond, or Eastern, Tigris which descends from Niphates 
(the modern Ala-Tagh) with a course almost due south, 
and, collecting on its way the waters of a large number 
of streams, unites with the. Tigris half-way between 
Diarbekr and Til, in long. 41 nearly. The courses of 
the two streams to the point of junction are respective- 
ly 150 and 100 miles. A little below' the junction, and 
before any other tributary of importance is received, 
the Tigris is 150 yards wide and from three to four feet 
deep. Near Til a large stream flows into it from the 
north-east, bringing almost as much water as the main 
channel ordinarily holds (Layard. Xineveh and Babylon, 
p. 49). This branch rises near Billi, in northern Kur- 
distan, and runs at first to the north-east, but presently 
sweeps round to the north and proceeds through the 
districts of Shattak and Boktan with a general wester- 
ly course, crossing and recrossing the line of the 38th 
parallel, nearly to 'Sert, whence it flows south-west and 
south to Til. From Til the Tigris runs southward for 
20 miles through a long, narrow', and deep gorge, at the 
end of w'hich it emerges upon the comparatively low r , 
but still hilly, country of Mesopotamia, near Jezireh. 
Through this it flow's with a course which is south- 
southeast to Mosul, thence nearly south to Kileh-Sher- 
ghat, and again south-southeast to Samara, where the 
hills end and the river enters on the great alluvium. 
The course is now more irregular. Between Samara 
and Baghdad a considerable bend is made to the east ; 
and, after the Shat el-1 1 ie is throw n off in lat. 32 30', 
a second bend is made to the north, the regular south- 
easterly course being only resumed a little above the 
32d parallel, from which point the Tigris runs in a tol- 
erably direct line to its junction with the Euphrates at 
Kurnah. The length of the whole stream, exclusive 
of meanders, is reckoned at 1146 miles. It. can be de- 
scended on rafts during the flood season from Diarbekr, 
w'hich is only 150 miles from its source; and it has 
been navigated by steamers of small draught nearly up 
to Mosul. From Diarbekr to Samara the navigation 
is much impeded by rapids, rocks, and shallows, as 
well as by artificial bunds, or dams, which in ancient 
times were thrown across the strearti, probably for pur- 
poses of irrigation. Below 7 Samara there are no ob- 
structions; the river is deep, with a bottom of soft 
mud, the stream moderate, and tVe course very mean- 
dering. The average width of the Tigris in this part 
of its course is 200 yards, while its depth is very con- 
siderable. 

Besides the three head-streams of the Tigris w'hich 
have already been described, the river receives, along 


TIGRIS 


404 


TIKKUN SOPIIERIM 


its middle and lower course, no fewer than five impor- 
tant tributaries. These are, the river of Zakko, or East- 
ern Khabur, the Great Zab (Zab Ala), the Lesser Zab 
(Zab Aslal), the Adhcin, and the Divalch, or ancient 
( iy tides. All these rivers tlow from the high range of 
Zagros, which shuts in the Mesopotamian valley on 
the east, and is able to sustain so large a number of 
great streams from its inexhaustible springs and abun- 
dant snows. From the west the Tigris obtains no trib- 
utary of the slighest importance, for the Tharthar, 
which is said to have once reached it, now ends in a 
salt lake a little below Tekrit. Its volume, however, 
is continually increasing as it descends in consequence 
of the great bulk of water brought into it from the east, 
particularly by the Great Zab and the Divalch; and 
in its lower course it is said to be a larger stream and 
to carry a greater body than the Euphrates (Chesney, 
Euphrates Expedition, i, 62). 

2. The Tigris, like the Euphrates, has a flood sea- 
son. Early in the month of March, in consequence of 
the melting of the snows on the southern flank of Xi- 
phates, the river rises rapidly. Its breadth gradually 
increases at Diarbekr from 100 or 120 to 250 yards. 
The stream is swift and turbid. The rise continues 
through March and April, reaching its full height gen- 
erally in the first or second week of May. At this 
time the country about Baghdad is often extensively 
flooded, not, however, so much from the Tigris as from 
the overflow of the Euphrates, which is here poured 
into the eastern stream through a canal. Farther down 
the river, in the territory of the Ueni-Lam Arabs, be- 
tween the 32d and 31st parallels, there is a great an- 
nual inundation on both banks. About the middle of 
May the Tigris begins to fall, and by midsummer it 
has reached its natural level. In October and Novem- 
ber there is another rise and fall in consequence of the 
autumnal rains; but, compared with the spring flood, 
that of autumn is insignificant. 

The water of the Tigris, in its lower course, is yel- 
lowish. and is regarded as unwholesome. The stream 
abounds with fish of many kinds, which are often of a 
large size (see Tobit vi, 1 L, and comp. Strabo, xi, 14, 8). 
Abundant water-fowl float on the waters. The banks 
are fringed with palm-trees and pomegranates, or clothed 
with jungle and reeds, the haunt of the wild boar and 
t he lion. 

3. The Tigris, in its upper course, anciently ran 
through Armenia and Assyria. Lower down, from about 
tiic point where it enters on the alluvial plain, it sepa- 
rated Babylonia from Susiana. In the wars between 
the Unmans and the Farthians we find it constituting 
for a short time (from A.D. 114 to 117) the boundary- 
line between these two empires. Otherwise it has 
scarcely been of any political importance. The great 
chain of Zagros is the main natural boundary between 
Western and Central Asia; and beyond this the next 
defensible line is the Euphrates. Historically it is 
found that either the central power pushes itself west- 
ward to that river, or the power ruling the west ad- 
vances eastward to the mountain harrier. 

The Tigris is at present better fitted for purposes of 
traffic than the Euphrates (Layard, Xineveh and Baby- 
lon , p.475); but in ancient times it does not seem to 
have been much used as a line of trade. The Assyri- 
ans probably floated down it the timber which they 
were in the habit of cutting in A mantis and Lebanon 
tu be used for building purposes in their capital; but 
the general line of communication between the Medi- 
terranean and the lYrsian Gulf was hv the Euphrates. 
According to the historians of Alexander (Arrian, Exp. 

1 lex. vii, 7 ; comp. Strabo, xv. 3, 4), the Persians pur- 
posely obstructed the navigation of the Lower Tigris by 
a series of dams which they threw across from bank to 
bank between the embouchure and the city of Opis, and 
such trade as there was along its course proceeded by 
land (Strabo, ibid.). It is probable that the dams were 
in reality made for another purpose, namely, to raise 


the level of the waters for the sake of irrigation; but 
they would undoubtedly have also the effect ascribed 
to them, unless in the spring flood-time, when they 
might have been shot by boats descending the river. 
Thus there may always have been a certain amount of 
traffic down the stream; but up it trade would scarcely 
have been practicable at any time farther than Samara 
or 'Tekrit, on account of the natural obstructions and of 
the great force of the stream. The lower part of the 
course was opened by Alexander (Arrian, vii, 7); and 
Opis, near the mouth of the Divaleh, became thence- 
forth known as a mart (ipiropiov), from which the 
neighboring districts drew the merchandise of India 
and Arabia (Strabo, xvi, 1, 9). Selencia, too, which 
grew up soon after Alexander, derived, no doubt, a por- 
tion of its prosperity from the facilities for trade offered 
by this great stream. — Smith. 

4. 'The most important notices of the Tigris to be 
found in the classical writers are the following: Strabo, 
xi, 14, 8, and xvi, l, 9-13; Arrian, Exped. Alex, vii, 7 ; 
Pliny, Hist. A ’at. vi, 27. See also Smith, Diet, of Gr . 
and Rom. Geoy. s. v. Among modern writers may be 
mentioned Layard, Xineveh and Babylon , p. 49-51,464- 
476; Loftus, Chaldica and Susiana, p. 3-8; Jones, in 
Transactions of the Geoy. Soc. of Bombay, x ol. ix: Lynch, 
in Joimi. of Geoy. Soc. vol. ix; Kawlinson, Herodotus , 
1,552,553. Sec Euphrates. 

Tikkun Sopkerhn (-">*2*0 ^p^P), or Emen- 
dations of the Scribes, refer to eighteen alterations which 
the scribes decreed should be introduced into the text, 
in order to remove anthropomorphisms and other in- 
delicate expressions. These eighteen emendations, or 
n -i, are as follows, according to the order of the 
Hebrew Bible : 

1. Geu. xviii, 22, where, for the original reading, 1‘VTP‘I 

crPZX TS3? “and Jehovah. 1 'itillstuod before 

Abraham,” is now substituted, hy the decree of the scribes 
-Tikkun So}>herim, mm T23 13TI3> CPTCSO, 

“and Abraham still stood before Jehovah,” because it ap- 
peared offensive to say that the Deity stood before Abra- 
ham. 

2. Numb, xi, 15, where Moses addresses God, “ Kill me, 
I pray thee . . . that I may not see thy evil” (7jPS‘"2), 
i. e. the punishment wherewith thou visitest Israel, is al- 
tered to “that I may not see my evil” (T2^I1), because 
it might seem as if evil were ascribed to the Deity. 

3, 4. Numb, xii, \2, where the original reading, “Let her 
not be as one dead ivho proceeded from the womb of our 
mother and half of our flesh be con- 

sumed,” is changed to “Let her not be as one dead-born , 
which when it proceeds from the womb of its mother (V2N) 
has half of its flesh (*P w3) consumed.” 

5. 1 Sam. iii, 13, where the original, “ for his sons cursed 
God” (C^nbx)— the Sept, has it still Oeoi>— is altered to 
“for his sous cursed themselves ” (CP?), because it was 
too offensive to say that Eli’s sons cursed God without 
being reprimanded by their father. 

6. 2 Sam. xvi, 12, where “will God see with his eye" (IS* 1 !* 3) 
is made to read “will God look at my affliction" (^2^ 

The Seventy probably read for they translate tvrtj 

t airenuycrei fiou. 

7. 1 Kings xii, 16, where “ to his God (TPlbxb), O Israel 
. . . and Israel went to their God ” (Vblbxb) is given “to 
your tents (“pbnxb) ... to their tents ” (V'bn^b), be- 
cause the separation of Israel from the house of David 
was regarded as a necessary transition to idolatry ; it was 
looked upon as leaving God and the sanctuary for the 
worship of idolatry in tents. 

8. 2 Chron. x, 16 concerns the parallel passage, which is 
similarly altered for the same reason. 

9. Jer. ii, 11, where “my glory” reads “their 

glory” (TTI22), because it was too offensive to say that 
God’s glory was changed for an idol. 

10. Ezek. viii, 17, where “?w 2 /nose ,> ("'SX) is changed iuto 
“ their nose” 


T1KVAH 


405 


11. llos. iv, 7, where the same change is made as in 9. 

12. llab. i, 12, where “ thou diest not ” (nT2n X>) is con- 
verted into “ we shall not die ” (PV£3 xb). 

13. Zech. ii, 12, where “ mine eye” pD“ 1 S') is varied hy 

u his eye” to avoid too gross an anthropomorphism. 

14. Mai. i, 13, where “you make vie " (“'mX) is changed 
to “yon make ft” (l^K) ; reason as in 13. 

15. Psa. cvi, 29, where the same alteration is made as in 
9 and 11. 

16. Job vii, 20, where “a burden to thee” is 

changed to “ to myself ” p33?)- That was the orig- 

inal reading we see also from the Sept. A/u <5t iiri <roi <pop- 

TtOV. 

17. Job xxxii, 3, where “they condemned God" (P.X 
C^PPX) is altered to they “condemned ./<*&” (3*PX PX). 

IS. Lam. iii, 19, where 11 and thy soul will mourn over me" 
(7^23 n^n) reads “ and my soul is humbled with- 
in ■me”(‘ 1 TT£3 “03? HT^Pl), because of the remark that 
God will mourn. 

These eighteen decrees of the Sopherim are enumer- 
ated in the Massora Magna on Numb, i, 1, and on Psa. I 
cvi, 20; they are also given in the book Ochlah ve-Och- 
lah, p. 37, 113 (ed. Frensdorff, Hanover, 1SG4). The 
whole question on these Tikkun Sopherim is discussed 
by Pinsker in K herein Chemed , ix, 53 sq. (Berlin, 185G); 
Geiger, Urschrift vnd Uehersetzungen der Bibel, p.308 sq. 
(Breslau, 1857); Wedell, I>e Emend at ionibus a Sopherim 
in JAbris Sacris Veter is Testament i Bropositis (Vratisla- 
via?, 18G9). See Uclah. (I>. P.) 


Tik'vall (Heb. Tikrah H^pP, a cord [as in Josh, 
ii, 18, 21], or hope [as often]), the name of two Israelites. 

1. (Sept.BffCKouf v. r. Qskovov; Vulg. Thccua.) The 
son of Ilarhas and father of Shallum, which last was the 
husband of the prophetess Iluldah (2 Kings xxii, 14). 
B.C. ante 632. He is elsewhere (2 Chron. xxxiv, 22) 
called Tikvatii (q. v.). 

2 . (Sept. Qskovs v. r. Querns ; Vulg. Theenc .) The fa- 
ther of Jahaziah, which latter was one of the “rulers” 
appointed to carry out the divorce of the Gentile wives 
after the Captivity (Ezra x, 15). B.C. 458. 


Tik'vath (Heb. text Tola' hath, Pnjjm, marg. 
Tokhath ', PPpP, assemblage j^Gesen.j, or firmness 
[Fiirst] ; Sept, Qaizovcix v. r. Qskws and k«Sor«\ ; Vulg. 
Thecuat/i). the father of Shallum (2 Chron. xxxiv, 22); 
elsewhere (2 Kings xxii, 14) called Tikvau (q. v.). 


Til. See Van Ttl. 

Tile (Pt23^> lebendh, so called from the whitish clay), 
a brick (Ezek. iv, 1), as elsewhere rendered. See Brick ; 
Tiling. The above passage illustrates the use of baked 
clay for the delineation of figures and written characters 
among the ancient nations, especially the Egyptians, 
Assyrians, and Babylonians. Not only were ordinary 
building bricks stamped with the name of the founder 
of the edifice, as well as with other devices, but clay (or 


1 



Ancient Bricks. (From the British Museum.) 

1. Egyptian brick of sun-dried day and straw, stamped with the prseno- 
nien of Thothmes III, eighteenth dynasty, 2. Babylonian inscribed 
brick, unbaked. 


TILE IN ARCHITECTURE 

stone) “cylinders,” as 
they are now called, 
covered with the most 
minute writing, were 
deposited in the cor- 
ners of Assyrian and 
Babylonian buildings, 
giving the history of 
the kings who erect- 
ed the palaces. See 
Nineveh. But the 
most striking illustra- 
tion of the prophet’s 
delineatures is allbrd- 
ed by the recent dis- 
covery of whole libra- 
ries of Assyrian liter- 
ature in the form of 
small inscribed tablets 
of clay, which contain 
writing and pictorial 
representations of the 
most interesting char- 
acter. When the clay 
was in a soft, naoist 
state, in its mould or frame, the characters were put upon 
it, perhaps in some instances by a stamp, but usually by 
means of a sharp-edged bronze style about a foot long, 
each character being traced separately by hand, as we use 
a pen. After the completion of the writing or pictures, 
the clay was baked, and such was the perfection of the 
manufacture that many of these articles have been pre- 
served from decay for three thousand years. They vary 
in color, owing, as some suppose, to the varying length 
of time they were in the kiln, while others think that 
some coloring matter must have been mixed with the 
clay. They arc bright brown, pale yellow, pink, red. 
and a very dark tint nearly black. Usually the cylin- 
ders found are of a pale yellow, and t lie tablets a light 
red or pink. Some of them are nnglazed, and oth- 
ers are coated with a hard white enamel. It is from 
these long-lost records that such details are in process 
of decipherment as are given in Smith’s Chaldiean 
Account of Genesis, and other works of recent Assyri- 
ology. 

TILE, tn Architecture, is a thin plate of baked 
clay used to cover roofs. In England there are but 
two kinds of tiles in ordinary use, plain tiles and pan- 
tiles. The former of these, which are by far the com- 
monest, are perfectly flat; the latter are curved, so that 
when laid upon a roof each tile overlaps the edge of 
the next to it and protects the joint from the wet. 



Pan-tiles. 



The Romans used flat tiles turned up at the edges, with 
a row of invented, semi-cylindrical ones over the joint 
to keep out the wet. In the Middle Ages tiles were ex- 
tensively employed in England for covering buildings, 
though they seem always to have been considered an 
inferior material to lead. It does not appear that any 
but flat, plain tiles, with such others as were requisite 
for the ridges, hips, and valleys, were used. The ridge- 
tiles, or crest, formerly also called roof -tiles, were some- 
times made ornamental. It is not unusual to rind the 
backs of fireplaces formed of tiles, and in such situa- 
tions they are some- 
times laid in her- 
ring-bone courses, 
as in the great ball, 
Kenilworth: most 
of the fireplaces in 

a. Roof-tiles, b. Crest-tiles, e. Pan- 1Miam Castle, Si, s- 
tiles. sex, are constructed 



TILE 


40C 


TILE 


III 


Komau Tiles, Wheatley, Oxfordshire. 

in this manner, and the oven by the side of the larger 
fireplace in the hall is also built of tiles. 

(Hazed decorative tiles were anciently much used 
for paving sacred edifices. They are sometimes call- 
ed Norman tiles, possibly from the supposition that 
they were originally made in Normandy; and, consid- 
ering the age and variety of specimens that exist in 
Northern France, this idea may not be wholly errone- 
ous. It is doubtful, however, whether any Liles have 
been discovered in England that present the features 
of the Norman style of architectural decoration, the 
most ancient being apparently of the 13th century. 
Idle name of encaustic lias also been given to these 
tiles, and it would not be inappropriate were it not ap- 
plied already to denote ail antique process of art of a 
perfectly different nature; whereas a method wholly 
distinct, and peculiar to the glazed tiles of the Middle 
Ages, was commonly adopted in Northern Europe. The 
process of manufacture which, as it is supposed, was 
most commonly employed may be thus described: The 
thin squares of well-compacted clay having been fash- 
ioned, and probably dried in the sun to the requisite de- 
gree, their ordinary dimension being from four to six 
inches, with a thickness of one inch, a stamp which 
bore a design in relief was impressed upon them, so as 
to leave the ornamental pattern in caretto . Into the 
hollows thus left on the face of the tile clay of another 
color, most commonly white, or pipe-clay, was then in- 
1 lid or impressed. Nothing remained except to give a 
richer effect, and, at the same time, insure t he perma- 
nence of the work bv covering the whole in the furnace 



We^tleigh, Devon. 

with a thin surface of metallic glaze, which, being of a 
slightly yellow color, tinged the white clay beneath it, 
and imparted to the rod a more full and rich tone of 
color. In the success of this simple operation • much 
depended upon this, that the quality of the two kinds 
of clay that were used should be as nearly similar as 
possible, or else, il tin 4 white was liable to shrink in the 
furnace more than the red, the whole work would be 
full of cracks; in the other case, the design would bulge 
ami be thrown upward — imperfections, of which exam- 
ples are not wanting. To facilitate the equal drying 
*»l the tile, deep scorings or hollows were sometimes 
made on the reverse, and by this means, when laid in 
cement, the pavement was more firmly held together. 

< )ccasionally, either from the deficiency of white clay 
‘•1 good quality, or perhaps for the sake of variety, glazed 
tiles occur which have the design left hollow, and not 
filled in, according to the usual process, with clay of a 
different color. A careful examination, however, of the 
disposition of the ornament will frequently show that 
the original intention was to fill these cavities, as in 
other specimens; but instances also present themselves 
where the ornamental design evidently was intended I 
to remain in relief, the field, and not the pattern, being 
found in caretto . It must be observed that instances , 
are very frequent where, the protecting glaze having j 


been worn away, the white clay, which is of a less 
compact quality than the red, has fallen out and 
left the design hollow, so that an impression or rub- 
bing may readily be taken, Il appears probable 
that the origin of the fabrication of decorative pave- 
ments by tlie process which has been described is 
to be sought in the mediaeval imitations of the Ho- 
man mosaic- work by means of colored substances 
inlaid upon stone or marble. Of this kind of mar- 
try in stone, few examples have escaped the injuries 
iine; specimens may bo seen on the eastern side of 
altar-screen in Canterbury Cathedral, and at the al>- 
ehurch of 8r. Denis and the cathedral of JSt. Omer. 



Canterbury Cathedral. 

Among the earliest specimens of glazed tiles may be 
mentioned the pavement discovered in the ruined pri- 
ory church at Castle Acre, Norfolk, a portion of which 
is in the British Museum. These tiles are ornamented 
with scutcheons of arms, and on some appears the name 
‘'Thomas:” they are coarsely executed, the cavities are 
left, and not filled in with any clay of different color, 

A profusion of good examples still exists of single 
tiles, and sets of four, nine, sixteen, or a greater num- 
ber of tiles, forming by their combination a complete 
design, and presenting, for the most part the charac- 
teristic style of ornament which was in vogue at each 
successive period, but examples of general arrange- 
ment are very rare and imperfect. To this deficiency 
of authorities it seems to be due that modern imitations 
of these ancient pavements have generally proved un- 
satisfactory in the resemblance which they present to 





TILE 


407 


TILENUS 



oil-cloth or carpeting; and the intention of producing 
richness of effect by carrying the ornamental design 
throughout the pavement without any intervening 
spaces has been wholly frustrated. Sufficient care has 
not been given to ascertain the ancient system of ar- 
rangement: it is, however, certain that a large propor- 
tion of plain tiles, black, white, or red, were introduced, 
and served to divide the various portions which com- 
posed the general design. l*lain diagonal bands, for 
instance, arranged fretwise intervened between the com- 
partments, or panels, of tiles ornamented with designs; 
the plain and the decorated quarries were laid alter- 
nately, or in some instances longitudinal bands were 
introduced in order to break that continuity of orna- 
ment which, being uniformly spread over a large sur- 
face, as in some modern pavements, produces a confused 
rather than a rich effect. It has been supposed, with 
much probability, that the more elaborate pavements 
were reserved for the decoration of the choir, the chan- 
cel, or immediate vicinity of an altar, while in the 



Woodperry, Oxfordshire. 

aisles or other parts of the church more simple pave- 
ments of plain tiles, black, white, or red, were usually 
employed. It may also deserve notice that in almost 
every instance when the ornamented tiles have been 
accidentally discovered or dug up on the site of a castle 
or mansion there has been reason to suppose a conse- 
crated fabric had there existed, or that the tiles had 


belonged to that portion 
of the structure which 
had been devoted to re- 
ligions services. We of- 
ten meet with the item 
landers tiles” in 
building-adeounts of cas- 
tles, but these were for 
the fireplace only. The 
lower rooms were usual- 
ly “ earthed,” the upper 
rooms boarded. —Parker, 
Gloss, of A related, s. v. 

Most, of the tiles in 
England were made in 
the county of Worces- 
ter. Examples may be 
found in almost every 
parish church. Occa- 
sionally the patterns 
were alternately raised 
and sunk, so t hat the 
surface of the tiles was 
irregular. Examples 
of this sort were found 
at St. Alban’s Abbey, 
and have been recent- 
ly reproduced, and laid 
before the high -altar. 
From the 13th century 
to the 16th encaustic 
tiles were commonly 
used for the doors of 
churches and religions 
houses. Tiles have 
been used for wall-dec- 
orat ion, and for the 
adornment of tombs on the Continent ; and tins custom 
has likewise been restored in England. Since the man- 
ufacture of tiles has been carried out so efficiently in 
Worcestershire, their use has been common for all re- 
stored eburehes in that, county. Modern specimens in 
some cases are remarkably line, though sometimes want- 
ing in that grace and character which were so remarka- 
ble in the old examples. — Lee, Gloss, of Liturg. Terms . 
s. v. ; Walcott, Sac. A ?'cha>ol. s. v. 

Tilenus, Daniki., a learned French divine, was 
born at Goldberg, in Silesia, Feb. 4, 1563, and, going 
to France about 1590, was naturalized by Henry IV. 
First distinguishing himself as an opponent of the ten- 
ets of Arminianism, he afterwards enlisted on the side, 
of the Remonstrants. 1 1 is principal controversy was 
with Peter I>u Moulin, which was carried on with so 
much zeal that their friends, among whom was James 
I of England, interposed to reconcile them. Tilenus 
had, before this, been appointed bv Mareehal de Ilouil- 
lon professor at the College of Sedan, but, about 1619 or 
1620, was obliged to resign on account of his sentiments. 
He removed to Paris, where he lived on his property, 
lie afterwards had a personal controversy with John 
Cameron, divinity professor at Sanmnr, concerning grace 
and free-will, which lasted live days. An account of 
this was published under the title of Collatio inter Tile- 
num et Cameronem, etc. Some time after, Tilenus ad- 
I dressed a letter to the Scotch nation, disapproving of 
the Presbyterian and commending the Episcopal form 
I of the Reformed Church as established in England, 
j This greatly pleased king James, who invited Tilenus 
I to England, and offered him a pension. Tilenus ac- 
cepted the offer, and returned to France in order to set- 
tle his affairs, but, becoming obnoxious to the people ol‘ 
Great Britain, he never returned. He died in Paris, 
Aug. 1, 1633. II is latter days were spent in defend- 
ing the Reformed Church of France, and he wrote sev- 
eral books, the titles of which are given in Brandt’s Hist, 
of the Reformation and < Quick’s Synorlicon, See Chal- 
mers, Biog. Did. s. v. ; lloefer, Xouc. Biog. Generate , s. v. 



TILGATII-PILNESEr 


40S 


TILLOTSON 


Til'gath-pilne'ser (1 Chron. v, G, 2G; 2 Chron. 
xxviii, 20). See Tiglath-iulesek. 

Tiling ( Ktpafioc , pottery -tcare , hence a roof tile; 
comp. Xenoph. JImi. iii, 1.7). The rendering of the 
A. V. at Luke v, 10, “ through the tiling” (did rwv ki- 
pdfuov), occasions difficulty when we remember that 
houses in Palestine are not covered with tiles, as they 
frequently are in Asia Minor and in Western countries. 
Hence many have suggested that Luke, being a native 
probably of Antioch, used the word “tile” in the gen- 
eral sense of roof-material (Eusebius, Hist. Eccles. iii, 4 ; 
Jerome. Prof. to Com. on St. Matthew, vii, 4 ; Convbeare 
and llowson, St. Paul, i, 337). As to the particular 
part or substance thus “broken up,” most interpreters 
have thought that it was the layer of sticks, brush, and 
hard-rolled clay which constitutes the ordinary Hat roof 
of an Oriental house (Arundell. Trav. in Asia Minor, i, 
171 ; Bussell, Aleppo, i, 35), which Hr. Thomson says he 
has often seen thus removed for letting down grain, 
straw, or other articles (Land and Book. ii,7). Put this 
operation would have raised an intolerable dust, such as 
to drive the audience entirely away. Some suppose, 
therefore, that it was merely the scuttle through which 
the paralytic was lowered (Lightfoot, Hone Hebruicir, 
ad loc.), an explanation that scarcely meets the terms 
of the narrative. It. probably was the awning (Shaw, 
Trarels, p. 21 1) or rather board or leafy screen over the 
gallery or interior veranda (Kitto, Daily Bible Hlust . 
ad loc.), which was easily removed and as easily re- 
placed. See House. 

Tillage (prop. JT m \''2V,aboduh, 1 Chron. xxvii, 2G; 
Neh. x, 37, work, i. e. “ service” or “ bondage,” as else- 
where rendered; so occasionally *13^, to “till,” “ till- 
eth,” “tiller,” etc., lit. worker; but *V3, nir, Prow xiii, 
23, means fallow ground, as elsewhere rendered). See 
Agriculture. 

Tillemont, Louis Sebastien Le Nain be, a 
French divine and scholar, was born in Paris, Nov. 30, 
1037, and at the age of ten years entered the famous 
seminary of Port -Poval. 1 le soon manifested great pro- 
iieiency in the study of history, and at the age of eigh- 
teen began to read the fathers, the lives of the apostles, 
and their successors in the primitive Church, and drew 
up for himself an account of early ecclesiastical history, 
in the manner of Usher’s Annals. When twenty-three, 
he entered the Episcopal seminary at Beauvais, where 
he remained three or four years, and then went to reside 
with Godclroi llermant, a canon of the Cathedral of 
Beauvais, with whom he remained five or six years. 
Me then returned to Paris, and, after receiving the oth- 
er orders of the Church, was ordained priest in 1G7G, 
and settled at Tillemont, whence he took his name. 
About this time he was employed, along with M. de 
Sacv, on a Life of St. Louis, and two years after trav- 
elled in Flanders and Holland. Beluruing, he contin- 
ued his studies, and in 1G90 began to publish his His- 
tory of the Emperors. To a complete knowledge of 
ecclesiastical history he joined an exemplary humility 
and regularity of conduct; and, regardless of dignities, 
wished for nothing but retirement. The practicing of 
watchings and austerities brought upon him a disease, 
of which he died dan. 10, 1 tilts. He published, Lives 
of the Emperors ( 1 GUO 1701,5 vols. 4to):—Memoires 
pour servir a I'Uistoire Ecclisiastique des six premiers 
Siecles, etc. ( 1G93, 1G vols. 4to): — and supplied ma- 
terials for several works published by others : Life of 
St. Louis, begun by De Sacy and finished and published 
by La Chaise; /Ares of St. Athanasius and St. Basil, 
by G. llermant; Lives of Tertullkin and Orirjen. by 
Forse, under the name of La Mothe. He left in MS. a 
Memoir concerning William de So inf- A mottr , and the Dis- 
putes between the Dominicans and the l 7 ni versify : — Life 
of Isabella, sister of St. Louis: -Remarks on the Brevia- 
ries of Mans and I \iris .1 Legend for the Breviary of 
Evreux : — and History of the Sicilian Kings of Anjou. 


Tillemont, Pierre Le Nain be, brother of the 
preceding, was born in Paris, March 25, 1010. Having 
chosen the ecclesiastical profession, lie entered at St.Yie- 
tor, Paris; but retired to La Trappe in 1GG8, bedng en- 
amoured with the austerities of that order. lie was for 
a long time subprior, and died there in 17 13. His works 
are, Essai de Vll is/oire de VOnlre de Citeanx (9 vols. 1 2mo): 
— Homilies sur Jeremie (2 vols. 8vo), a French transla- 
tion of St. Dorot heus : — Relation de la Vie et de la Mart 
de Plusieurs Religieux de la Trappe (G vols. 12mo), etc. 

Tillet, Jean bu, a French prelate, was born in Paris 
about the beginning of the lGth century; ami by the 
iiiHuenee of his brother, the earl of Brassiere (himself a 
learned historiographer), lie became prothonotary of the 
cardinal of Lorraine, who rewarded him with the bish- 
opric of Saint-Brieue in 1553. The following year he. 
exchanged this see for that ofMeatix. lie died at Paris, 
Nov. 19, 1570. lie was the author of many works on 
French Church history, for which see Iloefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generale, s. v. 

Tillinghast, Nicholas Power, an Episcopal cler- 
gyman, was born in Providence, B. I., March 3, 1817. 
He was fitted for college chiefiy by Mr. (afterwards 
Prof.) G. W. lveely. of Waterville College, and was grad- 
uated from Brown University in the class of 1837. On 
leaving college, he went to Society Hill, S. C., where he 
spent two years in superintending the education of a 
nephew (1837-39). The next three years (1839-42), he 
pursued his theological studies at the "rheological Semi- 
nary at Alexandria, Va., and was ordained deacon and 
presbyter in the same year (1842) bv bishop Meade, and 
became assistant minister of the Monumental Church, 
in Bichmond, Va. lie remained here but a short time, 
being called to the rectorship of the Episcopal Church 
at Society Hill, where he continued his most accepta- 
ble services for two years. Failing health led him to 
resign, and lie went abroad, spending eighteen months 
in Europe. After his return, he did not settle for two 
or three years, but supplied pulpits in Washington, 
Marblehead (Mass.), and in Philadelphia, and in 1848 
became rector of St. John’s Church, in Georgetown, D. C 1 .. 
where lie had a happy and useful ministry for nearly 
twenty years (1S48-G7). A severe injury which he sus- 
tained in Groton, Conn., which made necessary the am- 
putation of a limb, so affected bis health that he was 
unable again to settle as a minister, although lie offi- 
ciated as a temporary supply as occasion offered. In 
the seclusion of his study he spent much time engaged 
in congenial studies. He made a translation of a large 
part of Cicero’s De Ojjiciis, and also translated from the 
German some things in which he was interested. He 
died near Philadelphia, Aug. 7, 18G9. (J. C. S.) 

Tillotson, John, archbishop of Canterbury, was 
born at Sowerby, Yorkshire, in October, 1G30. He en- 
tered Clare Hall, Cambridge, April 23, 1G47, and, grad- 
uating in IG50, was made a fellow in 1G51. He left col- 
lege in 1G5G, and became tutor to the son of Edmund 
Prideaux, Crormvell’s attorney-general. Beceiving his 
first impression among the Puritans, he was led to con- 
formity by the works of Chillingworth and the iiiHuenee 
of scholars with w’hom he had become intimate. lie 
submitted to the Act of Uniformity in IGG2, and became 
curate of Cheslinnt, in Hertfordshire. He was chosen 
(Dec. IG) minister of St. Mary’s, Aldermanbury ; but, de- 
clining this, was presented, in June. 1G63, to the rectory 
of Kiddingtnn, Suffolk. His residence there was short, 
he being made preacher of the Society of Lincoln’s Tun 
on the 2Gth of the same month. In 1GG4 he was appoint- 
ed Tuesday lecturer at St. Lawrence’s, in the Jewry, and 
was now recognised as a distinguished preacher. He re- 
ceived his degree of D.D. in 1GGG, and in 1GG8 preached 
the sermon at the consecration of Wilkins to the bish- 
opric of Chester. In 1G70 he was made a prebendary of 
Canterbury, in 1G72 was advanced to a deanery of that 
Church, and in 1G73 was preferred to a prebend in the 
Church of St. Paul. When a declaration of liberty of 


TILOX 


409 


TIMBREL 


conscience was published in 1072, with a view to in- 
dulge the papists, Tillotson and the clergy were directed 
bv their bishops to preach against popery; and when 
archbishop Sheldon advised with the clergy as to what 
reply he should make to the king if his majesty should 
disapprove their course, Dr. Tillotson suggested this an- 
swer: “Since his majesty professed the Protestant re- 
ligion. it would be a thing without precedent that he 
should forbid his clergy preaching in defence of it.” On 
April 2, 1080, he preached before the king, at Whitehall, 
a sermon on Josh, xxiv, 15, in which he expressed a 
sentiment of intolerance that exposed him to heavy 
censure. He was afterwards admitted into a high de- 
gree of confidence with king William and queen Mary; 
was appointed clerk of the closet to the king, March 27, 
1689; and was authorized, in August, by the chapter of his 
cathedral, to exercise archiepiscopal jurisdiction over the 
province of Canterbury, Sancroft having been suspended 
for refusing the new oath. Ilis ambition bad never ex- 
tended further than to desire the exchange of his dean- 
ery of Canterbury for that of St. Paul’s, which was grant- 
ed him in September. The king, however, nominated 
him to the archbishopric of Canterbury, April 23, 1G91, 
and he was consecrated (May 31) in Bow Church. The 
rest of Iiis life was spent in laboring for the good of the 
Church and the reformation of all abuses among the 
clergy. He died Nov. 24, 1694. He published, The 
Rule of Faith (1666, 8vo), and several volumes of Ser- 
mons . A collective edition of his works, 254 Sermons , 
Rule o f Faith , and Prayers , composed for his use, etc., 
was published in 1707 (3 vols. fob). There have been 
later editions both of his complete works and of selec- 
tions therefrom. His IPorfo?, with Life by Thomas 
Bircli, D.D.. were published by Kavenet (1752, 3 vols. 
fob). See Chalmers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. ; Allibonc, Diet, 
of Brit, and Amer. .4 uthors , s. v. 

Ti'lon (Heb. marg. Tilon', text, Tulon\ 

yift [Simonis] or scorn [Gesenius] ; Sept. OiAwi/ 
v. r. ’lrai/; Yulg. Thilon ), the last named of the four 
“sons” of Shimon, a descendant of Judah (I Chron. iv, 
20). B.C. perhaps cir. 1618. 

Tilton, Albert Freeman, a Baptist minister, 
was born in Deerfield, N. II., Oct. 15, 1809. He was a 
graduate of Waterville College in the class of 1835. He 
taught the next two years, first, in Townshend, Yt., 
where he was the principal of an academy in that place, 
and then in Boone County, Ky. For four years (1837- 
41) he was the principal of a Baptist institution in 
Franklin, Ind., which became Franklin College in 1844. 
In 1841 he was ordained as an evangelist at Franklin, 
and preached in two or three places in Indiana, lie 
was pastor of the Baptist Church in West Waterville 
for two years (1844-46), and for the next three years he 
supplied two or three churches. In 1849 he returned to 
Franklin, Ind., where he died Sept. 26, 1850. (J. C. 8.) 

Tilton, Hervey, a Baptist minister, was born in 
Charlton, Mass., Nov. 22, 1792. He was a graduate of 
Amherst College in the class of 1826, and of the Newton 
Theological Institution in the class of 1829. He was 
ordained at Waterville, Me., Oct. 7, 1829, from which 
place he removed to Ilallowell, Me. His ministry in 
both these places was of brief duration. He was pastor 
of the Church in Middle borough, Mass., for four years 
(1832-36). The next few years he was pastor in Thomp- 
son, Conn., and Marblehead and Millbury, Mass. On 
April 1, 1843, he was appointed agent of the Massachu- 
setts Baptist Convention, and held that position until 
his death, in 1878. Rev. Dr. Bowers says of him, “ For 
the kind of work he was called to perform so many years, 
perhaps no better, certainly no truer or more faithful, 
man could be found. Before his death, he had the priv- 
ilege of seeing the denomination in the State increase 
by more than one third in the number of its churches, 
and more than one half in the number of its members, 
lie believed in the immortality of Baptist churches; 


and when any of them were sick, lie went to anoint 
them with oil and offer the prayer of faith, ami thus 
frequently raised them up, while doubtless some of their 
sins were forgiven them. Ilis presence with any Church 
was a benediction ; for if he found even a crooked godli- 
ness, it was precious to him in being godliness at alb It 
was a strange desire of his heart that he might die wear- 
ing his missionary honors to the last. In this feeling 
he was gratified.” (J. C. S.) 

Timae'us (Tipaiog), father of the blind beggar 
cured by Christ (Mark x, 46), the son being thence 
called Bartimieus (q. v.). B.C. ante 29. 

Timbrel (qh, toph. Exod. xv, 20; Judg. xi, 34; 2 
Sam. vi, 5; 1 Chron. xiii. 8; Job xxi, 12; Rsa. lxxxi, 

2 ; cxlix, 3 ; cl, 4 ; elsewhere rendered “ tabret also 
the cognate verb TEH, taphdph, Psa. lxviii, 25; ren- 
dered “tabor,” Nell, ii, 7; TvpTtavov , Jud. iii. 7), 
The Heh. word is an imitative one occurring in many 
languages not immediately connected with each other. 
It is the same as the Arabic and Persian duf which in 
the Spanish becomes adtife, a tambourine. The root, 
which signifies to beat or strike, is found in the Greek 
Tvivavov or rvfnravov, Lat. tympanum , Itah tamburo. 
Span, t author , Fr. tambour, Prov. tabor , Engl, tabor , tab- 
ouret, timbrel, tambourine , A. S. dubban , to strike, Engl. 
tap, and many others. It is usual for etymologists to 
quote likewise the Arab, tunbur as the original of tam- 
bour and tabor; hut, unfortunately, the tunbur is a guitar, 
and not a drum (Russell, Aleppo [2d ed.],i, 152). Tlu* 
parallel Arabic word is tabl, which denotes a kind of 
drum, and is the same with the Rabb. Heh. tabid and 
Span, atabal, a kettle-drum. The instrument and the 
word may have come to us through the Saracens. In 
old English tabor was used for any drum. Thus Rob* 
of Gloucester (ed. Ilearne, 1810), p. 396 : 

“ Vor of trompes and of tabors the Saracens made there 

So gret noise that Cristenmeii al distourbed were." 

In Shakespeare’s time it seems to have become an instru- 
ment of peace, and is thus contrasted with the drum: 
“I have known when there was no music with him but 
the drum and fife ; and now had he rather hear the tabor 
and the pipe” (Much Ado about Nothing, act ii, sc. 3\ 
Tabouret and tabourine are diminutives of tabor, and tie- 
note the instrument now known as the tambourine: 

“Or Mimoe’s whistling to his tabouret , 

Selling a laughter for a cold meal’s meat" 

(Hall, Sat. iv, 1, 7S). 

Tabret is a contraction of tabouret. The word is re- 
tained in the A. Y. from Coverdale’s translation in all 
passages except Isa. xxx, 32, where it is omitted in 
Coverdale, and Ezek. xxviii, 13, where it is rendered 
“ beauty.” 

The Ileb: toph is undoubtedly the instrument de- 
scribed by travellers as the duf or dif of the Arabs. It 
was used in very early times by the Syrians of Padan- 
aram at their merry-makings (Gen. xxxi, 27). It was 
played principally by women (Exod. xv, 20; Judg. xi. 
34: 1 Sam. xviii, G; Psa. lxviii, 25 [26]) as an accom- 
paniment to the song and dance (comp. Jud. iii, 7), and 
appears to have been worn by them as an ornament 
(Jer. xxxi, 4). The toph was one of the instruments 
played by the young prophets whom Said met on liis 
return from Samuel (1 Sam. x, 5), and by the Levites 
in the Temple-band (2 Sam. vi, 5; 1 Chron. xiii, 8). It 
accompanied the merriment of feasts (Isa. v, 12; xxiv, 
8), and the jov of triumphal processions (Judg. xi, 34; 
1 Sam. xviii, 6), when the women came out to meet the 
warriors returning from victory, and is everywhere a 
sign of happiness and peace (Job xxi, 12; Isa. xxx. 32; 
Jer. xxxi, 4). So in the grand triumphal entry of God 
into his Temple, described in strong figures in Psa. 
lxviii, the procession is made up by the singers who 
marched in front, and the players on stringed instru- 
ments who brought up the rear, while on either side 
danced the young maidens with their timbrels (ver. 25 
[26]). 


TIMBREL 


410 


TIME 


The passage of Ezekiel, xxviii, 13, is obscure, and 
appears to have been early corrupted. Instead of 
T^cr), “thv tabrets,” the Yulg. and Targ. read 
“ thy beauty,” which is the rendering adopted in (’over- 
dale's and Cranmer’s Bible. The Sept. seems to have 
read TjET., as in ver. 10. If the ordinary text be 
adopted, there is no reason for taking tuph, as Jerome 
suggests, in the sense of the setting ol'a gem, “ pala qua 
gemma eontinetur.” See Tabkkt. 

The tympanum was used in the feasts of Cybele 
( Herod, iv, 70), and is said to have 
been the invention of Dionysus and 
Rhea ( Eurip. Bacch. 59). It was 
played by women, who beat it with 




Ancient Oriental Tympanum , or Tambuuriue. 


the palms of their hands (Ovid, Met. iv, 29), and Juve- 
nal (Sat. iii, 04) attributes to it a Syrian origin : 

“Jam pridein Svens in Tiberim dellnxit Orontes 
Et liiiiitiani, et mores et cum tibieine etiordas 
Obliquas, uecuou yentilia tympana tecum 
Vex it.” 

In the same way the tabor is said to have been intro- 
duced into Europe by the Crusaders, who adopted it 
from the Saracens, to whom it was peculiar (see Du 
Cange’s note on De Joinville’s Hist, tlu Roi Saint Louis , 
| >. 01 ). 

The author of Shiite Uayyibhorhn (c. 2) gives the 
Greek KrgfiuX ov as the equivalent of tuph. and says it 
was a hollow basin of metal, beaten with a stick of brass 
or iron. 

The tlif of the Arabs is described by Russell (Aleppo 
[ l&t cd.J, p. 94) as “a hoop (sometimes with pieces of 
brass lixed in it to make a jingling) over which a piece 
of parchment is distended. It is beaten with the lingers, 
and is the true tympanum of the ancients, as appears 
from its ligure in several relievos, representing the or- 
gies of Bacchus and rites of Cybele.” The same instru- 
ment was used by the Egyptian dancing-women whom 
Ilasselquist saw (Travels [ed. 1700], p. 59). In Bari Mi- 
ry it is called tar , and “is made like a sieve, consisting 
(as Isidore [Oriy. iii, 31] describes the tympanum) of a 
rim or thin hoop of wood with a skin of parchment 
stretched over the top of it. This serves for the bass in 
all their concerts, which they accordingly touch very 
artfully with their lingers, or with the knuckles or 
palms of their bauds, as the time and measure retpiire, 
or as force and softness are to he communicated to the 
several parts of the performance” (Show, Travels, p. 202). 
— Smith. See 3If.sir.vL Instiu'mknts. 



Time (the proper and usual rendering of F,!?, eth 
[later zemdn~\. a general word, Or. \p6voq, space 
of duration; while 1FV2, moed, Kaipoc, signifies a fixed 
time, either by human or divine appointment, or the nat- 
ural seasons). A peculiar use of the term occurs in the 
phrase “a time, times, and a half” (Ilcb. IS' VS 
Dan. xii, 7 ; Chald. vii, 25; 

Or. Ktttpbg Ka'i Kaipoi Kai ijpiav, Rev. xii, 14), in the 
conventional sense of three years and a half (see Jose- 
phus, ir«r, i, 1, 1). The following are the regular di- 
visions of time among the Hebrews, each of which in- 
variably preserves its strict literal sense, except where 
explicitly modified by the immediate context. (In 
treating this subject, we here bring together the ac- 
counts of the several terms in Winer’s Real- Worter- 
bnch.) Sec Chronology. 

1. Year (H-w. so called from the change of the sea- 
sons). The years of the Israelites, like those of the mod- 
ern Jews, were lunar (Rabbinical n:E!rn “TS w), of 354 d. 
8 h. 48 min. 38 sec., consisting of twelve (unequal) lu- 
nar months; and as this falls short of the true year 
(an astronomical month having 29 d. 12 h. 44 min. 2.84 
see.), they were obliged, in order to preserve the regu- 
larity of harvest and vintage (Exod. xxiii, 1G), to add 
a month occasionally, so as to make it on the average 
coincide with the solar year (Rabbinical FFw), 

which has 305 d. 5 h. 48 min. 45 sec. The method of 
doing this among the very ancient Hebrews is entirely 
unknown (seen conjecture in Ideler, Chronol. i,490; an- 
other in Crcdner, Joel , p. 218). The Talmudists find 
mention of an intercalation under Hezekiah (2 Chron. 
xxx, ii; see Mishna, Pesach. iv, 9), but without founda- 
tion (see, however, on the reconcilement of the lunar 
with the solar year, Galen, Comment, i, in Hippoc. Bpi- 
dem. [Opp. ed. Kuhn, xiii, 23]). Among the later Jews 
(who called an intercalated year n31!T, in dis- 
tinction from a common year, or FIIIT), an 

intercalary month was inserted after Adar, and was 
hence called Ye-dar (“"iN‘'.), or second Adar T1X) 
( Mishna, Eduyoth, vii, 7 ; see the distinctions of the 
Gemarists in Reland, Antiq. Sacr. iv, 1; comp. Ben- 
David, Zvr Bereehn. u. Gesch. d. jiid. Kalend. [Berk 
1817]; Ideler, ut sup. p. 537 sq. ; Anger, De Temp, in 
I ct. Ap. Ratione, i,31 sq.). The intercalation (“1’Q‘i*') 
was regularly decreed by the Sanhedrim, which observed 
the rule never to add a month to the sabbatical year. 
It usually was obliged to intercalate every third year, 
but occasionally had to do so in two consecutive years. 

The Israelitish year began, as the usual enumeration 
<>f the months shows (Lev. xxiii, 34 ; xxv, 9; Numb, 
ix, II; 2 Kings xxv, 8; Jer. xxxix, 2; comp. 1 Macc. 
iv, 52 ; x, 21), with Abib or Nisan (see Esth. iii, 7), sub- 
sequent to and in accordance with the Mosaic arrange- 
ment (Exod. xii, 2), which had a retrospective reference 
to the departure out of Egypt (ix.Sl; see Biihr. Sym- 
bolic, ii,G39). Yet as we constantly tind this arrange- 
ment spoken of as a festal calendar, most Rabbinical and 
many Christian scholars understand that the civil year 
began, as with the modern Jews, with Tisri (October), 
but the ecclesiastical year with Nisan (Mishna, Rosh 
//ash-shanah, i, I ; comp. Josephus, A nt. i, 3, 3. See also 
Rosenmiiller, on Exod. xii, 2; llitzig, Jesa. p. 335; 
Scyllarth, Chronol. Sacra , p. 34 sq.). But this distinc- 
tion is probably a post-exilian reckoning (Ilavernick 
argues against its inference from Ezek. xl, 1), which 
was an accommodation to the time, of the arrival of re- 
turned exiles in Palestine (Ezra iii, 1 sq. ; Neh. vii, 73; 
vi ii, 1 sq.), and later fell into harmony with the Seleucid 
ivra, which dated from October (see Ben fey, Monats- 
nam. p. 217; and comp. J Macc. iv, 52; x, 2L; 2 Macc, 
xv, 37). Yet this has little countenance from the 
enactment of the festival of the seventh new moon 
(Lev. xxiii, 24; Numb, xxix, 1-6), which has in the 


TIME 


411 


TIME 


Mosaic legislation certainly a different import from the 
Rabbinical ordinance (see Vriemoet, Obserr. Misc. p.284 
sq. ; Gerdes, De Festo Clanyoris [Duisb. 1700; also in 
his Exercit. Acad.]). See New Moon. Nor does the 
expression “in the end of the year” (!“l 213(1 HX33), 
with reference to the Feast of Tabernacles (Exod. xxiii, 
1G), favor this assumption (see Ideler, p. 493). Other 
passages adduced (Job xxix, 4; Joel ii, ’25). as well 
as i he custom of many other nations (Credncr. ut sup. 
p. 209 sq.), are a very precarious argument. Neverthe- 
less, it is clear that even in the pre-exiliau period of 
the theocracy, the autumn, as being the close of the 
year’s labor, was often regarded among the agrarian 
population as a terminal date ( ldelcr, Chronol. i, 493 
sq. ; see Dresdc, A jiuus Jud. ex A ntiq. Must. [ Lips. 17GG ; 
merely Babbinic] ; Seidell, Be A nno Cirili Vett. Ilebr. 
[Lond. 1G44; also in Ugolino, Thesaur. xvii]; Nagel, 
De Ctdendario Vett. Ebr. [Altdorf, 1746]). ScyiYarth 
maintains that even prior to the destruction of Jeru- 
salem the Israelites reckoned by lunar months (Zeitsch r. 
d. deutsch. moryenl. Gesellsch. ii, 344 sq.). The prevail- 
ing belief, however, that they had from the first such a 
year lias been of late combated by Bdttcher (Prob. alt- 
test. Schr If terkliir. p.283; De Infer Is , i, 125) and Cred- 
ner ( Joel, p. 210 sq.), and most stoutly by Seytfarth 
{Chronol. Sacra, p. 26 sq.). Credner holds that the Is- 
raelites originally had a solar year of thirty-day months, 
and that this was exchanged for the lunar year when 
the three £reat festivals were accurately determined, 
i. e. about the time of king Hezekiah mid Josiah (on 
the contrary, see Von Bolden, Genes, p. 105 sip: Ben fey 
and Stern, Ueber die Monatsnamen, p. 5 sq.). Scyftarth, 
however, ascribes the solar year to the Jews down to 
about 200 B.C. 

A well-defined and universal ter a was unknown 
among the ancient Hebrews. National events are 
sometimes dated from the departure out of Egypt 
(Exod.xix,!; Numb, xxxiii, 38 ; l Kings vi, 1), usually 
from the accession of the kings (as in Kings, Chron., 
and Jer.), later from the beginning of the exile (Ezek. 
xxxiii, 21 ; xl, 1). Jeremiah reckons the Captivity ac- 
cording to the years of Nebuchadnezzar (xxv, l ; lii, 12, 
28 sq.), but Ezekiel (i, l) otherwise. The post-exilian 
books date according to the regnal years of the Persian 
masters of Palestine (Ezra iv, 26; vi, 15; vii, 7 sq. ; 
Nell. ii. 1; v, 4; xiii, 6; llag. i, 1, 2, 11; Zcch. vii, 1). 
But as Syrian vassals the Jews adopted the Greek (1 
Mace, i, 10) or Seleucid aera (lYHU'j eera con- 

tractuum. since it was used in contracts generally, Arab. 
karyakh dhu-lkerfn), which dated from the overthrow 
of Babylon by Seleucus Nicator 1 (Olymp. cxvii. 1), 
and began with the autumn of B.C. 312 (see Ideler, 
JIundb. d. Chronol. i, 448). This reckoning is employed 
in the books of the Maccabees, which, however, singu- 
larly differ by one year between themselves, the second 
book being about one year behind the first in its dates 
(comp. I Mace, vi, 16 with 2 Macc. xi, 21 ; 1 Macc. vi, 
20 with 2 Macc. xiii. 1); from which it would seem 
that the author of 2 Macc. had a different epoch for the 
ter. Seleuc. from the author of I Macc., with the lat- 
ter of whom Josephus agrees in his chronology. Inas- 
much as l Macc. always counts by Jewish months in 
the Seleucid mra (i, 57; iv, 52, 59; vii. 43; xiv, 27; 
xvi, 14), and these are computed from Nisan (x, 21 ; 
xvi, 14) — the second book likewise counts by Jewish 
months (i, 18; x, 5; xv,37: on the contrary xi, 21) — 
we might suppose that the former begins the Seleucid 
ncra with the spring of B.C. 312, while the latter be- 
gins it with the autumn of the same year (Petav. Ra- 
tionar. x, 45 ; Prideaux, ii, 267, etc.), a conclusion to 
which other circumstances likewise point ( Ideler, ut 
sup. p. 531 sq. ; Wieseler, Chronol. Synopsis , p. 451 sq.). 
What Wernsdorf objects {I)e Fide Maccab. p. 19 sq.) is 
not of much importance; but we cannot thence infer 
that the Babylonians began the Seleucid ivra with the 
autumn of 311 (Seyffarth, Chronol. Sacra , p. 20). See 


Ilosmann, De JEra Seleucid. et Regum Syria? Successione 
(Kil. 1752). Still another national reckoning is given 
in 1 Macc. xiii, 41 sq., namely, from the year of the de- 
liverance of the Jews from the Syrian yoke, i.c. seven- 
teen ier. Seleuc., or from the autumn of B.C. 143 (Jo- 
sephus, Ant. xiii. 6, 6), and this a?ra appears upon Sa- 
maritan coins (Eckhel, Doctrina Finn or. Vett. 1, iii, 4(53 
sq.). On other Jewish icras see the Mishna (Gittin,\ iii, 
5). See Year. 

2. Month (IL'TH, lit. nev', sc. moon ; seldom and more 
Aramaic PH?, the moon). The months of the Hebrews, 
as stated above, were lunar (as appears from the foregoing 
names), and began from the new moon as ocularly ob- 
served (the [synodic] lunar month has 26 d. 12 h. 44 
min. 3 [strictly 2.82] sec. [Ideler, Chronol. i,43]). This 
is certain from the post-exilian period (Mishna, Rosh 
IJash-shanah, i, 5 sq.), but for pre-cxilian times various 
conjectures have been hazarded (see above). The length 
of the lunar month in the later period depended upon 
the day when the appearance of the new moon was an- 
nounced by the Sanhedrim (see a similar reckoning in 
Macrob. Sat. i, 15, p. 273 ed. Bip.), which thus made 
the month either twenty-nine days ("!3Pt CPn, i. e. 
short) or thirty days (X53 UlTn, i. e.full), according 
as the day was included in the following or the pre- 
ceding month. The general rule was that in one year 
not less than four nor more than eight full months 
could occur (Mishna, A rack, ii, 2). The final adjust- 
ment of the lunar to the solar year was by intercala- 
tion eVi^“), so that whenever in the last month, Adar, 
it became evident that the Passover, which must be 
held in the following month, Nisan, would occur before 
harvest, i. e. not at the time when the sun would be in 
Aries (Josephus, Ant. iii, 10, 5), an entire month (Va- 
dar) was interjected between Adar and Nisan, consti- 
tuting an intercalary year (rVH^ ^“2 JlPr, which, how- 
ever, according to the Getnara, did not take place in a 
sabbatic year, but always in that 'which preceded it; 
nor in two successive years, nor yet more than three 
years apart). See Anger, De Temp, in A ct. A p. Ratione , 
p. 30 sq. 

Prior to the exile the individual months were usual- 
ly designated by numbers (the twelfth month occurs in 
2 Kings xxv, 27; Jer. lii, 31 ; Ezek. xxix, 1 ; comp. 1 
Kings iv, 7) ; yet we find also the following names : 
Ear-month (3">3XPl 13TPI, Exod. xiii, 4; xxiii, 15; 
Deut. xvi, 1, etc.), corresponding to the later Nisan; 
Bloom-month (IT [or *PT] UIH, 1 Kings vi, 1, 37), the 
second month; Rain -month (5*13 PH)?, vi, 38), the 
eighth (connected by Benfcy, p. 182, with the word 
53, ^3*3 ; see the Talmudic interpretation cited by 
hi tty p. 16) ; Freshet-month (C^rXJl PH?, viii, 2), the 
seventh ; all of which seem to be mete appellatives 
(see Ben fey and Stern, Ueber die Monatsnamen einiger 
alten Volker [ Berl. 1836 ], p. 2). After the exile the 
months received the following names (Geniara, Pesach. 
xciv, 2; Targ. Sheni on Esth. iii, 7 sq. ; comp. Mishna, 
Shekal. iii, 1) : 1. Xisdn (jO"?, Nch. ii, 1 ; Esth. iii, 7), 
the first month, in which the Passover (q.v.) was held (and 
in which the vernal equinox fell, Josephus, Ant. iii, 10,5), 
corresponding, in general, to our April (Ideler, Chronol. i, 
491), and answering (Josephus, A nt. iii, 10, 5; 1 1 7/?-, v, 
3, 1) to the Macedonico-Svrian Xanthicus, also {Ant. ii, 
14, 6) to the Egyptian month Pharmuthi , which last, 
however, was March 27-April 25 of the Julian calen- 
dar ( Ideler, ut sup. i, 143); 2. lydr (VX, Targ. on 2 
Chron. xxx, 2) ; 3. Sir an CjVO, Esth. viii, 9; ITiovrtX, 
Bar. i, 8); 4. Tammuz (T^H); 5. Ab (3K) ; 6. Elul 
(b*15X, Neh. vi, 15; 'EXouA, 1 Macc. xiv, 27), the last 
month of the civil year in the post-exilian age (Misli- 
na, Shebiith. x, 2; Erubin , iii, 7); 7. Tishri (*'"1131?), in 
w hich the festivals of Atonement and Tabernacles fell 


TIME 


412 


TIME 


(also the autumnal equinox) ; 8. Mareheshvdn 0} 
Marrouoi' or Mapcroimi’i/, Josephus. „4«/. i, 3. 3); 0, 
Kisler O^yZ, Neh. i, I ; Zech. vii, 1; XatrXeiJ, 1 Mace, 
i. 54); 10. febcth (rZ’J, Esth. ii, 10); 11. Shebdt (-3*3*, 
Zech. i. 7 ; 1'a^ar, 1 Mace. xvi, 14); 12. A (Jar (“ITS, 
Esth. iii, 7; viii, 12; \4?«p,‘2 Macc. xv,37); 13. Ve-Addr 
(•ns-, ; strictly Va-Addr, “HX*).or second Adar ("IS 
m Z'“ or i"iN~rz). Occasionally, however, the months 
were newly numheretl in the post-exilian period like- 
wise (I lag. i. 1 ; ii, 1 sq. ; Zech. i, 1 : viii, 10; Neh. vii. 
73 ; viii, 3, 11 ; Dan. x. 4 ; 1 Macc. ix, 3, 54 ; x, 21 : xiii, 
51). On the origin and signification of those names, 
see Ben ley, op.cit. p. 21 sq.; Gcsenius, Thesaur. p. 702, 
917. From the fact that the second hook of Maccabees 
and Josephus reckon according to the Svro-Macedonian 
months {Dioscurus, Xanthieus, etc.) it does not follow 
that the Jews adopted this calendar in the Seleueid a?ra. 
In 2 Macc. the Egyptian months {Epiphi, Pa chon) are 
named. See Pott, in the Hall. IAt.-Zeil . 1839, No. 46- 
50; Oarpzov, Appar. p. 356 sq. ; Miehaelis, Comment. 
1763 6S, Oblat. p. 16 sq.; Langhausen, De Meuse Vett. 
J/tbr. Lunar! (Jen. 1713; also in ITgolino, Thesaur. 
xvii); Ideler, Chronol. i, 448 sq., 509 s«p See Month. 

3. ! 1 \ek (p*Z\l‘, lit. serened) . This division of the 
synodal lunar mouth into seven days (whence the lleb. 
name) early prevailed among the Israelites, as among 
other Shemitic people and the Egyptians (Ideler, Chro- 
nol. i, 178; ii, 473); hut only among the Israelites was 
this arrangement associated with cosmogony, with law, 
and with religion itself, so as to enter into real civil life 
and form the basis of the whole cycle of festivals. See 
Sabbath. But ordinarily, days rather than weeks (as 
also among the (4 reeks and Komans) constituted the 
conventional mode of computing time (but see Lev. xii, 
5; Dan. x, 2 sq.). In the post-exilian period the reck- 
oning by weeks became more customary, and at length 
special names for particular week-days came into use, 
enumerated after the formula iv picl, or 7 rpuln/j er«/3- 
firiTon’f or c rafifidrou , etc. (Mark xvi, 2, 9; Luke xxiv, 
1; Acts xx, 7; 1 Cor. xvi, 2; see Epiphan, liter, lxx, 
12; so also in Chald. with NTZIIJ or NPiZC ; see Otho, 
Lex. Pabb. p. 273. The word tfidopdg does not occur 
in the New Test.; see also Ideler, Chronol. i, 481), The 
astronomical derivation of the week naturally grows 
out of the obvious fact {Chronol. i, 60) that the moon 
changes about every seven (properly seven and three 
eighths) days, so that the lunar month divides itself into 
four quarters. Hence nations which have no historical 
relation in this respect nevertheless agree in the obser- 
vance ( Chronol . i, 88). The days of the week were 
named long before the Christian aera on regular astro- 
logical principles from the seven planets (Lobeck,.4//&/o- 
pham. p.933 sq.), which (according to Dion Cass, xxxvii, 
18) was an Egyptian invention. They began with Sat- 
urn’s day (Saturday), inasmuch as Saturn was the outer- 
most planet; but among the Jews this day (the Sab- 
bath) was the last of the week, and so the Jewish (and 
Christian) week commences with Sunday. But these 
heathenish names were never in general use among the 
Jews (see Biihr, Symbol, ii, 585 sq.). Weeks or heptads 
of years belong, among the Jews, to prophetical poetry; 
but in one instance they occur in a literal sense in prose 
(Dan. vii, 21-27). as also among the Homans such an- 
nornm hehdomades were known (Cell, iii, 10; Ccnsorin. 
I)e Die Sat. xiv). See Wkkk. 

1. Day (3*N so called from its heat; ifpipa). The 
civil day {vvycgpepov, 2 Cor. xi, 25) was reckoned by 
the Hebrews from sundown to sundown (Lev. xxiii, 32) ; 
most other ancient nations computed time according to 
the moon’s course (Pliny, ii, 79; Tacit. Cerm. e. xi; 
Oa?sar, Hell. Call, vi, 18; Isidore, Or iff. v. 30 ; (Ynsorin. 
De Die Xat. xxiii); but before the exile they seem 
not to have divided the day into special or well-defined 
portions beyond the natural divisions of morning (~pz ; 


see the definition for the Temple-service in the Mislina, 
Tumid, iii, 2), noon Gen. xliii, 16; Dent, 

xxviii, 29; comp. Z'J'n Z'n, Gen. xviii, 1 ; 1 Sam. xi, 
11 ; and C"V1 "pZD, Prov. iv, 18), and evening (Zm* ; 
comp, also ZVZp, the morning and evening breeze), 
which were in general use, as among the modern Arabs 
(Niebuhr, Bedouin , p. 108 sq.). During the exile the 
Jews appear to have adopted the division into regular 
hours (Chald. np'J) (Dan. iv, 16; v, 5; 2 Esdr. vi, 24), 
as (according to Herod, ii, 109) the twelve hours of the 
day originated among the Babylonians; and in the New 
Test, the hours are frequently enumerated. As, how- 
ever, every natural day of the year was divided into 
twelve hours (John xi, 9; see Ideler, Chronol. i, 84 sq.), 
they must have been unequal at different seasons of the 
year, since in the latitude of Palestine the longest sum- 
mer day lasts from about four A. >1. to eight P. M. 
(Mavr. Peis, iii, 15), being about four hours longer than 
the shortest. The hours of the day (for those of the 
night, see Nigiit-watcii) were naturally counted from 
sunrise (cock-crowing, Tzr»!"l rXi“p, was a designa- 
tion of time observed in the Temple, Mislina, Tamul, i, 
2); whence the third hour (Matt, xx, 3; Acts ii, 15) 
corresponds about to our nine o’clock A. M. (the time 
when the market-place was full of men, 7 rXifiovaa 
dyopd: see Kype, Obserrat. i, 101 sq. ; also the first hour 
of prayer, Acts ii, 15); the end of the sixth hour (Matt, 
xx, 5; John xix, 14) to midday; with the eleventh hour 
(Matt, xx, 6; Mark xv, 34) the day inclined to a close 
and labor ceased (see also John i, 40; iv, 52; Acts iii, 
1 ; x, 3). There were three daily hours of prayer — 
morning, noon, and night ; besides, there is occasionally 
mention of prayer four times a day (Neh. ix. 3) ; but a 
quarterly division of the day (as inferred by Liieke, Joh. 
ii,756) is not certain in the New Test. Vet it is some- 
what doubtful whether the evangelists, John at least, al- 
ways reckon according to the Jewish hours (Clerieus, 
Ad Joan, xix, 14; Michael is, in the I Iamb. verm. Dibit - 
othek , iii, 338 sq. ; Rettig,in the Stud. v. Krit. 1830, i, 10] 
sq.; Hug, in the Freiburger Zeitschr. v,90sq.). See Day. 

5. Hour (Chald. nz*w; Gr. lopa). The Oriental 
Asiatics, especially the Babylonians ( Herod, ii, 109, 
Yitruv. ix, 9), had from early times sundials {horologia 
solaria) or shadow-measures (Pliny, xxxvi, 15); and 
hence, from the intercourse with Babylon, this useful 
contrivance may have been introduced into Palestine 
even before the exile. At all events, something of the 
kind seems to be meant by the “degrees of Aliaz” 
(THX mb p/2, Isa. xxxviii, 8; comp. 2 Kings xx, 9), 
either an obelisk which cast its shade upon the steps of 
the palace, or perhaps a regular gnomon with degrees 
marked on it (Targ. Jonath. "jZN; Symmachus, 

iopo\oyiov ; Jerome, horologium ; see Salmas. A d Solin. 
p. 447 sq. ; Martini, .4 bhandl. r. d. Sonnenuhren der A Iten 
[Leips. 1777] ; also De Jlorologiis Vett. Snothericis [Amst. 
1797]). The Bomans after U. C. 595 used water-clocks 
{clepsydra?, Yitruv. ix, 9; Pliny, vii. 60) for the watch- 
room of post-eourses (Veget. Mil. iii. 8) and for regu- 
lating the continuance of speaking (Philo, Opp. ii, 597 ; 
Becker, Callus, i, 187). Whether this practice prevailed 
among the Jews in the time of Christ, we know not 
(Zcltner, De Horoloyio Caiaphce [Altdorf. 1721], does not 
touch the point); but they could not have been igno- 
rant of some means of measuring time, whether dials or 
water-clocks, since the latter are in frequent use in the 
modern East (Niebuhr, Peis, ii, 74). For a peculiar de- 
vice for dividing the hours mentioned by the Talmud- 
ists, set; Otho, Lex. Pabb. p. 282 ; see also Ideler, Chronol. 
i, 230 sq. See Horn. 

See. generally. Ulmer, De Calenelario Vett. Ebrceor. 
(Altdorf. 1846); Walch, Calmdarinm Paltpstime (Econo- 
micum (Gott. 1786); Hineks, A ncient Egyptian Years 
and Months (Loud. 1865); id. A ssyro- Babylonian 
Measures of Time (ibid, eod,). See Calendab. 


413 


TIMNATH-IIEEES 


TIMES, REGARDEE OF 


Times, Regarder of. See Observer of Times. 

Tim'lia (Heb. Timna , restraint ), the name 

of a woman and also of a man. 

1. (Sept. 0 apvd.) A concubine of Elipliaz, son of 
Esau, and by him mother of Amalek (Gen. xxxvi, 12; 
named [apparently only ] in 1 Chron. i, 3G [by an ellip- 
sis ] as a son of Elipliaz); probably the same as the sis- 
ter of Lotan, and daughter of Seir the Ilorite (Gen. 
xxxvi, 2*2; 1 Chron. i, 39). B.C. considerably post 
1903. 

2 . (Sept. Ga/iard v. r. 0 aifiar; A. V. “Timnah.”) 
The lirst named of the Esauite “dukes” or sheiks in 
Mount Seir (Gen. xxxvi, 40; 1 Chron. i, 51). B.C. 
long post 1903. 

Tim'nah (Heb. Timnah ', portion), the name 

of several plaees in Palestine, which appears in the orig- 
inal, either simple or compounded, in several forms, not 
always accurately represented in the A. Y. We treat 
under this head only the simple name, reserving the 
compounds for a separate article. See also Tuns a. 

1. The place near which Tamar entrapped Judah 
into intercourse with her (Gen. xxxviii, 12, 13, 14; 
Heb. with directive, Timndthah , fira^Fl; Sept. 
Gapvd; Vulg. Thamnathu ; A. Y. “to Timnath”). It 
had a road leading to it ( ver. 14), and as it lay 
on high ground (ver. 12), it probably was the same 
with the Timnah in the mountain district of the tribe 
of Judah (Josh, xv, 57; Sept. Gafivd v. r. Gapra^d; 
Yulg. Thamna). As it lav in the same group with 
Maon, Ziph, and Carmel, south-east of Hebron (Keil, 
Comment, ad loc.), it may perhaps be identical with a 
ruined site upon a low hill on the west of the road be- 
tween Ziph and Carmel, “ called Um el-Amod (‘mother 
of the pillar’). Foundations and heaps of stones, with 
some cisterns, cover a small traet of ground, while two 
or three eoarse columns mark the site probably of a vil- 
lage church, and give occasion for the name” (Robinson, 
Ribl. Res. ii, 192; comp. p. 029). 

2 . A town near the north-west border of Judah, be- 
tween Beth-shemesh and Ekron (Josh, xv, 10; Sept. 
A !ip v. r. Norot;; Yulg. Thamna). It is doubtless the 
same with the place of the same name in Dan (Josh, 
xix, 43, Ileb. with Ti paragogic, Timndthah, Piro^Fl; 
Sept. Gapvd ; Yulg. Thcmna; A. Y. “ Thimnathah”), 
which lay in the vicinity of Ekron: and likewise with 
the residence of Samson’s first wife (Judg. xiv, 1,2, 5; 
Ileb. likewise with Pt appended; Sept. GapvaSd ; Yulg. 
Thamnatha ; A. Y. “ Timnath Josephus, 0 a fil'd, Ant. 
v,8, 5), which lay on the Philistine edge of the Shephe- 
lah (Judg. xiv, 1); and both are therefore the same 
place that was invaded by the Philistines in the time 
of Ahaz (2 Chron. xxviii, 18; Sept. 0 apvd; Yulg. 
Thamnan). At this last date it had suburbs adjoining 
(“villages”); and iu Samson's day it contained vine- 
yards, haunted, however, by such savage animals as in- 
dicate that the population was but sparse. It was on 
higher ground than Ashkelon (Judg. xiv, 19), but lower 
than Zorah, whieh we may presume was Samson’s start- 
ing-point (xiii, 25). After the Danites had deserted 
their original allotment for the north, their towns would 
naturally fall into the hands of Judah, or of the Philis- 
tines, as the continual struggle between them might 
happen to fluctuate. In the later history of the Jews, 
Timnah must have been a conspicuous place. It was 
fortified by Bacehides as one of the most important 
military posts of Judaea (GcipvaSa, 1 Mace, ix, 50), and 
it beeame the head of a district or toparchy, which was 
called after its name, and was reckoned the fourth in or- 
der of importance among the fourteen into which the 
whole country was divided at the time of Vespasian’s 
invasion ( Gapvd , Josephus, 117/?*, iii, 3, 5; see Pliny, 
v, 14). Eusebius and Jerome ( Onomast . s. v. Gafina, 
‘■Thamna”) confound it with the Timnah of Judah’s 
adventure with Tamar, but say that it still existed as a 
large village near Diospolis on the road to Jerusalem. 


According to Schwarz ( Palest, p. 100), it is likewise 
mentioned in the Talmud ( Sotuh , fol. 10 b). The mod- 
ern representative of all these various forms of the same 
name is probably Tibneh , a deserted village about two 
miles west of Ain Shcms (Beth-shemesh), among the 
broken undulating country by which the central moun- 
tains of this part of Palestine descend to the maritime 
plain (Robinson, Bill. Rts. ii, 342; Thomson, Land and 
Book, ii, 301). 

Tim'nath-lie'res ( Ileb. Timnath Chercs,Tl'Z n 
D“in, Timnah of J/eres ; Sept. Gapva&apti; v. r. Gap- 
va$dp twt;; Yulg. Thamnatsare ; Judg. ii,9),or Tim'- 
natll-se'rah (Ileb. Timnuth-Serach, n^DT::n, Tim- 
nah of Se rah ; Sept. 0 apvaSoapd. and Gapi’aSrffaydi', 
v. r. Oapvauapdx and Qappaxappc or OapvaSaoct- 
xdper, Yulg. Thamnath Baraa and Thamnath Bare; 
Josh, xix, 5; xxiv, 30 : Josephus, Gapvd, Ant. v, 1, 29), 
the name (varied only by the transposition of the last 
two consonants of the latter part) by which the city and 
burial-place of Joshua was known. The Jews adopt 
Ileres as the real name; interpret it to mean “the sun;” 
and see in it a reference to the act of making the sun 
stand still, which is to them the greatest exploit of 
Joshua’s life, as they state that the figure of the sun 
( temunath ha-cheres ) was carved upon the sepulchre 
( Rashi, Comment, ad loc.). Others (as Burst, i, 442), 
while accepting Ileres as the original form, interpret 
that word as “clay.” and as originating in the character 
of the soil. Others, again, like Ewald ( Gesch . ii. 347, 8) 
and Bertheau (On Judges), take Serah to be the orig- 
inal form, and Ileres an ancient but unintentional errryr. 
It was t lie spot which at his own request was presented 
to Joshua after the partition of the country was com- 
pleted (Josh, xix, 50), and in “the border” of which he 
was buried (xxiv, 30). It is specified as “in Mount 
Ephraim on the north side of Mount Gaash.” Timnath- 
serah and the tomb of its illustrious owner were shown 
in the time of Jerome, who mentions them in the Epi- 
taphium Panlce (§ 13). Beyond its being south of She- 
chem, he gives no indication of its position, but he dis- 
misses it with the following characteristic remark, a fit- 
ting tribute to the simple self-denial of the great soldier 
of Israel : “Satisque mirata est, quod distributor posses- 
sionum sibi montana et aspera delegisset.” Hebrew 
tradition, in accordance with the above Rabbinical inter- 
pretation, identifies the place with Kefar Cheres , whieh 
is said by rabbi Jacob (Carmolv, Jtineraires. etc. p. 186), 
Hap-Parchi (Asher, Berij. ofTudela, p. 434), and other 
Jewish travellers down to Schwarz in our own day 
(Palest, p. 151). to be about five miles south of Sheehem 
(Nablus). This is doubtless the present Kefr-IIarit, or 
Kef r- Harts, whieh, however, is more nearly double that 
distance S.SAY. of Nablus. The modern village has 
three sacred plaees— one of Nebi Nun, i. e. the tomb of 
Nun; the second, Nebi Lusha, i. e. the tomb of Joshua; 
and the third, Nebi Kifl, i.e. the tomb of the “division 
by lot” (Conder, Tent -Work in Palest. i,78). Another 
and more promising identification has, however, been 
suggested in our own day by Dr. Smith (Bibl. Sacra 
[1843], p. 478 sq.). In his journey from Jifna to Mej- 
del-Yaba, about six miles from the former, he discovered 
the ruins of a considerable town by the name of Tibneh 
on a gentle hill on the left (south) of the road. Oppo- 
site the town (apparently to the south) was a much 
higher hill, in the north side of which are several ex- 
cavated sepulchres, which in size and in the richness 
and character of their decorations resemble the so-called 
“ Tombs of the Kings” at Jerusalem. The mound or tell 
stands on the south bank of a deep valley, surrounded 
by desolate mountains; by it a clear spring issues from 
a eave; to the south-west is a beautiful and immense 
oak-tree, called by the natives Sheik et-Teim, “ the 
ehief, the servant of God.” South of the tell the hill- 
i side is hollowed out with many tombs, most of which 
are choked up. One of these has a porch with two rude 
pilasters, and along the facade are over two hundred 


TDIXITE 


414 


TIMOTHY 


niches for lamps; the trailing boughs of the bushes 
above hang down picturesquely, and half cover the en- 
trance. Within are tiiree kokim. or cells, and through 
the central one it is possible to creep into a second cham- 
ber with only a single grave. Other tombs exist far- 
ther east, one having a sculptured facade; but the tomb 
described is the one popularly supposed to be that of 
Joshua (Cornier, ut sup. p. 228). Sec Josntu. 

Tim'nite (Ilob. Timm', "yiri; Sept. iAapva^ciioQ 
v. r. tta/ii'fh a designation of Samson's son’s father-in- 
law. from his residence in Timnah (Judg, xv, G). 

Ti'mon (Ti/uov. a common Creek name), the fourth 
named of the seven, commonly called “deacons” [sec 
Deacon], who were appointed to act as almoners on 
the occasion of complaints of partiality being raised by 
the Hellenistic Jews at Jerusalem (Acts vi, 5). A.L>. 21). 
Like bis colleagues, Timon bears a Greek name, from 
which, taken together with the occasion of their ap- 
pointment, it li^s been inferred with much probability 
that the seven were themselves Hellenists. Nothing 
further is known of him with certainty ; but in the Sy- 
uopsis de Vita H Morte Prophetarum. Apostolorum, et 
Disnpidorum Domini , ascribed to Dorotheus of Tyre 
{Bib). Max. Fatrum, iii, HD), we are informed that, he 
was one of the “seventy-two” disciples (the catalogue 
of whom is a mere congeries of New-Test, names), and 
that he afterwards became bishop of ttostra (? “ Lustra 
Arabum”), where he suffered martyrdom by tire. — 
Smith. 

Timotheans, a section of the Alexandrian Mo- 
libphysites (q. v.\ so named from Timotheus /Elnrus, 
a bitter opponent of the canons of Chalcedon. During 
the patriarchate of Proferius, Timotheus established 
sehismatical assemblies in Alexandria, having persuad- 
ed a few bishops and monks to join him in his secession 
from the communion of the patriarch. On the death 
of the emperor Marcian, he succeeded in obtaining con- 
secration from two heretical and exiled bishops, and 
Proterius was murdered by the partisans of the usurp- 
ing patriarch on Good-Friday. A.D. 457. After main- 
taining his position for three years, he was banished to 
the ancient Cherson, near Sebastopol, but was recalled 
by the emperor Basiliscus, and took possession of the 
patriarchal throne of Alexandria in 470. 'flic opinions 
of Timotheus and his party went the full length of ex- 
treme Eutychianism. In some fragments of a work of 
his which still exist ( Alai. Xora Collect, vii, 35, 277, 
304, 305), he is found saying that the nature of Christ is 
one only — that is. divine: that in the lirst starting-point 
of conception l>v his mother he had one substance with 
human nature, but that he was not. born of the Blessed 
Virgin in the ordinary wav of birth, or her virginity 
could not have been preserved. This form of Futychi- 
anism thus repudiated the reality of Christ’s human 
nature, and was practically identical with the opinion 
of the Docetse. See Blunt, Diet, of Sects, s. v. 

Ti mo' the iis (Tt/tiu3roc\ honoring God , a frequent 
name in Greek ami Roman history; see Athen. x, 410 ; 
xiv, G2G; Livv, xlii, G7 ; Pliny, vii, 57 ; xxxiv, 10, 34; 
xxxvi, 1. 0), the name of three Jews (such, at least, by 
association). 

1. A “captain of the Ammonites” (1 Macc. v, 0), who 
was defeated on several occasions by Judas Maccn Incus 
(ver. G. 1 1,34-11). B.C. 1GI. lie was probably a tireek 
adventurer (comp. Josephus, Ant. xii. 8, 1) who had 
gained the leadership of the tribe. Thus Josephus 
(ibid, xiii, X, 1, quoted l>v Grimm, On I Macc. r, G) men- 
tions one “ Zeno, surnamed Cotylas, who was despot of 
Kabbah” in the time of Johannes llyreanus. 

2. In 2 Mace, a leader named Timotheus is mention- 
ed as having taken part in the invasion of Nicanor 
(viii, 30; ix, 3). B.C. 1GG. At a later time he made 
great preparations for a second attack on Judas, hut 
was driven to a stronghold, Gazara, which was stormed 
hy Judas, and there Timotheus was taken and slain (x. 


24-37). It has been supposed that the events recorded 
in this latter narrative are identical with those in l 
Macc. v, G-8, an idea rendered more plausible hy the 
similarity of the names Jazcr and Gazara (in Fat. Ga- 
zer, Jazare, Gazara). But the name Timotheus was 
very common, and it is evident that Timotheus the 
Ammonitish leader was not slain at Jazer (1 Macc. v, 
34); and Jazer was on the east side of Jordan, while 
Gazara was almost certainly the same as Gezer. Sec 
Gazaua; Jaazku. It may he urged further, in sup- 
port of the substantial accuracy of 2 Mace., that the 
second campaign of Judas against the first-named Timo- 
theus (1 Macc. v, 27-44) is given in 2 Macc. xii, 2-24 
after the account of the capture of Gazara and the death 
of the second-named Timotheus there. We rn sd or f as- 
sumes that all the differences in the narratives arc blun- 
ders in 2 Mace. (De Fide Libr . Macc. $ lxx),and in this 
he is followed by Grimm (On 2 Macc. x. 24, 32). But, , 
if any reliance is to be placed on 2 Macc.. the differences 
of place and circumstances arc rightly taken by Patri- 
eius to mark different events ( De Libr. Macc § xxxii, 
p. 250). — Smith. 

3. The Greek form of the name of Timothy (q. v.), 
the special follower of Paul (Acts xvi, 1 : xvii, 14, etc.), 
lie is called hy this name in the A. V. in every case ex- 
cept 2 Cor. i, 1 ; Philem. 1 ; Neb. xiii, 23, and the epis- 
tles addresseil to him (I Tim. i, 2,18; vi, 20; 2 Tim. 
i,2\ 

Tim'othy (TiyoSeoc, i. e. Timotheus [q. v.], as the 
name is given in the A. V. Acts xvi. 1; xvii, 14, 15; 
xviii, 5; xix. 22; xx. 4; Rom. xvi, 21 ; 1 Cor. iv, 17; 
xvi, 10; 2 Cor. i, 19; Phil, i, 1 ; ii, ID; Col. i, 1 ; 1 Thess. 
i, 1 ; iii, 2, G; 2 Thess. i, 1), one of the most interesting 
of Paul’s converts of whom we have an account in the 
New’ 'Vest. (In the following treatment of him person- 
ally, as well as in that of the epistles addressed to him, 
we make free use of the articles in the Dictionaries of 
Kitto and Smith.) 

L fits Farit/ Life. — The disciple thus named was the 
son of one of those mixed marriages which, though con- 
demned by stricter Jewish opinion, and placing their 
offspring on ail hut the lowest step in the Jewish scale 
of precedence, were yet not uncommon in the later pe- 
riods of Jewish history. The children of these mar- 
riages were known as mamzerhn (“' bastards”), and stood 
just above the Nethinim. This was, however, emteris 
paribus. A bastard who was a w’ise student of the law 
was, in theory, above an ignorant high -priest (Gem. 
Micros, flora goth , fob 84, in Light foot, I lor. Ileb. in 
Matt, xxiii, 14); and the education of Timothy (2 Tim. 
iii, 15) may therefore have helped to overcome the 
prejudice which the Jews would naturally have against 
him on this ground. The mother was a Jewess, but 
the father’s name is unknown; he was a Greek, i. e. a 
Gentile, by descent (Acts xvi, 1, 3). If in any sense a 
proselyte, the fact that the issue of the marriage did 
not receive the sign of the covenant would render it 
probable that he belonged to the class of half-converts, 
the so-called Proselytes of the Gate, not those of Right- 
eousness, if such a class as the former existed. See 
PnosKi.YTE. The absence of any personal allusion to 
the father in the Acts or Epistles suggests the inference 
that he must have died or disappeared during his son’s 
infancy. The care of the boy thus devolved upon his 
mother, Eunice, and her mother, Lois, who are both 
mentioned as sincere believers (2 Tim. i, 5). I'nder 
their training his education was emphatically Jewish. 

I “ From a child” he learned (probably in the Sept, ver- 
sion) to “know the Holy Scriptures” daily. The lan- 
guage of the Acts leaves it uncertain whether Lvstra 
or Derbc was the residence of the devout family. The 
latter has been inferred, but without much likelihood, 
from a possible construction of Acts xx, 4, the former 
from xvi, 1 . 2 (see Neander, Pjltmz. mid Ldt. i, 288; Al- 
ford and Hut her, ad loc.). In either case the absence 
of any indication of t lie existence of a synagogue makes 
! this devout consistency more noticeable. We may 


TIMOTHY 


415 


TIMOTHY 


think here, as at Philippi, of the few devout women 
going forth to their daily worship at some river-side 
oratory (Convbeare and llowson, i, “21 1). 'The reading 
7 rapd riviov in 2 Tim, iii, 14, adopted by Lachmann and 
Tischendorf, indicates that it was from them as well as 
from the apostle that the young disciple received his 
first impression of Christian truth. It would be nat- 
ural that a character thus fashioned should retain 
throughout something of a feminine piety. A consti- 
tution far from robust (l Tim. v, 23), a morbid shrink- 
ing from opposition and responsibility (iv, 12-10; v, 20, 
2L ; vi, 11 14; 2 Tim. ii, 1-7), a sensitiveness even to 
tears (i, 4), a tendency to an ascetic rigor which he had 
not strength to bear (l Tim. v, 23), united, as it often is, 
with a temperament exposed to some risk (see the elabo- 
rate dissertation I)e NaoreptKrmt’ E^t^o/mctt^by llosius, 
in llase, Thesaurus , vol. ii) from “youthful lusts” (2 
Tim. ii, 22) and the softer emotions (1 Tim. v, 2) — these 
we may well think of as characterizing the. youth as 
they afterwards characterized the man. 

2. His Conversion and Ordination. — The arrival of 
Paul and Barnabas in Lvcaonia (Acts xiv, 6) brought 
the message of glad tidings to Timothy and his moth- 
er, and they received it with “unfeigned faith” (2 Tim. 
i, 5). A.D. 44. If at Lvstra, as seems probable from 
2 Tim. iii, 11, he may have witnessed the half-com- 
pleted sacrifice, the half-finished martyrdom of Paul 
(Acts xiv, 19). The preaching of the apostle on his 
return from his short circuit prepared him for a life of 
suffering (ver. 22). From that time his life and edu- 
cation must have been under the direct superintend- 
ence of the body of elders (ver. 23). During the inter- 
val of three years bet ween the apostle’s first and second 
journeys, the youth had greatly matured. His zeal, 
probably his asceticism, became known both at Lvstra 
and lconium. The mention of the two churches as 
united in testifying to his character (xvi, 2) leads us to 
believe that the early work was prophetic of the later, 
that ho had already been employed in what was after- 
wards to be the great labor of his life, as “ the messen- 
ger of the churches,” and that it was his tried fitness 
for that office which determined Paul’s choice. Those 
who had the deepest insight into character and spoke 
with a prophetic utterance pointed to him (1 Tim. i, 18; 
iv, 14), as others had pointed before to Paul and Bar- 
nabas (Acts xiii, 2), as specially fit for the missionary 
work in which the apostle was engaged*. Personal feel- 
ing led Paul to the same conclusion (xvi, 3), and he 
was solemnly set apart (the whole assembly of the eld- 
ers laying their hands on him, as did the apostle him- 
self) to do the work, and possibly to bear the title, of 
evangelist (l Tim. iv, 14; 2 Tim. i, 0; iv, 5). lconium 
has been suggested by Conybeare and llowson (i, 289) 
as the probable, scene of the ordination. 

A great obstacle, however, presented itself. Timo- 
thy, though inheriting, as it were, from the nobler side 
(Wettstcin, ad loc .), and therefore reckoned as one of 
the seed of Abraham, had been allowed to grow up to 
the age of manhood without the sign of circumcision, 
and in this point he might seem to be disclaiming the 
Jewish blood that was in him and choosing to take up 
his position as a heathen. Had that been his real po- 
sition, it would have been utterly inconsistent with 
Paul’s principle of action to urge on him the necessity 
of circumcision (1 Cor.vii, 18; Gal. ii, 3; v, 2). As it 
was, his condition was that of a negligent, almost of an 
apostate, Israelite; and, though circumcision was noth- 
ing, and nncircumeision was nothing, it was a serious 
question whether the scandal of such a position should 
he allowed to frustrate all his efforts as an evangelist. 
The fact that no offence seems to have been felt hith- 
erto is explained by the predominance of the Gentile 
element in the churches of Lvcaonia (Acts xiv, 27). 
But his wider work would bring him into contact with 
the Jews, who had already shown themselves so ready 
to attack, and then the scandal would come out. They 
might tolerate a heathen, as such, in the synagogue or 


the church, but an uncircumciscd Israelite would be to 
them a horror and a portent. With a special view to 
their feelings, making no sacrifice of principle, the apos- 
tle, who had refused to permit the circumcision of Ti- 
tus, “took and circumcised” Timothy (xvi, 3) ; and then, 
as conscious of no inconsistency, went on his way dis- 
tributing the decrees of the council of Jerusalem, the 
great charter of the freedom of the Gentiles (ver. 4). 

Henceforth Timothy was one of his most constant 
companions. Not since he parted from Barnabas had 
he found one whose heart so answered to his own. If 
Barnabas had been as the brother and friend of earlv 
days, lie had now found one whom he could claim as 
his own by a spiritual parentage (2 Tim. i, 2). lie calls 
him “son Timothy” (L Tim, i, 18); “my own son in 
the faith” (ver. 2); “my beloved son” (1 Cor. iv, 17); 
“ my workfellow” (Bom. xvi, 21) ; “ my brother” (which 
is probably the sense of TipoStogo aceXcpog in 2 Cor. i, 1). 

3. His Evangelistic Labors and Journeys. — Continuing 
his second missionary tour, Paul now took Timothy with 
him, and, accompanied by Silvanus. anu probably Luke 
also, journeyed at length to Philippi (Acts xvi, 12), where 
the young evangelist became conspicuous at once for his 
filial devotion and his zeal (Phil, ii, 22). His name 
does not appear in the account of Paul’s work at Thes- 
saloniea, and it is possible that he remained some time 
at Phvlippi, and then acted as the messenger by whom 
the members of that Church sent what they w ere able 
to give for the apostle’s wants (iv, 15). lie appears, 
however, at Beroea, and remains there when Paul and 
►Silas are obliged to leave (Acts xvii, 14), going on af- 
terwards to join his master at Athens (1 Thess. iii, 2). 
From Athens he is sent back to Thcssaloniea (ibid.), as 
having special gifts for comforting and teaching. lie 
returns from Tliessalonica, not to Athens, hut to Corinth, 
and his name appears united with Paul’s in the opening 
words of both the letters written from that city to the 
Thessalonians (1 Thess. i, 1 ; 2 Thess. i, 1). Dr. Words- 
worth infers from 2 Cor. ix, 11 and Acts xviii, 5 that 
Timothy brought contributions to the support of the 
apostle from the Macedonian churches, and thus re- 
leased him from his continuous labor as a tent-maker. 
Here, also, he was apparently active as an evangelist 
(2 Cor. 1, 19), and on him, probably, with some excep- 
tions, devolved the duty of baptizing the new converts 
(1 Cor. i, 14). Of the next four or five years of his life 
we have no record, and can infer nothing beyond a 
continuance of his active service as Paul’s companion. 
When we again meet with him, it is as being sent on in 
advance while the apostle was contemplating the long 
journey which was to include Macedonia, Achaia, Jeru- 
salem, and Borne (Acts xix, 22). A.D. 54. He. was 
sent to “bring” the churches “ into remembrance of the 
ways” of the apostle (l Cor. iv, 17). We trace in the 
words of the “father” an anxious desire to guard the 
son from the perils which, to his eager but sensitive 
temperament, would be most trying (xvi, 10). His 
route would take him through the churches which he 
had been instrumental in founding, and this would give 
him scope for exercising the gifts which were after- 
wards to be displayed in a still more responsible office. 
Tt is probable, from the passages already referred to, 
that, after accomplishing the special work assigned to 
him, he returned by the same route and met Paul ac- 
cording to a previous arrangement (ver. 11), and was 
thus with him when the second epistle was written to 
the Church of Corinth (2 Cor. i, 1). He returns with 
the apostle to that city, and joins in messages of greet- 
ing to the disciples whom he had known personally at 
Corinth and who had since found their way to Borne 
(Bom. xvi, 21). lie forms one of the company of 
friends who go with Paul to Philippi and then sail bv 
themselves, waiting for his arrival by a different ship 
(Acts xx, 3-fO. Whether he continued his journey to 
Jerusalem, and what became of him during Paul’s im- 
prisonment at Ctesarea, are points on which we must re- 
main uncertain. The language of Paul’s address to the 


TDIOTIIY 


41G 


TIMOTHY 


skiers of Ephesus (vcr. 17-35) renders it unlikely that ' 
he was then left there with authority. The absence of 
his name from ch. xxvii in like manner leads to the 
conclusion that he did not share in the perilous voyage 
to Italy. He must have joined him, however, apparent- 
ly. soon after his arrival in home, and was with him 
when the epistles to the Hiilippians, to the Colossians, 
and to Philemon were written (Phil, i, 1 ; ii. 19: Col. i, 

1 ; Philem. 1). All the indications of this period point 
to incessant missionary activity. As before, so now, he 
is to precede the personal coming of the apostle, inspect- 
ing, advising, reporting (Phil, ii, 19-23), caring especial- 
ly for the .Macedonian churches as no one else could care. 
The special messages of greeting sent to him at a later 
date (2 Tim. iv, 21) show that at Pome also, as else- 
where, he had gained the warm affection of those among 
whom he ministered. Among those most eager to be 
thus remembered to him we lind, according to a fairly 
supported hypothesis, the names of a Poman noble, Pu- 
dens ((j. v.), of a future bishop of Pome. Linns (q. v.), 
and of the daughter of a P.ritish king, Claudia (Will- 
iams. Claudia ami J'udens ; Conybeare and llowson, 
ii, 501; Alford, Excursus in Greek Test . iii, 101). It 
is interesting to think of the young evangelist as hav- 
ing been the instrument by which one who was sur- 
rounded by the fathomless impurity of the Poman world 
was called to a higher life, and the names which would 
otherwise have appeared only in the foul epigrams of 
Martial (i. 32; iv, 13; v, 48; xi, 53) raised to a perpet- 
ual honor in the salutations of an apostolic epistle. An 
article {They of C cesar's Household ) in Journ. of Class, 
and Sacred Philology, No. x, questions this hypothesis, 
on the ground that the epigrams are later than the epis- 
tles, and that they connect the name of Pudens with 
heathen customs and vices. On the other hand, it may 
he urged that the bantering tone of the epigrams forbids 
us to take them as evidences of character. Pudens tells 
Martial that he does not “like his poems.” “Oh, that 
is because von read too many at a time” (iv, 29). lie 
begs him to correct their blemishes. “You want an 
autograph cop}', then, do you?" (vii, 11). The slave 
Kn- or Eucolpos (the name is possibly a wilful distor- 
tion of Eubulus) does what might be the fulfilment of a 
Christian vow (Acts xviii, 18), and this is the occasion 
of the suggestion which seems most, damnatory (Martial, 

v, IS). With this there mingles, however, as in iv, 13; 

vi, 58, the language of a more real esteem than is com- 
mon in Martial (comp, some good remarks in Galloway, 
A Clergyman's Holidays , p. 35-49). 

To the close of this period of Timothy’s life we may 
probably refer the imprisonment of lleb. xiii,23, and the 
trial at which he “witnessed the good confession” not 
unworthy to be likened to that of the Great Confessor 
before Pilate. (I Tim. vi, 13). Assuming the genuine- 
ness and the later date of the two epistles addressed to 
him (see below), we are able to put, together a few no- 
tices as to his later life. It follows from 1 Tim. i, 3 that 
he and his master, after the release of the latter from 
his imprisonment, revisited the proconsular Asia; that 
the apostle then continued his journey to Macedonia, 
while the disciple remained, half reluctantly, even weep- 
ing at the separation (2 Tim. i,4), at Ephesus, to check, 
if possible, the outgrowth of heresy and licentiousness 
which had sprung up there. The time during which 
he was thus to exercise authority as the delegate of an 
apostle — a viear apostolic rather than a bishop— was of 
uncertain duration (1 Tim. iii, 14). The position in 
which he found himself might well make him anxious, 
lie had to ride presbyters, most of whom were older 
than himself (iv, 12), to assign to each a stipend in pro- : 
portion to his work (v, 17), to receive and decide on 1 
charges that might be brought against them (ver. 1,19, 
20), to regulate the almsgiving and the sisterhoods of 
the Church (ver. 3-10), to ordain presbyters and dea- 
cons (iii, 1-13). There was the risk of being entangled 
in the disputes, prejudices, covetousness, sensuality, of a 
great cit}\ There was the risk of injuring health and j 


strength by an overstrained asceticism (iv, 4; v, 23). 
Leaders of rival sects were there — llymemetis, Philetus, 
Alexander— to oppose and thwart him (i,20; 2 Tim. ii, 
17; iv, 14, 15). The name of his beloved teacher was 
no longer honored as it had been; the strung affection 
of former days had vanished, and “ Paul the aged” had 
become unpopular, the object of suspicion and dislike 
(comp. Acts xx, 37; 2 Tim. i, 15). Only in the nar- 
rowed circle of the faithful few — Aquila, Priscilla, Mark, 
and others — who were still with him was he likely to 
find sympathy or support (iv. 19). We cannot wonder 
that the apostle, knowing these trials, and, with his 
marvellous power of bearing another’s burdens, making 
them his own, should be full of anxiety and fear for his 
disciple’s steadfastness; that admonitions, appeals, warn- 
ings, should follow each other in rapid and vehement 
succession (1 Tim. i, 18; iii, 15; iv, 14; v, 21 ; vi, 11). 
In the second epistle to him this deep personal feeling 
utters itself yet more fully. The friendship of twenty 
years was drawing to a close, and all memories connect- 
ed with it throng upon the mind of the old man, now 
ready to be offered : the blameless youth (2 Tim. iii, 15), 
the holy household (i, 5), the solemn ordination (ver. 6), 
the tears at parting (ver. 4). The last recorded words 
of the apostle express the earnest hope, repeated yet 
more earnestly, that he might see him once again (iv, 
9, 2L). Timothy is to come before winter, to bring with 
him the cloak for which in that winter there would be 
need (ver. 13). We may hazard the conjecture that 
he reached him in time, and that the last hours of the 
teacher were soothed by the presence of the disciple 
whom he loved so truly. Some writers have even seen 
in lleb. xiii, 23 an indication that he shared Paul’s im- 
prisonment, and was released from it by the death of 
Nero (Conybeare and llowson, ii, 502; Neander, Pjlanz. 
und I^eit. i, 552). Beyond this all is apocryphal and un- 
certain. 

4. Legendary Notices. — Timothy continued, according 
to the old traditions, to act as bishop of Ephesus (Euseb. 
Hist. Eccles. iii. 4, 2 ; Const. A post, vii, 46 : see Lange, De 
Tim . Episcopo Ephes. [Lips. 1755]), and died a martyr’s 
death under Domitian or Nerva (Niceph. Hist. Eccles. iii, 
1 1 ; Photius, Cod. 254). The great festival of Artemis 
(the Karayeoytov of that goddess) led him to protest 
against the license and frenzy which accompanied it. 
The mob were roused to furv, and put him to death 
with clubs (comp. Polvcrates and Simeon Metaphr. in 
1 lenschen’s A eta Sanctorum , Jan. 24). Some later crit- 
ics — Sehleiermaeher, Mayerhoff— have seen in him the 
author of the whole or part of the Acts (Olshausen, 
Comment ar , ii, 612). 

A somewhat startling theory as to the intervening 
period of his life has found favor with Calmet (s. v. “Ti- 
mothe'e”), Tillemont (ii, 147). and others. If he contin- 
ued. according to the received tradition, to be bishop of 
Ephesus, then he, and no other, must have been the 
“angel” of that Church to whom the message of Kev. 
ii. 1-7 was addressed. It may he urged, as in some de- 
gree confirming this view, that both the praise and the 
blame of that message are such as harmonize with the 
impressions as to the character of Timothy derived from 
the Acts and the Epistles. The refusal to acknowledge 
the self-styled apostles, the abhorrence of the deeds of 
the Nicolaitans, the unwearied labor, all this belongs 
to “the man of God” of the Pastoral Epistles. Nor is 
the fault less characteristic. The strong language of 
Paul’s entreaty would lead us to expect that the tempta- 
tion of such a man would be to fall away from the glow 
of his“ first love,” the zeal of his first faith. The prom- 
ise of the Lord of the churches is in substance the same 
as that implied in the language of the apostle (2 Tim. 
ii. 1 6). This conjecture, it should be added, has been 
passed over unnoticed by most of the recent commenta- 
tors on the Apocalypse (comp. Alford and Wordsworth, 
ad loc.). Trench (Seren Churches of Asia, p. 64) con- 
trasts the “angel” of Lev. ii with Timothy as an “ear- 
lier angel” who, with the generation to which he be- 


TIMOTHY, FIRST EPISTLE TO 417 


TIMOTHY, FIRST EPISTLE TO 


longed, had passed away when the Apocalypse was 
written. It must he remembered, however, that, at the 
time of Paul’s death, Timothy was still “young,” prob- 
ably not more than thirty-five; that be might, there- 
fore, well be living, even on the assumption of the later 
date of the Apocalypse, and that the traditions (valiant 
quantum) place his death after that date, Bengel ad- 
mits this, but urges the objection that he was not the 
bishop of any single diocese, but the superintendent of 
many churches. This, however, may in its turn be 
traversed by the answer that the death of Paul may 
have made a great difference in the work of one who 
had hitherto been employed in travelling as his repre- 
sentative. The special charge committed to him in the 
Pastoral Epistles might not. unnaturally give fixity to 
a life which had previously been wandering. 

An additional fact, connected with the name of Tim- 
othy is that two of the treatises of the Pseudo-Diony- 
sius tiie Areopagite are addressed to him (De Hierarch. 
Cal. i. 1 ; comp. Le Nourrv, Dissert. e. ix, and llalloix, 
Quasi. iv in Migne’s edition). 

5. Literature . — In addition to the works above cited, 
see Klauting, De Tim. Mopri’p. (Vitemb. 1713); Seelen, 
De Tim. Confessore (Lubec. 1733) ; Hausdorf, De Ordi- 
natione Tim. (Vitemb. 1754); Witsius, Miscell. Sacr. ii, 
438 ; also bis Exercit. .1 cad. p. 3 1 0 sq. ; M osl ici m, Einleit. 
in den 1. Dr. an Tim. (llamb. 1754), p. 4 sq. ; Bertholdt, 
Einleit. vi, 341) sq.; Heydenreich, Leben d. Timotheus , in 
Tzschirner’s Memorab. VIII, ii, 19-76 ; Evans, Script. 
Bioij.x ol. i; Lewin, St. Paul (see Index); Plumptre, Bi- 
ble Educator (see Index); and especially llowson, Com- 
panions of St. Paul (Loud. 1871), cb. xii. See Paul. 

TIMOTHY, First Epistle to. This is t lie first of 
the so-called Pastoral Epistles of Paul, and therefore in 
treating it we shall adduce many points, especially those 
relating to its authenticity, etc., w hich are applicable to 
two, and indeed to all three, of them. See Paul. 

1. Authorship . — The question whether these epistles 
were written by Paul was one to which, till within the 
last half-century, hardly any answer but an affirmative 
one was thought possible. They are found ascribed to 
Paul in the Peshito version (2d century), in the Mura- 
torian fragment, and in the catalogue of Eusebius, w ho 
places them among the bpoXoyovytva. The catalogues 
of Athanasius, of the Laodicean Council (364), of Cyril, 
of Epiphanius, and of Jerome contain them, and ascribe 
them to the apostle. Reminiscences of 1 Tim. occur in 
Clem. Kom. ( Epist . 1 Cor. xxix) : “ Let us draw nigh to 
him; . . . lifting up pure and undetiled hands” (comp. 

1 Tim. ii. 8) ; in Polyearp (Ad Philippev. c. 4): “The 
root of all evils is covetousness. Knowing that we 
brought nothing into this world, and can carry nothing 
out, let us put on the armor of righteousness” (comp. 1 
Tim. vi, 7, 10); and in the letter of the Church at Vi- 
enna and Lyons: “But the fury of the enemy chiefly 
fell on Attains, a ‘pillar and ground’ of onr Church” 
(Eusebius, Hist. Eccles. v, I ; comp. 1 Tim. iii, 15). To 

2 Tim. Ignatius seems to allude w hen he w rites to Poly- 
carp (c. 6), “ Please him w hose soldiers ye are, and from 
whom you receive pay” (comp. 2 Tim. ii, 4); and Poly- 
carp (Ad Philippen. c. 5): “ lie has promised ns that if 
we walk worthily of him, we shall reign with him” 
(comp. 2 Tim. ii, 11, 12). To the epistle to Titus Igna- 
tius alludes (Ad Trail, c. 3): “ Whose behavior is itself 
a great lesson of instruction.” (The word for “beha- 
vior,” Karcmrqpa, occurs in the New Test, only in Tit. 
ii. 3). Likewise Clem. Rom. (Ep. i. 2) : “ Ye were ready 
for every good work” (coinp. Tit. iii, 1). To I Tim. we 
have direct testimony in Ireiueus (Adr. IJcer. i, 1, 1): 
“They introduce vain genealogies, which, as the apos- 
tle says, ‘ minister’ questions, rather than godly edify- 
ing, which is in faith” (comp. 1 Tim. i, 4) ; in Clem. 
Alex. (Strom, ii, 383): “Concerning which the apostle 
writing says, ‘ O Timothy, keep that which is commit- 
ted to thee’” (comp. I Tim. vi, 20, 21); and in Tertul). 
(De Prcescrip. llaret. c. 25) : “And this word Paul has 
used to Timothy, ‘ O Timothy, keep the deposit’ ’’(corn p. 

X.— *D d 


ibid.). To 2 Tim. in Irenzeus (Adr. Ilcvr. iii, 3, 3) : “The 
apostles delivered the episcopate to Linus; . . . of which 
Linus Paul makes mention in those epLtles which he 
wrote to Timothy” (comp. 2 Tim. iv, 21); and in Ter- 
tull. (Scorp. c. 13): “Exulting (i.e. Paul) in the prospect 
of it, he w r rites to Timothy, ‘ I am poured out as a drink- 
offering; and the time of my departure is at hand’” 
(comp. 2 Tim. iv, 6). To the epistle to Titus in Ire- 
na?us (Adr. ! her. iii, 3, 4): “The apostles would not 
even in word communicate with those who adulterated 
the truth, as Paul says, ‘A heretic after the first admo- 
nition reject, knowing that such a one is perverse’” 
etc, (comp. Tit. iii, 10, 11); in Clem. Alex. (Admon. ad 
Cent . p. 6) : “ For as rhat divine apostle of the Lord savs, 
‘ The saving grace of God hath appeared unto all men,”’ 
etc. (comp. Tit. ii, 11-13); and in Tertull. (De Pries, c. 
6): “Paul, . . . who suggests that *a heretic after the 
first admonition is to be rejected as perverse’ ” (comp. 
Tit. iii, 10). See also Tertull. (Ad Uxorem , i. 7), Ire- 
meus (Adr. liar, iv, 16, 3; ii, 14,8). Parallelisms, im- 
plying quotation, in some cases with close verbal agree- 
ment, are found likewise in Ignatius, Ad Mayn. c. 8 (1 
Tim. i, 4); Polycarp, c. 4 (comp. 1 Tim. vi, 7, 8); Theoph- 
ilus of Antioch, Ad Autol. iii, 126 (comp. 1 Tim. ii, 1, 
2). Later testimony is so abundant that it, is needless 
to adduce it. Thus the external testimony, indirect 
and direct, to the three epistles is, so far as the Church 
is concerned, as strong as to any portion of Scripture. 
It must not be concealed that they w-ere rejected by 
some of the Gnostic heretics, as Mareion and Basilides 
(see Tertull. Adr. Mar. v, 21 ; Jerome, Proloy. ad Tit.). 
Tatian accepted the Epistle to Titus, but rejected those 
to Timothy. The contents of the epistles sufficiently 
account for the repugnance of the Gnostic teachers to 
admit their genuineness. Origen mentions (Comment, 
in Matt. p. 117) some who rejected 2 Tim. on account 
of the allusion to the apocryphal story of Jaimes and 
Jambres (iii, 8), which they considered unworthy of an 
apostle. 

The Pastoral Epistles have, however, been subjected 
to a more elaborate scrutiny by the criticism of Ger- 
many. The first doubts were uttered by J. C. Schmidt. 
These were followed by the Sendschreiben of Schleier- 
macher, who, assuming the genuineness of 2 Tim. and 
Titus, undertook, on that hypothesis, to prove the spu- 
riousness of 1 Tim. Bolder critics saw that the posi- 
tion thus taken w r as untenable, that the three epistles 
must stand or fall together. Eichhorn ( Einleit . iii) and 
De Wette (Einleit.) denied the Pauline authorship of all 
. three. There was still, however, an attempt to rnain- 
I tain their authority as embodying the substance of the 
I apostle’s teaching, or of letters written by him, on the 
hypothesis that they had been sent, forth after his death 
hv some over-zealous disciple, who wished, under the 
shadow of his name, to attack the prevailing errors of 
the time (Eichhorn, ibid.). One writer (Schott, fsayoye 
llist.-crit. p.324) ventures on the hypothesis that Luke 
w r as the writer. Baur ( Die soyenannten Pastoral-Drafe ), 
here as elsewhere more daring than others, assigns them 
to no earlier period than the latter half of the 2d cen- 
tury, after the death of Polvcarp in A.I). 167 (p. 138). 
On this hypothesis 2 Tim. was t he earliest, 1 Tim. the 
latest of the three, each probably by a different writer 
(p.72-76). They grew out of the state of parties in 
the Church of Rome, and, like the Gospel of Luke and 
the Acts, w r ere intended to mediate between t he extreme 
Pauline and the extreme Petrine sections of the Church 
(p. 58). Starting from the data supplied by tile Epistle 
to the Philippians, the writers, first of 2 Tim., then of 
Titus, and lastly of 1 Tim., aimed, by the insertion of 
personal incidents, messages, and the like, at giving to 
their compilations an air of verisimilitude (p. 70). It 
will be seen from the above statement that the ques- 
tion of authorship is here more than usually important. 
There can he no solution as regards these epistles like 
that of an obviously dramatic and therefore legitimate 
personation of character, such as is possible in rela- 


TIMOTHY, FIRST EPISTLE TO 418 TIMOTHY, FIRST EPISTLE TO 


tion to the authorship of Ecclesiastes. If the Pastoral | 
Epistles are not Pauline, the writer clearly meant them 
to pass as sucli, and the animus decipiendi would be 
there in its most flagrant form. They would have to 
take their place with the Pseudo-Clementine Homilies, 
or the Pseudo-lgnatian Epistles. Where we now see 
the traces, full of life and interest, of the character of 
•' Paul the aged,” firm, tender, zealous, loving, we should 
have to recognise only the tricks, sometimes skilful, 
sometimes clumsy, of some unknown and dishonest con- 
troversialist. Consequences such as these ought not, it 
is true, to lead us to suppress or distort one iota of evi- 
dence. They may well make us cautious, however, in ex- 
amining the evidence, not to admit conclusions that are 
wider than the premises, nor to take the premises them- 
selves for granted. The task of examining is rendered 
in some measure easier by the fact that, in the judgment 
of most critics, hostile as well as friendly, the three Pas- 
toral Epistles stand on the same ground. The interme- 
diate hypotheses of Schleiermacher (supra) and Cred- 
ner ( Einkit . ins X. 7’.), who looks on Titus as genuine. 2 
Tim. as made up out of two genuine letters, and 1 Tim. 
as altogether spurious, may be dismissed as individual 
eccentricities, hardly requiring a separate notice. In 
dealing with objections which take a wider range, we 
are meeting those also which are confined to one or two 
out of the three epistles. 

(I.) Object ions to these Epistles in General . — The chief 
elements of the alleged evidence of spuriousness in the 
three Pastoral Epistles may be arranged as follows; 

1. Language . — The style, it is urged, is different from 
that of the acknowledged Pauline Epistles. There is 
less logical continuity, a want of order and plan, snhjects 
brought up, one after the other, abruptly (Schleiermach- 
er). Not less than fifty words, most of them striking 
and characteristic, are found in these epistles which are 
not found in Paul’s writings (see the list in Conybeare 
and llowson, App. I, and lluther, Ended.). The for- 
mula of salutation (\dptg, i\eoc, siptjvj]), half-technical 
words and phrases like ebctfisia and its cognates (1 
Tim. ii, 2; iii, 16: vi, 6 et al.), 7rapaKara^i]K)) (i, 18; 
vi, 20; 2 Tim. i, 12, 14, ii, 2), the frequently recurring 
7ri0TO£ 6 \dyog (1 Tim. i, 1 5 ; iii, l; iv, 0; 2 Tim. ii, 11), 
the use of vyiaivovaa as the distinctive epithet of a 
true teaching — these and others like them appear here 
for the first time (Schleiermacher and Knur). Some of 
these words, it is urged, (pavepovvj h Tnpdvua, <uon)p , 
(ping «7rp»fftroi', belong to the Gnostic terminology of 
the 2d century. 

On the other side it may be said (1) that there is no 
test so uncertain as that of language and style thus ap- 
plied; how uncertain we may judge from the fact that 
Schleiermacher and Neander find no stumbling-blocks 
in 2 Tim. and Titus, while they detect an un-Pauline 
character in 1 Tim. A difference like that which marks 
the speech of men divided from each other by a century 
may be conclusive against the identity of authorship; 
but, short of that, there is hardly any conceivable diver- 
gency which may not coexist with it. The style of 
one man is stereotyped, formed early, and enduring long. 
The sentences move after an unvarying rhythm; the i 
same words recur. That of another changes, more or ' 
less, from year to year. As his thoughts expand, they 
call for a new vocabulary. The last works of such a 
writer, as those of Paeon and of lhirke, may be fiorid, 
redundant, figurative, while the earlier were almost mea- 
gre in their simplicity. In proportion as the man is a 
solitary thinker, or a strong assert or of his own will, will 
he tend to the former state. In proportion to his power 
of receiving impressions from without, of sympathizing 
with others, will he his tendency to the latter. Apart 
from all knowledge of Paul’s character, the alleged pe- 
culiarities are but of little weight in the adverse scale. 
With that knowledge we may see in them the natural 
result of the intercourse with men in many lands, of ■ 
that readiness to become all things to all men, which 
could hardly fail to show itself in speech as well as in I 


action. Each group of his epistles has, in like manner, 
its characteristic words and phrases. (2.) If this is true 
generally, it is so yet more emphatically when the cir- 
cumstances of authorship are different. The language 
of a bishop’s charge is not that of his letters to his pri- 
vate friends. The epistles which Paul wrote to the 
churches as societies might well tl i II or from those which 
he wrote, in the full freedom of open speech, to a famil- 
iar friend, to his own “ true son.” It is not strange that 
we should find in the latter a Luther-like vehemence of 
expression (e. g. KfKavoTijptaopfviov, 1 Tim. iv, 2; tin- 
iraparpifitti CietySapphnov nvSrpunriov to v roJV, vi, 5; 
ffeaMpfvpera apapTtatg.2 Tim. iii, 6), mixed sometimes 
with words that imply that which few great men have 
been without, a keen sense of humor, and the capacity, 
at least, for satire (e. g. ypawette fiv&avg, 1 Tim. iv, 7 ; 
<p\vapoi Ka'i 7r£pifoyoi, v, 18; rerv^norat, vi, 4 ; yaari- 
peg dpyai, Tit. i. 12). (3.) Other letters, again, were dic- 
tated to an amanuensis. These have every appearance 
of having been written with his own hand, and this can 
hardly have been without its influence on their style, 
rendering it less diffuse, the transitions more abrupt, 
the treatment of each subject more concise. In this re- 
spect it may be compared with the other two autograph 
epistles, those to the Galatians and Philemon. A list 
of words given by Alford (vol. iii, Prole p. ch. vii) shows a 
considerable resemblance between the first of these two 
and the Pastoral Epistles. (4.) It may be added that 
to whatever extent a forger of spurious epistles would 
be likely to form his style after the pattern of the rec- 
ognised ones, so that men might not be able to distin- 
guish the counterfeit from the true, to that extent the 
diversity which has been dwelt on is, within the limits 
that have been above stated, not against, but for, the 
genuineness of these epistles. (5.) Lastly, there is the 
positive argument that there is a large common ele- 
ment, both of thoughts and words, shared by these epis- 
tles and the others. The grounds of faith, the law of 
life, the tendency to digress and go off at a word, the 
personal, individualizing affection, the free reference to 
his own sufferings for the truth, all these are in both, 
and by them we recognise the identity of the writer. 
The evidence can hardly be given within the limits of 
this article, but its weight will be felt by any careful 
student. The coincidences are precisely those, in most 
instances, which the forger of a document would have 
been unlikely to think of, and give but scanty support 
to the perverse ingenuity which sees in these resem- 
blances a proof of compilation, and therefore of spuri- 
ousness. 

2. Anachronism . — It has been urged (chiefly by Eich- 
horn, Einleit. p. 3 1 5) against the reception of the Pastoral 
Epistles that they cannot be fitted into the records of 
Paul’s life in the Acts. To this there is a threefold an- 
swer. (1.) The difficulty has been enormously exagger- 
ated. If the dates assigned to them must, to some ex- 
tent, be conjectural, there are, at least, two hypotheses 
in each case (infra) which rest on reasonably good 
grounds. (2.) If the difficulty were as great as it is said 
to be, the mere fact that we cannot flx the precise date 
of three letters in the life of one of whose ceaseless la- 
bors and journeying.** we have, after all, hut fragmen- 
tary records, ought not to be a stumbling-block. The 
hypothesis of a release from the imprisonment with 
which the history of the Acts ends removes all difficul- 
ties; and if this be rejected (llaur, p. 67), as itself not 
resting on sufficient evidence, there is, in any case, a 
wide gap of which we know nothing. It may at. least 
claim to be a theory which explains phenomena. (3.) 
Here, as before, the reply is obvious, that a man com- 
posing counterfeit epistles would have been likely to 
make them square with the acknowledged records of 
the life. 

3. Ecclesiasficism . — The three epistles present, it is 
said, a more developed state of Church organization and 
doctrine than that belonging to the lifetime of Paul. 
(1.) The rule that the bishop is to be “the husband of 


TIMOTHY, FIRST EPISTLE TO 


419 TIMOTHY, FIRST EPISTLE TO 


one wife” (I Tim. iii, 2; Tit. i, 6) indicates the strong 
opposition to second marriages which characterized the 
2d century (Baur, p. 1 13-120). (2.) The “ younger wid- 
ows” of 1 Tim. v, 1 1 cannot possibly be literally widows. 
If they were, Paul, in advising them to marry, would be 
excluding them, according to the rule of 1 Tim. v, 9, 
from all chance of sharing in the Church’s bounty. It 
follows, therefore, that the word xdp al * s USC< 1> as it was 
in the 2d century, in a wider sense, as denoting a conse- 
crated life (Baur, p.42-49). (3.) The rules affecting the 
relation of the bishops and elders indicate a hierarchic 
development characteristic ofthe Petrine element, which 
became dominant in the Church of Home in the post- 
apostolic period, but foreign altogether to the genuine 
epistles of Paul (Baur, p. 80-89). (4.) The term atfjtrt- 
is used in its later sense, and a formal procedure 
against the heretic is recognised, which belongs to the 
2d century rather than the first. (5.) The upward prog- 
ress from the. olhee of deacon to that of presbyter, im- 
plied in 1 Tim. iii, 13. belongs to a later period (Baur, 
loc. cif .), (G.) On 2 Tim. i, G; ii, 2, see below. 

It is not difficult to meet objections which contain 
so large an clement of mere arbitrary assumption. (1.) 
Admitting Baur’s interpretation of 1 Tim. iii, 2 to be 
the right one, the rule which makes monogamy a con- 
dition of the episcopal office is very far removed from 
the harsh, sweeping censures of all second marriages 
which we find in Athenagoras and Tertullian. (2.) 
There is not a shadow of proof that the “younger wid- 
ows” were not literally such. The \ijpai of the Pastor- 
al Epistles are, like those of Acts vi, 1 ; ix, 39, women 
dependent on the alms of the Church, not necessarily 
deaconesses, or engaged in active labors. The rule fix- 
ing the age of sixty for admission is all but conclusive 
against Baur’s hypothesis. (3.) The use of f7rtWo7roi 
and 7 rpenfivTtpoi in the Pastoral Epistles as equivalent 
('fit. i, 5, 7), and the absence of any intermediate order . 
between the bishops and deacons (1 Tim. iii. 1-8), arc 
quite unlike what we find in the Ignatian Epistles and 
other writings of the 2d century. They are in entire 
agreement with the language of Paul (Acts xx, 17,28; 
Phil, i, 1). Few features of these epistles are more strik- 
ing than the absence of any high hierarchic system. 
(4.) The word aijoertfci'f has its counterpart in the atpt- 
creig of 1 Cor. xi, 19. The sentence upon Hymenams 
and Alexander (1 Tim. i, 20) has a precedent in that of 
1 Cor. v, 5. (5.) The best interpreters do not see in 

1 Tim. iii, 13 the transition from one office to another 
(comp. Ellicott, ad he ., and see Deacon). If it is there, 
the assumption that such a change is foreign to the 
apostolic age is entirely an arbitrary one. 

4. Jleresiohgy. — Still greater stress is laid on the in- 
dications of a later date in the descriptions of the false 
teachers noticed in the Pastoral Epistles. These point, 
it is said, unmistakably to Marcion and his followers. 
In the avr&koiii; t 7)Q Tpeediovvpov yvibaeu)Q (I Tim. vi, 
20) there is a direct reference to the treatise which he 
wrote under the title of ’A rriS’lffEic, setting forth the 
contradiction between the Old and New Test. (Baur, p. 
2G). The “genealogies” of 1 Tim. i, 4; Tit. iii, 9 in 
like manner point to the rcons of the, Yalentinians and 
Ophites (ib id. p. 12). The “forbidding to marry, and 
commanding to abstain from meats,” fits in to Marcion’s 
system, not to that (4 the Judaizing teachers of Paul’s 
time (ibid. p. 24). The assertion that “ the law is good” 
(1 Tim. i, 8) implies a denial, like that of Marcion, of 
its divine authority. The doctrine that the “resurrec- 
tion was past already” (2 Tim. ii, 18) was thoroughly 
Gnostic in its character. In his eagerness to find to- 
kens of a later date everywhere, Baur sees in the writer 
of these epistles not merely an opponent of Gnosticism, 
but one in part infected with their teaching, and appeals 
to the doxologies of 1 Tim. i, 17 ; vi, 15, and their Chris- 
tologv throughout, as having a Gnostic stamp on them 
(p. 28-33). 

Carefully elaborated as this part of Baur’s attack has 
been, it is, perhaps, the weakest and most capricious of 


1 all. The false teachers of the Pastoral Epistles are pre- 
dominantly Jewish, vvpocicdfTKoXoi (1 Tim. i, 7j, be- 
longing altogether to a different school from that of 
Marcion, giving heed to “Jewish fables” (Tit. i, 4) and 
“ disputes connected with the law” (iii, 9). Of all mon- 
strosities of exegesis few are more wilful and fantastic 
than that which finds in I'opofiidaaicaXoi Antinomiau 
teachers, and in pa\ai vopucai Antinomiau doctrine 
(Baur, p. 17). The natural suggestion that in Acts xx, 
30,31 Paul contemplates the rise and progress of a like 
perverse teaching; that in Col. ii, 8-23 we have the 
same combination of Judaism and a self-styled yrt7<rit; 
(1 Tim. vi, 20) or < piXotrotyia (Col. ii. 8), leading to a like* 
false asceticism, is set aside summarily by tbc rejection 
both of the speech and the epistle as spurious. Even 
the denial of the resurrection, we may remark, belongs 
as naturally to the mingling of a Sadducjcan element 
with an Eastern mysticism as to the teaching of Mar- 
cion. The self-contradictory hypothesis that the writ- 
er of 1 Tim. is at once the strongest opponent of the 
Gnostics, and that he adopts their language, need hard- 
ly be refuted. The whole line of argument, indeed, 
first misrepresents the language of Paul in these epis- 
tles and elsewhere, and then assumes the entire absence 
from the 1st century of even the germs of the teaching 
which characterized the 2d (comp. Neander , Pjhinz.und 
Leif, i, 401 ; Heydcnreich, p. G4). 

(11.) Special Objections to the First Epistle. — The 
most prominent of these are the following: 1. That it 
presents Timothy in a light in which it is inconsistent 
with other notices of him in Paul’s epistles to regard 
him. Here he appears as little better than a novice, 
needing instruction as to the simplest affairs of ecclesi- 
astical order; whereas in the First Epistle to the Corin- 
thians, written earlier than this, we find him (iv, 17) 
described by Paul as “My beloved son, and faithful in 
the Lord, who shall bring yon into remembrance of my 
ways which he in Christ, as I teach everywhere in ev- 
ery Church;” and in 1 Thcss. i, 1-3 we are told that 
the apostle had sent him to Thessalonica to establish 
the believers there, and to comfort them concerning 
their faith. If Timothy was so well able to regulate 
the churches at Corinth and Thessalonica, how, it is 
asked, can it be supposed that a short while afterwards 
he should require such minute instructions for his con- 
duct as this epistle contains? To this it may be re- 
plied, (1) that in visiting Corinth and Thessalonica 
Timothy acted as the apostle’s delegate, and had, doubt- 
less, received from him minute instructions as to how 
he should proceed among those to whom he was sent; 
so that the alleged difference in t lie circumstances of 
Timothy when sent to Corinth and when left in Ephesus 
disappears; (2) that it does not necessarily follow from 
the injunctions given to Timothy in this epistle that 
the writer regarded him as a novice, for they rather 
respect the application of general principles to peculiar 
local circumstances than set forth instructions such as 
a novice would require: and (3) it is not to be forgotten 
that the apostle designed through Timothy to present 
to the Church at large a body of instruction which 
should be useful to it in all ages of its existence. 

2. It is objected that after the Church at Ephesus 
had enjoyed the apostle’s instructions and presidency for 
three years it could not have been, at the time this 
epistle is supposed to have been written by Paul, in 
such ignorance of ecclesiastical arrangements as the in- 
junctions here given would lead ns to suppose. Bur 
what is there in the epistle that necessitates such a 
supposition? It contains many directions to Timothy 
how he should conduct himself in a church, some of 
which are certainly of an elementary character, but 
there is nothing that leads to the conclusion that they 
were all intended for the benefit of the Church at Eph- 
esus, or that the state of that Church was such as to re- 
quire that injunctions of this kind should be given for 
its sake alone. Timothy’s sphere of evangelistic effort 
extended greatly beyond Ephesus; and this epistle was 


TIMOTHY, FIRST EPISTLE TO 4‘. 

designed at once to guide him as to what he was to 
do in t lie churches which lie might he called to reg- 
ulate, and to .supply his authority for so doing. Be- 
sides, does it not naturally occur that such minute in- 
junctions are just such as a person forging this epistle 
at a later period iu Paul's name would be most likely 
to avoid ? 

3. The absence of allusions to events in Timothy’s 
historv has been alleged against the Pauline origin of 
this epDtle. A strange objection— and as untenable as 
strange! This may he seen by a reference to the fol- 
lowing passages: i, IS; iv, 14; v, 23; vi, P 2. 

4. It is alleged that the writer of this epistle has 
made such a mistake as Paul could not have made when 
he classes Alexander with llymemeus (1 Tim. i, 20) as 
a false Christian, whereas we know from 2 Tim. iv, 14 
that he was not. a Christian at all. But where is the 
shadow of evidence that the Alexander mentioned in 
1 Tim. i. 20 is the same person with the Alexander men- 
tioned in 2 Tim. iv, 14? Was this name so uncommon 
in Ephesus that we must needs suppose a blunder where 
a writer speaks of one so called as a heretic simply be- 
cause, in other passages, mention is made of one so call- 
ed who was not. a heretic? Nothing can be more obvi- 
ous than that there were two Alexanders, just as there 
might have been twenty, known to the apostle and 
Timothy; and that of these two one was a heretic and 
troubler of the Church at Ephesus, and the other prob- 
ably a heathen and an enemy of the apostle. 

5. In 1 Tim. i, 20 mention is made of llymemeus as 
a heretic whom the writer makes Paul say he had ex- 
communicated; hut this is a mistake, for in 2 Tim. ii. 
17 we find llymemeus still a member of the Church at 
Ephesus, ami such a mistake could not have been made 
by Paul. Here, however, it is assumed without proof 
(1) that the llymemeus of the one epistle is the same 
as the llymemeus of the other; (2) that, being the 
same, he was still a member of the same Church ; and 
(3) that it was impossible for him. though excommu- 
nicated, to have returned as a penitent to the Church 
and again to have become a plague to it. Here are 
three hypotheses on which we may account for the fact 
referred to, and, until they be all excluded, it will not 
follow that any blunder is chargeable upon the writer 
of this epistle. 

ti. In 1 Tim. vi. 13 the writer refers to our Lord’s good 
confession before Pontius Pilate. Now of this we have 
a record in John’s (Iospel; but, as this was not written 
in Paul's time, it is urged that this epistle must be as- 
cribed to a later writer. It is easy to obviate any force 
that may appear to he in this remark by the consider- 
ation that all the prominent facts of our Lord’s life, and 
especially the circumstances of his death, were familiar- 
ly known by oral communication to ail the Christians 
before the gospels were written. Though, then, John's 
gospel was not extant in Paul’s time, the facts recorded 
hv John were well known, and might therefore be very 
naturally referred to ill an epistle from one Christian to 
another. Of onr Lord’s confession before Pilate we 
may readily suppose that Paul, the great advocate of 
i lie spirituality of the Messiah’s kingdom, was especial- 
ly fond of making use. 

7. The writer of this epistle, it is affirmed, utters sen- 
timents in favor of the law which are not Pauline, and 
teaches the efficacy of good works in such a way as to 
he incompatible with Paul’s doctrine of salvation bv 
grace. This assertion we may safely meet with a point- 
ed denial. The doctrine of this epistle concerning the 
law is that it is good if it he used voftifnog, as a law, 
for the purposes which a moral law is designed to serve; 
and what is this hut the doctrine of the epistles to the 
Unmans and ( ialatians, where the apostle maintains 
that in itself and for its own ends the divine law is 
holy, just, and good, and becomes evil only when put 
out of its proper place and used for purposes it was nev- 
er designed to serve (Uom. vii, 7-12 ; Hal. iii, 21. etc.). 
What the writer here teaches concerning good works 


!0 TIMOTHY, FIRST EPISTLE TO 

is also in full harmony with the apostle Paul’s teaching 
in his acknowledged epistles (comp. Uom. xii; Eph. v 
and vi, etc.); anil if in this epistle there is no formal 
exposition of the (Iospel scheme, but rather a dwelling 
upon practical duties, the reason may easily be found 
in the peculiar character of this as a pastoral epistle 
I — an epistle of official councils and exhortations to a 
minister of Christianity. 

8. De Wette asserts that 1 Tim. iii. 10 bears marks 
of being a quotation from a confession or symbol of the 
Church, of which there were none in Paul’s day. But 
what marks of this does the passage present? The an- 
swer is, the use of the word bpoXoyovpivtoc, a technical 
word, and the word used by the ecclesiastical writers 
to designate something in accordance with orthodox 
doctrine. This is true; but. as technical words are tirst 
used in their proper sense, and as the proper sense of 
bpoXoyoupiro)Q perfectly suits the passage in question, 
there is no reason for supposing any such later usage as 
De Wette suggests. Besides, his argument tells both 

! ways, for one may as well assert that the ecclesiastical 
! usage arose from the terms of this passage as affirm 
that the terms of this passage were borrowed from ec- 
clesiastical usage. 

9. The writer of this epistle quotes (ts a part of 
Scripture a passage which occurs only in Luke x, 7 ; 
hut as Luke had not written his gospel at the time 
Paul is supposed to have written this epistle, and as it 

| is not the habit of the New-Test, writers to quote from 
| each other in the way they quote from the Old Test., 
we are bound to suppose that this epistle is the produc- 
tion of a later writer. But does this writer quote Luke 
x, 7 in the manner alleged? The passage referred to 
is in v, 18, where we have first a citation from Dent, 
xxv, 4, introduced by the usual formula, ** The Script- 
ure saith;” and then the writer adds, as further con- 
firmatory of his position, the saying of our Lord which 
is supposed to be quoted from Luke’s gospel. Now we 
are not bound to conclude that this latter was adduced 
by the writer as a part of Scripture. It may he re- 
garded as a remark of his own, or as some proverbial 
expression, or as a well-known saying of Christ’s, by 
which he confirms the doctrine he is establishing. We 
are under no necessity to extend the formula with 
which the verse is commenced so as to include in it oil 
that the verse contains. The Kai by itself will not jus- 
tify this; indeed, we may go further, and affirm that 
the use of Kai alone rather leads to an opposite conclu- 
sion. for had the writer intended the latter clause to he 
regarded as a quotation from Scripture as well as the 
former, he would probably have used some such formula 
as Kai tt d\ t v (comp. Heb. ii, 13). 

10. De Wette maintains that the injunction in v, 23 
is so much beneath the dignity of an apostle that we 
cannot suppose it to have proceeded from such a writer 
as Paul. But what is there in such an injunction less 
dignilied than in many injunctions of an equally famil- 

! iar nature scattered through Paul’s epistles? And in 
what is it incompatible with the apostolic character 
that one sustaining it should enjoin upon a young, 
zealous, and active preacher, whom he esteemed as his 
own son, a careful regard to his health; the more es- 
pecially when, by acting as is here enjoined, he would 
vindicate Christian liberty from those ascetic restraints 
! by which the false teachers sought to bind it? 

(III.) Special Objections to the Second Epistle . — Of 
these the most weighty are founded on the assumption 
that this epistle must be viewed as written during the 
apostle’s first imprisonment at Pome; and as, for rea- 
sons to he subsequently stated, we do not, regard this 
assumption as tenable, it will not be necessary to occu- 
py space with any remarks upon them. We may leave 
unnoticed also those objections to this epistle which are 
mere repetitions of those urged against the first, and 
which admit of similar replies. 

1. In iii, 11, the writer enumerates a series of per- 
secutions and afflictions which befell him at Antioch, 


TIMOTHY, FIRST EPISTLE TO 421 TIMOTHY, FIRST EPISTLE TO 


leonium, and Lystra, of which he says Timothy knew. 
Would Paul, it is asked, in mailing such an enumera- 
tion, have committed the mistake of referring to perse- 
cutions which he had endured before his connection 
with Timothy, and have said nothing of those which 
he endured subsequently, and of which Timothy must 
have known, while of the former he might be ignorant? 
Put there is no mistake in the matter. Paul lias occa- 
sion to refer to the knowledge Timothy had of his suf- 
ferings for the Gospel. Of these some had occurred 
before Timothy’s connection with him, while others had 
occurred while Timothy was his companion and fellow- 
sufferer. Of the latter, therefore, Paul makes no spe- 
cific mention, feeling that to be unnecessary; but of the 
former, of which Timothy could know only by hearsay, 
but of which he no doubt did know, for we cannot con- 
ceive that any interesting point in Paul’s previous his- 
tory would be unknown to his “dear son in the faith,” 
he makes specific enumeration. 'Phis fully accounts for 
his stopping short at the point where Timothy’s per- 
sonal experience could amply supply the remainder. 

2. 'fhe declaration in iv, 7, etc., is incompatible with 
what Paul says of himself in Phil, iii, 12, etc. Put re- 
spect must be had to the very different circumstances 
in which the apostle was when he wrote these two pas- 
sages. In the one case he viewed himself as still en- 
gaged in active work, and having the prospect of ser- 
vice before him; in the other he regards himself as 
very near to death, and shortly about to enter into the 
presence of his master. Surely the same individual 
might in the former of these cases speak of work yet to 
do, and in the latter of his work as done, without any 
contradiction. 

3. In i, G and ii, 2 there are pointed allusions to ec- 
clesiastical ceremonies which betray a later age than 
that of Paul. 'Phis is said without reason. The lav- 
ing-on of hands in the conferring of a x C( P u 7 l (a was 
altogether an apostolic usage; and the hearing of Paul’s 
doctrines was what Timothy, as his companion in trav- 
el, could easily enjoy, without our needing to suppose 
that the apostle is here represented as acting the part 
of professor in a school of theology. 

Full particulars on this discussion will be found in 
the introductions of Alford, Wordsworth, Huther, Da- 
vidson, Wiesingor, and Hug. Conybeare and Howson 
(App. I) give a good tabular summary both of the ob- 
jections to the genuineness of the epistles and of the 
answers to them, and a clear statement in favor of the 
later date. The most elaborate argument in favor of 
the earlier is to be found in Lardner .History of A post, 
and Evany. ( IPorFs, vi, 315-375). See also the intro- 
ductions of Iliinlein, Miehaelis, Eicbhorn, I)c Wette, 
Pertholdt, Guericke, Schott, etc. ; Scbleiermacher, Ueber 
den sogtnannlen erst hi Brief des Paulas an den Timo- 
theos , ein kritisches Sendschreiben an J. C. Gass ( Pori. 
1807, 12mo) ; Planck, Bemerkungen iiber </. ersten Pau- 
lin. Brief an d . Tim. (Gbtt. i808, 8vo); Peckhans, 
Specimen Obss. Cri/.-exeget. de Vocabulis uTraK \ey o gi- 
ven c in /. ad Tim. Bp. Paulina oh id is, A uthentia ejns nihil 
detrahenfibus (Lingie. 1810, 8vo); Curtins, lie. Tempore 
quo prior Pauli ad Tim. Bpist. exarata sit (Perol. 1828, 
8vo) ; Otto, Die geschichtl. Verhaltnisse der Past. -Brief e 
(Leips. 18G0, Svo). 

II. Date. — The direct evidence on this point is very 
slight, (a.) i, 3 implies a journey of Paul from Ephe- 
sus to Macedonia, Timothy remaining behind. (6.) 
The age of Timothy is described as vet'.rrp; (iv, 12). 
(c.) The general resemblance between the two epistles 
indicates that they were written at or about the same 
time. Three hypotheses have been maintained as ful- 
filling these conditions. 

1. The journey in question has been looked upon as an 
unrecorded episode in the tiro years ’ v'ork at Bphesus 
(Acts xix, 10). This conjecture has the merit of bring- 
ing the epistle within the limit of the authentic records 
of Paul’s life, but it has scarcely any other. Against 
it we may urge that a journey to Macedonia would 


hardly have been passed over in silence cither by Luke 
in the Acts, or by Paul himself in writing to the Co- 
rinthians. Indeed, the theory of unrecorded travels of 
this kind is altogether gratuitous. There is no period 
after the formal appointment of Paul as a missionary 
during which it was possible, so fully have we the itin- 
erary of the apostle; unless, indeed, it be the long resi- 
dence in Ephesus, that favorite resort of theorists as to 
imaginary journeys; and so entirely was Paul occupied 
with local labors there that it is wholly excluded even 
at that time. 

2. This journey has been identified with the journey 
after the tumult at Bphesus (Acts xx, 1). Against this 
conjecture is the palpable fact that Timothy, instead of 
remaining at Ephesus when the apostle left, had gone 
on into Macedonia before him (xix, 22). The hypoth- 
esis of a possible return is traversed by the fact that he 
was with Paul in Macedonia at the time when 2 Cor. 
was written and sent oil’. To obviate this objection, it 
has been suggested that Paul might have written this 
epistle immediately alter leaving Ephesus, and the sec- 
ond to the Corinthians not before tbe concluding period 
of his stay in Macedonia; so that Timothy might have 
visited him in the interval. This appears to remove 
the difficulty, but it does so bv suggesting a new one; 
for bow, on this supposition, are we to account for the 
apostle’s delaying so long to write to the Corinthians 
after the arrival of Titus, by whose intelligence, con- 
cerning the state of the Corinthian Church, Paul was 
led to address them? It may be asked, also, if it be 
likely that Timothy, after receiving such a charge as 
Paul gives him in this epistle, would so soon have left 
Ephesus and followed the apostle. 

An attempt has been made by Otlo (Die geschichtl. 
Verhiilt. p. 23 sq.) to avoid the difficulty in 1 Tim. i 
by translating it thus, “As I in Ephesus exhorted thee 
to stand fast, so do thou, as thou goest to Macedonia, 
enjoin on some not to adhere to strange doctrines,’’ etc. 
The passage is thus made to refer to Timothy’s going 
to Macedonia, not to the apostle’s, and the occasion of 
his going is referred to the journey mentioned (Acts 
xix, 21, 22), with which the visit to Corinth mentioned 
(1 Cor. iv. 17 ; xvi, 10), is made to synchronize. The 
date of 1 Tim. is thus placed before that of 1 Cor. All 
this, however, rests on a rendering of 1 Tim. i. 3 which, 
in spite of much learned disquisition, its author lias 
failed to vindicate. 

3. The journey in question has been placed in the in- 
terval between Paul's first and second imprisonments at 
Pome. In favor of this conjecture as compared with 
the preceding is the internal evidence of the contents 
of the epistle. The errors against which Timothy is 
warned are present, dangerous, portentous. At the time 
of Paul’s visit to Miletus in Acts xx, i. e., according to 
those hypotheses, subsequent, to the epistle, they are 
still only looming in the distance (ver. 30). All the 
circumstances referred to, moreover, imply the prolonged 
absence of the apostle. Discipline had become lax, 
heresies rife, the economy of the Church disordered. 
It was necessary to check the chief offenders by tbe 
sharp sentence of excommunication (1 Tim. i, 20). 
Other churches called for his counsel and directions, 
or a sharp necessity took him away, and he hastens on, 
leaving behind him, with full delegated authority, the 
disciple in whom he most confided. The language of 
the epistle also lias a hearing on the date. According 
to the two preceding hypotheses, it belongs to the same 
periods as 1 and 2 Cor. and the Epistle to the Homans, 
or, at the latest, to the same group as Philippians ami 
Ephesians; and in this case the differences of style ami 
language are somewhat difficult to explain. Assume 
a later date, and then there is room for the changes 
in thought and expression which, in a character like 
Paul’s, were to he expected as the years went by. 

The objections to the position thus assigned are 
the following: (1.) The second imprisonment itself is 
not a matter of history. We have elsewhere, however, 


TIMOTHY, FIRST EPISTLE TO 422 TIMOTHY, FIRST EPISTLE TO 


adduced the evidence as being entirely satisfactory. 
See I’.M L. (*2.) As the evidence that the apostle took 
such a journey between his lirst and second imprison- 
ment is purely hypothetical and inferential, it must he 
admitted that the hypothesis built upon it as to the 
date of this epistle rests at the best on somewhat pre- 
carious grounds. On the other hand, we know that the 
apostle did purpose extended tours on his contemplated 
release from the first imprisonment (Horn, xv, 2d, 21), 
and that these embraced Asia Minor (Philem. 22), as 
well as Crete (Tit- i.5). (3A This hypothesis is directly 
opposed to the solemn declaration of Paul to the elders 
of the Church at Ephesus when he met them at Mile- 
tum, “ 1 know that ye all shall see my face no more” 
(Acts xx. 25), for it assumes that he did see them again 
and preached to them. But Paul was not infallible 
iu his anticipations, and we have positive evidence that 
he did revisit Ephesus (2 Tim. iv, 12; comp. 13, 20). (4.) 
It is opposed by what Paul says (ver. 12), from which 
we learn that ar t lie time this epistle was written Tim- 
othy was in danger of being despised as a youth; but 
this could hardly be said of him after Paul’s first im- 
prisonment, when lie must, on the lowest computation, 
have been thirty years of age. In reply to this, it is 
sufficient to say that this was young enough for one 
who was to exercise authority over a whole hodv of 
bishop-presbyters, many of them older than himself (v, 
1 ). (5.) This hypothesis seems to assume the possibil- 

ity of churches remaining in and around Ephesus in a 
state of defective arrangement and order for a greater 
length of time than we can believe to have been the 
case. But arguments of this kind are highly insecure, 
and cannot weigh against historical statements and in- 
ferences. On the whole, therefore, we decidedly incline 
to this position for the journey in question. 

The precise date of the first epistle we have, never- 
theless, no means of fixing. In Phil, ii, 24 the apostle 
expresses a hope of visiting that Church shortly. Car- 
rying out this intention, he would, after his liberation, 
proceed to Macedonia, whence we must suppose him 
passing into Asia, and visiting Ephesus (A.D. CO). 
Thence he may have taken his proposed journey to 
Spain (Bom. xv, 24, 28), unless he took advantage of 
his proximity to the West to do so direct from Borne. 
After this, and not long before his martyrdom (A.D. 04), 
this epistle seems to have been written. 

III. /W. — In this respect, as in regard to time, 1 Tim. 
leaves much to conjecture. The absence of any local ref- 
erence but that in i. 3 suggests Macedonia or some neigh- 
boring district. In A and otherMSS. in the Peshito, Ethi- 
opic, and other versions, Eaodicea is named in the inscrip- 
tion as the place whence it was sent; but this appears to 
have grown out of a traditional belief resting on very in- 
sufficient grounds (and incompatible with the conclusion 
whieh has been adopted above) that this is the epistle re- 
ferred to in Col. iv, 10 as that from Laodicear(Theophyl. 
ad be.). The Coptic version, with as little likelihood, 
states that it was written from Athens (Iluther, Kinleit.'). 

IV. Object and Contents . — The design of the first epis- 
tle is partly to instruct Timothy in the duties of that 
office with which he had been intrusted, partly to sup- 
ply him with credentials to the churches whieh lie might 
vEit, and partly to furnish through him guidance to the 
churches themselves. 

It may be divided into three, parts, exclusive of the 
introduction (i, 1, 2) and the conclusion (vi, 20,21). In 
the first of these parts (i, 3-20) the apostle reminds Tim- 
othy generally of his functions, and especially of the 
duties he had to discharge in reference to certain false 
teachers, who were anxious to bring t lie believers under 
the yoke of the law. In the second (ii— vi, 2) he gives 
Timothy particular instructions concerning the orderly 
conducting of divine worship, the qualifications of bish- 
ops and deacons, and the proper mode of behaving him- 
self in a church. In the third (vi, 3-19) the apostle 
discourses against some vices to which the Christians 
at Ephesus seem to have been prone. 


V. Structure and Characteristics. — The peculiarities 
of language, so far as they all’cct the question of author- 
ship, have already been noticed. Assuming the genu- 
ineness of the epistles, some characteristic features com- 
mon to them both remain to be noticed. 

1. The ever-deepening sense in Paul's heart of the 

Divine Mercy, of which he was the object, as shown in 
the insertion of t\toc in the salutations of both epistles, 
and in the of 1 Tim. i, 13. 

2. The greater abruptness of the second epistle. 
From first to last there is no plan, no treatment of sub- 
jects carefully thought out. All speaks of strong over- 
flowing emotion, memories of the past, anxieties about 
the future. 

3. The absence, as compared with Paul's other epis- 
tles, of Old-Test, references. This may connect itself 
with the fact just noticed, that these epistles are not 
argumentative, possibly also with the request for the 
“ books and parchments” which had been left behind (2 
'Fim. iv, 13). lie may have been separated for a time 
from the Upd ypdppara, which were commonly his 
companions. 

4. The conspicuous position of the “faithful sayings” 
as taking the place occupied in other epistles bv the 
Old-Test. Scriptures. The way in which these are cited 
as authoritative, the variety of subjects which they 
cover, suggest the thought that it) them we have speci- 
mens of the prophecies of the Apostolic Church which 
had most impressed themselves on the mind of the apos- 
tle, and of the disciples generally. 1 Cor. xiv shows 
how deep a reverence he was likely to feel for such spir- 
itual utterances. In 1 Tim. iv, 1 we have a distinct 
reference to them. 

5. The tendency of the apostle’s mind to dwell more 
on the universality of the redemptive work of Christ (1 
Tim. ii, 3-6 ; iv, 10) ; his strong desire that all the teach- 
ing of his disciples should be “sound” (vyi aivnvrra), 
commending itself to minds in a healthy state; his fear 
of the corruption of that teaching by morbid subtleties. 

6. The importance attached by him to the practical 
details of administration. The gathered experience of 
a long life had taught him that the life and well-being 

i of the Church required these for its safeguards. 

7. The recurrence of doxologies (1 Tim. i, 17; vi, 15, 
16; 2 Tim. iv, 18), as from one living perpetually in the 
presence of God, to whom the language of adoration was 
as his natural speech. 

VI. Commentaries. — The following are the exegetical 
helps on both epistles to Timothy exclusively; to a few 
of the most important of which we prefix an asterisk: 
Megander, Expositio [includ. Tit.] (Basil. 1536, 8vo) ; 
Wittieh, Ex posit io (Argent. 1542, 8vo) ; Artopceus, Scho- 
lia (Stuttg. 1545; Basil. 1546, 8vo); Calvin, Commenta- 
rius (Genov. 1548, 4to; in French, ibid. 1563, fob; in 

| English by Tomson, Loud. 1579, 4to; by Pringle, Edinb. 
1856, Svo); Alesius. Disputntin (Lips. 1550-51, 2 vols. 
8vo) ; D'Espence [Bom. Oath.], Commentarii (1st Ep. 
Entet. 1561, fob; 1568, Svo; 2d Ep. l’ar. 1564, fob) ; Ala- 
jor, Eimrrationes (Vitemb. 1563-64.2 vols. Svo); Hyper, 
Commentarius [includ. Tit. and Bhilem.] (Tigur. 1582, 
fob); Magadan [B. C.], Commentarii [includ. Tit.] 
(btigd. 1609, 4to); Sotto [ B. C.], Commentarius (includ. 
Tit.] (Par. 1610, fob); Stewart [B. C.], Commentarius 
(Ingolst. 1610-11,2 vols. lto) ; Wcinrieh, Commentarius 
(Lips. 1618, 4to) ; Scultetus, Observations [includ. Tit. 
and Philem.] (Francof. 1624; Vitemb. 1630, 4to) ; Gcr- 
hard, A dnotat tones (den. 1643, 1666: Lips. 1712, 4to) ; 
Xethen , Disputatin (Ultraj. 1655, 4to); llabert [B. C.], 
Expositio [includ. Tit. and Philem.] (Par. 1656, Svo); 
Daille, Exposition [French] (Genev. 1659-61, 3 vols. 
Svo); Cocceius. Commentarius (L. B. 1667, 4 to) ; Gar- 
gon, Oopen inf/e (Loyd. 1706, 1719, 4to) ; 1 lulse. Oopeninge 
(Botterd. 1727. 4to) ; *Mosheim, Erklarnng (Ilamb. 1755, 
4to); Zacharia. Erklar. (Leips. 1755, Svo); Hesse. Er~ 
Hint. (Got t. 1796, Svo); *llevdenreich, Erldnt. [includ. 
Tit.] (Hadam. 1826-28, 2 vols. Svo] ; Flatt, York's, [in- 
chub Tit.] (Tub. 1831, Svo); Baumgarten, Aechtheit, 


TIMOTHY, SECOND EPISTLE TO 423 TIMOTHY, SECOND EPISTLE TO 


etc,(Berl. 1837, 8vo) ; Leo, Commentaries ('Lips 5 . 1837-49, 
2 vols. 8vo); Matt hies, Erkliir . [includ. Tir.] (Greifsw. 
1840, 8vo); Mack [R. ('.], Commentin' [inelml. Tit.] 
(Tiib. 1841, 8vo); *Scharling, UnUrsuch. etc. (i'rom the 
Danish, Jen. 1846, 8vo); Paterson, Commentary [includ. 
Tit.] (Loml. 1848, 18mo) : Rudnw, De Oriyine, etc. (Clot- 
ting. 1852, 8vo); *Ellicott, Commentary [includ. Tit.] 
(Loud. 1836; Host. 1866, 8vo) : Mangold, Die Irrlehrer , 
etc. (Marb. 1856,8vo) ; Viuke, Aanmerkinyen (Utr. 1859, 
8vo) ; *Otto, Die YerhaUnisse, etc. (Leips. 1860, 8vo) ; 
Beck, Erkliir . (Leips. 1879. 8vo). 

On, the first epistle alone there are the following : 
Crueiger, Commentaries (Argent. 1540, 8vo); Phvgio, 
Explanatio [includ. Levit.] (Basil. 1543,4to; l596,8vo); 
Venator, Distributiones (ibid. 1553; Lips. 1618, 8vo); 
Melancthon, Enarratio [includ. 2 Tim. i and ii] (Vi- 
temb. 1561, 8 vo); Hesse Is [li. C 1 .], Commentaries (Lo- 
van. 1568, 8vo); Chytra?ns, Enarratio (Francof. 1569, 
8vo); Danams, Comment arius (Genov. 1578, 8 vo); Di- 
buad , Commentaries (Hanov. 1598, 8vo) ; Mcelfiihrcr, 
Commentaries [includ. Eph. and Phil.] (Norib. 1628, 
4to) ; Schmid, Pa raplira$s (llamb. 1691, 1694, 4to) ; 
Fleischmann, Commentaries (Tub. 1795, 8vo); Paulas, 
De Tempore, etc. (Jen. i799, 4to); Schleiermacher, 
Semhch r. etc. (Berl. 1807, 8vo); Planck, Bemerk, etc. 
(Gritt. 1 808, 8 vo) ; Beck haus, De aira£ Afyo/t. etc. (Ling. 
1810, 8vo); Wegschcider, Erkliir . (Gott. 1810, 8vo) ; 
Curtius, De Tempore , etc. (Berol. 1828, 8vo). See Epis- 
tle. 

TIMOTH Y, Second Epistle to. This follows im- 
mediately the first in the New Test. The questions of 
genuineness and style have already been considered 
there. As in the case of the first epistle, the chronologi- 
cal questions are the most difficult to answer satisfac- 
torily. 

1. Date. — It. is certain that the second epistle was 
written while the author was a prisoner (i, 8, 16, 17 ; ii, 
9; iv, 21), at Rome, we may (for the present) assume; 
but the question arises, was it during his first or his sec- 
ond imprisonment that this took place? 

1. In favor of the first, the most weighty considera- 
tion arises out of the fact that the apostle appears to 
have had the same individuals as his companions when 
he wrote this epistle as he had when he wrote the epis- 
tles to the Ephesians, Philippians, and Colossians, and 
that to Philemon, which we know were written during 
his first imprisonment at Rome. “At the beginning 
of the imprisonment,” says Hug, who has very forcibly 
stated this argument in favor of the earlier hypothesis, 
“when the Epistle to the Ephesians was written, Timo- 
thy, who was not one of Paul’s companions on the voy- 
age to Italy (Acts xxvii, 2), was not with him at Rome; 
for Paul does not add his name in the address with 
which the epistle commences, as he always did when 
Timothy was at his side. Timothy afterwards ar- 
rived; and, accordingly, at the outset of the epistles to 
the Colossians and Philemon, his name appears with 
the apostle’s (Col. i, 1 ; Philem. 1); secondly, Luke was 
in Paul’s company (Col. iv, 14; Philem. 24) ; thirdly, 
Mark was likewise with him (Col. iv, 10; Philem. 24); 
fourthly, Tychicus was then Paul’s Ouocovqq and let- 
ter-bearer, and, in particular, was sent to Asia (Eph. iv, 
21 ; Col. iv, 7. 8). All these circumstances are present- 
ed to view in the Second Epistle to Timothy. (1) Tim- 
othy was not with Paul at first, but was summoned to 
his side (2 Tim. iv, 9, 21) ; (2) Luke was with him (ver. 
1 1) ; (3) he wishes Mark to come with Timothy, so that 
he must have been with him in the course of his im- 
prisonment (ver. 11); (4) Tychicus was with him in 
the capacity of letter-bearer, and, in particular, was sent 
to Asia (ver. 12). Now, in order to suppose that Paul 
wrote this epistle to Timothy during a second impris- 
onment at Rome, we must assume that the circum- 
stances of both were exactly the same, etc. We must 
also assume that Paul at both times, even in the latter 
part of Nero's reign, was permitted to receive friends 
during his confinement, to write letters, despatch mes- 


sengers, and, in general, to have free intercourse with 
everybody” ( Introduction [ Fosdick’s transl. ], p. 556, 
etc.). 

2. On the other hand, the difficulties lying in the wav 
of this seem insuperable. Hug’s reasoning assumes that 
the epistle must have been written in the early part of 
the apostle’s imprisonment, else Timothy could not have 
been absent at the time of its composition. But that 
this is utterly inadmissible the following considerations 
show: (1.) When Paul wrote to the Colossians, the Phi- 
lippians. and Philemon, Dcmas was with him; when he 
wrote this epistle to Timothy. Demas had forsaken him, 
having loved this present world and gone to Tliessa- 
louica (iv, 10). (2.) When Paul wrote to the Ephe- 

sians, Colossians, Philippians, and Philemon, he was 
in good hopes of a speedy liberation from his impris- 
onment; when he wrote this epistle to Timothy he 
had lost all these hopes, and was anticipating death as 
near at hand (ver. 6-8). (3.) At the time this epistle 

was written Paul had been, if not oftener, at least once, 
before the bar of the emperor, when he had offered his 
apology (ver. 16). (4.) Tychicus, the bearer of the let- 

ters to the Colossians. had been despatched from Rome 
before this epistle to Timothy was written (ver. 12). 
(5.) At the time the epistles to the Colossians and Phile- 
mon were written. Aristarchus was with Paid; by the 
time this was written, Aristarchus had left Paul (ver. 
11). All these circumstances forbid our supposing that 
this Second Epistle to Timothy was written before the 
epistles above named; tl\at is, in the early part of Paul’s 
first imprisonment at Rome. 

Shall lie, then, assign the epistle to a later period of 
that same imprisonment ? Against this also lie difficul- 
ties. Before we can admit it, we must suppose that 
Timothy and Mark, who did not accompany Paul to 
Rome, had shortly after followed him thither, and. after 
remaining awhile, left Paul, and were again requested 
by him in this epistle to return; that during the inter- 
val of their absence from Rome, Paul’s first trial had oc- 
curred; and that, yet even before he had so much as 
appeared before his judges, he had written to his friends 
in terms intimating his full confidence of a speedy re- 
lease (Phil, i, 25; ii, 24; Philem. 22). These circum- 
stances may perhaps admit of explanation; but there 
are others which seem to present insuperable difficul- 
ties in the way of the supposition that this epistle was 
written at any period of Paul’s first imprisonment at 
Rome. (1.) Paul’s imprisonment, of which we have an 
account in the Acts, was of a much milder kind than 
that in which he was at the time he wrote this epistle. 
In the former case, he was permitted to lodge in his own 
hired house, and to receive all who came to him, being 
guarded only by a single soldier; in the latter, he was in 
such close confinement that Onesiphorus had no small 
difficulty in finding him; he was chained, he suffered 
evil even unto bonds as a malefactor, his friends had 
mostly deserted him. and he had narrowly escaped de- 
struction from the Roman tyrant (i, 16-18; ii, 9; iv, 6, 
7, 8, 18). (2.) In iv, 13 he requests Timothy to bring 

with him from Troas some books, parchments, etc. 
which he had left at that place. If we suppose the visit 
here referred to the same as that mentioned in Acts 
xx, 5-7, we must conclude that these documents had 
been allowed by the apostle to lie at Troas for a space 
of at least years, as that length of time elapsed between 
the visit to Troas, mentioned by Luke, and Paul’s first 
imprisonment at Rome. This is surely very unlikely, 
as the documents were plainly of value to the apostle; 
and if by \ pai\ovijc , in this passage, he meant a cloak 
or mantle, the leaving of it for so long a time unused 
when it might have been of service, and the sending so 
anxiously for it when it could he of little or none, as 
the apostle’s time of departure w as at hand, must be al- 
lowed to be not a little improbable. (3.) In iv, 20 Paul 
speaks of having left Trophimus sick at Miletus. Now 
this could not have been on the occasion referred to in 
Acts xx, 15, for subsequent to that Trophimus was w ith 


TIN 


TIMOTHY, SECOND EPISTLE TO 4S 

Paul at .Jerusalem (Acts xxi. 20). It follows that Paul j 
inuxt have visited Miletus at. a subsequent period: but he * 
did nut visit it on his wav from Jerusalem to Pome on the 
oeeasion of his lirst imprisonment, and this, tlierelhre, 
strongly favors the hypothesis of a journey subsequent 
to that event, and immediately antecedent to the writ- 
ing of this epistle. The attempt to enfeeble the force 
of this by translating «7rfi\«ro»», ''they left,” etc., and 
understanding it of messengers from Ephesus coining to 
visit Paul, is ingenious, but can hardly be admitted, as 
no sound interpreter would forcibly supply a subject to 
a verb where the context itself naturally supplies one. 
(4.) In iv, 20, the apostle says “ Ernst us abode in Cor- 
inth." Such language implies that shortly before writ- 
ing this epistle the apostle had been at Corinth, where 
he left Erast us. Put before his lirst imprisonment Paul 
had not been at Corinth for several years, and during 
the interval Timothy had been with him, so that he did 
not need to write to him at a later period about that 
visit (Acts xx, 4). ling contends that eptivt simply 
expresses the fact that Ernst us was then residing at 
Corinth, without necessarily implying that Paul had 
left him there; but would t lie apostle in this case have 
used the aorist? 

3. It thus appears that the number of special names 
and incidents in the second epistle make the chronologi- 
cal data more numerous. We propose here, by way of 
summary, and in part recapitulation, to bring them, as 
far as possible, together, noticing briefly with what oth- 
er facts each connects itself, and to what conclusion it 
leads as to the conflicting theories of an earlier and later 
date, (A) during the imprisonment of Acts xxviii, 30, and 
(P) during the second imprisonment already spoken of. 

(1.) A parting apparently recent, under circumstances 
of special sorrow (i, 4) — not decisive. The scene at Mi- 
letus (Acts xx, 37) suggests itself, if we assume A. The 
parting referred to in 1 Tim. i, 3 might meet B. 

(•2.) A general desertion of the apostle even by the dis- 
ciples of Asia (i, 15). Nothing in the Acts indicates any- 
thing like this before the imprisonment of Acts xxviii, 30. 
Everything in Acts xix and xx, and not less the language 
of the Epistle to the Ephesians, speaks of general and 
strong affection. This, therefore, so far as it goes, must 
he placed on the side of P. 

(3.) The position of Paul as suffering (i, 12), in bonds (ii, 
9), expecting “the time of his departure” (iv, G), forsaken 
bv almost all (ver. 16)— not quite decisive, but tending to 
Ji rather than A. The language of the epistles belonging 
to the first imprisonment imply, it is true, bonds (Phil, i, 
13, 16; Eph. iii, 1 ; vi, 20), hat in all of them the apostle is 
surrounded by many friends, and is hopeful and confident 
of release (Phil, i, 25 ; Philem. 22). 

(4.) The mention of Oncsiphorus, and of services ren- 
dered by him both at Rome and Ephesus (i, 16— IS) — not 
decisive again, hut the tone is rather that of a man look- 
ing hack on a past period of his life, and the order of the 
names suggests the thought of the ministrations at Ephe- 
sus being subsequent to those at Rome. Possibly, too, 
the mention of “the household,” instead of Oncsiphorus 
himself, may imply his death in the interval. This, there- 
fore 1 , tends to U rather than A. 

(5.) The abandonment of Paul by Detnas (iv, 10)— strong- 
ly in favor of P. Dennis was with the apostle when the 
epistles to the Colossians (iv, 14) and Philemon (24) 
were written. 2 Tim. must therefore, in all probability, 
have been written after them; but if we place it any- 
where in the tirst imprisonment, we are all but compelled, 
by the mention of Mark, for whose coming the apostle 
a^-ks in 2 Tim. iv, 11, and who is with him in Col. iv, It), 
to place it at an earlier age. The above qualifying words 
(“all but”) might have been omitted bill for the fact that 
it has been suggested that Detnas. having forsaken Paul, 
repented and returned (Lardner, vi, 3fis), 

(6.) The presence of Duke (iv, 11) agrees well enough 
with A (Col. iv, 14), but is perfectly compatible with 15. 

(7.) The request that Timothy would bring Mark (iv, 11) 
seems at first, compared as above with Col. iv, 14, to sup- 
port A, but, in connection with the mention of Dennis, 
lends decidedly to 1>. 

(s.) Mention of Tychiens as sent to Ephesus (iv, 12) 
appears, as connected with Eph. vi, 21, 22; Col. iv, 7, in 
favor of A, yet, as Tychiens was continually employed on 
special missions of this kind, may just as well fit in with B. 

(9.) 'Hie request that Timothy would hring the cloak 
and books left at 'l'roas (iv, 13). On the assumption of A, 
the last visit of Paul to Troas would have been at least 
four or five years before, during which there would prob- 
ably have been opportunities enough for his regaining 
what he had left. In that case, too, the circumstances of 


4 

the journey present no trace of the haste and suddenness 
which the request more than half implies. On the whole, 
then, this must be reckoned as in favor of 15. 

(10.) “Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil,” 
“greatly withstood our words” (iv, 14, 15). The part 
taken by a Jew of this name in the uproar of Acts xix, 
and the natural connection of the \a\ntvv with the arti- 
sans represented by Demetrius, suggest a reference to 
that event as something recent, and so far support A. On 
the other hand, the name Alexander was too common to 
make ns certain as to the identity ; and if it were the same, 
the hypothesis of a later date only requires ns to assume 
what was probable enough, a renewed hostility. 

(11.) The abandonment "of the apostle in his first defence 
(uwo\o7iu), and his deliverance “from the month of t he 
lion” (iv, 16, 17) fits in as a possible contingency with 
either hypothesis, hut, like the mention of Dennis in (51, 
must belong, at any rate, to a time much later than any 
of the other epistles written from Rome. 

(12.) “ Ernst ns abode at Corinth, but Trophimus I left at 
Miletus sick” (iv, 20)— language, as in (9), implying a 
comparatively recent visit to both places. If, however, 
the letter were written (luring the first imprisonment, 
then Trophimus had not been left, at Miletus, but had 
gone on with Paul to Jerusalem (Acts xxi, 29', and the 
mention of Erastus as remaining at Corinth would have 
been superfluous to one who had left that city at the same 
time as the apostle (ibid, xx, 4). The conjecture that the 
“ leaving” referred to took place during the voyage of 
Acts xxvii is purely arbitrary, aud at variance with ver. 

5 and 6 of that chapter. 

(13.) “Hasten to come before winter.” Assuming A, 
the presence of Timothy in Phil, i, 1; Col. i, 1 ; Philem. 
1 might he regarded as the consequence of this ; but then, 
as shown in (5) and (6), there are almost, insuperable diffi- 
culties in supposing this epistle to have been written be- 
fore those three. 

(14.) The salutations from Eubuhis, Pndens, Linus, and 
Claudia. Without laying mucti stress on this. it. may be 
said that the absenee of these names from all the epistles 
which, according to A, belong to the same period, would 
be difficult to explain. 15 leaves it open to conjecture that 
they were converts of more recent date. They are men- 
tioned, too. as knowing Timothy, and this implies, as at 
least probable, that he had already been at Rome, and 
that this letter to him was consequently later than those 
to the Philippians and Colossians. 

On the whole, it is believed that the evidence pre- 
ponderates strongly in favor of the later date, and that 
the epistle, if we admit its genuineness, is therefore a 
strong argument for believing that the imprisonment of 
Acts xxviii was followed by a period, first of renewed 
activity, and t lien of suffering. 

II. Place. — On this point the second epistle is free 
from the conflict of conjectures. With t lie solitary ex- 
ception of Bdttger, who suggests Cmsarea, there is a 
consensus in favor of Rome, and everything in the cir- 
cumstances and names of the epistle leads to the same 
conclusion. We may suppose that Paul was appre- 
hended at Xieopolis (1 Tit. iii, 12), and thence convey- 
ed to Rome, where this epistle was written, shortly be- 
fore his death. Where Timothy was at the time it is 
impossible to say; most probably at Ephesus. 

III. Object and Contents. — The design of the second 
epistle is partly to inform Timothy of the apostle's try- 
ing circumstances at Rome, and partly to utter a last 
warning voice against the errors and delusions which 
were corrupting and disturbing the churches. 

It consists of an inscription (i. 1-5); of a series of 
exhortations to Timothy, to be faithful in his zeal for 
sound doctrine, patient under affliction and persecution, 
careful to maintain a deportment becoming his office, 
and diligent in his endeavors to counteract the unhal- 
lowed efforts of the false teachers (i, ii; iv, <s); and a 
conclusion in which Paul requests Timothy to visit 
him, and sends the salutations of certain Christians at 
Rome to Timothy, and those of the apostle himself to 
some believers in Asia Minor. 

IV. Commentaries. — The following are the special 
exegeticat helps on the whole of the second epistle ex- 
clusively: Barlow, Exposition (Loud. lf>24, 4to; 1332, 
fob); Hall, Comment art/ [on eh. iii and iv] (ibid. 1 658, 
fob); Feufking, Jllnst ratio [ includ. 2 and 8 John ] 
(Vitemb. 17i»5, fob): Brock ner, Commentarius (Hafn. 
182!), 8vo). See Eiustlk. 

Tin bed'll, from to diride; so called ap- 

parently from its separation as an allot/ [Isa. i, 25] ; Sept. 


TIN 


425 


TIN DAL 


Kavatrepoc ; Vulg. stamnnii). Among tlie various met- I 
als found among the spoils of the Midiauites, tin is enu- 
merated (Numb, xxxi, 22). It was known to the lie- 1 
brew metal-workers as an alloy of other metals (Isa. i, 
25; Ezek. xxii, IIS, 20). The markets of Tyre were sup- , 
plied with it by the ships of Tarshish (Ezek. xxvii, 12). ! 
It was used for plummets (Zeeh. iv, 10, marg. “stone of 
tin,” as the Ileb. is), and was so plentiful as to furnish 
the writer of Ecclesiastic us (xlvii, 18) with a tigure by 
which to express the wealth of Solomon, whom he apos- 
trophizes thus: “Thou didst gather gold as tin, and 
didst multiply silver as lead.” 

In the Homeric times the Greeks were familiar with 
it. Twenty layers of tin were in Agamemnon’s cuirass 
given him by Cinyres (1 Tomer, II. xi, 25), and twenty 
bosses of tin were upon his shield {ibid, xi, 34). Copper, 
tin, and gold were used by Hcpluestus in welding the 
famous shield of Achilles (ibid, xviii, 474). The fence 
round the vineyard in the device upon it was of tin 
( ibid. 504), and the oxen were wrought of tin and 
gold (ibid. 574). The greaves of Achilles, made by 
Hephaestus, were of tin beaten tine, close-tit ting to the 
limb (ibid. 612; xxi, 502). His shield had two folds, 
or layers, of tin between tw'o outer layers of bronze and 
an inner layer of gold (ibid, xx, 271). Tin was used in 
ornamenting chariots (ibid, xxiii, 503), and a cuirass 
of bronze overlaid w ith tin is mentioned (ibid. 501). 
No allusion to it is found in the Odyssey. The melting 
of tin in a smelting-pot is mentioned bv Hesiod ( Theoy . 
802). 

Tin is not found in Palestine (Kitto. Phys. Hist, of 
Palest. ch. iii, p. Ixxiii). Whence, then, did the ancient 
Hebrews obtain their supply ? “Only three countries 
are known to contain any considerable quantity of it: 
Spain and Portugal, Cornwall and the adjacent parts of 
Devonshire, and the islands of Junk, Ceylon, and IJanca, 
in the Straits of Malacca” (Kenrick, Phoenicia, p. 212). 
According to Diodorus Siculus (v, 40), there were tin- 
mines in the island of Panchaia, off the east coast of 
Arabia, but the metal w r as not exported. There can be 
little doubt that the mines of Britain were the chief 
source of supply to the ancient world. Mr. Cooley, in- 
deed, writes very positively (Maritime and Inland Dis- 
covery, i, 131), “There can be no difficulty in determin- 
ing the country from which tin first arrived in Egypt. 
That metal has been in all ages a principal export of 
India: it is enumerated as such by Arrian, who found it 
abundant in the ports of Arabia at a time when the 
supplies of Pome flowed chiefly through that channel. 
The tin-mines of Banea are probably the richest in the 
world; but tin w'as unquestionably brought from the 
West at a later period.” But it has been shown con- 
clusively bv Dr. George Smith (The Cassiterides , Loud. 
1803) that, so far from such a statement being justified 
by the authority of Arrian, the facts are all the other 
way. After examining the commerce of the ports of 
Abyssinia, Arabia, and India, it is abundantly evident 
that, “instead of its coming from the East to Egypt, it 
has invariably been exported from Egypt to the East” 
(p. 23). With regard to the tin obtained from Spain, 
although the metal was found there, it does not appear 
to have been produced in sufficient quantities to supply 
the Phoenician markets. Posidonius (in Strabo, iii, 147) 
relates that in the country of the Artabri, in tlie ex- 
treme north-west of the peninsula, the ground was 
bright with silver, tin, and w hite gold (mixed with sil- 
ver), which were brought down l»v the rivers; but the 
quantity thus obtained could not have been adequate to 
the demand. At the present day the whole surface 
bored for mining in Spain is little more than a square 
mile (Smith, Cassiterides , p. 40). We are therefore 
driven to conclude that it was from the Cassiterides, or 
tin districts of Britain, that the Phoenicians obtained 
the great bulk of this commodity (Lewis, Hist. Sur- 
rey of the Asti\ of the Anc. p. 451), and that this w'as 
done by the direct voyage from Gades. It is true that 
at a later period (Strabo, iii, 147) tin was conveyed over- 


land to Marseilles by a thirty days’ journey (Diod. Sic. 
v, 2) ; but. Strabo (iii, 175) tells us that the Plxeuicians 
alone carried on this traffic in former times from Gades, 
concealing the passage from every one; and that on one 
occasion, when the Unmans followed one of their vessels 
in order to discover the source of supply, the master of 
the ship ran upon a shoal, leading those who followed 
him to destruction. In course of time, however, the 
Unmans discovered the passage. In Ezekiel, “the trade 
in tin is attributed to Tarshish. as ‘the merchant’ for 
the commodity, without any mention of the place whence 
it w as procured" (Cassiterides, p. 74) ; and it is alter the 
time of Julius Caesar that we tirst hear of the overland 
traffic by Marseilles. 

Pliny (vi.36) identifies the cassiteros of the Greeks 
with the plumbum album or candidum of the Unmans, 
which is our tin. Stannum, he says, is obtained from 
an ore containing lead and silver, and is the tirst to be- 
come melted in the furnace. The etymology of cassi- 
teros is uncertain; but it is doubtless the same as the 
Arabic term kasdir. From the fact that in Sanscrit kas- 
tira signifies “ tin,” an argument has been derived in 
favor of India being the source of the ancient supply of 
this metal, but too much stress must not be laid upon it. 
— Smith. See Lii.u>. The name of some metal has 
been read in the Egyptian sculptures as khasit , which 
may refer to “tin.” The Hebrew word refers to its 
principal use in making bronze, w hich was the case at 
a very remote period of Egyptian history. A bronze, 
apparently cast, has been found bearing the name of 
Pharaoh Pepi of the sixth dynasty, w ho reigned cer- 
tainly five centuries before the Exode. In Egypt and 
Assyria bronze was generally made of ten or twenty 
parts of tin to eighty or ninety of copper, and there ap- 
pear to have been the same proportions in Grecian and 
Roman manufactures of a later age, Wilkinson sup- 
poses that the beautiful articles of workmanship fre- 
quently found in England, which have neither a Greek 
nor a Uoman type, were probably first introduced by 
this trade. One specimen of manufactured tin, now in 
the Truro Museum, lias been discovered in England, 
which, as it differs from those made by the Bom a ns, is 
supposed to be of Phoenician origin. It is nearly three 
feet long by one broad, and three inches high (.4 nc. 
Egyptians, ii, 134 sq.). — Fairbairn. See Metal. 

Tinction, a name applied, in the early Church, to 
the rite of baptism. 

Tindal(l), Matthew, one of the successors of To- 
land and Shaftesbury in the school of English deists or 
freethinkers, was born at Beer-Ferrers, in Devonshire, 
about 1657. lie was educated at Lincoln and Exeter 
colleges, Oxford ; took his A.B. in IG7G; shortly after 
was elected fellow of All-Souls’, and was admitted doc- 
tor of laws at Oxford in 1685. He retained his fellow- 
ship during the reign of James II by professing the Ro- 
man Catholic faith ; he afterwards recanted, however, 
and, adopting revolutionary principles, went to the other 
extreme, and wrote against the non jurors. He now be- 
came an advocate, and sat as judge in the court of dele- 
gates, with a pension from the crown of ,£200 per an- 
num. Some time afterwards, considerable attention was 
drawn to him by his work entitled The Eights of the 
Christian Church (170G-7, 8vo), and the ensuing con- 
troversy; but the production which has rendered his 
name a memorable one was his Christianity as Old as the 
Creation (1730), which provoked replies from Dr. War- 
burton, Lelarnl. Foster, and Convbcare. Dr. Middleton 
endeavored to take a middle course in this controversy, 
as may be seen in that article, but the niost effective 
answ'er, though its very existence seems to have been 
forgotten, was that embodied in the Appeal of William 
Law, published in 1740. Tindal’s line of argument was 
mainly coincident with Shaftesbury’s, that t lie immuta- 
ble principles of faith and duty must he found within 
the breast, and that no external revelation can have 
any authority equal to the internal: this he supported 


TLX DAL 


426 


TirilSAII 


bv miioli learning anil show of argument, to which 3Var- 
burton tliought he hail replied by the mass of learn- 
ed evidence contained in his Legation, William Law, 
making no account of literary evidence, replied by his 
masterly development of the philosophy of the fall and 
final recovery of mankind; a book remarkable for close 
argument anil lor its many tine illustrations, but now 
obsolete in certain fundamental principles. Tindal died 
in London, Aug. lb, 17 33. and was interred in Clerken- 
well Church. 31 r. Tindal also wrote, A n Essay concern- 
ing the Power of the Magistrate and the Rights of Man- 
kind in Matters of Religion (Lotul. 1G97, 8vo) .1 De- 
fence of the Rights of the Christian Church (ibid. 1709, 
•_> jits, Svo) : — The Xation Vindicated (ibid. 1711 ; pt. ii, 
1 710 ) \\ T ar with Priestcraft, or the Freethinker's Iliad 
(ibid. 1732, Svo), a burlesipic poem. 

Tindal l), Nicholas, nephew of the preceding, 
was born in Devonshire in 1G*7 : graduated A.3I. from 
Exeter (College in 1713, and was chosen fellow of Trinity 
('ollege. lie entered holy orders and became vicar of 
Great Waltham, Essex, and rector of Alverstoke, Hamp- 
shire. In 1740 lie obtained the living of Colbourne, 
Isle of Wight, and soon after became chaplain of Green- 
wich Hospital. He died in 1744. Among ids works 
are, A tinkle to Classical Learning (Loud. 1705, 12 mo) : 
— a translation of Lapin’s IJistory oj England , with a 
Continuation from 1GS8 to the Accession of George II 
(1744 A 7. in weekly Nos.): — Antiquities, Sacred and 
Profane (Loud. 1727, 4to; in Nos., never completed), 
vol. i. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors, 
s. v. ; Darling. Cyclop . Billing, s. v. 

Tindale, William. Sec Tyndale, William. 

Tingstad, Johan Adolf, a Protestant divine, doc- 
tor of theology, and bishop of Strengniis, in Sweden, 
where he died Dec. 10, 1827, is the author of De Orltt et 
Cognitioue Lingnarum Orientalium (Greifswalde. 1708): 

A ninuidrersioms Philologiav et Critica 3 ad Yaticimnni 

Jfalacuci (Cpsala, 1795): — Supplementorum ad Lexica 
llelr. Specimina . 1 cademica (ibid. 1803): — Be tolf sntarre 
Skrifter af gamla Testa mentets Propheter (Strengniis, 
1813) : — Klagsanger af Prophet Jeremiu (ibid. 1820): — 
Psaltaren Pmfofrersdttn. (3d ed. ibid. 1813): — Philol. 
A nnuirkninge ofrer sir odd a St alien i garni a Test. Gruml- 
sprak (ibid. 1824). See Winer, llaudbnch der theol. Li - 
teratur. i, 123, 229; ii, 804; Eiirst, Bill. Jnd. iii, 432; 
Steiiischneider, Billiograph. JIandluch, No. 2011 (Leips. 
1859). (P». P.) 

Tinker, Hkubex, a missionary of the Presbyterian 
Church, was born at Chester, Mass., Aug. 0, 1799. lie 
received a good preparatory education; graduated at 
Amherst College in 1827, ami at the Auburn Theolog- 
ical Seminary in 1830; and in November of the same 
year was ordained by the Mountain Association, with a 
view to his becoming a missionary of t lie American 
Hoard at the Sandwich Islands. He reached the islands 
at a somewhat critical period, but, in spite of all exist- 
ing difficulties, the cause of the Gospel was rapidly ad- 
vancing. In 1*34 it was resolved to publish, in the na- 
tive language, a semi-monthly newspaper devoted to 
t he interests of religion, and he was appointed to con- 
duct it. In 1*38 he dissolved his relations with the 
board, and established himself, with the approval of his 
brethren, at Koloa, on the island of Kani, where he la- 
bored until he departed for his own country in 1840. In 
September, 1*15, he was installed pastor of the First 
Presbyterian Church in Westfield, Chant auipia Co., N. V., 
where he continued to labor till near the close of his 
life. He died Oct. 2G, 1*54. Mr. Tinker was an elo- 
quent preacher, a self-saeriticing missionary, and a fast 
and firm friend. After his death appeared Sermons hy 
Per. Ren hen Tinker. M issionary at the Sandwich Islands : 
with a Biographical Sketch hy M. L. 1*. Thompson, D.D. 
(Buffalo, 1 S5G. l2mo). See Sprague. .1 finals of the .4 mer. 
Pulpit , iv, 770: Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Au- 
thors, s. v. (J. L. S.) 


Tinne (or Chippewayan) Version. This lan- 
guage is quite different from that which is called Chip- 
pewav or Ojibbewav; it is spoken in the Hudson's Bay 
Territory, near Fort Simpson, and over a vast tract of 
country eastward oftheBocky Mountains. The Lev. 
XV. W. Kirk by, of t lie Church 31 issionary Society, has 
translated the gospels according to 31 ark and John, 
which have been printed in the syllabic character, and 
circulated among those for whom they were designed 
since 1*70. (B. P.) 

Tinshemeth. See31oLE; Swan. 

Tintoretto, 11 , or Giacomo Bobusti, a distin- 
guished Italian painter, was born at Venice, according 
to Bidolti, in 1512. After being instructed in the rudi- 
ments of design, be became a pupil of Titian, with whom 
lie studied for a short time only; it being generally 
stated that Titian dismissed him, being jealous of his 
talents and progress. He was not discouraged, but re- 
solved to become the head of a new school. Over his 
door he wrote, “3Iichael Angelo's design, and the color- 
ing of Titian.” lie made a special study of light and 
shade, and of the human form both by living models 
and by anatomy. Though he possessed many excel- 
lences, his sovereign merit consisted in the animation 
of his figures, lie nourished for a long period, and re- 
tained bis powers to a great age, dying at Venice in 
1594. II is three greatest pictures, according to his own 
estimate and that of others, are, The Crucifixion, in the 
College of San Boccu; The Last Supper, now ill the 
Church of Santa 3Iaria della Salute; and II Servo, or 
the Venetian Slave, condemned to martyrdom by the 
Turks, invoking the protection of St. 3Iark. Some of 
his works are of enormous size, the Crucifixion being 
forty feet long, the Israelites worshipping the Golden 
Calf and the Last Judgment each about sixty feet 
high. One of his last productions was his Paradisn , 
in the hall of the great council-chamber of San 3Iarco. 
Tintoretto wrought so last, and at so low a price, that 
few of the other painters in Venice could secure em- 
ployment. The churches and halls of the different 
communities are overloaded with his productions. See 
Spooner, Blog. Diet . of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Tiph'sah (Ileb. Tiphsack', HCSH, from HSE, to 
ford, this being the usual crossing-place of the Eu- 
phrates [Strabo, xvi, 1,21]; Sept. t)a\pod v. r. 0f pod; 
Vulg. Thaphsa, Thupsa ) is mentioned in 1 Kings iv, 
24 as the limit of Solomon’s empire towards the Eu- 
phrates, and in 2 Kings xv, 1G it is said to have been 
attacked by 31enahem, king of Israel, who “smote 
Tiphsah and all that were therein, and all the coasts 
thereof.” It is generally admitted that the town in- 
tended, at any rate in the former passage, is that which 
the Greeks and Homans knew under the name of Thup- 
sa cus ((laipeucoi'), situated in Northern Syria, on the 
western bank of the Euphrates, not far above Carclie- 
mish. Thapsaeus was a town of considerable impor- 
tance in the ancient world. Xenophon, who saw it in 
the time of Cyrus the younger, calls it “great and pros- 
perous” ( fieyuXi] k'ai Gwaipwv, Anal, i, 4, 1 1 ). It 
must have been a place of considerable trade, the land 
traffic between East and West passing through it, first 
on account of its ford-way (which was the lowest upon 
t lie Euphrates), and then on account of its bridge 
(Strabo, xvi, 1,23); while it was likewise the point 
where goods were both embarked for transport down 
the stream (Q. Curt, x, 1), and also disembarked from 
boats which had come up it, to he conveyed on to their 
final destination by land (Strabo, xvi, 3, 4). It is a 
lair conjecture that Solomon’s occupation of the place 
was connected with his efforts to establish a line of 
trade with Central Asia directly across the continent, 
and that Tadmor was intended as a resting-place on 
the journey to Thapsaeus. Thapsaeus was the place at 
which armies marching east or west usually crossed the 
“Great Liver.” It was there that the Ten Thousand 
first learned the real intentions of Cyrus, and, consent- 


TIPPELSIv IKC II 


427 


TIP AT HITE 


ing to aid liim in his enterprise, passed the stream 
(Xenoph. A nab. i, 4, 11). There, too, Darius Codo- 
imimius crossed on his tlight from Tssus (Arrian, Exp. 
Al. ii, Id); and Alexander, following at his leisure, 
made his passage at the same point (ibid, iii, 7). A 
bridge of boats was usually maintained at the place bv 
the Persian kings, which of course was broken up when 
danger threatened. Even then, however, the stream 
could in general be forded, unless in the flood season. 
This is clear from the very name of the place, and is 
confirmed by modern researches. When the natives 
told Cyrus that the stream had acknowledged him as 
its king, having never been forded until his army waded 
through it, they calculated on his ignorance, or thought 
he would not examine too strictly into the groundwork 
of a compliment (see Xenoph. A nub. i, 4, 11). When 
Greek ascendency and enterprise succeeded to Persian 
rule, Thapsacus rose into still greater importance, and 
embraced both sides of the river — whence it received 
the name of Amphipolis (Pliny, v, 21). 

It has generally been supposed that the site of Thap- 
sacus was the modern Deir (D’Anville, Pennell, Vaux, 
etc.). Put the Euphrates expedition proved that there 
is no ford at Deir, and, indeed, showed that the only 
ford in this part of the course of the Euphrates is at 
Suriyeh, 45 miles below Palis, and 105 above De'ir (Ains- 
worth, Travels in the Track of the Ten Thousand , p. 70). 
This, then, must have been the position of Thapsacus. 
Here the river is exactly of the width mentioned by 
Xenophon (four stades, or eight hundred yards), and 
here for four months in the winter of 1 «S41— 42 the river 
had but twenty inches of water ( ibid. p. 72). ‘‘The 
Euphrates is at this spot full of beauty and majesty. 
Its stream is wide and its waters generally clear and 
blue. Its banks are low and level to the left, but un- 
dulate gently to the right. Previous to arriving at 
this point, t lie course of the river is southerly, but here 
it turns to the east, expanding more like an inland lake 
than a river, and quitting (as Pliny has described it) the 
Palmyrean solitudes for the fertile Mygdonia” (ibid.). 
A paved causeway is visible on either side of the Eu- 
phrates at Suriveh, and a long line of mounds may be 
traced, disposed, something like those of Nineveh, in 
the form of an irregular parallelogram. These mounds 
probably mark the site of the ancient city. — Smith. 

Tippelskirch, Friedrich von, a Protestant the- 
ologian, was born at Kdnigsberg, 31 arch 5, 1802. For 
a number of years he acted as chaplain to the Prussian 
ambassador in IJome, was in 1837 called to Giebiehcn- 
stein, near Halle, ami died in the year I860. lie pub- 
lished sermons and other writings, for which see Zuchold, 
Biblioth. Theol. ii. 1341 ; Winer, Ilandbuch tier theol. Li - 
teratur , ii, 10G, 804; Ilauck, Theolog . Jahresbericht, iii, 
G02. (P. P.) 

Tippet (Lat. Liripipinm ), a narrow garment or cov- 
ering for the neck and shoulders; a kind of hood worn 
over the shoulders, which was fastened round the neck 
by a long pendent appendage called the liripoop. This 
latter portion was generally dropped during the lGth 
century, and only the hood was worn, 'flic liripoop 
lingers in the hat-band, and is used at funerals. The 
tippet of the alinuce had rounded ends, to distinguish 
it from the squared terminations of the stole; they 
were worn hanging down in front by canons, but by 
monks behind, i>v way of distinction. The tippets dis- 
appeared from the hood in the time of Henry VII. The 
manner of wearing the modern hood or the literate’s 
tippet over the back, depending from the neck by a 
ribbon, is a corruption, and a practice eminently un- 
meaning. See Lee, Gloss, of Liturg. Terms, s. v. ; Wal- 
cott, Sacred A rchceol. s. v. 

Tipstaff, an officer of the Court of Queen’s Bench, 
attending the judges, with a wand or staff of office 
tipped with silver, to take prisoners into custody. A 
similar officer was attached to the ancient Star-cham- 
ber Court. See Lee, Gloss, of Liturg. Terms, s. v. 


Tira is the name for a Buddhist temple in Japan. 
It is usually built on rising ground, constructed of the 
best cedars and tirs, and adorned within with many 
carved images. In the middle of the temple stands an 
altar with one or more gilt idols upon it, and a beauti- 
ful candlestick with perfumed candles burning before 
it. Kiimpfcr says, “ The whole empire is full of these 
temples, and their priests are without number. In and 
about jNIiako alone there are 3893 temples, and 37,093 
siukku, or priests.” See Gardner, Faiths of the World, s. v. 

Ti'ras (Ileb. Tims', D*vr\ Sept. Oe'ipac ; Vulg. 
Tiaras'), the youngest son of dapheth (Gen. x, 2). B.C. 
2511. As the name occurs only in the ethnological 
table, we have no clue, so far as the Bible is concerned, 
to guide us as to the identification of it with anv par- 
ticular people. Ancient authorities generally fixed 
on the Thracians, as presenting the closest verbal ap- 
proximation to the name (Josephus, A nt. i, 6, 1 ; Jerome, 
in Gen. x, 2; Targums Pseudo-Jon. and Jerus. on Gen . 
loc. cit. ; Targ. on 1 Chron. i.b) ; the occasional render- 
ing Persia probably originated in a corruption of the 
original text. The correspondence between Thrace 
and Tims is not so complete as to he convincing; the 
gentile form Dpd£, however, brings them nearer togeth- 
er. No objection arises on ethnological grounds to 
placing the Thracians among the Japhetic races (Bo- 
chart, Phaleg, iii, 2 ; Michaelis, Spicileg. i, 55 sq.). Their 
precise ethnic position is, indeed, involved in great un- 
certainty; but all authorities agree in their general 
Indo-European character. The evidence of this is 
circumstantial rather than direct. The language has 
disappeared, with the exception of the ancient names 
and the single word brio, which forms the termination 
of Mesembria, Selymbria, etc., and is said to signify 
” town” (Strabo, vii, 319). The Thracian stock was 
represented in later times by the Geta?, and these, 
again, still later, by the Daci, each of whom inherited 
the old Thracian tongue (ibid. 303). But this circum- 
stance throws little light on the subject ; for the Dacian 
language has also disappeared, though fragments of its 
vocabulary may possibly exist either in Wallachian 
dialects or perhaps in the Albanian language (Diefcn- 
bach, Or. Fur. p. G8). If Grimm’s identification of the 
Geta? with the Goths were established, the Teutonic 
affinities of the Thracians would be placed beyond 
question (Gesch. d. deutsch. Spr. i, 178) ; but this view does 
not meet with general acceptance. The Thracians are. 
associated in ancient history with the Pelasgians (Strabo, 
ix, 401), and the Trojans, with whom they had many 
names in common (ibid, xiii, 590); in Asya Minor they 
were represented by the Bithynians (Herod, i, 28; vii, 
75). These circumstances lead to the conclusion that 
they belonged to the Indo-European family, hut do not 
warrant us in assigning them to any particular branch of 
it. Other explanations have been offered of the name 
Tiras, of which we may notice the Agathyrsi, the first 
part of the name (Aga) being treated as a prefix (Kno- 
bel, Yulkertufel. p. 129); Taurus and the various tribes 
occupying that range (Kalisch, Comm. p. 24G) ; the river 
Tyras (Dniester), with its cognominous inhabitants the 
Tyritee (Havernick, Faded, ii, 231 ; Schulthess, Farad. 
p. 194) ; and, lastly, the maritime Tyrrheni (Tuch, in Gen. 
loc. cit.). — Smith. See Ethnography. 

Ti'rathite (lleb. Tirati'ffPiV jn,patrial from some 
unknown n5"nri, Timah [a gate (Gesenius) or fssure 
(Fiirst)J ; Sept. ’ApyaSietp v. r. OapyaSriip and TaSeip ; 
Vulg, canentes), the designation of one of the three fam- 
ilies of Scribes residing at Jabez (1 Chron. ii, 55), the 
others being the Shimeathites and Suchathites. The 
passage is hopelessly obscure, and it is perhaps impos- 
sible to discover whence these three families derived 
their names. The Jewish commentators, playing with 
the names in true Shemitic fashion, interpret them 
thus, “They called them Tirathim, because their voices 
when they sang resounded loud ("^Fl) ; and Shimeathites 


TIRIIAKAII 


TIRE 


42S 


because they made themselves heard in reading 

t lie law.” — Smith. 

Tire (an old English word for dressing the head, 
see PImnptre, Bible Educatin', iv. 211) is used (both as 
a verb and a noun) to translate, in the A. V.. three He- 
brew words and one (ireek: (in lliph.), to make 

(food, i. e. ornament, se. the head (2 Kings ix, 30); 
"S3, peer (Ezek. xxiv, 20), a turban (••bonnet,” etc.); 
‘I'-nr. sahardn (Isa. iii, IS), crescents (“ornament,” 
.) udg. vii. 21. 2t>) ; pirpu (dud. x, 0; xvi, S), a mitre or 
head -band. See IIicau- mtEss. Tlie third of these 
terms probably represents a pendent disk, worn by 
women on the head, and similar articles are still hung 



Til od ern Egyptian Ornamental Appendage to a Lady’s 
Head-dress in Front. 

on camels’ necks among the Arabs. “The ka mat'd h 
(moon) is an ornament formed of a thin plate of gold, 
embossed with fanciful work or Arabic words, and hav- 
ing about seven little flat pieces of gold called bark at- 
tached to the lower part ; or it is composed of gold 
with diamonds, rubies,” etc. (Lane, Mod, Ef/ijpt. ii, 401). 
Lieut. Cornier thinks that the “round tires like the 
moon” of Isaiah were like the strings of coin which 
form part of the head-dress of the modern Samaritan 
women {Tent-Work in Palest . ii, 244). See Oun ament. 

Tirha'kah [many Tir'hakah'] ( I lob. Tirha'kah, 
HJTPnri, of Ethiopic derivation; Sept. B apaicd v. r. 
B apt&d and B apu; Yulg. Tharaca'), a king of Cush 
(Sept. fiamXti'i; ATziottwv, A.Y. “ king of Ethiopia”), the 
opponent of Sennacherib (2 Kings xix, 0; Isa. xxxvii, 
1M. While the king of Assyria was “warring against 
Libnah,” in the south of Palestine, he* heard of Tirha- 
kah’s advance to fight him, and sent a second time to 
demand the surrender of Jerusalem. This was near the 
close of B.C. 713, unless we suppose that the expedition 
took place in the twenty- fourth instead of the four- 
teenth year of 1 Iezekiah, which would bring it to B.C. 
703, If it w%re an expedition later than that of which 
the date is mentioned, it must have been before I».C. 
007. 1 lezckialfs last year. But, if the reign of Alanas- 
seh is reduced to thirty-live years, these dates would be 
respectively B.C. eir. 693. 08:3, and f»78, and these num- 
bers might have to be slightly modi tied if the fixed date 
of the capture of Samaria, B.C. 720, be abandoned. See 
Hkzkkiaii. Wilkinson supposes (i, 133) that Tirha- 
kah occupied the throne of Egypt from B.C. 710 to 039. 
Bawlinson gives the date B.C. 090 {Herod, i, 392). Dr. 
Hineks, in an elaborate article, argues for this latter 
date, and supposes Tirhakah. after a reign over Egypt 
of twenty-six years, to have retired to Ethiopia B.C. 
004 ( .fount . of Sac. Lit. Jan. 1304). See Chuoxoeooy. 

According to Manetho’s epitoinists, Tarakos (T apa- 
K-dc), or Tarkos (Tri^oy), was the. third and last king 
of the XXYth dynasty, which was of Ethiopians, and 
reigned eighteen (Air.) or twenty (Eus.) years. From 
one of the Apis-Tablets we learn that a i>nll Apis was 
born in bis twenty-sixth year ami died at the end of 
the twentieth of Psammctiehus 1 of the XXYJth dy- 
nasty. Its life exceeded twenty years, and no Apis’is 
stated to have lived longer than twenty-six. Taking 
that sum as the most probable, we should date Tirha- 
kali’s accession B.C. cir. 095. and assign him a reign of 
twenty-six years. In this case we should he obliged 
to take the later reckoning of the Biblical events, were | 


it not for the possibility that Tirhakah ruled over Ethi- 
opia before becoming king of Egypt. In connection 
with this theory it must be observed that an earlier 
Ethiopian of the same dynasty is called in the Bible 
“So, king of Egypt,” while this rider is called “Tirha- 
kah, king of Ethiopia,” and that a Pharaoh is spoken 
of in Scripture at the period of the latter, and also that. 
Herodotus (iii. 111) represents the Egyptian opponent 
of Sennacherib ns Sethos. a native king, who may, how- 
ever, have been a vassal under t he Ethiopian. See. So. 
It is deserving of remark, and strongly favors the view 
of those writers who maintain that during consider- 
able periods Ethiopian dynasties ruled in Egypt, that 
from the time of Shishak to that of Tirhakah it is of 
Ethiopians that we read in Scripture as having mainly 
furnished the hosts which marched to battle out of 
Egypt. While Shishak is called king of Egypt, his 
army is declared to have been composed, not of Egyp- 
tians, but of Lubims and Sukkims and Ethiopians (2 
Chron. xii, 3). We subsequently read of Zcrah the 
Ethiopian leading an army of Ethiopians and Lubims 
against Asa (xvi. 8). We now find that while Pharaoh 
of Egypt may have made great, promises, it is the Ethi- 
opian king Tirhakah who alone brings an army into 
the field. In the reign of Pharaoh-necho, the Egyp- 
tian army seems to have been mainly composed of 
Ethiopians and Libyans (dor. xlvi, 9). The natural in- 
ference is that, during this long period, the military 
power of Egypt was at a low ebb. At the time we are 
now speaking of, Bawlinson supposes Egypt to have 
been subject to Ethiopia ( Herod, i, 391). In this lie is 
not quite correct, however. Egypt may have been in- 
ferior to it in strength and spirit, but it was, at least, 
nominally independent at this time, though it. may 
have fallen soon after under the power of the Ethiopi- 
an king. That Tirhakah was actually king of Egypt 
at some time is strongly maintained. There is noth- 
ing in Scripture to prevent our supposing that he be- 
came so subsequent to the period when it speaks of him. 
Indeed, in the position in which it places him, at the 
head of a large army in Egypt, with no Assyrian ene- 
my to dread, it pictures a situation which would tempt 
an ambitious soldier to extend his power by dethroning 
an effeminate or irresolute monarch, such as t he Pha- 
raoh of his time would seem to have been. Wilkinson 
(i, 133-142) supposes that he at first ruled over Upper 
Egypt, while Sethos held the sovereignty of the lower 
country; that he came to the Egyptian throne rather 
by legal succession than by usurpation; and that he 
did actually tight against the army of Sennacherib, and 
overthrow it in battle. Scripture, however, expressly 
ascribes the overthrow of the Assyrian to the supernat- 
ural interposition of God (2 Kings xix, So). Herodotus 
(ii, 141) does not mention Tirhakah at all, but. only 
speaks of tbe king of Egypt, and mentions the over- 
throw of the Assyrian army very much in the way that 
crafty priests might pervert the actual occurrence as 
recorded in Scripture. It is quite possible that Tirha- 
kah may have led his army in pursuit of the Assyrians 
after their mysterious midnight overthrow; may have 
captured prisoners and treasure; and this would he 
quite sufficient ground for any successes ascribed to 
him on the Theban sculptures. If, as is probable, be 
became king of all Egypt, there seems strong reason for 
agreeing with much, at least, of Strabo’s account of 
him (lib. xv) as having extended his conquests into 
Europe, The Assyrian power was effectually checked 
by the ruin of its army and the divisions of its reign- 
ing family. At the head of a great army which had 
come forth to light the Assyrians, and now found itself 
without a foe, there is every reason why Tirhakah may 
have extended the Egyptian power as far as any Egyp- 
tian king before him. If Tirhakah did come into ac- 
tual collision with the Assyrians at or near Pelusium in 
Egypt, as many writers maintain, it must have been 
upon another occasion than that mentioned in Script- 
ure (see Josephus, .In/, x, 1, 4). It is, however, more 


TIRUANAH 


429 


TIRZAII 



probable that Scripture lias sketched in a few words ! 
the entire matter, and that the variations from it are j 
the effect of ignorance or design. The invasion of As- 
syria had probably Egypt and Ethiopia as its ultimate 
object, but in the account of Scripture the Assyrian 
host plainly was only on its way to the accomplishment 
of its purpose. See Sennacheuir. 

The name of Tirliakah is written in hieroglyphics 
Teh inlii (or Coptic Tarkhit ). 1 1 is successful opposition 

to the power of Assyria is recorded on the walls of a 
Theban temple, for at Mcdiuet llabu are the figure and 
the name of this king and the captives he took (Tre- 
vor, Egypt. p. 71)- At Jebcl Berkei, or Napata, he con- 
structed one temple and part of another. Of the events 
of his reign little else is known, and the account ol'Me- 
gasthenes (up. Strabo, xv, 686, where he is called “ Te- 
arkon the Ethiopian,” TcdjOicwp b AiSioxf/) 
^7, that he rivalled Sesostris as a warrior and 
reached the Pillars of Hercules is not sup- 
ported by other evidence. It is probable 
that at the close of his reign he found the 
Assyrians too powerful, and retired to his 
Ethiopian dominions. — Smith; Eairbairn. 
Hieroglyphic See Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt, i, 140 sq. ; 

ofTirhakah. liri, S scb > lHsL °f E U l JVL ii, 256 sq. See 
’ Ethiopia. 

Tirha'nall [many Tir'hanali] (Ileh. Tirchavah' , 
favor; Sept. Gapx<**'d v. r . Gapdp; Yulg. 
Tharana ), second named of the four sons of Caleb the 
llezronite by his concubine Maachah (1 Chron. ii, 48). 
11. C. apparently cir. 1618. 

Tir'ia (lleb. Tireyu f ear f Sept. Tipm 
v. r. Ogpiu; Yulg. Thiriit ), third named of the four 
sons of delialeleel of the tribe of Judah (1 Chron. iv, 16). 
li.C. apparently cir. 1618. 

Tilinus, Jacop., a Jesuit, was born at Antwerp in 
the year 1580. In 1600 he entered the Order of the 
Jesuits, was appointed professor of exegesis, superior of 
the Dutch Mission, and died July 14, 1636. lie pub- 
lished, Biblia Magna, cum Comment ariis Gagneri, ICstii , 
Menochii.et Tirini (Paris, 1643, 5 vols. Ibl.) : — Commen- 
turius in Sacrum Script u rum , cum Chronico Sucro ac 
Prolegomenis tie A ntiqnis Ponderibus et Monetis uc de 
Mensuris deque Chorographia Terrce Sunctie (Antw. 
163*2, 3 vols. fob; ] (145, fob; Lyons, 1664; Yenice, 1688; 
Augsburg, 1704). See Winer, Ilnndb. der theol. Literu- 
tur, i, 186, 188; ii, 804 ; Filrst, Bill. Jud. iii, 432; Theol. 
Universal- Lex. s. v, (11. P.) 

Tirdnes ( neirlg levied recruits), a name sometimes 
given to catechumens (q.v.). 

Tironesians, or Congregation of Tiiion. This 
order of monks was founded at Tiron, near Poitiers, in 
1 109. by Bernard d’Abbeville. See Bernard of Tiron. 
The first monastery was abandoned in 1114, and another 
built on the river Tiron. It was soon filled with monks, 
and before long the order had under its control sixtv- 
tive abbeys and priories and eleven parishes. Bernard 
required the strictest observance of the Benedictine 
rule; and so great was the self-denial of the monks that 
at times they were hardly supplied with the necessaries 
of life, one loaf of bread being deemed sufficient for the 
daily portion of four men. Notwithstanding these au- 
sterities, the number increased in three years to live hun- 
dred, and the fame of Bernard’s sanctity had spread to 
foreign countries. Henry 1 of England sent t he monas- 
tery an annuity of fifteen marks of silver in perpetuity, 
besides 560 marks yearly during his life, and built a 
magnificent dormitory. The king of France gave to it 
all the territory of Savignv. Thiband de Blois present- 
ed it with two priories, and built for it an infirmary. 
Mone}' and other valuable gifts were offered at its 
shrine, and at the death of its founder, in 1 116, it was 
in a most flourishing condition. At the time of its 
greatest prosperity there were under its control eleven 
abbeys, forty-four priories, and twenty -nine parishes, 


scattered over France, England, and Scotland. In 1629 
the Abbey of Tiron was added to the possessions of the 
Congregation of St. Maur, and from that time the Ti- 
ronesiaus ceased to exist as a separate organization. 
See llelyot, Ordres Religieux , iii, 674. 

Tirosli. See Wine. 

Tirsch, Leopold, a Herman scholar, apparently of 
Jewish extraction, who lived in the 18th century, is 
the author of Disscrtuiio de Churacternm A utiquurnm 
upud llebruos ante Esdram Usu (Prague, 1759):— Fun- 
da menta Liuguie Sanctie (ibid. 1766) : — Ilund-Lexiknn 
der jiidisc.h-teutschen Sprache, etc. (ibid. 1773): — Dis- 
sertatio de Tube macula rum Perils, pi-out. olim a Judieis 
gestie sunt, hodieque ugnntur (ibid. 1773) : — Dissert at in 
an Lingua //ebrtiica Omnium Antiquissinm Primuque 
llabeuda , etc. (ibid. 1773): — Gr animat icu, llebr. ; acre- 
dit Syllabus Voeum Irregul. S. S. Online A/phab. (ibid. 
1784). See Fiirst, Bib!. Jud. iii, 432; Steinselmeider, 
Bibliogr. llundb. s. v. (P>. P.) 

Tirsha'tha [most Tir'shatha ] .(lleb. always with 
the article, haf-Tirshathu', hence the Sept, 

gives the word ’ASrepaaoSd [v. r. ’AStpffoSd], Ezra ii, 
63; Neh. vii, 65, and ’A prapaaoSu, Neh. x, 1; Yulg. 
Athersaihu ), the title of the governor of Judiea under 
the Persians, derived by Gesenius from the Persian root 
torsh, signifying ‘‘stern,” “severe.” He compares the. 
title Gestrenger Herr, formerly given to the magistrates 
of the free and imperial cities of Germany (comp, also 
our expression, “most dread sovereign”). It is added 
as a title after the name of Nehemiah (viii, 9; x, 1 
[Heb. 2]); and occurs also in three other places (Ezra 

ii. 63, and t he repetition of that account in Neh. vii, 
65-70), where probably it is intended to denote Zerub- 
babel. who had held the office before Nehemiah. In 
the margin of the A. Y. (Ezra ii, 63; Neh. vii, 65; x, 1) 
it is rendered “governor;” an explanation justified by 
Neh. xii, 26, where “Nehemiah the governor,” nnen 
(Pechiih, probably from the same root as the word we 
write pacha, or pasha), occurs instead of the more usual 
expression “Nehemiah theTirshntha.” 'This word. nns, 
is twice applied by Nehemiah to himself (v, 14, 18), and 
by the prophet Ilaggai (i, 1 ; ii.2,21) to Zerubbnbel. Ac- 
cording to Gesenius, it denotes the prailect or governor 
of a province of less extent than a satrapy. The word 
is used of officers and governors under the Assyrian (2 
Kings xviii, 24 ; Isa. xxxvi, 9), Babylonian (Jer. Ii, 57 ; 
Ezek. xxiii, C, 23; see also Ezra v, 3, 14; vi, 7 ; Dan. 

iii, 2, 3, 27; vi, 7 [lleb. 8]), Median (Jer. Ii, 2*8), and 
Persian (Esth. viii, 9; ix, 3) monarchies. Under this 
last we find it applied to the rulers of the provinces bor- 
dered by the Euphrates (Ezra viii, 36; Neh. ii, 7, 9; 
iii, 7), and to the governors of Judaea, Zerubbabel and 
Nehemiah (comp. Mai. i, 8). It is found also at an 
earlier period in the times of Solomon (1 Kings x, 15; 2 
Chron. ix, 14) and Benhadad king of Syria (1 Kings xx, 
24), from which last place, compared with others (2 
Kings xviii, 24; Isa. xxxvi, 9), we find that military 
commands were often held by these governors: the 
word, indeed, is often rendered by the A. Y., either in 
the text or t lie margin, “captain.” By thus briefly ex- 
amining the sense o \ m Pechah. which (though of course a 
much more general and less distinctive word) is given 
as an equivalent to Tirshathti. we have no difficulty in 
forming an opinion as to the general notion implied in it. 
We have, however, no sufficient information to enable ns 
to explain in detail in what consisted the special peculi- 
arities in honor or functions that distinguished the Tir- 
shatha from others of the same class, governors, captains, 
princes, rulers of provinces. — Smith. See Governor. 

Tir'zall (Heb. Tirtsah', delight ; Sept, Gepird 

v. r. [in the case of No. 2] OqofffAd and Ofppa; Yulg. 
Thersu ), the name of a woman and also of a place. See 
also Cypress; Tjzite. 

1. The last, named of the five daughters of Zelophe- 
had, of the tribe of Manasseh, whose case originated the 


TIRZAII 


430 


TISCHENDORF 


law that in the event of a man dying without male is- 
mig his property should pass to his daughters (Numb, 
xxvi, 33: xxvii, 1 : xxxvi, 1 1 [where she is named sec- 
ond] ; Josh, xvii, 3). Sec Zelopmeiiad. 

2. An ancient Canaanitish city, whose king is enu- 
merated among the twenty-one overthrown in the con- 
quest of the country (.Josh, xii, 2 1). From that, time 
nothing is heard of it till after the disruption of Israel 
and Judah. 1 t then reappears as a royal city— the resi- 
dence of Jeroboam (1 Kings xiv, 17; Sept. Naptdd, i. e. 

'? Zareda). and of his successors, liaasha (xv, 21,33). 
IClali (xvi, 8, 0), and Zimri (ver. 15). It contained the 
royal sepulchres of one (ver. 6), and probably all the 
first four kings of the. northern kingdom. Zimri was 
besieged there by Omri. and perished in the flames of 
his palace (ver. 18). The new king continued to reside 
tiierc at first, but after six years he left it to his son 
Ahab (q. v.), at that time raised to the vieerovship; 
and removed to a new city which he built and named 
Shoniron ( Samaria ), and which continued to be the 
capital of the northern kingdom till its fall. Once, and 
once only, does Tirzah reappear, as the seat of the con- 
spiracy of Menahem ben-Gaddi against the wretched 
Shnllmn ('2 Kings xv, 11, 10) ; hut as soon as his revolt 
had proved successful, Menahem removed the seat of 
Ills government to Samaria, and Tirzah was again left 
in obscurity. Its reputation for beauty throughout t he 
country must have been wide-spread. It is in this sense 
that it is mentioned in the Song of Solomon, where the 
juxtaposition of Jerusalem is sufficient proof of the esti- 
mation in which it was held — “ Beautiful as Tirzah, 
comely as Jerusalem” (Cant, vi, 4). The Sept, {tbSoKia') 
and Vulg. ( suae is ) do not, however, take tirtsah as a 
proper name in this passage. Its occurrence here on a 
level witii Jerusalem has been held to indicate that the 
Song of Songs was the work of a writer belonging to 
the northern kingdom. But surely a poet, and so ar- 
dent a poet as the author of the Song of Songs, may 
have been sufficiently independent of political consider- 
ations to go out of his own country — if Tirzah can be 
said to be out of the country of a native of Judah — for a 
metaphor. See Canticles. 

Eusebius {Onomast. s. v. BojrmiXd) mentions it in con- 
nection with Menahern. and identities it with a ‘‘village 
of Samaritans in Bataiuea.” There is, however, nothing 
in t lie Hi hit* to lead to the inference that the Tirzah of 
the Israclitish monarchs was on the cast of Jordan. Jo- 
sephus merely mentions it (Qapot]. Ant. viii, 12, 5). It 
is nowhere stated to what tribe this town belonged; 
but Adriehomius ( Theat . T '. S. p. 74) and others place 
it in Manas.seh, Lightfoot ( Chorogruph . Cent. c. 88) 
seems to suspect that Tirzah and Shechem were the 
same; for he says that “if Shechem and Tirzah were 
not one and the same town,” it would appear that Jero- 
boam had removed when his son died from where he 
was when he first erected his idols (comp. 1 Kings xii, 
25; xiv, 17). It does not appear to he mentioned by 
the Jewish topographers, or any of the Christian travel- 
lers of the Middle Ages, except Brocardus, who places 
‘•Thersa on a high mountain, three leagues ( lenca ) from I 
Samaria to the east" {bescriptio Terra > Sonet, vii, 13). 
This is exactly the direction, and very nearly the dis- 
tance, of Telluzah , a place in the mountains north of 
Nablus, which was visited hv Robinson {liibl. Res. iii, 
302) and Van de Velde in 1852 {Syr. and Pal. iii, 334). 
The town is on an eminence, which towards the east is 
exceedingly lofty, though, being at the edge of the cen- 
tral highlands, it is more approachable from t he west. 
The place is large and thriving, but without any obvi- 
ous marks of antiquity ( Robinson, Later Ites. p, 302). 
Lieut. Cornier, however, suggests the identity of Tirzah 
with a mud hamlet” called Teidsir , twelve miles east 
of Jeba, which he found to have been once a place of 
importance, judging from the numerous rock-cut sepul- 
chres burrowing under the houses, the fertile lands and 
fine olives around, and the monument of good masonry, 
apparently a Homan tomb. The position is beautiful, 


and the old main road leads to the place from Shechem 
{Tent- Work in Palest, i, 11)8). 

Tischendorf, Lokkhott Friedrich Constantin 
von, the most prominent scholar in the department of 
New-Test, paleography, was born Jan. 18, 1815, at Len- 
gcnfeld, in Saxony. Having been prepared at the gym- 
nasium at Plaucn for the university, he entered, at 
Easter, 1834, aged nineteen, the halls of Lcipsic. Here 
Gottfried Hermann and Georg Benedict Winer were 
among his teachers. At the close of 1830 he received 
a prize medal for an essay on boctrina Pauli A postal i 
de Vi Mortis Christ i Sat is factoria, which he published 
at Lcipsic in 1837. A second prize was awarded to 
him in the year 1838 on Disputatio de Christo, Pane 
sire de Loco Prang. Joann, e. ri, rv. 51—53, Came 
Saerce J’otissinnnn Patione habit a (ibid. 1833), At the 
same time, lie took his degree of doctor of philosophy. 
In 1840 he published bissertatio Critica et Exegetica 
de Ev. Matt. e. xix, 16 sq., and was promoted as licen- 
tiate of theology; in t tie same year he qualified as 
privat-dneent of theology by publishing De Pecensio- 
nibus quits dicunt. Xovi Testamenti Patione Potissinntin 
habita Scholzii (ibid,; reprinted in the Prolegomena 
to the Greek Testament published in 1841). In this 
essay, as Kalmis rightly remarked, he gave to t lie 
world the programme of his theological future. In Oc- 
tober, 1839, he began to prepare a critical band-edition 
of the Greek New Test., which was published in 1841 
under the title Xornni Testamentum Cnvce : Textual 
ad Fitlem A nt [quorum Testium Deceits. Brecem Appara- 
tum Crit. itna cum \driis Lectionibns Elzer., Kuappii, 
Scholzii , Lachmanni subjmixit. etc. (ibid.). In 1840 Tiseh- 
endorf went to Paris. The library there contained a 
celebrated palimpsest. A manuscript of the Bible from 
early in the 5th century had been cleaned off in the 12th 
century, and used for writings of Ephraem Syrus. What 
no mortal had been able to do before, Tischendorf did, 
and with the aid of chemical reagents he completely 
restored the original text. The University of Breslau 
acknowledged his merit by bestowing on him the title 
of doctor of theology. Meanwhile he also collated the 
Paris manuscripts of Philo for Prof. Grossmann at Leip- 
sic, and t he only remaining manuscript of the 60th book 
of the Basilicas for Dr. Heimbach at Jena. F. Didot, 
the publisher, bargained with Tischendorf for a reissue 
of his Lcipsic edition, which appeared at Paris in 1842; 
and then abbe Jager, a professor in the Sorbonne, begged 
him to edit a Greek text that should conform ns nearly 
as possible to the Vulgate, which was also published in 
the same year. In 1841 and 1842 lie visited the libra- 
ries in Holland, London, Cambridge, and Oxford. Early 
in 1843 he left Paris for Borne, on the way working four 
weeks on the Codex E of the gospels at Basle. In Italy 
lie stayed more than a year, and used his time in the 
best possible manner. When his Italian researches were 
completed, he prepared to start, for his first Eastern jour- 
ney in 1844, which he repeated again in 1853 and 1853. 
On his third journey, in 1853, he discovered the famous 
Codex Sinaiticns, After his return he was made ordi- 
nary professor of the Lcipsic University, and a special 
chair of sacred pahvography was made for him, ‘ From 
this time on, he spent the remainder of his life in 
publishing the results of his amassed materials, collect- 
ed on his different journeys, of which we shall speak fur- 
ther on. On May 5, 1873, he was seized with apoplexy ; 
he recovered somewhat from the attack, hut in Novem- 
ber, 1874, the malady grew worse, and on Dec. 7, 1874, 
he passed away. 11 is funeral took place on the 10th, 
at which Drs. Ahlfeld, Kalmis, Luthardt, and others 
made addresses. 

Probably no theologian ever received so varied and 
so many signs of distinction, academic and civil, lie 
was made a Russian noble, a Saxon privy-councillor, 
knight of many orders, doctor of all academic degrees, 
and member of an indefinite number of societies. When, 
in 1855, king Friedrich Wilhelm IV of Prussia (brother 
of the present emperor of Germany) said to him, “You 


TISCHENDORF 


431 


TISIIBITE 


are predestined to discoveries: wherever they are pos- 
sible, there you are to make them,” he only proved 
himself a true prophet ; and only a man of such un- 
common quickness, keenness, energy, and ambition as 
Tischendorf could achieve what he brought about. 
“ What Wettstein and liengel began,” said his colleague 
Luthanlt. “what Ilug and Lachmann carried on. he 
brought nearly to completion in a way which leaves the 
labors of his predecessors far behind.” And k ‘ whoever,” 
said Kahilis, “in the future outstrips him will do it only 
on the road which Tischendorf marked out; whoever 
overcomes him will do so only bv the weapons which he 
himself has furnished.” Complaint has been made of his 
changes of opinion, a reading not unfreqnently being 
confidently adopted in one issue and as confidently reject- 
ed in the next, or rice versa. But how could it be oth- 
erwise, when the evidences in the case were constantly 
increasing in number and clearness? As the illustri- 
ous scholar said in his last will, “ I have sought no other 
aim than truth; to her 1 have always unconditionally 
bowed the knee.” No pride of opinion, no zeal for con- 
sistency, was allowed to stand in the way. lie was, 
doubtless, unconsciously biassed in favor of the authori- 
ties he himself had brought to light; but his purpose 
was to set forth the exact text of the original without 
regard to dogmatic or personal considerations. 

As to his publications, they are very numerous. We 
must here pass over his essays, reviews, etc., and shall 
confine ourselves to his most important works. Besides 
those already mentioned, they are, in chronological order, 
Codex Ephruemi Syri Rescripts s (Lips. 1843-45, 2 vols.) : 
— Monument a Sacra Inedita sire Reliquke A ntiquissimee 
Textus Novi Test am. Gneci, etc. (ibid. 184(3) : — L)e Israe- 
litarum per M are Rubrum Transitu (ibid. 1847) : — Evan- 
yelium Palatimtm In edit inn sire Reliquiie Textus Erttn- 
yeliorum Latini ante 1 Heron, versi ex Cod. Pa latino Pur- 
purea iv rel, v p. Chr. Sa?culi\ ibid. 1847 ) : — Novum Test. 
Grcec. (ibid. 1850; 2d ed. 18G2, and often) : — Vet us Test. 
Greece juxta LX X Interpretes: Textual Vat. Romamtm 
emendatius edi</it,e tc. (ibid. 1850, 2 vols.; 2d ed. 185G; 
3d ed. 18G0; 4th ed. 18G1); Gth ed. 1880 ): — Codex A mia fi- 
rms sire X. T. Latine Interprete Uieronymo (ibid. 1850; 2d 
ed. 1854 ): — ])e Eranyeliorum Apocryphorum Oriyine et 
Usu, etc. (Hagre, 1851 ): — Acta A post ulorum Apocrypha 
(Lips. 1851 ): — Synopsis Evanyelica (ibid. 1851; 2d ed. 
1854; ed. ii emend. 18G4: ed.iii emend. 1871 ; transl. into 
Tamul by H. Schanz, Tranquebar, 18G8 ): — Codex Cla- 
romontanus sive Epistulie Pauli Quines Gr. et I. at. ex Ccd. 
Paris. Celeberrimo , etc. (ibid. 1852): — Evany elk i Apo- 
crypha (ibid. 1853) : — N. T. Triylottum , Gr. Lot. Germa- 
nice, etc. (ibid. 1854; 2d ed. 18G5): — X. T. Greece: Editio 
Academica (ibid. 1855, and often ): — Monument a Sacra 
Inedita: Nova Collectio (1855-70, 7 vols.) : — Pilati circa 
Christum Judicio quid Lucis Afferatur ex Actis Pilati 
(ibid. 1855) : — Anecdota Sacra et Prof ana ex Oriente et 
Occiclente A data, etc. (ibid. 1855; 2d ed. 18(31): — Her- 
mes Pastor Grace, (ibid. 185G) : — N. T. Gr. et 1 Ait., ex 
Triylnttis (ibid. 1858) : — X. T. Grcec.: Editio Sept imu Cri- 
tica Major (ibid. 1859), and Editio Septima Critica Mi- 
nor (ibid .): — Not if in Editionis Codicis Bibliornm Sinai- 
tici A uspiciis 1 mperaforis A lexandri 11 Susceptie (ibid. 
18G0) : — Rihliorum Codex Sinaiticus Pet ropolif anus, etc. 
(Petropoli, 18G2, 4 vols. fol.) : — A". T. Sinaiticum sire 
X. T. cum Epistula Earn aha et Fraymentis Pastoris 
(Lips. 18(33): — A r . T. Grace et German ire, ex Triglottis 
(ibid. 18(34) : — A r . T. Latine: Textnm JJieronymi Notata 
Clementina Lectione, etc. (ibid. 18G4) : — A r . T. Gr., ex Si- 
naitico Codice Omnium Antiquissimo Vaticana itemque 
Elzeririana Lectione Notata (ibid. 18(35 ): — Wann ivur- 
den unsere Eranyelien r erf asst ? (ibid. 18G5, and often). 
Of this little book there are three French, English, and 
American translations, two Swedish, and one each of 
Danish, Dutch, Italian, Russian, and Turkish: — Aqioca- 
lypses Apocrypha A /os is, Esdra, Pauli, Johannis, etc, 
(ibid. 18GG): — A r . T. Vat icanum, post Anyeli Mai ulio- 
r unique Imperfectos Lahores ex ipso Codice edidit (ibid. 
18G7) : — Appendix Codicum Celeberrimorum Sinaitici 


Vaticani Alexandrini (ibid. 18G7) : — Pbilonea Inedita 
Altera, etc. (ibid. 18G8) : — X. T. Gr.,ad Antiqniss. Testis 
denuo Rec. Apparatum Criiicum Omni Studio Perfectum 
(ibid. 18(39-72, 2 vols.) ; the third vol,, containing Prole- 
gomena, is now in preparation by Dr. Oscar Gebhardt : 
— The New Testament: the Authorized English Version, 
with Introductions and Various Readings from the three 
most Celebrated Manuscripts of the Original Greek Text 
(ibid. 18G9); 45,000 copies were sold in the tirst year: — 
— Appendix Novi Testam. Vaticani, etc. (ibid. 18(39): — 
Conlutio Critica. Cod. Sin. cum Textu Elzeviriauo Vatic. 
etc. (ibid. I8G9) : — Responsa ad Calunwias Romanos 
(ibid. 1870 ) : — Die Simvibibel. etc. (ibid. 1871): — A". T. 
Grace, ad Antiquissimos Testes denuo recensuit : Editio 
Critica Minor ed. viii M ajore Desumpta (1872), vol. i : 

— dementis Romani Epistula (ibid. 1873 ): — Eiblia Sa- 
cra Latina Veteris Testam. Uieronymo Interprete. etc. 
Editioncm inst itnit snasore Chr. Car. Jos.de Bunsen, Th, 
lleyse, ad tinem perduxit C. de T. (ibid. 1873):— A T . T. 
Gr., ad Editioncm snani viii Crit. Majorem conform li- 
cit, Lectionibusqne Sinaiticis et 1 'aticanis item Elzevir i- 
anis instruxit (ibid. 1873 ): — Liber Psalmorum /Jebr. 
atque Lat. ab Uieronymo ex Hebrao Conversns. Con- 
sociata Opera edd. C. de T., S. Bar, Fr. Dclitzsch (ibid. 
1874). From the rich material left behind, we may ex- 
pect still other works. Besides these works, we must 
mention his Reise in den Orient (Leips. 184G, 2 vols.: 
Engl, transl. by W. L. Shuekard, Travels in the East 
[Loud. 1847 ]): — A us dem heiliyen Lauds (ibid. 18(52; 
transl. into French and Swedish) : — Rechenschaft i'tber 
meine h a ndsch rift lichen Studien aufmeiner icissenschaft- 
lichen Reise, published in the Jahrbiicher dev IAteratur: 
— and papers in the Anzeiye-Blatt. The Leipziyer Re- 
pertory! m der deutschen it ml auslandischen Literatur , 
the A uysburger A llyemeine Zeituny, the Serapenm , and 
Studien u ml Kritiken also contain a vast amount of in- 
formation from his pen. as may be seen from the list of 
Tischendorf s writings furnished by Mr. Gregory for the 
Bibliotheca Sacra. 187G, p. 183 sq. 

See Volbeding, Constantin Tischendorf in seiner 25- 
jdhriyen U'issenschaftlichen Wirksamkeit : Literar.-his- 
tor. Skizze (Leips. 18G2) ; Beilaye zur aUyemeinen evan- 
yelisch-lutherischen Kirch enzeit it ny, 1874, No. 50 (ibid.); 
Am Surge und Grube des J)r. Theol. Constantin Tischen- 
dorf: Eii/f Reden und Ansprachen, nebst einem Riick- 
blick ttuf das Leben und, einem 1 'erzeichniss sammtlicher 
Druckwerke des Verstorbenen (ibid. 1875); Abbot, The 
late Professor Tischendorf (reprinted from the Unita- 
rian Review and Religious Magazine for March, 1875); 
Gregory, Tischendorf, in Biblioth. Sacra (Andover, 
187(5), p. 153 sq. ; Theologisches Uni versa l- Lex. s. v. ; 
Literarischer Ihtndweiser fur das katholische Deutsch- 
land, 1875, p. 417 sq. ; Zuchokl, Biblioth. Theoloy. ii, 
1341 sq. (B. P.) 

Tischer, Johann Frieduicii Wilhelm, a German 
Protestant divine, was born at Tautschen, near Torgau, 
in the year 17G7. In 1792 he was called to the pastorate 
of his native city; in 1794 he was appointed superin- 
tendent at JUterbogk; four years later he was called to 
Plauen, and in 1823 to Pima, having in the meantime 
received the degree of doctor of theology. He died in 
the latter place in 1842. lie published, Scholia in Loc. 
Gal. Hi, 1-20 (Wittcnb. 1802) : — Psycholoyische Prediyt- 
entwiirfe (Leips. 1795 ): — Die Uauptstiicke der christ- 
lichen Religion (33d ed. ibid. 1852 ): — Das Christevthum 
in den Havptstiicken vnserer Kirch e (2d ed. ibid. 1837): 

— Ueber das menschliche llerz und seine Eiyenheiten 
(ibid. 1829-43, 4 vols.), sermons : — Die Pfticht der Kirch- 
lichkeit aus den Gesetzen der Seelenlelire bewiesen (ibid. 
183G) : — and a number of other sermons and essays. See 
Zuchold, Bill. Theoloy. ii, 1343; Winer, Uandbuch der 
theol. Literatur, i, 2G2; ii, 1GI, 197, 228, 314, 321, 334. 
(B. 1>.) 

Tish'bite (Heb. Tishbi', “'3 31‘P), apparently a gen- 
tile adj. ; Sept. Sw/S/n/c; Vulg. Thesbites ), the constant 
designation ofthe prophet Elijah (1 Kings xvii, 1 ; xxi, 


TISIO 


432 


TITAN ES 


17,28; 2 Kingsi, 3, 8; ix, 3(>\ The following expla- 
nations have been given of this obscure epithet : 

1. The name naturally points to a place called Tish- 
bah, Tishbeh , Tislibi, or rather perhaps Tesheb, as the 
residence of the. prophet. Indeed, the word <ih 
which follows it. in 1 Kings xvii, I, and which in the 
received Hebrew text is so pointed as to mean “from 
the residents,” may, without, violence or grammatical 
impropriety, be pointed to read “Irorn I ishhi.” 1 his 

* latter reading appears to have been followed by the 
Sept. (Vat. o b Ik Oeafiibv), Josephus {A lit. 

viii. 13,2, TrfiXfioc ( )f<r/3<»irt/c), and the Targ. (— 

“ from out ofToshah”) ; and it has the support. ol'Ewald 
(Gesch. iii, 408, note). It is also supported by the fact, 
which seems to have escaped notice, that the word does 
not in this passage contain the 1 which is present in 
each one of the places where is used as a mere 

appellative noun. Had the *1 been present in 1 Kings 
xvii, 1, the interpretation “from Tislibi” could never 
have been proposed. 

Assuming, however, that a town is alluded to as Eli- 
jah’s native place, it is not necessary to infer that it 
was itself in Gilead, as Epiphanius, Adrichomius, Cas- 
tell, and others have imagined; for t lie word -'Tin, 
which in the A. V. is rendered by the general term “in- 
habitant,” has really the special force of " resident” or 
even “stranger.” This and the fact that a place with 
a similar name is not. elsewhere mentioned have induced 
the commentators, geographers. and lexicographers, with 
few exceptions, to adopt the name “Tishhite” as refer- 
ring to the place Tiiisbk (Hm/3/;) in Naphtali, which is 
found in the Sept, text of Tohit i, 2. The difficulty in 
the way of this is the great uncertainty in whieh the 
text of that passage is involved— an uncertainty quite 
sufficient to destroy any dependence upon it as a topo- 
graphical record, although it bears the traces of having 
originally been extremely minute, ihmsen (Bibehcerk, 
note to 1 Kings xvii, l; suggests in support of the read- 
ing “ the Tishhite from Tislibi of Gilead” (which, how- 
ever, lie does not adopt in his text) that the place may 
have been purposely so described, in order to distinguish 
it from the town of the same name in Galilee. 

2. Hut — rn has not always been read as a proper 

name, referring to a place. Like though ex- 

actly in reverse, it has been pointed so as to make it 
mean “ the stranger.” This is done by Michaelis in the 
text of his interesting Bibel fur Unyelehrten — “I)er 
Fremdling Elia, einer von den Fremden, die in Gilead 
wolmhalt waren;” and it. throws a new and impressive 
air around the prophet, who was so emphatically the 
champion of the God of Israel. Put this suggestion 
<loes not appear to have been adopted by any other in- 
terpreter, ancient or modern. 

The numerical value of the letters *'■3 -P is 712, on 
which account, and also doubtless with a view to its 
correspondence with his own name, Elias Levi t a entitled 
his work, in which 712 words are explained, Seplier 
Tishbi (Pnrtolocci, i, 140 1>). — Smith. See Eu.iaii. 

Tisio (or Tisi), P.envkm -to, called 11 Gurnfalo, an 
eminent painter of t lie Fcrrarese school, was born in 
1481, received bis (irst education under Domenico Pa- 
netti, then studied with Xiecolo Soriani at Cremona, and 
next under Poceacciu Poeeaccino. lie went to Home 
in 1400, where lie remained fifteen months, and then 
travelled through various Italian cities, intending to 
settle down at Lome. Persuaded, however, by the so- 
licitations of Panetti and by the commissions of duke 
Alplionso, he remained in his native place, Ferrara. 
His death took place in looO. The works of Tisio are 
extremely valuable, and scarcely to be found outside of 
Italy. Among them we note. Murder of the Innocents. 
Resurrection of Lazarus, and Taking of Christ, u\ the 
Church of St. Francis at Ferrara; St. Peter Martyr, in 
the Church of the Dominicans; Visitation of the Virgin, 


in the Palazzo Doria. See Spooner, Blog. Diet, of the 
Fine A rts, s. v. 

Tisri, or rather Tisimi from TuP, to begbi), 

was the Pnbbinical name of the first month of the civil 
and the seventh month of the ecclesiastical year, in 
which fell the festival of Atonement, and that of Taber- 
nacles. In 1 Kings viii, 2 it is termed the month of 
F.thanim , that is, the mouth of streaming rivers, which 
are Idled during this mouth by the autumnal rains. It 
corresponds with our September-October. Tisri is one 
1 of the six names of months found in Palmyrene inscrip- 
tions, which, with other evidence, renders it very prob- 
able that the Jewish names of months form a member 
in a great series, whieh were extensively in use in the 
eastern parts of the world (see lieu fey and Stern. Fiber 
die Monatsnamen einiyer alten I 'biker [Perl. 183G]). — 
Kit to. See Month. 

Ti'tan (Tirin', usually in the plur. Ttrtii'fc, of un- 
certain derivation). These children of Uranus (Heaven) 
and Gain (Earth) were [see Titanes], according to the 
| earliest Greek legends, the vanquished predecessors of 
the Olympian gods, condemned l»y Zeus to dwell in 
Tartarus, yet not without retaining many relics of their 
ancient dignity (.Esch. Prom. I7wc/. passim). Pv later 
(Latin) poets they were confounded with the kindred 
Giyantes (Horace, Odes, i li, 4, 42, etc.), as the tradi- 
tions of the primitive Greek faith died away; and both 
terms were transferred by the Sept, to the Pephaim of 
ancient Palestine. See Giant. The usual Greek ren- 
dering of Rephaim is indeed Piyrci'rec (Gen. xiv, 5; 
Josh, xii, 4, etc.), or, with a yet clearer reference to 
Greek mythology, yi/ynutc ( Prov. ii, 18; ix, 18) and 
•9*o/i«YOt (Svmmach. ; Prov. ix, 18; xxi, 1<>; Jobxxvi, 
5). Put in 2 Sam. v, 18, 22 “the valley of Pephaim” 
j is represented by /; kqiXoq tiov Tirdiuor instead of/; 
KtaXtit; rwv yiydvTiov (1 Clmm. xi, 15; xiv, t>, 13); and 
the same rendering occurs in a Hexapl. text in 2 Sam. 
xxiii, 13. Thus Ambrose defends his use of a classical 
allusion by a reference to the old Latin version of 2 Sam. 
v, which preserved the Sept, rendering ( De Fide , iii, 1 , 
4, “Nam et giyantes et vallem Tit unit m prophetici ser- 
monis series non refugit. Et Esaias Sirenas . . . dixit”). 
It can then fore occasion no surprise that in the Greek 
version of the triumphal hymn of Judith (xvi, 7) “the 
sons of the Titans” (uioi T iraiw; Vulg. flii Titan; 
| old Lnt. flii Duthan ; f. Tela ; f. bellutorum ) stands 
parallel with “high giants,” i>\pijXoi Viyarrec, where 
the original text probably had B^XEn and 
The word has yet another interesting point of connec- 
tion with the Pible ; for it may have been from some 
vague sense of the struggle of the infernal and celestial 
powers, dimly shadowed forth in t lie classical myth of 
the Titans, that several Christian fathers inclined to t lie 
belief that T firth' was the mystic name of “the beast” 
indicated in Pev. xiii. 18 (Irenants, v. 30, 3, “ Divinum 
pntatur apud ninltos esse hoc nomen . . . et ostenta- 
tionem quandam contiuet ulliouis . . . et alias autem 
et antiquum, et tide dignum, et regale, magis autem et 
tyrannicnm nonicn . . . nt ex multis colligamus ne forte 
Titan vocetur qui veuiet”). — Smith. 

Titanes. in Greek mythology, were the children of 
Uranus and Gaia. There were twenty-two of them — 
namely, Oceanus, Ostasus, Adamns, Ophinn, Anvtus, 
Cams, Andes, Hyperion, Crins, Olvmbrns, Japetns, 
.Egaon, and Kronus (Saturn); Tetliys, Phea, Themis, 
Mnemosyne, Plnebe, Pione, Tliia, Thrace, Euryphaessa. 
They represented the powers of nature as anciently and 
still engaged in wild combat. Uranus had thrown his 
first sons, the lleeatonehires (the fifty-armed'), Priarens, 
Cot t us, and G vas (also Gvges), and t he Cyclops Arges, 
Steropes, and Prontes, into Tartarus. Gaia became an- 

rv on this account, and incited the Titanes to rebel 


against their father, and for this purpose gave to Kronus 
a hook, with which he emasculated him (Uranus). All 
save Oceanus participated in the rebellion. Uranus 


TITHE 


433 


TITHE 


was dethroned, those pining in Tartarus liberated, and 
Kronus acknowledged as ruler, who, however, subjected 
again those who had been liberated to the torturesof Tar- 
tarus, with the Hecatonchires as their guards. Titanes 
was also the name of the divine beings descended from 
the Titanes, sometimes called Titanides, as Prometheus, 
Hecate, Latona, Pyrrha, Helios, and Selene. The name 
Titan has become very common to designate the god 
of the sun. A peculiar saving was that Bacchus was 
torn asunder by the. Titanes. Bacchus is here repre- 
sented to be the power of vegetation, which is broken 
by the satanic powers of the infernal region. 

Tithe (TE^'E, maaser; Sept, and New Test. deKari], 
occasionally Chccitov or t7ridkKarov; Yu\g.decimce ; plur. 

; a i dUarcu; decirrue ; from Til'S’, “ten;” 
Targum NT“;rE, an 03? jE “in), the tenth part both 
of the produce of the land and of the increase of the 
flock, enjoined in the Mosaic law to be devoted by ev- 
ery Israelite to the servants of the sanctuary, and to 
the hospitable meals provided on the festivals for the 
poor and needy (Lev. xxvii, 30-33 ; Numb, xviii, 21-32; 
Dent, xii, 5-18; xiv, 22-29; xxvi, 12-14). (The fol- 
lowing treatment of the subject is chiefly based upon 
Ginsburg’s article in Kitto’s Cyclopedia, s. v.) 

1. The Mosaic Law respecting Tithes. — The first 
enactment respecting tithes ordains t hat the tenth of 
all produce and of all animals is to be devoted to the 
Lord; that the predial or vegetable tithe may be re- 
deemed if one fifth is added to its value; and that the 
mixed or animal tithe, which is unredeemable, is to be 
taken as it comes, without any selection, and with- 
out attempting to effect any change, else the original 
animal and the one substituted for it are both forfeited 
to the sanctuary (Lev. xxvii, 30-33). In the second 
mention of the tithe it is enacted that it is to be given 
to the Levites of the respective districts as a remunera- 
tion for their services in the sanctuary, since they were 
excluded from sharing in the division of the land of 
Canaan; that they are allowed to consume the tithe 
wherever they please (E'.pE-tJIE), and that from the 
tithe thus received they are to give a tenth to the 
Aaronites or priests (Numb, xviii, 21-32). In the third 
legislation on this point it is further commanded that 
the Israelites are to tithe the produce of the soil every 
year; that this vegetable tithe, together with the first- 
lings of the flock and herd, is to constitute the social 
and festive repast in the place of the sanctuary; that 
in ease the sanctuary is too far olf, the tithal produce is 
to be converted into money, which is to be taken to the 
metropolis, and there laid out in food for this entertain- 
ment, and that the Levite is to share with the family 
in this social meal. It is, moreover, ordained that 
at the end of every third year this vegetable tithe 
(rtXvEri Twl'E) is not to be taken to the metropolis, 
but is to constitute hospitable and charitable meals at 
home, to which the Levite, the stranger, the fatherless, 
and the widow are to be invited ( Deut. xii, 5-7, 17; 
xiv, 22-29). The triennial conversion of the second or 
vegetable tithe into entertainments for the poor is again 
enjoined in xxvi, 12-15, where it is also ordered that 
every Israelite shall make an exculpatory declaration 
that he has conscientiously performed the tithal com- 
mand. 

It will be seen that the book of Deuteronomy only 
mentions the second or vegetable tithe as well as its 
triennial conversion into the poor tithe, omitting alto- 
gether the first or Levitical tithe; while the books of 
Leviticus and Numbers, which discuss the Levitical 
tithe, pass over in silence the second or feast tithe. 
This has given rise to various theories among modern 
critics. Thus Ewald will have it that the Deuteron- 
omist, writing during the period of the Jewish monar- 
chy, when the Levitical tithe, as enacted in Leviticus 
and Numbers, could no longer be continued as a regular 
rate in consequence of the new taxes imposed bv the 
X.— E e 


sovereigns, endeavored to bring the tithe back to its 
original form of a voluntary offering {Die A Iterth ii mer 
des ]'olkes Israel, p. 310). Knobel ( Comment . on Lev. 
p. 419, 590) regards Deut. xii, 0, 1 1 ; xiv, 22-29; xxvi, 
12, as proceeding from the later Jehovistic legislator 
who lived towards the end of the kingdom of Judah, 
and who substituted for the older Elohistic annual veg- 
etable and animal tithe, which was no longer practica- 
ble, the triennial vegetable tithe which was to be de- 
voted to the hospitable meals whereunto the Levites, 
together with the stranger, widow, orphans, and poor, 
were to be invited. Bishop Colenso ( The Pentateuch 
and the Book of Joshua Critically Examined, iii, 470), 
who also regards the enactments in Leviticus, Numbers, 
and Deuteronomy as referring to one and the same 
tithe, finds “the most complete contradiction between 
the two sets of laws.” Against these theories, however, 
is to be urged that — a. The tithal enactment in Deuter- 
onomy has nothing whatever to do with the one in 
Leviticus and Numbers, and is therefore neither in- 
tended to contravene nor supersede it. b. The Deutcr- 
onomist presupposes the existence and force of the Le- 
vitical tithe as the fixed income of the ministers of the 
sanctuary, and designs the second tithe to be in force 
j by its side. This is evident from the fact that the 
book of Deuteronomy (x, 9; xii, 19; xiv, 27, 29), like 
the books of Leviticus and Numbers, legislates upon 
the basis of Levitical poverty, and frequently refers to 
the care to be taken of the Levites. Now if, according 
to the above-named hypothesis, we are to regard the 
triennial tithe as substituted in the place of the orig- 
inal Levitical tithe, we are shut up to the preposterous 
conclusion that the only provision made by the Deuter- 
onomist for the Levites is an ample meal once in three 
years, c. The mention of the second tithe by the Den- 
teronomist alone is owing to the fact that it is connect- 
ed with the fixing of the central sanctuary, the rites 
and regulations of which he alone discusses, d. The 
post-exilian practice of the Jews shows beyond the 
shadow of a doubt that the nation for whom these 
tithal laws were passed understood the enactment in 
Deuteronomy to mean a second tithe as in force side by 
side with the first or Levitical tithe enjoined in Le- 
viticus and Numbers (Tobit i, 7 ; Josephus, Ant. iv, 8, 
8, 22; iUishna, Maaser Sherd). This also sets aside 
the objection urged by some that a double tithe would 
j be too heavy and unbearable a tax. For if the Jews 
did not find it so in later times, when under the rule of 
foreign sovereigns, and paying heavy rates to them, 
| surely they could not have found the double tithe too 
grinding an oppression during the independence of the 
State, especially when it is remembered that the second 
I tithe was devoted to festive repasts of the respective 
families at which the Levites, the strangers, the wid- 
ows, orphans, etc., were simply guests. 

From all this we gather: 1. That one tenth of the 
whole produce of the soil was to he assigned for the 
maintenance of the Levites. 2. That out of this the 
Levites were to dedicate a tenth to God for the use of 
the high-priest. 3. That a tithe, in all probability a 
second tithe, was to be applied to festival purposes. 4. 
That in every third year either this festival tithe or a 
third tenth was to be eaten in company with the poor 
and the Levites. The question thus arises, were there 
three tithes taken in this third year, or is the third 
tithe only the second under a different description V 
That there were two yearly tithes seems clear, both 
from the general tenor of the directions and from the 
Sept, rendering of Deut. xxvi, 12. But it must be al- 
lowed that the third tithe is not without support, a. 
Josephus distinctly says that one tenth was to be giv- 
en to the priests and Levites, one tenth was to be ap- 
plied to feasts in the metropolis, and that a tenth be- 
sides these ( rpirrji > npbc; avralg') was every third year 
to be given to the poor {Ant. iv, 8, 8, 22). b. To- 
bir says he gave one tenth to the priests, one tenth he 
sold and spent at Jerusalem, i. e. commuted according 


TITHE 


434 


TITIIE 


to Pout, xiv, 24, 25, and another tenth he gave away 
(Tohit i, 7, 8). c. Jerome says one tenth was given to 
the Levites, out of which they gave one tenth to the 
priests (ctVTtfioetKUTi ]} ; a .second tithe was applied to 
festival purposes, and a third was given to the poor 
( 7 rTio\oCtK(iTij) (Com. on Ezek. xlr, i, 5G5). Spencer 
thinks there were three tithes. Jennings, with Mede, 
thinks there were only two complete tithes, but that 
in the third year an addition of some sort was made 
(Spencer, De Ley. llebr . p. 727 ; Jennings, Jewish A nt. 
P. l 83). 

On the other hand, Maimonides says the third and 
sixth years’ second tithe was shared between the poor 
ami the Levites, i. e. that there was no third tithe ,[l)e 
Jur. Panp. vi, 4). Selden and Michaelis remark that 
the burden of three tithes, besides the tirst-fruits, would 
be excessive. Selden thinks that the third year’s tithe 
denotes only a different application of the second, or 
festival, tithe, and Michaelis that it meant a surplus 
after the consumption of the festival tithe (Selden, 
On Tithes, ii, 13 ; Michaelis, Laws of Moses , § 192, 
iii, M3, ed. Smith). Against a third tithe may be add- 
ed Poland, Ant. llebr. p. 359; Jahn, Ant. § 389; (lod- 
wyn, Moses and .1 nron, p. 13(3. and Carpzov, p. 02 1 , 022 ; 
Keil, fiibl. A rch. § 71, i. 337 : Saalsebiitz, llebr. Arch, i, 
70 : Winer, Ileal wdrtecb. s. v. “ Zehnte.” 

Of these opinions, that which maintains three sepa- 
rate and complete tithings seems improbable as impos- 
ing an excessive burden on the land, and not easily rec- 
oncilable with the. other directions; yet there seems 
no reason for rejecting the notion of two yearly tithes 
when we recollect the especial promise of fertility to 
the soil conditional on observance of the commands of 
the law (l)eut. xxviii). There would thus be, (1) a 
yearly tithe for the Levites; (2) a second tithe for the 
festivals, which last would, every third year, be shared 
hv the Levites with the poor. It is this poor man’s 
tithe which Michaelis thinks is spoken of as likely to 
be converted to the king’s use under the regal dynasty 
(1 Sam. viii, 15, 17; Michaelis, Laws of Moses, i, 299). 
Kwald thinks that under the kings the ecclesiastical 
tithe system reverted to what he supposes to have been 
its original free-will character. 

II. Classification of and I Alter Legislation upon the 
Tithes . — It will be seen from the above description that 
the tithes are divisible into four classes. As the anxi- 
ety to pay them properly called forth more minute defi- 
nitions and further expansions of the Pentateuchal en- 
actments, we shall give the most important practices 
which obtained during the second Temple in connec- 
tion with each of these four classes of tithes. 

1. The Levitical, or first, tithe (1*! uXI This 

tithe was paid after both the first-fruit and 

the priestly heave - offering (ni^ri) had been sepa- 
rated, the amount of which, though not fixed in the 
Mosaic law, was generally one fiftieth of the produce 
(comp. Lxod. xxiii, 19; Dent, xxvi, 1, etc., with Mish- 
n a, Hikkurim ; Numb, xviii, 8; Dent, xviii, 4, with 
Mislma, Terumoth, iii, 7; iv, 3; Maimonides, lad lia- 
Chezaka, Hilchoth Mathannth A njim, vi, 2). As the 
Mosaic law does not define what things are subject to 
this tithe, but simply says that it is to consist of both 
vegetables and animals (Lev. xxvii, 30 s<p), the Jewish 
canons enacted that as to the produce of the land 
“whatsoever is esculent, though still kept in the field, 
and derives its growth from the soil, is tithable; or 
whatsoever may lie eaten from the commencement to 
the completion of its growth, though left in the field to 
increase in size, is tithable, whether small or great; 
and whatsoever cannot he eaten at the beginning, but 
can only be eaten at the end of its growth, is not tith- 
able till it is ripe for food” (Mislma, Maaseroth , i, 1). 
It will bo seen that this definition embraces even the 
smallest, kitchen herbs and aromatic plants; and that 
it explains the remark of onr Saviour that tithe was 
paid of mint, dill, and cummin, which he, however, did 


I not condemn, but, on the contrary, said, “These ought 
1 ye to have done” (Matt, xxiii, 23; Luke xi, 42; comp. 
Mislma, Maaseroth, i, 2-8). The animals subject to 
this Levitical tithe are still more indefinitely described 
in the Pentateuchal statute, which simply says, “ As to 
, all the tithe of herds and flocks, whatsoever passeth 
under the rod, the tenth shall be holy unto the Lord” 
(Lev. xxvii, 32). It will be seen that this law does 
not say whether the tenth is to be paid of the newly 
born animals, whether it includes those newly pur- 
chased or exchanged, whether it is payable if a man 
has less than ten cattle, or at what age of the animals 
the tithe becomes due. The spiritual heads of the peo- 
j pie had therefore most, minutely to define these points 
so as to make the tithal law practicable. lienee the 
following canons obtained : All animals are tithable 
[ except those which are born of heterogeneous copula- 
tion (comp. Dent, xxii, 9), which are damaged, which 
have come into t lie world irregularly, or which are be- 
reaved of their mother; which have been purchased or 
received as presents. They are only tithable when 
there are ten newly born of the same kind, so that the 
offspring of oxen and small cattle must not be put to- 
gether to make up the requisite number, nor are even 
those to be put together which are born in different 
years, though they belong to the same kind. Sheep 
and goats may be tithed together, provided they have 
all been born in the same season (Mislma, Hekoroth, ix, 
3, 4). The tithing is to take plaee three times in the 
year, about tifteen days before each of the three great 
festivals — viz. («) on the first of Nisan, being fifteen 
days before Passover; (b) on the first of Sivan, being 
only five days before Pentecost, because the small num- 
ber of animals born between these two festivals could 
not suffice for the celebration of Pentecost if the second 
tithe term were to be fifteen days before this festival; 
and (c) on the twenty-ninth of Llul instead of the first 
of Tisri, which is, properly speaking, fifteen days be- 
fore Tabernacles, because the first of Tisri is the Feast 
of Trumpets, or New Year. See Festival. Those 
which were born in the month of EIul were tithed by 
themselves (ibid. Ilosh hash-Shunah,\. I, with Hekorotli , 
ix, 5,(5). On each of the three occasions the herds of 
every owner extending over a pasture-ground not ex- 
ceeding sixteen Homan miles were collected together 
into one fold, while those beyond the prescribed limits 
formed a separate lot. In the pen wherein the herd 
was thus gathered a small door was made which only 
admitted of one animal going out at a time, and the 
owner placed himself at this narrow opening, holding 
a rod or staff in his hand wherewith he counted each 
animal as it made its exit from the fold till he came to 
the tenth, which he marked with red color, saying, 
“This is the tithe” (ibid. Hekoroth , x, 7). The com- 
mand whatsoever passeth under the rod ” (Lev. xxvii, 
32) was thus literally carried out. 

2. The priestly tithe, also called tithe of the tithe 

",*2 Numb, xviii, 20); 

the heave-offering of the tithe (*CS*‘2 r^'^r,), d-trap- 
yf/C cnrap\i) (Philo, L)e Xom. Mut.'), or fttvTtpofeKarai 
(Jerome, on Kzek. xlv\ This tithe had to he sepa- 
rated by the Levite from the tenth he had received 
from the Israelite. It had to he given to the priests in 
Jerusalem (Neh. x, 38) before the Levite could use the 
rate paid to him. It had. moreover, to be a tenth part 
of the very tithe which the Levites received, and was 
therefore subject to the same laws and regulations to 
which the Levitical tithe was subject. After the Bab- 
ylonian captivity, when the Levitical tithe was divid- 
ed (see below), this so-called tithe of tithes necessarily 
ceased. Hence the priests, instead of receiving a tenth 
of the Levitical tithe as heretofore, took their share di- 
rectly from the people (lie b. vi i. 5). See Scribe. 

3. The second tithe ( h :i2 otv-f poOtKanj)* 

This festival tithe could not he sold, nor given or re- 
ceived as a pledge, nor used as weight, nor exchanged, 


TITIIE 


435 


TITHE 


but might be given away as a present (Mislina, Mauser 
Sheni, i, 1). If the distance to the national sanctuary 
was so great as to preclude the possibility of conveying 
it in kind, it might be converted into specie, and the 
money could only be expended in the metropolis in or- 
dinary articles of food, drink, and ointment for the fes- 
tival meals or festival sacrifices which were eaten at 
these social repasts (D't'w 1 ibid, i, 7; i i i, 2 ; Cha- 

gigah , i, 3). There were storehouses (7 Vj j' 3. r*Pj£">t) 
in one part of the Temple, under the superintendence 
of priests and Levites, in which the tithe was kept (2 
Chron. xxxi, 11-14; Nell, x, 38, 31); xii, 44; xiii. 12; 
Josephus, A nt. xx, 8, 8). 

4. The triennial, or poor, tithe 7 rrwp^f- 

Karat), also called the third tithe ("'*□*' 5^3 “i IT 3* 12, 1 ) rpi- 
Ttj ctKCLTij, Tobit i, 7 ; Josephus, A nt. iv, 8, 22), and the sec- 
ond tithe (dtvrepor inid/Karov, Sept., Dent, xxvi, 12), 
because it was properly the second tithe converted into 
the poor tithe, to be given to and consumed by the poor 
at home, instead of conveying it to the metropolis to be 
eaten by the owner. As every seventh year was a fal- 
low year not yielding a regular harvest, it was enacted 
that the second tithe should be eaten in Jerusalem by 
the owner thereof and his guests in the first, second, 
fourth, and fifth years of the septennial cycle, and be 
given to the poor in the third and seventh years. It 
will thus be seen that the whole series of taxes reached 
its completion at the end of every third and seventh 
year, or on the eve of Passover of the fourth and sev- 
enth years. Hence it is that the third year is denomi- 
nated the year of tithe (*113^3311 rSw) — i. e. when all 
the tithes had taken their rounds (Dent, xxvi, 12), and 
not because, as some critics will have it, the annual 
tithe of the earlier legislator was afterwards changed 
by the Deuteronomist into a triennial tithe. Hence, 
too, the spiritual heads of the Jewish people in and be- 
lore the time of Christ constituted and denominated the 
Preparation Day of Passover of the fourth and seventh 
years a day of searching and removal in accord- 

ance with Dent, xxvi, 12 (Mislina, Maaser Sheni, v, G), 
when every Israelite had to separate all the tithes 
which he ought to have paid in the course of the three 
years, but which, either through negligence or through 
some untoward circumstances, he had failed to do. 
At the evening sacrifice on the last day of Passover, 
every pilgrim, before preparing to return home, had to 
offer a prayer of confession, in accordance with ver. 13. 
As this confession ( n VT1) is an expansion and tradition- 
al exposition of ver. 13-15, which accounts for the Chal- 
dee and other versions of the passage in question, we 
give it entire: “ I have removed the hallowed things 
from the house” (i. e. the second tithe and the quadren- 
nial fruit [Lev. xix, 23, etc.]); ‘‘have given it to the 
Levite” (i. e. the Levitical tithe); “and also given it” 
(i. e. the priestly offering and the priestly tithe) “to the 
stranger, to the fatherless, and to the widow” (i. e. the 
poor tithe). . , “from the house” (i. e. from the dough 
[comp. Numb, xv, 17, etc.]) “ according to all thv com- 
mandments which thou hast commanded me” (i. e. not 
given the second tithe before the first), “I have not 
transgressed thy commandments” (i. e. not paid one 
kind for the other, the cut for the standing, the stand- 
ing for the cut, the new lor the old, nor the old for the 
new'). “ I have not forgotten” (i. e. to thank thee and 
to remember thy name thereby). “ I have not eaten 
thereof in my mourning ... 1 have not given thereof 
to the dead” (i. e. for coffins, shrouds, or mourners). “ I 
have hearkened to the voice of the Lord my God” (i. e. 
have taken it to the chosen sanctuary), “ I have done 
all that thou hast commanded me” (i. e. have rejoiced 
and caused others to rejoice therewith), etc. (Mislina, 
Maaser Sheni, v, 10-13). J 11 the tv'o years of the sep- 

tennial cycle, w'hen the second tithe was converted into 
the poor tithe, there w r as no additional second tithe, in- 


asmuch as the poor tithe took its place (Maimonides, 
lad Ha-Chezaka , fJilchoth Mathanvth Anjim. vi, 4). 
The poor could go into a field where the poor tithe was 
lying and demand of the owner to satisfy their wants. 
The minimum quantity to be given to them was de- 
fined as follows: If the tithe be of wheat, 4 cab; barley, 

1 cab: spelt, 1 eab; lenten-tigs, l cab; cake- figs, the 
weight of 25 sicli; wine, 4 log; oil, ^ log; rice, \ cab; 
olives, t pound; pulse, 3 cabs; nuts, 10 nuts; peaches, 
5 peaches; pomegranates, 2 ; citrons, 1; and if of any 
other fruit, it. shall not be less than may be sold for such 
a sum as will buy food sufficient for two meals. It the 
owner’s means are slender and the poor so numerous 
that he is unable to give to each the specified measure, 
h^ is to produce the whole tithe and place it before 
them so that they may divide it among themselves. 
The owner may only give one half of the tithe to his 
own poor relatives, and the other he must distribute 
among the poor generally. If a man and woman ap- 
ply together, the woman is to be satisfied first. No 
debts are allowed to be paid out of the poor tithe, nor 
a recompense to be made for benefits, nor captives re- 
deemed, nor is it to be devoted to nuptial feasts or alms, 
nor is it. to be taken out of Palestine into a foreign land 
(Maimonides, ibid, vi, 7-17). Though no tithes were 
paid in Palestine in the sabbatical year, when all was 
in common [see Saubatk’al Year], yet the land of 
Egypt, Ammon, and Moab had to pav them for the 
support of the poor of Israel, because the Sabbath of 
the soil w r as not observed in these countries, while the 
Babylonians had to pay the second tithe (Mislina, Ya- 
dahn, iv,3; Maimonides, Ate? 11 a-Chezaka, 11 ilchoth Ma - 
tin ninth A nji/n, vi, 5). 

III. Origin and Observance of the Tithal Law. — With- 
out inquiring into the reason lbr which the number 
ten (q. v.) lias so frequently been preferred as a num- 
ber of selection in the cases of tribute-offerings (Philo 
derives dina from Jtysrr Sat [lie A. Orac. ii, 184]), both 
sacred and secular, voluntary and compulsory, w e may 
remark that the practice of paying tithes obtained 
among different nations from the remotest antiquity. 
Thus the ancient Phoenicians and the Carthaginians 
sent tithes annually to the Tyrian Hercules (l)ind. Sic. 
xx, 14; Justin, xviii, 7); t he southern Arabians could 
not dispose of their incense before paying a tenth there- 
of to the priests at Sabota in honor of their god Sabis 
(Plinv, Hist. Nat.xn, 32); the ancient Pelasgians paid 
a tithe of the produce of the soil and the increase of 
t heir herds to their deities (Dionys. Italic. i, l!k 23, etc.); 
and the Hellenes consecrated to their deities a tenth 
of their annual produce of the soil (Xenoph. IJeflen. i, 
7, 10), of their business profits (Herod, iv, 152), of con- 
fiscated estates (Xenoph. Ilellen. i,7, 10), of their spoils 
(Herod, v, 77 ; ix, 81 ; Xenoph. A nab. v, 3, 4 ; llelh n. i v, 
3, 21; Diod. Sic. xi. 33; l’ausan. iii. 18, 5; v, 10, 4; x, 
10, 1; rat; CtKarag nor 7reprytroph'UJr ro7c &to7g ko- 
Sttpovn; Ilarpocration, s. v. AtKarerfir ; and Knobel, 
Comment, on Lew xxrii, 30). Among other passages 
the following may be cited: 1 Macc. xi, 35; Herod, i, 
80; vii, 132; Diod. Sic. v, 42; Pausan. v, 10,2; Justin, 
xx, 3; Arist. (Ecov. ii, 2; Livy, v, 21 ; Polyb. ix, 30; 
Cicero, l "err. ii, 3, 0, and 7 (where tithes of wnne, oil, 
and “minutaj fruges” are mentioned); Pro Leg. M anil. 
G: Pint. A ges. ch. xix, p. 380; Pliny, /list. Nat. xii, 14; 
Macrob, Sat. iii, G; Bose. I user. Or. p. 215; Gibbon, iii. 
301, ed. Smith; and a remarkable instance of fruits 
tithed and offered to a deity, and a feast made, of which 
the people of the district partook, in Xenoph. A nab. v, 
3, 9, answering thus to the Hebrew' poor mail’s tithe- 
feast mentioned above. 

In Biblical history the tw r o prominent instances of 
early occurrence are: 1. Abram presenting the tenth 
of all his property, according to the Syriac and Arabic 
versions of Heb. vii. and Kashi in his Commentary, 
but, as the passages themselves appear to show, of the 
spoils of his victory, to Melehizedek (Gen. xiv, 20; 
Heb. vii, 2, G ; Josephus, A nt. i, 10, 2 ; Selden, On Tithes , 


TITHE 


43 G 


TITHES 


ch. i). 2. Jacob, after his vision at Lnz. devoting a 

tenth of all his property to God in case he should re- 
turn home in safety (Gen. xxviii, 22). These instances 
bear witness to the antiquity of tithes in some shape or 
other previous to the Mosaic tithe system. There can 
therefore be no doubt that, like many other Pcntateu- 
ehal ordinances, the inspired legislator adopted the titlial 
law' into the divine code because he found that, with 
some modifications, this primarily voluntary tax was a 
proper stipend for the servants of the sanctuary, and 
that it would, at the same time, be a means of promoting 
pilgrimage to the national sanctuary on the great fes- 
tivals, and social intercourse between the rich and the 


] 


poor. 

During the monarchy, the payment of tithes was 
neglected, and it seems that tin* kings claimed them for 
themselves (I Sam. viii, 14, 15, 17 ; with l Mace, ii, 35). 
It was, however, re-established at the restoration of re- 
ligion by the pious llezekiah (2 Ghron. xxxi. 5, G, 12). 
and after the return of the Jews from the Babylonian 
captivity (Noli, x, 3S; xii, 1 1; xiii, 5, 12), when mate- 
rial alterations and modifications wore made in thetith- 
al law owing to the altered state of the commonwealth 
and to the disproportion of t he Levites and laymen. 
Only 341 or 3(10 Levites returned at first from the Bab- 
ylonian captivity, with about 37,3 ID laymen; while with 
Ezra only 38 Levites came hack, with 1496 laymen; 
and there can be hilt little doubt, that the same dispro- 
portion continued among those who returned afterwards. | 
as well as in the gradual and natural increase of the 
nation.' There were thus 97 laymen to 1 Levite, while 
the tithe of 9 laymen amounted to as nuioli as w r as left 
for each private family: and if we take 10 laymen to 
1 Levite, as the latter had to pay a tenth to the priest, 
the tithe when duly paid hy all the people yielded ten 
times as much as the Levites required. On the other 
hand, there were in Jiuhva, after the return from Baby- 
lon, a disproportionately large number of priests, since, 
exclusive of those who had no register (Ezra ii, 62), 
42*9 of them came with Zerubbabel — i. e. twelve or 
thirteen times more than Levites — and two whole 
families, besides separate individuals, came with Ezra. 
These could not possibly have subsisted upon the legal 
dues (Neb. x, 30-39). In addition to the miserably pro- 
vided priests, there were the (512 Nethinim wdio came 
back with Zerubbabel and Ezra (Ezra ii, 58; viii, 20; 
Neh. vii, 60), for whom no provision w hatever existed. 
Ezra had therefore to take the superabundant tithe 
from the Levites for the support of the priests and the 
Nethinim. Hence Josephus distinctly tells us that the 
priests received tithes in later times {Life, 15; .1;?/. xi, 
5, 8 ; xx. 8, 8 ; 9, 2 ; .1 /non, i, 22). It is this distribution 
of the Levitical tithe betw'een the priests and the Le- ; 
vitos which is evidently alluded to when the Talmud 
says that Ezra transferred the tithes from the Levites 
to the priests as a punishment for their tardiness in re- 
turning from exile {Keth ninth, 26 a; Cholin . 131 h; Ye- j 
bant at h, 86 b: Sot ah, 47 b). for it could not possibly mean 
that be took the whole tithe awav from the Levites, j 
since that would he at variance with other records (comp. 
Ezra x, 38. 39; Xeh. xiii, 10, 13; Tobit i, 7, with Tos- 
sephoth on Kethuboth, 26 a), and would leave the Levites 
wholly unprovided for, and visit the good Levites who 
did return with the punishment deserved by those who 
remained behind. It is, moreover, owing to this distri- 
bution of the Levitical tithe effected hy Ezra that, the 
tithe was afterwards divided into three portions, one of 
which was given by the owner to his friends the priests 
and Levites, the other was taken to the Temple store- 
house, and the third portion was distributed in Jerusa- 
lem among the poor and the needy chaberim ("■~in) 
= doctors of the law' (Jerusalem Sot ah , ix, 11 ; Jerusa- 


lem Manser Sheni, v. 15; Babylon Yebumoth, 86 b). 

The board appointed to watch over the tithes, as 
well as the storehouses, which already existed in the 
time of llezekiah for the reception of the tithes (2 


Chron. xxxi, 11-14), w'ere now better organized than 
ever. To achieve the purpose intended by Ezra in 
t lie new r division of the tithe, it was absolutely neces- 
sary that the collection and the distribution thereof 
should take place under the careful superintendence of 
a body consisting of both priests and Levites, Such a 
board was therefore duly appointed, and it was ordain- 
ed that at least one portion of the tithes should be tak- 
en to Jerusalem for the support of the ministering Le- 
vites. 

During the period of sacerdotal degeneracy and Gre- 
cian ascendency in Palestine, the tithes were again dis- 
continued; but at the rise of the Pharisees the strict 
payment of a tenth w r as made one of the two essential 
conditions exacted from every individual who desired 
to become a ehaber ("cn) = member of this associa- 
tion. The reason for this is given in the article Phar- 
isee. 

IV. Literature. — Mishna, tractates Maaseroth , Mau- 
ser Sheni, and Jiekoroth, ix, 1-8; and the Gemaras on 
these Mishnas; Maimonides, lad lla-Chezaka , Uilchoth 
Mat ha nut h Anjim. vi, 1-17 ; Uilchoth Mauser and Mau- 
ser Sheni; Selden, The History of Tithes (1618); llot- 
tinger, De JJecimis Jtuheorttm (L. B. 1713); and other 
monographs cited bv Volbeding. Index Programmatum , 
p. 170; Spencer, De Leg thus Hebncorum (Cantabrigiie, 
1727), lib. iii, c. x ; ii, 720, etc. ; Michaelis, Commenta- 
ries on the Laics of Moses (Engl, transl. London, 1814), 
art.cxcii, iii. 141, etc. ; llerzfeld, Gesch. des Volkes Israel 
(Nordhausen, 1855), i, 62 sq., 138 sq. 

TITHES (Anglo-Saxon, teotha, a tenth'), a tenth part 
of the produce of the land, w hich hy ancient usage, and 
subsequently by law, is set aside for the support of the 
clergy and other religious uses. In the Christian dis- 
pensation the very circumstance of the existence of the 
clergy is supposed by many to imply a certain lixed pro- 
vision for their maintenance. This obligation has been 
put forward in ecclesiastical legislation from the earliest 
period. The Apostolic Canons, the Apostolic Constitu- 
tions, St. Cyprian on the Unity of the Church , and the 
works of Ambrose, Chrysostom. Augustine, and the oth- 
er fathers of both divisions of the Church, abound w'ith 
allusions to it. In the early Christian Church the cus- 
tom of consecrating to religious purposes a tenth of the 
income was voluntary, and it was not made obligatory 
until the Council of Tours in 567. The second Council 
of Macon, in 585, enjoined the payment of tithes under 
pain of excommunication ; and Charlemagne, by his ca- 
pitularies, formally established the practice within those 
portions of the ancient Homan empire to which his legis- 
lation extended. 

The introduction of tithes into England is ascribed to 
Offa, king of Mercia, at. the close of the 8th century; and 
the usage passed intoother divisions of Saxon England, 
and was finally made general by Etbehvolf. They were 
made obligatory in Scotland in the 9th century, and not 
long after in Ireland. At first the choice of the Church 
to whom a person paid tithes w r as optional, but by a de- 
cretal of Innocent 111, addressed to the archbishop of 
Canterbury in 1200, all were directed to pay to the 
clergy of their respective parishes. According to Eng- 
lish law. tithes are of three kinds — predial, mixed, and 
personal. Predial tithes are those which arise imme- 
diately from the ground, as grain, fruit, herbs, etc. 
Mixed tithes are those proceeding from things nourish- 
ed by the earth, as calves, lambs, pigs, milk, cheese, 
eggs, etc. Personal tithes are those arising from the 
profits of personal industry in the pursuit of a trade, 
profession, or occupation. The latter were generally 
paid in the form of a voluntary offering at Easter, or 
some other period of the year. The law' exempted 
mines, quarries, wild animals, game, fish, and also tame 
animals kept for pleasure, and not for use or profit. 

Another and a more arbitrary distinction is into great 
and small — the first being tithes of grain, hay, wood, 
etc.; the second being the other kind of predial, as well 


TITIAN 


437 


TITLE 


ns all personal and mixed tithes. The great tithes of a 
parish belonged to the rector, and the small tithes to 
the vicar. Tithes were originally paid in kind, as the 
tenth sheaf, the tenth lamb; but the inconvenience and 
trouble involved in this mode of payment led to the 
adoption of other methods. This was done either by 
the payment of a tixed amount each year, irrespective 
of actual produce, or by a money payment mutually 
agreed upon; by a partial substitution of payment or 
labor, as when a person contributed a smaller amount 
of produce, but free from the expense of harvesting, 
etc.; or by the payment of a bulk sum in redemption 
of the impost, either for a time or forever, as the case 
might be, so that the land became tithe-free. By 1 
Elizabeth, c. 10, and 13 Elizabeth, c. 10, such alienations 
of tithe-payment were restricted to a term of twenty- 
one years, or three lives. 

Originally convents occupying lands in England paid 
tithes to the parochial clergy; but by a decretal of Pas- 
chal II they were exempted from such payments in re- 
gard to lands held by themselves in their own occupa- 
tion. This exemption was confined by subsequent leg- 
islation to the four orders, Templars, Hospitallers, Cis- 
tercians, and Premonstratensians, and after the fourth 
Council of Lateran, A. 1). 1215, only in respect of lands 
held by them before that year. At the Reformation 
many of the forfeited Church lands when sold were held 
free of tithes. 

These partial exemptions, and the fact that the tithes 
were a tax for the support of the clergy of the Estab- 
lished Church, made it very unpopular with those who 
were obliged to pay, and especially so to Dissenters. A 
mettsure of commutation became absolutely necessary, 
but, although recommended as far back as 1822, did not 
become law until 1838. Various statutes for England 
or Ireland have since been enacted regulating the pay- 
ment of tithes (0 ami 7 William IV, e. 71 ; 7 William 
IV and l Victoria, c. 00; l and 2 Victoria, c. 04; 2 and 
3 Victoria, c. 32; and 5 and 6 Victoria, c. 54). Their 
object for England is to substitute a money rent-charge, 
varying on a scale regulated by the average price of 
grain for seven years for all the other forms of payment. 
In Ireland the settlement was effected by a commuta- 
tion of tithe into a money rent-charge three fourths the 
former value. The Disestablishment Act of 1809 abol- 
ished tithes and created a common fund for the support 
of the Protestant Episcopal Church and clergy. In 
France tithes were abolished at the Revolution, and this 
example was followed by the other Continental coun- 
tries. In the Canadian provinces of Quebec, tithes are 
still collected by virtue of the old French law, yet in 
force there. In the United States, tithes are exacted 
by the Mormon hierarchy. See Riugham, Christ, A ntiq. 
bk. v, ch. v. § l sq. 

Titian, or Tiziano Veoeixio, one of the greatest 
of Italian painters, ami the prince of colorists and por- 
trait-painters, was born in the territory of Venice, at 
Capo del Cadore. in 1477. His early passion for art was 
carefully cultivated by his parents, who placed him un- 
der the instruction of Antonio Rossi of Cadore. At the 
age of ten years he was sent to Trevigi,and became the 
pupil of Sebastiano Zuccati. lie studied in the school 
of the Bellini, first with Gentile and afterwards with 
Giovanni, with whom he was fellow-pupil with Gior- 
gione, his own future rival. On the death of Giorgione. 
Titian rose rapidly in favor, and was soon afterwards 
invited to the court of Alphonso, duke of Ferrara. In 
1523 the Senate of Venice employed him to decorate 
the hall of the council-chamber; and in 1530 he went 
to Bologna and painted a portrait of Charles V, who had 
come to be crowned by pope Clement VII. About this 
time he was invited to the court of the duke of Mantua, 
and in 1543 he met. pope Paul III at Ferrara, by whom 
ho was invited to Rome, hut was obliged to decline by 
reason of previous engagements with the duke of Ur- 
bino. He went to Rome in 1548, where he was received 
with marks of great distinction, and where he met Mi- 


chael Angelo. Declining the office of the leaden seal, 
he returned to Venice, only to receive an invitation from 
Charles V to visit the court of Spain, and reached Madrid 
in 1550. Here he became a gentleman of the emperor’s 
bedchamber, a count palatine of the empire, received the 
Order of St. dago, and had bestowed upon hirn an annual 
income of two hundred ducats. After a residence of 
three years at Madrid, he returned to Venice, which he 
soon left for Inuspruck. Returning again to Venice, he 
continued there until his death, of the plague, in 157G. 
There is no list of the works of Titian, and it would not be 
an easy task to make one. ( )iie of his grandest achieve- 
ments is the Assumption of the Virgin. From 1520 to 
1530 the most celebrated of his works were, St. Peter 
Martyr : — Victory of the Venetians over the Janizaries : 
— and St. Sebastian. Other noted paintings are, An An- 
nunciation (1537): — Descent of the Holy Ghost upon the 
Apostles (1541) : — Sacrifice of A bra ham (cod.) : — David 
and Goliath (cod.): — Death of Abel (cod.)* — The Viryin 
(1543): — San Tiziano (cod.). Among t lie religious 
works which he executed for Philip II of Spain are, 
The Last S' upper: — Christ in the Garden: — St. Marya- 
ret irith the J tray on : — and a Martyrdom of San Lo- 
j'enzo. The Academy of Venice contains his Assump- 
tion and Presentation of the Vi r yin, and the Manfrini 
Palace in the same city The Entombment of Christ. In 
the Escurial is a Last Supper , upon which he labored 
seven years; in ihe Uffizi Gallery, A Viryin and Child 
irith Saints; and in t lie Vatican, Christ Croivned with 
Thorns. See Northcote, Life of Titian (Bond. 1830, 2 
vols.); Crowe and Cavaleaselle, JJJe of Titian (1875); 
Spooner, Hioy. Diet, of the Fine A its, s. v. 

Title is the rendering in the A. V. of jSpjL tsiyun , a 
pillar or eippus set up as a sepulchral sign, 2 Kings 
xxiii, 17, or as a “ wavmark,” Jcr. xxxi, 21 ; “sign,” 
Ezek. xxxix, 15; and of titXoc, Lat. titnlns, a tablet 
with a superscription (John xix, 19, 20), set up by 
Pilate over Christ’s cross (q, v.). 

TITLE, in the canon law, is that by which a cleric 
holds his benefice. In Church records and deeds, it is a 
Church to which a cleric was ordained, and where he 
was to reside. It is also applied to a cure of souls and 
a ministerial charge. Augustine says that the title of 
the cross was written in Hebrew for Jews who gloried 
in God’s law; in Greek, for the wise of the nations; in 
Latin, for Romans, the conquerors of the world. Hence 
churches were called titles, not only because the clergy 
took titles from them which tixed them to particular 
cures, but as dedicated to the Crucified. The appella- 
tion is first used hv the Council of Braga (572). A title 
was also a right to serve some Church from which an 
ordained clerk took his title, a name derived from the 
titles of the martyrs’ tombs, at which service was origi- 
nally said, and so called for the reasons given above, or 
the fiscal fifulus which marked buildings belonging to 
the sovereign, and thus also churches dedicated to the 
King of kings. The earliest title was St. Pudentiana, 
now called St. Praxcdcs. The Roman cathedral had. in 
142, a title or parish church attached to it by pope Pius 
I. The Council of Lateran (1179) enforced ordination 
on a distinct title. — Walcott, Sac. .4 rvhaol. s. v. 

TITLE to orders in Episcopal churches. This is best 
explained bv quoting the 33d canon of the Established 
Church of England : 

“It. has been long since provided by many decrees cf 
the ancient fathers that none should lie admitted, eiiher 
deacon or priest, who had not first some certain place 
where he might use his function : according to which ex- 
amples we do ordain that henceforth no person shall he 
admitted into sacred orders except (1) he shall at that 
time exhibit to the bishop of whom he desire 111 impo>i- 
tion of hands a presentation of himself to some ecclesi- 
astical preferment then void in the diocese; or (‘2) shall 
bring to the said bishop a true and undoubted certificate 
that either he is provided of some church within the said 
diocese, where he may attend the cure of souls, or (iP of 
sonic, minister’s place vacant, either in the cathedral 
church of that diocese, or in some other collegiate church 
therein also situate, where he may execute his ministry ; 


TITTLE 


438 


TITUS 


or (4) that he is a fellow, or in right as a fellow; or (5) a 
comluct or chaplain in some college in Cambrhhre or Ox- 


ford ; or pi) except he be a master of arts of five years' 
standing that liveth of his own charge in either of the 
universities; or (7) except by the bishop himself that doth 
ordain him minister ho be shortly after to be admitted 
either to some benefice or enrateship then void. And if 
iiuv bishop shall admit, any person into the ministry that 
hath none of these titles ‘as is aforesaid, then he shall 
keep and maintain him with all things necessary till he 
do prefer him to some ecclesiastical living; and if the said 
bishop refuse so to do, he shall he suspended bv the arch- 
bishop, being assisted with another bishop, from giving 
orders by the space of a year.” 

lit the Protestant episcopal Church of the United 
States, canon 19 of 183*2, “of the titles of those who are 
to be ordained priests,” declares — 

“ Xo person shall be ordained priest unless he shall 
produce to the bishop a satisfactory certificate from some 
church, parish, or congregation that he is engaged with 
them, and that they will receive him as their minister; or 
unless he he a missionary under the ecclesiastical author- 
ity of the diocese to which he belongs, or in the employ- 
ment of some missionary society recognised by the Gen- 
eral Convention ; or unless he be engaged as a professor, 
tutor, or instructor of youth in some college, academy, or 
other seminary of learning duly incorporated” {Diyest of 
the Canons, p. 2U). 

See Eden, Theol. Ziict. s. v.; Hook, Church Diet. s. v. 

Tittle (diminutive of tit), an old English word sig- 
nifying the merest tritle (see Plumptre, Bible Educator , 
iv, till), is used in the A. V. (^Mnt t. v, 18; Luke xvi, 
17) as a rendering for tcepaia, a little horn, hence a point 
( e. g. of a sail van 1, Lucan, Xu riff. 4; Polyb. xiv, 10, 
11; of an island, Pbilostr. 17/. Soph, i, *21, 2); in the 
New lest, the apex of a lleb. letter, such as distin- 
guishes 1 from "l, Z from Z, i. e. the slightest distinc- 
tion (so Philo, in Flucc. p. 984 b). See Jot. 

Tittmann, Johann August Heinrich, a Ger- 
man divine, was born at Langensalza. Aug. I. 1773. lie 
studied at Wittenberg and Leipsic, and in 1796 became 
one of tbe theological professors in the latter of these 
universities. lie died l)ec. 30, 1831. Ilis writings are 
numerous, and belong to various departments of sacred 
science. The following only need to be specified here: 
Throlof/. Encyklop. (1798 ) : — De Synonym is X. T. (1829), 
the second part of which was edited after his death by 
1 lecher (183*2); the whole, with some appended disser- 
tations, translated into English by Craig ( Edinb . Bib. 
('uhinet [1833-37, 2 vols.]): — and his edition of the 
Greek New Test., “ad tidem optimorum librormn re- 
eens.” (18*20-24). Ilis polemical writings, in which he 
labors to reconcile theology with philosophy, and to de- 
fend evangelical truth against rationalism, are the most 
vain ible productions of his pen. 

Tittmann, Karl Christian, father of the preced- 
ing. was horn at Grossbardau, near Grimtna, Aug. 20, 
1744. lie was appointed deacon at Langensalza in 
1770, professor of theology and provost at Wittenberg 
in 1 77 f>, and general superintendent there in 1784. In 
1789 he was made Kirchenrath and superintendent at 
Dresden, and died there, Dec. 6, 18*20. lie was a man 
of cultured and elegant rather than powerful mind, 
and was deeply imbued with pious feeling and evangeli- 
cal sentiment. These characteristics are apparent in 
his Meletemata Sacra sire Comment. E.ceye t ico-cr it. - 
doy mu ficus in Evany. Joann is ( Lips. 1816), a work full 
of good thoughts, good sense, and genuine piety, hut de- 
ficient iu critical acumen and exegetical ability. It has 
been translated into English, and forms 2 vols. of the 
Edinb. Bib. ('uhinet. In his Opnscnla Theo/oyiea (1803) 
are some dissertations of an exegetical character. Per- 
haps his best work is bis Tract at ns <le Vestiyiis Gnosti- 
corum in X. T.frustra Qmesitis (Lips. 1773). See 
Kit to. Cyclop, s. v. 

Titular Bishops are bishops with no stated charge, 
hut who are bishops in purtibus injitlelium. The custom 
arose in the 1 2th and 13th centuries in the assigning of 
bishops to those parts which, though once Christian- 
ized, had at length fallen under Saracen dominion. The 


1 Church of Rome adopts the same custom, and has bish- 
ops of Tarsus, Ephesus, Aleppo, etc. This Church has 
*2*29 titulars. The primitive Church made it a law that 
no one should be ordained at large, blit should have a 
specific charge. “ This rule concerned bishops as well as 
the inferior clergy; for the uullatenenses of later ages, as 
Ranormita calls titular and utopian bishops, were rarely 
known in the primitive Church.” 

Titulus, the Latin name given to early churches, 
as if in contradistinction to the martyria. or those erect- 
eel over the graves of martyrs. See Mahtyk; Mknsa. 
The tituli of the Middle Ages were parish churches un- 
der the care of presbyters, who took their titles from 
them. Why they were called tituli is not exactly 
agreed among learned men. Baronins says that it is 
because they had the sign of tbe cross upon them, by 
which sign or title they were known to belong to Christ. 
See Titlk. 

Ti'tus (G nee i zed Time, a common Latin name, e. g, 
of the celebrated Roman emperor whose triumphal arch 
[ <]. v.J still stands in Rome; once in the Apocrypha [2 
Mace, xi, 34] of a Roman ambassador to the Jews [see 
-M.vxLirs]), a noted Christian teacher, and fellow-labor- 
er of Raul. lie was of Greek origin (possibly a native 
of Antioch), but was converted by the apostle, who 
therefore calls him his own son iu the faith (Gal. ii,3; 
Tit. i, 4). This is all that we know of bis early history. 
The following account of his later movements and of 
the epistle to him is taken chiefly from llowson’s article 
in Smith’s Diet, of the Bible , s. v. 

1, Sources of B format ion . — Our materials for the bi- 
ography of this companion of Raul must be drawn en- 
tirely from tbe notices of him in the Second Epistle to 
the Corinthians, the Galatians, and to Titus himself, 
combined with the Second Epistle to Timothy, He is 
not mentioned in the Acts at all. The reading TiYou 
’lovorov in Acts xviii, 7 is too precarious for any infer- 
ence to be drawn from it. Wieseler, indeed, lays some 
slight stress upon it' ( Chronol . des apost. Zeit. [ Gbtt. 
1848], p. 204), but this is in connection with a theory 
which needs every help. As to a recent hypothesis 
that Titus and Timothy were the same person (King, 
Who was St. Titus ? [Dublin, 18o3]),it is certainly in- 
genious, but quite untenable (see 2 Tim. iv, 10). The 
same may be said of the suggestion of Miireker (Mei- 
ning. 1861), that Titus of the epistles is the same per- 
son with Silva mis, or Silas, of the Acts, although there is 
nothing that absolutely forbids such an identification. 

2. //is Known Journeys . — Taking the passages in the 
I epistles in the chronological order of the events referred 

to, we turn first to Gal. ii, 1,3. We conceive the jour- 
ney mentioned here to he identical with that (recorded 
in Acts xv) in which Raul and Barnabas went from 
Antioch to Jerusalem to the conference which was to 
decide the question of the necessity of circumcision to 
the Gentiles (A.I). 47). Here we see Titus in close as- 
sociation with Raul and Barnabas at Antioch. lie goes 
with them to Jerusalem, lie is, iu fact, one of the ni'cc 
ctWot of Acts xv, 2, who were deputed toaceompany them 
from Antioch. Ilis circumcision was either not insist- 
ed on at Jerusalem, or, if demanded, was firmly resisted 
| (oi‘K i)vayKa(jji} TTtpiTpiftijvat). He is very emphat- 
ically spoken of as a Gentile ( L/WipT), by which is 
most probably meant that both his parents were Gen- 
tiles. Here is a double contrast from Timothy, who 
was circumcised by Rani’s own directions, and one of 
whose parents was Jewish (xvi, 1,3; 2 Tim. i, f>; iii, 
15). Titus would seem, on the occasion of the council, 
to have been specially a representative of the church 
of the uncircumcision. 

It is to our purpose to remark that, in the passage 
cited above, Titus is so mentioned as apparently to im- 
ply that he had become personally known to the Gala- 
tian Christians. This, again, we combine with two 
other circumstances, viz. that the Epistle to the Gala- 
tians and the Second Epistle to the Corinthians were 


TITUS 


439 


TITUS 


probably written within a few months of each other 
[see Galatians, Epistle to], and both during the 
same journey. From the latter of these two epistles 
we obtain fuller notices of Titus in connection with 
Taul. 

After leaving Galatia (Acts xviii, 23), and spending 
a long time at Ephesus (xix, 1-xx, 1). the apostle pro- 
ceeded to Macedonia by way of Troas. Here he ex- 
pected to meet Titus (2 Cor. ii, 13), who had been sent 
on a mission to Corinth. In this hope he was disap- 
pointed [see TkoaSs], but in Macedonia Titus joined 
him (vii, (5, 7, 13-15). Here we begin to see not only 
the above-mentioned fact of the mission of this disciple 
to Corinth, and the strong personal affection which sub- 
sisted between him and l‘aul (iv rt) Trctpovaia avrov , 
ver. 7), but also some part of the purport of the mission 
itself. It had reference to the immoralities at Corinth 
rebuked in the tirst epistle, and to t he effect of that 
first epistle on the offending Church. We learn, fur- 
ther. that the mission was so far successful and satis- 
factory: dyayyLXXiov n}v vpiov tTrnroSqcnv (ver. 7), 
i\v7ni$})TE tit; ptraroiuv (ver. 9), rrjv 7rdvrtov vpiov 
VTraKopv (ver. 15); and we are enabled also to draw 
from the chapter a strong conclusion regarding the 
warm zeal and sympathy of Titus, his grief for what 
was evil, his rejoicing over what was good: ti) Trapa- 
kX >i< 7 el y Traptk'Xifii) t<p’ vp7v ( yer. 7) ; dvairtTravrai 
to Trvtvfia avrov enru ttuvtmv vftCjv (ver. 13); rd 
1 77r\dy\}>u airov 7Ttpi<7<70T£po)g tig vpdg iartv (ver. 
15). lint if we proceed further we discern another 
part of t he mission with which he was intrusted. This 
had reference to the collection, at that time in progress, 
for the poor Christians of Judrva — KctSiog 7rpoEi’i)p^aro, 
viii, (i. a phrase which shows that he had been active 
and zealous in the matter, while the Corinthians them- 
selves seem to have, been rather remiss. This connec- 
tion of his mission with the gathering of these char- 
itable funds is also proved by another passage, which 
contains, moreover, an implied assertion of his integrity 
in the business (pi) n i 7 tXe o vekt i j<tev vpdg Ttrot;, xii, 
1 K), and a statement that Paul himself had sent him on 
the errand ( 7rapttcd\erra Tiro v, ibid.). Thus we are 
prepared for what the apostle now proceeds to do after 
his encouraging conversations with Titus regarding the 
Corinthian Church. He sends him back from Mace- 
donia to Corinth, in company with two other trust- 
worthy Christians [see Thorium us; Tyciiicts], bear- 
ing the second epistle, and with an earnest request 
( ‘napetKoXtoat, viii, G ; ri)v TrapctKXijatv. ver. 17) that 
he would see to the completion of the collection, which 
he had zealously promoted on his late visit ('iva KaSiog 
TrpoEi'ijp^ctTn, ovriog kcu tTrirtXtmj, ver. 0), Titus him- 
self being in nowise backward in undertaking the com- 
mission. On a review of all these passages, elucidating 
as they do the characteristics of the man, the duties he 
discharged, and his close and faithful co-operation with 
Paid, we see how much meaning there is in the apos- 
tle’s short and forcible description of him (Ei'r* vnip 
Tirov, icannovug ipog teat tig vpdg avvEpyog, ver. 23). 

All that has preceded is drawn from direct state- 
ments in the epistles; but bv indirect though fair in- 
ference we can arrive at something further, which gives 
coherence to the rest, with additional elucidations of 
the close connection of Titus with Paul and the Corin- 
thian Church. It has generally been considered doubt- 
ful who the ddtX<f)oi were (1 Cor. xvi, 11, 12) that took 
the first epistle to Corinth. Timothy, who had been 
recently sent thither from Ephesus (Acts xix, 22), could 
not have been one of them (idv tX^ij Tip. 1 Cor. xvi, 
10), and Apollos declined the commission (ver. 12). 
There can be little doubt that the messengers who took 
that tirst letter were Titus and his companion, whoever 
that might be, who is mentioned with him in the sec- 
ond letter (lU/ptfcdAffm Tirur, avvcnriarEiXa ror 
ddt\<f>dv, 2 Cor. xii, 18). This view was held by Mac- 
knight, and very clearly set. forth by him {Transl.af 
the Apostolical Epistles, with Comm. [Edinb. 1829], i. 


451, C74 ; ii, 2, 7, 124). It has been more recently given 
by Prof. Stanley (Corinthians, 2d ed. p. 348, 492), but 
it has been worked out by no one so elaborately as by 
Prof. Eight foot (Comb. Journal o f Classical and Cl acred 
Plulohnjif, ii, 20 1, 202). There is some danger of con- 
fusing Titus and the brother (2 Cor. xii. 18). i. e. the 
brethren of 1 Cor. xvi. II, 12, who (according to this 
view) took the lirst letter, with 7'itus and the brethren 
(2 Cor. viii, 10-24) who took the second letter. As to 
the connection between the two contemporaneous mis- 
sions of Titus and Timotheus. this observation mav be 
made here, that the difference of the two errands may 
have had some connection with a difference in the 
characters of the two agents. If Titus was the firmer 
and more energetic of the two men, it was natural to 
give him the task of enforcing the apostle’s rebukes, 
and urging on the flagging business of the collection. 

A considerable interval now elapses before we come 
upon the next notices of this disciple. Paul’s first im- 
prisonment is concluded, and his last trial is impending. 
In the interval between the two, he and Titus were to- 
gether in Crete (inrtXnrov at tv K ppnj, Tit. i, 5). We 
see Titus remaining in the island when Paul left it, and 
receiving there a letter written to him by the apostle. 
From this letter we gather the following biographical 
details: In the first place, we learn that he was origi- 
nally converted through Paul’s instrumentality; this 
must be the meaning of the phrase yvpaiov rticvov, 
which occurs so emphatically in the opening of the 
epistle (ver. 4). Next we learn the various particulars 
of the responsible duties which he had to discharge in 
Crete, lie is to complete what Paul had been obliged 
to leave unfinished (iva rd XtiTrovra tTridiopBwatj, ver. 
5), and he is to organize the Church throughout the 
island by appointing presbyters in every city. See 
Gortyxa; Las-EA. Instructions are given as to the 
suitable character of such presbyters (ver. 0-9) ; and we 
learn, further, that we have here the repetition of in- 
structions previously furnished by word of mouth (<0g 
iyoj <7oi ciETCi^dpfjv, ver. 5). Next he is to control and 
bridle (ir-iaropiZEi)', ver. 11) the restless and mischie- 
vous Judnizers, and he is to be peremptory in so doing 
(t/XfyyE avrovg inrordpioc, ver. 13). Injunctions in 
the same spirit are reiterated (ii, I, 15; iii, 8). He is 
to urge the duties of a decorous and Christian life upon 
the women (ii, 3-5), some of whom (7rpiafivTiCag, ver. 3), 
possibly, had something of an official character (v«Ao- 
ttcavKaXovc, Vm (notypoidZiOGi rag vtag, ver. 3, 4). He 
is to be watchful over his own conduct (ver. 7) ; he is to 
impress upon the slaves the peculiar duties of their po- 
sition (ver. 9, 10); he is to check all social and political 
turbulence (iii, 1), and also all wild theological specula- 
tions (ver. 9) ; and to exercise discipline on the hereti- 
cal (ver. 10). When we consider all these particulars 
of his duties, we see not only the confidence reposed in 
him by the apostle, but the need there was of determi- 
nation ami strength of purpose, and therefore the prob- 
ability that this was his character; and all this is en- 
hanced if we bear in mind his isolated and unsupported 
position in Crete, and the lawless and immoral charac- 
ter of the Cretans themselves, as testified by their own 
writers (i, 12. 13). See Crete. 

The notices which remain are more strictly personal. 
Titus is to look for the arrival in Crete of Artemas and 
Tychicus (iii, 12), and then he is to hasten (enrovcaao)') 
to join Paul at Nicopolis, where the apostle is proposing 
to pass the winter (ibid.). Zenas and Apollos are in 
Crete, or expected there; for Titus is to send them on 
their journey, and supply them with whatever they 
need for it (ver. 13). It is observable that Titus and 
Apollos are brought into juxtaposition here, as they 
were before in the discussion of the mission from Ephe- 
sus to Corinth. 

The movements of Paul, with which these later in- 
structions to Titus are connected, are considered else- 
where. See Pai l; Timothy. We need only observe 
here that there would be great difficulty in inserting 


TITUS 


440 


TITUS. EPISTLE TO 


the visits to Crete and Xicopolis in any of the journeys 
recorded in the Acts, to say nothing of the other objec- 
tions to giving the epistle any date anterior to the voy- 
age to home. See Tuts, Eimstlk to. On the other 
hand, there is no difficulty in arranging these circum- 
stances, if we suppose Paul to have travelled and writ- 
ten after being liberated from Home, while thus we 
gain the further advantage of an explanation of what 
Palev has well called the atlinity of this epistle and the 
tirst to Timothy. Whether Titus did join the apostle 
at Xicopolis we cannot tell. lint we naturally connect 
the mention of this place with what Paul wrote at no 
great interval of time afterwards, in the last of the Pas- 
toral Epistles (Tiroc «£ SaXpctTiav. 2 Tim.iv, 10); for 
Dalmatia lay to the north of Xicopolis, at no great dis- 
tance from it. See Xicopolis. From the form of the 
whole sentence, it seems probable that this disciple had 
been with Paul in Home during his linal imprisonment : 
but this cannot be asserted confidently. The touching 
words of the apostle in this passage might seem to im- 
ply some reproach, and we might draw from them the 
conclusion that Titus became a second Demas: but, on 
the whole, this seems a harsh and unnecessary judgment. 

3. Traditionary ('lose of his Career. — Whatever else 
remains is legendary, though it may contain elements 
of truth. Titus is connected bv tradition with Dalma- 
tia, and hg is said to have been an object of much rev- 
erence in that region. This, however, may simply be a 
result of the passage quoted immediately above: and it 
is observable that of all the churches in modern Dal- 
matia ( Xeale, Ecclesioloyieul Notes on Dalni. p. 175) 
not one is dedicated to him. The traditional connec- 
tion of Titus with Crete is much more specific and con- 
stant, though here again we cannot be certain of the 
facts. He is said to have been permanent bishop in 
the island, and to have died there at an advanced age 
(Eusebius, Hist. Evcles. iii. 4, 2; Theodoret, Ad 1 Tim. 
iii, 1 ; Const . A post, vii, 40; Jerome, Ad Tit. ii, 7 ; Isi- 
dore, 1 ’it. St met. 87). The modern capital, Candia, ap- 
pears to claim the honor of being his burial-place 
(Cave, Apostolic!. 171(5. p. 42). In the fragment De 
Vita et. Actis 77//, by the lawyer Zenas (Fabrieius, Cod. 
. \ poc. X. T. ii, S31, 832), Titus is called bishop of Gor- 
tvna; and on the old site of Gortyna is a ruined church, 
of ancient and solid masonry, which bears the name of 
St. Titus, and where service is occasionally celebrated 
by priests from the neighboring hamlet of Metropolis 
(Falkener, Remains in Crete, from a MS. History o f Can- 
din , by Onorin Belli , p. 23). The cathedral of Megalo- 
Castron, in the north of the island, is also dedicated to 
this saint. Lastly, the name of Titus was the watch- 
word of the Cretans when they were invaded by the 
Venetians; and the Venetians themselves, after their 
conquest of the island, adopted him to some of the hon- 
ors of a patron saint; for as the response after the pray- 
er for the Doge of Venice was “Sanete Marce, tn nos 
adjuva,” so t lie response after that for the duke of Can- 
dia was “Sanete Tite, tu nos adjuva” (Pashley, Travels 
in f'rete , i, 6. 175). The day on which Titus is com- 
memorated is Jan. 4 in the Latin calendar, and Aug. 
25 in the Greek. 

We must not leave unnoticed the striking though 
extravagant panegyric of Titus by his successor in the 
see of Crete, Andreas Cretensis (published, with Am- 
philoehius and Methodius, by Oombcfis, Paris, 1 644 ). 
This panegyric has many excellent points, e. g. it incor- 
porates well the more important passages from the Sec- 
ond Epistle to the Corinthians. The following are 
stated as facts. Titus is related to the proconsul of the 
island: among his ancestors are Minus and Kliada- 
inanthns (oi in Aide). Early in life he obtains a copy 
of the Jewish Scriptures, and learns Hebrew in a short 
time. He goes to Jmkea, and is present on the occa- 
sion mentioned in Acts i, 15. His conversion takes place 
before that of Paid himself, but afterwards he attaches 
himself closely to the apostle. Whatever the value of 
these statements may be, the following description of 


Titus (p. 156) is worthy of quotation: d 7TjOu>roc Tt)g 
KpijTiov tKKXtjoiug SeptXiog * Ttjg dX)]5tiag u aruXog * 
to T/jg Triartiog tpeiopa ‘ rum tvayytXiK&v Kppvypd- 
rwi' // tariyprog odX7riy$' to vtpijXuv Tpg JImcXou 
yX(OTTt]g uwiixtjpa. 

See Walch, l)e Tito 17 ro Apostolic. (Jen. 1741 ; also 
in his M iscellun. Sacru [Amst. 1744], p. 708 sip); llow- 
son, Companions of St. Paul (Loud. 1871), eh. v. 

TU IJS, Eimsti.k to. This is the third of the so- 
called Pastoral Epistles of Paul, following immediately 
after those to Timothy. 

I. Authenticity. — In this respect there are no special- 
ties in this epistle which require any very elaborate 
treatment distinct from the other Pastoral Letters of 
Paul. See Timothy, First Epistle to. If those two 
were not genuine, it would be difficult confidently to 
maintain the genuineness of this. On the other hand, 
if the Epistles to Timothy are received as Paul’s, there 
is not the slightest reason for doubting the authorship 
of that to Titus. Amid the various combinations which 
are found among those who have been sceptical on the 
subject of tlie Pastoral Epistles, there is no instance of 
the rejection of that before us on the part of those who 
have accepted the other two. So far, indeed, as these 
doubts are worth considering at all. the. argument is 
more in favor of this than of either of those. Tatian 
accepted the Epistle to Titus, and rejected the other 
two. Origen mentions some who excluded 2 Tim., lmt 
kept 1 Tim. with Titus. Sehleiermacher and Xcander 
invert this process of doubt in regard to the letters ad- 
dressed to Timothy, but believe that Paul wrote the 
present letter to Titus. Credner, too, believes it to be 
genuine, though he pronounces 1 Tim. to be a forgery, 
and 2 Tim. a compound of two epistles. 

To turn now from opinions to direct external evi- 
dence, this epistle stands on quite as firm a ground as 
the others of the pastoral group, if not a firmer ground. 
Nothing can well be more explicit than the quotations 
and references in Irenams, C. Uteres, i, 16. 3 (see Tit. iii, 
10); Clem. Alex. Strom, i, 350 (comp. 'l it. i, 12), and 
iii, 3. 4 ; by Tertull. I)e Prtescr. Par. c. 6 (comp. Tit. iii, 
10, 1 1), and A dr. Mare. v. 21 ; and by Origen, in many 
places (Lardner, IPunfo, vol. ii,8vo); to say nothing of 
earlier allusions in Justin Martyr, Dial. c. Tryph. 47 (see 
Tit. iiij 4), which can hardly be doubted; Theoph. Ad 
Antol. ii, 05 (see Tit. iii, 5); iii, 126 (see ver. 1), which 
are probable; and Clem. Horn. 2 Cor. i (sec ibid.), which 
is possible. 

As to internal features, we may notice, in the first 
place, that the Epistle to Titus has all the characteris- 
tics of the other Pastoral Epistles. See, for instance, 
ttkttoq b Xoyog (iii, 8), vytan'uvaa vibaoKaXia (i, 0; ii, 
1 ; comp, i, 13; ii, 8), aiotyportiv, mb(f)ptoi\ trtotpportog (i, 
8: ii, 5, 6, 12), otoTpptog, aoiTijp. gojlw (i, 3, 4 ; ii. 10, 11, 
13; iii, 4,5,7), ’iovFa'iKoi pv$oi (i, 14; comp, iii, 9), 
hri(j>avHa (ii. IS), ibotfitia (i, 1), t'Xtog (iii, 5; in i, 4 
the word is doubtful). All this tends to show that this 
letter was written about t lie same time and under simi- 
lar circumstances with the other two. Hut. on the oth- 
er hand, this epistle has marks in its phraseology and 
style which assimilate it to t lie general body of the 
Epistles of Paul. Such may fairly be reckoned the fol- 
lowing: Kijpvypari 6 kTTiartvStjv iyfo (i, 3) : the quota- 
tion from a heathen poet (ver. 12); the use of uSoKipog 
(ver. 16) ; the “going off’ at a word” ( oioTtjpog . . . h rf- 
< pan] yap . . . tuoTpptog , . . ii, 10, 11); and the modes 
in which the doctrines of the atonement (ver. 13) and 
of free justification (iii, 5-7) come to the surface. As to 
any difficulty arising from supposed indications of ad- 
vanced hierarchical arrangements, it is to be observed 
that in this epistle TrpeafivTfpog and i7ri(TK07rog are used 
as synonymous fir a KaraaTpayg 7rpf-frj3vTipovg . . . 
cti yap tov tTrtmcoTTov. . . . i. 5, 7), just as they are in 
the address at Miletus about the year A.D. 55 (Aets xx, 
17, 28). At the same time, this epistle has features of 
its own, especially a certain tone of abruptness and se- 
verity, which probably arises partly out of the cireutu- 


441 


TITUS, EPISTLE TO 

stances of the Cretan population [see Crete], partly 
out of the character of Titus himself. If all these tilings 
are put together, the phenomena are seen to be very 
unlike what would be presented by a forgery, to say 
nothing of the general overwhelming difficulty of im- 
agining who could have been the writer of the Pastoral 
Epistles, if it were not Paul himself. 

To the objections of the German critics, founded upon 
the difficulty of ascertaining the proper date of this epis- 
tle, the best reply will be furnished by ascertaining, if 
possible, when and where the epistle was written (see 
below); but even should we fail in this, it would be 
strange were we to relinquish our conviction of the au- 
thenticity of an ancient writing simply because, possess- 
ing very imperfect information as to many parts of the 
alleged author’s history, we were unable to say with cer- 
tainty when he was in circumstances to compose it. 

11. Date . — The only circumstances stated in the epis- 
tle itself calculated to aid us in determining this ques- 
tion are, that at the time it was written Paul had re- 
cently visited Crete (i, 5); that he was about to spend 
the winter in Nicopolis (iii, 12); and that Apollos was 
about to visit Crete, on his way to some other place 
(ver. 13). There are three hypotheses that have been 
formed in order to meet these facts, especially the first, 
namely Paul’s visit to Crete. 

1. We learn from the Acts of the Apostles that Paid 
visited Crete on his voyage to Home (xxvii,7); but the 
shortness of his visit at that time, the circumstances 
under which it was made, and the improbability of his 
expecting to spend the ensuing winter at Nicopolis, 
place it out of the question to suppose that it was to 
this visit he refers in this epistle. As this is, however, 
the only visit recorded by Luke, in rejecting it we are 
forced to suppose another visit, and to rind some period 
in the apostle’s life when it was probable that such a 
visit was paid. 

2. It has been thought by Hug that the period re- 
ferred to in Acts xviii, 18, 10 admits of our placing this 
visit to Crete within it. Paul, at that time, was on his 
journey from Corinth to Palestine, but on some account 
or other landed at Ephesus. This leads to the sugges- 
tion that the apostle must either voluntarily have de- 
parted from the usual course in order to visit some place 
lying between Corinth and Ephesus; or that lie must 
have bien driven by stress of weather from the course 
he meant to pursue. In either case the probability of 
bis visiting Crete at that time is strong. We find, from 
the above statement made by Paul in this epistle, that 
Apollos, if at this time on his way from Ephesus to 
Corinth (Acts xviii, 24, 27; xix, 1), was to touch at 
Crete; which, it has been assumed, renders it not im- 
probable that it was customary for ships sailing between 
these two ports to call at Crete by the way; and Paul 
may have availed himself of this practice in order to 
visit Crete before going to Palestine. Or he may have 
sailed in a ship bound directly from Corinth to Pales- 
tine, and have been driven out of his course, shipwreck- 
ed on Crete, and obliged to sail thence to Ephesus as 
his only remaining method of getting to his original 
destination — a supposition which will not appear very 
improbable when we remember that Paul must have 
suffered several shipwrecks of which Luke gives no ac- 
count (2 Cor. xi, 25, 26) ; and that his getting to Ephe- 
sus on his way from Corinth to Palestine is a fact for 
which, in some way or other, we are bound to account. 
(Paul evidently, however, took that route as the only 
one of general travel, there being no vessel sailing di- 
rect from Corinth to Caesarea or Antioch.) It was while 
staying on this occasion at Ephesus that Hug supposes 
Paul to have written this epistle. 

As confirmatory of this have been adduced the two 
other facts above referred to as mentioned in the epis- 
tle itself, viz. the visit of Apollos to Crete, and Paul’s in- ! 
tention to winter at Nicopolis. From Acts xix, 1 we 
learn that during the time Apollos was residing at Cor- j 
inth, whence he had gone from Ephesus, Paul was en- | 


TITUS, EPISTLE TO 

gaged in a tour through the upper coasts (viz. Phrygia 
and Galatia; comp. Acts xviii, 23), which ended in his 
return to Ephesus. This tour was commenced after the 
apostle had been at Jerusalem and Antioch (ver. 22). 
It appears, therefore, that Paul left Antioch much about 
the same time that Apollos reached Corinth, llut Apol- 
los went to Corinth from Ephesus, Paul went to Jerusa- 
lem from Ephesus. At this city, therefore, they may 
have met; and before leaving it Paul perhaps wrote 
this epistle, and gave it to Apollos to deliver to Titus at 
Crete, on his way to Corinth. 

Further, Paul went up to Jerusalem to keep the feast ; 
after which he visited Antioch, anti then travelled for 
some considerable time in Upper Asia, lie, therefore, 
is supposed to have spent the winter somewhere in Asia 
Minor. (On the contrary, he seems to have rapidly 
passed through that region.) Now there was a town 
named Nicopolis, between Antioch and Tarsus, near to 
which, if not through which, Paul must pass on his way 
from Antioch to Galatia (Strabo, xiv, 465, ed. Casaubon, 
fol. 1587). May not this have been the very place re- 
ferred to in 'l it. iii, 12? In such a locality it was quite 
natural for Paul to desire to spend the winter; and as 
Titus was a native of Asia, it would he well known to 
him, especially if he knew what route the apostle de- 
signed to pursue. All this, it is held, supports t lie hy- 
pothesis that Paul wrote this epistle before leaving 
Ephesus to go to Syria. 

Amu her circumstance alleged in favor of this hypoth- 
esis is the close resemblance in sentiment and phraseol- 
ogy between this epistle and the first Epistle to Timo- 
thy. This resemblance is so close, and in some partic- 
ulars so peculiar, that we are naturally led to conclude 
that both must have been written while the same lead- 
ing ideas and forms of expression were occupying the 
apostle’s mind. Now the First Epistle to Timothy is 
held by the maintainors of this theory to have been 
written after Paul had left Ephesus the second time to 
go into Macedonia, that is, about two years and a half 
after the period when Hug supposes the Epistle to Titus 
to have been written. To some this may appear too 
long a time to justify anv stress being laid upon the 
similarity of the two epistles in this question of their 
respective dates; hut when it is remembered that during 
the interval Paul had been dealing at Ephesus with 
very much the same class of persons, to whom a great, 
part of both epistles refer, and that both are addressed 
to persons holding the same peculiar office, the force of 
this objection will be weakened. 

Against this date, on the contrary, may justly he 
adduced the many precarious, and (as above seen) some 
positively inaccurate, assumptions necessary to its sup- 
port. The main objection, however, is the exceeding 
improbability that Paul, while on his way from Cor- 
inth to Palestine, which lie was in haste to reach by 
a given day (Acts xviii, 18, 20, 21), could have found 
time to stop at Crete, found numerous churches there 
(Tit. i, 5), and leave Titus in charge of them. Nor 
have we any evidence that on the voyage in question 
Paul was accompanied by Titus; nor yet that the indi- 
viduals mentioned in iii, 12, 13, were at that time so lo- 
cated with reference, to Paul and Titus, For these and 
other reasons, this hypothesis must be discarded as too 
problematical throughout. 

3. As to the time and place and other circumstances 
of the writing of this epistle, the following scheme of 
tilling up Paid’s movements after his first imprisonment 
will satisfy all the conditions of the case: We mav sup- 
pose him (possibly after accomplishing his long-project- 
ed visit to Spain) to have gone to Ephesus, and taken 
voyages from thence, first to Macedonia and then to 
Crete; during the former to have written the First Epis- 
tle to Timothy, and after returning from the latter to 
I have written the Epistle to Titus, being at the time of 
! despatching it on the point of starting for Nicopolis, to 
which place he went, taking Miletus and Corinth on 
I the way. At Nicopolis wc may conceive him to have 


442 


TIZITE 


TITUS. EPISTLE TO 


been finally apprehended and taken to Rome, whence lie 
wrote the Second Epi>tle to Timothy. Other possible 
combinations maybe seen in Uirks (//one Apostolicie, 
at the end of his edition of the /lone Pauline, p. *209 - 
301) and in Wordsworth {Greek Ttstanunt, iii, 1 is, 121). 
It is an undoubted mistake to endeavor to insert this 
epistle in any period of that part ol Raid s life which is 
recorded in the Acts of the Apostles. There is in this 
writing that unmistakable dillcrence of style (as com- 
pared with the earlier epistles) which associates the 
Pastoral Letters with one another, and with the latest 
period of Raid’s life; and it seems strange that this 
should have been so slightly observed by good scholars 
and exact chronologies, e. g. Arcluln. Evans (Script. 
Bing. iii. 327 .->:!:>) and Wieseler (Chronol. des a post. Zeit- 
alf. 323-355), w ho. approaching the subject in very dif- 
ferent ways, agree in holding the foregoing theory (Xo. 
2) that this letter was written at Ephesus (between 1 
and 2 CorA, when the apostle was in the early part of his 
third missionary journey (Acts xix). See Rail; Titus. 

III. Design and Contents. — The task which Raul had 
committed to Titus, when he left him in Crete, was one 
of no small difficulty. 'The character of the people was 
unsteady, insincere, and ipiarrelsome ; they were given 
to greediness, licentiousness, falsehood, and drunkenness, 
in no ordinary degree; and the Jews who had settled 
among them appearto have even gone beyond the natives 
in immorality. Among such a people it was no easy office 
which Titus had to sustain when commissioned to carry 
forward the work which Raul had begun, and to set in 
order the affairs of the churches which had arisen there, 1 
especially as heretical teachers had already crept in 
among them. Hence Raul addressed to him this epis- 
tle, the main design of which is to direct him how to , 
discharge with success the duties to which he had been ! 
appointed. For this reason the apostle dilates upon the 
personal qualifications of Church officers and members, 
and their functions, with such local allusions as rendered j 
these directions especially pertinent. After the intro- 
ductory salutation, w hich has marked peculiarities (i, , 
1-4). Titus is enjoined to appoint suitable presbyters in 
the Cretan Church, and specially such as shall be sound 
in doctrine and able to refute error (ver. 5-ff ). The 
apostle then passes to a description of the coarse char- 
acter of the Cretans, as testified by their own writers, 
and the mischief caused bv Judaizing error among the 
Christians of the island (ver. 10-10). In opposition to 
this. Titus is to urge sound and practical Christianity 
on all classes (ii, 1 0), on the older men (ver. 2), on the’ 
older women, and especially in regard to their influence 
over the younger women (ver. 3-5), on the younger 
men (ver. 0 8), on slaves (ver. 0, 10), taking heed mean- ; 
while that he himself is a pattern of good works (ver. 7). , 
The grounds of all this are given in the free grace which 
trains the Christian to self-denying and active piety 
(ver. 11, 12). in t ho glorious hope of Christ’s second ad- 
vent (ver. 13), and in the atonement by which he has . 
purchased us to he his people (ver. 14). All these les- 
sons Titus is to urge with fearless decision (ver. 15). 
Next, obedience to rulers is enjoined, with gentleness 
and forbearance towards all men (iii, 1, 2), these duties 
being again rested on our sense of past, sin (ver. 3), and 
on the gift of new spiritual life and free justification 
(ver. 4 7). With these practical duties are contrasted 
those idle speculations which are to be carefully avoid- 
ed (ver. 8, 0 ) ; and with regard to those men who are 
positively heretical, a peremptory charge is given (ver. 
10, 11). .Some personal allusions then follow: Artemas 
or Tychieus may he expected at Crete, and on the ar- 
rival of either of them Titus is to hasten to join the 
apostle at Xicopolis, where he intends to winter; Zenas j 
the lawyer, also, and A polios, are to he provided with all 
that is necessary for a jonrnev in prospect (ver. 12, 13). j 
Finally, before the concluding messages of salutation, i 
an admonition is given to the Cretan Christians, that 
they give heed to the duties of practical useful piety 
(ver. 14, 15). I 


IV. Commentaries. — ' The following are the special ex- 
egetical helps on the whole of this epistle exclusively: 
Megander, Expositio [includ. Tim.] (Basil. 1586, Svo) ; 
Willich. L 'xpositio (Lips. 1540, Svo) ; Hoffmann, Commen- 
f a rins (Krcft. 1541, 8vo): Cnlmaun, Xotie (Xorib. 1516, 
Svo) : Alesius, ExpUcutio (Lips. 1550. 8 vo) ; Fspencivus 
[ Rom. Cat h.], Comnu-nturius (Rar. 1568, 8vo); 11 unuius, 
Expositio (Marp. 1587, 1604; Vitcmb. 1610, Svo) ; Rho- 
domami ,Com/nentarins (Jen. 1507,8vo); Maglian [R.C.], 
Commenturius (Lugd. 1600, 4 to); Sotto [E. C.j, Com- 
ment aHus [includ. Tim.] (Rar. 1610, fob) ; Taylor, Com- 
menting ((’amh. 1612, 4to; 1658. fob); Scnltetus, Obser- 
rati ones [includ. Tim. and Philetn.] (Freft. 1(524 ; Vi- 
temb. 1630, 4to); (Joupil [R. C.]. Paraphrasis (Rar. 
1644, Svo); Daille, Sermons [Fr.] (ibid. 1655, Svo) ; Ho- 
bort [E. C.]. Erpositio [includ. Tim. and Rhilem.] (ibid. 
1656, Svo); Wallis. Erpositio (Oxnn. 1657. Svo); Feclit, 
Expositio (Rost. 161)2, 1700, 4to); Rappolt, Observations, 
(in his Opp. i, 781 ) ; Broithaupt. Exercitatio (Hal. 1703, 
4to); Outhof, Verklaaring (Amst. 1701, 4to) ; Zentgrav, 
Commentarins (Arg. 170(5. 4to); (icbhard, Paraphrasis 
(Gryph. 1714, 4to) : Ivoehnen, Verklaaring (Utr. 1724, 
4to) ; Vitringa, Verklaaring (Franek. 1728, 4to); Ram- 
bach, Erklarung [includ. Gab] (Hies. 1731). 4to); Van 
Haven, Comment alio ( Hal. 1742, 4to) ; Hurter, Commen- 
turius (Schafh. 1744, 4to) ; Mosheim, Erklarung (ed. 
Von Finem. Stend. 1771>, 4to); Kiinol, Explicutio (Lips. 
1788, 4to); Van den Ess, Com posit io (L. B. 1825, Svo); 
Paterson, Commentary [includ. Tim.] (Lond. 1*48, ]8mo) ; 
Graham, Commentary (ibid. I860, 12mo). See Epistle. 

Titus, bishop of Bostra, in Arabia, was driven from 
his sec, under Julian, A.l). 362; returned under Valen- 
tinian; and died about A.l). 371. He wrote Contra 
Manic/ueos Lib. Ill, which is extant in a Latin transla- 
lation in Piblioth. Patr. tom. iv. A discourse On the 
Brunches of Palm, Greek and Latin, and a Commentary 
on Luke, in Latin, have been published under his name, 
but are questioned. — Mosheim, Eccles. Hist, i, 248. See 
Herzog, Reul-Encyklop. s. v. 

Titus, Flavius SabIsus Vespasian vs, emperor of 
Rome, was the eldest son of Vespasian and Flavia Do- 
mitilla, and was born at Rome, Dec. 30, A.l). 40. lie 
was educated at the court of Xero with Britaiinicus, 
and hence acquired some false moral principles which 
afterwards led him into many excesses. He was in 
charge of a legion of the Roman forces in the last war 
of the Jew r s. and on his father’s elevation to the impe- 
rial throne, he prosecuted the w r ar to a successful close, 
sharing the honors of a triumph jointly with Vespasian. 
On his own elevation to the throne, he reformed his 
habits, and became celebrated for his virtues and popu- 
larity. lie died Sept. 13, A.l). 81, in the third year of 
his reign. His career is given by the ancient histori- 
ans Suetonius and Tacitus, and his connection with the 
Jews by Josephus. Monographs on him have been 
written in Latin by Jung (1761), and in French by Lol- 
land (1830). 



Coin of Titus commemorating the Capture of Judtea. 


Ti'zite (Ileb. Tit si', patrial, as if from some 

unknown place or person called Tits; Sept. Omani v. r. 
’IffliTfi'; Vulg. Thosaites), the designation of Jolia (q.w), 
the brother of Jediael and son of Sliimri, one of the he- 
roes of David’s army named in the supplementary list 
of 1 Chron. xi, 45. The word is possibly a corruption 
for Tirzite , i. e. inhabitant of Tirzah (q. v.). 


TOAH 


443 


TOBIAH 



Tablet on the Arch (q. v.) of Titus at Rome representing his Triumphal Car. (See p. 442.) 


To'ah (Heb. To'ctch , Ijin. lowly; Sept. Qoov v. r. 
0oou£ and 0£i£ ; Vulg. Thohu), son of Zuph ami father 
of Eliel in the genealogy of Heman the Levitieal musi- 
cian (1 Chron. vi, 84 [Heb. 19]); elsewhere called by 
the similar name Tonu (1 Sam. i, l),or the different one 
(1 Chron. vi, 26) Naiiath (q. v.). See Samuel. 

Tob (Ileb. Tub , 2*113, good , as everywhere; Sept. 
Tdi/3; Vulg. Tob), the name of a region or district 
(”HS; ; Sept, yrj ; Vulg. terra ; A. V. land”) into which 
Jephthah withdrew when expelled from home by his 
half-brethren (Judg. xi, 3), and where he remained, at 
the head of a band of freebooters, till lie was brought 
back by the sheiks (EUSjTT) of Gilead (ver. 5). The 
narrative implies that the, land of Tob was not far dis- 
tant from Gilead; at the same time, from the nature of 
the case, it must have lain out towards the eastern des- 
erts. It is undoubtedly mentioned again in 2 Sam. x, 
6, 8 as one of the petty Aramitish kingdoms or states 
which supported the Ammonites in their great conflict 
with David; but in that passage the A. V. presents the 
name literatim as Ishtob (<}. v.), i. e. man of Tob , mean- 
ing, according to a common Hebrew' idiom, the 41 men 
of Tob.” After an immense interval it appears again 
(Ttofitov or 'Vovfitov) in the Maecabtean history (1 
Macc. v, 13), and was then the abode of a considerable 
colony of Jews, numbering at least a thousand males. 
See Tobie. In 2 Mace, xii, 17 its position under the 
name Tubieni (q. v.) is defined very exactly as at or 
near Charax, 750 stadia from the strong town Caspis, 
though, as the position of neither of these places is 
known, we are not thereby assisted in the recovery of 
Tob. The Targtim and Abarbanel render it simply 
“good land,” while Kimchi and Ben-Gerson look upon 
7'ob as the name of the lord or owner of the land. Eu- 
sebius and Jerome make it a country, blit sav nothing 
of its situation (Onvmust. s. v.). Ptolemy ( Geogr . v, 19) 
mentions a place called 0nu/3« as lying to the south- 
west of Zobah, and therefore possibly to the east or 
north-east of the country of Ammon proper. In Steph- 
anus of Byzantium and in Eckhel ( lioctr . Xumm. iii. 
352) the names Tubal and Tubeni occur. The name. 
Tell Dobbe ( Burckhardt, Syria , April 25), or, as it is 
given by the latest explorer of those regions, Tell IHbbe 
(Wetzstein, Map), attached to a ruined site at the sontb 


end of the Leja, a few' miles north-west of Kenfnvat, and 
also that of Ed- Dab, some twelve hours east of the moun- 
tain El-Kuleib, are both suggesti ve of Tob. — Smith. Ac- 
cording to Schwarz ( Palest . p. 200), the Talmud identi- 
fies it with a Gentile town called Susitha or Chephon , 
somew here on the south-east shore of the lake of Tibe- 
rias; perhaps the Hippos (q. v.) so often mentioned by 
Josephus. 

Tob-adoni'jah (Heb. Tub Adoniydh, njp’nx ZVJ, 
good is A donijah ; Sept. T<o/3«£ot'f'flc v. r. Twf3a dwfida ; 
Vulg. Thobadunias), \nst named of the nine Levites sent 
by Jehoshaphat through the cities of Judah to teach the 
law to the people (2 Chron. xvii, 8). B.C. 910. 

Tobey, Zalmon, a Baptist minister, was born in 
Norfolk, Conn., July 27, 1791. II is parents were Con- 
gregationalists. He pursued his collegiate studies for 
a time at Williams College, and then became a mem- 
ber of Brown University, w'here he graduated in the 
class of 1817. In the fall of this year, he was ordained 
to the w'ork of the ministry in Canaan, Conn., and in 
the following spring became pastor of the Baptist Church 
at Fruit Hill, Providence, R. I., w here he remained five 
years (1818-23). lie became pastor of the Fourth Bap- 
tist Church, Providence, Sept. 2, 1823, where he contin- 
ued for about ten years (1823-33). During this period 
he fraternized chiefly with the Freewdll Baptists, the 
Church of which he was pastor largely sympathizing 
with him. After being disconnected with the regular 
Baptists for several years, he returned to that body. 
His subsequent pastorates w r ere in Bristol, R. I., for three 
years; Colebrook, Conn., for five years; and Pawtuxet, 
R. I., for seven years. In the spring of 1851 he removed to 
Warren, R. 1. lie preached as occasion offered in and 
around Warren for several years. He died in Norfolk. 
Conn., where he was visiting his relatives, Sept. 17, 1858. 
See Rev. Dr. II. Jackson, Funeral Sermon. (.). C. S.) 

Tobi'ah (lleb. TobhyalT. [once fTj2t:,Neh. 

ii, Id], goodness of Jehovah ; Sept. Twfhag v. r. Twf3eia ; 
Vulg. Tobla, 'Tobias ), the name of two men. See also 
Tobias; Tobljaii. 

1. A person whose “children” w'ere a family that re- 
turned with Zorubbabel, but were unable to prove their 
connection with Israel (Ezra ii, GO; Neh, vii, G2). B.C. 
ante 536. 


TOBIAH 


444 


TOBIT 


2. A base-born ally of the Samaritans who played a 
conspicuous part in the rancorous opposition made by 
Sanballat the Moabite and his adherents to the rebuild- 
ing of Jerusalem under Xehemiah, li.C. 440. With an 
atfectation of scorn, after the manner of Remus in the 
Woman legend, they looked on the constructions of the 
now hopeful and thriving Jews, and contemptuously 
said, “ Even if a fox go up, he will break down their 
stone wall” (Xeh. i\\ 3). The two races of Moah and 
Ammon found in these men tit representatives of that 
hereditary hatred to the Israelites which began before 
the entrance into Canaan, and was not extinct when 
the Hebrews had ceased to exist as a nation. The hor- 
rible story of the origin of the Moabites and Ammon- 
ites, as it was told by the Hebrews, is an index of the 
feeling of repulsion which must have existed between 
these hostile families of men. In the dignified rebuke 
of Xehemiah it received its highest expression: “Ye 
have no portion, nor right, nor memorial in Jerusalem” 
(ii, *20). lint Tobiah, though a slave (ver. 10, 19), un- 
less this be a title of opprobrium, and an Ammonite, 
found means to ally himself with a priestly family, and 
his sou Johauan married the daughter of Meshullam 
the sou of liereehiah (vi, 18). He himself was the son- 
in-law of Slieehaniah the son of Arab (ver. 17), and 
these family relations created for him a strong faction 
among the Jews, and may have had something to do 
with the stern measures which Ezra found it necessary 
to take to repress the intermarriages with foreigners. 
Even a grandson of the high-priest Eliashib had mar- 
ried a daughter of Sanballat (xiii, 28). In xiii,4 Elia- 
shib is said to have been allied to Tobiah, which would 
imply a relationship of some kind between Tobiah and 
Sanballat, though its nature is not mentioned. The 
evil had spread so far that the leaders of the people 
were compelled to rouse their religious antipathies by 
reading from the law of Moses the strong prohibition 
that t he Ammonite and the 3Ioabite should not come 
into the congregation of God forever (ver. 1). Ewald 
(deleft, iv, 173) conjectures that Tobiah had been a page 
(“slave”) at the Persian court, and, being in favor there, 
had been promoted to be satrap of the Ammonites. 13ut 
it almost seems that against Tobiah there was a stronger 
feeling of animosity than against Sanballat, and that 
this animosity found expression in the epithet “the 
slave,” which is attached to his name. It was Tobiah 
who gave venom to the pitying scorn of Sanballat (Xeh. 
iv, 3), and provoked the bitter cry of Xehemiah (ver. 4, 
5); it was Tobiah who kept up communications with 
the factious Jews, and who sent letters to put their 
leader iu fear (vi, 17, 19); but his crowning act of in- 
sult was to take up his residence in the Temple in the 
chamber which Eliashib bad prepared for him in defi- 
ance of the Mosaic statute. Nehemiah’s patience could 
no longer contain itself, “ therefore,” he says, “ I cast 
forth all the household stuff of Tobiah out of the cham- 
ber.” and with this summary act Tobiah disappears 
from history (xiii, 7, 8). — Smith. See Nkiiemiaii. 

Tobiah, bkn-Euezkr, a Jewish writer, who flour- 
ished at Mavence, A.l). 1107, is the author of a com- 
mentary on the Pentateuch and the five Megilloth, i. e. 
the Song of Songs, Ihith, Lamentations, Ecclesiastes, 
and Esther. This commentary, the proper title of which 
is Lekach Tob (-113 np2)— in allusion to his name, as 
is evident from the quotations made by Aben-Ezra 
and liashham — but which is erroneously called XrpOS 
or Xr-J'T XnpOE, consists both of excerpts from the 
ancient expository works, such as Siphra, Siphre, Tan- 
clmma, etc., and of an attempt at a grammatical expla- 
nation of tile text. A portion of it, embracing the com- 
mentaries on Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomv, 
was first published at Venice in 1540. With a Latin 
translation it was republished in Lgolino’s Thesaurus 
Antiquitatuni So era rum (ibid. 1704-09), vol. xv, xvi. 
Excerpts of the commentaries on the five Megilloth were 


' published bv A. Jellinek (Leips. 1855-58). The whole 
MS. is in the Bodleian Library at Oxford (Cud. Uri 124). 
See E first, Bill. Jud. iii, 427 ; Griitz, Gesch. d. Judea, vi, 

! 159; Kit to, Cyclop. s. v. ; \'AheY\<\™Q, Introd. to Heb. Lit- 
erature, p. 233, 400 ; He’ Rossi, Dizionario Btorico (tier- 
man transl.), p. 314 ; Zunz, Gottcsd. V art rage, p. 293-295. 

| (K.l\) 

Tobi'as (Tw(3iag), the Greek form of the name 
' Tobiah or Tobijah, as it occurs of two men in the Apoc- 
rypha. 

1. The son of Tobit, and central character in the 
book of that name. See Ttmtr, Book of. 

2. The father of Hyrcanus, apparently a man of great 
wealth and reputation at Jerusalem in the time of Se- 
leucus Philopator (2 Mace, iii, 11). B.C. cir. 187. In 
the high-priestly schism which happened afterwards 
[see M exelaus], “ the sons of Tobias” took a conspicu- 
ous part (Josephus, Ant. xii, 5. 1 ). One of these, Jo- 
seph, who raised himself by intrigue to high favor with 
the Egyptian court, had a son named Hyrcanus (ibid. 4, 
2). It has been supposed that this is the Hyrcanus re- 
ferred to in 2 Macc. iii, 1 1 : and it is not impossible that, 
for some unknown reason (as in the case of the Macca- 
bees), the whole family were called after their grand- 
father, to the exclusion of the father’s name. On the 
other hand, the natural recurrence of names in succes- 
sive generations makes it more probable that, the llyr- 
canus mentioned in Josephus was a nephew of the Hyr- 
canns in 2 Macc. (comp. Ewald. Gesch. d. I "(dices Isrutl, 
iv, 309; Grimm, Ad Macc. loc. eit.). — Smith. 

To'bie, the name of a district (rJ 'Wofiiov v. r. 
Tor/3/ou; Yulg. loca Tubin'), where, in the time of the 
Maccabees, was an extensive colony of Jews (1 Macc, v, 
13); probably identical with the land of Ton (q. v.) 
mentioned iu the history of Jepbthah (Judg. xi, 3, 5). 

To'biel (TiofAiifK, for Heb. goodness of 

God; comp. Tobaet). the father of Tobit and grand- 
father of Tobias ( Tobit i, 1). 

Tobi/jah (lleb. Tobiudh, TYp"- [once (Zeeh. vi, 10) 
in the prolonged form Tobiga'hn, goodness of 

Jehovah ), the name of two men. See also Tobiaii; 
Tobias. 

1. (Sept. Tiofiiac, but some MSS. omit; Yulg. Tho - 
bias.) The eighth named of the nine Levitos sent by 
Jehoshaphat to teach the law in the cities of Judah (2 
Chron. xvii, 8). B.C. 910. 

2 . (Sept, oi xpii<npot abrijc ; Yulg. Tobias.) Sec- 
ond named of the three or four representative men of 
the Jewish captives iu the time of Zcehariah, in whose 
presence the prophet was commanded to take crowns of 
silver and gold and put them on the head of Joshua the 
high-priest (Zech. vi, 10, 14). B.C. 519. Rosenmiiller 
conjectures that he was one of a deputation who came up 
to Jerusalem from the Jews who still remained in Baby- 
lon with contributions of gold and silver for the 'Tem- 
ple. But Maurer considers that the offerings were pre- 
sented by 'Tobijah and his companions, because the 
crowns were commanded to be placed in the 'Temple as 
a memorial of their visit and generosity. See Zeciia- 

K1 All. 

To'bit (Sept. T(t)j3eiS, Toj/3 fir, T<o/3<Y; Yulg. To- 
bias; Yet, Lat. 7' obi, Thohi, Tobis), the son of Tobiel 
and father of Tobias (Tobit i, 1, etc.). The name ap- 
pears to answer to Tohi, which occurs frequently 

in later times (Fritzsche, Ad 7'ob. i. 1). and not (as 
Wolte, Kinlcituug, p. 05) to r'Z'Z. Tobiah; vet iu that 
case Tai/jtt;, according to the analogy of Aevtg (Y>), 
would have been the more natural form. The etymol- 
ogy of the word is obscure. Jlgeii translates it simply 
“ my goodness:” Fritzsche regards it as an abbreviation 
of njn'LL comparing MeXyt (Luke Iii, 24, 28), "‘pTH, 
etc. (Ad Tob. loc. eit.). The form in the Yulg. is of no 
weight against the old Latin, except so far as it shows 
the reading of the Chaldaie text which Jerome used, iu 


TOBIT, BOOK OF 445 TOBIT, BOOK OF 


which the identity of the names of the father and son 
is directly affirmed (i,9, Yulg.). — Smith. See Tobit, 
Book OF. 

TOBIT, Book of, one of the deutero-canonical hooks 
of the Old l’est., standing in most editions of the orig- 
inal between the Epistle of Jeremiah and the Book of 
Judith, but in the A. V. between 2 Esdr. and Judith. 
( The following account of it is mainly based upon G ins- 
burg’s art. in Kitto’s Cyclopedia, with large additions, 
especially from Smith’s Diet . of the Bible.) 

I. Title. — In the Greek the book is called simply To- 

bit (Tw/Str, Tw/3eiY) in the old MSS. At a later time 
the opening words of the book, Uif3\og \oy<un T<t>/3ir, 
were taken as a title. In Latin MSS. it is styled Tobin, 
Liber Tfwbis, Liber Tobue (Sabatier, p. 700), Tobit et To- 
bias, Liber utriusqne Tobiai (Fritzsche, Einleit. § 1). In 
the A. V. it is superscribed “The book of the words of 
Tobit, etc., who, in the time of Enemessar (Shalmane- 
ser), king of the Assyrians, was led captive out of This- 
be, which is at the right hand of Kydios of Nephthalim 
in Galilee, above Aser.” The word Tobit is probably a 
Hebrew form signifying goodness , a name very 

appropriate in a narrative of virtue suffering, yet re- 
warded. 

II. Design and Contents. — The object of this book is 
to show that God, in his mysterious providence, pernrtits 
sore calamities to befall the most pious and God-fearing 
in the very act of. and apparently for, obeying his com- 
mandments, but that he at the same time exercises a 
special care over them in the midst of their suffer- 
ings, vouchsafes them a happy issue out of all their 
trials, and holds them up to the world at large as pat- 
terns of patience under tribulations, as such who have 
been deemed worthy of being tried and purified, and 
who have demonstrated that the effectual and fervent 
prayer of a “ righteous man availeth much.” The 
method adopted by the writer for working out this de- 
sign will be seen from the following analysis of the 
book itself. 

Tobit, a Jew of the tribe of Xaphtali, who strictly 
observed the law and remained faithful to the Temple- 
service at Jerusalem (i, 4-8), was carried captive to As- 
syria by Shalmaneser. While in captivity he exerted 
himself to relieve his countrymen, which his favorable 
position at court (dyopaorijc, i, 13, “ purveyor”) enabled 
him to do, and at this time he was rich enough to lend 
ten talents of silver to a countryman, Gabael of Rages, 
in Media. But when Sennacherib succeeded his father, 
Shalmaneser, the fortune of Tobit was changed. He 
was accused of burying the Jews whom the king had 
put to death, and was only able to save himself, his wife, 
Anna, and his son Tobias, by flight. On the accession 
of Esar-haddou, he was allowed to return to Nineveh, at 
the intercession of his nephew, Achiacharus, who occu- 
pied a high place in the king’s household (i, 22) ; but 
his zeal for his countrymen brought him into a strange 
misfortune. As he lay one night in the court of his 
house, being unclean from having buried a Jew whom 
his son had found strangled in the market-place, spar- 
rows “muted warm dung into his eyes,” and he became 
blind. Being thus disabled, he was for a time support- 
ed bv Achiacharus, and after his departure (read tVo- 
ptuSt], ii, 10) by the labor of his wife. On one occasion 
he falsely accused her of stealing a kid which had been 
added to her wages, and in return she reproached him 
with the miserable issue of all his righteous deeds. 
Grieved by her taunts, he prayed to God for help; and 
it happened that on the same day Sara, his kinswoman 
(vi, 10, II), the only daughter of Raguel, also sought 
help from God against the reproaches of her father’s 
household. For seven young men wedded to her had 
perished on their marriage-night by the power of the 
evil spirit Asmod&ms (q. v.) ; and she thought that she 
should “ bring her father’s old age with sorrow unto the 
grave” (iii, 10). So Raphael was sent to deliver both 
from their troubles. In the meantime Tobit called to 


mind the money which he had lent to Gabael, and de- 
spatched Tobias, with many wise counsels, to reclaim 
it (ch. iv). On this Raphael (under the form of a kins- 
man, Azarins) offered himself as a guide to Tobias on 
his journey to Media, and they “went forth both, and 
the young mans dog with them," and Anna was comforted 
for the absence of her son (eh. v). When they reached 
the Tigris, Tobias was commanded by Raphael to take 
“the heart, and liver, and gall” of “a fish which leaped 
out of the river and would have devoured him,” and in- 
structed how to use the first two against Asmodaais, for 
Sara, Raphael said, was appointed to be his wife (ch. vi). 
So when they reached Ecbatana, they were entertained 
by Kaguel, and, in accordance with the words of the an- 
gel, Sara was given to Tobias in marriage that night, 
and Asmodieus was “driven to the utmost parts of 
Egypt.” where “the angel bound him” (ch. vii, viii). 
After this Raphael recovered the loan from Gabael (ch. 
ix), and Tobias then returned with Sara and half her 
father’s goods to Nineveh (ch. x). Tobit, informed by 
Anna of their son’s approach, hastened to meet him. 
Tobias, by the command of the angel, applied the fish’s 
gall to his father’s eyes and restored his sight (ch. xi). 
After this Raphael, addressing to both words of good 
counsel, revealed himself, and “they saw him no more” 
(ch. xii). On this Tobit expressed his gratitude in a 
line psalm (ch. xiii) ; and he lived to see the long pros- 
perity of his son (xiv, 1, 2). After his death Tobias, 
according to his instruction, returned to Ecbatana, and 
“ before he died he heard of the destruction of Nineveh,” 
of which “Jonas the prophet spake” (xiv, 15,4). 

111. Historical and Religious Chai'acter of the Boole . — 

I. There are three theories about the reality of this 
story. 

(1.) The opinion that this book records proper his- 
tory was universally held by the Christian Church up 
to the time of the Reformation, and has even since been 
maintained by bishop Gray (A Key to the O. T. p. 020, 
etc., ed. 1857), Welte (Einleit. p. 84 sq.), Seholz (Ein- 
leit. ii, 594 sq.), and most Roman Catholic writers. In 
support of this opinion may be urged, a. The minute 
account which it gives of Tobit’s tribe, his pedigree, 
place of birth, the time in which he lived, his family, 
his condition and employment, his captivity, poverty, 
blindness, recovery, age, death, and place of burial (i, 1, 
13.20,21 ; ii, 10; xi, 13; xiv, 11-13); b. The exactness 
of the historical remarks about the Assyrian kings (i,2, 
13, 15. 21), without deriving the names ’Evepirraapog 
( = Shalmaneser) and SayfpcWdc from the Old Test., 
as well as the correctness of the geographical points (i, 
14; ii, 21; iii. 7 ; vi, 1, 11); c. The impossibility off 
tracing the main features of the narrative to any Old- 
Test. prototype, and of explaining them on the hypoth- 
esis of fiction. The obscure place Thisbe is given as 
Tobit’s place of birth (i, 2), and many minute particu- 
lars of his life are described which have in themselves 
nothing whatever to do with the plot, and which can 
only be accounted for on the reality of the events. On 
the other hand, Bertholdt ( Einleit . § 579) has given a 
summary of alleged errors in detail (e. g. i, 1,2, “Xaph- 
tali,” comp, with 2 Kings xv, 29; vi, 9, Rages, said to 
have been founded by Sel. Nieator), but the question 
turns rather upon the general complexion of the history 
than upon minute objections, which are often captious 
and rarely satisfactory (comp. Welte, Einleit. p. 84-94). 

(2.) The opinion that it is a moral fiction was first 
thrown out by Luther ( Vorrede aufs Jiuch Tobin [Bi- 
ble, ed. 1534]), and has since been maintained by Rai- 
nold ( Censor . i, 72fi), J. A. Fabrieius, Buddeus (Hist. Ec- 
cles. ii, 489), Rani Fagius, Eichhorn ( Einleit . p. 401 sq.), 
Bertholdt (Einleit. v,2477 sq.), DeWette ( Einleit . § 309), 
Gutman u (Die Apokryphen, p. 143), Ewald ( Gesch . d. i ". 

J. iv, 233 sq.), Fritszche ( Kurzgef. exeget. Handb. z. d. 
Apokryphen, ii, 14 sq.), Davidson (The. Text of the (). 
T. Considered, p. 1001), Vaihinger (in Herzog’s Real-En- 
eyklop. s. v. “Tobias”), Griitz (Gesch. der Juden, iv, 180 
[2d ed. 18GG]), etc. In support of this opinion it is 


TOBIT. BOOK OF 446 TO BIT, BOOK OF 


urged — a. The narrative is completely isolated; and 
though the events pretend to have occurred before and 
shortly after the fall of Nineveh (15. (A GOG), no other 
document written at a later period refers to them. It 
bears a strong likeness to the tales of the Thousand and 
One Xa/hts , with the obvious exception that the writer 
has a considerable acquaintance and sympathy with the 
writings of the Old Test, lie writes in a pleasing style, 
and with a good deal of power, lint he is clearly at 
variance with the sacred books of the holy nation on 
important points both of fact and principle. Tobit’s 
age. his wife’s, who died after him, and that of his son 
arc much beyond the ordinary limit of old age in his 
day, and bring us back to the times of the patriarchs, 
lie was tifty-eight years of age when he lost his sight, 
in the reign of Ksar-haddon.and lived one hundred years 
after that time. Now, if. according to Eawlinson, Esar- 
haddon began to reign P>.C. G80, Tobit must have sur- 
vived the fall of Nineveh (B.C. 6*25 or 600), of which he 
is made to prophesy (xiv,4). lie also takes no account 
of Sargon, who comes in between Shalmaneser and Sen- 
nacherib. lie removes to Elvmais, and yet is found at 
Nineveh (xi, 111), though he does not intimate his re- 
turn, unless it be in iii, 17, where he speaks of coming 
home. b. The name Tobit does not occur in the Old 
Test., and belongs to a later age. c. The form, spirit, 
and tone of the narrative show that it belongs to a very 
late period. The doctrine of good and evil spirits (iii, 
8; vi, 14; viii, 3; xii, 15), the ascription of human lusts 
to spiritual beings (vi. 14). the notion of the seven pres- 
ence-angels bringing the prayers of the pious before the 
Divine throne (xii. 1*2, 15), the marriage instrument 
(n:ir:), and the legal benediction pronounced over 
the wedded pair (vii, 13. 14), are of post- Babylonian or- 
igin. </. The stories of the angel Raphael in a human 
form giving a false account of himself as being a kins- 
man of Tobit (v, 12), of Tobit becoming blind in both 
eyes by the falling of some dung of sparrows (ii, 10), 
and of the marvellous fish (vi, 2-5) are beyond all mat- 
ter of fact. The modes of repelling evil spirits and 
curing blindness betray a superstitious or trifling mind. 
The angel is made to feign himself a man, a Jew of a 
family known to Tobit, and to be the voucher for the 
false charms which are introduced. Although the ex- 
traordinary character of the details, as such, is no ob- 
jection against the reality of the occurrences, yet it 
may he fairly urged that the character of the alleged 
miraculous events, when taken together, is alien from 
the general character of such events in the historical 
books of Scripture; while there is nothing exceptional 
in the circumstances of the persons, as in the case of 
Daniel, which might serve to explain this difference. 

(3.) The view that the narrative is based upon a real 
occurrence preserved by tradition, but poetically embel- 
lished to suit, the spirit of the time in which it was 
written, is maintained by Arnald, Dereser, llgen, Keil, 
etc. The fact that there are different recensions and 
embellishments of the story, and that the Mid rash Tan- 
rhnma (perieope "IBN!"!) gives an independent version 
of it, seems to show that it was traditionally handed 
down from the time when the occurrence took place. 
It is quite possible that some real occurrences, preserved 
by tradition, furnished the basis of the narrative, but it 
does not follow by any means that the elimination of 
the extraordinary details will leave behind pure his- 
tory (so Ugou). As the book stands it is a distinctly 
didactic narrative. Its point lies in the moral lesson 
which it conveys, and not in t lie incidents. The inci- 
dents furnish lively pictures of the truth which the au- 
thor wished, to inculcate, hut the lessons themselves are 
independent of them. Nor can any weight be laid on 
the minute exactness with which apparently unimpor- 
tant details are described (e. g. the genealogy and dwell- 
ing-place of Tobit, i, 1.2; the marriage festival, viii, 20 : 
xi, 18. 10, quoted hv llgen and Welte), as proving the 
reality of the events, for such particularity is character- 


istic of Eastern romance, and appears again in the Book 
of Judith. The writer in composing his story necessa- 
rily observed the ordinary form of a historical narrative. 

2. The religious character of the book is one of its 
most important and interesting features, inasmuch as it 
shows the phases of faith which obtained prior to the 
advent of Christ, and explains many points in the New 
Test. Few probably can read the book in the Sept, 
text without assenting to the favorable judgment of 
Luther on its merits. Nowhere else is there preserved 
so complete and beautiful a picture of the domestic life 
of tin* Jews after the Return. There may be symptoms 
of a tendency to formal righteousness of works, but as 
yet the works are painted as springing from a living 
faith. The devotion due to Jerusalem is united with 
definite acts of charity (i, G-8) and with t lie prospect 
of wider blessings (xiii, 11). The giving of aims is not 
a mere scattering of wealth, but a real service of love 
(i, 1G. 17 ; ii, 1-7 ; iv, 7-1 1, 1G), though at times the em- 
phasis which is laid upon the duty is exaggerated (as 
it seems) from the. special circumstances in which the 
writer was placed (xii, 9; xiv, 10), Of the special pre- 
cepts one (iv, 15,o fiarti g pijCtri TzoiijOtjc) contains the 
negative side of the golden rule of conduct (Matt, vii, 
12), which in this partial form is found among the max- 
ims of Confucius. 

But it is chiefly in the exquisite tenderness of the 
portraiture of domestic life that the book excels. The 
parting of Tobias and his mother, the consolation of 
Tobit (v, 17-22), the affection of Kaguel (vii, 4-8), the 
anxious waiting of the parents (x, 1-7), the son’s re- 
turn (ix,4; xi), and even the unjust suspiciousness of 
the sorrow of Tobit and Anna (ii, 11-14) are painted 
with a simplicity worthy of the best times of the patri- 
archs. Almost every family relation is touched upon 
with natural grace and affection : husband and wife, 
parent and child, kinsmen, near or distant, master and 
servant, are presented in the most varied action, and al- 
ways with life-like power (i, 22; ii. 10, 13, 14; v, 14, 
15, 17-22; vii, 3-8, 1G; viii, 4-8; x, 1-7; xi, 1-13; xii, 
1-5, etc.). Prayer hallows the whole conduct of life 
(iv, 19; vi, 17; viii. 5-8, etc.); and even in distress 
there is confidence that in the end all will he well (iv, 
G, 14, 19), though there is no clear anticipation of a 
future personal existence (iii, G). 

The most, remarkable doctrinal feature in the book is 
the prominence given to the action of spirits, who, while 
they are conceived to he subject to the passions of men 
and material influences (Astnodicus). are yet not affect- 
ed bv bodily wants, and manifested only by their own 
will (Raphael, xii. 19). Powers of evil (Caipamov, 
7 Ti’tvfia 7roi'i]p6i>i iii. 8. 17 ; vi, 7. 14. 17) are represent- 
ed as gaining the means of injuring men by sin, while 
they are driven away and bound bv the exercise of 
faith and prayer (viii, 2, 3). On the other hand. Ra- 
phael comes among men as “the healer” (comp. Dill- 
mann, Das Bitch Henoch , c. 20), and, by the mission of 
God (iii, 17 ; xii, 18). restores those whose good actions 
he has secretly watched (xii, 12, 13), and “the remem- 
brance of whose prayers he has brought before the Holy 
One” (xii, 12). This ministry of intercession is else- 
where expressly recognised. Seven holy angels, of 
whom Raphael is one, are specially described as those 
“which present the prayers of the saints, and which go 
in and out before the glory of God” (xii, 15). It is char- 
acteristic of the same sense of the need of some being 
to interpose between God and man that singular promi- 
nence is given to the idea of “ the glory of God,” before 
which these archangels appear as priests in the holiest 
place (viii, 15; xii. 15); and in one passage “the angel 
of God” (v, 1G, 21) occupies a position closely resembling 
that of the Word in the Targums and Philo (De Mnt. 
Xom. § 13. etc.). Elsewhere blessing is rendered to “all 
the holy angels” (xi, 14, ti'Xoyijfiiroi as contrasted with 
tvXoyij-og ; comp. Luke i, 42), who are themselves 
united with “ the elect” in the duty of praising God for- 
ever (viii, 15). 


TOBIT, BOOK OF 447 . TOBIT, BOOK OF 


This mention of “the elect” points to a second doc- 
trinal feature of the book, which it shares with Baruch 
alone of the Apocryphal writings, the firm belief in a 
glorious restoration of the Jewish people (xiv, 5; xiii, 
9-J8). But the restoration contemplated is national, and 
not the work of a universal Saviour. The Temple is 
described as “consecrated and built for all ages” (i,4), 
its feasts are “ an everlasting decree” (ver. 6), and when 
it is restored *• the streets of Jerusalem shall say . . . 
Blessed be God which hath extolled it forever” (xiii, 
18). In all there is not the slightest trace of the belief 
ill a personal Messiah. 

Comparisons have often been made between the Book 
of Tobit and Job, but from the outline which has been 
given it is obvious that the resemblance is only super- 
ficial, though Tobit ii. 14 was probably suggested by Job 
ii, 9, 10, while the differences are such as to mark dis- 
tinct periods. In Tobit the sorrows of those who are 
afilicted are laid at once in prayer before God, in per- 
fect reliance on bis final judgment, and then immedi- 
ately relieved by Divine interposition. In Job the real 
conflict is in the soul of the sufferer, and his relief comes 
at length with humiliation and repentance (xiii, 6). The 
one book teaches by great thoughts; the other by clear 
maxims translated into touching incidents. The con- 
trast of Tobit and Judith is still more instructive. These 
books present tivo pictures of Jewish life and feeling, 
broadly distinguished in all their details, and vet mutu- 
ally illustrative. The one represents the exile prosper- 
ous and even powerful in a strange land, exposed to 
sudden dangers, cherishing his national ties, and look- 
ing with unshaken love to the Holy City, but still main- 
ly occupied by the common duties of social life; the 
other portrays a time of reproach and peril, when na- 
tional independence was threatened, and a righteous 
cause seemed to justify unscrupulous valor. The one 
gives the popular ideal of holiness of living, the other 
of courage in daring. The one reflects the current feel- 
ing at the close of the Persian rule, the other during 
the struggles for freedom. 

IV. Original Language, Versions, Condition of the Text, 
etc. — 1. The whole complexion of the book shows that 
it is of Palestinian origin, and hence many have as- 
sumed that the languages in which the traditional story 
was first written down were Hebrew and Aramaic. In- 
deed, Jerome tells us that lie made his Latin version 
from the Aramaie in one day, with the assistance of a 
Jew, who, being skilled in both Hebrew and Chaldee, 
dictated to him the import thereof in Hebrew (“ Exigi- 
tis, ut librum Chaldreo sermone conscription ad Lati- 
num stylum trail am, librum utique Tobine quern Hebron 
de catalogo divinarum Seripturarum secantes bis qua? 
Hagiographa [Apocrypha] memoranf, maneiparunt. 
Feci satis desiderio vestro, non tamen meo studio. . . . 
Et quia vicina est Chaldieorum lingua sermoni llebra- 
ico, utriusque lingua? pertissimum loquacem reperiens 
unius diei laborem arripui, et quidquid ille mihi llcbra- 
icis verbis expressit, hoc ego accito notario sermoni bus 
Larinis exposiii” [Pnef. in Tob.J). This has been 
thought to be corroborated by the fact that some of the 
difficulties in the Greek text can be removed on the 
supposition of a Hebrew original. Thus tK \ for tovq 
dprovg <tov Itti tov rcapov no v vucaicov (iv, 17), which 
has no sense, seems to be a mistranslation of nVu 
C'P’HSn 2"ip3 “|«n5; tlie translator, by a transpo- 
sition of the last two letters, having read “Cpa instead 
of 2Pp2, and "j2U3 instead of tlb\!3, as is evident from 
the antithetical clause, “and give it not to the wick- 
ed,” in harmony with the traditional injunction "HOX 
mnv p*nnn^,«# is not. lawful to strength- 

en the hands of the transgressor. So also icai EuXoypae 
TiofStaQ n)v yvvatKa avrov (ix, 6) may be accounted 
for on the supposition that it is a mistranslation of the 
Hebrew IP EX PX PP 2VJ “pm. The correct ren- 
dering of it requires that either Gabael should be taken 


as the subject — i. e. “ and he (i. e. Gabael) saluted Tobias 
with his wife ” — or that both Tobias and his wife should 
be the subject. — i. e. “and Tobias and bis wife saluted 
them.” i. e. the two comers, Azarias and the servant. 
See also v, ii, 12, 18; vi, 9; and for the Hebraizing 
style, i, 1, 13; iii, 5; v, 14; xiv, 19 ; Do Wette, Kinltit, 
§ 310; Griitz, (leschichte, iv, 4GG (2d ed.). 

On the other hand, superior clearness, simplicity, and 
accuracy of the Sept, text prove conclusively that this 
is nearer the original than any other text which is 
known, if it be not, as some have supposed (Jahn and 
Fritzsehe doubtfully), the original itself. Indeed, t lie 
arguments which have been brought fonvard to show 
that it is a translation are far from conclusive. The 
supposed contradictions between different parts of the 
book, especially the change from the first, (i-iii, G) to 
the third person (iii, 7-xiv), from which llgen endeav- 
ored to prove that the narrative was made up of dis- 
tinct Hebrew' documents, carelessly put together, and 
afterwards rendered by one Greek translator, are ex- 
plicable on other grounds ; and the alleged mistransla- 
tions (iii, G; iv, 19, etc.) depend rather on errors in in- 
terpreting the Greek text than on errors in the text it- 
self. The style, again, though harsh in parts, and far 
from the classical standard, is not more so than some 
books which were undoubtedly written in Greek (e. g. 
the Apocalypse); and there is little, if anything, in it 
which points certainly to the immediate influence of 
I an Aramaic text. ( i, 4, Piq 7raaaQ rdf yeviag tov aiib- 
i'og; comp. Eph. iii, 21 ; i, 22, Ik cturipag; iii, 15, Vr« 
rt got Zijv ; v, 15, rii*« c rot taogm ftiaSbv diftuvat ; xiv, 

| 3, 7rpook$r£TO <pol3ei(T$at, etc.) To this it may be add- 
| ed that Origen was not acquainted with any Hebrew 
1 original (Fp. ad Afric. 13) ; and the Chaldee copy w'hich 
Jerome used, as far as its character can be ascertained, 
was evidently a later version of the story. On the oth- 
er hand, there is no internal evidence against the sup- 
position that the Greek text is a translation. The 
Greek offers some peculiarities in vocabulary : i, G, 7rpu>- 
roKovpta, i. e. // enrapx*) rwv Kovpwr, Deut. xviii, 4; 
i, 7, curoTTpoTt^opai ; i, 21, tKXoyirrria ; ii, 3, arpayya- 
\6io, etc. : and in construction, xiii, 7, dyaXXiaoSai rr,v 
peyaXioavviji' ; xii, 4, eiKaiovoSrai rtri ; vi, 19, Trpoad- 
yuv mi (in trails.); ver. 6, lyyi&iv tr, etc. But these 
furnish no argument on either side. 

2. There are extant different Greek, Latin, Syriac, 
and Hebrew' texts of this book, differing more or less 
from one another in the details of the narrative; but 
yet, on the whole, so far alike that it is reasonable to 
suppose that all w r ere derived from one w ritten original, 
which was modified in the course of translation or tran- 
scription. 

Besides the Greek text of the Sept, w hich w'as adopt- 
ed into this version because it was that of the Greek 
Church, there is a recension, one fragment of which (i, 
1 ii, 2) is contained in the Cod. Sinuitieus (or Cod. Frid. 
A ugustanns, ed. Tischendorf [Leips. 184G]), and another 
(vi, 9-xiii) in the last three MSS. (44, 10G, 107) of 
Holmes and Parsons. 

Of Latin translations we have the ante-Hieronvmian 
version, which was first published by Sabatier ( Biblio - 
rum Sacrorum Latum Versiones Antique?, 1743) from 
two MSS. of the 8th century, and which, according to the 
investigations of Fritzsehe (p. JOsq.), is mostly made from 
the recension of the Greek text, but partly (vi, J 5—1 7 ; 
vii, 15-18; viii, 14-17; xii, G-9, 11-22; xiii, G-18) also 
from the common text, while x, 1-xi. 19 is from a mixt- 
ure of both texts. In this edition of the V etus Latina, 
Sabatier also published, in the form of notes and as vari- 
ous readings, two other codd., one being of the same age 
as the MSS. of the ante-l lieronymian version, belonging 
to the library of St. Hermanns (No. 15). and concluding 
(xiii, 12) with Explicit Tobi jus/us; and the other belong- 
ing to the Vatican (No. 7). The text of the latter dif- 
fers so materially from the other MSS. that it is re- 
garded as an independent version, though emanating 
from the same Greek source. It is less barbarous and 


TO BIT, BOOK OF 


448 


TOBIT, BOOK OF 


more fluent in style, as well as more explicit in its ren- 
derings, and it is to be regretted that it has survived as 
a fragment, containing only i, 1-vi, 1 2 (/>/ W. Lut. ii,706). 
i here also existed another Latin version, as is evident 
from the quotations of this book contained in the Spec- 
uluni of Augustine, which Angelo Mai has published 
(Spicileyitnn Romanorum, ix, "21 23). As to the Vulgate 
Latin version, Jerome tells us, as we have seen, that, he 
made it in one day from the Syro-Chaldaic. It differs 
very materially from the Greek, and is evidently derived 
from a different form which this traditional story as- 
sumed i u a different part of the country. The treat- 
ment of the text in this recension is very arbitrary, as 
might be expected from the above account which Je- 
rome gives of the mode in which it was made; and it 
is of very little critical value, for it is impossible to dis- 
tinguish accurately the different elements which are in- 
corporated in it. It is evident that in this process Je- 
rome made some use of the Old Latin version, which he 
follows almost verbally in a few places: iii, 3-6; iv, 6,7, 
1 1, 23, etc. ; but the greater part of the version seems to 
be an independent work. On the whole, it is more con- 
cise than the Old Latin; but it contains interpolations 
and changes, many of which mark the asceticism of a 
late age: ii, 12-11 (parallel with Job); iii, 17-23 (ex- 
pansion of iii, 14); vi, 17 sq. (expansion of vi, IS); ix, 
11, 12; xii, 13 (-et (pita aceeptus eras Deo, necesse fuit 
ut teutatio probaret te”). 

The Syriac version is made from the two different 
recensions of the Greek; i, 1-vii, 9 being a translation 
of the common Greek text of r lie Sept., while vii, 1(1, 
etc., is from a text represented by the above-named 
three MSS. (11, 106, 107) of Holmes and Parsons, ac- 
cording to the marginal annotations in Usher's MS. 

Neubauer has lately discovered a Chaldee version 
among the MSS. of the Bodleian Library, which may 
prove to be a copy of that to which Jerome refers as 
the basis of his version. 

There, are four Hebrew versions of this book, the one 
first published in Constantinople, 1517; then with a 
Latin translation bv Paul Fagius, and adopted in Wal- 
ton’s Polyyht (Loud. 1G57), vol. iv. It is a free trans- 
lation of the common Greek text, made by a learned 
Jew in the 12th century. The second is that first pub- 
lished with a Latin translation by Sebastian Munster 
(Basle, 1542; then again in 1540, 1556, 15G3), and has 
also been inserted in Walton’s Polyglot . This Hebrew 
version is more in harmony with the Vetus Latina ; and 
the author of it, who was a Jew, is supposed to have 
flourished in the 5th century. The third Hebrew ver- 
sion was made from the common Greek text by J. S. 
Fninkel (Leips. 1830); and the fourth is by J. Sieben- 
berger — it was published in Warsaw, 1840. with a Ju- 
duio-German translation, a Hebrew commentary, and an 
elaborate Hebrew introduction. 

As to the versions of the Deformation, Luther made 
hi* translation from the Vulgate; the Swiss-Zurich Bi- 
ble (1531) is also from the Vulgate. Coverdale (1535), 
as usual, followed the Zurich version [see Covkkikm.k] ; 
and he again was followed by Matthew’s Bible (1537), 
Lord Orom well’s Bible (1530), (Yanmer’s Bible (1540), 
and the Bishops' Bible (1568). The Genevan version 
(1560) is the tirst made from the Greek, and our present 
A. \ . (1611), as in most eases, followed the Genevan ver- 
sion, though this was interdicted bv James I. 

3. I he tirst complete edition of t he book was bv llgen 
(I lie Gesch. I obi s . . . nut . . . finer Pin lei t. verse/ten 
[Jen. 1800]), which, in spite of serious defects due to 
the period at which it was published, contains the most 
full discussion of the contents. The edition of Fritzsche 
(Lxegct. Ilandh. [Leips. 1853], vol. ii) is concise and 
scholarlike, but leaves some points without illustration. 
In England the book, like t lie rest of the Apocrvpha, 
seems to have fallen into neglect. 

\ . Author , hate, and Place of Composition, — As xii, 
20 tells us that Daphne], before his disappearance, com- 
manded I obit and his sou lobias to record the events 


of their lives; and, moreover, since Tobit, in the first 
three chapters, speaks in the tirst person, while (eh. 
xiii) his prayer is introduced by the statement Kai Tw- 
1 fiir typaxpt TTfwatv\i)v ei'g uyaWiaaiv Kai dmv ; the 
, Church universal, up to the time of the Deformation, 

I believed that Tobit himself wrote t his book (B.C. cir. 
GOO) as far as eh. xiv; that xiv, 1-11 was written by 
his son Tobias; and that xii, 12-15 was added by the 
editor of this document immediately after the death of 
Tobias. This opinion is shared by bishop Gray, Pri- 
deatix, and others, who modify it by submitting that it 
was compiled from the memoirs of Tobit and Tobias; 
while llgen maintains that i, 1 iii. 7; xiii, 1-8, were 
written b\" 'Tobit in Assyria, B.C. 680; iii, 8-xii, 2-22; 
xiv, 1-15, were written in Palestine, B.C. cir. 280; and 
that from these two Hebrew documents the Chaldee ver- 
sion was made B.C. cir. 120, which Jerome translated 
into Latin. Modern critics, however, conclude, from the 
whole complexion of the book, its angelologv, theology, 
etc., that it is a post- Babylonian production, and that it 
was written by a Palestinian Jew. But these critics 
differ very materially about the precise date when the 
book was compiled, as will be seen from the following 
table : 

The Catholic Church— bishop Gray, llgen B.C. 680_000 

Ewald : 350 

ller/.feld 300 

Bert hold t 250-200 

Eichhnm A.D. 10 

Fabiicius 100 

Griitz 130 

But though internal evidence leaves it beyond the 
shadow of a doubt that the book was compiled after 
the Babylonian captivity, yet the arguments adduced 
by Griitz ( Geschichte , iii, 4.66, 2d ed.) to prove that it 
was written after the destruction of the Temple, and 
during the persecutions of Hadrian, are inconclusive. 
'The reference to the destruction of the Temple (xiii, 10, 
16; xiv, 4) is designed to refer to what, took place in 
the reign of Zedekiah, when Nebuchadnezzar took Jeru- 
salem and burned the sanctuary (2 Kings xxv). 'The 
other remark of this learned historian — viz. that the 
bread of heathens (djorot," rwr — T2), of 

which Tobit speaks (ver. 1, 10), was first interdicted 
shortly before the destruction of the Temple by Titus — 
is based upon restricting the term dproQ to actual bread, 
whereas it signifies food generally, and this was pro- 
hibited long before the Christian a?ra (comp. Dan. i, 5). 
Indeed, the book is singularly devoid of the stringent 
Halachic expansions of the Mosaic enactments which 
obtained in later times : it contains no allusion whatever 
to the rewards in a future life, and has no reference to 
the party-strifes which were so rampant at the time of 
Christ, traces of which might naturally be expected in 
it if it had been written in or after the time of Christ. 
It is therefore most probable that the book was written 
B.C. cir. 250-200. 

VI. Canonicity and Authority. — Like the other deu- 
tero-canonical books, Tobit was never included in the 
canon by the synagogue. This is established beyond 
the shadow of doubt, not only from the list of the I Iebrew 
Scriptures given by the Jews themselves in the Talmud 
(Paha /Sat lira , 14), but from the oldest catalogues of the 
canon furnished by Christian fathers, such as Melito, 

( >rigen, etc. Indeed, Origen distinctly states that nei- 
ther Tobit nor Judith was ever received by the Jews as 
Sacred Scripture — E/3,oo7oi ny To ifiiy ov y^peovrai (Pp. 
ad Afric. § 13; comp. De Or at. i, 14). 

It was, however, different in the Greek Church, where 
t ho text of the Sept, was received as canonical. There 
appears to be a clear reference to it in the Latin version 
of the Epistle of Poly carp (c. 10. eleemosyna de morte 
liherat ; Tobit iv, 10; xii. 9). In a scheme of the Ophites, 
if there he no corruption in the text, Tobias appears 
among the prophets (Iren, i, 30, 11). Forming part of 
the contents of this version, Clement of Alexandria 
quotes Tobit iv, 15; xii, 8, as taken from i) ypaepif, 


TOBIT, BOOK OF 


419 


TOBLEB 


Scripture {Strom, ii, 23, 139). But though Origen him- 
self also quoted it as Scripture, yet it is ranked by Chris- 
tians among such as were read to the eateehumens, and 
contains a plainer and less elevated doctrine {In Xttmb. 
II omit. xx). Even Athanasius, when writing without 
any critical regard to the canon, quotes Tobit as Script- 
ure {Apot. c. Arian. § 11, tu? ytyp<i7 rrai, Tobit xii, 7); 
but when he gives a formal list of the sacred books, he 
definitely excludes it from the canon, and places it with 
other Apocryphal books among the writings which were 
“to be read by those who were but just entering on 
Christian teaching, and desirous to be instructed in the 
rules of piety” (Ep. Eest. p. 1 177, ed. Migne). This dis- 
tinction, however, between canonical and apocryphal 
afterwards disappeared, to a great extent, in the Creek 
Church, as is seen from the fact that Bar-1 lebrieus places 
Tobit among the sacred books in his Xomoeanon of the 
Antioehenian Church (Alai, Script. Vett.Xova Collectio, 
53; comp. Kritzsche, p. 18), 

In the Latin Church Tobit was regarded with greater 
saeredness. Cyprian often quotes it as Holy Writ {De 
Opere et Kleemosynis Liber'), Hilary cites it to prove 
the intercession of angels {In Psa. cxxix , 7). ami tells us 
that some Christians added both Tobit and Judith to 
the other two-and-twenty canonical books to make up 
their canon of four-and-twenty books {Prol. in Psa. xv). 
Lueiler quotes it as authoritative {Pro Atkan. i, 871). 
Augustine includes it with the other Apocrypha of 
the Sept, among “the books which the Christian Church 
received” {Be Boctr. Christ, ii, 8). This is expressed 
still more distinctly in the Speculum (p. 1 127, C., ed. Par. 
1836): “Non sunt omittendi et hi [libri] qtios quidem 
ante Salvatoris adveutum constat esse couseriptos, sed 
eos non reeeptos a JiuUeis reeipit tamen ejusdem Salva- 
toris eeelesia.” The preface from which these words 
are taken is followed by quotations from Wisdom, Ee- 
elesiasticus, and Tobit. In this Augustine was followed 
by the mass of the later Latin fathers. Ambrose, in 
especial, wrote an essay on Tobias, treating of the evils 
of usury, in which he speaks of the book as “ prophetic” 
in the strongest terms {Be Tobia, 1,1; eomp. I I extern. 
vi, 4). Jerome, however, followed by Kufinus, main- 
tained the purity of the Hebrew eanon of the Old Test., 
and, as has been seen, treated it very summarily. 

The third Council of Carthage (A. I). 397), Inno- 
cent I (105), and the councils of Florence (1439) and 
Trent (1546), declared it canonical. Indeed, in the old 
lloman Missal and in the Missal of Sarum there is a 
proper mass of Raphael, the archangel, and it is ordered 
in the prefatory rubric that the olliee be celebrated for 
pilgrims, travellers, sick persons, and dtemoniaes. This 
is followed by two short prayers, one addressed to God 
and the other to Raphael (comp. Arnald, Dissertation on 
A smodteus). 

As to the Reformed Church, though Luther was the 
first who separated the deutero-eanonieal from the canon- 
ical books, yet lie entertained the highest opinion of the 
book of Tobit. “ If it is history,” says the great Re- 
former, “it is tine holy history; but if fiction, it is indeed 
right beautiful, wholesome, profitable fiction, and play 
of an ingenious poet. ... It is, therefore, profitable and 
good for us Christians to read this book as the produc- 
tion of an excellent Hebrew poet, who treats not on 
frivolous, but solid, matters” ( Vorrede zum Bnche Tobia , 
in his translation of the Bible, ed. 1534), In the Angli- 
can Church the book of Tobit is looked upon with still 
greater favor — iv,7-16 is quoted in the Homilies as the 
counsel of the holy father Toby {On Alms-deeds, pt. i) ; 
iv, 10 is cited as a lesson taught bv “ the llolv Ghost in 
Scripture” {ibid. pt. ii) ; and xii, 8 is adduced to show 
that the angel Raphael told Tobias that "lasting used 
with prayer is of great efficacy” {Of Eastiny , pt. ii). 
Passages of Tobit are also incorporated in the liturgy; 
iv, 7-9 is among the passages used at the offertory; iii, 
3, according to the Latin Vulgate, is introduced into the 
litany; vi. 17, according to the Vulgate, is alluded to in 
the preface to the Marriage Service: while in the prayer 
X. — F f 


following immediately after the versicles and responses 
in the same service in the First Book of Prayer of Ed- 
ward VI, the following sentence is used : “And as thou 
didst send the angel Raphael to Thobie and Sara, the 
daughter of Kaguel, to their great comfort, so vouchsafe 
to send thy blessing upon these thy servants” (Parker 
Society’s ed. p. 131 ). 

VII. Commentaries . — The following are the special 
exegetical helps on this Apocryphal book: Fagius, To- 
bia Liber (Isnv, 1542, 4to; also in the Loud. Polyylot , 
1657, fol.); Minister, 'ZYJ *ES(Basle, 1542, 1519, 1556, 
1563, 4to; also in Walton’s Polyylot ); Drusius, Tobias 
Grace (Franeek. 1591, 8vo; also in his Criticer Sacra)- 
Senarius, In Libras Tobia , Judith , etc. (Mainz, 1610, fob); 
Prexel, Tobias Ilhistratus (Mum 1611. l2mo)- Sandhis, 
In Libras Ruth, 'Tobias , etc. (Lugd. 1628, lid.) ; Justinian, 
Tobias Illustratus (Col. 1629, fob) ; Van Mnuden, Tobias 
Ddineatus{ Antw. 1631, fob) ; Bi/LW Any tor Tiufiir, etc. 
(in the eds. of the Apocrypha, F. ad AT. 1634, 1757, 8vo; 
by Angtisti [Leips. 1804, 8vo] ; Apel [ib. 1836, 8vo"J) ; 
Celada, Commentarins in Tob. Hist. (Lugd. 1644, fob); 
Anon. Tobie , Judith , et Esther , tme Explication (Paris. 
1688, 8vo) : Van der llardt, .Euiyma Tobiiz, etc. 
(Ilelmst. 1728, 4to) ; Aden, PPZ1- “EE (Anist. 1736, 
8vo); Sabatier, Liber Tobit (in the Vet us Latina [Par. 
1751, fob], vol. i) ; Seiler, Pred. iib. d. II. Tobias (31 uuich, 
1780, 8vo); Le Clerc, Liber Tobia (Par. 1785, 8vo); 
Bauer, I his II. Tobias erklart (Bramb.-Wiirtzb. 1787, 
1793, 12mo); Eichhorn, Ueb.d. II. Tobias (in his L i- 
bliothek, ii, 4)0-440 [ Leips. 1787-1800 ] ); Ilgen, Die 
Gesch. Tob I s {Jen. 1800, 8vo); Hdpfner, Historia Tobia 
Grace (Vitemb. 1802, 4to); Pereser, Tobias , Judith n. 
Esth . erkliirt (Frankfort-on-tlie Main, 1803, 1833, 8vo); 
Paur, Das II. Tobias be arbeitet (Leips. 1817, 8vo); Van 
Ess, Liber Tobia (Tiib. 1822, 8vo) ; Friinkel. Das TI. 
Thobi (in his f'E-IPE [Leips. 1830, 8vo]); 

Siebenberger, (Heb. translation and com- 

mentary [Warsaw. 1839, 8vo]); Guttmann, Die A paler, 
des A. T. (Altona, 1841, 8vo); Cittadini and Bottari, Libri 
di Tobia , Ginditta , e Ester (Veil. 1844, 8vo); Fritzsche, 
Die Hitcher Tobi and Judith (vol. ii of the Kurzyef. exey, 
Ilarnlb. [ Leips. 1853, 8vo]); Keuseli, Basil. Tobiaserkldrt 
(Freib. 1857, 8vo); Sengelmann. Das II. Tobit erklart. 
(Ilamb. 1857, 8vo). See Afocuyfiia. 

Tobler, Trrrs, a German writer known for his re- 
searches in Palestine, was born June 25, 1806, at Stein, 
in the canton of Appenzell, Switzerland. lie studied 
at Zurich and Vienna, was promoted as doetor of medi- 
cine in Wurzburg, and, after spending a time in Paris, 
returned in 1827 to his native place and settled there as 
a physician. In 1835-36 he travelled in Palestine lor 
mere medical purposes (eomp. Lustreise ins M oryenlaml 
[Zurich, 1839.2 vols,]),but he soon became so interested 
in the topographico- geographical exploration of the 
Holy Land that he undertook a second journey in 1845. 
See his Bethlehem (St. Gall. 1849 ): — Plan von Jerusalem 
(1850 ): — Golyafha (1851): — Die Siloahquel/e und der 
Oelbery (1852 ): — Denkbldfter aus Jerusalem (1853, 2d ed. 
1856) : — and especially Topoyraphie von Jerusalem n. 
seinen Umyebunyen (Berlin, 1853-51,2 vols .) : — Brit ray 
zur mcdicin. Topoyraphie von Jerusalem (ibid. 1855). 
He undertook a third journey, and published as the re- 
sults, Planoyraphie von Jerusalem (Gotha, 1858 ) : — Dritte 
Wtnidernny nach Paldstina (ibid. 1859). In 1865 lie went 
for the fourth time, but on account of the cholera he soon 
returned and publLhed Xazareth in Paldstina, nebst An- 
hany der rierten Wantleruny (Berlin, 1868). Besides 
these works, he published, De Locis Sanctis. qua perambu- 
lavit A ntonius M artyr c. an. 570 (St. ( i alb 1863) : — 77/ to - 
doricus de Loris Sanctis (ibid. 1865): — Biblioyraphia 
Genyraphica Palestine (Leips. 1867 ): — Deryrosse Streit 
der Lateiner mit den Grieclten in Palestina, etc. (St. Gall. 
1870 ): — Palestina Descriptions ex Sieculo IV, V, et VI 
(ibid. 1869): — Descript tones Terra San eta ex Swculo 
VIII , IX, XII, et XV (Leips. 1874): — Biblioyrajdna 


T0CI1EN 


450 


TODD 


Geogr. Palest iner. ab A nno CCCXXXf II usque ad A nnum 
M (Dresden, 1*75). Tobler died .Ian. 21, 1*71, at Mu- 
nich. I he interesting life of this man will be found in 
Heim’s Dr. Titus Tobler, der Paldstinaj'ahrer : Kin ap- 
penzellisches Lebensbild : Xach h a ndsch rift lichen Quellen 
bearbeitet (Zurich, 1879). (B. 1*.) 

To'chen (lleb. To' ken , ‘Jim. task or measure [as in 
Ezek. v. IS; xlv, 11]; Sept . thiKKav v. r. ; | 

ATilg. Thochen). one of i he towns in the tribe of Simeon 
(l Thron. iv, 32); probably the same elsewhere (Josh, 
xv, 21) called Tki.km (t|.v.) or Teuaim (1 Sam. xv, 4). 

Todd, David, a Congregational minister, was born 
at West Ilanover. Pa., Nov. 5, 1*21. He left home at 
the age of fifteen to attend the preparatory school of 
Obcrlin College. After finishing his collegiate studies 
there, he entered the theological department, and passed 
through the prescribed course. lie commenced his la- 
bors in Illinois, supplying the churches of Knox and On- 
tario, ten miles distant from each other. In these places 
he gathered permanent congregations and organized 
churches, lie was ordained at Victoria, Aug. 18, 1847. 
In 1*40 he went to Bureau County, and took charge of 
a Congregational Church, where he labored with success 
until 1X63, when he accepted a call to Pine l Huffs, Ark. 
lie remained there until 18(55, when, his health failing, 
he found it necessary to return to his Northern home. 
On his return he resumed his work as pastor, and finish- 
ed his course— a faithful pastor and an excellent preach- 
er. held in high esteem by the Church and community. 
He died at Granville, 111., Aug. 10, 1874, (W. P. S.) 

Todd. Henry John, an English clergyman, was 
born in 1763, and educated at Hertford College, Oxford, 
whence he proceeded as A.M. in 1780. He became a 
minor canon of Canterbury Cathedral soon after. In 1792 
he was presented to the vicarage of Milton, near Can- 
terbury, and some years later to the rectory of All-hal- 
low’s, Lombard Street, London. He was appointed by 
the archbishop keeper of the MSS. at Lambeth ; and in 
1820 he was presented, by the earl of Bridgewater, to 
the rectory of Settrington, in Yorkshire. In 1830 he 
was collated by the archbishop of York to the prebend 
of Hushwaite in that cathedral church; and, finally, in 
1832. he was appointed archdeacon of Cleveland. He 
died at Settrington, Yorkshire, Oec. 24, 1845. lie wrote, 
Some Account of the Deans of Canterbury (Cant, 1793, 
8vo) : — Catalogue of Kooks in the Library of Christ 
Church (ibid. 1802, 8vo): — Catalogue of the Archiepis- 
cnjxil Manuscripts in the Library at Lambeth Palace 
(Loud. 1812, fob): — Original Shi, Free-irill, Regenera- 
tion. Faith, etc., as Maintained in Certain Declarations 
of our Reformers (ibid. 1818, 8vo) ; — Vindication of our 
A nthorized Translation and Translators of the Bible 
(ibid. 1819, 8vo) : — Obsecrations on the. Metrical Versions 
of the Psalms made by Sternhofd , Hopkins , and others 
(ibid. 1819, 8vo; 1822, 8vo): — Memoirs of the. Life and 
Writings of the Right Her. Brian Walton, Bishop of 
Chester (ibid. 1821, 2 vols. 8vo): — Account of Greek 
MSS., ('hie Jig Biblical, etc. (ibid. 1823, 8vo) : — Arch- 
bishop Crunnnr's Defence of the Doctrine, of the Sacra- 
ment, with a Vindication of the I uthor against Lingo rd, 
Milner, and Butler (ibid. 1825, 8vo) : — Of Confession ami 
A bsolntion.and the Secrecy of Confession (ibid. 1828, 8 vo) : 
— Lije of' A rchbishop Crt turner (ibid. 1831, 2 vols. 8vo) : 
— .4 nthentic . 1 ccottn/ of' our . I nthorized Translation of' the 
Bible am! of the 'Translators, etc. (2d ed. Malton, LS34, 
1-mo ; Loud. 1835, 8vo), See English Cyclop. Biog. s. v. ; 
Allibone, Diet, of’ Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Todd, Hugh, a learned English divine, was horn 
at Blencow, Cumberland, in 1(558. lie became a charity 
scholar <>f (Queen’s College. Oxford, in 1(572 ; fellow of 
University College, Deo. 23, 1(578; A. AT. and chaplain 
to bishop of Carlisle, July 2, 1079. In 1085 lie was ap- 
pointed one of the four canon resident iarics of Carlisle, 
and the same year obtained the vicarage of Stanwix, 
which he resigned in 1088. He resigned his residen- 


tiaryship in 1720, and died in 1728, being vicar of Pen- 
rith and rector of Arthuret. He published, Description 
of Sweden (1080, fob): — Lije of Phocion (1084): — Ser- 
mon (1707, 4to) : — Sermon, etc. (1711, 4to). See Chal- 
mers, Biog. J)ict. s. a’. 

Todd, James Henthorne, D.D., an Irish clergy- 
man, was born in Dublin, April 23, 1805; graduated at 
Trinity College, and became a fellow there in 1831. He 
was also regius professor in, and librarian of, the Uni- 
versity of Dublin; treasurer and precentor of St. Pat- 
rick’s Cathedral, and president for five years (the usual 
term) of the Loyal Irish Academy, lie was one of the 
founders of the Irish Archaeological Society. His death 
took place June 28, 1809. lie published, Historical 
Tablets and Medallions, etc, (1828. r. 4to) : — Discourses 
on th * Prophecies relating to Antichrist in the Writings 
of Daniel and St. Paul ; Donellen Lecture (Dubh 1840, 
8vo; 1842, 8vo) : — Six Discourses on the Prophecies re- 
lating to Antichrist in the A pocalypse of St. John ; Don- 
ellen Lecture (ibid. 1840, 8vo) : — Remarks on the Roman 
Dogma of D fallibility (ibid. 1848, 8vo) : — Historical 
Memoirs of the Successors of St. Patrick and Archbish- 
ops of Armagh (ibid. 1861,2 vols. 8vo): — The Wahl eli- 
sion MSS. preserved in the Library oj‘ Trinity College, 
Dublin, etc. (Loud, and Camb. 1805, 8vo). See Alii- 
bone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Todd, John (1). a Presbyterian minister, was a 
| graduate of Nassau llall in 1749, and was taken on trial 
by the New Brunswick Presbytery, May 7, 1750, lie 
was licensed Nov. 13, and went, to Virginia. A call was 
laid before the Presbytery May 22, 1751, and he was or- 
dained on its acceptance, lie was installed, by Han- 
over Presbytery, pastor of Providence Church in Louisa 
County, Va. Davies delighted in him, and speaks of 
him as his favorite friend, relying on his judgment in 
cases of importance. Todd wrote to Whitefield in 1755, 
giving an account of t he wonderful work of God in his 
congregation. Cob Gordon said, after hearing him, that 
he “never heard a sermon, but one from Mr. Davies, with 
more attention and delight.” He obtained from the 
Kev. Dr. Gordon, of Stepney, near London, scientific ap- 
paratus and valuable books, which he gave to aid Tran- 
sylvania University in founding a school. He was a 
man of great piety, and eminently useful in edifying the 
Church. He died July 27, 1793. (W. P. S.) 

Todd, John (2), D.D., an eminent Congregational 
minister, was horn at Finland, AT., Oct. 9, 1800; gradu- 
ated at Yale College in 1822, spent four years at the An- 
dover Theological Seminary, and was ordained and set- 
tled at Groton in 1827, lie was settled over the Ed- 
wards Church, Northampton, Mass., in 1833; the First 
Congregational Church, Philadelphia, Pa., in 1836; and 
the First Congregational Church, Pittsfield, Mass., from 
1842 to 1872. lie died in Pittsfield, Aug. 24, 1873. He 
was one of the founders of the Alount Holvoke Female 
Seminary, and for several years president of the trustees 
of the Young Ladies’ Institute of Pittston, His degree 
of D.D. was conferred upon him by Williams College in 
1845. The following are some of his numerous publica- 
tions: Lectures to Children (Northampton, 1834, lOmo), 
with translations and extended circulation : — Student's 
Manual (ibid. 1835, 12mo ): — Index Rerum (ibid. 1834, 
4to) : — Sabbath-school Teacher (ibid. 1836, 12mo): — 
Truth Made Simple (ibid. 1839, lXmo ): — The Young 
Man (ibid. 1843, 18mo ): — Simple Sketches (Pittsfield. 
1843,2 vols. 16mo ): — Stories on the Shorter Catechism 
(Northampton, 1850-51,2 vols. 18ino ): — The Daughter 
at School (ibid. 1854, 12mo ) : — Questions on the Lives of 
the Patriarchs (ibid. 1855, lXmo ) :— Questions on the Life 
o f Moses ; (Questions on the Books of Joshua and Judges 
(ibid. 1853 ): — The Bible Companion (Phila. 18mo): — 
Future Punishment ( N. Y. 18(53, 32mo): — Hints and 
Thoughts for ('hristians (ibid. 1867, 12mo): — Woman's 
Rights (ibid. 1867, IX mo, 27 p .): — Hints and Thoughts 
for Christians (Loud. 1869, 12mo): — Old-fashioned 
Lives (1870). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit . and A mer. 


TODD 451 TOGGENBURG WAR 


Authors , s. v.; John Todd, the Story of Jus Life, etc. 
(X. Y. 1876, IGnio). 

Todd, Jonathan, a Congregational minister, was 
born in New Haven, Conn., March ‘20, 1713, ami gradu- 
ated at Yale College in 1732. After studying theology 
a few mouths, he commenced preaching, and was settled 
at East Guilford, Conn., Oet. 24, 1733. During 1750 and 
1751, a pestilence prevailed among his people, taking 
off many of his substantial friends and supporters. He 
continued his labors until the last year of his life, which 
ended Feb. 24, 1791. Mr. Todd published a Sermon , 
Young People Warned (1740 ) : — Election Sermon (1749) : 
— several memorial sermons and pamphlets. See 
Sprague, Annals of the A mer. Pulpit, i, 383. 

Todd, Nathaniel, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born at Rowley, Essex Co.. Mass., Jan. 27, 1780; gradu- 
ated at Drown University in September, 1800; studied 
theology privately; was licensed by Philadelphia Pres- 
bytery, Oct. 19, 1803; ordained pastor of the Presbyte- 
rian Church in Schenectady, N. Y., in 1805, where he 
labored with great, success for several years. He was 
afterwards teacher and pastor at XYoodbury, N. J. ; 
t lienee successively principal of an academy at West- 
chester, Harrisburg, Lebanon, Mifflinburg, and Beaver, 
l’a., and for many years of a classical school in Allegheny 
City, Pa. He spent the greater part of his life in teach- 
ing, and died July 8, 1867. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. 
Almanac. 1808, p. 152. (J. L. S.) 

Todios, ben-.Ioseph, ha-Levi Aeulafia, a cele- 
brated Cabalist, was born in 1234 at Toledo, and died 
about 1305. He occupied a high position as physician 
and financier in the court of Sancho IV, king of Castile, 
and was a great favorite of queen Maria dc Molina. 
When this royal pair met Philip IV, the Fair, king of 
France, in Bayonne (1290), he formed one of the cor- 
te'ge; and his advocacy of liis theosophy secured for 
the doctrines of the Cabala a kindly reception from 
the French Jews. His writings on the Cabala are, An 
Exposition of the Talmudic Hagadoth, entitled X 
TlHin : — A Commentary on Psalm cxix : — A Commen- 
tary on the Pentateuch, in which he propounds the ten- 
ets of the Cabala. These works, however, have not vet 
been published. See Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden, vii, 204 sq. ; 
Steinschneider, Catal. Libr. Ilcbr. in Bib!. Bodl. 2677- 
2680; De’ Rossi, Dizionario Storico, p. 315 (Germ, 
transl.) ; Ginsburg. The Kabbalah, p. Ill; Fiirst, Bibl. 
Jnd. iii. 428. (15. P.) 

Togar'mah (TIeb. Togarmah', SYJ'nsifi [briefly 
irsnMn, Gen. x, 13], of uncertain derivation; Sept. 
Qopyapd v. r. Dq oyapor, etc.; Vnlg, Thogarma ), third 
named of the three sons ofGomer (the son of Japheth), 
his brothers being Ashkenaz and ltiphath (Gen. x. 13: 
1 Chrou. i,6). B.C. post 2513. The descendants of To- 
garmah are mentioned among the merchants who traf- 
ficked with Tyre, the house of Togarmah being said to 
trade “ in its fairs with horses, and horsemen, and mules” 
(Ezek. xxvii, 14). They are named with Persia, Ethio- 
pia, and Libya as followers of Gog, of the land of Ma- 
gog, the chief prince ofMeshech and Tubal, or, as it may 
be rendered (making the Hebrew Bosh Aar chief, a proper 
name, as it is in the Sept. *P wg, and as the Jews say it 
ought to be rendered), the prince of Bosh or Russ, Me- 
shech or Moshk, and Tubal or Tobolsk (xxxviii, 5. 6), 
supposed by some to mean the prince or power of Rus- 
sia. the title of the emperor of Russia being prince or 
emperor of Russia. Moscow, and Tobolsk. Togarmah 
is said to be of the north quarters, and Gog is represent- 
ed as a guard to it, possibly professing to guard it, or 
offering to it a protectorate (ver. 7). The Jews say 
that by Togarmah. or the house of Togarmah, we are 
to understand the Turks. Torgama, therefore, as it is 
given in the Sept, (and in some Heb. MSS. !T£;nT), 
has been thought by many to mean Turkoman, or the 
Turkoman hordes from whom the Turks have sprung. 


Togarmah, however, as a geographical term, is connect- 
ed with Armenia, and the subsequent notices of the 
name (xxvii, 14; xxxviii, 6) accord with this view. 
Armenia was, according to Strabo (xi, 13, 9, 529), dis- 
tinguished by the production of good horses (comp. 
Xenoph. A nab, iv, 5, 24; Herod, vii, 40). The coun- 
tries of I3*V1X and " l 3'2 (Mi rude), and also bin, were 
contiguous to Togarmah (Josephus, A nt. i, 1, 6). The 
name itself may possibly have reference to Armenia, 
for, according to Grimm (Gesch. d. deutsch. Spr. ii, 825), 
Togarmah comes from the Sanscrit toka, tribe,” and 
A nna — Armenia, which he further connects with ller- 
miuo the son ofMannus. The most decisive statement 
respecting the ethnographic relation of the Armenians 
in ancient literature is furnished by Herodotus, who 
says that they were Phrygian colonists, that they were 
armed in the Phrygian fashion, ami were associated 
with the Phrygians under the same commander (Herod, 
vii, 73). The remark of Eudoxus (Steph. l»vz. s. v. 'Ap- 
pei’ia) that the Armenians resemble the Phrygians in 
many respects in language ( rtj 0w > nj 7ro \\d (ppvyt- 
£ovai) tends in the same direction. It is hardly neces- 
sary to understand the statement of Herodotus as im- 
plying more than a common origin of the two peoples; 
for, looking at the general westward progress of the 
Japhetic races, and on the central position which Ar- 
menia held in regard to their movements, we should 
rather infer that Phrygia was colonized from Armenia 
than vice versa. The Phrygians were indeed reputed 
to have had their first settlements in Europe, and thence 
to have crossed into Asia (Herod, vii, 73): but this must 
be regarded as simply a retrograde movement of a sec- 
tion of the great Phrygian race in the direction of their 
original home. The period of t his movement is fixed 
subsequently to the Trojan war (Strabo, xiv, 680), 
whereas the Phrygians appear as an important race in 
Asia Minor at a far earlier period (id. vii, 321 ; Herod, 
vii, 8, 11). There can be little doubt that they were 
once the dominant race in the peninsula, and that they 
spread westward from the confines of Armenia to the 
shores of the ;Ega?an. The Phrygian language is un- 
doubtedly to be classed with the Indo-European fam- 
ily. The resemblance between words in the Phrygian 
and Greek rongues was noticed by the Greeks them- 
selves (Plato, Cratyl. p. 410), and the inscriptions still 
existing in the former are decidedly Indo-European 
( Rawlinson, Herod, i, <566'). The Armenian language 
presents many peculiarities which distinguish it from 
other branches of the Indo-European family; but these 
may be accounted for partly by the physical character 
of the country, and partly by the large amount of for- 
eign admixture that it has experienced. In spire of 
this, however, no hesitation is felt by philologists in 
placing Armenian among the Indo-European languages 
(Pott, Etym. Forsch. introd. p. 32; Diefcnhach, Grig. 
Europ. p. 43). With regard to the ancient inscriptions 
at Wan, some doubt exists; some of them, but appar- 
ently not the most ancient, are thought to bear a Tu- 
ranian character (Layard, Kin. and Bab. p. 402; Raw- 
linson, Herod, i, 652) ; but, even were this fully estab- 
lished, it fails to prove the Turanian character of the 
population, inasmuch as they may have been set up by 
foreign conquerors. The Armenians themselves have 
associated the name of Togarmah with their early his- 
tory in that they represent the founder of their race, 
Ilaik. as a son of Thorgom (Moses Choren. i, 4. 9-1 1. — 
Smith. See Moses Chorenensis, Historice Armen. lib. 
iii, Armen, edidit , Lot. vert, notisque illustr. W. et G. 
Whistonii [Lond. 1736]); Heeren, Jdeen, i, 1,305; Mi- 
chaelis, Spicilegium Geograph ice, i, 67-78; Klaproth, 
Travels, ii, 64. See Armenia. 

Toggenburg War, the name given to an outbreak 
between Protestants and Catholics in Toggenburg (or 
Tockenburg), a district of the canton of St. Gall, Switz- 
erland. The dispute between the Toggenburgers and 
the abbot of St. Gall, Leodegar Biirgisser, appeared at 


TOIIU 


4<52 


TOLAND 


tirst to be purely political, ami related mainly to the 
labor in road-building, which the abbot had enforced 
upon those under his jurisdiction. At first even Cath- 
olic localities, such as Sehwyz, took part with the Tog- 
genburgers against the abbot, without regard to eccle- 
siastical differences. Hut the confessional di lie re i ices j 
soon led to serious disturbances. In the lower country, I 
especially in Ilennau, the majority were Catholics. 1 
About Master, in 1701), they closed the church against 
the evangelical party, and t lie result was a scuffle, in 
which many were wounded. Alarmed at this treat- 
ment. the 1‘rotcstants sought shelter in the neighboring 
churches, but, encouraged by their neighbors of Ober- 
glatt, they returned in a week to Ilennau, and sought 
to enter t lie church. The Catholic priest refused them, 
but. seeing the Protestants assembled in large numbers 
in the churchyard, counselled submission. Hut the 
Protestant minister was at this moment felled to the 
earth by a stone, and a severe struggle ensued. The 
priest was roughly handled, hut was rescued by a mem- 
iter of the council, and one of his followers killed. The 
Reformed preacher, a native of Hasle, was recalled, and 
a citizen of Zurich substituted, who was obliged to dis- 
guise himself for fear of the Catholics. The Catholic 
priest, after an absence of six weeks, was restored to his 
parish, under t lie protection of the abbot. The differ- 
ent cantons now took sides with the contending parties, 
and party feeling ran very high. Attempts were made, 
however, at mediation. An assembly was held at Ha- 
den, May *20, 1700. arbitrators were appointed, and pro- 
ceedings begun; but all in vain. In the spring of 1712 
the war broke out. It began in Toggenburg. The 
city of Wyl, to which the forces of the abbot had re- 
tired, was captured; the commander, Felber, was most 
shockingly mangled bv his own people, and his corpse 
was thrown into the Sitter. Nahholz. at the head of 
r he victors, marched to St. Call, and seized the Thurgau 
and the Rhine valley. Meantime, the theatre of the 
war extended to the. shores of the Reuss and the Aar. 
A murderous conflict, “the battle of the bushes,” gave 
the Herncse a bloody victory. The city of Raden sur- 
rendered to Zurich, and was allowed to retain its Cath- 
olic worship, hut. did not dare to interfere with the erec- 
tion of a Reformed Church outside of the walls of the 
city. Through the interference of pope Clement IX, 
the tire of war, which seemed about to be extinguished, 
was again stirred ; and while the government was hesi- 
tating, the Catholic cantons of Sehwyz, Unterwahleu, 
and Zng. to the number of 4000, stormed the village of 
Sins. Hloodv battles were fought in the vicinity of 
Take Zurich, and at Hellenschautze. In Lucerne, the 
government was compelled by an uprising of the people 
to enter into the war. The Catholic parties to the war, 
about 12,000 strong, assembled at Murv. The Herncse 
were encamped at Vilmergen, and the great battle was 
fought on St. .lames’s Day, July 25, and was not decided 
until six P. M.. when the victory of the Reformers was 
complete. The peace, which was concluded in August 
at Aarau, provided religious liberty for Toggenburg. 
See llagonbach, Hist, of (he Church in the ISth. and 10 th 
Cent, i, 34 sq. 

To'hu (Ileb. To'chu, S| nh, lowly; Sept. Goon v. r. 
Gok> ; Vulg. 7'hohn'), sou of Zuph and father of Tliliu 
among the ancestors of Samuel (l Sam. i, 1); probably 
the same elsewhere called Toau ([ Chron. vi, 34) or 
Xaiiatii (q. v.) (ver. 2(>). 

To'i (Heh. ToV, *'”?! in Sam., but in Chron. 7V//, 
Ileb. Ton', *"n, both meaning erring; Sept. Boo:> or 
Bojoo v. r. G /iti and Gw«; Josephus. DtriVoc; Vulg. 

7 hoii), the king of Hamath on the ( Ironies, who. alter 
the defeat of his powerful enemy the Syrian king llad- 
adezer by the army of David, sent his son Joram, or 
1 ladoram. to congratulate the victor and do him homage 
with presents of gold and silver and brass (2 Sam. viii, 
G, 10; 1 Chron. x viii, 9. 10). H.C. 1030. “Tor Had- 
adezer had wars with Toi.” and Ewald (Geseh. iii, 199) 


I conjectures that he may have even reduced him to £ 
state of vassalage. 'There was probably some policy. in 
the conduct of 'Toi, and his object may have been, as 
Josephus says it was (.1 uf. vii, 5, 4), to buy oft’ the con- 
queror with the “vessels of ancient workmanship” 
(r TKtvi} rift; dp\aiat; KaTa(JKiv/)c) which he presented. 

Tokens {tessSne), bits of lead or of pewter, or 
cards, given to the members of a Church in full com- 
munion, which they hand to the elders as they ap- 
proach the Lord’s table. 'The object is to keep out 
those, who are not known, or who are under scandal, or 
for other reasons are deemed unworthy. See Tesseu.e. 

ToTa (Ueb. To/a', a worm, as in Kxod. xvi, 

20; Sept. G<uX« v. r. BuAe, etc. ; Vulg. Thola), the name 
of two Hebrews. 

1. The tirst-born of Issachar (Gen. xlvi. 13; 1 Chron. 
vi, 1). H.C. 185G. lie had six sous (vii, 2), who be- 
came progenitors of families known collectively as the 
Tolaites (Numb, xxvi, 23), and these in David’s time 
mustered 22,000 valiant soldiers (1 Chron. vii, 2). 

2. Judge of Israel after Abimelech (Judg. x. 1, 2). 
He is described in that passage as “the son of Puah, 
the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar.” In the Sept, and 
Vulg. he is made the son of Abimelech’s uncle, Dodo 
(TTH) being considered an appellative. Hut Gideon, 
Abimelech’s father, was a Manassitc. Tola judged Is- 
rael for twenty-three years (H.C. 1310-1200) at Shamir 
in Mount Ephraim, where he died and was buried. Jo- 
sephus does not mention him (Ant. v, 7, G); but (as 
Whiston remarks) inasmuch as the total of the years’ 
there agree, his name seems to have fallen out. of our 
copies. See Judge. 

To'lad (Hel>. Tolad', "iVn, birth ; Sept. G<oX«$ 
v. r. GorXaf/t), one of the towns in the tribe of Simeon 
in David’s time (1 Chron. iv. 20) ; probably the same 
elsewhere (Josh, xv, 30) called Ei.-tolad (q. v.). 

To'la’ite (Heb. Tolui' , patronymic; Sept. 

BoXrti; XAdg. Thola it es), the general name of the de- 
scendants of Tola (q. v.) the son of Issachar (Numb, 
xxvi, 23). 

Toland, John, one of the founders of modern deism, 
was born Nov. 30, 1000 or lG70,in the most northern isth- 
mus of Ireland. His Christian-name was Janus Junius, 
but at school his master ordered him to be called John, 
which name lie retained ever after. From the school 
at Redcastle. near Londonderry, he went, in 1G87, to the 
College of Glasgow, and after three years’ stay there 
visited the University of Edinburgh, where lie was 
made A.M. in June, 1G00. He afterwards went, to the 
University of Leyden, where he was generously sup- 
ported by some eminent Dissenters in England. Alter 
a residence there of two years, he returned to England, 
and went to Oxford, which place he left in 1(195. and 
went to London, whence lie returned to Ireland in 1G97. 
Hot so strong was the feeling aroused by his deistic no- 
tions and his own imprudent conduct that he soon re- 
turned to London, lie accompanied the earl of Mac- 
clesfield to Hanover in 1701, and also made an excur- 
sion to Rerlin, at which latter place he remained for 
some time, and then returned to England. In the 
spring of 1707 he again visited Germany, Holland, etc., 
reaching England in 1710. He died at Hiitney, near 
London, March 1 1, 1722. Of his many treatises wc no- 
tice, Christianity not Mysterious (Loud. 1G9G, 8vo ), 
which elicited at least fifty-four replies: — An Apology 
for Mr. Toland (ibid. 1G97): — Amyntor, or a Defence 
of Milton's Life , etc. (1G99. 8vo); this attack upon the 
canon of the New Test, was answered by Samuel Clark, 
Jeremiah Jones, Stephen Nye, and John Richardson: — 
Sncinianism Truly /Stated (1705): — / Hssei'f at tones dn<e ; 
Adeisidtemon et Origines Judaicce (1709, 8vo) : — Xaza- 
renus (ibid. 1718, 8vo): — History of the Druids (Mon- 
trose, 1814. 8vo), etc. See Alliboue, Diet, of Brit, and 
Amer. Authors, s. v. ; Chalmers, Blog. Diet. s. v. ; Con- 
temp. Rev. June, 18G8. 


TOL BANES 


453 


Tol'banes (Sept. T oXfich'ijc, Vulg. Tolbanes), a 
Corrupt Grmcized form (l Esdr. ix, 25) for the name 
Tele.m (q. v.) of the Hebrew text (Ezra x, 24), 

Toledo, Councils of ( Concilium Tuktanum). These 
councils, of which there were twenty-four, were held in 
the city of Toledo, in the province of the same name, 
in Spain. Toledo is the seat of an archbishopric; has 
a cathedral, founded in 1258, and completed in 1402; a 
foundling hospital, founded by cardinal Mendoza in 
1194; and a theological seminary, 

1. The First Council of Toledo was held on Sept. 1, 
400, under l’atronus, the bishop. The reason for assem- 
bling this council, which consisted of nineteen bishops, 
was the troubles and disturbances caused by the heresy 
of the Priscillianists, which sprang up towards the close 
of the 4th century. Nineteen bishops, from all the 
Spanish provinces, attended. Many of the sect of the 
Priscillianists who presented themselves were received 
back into communion with the Church after having 
abjured their errors. In this council the bishop of 
Pome is, for the first time, spoken of simply by the 
title of pope,” Twenty canons were also published, 

1. Permits to admit married men to the office of dea- 
con, provided they will observe continence. 

2. Forbids to admit to any higher order than that of 
snbdeacon a man who has publicly done penance, and 
even restricts his administration of that office. 

4. Enacts that, a snbdeacon, marrying a second time, 
shall be reduced to the rank of porter or reader, and shall 
not be permitted to lead the Gospel or epistle; should he 
marry a third time, he shall be separated from the Church 
for two years, aud then be admitted to lay communion 
only. 

5. * Deprives ail priests and clerks who, having been ap- 
pointed to any church in town or country, do not assist 
daily at mass. 

T. Permits clerks whose wives do not lead a decorous 
life to bind them or shut, them up, and to make them 
fast ; forbids them to eat with them until they have done 
penance. 

12. Forbids a clerk to leave his own bishop iu order to 
attach himself to another. 

13. Warns those who attend the other offices of the 
Church, but who do not communicate, that they must 
either receive the holy communion, or take place amoug 
the penitents, upon pain of excommunication. 

14. Orders that any one who shall have received the 
holy eucharist without eating it shall be driven from 
the Church as guilty of sacrilege. 

17. Excommunicates a married man keeping a concu- 
bine; but permits unmarried men to do so. Allows ei- 
ther n wife or a coucnbine. 

20. Restricts the consecration of the chrism to the bish- 
ops; orders all priests to send a deacon or snbdeacon to 
the bishop at Easter, in order to receive it from him. 

See Mansi, Concil. ii, 1222. 

II. The Second Council of Toledo was held about 447, 
during the popedom of Leo I, against the Priscillian- 
ists. Nineteen bishops attended, who condemned t he 
heresy and the followers of Priscillian iu a formulary 
of faith directed against all heretics, to which eighteen 
anathemas are attached. See Mansi, Concil. iii, 1465; 
Baronins, ann. 447, § 17, etc. 

III. The Third Council of Toledo was held May 17, 
531 ; Montanus, bishop of Toledo, presiding over seven 
other bishops. Five canons were published. 

1. Relates to the treatment of children offered by their 
parents to be brought up for holy orders. Others relate 
to the continence of the clergy, the preservation of church 
property, etc. 

In this council Toledo is, for the first time, spoken of 
as a metropolitan see. See Mansi, Concil. iv, 1734. 

IV. The Fourth Council of Toledo was held May 8, 
589; Leander, the primate of Seville, presiding over 
seventy-two bishops, from the different provinces un- 
der the rule of king Reccaredns, who attended in per- 
son. Eight deputies were also present. The main 
object of the council was to confirm the conversion of 
the Goths who had abjured Arianism, and who here 
presented a confession of faith, in which they declared 
their assent to the first four oecumenical councils, and 
anathematized the principal errors of the Arian party. 
Twenty- three canons were published, and as many 
anathemas directed, as agaiust other heresies and evils, 


TOLEDO, COUNCILS OF 

so against those who deny the procession of the IIolv 
Ghost from the Father and the Son, and those who re- 
fuse to anathematize the Council of Ariniiuum. 

2. Directs that, according to the king’s writ, the Con- 
staniiuopoliran creed shall he sung by the people in ev- 
ery church in the kingdom before the Lord’s Draper in 
the eueharistical office. 

f>. Relates to the rule of continence to be observed bv 
heretical bishops, priests, and deacons, when reconciled 
to the Church, as well as by all clerks. 

7. Orders that some portion of Holy Scripture shall be 
read daily at the tables of priests, to prevent idle conver- 
sation. 

11 and 12. Relate to penitence. Forbid to reconcile 
without penance ; forbid the priest to admit to penance 
without first cutting oft’ the hair of the penitent, if a man, 
or changing her dress, if a woman. 

14. Forbids Jews to have Christian women for wives or 
concuhines. 

It). Leaves it to the bishop to fix the endowment to be 
given to a newly founded church. 

22. Forbids to say anything but psalms at the funerals 
of the religions. 

See Mansi, v, 997. . 

V. The Fifth Council of Toledo was held May 17, 
597; sixteen bishops attended; two canons only remain, 
and the subscription of thirteen bishops only appear. 

1. Orders that priests and deacons who will not observe 
the law of continence shall be degraded, shut up in a 
cloister, and put to penance. 

2. Forbids the bishop to appropriate to himself the rev- 
enues of any church or chapel in his diocese, aud declares 
that they belong to the ministering priest. 

See Mansi, v, 1603. 

VI. The Sixth Council of Toledo was held in 610; 
Aurasius, bishop of Toledo, presiding over fifteen bish- 
ops. The primacy of the see of Toledo over all the 
churches of Carthagena was established, and subse- 
quently confirmed by an edict of king Guudemar. JSee 
Mansi, v, 1620. 

VI I. A national council was held in this city on Dec. 
9, 633, assembled from the whole of Spain, and that 
part of Gaul which was in subjection to the Goths; Isi- 
dore of Seville presided, sixty-six archbishops and bish- 
ops being present ; among them were the metropolitans 
of Narbonne, Merida, Braga, Toledo, aud Tarragona, 
Seventy-five canons were published. 

1. Contains a profession of faith upon the subject of the 
Blessed Trinity and the incarnation. 

2. Directs that the same order of prayer and of psalmo- 
dy shall be observed throughout the kingdom, and the 
same manner of celebrating mass. 

3. Orders that a national council shall be held annually, 
if possible; otherwise a council in each province. 

4. Relates to the proper mode of holding synods, and 
is of some length. It orders that on the first day of the 
synod the church shall be cleared before sunrise and all 
the doors shut except one; that the bishops shall enter 
first and take their seats in a circle, according to t he date 
of their consecration; then the priests; after them the 
deacons, who are ordered to stand in sight of the bish- 
ops; and, last of all, the laity aud notaries. This done, 
the door is directed to be shut, and silence and devotion 
enjoined upon all. Then the archdeacon, standing up, 
shall bid them pray; upon which all shall prostrate them- 
selves upon the floor, and, after private prayer mingled 
with sobs and tears, one of ihe bishops shall rise up and 
say a prayer, to which all shall respond Amen. All hav- 
ing risen up and taken their places, a deacon in an alb 
shall rend the canons relating to the holding of councils, 
and the metropolitan shall invite the bishops to proceed 
to business. It is forbidden to proceed to another mat- 
ter until the first has been disposed of. Any clerk or lay- 
man desiring to appeal to the council is enjoined to men- 
tion his cause to the metropolitan archdeacon, who shall 
declare it to the council. No bishop is allowed to leave 
the synod before the others, nor shall the council be dis- 
solved until everything is settled. 

5. Directs that metropolitans shhll consult together be- 
fore Epiphany concerning the proper time for celebrating 
Easter, aud shall signify their determination to their suf- 
fragans. 

6. Approves of leaving the question about single and 
trine immersion open ; but orders single immersion to be 
practiced throughout Spain, to prevent schism. 

7. Orders that the Passion be preached on Good-Fri- 
day, and that the people, in an audible voice, ask forgive- 
ness of their sins, in order that, being thereby purified 
from sin, they may worthily celebrate the great festival 
of Easter, aud partake of the holy eucharist with a pure 
heart. 


454 


TOLEDO, COUNCILS OF 


TOLEDO, COUNCILS OF 


8. Deprives of the Easter communion those who break 
their fast mi Good-Friday before sunset, exception being 
made in favor of old and sick persons and children. 

y. Relates to the benediction of the candles, etc., on 
Easter-eve. 

10. Is directed against an abuse then prevalent in many 
churches in which the Lord's Prayer was said on Sundays 
only : orders all clerks to say it daily at the office, either 
openly or privately. 

11. ‘Forbids to sing the Hallelujah during Lent. 

12. Orders that immediately after the epistle the gospel 
should be read, which should be followed by the Lands, 
which in some churches were improperly sung after the 
epistle. 

13. Condemns the opinion of those who deemed it wrong 
to sing hymns composed by men in honor of the apostles 
and martyrs on account of their not being taken out of 
lloly Scripture nor authorized hy tradition. 

14. Orders that the canticle lie tied in te Opera Omnia be 
sung on Sundays and fea-J-days at mass at the entrance 
of t he chancel (in pnlpito]. 

15. Orders, under pain of excommunication, that at the 
end of each psalm shall be sung “Glory and honor be to 
the Father,” etc., and not merely “Glory be,” etc. 

17. Excommunicates those who refuse to acknowledge 
the inspiration of the Apocalypse, and al<o those who re- 
fuse to read it in church from Easter to Pentecost. 

19. Enumerates the cases in which persons may not be 
admitted to holy orders. 

25. Is directed against ignorance in the clergy; re- 
quires them to be acquainted with Holy Scripture and 
the canons. 

26. Orders that a priest when appointed to any parish 
shall receive a copy of the ritual from the bishop, and 
that when the priests attend the litanies or synods they 
shall give account to the bi>hop of their manner of cele- 
brating the holy office and administering holy baptism. 

33. Forbids the bishop to take for his own share more 
than one third of the revenue of the churches within his 
diocese. 

34. Enacts that thirty years’ possession shall give to a 
bishop lawful right over a Church situated in the diocese 
of another bishop if in the name province. 

39. Forbids the deacons to pretend to the privileges of 
the priesthood and to sit in the tirst places. 

40. Forbids them to wear two stoles, which it declares 
to be until for even a bishop or priest; directs them to 
wear the stole over the left shoulder, and also that it he 
clean, and not worked with colors or with gold. 

41. Orders all clerks, as well as the prie-ts and deacons, 
to shave the entire crown of the head and to leave but a 
slight rint of hair in the form of a circle. 

46. Orders that a clerk found plundering a tomb be de- 
posed from every ecclesiastical rank and office, and sub- 
jected to three years’ penance. 

51. Forbids bishops to ill-treat monks, but grants to 
them the exercise of their canonical authority over them, 
such as exhorting them to observe a good and holy life, 
instituting abbots and other officers, correcting those who 
infringe the rules, etc. 

52. Enacts that monks forsaking the monastic state in 
order to marry and settle in the world shall be brought 
back and put to penance. 

57. Forbids to compel Jews to profess Christianity; 
with regard to the compulsory conversions under king 
Sishertus, it allows that they should continue to he con- 
sidered as Christians because they had received baptism, 
chrism, and the holy eucharist. 

The following nine relate to the Jews, and to Christians 
who had apostatized to Judaism. 

The 66th and following eight relate to the case of slaves. 

75. Anathematizes all who conspire against regal au- 
thority. 


See Mansi, v, 1700. 

\ lU. The Eighth Council of Toledo was held in 630, 
under king Cbintila, Eugenius, bishop of Toledo, re- 
siding; twenty-two bishops in all were present. Nine 
canons were published, of which 


1. Orders public litanies every year for three days, be- 
ginning Dec. 14, except one of the three should prove to 
be Sunday, in which case the litany days were to be ob- 
served m the week following 


All the others relate to the prince and the strengthen- 
ing of his powers, etc. See Mansi, v, 1 735. 

IX. This council was held dan. 51, (>38, under Silva, 
metropolitan of Narbonne, in the second year of the 1 
reign of king Chintila. Fifty-two Spanish and Gallic 
bishops were present, either in person or by deputy. 
Eighteen canons were published. 

3. Enacts that for the future no king should ascend the 
throne without making a vow to defend the Catholic 
faith and to rid the country of infidels; pronounces nuath- i 
t*ma against those who should violate thi* oath. 

7. Orders that persons who, after having been admit- ! 


ted to penance, quit that state and resume the secular 
dress shall be arrested hy the bishop, and compelled to 
perform their course of ‘penance, whether they will ur 
not. in some monastery. 

Eleurv observes that this is the first time that we find 
mention of this compulsory peuauee, which evinced en- 
tire ignorance of the sound practice of antiquity, bee 
Mansi, v, 1740. 

X. The Tenth Council was held about 646, under king 
Chintasuinthiis, bv twenty-eight bishops present and 
the deputies of eleven who were absent. JSix canons 
were published. 

2. Allows the bishop, or any other priest who may be 
present, to complete the celebration of the sacred mys- 
teries when the celebrating priest is unable to proceed 
through sickness; excommunicates those who, without 
such cause, leave the celebration imthii-hed, or who cel- 
ebrate after having partaken of the slightest particle of 
food. 

See Mansi, v, 1863. 

XI. This council was held in 653, under Orontins of 
Merida; the king, Ilesesuiiithus. being present, and fif- 
ty-two bishops, with the deputies of ten absent. The 
prince read his profession of faith, in which he acknowl- 
edged the first four oecumenical councils. Twelve can- 
ons were published. 

1. Contains a definition of faith. 

2. Condemns all oaths and vows to commit evil actions. 

3. Condemns all persons guilty of simony. 

7. Condemns those who forsake the episcopal or sacer- 
dotal office upon pretext of haviug been admitted to such 
holy office unwillingly; orders those who so return into 
the world and marry to be shut up for life in a monastery. 

5. Forbids to ordain ignorant clerks. 

9. Excludes from the Easter communion and from the 
privilege of eating meat for twelve months those who 
break the Lent fast. 

12. Confirms the canons of a former council concerning 
the Jews. 

Besides the bishops and deputies present, we find among 
the signatures those of ten abbots, the archpriest of To- 
ledo, and sixteen counts. After the subscriptions there 
is a synodal decree concerning the disposition of the 
king’s property, and an edict of the king confirming it. 
See Mansi, vi, 394. 

XII. The Twelfth Council of Toledo was held Nov. 2, 
655, Eugenius, the archbishop, presiding ; sixteen bish- 
ops attended, and seventeen canons were published, 
most of which tend to repress the abuses committed by 
bishops in the administration of Church property. 

11. Forbids to confer orders upon the slaves of the 
Church except they have been first set free by the bishop. 

IS. Orders that newly baptized Jews shall show them- 
selves in the assemblies of the Christians on all Jewish 
festivals. 

See Mansi, vi. 451. 

XIII. Held Dee. 1,656, under Beeeasuinthus; twen- 
ty bishops were present, among whom were Eugenius, 
the metropolitan of Toledo : Fugitives, the metropolitan 
of Seville; and St. Fructnosus, the metropolitan of Bra- 
ga; five bishops who were absent sent deputies. Seven 
canons were published. 

1. Orders that the Feast of (he Annunciation shall in 
future he kept on Dec. IS, because that, falling in Lem, it 
interfered with the fast, and often with the celebration of 
Good -Friday. 

3. Forbids bishops to present churches to their relations 
and friends for the sake of the revenue to be derived. 

6. Directs that children devoted by their parents to the 
tonsure shall be compelled to lead the life of the relig- 
ious; does not allow parents so to devote their children 
after they have attained ten years of age without their 
own consent. 

7. Forbids to sell Christians to Jews. 

See Mansi, vi, 459. 

XIV. Held Nov. 7, 675, under king Wamba; seven- 
teen bishops (among whom was < Jiii ritius of Toledo), the 
deputies of two others, and six abbots were present. In 
this council the division of t lie country into dioceses was 
made, and sixteen canons of discipline were published. 

3. Orders all the bishops of the province to conform to 
the order and ritual in use in the metropolitan Church. 

4. Forbids to suffer priests who are at variance to ap- 
proach the altar or to receive their offerings. 


TOLEDO, COUNCILS OF 455 TOLEDO, COUNCILS OF 


’ 6. Deprives ecclesiastics who take part in the jmlgtneut 
of capital eases. 

8. tin acts penalties to he enforced against priests who 
demand a fee for christening or for the chrism; orders 
bishops to punish such offenders under pain of suspension. 

t3. Forbids persons possessed with a devil to serve at 
the altar or to approach it. 

14. Orders that mass shall never he celebrated by one 
priest only, lest he should be taken ill and the mass left 
unfinished. 

►See Mansi, vi, 530. 

XV. Held Jan. 9, 681, under king Ervigius. Julian 
of Toledo presided at the head of thirty-four bishops, 
among whom were the metropolitans of Seville, Braga, 
and Merida. Thirteen canons were published. 

I. Approves of the resignation of king Wamba, who 
had assumed the religious habit. 

4. Declares to be null and void the consecration of a 
bishop for a little town in the immediate vicinity of To- 
ledo made by the bishop of Merida against his own will 
and against the canons at the command of Wamba; and 
generally forbids to consecrate a bishop tu a place which 
lias not "hitherto luid a bishop. 

G. Enacts that, in order to prevent any further delay in 
filling up the vacant bishoprics, it shall be lawful for the 
bishop of Toledo to consecrate those persons whom the 
king shall choose, without prejudice, however, to the 
rights of the province. 

10. Confirms, with the king’s consent, the privilege of 
asylum to those who take refuge in a church, or anywhere 
within thirty paces of it. 

II. Orders the abolition of every remnant of idolatry. 
See Mansi, vi. 1221. 

XYI. Held in November, 683, under king Ervigius, 
who was present; forty- eight bishops, four of whom 
were metropolitans, attended, Julian of Toledo presid- 
ing. Twelve canons were published, the Nicene Creed 
having been first read, which from this time was sung 
in all churches in Spain. 

The fifth is the ex tin ordinary canon which absolutely 
forbids the widows of kings to remarry, even with princes. 

From the tenth it appears not to have been uncommon 
at this period tor persons (even bishops), in time of dan- 
gerous illuess, to submit to be put to public penance with- 
out confessing, or their conscience accusing them of, auy 
particular sin, but for greater security. 

See Mansi, vi, 1253. 

XVII. This council was held at the request of pope 
Leo II, under king Ervigius, in 684, to receive and ap- 
prove the Sixth (Ecumenical Council held at Constanti- 
nople against the Monothelites; seventeen bishops, ten 
deputies, and six abbots attended. In the answer of 
the bishops to Leo they make no mention of the fifth 
oecumenical council, saying, in canon 7. that they de- 
cree that this council (the Seventh (Ecumenical) shall 
rank after the Council of Chalcedon in honor, place, and 
order. See Mansi, vi, 1278. 

XVIII. Held May 11,688, under king Egica, Julian 
of Toledo presiding over sixty bishops, in order to ex- 
plain certain expressions made use of in a confession 
of faith drawn up bv the Spanish bishops some years 
before which had given offence to pope Benedict II. 
These expressions related to the two wills in our Lord 
Jesus Christ; and it was decreed to be not contrary to 
Christian truth to maintain that in God the will pro- 
ceeds from the will — ‘•yoluntatem ex voluntate proce- 
dere.” See Mansi, vi, 1204. 

XIX. This council was held May 2. 603; composed 
of fifty-nine bishops, five abbots, and the deputies of 
three bishops absent ; there were also present the king, 
Egica, and sixteen lords. In this council the decision 
of the previous council concerning the procession of the 
will from the will, and of the essence from the essence, 
in God was further explained. Twelve or thirteen can- 
ons were published. 

G. Relates to the conduct of some priests, who, instead 
of using bread made for Mie purpose in the holy eucha- 
rist, contented themselves with offering on the holy table 
common bread cut into a round form. The canon orders 
that the bread used at the altar shall be made expressly 
for that purpose. 

9. Excommunicated for life and deposed Sisbertns of 
Toledo, convicted of conspiriug against the person of 
king Egica and his family. 

See Mansi, vi, 1327. 


XX. This council was held Nov. 9, 604. The sub- 
scriptions of the bishops present are lost. Eight can- 
ons were published. 

1. Directs that, during the three days preceding the 
opening of any council, and during which a strict fast 
ought to be observed, nothing shall be discussed w hich 
does not refer to matters of faith, morals, and ecclesias- 
tical discipline. 

3. Orders that bishops, following the example of onr 
Lord, shall observe the ceremony of washing the feet of 
the poor on Holy Thursday. 

5. Condemns to excommunication and perpetual im- 
prisonment priests who, from a vile and wicked supersii- 
tion, shall say the office of the mass for the dead for the 
living, in order by so doing tu cause their death. 

See Mansi, vi. 1361. 

XXI. This council was held Nov. 21, 1324, by John, 
archbishop of Toledo. Eight canons were published, 
in the preface to which it is ordered that they shall 
be observed together with those which the legate Will- 
iam de Gondi, bishop of Sabino, had made in the Council 
of Valladolid (1322). These canons, among other things, 
order bishops to attend the synods, and relate to the con- 
duct and dress of clerks; forbid priests to demand any- 
thing for masses said by them, but allow them to receive 
voluntary offerings; forbid to say more than one mass 
in a day, except on Christmas-day. See Mansi, xi, 1712. 

XXII. This was held in 1330 by /Egidius, archbish- 
op of Toledo, six bishops being present. Five canons 
were published. 

2. Forbids to ordain any illiterate person. 

3. Provides that in cathedral or collegiate churches 
some shall be compelled to study theology, the canon law, 
and the liberal arts. 

5. Orders all rectors to keep a list of such of their pa- 
rishioners as are of age, in order to effect the observation 
of the camm “oninis utriusque sexns.” 

See Mansi, xi, I860. 

XX 11 1. (Also called Council of Arenda.) Held 
Dec. 5, 1473, in the borough of Arenda, by Alphonso de 
Carille. archbishop of Toledo. This council was numer- 
ously attended, ami twenty-nine canons were published. 

1. Orders that, provincial councils shall be held bienni- 
ally and diocesan synods annually. 

2. Orders curates to instruct their flocks iu the princi- 
pal articles of belief. 

3. Forbids to promote to holy orders persons ignorant 
of Latin. 

4. Forbids to receive a clerk from another diocese with- 
out letters from his bishop. 

5 and G. Relate to the dress of bishops and clerks; for- 
bid them to wear garments made of red apd green silk, 
short garments, and white shoes, etc. 

7. Relates to the proper observance of Sundays and fes- 
tivals. 

5. Forbids ecclesiastics to wear mourning. 

0. Orders t lie punishment of incontinent clerks. 

10. Forbids to admit to parochial churches or prebends 
persons ignorant of Latin, unless, for gouci cause, the 
bishop shall think fit to dispense with it. 

11. Indicts a pecuniary fine upon ecclesiastics who play 
with dice. 

12. Orders that all priests shall celebrate mass four 
times in the year at t he least, and bishops three times. 

13. Forbids all preaching without the bishop’s license. 

14. Enacts penalties to be enforced against clerks iu 
the minor orders who do not wear the clerical habit and 
observe the tonsure. 

15. Forbids ecclesiastics to furnish soldiers to any tem- 
poral lord except the king, or to accept of lands upon 
condition of so doing. 

1G. Forbids the celebration of marriages at uncanonicnl 
times. 

17. Excommunicates those who are married clandes- 
tinely without five witnesses, and suspends for three 
months the priest who shall officiate. 

IS. Excommunicates those who buy or sell the proper- 
ty of a vacant benefice. 

19. Forbids the custom of performing, at certain times, 
spectacles, etc., and singing songs, and uttering profane 
discourses in churches. 

20. Directs that persons dying of wounds received in 
duels shall not be allowed Christian burial, even though 
they may have received the sacrament of penance before 
death. 

2t. Excommunicates those who hinder the clergy from 
receiving tithe and enjoying their privileges, etc. 

23. Orders that sentences of excommunication pro- 
nounced iu any one diocese shall he observed in all others. 

24. Puts under an interdict the place from which any 
clerk has been forcibly expelled. 


TOLEDO 


456 


TOLEDOTI1 JESIIU 


25 . Forbids any sort of fee on account of ordination. 

•jt! Grants to the bishop the power of absolving from 
synodal censures. 

*2". Provides for the publication of these canons in dto- 
ce>:in synods and in cathedral churches. 

See Mansi, xiii, 1448. 

XXIV. Held 8ept. 8, 1505. Christopher de Sando- 
val, bishop of Cordova, was called upon to preside on 
account ol' his being the oldest bishop of the province. 
The bishops of Stgucii^a. Segovia, 1‘aleucia, Cuenca, and 
Osina attended, with the abbot ol Alcala el Ileal. Three 
sessions were held; in the lirst the decree of Trent re- 
lating to- the celebration of provincial synods was read; 
also a profession of faith which was signed by all pres- 
ent. In the second session thirty-one articles of ref- 
ormation were published relating to bishops, curates, 
ntticials, proctors, residence, .and divine service. In the 
third session, held March *25, twenty-eight articles were 
drawn up, and the decrees of Trent relating to residence 
were read. liisliops were directed not to admit to the 
tonsure those who had no henetices immediately in 
view. Hides were laid down to guide curates in preach- 
ing and instructing their people, ete. See Mansi, xv, 
751. — Laudoii, Manual of Councils, s. v. 

Toledo (French Tolet), Francisco de, a Spanish 
cardinal, was born at Cordova, Nov. 10, 1532. Jlis edu- 
cation was gained at the University of Salamanca, and, 
after receiving his degree, be taught philosophy in the 
same institution. In 1558 he joined the Jesuits, and 
was sent to Home to teach theology. Pius V, admiring 
his eloquence, secured his services as preacher in ordi- 
nary, and Toledo held the position under four succeed- 
ing popes. At the same time he was councillor of the 
Imposition, and was employed in many ecclesiastical 
embassies. Among others, he went to Germany to urge 
a league with Poland against the Turks. Clement VIII 
gave him the cardinal’s hat in 1593. Toledo died at 
Home, Sept. 14, 15%. His works are chiefly commen- 
taries: In Joannis Eranyeltum (Home, 1588 ); — la XI I 
Capita Entity. secunda Lucam (Venice, 1001, Ibl.) : — In 
Epistolam Pauli ad Ho mu non (Home, 1(102, 4to) : — Sum- 
nut Cush uni Conscientite (ibid. 1002; Lyons, 1630, 4to). 
See Antonio, IJibl. I lisp. Xoi'u ; De Thou, I lust* sui 
Temp. — lloefer r Xvur. I Hoy. Generate , s. v. 

Toledo, Roderigo de, an eminent Spanish eccle- 
siastic, was born at liada. in Navarre, about 1170. lie 
was sent to Paris to complete his education, and on his 
return he attached himself to Sancho V, king of Na- 
varre, by whom he was employed to negotiate a peace 
with Alfonso VIII of Castile. Procuring the favor of 
Alfonso, he was appointed by him bishop of Sigueuza, 
and was afterwards made archbishop of Toledo. He 
showed great zeal in the frequent wars with the Moors, 
often directing in person inroads upon t lie Mohammedan 
territory. Nor did he have any less zeal for learning; 
he persuaded Alfonso to found the University of Palen- 
cia. At the Fourth Laterau Council he not only ha- 
rangued the fathers in elegant Latin, but gained over 
the secular nobles and ambassadors by conversing with 
each of them iu his mother tongue. lie died in France 
in 1247, after attending the Council of Lyons convoked 
by Innocent IV. lie wrote several historical works, 
most of which are still unedited. II is Hernm in Hispa- ! 
niu Gestanun Chrouicon (Granada, 1515) is an invalu- 
able production. It was subsequently published in a col- 
lection entitled Hisp/tnia Must rata, by Andreas Schott 
(Frankf. H>03-8>, 1 vols. fob). He also- wrote, Mstoria 
A rubnm , published in vol. ii of Andreas Schott’s collec- 
tion (1003); and subsequently (1025) hv Lrpemiius, as 
an appendix to his Mstoria Savaceniea of Georgius El- 
mnein. lie wrote a history of the Ostrogoths, of the 
11 tins. Vandals, Suevi, Alans, ami Silingi, published by 
K. Hell, in the colled ion entitled Her urn Ilispanicantin 
Scriptures Aliquot (Frankf. 1579. 3 vols. fol.) ; — also Hre- 
viarium Ecclesim Cathoticie , ami others still unedited. — 
Eng. Cyclop. May. s. v. 

Toledoth Jeshu mVa, i. e. History of 


\ Jesus'). Under this title a Jewish apocryphal work, or 
rather libel, is extant, purporting to give the history of 
Jesus. It tirst became known to Christians iu the 13th 
century; but who was the author of the Toledoth Jeshu 
is not known. In reality, we have two such books, each 
called Toledoth Jeshu, not recensions of an earlier text, 
but independent collections of the stories circulating 
among t lie Jews relative to the life of Christ. The 
name of Jesus , which in Hebrew is Joshua or Jehoshua, 
is in both contracted into Jeshu bv the dropping of ail 
Ain , Vw n for Elias in Tishbi, s. v. “Jeshu,” says, 

“ Because the Jews will not acknowledge him to be the 
Saviour, they do not call him Jeshun, but reject the 
Ain and call him Jeshu.” Babbi Abraham Perizol, or 
Farrissol, in his book Mayyen Abraham, e. 59, says, 
“ His name was Jeshun, but as rabbi Moses Maimonides 
has written it, and as we find it throughout the Talmud, 
it is written Jeshu. They have carefully left out the 
Ain because he was not able to save himself.” By omit- 
ting the Ain, the Cabalists gave a signification to the 
name. In its curtailed form it is composed of the let- 
ters Jod, Shin, Vav, which are taken to stand for JTC"' 
12TIT1 i. e. “ his name and remembrance shall 

be extinguished.” This is the reason given in the 
Toledoth Jeshu. 

The Toledoth Jeshu was known to Luther, who con- 
densed it in his Schem I lautphoras (see his Werke 
[llemberg, 1500], v, 509-535), as the following passage 
(p. 515) will show: ‘‘The proud evil spirit carries oil all 
sorts of mockery in this book. First he mocks God, the 
Creator of heaven and earth, ami his Son Jesus Christ, 
as you may see for yourself, if you believe as a Christian 
that Christ is the Son of God. Next he mocks us, all 
Christendom, in that we believe in such a Son of God. 
Thirdly, he moeks his own fellow-Jews, telling them 
such disgraceful, foolish, senseless affairs, as of brazen 
dogs and cabbage-stalks and such like, enough to make 
all dogs bark themselves to death, if they could under- 
stand it, at such a pack of idiotic, blustering, raging, non- 
sensical fools. Is not that a masterpiece of mockery 
which can thus work all three at once? The fourth 
mockery is this, that whoever wrote it has made a fool 
of himself, as we, thank God, mav see any day.” Vol- 
taire also knew the work; for in his Lett res sur lesJuij's 
(jEuvres, i, 09, p. 80) he says, Le Toledos Jeschu est le 
plus aneien eerit Juif qui nous ait etc transmis contra 
notre religion. C’est line vie de Jesus- Christ, toute 
eontraire a nos Saints Evangiles ; elle parait etre du 
premier sieele, et me me ecrite avant les evangiles.” 
lie evidently seems to identify this work with the one 
mentioned by Justin Martyr in bis colloquy with Trv- 
phon, xvii, if>8. Of the two widely differing recen- 
sions of this book of unknown authorship, the lirst 
edition was published by Wagenseil. in his Tela lynea 
Satanre,Qtc. (Altdorf, 1GSI); the second by Huldrich, at 
Leyden, in 1705, under the title Mstoria Jeschute Xaza- 
reni, aJuihvis lUaspheme Corruptu. Neither can boast 
of an antiquity greater than, at the outside, the 12th 
century. It is difficult to say. with certainty, which is 
the earlier of the two. Probably both came into use 
about the same time; the second certainly in Germany, 
for it speaks of Worms in the German empire. Accord- 
ing to the lirst, Jesus was born in the year of the world 
4671 = B.C. 910, in the reign of Alexander Jamueus 
(B.C. 106-79)! According to the second, he was born 
in the reign of Herod the Proselyte, i. e. B.C. 70-4. A 
comparison of both shows so many gross anachronisms 
as to prove that they were drawn up at a very late date, 
and by Jews singularly ignorant of the chronology of 
their history. As to the contents, its blasphemies are 
too gross and grotesque to need further notice. Being 
a late and detestable compilation, put together out of 
fragmentary Talmudic legends, all respectable Jews 
themselves have regarded it as utterly contemptible. 

Besides the editions of Wagenseil and Huldrich, see 
Clemens, Die geheimyehultenen oder soyenannten iipokry 


TOLERATION 


457 


TOLLS Eli 


phisehen Evangelien ( Stuttg. 1850 ), pt. v ; Aim, Die 
U rtheile heidnischer vnd jiidischer Sch rift st filer der vie/' 
erst eu christlicheti Jahrhunderte Uber Jesus vnd die ersten 
Christen ( Leips. 18G4), p. 137 sq.; Baring-Gould, The 
Lost and Hostile Gospels (Loiul. 1874), p, 07 sq. ; De’ 
Bossi, Dizionario Storico (Germ, transl.), p. 310 scp iSee 
Jesus Cjikist. (B. I\) 

Toleration is the allowance given to that which 
is not approved. The Church, as the depository and 
dispenser of religious truth, cannot bring within the 
range of its theory the allowance of that which it holds 
to be an error. The Church of England holds (,\rt. vi) 
that it is not required of any man that anything should 
be believed as an article of the faith, or be thought req- 
uisite or necessary to salvation, which is not read in 
IIolv Scripture or may not be proved thereby. Hut if 
any man profess what is clearly contrary to that which 
the Church has laid down as an article of the faith, 
then, in the Church’s view, lie professes what is con- 
trary to the Scripture, and there can be no warrant for 
allowing that which is contrary to Scripture. The 
Church, however, while refusing any allowance to error, 
may refrain from denunciation and persecution of those 
w.io profess and maintain erroneous doctrines. — Ilook, 
Church Diet. s. \\ See Persecution. 

TOLEUATION, Acts of. Previous to 1808 the 
statute law of Great P*ritain (see 35 Eliz. and 22 Car. II) 
forbade the public exercise of any other religion than that 
of the Church of England. The Toleration Act (1 Will, 
and Mary, c. 18) frees from the penalty of nonconformity 
those who take the oaths of allegiance and supremacy, 
and who subscribe the declaration against popery of 30 
Car. 11, ii, c. 1, reserving in force 35 Car. II, c. 2, and 13 
Car. II, e. 1, the acts, that is, for preventing dangers 
which may happen from popish recusants, and for pre- 
serving the king’s person and government by disabling 
papists from sitting in Parliament. It did not relieve 
Dissenters from such previous acts as required members 
of town corporations, and all persons holding office, un- 
der the crown, to receive the sacrament of the Lord’s 
supper according to the usage of the Church of Eng- 
land, which were continued in force until 1828, when 
they were repealed by the 9 Geo. IV, c, 17. Preachers 
taking the oaths and subscribing the Articles of Relig- 
ion, except xxxiv, xxxv, xxxvi, and the clause of xx 
regarding the power and authority of the Church, are 
freed from the penalties of the Acts of Nonconformity; 
and Baptist preachers are excused the part of Art.xxvii 
touching infant baptism. Quakers, upon making a dec- 
laration of fidelity, and subscribing a profession of Chris- 
tian belief, are exempted from the oaths and enjoy the 
privileges of other Dissenters. 

By the 19 Geo. Ill, c. 44, Protestant Dissenting min- 
isters and schoolmasters are exempted from the sub- 
scription to the articles on making and subscribing a 
declaration that the Scriptures contain the revealed will 
of God. and are received as the rule of doctrine and prac- 
tice. By the 53 Geo. Ill, c. 100. the provisions of the 
Act of Will, and Mary, also those of 9 and 10 Will. Ill 
respecting the denial of the Trinity, were repealed, the 
common law with respect to impugning the doctrine of 
the Trinity not being altered. By the 52 Geo. Ill, c. 
155, the Five-mile and Conventicle acts, and an Act re- 
lating to Quakers (13 and 14 Car. II, c. l),are repealed ; 
all religious assemblies of fewer than twenty persons be- 
come lawful without registration; those of more than 
twenty persons are to be registered and certified; and a 
fine of twenty pounds is laid upon those who disturb any 
congregation assembled for worship. By 9 Geo. IV, c. 
17, the Test and Corporation acts are repealed, and a 
declaration substituted in lieu of the sacramental test. 
See Blunt, Hist, of Doct. s. v. ; Hook, Church Diet , s. v. 

Tolet (or Toletanus). See Toledo. 

Toll (rniS. Ezra iv, 20, or [Chald.] iv, 13; 

yii, 24, tribute [so called from being measured or appor- 


tioned], as Neb. v, 4) is strictly a tax for passing along, 
a highway or other thoroughfare. See Tax ; Tribute. 
In the limnan period taxes were collected along the 
roads or along the navigable waters by the postiloces , or 
custom-house officers. There was a Do a class of publi- 
cans who had houses or booths built for them at the foot 
of bridges, at the mouth of rivers, and by the seashore, 
where they took toll of passengers that went to and fro. 
For this purpose they used tickets or seals, which, when 
a man had paid toll on one side of a river, were given 
him by the publican to show to him that sat on the 
other side that it might appear he had paid. On these 
were written two great letters, larger than those in com- 
mon use. Modern Oriental usages illustrate the cus- 
tom referred to in Matt, ix, 9. Arriving at Persepolis, 
Mr.Morier observes, “ Here is a station of rahdurs, or 
toll-gatherers, appointed to levy a toll upon kaflahs, or 
caravans of merchants, and who in general exercise 
their office with so much brutality and extortion as to 
be execrated by all travellers. The collections of the 
toll are farmed, consequently extortion ensues; and, as 
most of the rahdars receive no other emolument than 
what they can exact over and above the prescribed 
dues from the traveller, their insolence is accounted 
for, and a cause sufficiently powerful is given for their 
insolence, on the one hand, and the detestation in which 
they are held, on the other. Eaf-gah means the place 
of tribute; it may also be rendered the receipt of cus- 
tom, and 'perhaps it was from a place like this that our 
Saviour called Matthew to follow him.” See Custom, 
Beceii’t of. At Smyrna the miriji sits in the house 
allotted to him, as Matthew sat at the receipt of custom 
(or in the custom-house of Capernaum), and receives 
the money which is due from various persons and com- 
modities entering the city. “The exactions and rude 
behavior of these men,” says Mr. Hartley, “are just in 
character with the conduct of the publicans mentioned 
in the New Test. When men are guilty of such con- 
duct as this, no wonder that they were detested in an- 
cient times as were the publicans, and in modern times 
as are the mirijis.” See Publican. 

Tollner, Johann Gottlieb, a German theologian, 
was born Dec. 9, 1724, at Charlottenburg. lie com- 
pleted his studies at the Orphanage and the University 
of Halle under the guidance of Baumgarten, Knapp, 
Michaelis, Wolff, Weber, and Meier, and then became 
private tutor and military chaplain. In 1700 he was 
made professor of theology and philosophy at Frauk- 
fort-on-the-Oder. lie delivered four lectures each day, 
wrote numerous learned books — his practice being to 
write upon one while dictating to an amanuensis the 
contents of another, so that two were in process of si- 
multaneous preparation — and entered into most inti- 
mate and direct relations with his numerous students. 
He was accustomed to conduct devotional meetings af- 
ter the ending of the public services of the Sabbath, and 
to train the students in homiletical and catechetical 
duties. During much of his public life his health w as 
infirm. Extreme terrors sometimes came over him 
when about to ascend the pulpit, and rendered it im- 
possible for him to preach; and upon these followed 
asthma and a racking cough, to which he finally suc- 
cumbed at the. age of forty-nine years, lie died Jan. 
20, 1774, while uttering the word “Overcome.” 

Of Tollner’s writings, the following may perhaps be 
regarded as of chief importance: Gedauken von der 
wuhren Lehrurt in d. dogm. Theologie (1759) : — Grurtd- 
riss der dogm. Theologie (17G0) : — Grnndriss der Moral- 
Theologie (1773 ): — Grundriss der Hermeneutik (1773): 
— Grundriss der Pastornl-Theologie (1773 ): — Der thd- 
tige Gehorsam Christ i (1773 ): — Theologische Untersu- 
chungen (1773). He occupied entirely orthodox ground 
in theology, though the ethics of Christianity held the 
foremost place in his thoroughly practical mind, and 
though he made far-reaching concessions to rational- 
ism. With reference to confessions of faith his position 
w r as independent, and with reference to the contradic- 


TOM AS IX I 


458 


TOMB 


tlons of his time lie stood midway between the ex- 
tremes. The school of Spener and Francke had grad- 
ually come to assume a position of hostility, or at least 
indifference, towards science, and over against it stood 
the scholastic or philosophical school of the Wolf- 
fian type, which undertook to demonstrate everything 
mathematically. Tbllner regarded both extremes as 
overstrained, and adopted t he scientijic method, which 
regarded all dogmatic truths as constituting a science, 
i.e. a learned and comprehensive knowledge, and which 
attempted a logical explanation of every tenet without 
the employment of any illustrations whatsoever. 

Literature .- -1 lambcrger, Celehrtes Deutschland (with 
the tirst supplement by Menscl) ; Mensel, Lexikon </, 
t( ntseben Bchrif'tsteller corn J ah re 1750-1X00; llirseh- 
ing, Hist. -lit. I/andbnch beruhmter u.denktr. Professoren 
des 18/ca J ah rh undents (Loips. 1X18), X 1 V, ii ; Wetzer n, 
Welte, Kit chen- Lex. s. v. ; Herzog, Ileal- Kncyklop. s. v. 

Tomasini, Jacopo Filippo, an Italian prelate, 
was born at Padua, Nov. 17, 1 51)7 ; instructed by Bene- 
detti of Legnano; afterwards entered the congregation 
of the regular canons of St. George, in Alga; and re- 
ceived the degree of doctor at Padua in 1619. lie went 
to Rome, where he was cordially received, especially by 
Urban VIII, who would have appointed him to a bish- 
opric in the island of Candia. At his own request, this 
was exchanged for the see of Citta Nuova, in Istria, to 
which he was consecrated in 1042. There he remained 
until his death, in 1054. lie wrote, IUustriuni Virontm 
Kloffia Iconibus Kxornata (Padua, 1030. 4to; 2d vol. 
1014 ): — Titus Licins Patavimts (ibid, 1030, 4to): — Pe- 
trarcha Jledirirns Intec/ram Poetic Celeberrimi Vitam 
Iconibus .Ere Cielatis Exhibem (ibid. 1635, 4to) : — Claris - 
sinter, Fee mi nee Cassandrce Fidelis 1 Tnetie Epistohe et 
Orationes Post hit mat (ibid. 1030, 12mo): — I)e I)otuir its 
ac TabellU Vat ids, etc. ( U tin. 1039, Ito ): — Lattice 
Ceratie Epistolce, cum Xotis , etc. (Padua, 1040, I2mo) : — 
Pibliothecic Pat it rime Manuscript it, etc. (ibid. 1039,4 to): 
— Bibliot fierce Vender. Manuscripta,Q tc. (Utin. 1050, 4to). 
Sec Chalmers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. 

Tomb a tumulus, Job xxi, 32; elsewhere 

“stack” or “ shock” of corn ; retepog, piajpa, or prijpfiov, 
usually “sepulchre”), The most conspicuous objects in 
Palestine to this day are its tombs, called, according to 
the person commemorated, or t lie purpose of commem- 
oration, keber, or nutzar. or -ice It/. One does not tind 
this to he the case throughout Europe, where tombs are 
not usually conspicuous ; but in Egypt and Syria they 
meet the eye in all directions, and are, with a few excep- 
tions, Mohammedan erections. In Egypt, the tombs of 
its ancient kings, and the more modern tombs of t he 
Mameluke*, are very remarkable and interesting. In the 
Sinaitic desert there are some interesting graveyards, 
dotted with unhewn stones and adorned with the refem , 
or broom ; and one of these places of sepulture is known 
as Turbet-es-Yahnd, the graves of the Jews. There 
is only one conspicuous monument, in it, Kuber Xebi 
llarun, the “tomb of the prophet. Aaron,” on Mount 
I lor. I hit soon after entering Palestine you lind tombs 
in all directions. At Hebron you have the tomb of 
Abraham and the. patriarchs in the well-known cave of 
Maehpelah. (narked or rather concealed by a Moslem 
mosque. On one of the eastern hills, seen from the 
heights above Hebron, yon have the tomb of Lot; far- 
ther on, the tomb of Rachel ; and then, as you approach 
Jerusalem, the tomb of David, outside the modern eitv, 
and the tomb of Samuel, on a height above Gibenu, 
some seven miles to the north-west, greets your eye. 
As you traverse the land you meet with these monu- 
ments in all positions— the tomb of Jonah near Sidon, 
and even the tomb of Abel a little farther north ! 

Resides these conspicuous objects, there are others 
less visible, but quite as remarkable. At Hebron there 
is the Jewish burying-gnmnd covered with large slabs, 
and curious tombs cut in the rock, with loculi on all 
sides, which are probably patriarchal, or at least Jewish. 


Around Jerusalem there are numerous tombs, many of 
them remarkable for their beauty, their size, (heir pe- 
culiar structure. See JiiuusALiiM. Almost all of these 
are Jewish, and give us a good idea of how the man- 
ner of the Jews was to bury,” Whoever could allbrd it 
chose the rock, not the earth, for the covering of his 
body, and preferred to have his body deposited on a 
clean rocky shelf, not let down into and covered over 
with the soil. Hence our ideas of burial are not the 
same as those of the Jews. According to us. there is 
always the letting down into the earth; according to 
them, there is the taking possession of some stony cham- 
ber for t he last sleep. Hence the expression “ buried 
with him by baptism into death” would not to a He- 
brew suggest immersion, as it seems to do to ns, and 
to the early Christian the symbol of baptismal burial 
would be associated with the Lord’s own tomb. 

The tirst mention of a keber, or burying-place, in 
Scripture is in Gen. xxiii, 4, where Abraham asks the 
sons of Heth for t lie “possession of a keber” receiving 
for answer, “In the choice of our kebers bury thy 
dead.” After this there is frequent mention of these 
sepulchres, and some of them are specially singled out 
for notice. Yet Maehpelah was the most memorable; 
and we know not if ever a tomb was more touchingly 
and poetically described than by Jacob on his death-bed 
in Egypt, when, looking back on the land from which 
he was an exile, the land of his fathers* sepulchres, lie 
points as with his Huger to the well-known patriarchal 
burying-place — “There they buried Abraham and 
Sarah his wife; there they buried Isaac and I’ebekah 
his wife ; and there I buried Leah” ((Jen. xlix, 31). 
We have also Kibroth-hataavah, the graves of lust, in 
the wilderness (Numb, xi, 34); the tomb of Joash in 
Ophrali, where Gideon was buried (Jndg. viii, 32); the 
tomb of Manoali between Zorah and Eshtaol, where 
Samson was buried (xvi, 31); the tomb ol'Zeruiah (or 
her husband) in Bethlehem, where Asahel was bmied 
(2 Sam. ii, 32) ; the tomb of Abner in Hebron (iii, 32; 
iv, 12); the tomb in Giloh of Ahithophel’s father, where 
his suicide son was buried; the paternal and maternal 
tomb in Gilead, in which Barzillai sought burial (xix, 
37); the tomb of Kish in Zelali, where the bones of 
Saul and Jonathan were deposited (xxi, 14); the tomb 
of the old prophet in Bethel (I Kings xiii, 30); the 
tomb of Elisha, probably near Jericho (2 Kings xiii, 
21); the tombs of “the children of the people.” in the 
valley of the Kedron (xxiii, 0); the tombs in “the 
Mount,” near Bethel (ver. 10); the tomb or tombs of 
David (Neh. iii, 10); the tombs of the kings (2 Chron. 
xxi, 20), The New-Test, references to “tombs” are 
chiefly in connection with the Lord’s burial. 11 is tomb 
is called sometimes rdcjtoQ (Matt, xxvii, 01), sometimes 
pvi)pa (Luke xxiii, 53), and sometimes pnjptioy (John 
xix, 41 ). 

At. this day the tombs of Syria are either like our 
own, underground, as at Ilebron, Tiberias, and the val- 
ley of Jehoshaphat; or in artificial excavations in 
the rock, as in the ridge south of Jerusalem (Acel- 
dama), the tombs of the prophets on Olivet, the tombs 
of the kings and judges north and north-west of the 
city; or entirely above ground, as the tomb of Rachel, 
of Absalom, of Samuel, and of Joseph. 

All (in Jewish ages) who could bear the cost seem 
to have chosen the rocky excavation for sepulture, as in 
the case of Joseph of Arimatlinea. This is evident from 
such a passage as Isa. xxii, 10. addressed to Slielma the 
treasurer, “ What hast thou here, and whom hast thou 
here, that thou hast hewed thee out a sepulchre here, 
as he that heweth him out a sepulchre on high, that 
graveth an habitation for himself in a rock?” It is 
supposed by Lowth, Scott, Alexander, etc., that Sheb- 
na was a foreigner, and that the questions vdiat and 
irhnm refer to this, implying that he had no right to 
such an honor. It was, perhaps, peculiarly a national 
privilege, so that., as no Gentile could inherit the land, 
none could obtain such a place for a tomb as he could 


TOMBS 


450 


TOMBSTONE 


call his own. The question then would be, “ What con- 
nection hast thou with Israel that thou assumest one of 
Israel’s special privileges V” Possibly, however, he was 
only a person of low origin from a distant, part of the 
country, and of ungodly principles, who vainly thought 
to establish for himself a name and a place in Jeru- 
salem. 

The large tombs, such as those of the kings and 
judges, have no inscriptions; but the tlat stones in the 
valley of Jehoshaphat have their epitaphs, some of con- 
siderable length in Hebrew, with the title at the 
top, that word meaning originally a cippus or pillar (2 
Kings xxiii, 17; Ezek. xxxix, 15), and in Talmiidical 
Hebrew denoting a sign or mark (Levi, Lingua Sacra, 
voh v, s. v.; Carpzov, Xotes on Goodirin, p. 645). This 
last writer tells us that the use of such a mark was spe- 
cially to warn off passers-by lest they should contract 
lincleanuess by touching the grave. For this end, also, 
the tombs were whitewashed every year on the 15th of 
Adar ( Lamy, .■ Apparatus Biblicus , I, xiv). — Fairbairn. 
See SBruLcintti. 

Tombs, John, a learned Baptist divine, was born at 
Bewdley, in Worcestershire, in 1603, and graduated at 
Magdalen Hall. Oxford. There he gained such a dis- 
tinction for ability and learning that he was appointed, 
in 1624, catechetical lecturer, which position he held for 
about seven years. He then, we may presume, took 
orders and went to Worcester, and after tliat to Leomin- 
ster, Hertfordshire, of which he had the living. Being 
obliged to leave it in 1641 by the king’s soldiers, he went 
to Bristol, where the parliamentary general, Fiennes, 
gave him the living of All-Saints’. The next year he 
removed to London, when he made known his scruples 
respecting infant baptism; and not only made no con- 
verts among the clergy, but, being appointed preacher at 
Fenchurch, his congregation refused him both hearing 
and stipend. He accepted a call from Temple Church, 
where he remained four years, when he was dismissed 
for publishing a treatise on infant baptism. After this 
he went to Bewdley, and there formed a Baptist church, 
while he continued minister of the parish, and had also 
the parsonage of Boss given to him. This last he re- 
signed on being made master of Ledbury Hospital; and, 
his parishioners at Bewdley having forsaken him. he was 
restored to his first living at Leominster, and these two 
he held till the Beformation. He died at Salisbury May 
22, 1676. He published many tracts against infant bap- 
tism, Bomanists, and Socinians. See Chalmers, Biog. 
Diet. s. v. 

Tombstone is a mark of a grave, or a monument , 
to remind the passer-by that a person is buried be- 
neath. In the earliest ages a heap of stones, or a sin- 
gle upright stone, such as the menhir, seems to have 
marked the resting-place of t lie dead. Among the ear- 
ly Britons the cromlech — that is, two or three stones 
standing upright, with one or more across them on the 
top — was a common form of tomb. But contemporary 
with them was the simplest of all structures, the mound 
of earth. 

When the llomans came, they brought over with 
them, among other customs, their modes of burial. 
Considering the time of their occupation, the remains 
of their tombs belonging to this period are not so nu- 
merous as might be expected; but still there are sev- 
eral, and in most eases they consisted of a single stone 
with an inscription commonly addressed to one or more 
of the heathen gods. A few instances of stone coffins 
of this period have been found, as at York. To this 
kind of tomb, or rather stone coffin, the name of *w- 
cophngus is usually applied. 

The Saxon marks of interment were probably mounds 
of earth only ; and it is only by the nature of the pottery 
or other implements and articles of dress found in t lie 
graves that the burial-places of the Saxons can be dis- 
tinguished from those of the Britons. Of course among 
the later Saxons, when Christianity prevailed and they 



Roman Coffin, York. 


were buried in the church-yard, more lasting memorials 
were erected, though, with the exception, perhaps, of a 
few doubtful fragments, we have no examples to re- 
fer to. 

The sepulchral monuments throughout the Middle 
Ages were of great importance from an architectural 
point of view; and, while we find them following the 
prevailing style, we frequently find also that on t hem 
was lavished the most elaborate work possible. The 
examples which remain to us are those which were 
placed within the church. No doubt there were 
many tombs of no mean design or work placed in 
the church - yard, hut they have, for the most part, 
perished. 

Of the former we have many of the 12th century 
(some, perhaps, of the 1 1th). The covers of these were 
at first simply coped, afterwards frequently ornamented 
with crosses of various kinds and other devices, and 
sometimes had inscriptions on them; subsequently they 
were sculptured with recumbent figures in high-relief, 
but still generally diminishing in width from the head 
to the feet to fit the coffins of which they formed 
the lids. Many of the figures of this period represent 
knights in armor with their legs crossed; these are 
supposed to have been either Templars, or such as had 
joined, or vowed to join, in a crusade to the Holy Land. 
The figures usually had canopies, which were often rich- 
ly carved over the heads, supported on small shafts 
which ran along each side of the effigy, the whole 
worked in the same block of stone. This kind of tomb 
was sometimes placed beneath a low arch or recess 



TOMBSTONE 


400 


TOMBSTONE 


formed within the substance of the 
church wall, usually about seven feet in 
length, and not more than three feet 
above t lie eotlin, even in the centre. 

These arches were at first semicircular 
or segmental at the top. afterwards 
obtusely pointed; they ofteu remain 
when the figure or brass, and perhaps 
the coffin itself, has long disappeared 
and been forgotten. On many tombs 
of the loth century there are plain pod- Flat Gravestone, Great Milton, Oxfordshire, 

iment-shnped canopies over the heads 

of the recumbent efligies, the earliest of which contain Sir Guv de Brian at Tewkesbury; or flat festoons, as 
a pointed trefoil-arched recess. Towards the end of the the tombs of Edward III and Richard II at Westmin- 
ceutury, these canopies became gradually enriched with ster, and Edward the Black Prince at Canterbury, 
crockets, tiuials, and other architectural details. Towards the middle of the loth century the custom 

In the reign of Edward I the tombs of persons of commenced, and in the earlier part of the 14tli prevail- 
rank began to be. ornamented on the sides with armo- ed, of inlaying flat stone with brasses; and sepulchral 
rial bearings and small sculptured statues within pedi- inscriptions, though they had not yet become general, 
mental canopied recesses; and from these we may pro- are more frequently to be met with. The sides of 
gressively trace the peculiar minulvv and enrichments these tombs are sometimes relieved with niches, sur- 
of every style of ecclesiastical architecture up to the ( mounted by decorated pediments, each containing a 
Reformation. small sculptured figure, sometimes with arched panels 

Altar, or table tombs, called by Leland u high tombs,” filled with tracery. Other tombs about the same peri- 
witli recumbent effigies, arc common during the whole od, but more frequently in the 15th century, were dec- 
of t lie 14th century. These sometimes appear beneath orated along the sides with large square-panelled eom- 
splendid pvramidical canopies, as the tomb of Edward partments, rielilv foliated or quatrefoiled, and contain* 
11 in Gloucester Cathedral, Hugh le Despcnser and ing shields. 




Altar-tomb of Sir Jubu Gierke, Si. Mary’s, Thame, Oxfordshire. 


Many of the tombs of the 
loth and ltitli centuries appear 
beneath arched recesses fixed 
in or projecting from the wall, 
and enclosing the tomb on 
three sides. These were con- 
structed so as to form canopies, 
which arc often of the most 
elaborate and costly workman- 
ship: they are frequently flat 
at the top. particularly in the 
later period. These canopies 
were sometimes ol carved wood 
of very elaborate workman- 
ship; and sometimes the altar- 
tomb of an earlier date was at 
a later period enclosed within 
a screen of open-work, with a 
groined stone canopy, and an 
upper story of wood, forming a 
mortuary chapel or ehantrv, as 
the shrine of St. Frideswide at 
Christ Church, Oxford. 

In the early part- of the Kith 
century the monuments were 
generally of a similar charac- 
ter to those of the preceding 
age; but alabaster slabs with 
figures on them, cut in outline, 
were frequently used. The al- 
tar-tombs with figures in niches, 
carved in bold relief, were also 
frequently of alabaster, which 
was extensively quarried in 
Derbyshire. Towards the mid- 
dle of this century the Italian 
style of architecture had come 
into general use; Wade’s mon- 
ument, in St. Michael’s Church, 
Coventry, 155f>, is a good exam- 
ple of t lie mixture of the two 
styles which then prevailed. 

In the two following centu- 
ries every sort of barbarism was 
introduced on funeral monu- 
ments; but the ancient style 
lingered longer in some places 
than in others. The tomb of 
Sir Thomas Rope, founder of 


TOMLIN E 


461 


TONGA X VERSION 



Bredon, Worcestershire, 


Trinity College, Oxford — who died in 1558 — in the 
chapel of that, society, shows the altar-tomb in its de- 
based form, after the true ivra of Cot hie architecture 
had passed away. 

A few traces of square tombs remain in our church- 
yards, but they are in all cases much decayed by the 
weather. There is also a kind of stone known as a 
head-stone, which is chiefly used in modern times; but 
while there are few mediaeval examples remaining, 
there is no reason to suppose but that they were very 
numerous. One at Temple Bluer is probably of the 
12th century; another at Lincoln is probably of the 
13th. A very simple example from Handborough 
church-yard is possibly of the 15th century. — Barker, 
Gloss, of A related . s. v. 



Tomline, George, D.D., an English prelate, the 
son of George and Susan Bretvman, was born at Bury 
St. Edmund’s, Suffolk. Oct. 9, 1750. He was educated at 
Bury School and at Pembroke Hall, Cambridge, where 
he took his A.B. degree, and was senior wrangler in 
1772. The following year he was elected a fellow of 
his college, and was immediately appointed tutor to Mr. 
Pitt. Between 1773 and 1775 he was ordained deacon 
and priest, and in the Fitter year proceeded A.M., be- 
coming in 1781 moderator of the university, llebeeame 
private secretary to Mr. Pitt when the latter was made 
chancellor of the exchequer, in 1782. hi this year he 
was collated to the rectory of Corwen, in Merioneth- 
shire, and in 1784 he was appointed to a prebendal stall 
in Westminster. He was presented in 1785 to the rectory 
of Sudborne-eum-Offofd, in Suffolk ; and in January, 
1787, was advanced to the bishopric of Lincoln and the 
deanery of St. Paul’s, when he ceased to be private sec- 
retary to Mr. Pitt. In 1813 he refused the see of London, 
ancl continued bishop of Lincoln over thirty-two years, 
being translated to the see of Winchester in July, 1820, 
in which be continued till the time of his death, Nov. 14, 
1827. His publications are, Elements of Christian The- 
ology (1799, 2 vols. 8vo; republished in 19 editions): — 
Exposition of the XXXIX A rtieles , with an Account of 
English Translations of the Bible and Liturgy (Oxf. 1835, 
12mo ): — Refutation of Calvinism (Lond. 1811, 8vo; 4th 


ed. in preparation the same year) ; — Sermons, etc. See 
Engl. Cyclop, s. v. ; Alliboiie, Lid. of Brit, and A filer. 

A ut hors, s. v. 

Tomlinson, George, D.D., a prelate of the 
Church of England, was educaietl at St. John’s Col- 
lege, Cambridge, from which be graduated in 1822. 
After having served for several years as minister of St, 
Matthew’s Chapel, Spring Gardens, Westminster, lie was 
nominated, in 1842, to the bishopric of Gibraltar, which 
extends over Malta and the neighboring islands. He 
died at Gibraltar in 1803. See A mer. Quar. Church Rev . 
April, 1803, p. 154. 

Tomlinson, Joseph Smith, D.IX, a minister of 
the Methodist Episcopal Church, was born in George- 
town, Kv., March 15, 1802. lie was educated at the 
Transylvania University, and was licensed to preach 
before bis graduation in 1825. He was appointed pro- 
fessor of mathematics and natural philosophy of Augusta 
College the same year, and also admitted to the travel- 
ling connection. In due time he was ordained both 
deacon and elder. After having served some time as 
professor of Augusta College, he was chosen its presi- 
dent, and field the office until the institution ceased to 
exist in 1849. He was subsequently elected to a pro- 
fessorship in the Ohio Wesleyan University, Delaware, 
O., but did not accept it, though be aeted as agent for 
the institution for two years. He then accepted a pro- 
fessorship in the Ohio University at Athens, and after 
a year’s service was chosen its president. This lie de- 
clined because of ill-health. Subsequently he was elected 
to the presidency of the Springfield Uigh-school and of 
the State University of Indiana, both of which he de- 
clined under the conviction that the state of his body 
and mind disqualified him for them, lie died at Neville, 
O., June 4, 1853. Dr. Tomlinson was a man of supe- 
rior accomplishments; as a preacher and pulpit orator, 
his high reputation was well founded; and his religious 
life was pure and consistent. See Sprague, Annals of 
the A mer. Pulpit , vii, 70G. 

Tommasi, Giuseppe Maria, a learned Italian car- 
dinal, and son of Julius Tommasi, duke of Palma, was 
born at Alieata, Sicily, Sept. 14, 1049. He entered the 
society of the Theatines, and cardinal Albani, when he 
became pope, appointed him first qualilicator of the Holy 
Office, then eonsultor of the Congregation of the Bites, 
and lastly cardinal (May 18, 1712). This last, honor he 
did not long enjoy, as his death occurred Jail. 1, 1713. 
In the Vatican and other libraries Tommasi discovered 
many manuscripts of importance in ecclesiastical his- 
tory, and published. Codices Sacramentorum Xongentis 
A nnis Vetustiores (1080, 4to), a collection of MSS. : — 
Responsoria et A ntiphonaria (1080). See Chalmers, 
Biog. Diet. s. v. ; Hoefer, Xouv. Blog. General e, s. v. 

Tonga n Version. The Tonga dialect, belonging 
to the Polynesian or Malayan languages, is spoken in 
Tonga, or Tonga taboo, the largest oft he Friendly Islands. 
In 1850 it was estimated to contain 9000 inhabitants, of 
whom considerably more than half had been converted 
to Christianity, the Protestants among them numbering 
5000. As early as 1797 the London Missionary Society 
had sent nine missionaries to that island, but they had 
to give up that station on account of the ferocious dis- 
position of the natives. The agents of the Wesleyan 
Missionary Society were at length enabled, in 1820, to 
settle peaeeablv in Tonga, and they now extend the 
blessings of Christian instruction to all the islands of 
this archipelago. At first only detached portions of 
Scriptures were translated into Tongan, until, in the 
year 1847, the version of the New Test, was completed, 
and an edition of 4000 copies left the mission press at * 
Vavan. A new edition, consisting of 10,000 copies, was 
furnished in 1852 hv the British and Foreign Bible So- 
ciety; and, owing to the rapid circulation of this edi- 
tion, another of 10,000 copies was undertaken in 1800, 
under the editorial care of the Bev. Thomas West, In 
the same year the preparation for translating, printing, 


TOXGS 


462 TONGUE 


etc., of the Old Testament was commenced, which was 
completed in 1863. As to the results of the dissemina- 
tion of the Word of God, we may notice that up to 
March 31, 1 879, 28, 1 SO copies, either in part or in whole, 
were circulated. (B. I*.) 

Tongs is the rendering, in the A. V., of two Ileb. 
words : 1, melkacha'yini (l Kings vii, 49; 2 

Ohron. iv, 21; Isa. vi, 6), or malkacha'yim 

(Exod. xxv, 38; xxvii, 23 [“snuffers”]; Numb, iv, 9), 
both from njr J, to take , and signifying prop, pincers , 
either for holding coals or for trimming a lamp [see 
►Snuffers] ; and 2. nsr/?, maatsdd (Isa. xliv, 12), an 
axe (<|, v.) (as rendered in Jer. x, 3), from to fell a 

tree. 

Tongue (V-^, htshon , y\w<x(xa) is used in Scripture 
in various senses. 

1. It stands, literally, for the human tongue (Jndg. 
vii, 5 ; Job xxvii, 4 ; Psa. xxxv, 28 ; xxxix, 1, 3 ; li, 14 ; 
Ixvi, 17; Brov. xv, 2; Zech. xiv, 12; Mark vii, 33, 35; 
Luke i, 64 ; xvi, 24; Bom. iii, 13; l Cor. xiv, 9; James 
i, 26 ; iii.5, 0,8; 1 Pet. iii, 10 ; Rev. xvi, 10 ; Levies, xvii, 
t; ; wisd. x, 21; 2 31 ace. vii, 4): and so for the tongue 
of the dog (Psa. Ixviii, 23), of the viper (Job xx, 16), of 
idols (Baruch vi, 8); the tongues of the seven brethren 
cut out (2 Mace, vii, 4, 10; comp. Prow x, 20). 

Various explanations have been offered why (in the 
passage first cited above) Gideon’s three hundred fol- 
lowers should have been selected because they lapped 
water out of their hands, standing or perhaps moving 
onward, while they who stayed and “bowed down to 
drink” were rejected. Josephus says that the former 
thereby showed t heir timoronsness and fear of being 
overtaken bv the enemy, and that these poor-spirited 
men were chosen on purpose to illustrate the power of 
God in the victory (.1 nf , v, 6, 3). 

On 31 ark vii, 33, 35, Dr. A. Clarke offers the interpreta- 
tion that it was the deaf and stammering man himself 
who put his own fingers into his ears to intimate his 
deafness; spat or emptied his mouth that the Saviour 
might look at his tongue; touched his own tongue to 
intimate t hat lie could not speak; looked up to heaven 
as imploring divine aid; and groaned to denote his dis- 
tress under his affliction; and that our Saviour simply 
said, “Be opened” (Commentary). This explanation 
certainly clears the passage of some obscurities. 

James iii, 8, I)r. 31acknigbt translates, “But tbe 
tongue of men no one can subdue;” that is, the tongue 
of other men, for the apostle is exhorting the Christian 
to subdue his own (comp. ver. 13). He observes that 
(Ecumenius read the passage interrogatively, as much 
as to say, “ Wild beasts, birds, serpents, marine animals, 
have been tamed by man, and can no man tame the 
tongue?” 

2. It is personified. “Unto me every tongue shall 
swear.” that is, every man (Tsa. xiv, 23; comp. Bom. 
xiv, 11 ; Bhil. ii, 11 ; Isa, li v, 17). 'flic tongue is said 
to rejoice (Acts ii. 26) ; to meditate (Bsa. Iii, 2); to hate 
(Brov. xxvi, 28); to be bridled (James i, 26); to be 
tamed (iii, 8 ; comp. Ecclus. xxviii, 18, etc.). It is apos- 
trophized (Bsa. exx, 3). 

3. It is used by metonymy for speech generally, “Let 
us not love in tongue only” (1 John iii, 18; comp. yXdnrtTi} 
<piXog, Theogn. lxiii, 13 ; Jobvi,30; xv,5; Brov. vi, 24); 
“a soft tongue,” i.e. soothing language (xxv, 15); “ac- 
cuse not a servant to his master," literally “hurt not 
with thy tongue” (xxx, 10); “the law of kindness is 
in her tongue,” i. e. speech (xxxi, 26; Isa. iii, 8; 1, 4; 
Wisd. i, 6). On the “confusion of tongues,” see Bauer; 
Ethnology; Lan<;u\<;k, etc. 

4. For a particular lanyuage or dialect spoken by any 
particular people, “ Every one after his tongue” (Gen. 
x, 5, 20, 31); so also in Dent, xxviii, 49; Esth. i, 22 ; 
Dan. i, 4; John v, 2 ; Acts i, 19; ii, 4, 8, 11; xxvi, 14; 1 
Cor. xii, 10; xiii, 1 ; xiv, 2; Lew xvi, 16). 

5. For the people speaking a language (Isa. Ixvi, 18 ; 


Dan. iii, 4,7, etc.; Rev, v, 9; vii, 9; x, 11 ; xi, 9; xiv, 
6 ; xvii, 15). 

6. It is used fyuraticely for anything resembling a 
tongue in shape. Thus, “ a wedge of gold,” literally 
a “ tongue” (Josh, vii, 21, 24 ; yXiooaa pin XP V(T U 5 Vulg. 
reynla an re a). The French still say, tin l ingot d'or, “a 
little tongue of gold,” whence, by corruption, our word 
“ingot.” “ The bay that looketh southward,” literally 
“tongue” (xv, 2; xviii, 19); “a tongue of lire” (Isa. v, 
24 ; comp. Acts ii, 3 ; Isa. xi, 15), 

7. Some of the Hebrew idiom phrases, etc., formed 

of this word are highly expressive. Thus, “ an evil- 
speaker” (Bsa. cxl, 11 ; "p — 3 UTN, literally “a man of 
tongue;” comp. Ecclus. viii, 3, and see Eceles. x, 11, 
Hebrew, or margin); “a froward” or rather “false 
tongue” (Brov. x. 31; m^Enn “a tongue of 

revolvings”); “a wholesome tongue” (Brov. xv, 4; 

"Vrb, literally “the healing of the tongue,” reconcilia- 
tion, etc,; Sept, iaaig yXiorjaijg, lingua plaealdlis)\ “a 
backbiting tongue” (Brov. xxv, 23 ; “TO, secret); “slow 
of speech” (Exod. iv, 10; yirb ^-2. literally “heavy 
of tongue,” unfit to be an orator, (3pa£uyXiofT(Jog ; con- 
trast Ecclus. iv, 29); “the tongue of the stammerer” 
(Isa. xxxii, 4), i. e. rude, illiterate (comp, xxxv, 6; on 
Isa. xxviii, 11, see Lowth), In xxxiii, 19, it means a 
foreign language., which seems gibberish to those who 
do not understand it (comp. Ezek. iii, 5); “the tongue 
of the learned” (Isa. 1, 4), i. e. of the instructor. The 
lexicons will point out many other instances. 

S. Some metaphorical expressions are highly signifi- 
cant. Thus, Hos. vii, 16, “the rage of the tongue,” i. e. 
verbal abuse; “strife of tongues” (Bsa. xxxi, 20); 
“ scourge of the tongue” (Job v, 21 [see Execration] ; 
comp. Ecclus. xxvi, 6; xxviii, 17); “snare of the slan- 
derous tongue” (li, 2); on the phrase “strange tongue” 
(Isa. xxviii, 1 1), see Lowth, notes on ver. 9-12, and af- 
terwards the vivid rendering of the Vulg. ; “ to slip with 
the tongue” (Ecclus. xx, 18; xxv, 8), i. e. use inadver- 
tent or unguarded speech; “they bend their tongues, 
their bows, for lies” (Jer. ix, 3), i. e. tell determined and 
malicious falsehoods; “they sharpen their tongues” 
(Psa. civ, 3), i. e. prepare cutting speeches (comp, lvii, 4) ; 
“ to smooth the tongue” (Jer. xxiii, 31), employ flatter- 
ing language; “to smite with the tongue” (Jer. xviii, 
18), i. e. to traduce — if it should not be rendered, “ on the 
tongue,” alluding to a punishment for false witness; “ to 
lie in wait with the tongue” (Ecclus. v, 14); “to stick 
out the tongue” (Isa. lvii, 4), i. e. to mock ; “ against any 
of the children of Israel shall not a dog move his tongue” 
(Exod. xi, 7), i. e. none shall hurt them; but both Sept, 
and Vulg. have “not a dog belonging to the children 
of Israel shall howl,” which, as opposed to the “great 
cry” in Egypt over the first-born, means, not one of the 
children of Israel shall have cause to wail (Josh, x, 21 ; 
Judith xi, 9). “To hide under the tongue” means to 
have in the mouth, whether spoken of hidden wicked- 
ness (Job xx, 12 ; comp. Bsa. x, 7) or delicious language 
(Cant, iv, 11); “the word of God in the tongue” tie- 
notes inspiration (2 Sam, xxiii, 2); “to divide the 
tongues of the wicked” is to raise up dissensions among 
them (Bsa. Iv, 9; comp. 2 Sam. xv, 34; xvii, 14, 15). 
“The tongue cleaving to the palate” signifies profound 
attention (dob xxix, 10) or excessive thirst (Lam. iv, 
4; comp, xxii, 16); “to cause the tongue to cleave to 
the palate” is to inflict supernatural dumbness (Ezek. 
iii, 26; Bsa. cxxxvii, 6). To gnaw one’s tongue is a 
sign of fury, despair, and torment (Rev. xvi, 10). 

9. Some beautiful comparisons occur. “An evil tongue 
is a sharp sword” (Bsa. lvii, 4) ; “ the tongue of the wise 
is health” (1 ’row xii, 18) ; “ like choice silver” (x, 20), i. e. 
his words are solid, valuable, sincere, 

10. The vices of the tongue are specified in great va- 
riety : flattery (Bsa. v, 9; Brov. xxviii, 33); backbiting 
(Bsa. xv, 3), literally “run about with the tongue” 
(Brov. xxv, 23) ; deceit (Psa. 1, 19) ; unrestrained speech 


TONGUE 


463 TONGUES. CONFUSION OF 


0xxiii,9); lying (cix,2); “ a lying tongue hafeth those 
that are afflicted by it” (Prov. xxvi,28; comp. Tacit. Agr. 
42,“Proprium hnmani ingeuii est,odisse ipieni keseris”). 
“ They have taught their tongue to speak lies, and weary 
themselves to commit iniquity” (Jer. ix. 5) — words which 
beautifully illustrate the fact that falsehood and vice are 
not natural, but are a restraint and compulsion upon nat- 
ure: “double-tongued” (1 Tim. iii, 8), ckAwyoc, saying one 
thing to this man and another to that (comp. Ecclus. v, 
9, 14; xxviii, 13). The retribution of evil-speakers is 
represented as brought on themselves (Psa. Ixiv, 8). 

11. The virtuous uses of the tongue are specified: 
“keeping the tongue” (Psa. xxxiv, 13; 1 Pot. iii, 10; 
Prov. xxi, 23); “ruling the tongue” (Ecclus. xix, G; 
James i,2(>); the origin of the right and wrong use of 
the tongue traced to the heart (Matt. xii,34). 

12. Mistranslations : as “holding the tongue;” the 
Hebrews had no such idiom (Psa. xxxix, 2; Ecclus. xx, 
1,7; comp, the Bible and Prayer-book version of llab. 
i. 13). In Ezra iv, 7, “the Syrian tongue,” literally 
“in Syriac” (Esth. vii, 4). Our mistranslation of Prov. 
xvi, 1 has misled many: “ The preparations of the heart 
in man, and the answer of the tongue, is from the Lord;” 
literally, “Of man are the dispositions of the heart, but 
a hearing of the tongue is of the Lord.” 

13. The miraculous gift of tongues, as well as its cor- 
responding gift of interpretation, lias been t lie subject 
of two opinions. It was promised by Christ to believ- 
ers : they shall speak yXwooatg Katvalc (Mark xvi, 17); 
and fulfilled at Pentecost, when the apostles and their 
companions “began to speak irtpatg y\w<T<Jatg v (Acts ii, 
4,11; comp. Acts x, 46; xix, 6; 1 Cor. xii,30; xiv,2,39). 
In the last passage we have “to pray in a tongue” (ver. 
14), “to speak words in a tongue” (ver. 19), “tongues” 
(l Cor. xii, 10,28; xiii, 8; xiv, 22,20). The obvious 
explanation of most of these passages is, to speak in 
other living languages , the supernatural acquisition of 
which demonstrated the truth of the Gospel, and was a 
means of diffusing it. Some verses in 1 Cor. xiv, how- 
ever, have given rise to the notion of a strange, ecstatic, 
inspired, unearthly language; but these all admit of a 
different solution. In ver. 2, “he who speaketh in a 
tongue” evidently means, he who speaks some foreign 
living language; the supplied word “ unknown” in the 
A, Y. is needless, and misleads the English reader. It 
is further said that “he editieth himself” (which, as 
Macknight justly pleads, required that he should un- 
derstand himself), and editieth the Church also if an in- 
terpreter were present (ver. 28). The apostle says (ver. 
14), “If T pray in a tongue, my spirit prayeth, but my 
understanding is unfruitful,” which words in English 
seem to intimate that the speaker might not understand 
himself; hut the words 6 oi vovg gov" signify “my 
meaning ” (comp, ii, 16; Yulg. “seusimi Domini”), or, as 
Hammond and Sehleusner say, “ my faculty of think- 
ing upon and explaining to others the meaning of what 
I utter” (comp. ver. 15, 19), though in ver. 15 some take 
T<g i’oi as a datirus commodi , and render “that others 
may understand.” The key to the difficulties of this 
subject is the supposed absence of an inspired interpret- 
er (ver. 28). in which case the gift would not be prof ta- 
ble to t he hearers. The gift of tongues was to cease (1 
Cor. xiii, 8). Irenaws testifies (v, 6) that it subsisted in 
the Church in his time. When Paul says, that though 
he should speak with the tongue of men and of angels, 
it would be nothing without charity, he uses a sup- 
posed hyperbole; as when we say, angelical beauty, an- 
gelical voice, etc., e. g. “ 1 would have every one set a 
due value on the gift of tongues; but though a man 
possessed the most exquisite eloquence, this inestimable 
gift would be of little use to him, as to salvation, if he 
be without charity.” ISee Macknight, Xotes on 1 Cor. 
xiv; Olshausen, Comment, on Acts ii , 4; Neander, I list, 
of the Apostolic Age. and in Hibl. Repos. iv, 249, etc.; 
Stosch, A rcheeol. (Econ. X. T. p. 93; Gataker, ad M. 
Anton, p. 120; and Ernesti, Lex. Techn. Gr. Rhet. p. 62. 
— Kitto. See Spiritual Gifts. 


Tongues, Confusion of. The Biblical account 
of this is given in the usual anthropomorphic style of 
Scripture in Gen. xi, 19, and has been the occasion of 
much discussion and speculation. To inquire into the 
date of this part of Genesis would lead us into a long 
discussion: it may be sufficient to express an opinion 
that the indications of x, 12 perhaps (strangely ignored 
by most writers), and ver. 18 certainly, seem to point 
to an age much before that of Moses. See below. We 
propose under the present head to treat the subject un- 
der two aspects, the historical and the linguistic, using 
for that purpose whatever material we find appropriate 
in the dictionaries of Kitto and Smith. 

I. The Event. — The part of the narrative relating to 
the present subject thus commences: “And the whole 
earth [or land, was of one language [or lip, 

nS'J] and of one speech [or woj'ds, The 

journey and the building of the tower are then related, 
and the divine determination to “confound their lan- 
guage that they may not understand one another’s 
speech.” The scattering of the builders and the dis- 
continuance of the building of the city having been nar- 
rated, it is added, “Therefore is the name of it called 
Babel, because the Lord did there confound the lan- 
guage of all the earth, and [or you] from thence did 
the Lord scatter them abroad upon the face of all the 
earth” (Gen. xi, 1-9). 

1. Character of the Infliction. — An orderly and peace- 
ful distribution and migration of the families descended 
from Nnali had been directed by divine authority and 
carried into general effect. But there was a part of 
mankind who would not conform themselves to this 
wise and benevolent arrangement. This rebellious 
party, having discovered a region to their taste, deter- 
mined to remain in it. They built their houses in con- 
tiguity, and proceeded to the other method described 
for guarding against any further division of their com- 
pany. This was an act of rebellion against the divine 
government. The omniscient and righteous God there- 
fore frustrated it by inflicting upon them a remarkable 
affection of the organs of speech, which produced dis- 
cord and separation. 

At the same time, we cannot dogmatically affirm that 
this infliction was absolutely and visibly miraculous. It 
is an undeniable character of the scriptural idiom, espe- 
cially in the Old Test., that verbs denoting direct effi- 
ciency are used when only mediate action is to be under- 
stood, or permission, or declaration. Instances are nu- 
merous, e. g. “ God caused me to wander” (Gen. xx, 13) ; 
“I have made — given — sustained” (xxvii. 37); the 
“hardening of wicked men’s hearts” (Exod. vii; Isa, 
vi, etc.) ; “ I will come up into the midst of them” (Exod. 
xxxiii, 5). All such declarations are perfectly true. 
The Infinitely Wise and Holy and Powerful work- 
eth all things according to the counsel of his own will, 
as much when his operation is through the instrumen- 
tality of rational creatures and the free exercise of their 
own faculties as when there is a miraculous interven- 
tion. Shuckforcl inclines at least to the opinion that 
the whole was the result of natural and moral second 
causes, fulfilling the purposes of the Most High ( Connect . 
of Hist, i, 133-135). This view, however, does not 
seem to meet adequately the judicial character of the 
passage. 

Still it is unnecessary to assume that the judgment 
indicted on the builders of Babel amounted to a loss, or 
even a suspension, of articulate speech. The desired 
object would be equally attained by a miraculous fore- 
stalment of those dialectical differences of language 
which are constantly in process of production, but 
which, under ordinary circumstances, require time and 
variations of place and habits to reach such a point of 
maturity that people are unable to understand one an- 
other’s speech. The elements of the one original lan- 
guage may have remained, but so disguised by varia- 
tions of pronunciation, and by the introduction of new 


TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 464 TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 


combinations, as to be practically obliterated. Each 
section of the human family may have spoken a tongue 
unintelligible to the remainder, and yet containing a 
suhj-t ra turn which was common to all. Our own expe- 
rience suffices to show how completely even dialectical 
differences render strangers unintelligible to one an- 
other; and if we further take into consideration the dif- 
ferences of habits and associations, of which dialectical 
differences are the exponents, we shall have no difficul- 
ty in accounting for the result described by the sacred 
historian. 

2. / fate of the Incident.— 'This is not definitely given 
in the sacred narratives. By many interpreters it is 
thought that we cannot satisfactorily place it so early 
as at one hundred years after the Flood, as it is in the 
com monl v received chronology, and hence they are in- 
clined to 'one of the larger systems— that of the Septua- 
gint, which gives five hundred and thirty years, or that 
of .Josephus, adopted, with a little emendation, by Dr. 
Dales, w hielt gives six hundred years; and thus we 
have at least five centuries for the intervening period. 
Prof. Wallace, in his elaborate work, makes it more 
than eight centuries (Dissertation on the True Age of 
the World and the Chronology to the Christian yEra 
[1811], p. 298). We see no reason to depart from the 
usu il view, countenanced by the position of the inci- 
dent in the context and the express indication in Gen. 
xi, 2 (“as they journeyed from the east”), that it took 
place not very long after the Deluge. 

3. Extent of the Catastrophe.— Upon the question 
whether all of mankind were engaged in this act of 
concerted disobedience, or only a part, we confess our- 
selves unable to adduce irrefragable evidence on either 
side, but we think that there is a great preponderance 
of argument on the part of the latter supposition. The 
simple phraseology of the text wears an appearance of 
favoring the former; but t he extreme brevity and in- 
sulated character of these primeval fragments forbid 
our arguing from the mere juxtaposition of the first and 
the second sentence. It is a common idiom in Hebrew 
that a pronoun, whether separate or suffixed, stands at 
the introduction of a new subject, even when that sub- 
ject may be different and remote from the nearest pre- 
ceding, and requires to be supplied by the intelligence 
of the reader (see. e. g.. l’sa. ix, 13 [12]; xviii, 15 [14]; 
xliv, 3 [2] : Ixv, 10 [9] ; cv, 37). So far as the gram- 
matical structure is concerned, we may regard the two 
sentences as mutually independent, and that, therefore, 
the question is open to considerations of reason and 
probability. It is difficult to suppose that Noah and 
Shem, and all others of the descendants of Noah, were 
confederates in this proceeding. Hence the opinion 
has been maintained, more or less definitely, by many 
critics and expositors that it was perpetrated by only a 
part of mankind, chiefly, if not solely, the posterity of 
Ham, and upon the instigation and under the guidance 
of Nimrod, who (Gen. x, 10) is declared to have had 
Babel for the head place of his empire. The latter part 
of this position is asserted bv .Josephus, and the whole 
by Augustine and other ancients. Of modern writers 
who have maintained this opinion, we may specify Lu- 
ther, Calvin (by apparent implication), Cornelius si La- 
pide. Bonfrere, Poole (in his English Annotations), Pat- 
rick, Wells, Samuel Clarke (the annotator), Henry (by 
implication) ; narratives derived from Arabian and Hin- 
di! sources, in Charles Taylor's Illustrations of Cal met. 
frag. 528; and the late Jacob Bryant, who, though too 
imaginative and sanguine a theorist, and defective in 
his knowledge of the Oriental tongues, often gives us 
valuable collections of facts, and sound reasonings from 
them. A considerable part of his celebrated work, the 
Analysis of Ancient Mythology, is occupied with tracing 
the historical vestiges of the builders of Babel, whom, 
on grounds of high probability at least, he regards as 
Cuthites (assumed to he a dialectic variety for Cush- 
ites), the descendants of Cush, the son of Ham, but 
with whom were united many dissatisfied and apostate 


individuals of the branches of Japheth. Dr. Doig, in 
the article “ Philology, ” in the Encydop. Britnnniea 
(7th ed. 18 J2), has entered at some length into this 
question, and arrives at the following conclusion; 
‘•From these circumstances, we hope it appears that 
the whole mass of mankind was not engaged in build- 
ing tlte tower of Babel ; that the language of all the’ hu- 
man race was not confounded upon that occasion, and 
that the dispersion reached only to a combination of 
Hamites,and of the most profligate part of the two oth- 
er families who had joined their wicked confederacy.” 
Nevertheless, as this was the first occurrence of any dia- 
lectical variety, it is properly given by the sacred writer 
as the initial point of that wide ethnic diversity of 
tongues which has since gradually spread over the earth. 

4. Traces of the Event . — (l.) Monumental. — The his- 
tory of the confusion of languages was preserved at 
Babylon, as we learn by the testimonies of classical and 
Babylonian authorities (Abydenus, Fragm. Hist. Cnee. 
[ed. Didot], vol. iv). Only the Chald;eans themselves 
did not admit the Hebrew etymology of the name of 
their metropolis; they derived it from Bab-el , the door 
of El ( Krouos, or Saturuus), whom Diodorus Siculus 
states to have been the planet most adored by the Baby- 
lonians. 

The Talmudists say that the true site of the tower 
of Babel was at Borsif, the Greek Borsippa, the llirs 
Nimriid, seven miles and a half from Hillah, S.W., and 
nearly eleven miles from the northern ruins of Baby- 
lon. Several passages state that the air of Borsippa 
makes forgetful (HZ'^'Z “PIN, avir mashkach) ; and 
one rabbi says that Borsif is Bulsif, the confusion of 
tongues (Bereshith Rabba, fol. 42, p. 1). The Babylonian 
name of this locality is Barsip. or Barzipa, which we ex- 
plain by “ Tower of Tongues.” The French expedition 
to Mesopotamia found at the Birs Nimrnd a clay cake, 
dated from Barsip the 30th day of the 6th month of the 
16th year of Nabonid, and the discovery confirmed the 
hypothesis of several travellers, who had supposed the 
Birs Nimrfnl to contain the remains of Borsippa. 

Borsippa (the Tongue Tower) was formerly a suburb 
of Babylon, when the old Babel was merely restricted 
to the northern ruins, before the great extension of the 
city, which, according to ancient writers, was the great- 
est that the sun ever warmed with its beams. Nebu- 
chadnezzar included it in the great circumvallation of 
480 stades, but left it out of the second wall of360stades; 
and when the exterior wall was destroyed by Darius, 
Borsippa became independent of Babylon. The histori- 
cal writers respecting Alexander state that Borsippa 
had a great sanctuary dedicated to Apollo and Artemis 
(Strabo, xvi, 739 ; Stephanns Byz. s. v. \iop<rnnra), and 
the former is the building elevated in modern times on 
the very basement of the old tower of Babel. 

This building, erected by Nebuchadnezzar, is the 
same that Herodotus describes as the tower of Jupiter 
Bel us. In the Expedition en Mesopotamie , i, 208, there 
is given a description of this ruin, proving the identity. 
This tower of Herodotus has nothing to do with the 
pyramid described by Strabo, which is certainly to be 
seen in the remains called now Bahil (the Mujellibeh 
of Rich). The temple of Borsippa is written with an 
ideogram (bit-zi-da ), composed of the signs for house 
and spirit (anima), the real pronunciation of which was 
probably sarakh, tower. 

The temple consisted of a large substructure, a stade 
(six hundred Babylonian feet) in breadth and seventy- 
five feet in height, over which were built seven other 
stages of twenty-five feet each. Nebuchadnezzar gives 
notice of this building in the Borsippa inscription. He 
named it the temple of the Seven Lights of the Earth , 
i. e. the planets. The top was the temple of Neho, and 
in the substructure ( igar ) was a temple consecrated to 
the god Sin, god of the month. This building, men- 
tioned in the East India House inscription (col. iv, I. 61), 
is spoken of by Herodotus (i, 181, etc.). 


TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 4C5 TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 


Here follows the Borsippa inscription : 

“Nabuchodouosor, king of Babylon, shepherd of peo- 
ples, who attests the immutable affection of Merodach, 
the mighty ruler -exalting Npbo ; the savior, the wise 
man who lends his ears to the orders of the highest god ; 
the lieutenant without reproach, the repairer of the Pyra- 
mid and the Tower, eldest son of Nabopallassar, king of 
Babylon. 

“ VVe say : Merodach, the great master, has created me : 
he has imposed on me to reconstruct his building. Nebo, 
the guardian over the legions of the heaven and the earth, 
has charged my hands with the sceptre of justice. 

“The "Pyramid is the temple of the heaveu and the 
earth, the seat of Merodach, the chief of the gods ; the 
place of the oracles, the spot of his rest, I have adorned 
in the form of a cupola, with shining gold. 

“The Tower, the eternal house, which I founded and 
built, I have completed its magnificence with silver, gold, 
other metals, stone, enamelled bricks, fir, and pine. 

“The first, which is the house of the earth’s base, the 
most ancient monument of Babylon, 1 built and finished 
it; I have highly exalted its head with bricks covered 
with copper. 

“ We say for the other, that is, this edifice, the house of 
t he Seven Lights of the Earth, the most ancient monu- 
ment of Borsippa: A former king built it (they reckon 
l'orty-two ages), hut he did not complete its head. Since 
a remote time people had abandoned it , without order ex- 
pressing their words. Since that time, the earthquake and 
the thunder had dispersed its sun-dried clay; the bricks 
of the casing had beeu split, and the earth of the interior 
had been scattered in heaps. Merodach, the great lord, 
excited my mind to repair this building. I did not change 
the site, nor did I take away the foundation-stone. In a 
fortunate month, an auspicious day, 1 undertook to build 
porticos around the crude brick masses, and the casing 
of burnt bricks. I adapted the circuits. I pm the in- 
scription of my name in {\\e.Kitir of the porticos. 

“ I set my band to finish it, and to exalt its head. As it 
had been in former times, so I founded, I made it; as it 
had beeu in ancient days, so I exalted its summit. 

“Nebo, sou of himself, ruler who exaltest Merobach, be 
propitious to my works to maintaiu my authority. Grant 
me a life until the remotest time, a sevenfold progeny, 
the stability of my throne, the victory of my sword, the 
pacification of foes, the triumph over the lands 1 In the 
columns of thy eternal table, that fixes the destinies of 
the heaveu and of the earth, bless the course of my days, 
iuscribe the fecundity of my race. 

“Imitate, O Merodach, king of heaven and earth, the 
father who begot thee; bless my bnildiugs, strengthen 
iny authority. May Nebuchadnezzar, the king-repairer, 
remain before thy face 1” 

This allusion to the Tower of the Tongues is the only 
one that has as yet been discovered in the cuneiform 
inscriptions (see Expedition en J/esopotamie, i, 208). 
The story is a Shemitic and not merely a Hebrew one, 
and we have no reason whatever to doubt of the exist- 
ence. of the same story at Babylon. The ruins of the 
building elevated on the spot where the story placed 
the tower of the dispersion of tongues have therefore a 
more modern origin, but interest, nevertheless, by their 
stupendous appearance. See Babel. 

(2.) Historical . — The following are the principal pas- 
sages of ancient authors, rescued from the wreck of time 
by the quotations of Josephus and Eusebius. It scarce- 
ly need be said that we do not adduce these fragments 
as authorities in any other sense than that they repeat 
the traditional narratives which had descended from 
the remotest antiquity among the people to whom they 
relate. The “Sibyl” cited by Josephus is the fictitious 
appellation of some unknown author, probably about 
the 2d century B.C. Alexander Cornelius Polyhistor 
flourished about one hundred years before Christ. Eu- 
polemus was probably an Asiatic Greek, two or three 
centuries earlier. Abydenus (if he was Palcephatus) 
lived in the middle of the 4th century B.C. 

“Concerning this tower, and the discordance of lan- 
guage among men, the Sibyl also makes mention, saying 
thus: ‘All men having one language, some of them built 
a very high tower, as if they proposed by means of it to 
climb to heaven ; but the gods, by sending storms of 
wind, overthrew the tower, and gave to each person a pe- 
culiar language ; and on this account the city came to be 
called Babylon’” (Josephus, Ant. i, 4, 3). 

The Sibyl here quoted may be that very ancient 
anonymous authority to which we have obscure refer- 
ences (in the discourse of Theophilus to Autolycus) in 
X.— G g 


Plutarch’s Morals, in Virgil’s Pollio , and in the Stro- 
mata of Clemens Alexandrinus. 

“Alexander Polyhistor— a man of the highest celebrity 
for talents and attainments, in the estimation of those 
Greeks who are the most profoundly and accurately learn- 
ed — has the following passage: 1 Eupolemus, in his book 
concerning the Jews of Assyria, says that the city of Bab- 
ylon was first built by those who had been preserved from 
the Deluge; lhat they were giants [the Greeks used this 
word to signify, not so much men of enormous stature as 
their mythological heroes, of great prowess, and defying 
the gods]; that they also erected the tower of which his- 
tory gives account; but that it was overthrown by the 
mighty power from God, and consequently the giants 
were scattered abroad over the whole earth’ ” (Eusebius, 
Pro-par. Evany, col. 1688). 

“Further, with respect to the narrative of Moses con- 
cerning the building of the tower, and how, from one 
tongue, they were confounded so as to be brought into 
the use of many dialects, the author before mentioned 
[Abydenus], in his book concerning the Assyrians, gives 
his confirmation in these words: 4 There are some who 
say that the first men sprang out of the earth ; that they 
boasted of their strength and size; that they contemptu- 
ously maintained themselves to he superior to the gods; 
that they erected a lofty tower where now is Babylon ; 
then, when it had been carried on almost up to heaven, 
the very winds came to assist the gods, and overthrew the 
vast structure upon its builders. Its ruins were called 
Babylon. The men, who before had possessed one tongue, 
were brought by the gods to a many-sounding voice ; and 
afterwards war arose between Kronos [Saturn] and Ti- 
tan. Moreover, the place in which they built the tower 
is now called Babylon, on account of the confusing of the 
prior clearness with respect to speech ; for the Hebrews 
call confusion Babel’” (Eusebius, Prcvpar. Evahg. ix, 14). 

Abydenus, the Grecian historian of Assyria, is known 
to ns only by citations in Eusebius, Cyril of Alexandria, 
and Syncellus, but they confirm his respectability as a 
writer. 

On the event under discussion, see the Latin mono- 
graphs by Linck (Vitemb. 1650), Zobell (ibid. 1664), 
vSchroeder (Groning. 1752), Kanne (Norirnb. 1819), ami 
in. English bv Wetton (Loud. 1732); also the literature 
cited by Darling, Cyclop. JHbliog. col. 179, 180. 

11. Philological and Ethnological Considerations . — 
The unity of the human race is most clearly implied, 
if not positively asserted, in the Mosaic writings. The 
general declaration “So God created man in his own 
image, . . . male and female created he them” (Gen. i, 
27) is limited as to the mode in which the act was car- 
ried out by the subsequent narrative of the creation 
of the protoplast Adam, who stood alone on the earth 
amid the beasts of the field until it pleased Jehovah 
to create “an help meet for him” out of the very sub- 
stance of his body (ii, 22). From this original pair 
sprang the whole antediluvian population of the world; 
and hence the author of the book of Genesis conceived 
the unity of the human race to be of the most rigid 
nature — not simply a generic unity, nor, again, simply 
a specific unity (for unity of species may not be incon- 
sistent with a plurality of original centres), but a spe- 
cific based upon a numerical unity, the species being 
nothing else than the enlargement of t lie individual. 
Such appears to be the natural meaning of the first 
chapters of Genesis when taken by themselves; much 
more so when read under the reflected light of the New 
Test.; for not only do we meet with references to the 
historical fact of such an origin of the human race — 
e. g. in Paul’s declaration that God “ hath made of one 
blood every nation of men to dwell on all the face of 
the earth” (Acts xvii, 26) — but the same is evidently 
implied in the numerous passages which represent Je- 
sus Christ as the counterpart of Adam in regard to the 
universality of his connection with the human race. 
Attempts have indeed been made to show that the 
idea of a plurality of original pairs is not inconsistent 
with the Mosaic writings; but there is a wide distinc- 
tion between a view not inconsistent with, and a view 
drawn from, the words of the author: the latter is 
founded upon the facts lie relates, as well as his mode 
of relating them; the former takes advantage of the 
weaknesses arising out of a concise or unmethodical 
style of composition. Even if such a view could be 


TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 4CC TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 


sustained in reference to the narrative of the original 
creation of man, it must inevitably fail in reference to 
i he history of the repopulation of the world in the post- 
diluvian age; for, whatever objections may be made to 
the historical accuracy of the history of the Flood, it is 
at all events clear that the historian believed in the 
universal destruction of the human race, with the ex- 
ception of Noah and his family, and consequently that 
the unity of the human race was once more reduced to 
one of a numerical character. To Noah the historian 
traces up the whole postdiluvian population of the 
world: “These are the three sons of Noah: and of 
them was the whole earth overspread” (lien. ix. 10). 

Unity of language is assumed by the sacred histori- 
an Apparently as a corollary of the unity of race. No 
explanation is given of the origin of speech, but its ex- 
ercise is evidently regarded as coeval with the creation 
of man. No support can be obtained in behalf of any 
theory on this subject from the first recorded instance 
of its exercise (“Adam gave names to all cattle”), for 
the simple reason that this notice is introductory to 
what follows: “hot for Adam there was not found an 
help meet for him” (Gen. ii, 20). It was not so much 
the intention of the writer to state the fact of man’s 
power of speech as the fact of the inferiority of all oth- 
er animals to him, and the consequent necessity for the 
creation of woman. The proof of that inferiority is. 
indeed, most appropriately made to consist in the au- 
thoritative assignment of names, implying an act of 
reflection on their several natures and capacities, and 
a recognition of the offices which they were designed 
to fill in the economy of the world. The exercise of 
speech is thus most happily connected with the exer- 
cise of reflection, and t lie relationship between the in- 
ner act of t lie mind (\dyog fci'tVtSrrot;) and the out- 
ward expression (Xdyof TTpotyopiKoz) > s fully recognised. 
Speech, being thus inherent in man as a reflecting be- 
ing, was regarded as handed down from father to son 
by the same process of imitation by which it is still 
perpetuated. Whatever divergences may have arisen 
in the antediluvian period, no notice is taken of them, 
inasmuch as their effects were obliterated bv the uni- 
versal catastrophe of the Flood. The original unity of 
speech was restored in Noah, and would naturally he 
retained by his descendants as long as they were held 
together by social and local bonds. 

The confusion of tongues and the dispersion of na- 
tions are spoken of in the Bible as contemporaneous 
events. “So the Lord scattered them abroad” is stated 
as the execution of the divine counsel “Let us con- 
found their language.” The divergence of the various 
families into distinct tribes and nations rail parallel with 
the divergence of speech into dialects and languages, 
and thus the tenth chapter of Genesis is posterior in 
historical sequence to the events recorded in the elev- 
enth chapter. Loth passages must be taken into con- 
sideration in any disquisition on the early fortunes of 
the human race. We propose, therefore, to inquire, in 
the first place, how far modern researches into the phe- 
nomena of language favor the idea that there was once 
a time when “ the whole earth was of one speech and 
language: and, in the second place, whether the ethno- 
logical views exhibited in the Mosaic table accord with 
the evidence furnished hv history and language, both 
in regard to the special facts recorded in it and in the i 
general scriptural view of a historical, or, more properly, 
a gentilic, unity of the human race. These questions, | 
though independent, yet exercise a reflexive influence 
on each other’s results. Unity of speech does not nec- 
essarily involve unity iff race, nor yet vice versa ; hut 
each enhances the probability of the other, and there- 
fore the arguments derived from language, physiology, 
and history may ultimately furnish a cumulative amount 
of probability which will fall but little below demon- 
stration. 

(A.) The advocate of the historical unity oflangnage 
lias to encounter two classes of opposing arguments: 


one arising out- of the differences, the other out of the 
resemblances, of existing languages. On the one hand, 
it is urged that the differences are of so decisive and 
specific- a character as to place Jibe possibility of a com- 
mon origin wholly out of the question; on the other 
hand, that the resemblances do not necessitate the the- 
ory of a historical unity, but may be satisfactorily ac- 
counted for on psychological principles. It will lie our 
object to discuss the amount, the value, and the proba- 
ble origin of the varieties exhibited by languages, with 
a view to meet the tirst class of objections. But, before 
proceeding to this, we will make a few remarks on the 
second class, inasmuch as these, if established, would nul- 
lify any conclusion that might be drawn from the other. 

A psychological unity is not necessarily opposed to 
a gentilic unity. It is perfectly open to any theorist 
to combine the two by assuming that the language of 
the one protoplast was founded on strictly psychological 
principles. But, on the other hand, a psychological 
unity does not necessitate a gentilic unity. It permits 
of the theory of a plurality of protoplasts, who, under 
the influence of the same psychological laws, arrived at 
similar independent results. Whether the phenome- 
na of language are consistent with such a theory, we 
think extremely doubtful; certainly they cannot fur- 
nish the basis of it. The whole question of the origin 
of language lies beyond the pale of historical proof, and 
any theory connected with it admits neither of being 
proved nor disproved. We know, as a matter of fact, 
that language is communicated from one generation to 
another solely by force of imitation, and that there is 
no play whatever for the inventive faculty in reference 
to it. But in what manner the substance of language 
was originally produced we do not know. No argu- 
ment can be derived against the common origin from 
analogies drawn from the animal world; and when Prof. 
Agassiz compares similarities of language with those 
of the cries of animals (Von Bolden, Introd. to Gen. ii, 
278), he leaves out of consideration the important fact 
that language is not identical with sound, and that the 
words of a rational being, however originally produced, 
are perpetuated in a manner wholly distinct from that 
whereby animals learn to utter their cries. Nor does 
the internal evidence of language itself reveal the mys- 
tery of its origin; for, though a very large number of 
words may be referred either directly or mediately to 
the principle of onomatopoeia, there are others — as, for 
instance, the tirst and second personal pronouns — which 
do not admit of such an explanation. In short, this 
and other similar theories cannot be reconciled with 
t lie intimate connection evidently existing between 
reason and speech, which is so well expressed in the 
Greek language by the application of the term Xd- 
yoc to each, reason being nothing else than inward 
speech, and speech nothing else than outward reason, 
neither of them possessing an independent existence 
without the other. As we conceive that the psycho- 
logical as opposed to the gentilic unity involves ques- 
tions connected with the origin of language, we can 
only say that in this respect it falls outside the range 
of our inquiry. 

Reverting to the other class of objections, we proceed 
to review the extent of the differences observable in 
the languages of the world in order to ascertain wheth- 
er they are such as to preclude the possibility of a com- 
mon origin. Such a review must necessarily be im- 
perfect, both from the magnitude of the subject and 
also from the position of the linguistic science itself, 
which as yet lias hardly advanced beyond the stage of 
infancy. On the latter point we would observe that 
the most important links between the various language 
families may yet be discovered iu languages that are 
either unexplored or, at all events, unplaced. Mean- 
while, no one can doubt that the tendency of all lin- 
guistic research is in the direction of unity. Already 
it has brought within the bonds of a well-established 
relationship languages so remote from each other in 


TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 467 TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 


external guise, in age, and in geographical position as 
Sanscrit and English, Celtic and Greek. It has done 
the same lor other groups of languages equally widely 
extended, but presenting less opportunities of investi- 
gation. It has recognised affinities between languages 
which the ancient Greek ethnologist would have classed 
under the head of “ barbarian” in reference to each 
other, and even in many instances where the modern 
philologist has anticipated no relationship. The lines 
of discovery, therefore, point in one direction, and fa- 
vor the expectation that the various families raav be 
combined by the discovery of connecting-links into a 
single family, comprehending in its capacious bosom 
all the languages of the world. But, should such a 
result never be attained, the probability of a common 
origin would still remain unshaken ; for the failure 
would probably be due to the absence, in many classes 
and families, of that chain of historical evidence which 
in the case of the Indo-European and Shemitic families 
enables ns to trace their progress for above three thou- 
sand years. In many languages no literature at all, in 
many others no ancient literature, exists to supply the 
philologist with materials for comparative study: in 
these cases it can only be by laborious research into 
existing dialects that the original forms of words can 
he detected amid the incrustations and transmutations 
with which time has obscured them. 

In dealing with the phenomena of language, we 
should duly consider the plastic nature of the material 
out of which it is formed, and the numerous influences 
to which it is subject. Variety in unity is a general 
law of nature, to which even the most stubborn phys- 
ical substances yield a ready obedience. In the case 
of language it would be difficult to set any bounds to 
the variety which we might a priori expect it to as- 
sume. For, in the first place, it is brought into close 
contact with the spirit of man, and reflects with amaz- 
ing fidelity its endless variations, adapting itself to the 
expression of each feeling, the designation of each ob- 
ject, the working of each cast of thought or stage of 
reasoning power. Secondly, its sounds are subject to 
external influences, such as peculiarities of the organ 
of speech, the result either of natural conformation, of 
geographical position, or of habits of life and associa- 
tions of an accidental character. In the third place, 
it is generally affected by the state of intellectual and 
social culture of a people, as manifested more especially 
in the presence or absence of a standard literary dialect, 
and in the processes of verbal and syntactical structure, 
which again react on the very core of the word and 
produce a variety of sound -mutations. Lastly, it is 
subjected to the wear and tear of time and use, obliter- 
ating, as in an old coin, the original impress of the 
word, reducing it in bulk, producing new combinations, 
and occasionally leading to singular interchanges of 
sound and idea. The varieties resulting from the mod- 
ifying influences above enumerated may be reduced to 
two classes, according as they affect the formal or the 
radical elements of language. 

(I.) Widely as languages now differ from each oth- 
er in external form, the raw material (if we may use 
the expression) out of which they have sprung appears 
to have been in all cases the same. A suhstratum of 
significant monosyllabic roots underlies the whole struct- 
ure, supplying the materials neqessary, not only for or- 
dinary predication, but also for what is usually termed 
the “growth” of language out of its primary into iffi 
more complicated forms. It is necessary to point this 
out clearly in order that we may not be led to suppose 
that the elements of one language are in themselves 
endued with any greater vitality than those of another. 
Such a distinction, if it existed, would go far to prove 
a specific difference between languages, which could 
hardly he reconciled with the idea of their common 
origin. The appearance of vitality arises out of the 
manipulation of the roots by the human mind, and is 
not inherent in the roots themselves. 


1. The proofs of this original equality are furnished 
by the languages themselves. Adopting for the present 
the threefold morphological classification into isolating, 
agglutinative, and inflecting languages, we shall And 
that no original element exists in the one which does 
not also exist in the other. With regard to the isolat- 
ing class, the terms “ monosyllabic” and “ radical,” by 
which it is otherwise described, are decisive as to its 
character. Languages of this class are wholly unsus- 
ceptible of grammatical mutations; there is no formal 
distinction between verb and noun, substantive and ad- 
jective, preposition and conjunction; there are no in- 
flections, no case or person terminations of any kind; 
the bare root forms the sole and whole substance of the 
language. In regard to the other two classes, it is 
necessary to establish the two distinct points — (1) that 
the formal elements represent roots, and (2) that the 
roots both of the formal and the radical elements of the 
word are monosyllabic. Now it may be satisfactorily 
proved by analysis that all the component parts of both 
inflecting and agglutinative languages are reducible to 
two kinds of roots, predicable and pronominal— the for- 
mer supplying the material element of verbs, substan- 
tives, and adjectives; the latter that of conjunctions, 
prepositions, and particles; while each kind, but more 
particularly the pronominal, supplies the formal element, 
or, in other words, the terminations of verbs, substan- 
tives, and adjectives. Whether the two classes of roots, 
predicable and pronominal, are further reducible to one 
class is a point that has been discussed, hut has not as 
yet been established ( Bopp, Compar . Gram. § 105; 
Muller, Lectures,, p. 269). We have further to show 
that the roots of agglutinative and inflecting languages 
are monosyllabic. This is an acknowledged character- 
istic of the Indo-European family: monosyllabism is, 
indeed, the only feature which its roots have in com- 
mon ; in other respects they exhibit every kind of va- 
riation, from a uniliteral root, such as i (ire), up to com- 
binations of five letters, such as scand (scandere), the 
total number of admissible forms of root amounting to 
no less than eight (Schleicher, § 206). In the Slierait- 
ic family monosyllabism is not a prima facie character- 
istic of the root ; on the contrary, the verbal stems ex- 
hibit bisvllabism with such remarkable uniformity that 
it would lead to the impression that the roots also must 
have been bisyllabie. The bisvllabism, however, of 
the Shemitic stem is in reality triconsonantalism, the 
vowels not forming any part of the essence of the root, 
but being wholly subordinate to the consonants. It is 
at once apparent that a tricousonantal and even a quad- 
riconsonantal root may be in certain combinations uni- 
syllabic. But, further, it is more than probable that 
the triconsonantal has been evolved out of a biconso- 
nautal root, which must necessarily be imisyllabic if 
the consonants stand, as they invariably do in Shemitic 
roots, at the beginning and end of the word. With re- 
gard to the agglutinative class, it may be assumed that 
the same law which we have seen to prevail in the is- 
olating and inflecting classes prevails also in this, hold- 
ing as it does an intermediate place between those op- 
posite poles in the world of language. 

2. From the consideration of the crude materials of lan- 
guage, we pass on to the varieties exhibited in its struct- 
ure, with a view to ascertain whether in these there 
exists any bar to the idea of an original unity. (1.) 
Reverting to the classification already noticed, we have 
to observe, in the first place, that the principle on which 
it is based is the nature of the connection existing be- 
tween the predicable and the relational or inflectional 
elements of a word. ' In the isolating class these two 
are kept wholly distinct ; relational ideas are expressed 
by juxtaposition or by syntactical arrangement, and 
not by any combination of the roots. In the aggluti- 
native class the relational elements are attached to the 
principal or predicable theme by a mechanical kind of 
junction, the individuality of each being preserved even 
in the combined state. In the inflecting class the junc- 


TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 468 TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 


tion is of a more perfect character, aiul may be com- I 
pared to a chemical combination, the predicable and i 
relational elements being so fused together as to pre- j 
sent the appearance of a single and indivisible word. 
It is clear that there exists no insuperable barrier to | 
original unity in these differences, from the simple fact i 
that every inflecting language must once have been | 
agglutinative, and every agglutinative language once 
isolating. If the predicable and relational elements of 
an isolating language be linked together, either to the 
eye or the ear, it is rendered agglutinative; if the ma- 
terial and formal parts are pronounced as one word, 
eliminating, if necessary, the sounds that resist incor- 
poration, the language becomes inflecting. (2.) In the 
second place, it should be noted that* these three classes 
are not separated from each other bv any sharp line of 
demarcation. Not only does each possess, in a measure, 
the quality predominant in each other, but. moreover, 
each graduates into its neighbor through its bordering 
members. The isolating languages are not wholly iso- 
lating: they avail themselves of certain words as re- 
lational particles, though these still retain elsewhere 
their independent character; they also use composite, 
though not strictly compound, words. The agglutina- 
tive are not wholly agglutinative; the Finnish and 
Turkish classes of the IJral-Altaian family are in cer- 
tain instances inflectional, the relational adjunct being 
fully incorporated with the predicable stem, and having 
undergone a large amount of attrition for that purpose. 
Nor, again, are the inflectional languages wholly inflec- 
tional; Hebrew, for instance, abounds with agglutinative 
forms, and also avails itself largely of separate particles 
for the expression of relational ideas; our own lan- 
guage, though classed as inflectional, retains nothing 
more than the vestiges of inflection, and is in many re- 
spects as isolating and juxtapositional as any language 
of that class. While, therefore, the classification holds 
good with regard to t lie predominant characters of the 
classes, it does not imply differences of a specific nature. 
(3.) lint, further, the morphological varieties of lan- 
guage are not confined to the exhibition of the single 
principle hitherto described. A comparison between 
the westerly branches of the Ural- Altaian, on the one 
hand, and the Indo-European, on the other, belonging 
respectively to the agglutinative and inflectional class- 
es, will show that the quantitative amount of synthesis 
is fully as prominent a point of contrast as the quali- 
tative. The combination of primary and subordinate 
terms may be more perfect in the Indo-European, but 
it is more extensively employed in the Ural- Altaian 
family. The former, for instance, appends to its verbal 
stems the notions of time, number, person, and occasion- 
ally of interrogation; the latter further adds suffixes 
indicative of negation, hypothesis, causativenesss, re- 
flexiveness, and other similar ideas, whereby the word 
is built up tier on tier to a marvellous extent. The 
former appends to its substantival stems suffixes of ease 
and number; the latter adds governing particles, ren- 
dering them post -positional instead of pre-positiona], 
and combining them synthetically with the predicable 
stem. If, again, we compare the Shemitic with the 
Indo-European languages, we shall find a morpholog- l 
ical distinction of an equally diverse character. In the 
former the grammatical category is expressed by inter- 
nal vowel-changes, in the latter by external suffixes. 
So marked a distinction has not unnaturally been con- 
stituted the basis of a classification, wherein the lan- 
guages that adopt this system of internal flection stand 
by themselves as a separate elass, in contradistinction 
to those which either use terminational additions for 
the same purpose, or which dispense wholly with inflec- 
tional forms (I’opp, Conipur. Gram, i, 102). The singu- 
lar use of preformat ives in the Coptic language is, again, 
a morphological peculiarity of a very decided character. 
Even within the same family, say the Indo-European, 
each language exhibits an idiosyncrasy in its morpho- 
logical character whereby it stands out apart from the 


other members with a decided impress of individuality. 
The inference to be drawn from the number and char- 
acter of the differences we have noticed is favorable, 
rather than otherwise, to the theory of an original uni- 
ty. Starting from the same common ground of mono- 
syllabic roots, each language-family has carried out its 
own special line of development, following an original 
impulse, the causes and nature of which must remain 
probably forever a matter of conjecture. We can per- 
ceive, indeed, in a general way, the adaptation of cer- 
tain forms of speech to certain states of society. The 
agglutinative languages, for instance, seem to be spe- 
cially adapted to the nomadic state by t lie prominence 
and distinctness with which they enunciate the leading 
idea in eacli word, an arrangement whereby communi- 
cation would be facilitated between tribes or families 
that associate only at intervals. We might almost im- 
agine that these languages derived their impress of 
uniformity and solidity from the monotonous steppes 
of Central Asia, which have in all ages formed their 
proper habitat. So, again, the inflectional class reflects 
cultivated thought and social organization, and its lan- 
guages have hence been termed “state” or “political.” 
Monosyllabism, on the other hand, is pronounced to be 
suited to the most primitive stage of thought and so- 
ciety, wherein the family or the individual is the stand- 
ard by which things are regulated (Midler, Philos, of 
Hist, i, 285). We should hesitate, however, to press 
tins theory as furnishing an adequate explanation of 
the differences observable in language-families. The 
Indo-European languages attained their high organiza- 
tion amid the same scenes and in the same nomad state 
as those wherein the agglutinative languages were nurt- 
ured, and we should rather be disposed to regard both 
the language and the higher social status of the former 
as the concurrent results of a higher mental organiza- 
tion. 

3. If from words we pass on to the varieties of syntac- 
tical arrangement, the same degree of analogy will be 
found to exist between class and class, or between fam- 
ily and family in the same elass; in other words, no 
peculiarity exists in one which does not admit of ex- 
planation by a comparison with others. The absence 
of all grammatical forms in an isolating language ne- 
cessitates a rigid collocation of the words in a sentence 
according to logical principles. The same law prevails 
to a very great extent in our own language, wherein 
the subject, verb, and object, or t he subject, copula, and 
predicate, generally bold their relative positions in the 
order exhibited, the exceptions to such an arrangement 
being easily brought into harmony with that general 
law. In the agglutinative languages the law of ar- 
rangement is that the principal word should come last 
in the sentence, every qualifying clause or word pre- 
ceding it, and being, as it were, sustained by it. The 
syntactical is thus the reverse of the verbal structure, 
the principal notion taking the precedence in the latter 
(Ewald, Sprachw. A bhandl. ii, 29). There is in this noth- 
ing peculiar to this class of languages, beyond the great- 
er uniformity with which the arrangement is adhered 
to; it is the general rule in the classical, and the occa- 
sional rule in certain of the Teutonic, languages. In 
the Shemitic family the reverse arrangement prevails; 
the qualifying adjectives follow the noun to which they 
belong, and the verb generally stands first; short sen- 
tences are necessitated by such a collocation, and hence 
more room is allowed for the influence of emphasis in 
deciding the order of the sentence. In illustration of 
grammatical peculiarities, we may notice that in the 
agglutinative class adjectives qualifying substantives, 
or substantives placed in apposition with substantives, 
remain undeclined ; in this case the process may be 
compared with the formation of compound words in the 
Indo-European languages, where the final member alone 
is inflected. So, again, the omission of a plural termina- 
tion in nouns following a numeral may be paralleled 
with a similar usage in our own language, where the 


TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 469 TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 


terms “pound” and “bead” are used collectively after a 
numeral. We may again cite the peculiar manner of 
expressing the genitive in Hebrew. This is effect- 
ed by one of the two following methods — placing the 
governing noun in the status construct us, or using the 
relative pronoun with a preposition before the governed 
case. The first of these processes appears a strange in- 
version of the laws of language; but an examination 
into the origin of the adjuncts, whether prefixes or af- 
fixes, used in other languages for the indication of the 
genitive will show that they have a more intimate 
connection with the governing than with the governed 
word, and that they are generally resolvable into either 
relative or personal pronouns, which serve the simple 
purpose of connecting the two words together (Garnett, 
Assays, p. 214-227). The same end may be gained hv 
connecting the words in pronunciation, which would 
lead to a rapid utterance of the first, and consequently 
to the changes which are witnessed in the status con- 
structus. The second or periphrastic process is in ac- 
cordance with the general method of expressing the 
genitive; for the expression “the Song which is to 
Solomon” strictly answers to “Solomon’s Song,” the s 
representing (according to Bopp’s explanation) a com- 
bination of the demonstrative sa and the relative ya. 
It is thus that the varieties of construction mav be 
shown to be consistent with unity of law, and that they 
therefore furnish no argument against a common origin. 

4. Lastly, it may be shown that the varieties of lan- 
guage do not arise from any constitutional inequality 
of vital energy. Nothing is more remarkable than the 
compensating power apparently inherent in all lan- 
guage, whereby it finds the means of reaching the level 
of the human spirit through a faithful adherence to its 
own guiding principle. The isolating languages, being 
shut out from the manifold advantages of verbal com- 
position, attain their object by multiplied combinations 
of radical sounds, assisted by an elaborate system of ac- 
centuation and intonation. In this manner the Chinese 
language has framed a vocabulary fully equal to the 
demands made upon it; and though this mode of devel- 
opment may not commend itself to our notions as the 
most effective that can be devised, yet it plainly evinces 
a high susceptibility on the part of the linguistic fac- 
ulty, and a keen perception of the correspondence be- 
tween sound and sense. Nor does the absence of in- 
flection interfere with the expression even of the most 
delicate shades of meaning in a sentence; a compensat- 
ing resource is found partly in a multiplicity of sub- 
sidiary terms expressive of plurality, motion, action, 
etc., and partly in strict attention to syntactical arrange- 
ment. The agglutinative languages, again, are deficient 
in compound words, and in this respect lack the elastic- 
ity and expansiveness of the Indo-European family ; but 
they are eminently synthetic, anil no one can fail to 
admire the regularity and solidity with which its words 
are built up, suffix on suffix, and, when built up, are 
suffused with a uniformity of tint by the law of vowcl- 
harmonv. The Shemitic languages have worked out a 
different principle of growth, evolved, not improbably, 
in the midst of a conflict between the systems of prefix 
and suffix, whereby the stem, being, as it were, enclosed 
at both extremities, was precluded from all external in- 
crement, and was forced back into such changes as could 
be effected by a modification of its vowel-sounds. But 
whatever may be the origin of the system of internal 
inflection, it must be conceded that the results are very 
effective, as regards both economy of material and sim- 
plicity and dignity of style. 

The result of the foregoing observations is to show 
that the formal varieties of language present no obsta- 
cle to the theory of a common origin. Amid these va- 
rieties there may be discerned manifest tokens of unity 
in the original material out of which language was 
formed, in the stages of formation through which it has 
passed, in the general principle of grammatical expres- 
sion, and, lastly, in the spirit and power displayed in 


the development of these various formations. Such a 
result, though it does not prove the unity of language 
in respect to its radical elements, nevertheless tends to 
establish the a priori probability of this unity; for if 
all connected with the forms of language may be re- 
ferred to certain general laws, if nothing in that depart- 
ment owes its origin to chance or arbitrary appoint- 
ment, it surely favors the presumption that the same 
principle would extend to the formation of the roots, 
which are the very core and kernel of language. Here, 
too, we might expect to find the operation of fixed laws 
of some kind or other, producing results of a uniform 
character; here, too, actual variety may not be incon- 
sistent with original unity. 

(II.) Before entering on the subject of the radical 
identity of languages, we must express our conviction 
that the time has not yet arrived for a decisive opinion 
as to the possibility of establishing it by proof. Let us 
briefly review the difficulties that beset the question. 
Every word as it appears in an organic language, wheth- 
er written or spoken, is resolvable into two distinct ele- 
ments, which we have termed predicable and formal, 
the first being what is commonly called the root, the 
second the grammatical termination. In point of fact, 
both of these elements consist of independent roots; and 
in order to prove the radical identity of two languages, 
it must be shown that they agree in both respects, that 

is, in regard both to the predicable and the formal roots. 
As a matter of experience, it is found that the formal 
elements (consisting, for the most part, of pronominal 
bases) exhibit a greater tenacity of life than the others; 
and hence agreement of inflectional forms is justly re- 
garded as furnishing a strong presumption of general 
radical identity. Even foreign elements arc forced into 
the formal mould of the language into which they are 
adopted, and thus bear testimony to the original char- 
acter of that language. But though such a formal 
agreement supplies the philologist with a most valuable 
instrument of investigation, it cannot be accepted as a 
substitute for complete radical agreement: this would 
still remain to be proved by an independent examina- 
tion of the prcdicable elements. The difficulties con- 
nected with these latter are many anil varied. As- 
suming that two languages or language-families are 
under comparison, the phonological laws of each must 
be investigated in order to arrive, in the first place, at 
the primary forms of words in the language in which 
they occur, and, in the second place, at the corresponding 
forms in the language which constitutes the other mem- 
ber of comparison, as has been done by Grimm for the 
Teutonic as compared with the Sanscrit and the classical 
languages. The genealogy of sound, as we may term 

it, must be followed up by a genealogy of signification, 
a mere outward accordance of sound and sense in two 
terms being of no value whatever, unless a radical affin- 
ity be proved by an independent examination of the 
cognate words in each case. It still remains to be in- 
quired how far the ultimate accordance of sense and 
sound may be the result of onomatopoeia, of mere bor- 
rowing, or of a possible mixture of languages on equal 
terms. The final stage in etymological inquiry is to 
decide the limit to which comparison may be carried in 
the primitive strata of language — in other words, how 
far roots, as ascertained from groups of words, may be 
compared with roots, and reduced to yet simpler ele- 
mentary forms. Any flaw in the processes above de- 
scribed will, of course, invalidate the whole result. Even 
where the philologist is provided with ample materials 
for inquiry in stores of literature ranging over long pe- 
riods of time, much difficulty^ is experienced in making 
good each link in the chain of agreement; and yet in 
such cases the dialectic varieties have been kept with- 
in some degree of restraint by the existence of a liter- 
ary language, which, by impressing its authoritative 
stamp on certain terms, has secured both their general 
use and their external integrity. Where no literature 
exists, as is the case with the general mass of languages 


TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 470 TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 


in the world, the difficulties are infinitely increased by 
the combined effects of a prolific growth of dialectic 
forms, and an absence of all means of tracing out their 
progress. Whether, under these circumstances, we may 
reasonably expect to establish a radical unity of lan- 
guage is a question which each person must decide for 
himself. Much may yet be done by a larger induction 
and a scientific analysis of languages that are yet com- 
paratively unknown. The tendency hitherto has been 
to enlarge the limits of a “ family” according as the ele- 
ments of affinity have been recognised in outlying mem- 
bers. These limits may perchance be still more en- 
larged by the discovery of connecting-links between the 
language-families, whereby the criteria of relationship 
will be modified, and new elements of internal unity be 
discovered amid the manifold appearances of external 
diversity. 

Meanwhile we must content ourselves with stating 
the present position of the linguistic science in refer- 
ence to this important topic. In the first place, the 
Indo-European languages have been reduced to an ac- 
knowledged and well-defined relationship: they form 
one of the two families included under the head of “in- 
flectional” in the morphological classification. The oth- 
er family in this class is the (so-ealled) Shemitic, the 
limits of which are not equally well defined, inasmuch 
as it may be extended over what are termed the sub- 
Shemitic languages, including the Egyptian or Coptic. 
I'he criteria of the proper ►Shemitic family (i. e. the 
Aramaean, Hebrew, Arabic, and Ethiopic languages) are 
distinctive enough; but the connection between the 
Shemitic and the Egyptian is not definitely established. 
Some philologists are inclined to claim for the latter an 
independent position, intermediate between the Indo- 
European ami Shemitic families (Bunsen, Phil, of Hist. 
i, 185 sq.). The agglutinative languages of Europe and! 
Asia are combined by Prof. 31. Muller in one family 
named “Turanian.” It is conceded that the family bond 
in this case is a loose one, and that the agreement in 
roots is very partial {lectures, p.290-292). Many phi- 
lologists of high standing, and more particularly I‘ott 
( Ungleich . d. inensch. Rassen, p. 232), deny the family re- 
lationship altogether, and break up the agglutinative 
languages into a great number of families. Certain it 
is that within the Turanian circle there are languages — 
such, for instance, as the Ural-Altaian — which show so 
close an affinity to one another as to be entitled to form 
a separate division, either as a family, or a subdivision 
of a family; and, this being the case, we should hesitate 
to put them on a parity of footing with the remainder 
of the Turanian languages. The Caucasian group, 
again, differs so widely from the other members of the 
family as to make the relationship very dubious. The 
monosyllabic languages of South-eastern Asia are not 
included in the Turanian family bv Prof. 31. 31 tiller 
{Lectures, p. 290, 326), apparently on the ground that 
they are not agglutinative; but as the Chinese appears 
to be connected radically with the Burmese (Humboldt, 
Verschied. p. 368), with the Thibetan {Phil, of Hist, i, 
393-395), and with the Ural-Altaian languages (Schott, 
in Ahh. .16. Perl. 1861, p. 172), it seems to have a good 
title to be placed in the Turanian family. With regard 
to the American and the bulk of the African languages, 
we are unable to say whether they can be brought un- 
der any of the heads already mentioned, or whether they 
stand by themselves as distinct families. The former 
are referred by writers of high eminence to an Asiatic 
or Turanian origin (Bunsen, Phil, of /fist, ii, 111 ; La- 
tham, Man and his Mifjrat. p. 186); the latter to the 
Shemitic family (Latham, p. MS). 

The problem that awaits solution is whether the sev- 
eral families above specified can be reduced to a single 
family by demonstrating their radical identity. It 
would be unreasonable to expect that this identity 
should be coextensive with the vocabularies of the va- 
rious languages; it would naturally be confined to such 
ideas and objects as are common to mankind generally. 


Even within this circle the difficulty of proving the 
identity may be infinitely enhanced by the absence of 
materials. There are, indeed, but two families in which 
these materials are found in anything like sufficiency, 
viz. the Indo-European and the Shemitic, and even 
these furnish us with no historical evidence as to the 
earlier stages of their growth. We find each, at the 
most reunite literary period, already exhibiting its dis- 
tinctive character of stem- and word-formation, leaving 
us to infer, as we best may, from these phenomena the 
processes by which they had reached that point. Hence 
there arises abundance of room for difference of opinion, 
and the extent of the radical identity will depend very 
much on the view adopted as to these earlier processes. 
If we could accept in its entirety the system of etymol- 
ogy propounded by the analytical school of Hebrew 
scholars, it would not be difficult to establish a very 
large amount of radical identity ; but we cannot regard 
as established the- prepositional force of the initial let- 
ters, as stated by Delitzseh in his Jeshurun (p. 166, 173, 
note), still less the correspondence between these and 
the initial letters of Greek and Latin words (p. 170-172). 
The striking uniformity of bisvllabism in the verbal 
stems is explicable only on the assumption that a single 
principle underlies the whole; and the existence of 
groups of words differing slightly in form, and having 
the same radical sense, leads to the presumption that 
this principle was one not of composition, but of enpho- 
nism and practical convenience. This presumption is 
still further favored by an analysis of the letters form- 
ing the stems, showing that the third letter is in many 
instances a reduplication, and in others a liquid, a nasal, 
or a sibilant, introduced either as the initial, the medial, 
or the final letter. The Hebrew alphabet admits of a 
classification based on the radical character of the letter 
according to its position in the stem. The effect of 
composition would have been to produce, in the first 
place, a greater inequality in the length of the words, 
and, in the second place, a greater equality in the use 
of the various organic sounds. 

31 any supposed instances of etymological correspond- 
ence have been falsely based on the analytical tenets, 
but there still exists a considerable amount of radical 
identity which appears to be above suspicion. Under 
Philology, Comparative, we have given a list of 
terms in which that identity is manifested. After de- 
ducting whatever may be due to fanciful or accidental 
agreement, there still remain many instances which 
cannot possibly be explained on the principle of ono- 
matopoeia. and which would therefore seem to be the 
common inheritance of the Indo-European and Shem- 
itie families. Whether this agreement is, as Kenan sug- 
gests, the result of a keen susceptibility of the onomato- 
poetic faculty in the original framers of the words {Hist. 
Gen. i, 465) is a point that can neither be proved nor 
disproved. But even if it were so, it does not follow 
that the words were not framed before the separation 
of the families. Onr list of comparative words might 
have been much enlarged if we had included compari- 
sons based on the reduction of Shemitic roots to a bi- 
svllabic form. A list of such words may be found in 
Delitzseh, Jeshurun, p. 177-180. In regard to pronouns 
and numerals, the identity is but partial. We may de- 
tect the t sound, which forms the distinctive sound of 
the second personal pronoun in the Indo-European lan- 
guages, in the Hebrew attdh , and in the personal ter- 
minations of the perfect tense; but the wt, which is the 
prevailing sound of the first personal pronoun in the 
former, i* supplanted by an n in the latter. The numer- 
als shesh and sheba, for “six” and “seven,” accord with 
the Indo-European forms: those representing the num- 
bers from “ one” to “ five” are possibly, though not evi- 
dently, identical. With regard to the other language- 
families, it will not be expected, after the observations 
already made, that we should attempt the proof of their 
radical identity. The Ural-Altaian languages have 
been extensively studied, but are hardly ripe for com- 


TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 471 TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 


parison. Occasional resemblances have been detected 
ill grammatical forms and in the vocabularies; but the 
value of these remains to be proved, and we must await 
the results of a more extended research into this and 
other regions of the world of language. 

(B.) We pass on to the second point proposed for 
consideration, viz. the ethnological views expressed in 
the ’Bible, and more particularly in ch. x of "Genesis, 
which records the dispersion of nations consequent on 
the confusion of tongues. 

(I.) The Mosaic table does not profess to describe the 
process of the dispersion ; but, assuming that dispersion 
as a fait accompli, it records the ethnic relations exist- 
ing between the various nations affected by it. These 
relations are expressed under the guise of a genealogy; 
the ethnological character of the document is, however, 
clear both from the names, some of which are gentilic 
in form, as Ludim, Jebusite, etc., others geographical or 
local, as Mizraim, Sidon, etc., and. again, from the for- 
mulary which concludes each section of the subject, 
“after their families, after their tongues, in their coun- 
tries, andVi their nations” (ver. 5, 20, 31). Incidentally, 
t he table is geographical as well as ethnological; but 
this arises out of the practice of designating nations by 
the countries they occupy. It has, indeed, been fre- 
quently surmised that the arrangement of the table is 
purely geographical, and this idea is, to a certain extent, 
favored by the possibility of explaining the names Shem, 
Ham, and Japheth on this principle, the first signifying 
the “ high” lands, the second the “ hot” or “low” lands, 
and the third the “broad,” undefined regions of the 
north. The three families may have been so located, 
and such a circumstance could not have been unknown 
to the writer of the table. But neither internal nor ex- 
ternal evidence satisfactorily proves such to have been 
the leading idea or principle embodied in it, for the 
Japhethites are rnainlv assigned to the “isles” or mari- 
time districts of the west and north-west, while the 
Shemites press down into the plain of Mesopotamia, 
and the Hamites, on the other hand, occupy the high 
lands of Canaan and Lebanon. We hold, therefore, the 
geographical as subordinate to the ethnographical ele- 
ment, and avail. ourselves of the former only as an in- 
strument for the discovery of the latter. 

The general arrangement of the table is as follows* 
The whole human race is referred hack to Noah’s three 
sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. The Shemites are de- 
scribed last, apparently that the continuity of the nar- 
rative may not be further disturbed; and the Hamites 
stand next to the Shemites, in order to show that these 
were more closely related to each other than to the 
Japhethites. The comparative degrees of affinity are 
expressed, partly by coupling the names together, as in 
the cases of Elishah and Tarshish. Kittim and Dodanim 
(ver. 4), and partly by representing a genealogical de- 
scent, as when the nations just mentioned are said to 
lie “sons of Javan.” An inequality may be observed 
in the length of the genealogical lines, which, in the 
case of Japheth, extends only to one, in Ham to two, 
in Shem to three, and even four degrees. This inequal- 
ity clearly arises out of the varying interest taken in 
the several lines by the author of the table, and by 
those for whose use it was designed. We may lastly 
observe that the occurrence of the same name in two 
of the lists, as in the cases of Lud (ver. 13.22) and Sheba 
(ver. 7, 28), possibly indicates a fusion of the races. 

a. The identification of the Biblical with the histor- 
ical or classical names of nations is by no means an easy 
task, particularly where the names are not subsequently 
noticed in the Bible. In these cases, comparisons with 
ancient or modern designations are the only resource, 
and where the designation is one of a purely geograph- 
ical character, as in the case of Iliphath compared with 
Ripwi Montes, or Mash compared with Masius Mods, 
great doubt must exist as to the ethnic force of the 
title, inasmuch as several nations may have successively 
occupied the same district. Equal doubt arises where 


| names admit of being treated as appellatives, and so of 
being transferred from one district to another, Recent 
research into Assyrian and Egyptian records has, in 
many instances, thrown light on t lie Biblical titles. In 
the former we find Meshech and Tubal noticed under 
the forms J fuskai and Tuplai , while Javan appears as 
the appellation of Cyprus, where the Assyrians first met 
with Greek civilization. In the latter the name Phut 
appears under the form of Fount , llittite as Khita, Cush 
as Keesh , Canaan as Kanaiw , etc. 

1. 1 lie list ol Japhethites contains fourteen names, of 
which seven represent independent and the remainder 
affiliated nations, as follows: 

(i.) Gomel*, connected ethnically with the Cimmerii, Cim- 
bri (?), and Cyrnr,, ; and geographically with Crimea, 
Associated with Gomel* ave the three following: 

(a.) Ashkenaz, generally compared with Lake Asea- 
nius in Bithynia, hut by Ivnobel with the tribe Ascri, 
As, or Ossetes in the’ Caucasian district. On t lie 
whole, we prefer Basse’s suggestion of a connec- 
tion between this name and that of the Axemis, 
later the Enxmns Pontns. 

(b.) Riphath, the Ripcni Montes, which Ivnobel con- 
nects etymologically and geographically with Car- 
] >ate a Mods. 

(e.) Togarmah, undoubtedly Armenia , or a portion of 
it. 

(ii.) Magog, the Scythians. 

(iii.) Madai, Media. 

(iv.) Javan, the Ionian*, as a general appellation for the 
Hellenic race, with whom are associated the four fol- 
lowing: 

(a.) Elishah, the ^Eolians, less probably identified with 
the district Elis. 

(b.) Tarshish, at a later period of Biblical history cer- 
tainly identical with Tartessus in Spain, to which, 
however, there are objections as regards the table, 
partly from t he too extended area thus given to the 
Mosaic world, and partly because Tartessus was a 
Phoenician, and consequently not a Japhetic, settle- 
ment. Ivnobel compares the Tyrseni , Tyrrheni , and 
Tnsci of Italy; but this is precarious. 

(r.) Kittim, the town Citium in Cyprus. 

(d.) Dodanim, the Dardani of Illyria and Mysia: Do- 
dona is sometimes compared. 

(v.) Tubal, the Tibareni iu Pont us. 

(vi.) Meshech, the Moschi in the north-western part of Ar- 
menia. 

(vii.) Tims, perhaps Thracia . 

2. The Hamit ic list contains thirty names, of which 
three represent independent and the remainder affiliated 
nations, as follows: 

(i.) Cush, in two branches, the western or African repre- 
senting u. Ethiopia , the Keesh of the old Egyptian, and 
the eastern or Asiatic being connected with the names 
of the tribe Cosscei , the district Cissia, and the province 
Svsiana or Khuzistan. With Cush are associated: 

(a.) Sebn, the SabcH of Yemen in South Arabia. 

( b .) Ilavilah, the district Khauldn iu the same part of 
the peninsula. 

(c.) Sabtah, the town Rabat ha in Iladramaut. 

(a.) Raamah, the town Iiheyma on the south-eastern 
coast of Arabia, with whom are associated: 

(a.) Sheha, a tribe probably connected ethnically 
or commercially with the one of the same name 
alteady mentioned, but located on the west coast 
of the Persian Gulf. 

(b.) Dedal), also on t lie west coast of the Persian 
Gulf, where the name perhaps still survives in 
the island Dadan. 

{e.) Sabtechah, perhaps the town Samydaee on the 
coast of the Indian Ocean eastward of the Persian 
Gulf. 

(/.) Nimrod, a personal and not a geographical name, 
the representative of the Eastern Cushites. 

(ii.) Mizraim, the two Misr.% i. e. Upper and Lower Egypt, 
with whom the following seven are connected: 
t,a.) Ludim, according to Ivnobel, a tribe allied to the 
IShemitic Lud, hut settled in Egypt; others compare 
the river Land (Pliny, v, 2), and the Lewdtah, a Ber- 
her tribe on the Syrtes. 

( b .) Anamim, according to Ivnobel, the inhabitants of 
the Delta, which would be described in Egyptian by 
the term sanevnhit or tsanemhit , “ northern district, ’’ 
converted by the Hebrews into Anamim. 

(e.) Naphtuhim, variously explained as the people of 
yp))hthi/s, i. e. the northern coast district (Boehart), 
and as the worshippers of Phthah, meaning the in- 
habitants of Memphis. 

(d.) Pathrnsim, Upper Egypt, the name being ex- 
plained as meaning in the Egyptian “the south” 
(Knobel). 

(e.) Casluhitn, Casnis Mons, Cassiotis, and Cassium, 


/ 


TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 4 

eastward of the Delta (Knobcl) ; the Colchians , ac- 
cording to Bochart, but this is unlikely. 

(/.) Caphtorim, most probably the district about Cop~ 
tos in Upper Egypt [see Caimitor] ; the island of 
Crete according to many modern critics, Cappadocia 
according to the older interpreters. 

(g.) Phut, the Punt of the Egyptian inscriptions, 
meaning the Libyans. 

(in.) Canaan, the geograjihical position of which calls for 
no remark in this place. The name has been variously 
explained as meaning the “low” land of the coast dis- 
trict, or the “subjection” threatened to Canaan person- 
ally (Gen. ix, 25). To Canaan belong the following 
eleven : 

(a.) iSidon, the wcll-kuown town of that name in Phoe- 
nicia. 

(5.) lleth, or the llittites of Biblical history. 

(r.) The Jebusite, of debus or Jerusalem. 

\d.) The Amorite, frequently mentioned in Biblical 
history. 

(e.) The Girgasite, the same as the Girgashites. 

(/.) The llivite, variously explained to mean the oc- 
cupants of the “interior” (Ewald), or the dwellers 
in “villages” (Ge«enius). 

( g .) The Arkite, of Arm, north of Tripolis, at the foot 
of Lebanon. 

( h .) The Shiite, of Sin or Sinna, places in the Leba- 
non district. 

(i.) The Arvadite, of A rad us on the coast of Phoenicia. 
(j.) The Zemarite, of Simyra on the Elenthcriis. 

( k .) The llamathite, of Hamath, the classical Epipha- 
nia , on the Oroutes. 

3. The Shemitic list contains twenty-six names, of 
which five refer to independent and the remainder to 
affiliated tribes, as follows: 

(i.) Elam, the tribe Ely maii and the district Elymais iu 
Snsiana. 

(ii.) Asshur, Assyria between the Tigris and the range of 
Zagrus. 

(iii.) Arphaxad, Arrapachitis , iu Northern Assyria, with 
whom are associated : 

(a.) Salah, a personal and also a geographical title, 
indicating a migration of the people represented 
by him ; tSalah’s son. 

(6.) Eber, representing geographically the district 
across (i. e. eastward of) the Euphrates ; and Eber’s 
, two sons. 

(c.) Peleg, a personal name indicating a “division” 
of this branch of the Shemitic family, and 
(d.) Joktan, representing generally the inhabitants of 
Arabia , with the following thirteeu sous of Joktau, 
viz. : 

(a.) Almodad, probably representing the tribe of 
Jurhum near Mecca, whose leader was named 
M udad. 

(b.) Sheleph, the Salapeni in Yemen. 

(c.) Tlazarmaveth, Iladramaut in Southern Arabia. 

(d.) Jcrali. 

(e. ) lladoram, the Adramitie on the sonthern 
coast, in a district of Iladramaut. 

(f.) Uzal, supposed to represent the town Szanaa 
in South Arabia, as having been fouuded by 
A sal. 

(g.) Diklah. 

(h.) Obal, or, as in 1 Chron. i, 22, Ebal, which lat- 
ter is identified by Knobel with the Gebanitie 
in the south-west. 

(i.) Abimael, doubtfully connected with the dis- 
trict Mahra , eastward of Iladramaut , aud with 
the towns Mara and Mali. 

(j.) Sheba, the Sabcei of South-western Arabia, 
about Mariaba. 

(k.) Ophir, probably Adane, on the southern coast, 
but see article. 

(1.) TIavilali, ttie district Khauldn in the north- 
west of Yemen. 

(in.) Jobab, possibly the Jnbaritre of Ptolemy (vi, 
T, 24), for which Jobabita ® may originally have 
stood. 

(iv.) Lud, generally compared with Lydia , but explained 
by Knobel as referring to the various aboriginal tribes 
in and about Palestine, such as the Amalekites, Kepha- 
ites, Ernim, etc. We cannot consider either of these 
views as well established. Lydia itself lay beyond the 
horizon of the Mosaic table; as to the Shemitic ori- 
gin of its population, conflicting opinions are euter- 
taiued, to which we shall have occasion to advert here- 
after. Kno bel’ s view has in its favor the probability 
that the tribes referred to would be represented in the 
table ; it is, however, wholly devoid of historical con- 
firmation, with the exception of an Arabian tradition 
that Amlik was one of the sons of Laud or Lawad the 
son of Shem. 

(v. ) Aram, the general name for Syria and Northern 
Mesopotamia , with whom the following are associated: 
(a.) Uz, probably the .Esitte of Ptolemy. 

(6.) Hnl, doubtful, but best connected with the name 
lluleh, attaching to a district north of Lake Merom 


2 TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 

( e .) Gether, not identified. 

(d.) Mash, Maxim Mons, iu the north of Mesopotamia. 

There is yet one name noticed in the table, viz. Phi- 
listiin, which occurs in the llamitic division, but with- 
out any direct assertion of llamitic descent. The terms 
used in the A. V., “out of whom (Casluhim) came Phi- 
listim”(ver. 14), would naturally imply descent, but. the 
Hebrew text only warrants the conclusion that the Phi- 
listines sojourned in the land of the Casluhim. Not- 
withstanding this, we believe the intention of the au- 
thor of the table to have been to affirm the llamitic 
origin of the Philistines, leaving undecided the partic- 
ular branch, whether Casluhim or. Caphtorim, with 
which it was more immediately connected. 

The total number of names noticed in the table, in- 
cluding Philistim, would thus amount to seventy-one, 
which was raised by patristic writers to seventy-two. 
These totals affimled scope for numerical comparisons, 
and also for an estimate of the number of nations and 
languages to be found on the earth’s surface. It is need- 
less to sav that the Bible itself furnishes no ground for 
such calculations, inasmuch as it does not, in any ease, 
specify t lie numbers. 

0 . Before proceeding further, it would be well to dis- 
cuss a question materially affecting the historical value 
of the Mosaic table, viz. the period to which it refers. 
On this point very various opinions are entertained. 
Knobel, conceiving it to represent the commercial ge- 
ography of the Plnenicians, assigns it to about B.C. 
1200 (Volkert. p. 4-9), and Kenan supports this view 
(Hist. Gen. i, 40), while others allow it no higher an an- 
tiquity than the period of the Babylonian captivity (Von 
Bidden, Gen. ii, 207 ; Winer, Reulw . ii, G65). Internal 
evidence leads us to refer it back to the age of Abraham 
on the following grounds: (1.) The Canaanites were as 
yet in undisputed possession of Palestine. (2.) The Phi- 
listines had not concluded their migration. (3.) Tyre is 
wholly unnoticed, an omission which cannot be satis- 
factorily accounted for on the ground that it is included 
under the name either of 1 let ii (Knobel, p. 323) or of 
Sidon (Von Bolden, ii, 241). (4.) Various places, such 

as Simyra, Sinna, and Area, are noticed which had fallen 
into insignificance in later times. (5.) Kittim, which 
in the age of Solomon was under Phoenician dominion, 
is assigned to Japheth, and the same may be said of 
Tarshish, which in that age undoubtedly referred to the 
Phoenician emporium of Tai'tessus, whatever may have 
been its earlier significance. The chief objection to so 
early a date as we have ventured to propose is the no- 
tice of the Medes under the name Madai. The Aryan 
nation which bears this name in history appears not 
to have reached its final settlement until about B.C. 
900 (Kawlinson, Herod, i, 404). But, on the other 
hand, the name Media may well have belonged to the 
district before the arrival of the Aryan Medes, whether 
it were occupied by a tribe of kindred origin to them 
or by Turanians; and this probability is, to a certain 
extent, confirmed by the notice of a Median dynasty in 
Babylon, as reported by Berosns, so early as the 25th 
century B.C, (ibid, i, 434). Little difficulty would be 
found in assigning so early a date to the Medes if the 
Aryan origin of the allied kings mentioned in Gen. 
xiv, 1 were thoroughly established, in accordance with 
Kenan’s view (Hist. Gen. 61) s on this point, however, 
we have our doubts. See Genesis. 

c. The Mosaic table is supplemented by ethnological 
notices relating to the various divisions of the Teraehite 
family. These belonged to the Shemitic division, being 
descended from Arphaxad through Peleg, with whom 
the line terminates in the table. Ken, Serug, and Na- 
hor form the intermediate links between Peleg and 
Terah (Gen. xi, 18-25), with whom began the move- 
ment that terminated in the occupation of Canaan and 
the adjacent districts by certain branches of the family. 
The original seat of Terah was Ur of the Chaldees (ver. 
28); thence he migrated to Ilaran (ver. 31), where a 
section of his descendants, the representatives of Na- 


TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 473 TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 


hor, remained (xxiv, 10; xxvii, 43; xxix, 4 sq.), while 
the two branches, represented by Abraham and Lot, 
the son of Haran, crossed the Euphrates and settled in 
Canaan and the adjacent districts (xii, 5). From Lot 
sprang the Moabites and Ammonites (xix, 30-38); 
from Abraham the Ishmaelites through his son Ishmael 
(xxv, 12), the Israelites through Isaac and Jacob, the 
Edomites through Isaac and Esau (ch. xxxvi), and cer- 
tain Arab tribes, of whom the Midianites are the most 
conspicuous, through the sons of his concubine Keturah 
(xxv, 1-4). 

The most important geographical question in con- 
nection with the Terachites concerns their original set- 
tlement. The presence of the Chaldees in Babylonia 
at a subsequent period of scriptural history has led to a 
supposition that they were a llarnitic people, originally 
belonging to Babylonia, and thence transplanted in the 
7th and 8th centuries to Northern Assyria (Rawlinson, 
Herod, i, 319). Others think it more consistent with 
the general direction of the Terachite movement to 
look for Ur in Northern Mesopotamia, to the east of 
Haran. That the Chaldees, or, according to the He- 
brew nomenclature, the Kasdim, were found in that 
neighborhood is indicated by the name Chesed as one 
of the sons of Nahor (Gen. xxii, 22), and possibly by the 
name Arphaxad itself, which, according to Ewald {Gesch. 
i, 378), means “fortress of the Chaldees.” In classical 
times we find the lvasdim still occupying the moun- 
tains adjacent to Arrapachitis, the Biblical Arpachsad, 
under the names Chaldcei (Xenoph. A nab. iv, 3, 1-4) 
and Gordycei or Carduchi (Strabo, xvi, 747), and here 
the name still has a vital existence under the form of 
Kurd. The name Kasdim is explained by Oppert as 
meaning “ two rivers,” and thus as equivalent to the 
Hebrew Naharaim and the classical Mesopotamia (Zeit. 
d. morg. Ges. xi, 137). We receive this explanation with 
reserve; but, so far as it goes, it favors the northern lo- 
cality. The evidence for the antiquity of the southern 
settlement is lessened if the term Kaldai does not oc- 
cur in the Assyrian inscriptions until the 9th century 
B.C. (Rawlinson, i, 449). But whether we conceive the 
original seat of the Chaldees to have been in the north 
or in the south, they moved along the course of the 
Tigris until they reached Babylon, where we find them 
dominant in the 7th century B.C. Whether they first 
entered this country as mercenaries, and then conquered 
their employers, as suggested by Renan ( Ilist . Gen. i, 
68), must remain uncertain ; but we think the sugges- 
tion supported by the circumstance that the name was 
afterwards transferred to the whole Babylonian popula- 
tion. The sacerdotal character of the Chaldees is cer- 
tainly difficult to reconcile with this or any other hy- 
pothesis on the subject. 

Returning to the Terachites, we find it impossible to 
define the geographical limits of their settlements with 
precision. They intermingled with the previously ex- 
isting inhabitants of the countries intervening between 
the Red Sea and the Euphrates, and hence we find an 
Aram, an Uz, and a Chesed among the descendants of 
Nahor (Gen. xxii, 21, 22), a Dedan and a Sheba among 
those of Abraham by Keturah (xxv, 3), and an Ama- 
lek among the descendants of Esau (xxxvi, 12). Few 
of the numerous tribes which sprang from this stock 
attained historical celebrity. The Israelites must of 
course be excepted from this description ; so, also, the 
Nabatlueans, if they are to be regarded as represent- 
ed by the Nebaioth of the Bible, as to which there 
is some doubt (Quatrcmere, Melanges , p. 59). Of the 
rest, the Moabites, Ammonites, Midianites, and Edom- 
ites are chiefly known for their hostilities with the Is- 
raelites, to whom they were close neighbors. The mem- 
ory of the westerly migration of the Israelites was per- 
petuated in the name Hebrew, as referring to their res- 
idence beyond the river Euphrates (Josh, xxiv, 3). 

d. Besides the nations whose origin is accounted for 
in the Bible, we find other early populations mentioned 
in the course of the history without any notice of their 


ethnology. In this category we may place the Horim, 
who occupied Edom before the descendants of Esau 
(Deut. ii, 12, 22); the Amalekites of the Sinaitic pen- 
insula; the Ztizim and Zamzummim of Peraja (Gen. 
xiv, 5; Dent, ii, 20); the Bephaim of Bashan, and of 
the valley near Jerusalem named after them (Gen. xiv, 
5; 2 Sam. v, 18) ; the Emim eastward of the Dead Sea 
(Gen. xiv, 5), the Avim of the southern Philistine plain 
(Deut. ii, 23) ; and the Anakim of Southern Palestine 
(Josh, xi, 21). The question arises whether these tribes 
were llamites, or whether they represented an earlier 
population which preceded the entrance of the llamites. 
The latter view is supported by Knobel, who regards 
the majority of these tribes as Shemites, who preceded 
the Canaanites, and communicated to them the Shem- 
Itic tongue ( Volkert . p. 204, 315). No evidence can be 
adduced in support of this theory, which was probably 
suggested by the double difficulty of accounting for the 
name of Lud and of explaining the apparent anomaly 
of the llamites and Terachites speaking the same lan- 
guage. Still less evidence is there in favor of the Tu- 
ranian origin, which would, we presume, be assigned to 
these tribes in common with the Canaanites proper, in 
accordance with a current theory that the first wave of 
population which overspread Western Asia belonged to 
that branch of the human race (Rawlinson, Herod, i, 
645, note). To this theory we shall presently advert; 
meanwhile, we can only observe, in reference to these 
fragmentary populations, that, as they intermingled 
with the Canaanites, they probably belonged to the 
same stock (comp. Numb, xiii, 22 ; Judg. i, 10). They 
may, perchance, have belonged to an earlier migration 
than the Canaanitish, and may have been subdued by 
the later comers; but this would not necessitate a dif- 
ferent origin. The names of these tribes and of their 
abodes, as instanced in Gen. xiv, 5 ; Deut. ii, 23 ; Numb, 
xiii, 22, bear a Shemitic character (Ewald, Gesch. i, 
311), and the only objection to their Canaanitish origin 
arising out of these names would be in connection with 
Zamzummim, which, according to Renan ( Hist . Gen. p. 
35, note), is formed on the same principle as the Greek 
(3dpj3apoc, and in this case implies, at all events, a di- 
alectical difference. 

(II.) Having thus surveyed the ethnological state- 
ments contained in the Bible, it remains for us to inquire 
how far they are based on, or accord with, physiological 
or linguistic principles. Knobel maintains that the 
threefold division of the Mosaic table is founded on the 
physiological principle of color, Shem, I lam, and Ja- 
pheth representing respectively the red, black, and 
white complexions prevalent in the different regions of 
the then known world (Volkert. p. 11-13). lie claims 
etymological support for this view in respect to 11am 
(=r“dark”) and Japheth (=“fair”), but not in respect 
to Shem ; and he adduces testimony to the fact that such 
differences of color were noted in ancient times. The 
etymological argument weakens rather than sustains 
his view; for it is difficult to conceive that, the princi- 
ple of classification would be embodied in two of the 
names, and not also in the third : the force of such evi- 
dence is wholly dependent upon its uniformity. With 
regard to the actual prevalence of the hues, it is quite 
consistent with the physical character of the districts 
that the Ilamitesofthesouth should be dark, and theJa- 
phethites of the north fair, and, further, that the Shem- 
ites should hold an intermediate place in color as in 
geographical position. But we have no evidence that 
this distinction was strongly marked. The “redness” 
expressed ii; the name Edom probably referred to the 
soil (Stanley, Sin. and Pal. p. 87) : the Erythrmim Mare 
was so called from a peculiarity in its own tint, arising 
from the presence of some vegetable substance, and not 
because the red Shemites bordered on it, the black 
Cushites being equally numerous on its shores: the 
name .4 dam, as applied to the Shemitic man, is ambig- 
uous, from its reference to soil as well as color. On the 
other hand, the Phoenicians (assuming them to have 


TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 4' 

readied the Mediterranean seaboard before the table 
was compiled) were so called from their red hue, and 
yet are placed in the table among the Hainites. The 
argument drawn from the red hue of the Egyptian de- 
ity Tvplion is of little value until it can be decisively 
proved that the deity in question represented the Shem- 
ites. This is asserted by Kenan (Hist. Gen. i, 38 1, who 
endorses Knobel’s view so far as t lie Shcmites'arc con- 
cerned, though he does not accept his general theory. 

The linguistic difficulties connected with the Mosaic 
table are very considerable, and we cTuinot pretend to 
unravel the tangled skein of conflicting opinions on the 
subject. The primary difficulty arises out of the Bibli- 
cal narrative itself, and is consequently of old standing 
— t lie difficulty, namely, of accounting for the evident 
identity of language spoken by the Sheinitic Terachitcs 
and the Hamitic Cauaanitcs. Modern linguistic research 
has rather enhanced than removed this difficulty. The 
alternatives hitherto ottered as satisfactory solutions — 
namely, that the Terachites adopted the language, of 
the Oanaanitcs, or the Cauaanitcs that of the Tcraeh- 
ites— are both inconsistent with the enlarged area which 
the language is found to cover on each side. Setting 
aside the question of the high improbability that a wan- 
dering nomadic tribe, such as the Terachites, would he 
able to impose its language on a settled and powerful 
nation like the Oanaauites, it would still remain to be 
explained how the Cushites and other llamitic tribes, 
who did not come into contact with the Terachites, ac- 
quired the same general type of language. On the 
other hand, assuming that what are called Shemitic 
languages were really Ilamitic, we have to explain the 
extension of the Ilamitic area over Mesopotamia and 
Assyria, which, according to the table and the general 
opinion of ethnologists, belonged wholly to a non- Ha ot- 
itic population. A further question, moreover, arises 
out of this explanation, viz., What was the language of 
the Terachites before they assumed this Ilamitic tongue? 
This question is answered by J. C. Midler, in Herzog’s 
Jieal-Encyklop . xiv, 238, to the effect that the Shemites 
originally spoke an Indo-European language — a view 
which we do not expect to see generally adopted. 

Restricting ourselves, for the present, to the linguistic 
question, we must draw attention to the fact that there 
is a well-defined Ilamitic as well as a Shemitic class of 
languages, and that any theory which obliterates this 
distinction must fall to the ground. The Ilamitic type 
is most highly developed, as we might expect, in the 
country which was, par excellence , the laud of 11am, 
viz. Egypt; and whatever elements of original unity 
with the Shemitic type may be detected by philolo- 
gists, practically the two were as distinct from each 
other in historical times as any two languages could 
possibly be. We arc not therefore prepared at once to 
throw overboard the linguistic element of the Mosaic 
table. At the same time, we recognise the extreme dif- 
ficulty of explaining the anomaly of Hamitic tribes 
speaking a Shemitic tongue. It will not suffice to say, 
in answer to this, that these tribes were Shemites; for 
again the correctness of the Mosaic table is vindicated 
by the ditterences of social and artistic culture which 
di>tinguish the Shemites proper from the Phoenicians 
and (Juslik-es using a Shemitic tongue. The former 
are characterized by habits of simplicity, isolation, and 
adherence to patriarchal ways of living and thinking: 
the Phoenicians, on the other hand, were eminently a 
commercial people; and the Cushites are identified with 
the massive architectural erections of Babylonia and 
South Arabia, and with equally extended ideas of em- 
pire and social progress. 

The real question at issue concerns the language, not 
of t lie whole Ilamitic family, but of the Cauaanitcs and 
Cushites. With regard to the former, various explana- 
tions have been offered — such as Kuobel’s, that they 
acquired a Shemitic language from a prior population, 
represented by the Kephaim, Zuzim, Zamzummim, etc. 
( I 'ollcert. p. 315) ; or Bunsen’s, that they were a Shemitic 


4 TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 

race who had long sojourned in Egypt (Phil, of Hist. 
i, 191 ) — neither of which is satisfactory. With re- 
gard to the latter, the only explanation to be ottered is 
that a Joktanid immigration supervened on the origi- 
nal Ilamitic population, the result being a combination 
of Cushitic civilization with a Shemitic language (Ke- 
nan, Hist. Gen.\,o'22). Nor is it unimportant to mention 
that peculiarities have been discovered in the Cushite 
Shemitic of Southern Arabia which suggest a close affin- 
ity with the Phoenician forms ( ibid, . i,318). We are not, 
however, without expectation that time and research 
will clear up much of the mystery that now enwraps 
the subject. There are two directions to which we may 
hopefully turn for light, namely, Egypt and Babylonia, 
with regard to each of which we make a few remarks. 

1. That the Egyptian language exhibits many strik- 
ing points of resemblance to the Shemitic type is ac- 
knowledged on all sides. It is also allowed that the 
resemblances are of a valuable character, being observa- 
ble in the pronouns, numerals, in agglutinative forms, in 
the treatment of vowels, and other such points (Kenan, 
Hist. Gen. i. 84, 85). There is not, however, an equal de- 
gree of agreement among scholars as to the deductions 
to be drawn from these resemblances. While many rec- 
ognise in them the proofs of a substantial identity, and 
hence regard llamitism as an early stage of Shemitism, 
others deny, either on general or on special grounds, the 
probability of such a connection. When we find such 
high authorities as Bunsen on the former side (Phil, of 
Hist, i, 18G-189; ii, 3), and Kenan ( Hist . Gen. i, 80) on the 
other, not to mention a long array of scholars who have 
adopted each view, it would be presumption dogmati- 
cally to assert the correctness or incorrectness of either. 
We can only point to the possibility of the identity being 
established, and to the further possibility that connect- 
ing-links may be discovered between the two extremes, 
which may serve to bridge over the gulf, and to render 
the use of a Shemitic language by a Hamitic race less 
of an anomaly than it at present appears to be. 

2. Turning eastward to the banks of the Tigris and 
Euphrates, and the adjacent countries, we find ample 
materials for research in the inscriptions recently dis- 
covered, the examination of which has not yet yielded 
undisputed results. The Mosaic table places a Shemitic 
population in Assyria and Elam, and a Cushitic one in 
Babylon. The probability of this being ethnically (as 
opposed to geographically) true depends partly on the 
age assigned to the table. There can be no question 
that at. a late period Assyria and Elam were held bv 
non-Shemitic, probably Aryan, conquerors. But if we 
carry the table back to the age of Abraham, the case 
may have been different ; for though Elam is regarded 
as etymologically identical with Iran (Kenan, Hist. Gen. 
i, 41), this is not conclusive as to the Iranian character 
of the language in early times. Sufficient evidence is 
afforded by language that the basis of the population in 
Assyria was Shemitic (ibid, i, 70 ; Knobel, p. 154 — 1 50) ; 
and it is by no means improbable that the inscriptions 
belonging more especially to the neighborhood of Susa 
may ultimately establish the fact of a Shemitic popu- 
lation in Elam. The presence of a Cushitic population 
in Babylon is an opinion very generally held on lin- 
guistic grounds; and a close identity is said to exist 
between the old Babylonian and the JSIahri language, 
a Shemitic tongue of an ancient type still living in a 
district of lladramaut, in Southern Arabia (Kenan. Hist. 
Gen. i. GO). In addition to the Cushitic and Sheinitic 
elements in the population of Babylonia and the ad- 
jacent districts, the presence of a Turanian element has 
been inferred from the linguistic character of the early 
inscriptions. We must here express our conviction 
that the ethnology of the countries in question is con- 
siderably clouded by the undefined use of the terms 
Turanian, Seythie, and the like. It is frequently diffi- 
cult to decide whether these terms are used in a lin- 
guistic sense, as equivalent to agglutinative , or in an 
ethnic sense. 'The presence of a certain amount of 


TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 475 TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 


Turaiiianism in the former does not involve its pres- | 
eiice in the latter sense. The old Babylonian and Susi- 
anian inscriptions may be more agglutinative than the j 
later ones, but this is only a proof of their belonging to 
an earlier stage of the language, and does not of itself 
indicate a foreign population; and if these early Baby- 
lonian inscriptions graduate into the Shemific, as is as- 
serted even bv the advocates of the Turanian theory 
(Rawlinson, Herod, i, 442, 445), the presence ofan ethnic 
Turanianism cannot possibly be inferred. Added to 
this, it is inexplicable how the presence of a large 
Seythic population in the Aeluemenian period, to 
which many of the Susianian inscriptions belong, could 
escape the notice of historians. The only Seythic 
tribes noticed by Herodotus in his review of the Per- 
sian empire are the Parthians and the Sac.e, the former 
of \Vhom are known to have lived in the north, while 
the latter probably lived in the extreme east, where a 
memorial of them is still supposed to exist in the name 
Seistan, representing the ancient Sacastene. Even with 
regard to these, Seythic may not mean Turanian : for 
they may have belonged to the Scythians of history 
(the Skolots), for whom an Indo-European origin is 
claimed (ibid, iii, 197). The impression conveyed by 
the supposed detection of so many heterogeneous ele- 
ments in the old Babylonian tongue (ibid, i, 442, 444, 
<546, notes) is not favorable to the general results of the 
researches. 

With regard to Arabia, it may safely be asserted 
that the Mosaic table is confirmed by modern research. 
The Cushitic element has left memorials of its presence 
in the south in the vast ruins of March and Sana (Re- 
nan, Hist. Gen. i, 318), as well as in the influence it has 
exercised on the Himvaritic and Mahri languages, as 
compared with the Hebrew. The Joktanid element 
forms the basis of the Arabian population, the Shcmitic 
character of whose language needs no proof. With re- 
gard to the Ishmaelite element in the north, we are not 
aware of any linguistic proof of its existence, but it is 
confirmed by the traditions of the Arabians themselves. 

It remains to be inquired how far the Japhetic stock 
represents the linguistic characteristics of the Indo- 
European and Turanian families. Adopting the two- 
fold division of the former, suggested by the name 
itself, into the eastern and western ; and subdividing 
the eastern into the Indian and Iranian, and the west- 
ern into the Celtic, Hellenic, Illyrian, Italian, Teutonic, 
Slavonian, and Lithuanian classes, we are able to assign 
Madai (Media) and Togarmah (Armenia) to the Irani- 
an class; Javan (Ionian) and Elishah (^ Eoliati ) to the 
Hellenic; Corner conjecturallv to the Celtic ; and Doda- 
nim, also conjecturally, to the Illyrian. According to 
the old interpreters, Ashkenaz represents the Teutonic 
class, while, according to Knobel, the Italian would be 
represented by Tarshish, whom he identifies with the 
Etruscans; the Slavonian by Magog; and the Lithuani- 
an possibly by Tiras (VOlkert. p. 68, 90, 130). The same 
writer also identifies Riphath with the Gauls, as distinct 
from the Cvmry or Gomer (p. 45); while Kittim is re- 
ferred by him not improbably to the Carians, who at 
one period were predominant on the islands adjacent to 
Asia Minor (p. 98). The evidence for these identifica- 
tions varies in strength, but in no instance approaches 
to demonstration. Beyond the general probability that 
the main branches of the human family would be rep- 
resented in the Mosaic table, we regard much that has 
been advanced on this subject as highly precarious. At 
the same time, it must be conceded that the subject is 
an open one; and that as there is no possibility of prov- 
ing, so, also, t here is none of disproving, t he correctness of 
these conjectures. Whether the Turanian family is fairly’- 
represented in the Mosaic table may be doubted. Those 
who advocate the Mongolian origin of the Scythians 
would naturally regard Magog as the representative of 
this family; and even those who dissent from the Mon- 
golian theory may still not unreasonably conceive that 
the title Magog applied broadly to all the nomad tribes 


of Northern Asia, whether Indo-European or Turanian. 
Tubal and Meshech remain to be considered; Knobel 
identities these respectively with the Iberians and the 
Ligurians (p. f 1 1, 1 19) ; and if the Finnish character of 
the Basque language were established, he would regard 
the Iberians as certainly, and the Ligurians as probably, 
Turanians — the relics of the first wave of population 
which is supposed to have once overspread the whole 
of the European continent, and of which the Finns in 
the north, and the Basques in the south, are the sole 
surviving representatives. The Turanian character of 
the two Biblical races above mentioned has been other- 
wise maintained on the ground of the identity of the 
names Meshech and Muscovite ( Rawlinson, Herod, i, 
652). 

(111.) Having thus reviewed the ethnic relations of 
the nations who fell within the circle of the Mosaic 
table, we propose to cast a glance beyond its limits, and 
inquire how far the present results of ethnological sci- 
ence support the general idea of the unity of the human 
race, which underlies the Mosaic system. The chief 
and in many instances the only instrument at our com- 
mand for ascertaining the relationship of nations is lan- 
guage. In its general results this instrument is thor- 
oughly trustworthy, and in each individual case to 
which it is applied it furnishes a strong prima facie 
evidence; but its evidence, if unsupported by collateral 
proofs, is not unimpeachable, in consequence of the nu- 
merous instances of adopted languages which have oc- 
curred within historical times. This drawback to the 
value of the evidence of language will not materially 
affect our present inquiry, inasmuch as we shall confine 
ourselves as much as possible to the general results. 

The nomenclature of modern ethnology is not iden- 
tical with that of the Bible, partly from the enlarge- 
ment of the area, and partly from the general adoption 
of language as the basis of classification. The term 
Shemitic is indeed retained, not, however, to indicate a 
descent from Shem, but the use of languages allied to 
that which was current among the Israelites in histor- 
ical times. Ilamitic also finds a place in modern eth- 
nology, but as subordinate to, or co-ordinate with, 
Shemitic. Japhetic is superseded mainly by Indo- 
European or Aryan. The various nations, or families 
of nations, which find no place under the Biblical titles 
are classed by certain ethnologists under the broad title 
of Turanian, while by others they arc broken up into 
divisions more or less numerous. 

1. The first, branch of our subject will be to trace the 
extension of the Shemitic family beyond the limits as- 
signed to it in the Bible. The most marked charac- 
teristic of this family, as compared with the Indo-Eu- 
ropean or Turanian, is its inelasticity. Hemmed in 
both by natural barriers and by the superior energy 
and expansiveness of the Aryan and Turanian races, it 
retains to the present day the status quo of early times. 
The only direction in which it has exhibited any ten- 
dency to expand has been about the shores of the Med- 
iterranean, and even here its activity was of a sporadic 
character, limited to a single branch of the family, viz. 
the Phoenicians, ami to a single phase of expansion, 
viz. commercial colonies. In Asia Minor we find tokens 
of Shemitic presence in Cilicia, which was connected 
with Phoenicia both by tradition (Herod, vii, 91) and 
by language, as attested by existing coins (Gesenius, 
Mon. Phcen. iii, 2); in Pamphylia, Pisidia, and Lvcia, 
parts of which w-ere occupied by the Solymi (Pliny, v, 
24; Herod, i, 173), whose name bears a Shemitic char- 
acter, and w T ho are reported to have spoken a Shemitic 
tongue (Eusebius, Prcep. Ev. ix, 9), a statement con- 
firmed by the occurrence of other Shemitic names, such 
as Phoenix and Cabalia, though the subsequent pre- 
dominance of an Aryan population in these same dis- 
tricts is attested by the existing Lycian inscriptions; 
again in Caria, though the evidence arising out of the 
supposed identity of the names of the gods Osogo and 
Chrysaoreus with the OiVtooi; and Xpvainp of Sanchoni- 


TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 4TG TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 


athon is called in question (Kenan, Hist. Gen. i, 49) ; 
and, lastly, in Lydia, where the descendants of Lud are 
located by many authorities, and where the prevalence 
of a Shcmitie language is asserted by scholars of the 
highest standing, among whom wc may specify Bunsen 
and Lassen, in spite of tokens of the contemporaneous 
presence of the Aryan element, as instanced in the name 
Sardis, and in spite, also, of the historical notices of an 
ethnical connection with Mysin (Herod, i, 171). Wheth- 
er the Shemitcs ever occupied any portion of the plateau 
of Asia Minor may be doubted. In the opinion of the 
ancients the later occupants of Cappadocia were Svr- 
ians, distinguished from the mass of their race by a 
lighter hue. and hence termed lAUicosyri (Strabo, xii, 
512); but this statement is traversed by the evidences 
of Aryanism afforded bv the names of the kings and 
deities, as well as by the Persian character of the relig- 
ion {ibid, xv, 733). If, therefore, the Shemites ever oc- 
cupied this district, they must soon have been brought 
under the dominion of Aryan conquerors (Diefenbach, 
Orig. Knrop. p. 41). The Phoenicians were ubiquitous 
on the islands and shores of the Mediterranean : in 
Cyprus, where they have left tokens of their presence 
at Citium and other places; in Crete; in Malta, where 
they were the original settlers (Diod. Sic. v, 12); on 
the mainland of Greece, where their presence is be- 
tokened by the name Cadmus; in Samos, Same, and 
Samothraee, which bear Shemitic names; in los and 
Tenedos, once known by the name of Phoenicc; in 
Sicily, where Panormus, Motya, and Solceis were Shem- 
itic settlements; in Sardinia {ibid, v, 35) ; on the eastern 
and southern coasts of Spain; and on the north coast 
of Africa, which was lined with Phoenician colonies 
from the Svrtis Major to the Pillars of Hercules. They 
must also have penetrated deeply into the interior, to 
judge from Strabo’s statement of the destruction of | 
three hundred towns by the Pharusians and Nigritians 
(Strabo, xvii, 820). Still, in none of the countries we 
have mentioned did they supplant the original popu- 
lation; they were conquerors and settlers, but no more 
than this. 

The bulk of the North African languages, both in 
ancient and modern times, though not Shemitic in the 
proper sense of the term, so far resemble that type as to 
have obtained the title of sub-Shcmitic. In the north 
the old Numidian language appears, from the preva- 
lence of the syllable Mas in the name Massy Hi, etc., to 
be allied to the modern Berber; and the same conclu- 
sion has been drawn with regard to the Libyan tongue. 
The Berber, in turn, together with the Touarick and 
t he great body of the North African dialects, is closely 
allied to the Coptic of Egypt, and therefore falls under 
the title of Ilamitic, or, according to the more usual 
nomenclature, sub-Shemitic (Kenan, Hist. Gen. i, 201, 
202). Southward of Egypt the Shemitic type is repro- 
duced in the majority of the Abyssinian languages, par- 
ticularly in the Ghccz,and in a less marked degree in the 
Amharic, the Saho, and the Galla; and Shemitic influ- 
ence may be traced along the whole east coast of Africa 
as far as Mozambique {ibid, i, 33G-3 10). As to the 
languages of the interior and of the south, there appears 
io be a conflict of opinions, the writer from whom we 
have just quoted denying any trace of resemblance to 
the Shemitic type, while Dr. Latham asserts very con- 
fi lently that connecting-links exist between the sub- 
Shcmitic languages of the north, the Negro languages 
in the centre, and the Caffre languages of the south; 
and that even the Hottentot language is not so isolated 
as has generally been supposed {Man and /ns Miff rat. p. 
134-148). Bunsen supports this view so far as the lan- 
guages north of the equator are concerned, but regards 
the southern as rather approximating to the Turanian 
type {Phil, of Hist, i, 178; ii, 20). It is impossible as 
yet to form a decided opinion on this large subject. 

A question of cousiderable interest remains yet to be 
noticed, namely, whether we can trace the Shemitic fam- 
ily back to its original cradle. In the case of the Indo- 


European family this can be done with a high degree of 
probability; and if an original unity existed between 
these stocks, the domicile of the one would necessarily 
be that of the other. A certain community of ideas 
and traditions favors this assumption, and possibly the 
frequent allusions to the east in the early chapters of 
Genesis may contain a reminiscence of the direction in 
which the primeval abode la}” (Kenan, Hist. Gen. i,47G). 
The position of this abode we shall describe presently. 

2. The Indo-European family of languages, as at pres- 
ent constituted, consists of the following nine classes: 
Indian, Iranian, Celtic, Italian, Albanian, Greek, Teu- 
tonic, Lithuanian, and Slavonian. Geographically, these 
classes may be grouped together in two divisions, East- 
ern and Western; the former comprising the first two, 
the latter the seven remaining classes. Schleicher di- 
vides what we have termed the Western into two, the 
South-west European and the North European; in 
the former of which he places the Greek, Albanian, 
Italian, and Celtic; in the latter, the Slavonian, Lithu- 
anian, and Teutonic {Compend. i, 5). Prof. M. M idler 
combines the Slavonian and Lithuanian classes in the 
Windic, thus reducing the number to eight. These 
classes exhibit various degrees of affinity to each other, 
which are described by Schleicher in the following man- 
ner: The earliest deviation from the common language 
of the family was effected by the Slavono-Teutonic 
branch. After another interval a second bifurcation oc- 
curred, which separated what we may term the Groeco- 
Italo-Celtic branch from the Aryan. The former held 
together for a while, and then threw off the Greek (in- 
cluding probably the Albanian), leaving the Celtic and 
Italian still connected: the final division of the latter 
t wo took place after another considerable interval. The 
first - mentioned branch — the Slavono-Teutonic — re- 
mained intact for a period somewhat longer than that 
which witnessed the second bifurcation of the original 
stock, and then divided into the Teutonic and Slavono- 
Lithuanian, which latter finally broke up into its two 
component elements. The Aryan branch similarly held 
together for a lengthened period, and then bifurcated 
into the Indian and Iranian. The conclusion Schleicher 
draws from these linguistic affinities is that the more 
easterly of the European nations, the Slavonians and 
teutons, were the first to leave the common home of 
the Indo-European race; that they were followed by 
the Celts, Italians, and Greeks; and that the Indian and 
Iranian branches were the last to commence their mi- 
grations. We feel unable to accept this conclusion, 
which appears to us to be based on the assumption that 
the antiquity of a language is to be measured by its ap- 
proximation to Sanscrit. Looking at the geographical 
position of the representatives of the different language- 
classes, we should infer that the most westerly were the 
earliest immigrants into Europe, and therefore probably 
the earliest emigrants from the primeval seat of the 
race ; and we believe this to be confirmed by linguistic 
proofs of the high antiquity of the Celtic as compared 
with the other branches of the Indo-European family 
(Bunsen, Phil, of Hist, i, 168). 

The original scat of the Indo-European race was on 
the plateau of Central Asia, probably to the westward 
of the Bolor and Mustagh ranges. The Indian branch 
can be traced back to the slopes of Himalaya by the 
geographical allusions in the Vedic hymns (M idler, Lect- 
ures, p. 201); in confirmation of which we may adduce 
the circumstance that the sole tree for which the In- 
dians have an appellation in common with the western 
nations is one which in India is found only on the 
southern slope of that range (Bott, Etym. Forsch. i, 110). 
The westward progress of the Iranian tribes is a matter 
of history, and though we cannot trace this progress 
back to its fountain-head, the locality above mentioned 
best accords with the traditional belief of the Asiatic 
Aryans and with the physical and geographical require- 
ments of the case (Kenan, Hist. Gen . i, 481). 

The routes bv which the various western branches 


TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 4 \ 

reached their respective localities can only be conject- 
ured. We may suppose them to have successively 
crossed the plateau of Iran until they reached Armenia, 
whence they might follow either a northerly course 
across Caucasus, and by the shore of the Black Sea, or 
a direct westerly one along the plateau of Asia Minor, 
which seems destined by nature to be the bridge be- 
tween the two continents of Europe and Asia. A third 
route has been surmised for a portion of the Celtic stock, 
viz. along the north coast of Africa, and across the 
Straits of Gibraltar into Spain (Bunsen, Phil, of llist. i, 
148) ; but we see little continuation of this opinion be- 
yond the fact of the early presence of the Celt® in that 
peninsula, which is certainly difficult to account for. 

The ®ras of the several migrations are again ver}' 
much a matter of conjecture. The original movements 
belong, for the most part, to the ante-historical age, and 
we can do no more than note the period at which we 
first encounter the several nations. That the Indian 
Aryans had reached the mouth of the Indus at all events 
before B.C. 1000 appears from the Sanscrit names of 
the articles which Solomon imported from that country. 
See India. The presence of Aryans on the Shemitic 
frontier is as old as the composition of the Mosaic table ; 
and, according to some authorities, is proved by the 
names of the confederate kings in the age of Abraham 
(Gen. xiv, 1 ; Kenan, Hist. Gen. i, 61). The Aryan 
Medes are mentioned in the Assyrian annals about B.C. 
900. The Greeks were settled on the peninsula named 
after them, as well as on the islands of the Aegean, long 
before the dawn of history, and the Italians had reach- 
ed their quarters at a yet earlier period. The Celtic 
had reached the west of Europe at all events before, 
probably very long before, the age of Hecaticus (B.C. 
500); the latest branch of this stock arrived there about 
that period, according to Bunsen’s conjecture (Phil, of 
Hist, i, 152). The Teutonic migration followed at a long 
interval after the Celtic: Pvthcas found them already 
seated on the shores of the Baltic in the age of Alexan- 
der the Great (Pliny, xxxvii, 11), and the term ylemm 
itself, by which amber was described in that district, 
belongs to them (Diefenbach, Oriy. Europ . p. 359). The 
earliest historical notice of them depends on the view 
taken of the nationality of the Teutones, who accom- 
panied the Cimbri on their southern expedition in B.C. 
113-102. If these were Celtic, as is not uncommonly 
thought, then we must look to Caesar and Tacitus for 
the earliest definite notices of the Teutonic tribes. The 
Slavonian immigration was nearly contemporaneous 
with the Teutonic (Bunsen, Ph il. of Hist, i, 72): this 
stock can be traced back to the Veneti or Yenedie of 
Northern Germany, first mentioned by Tacitus (Germ. 
46), from whom the name Wend is probably descended. 
The designation of Slavi or Sclav i is of comparatively 
late date, and applied specially to the western branch 
of the Slavonian stock. The Lithuanians are probably 
represented by the Galindce and Sudeni of Ptolemy (iii, 
5, 21), the names of which tribes have been preserved 
in all ages in the Lithuanian district (Diefenbach, p. 
202). They are frequently identified with the HJstui, 
and it is not impossible that they may have adopted 
the title, which was a geographical one ( = the cabmen): 
the /Estui of Tacitus, however, were Germans. In the 
above statements we have omitted the problematical 
identifications of the Northern stocks with the earlier 
nations of history : we may here mention that the Sla- 
vonians are not unfrcquently regarded as the represent- 
atives of the Scythians (Skolots) and the Sarmatians 
(Knobel, Yolkert. p. 69). The writer whom we have 
just cited also endeavors to connect the Lithuanians 
with the Agathyrisi (p. 130). So, again, Grimm traced 
the Teutonic stock to the Get®, whom he identified 
with the Goths ( Gesch . d. deutsch. Spr. i, 178). 

It may be asked whether the Aryan race were the 
first-comers in the lands which they occupied in histori- 
cal times, or whether they superseded an earlier popu- 
lation. With regard to the Indian branch this ques- 


7 TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 

tion can be answered decisively: the vestiges of an 
aboriginal population, which once covered the plains of 
II indostan, still exist in the southern extremity of the 
peninsula, as well as in isolated localities elsewhere, ns 
instanced in the case of the Brahus of the North. Not 
only this, but the Indian class of languages possesses a 
peculiarity of sound (the lingual or cerebral consonants) 
which is supposed to have been derived from this popu- 
lation and to betoken a fusion of the conquerors and the 
conquered (Schleicher, Compend. i, 141). The lan- 
guages of this early population are classed as Turani- 
an (.Muller, Lect. p. 399). We are unable to find de- 
cided traces of Turanians on the plateau of Iran. The 
Sac®, of whom we have already spoken, were Scythi- 
ans, and so were the Earth ians, both by reputed descent 
(Justin, xli, 1) and by habits of life (Strabo, xi, 515); 
but we cannot positively assert that they were Turani- 
ans, inasmuch as the term Scythian was also applied, 
as in the case of the Skolots, to Indo-Europeans. In 
the Caucasian district the Iberians and others may have 
been Turanian in early as in later times; but it is dif- 
ficult to unravel the entanglement of races and lan- 
guages in that district. In Europe there exists in the 
present day an undoubted Turanian population east- 
ward of the Baltic, viz. the Finns, who have been located 
there certainly since the time of Tacitus (Germ. 46), and 
who probably at an earlier period had spread more to 
the southward, but had been gradually thrust back by 
the advance of the Teutonic and Slavonian nations 
(Diefenbach, Oriy. Europ. p. 209). There exists, again, 
in the South a population whose language (the Basque^ 
or, as it is entitled in its own land, the Enskara) presents 
numerous points of affinity to the Finnish in grammar, 
though its vocabulary is wholly distinct. We cannot 
consider the Turanian character of this language as 
fully established, and we are therefore unable to divine 
the ethnic affinities of the early Iberians, who are gen- 
erally regarded as the progenitors of the Basques. We 
have already adverted to the theory that the Finns in 
the North and the Basques in the South are the surviv- 
ing monuments of a Turanian population which over- 
spread the whole of Europe before the arrival of the 
Indo-Europeans. This is a mere theory which can 
neither be proved nor disproved. 

It would be difficult, if not impossible, to assign to 
the various subdivisions of the Indo-European stock 
their respective areas, or, where admixture has taken 
place, their relative proportions. Language and race 
are, as already observed, by no means coextensive. The 
Celtic race, for instance, which occupied Gaul, Northern 
Italy, large portions of Spain and Germany, and even 
penetrated across the Hellespont into Asia Minor, where 
it gave name to the province of Galatia, is now repre- 
sented linguistically by the insignificant populations 
among whom the Welsh and the Gaelic or Erse lan- 
guages retain a lingering existence. The Italian race, 
on the other hand, which must have been well-nigh an- 
nihilated by, or absorbed in, the overwhelming masses 
of the Northern hordes, has imposed its language out- 
side the bounds of Italy over the peninsula of Spain, 
France, and Wallachia. But, while the races have so 
intermingled as in many instances to lose all trace of 
their original individuality, the broad fact of their de- 
scent from one or other of the branches of the Indo- 
European family remains unaffected. It is, indeed, im- 
possible to affiliate all the nations whose names appear 
on the roll of history to the existing divisions of that 
family, in consequence of the absence or the obscurity 
of ethnological criteria. Where, for instance, shall we 
place the languages of Asia Minor and the adjacent dis- 
tricts? The Phrygian approximates perhaps to the 
Greek, and yet it differs from it materially both in form 
and vocabulary (Eawlinson, Herod, i, 666) ; still more 
is this the ease with the Lycian, which appears to pos- 
sess a vocabulary wholly distinct from its kindred lan- 
guages (ibid, i, 669, 677-679). The Armenian is ranged 
under the Iranian division ; yet this, as well as the lan- 


TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 478 TONGUES, CONFUSION OF 


guage of the Caucasian Ossetes, whose indigenous name 
of /ror Iron seems to vindicate for them the same rela- 
tionship. is so distinctive in its features as to render the 
connection dubious. The languages prevalent in the 
mountainous district answering to the ancient Pontus 
are equally peculiar (Diefeubaeh, Orig. Europ. p. 51). 
Passing to the westward, we encounter the Thracians, 
reputed by Herodotus (v, 3) the most powerful nation 
in the world, the Indians excepted; yet but one word 
of their language (< town”) has survived, and all 
historical traces of the people have been obliterated. 
It is true that they are represented in later times bv 
the Getie, and these in turn by the Daci; but neither 
of these can be tracked either by history or language, 
unless we accept Grimm's more than doubtful identi- 
tication which would connect them with the Teutonic 
branch. The remains of the Scythian language are 
sutlieient to establish the Indo-European affinities of 
that nation (Pawlinson, Ilerod. iii, 196-203), but insuf- 
licient to assign to it a definite place in the family. 
The Scythians, as well as most of the nomad tribes as- 
sociated with them, are lost to the eye of the ethnolo- 
gist, having been either absorbed into other nationali- 
ties or swept away by the ravages of war. The Sar- 
mat:e can be traced down to the Iazvges of Hungary 
and Podlachia, in which latter district they survived 
until the Kith century of our :vra (Smith, Did. of Geog. 
ii, 8), and then they also vanish. The Albanian lan- 
guage presents a problem of a different kind : materials 
for research are not wanting in this case, but no definite 
conclusions have as yet been drawn from them. The 
people who use this tongue (the Skipetares , as they call 
themselves) are generally regarded as the representa- 
tives of the old Illyrians, who in turn appear to have 
been closely connected with the Thracians (Strabo, vii, 
315; Justin, xi, l), the name Dardani being found both 
in Illvria and on the shores of the Hellespont; it is not, 
therefore, improbable that the Albanian may contain 
whatever vestiges of the old Thracian tongue still sur- 
vive (Diefeubaeh, Orig. Europ. p. G8). In the Italic pe- 
ninsula the Etruscan tongue remains as great an enigma 
as ever: its Indo-European character is supposed to be 
established, together with the probability of its being a 
mixed language (Bunsen, Phil, of Hist, i, 85-88). The 
result of researches into the Umbrian language, as repre- 
sented in the Eugubiue tablets, the earliest of which 
date from about 15.0. 400; into the Sabellian, as repre- 
sented in the tablets of Velletri ami Antino; and into 
the Oscan, of which the remains are numerous, have de- 
cided their position as members of the Italic class {ibid. 
i, 00-94). The same cannot be asserted of the Mesapi- 
an or Iapvgiaii language, which stands apart from all 
neighboring dialects. Its Indo-European character is 
affirmed, but no ethnological conclusion can as yet be 
drawn from the scanty information afforded us {ibid, i, 
91). Lastly, within the Celtic area there are ethnolog- 
ical problems which we cannot pretend to solve. The 
Ligurians, for instance, present one of these problems: 
were they Celts, but belonging to an earlier migration 
than t he Celts of history? Their name has been refer- 
red to a Welsh original, but on this no great reliance 
can be placed, as it would lie in this case, a local (=coast- 
men ) and not ah ethnical title, and might have been im- 
posed on them by the Celts. They evidently hold a 
posterior place to the Iberians, inasmuch as they are 
said to have driven a section of this people across the 
Alps into Italy. That they were distinct from the 
Celts is asserted by Strabo (ii, 128), hut the distinc- 
tion may have been no greater than exists between the 
British and the Gaelic branches of that race. The ad- 
mixture of the Celts and Iberians in the Spanish penin- 
sula is again a somewhat intricate question, which Dr. 
Latham attempts to explain on the ground that the 
term Celt (KLXrot) really meant Iberian {Ethn.of Eur. 
j>. 35). That such questions as these should arise on a 
subject which carries ns back to times of hoar antiqui- 
ty forms no ground for doubting the general conclusion 


that we can account ethnologically for the population 
of the European continent. 

3. The Shemitic and Indo-European families cover, 
after all, but an insignificant portion of the earth’s sur- 
face: the large areas of Northern and Eastern Asia, the 
numerous groups of islands that line its coast and stud 
the Pacific iu the direction of South America, anti, again, 
the immense continent of America itself, stretching well- 
high from pole to pole, remain to be accounted for. His- 
torical aid is almost wholly denied to the ethnologist iu 
his researches in these quarters; physiology and lan- 
guage are his only guides. It can hardly, therefore, be 
matter of surprise if we are unable to obtain certainty, 
or even a reasonable degree of probability, on this part 
of our subject. Much has been done; but far more re- 
mains to be done before the data for forming a conclu- 
sive opinion can be obtained. In Asia the languages 
fall into two large classes — the monosyllabic and the 
agglutinative. The former are represented ethnologi- 
cal lly by the Chinese, the latter by the various nations 
classed together by Prof. XI. Midler under the common 
head of Turanian. It is unnecessary for us to discuss 
the correctness of his view in regarding all these nations 
as members of one and the same family. Whether we 
accept or reject his theory, the fact of a gradation of lin- 
guistic types and of connecting-links between the vari- 
ous branches remains unaffected, and for our present 
purpose the question is of comparatively little moment. 
The monosyllabic type apparently betokens the earliest 
movement from the common home of the human race, 
and we should therefore assign a chronological priority 
to the settlement of the Chinese iu the east and south- 
east of the continent. The agglutinative languages fall 
geographically into two divisions, a Northern and South- 
ern. The Northern consists of a well-defined group, or 
family, designated by German ethnologists the Ural- 
Altaian. It consists of the following five branches: 
(1.) The Tungusian, covering a large area, east of the 
river Yenisei, between Lake Baikal and the Tnnguska. 
(2.) The Mongolian, which prevails over the Great Des- 
ert of Gobi, and among the Kalmucks, wherever their 
nomad habits lead them on the steppes either of Asia 
or Europe, in the latter of which they are found about 
the lower course of the Volga. (3.) The Turkish, cov- 
ering an immense area from the Mediterranean in the 
south-west to the river Lena in the north-east; in Eu- 
rope spoken by the Osmanli, who form the governing 
class in Turkey; by the Nogai, between the Caspian 
and the Sea of Azof; and by various Caucasian tribes. 
(4.) The Samoiedie, on the coast of the Arctic Ocean, 
between the White Sea in the west and the river Ana- 
bara in the east. (5.) The Finnish, which is spoken by 
the Finns and Lapps; by the inhabitants of Esthonia 
and Livonia to the south of the Gulf of Finland ; hv va- 
rious tribes about the Volga (the Teheremissians and 
Mordvinians) and the Kama (the Votiakes and Permi- 
ans); and, lastly, by the Magyars of Hungary. The 
Southern branch is subdivided into the following four 
classes: (1.) The Tamulian, of the south of Ilindostan. 
(2.) The Bhotiya, of Thibet, the sub- Himalayan district 
(Nepaul and Bhotan), and the Lohitic languages east 
of the Brahmapootra. (3.) The Tai, in Siam, Laos, 
Anam, and Pegu. (4.) The Malay, of the Malay penin- 
sula, and the adjacent islands; the latter being the orig- 
inal settlement of the Malay race, whence they spread 
in comparatively modern times to the mainland. 

The early movements of the races representing these 
several divisions can only be divined by linguistic to- 
kens. Prof. M. Muller assigns to the Northern tribes 
the following chronological order: Tungusian, Mongo- 
lian, Turkish, and Finnish ; and to the Southern division 
the following: TaT, Malay, Bhotiya, and Tamulian 
{Phil, of Hist, i, 481). Geographically it appears more 
likely that, the Malay preceded the Tai, inasmuch as 
they occupied a more southerly district. The later 
movements of the European branches of the Northern 
division can be traced historically. The Turkish race 


TONGUES OF FIRE 


479 


TONGUES, GIFT OF 


commenced their westerly migration from the neigh- 
borhood of the Altai range in the 1st century of our icra ; 
in the 6th they had reached the Caspian and the Vol- 
ga; in the 1 1th and 12th the Turcomans took posses- 
sion of their present quarters south of Caucasus; in the 
13th the Osmanli made their first appearance in West- 
ern Asia; about the middle of the 14th they crossed 
from Asia Minor into Europe; and in the middle of the 
15th they had established themselves at Constant inoi 
pie. The Finnish race is supposed to have been orig- 
inally settled about the Ural range, and thence to have 
migrated westward to 'the shores of the Baltic, which 
they . had reached at a period anterior to the Christian 
a?ra ; in the 7th century a branch pressed southward to 
the Danube, and founded the kingdom of Bulgaria, 
where, however, they have long ceased to have any na- 
tional existence. The Ugrian tribes, who are the early 
representatives of the Hungarian Magyars, approached 
Europe from Asia in the 5th and settled in Hungary in 
the 9th century of our icra. The central point from 
which the various branches of the Turanian family ra- 
diated would appear to be about Lake Baikal. With 
regard to the ethnology of Oceania and America we can 
say but little. The languages of the former are gener- 
ally supposed to be connect eil with the Malay class (Bun- 
sen, Phil, of Hist, ii, 114) ; but the relations, both linguis- 
tic and ethnological, existing between the Malay and the 
black, or Negrito, population, which is found on many of 
the groups of islands, are not well defined. The approx- 
imation in language is far greater than in physiology 
(Latham, Essays, p. 213, 218; Garnett, Essays, p. 310), 
and in certain cases amounts to identity (Kennedy, Es- 
says, p. 85) ; but the whole subject is at present involved 
in obscurity. The polysvnthetic languages of North 
America are regarded as emanating from the Mongolian 
stock (Bunsen, Phil, of Hist, ii, 111), and a close affinity 
is said to exist between the North American and the 
lvamtehadale and Corean languages on the opposite 
coast of Asia (Latham, M an and his M igrat. p. 185). The 
conclusion drawn from this would be that the popula- 
tion of America entered by way of Behring’s Strait. 
Other theories have, however, been broached on this 
subject. It has been conjectured that the chain of isl- 
ands which stretches across the Pacific may have con- 
ducted a Malay population to South America ; and, 
again, an African origin has been claimed for the Caribs 
of Central America (Kennedy, Essays, p. 100-123). In 
conclusion, we may safely assert that the tendency of 
all ethnological and linguistic research is to discover 
the elements of unity amid the most striking external 
varieties. Already the myriads of the human race are 
massed together into a few large groups. Whether it 
will ever be possible to go beyond this, and to show the 
historical unity of these groups, is more than we can 
undertake to say. But we entertain the firm persua- 
sion that in their broad results these sciences will yield 
an increasing testimony to the truth of the Bible. 

III. The authorities referred to in the foregoing arti- 
cle are, Muller, Lectures* on the Science of Language 
(1862); Bunsen, Philosophy of History (1854, 2 vols.); 
llenau, llistoire Generale des Langues Semitiques (3d ed. 
1863); Knobel, Volkertafel der Genesis (1850); Hum- 
boldt [W. von], Ueher die, Verschiedenheit des mensch- 
lichen Sprachbanes (1836); Delitzseh, Jeshurun (1858); 
Transactions of the Philological Society ; Bawlinson, 
ifei’odotus (1858, 4 vols.); Pott, Etymoloyische Eor- 
schungen (1833); Garnett, Essays (1859); Schleicher, 
Compendium der verglrichenden Grammatik (1861); I)ie- 
fenbaeh, Origines European (eod.) ; Ewald, Sprachwis - 
senschaftliche Abhandlungen (1862). See Ethnology. 

TONGUES of Fire. In the aeeounr of the first de- 
scent of the Holy Spirit upon the apostles, it is stated 
(Acts ii, 3) that “there appeared unto them cloven 
tongues as of Jire (ciapepi'Copevai yXtoaaai wwi -tpog), 
and it sat upon each of them.” “ They were appear- 
ances of tongues, which were luminous, but did not 
burn; not confluent into one, but distributing them- 


selves on the assembled. As only similar to fire, they 
bore an analogy to electric phenomena; their tongue- 
like shape referred as a sign to that miraculous speak- 
ing which ensued immediately after, and the tire-like 
form to the divine presence (comp. Ezek. iii, 2), which 
’was here operative in a manner so entirely peculiar. 
The whole phenomenon is here to be understood as a 
miraculous operation of God manifesting himself in the 
Spirit, by which, as by a preceding sound from heaven, 
the effusion of the Spirit was made known as divine, and 
his efficacy in the minds of those who were to receive 
him was enhanced” (Meyer, ad loc.). See Tliilo, J)e 
Lingnis Ignitis (Viteb. 1675). See Fire; Tongue. 

TONGUES, Gift of. T his was an endowment first 
imparted to the apostles, and apparently to all the as- 
sembled disciples, on the day of Pentecost, and afterwards 
continued to the Christians during the apostolic age. 
John the Baptist, himself a burning and a shining light, 
had testified of Christ, “lie that cometh after me is 
mightier than I, whose shoes 1 am not worthy to bear: 

| he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with tire.” 
After Jesus had been crucified, and before he ascended, 
he breathed on his disciples and said, “Deceive ye the 
Holy Ghost.” The influence so communicated must 
have been precious, but it was only the earnest of the 
inheritance, and not the entire fulfilment of John’s pre- 
diction. By their secular views of the Messiah’s sover- 
eignty the disciples showed that they had not yet been 
favored with the full baptism of the Spirit. “When 
they were come together, they asked of him, saying, 
Wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Is- 
rael?” This question implied entire confidence in the 
power of Christ, but it evinced no clear conceptions of 
the spirituality of his reign. Fifty days after the cruci- 
fixion the promise of the Father had its accomplishment, 
and the disciples received a special power when the 
Holy Ghost came upon them. Why was hope so long 
deferred ? There was wisdom in this delay, as indicat- 
ing divine presidency and direction in the ordering of 
the event. If the apostles were to be excited and be- 
stirred merely by the dire experience they had passed 
through, the effect on natural principles should have 
been speedily consequent on the cause. Procrastina- 
tion was calculated to sober tumultuous passion, and to 
restrain imperilling enterprise. In this view the de- 
scent of the Spirit received confirmation from occurring 
after a considerable interval of tranquillity and inaction. 
The specific day had also its significance. Pentecost 
' was the feast of first-fruits, the commencement and the 
consecration of the harvest; and it formed, therefore, 
the fitting moment for the formal introduction of that 
| work of the Spirit by which was to be secured the 
spiritual harvest of Christ’s finished work. It had also 
come to be regarded as commemorative of the giving 
of the law from Sinai — the magnificent initiation of the 
Mosaic economy — and the period of the latter event 
j must certainly have coincided very nearly, if not abso- 
lutely, with that of the other (Exod. xi.\, 11). Then 
God spake, and the mountain burned with fire. The 
season so regarded was suitable for tlie introduction of 
another and related aera, the inauguration of the Gospel 
economy: and anew God reveals himself by analogous 
manifestations. “Suddenly there came a sound from 
heaven as ofa rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the 
house where they were sitting.” This sound resembled 
the roar of the tempest; but instead of proceeding from 
any point of the compass, it descended from heaven. 
Here, as in the wilderness, was the voice of God, a voice 
full of majesty. “ And there appeared unto them cloven 
tongues like as of fire, and it sat upon each of them.” 
Here we have the fiery attribute of Sinai. But now it 
takes the form of tongues, to denote that God while 
speaking was endowing with speech, and that his voice 
like echoing thunder would multiply itself through the 
reverberating media on which it fell. The tongues 
were cloven, but into what number of divisions we are 
not informed. As happens with the variable tlames of 


TONGUES, GIFT OF 480 TONGUES, GIFT OF 


a furnace, the gleaming points may have been unequal- 
ly numerous. No one had all tongues in his gift; per- 
haps no two the same tongues, but in every case there 
was a plurality.— Kairbairu. The general subject has 
already been considered under lloi.v Si’iuiT, Baptism 
or, and certain aspects of it under the foregoing head- 
ing, and under Spiritual Gifts. We here give (mod- 
ified from Smith’s Diet, of the Bible ) a more detailed 
view of the linguistic phenomenon involved. 

I. Philological Interpretations of the Term.—rXurrra, 
or y\ui(T(rrt, the word employed throughout the New 
Test, for the gift now under consideration, is used in 
three senses [see Tongue], each of which might be the 
starting-point for the application of the word to the gift 
of tongues, and each accordingly has found those who 
have maintained that it is.so. 

1. It primarily and literally signifies the bodily organ 
of speech. Eiehhorn and Bardili (cited by Bleek, Stud. u. 
Krit. 1820, p.8 sq.),and to some extent Bunsen (Hippoly- 
tus , i, 0). starting from this signification, see in the so- 
called gift an inarticulate utterance, the cry as of a brute 
creature, in which the tongue moves while the lips refuse 
their office in making the sounds definite and distinct. 

This interpretation, it is believed, does not meet the 
condition of answering any of the facts of the New 
Test., and errs in ignoring the more prominent meaning 
of the word in later Greek. 

2. The term yXujvaa may stand for the use of foreign 
words, imported and half naturalized in Greek (Aristotle. 
Iihet. iii, 2, 14), a meaning which the words “gloss” and 
“glossary” preserve for us. Bleek himself (nt sup. p.33) 
adopts this second meaning, and gives au interesting 
collection of passages to prove that it was, in the time 
of the New Test., the received sense. He infers from 
this that to speak in tongues was to use unusual, poetic 
language; that the speakers were in a high-wrought 
excitement which showed itself in mystic, figurative 
terms. In this view he had been preceded by Ernesti 
( Opusc. Theolog.; see Morning Watch, iv, 101) and 
Herder ( Die Gabe der Sprache , p. 47, 70), the latter of 
whom extends the meaning to special mystical inter- 
pretations of the Old Test. 

This interpretation, however, though true in some 
of its conclusions, and able, so far as they are concerned, 
to support itself by the authority of Augustine (comp. 
De Gen. ad lit. xii, 8, “ Linguam esse cum quis loquatur 
obscuras et mysticas significationes”), appears faulty, as 
failing (1) to recognise the fact that the sense of the 
word in the New Test, was more likely to be determined 
by that which it bore in the Sept, than by its meaning 
in Greek historians or rhetoricians, and (2) to meet the 
phenomena of Acts ii. 

3. The word yXioacra, in Hellenistic Greek, after the 
pattern of t lie corresponding Hebrew word (]' wb), stands 
for “speech” or “ language” (Gen. x, 5; Dan. i, 4, etc.). 
The received traditional view starts from this meaning, 
and sees in the gift of tongues a distinctly linguistic 
power. It commends itself, as in this respect starting 
at least from the right point, and likely to lead us to 
the truth (comp. Olshausen, Stud. u. Krit. 1829, p. 538). 
Variations as well as objections and difficulties arising 
from this interpretation will be considered below. 

11. History and Explanation of the Biblical Occur- 
rences . — The principal passages from which we have to 
draw our conclusion as to the nature and purpose of the 
gift in question are (1) Mark xvi, 17 ; (2) Acts ii, 1-13; 
x, 40; xix, 0; (3) 1 Cor. xii, xiv. Besides these, we 
may derive some light from later allusions incidentally 
made to these phenomena. We here consider them in 
their chronological order, with such inferences as are 
suggested by them. 

1. The promise of a new power coming from the Di- 
vine Spirit, giving not only comfort and insight into 
truth, but fresh powers of utterance of some kind, ap- 
pears once and again in our Lord’s teaching. The dis- 
ciples are to take no thought what they shall speak, for 


the Spirit of their Father shall speak in them (Matt, x, 
19, 20; Mark xiii, 11). The lips of Galihean peasants 
are to speak freely and boldly before kings. The only 
condition is that they are “not to premeditate” — to 
yield themselves altogether to the power that works on 
them. Thus they shall have given to them “a mouth 
and wisdom” which no adversary shall be able “ to gain- 
say or resist.” In Mark xvi, 17 we have a more defi- 
nite term employed: “They shall speak with new 
tongues” (KuivaXQ yXibacraitf). It can hardly be ques- 
tioned that the obvious meaning of the promise is that 
the disciples should speak in new languages which they 
had not learned as other men learn them. The prom- 
ise itself, however, determines little definite as to the 
nature of the gift or the purpose for which it was to be 
employed. It was to be a “sign.” It was not to be- 
long to a chosen few only — to apostles and evangelists. 
It was to “follow them that believed” — to be among 
the fruits of the living intense faith which raised men 
above the common level of their lives, and brought 
them within the kingdom of God. 

2. 'Fhe wonder of the day of Pentecost (Acts ii, 1-13) 
is, in its broad features, familiar enough to us. The 
days since the ascension had been spent as in a cease- 
less ecstasy of worship (Luke xxiv, 53). The one hun- 
dred and twenty disciples were gathered together, wait- 
ing with eager expectation for the coming of power 
from on high — of the Spirit that was to give them new 
gifts of utterance. The day of Pentecost had come, 
which they, like all other Israelites, looked upon as the 
witness of the revelation of the Divine Will given on 
Sinai. Suddenly there swept over them “the sound as 
of a rushing mighty wind,” such as Ezekiel had heard 
in the visions of God by Chebar (Ezek. i, 24; xliii, 2), 
at all times the recognised symbol of a spiritual creative 
power (comp, xxxvii, 1-14; Gen. i, 2; 1 Kings xix, 11 ; 
2 Chron. v, 14; I’sa. civ, 3, 4). With this there was 
another sign associated even more closely with their 
thoughts of the day of Pentecost. There appeared unto 
them “ tongues like as of fire.” Of old the brightness 
had been seen gleaming through the “thick cloud” 
(Exod. xix, 18) or “ enfolding” the divine glory (Ezek. 
i, 4). Now the tongues were distributed (hapepi- 
Zofitvai), lighting upon each of them. The outward 
symbol was accompanied by an inward change. They 
were “filled with the Holy Spirit,” as the Baptist and 
their Lord had been (Luke i, 15; iv, 1), though they 
themselves had as yet no experience of a like kind. 
“They began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit 
gave them utterance.” The narrative that follows 
leaves hardly any room for doubt that the writer meant 
to convey the impression that the disciples were heard 
to speak in languages of which they had no colloquial 
knowledge previously. The direct statement, “They 
heard them speaking, each man in his own dialect,” the 
long list of nations, the words put into the lips of the 
hearers — these can scarcely be reconciled with the theo- 
ries of Bleek, Herder, and Bunsen without a wilful dis- 
tortion of the evidence. 

Having thus recited the facts in this case, we inquire, 
What view are we to take of a phenomenon so marvel- 
lous and exceptional? Let us first consider what view’s 
men have actually taken. 

(I.) The prevalent belief of the Church has been that 
in the Pentecostal gift the disciples received a supernat- 
ural knowledge of all such languages as they needed 
for their w’ork as evangelists. The knowledge w as per- 
manent., and could be used at their own will, as if it had 
been acquired in the common order of things. With 
this they w r ent forth to preach to the nations. Differ- 
ences of opinion are found as to special points. Augus- 
tine thought that each disciple spoke in all languages 
(De Verb. A post, clxxv, 3) ; Chrysostom that each had 
a special language assigned to him, and that this w'as 
the indication of the country which he was called 
to evangelize (Horn, in Act. ii). Some thought that 
the number of languages spoken was seventy or seven- 


TONGUES, GIFT OF 431 TONGUES, GIFT OF 


tv-five, after the number of the sons of Noah (Gen. 
x) or the sons of Jacob (eh. xlvi), or one hundred and 
twenty, after that of the disciples (comp. Baronins, An- 
nul. i, 197). Most were agreed in seeing in the Pente- 
costal gift the antithesis to the confusion of tongues at 
Babel, the witness of a restored unity. “Poena liu- 
guaruin dispersit homines, donum linguarum dispersos 
in unum populum eollegit” (Grotius, ad loc.). 

\\ r e notice incidentally that parallels have been 
sought in Israelitish history. For example, there had 
been, it was said, tongues of fire on the original Pente- 
cost (Schneckenburgcr, Beit rage, p. 8, referring to Bux- 
torf, De Synag., and Philo, De Decal.). The later rab- 
bins were not without their legends of a like “baptism 
of fire.” Nicodemus ben-Gorion and Jochanan ben- 
Zachai, men of great holiness and wisdom, went into an 
upper chamber to expound the law, and the house be- 
gan to be full of fire (Light foot, Harm, iii, 14; Sehott- 
gen, I/or. Iltb. in Act. ii). Again, with regard to the 
more important phenomenon, it deserves notice that 
there are analogies in Jewish belief. Every word that 
went forth from the mouth of God on Sinai was said to 
have been divided into the seventy languages of the 
sons of men (Wettstein, On Acts ii); and the bath-kol , 
the echo of the voice of God, was heard by every man 
in his own tongue (Schneckenburger, B eitrage). So, 
as regards the power of speaking, there was a tradition 
that the great rabbins of t he Sanhedrim could speak all 
the seventy languages of the world. 

The following are some of the direct arguments urged 
in favor of a literal view of the Pentecostal endowment : 
“(«) The power in question was virtually promised to 
the apostles by the very duty assigned them. They 
were enjoined to ‘go and teach all nations, baptizing 
them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of 
t lie Holy Ghost..’ They were to be witnesses for Christ 
‘in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and in Samaria, and 
to the uttermost parts of the earth.’ But how could 
they instruct remote tribes whose phraseology was a 
Babel to them, unless they were divinely qualified for 
the work? ( h ) This power was in keeping with the 
occasion. The old economy was characteristically rit- 
ualistic. It addressed the eye, and made au impression 
by its superb ceremonial. The Christian dispensation 
was to be simple, and its strength would lie in the 
preaching of the word. To speak with other tongues 
was indeed a new thing on the earth, but so was the 
exigency which rendered it appropriate. Judaism was 
local — made purposely restrictive to preclude amalga- 
mation with the heathen. Now there was to be cath- 
olicity, and what could better symbolize it in Christian 
agency than a competence to instruct the whole world, 
to be mouth and wisdom to all its inhabitants? (c) 
We never read of foreign tongues creating any impedi- 
ment to the spread of the Gospel, or requiring laborious 
application for the acquisition of them. If we look 
into modern missionary reports, we meet with a great 
deal about learning the languages of natives. Why 
is there nothing of the kind in the New Test., unless 
because they were acquired supernaturally ? ( d ) The 

account in Acts ii is explicit, and allows of no uncer- 
tainty or evasion. The speakers were Galilaeans. capa- 
ble at most of expressing themselves in Greek, Latin, 
and Hebrew; and a multitude of foreigners from a great 
many regions heard themselves accosted as in the land 
of their birth. If the apostles spoke just as they might 
have been expected to speak, and with no more com- 
pass of expression than suited their condition and his- 
tory, why should any astonishment have been produced 
by their attainments? But the multitude were con- 
founded, and they were all amazed and marvelled, not 
merely at the doctrines propounded, but, specifically, 
because every man heard them speak in his own lan- 
guage. How came Galilaeans, they asked, to be such 
linguists? to be so familiar with languages alien to 
their annals ? There is here an obviousness of meaning 
which no subtletv or sophistrv can ever explain away.” 
X.— H h 


Widely diffused as this view of the Pentecostal gift 
has been, it has been thought by some, in some points 
at least, that it goes beyond the data with which the 
New Test, supplies us. Each instance of the gift re- 
corded in the Acts connects it, not so much with the 
work of teaching as with that of praise and adoration ; 
not with the normal order of men’s lives, but with ex- 
ceptional epochs in them. (In the first instance, how- 
ever, the gift certainly was largely instrumental in the 
conversion of hearers; ami even among the Corinthians 
[1 Cor. xiv, 1G, 17] the utterance, when properly inter- 
preted, was a means of general edification.) It came 
and went as the Spirit gave men the power of utterance 
—in this respect analogous to the other gift of proph- 
ecy with which it was so often associated (Acts ii, 1G, 
17 ; xix, 6) — and was not possessed by them as a thing 
to be used this way or that, according as they chose. 
(It appears, however, that even the prophetic afflatus 
was amenable to the subject’s will [ l Cor. xiv, 32], and 
the gift in question was to be voluntarily exercised or 
forborne [ ver. 28-30 ].) The speech of Peter which 
follows, like most other speeches addressed to a Jerusa- 
lem audience, was spoken apparently in Aramaic. (But 
this does not prove that Peter always spoke in that 
language.) When Paul, who “spake with tongues 
more than all,” was at Lvstra, there is no mention 
made of his using the language of Lycaonia. It is im- 
plied, however, that either he or Luke understood it 
(Acts xiv, 11). It is rarely implied in the discussion 
of spiritual gifts in 1 Cor. xii-xiv that the gift was 
of this nature, or given for this purpose. The objection 
that if it had been, the apostle would surely have told 
those who possessed it to go and preach to the outlying 
nations of the heathen world, instead of disturbing the 
Church bv what, on this hypothesis, would have been a 
needless and offensive ostentation (comp. Stanley, Co- 
rinthians [2d ed.], p. 2GI), may readily be met by the 
consideration that Corinth, as a seaport, was almost as 
much a polyglot community as Jerusalem. Without 
laying much stress on the tradition that Peter was fol- 
lowed in his work by Mark as an interpreter ((pgi)vsv- 
ti)q) (Papias, in Eusebius, 11. E. iii, 30), that even Paul 
was accompanied by Titus in the same character — 
“Quia non potuit divinorum sensuum majestateni digno 
Graeci eloqnii sermone explieare” (Jerome, quoted by 
Estius on 2 Corinthians ii) — they must at least be re- 
ceived as testimonies that the age which was nearest 
to the phenomena did not take the same view of them 
as those have done who lived at a greater distance. 
The testimony of Ireiueus {A dr. I/cer. vi, G), sometimes 
urged in support of the common view, in reality decides 
nothing, and, so far as it goes, tends against it {infra). 
It is also affirmed that within the limits assigned by the 
providence of God to the working of the apostolic Church 
such a gift was unnecessary. Aramaic, Greek, Latin, 
the three languages of the inscription on the cross, were 
media of intercourse throughout t he empire. Greek 
alone sufficed, as the New Test, shows us, for the 
churches of the West, for Macedonia and Achaia, for 
Pontus, Asia, Phrygia. The conquests of Alexander 
and of Rome had made men diglottic to an extent which 
has no parallel in history. But it is one thing to speak 
in a language imperfectly acquired by speaker and hear- 
er, yet foreign to them both, and a very different thing 
— and one, we may add, highly important for the /;<??- 
sonal influence requisite to Gospel conviction — to be 
able to converse fluently in the native tongue of the 
congregation. The objection that we have no evidence 
of any actual use of the voluntary power of foreign 
languages by the apostles in propagating the Gospel is 
merely negative, and cannot stand in the light of the 
facts recorded in the case under consideration. Equal- 
ly inconclusive is the objection against the psychologi- 
cal character of the miracle of a sudden importation of 
a language not learned; for it lies with quite as much 
force against the communication of the knowledge of a 
future event, and indeed it would forbid not only all 


4 S2 


TONGUES, GIFT OF 


prophecy, but all inspiration itself. It is a suspicious ' 
circumstance connected with all this class of objections 
that their essence seems to lie in a crvpto-rationalistic 
spirit, which really opposes the miraculous altogether, 
and seeks on every occasion to explain Scripture prod- 
igies hy natural causes. Sec Miuacuc. 

(2.) Accordingly, some interpreters have advanced an- 
other solution of the difficulty by changing the charac- 
ter of the miracle. It lay not in any new power be- 
stowed on the speakers, but in the impression produced 
on the hearers. Words which the Galihcan disciples 
uttered in their own tongue were heard bv those who 
listened as in their native speech. This view we find 
adopted hy Gregory of Nvssa (I)e Spir. Sand. ), dis- 
cussed, but not accepted, l>v Gregory of Nazianzum 
(Orat. c. xliv), and reproduced by Erasmus (ad loc.). 
A modification of the same theory is presented by 
Schneekenburger ( Heitriujc ), and in part adopted by 
Olshausen ( Inc. cit . ) and Neander ( P/lam . n. Leit. i, 
15). The phenomena of somnambulism, of the so- 
called mesmeric state, are referred to as analogous. 
The speaker was en rapport with his hearers; the lat- 
ter shared the thoughts of the former, and so heard 
them, or seemed to hear them, in their own tongues. 

There are weighty reasons against this hypothesis. 
(«) It is at variance with the distinct statement of 
Acts ii, 4, “They began to speak with other tongues.” 
(6) It at once multiplies the miracle and degrades its 
character. Not the one hundred and twenty disciples, 
but the whole multitude of many thousands, are in this 
case the subjects of it. The gift no longer connects it- 
self with the work of the Divine Spirit, following on in- 
tense faith and earnest prayer, but is a mere physical 
prodigy wrought upon men who are altogether wanting 
in the conditions of capacity for such a supernatural 
power (Mark xvi, 17). (c) It involves an element of 

falsehood. The miracle, on this view, was wrought to 
make men believe what was not actually the fact. (d) 
It is altogether inapplicable to the phenomena of I Cor. 
xiv. 

(3.) Critics of a negative school have, as might be 
expected, adopted the easier course of rejecting the 
narrative either altogether or in part. The statements 
do not come from an evc-witness, and may be an exag- 
gerated report of what actually took place — a legend 
with or without a historical foundation. Those who 
recognise such a groundwork see in “the rushing 
mighty wind,” the hurricane of a thunder-storm, the 
fresh breeze of morning; in t lie “tongues like as of 
tire,” the flashings of the electric fluid; in the “speak- 
ing with tongues,” the loud screams of men, not all 
Galiheans, but coming from many lands, overpowered 
by strong excitement, speaking in mystical, figurative, 
abrupt exclamations. They see in this “the cry of 
the new-born Christendom” (Bunsen, Ilippolytus , ii, 12 ; 
Ewald, Gaach. Isr . vi, 110; Meek, he, cit.; Herder, loc. 
cit.). From the position occupied by these writers such 
a view was perhaps natural enough. It is out of place 
here to discuss in detail a theory which postulates the 
incredibility of any fact beyond the phenomenal laws of 
nature and the. falsehood of Luke as a narrator. 

(4.) What, then, we finally inquire under the case 
in question, arc the facts actually brought before us? 
What inferences may be legitimately drawn from them? 

(а) The utterance of words by the disciples in oth- 
er languages than their own GaliUcan Aramaic is, as 
has been said, distinctly asserted. 

(б) The words spoken appear to have been primari- 
ly determined, not by the will of the speakers, but by 
the Spirit which “gave them utterance.” The outward 
tongue of flame was the symbol of the “burning fire” 
within, which, as in the case of the older prophets, 
coidd not without internal violence be repressed (Jer. 
xx, 0). 

(<?) The word used, cnrcupzkyyeoSat, not merely \a- 
XriV, lias in the Sept, a special, though not an exclu- 
sive, association with the oracular speech of true or 


TONGUES, GIFT OF 

' false prophets, and appears to imply some peculiar and 
probably impassioned style (comp. 1 Chron. xxv, 1; 
Ezek. xiii, 9; Trommii Concordant, s. v. ; Grotius and 
Wettstein, ad loc.; Andrewes, Whitsunday Sermons, 
vol. i). 

( d ) The “tongues” were used as an instrument, not 
simply of teaching, but also of praise. At first, indeed, 
there were none present to be taught. The disciples 
were by themselves, all sharing equally in the Spirit’s 
gifts. When they were heard by others, it was chiefly 
as proclaiming the praise, the mighty and great works 
of God (psyaXiia). What they uttered was not so 
much a warning or reproof or exhortation as a doxol- 
ogy (Stanley, loc. cit.; Baumgarten, .1 portelyesch. § 3). 
The assumption, however, appears unwarranted that 
when the work of teaching began it was in the lan- 
guage of the Jews, and that the utterance of tongues 
then ceased. 

(e) Those who spoke them seemed to others to be 
under the influence of some strong excitement, “full of 
new wine.” They were not as other men, or as they 
themselves had been before. Some recognised, indeed, 
that they were in a higher state, but it was one which, 
in some of its outward features, had a counterfeit like- 
ness in the lower. When Paul uses — in Eph. v, US, 
19 (tt\i)oovo3i TTvavparog ) — the all but self-same word 
which Luke uses here to describe the state of the dis- 
ciples (tTrXijaSpaav 7 Ti’EvpciTOQ aytov), it is to contrast 
it with “being drunk with wine,” to associate it with 
“ psalms and hymns, and spiritual songs.” 

(/) Questions as to the mode of operation of a power 
above the common laws of bodily or mental life lead us 
to a region where our words should be “ wary and few.” 
There is a rLk of seeming to reduce to the known or- 
der of nature that which is by confession above and be- 
yond it. In this and in other cases, however, it may 
be possible, without irreverence or doubt — following the 
guidance which Scripture itself gives ns — to trace in 
what way the new power did its work, and brought 
about such wonderful results. It. must be remembered, 
then, that in all likelihood similar words to those which 
they then uttered had been heard by the disciples be- 
fore, At every feast which they had ever attended 
from their youth up, they must have been brought into 
contact with a crowd as varied as that which was pres- 
ent on the day of Pentecost, the pilgrims of each nation 
uttering their praises and doxologies. The difference 
was that, before, the GaliUcan peasants had stood in that 
crowd neither heeding nor understanding nor remem- 
bering what they heard, still less able to reproduce it ; 
now, they had the power of speaking it clearly and 
freely. 

(//) The gift of tongues, the ecstatic burst of praise, 
is definitely asserted to be a fulfilment of the prediction 
of Joel ii, 28. The twice-repeated burden of that pre- 
diction is, “ I will pour out mv Spirit,” and the effect on 
those who receive it is that “ they shall prophesy.” We 
may see, therefore, in this special gift that which is 
analogous to one element at least of the npo<pj)reia of 
the Old Test.; but the element, of teaching is, as w r e 
have seen, not prominent. In 1 Cor. xiv the gift of 
tongues and Trpo^tjrda (in this the New-Test, sense of 
the word) are placed in direct contrast. We arc led, 
therefore, to look for that which more peculiarly an- 
swers to the gift of tongues in the other element of 
prophecy which is included in the Old-Test, use of the 
word; and this is found in the ecstatic praise, the burst 
of song, which appears under that name in the two 
histories of Saul (1 Sam. x, 5-13; xix, 20-24), and in 
the services of the Temple (1 Chron. xxv, 3). 

(h) The other instances in the Acts offer essentially 
the same phenomena. By implication in xiv, 15-19, 
by express statement in x, 47 ; xi, 15, 17 ; xix, 6, it be- 
longs to special critical epochs, at which faith is at its 
highest, and the imposition of the apostles’ hands 
brought men into the same state, imparted to them the 
same gift, as they had themselves experienced. In this 


TONGUES, GIFT OF 483 TONGUES, GIFT OF 


case, too, the exercise of the gift is at once connected 
with, anti distinguished from, “prophecy” in its New* 
Test, sense. 

3. The tirst epistle to the Corinthians supplies fuller 
data. The spiritual gifts are classified and compared, 
arranged, apparently, according to their worth, placed 
under regulation. This fact is in itself significant. 
Though recognised as coming from the one Divine 
Spirit, they are not therefore exempted from the con- 
trol of man’s reason and conscience. The Spirit acts 
through the calm judgment of the apostle or the 
Church, not less, but more, authoritatively than in the 
most rapturous and wonderful utterances. The facts 
which may be gathered in this case are briefly these: 

(1.) The phenomena of the gift of tongues were not 
confined to one Church or section of a Church. If we 
find them at Jerusalem, Ephesus, Corinth, by implica- 
tion at Thessaloniea also (1 Thess. v, 19), we may well 
believe that they were frequently recurring wherever 
the spirits of men were passing through the same 
stages of experience. 

(2.) The comparison of gifts in both the lists given 
by Paul (l Cor. xii, 8-10, 28-30) places that of tongues, 
and the interpretation of tongues, lowest in the scale. 
They are not among the greater gifts which men are 
to “covet earnestly” (ver. 31; xiv, 5). As signs of a 
life quickened into expression where before it had been 
dead and dumb, the apostle could wish that “they all 
spake with tongues” (ibid.), could rejoice that he him- 
self “spake with tongues more than they all” (ver. 18). 
It was good to have known the working of a power 
raising them above the common level of their conscious- 
ness. They belonged, however, to the childhood of the 
Christian life, not to its maturity (ver. 20). They 
brought with them the risk of disturbance (ver. 28). 
The only safe rule for the Church was not to “forbid 
them” (ver. 39), not to “quench” them (1 Thess. v, 19), 
lest in so doing the spiritual life of which this was the 
first utterance should be crushed and extinguished too; 
but not in any way to covet or excite them. 

(3.) The main characteristic of the “tongue” (now 
used, as it were, technically, without the epithet “ new” 
or “other”) is that it is unintelligible unless “inter- 
preted” (dupf.irjv8voi.iai, to translate in course). The 
man “speaks mysteries,” prays, blesses, gives thanks, in 
the tongue (tu irravpaTL as equivalent to tv yXiovoTj, 1 
Cor. xiv, 15, 16), but no one understands him (dtcovti). 
lie can hardly be said, indeed, to understand himself. 
The Trvtvfia in him is acting without the co-operation 
of the vodg (ver. 14). lie speaks not to men, but to 
himself and to God (comp. Chrysost. Horn. 35, in l Cor.). 
In spite of this, however, the gift might, and did, con- 
tribute to the building-up of a man’s own life (1 Cor. 
xiv, 4). This might be the only way in which some 
natures could be roused out of the apathy of a sensual 
life or the dulness of a formal ritual. The ecstasy of 
adoration which seemed to men madness might be a re- 
freshment unspeakable to one who was weary with the 
subtle questionings of the intellect, to whom all famil- 
iar and intelligible words were fraught with recollec- 
tions of controversial bitterness or the wanderings of 
doubt, (comp, a passage of wonderful power as to this 
use of the gift by Irving, Morning Watch , v, 78). 

(4.) The peculiar nature of the gift leads the apostle 
into what appears at first a contradiction. “Tongues 
are for a sign,” not to believers, but to those who do not 
believe; yet the effect on unbelievers is not that of at- 
tracting, but repelling. A meeting in which the gift 
of tongues was exercised without restraint would seem 
to a heathen visitor, or even to the plain common-sense 
Christian (the idubrijQ, the man without a xaparjia), to 
be an assembly of madmen. The history of the day of 
Pentecost may help us to explain the paradox. The 
tongues are a sign. They witness that the daily ex- 
perience of men is not the limit of their spiritual pow- 
ers. They disturb, startle, awaken, are given eig ri 
tK 7 r\i)TT 8 <j^ai (Chrysost. Horn. 36, in 1 Cor.), but they 


are not, and cannot be, the grounds of conviction and 
belief (so Const. A post. c. viii). They involve of neces- 
sity a disturbance of the equilibrium between the un- 
derstanding and the feelings. Therefore it is that, for 
those who believe already, prophecy is the greater gift. 
Five clear words spoken from the mind of one man to 
the mind and conscience of another are better than ten 
thousand of these more startling and wonderful phe- 
nomena. 

(5.) There remains the question whether these also 
were “tongues” in the sense of being languages, of 
which the speakers had little or no previous knowl- 
edge, or whether we are to admit here, though not in 
Acts ii, the theories which see in them only unusual 
forms of speech (Week), or inarticulate cries (Bunsen), 
or all but inaudible whisperings (Wieselcr, in Olshausen, 
ad loc.). The question is not one for a dogmatic asser- 
tion. but it is believed that there is a preponderance of 
evidence leading us to look on the phenomena of Pen- 
tecost as representative. It must have been from them 
that the word tongue derived its new and special mean- 
ing. The companion of Paul and Paul himself were 
likel} r to use the same word in the same sense. In 
the absence of a distinct notice to the contrary, it is 
probable that the gift would manifest itself in the same 
form at Corinth as at Jerusalem. The “divers kinds of 
tongues” (l Cor. xii, 28), the “ tongues of men” (xiii, 1). 
point to differences of some kind, and it is at least easier 
to conceive of these as differences of language than as 
belonging to utterances all equally wild and inarticu- 
late. The position maintained by Liglitfoot (Harm, of 
Gosp. on Acts ii), that the gift of tongues consisted in 
the power of speaking and understanding the true He- 
brew of the Old Test., may appear somewhat extrava- 
gant, but there seems ground ibr believing that Hebrew 
and Aramaic words had over the minds of Greek con- 
verts at Corinth a power which they failed to exercise 
when translated, and that there the utterances of the 
tongues were probably, in whole or in part, in that lan- 
guage. Thus, the “Maranatha” of l Cor. xvi, 22, com- 
pared with xii, 3, leads to the inference that the word 
I had been spoken under a real or counterfeit inspiration. 
It was the Spirit that led men to cry Abba, as their rec- 
ognition of the fatherhood of God (Rom. viii, 15; Gal. 
iv, G). If we are to attach any definite meaning to the 
“ tongues of angels” in 1 Cor. xiii, 1, it must be by con- 
necting it with the words surpassing human utterance 
which Paul heard as in Paradise (2 Cor. xii, 4), and 
these, again, with the great Hallelujah hymns of which 
we read in the Apocalypse (Rev. xix, 1-6; Stanley, loc. 
cit. ; Ewald, Gesch. Isr. vi, 1 17). The retention of other 
words like Hosanna and Sabaoth in the worship of the 
Church, of the Greek formula of the Kyrie Eleison in 
that of the nations of the West, is an exemplification of 
the same feeling operating in other ways after the spe- 
cial power had ceased. 

(6.) Here also, as in Acts ii, we have to think of 
some peculiar style of enunciation as frequently char- 
acterizing the exercise of the “ tongues.” The analo- 
gies which suggest themselves to Paul’s mind are those 
of the pipe, the harp, the trumpet (1 Cor. xiv, 7, 8). 
In the case of one “singing in the spirit” (ver. 15), but 
not with the understanding also, the strain of ecstat- 
ic melody must have been all that the listeners could 
perceive. To “sing and make melody” is specially 
characteristic of those who arc filled with the Spirit 
(Eph. v, 19). Other forms of utterance less distinctly 
musical, yet not less mighty to stir the minds of men, 
we may trace in the “erv” (Rom. viii, 15; Gal. iv, 6) 
and the “ineffable groanings” (Rom. viii, 26) which are 
distinctly ascribed to the work of the Divine Spirit. To 
those who know the wonderful power of man’s voice, as 
the organ of his spirit, the strange, unearthly charm 
which belongs to some of its less normal states, the in- 
fluence even of individual words thus uttered, especially 
of words belonging to a language which is not that ot 
our common life (comp. Hilar. Diac, Comm, in 1 COr. 


484 


TONGUES, GIFT OF 

xiv), it will not seem strange that, even in the absence 
of a distinct intellectual consciousness, the gift should 
take its place among the means by which a man “built 
up” his own life, and might contribute, if one were pres- 
ent to expound his utterances, to “edify” others also. 
Neandcr ( Pfanz . u. Leit. i, to) refers to the effect pro- 
duced by the preaching of St. Bernard upon hearers 
who did not understand one word of the Latin in which 
he preached {Opp. ii. 119, ed. Mabillon) as an instance 
of this. Like phenomena are related of St. Anthony of 
I’adua and St. Vincent Ferrer {Acta Sanctorum, Aims 
24 ami April 5), of which this is probably the explana- 
tion. (Comp, also Wolff, Cura Philolorj. in Xoe. Test., 
. 1 cts ii.) 

(7.) Connected with the “ tongues,” there was, as the 
words just used remind us, the corresponding power of 
interpretation. It might belong to any listener (l Cor. 
xiv, 27). It might belong to the speaker himself when 
he returned to the ordinary level of conscious thought 
(ver. 13). Its function, according to the view that has 
been here taken, must have been twofold. The inter- 
preter had lirst to catch the foreign words, Aramaic or 
others, which had mingled, more or less largely, with 
what was uttered, and then to find a meaning and an 
order in what seemed at first to be without either; to 
follow the loftiest flights and most intricate windings 
of the enraptured spirit; to trace the subtle associations 
which linked together words and thoughts that seemed 
at first to have no point of contact. Under the action 
of one with this insight, the wild utterances of the 
“tongues” might become a treasure-house of deep 
truths. Sometimes, it would appear, not even this was 
possible. The power might be simply that of sound. 
As the pipe or harp, played boldly, the hand struck at 
random over the strings, but with no SiaaroXi), no mu- 
sical interval, wanted the condition of distinguishable 
melody, so the “ tongues,” in their extremest form, passed 
beyond the limits of interpretation. There might be a 
strange awfulness, or a strange sweetness as of “ the 
tongues of angels;” but what it meant was known only 
to God (ver. 7 11). 

(8.) It is probable that, at this later period, and in the 
Corinthian Church (which appears, from other indica- 
tions, to have been a decidedly sensuous one), the gift 
in question had somewhat degenerated from its Pente- 
costal purity into a demonstrative form, in which the 
human fancy and nervous susceptibility had given a 
looser rein to the external manifestations of what was 
essentially and truly a divine impulse. The history of 
modern religious excitements affords abundant illustra- 
tion of this tendency. 

4. As to other indications in early times we may re- 
mark : 

(1.) Traces of the gift are found, as has been said, in 
the epistles to the Romans, the Galatians, the Ephe- 
sians. From the Pastoral Epistles, from those of Peter 
and John, they are altogether absent, and this is in it- 
self significant. The life of the apostle and of the 
Church has passed into a calmer, more normal state. 
Wide truths, abiding graces, these are what he him- 
self lives in and exhorts oihers to rest on, rather than 
exceptional ^aoiapara, however marvellous. The 
“tongues” are already “ceasing” (1 Cor. xiii, 8), as a 
thing belonging to the past. Love, which even when 
“tongues” were mightiest, he had seen to be above all 
gifts, lias become more and more, all in all, to him. 

(2.) It is probable, however, that the disappearance 
of the “tongues” was gradual. As it would have been 
impossible to draw the precise line of demarcation when 
the 7rpo<p)) ret a of the apostolic age passed into the <V 
CavKa\ia that remained permanently in the Church, so 
there must have been a time when “tongues” were still 
heard, though less frequently, and with less striking re- 
sults. The testimony of lremeus (A dr. Ilcer. v, (») that 
there were brethren in his time “who had prophetic 
gifts, and spoke through the Spirit in all kinds of 
tongues,” though it does uot prove, what it has some- 


TONGUES, GIFT OF 

times been alleged to prove, the permanence of the gift 
in the individual, or its use in the work of evangelizing 
(Wordsworth, On Acts ii), must be admitted as evidence 
of the existence of phenomena like those which we have 
met with in the Church of Corinth. For the most part, 
however, the part which they had filled in the worship 
of the Church was supplied by the “hymns and spiritual 
songs” of the succeeding age. In the earliest of these, 
distinct in character from either the Hebrew psalms or 
the later hymns of the Church, marked by a strange 
mixture of mystic names and half-coherent thoughts 
(such, e. g., as the hymn with which Clement of Alex- 
andria ends his Ilmflayuryoc, and the earliest Sibylline 
verses), some have seen the influence of the ecstatic ut- 
terances in which the strong feelings of adoration had 
originally shown themselves (Nitzsch, Christl. Lehre , ii, 
208). 

After this, within the Church we lose nearly all traces 
of them. The mention of them by Eusebius {Comm, 
in Psa.xlci ) is vague and uncertain. The tone in which 
Chrysostom speaks of them {Comm, in I Cor. xiv) is 
that of one who feels the whole subject to be obscure, 
because there are no phenomena within his own expe- 
rience at all answering to it. The whole tendency of 
the Church was to maintain reverence and order, and 
to repress all approaches to the eestatic state. Those 
who yielded to it took refuge, as in the case of Tertul- 
Jian {infra), in sects outside the Church. Symptoms 
of what was then looked upon as an evil showed them- 
selves in the 4th century at Constantinople — wild, inar- 
ticulate cries, words passionate but of little meaning, al- 
most convulsive gestures — and were met by Chrysostom 
with the sternest possible reproof (flonuinlsa.vi, 2 [ed. 
Migne, vi, 100]). 

It thus appears that the miraculous gifts of the first 
days bestowed upon the Church for a definite purpose 
were gradually but quickly withdrawn from men when 
the apostles and those who had learned Christ from their 
lips had fallen asleep. Among these supernatural pow- 
ers we can well believe that the earliest withdrawn were 
those new tongues first heard in their strange sweetness 
on that Pentecostal morning, needing then no inter- 
preter; those tongues which during the birth-throes of 
Christianity gave utterance to the rapturous joy and 
thankfulness of the first believers. They were a power, 
however, which, if misused, might lead men — as history 
has subsequently shown — in to confusion, feverish dreams, 
and morbid imaginings, a condition of thought which 
would utterly unfit men and women for the stern and 
earnest duties of their several callings — in a word, a life 
unreal and unhealthy. Therefore that chapter of sa- 
cred history which tells of these eommunings of men 
with the unseen, that beautified with unearthly glory 
t he lives of the brave witnesses who first gave up all for 
Christ, was closed up forever when the “ tongues” had 
done their work (see De ^"ette, A postelrjesch. p. 23-20). 

III. Ancient and Modern Quasi- Parallels. — A wider 
question of deep interest presents itself. Can we find 
in the religious history of mankind any facts analogous 
to the manifestation of the “ tongues V” Recognising, 
as we do, the great gap which separates the work of the 
Spirit on the day of Pentecost from all others, both in 
its origin and its fruits, there is, it is believed, no rea- 
son for rejecting the thought that there might be like 
phenomena standing to it in the relation of foreshadow- 
ings, approximations, counterfeits. Other \apiapara 
of the Spirit, wisdom, prophecy, helps, governments, had, 
or have, analogies, in special states of men’s spiritual 
life, at other times and under other conditions, and so 
may these. The three characteristic phenomena are, 
especially in its Corinthian phase, as has been seen — (a) 
an eestatic state of partial or entire unconsciousness, the 
human will being, as it were, swayed by a power above 
itself; ( b ) the utterance of words in tones startling and 
impressive, but often conveying no distinct meaning; 
(c) the use of languages which the speaker was of him- 
self unable to converse in. 


TONGUES, GIFT OF 485 TONGUES, GIFT OF 


1. The history of the Old Test, presents us with 
some instances in which the gift of prophecy has ac- 
companiments of this nature. The word includes some- 
thing more than the utterance of a distinct message of 
God. Saul and his messengers come under the power 
of the Spirit, and he lies on the ground all night, 
stripped of his kingly armor, and joining in the wild 
chant of the company of prophets, or pouring out his 
own utterances to the sound of their music (1 Sam. xix, 
24; comp. Stanley, loc. cit.). 

2. We cannot exclude the false prophets and divin- 
ers of Israel from the range of our inquiry. As they, in 
their work, dress, pretensions, were counterfeits of those 
who truly bore the name, so we may venture to trace 
in other things that which resembled, more or less close- 
ly, what had accompanied the exercise of the divine 
gift. And here we have distinct records of strange, 
mysterious intonations. The ventriloquist wizards (o< 
iyyaorpipv&oi, o'i tic n)g icoiXiag fiiovovans) “peep and 
mutter” (Isa. viii, 19). The “voice of one who has a 
familiar spirit” comes low out of the ground (xxix, 4). 
The false prophets simulate with their tongues (Sept. 
bcfioXXovrag 7rf>Q<pi]TtiaQ yXoxjffijg) the low voice with 
which the true prophets announced that the Lord had 
spoken (Jer. xxiii, 31; eomp. Gesenius, Thesaur . s. v. 
DX3). 

3. The quotation by Paul (1 Cor. xiv, 21) from Tsa. 
xxviii, 1 1 (“ With men of other tongues [*V IrtpoyXioc- 
<roic] and other lips will 1 speak unto this people”) has 
a significance of which we ought not to lose sight. The 
common interpretation sees in that passage only a dec- 
laration that those who had refused to listen to the 
prophets should be taught a sharp lesson by the lips of 
alien conquerors. Ewald ( Prophet . ad loc.), dissatisfied 
with this, sees in the new teaching the voice of thunder 
striking terror into men’s minds. Paul, with the phe- 
nomena of the “ tongues” present to his mind, saw in 
them the fulfilment of the prophet’s words. Those who 
turned aside from the true prophetic message should be 
left to the darker, “stammering,” more mysterious utter- 
ances, which were in the older what the “tongues” 
were iu the later Ecclesia. A remarkable parallel to the 
text thus interpreted is found in Hos. ix, 7. There also 
the people are threatened with the withdrawal of the 
true prophetic insight, and in its stead there is to be 
the wild delirium, the ecstatic madness of the counter- 
feit (comp, especially the Sept., 6 7 rpo^prpg 6 Trapeorrj- 
K(iig, di'Spunrog 6 Trvtvf.taTotyopog). 

4. The history of heathen oracles presents, it need 
hardly be said, examples of the orgiastic state, the con- 
dition of the pai’Tig as distinct from the 7r po<pl]Ti]g, in 
which the wisest of Greek thinkers recognised the lower 
type of inspiration (Plato, Timceus, 72 b ; Bleek, loc. cit.). 
The Pythoness and the Sibyl are as if possessed by a 
power which they cannot resist. They labor under the 
afflatus of the god. The wild, unearthly sounds (“ nee 
inortale sonans”), often hardly coherent, burst from their 
lips. It remained for interpreters to collect the scattered 
utterances, and to give them shape and meaning (Vir- 
gil, sEn. vi,45, 98 sq.). 

5. More distinct parallels are found in the accounts 
of the wilder, more excited sects which have, from time 
to time, appeared in the history of Christendom. Ter- 
tullian (De Anim. c. 9), as a Montanist, claims the “ rev- 
elationum charismata” as given to a sister of that sect. 
They came to her “inter dominica solemnia;” she was, 
“per ecstasin, in spiritu,” conversing with angels, and 
with the Lord himself, seeing and hearing mysteries 
(“sacramenta”), reading the hearts of men, prescribing 
remedies for those who needed them. The movement 
of the mendicant orders in the 13th century, the proph- 
esy ings of the Kith in England, the early history of the 
disciples of George Fox, that of the Jansenists in France, 
the revivals under Wesley and Whitefield, those of a 
later date in Sweden, America, and Ireland, have, in like 
manner, been fruitful in ecstatic phenomena more or 


less closely resembling those which we are now consid- 
ering. 

6. The history of the French prophets at the com- 
mencement of the 18th century presents some facts of 
special interest. The terrible sufferings caused by the 
Revocation of the Edict of Nantes were pressing with 
intolerable severity on the Huguenots of the Cevennes. 
The persecuted flocks met together with every feeling 
of faith and hope strung to its highest pitch. The ac- 
customed order of worship was broken, and laboring 
men, children, and female servants spoke with raptur- 
ous eloquence as the messengers of God. Beginning in 
1686, then crushed for a time, bursting forth with fresh 
violence in 1700, it soon became a mat ter of almost Eu- 
ropean celebrity. Refugees arrived in London in 1706 
claiming the character of prophets (Lacy, Cry from the 
Desert; Bey rat, Pastors in the Wilderness). An Eng- 
lishman, John Laey, became first a convert and then a 
leader. The convulsive ecstatic utterances of the sect 
drew down the ridicule of Shaftesbury (On Enthusiasm ) . 
Calamv thought it necessary to enter the lists against 
their pretensions ( Caveat against, the Neiv Prophets). 
They gained a distinguished proselyte in Sir R. Bulkley, 
a pupil of Bishop Fell’s, with no inconsiderable learn- 
ing, who occupied in their proceedings a position which 
reminds us of that of Henry Drummond among the fol- 
lowers of Irving (Bulkley, Defence of the Prophets). 
Here, also, there was a strong contagious excitement. 
Nicholson, the Baxter of the sect, published a confession 
that he had found himself unable to resist it (Falsehood 
of the New Prophets ), though he afterwards came to 
look upon his companions as “enthusiastic impostors.” 
What is specially noticeable is that the gift of tongues 
was claimed hv them. Sir R. Bulkley declares that he 
had heard Lacy repeat long sentences in Latin, and an- 
other speak Hebrew, though, when not in the Spirit, 
they were quite incapable of it ( Narrative , p. 92). The 
characteristic thought of all the revelations was that 
they were the true children of God. Almost every or- 
acle began with “My child!” as its characteristic word 
(Peyrat, i, 235-313). It is remarkable that a strange 
revivalist movement was spreading nearly at the same 
time through Silesia, the chief feature of which was 
that boys and girls of tender age were almost the only 
subjects of it, and that they too spoke and prayed with 
a wonderful power (Lacy, Delation, etc., p. 31 ; Bulkley, 
Narrative, p. 46). 

7. The so-called Unknown Tongues, which mani- 
fested themselves first in the west of Scotland, and after- 
wards in the Caledonian Church in Regent Square, pre- 
sent a more striking phenomenon, and the data for 
judging of its nature are more copious. Here, more 
than in most other cases, there were the conditions of 
long, eager expectation fixed brooding over one central 
thought, the mind strained to a preternatural tension. 
Suddenly, now from one, now from another, chiefly 
from women, devout but illiterate, mysterious sounds 
were heard. Voices which at other times were harsh 
and unpleasing became, when “singing in the Spirit,” 
perfectly harmonious (Cardale, Narrative, in Morning 
Watch, ii, 871, 872). Sec the independent testimony 
of archdeacon Stopford. He had listened to the “un- 
known tongue,” and had found it “a sound such as I 
never heard before, unearthly and unaccountable.” He 
recognised precisely the same sounds in the Irish re- 
vivals of 1859 (ll r or& and Counterwork, p. 11). Those 
who spoke, men of known devotion and acuteness, bore 
witness to their inability to control themselves (Baxter. 
Narrative, p. 5, 9, 12), to their being led, they knew not 
how. to speak in a “triumphant chant” (ibid. p. 46. 81). 
The man over whom they exercised so strange a power 
has left on record his testimony, that to him they seem- 
ed to embody a more than earthly music, leading to the 
belief that the “tongues” of the apostolic age had been 
as the archetypal melody of which all the Church’s 
chants and hymns were but faint, poor echoes (Oli- 
phant, Life of Irving, ii, 208). To those who were 


4SG 


TONSURE 


TONGUES, GIFT OF 


without, on the other hand, they seemed but an unin- 
telligible gibberish, the yells and groans of madmen 
(newspapers of 183 1 , passim'). Sometimes it was as- 
serted that fragments of known languages — Spanish, 
Italian, (1 reek, Hebrew’ — were mingled together in the 
utterances of those who spoke in the power (Baxter, 
Vomitive, p. 133, 134). Sometimes it was but a jargon 
of mere sounds (ibid.). The speaker was commonly un- 
able to interpret what he uttered. Sometimes the of- 
lice was undertaken by another. A elear and interest- 
ing summary of the history of the w hole movement is 
given in Mrs. Oliphant’s Life of Irving, x ol. ii. Those 
who wish to trace it through all its stages must be re- 
ferred to the seven volumes of the Morning Watch, and 
••specially to Irving’s series of papers on the Gifts of 
the Spirit in vols. iii, iv, and v. Whatever other ex- 
planation may be given of the facts, there exists no 
ground for imputing a deliberate imposture to any of 
t he persons who were most conspicuous in t he movement. 

8. In certain exceptional states of mind and body 
the powers of memory are known to receive a wonder- 
ful and abnormal strength. In the delirium of fever, in 
the ecstasy of a trance, men speak in their old age lan- 
guages which they have never heard or spoken since 
their earliest youth. The accent of their common 
speech is altered. Women, ignorant and untaught, re- 
peat long sentences in Greek, Latin, and Hebrew, which 
they had once heard, without in any degree under- 
standing or intending to remember them. In all such 
cases the marvellous power is the accompaniment of 
disease, and passes awav when the patient returns to 
his usual state, to the healthy equilibrium and interde- 
pendence of the life of sensation and of thought (Aber- 
crombie, Intellectual Powers , p. 140-143; Winslow, Ob- 
scure Diseases of the Bruin, p. 337. 360, 374 ; Watson, 
Principles and Practice of Physic, i, 1‘28). The medi- 
aeval belief that this power of speaking in tongues be- 
longed to those who were possessed by evil spirits rests, 
obviously, upon like psychological phenomena (Peter 
Martyr, Loci Communes, i, 10; Bavle, Diet. s. v. “ G ran- 
dier”). 

We refer to the above singular phenomena of modern 
times not as genuine samples of the scriptural glossola- 
lia , but as illustrating some of the physical and mental 
symptoms with which they were accompanied. In 
many instances, no doubt, the Biblical facts have been 
merely imitated, and in others they have exercised un- 
consciously a reproductive power. See Wieseler, in the 
*Stud. u. Krit. 1838, iii, 703 : 1830, ii, 483 ; iii. 752; 1843, 
iii, 659 sq. ; 1847, i, 55; also the monographs cited by 
Vblbeding, Index Programmatnm, p. 73. 

IV. This subject is not merely curious and interest- 
ing, but full of practical moment. 1. 4t shows how 
well the Gospel message was accredited in its tirst 
promulgation. It fixes attention on the high conse- 
quence of preaching the Gospel; of declaring its mes- 
sage with a glowing, burning earnestness, and of ob- 
taining the live coal which is to kindle the heart from 
off God’s altar. ‘2. Inasmuch as the tongues of tire ap- 
pear to have rested on private Christians as well as 
apostles, and on women as well as men — for no distinc- 
tion, no exception, is made in the narrative — we are ad- 
monished that all are hound in the measure of their 
ability to speak for God, to let no corrupt communica- 
tion proceed out of their month, but that which is good 
to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto 
the hearers. 3. At the same time we are warned that 
the tongue might he had in its integrity while the lire 
was wanting or feeble. Paid himself, though avowing 
that, he could speak with tongues more than they all, 
felt the need of being prayed for by saints, “with all 
prayer and supplication in the Spirit, that utterance 
might he given him, that he might open his mouth 
boldly to make known the mystery of the Gospel.” 4. 
We learn, finally, from the apostle that faith, hope, and 
charity were belter than this physical endowment, as 
having a more abiding character. 


Tonsure (Lat. tonsura, shaving ) is a name given 
to the distinguishing mark of the clergy of the Burnish 
Church, formed by shaving off some of the hair. The 
custom is said to have been introduced at the end of 
t lie 5th century. At an earlier period it was censured 
as unbecoming spiritual persons, on the ground of its 
being among the tokens of penance. Albaspinseus 
notes, “ It was customary to use shaving even to bald- 
ness, and sprinkling the head with ashes, as signs of 
sorrow and repentance; but the priests of God were 
not to be thus treated;” which shows that the ancients 
then knew nothing of this as a ceremony belonging to 
the ordination or life of the elergv. The ancient ton- 
sure, therefore, was not a shaven crown, for Jerome, 
Ambrose, and others, equally inveigh against this as 
a ceremony of the priests of Isis; it was only an obli- 
gation on the monks and clergy to wear decent and 
short hair, as is evident from all the canons that ap- 
point it. The tonsure in early times was called corona 
clericalis , and the clergy corona ti , not, however, from 
their shaven crowns, but from the form of the ancient 
tonsure, which was made in a circular figure by cutting 
away the hair a little from the crown of the head and 
leaving a circle hanging downwards. At tirst the low- 
est church servants wore their hair short as a mark 
of servitude, and the monks, out of humility, imitated 
them, and in the 6th century the clergy adopted the 
fashion. 

The form of the tonsure varied in different churches, 
and the varieties of it are of some historical interest. 
That of the Boman Church, called the “Tonsure of 
Peter,” consisted of shaving the crown as well as the 
back of the head, so that there remained a circular ring 
or crown of hair. This was the form in use in Italy, 
Gaul, and Spain. In the Scottish (or Irish) tonsure, 
which was in use in Ireland, in North Britain, ami in 
those parts of Germany in which the Irish missionaries 
had preached, the entire front of the head was shaved, 
leaving it bare as far back as the line from ear to ear. 
This tonsure was called “the tonsure of James,” and 
sometimes of “Simon the Magician.” The Greeks and 
other Orientals shaved the whole head. The supposed 
derivation of the Irish form of tonsure from the apos- 
tolic times led to its being held both in Ireland and 
Britain, as well as other churches of Irish foundation, 
to be of the most vital importance, insomuch that the 
introduction of the Boman form was almost the occa- 
sion of a schism. 

As to the signification of the tonsure, the catechism 
of the Council of Trent says that it was intended to sig- 
nify that the ministers of religion are in all things so to 
comport themselves as to carry about them the figure 
and likeness of Christ. Anthony, archbishop of Flor- 
ence, says, “The shaving on the upper part of the head 
signifies that they ought to have a mind free for the 
contemplation of divine things. The tonsure over the 
ears denotes that they ought not to have dull senses, or 
be involved in worldly matters, which are designated 
by the hair. But the cut of the hair iu form of a circle 
designates the royal dignity which they have, and be- 
cause they ought to regulate themselves and others ac- 
cording to the virtues.” The circle formed at the back 
of the bead by the tonsure is enlarged as the person 
rises in ecclesiastical dignity. Originally the tonsure 
was merely a part of the ceremonial of initiation in or- 
ders, and was only performed in the act of administer- 
ing the higher order; but about the 7th century it 
came to be used as a distinct and independent cere- 
monial ; and a question has been raised whether it is 
to be considered in itself as an order, and to be added 
to the list of what are called “minor orders.” The 
now received opinion of Catholic writers is that tonsure 
is not an order, but only a preparation for orders. Con- 
cealment had already been forbidden in Edgar’s eanon, 
and bv Anselm, in 1102; and Peckham, in 1281. com- 
plains that the elergv covered it out of sight with hair 
iaees. See Bingham, Christ . Antiq. bk. vi, cb. iy, § 16,., 


TOOKE 


487 


TOOTH 


17; vii, iii, § 6; Walcott, Sac. A rckteol. s. v. ; Wetzer 
u. Welte, Kirchen-Lex . s. v. 

Tooke, John IIorne, an English clergyman, the 
son of John llorne, was born in Westminster, June 
25, 1736, and was educated at Westminster and Eton 
schools and St. John’s College, Cambridge, graduating 
in 1758. He became an usher in a school at Blaek- 
heath, took orders, and served as curate in Kent. In 
1760 he received priest’s orders, and for three years had 
charge of the chapelry of New Brentford. After going 
to France as travelling tutor to the son of Mr. Elwes, of 
Berkshire, he returned in 1767 and took an active inter- 
est in politics, laboring to secure the election of his friend 
Wilkes from Middlesex. lie became (1769) one of the 
founders of the “Society for Supporting the Bill of 
Rights,” but quarrelled with Wilkes and was attacked 
by Junius, but successfully defended himself. In 1773 
he formally resigned his living, designing to study law; 
and, rendering great assistance to a Mr. Tooke of Bur- 
ley, in Surrey, was made by him his heir. He changed 
his name to Tooke in 1782, and received .£8000 from 
t he property. He opposed the American war, and, ac- 
cusing the king’s troops of barbarously murdering the 
Americans at Lexington, was convicted of libel, anil 
sentenced to one year’s imprisonment and a line of 
£200. When released, he applied for admission to the 
bar, but was rejected on the ground of being a cler- 
gyman. In 1790 he was defeated as a candidate for 
Parliament, and in 1794 was tried for high-treason, but 
was acquitted. Defeated again in 1796, he succeeded 
in 1801 in being elected to the House of Commons for 
the borough of Old Sarum; and retained his seat till 
the dissolution in 1802, the decision of Parliament (that 
no one in priest’s orders could be a member) disqualify- 
ing him from sitting again. He retired to Wimbleton, 
wliere he died, March 18. 1812. Mr. Tooke published, 
The Petition of an Englishman (1765) : — Sermon (before 
1773) : — Letter to John Dtumim j (1778, 8 vo) : — Letter to 
Lord Ashburton (1782, 8vo) : — w E7rfa Urepoevra, or 
the Diversions of Parley (1786, 8vo) and other pam- 
phlets. See Allibone, Diet of Brit, and A mer . A uthors , 
s. v.; Chalmers, Biog . Diet. s. v. 

Tooth fllT, shen, oJoi'c). The Hebrew word is by 
some derived from H31T,“to change” or “repeat,” be- 
cause the teeth are changed, or replaced by others; but 
it better comes from jSw, to sharpen. So likewise the 
Creek odovg is said to be quasi iSoug, from tduj, “to 
eat;” and the Latin dens , quasi edens , “eating.” But 
the three words are probably all primitives, and the 
latter two at least are etymologically connected with 
the English tooth. 

I. In the singular this term occurs first with refer- 
ence to the literal member itself in man, the loss of 
which, by violence, is specified by Moses, in illustra- 
tion of his law concerning taliones , “tooth for tooth” 
(Exod. xxi, 24). This outrage occurring between free- 
men (or between an Israelite and a foreigner, Lev. xxi v, 
22) admitted, like other cases of maiming, most proba- 
bly of a pecuniary compensation, and under private ar- 
rangement, unless the injured party proved exorbitant 
in his demand, when the case was referred to the judge, 
who seems addressed in Dent, xix, 21. The Targum 
of Jonathan renders the words, “the price of a tooth for 
a tooth,” in Exod. xxi, 24, Lev. xxiv, 20, and Dent, 
xix, 21 (comp. Josephus, Ant. iv, 8,35, and see the art. 
Punishment in this Cyclopaedia) ; but if a master indict- 
ed this irreparable damage upon a servant, i. e. slave, of 
either sex, he was punished by the absolute loss of the 
slave’s services (Exod. xxi, 27). The same law ap- 
plied if the slave was a Gentile, notwithstanding the 
national glosses of the Jewish doctors (Selden, De Jure 
Xat. et Gent. iv. 1, 468). Our Lord’s comment upon the 
law (Matt, v, 38), which was much abused in his time 
(Horne, Introd. ii, 377, 6th ed.), prohibits no more than 
retaliation upon the injurer (rig i rovgpip), not such a 


defence of our innocence as may consist in words, but 
private revenge , and especially with such a disposition 
as actuated the aggressor, with impetuous rage or ha- 
tred. His exhortations relate rather to those injuries 
which cannot be redressed by the magistrate or by 
course of law ; these we should bear rather than resort 
to revenge (see Rosenmiiller, Grotius, and Whitby, ad 
loc.). Indeed, the hermeneutics of our Lord’s precepts 
in his Sermon on the Mount require much knowledge, 
care, and discrimination, in order to avoid a pt'ima facie 
interpretation of them, which has often been given, at 
variance with his intention, subversive of the principles 
of natural justice, and productive of false ideas of Chris- 
tian duty. 

In Psa. iii, 7 v r e have ■'Pllp, for the human jawbone; 
for that of an ass (Judg. xv, 15-17, mayova, “ maxillam, 
i. e. mandibulam which becomes TlTni'O in ver. 19, 
tov Xcikkov tov iv tij aiayovt, “ molarem dentem in 
maxilla asini”) [see Samson]; and for that of levia- 
than (Job xl, 14, to \GXoc, maxillam). See Jaw. A 
“ broken (or rather “ bad,” that is, decayed ; Yulg. 
dens putrulus ) tooth” is referred to in Prov. xxv, 19, as 
furnishing an apt similitude of “confidence in an un- 
faithful man in the time of trouble.” “The teeth of 
beasts,” or rather “ tooth,” )d, is a phrase expressive of 
devastation by wild animals; thus, “I will send the 
tooth of beasts upon them” (Dent, xxxii, 24), P EslIPjTlJ 
(oOourai; Sgpiiov, dentes bestiarum; comp. 2 Kings xvii, 
25). 

The word is sometimes used metaphorically for a 
sharp cliff or summit of a rock (Job xxxix, 28); thus, 
“The eagle dwelleth and abideth upon the tooth of the 
rock,” (tV iKo\y TrtTpac, inaccessis rvpi- 

bus). So also (I Sam. xiv, 4), “a sharp rock on the 
one side and a sharp rock on the other side,” 

(odovg 7 nrpag, quasi in modum dentium scopuli); these 
eminences were named Bozcz and Seneh. 

II. Teeth, C’l'S'd, shinna'yim (odovTtg), is found in 
the dual number only, referring to the two rows, yet. 
used for the plural (1 Sam. ii, 13). The word occurs 
first with reference to the literal organs in man (Gen. 
xlix, 12), “His teeth shall be white with milk,” which 
the Sept, and Vulg. understand to mean “whiteness 
greater than milk” (7/ yciXa, lacte candidiores ; Numb, 
xi, 33 ; Prov. x, 26 ; Cant, iv, 2 ; vi, 6). Although 
be the general word for teeth, yet the Hebrews had a 
distinct term for the molars, or jaw teeth, especially of 
the larger animals; thus, nirbr’S (Job xxix, 17; Psa. 
1 vii, 4; Prov. xxx, 14; Joel i.6); and by transposition 
PI S' Tib "2 (Psa. Iviii, 6, pvXat, molee and molares). The 
apparent teeth of the leviathan ( gyrus dentium) are, 
however, called (Job xli, 14). Ivory, “elephants’ 

teeth,” 1 Kings x, 22, is simply (Sept.omits; Vulg. 
dentes elephantorum ) ; dens in Latin is sometimes so 
used. In 2 Chrou. ix, 21 the word is (odovret; 

iXe(pdvrii'in,ebur), where evidently denotes a tooth; 
but the signification of the latter part, C'SH, is un- 
known, and Gesenins thinks that the form of the word 
may be so corrupted as to disguise its original meaning. 
May it not be of foreign origin, imported with t lie ma- 
terial from Ophir? See Ivouv. 

In other passages the reference to teeth is metaphor- 
ical; thus, “a flesh-hook with three teeth,” that is, prongs 
(1 Sam. ii, 13). See Hook. “ The teeth of lions” is a 
symbol of the cruelty and rapacity of the wicked (Job 
iv, 10). “To take one’s flesh into one’s teeth” signifies 
to gnaw it with anguish (xiii, 14; comp. Rev. xvi, 10). 
“The skin of his teeth,” with which Job says he had 
“ escaped” in his affliction, is understood bv the Vulgate, 
of the lips — “derelicta sunt tautummodo labia circa 
dentes m’eos;” but Gcsenius understands it as a prover- 
bial expression, meaning, I have scarcely a sound spot 


TOPARCHY 


4S8 


TOPAZ 


iti my body. “To smite upon the jaw-bone” and “to 
break the teeth” mean to disgrace and to disable (Psa. 
iii, 7; comp. Mic. vi, 13; l Kings xx, 35; Lam.iii,30). 
The teeth of calumniators, etc., are compared to “spears 
and arrows” (Psa. lvii, 1; comp. 1 Sam. xxiv, 9). To 
break the teeth of such persons means to disable them 
(Psa. Iviii, 6). To escape the malice of enemies is called 
an “escape from their teeth” (cxxiv, G; Zech. ix, 7). 
Oppression is compared to “jaw-teeth like swords, and 
grinders like knives” (Prov. xxx, 11). Beautiful teeth 
are compared to “sheep newly shorn and washed” in 
Cant, iv, 2; vi, G; but the remaining part of the com- 
parison, “whereof every one bearcth twins, and none is 
barren among them ” is much better rendered by Le 
Clere, “all of them twins, and none hath lost his fellow.” 
“ To break the teeth with gravel stones” is a most hy- 
perbolical metaphor for inflicting the harshest disap- 
pointment (Lam. iii, 10). “Iron teeth” are the symbol 
of destructive power (Dan. vii, 7, 19). A nation having 
the teeth of lions, and the cheek-teeth of a great lion, 
denotes one which devours with irresistible force (Joel 
i, G ; comp. Ecclus. xxi, 2 ; Lev. ix, 8). “ Prophets who 

bite with their teeth, and cry Peace,” are greedy and 
hypocritical prophets (Mic. iii. 5). “To take away 
blood out of the mouth, and abominations from between 
the teeth,” means to rescue the intended victims of 
cruelty (Zech. ix, 7). “ Cleanness of teeth” is a periph- 
rasis for hunger, famine (Amos iv, 6; Sept, yoptpi- 
acrpbr oSoi’Tiov , Symmachus and Theodotion, icaSa- 
piapov). Gnashing of teeth means, properly, grinding 
the teeth with rage or despair. The Hebrew word so 
rendered is p^n (Job xvi, 9; Lam. ii, 1G; Psa. xxxv, 
1G; xxxvii, 12; cxii, 10); it is invariably rendered in 
the Sept. fSpi>xcj, and in the Vulg. inf remo,fremo,frendo 
(see also Acts vii, 54 ; Ecclus. li, 2). In the New Test, 
it is said of the epileptic child (Mark ix, 18), rpiZei rove 
odoi’Tac, stridet dentibns. The phrase 6 fipvypbg tojv 
ddorrwv is in the Vulgate “stridor dentium” (Matt, 
viii, 12; xiii, 42. 50; xxii, 13; xxiv, 51 ; xxv, 30; Luke 
xiii, 28). Suidas defines fipvypog' rpiapog odovnov. 
Galen, o utto r wv oCovtiov avyicpovopiviov xp b<pog . 
The phrase “lest thou gnash thy teeth” (Ecclus. xxx, 
10) is yopftidaeig rovg oenvrag crov. “To cast in the 
teeth” is an old English phrase (for the Hebrew has no 
such idiom), signifying to reproach ; thus “the thieves 
who were crucified with Jesus cast the same in his 
teeth,” ibrstci^ov arror ( Matt, xxvii, 44 ; Vulg. im- 
properabant ei : compare also the Bible and Prayer- 
book version of Psa. xiii, 1 1). “a sharp thresh- 

ing instrument having teeth,” literally “edges” (Isa. 
xli, 15). The action of acids on the teeth is referred 
to in the proverb “the fathers have eaten sour grapes, 
and the children’s teeth are set on edge” (Ezek. xviii, 
2) : iyoptp'uKrav, obstvpuerunt (Prov. x, 26). — Kitto. 

Toparchy (roirapyja, government of a district), a 
term applied in one passage of the original of the Apoc- 
rypha (1 Macc. xi, 28) to indicate three districts to which 
elsewhere (x, 30; xi, 34) the name vopog is given, as 
also in Josephus (Ant. xiii, 4, 9). In all these passages 
the English version employs the term “governments.” 
The three “toparchics” in question were Aphasrima 
(Atyaiptpa), Lydda, and Bamath. They had been de- 
tached from Samaria, Penea, and Galilee respectively, 
some time before the war between Demetrius Soter and 
Alexander Bala. Each of the two belligerents endeav- 
ored to win over Jonathan, the Jewish high-priest, to 
their side, by allowing him, among other privileges, the 
sovereign power over these. districts without any pay- 
ment of land-tax. The situation of Lvdda is doubtful; 
for the toparchy Lydda of which Pliny speaks (v. 14) 
is situated not in Ponca, bur. on the western side of the 
Jordan. Apluerima is considered by Grot ins to denote 
the region about Bethel, captured 1>v Abijnh from Jero- 
boam (2 Chron. xiii, 19). Bamath is probably the fa- 
mous stronghold, the desire of obtaining which led to 
the unfortunate expedition of the allied sovereigns 


Ahab and Jehoshaphat (1 Kings xxii). Pliny (v, 14) 
mentions ten toparchies in Judaea, and so does Josepbns 
(B7/1-, iii, 3, 5). 

The “ toparchics” seem to have been of the nature of 
the modern Turkish agaliks , and the passages in which 
the word TOTrap\i)g occurs all harmonize with the view 
of that functionary as the aga, whose duty would be to 
collect the taxes and administer justice in all cases af- 
fecting the revenue, and who, for the purpose of enforc- 
ing payment, would have the command of a small mil- 
itary force, lie would thus be the lowest in the hie- 
rarchy of a despotic administration to whom troops 
would be intrusted; and hence the taunt in 2 Kings 
xviii, 24, ami Isa. xxxvi, 9 (Sept.) : 7 rw£ cnrocrrptxptig 
to 7rp6(j(*)7rov (rns, “captain”) ro7rop^;oi» trot;, r<5 v 
dovAiov tov Kvptov pov twv ; — “How wilt 

thou resist a single toparch, one of the very least of my 
lord’s slaves?” But the essential character of the to- 
parch is that of a fiscal officer, and his military charac- 
ter is altogether subordinate to his civil. Hence the 
w'ord is employed in Gen. xli. 34 for the “officers over 
the land” (“TIT'S, “overseer”), who were instructed to 
buy up the fifth part of the produce of the soil during the 
seven years of abundance. In Dan. iii, 3, Theodotion 
uses the word in a much more extensive sense, making it 
equivalent to “ satraps” (X^£TTl-‘nx, “ wise”), and the 
English version renders the original by “princes;” but 
the original word here is not the same as in Dan. iii, 2, 
27, and vi, 7, in every one of w hich cases a subordinate 
functionary is contemplated. — Smith. 

Topaz (HTf^E ,pitdah f , apparently of non-JIeb. ety- 
mology; Sept. ro7rd£ioj'; Vulg. topazius ), a gem which 
was the second stone in the first row of the high-priest’s 
breastplate (Exod. xxviii, 17 ; xxxix, 10). It w T as one 
of the jew'els that adorned the apparel of the king of 
Tyre (Ezek. xxviii, 13); it was the bright stone that 
garnished the ninth foundation of the heavenly Jerusa- 
lem (Rev. xxi, 20). I 11 Job xxviii, 19, w here wisdom is 

contrasted with precious articles, it is said that “ the pit- 
dah of Ethiopia shall not equal it.” It is, according to 
most ancient versions, the topaz (ro7rdltor; Josephus, 
Toira^oc), which most of the ancient Greek writers de- 
scribe as being of a golden yellow' color (Strabo, xvi, 
770; Diod. Sic. iii, 39) ; while 1 ’liny (77 ist. Nat, xxxvii, 
32) states that its color is green. The topaz of the an- 
cient Greeks and Bomans is generally thought to be our 
chrysolite, while their chrysolite is our topaz. Chryso- 
lite, which is also known by the name of olivine and 
peridot, is a silicate of magnesia and iron; it is so soft 
as to lose its polish unless worn with care (Mitchell and 
Tennant, M ineralogy and Crystallography , p. 512). See 
Chrysolite. Bcllermann, however (Die Urim und 
Thunnnim , p. 39), contends that the topaz and the chrys- 
olite of the ancients are identical with the stones de- 
noted by these terms at the present day. The topaz is 
a precious stone having a strong glass lustre. Its pre- 
vailing color is wine-yellow' of every degree of shade. 
The dark shade of this color passes over into carnation 
red, and sometimes, although rarely, into lilac; the pale 
shade of the wine-yellow passes into grayish, and from 
yellowish-w’hite into greenish-w hite and pale green, tin- 
eal, and celadon-green. It may thus be difficult to de- 
termine whether the pitdah in the high-priest’s breast- 
plate was the yellow' topaz; but that it w r as a topaz 
there is little reason to doubt. In the passage cited 
from Job the pitdah is connected with Cush ; and as the 
name Cush includes Southern Arabia ami the Arabian 
Gulf, the intimation coincides with the statement of 
Pliny and others, that the topazes known to them came 
from the Topaz Island in the Bed Sea ( Hist. Nat. 
xxxvii, 8; comp, xi, 29), w hence it was probably brought 
by the Phoenicians (comp. Ezek. xxviii, 13). See Ethi- 
opia. Pliny adds, in explanation of the name, that 
the island w’here these precious stones were procured 
was surrounded hv fogs, and was, in consequence, often 


TOPHEL 


4S9 


TOPLADY 


sought for by navigators; and that hence it received 
its name, the term “ topazin” signifying, in the Troglo- 
dyte tongue, “ to seek” (?). 

It may be remarked that Bolden seeks the origin of 
the Hebrew word in the Sanscrit language, in which 
pita means “yellowish,” “pale;” and, as Gesenius re- 
marks, the Greek rorra^iov itself might seem to eome 
from the Hebrew PHSia by transposition into 
( Thesaur . p. 1101). See Braunius, De Vestitu, p. 508; 
llofmann. Mineral, i, 337 ; Bureau, Comment, on Job , 
p. 333; Ritter, Erdkuude, ii, G75. — Kitto; Smith. See 
Gkm. 

To'phel (lleb.7<7. bs’fi, mortar ; Sept. T o<p6\ ; Vulg. 
Thophel ), a place mentioned in Deut. i, 1 as a boundary 
(? on the N. E.) of the great Sinaitic desert of Paran. 
It has therefore been with great probability identified 
with Tufileh (comp. Schwarz, Pahest. p. 210) on a wady 
of the same name running north of Bozra towards the 
north-west into the Ghor and south-east corner of the 
Dead Sea (Robinson, Bibl. lies, ii, 570). This latter is 
a most fertile region, having many springs and rivulets 
flowing into the Ghor, and large plantations of fruit- 
trees, whence figs are exported. The bird katta, a kind 
of partridge, is found there in great numbers, and the 
steinbock pastures in herds of forty or fifty together 
(Burekhardt, Holy Land. p. 405,400). The brook Tufi- 
leh, or its immediate neighborhood, is still the recog- 
nised boundary between Edom and Moab (Tristram, 
Land of Moab, p. 57). 

To'phet (lleb. To'pheth, P5P1, spittle , as in Job 
xvii, 0; i. e. abominable , or, perhaps, place of burning ; 
Jer. vii, 32 [second time]; xix, 11, 12; with the art., 
2 Kings xxiii, 10 [“Topheth”]; Jer. vii, 31, 32; xix, 6, 
13, 14; once Tophteh ', npsri, Isa. xxx, 33; Sept. TW- 
EES', T a<p&, and Qu<p$d ; Vulg. Tophet , Topheth), a place 
near Jerusalem, where the aneient Canaanites, and af- 
terwards the apostate Israelites, made their children to 
pass through the fire to Moloch (comp. Psa. evi, 38; 
Jer. vii, 31). It is first mentioned, in the order of time, 
by Isaiah, who alludes to it as deep and large and hav- 
ing an abundance of fuel (xxx, 33). lie here evidently 
ealls the place where Sennacherib's army was destroyed 
Tophet, by a metonymy ; for it was probably overthrown 
at a greater distance from Jerusalem, and quite on the 
opposite side of it, since Nob is mentioned as the last 
station from which the king of Assyria should threaten 
Jerusalem (x, 32), where the prophet seems to have 
given a very exact ehorographieal description of his 
march in order to attack the city (Lowth’s Trunsl. notes 
on xxx, 33). In the reformation of religion by king Jo- 
siah, he caused Topheth to be defiled in order to sup- 
press idolatry (2 Kings xxiii, 10). The means he adopt- 
ed for this purpose are not specified, whether by t.hrow- 
ing all manner of filth into it, as well as by overthrow- 
ing the altars, etc., as the Syriac and Arabic versions 
seem to understand it. The prophet Jeremiah was or- 
dered by God to announce from this spot (xix, 14) the 
approaching captivity, and the destruction, both by the 
siege of the city and by famine, of so many of the peo- 
ple, whose carcasses should be here buried, as that it 
should “no more be called Tophet, nor the valley of the 
son of Hinnom, but the valley of slaughter” (vii, 31, 32 ; 
xix, C, 11-14). In all succeeding ages blood has flowed 
there in streams; corpses, buried and unbnried, have 
filled up the hollows; and it may be that underneath 
the modern gardens and terraces there lies not only the 
debris of the city, but the bones and dust of millions — 
Romans, Persians, Jews, Greeks, Crusaders, Moslems. 
Once the royal music grove where Solomon’s singers, 
with voice and instrument, regaled the king, the court, 
and the city; then the Temple of Baal, the high-place 
of Moloch, resounding with the cries of burning infants; 
then (in symbol) the place where is the wailing and 
gnashing of teeth. Once prepared for Israel’s king as 
one of his choicest villas ; then degraded and defiled till 


it becomes the place prepared for “the King,” at the 
sound of whose fall the nations are to shake (Ezek. 
xxxi, 10) ; and as Paradise and Eden passed into Baby- 
lon, so Tophet and Ben Hinnom pass into Gehenna and 
the lake of fire. These scenes seem to have taken hold 
of Milton’s mind ; for three times over, within fifty lines, 
he refers to “ the opprobrious hill,” the “ hill of scandal,” 
the “offensive mountain,” and speaks of Solomon mak- 
ing his grove in 

“ The pleasant valley of Hinnom, Tophet thence 
And black Gehenua called, the type of hell.” 

See Gehenna. 

The name Tophet was commonly supposed to be de- 
rived from tuph, or drum, from the drums used to drown 
the cries of the children when made to pass through the 
fire to Moloch. This was a received Jewish opinion. 
But there are other derivations; that, for example, of 
Jerome, who from the root to open (HP2) ascribes to it 
the sense of latitude; of Rosenmuller, who connects it 
with a different root (nS n ), and takes it to mean pleas- 
antness; of Gesenius, who, from a Persian root, finds the 
sense of inflaming, burning ; of Rodiger (in Gesen. The- 
saur. s. v.), who takes it in the sense of fllth, a view sub- 
stantially concurred in by Bottcher, Hitzig, and Thenius, 
though derived in a different manner. This is, perhaps, 
the most probable opinion, as it seems, also, the most di- 
rectly applicable to the place. See Bottcher. De lnferis , 
i, 80, 85 ; Panecius, De Topheth (Viteb. 1G94). 

Tophet lay somewhere east or south-east of Jerusa- 
lem, for Jeremiah went out by the snn-gate,or east gate, 
to go to it (xix, 2). It was in “the valley of the son 
of Hinnom” (vii, 31), which is “by the entry of the east 
gate” (xix, 2), Thus it was not identical with Hinnom. 
as some have written, except in the sense in which Par- 
adise is identical with Eden, the one being part of the 
other. It was in Hinnom, and was, perhaps, one of its 
chief groves or gardens. It seems also to have been 
part of the king’s gardens, and watered by Siloam, per- 
haps a little to the south of the present Birket el-IIam- 
ra. The New Test, does not refer to it, nor the Apocry- 
pha, nor yet Josephus. Jerome is the first who notices 
it; but we can see that by his time the name had dis- 
appeared, for he discusses it very much as a modern 
commentator would do, only mentioning a green and 
fruitful spot in Hinnom, watered by Siloam, where he 
assumes it was: “Delubrum Baal, nemus ae lucus, Siloe 
fontibus irrigatus” (in Jer. vii). Eusebius, in his Ono- 
masticon, under the word Ga(ps$, says, “ In the suburbs of 
Ailah is still shown the place so called, to which is adja- 
cent the fuller’s pool and the potter’s field, or the parcel 
of ground Acheldamach.” Many of the old travellers 
(see Felix Fabri, i, 391) refer to Tophet, or Toph , as they 
call it; but they give no information as to the locality. 
Every vestige of Tophet, name and grove, is gone, and 
we can only guess at the spot; yet the references of 
Scripture and the present features of the locality enable 
us to make the guess with the same tolerable nearness 
as we do in the ease of Gethsemane or Scopus. — Kitto; 
Smith, Fairbairn. For an account of the modern as- 
pect of the place, see Robinson, Researches, i, 2D2 sq.; 
Kitto, Physical History of Palestine , p. 122 sq. See 
Jerusalem. 

Toplady, Augustus Montague, an English cler- 
gyman, was born at Farnham. Surrey, Nov. 4. 1740, and 
received bis rudimentary education at Westminster 
School. It being necessary for his mother to visit Ire- 
land to pursue some claims to an estate, he accompanied 
her there, and was entered at Trinity College, Dublin, 
from which he graduated. He received orders June 6, 
1762. and, after some time, was inducted into the living 
of Broadhemburv, Devonshire , but on account of his 
health settled in London in 1775, where he officiated in 
the chapel of the French Calvinists, Leicester Fields, 
lie died Aug. 11, 1778, and, agreeably to his own re- 
quest, was buried in Tottenham Court Chapel. The 
fame of Mr. Toplady rests chiefly upon his controversial 


TOPOGRAPHICAL TERMS 490 TOPOGRAPHICAL TERMS 


writings against the Methodists, and a few hymns. 
Against Wesley he may be said to have had a confirm- 
ed antipathy, and employed ridicule as well as argument 
in opposing his opinions and conduct. lie published, 
The Doctrine of .1 bsolnte Predestination Stated and A s- 
s cried (Loud. 1 7t»‘A ; N. V. 1775; later editions): — Letter 
to Per. John 1 1 'tsley (1770):— More Work for Per . 
John Wesley (1772, Svo ): — Historic Proof of the Doc- 
trinal Calrinism of the Church of England (1774,2 vols. 
Svo ): — The Scheme of Christian and Philosophical 
Xecessity Asserted (1775, Svo), in opposition to John 
Wesley’s Traci on t hat subject : — Collection of Hymns for 
Public, and Private Worship (177G, 1787, 12mo) : — Dy- 
ing Avowal (1778), etc. lie was for some years editor 
of The Gospel Magazine. 1 1 is works were published 
alter bis death by his executor (1783. Svo), with an en- 
larged Memoir (1825, G vols. Svo). One of his most cel- 
ebrated hymns is — 

“Rock of ages, cleft for me, 

Let nie hide, myself in thee,” etc. 

See AUihone, Diet . of lirit. and Amer. Authors, s. v. ; 
Tvcrman. Life and Times of John Wesley , iii, 139, 190, 
210; Belcher, Historical Sketches of Hymns , p. 248- 
250; Christopher, Hymn- writers and their Hymns , p. 
4G-49. 

Topographical Terms. We have had contin- 
ual occasion in this Cyclopaedia to point out the great 
accuracy with which these are used in the original lan- 
guages of the Scripture, especially the Hebrew, although 
often obscured by the want of exactness and uniformity 
in the A. V. It is our purpose under the present head 
to present a general view of such terms, referring for 
details to the respective articles. In this we chiefly 
condense the excellent conspectus given by Stanley in 
the appendix to his work on Sinai and Palestine. See 
Geography. 

A. Land. 

I. Tracts (iucliuliug especially depressions, levels, and 
barrens). 

1. TSmek (ppp), a valley , used in general (Numb, xiv, 
25; Josh, viii, 13; xiii, 19, 27; Judg. i. l‘A, B4 ; v, 15; 1 Sam. 

vi, 13 [Bethshemesh] ; 2 Sam. xviii, IS [“dale”] ; 1 Kings 
xx, 2S; 1 Cliroii. xii, 15; Jer. xxi, 13; xxxi, 40; xlvii, 5; 
x I viii, S ; xlix,4; Mic. i,4); or specifically “ vale of Sid- 
dim” (Gen. xiv, 3, S, 10), “valley of Shaveh” (ver. 17), 
“vale of Hebron” (xxxviii, U), “valley of Achor” (Josh. 

vii, 24, 24; xv. 7 ; Ha. Ixv, 10; llos. ii, 15), “valley of Aja- 
lun” (Jodi, x, 12), “valley of Rephaim” (xv, 8; xviii, 10; 
2 Sam. v, is, 22; xxiii, 13 : 1 Chrou. xi, 15; xiv, 9, 13; 
Isa. xvii, 5), “valley of JezieeP (Josh, xvii, 10; Judg. 
vi, 33; vii, 1, 8, 12 ; llos. i, 5; probably also 1 Sam. xxxi, 
7 ; I Chr ui. x, 7), “ vallev of Ke/.iz” (Josh, xviii, 21), “ val- 
ley of Beth-rehob" (ver. 2S), “ valley of Elah”(l Sam. xvii, 
2. 19 ; xxi, 9). “ valley of Berachali” (2 Citron, xx, 20), “ val- 
ley of Baca” (Psa. Ixxxiv, 0), “vallev of Snccoth” (lx, 0; 
cviii, 7), “valley of GibeoiP Jmi. xxv'iii,21), “ vallev of Je- 
hoshapliat” (Joel iii, 2, 12), “valley of Decision” (ver. 14), 
“ Beth-etnek” (Josh, xix, 27). 

2. Gey (N^it or p>), a ravine (A. V. invariably “valley”), 

used generally (Psa. xxiii, 4; Isa. xxviii, 1,4; xl, 4 ; Jer. 
i i . 23 ; Ezek. vi,3; vii, 10; xxxi, 12; xxxii,5; xxxv, S- 
xxxvi, 4, 0 ; Mic. i, 0; Zech. xiv, 4,5), and specifically of 
Moab (Numb, xxi, 20: Dent. iii. 29 ; iv, 40: xxxiv, 6), Ilin- 
nom (Josh, xv, S; xviii, 16; 2 Kings xxiii, 10; 2 Citron, 
xxviii, 3; xxxiii, G; Nell, xi, 30; Jer. vii, 31, 32 ; xix, 2,0; 
x xxii, 35 ; prol>. Isa. xxii, 1,5; also “ vallev-gate,”2 Chrou! 
xxvi, 9; Neh. ii, 13, 15; iii, 13), Jiphthah-el (Jo>h. xix, 14, 
27), Zebnim (I Sant, xiii, IS; comp. Neh. xi. 34); Salt (2 
Sam. viii, 13; 2 Kings xiv, 7 ; 1 Citron, xviii, 12; 2 Citron, 
xxv, 11; P-a. lx, title), Zephatliah (2 Citron, xiv, 10), Char- 
asltim (1 Chrou. iv, 14 ; “craftsmen,” Nell, xi, 35), “pas- 
senger.-” (E/.ek. xxxix, 11), Hanion -gog (ver. 11, 15), Ai 
(Josh, viii, 2), near the Jordan (2 Kings ii, 10), Gedor (l 
Citron, iv, 39). ' 

3. Shaveh (HVi'), a dale , namely, of Kirjathaim (Numb, 
xxxii, 37), and the kings (Gen, xiv, 17 ; in 1 Sam. xviii, IS 
this word is not used). 

4. MetsullAh (nr^^) a dell (Zech. i, 8). 

5. BikAh a broad plain between mountains, 

used generally (Dent, viii, 7; xi, 11; Psa. civ, 8; Isa. xli 
18; lxiii, 14; xl, 4, “ plai n”) : specifically “valley of Jeri- 
cho” (Dent, xxxiv, 3), “valley of Mizpeh” (Josh, xi, 8), 
“valley of Lebanon” (ver. 17 ; xii, 7), “vallev of Megid- 
do” (2 Chrou. xxxv, 29; Zech. xii, ID, “ plain of Ono” 
(Neh. vi, 2), “plain ofAven” (Am >s i, 5), “plain of Dura” 


(Dan. iii, 1), “ plain of Mesopotamia” (Ezek. iii, 23,24 ; viii, 
4; xxxvii, 1,2; probably the same as “plain of Shiuar,” 
Gen. xi, 2). 

6. Mistwr pi '£*'33), downs or table-land, s]tecificallv of 
the plateau of Moab (Deut. iii, 10 ; iv, 43 ; Josh, xiii, 9, 10, 
17, 21 ; xx, S; I Kings xx, 23, 25; 2 Citron, xxvi, 10; Jer. 
xxi, 13; x l viii, S, 21). 

7. Sharon (*jl“£), a flat, specifically the pasture -land 
along Hie Mediterranean (Josh, xii, 19; Cant, ii, 2; Isa. 
xxxiii, 9 ; xxxv, 2 ; lxv, I), perhaps that of Gilead (1 Chrou. 
v, 10). 

S. Shepheldh (J"ib2£), a low country , specifically the 
maritime plain (“vale,” Deut. i, 7; Jo-lt. x, 40; 1 Kings 

x, 27 : 2 Citron, i, 15; “valley,” Josh, ix, 1; xi,2, 10; xii, 
s; xv, 33; Judg. i, 9; Jer. xxxii, 41; “plain,” Jer. xvii, 
20; Obad. 19; Zech. vii, 7; “low plains,”! Citron, xxvii, 
2S; 2 Citron, ix, 27 ; “low country,” xxvii, 10; xxviii, 18; 
“Sephela,” 1 Maec. xii, 38). 

9. Midbar pspp), a wilderness in the sense of an open 
tract of unoccupied common, in general a “desert” or 
“wilderness” (Exod. iii, 1 ; v, 3 ; xxiii, 31; Numb, xx, 1; 
Dent, xxxiii, 10 ; 2 Chrou. xxvi, 10 ; Job xxiv, 5 ; Isa. xxi, 
1; Jer. xxv, 24, etc.); specifically that of Sinai (Nmnb. 
xxxiii, 15, 10, etc.; “south,” Psa. lxxv, 0); sometimes 
(with the art.) for Arabia in general, or for those pans of 
it. which extend into Palestine (Geu. xxi, 14; Josh, viii, 
15 ; Judg. i, 10). 

10. Arabah (f"IH"!p), a desert as such, either generally 
(“wilderness,” “desert,” or “ plain,” Job xxiv, 5; xxxix, 
0; Isa. xxxiii, 9; xxxv, 1, 0; xl, 3; xii, 19; li, 3; Jer. ii, 
6; v, 0; xvii, 0; 1,12; li, 43; Amos vi, 14; Zech. xiv, 10), 
or specifically (technically, with the art.) the Arabah (“des- 
ert,” Ezek. xlvii, S ; “plain," Deut. i, 1, 7 ; ii, 8 ; iii, 17; iv, 
49; Josh. iii, 1C; viii, 14: xi, 10 ; xii, 1,3; 1 Sam. xxiii, 24 ; 
2 Sam. ii, 29 ; iv, 7 : 2 Kings xiv, 25 ; xxv, 4 ; Jer. xxxix, 
4; Iii, 7; “plains,” Josh, xi, 2 ; xii,S ; “ champaign,” Dent. 

xi, 30; “Arabah,” Josh, xviii, 18; “ Beth -arabah,” xv, 
0). or (in the plur. without the art.) ihe GhOr or “the 
plains” (2 Sam. xv, 28; xvii, 10) of Moab (Numb, xxii, 1 ; 
xxvi, 3, 03; xxxi, 12; xxxiii, 48, 49, 50; xxxv, I : xxxvi, 
13; Deut. xxxiv, 1, S; Josh, xxiii, 32) or Jericho (iv, 13; v, 
10; 2 Kings xxv, 5; Jer. xxxix, 5; Iii, 8). 

11. Jeshimon Gjl -^£?), a waste, either generally (espe- 
cially of the “wilderness” of the wandering, Dent, xxxii, 
lo; Psa. Ixviii, 7; “desert,” Psa. lxxviii,40; cvi,14; Isa. 
xliii, 19, 20; “ solitary,” Psa. evii, 4), or specifically the 
barren tract on both sides of the Dead Sea (“Jeshimon,” 
Numb, xxi, 20; xxiii, 28; xxxiii, 49; 1 Sam. xxiii, 19, 24; 
xxvi, 1, 3). 

12. Kikkar p22), a circle (primarily and often, a coin 
or loaf), specifically (A. V. always “plain”) the floor of 
the valley through which the Jordan runs (2 Sain, xviii, 
23; 1 Kings vii, 40; 2 Chrou. iv, 17 ; Neh. iii. 22; xii, 28), 
or the oasis that formerly exited in (the southern part of) 
it (Gen. xiii, 10, 11, 12 ; xix, 17, 25, 28. 29 ; Deut. xxxiv, 3). 

Less distinctive than the above are the terms Gelilbth 
(rib^3), circles , used in the general sense of frontiers 
(“ borders, "Josh. xiii, 2; “coasts,” Joel iii, 4), or the wind- 
ings of t he Jordan (“borders,” Josh, xxii, 10, 11 ; “coun- 
try,” Ezek. xlvii, S) ; Carmel (b’CpS), a park, employed 
(besides its use as a proper name) in the general signifi- 
cation of a well-cultivated region (“ fruitful field,” Isa. x, 
S; “fruitful place,” Jer. iv, 20; “plentiful field,” Isa. xvi, 
10; Jer. xlviii, 33 ; “ Carmel,” 2 Kings xix, 23 ; Isa. xxxvii, 
24) ; Sadeh land (“field,” “coumry,”“lnnd”) ; 

Shedembth (ri‘2 l Tw), highly cultivated soil (“fields” of 
Gomorrah, Dent, xxxii, 32; Kidron,2 Kings xxiii, 4; Jer. 
xxxi, 40; lleshbon, Isa. xvi, 8; comp. Ilab. iii, 17); A Ml 
(b^N), a meadow, employed as the name of a place, and 
usually in composition; Maareh (PPp"^', on open tract 
(“ meadows” of Gibeah, Judg. xx, 33; perhaps for !"7 3* *3 , 
a cave; by others read from the west): ChvlkAh 

(iipbn), a (smooth) plot of ground (often in general as a 
“ portion”), in connection with Sadeh (“ piece,” “ parcel,” 
elc.) or without it (“field,” “piece,” “plot,” etc.); Sa- 
phith (!"I23), a height, only of Dor (“borders,” Josh, 
xi, 2; “coast,” xii, 23; “region,” 1 Kings iv, 11), or AV- 
pheth iriSj), in the same connection (“countries,” Josh, 
xvii, 11); Chebel ppn), a district (lit. as measured by a 
rope) ; applied as a general topographical division (“por- 
tion,” or “coast,” Josh, xvii, 5,14; xix, 9, 29; Zeph. ii, 5, 
0,7), especially to Avgob (“region" or “country,” Dent, 
iii, 4,13, 14; 1 Kings iv,13). 

II. Elevations (considered as such, without reference to 
their extent of area). 

1. liar ("'ll), a mountain , employed for single summits 
(as Sinai, Geriziin, Zion, Olivet) or for ranges (as Leba- 


TOPOGRAPHICAL TERMS 4 

non) ; also to the general backbone or highland of Pales- 
tine, or of Judah, Ephraim, etc., in particular (A. V. “moun- 
tain,” “mount,” “hill ’). Occasionally the cognate form 
Uor ("lh or "lin> is employed (usually with the art.), es- 
pecially with reference to the well-knowu eminence of 
that name. The following are the various elevations to 
which liar is applied: Abarim, Amana (Cant, iv, S), Ara- 
rat, Baalah, Baal-lTermon (Jttdg. iii, 3; comp. Josh, xiii, 
5), Bethel, Bether (Cant, ii, 7), Carmel, Ebal, Emek (Josh, 
xiii, 19), Ephron (xv, i>), Gaash, Gerizim, Gilhoa, Gilead, 
Halak (xi, 17), lleres (Jndg. i, 35), Ilermon, llor, lloreb, 
Jearim (Josh, xv, 10), Olivet (Zech. xiv, 4; the word is 
not used in 2 Sam. xv, 30), Mizar (Psa. xiii, 6), Moriah, 
Nebo, Parau (Dent, xxxiii, 2), Pernzim (Isa. xxviii, 21), 
Samaria (1 Kings xvi, 24), Seir, Sephar (Gen. x, 30), Si- 
nai, Sion (Sirion or Slienir, all names for Hernion, I)eut. 
iii, 9; iv, 4S), Shapher (Numb, xxxiii, 23), Tabor, Zalmon 
(Judg. ix, 4S), Zemaraim (2 Chron. xiii, 4), Zion. There 
are also the mountains of the Amorites, of the Amalek- 
ites (Jndg. xii, 15), of Ephraim, of Esau, of Israel, of Ju- 
dah, of Naphtali, and of Bash an (Psa. Ixviii, 15). 

The following subordinate terms are applied to parts 
or features of mountains in personification of the human 
frame : Rash (123SO), head, the top (Gen. v iii, 5 ; Exod. xix, 
20; Deut. xxxiv, 1; 1 Kings xviii, 42) ; Aznbth (Pl-tX), 
ears, peril, some projection on the summit (Josh, xix, 34) ; 
Kathejih (C|P3), the shoulder , the brow (Deut. xxxiii, 12; 
Josh, xv, S, U» T ; xviii, 1G) ; Tsad (1^), the side or hill-slope 
(1 Sam. xxiii, 2G; 2 Sam. xiii, 34) ; Kisloth (P"D3), loins 
or flanks, i. e. base (Josh, xix, 12, IS) ; Tsela (2>'22£), a rib, 
i. e. spur (2 Sam. xvi, 13) ; Shekeni (ZZ'C), back, i. e. rear 
(Shecliem) ; Avnndh («T2X), elbow, i. e. bend (ii, 24) ; Yere- 
kdh (PtUP?), thigh, i. e. recesses (of Mount Ephraim, Judg. 
Xix, l, IS ; ’of Lebanon, 2 Kings xix, 23; Isa. xxxviii, 24). 

2. Gibdh (Pl^'pS), a hill (as in the A. V. invariably), the 
Arabic Jebel, the common designation of less important 
or individual eminences ; applied (besides its general use) 
to Zion (Isa. xxxi, 4 ; Ezek. xxxiv, 2G), and to the follow- 
ing: the hill of the foreskins (Josh, v, 3), ot* Phinelias 
(xxiv, 33), ol Moreh (Jndg. vii, 1), of llachiiah (1 Sam. xxiii, 
19 ; xxvi, l), of Ainmab (2 Sum.ii, 24), of Gureb (Jer. xxxi, 
39); also an element of the proper names Gibeah, Geba 
or Gaba, and Gibeon. 

3. Tel (bp), a hillock (the Arabic Tell), is a diminutive 
mound or knoll, usually an artificial heap of rubbish (Deut. 
xiii, 17; Josh. viii,2S; Jer.xxx,lS; xlix,2); often an ele- 
ment of proper names, as Tel-Abib, Tel-llarsha, Tel-Me- 
lah. 

The two following are rather appropriations of appella- 
tives as proper names than general designations of an 
elevated grouud : 

4. Pisgdh , or rather hap - Pisgdh (for it has the art. 
njOEP), the height (comp. Eugl. “the summit”), was 
probably the ragged edge of the table-land of Moab wliere 
it suddenly broke down into the declivity towards the 
Dead Sea (Numb, xxi, 20; xxiii, 14; Deut. iii, 17 ; xxxiv, 1). 

5. dphcl (bs>), a swelling mound (so of tumors, Dent, 
xxviii, 27; 1 Sam. v, 6, etc.), is applied to Elisha’s resi- 
dence near Jericho (2 Kings v, 24), elsewhere (with the 
doubtful exception of Isa. xxxii, 14 ; Mic. iv, 8) and every- 
where with the art., to the sloping tongue of Mount Dlo- 
riah on the south (2 Chron. xxvii,3; xxxiii, 14; Neh. iii, 
20, 27 ; xi, 21). 

The following, likewise, are rather designations of por- 
tions or elements of hills than the elevations themselves: 

6. Maaleh (P>pp), an ascent or rise, used (besides its 
eommon meaning, Jndg. viii, 13) of several localities : that 
of the Scorpions (Numb, xxxiv, 4; Josh, xv, 3; Jndg. i, 
3G), of Adnmmim (Josh, xv, 7 ; xviii, 17), of Gur (2 Kings 
ix, 27), of Ziz (2 Chron. xx, 1G), of Lnhith (Isa. xv, 5 ; Jer. 
xl viii, 5), of Bethhoron (Josh, x, 10), of Olivet (l Mncc. iii, 
1G; comp. 2 Sam. xv, 30), and Saul’s city [probably Beth- 
lehem] (t Sam. ix, 1 1). 

7. Mordd (TPI^), a descent or fall, applied (besides its 
general use, Mic. i, 4) to the declivity of the Jordan valley 
(Josh. vii, 5), of Bethhoron (x, 10; l Mncc. iii, 24), of IIo- 
ronaim (Jer. xlviii, 5), aud Olivet («aT J/?aau9, Luke xix, 
37). 

8. Shepht PS'j), a bare spot on a hill (“high place,” 
Numb, xxiii, 3; Isa. xli, IS; xlix, 9; Jer. iii, 2, 21 ; iv, 11 ; 
vii, 29; xii, 12; xiv, 6). 

9. Aruts a precipice (“cliff,” Job xxx, G). 

10. Misgdb (HalTlS), a bluff or inaccessible steep, as a 
“refuge” (2 Sam. ’xxii, 3; Psa. xviii, 2; Isa. xxv, 12, etc.) ; 
with the art., a particular fortress of Moab (Jer. xlviii, 1). 

11. Kephhn (□"'SS), crags or rough isolated “rocks” (Job 
xxx, G; Jer. iv, 29). Hence the Syriac name Cephas. 


• 1 TOPOGRAPHICAL TERMS 

There remain the two distinctive terms for a stony 
prominence, with their concomitants : 

12. Tsur Chald. and Arab. Tar, a rock or out- 

standing block of stone whether fixed or boulder, of fre- 
quent occurrence (A. V. “ rock”), both literally (Deut. xv, 
25 ; 2 Kings v, 23, etc.) and figuratively (Psa. xxxi, 2 ; lxii, 

G, etc.), and in only a few eases referring to the height of 
the rock (Numb, xxiii, 1 ; Psa. Ixi, 2, etc.); in one case 
assuming the dignity of a proper name. Tyre. It is spe- 
cifically applied to lloreb (Exod. xvii, 6), the rock ol'Oreb 
(Judg. vii, 25; Isa. x, 2G), and is an element of the names 
Helkalh-hazzurim (2 Sam. ii, 1G), and Beth-sur (Josh, xv, 
58). 

In connection with Tsur twice occurs the peculiar term 
Xikrdh (!"PJT>j), a hole or “cleft” (Exod. xxxiii, 22; Isa. 
ii, 21). 

13. Sela {v'b'D), a cliff or abrupt and elevated rock, espe- 
cially in personification (Psa. xviii, 2 ; xiii, 9, etc.), and as 
a parallel with Tsur (Psa. xxxi, 2, 3; Ixxviii, 15, 1G; Isa. 
ii, 21, etc.). In the A. V. it is loosely rendered “rock,” 
“stone,” etc. It is applied generally to the spot in Kn- 
desh whence Moses brought forth water (Numb, xx, 8, 10, 
11 ; Neh. ix, 15; Psa. Ixxviii, 1G; comp. Tsur, in Ezek. 
xvii), to the rocks of Elam (Judg. xv. S, 11), Rimmon (xx, 
45), aud Sela-hatn-mahlekoth (l Sam. xxiii, 28) ; also as u 
proper name to Petra (with the art., 2 Kings xiv, 7; 2 
Chron. xxv, 12; and prob. Jndg. i, 30; without the ait., 
Isa. xvi, 1 ; Obad. 3). 

In exclusive connection with Sela are found the follow- 
ing descriptive terms: Chagavhn (D^^H), chasms (Cant, ii, 
14; Jer. xlix, 1G; Obad. 3); Seiph (Tp^'p), a cleft (Jndg. 
xv, 8, 11 ; Isa. ii, 21 ; lvii, 5); Tscchiach (n m 'H2Z), n bald 
spot, as the summit of a rock exposed to the drying sun 
(Neh. iv, 13; Ezek. xxiv, 7, S; xxvi, 4, 14) ; Sekik (p^pO), 
a cranny or fissure (Isa. vii, 19; Jer. xiii, 4; xvi, 1G) ; and 
Shen (*j'p), a tooth or sharp edge or end of a crag (Job 
xxxix, 28; 1 Sam. xiv, 4,5); also as a proper mime (vii, 
12 ). 

B. Water. 

I. Flowing (including the valley or bed through which 
it courses) ; of these the first two are the most general aud 
distinctively descriptive. 

1. JS’ahdr (“H3), a perennial river (as almost always ren- 
dered in the A. V.), the Arab, nahr; used generally in the 
poetical books of watercourses and of the sea (Job xiv, 
11 ; xx, 17 ; xxii, 1G ; xxviii, 11; xl, 23 ; Psa. xxiv, 2; xlvi, 
4; Ixxviii, 1G; xciii,3; xcviii,S; cv, 41 ; evii, 33; Cant, viii, 
7: Isa. xviii, 2, 7 ; xxxiii, 21; xli, is ; xiii, 15; xliii, 2, 19, 
20; 1,2; lvi,12); also a stream of fire (Dan. vii, 10) ; and 
specifically to some of the great rivers of Mesopotamia 
and Egypt (Gen. ii, 10, 13, 14 ; xv,lS; Exod. vii, 9; viii, 5 ; 
2 Kiugs v, 12; xvii, G; xviii, 11; 1 Chron. v, 2G ; Ezra viii, 
15, 21,31, 3G; Isa. xviii, 1 ; xix, 5,6: Jer. xlvi, 7, S ; Ezek. 
i, 1, 3 ; iii, 15, 23; x, 15,20,22; xxxii, 2,14; xliii, 3; Dan. 
x, 4; Zeph. iii, 10), especially the Euphrates (Isa. vii, 20; 
Jer. ii, 18; Mic. vi, 1,12; Zech. ix, W), or that in connec- 
tion with the Tigris (Aram-Naharaim, Gen. xxiv, 10; Deut. 
xxiii, 4; Judg. iii, 8; Psa. lx, title; 1 Chron. xix, G), but 
never the Jordan (unless, perhaps, that, or the Dead Sea 
be iuleuded in Psa. Ivi, G; lxxiv, 15; Ilub. iii, S, 9); and 
with the art. it specifically designates the Euphrates, 
either alone (Gen. xxxi, 21 ; xxxvi, 37 ; Exod. xxiii, 31 ; 
Numb, xxii, 5; xxiv, 6; Josh, xxiv, 2,3,14, 15; 2 Sam. x, 
1G; 1 Kiugs iv, 21,24; xiv, 15; l Chron. i, 48; xix, 16; 2 
Chron. ix, 2G; Neh. ii, 7, 9; iii, 7; Psa. lxxii, S; Ixxx, 11 ; 
Isa. viii, 7; xi, 15; xxvii, 12; xlviii, 18: lix, 19; and so in 
the phrase in Ezra, “beyond the river”) or with the name 
added (Gen. ii. 14; xv, IS; Deut. i, 7; xi, 24; Josh, i, 4; 
2 Sam. viii, 3; 2 Kings xxiii, 29; xxiv, 7 ; 1 Citron, v, 9; 
xviii, 3; Jer. xlvi, 2, G, 10) ; while iu the plural it appar- 
ently denotes the canals or branches of the same river 
(Psa. lxxxix, 25; cxxxvii, l ; Isa. xliv, 27 ; xlvii, 2; Ezek. 
xxxi, 4, 15; Nah.i, 4; ii, G). 

The following are the terms which, in the imagery of 
the East, are applied to the various parts of a liver: 
Ydd ("P), a “hand” or side, either right or left (Numb, xiii, 
29 ; Dent, ii, 37 ; Judg. xi, 2G) ; Saphah (PiE ; lJ), a “ lip” or 
brink of a river or of the sea (Gen. xxii, 17 ; xli, 3, 17 ; 
Exod. ii,3; vii, 15: xiv, 30; Deut. ii, 36; iv, 4S; Josh, xi, 
4; xii, 2; xiii, 9, 1G: Jndg. vii, 12, 22 ; 1 Sam. xiii, 5; l 
Kings iv, 29; ix, 2G; 2 Kings ii, 13; 2 Chron. viii, 17; 
Ezek. xlvii, 6, 7, 12 ; Dan. xii, 5 ; and so of the molten sea 
of Solomon’s Temple, l Kings vii, 23, 26; 2 Chron. iv, 2); 
Lashon (’jilL‘3), a “tongue” or bay (Josh, xv, 2, 5; xviii, 
19 ; Isa. xi, 15) ; Gedoth (PUS), banks (of the Jordan, Josh, 
iii, 15; iv, IS; 1 Chron. xii, 15; or of the Euphrates, Isa. 
viii, 7) ; Katseh (PljSp), the extreme limit or end (1 Sam. 
xiv, 97), whether of a river (Josh, xv, 5: xviii, 19), of the 
water (iii, S, 15), or of a lake (Numb, xxxiv, 3; Josh, xv, 
2), and so of a conutry (Gen. xlvii, 21 ; Exod. xiii, 20; 


TOPOGRAPHICAL TERMS 492 TOPOGRAPHICAL TERMS 


Numb. xxxiii, 37), a mountain (Exod. xix, 12; Josh, xviii, 
1G), and a town (ver. 15; 1 Sara, xiv, 2); Maabdr (“12? *2) 
or Mabardh (PH2?*?), a ford (as of the Jordan, Josh. ii, 
7; Jndg. iii, 18; xii, 5, G; the Jabbok, Gen. xxxii, 22; or 
the Anion, Isa. xvi, 2), and so a pass between hills (at 
Michmush, 1 Sain, xiii, 23; xiv, 4; Isa. x, 29; Jer. li, 
32). 

2. Xdehal (PH3), a brook or summer watercourse, the 
Arabic wadi/, signifying both the stream aud the torrent- 
bed or vailev (translated very variously iu the A. V., 
“ brook," “ valley,” “ river,” “ stream,” etc.) ; it is applied 
to the billowing places; the torrent of Gerar (Gen. xxvi, 
17; 1 Sam. xv, 5), of Kshcol (Numb, xiii, 23, 24; xxxii, 9), 
of Zered (Numb. xxi,12; Dent, ii, 13; perhaps Isa. xv, 7 ; 
Amos vi, 14), t he Anion (Numb, xxi, 14 ; I)eut. ii, 24 ; iii, 
S), of Jabbok (Gen. xxxii, 23 ; Dent, ii, 37), of lvanah (Josh, 
xvi, 8), of Kishon (Jndg. iv, 7 ; 1 Kings xviii, 40; Psa. 
lxxxiii, 9; probably Josh, xix, 11), of Besor (1 Sam. xxx, 
9), of Sorek (Jmlg. xvi, 4), of Kedron (2 Sam. xv, 23; 1 
Kings ii, 37; Jer.' xxxi, 40), of Gaash (2 Sam. xxiii, 30; 1 
Chron. xi,32),of Cherith (1 Kings xvii,3; perhaps 2 Sam. 
xxiv, 5), of Egypt (the Wady el-Arish, Numb, xxxiv, 5; 
Josh, xv, 4: 1 Kings viii, 05; Isa. xxxvii, 12), of Shittim 
(Joel iii, 18). 

The following terms designate artificial or temporary 
flowings of water of greater or less extent, some of them 
oflociilusc: 

3. Yu>r (“IN* 1 or “ISO), once (Eccles. xxiv, 27) Or (“N, 
by abbreviation), is properly a canal (perhaps an Egyp- 
tian word), specifically a branch of the Nile (so in ihe 
plur., Exod. vii, 19; viii, 5; 2 Kings xix, 24; Joh xxviii, 
10; Psa. Ixxviii, 44; Isa. vii, IS; xix, 6, 7; xxxiii, 21 ; 
xxxvii, 25; Ezek. xxix, 3, 4, 5, 10; xxx, 12; Nah. iii, S), 
and so the Nile itself (in the sing., Gen. xli, 1, 2, 3, 17: 
Exod. i, 22; ii, 3, 5 ; iv, 9 ; vii, 15, 17, 18, 20, 21, 24, 25 ; viii, 
3, 9, II; xvii, 5; Isa. xxiii, 3, 10; Jer. xlvi, 7, S; Ezek. 
xxix, 3, 9 ; Amos viii, S ; ix, 5 ; Zech. x, 11), and iu Daniel 
(xii, 5, G, 7) the river Ulai, a similar alluvial stream. 

4. Shichur pifTJ), a “ black” or turbid stream, as swol- 
len or discolored by showers, either generally (Isa. xxiii, 
3; Jer. ii, IS) or specifically (the Belns, Josh, xix, 2G ; and 
perhaps the Ansh, xiii. 3 ; 1 Chrou. xiii, 5). 

5. Peleg ( 332 ), a channel , a poetical term for the divis- 
ions of a stream (Psa. xlvi, 4), such as the gullies of Reu- 
ben (Jndg. v, 15, 1G), the subdivisions of au irrigating 
stream ( p sa. i, 3), contrasted with Jubdl (Isa. xxx, 25), or 
with Xdehal (Job xx, 17), or eveu the dew (Psa. lxv, 
9). 

6. Mikdl pIO’S), a rivulet (2 Sam. xvii, 20). 

7. Tedldh (!“!3?n), a conduit or trench for water raised 
or poured out for irrigation, such as a ditch (1 Kings xviii, 
32, 35, 38), an aqueduct (2 Kiugs xviii, 17 ; xx, 20; Isa. vii, 
3; xxxvi, 2; see also Job xxxviii, 25), or for a gardeu 
(Ezek. xxxi, 4). 

The following dcuote rainfall or its effects more or less 
direct : 

8. Geshem (C‘L'3i, a shower , i. e. snddeu aud heavy rain 
as it ordinarily falls in the East. 

9. Zercm (?“7), a storm or violent aud overwhelming 
rain (e. g. Job xxiv, 8; Isa. xxv, 4; xxviii, 2; Ilab. iii, 10; 
comp. Matt, vii, 27). 

10. Yubdl Yabdl (^) r or Ubdl (32^ or b?X), 

a freshet or overflow of streams from rain (Isa. xxx, 25; 
xliv, 4 ; Jer. xvii, 8) ; hence the Ulai itself, as liable to such 
inundations (D in. viii, 2, 3, G). 

11. Aphik (p^SX'i, an outburst or crevasse in the banks 
of an alluvial stream or mountain torrent, throwing the 
water into new and destructive channels; a poetical term 
for any unusual rush (Job vi, 15; Psa. xiii, 1 ; Cant, v, 
12 ; Isa. viii. 7 ; Ezek. vi, 2 ; xxxi, 12 ; Joel i, 20, etc.). 

12. Xozel (377), a gushing, as tears (Job xxxvi, 2S; Isa. 
xiv, S), brooklets ( Psa. Ixxviii, 1G; Prov. v, IS, etc.), or 
the sea (Exod. xv, 8). 

13. Shibb deth (rbz'22), a full stream (Psa. lxix, 12, 15; 
Isa. xxvii, 12). 

14. Eshed (TJX), a rapid (Numb, xxi, 15; Josh, x, 50; 
xii, 8) ; in the plur. especially the tumbling stream burst- 
ing forth from the roots of Pisgah (Deut. iii, 17; iv, 49; 
Josh, xii, 3 ; xiii, 20). 

15. Sheteph (pp — *), a poetical word apparently for a 
local inundation (Job xxxviii, 25; Psa. xxxii, 6; Prov. 
xxvii, 4; Dan. ix, 20; xi, 22; Nah. i, 8). 

16. Mabbfd (3'2’J), a deluge , as of the accumulation of 
writers in the sky (Psa. xxix, 10), and especially Noah’s 
flood. 

II. Sources of supply, whether living or otherwise. 

1. Agin (■}??), lit. “an eye,” heuce a spring of natural 


water open and running (A. V. usually “ fountain,” but 
unfortunately “well” iu Geu. xvi, 7; Numb, xxxiii, 9 
[comp. Exod. xv, 27]; Deut. viii, 7; xxxiii, 28; 1 Sam. 
xxix, 1; 2 Chron. xxxii, 3; Neh. ii, 14; iii, 15; xii, 37; 
Prov. viii, 2S). It is applied, in the nature of a proper 
name (being a marked feature of any locality) to the fol- 
lowing places: simply A2», a city of Simeon (Josh, xv, 
32; xix, 7; xxxi, 1G; 1 Chron. iv, 32); the Ain , a land- 
mark of Palestine (Numb, xxxiv, 11); the two Ains, i. e. 
Ennm (Josh, xv, 34; comp. Gen. xxxviii, 14, 21); the 
spring of Jezreel (1 Sam. xxix, 1), of Ilarod (Jtulg. vii, 1), 
the dragon spring (Neh. ii, 13), (if Shur (Gen. xvi, 7) ; also 
En-dor, En-eglaim, En-gannim, En-gedi, En-haddah, En- 
hak-kore, En-hazor, En-mishpah, Eu-riminon, Eu-rogel, 
Eu-shemesh, En-tappuah, and ^Enon. 

2. Mayan (*| n ?'2), a foxintain consisting of a collection 
of springs (“ fountain,” Gen. vii, 10; viii, 2; Lev. xi, 30; 
Psa. lxxiv, 15; cxiv, S; Prov. v, 16; viii, 24; xxv, 26; 
(’ant. iv, 12, 15; Isa. xli, IS; IIos. xiii, 15; Joel iii, 18; 
“well,” Psa. Ixxxiv, 6; Isa. xii, 3; “springs,” Psa. 
lxxxvii, 7; civ, 10); heuce (topographically) a place 
watered by springs (“fountain,” Josh, xv, 9; 1 Kings 
xviii, 5; 2 Chron. xxxii, 4; “well,” Josh, xviii, 15; 2 
Kings iii, 19, 25). 

8. Motsd (N7212), a source or spring- head (“spring,” 
2 Kings ii, 21; Isa. xli, IS; 1 viii, 11; “watercourse,” 2 
Chron. xxxii, 30; “water-springs,” Psa. evii, 33, 35). 

4. Makar ("V.p*2), a well-spring or vein of water (Lev. 
xii, 7; Jer. li, 30; Psa. xxxvi, 9; Prov. x, 11; xvi, 22, 
etc.). 

5. Gullfdh (rV?S), boiling or bubbling springs, used only 
of those giveu by Caleb to Achsah (Josh, xv, 19 ; Judg. 1, 
15); and in the shorter form Gal (>3), a heap or spring 
(Cant, iv, 12) ; hence billow of the sea (Psa. xliii, 7; evi, 
25; Isa. xl viii, IS; Jon. ii, 3, etc.). 

6. Mabbua a gushing spring ( “spring,” Isa. 

xxxv, 7; xlix, 10; “ fountain,” Eccles. xii, 6). 

The following represent (mostly artificial) collections 
or receptacles of water : 

7. Beer (“X2), a well (as every where in the A. V., except 
“pit” iu Geu. xiv, 10; Psa. Iv, 23; lxix, 15; Prov. xxiii, 
27) dug in the earth or rock and yielding a perpetual sup- 
ply: three such are specially named (Gen. xxvi, 20, 21, 
22), besides Jacob’s (John iv, 6), and one at Bahurim (2 
Sam. xvii, IS). The word stands alone as a proper name 
(Numb, xxi, 16; Jud^. ix, 21), and enters as an element 
into the names Beer-lahai-roi, Beer-sheba, Beerotli-beue- 
jaakam, Beeroth, Beer-elim, Baaluth-beer, Berothah, aud 
Berothai. Cognate with this is 

S. Bor (TJSS or “H2), a cistern (A.V. usually “pit” or 
“well”), whether dug (Deut. vi, 11; Exod. xxi, 33; 2 
Chron. xxvi, 10) or built (Isa. xiv, 19; Jer. ii, 13), aud 
whether empty (and so often used for “dungeon,” Geu. 
xxxvii, 20; xli, 14; Exod. xii, 29; 1 Sam. xiii, 10; 2 
Sam. xxiii, 20; 1 Chron. xi, 22; Jer. xxxvii, 1G; xxxviii, 
0 ; Zech. ix, 11) or as a receptacle of spring or rain water 
(Psa. vii, 15; Isa. xiv, 15; Jer. vi, 7 [Ketliib] ; Ezek. xxvi, 
20, etc.). Special cisterns of this kind are sometimes 
mentioned, as they are next in importance to springs in 
the East; thus in Sechti (1 Sam. xix, 22), of Si rah (2 Sam. 
iii, 20), of Bethlehem (xxiii, 15; 1 Chron. ix, 17), at Miz- 
pah (Jer. xli, 7, 9; comp. 2 Kings xxv, 25). 

9. Berekdh (.“ 1222 ), a pool (as uniformly rendered in 
the A. V.), the Arab. Birkah , an artificial tank for surface 
water. Special pools of this kind are mentioned at 
Gibeou (2 Sam. ii, 13), llebron (iv, 12), Samaria (1 Kings 
xxi!, 3S), Ileshbon (('ant. vii, 4), and several at Jerusa- 
lem, e. g. the upper (2 Kings xviii, 17 ; Isa. vii, 3; xxxvi, 
3), the lower (xxii, 9), or old (ver. 11), the kiug’s (Neh. ii, 
14; Eccles. ii, 6), another (Neh. iii, 16), Siloam (ver. 15; 
John ix, 7), Bethesda (v, 2). 

10. Mikveh (PC [7*2), a reservoir or large receptacle for 
water for irrigation, etc. (“gathering together.” Gen. i. 
10; “pools,” Exod. vii, 19; “ pleuty [of water]," Lev. xij 
36; “ditch,” Isa. xxi, 11). 

11. Agdm (23N), a pond of stagnant water (Exod. vii, 
19; viii, 5; “standing water,” Psa. evii, 35; cxiv, 8; 
hence “ reeds,” which abounded in such receptacles, Jer. 
li, 32). 

12. Keroth (TT2), pits or wells in holes dug to water 

sheep (“ cottages,” Zeph. ii, 6); and so likewise Mikreh 
( ), a pit for the same purpose (“ salt,” ver. 9). 

13. Mashabim (C n 2X ; w’2), troughs for watering animals 
(Jndg. v, 11 ; comp. Geu. xxiv, 19, 20, 44, 45, etc.). 

The following are nut employed with topographical 
exactness: 

14. Geb (23) or Gebe (KJ25*), a ditch (2 Kings iii, 1G ; Isa. 


TOPOGRAPHICAL TERMS 493 TOPOGRAPHICAL TERMS 


xxx, 14; Ezek. xlvii, 11); hence Gebim, a place near Je- 
rusalem (Isa. x, 31). 

15. Pdchath (PHS), a hollow , used as a trap (“pit,” 2 
Sam. xvii, 0; xviii, IT; Isa. xxiv, 17, IS; Jer. xlviii, 43, 
44; “hole,” ver. 27; “snare,” Lam. iii, 47). Akin to 
this is 

16. Shdchath (DTI?) or Shnchdh (hH^tti), a pitfall , poet- 
ically used (variously rendered in the A. V., Psa. ix, 15; 
Prov. xxvi, 27 ; Jer. ii, 6; xviii, 20, etc.). 

IT. Gumuts (V'SX), a deep hole or sunken shaft (Eccles. 
x, S). 

IS. Mahamardli (tTY!£iT2), a gulf or whirlpool (“deep 
pit,” Psa. cxl, 10). 

III. Bodies of water and their connections. For these 
there really is but one lleb. term. 

1. Ydm (□“•), sea (ns always rendered in the A. V. ex- 
cept when used for “west”), including lakes and ex- 
panses of rivers; applied specially to the Mediterranean 
(with the art., Josh, xv, 47 ; sometimes with other ad- 
juncts, as “great,” Numb, xxxiv, 6, 7; “hinder” or 
“ western,” Dent, xi, 24; and so sometimes when the 
situation is not west, as in Egypt [Exod. x, 19], Arabia 
[xxvii, 13; xxxviii, 12]), the Red Sea, that of Chinnereth, 
the Dead Sea (“salt sea,” “sea of the desert," “eastern 
sea”) ; also (like the Arab. Bahr) of great rivers, as the 
Nile (Jer. xix, 5; Nah. iii, S; Ezek. xxxii, 2), the Eu- 
phrates (Isa. xxvii, 1 ; Jer. li, 20, finally of the laver in the 
Temple (1 Kings xxv, IS; 1 Chron. xviii, S). Connected 
with Yam are the following: 

Miphrdts CJ^S^), a hay (“ breaches,” Jndg. v, 17). 

Choph (?pn), a shore , or rather perhaps cove (comp. 
“Haifa"), as a lesser form of the preceding (“haven," 
Gen. xlix, 13; “side,"Deut. i, 7; “coasts," Josh, ix, 1; 
“shore,” Jndg. v, 17). 

Maehoz (7 ilTD), a port or “haven” (Psa. evil, 30). 

lyhn (D'i'X), islands , or the distant shores of the Medi- 
terranean, which seemed such to the Hebrews (Isa. xx, 6; 
xxiii, 2, 6; Ezek. xxvii, 0; Jer. ii, 10, etc.). 

ir«rcs of the sea are represented (besides Gal, above) 
by Daki (X^T), literally (“wave," Psa. xciii, 3) ; Mishbdr 
(13'L v 3), an overwhelming (metaphor, “wave,” 2 Sam. 
xxii, 5; Psa. xlii, 7 ; “billow," Jon. ii, 3) ; Bamdh (Pl?22), 
a high place , usually on land, but put (Job ix, 8) for a 
ridge of the sea. 

2. Tehbm (Cinri), the deep , a poetical word for ocean, 
corresponding to our “main” (Gen. viii, 2; Job xxviii, 
14; xxxviii, 6, 30; Prov. viii, 27, 2S ; Ezek. xxvi, 19; 

xxxi, 15; Jon. ii, 6; Hab. iii, 10; fully “the great deep,” 
Gen. vii, 11; Psa. xxxvi, 7; Isa. li, 10; Amos vii, 4); 
more rarely any other great mass of waters (as those 
covering the earth at Creation, Gen. i, 2; Psa. civ, 6; or 
the subterranean waters, Gen. xlix, 25; Dent, xxxiii, 13; 
also floods, Joh xli, 32; Psa. xlii, 7 ; Ezek. xxxi, 4). In 
the plural (PXPiP'l) it designates either the surges of the 
sea (Exod. xiv, 5, 3; Psa. xxxiii, 7; lxxvii, 16; lxxviii, 
15; evi, 9; Prov. iii, 20; viii, 24; Isa. lxiii, 13), or its 
abysses (Psa. evii, 26; cxxxv, 6; cxlviii, 7); occasionally 
the depths of the earth (Ixxi, 20), as a supply of streams 
(Dent, viii, 7). 

C. Aoofssorifs. 

These are such features as obviously affect the char- 
acter of the country for purposes of occupation, but not, 
like the foregoing, of a permanently essential nature. 

I. Internal (including natural cavities and grottos). 

1. Medrdh (iTXX), a cave (“hole,” Isa. ii, 19; “den,” 
xxxii, 14 ; Jer. vii, 11), Arab. Mcgharah ; used as a proper 
name alone (Josh, xiii, 4), but. generally with the adjunct 
of locality: of Adnllam (1 Sam. xxii, 1 • 2 Sam. xxiii, 13), 
Makkedah (Josh, x, 16, etc.), Engedi (1 Sam. xxiv, 3), 
Obadiah (1 Kings xviii, 4), Zoar (Gen. xix, 30), Mach- 
pelah, Horeb (I Kings xix, 9). 

2. Ch6r pin or "lh) and Chur pan), a hole in the 
earth or rock (1 Sam. xiv, 11 ; Job xxx, 6), hence in the 
proper names Ilorite, Ilaurau, Beth-boron, Iloronaim, 
Hor-bagklgad. 

3. Mechilldh (n^n^), a fissure or cavern (Isa. ii, 19). 

4. Minhardh (rnrX’S), a burrow or hiding-place (Judg. 
vi, 2). 

II. Superficial (including objects of natural growth, such 
as conspicuous and enduring vegetation). 

1. Ydar pSV?), a forest or deuse growth of trees, but 
occasionally a thicket only (Isa. xxi, 13). In the historical 
hooks it is the nsnal name for the wooded tracts of Pal- 
estine, whether east or west of the Jordan ; namely, the 
“forest of Ilareth” (1 Sam. xxii, 5), “the forest of Leba- 
non” (1 Kings vii, 2 ; x, 17, 22 ; 2 Chron. ix, 16, 20), “ the 
wood of Ephraim” (2 Sam. xviii, 6, S*17; see also Josh. 


xvii, 15, 18; 1 Sam. xiv, 25, 26; 2 Kings ii, 24). In the 
poetical parts of Scripture it often occurs, and is trans- 
lated “ forest” (but “ wood” in Dent, xix, 5 ; 1 Chron. xvi, 
33; Psa. lxxx, 13; Ixxxiii, 14; xevi, 12; cxxxiii, 6; 
Eccles. ii, 6; Cant, ii, 3; Isa. vii, 2; Ezek. xxiv, 25; 
Mic. vii, 14). It forms an element of the names Kirjath- 
jearim and Mount Jearim (Josh, xv, 10). In two pas- 
sages (1 Sam. xiv, 27 ; Cant, v, 1) the word is applied to 
a honey-comb, which is the frequent product of forests. 

2. Chorcsh ), a wood, i. e. a thick growth of vege- 

tation, whether in a single tree or in a copse: thus in 
Ezek. xxxi, 3 it is used for the thick foliage (“shroud”) 
of the cedar; elsewhere for a limited piece of woods 
(“forests,” 2 Chron. xxvii, 4; “bough,” Isa. xvii, 9; 
“wood ofZiph," 1 Sam. xxiii, 15, 16, IS, 19). 

3. I'ardes (D'n'IQ), a Persian word for a park or planta- 
tion of timber (“forest.,” Neh. ii, 8) or fruit-trees (“or- 
chard," Eccles. ii, 5 ; Cant, iv, 13). 

4. fits Cj r 2), a tree in the widest sense, whether an indi- 
vidual one (Gen. i, 29; ii, 16; Deut. xii, 2; Josh, x, 16 
[comp. Acts x, 38] ; Isa. vii, 2, etc.) or “wood” as its prod- 
uct (Exod. vii, 19; Lev. xi, 32; 1 Sam. vi, 14, etc.); 
hence “ timber” (1 Kings v, 6, etc.), or a piece (“stick,” 
Numb, xv, 32 ; 1 Kings xvii, 10) ; sometimes as wrought 
(“staff” of a spear, 1 Sam. vii, 7; “handle” of an axe, 
Deut. xix, 5). 

The most important or generally used names of particu- 
lar species of trees are t he following, which do not always 
seem to be used exactly or distinctively: 

5. El in some of its various forms (all from or 

, to be strong), which, according to Geseuius, are used 

thus: Eyl may be either an oak or a terebinth; where 
Allon is opposed to Eldh (as in Isa. vi, 13; Hos. iv, 13), 
the former is the oak, the latter the terebinth; on the 
other hand, all the words appear to he interchangeable, for 
the same tree which is Allon (Josh, xix, 33) is also El6n 
(Jndg. iv, 11), while that which is Elan (“ plain,” ix, 6) is 
likewise Eldh (Gen. xxxv, 4) and Allah (Josh, xxiv, 26). 
The following are the several terms and their applica- 
tion : 

Eyl (VX), in the sing., occurs only in the combination 
El-pa ran (Gen. xiv, 6); iu the niasc. plnr. Eylhn (D*^X 
or D^X) of a collection of trees { “oaks,” Isa. i, 29; 
“trees,” Ixi, 3; Ezek. xxxi, 14), and the proper name 
Elim (from the seventy palms there, Exod. xv, 27; xvi, 1 ; 
Numb, xxxiii, 9, 10). The fem. plur. Eyloth (P.’lb^X) or 
Eyldth (Pb^X), as a proper name Eloth or Elath, proba- 
bly refers to the palm-grove at Akabah (Deut. ii, 8; 1 
Kings ix, 20; 2 Kings xiv, 22; xvi, 6; 2 Chron. viii, 17; 
xxvi, 2). 

Eldh (!"15X), designated a notable tree, perhaps the 
terebinth (“oak,” Gen. xxxv, 4; Isa. i, 30; Ezek. vi, 13- 
“ elms,” llos. iv, 13 ; “ teil-tree,” Isa. vi, 13 ; w ith the art., 
Jndg. vi, 11, 19; 2 Sam. xviii, 9, 10, 14; 1 Kings xiii, 14; 
“Elah,” 1 Sam. xvii, 2, 19 ; xxi, 9). 

Eylbn Ojte-'X), a similar notable tree, perhaps the oak 
(“plain" of Moreh, Gen. xii, 6 ; Deut. xi, 30; of Mature, 
Gen. xiii, 18; xiv, 13; xviii, 1 ; ofZuanaiin, Judg. iv, 11 ; 
of the pillar, ix, 6; of Meonenim, ver. 37; of Tabor, 1 
Sam. x, 3), aud also stands as a proper name, Elon (Josh, 
xix, 43). 

Ildn Cj^X), a great tree (Dan. iv, 10, 11, 14, 20, 23, 26). 

Alldh (P&X), a marked tree (“oak,” Josh, xxiv, 2G), as a 
prop, name Allah-melek (“ the king’s oak," xix, 20). 

Allon ("jlfeX), the same (“oak,” Gen. xxx, S; Isa. xliv, 
14; Amos ii, 9 ; in connection with Eldh, Isa. vi, 13 ; llos. 
iv, 13; of Bashan, Isa. ii, 13; Ezek. xxvii, 6; Zecli. xi, 3), 
and in the names Allon-bachnth (Gen. xxxv, S) and Allon- 
zaanaim (Judg. iv, 11), or simply AUod (Josh, xix, 33). 

6. Eshcl (l^X), prob. the tamarisk (“tree,” 1 Sam. xxii, 
6 ; xxxi, 13 ; “ grove,” Gen. xxi, 3). 

7. Ashcrdh (PIT^X), rendered iu the A. V. “grove," was 
an idolatrous image or pillar of Astarte (Jndg. vi, 25-27), 
which, on account of its height, was planted in the ground, 
Dent, xvi, 21 ; as at Samaria, 1 Kings xvi, 32, 33; 2 Kings 
x, 20; xvii, 16; at Bethel, xxiii, 15; at Ophrah, Jndg. vi, 
25; and even at Jerusalem, 2 Kings xxi, 37; xxiii, 6; so 
in the plur. CPTL'X, Baal’s cippi, l Kings xiv, 23, etc.); 
and hence the goddess herself (xv, 13, etc.). 

Among other species of trees that seem to have given 
names to localities we mention Rimmon , the pomegran- 
ate; Is’z, the almond; Tamar, the palm ; Shittdh (in the 
plur. Shitttm), the acacia; Libneh (or IAbnah), the white 
poplar; and Rothem ( Rithmah ), the Spanish broom. 

III. Human structures (including residences or defences), 
whether collective or individual, public or private. 

1. lr OX*) or Ar p2), a citg (as ahvnys rendered in the 
A. V., except “ town," in Deut. iii, 5 ; 1 Sam. xvi, 4 ; xxiii, 


TOPOGRAPHICAL TERMS 494 TOPOGRAPHICAL TERMS 


7; xxvii, 5; Esth. ix,9; Jer. xix, 15; “ court,” in 2 Ivinas 
xx, 4), designates a fortified place (x, 25; xvii, 9 ; xviii, 8 ; 

1 Oh roil, xi, 5, etc.), such a** Jerusalem, Samaria, Jericho, 
etc., especially walled cities (Gen. xxiii, 10, 18; xxxiv, 20, 
24 ; Josdi. viii, 29 ; x, 4 ; Judg. xvi, 2, 3 ; f tilth iii, 1 1 ; 1 Sain, 
xxiii, 7; 1 Kings iv, 13; xvii, 10; 1 Chrnn. xix, 9 ; 2 Chron. 
viii, 5, etc.), in contract with others (Lev. xxv, 29, 31 ; 1 
Sam. v i, 18); hut in one case (Dent, iii, 5) we have “un- 
walled cities.” The former of these two cognate terms 
occurs as part of a proper name in Ir-liat-temarim (Dent, 
xxxiv, 3; Judg. i, 1(1; iii, 13; 2 Chron. xxviii, 151, Ir- 
hum-meluch (Josh, xv, t>*2), lr-shemesh (xix, 41), Ir-nahash 
(1 Chron. iv, 12), Ir-ha-heres (Isa. xix. 18), Keclioboth-ir 
(Gen. x, 11 ) ; the latter as Ar (Numb, xxi, 15; Dent, ii, 
9, 18, 29) or Ar-Moab ( Numb, xxi, 28 ; xxii, 30 ; Isa. 

xv, 1). 

2. Kirydh <J"P"ip), a town, apparently the ancient (heuce 
the Caiiaanitish Kirjath) and poetical (hut proverbial, 
Dent, ii, 36; iii, 4; 1 Kings i, 41, 45; or Samaritan, Ezra 
iv, 10, 12, 13, 15, 10, 19, 21) word for a city (Numb, xxi, 28; 
Psa. lx viii, 2: Isa. xxv, 2), especially in the proper names 
Kirjath, Kirjathaim, Kirjath-arba, Kirjntli-hnzoth, Kir- 
jath-jearim, Kirjath-arim, Kirjath bnal, Kirjath-sepher, 
Kirjath-snnuah, Kcriolli, and Kartell. 

3. Perazdh only with the plur. Perazdth, 

and the collective Perazon , or Perazi , "•7TD), an 

itmoalled town or open village of considerable size and 
character (Dent, iii, 5; 1 Sam. vi, IS; Esth. ix, 19; Ezek. 
xxxviii, 11; Zech. ii, 4; hut “villages” in Judg. v, 7, 11 ; 
Hah. iii, 14, means chief#), and in the designation of the 
Perizzites, or inhabitants of open villages. 

4. Kaplidr (TD, a hamlet or small collection of houses 
(“village,” 1 Sam. vi, IS; 1 Chron. xxvii, 25; Cant, vi j, 
11), occurs chiefly in combination as a proper name: Che- 
phar-ha-Ammonai (Jo«h. xviii, 24), Chephirah (ix, 17), Ca- 
phnr-snba (1 Macc. vii, 31), Capernaum, and many Tal- 
mudic places (Capliar), like the Arab. Kcfr . 

5. Chatser p2£Pi), a village (literally an enclosure), orig- 
inally a “court” or vestibule. (as of the Tabernacle, Exod. 
xxvii, 9, etc.; or Temple, 1 Kiugs vi, 36; 2 Kings xxi, 57 ; 
of a palace, xx, 4; Esth. i, 5; Jer. xxxvi, 20; comp. 22; 
prison, Neh. iii, 25; Jer. xxii, 2, etc.; or even of a com- 
mon house, 2 Sam. xvii, IS), hut topographically designat- 
ing a permanent Bedawin encampment of tent -cloths 
spread over stone walls (Gen. xxv, 10; Isa. xlii, 11), such 
as the Ilazerim dwelt in (Dent, ii, 23). It appears espe- 
cially in the proper names Ilazeroth, Hazar-addar, Ilazar- 
e n an. llazar-gnddah, Hazar-hat-ticon, Ilazar-shual, llazar- 
snsali (or -susim), aucl (in a slightly changed form, Chatsor , 
“isn), llazor. 

6. Chav vu h (H-IIl), in the plnr. ( Chavdth , Pin), a tent- 
village of a more temporary or frail character than the 
preceding, as not. being surrounded by any defence 
(“town,” Numb, xxxii, 41 ; Josh, xiii, 30 ;*1 Kings iv, 13; 
1 Chron. ii, 23 ; “Ilavoth,” Dent, iii, 14; Jndg. iv, 13). 

The following are rather separate erections or fortifica- 
tions than congregated abodes, but they are of a tixed 
character in distinction from the simple and primitive 
Ohel (bnX), or “ tent.” For all these the general name is 
Jidgith (rpZ), a house (as almost always rendered in the 
A. V.), which is the common expression for a tixed habita- 
tion (very generally as built [from 7112] of substantial 
materials, but occasionally a frailer structure, Gen. xxvii, 
15; Judg. xviii, 3t ; 1 Sam. i, 7 ; 2 Kings xviii, 7 ; Job viii, 
14', and for a permanent dwelling (as appears from the 
form of the letter called from it, 2, which represents the 
three sides of a house, the other being left open for a door- 
way). The main element of the firmer and most endur- 
ing of these erections is denoted by the word Kir ppp, 
cognate with Kirjdh above), a icall (as of a house, whether 
exterior or interior, Lev. xiv, 37 ; 1 Sam. xx, 25; 1 Kings 
vi, 5 ; Ezek. xxiii, 14, etc. ; hence the side of an altar, Lev. 
i. 5; v, 9; a fence or enclosure, Numb, xxii, 25; and the 
wall of a town, only xxxv, 4; as the distinctive term for 
this last is Chomdh , n -in; see Josh, ii, 15, where both 
occur together), which itself is also used as a proper name, 
Kir (both in Moab, Isa. xv, 1 ; comp. 2 Kings iii, 25; Isa. 

xvi, 7, 11 ; Jer. xl viii, 31,36; and in Assyria, 2 Kings xvi, 
9; Isa. xxii, 6: Amos i, 5; ix, 7). 

7. lleykdd (S^Hl, a palace or large edifice for royalty 
(Prov. xxx, 28: Isa. xxxix, 7; Dan. i, 4, etc.), especially 
the temple of Jehovah at Jerusalem (2 Kings xxiv, 13; 2 
Chron. iii, 17 ; Jer. 1, 28 ; Hag. ii, 15 : Zech. vi. 14, 15 ; else- 
where distinguished by the epithet “holy,” or denoted by 
“Lord’s house”); and so of the tabernacle previously (1 
Sam. i, 9; iii, 3; Psn. v, 8; poetically for the heavens, xi, 
4, etc.), specifically for the lioly place (1 Kings vi, 5, 
etc.). 

8. Dir ah (JTV2), a citadel (a word of wide etymological 


affinities, all denoting strength of defence [see Baths]), a 
term of later Hebrew (for the acropolis adjoining the Tem- 
ple, Neh. ii, 8; vii, 2; or the Temple itself, 1 Chron. xxix, 
1, 19) or Chaldaic use (the Persiau “palace,” Ezra vi, 2; 
Nell, i, 7 ; Esth. i, 2 ; ii, 3 ; iii, 15 ; viii, 14 ; ix, 6, etc. ; Dan. 
viii, 2), and in the plnr. (“castles,” 2 Chron. xvii, 12; 
xxvii, 4). 

9. Armdn (’p'3'lX), once (Amos iv, 3) Harmon C}*YEPil), 
the keep or harem of a “palace,” a poetical term (1 Kings 
xvi, 18; 2 Kings xv, 25; 2 Chron. xxxvi, 19; Psa. xl viii, 3, 
13; Isa. xxv, 2: Jer. xvii, 21; Amos i, 4; ii, 2, etc.). 

10. Tirdh <n“pp), a Bedawin castle (Geu.xxv,16; Numb, 
xxxi, 10; “ palace,” Ezek. xxv, 4). 

11. Mibtsdr {~22"2), a fortress, commonly used with ft 
(“fenced city,” Numb, xxxii, 17, 36; Josh, x, 20; xix, 35; 
1 Sam. vi, IS: 2 Kings iii, 19; x, 2; xvii, 9; xviii, 8; 2 
Chron. xvii, 19); such as Tyre (Josh, xix, 29; 2 Sam. 
xxiv, 7), frequent in the poetical books (“fortress,” or 
“defenced city,” Psa. l.xxix, 40; Isa. xvii, 3: Jer. i, 8; 
Nah. iii, 12, etc.), as well as in the historical (“stroiur- 
hold,” Numb, xiii, 19; 2 Kings viii, 12). Cognate is bit- 
saron (“stronghold,” Zech. ix, 12). 

12. Matsdr piSID) or Mctsunih (IVfiSi:), a fort (A. V. 
“fort,” “fenced,” “stronghold,” etc.), either alone (2 
Chron. xi, 10) or with Ir (viii, 5; xi, 5, 10, ll, 23; xiii, 4; 
xiv, 6), to denote the fortified towns of Judah nud Benja- 
min, once (Zech. ix, 3) Tyre; and (especially in the poeti- 
cal hooks) for offensive works of a siege (“siege,” “bul- 
warks,” or “fort,” Dent, xx, 19, 20: xxviii, 5, 3; Isa. xxix; 
Nah. iii, 14, etc.). As a proper name (2 Kiugs xix, 24 ; Isa. 
xxxvii, 25; xix, 6) Mazor seems to deuote Egypt (Miz- 
raim). 

The remaining terms are rather designations of tem- 
porary and natural protection thau artificial aud seitled 
abodes. 

13. Maoz (TIP'S), a stronghold, such as a “rock” (Judg. 
vi, 26), elsewhere poetically as an attributive for military 
strength (“fort,” “fortress,” “stronghold,” “strength," 
Psa. xxvii, 1 ; such as Tyre, Isa. xxiii, 4, 11,14; or Egypt, 
xxx, 2, 3; Zech. xxx, 15). 

14. Maon (j"5“2) or Meondh (JlSiPlS), a seenre dwelling- 
place, as of Jehovah (at Shiloh, 1 Sam. ii, 29, 32; at Jeru- 
salem, Psn. xxvi, 8 ; lxviii, 5 ; Ixxvi, 2) ; and so a den (of a 
lion, Job xxxviii, 40; Psa. civ, 22; Cant, iv, S; Nah ii, 11, 
12 ; Amos iii, 4 ; or other beast, Job xxxvii, S ; Jer. ix, 11 ; 
x, 22; xlix, 33; li, 37). 

15. Metsdd p:*12) or Mctsuddh (JTl^N'C), a lair (from 
the idea of hunting), prop, of wild beasts and hence of 
birds (Job xxxix, 28; Jer. xlviii, 41 ; Ezek. xvii, 20); fre- 
quent in the poetical books (“munition,” “fortress,” 
“defence”) in connection with Sela and Ts'r; aud topo- 
graphically applied to the hill forts of Judaea (“hold,” 1 
Sam. xxii, 4, 5 ; xxiv, 22 ; 2 Sam. xxiii, 14 ; 1 Chron. xi, 16 ; 
xii. S, 16; “ fort,” Ezek. xxxiii, 27 ; “stronghold,” Judg. vi, 
2; 1 Sam. xxiii, 14, 19, 29), especially Zion (“hold,” 2 Sam. 
v, 17; 1 Chron. xi, 16: “fort,” 2 Sam. v, 9; “castle,” 1 
Chron. xi, 5, 7 ; “stronghold,” 2 Sam. v, 7). 

16. Sdk (“3) or Sukkdh (Hip), a booth or canopy of 
leafy boughs, as a habitation for' man or beast (“booth,” 
Lev. xxiii, 42, 43; Neh. viii, 14, 15, 16, 17; Job xxxi, 20; 
Jon. iv, 5; “pavilion," Psa. xxxi, 20; “cottage,” Isa. 1,8; 
“tabernacle,” iv, 6), such as Jacob constructed (Gen. xxi, 
17), and the Israelites occupied during the Festival of 
“Tabernacles” (Lev. xxiii, 43, in commemoration of their 
first stopping-place out of Egypt, “Succoth,” Exod. xiii. 
20), and hence applied to the retreat of the lion (“den,” 
Psa. x, 9 ; “covert,” Job xxxviii, 40 : Jer. xxv, 3S), and to 
Jerusalem, Jehovah’s retreat (Psa. Ixxvi, 2), to military 
tents (“tent,” 2 Sam. xi, 11 ; “pavilion,” 1 Kings xx, 12, 
16), and to the clouds (“ tabernacle,” Job xxxvi, 29 ; “ pa- 
vilion,” 2 Sam. xxii, 12 ; Psa. xviii, 11). 

17. Mistdr (“Tipp), a covert or hiding-place (A. V. 
“secret” place, etc), once (Isa. iv, 6, “coven”) Mis tor 
p H rop), as a shelter from the elements (Isa. iv. 6), or 
concealment (Jer. xiii, 17; xxiii, 24; xix, 10), and espe- 
cially the lurking-place of lions (Psa. xvii, 12; Lam. iii, 
lo) and of violent men (Psa. x, 8, 9; ixiv, 4; lleb. iii, 
14). 

In conncclion with this whole subject, we may add 
that we have had frequent illustrations, in the aptness 
with which geographical names are given in the Bible, 
of that nice sense of locality which a simple people, 
especially one of nomadic instincts, invariably exhibits. 
Indeed, the whole Hebrew language is an exemplifica- 
tion, particularly in the varied import of the nearly 
sviionomons roots, which unfortunately the lexicons 
generally fail accurately to distinguish, of the close ob- 
servance of all physical traits. In like mamier the de- 


TOR 


495 


TORGAU, CONVENTION OF 


scriptions of locality, which, to a modern Occidental, 
often seem vague and casual, are generally found, when 
carefully scanned, to be remarkably precise and graphic, 
a fact which later travellers are beginning to appreci- 
ate. Instances of this abound in the dooms-day hook 
of Joshua, and many of them we have pointed out un- 
der the art. Tribe. A question of much practical im- 
portance has arisen respecting the lists of towns in the 
various tribes given in that book, whether they are ar- 
ranged in geographical order. The presumption, grow- 
ing out of the minute character of the delineation, evi- 
dently copied from some memorandum of survey, is in 
favor of such accuracy, and this is con tinned by the 
fact now well recognised by commentators, that the 
list of nations mentioned in Acts ii, 9-11 proceeds reg- 
ularly from the East to the West. Lieut. Cornier, in 
his papers in the Quar. Repairs of the “ Pal. Explor. 
Fund,” bases many of his proposed identifications of 
[daces on this theory, which he elaborately defends. 
We are inclined, however, to doubt its trustworthiness 
for that purpose, as the Oriental mind is not so uni- 
formly methodical as this view implies; and we have 
found very frequent reason to depart from such a rule 
in the indications of identification that we have pointed 
out under the various places named. 

Tor. See Turtle. 

Torah (fully Masseketh Sepher Torah , fCO£ 

miD). or Treatise of the Law , is a Talmudic treatise 
containing enactments as to the manner in which, and 
the material on which, the law is to be written. The 
five chapters of which this treatise consist are full of 
information, especially the first and fourth; the former 
containing some notices concerning the Sept., the latter 
bearing on the sacred text. As to the Sept., see, under 
that head, Talmudic Notices concerning the Septaugint , in 
this Cyclop. The fourth chapter gives the passages in 
which the word GmPX denotes the Deity or has a dif- 
ferent signification. These differences are also noticed in 
correct editions of the Hebrew text by the words 
and bin, i. e. holy or profane, thus enabling the student 
at once to discern whether ombx should be translated 
God or gods, or judges , etc. This treatise has been ed- 
ited, with six others, by Kirchbeim (Frankfort-on-the- 
Main, 1851), under the title P"rzO*3 P3w 

also with the Latin title, Septem Libri 
Talmudici Parvi llierosolymitani quos nunc primum se- 
cundum JAS'. e Bibliotheca Clarissimi Carmolii edidit. 
etc. (B. P.) 

Torch is the occasional rendering in the A. V. of 
“T'sb, lappid (Zech. xii, 6), which usually signifies 
(and is translated) a lamp ; and so \ap7raQ (John xviii, 
3). In Nah. ii, 3 [Heb.4] it represents Trfe'Sypeladah, 
which rather signifies iron . See Steel. The distinc- 



Aocient Roman Torches: a. Lantern from the Column of 
Trajan ; &, c. Flambeaus from various sculptures. 



Modern Oriental Torches: 1. Persiau ; 2. Arabian. 


tion in the East between a torch and a lantern (q.v.) is 
not very marked, as both are often but forms of flam- 
beaus. See Lamp. A flaming torch is sometimes 
quoted by the prophets as the symbol of great anger 
and destruction (Zech. xii, 6). So also Isaiah (vii, 4) 
compares Iiezin, king of Syria, and the king of Israel, 
two bitter enemies to Ahaz, king of Judah, to “two 
tails of smoking firebrands.” See Firebrand. 

Tordesillas, Moses, a Jewish writer who flour- 
ished in 1373 at Avila, in Spain, is the author of P7P 
n3V£Xn, in which he critically examines 125 passagesof 
the Old Test, regarded bv the Christians as Messianic. 
This work originated through a controversy which he had 
had with a Jewish convert at Avila; and, for the bene- 
fit of the congregations of Avila and Toledo, he collected 
all the material, which he laid down in his "i7:\ 

forming the second part of a work bearing the general 
titTe "l TP PI D. the first part of it being entitled "TP 
PHn. See Fiirst, Bibl.Jud. iii, 435; De’ Rossi, Dizio- 
nario Storico (Germ, transl.), p. 317 sq., and Biblioth. 
Jud. Antichrist, p. 26. (B. P.) 

Torgau, Convention of. Among the German Re- 
formers there was considerable difference of opinion on 
various subjects, which opinions were advanced and sup- 
ported with great warmth. All good men friendly to 
the new Church were desirous of a termination of so 
many bitter contests, because it was manifest that the 
papists turned them to their own advantage. After an 
unsuccessful endeavor to bring about a settlement of 
these controversies by a conference at Altenburg, it 
was thought best that a formula or book should be 
drawn up by wise and moderate theologians, in which 
these controversies should be examined and decided. 
James Andrea, a theologian of Tubingen, was appoint- 
ed to this work in 1659. This business was hastened 
by the conduct of Kaspar Peucer, son-in-law of Melanc- 
thon, who, with others, endeavored in 1570 to abolish 
throughout Saxony the doctrine of Luther respecting 
the Lords supper, and introduce instead that of Cai- 
vin. In 1571 they explicitly declared their dissent from 
Luther respecting the doctrine of the supper and the 
person of Christ; and, the better to accomplish their 
wishes, they introduced into the schools a catechism 
drawn up by Bezel, and favorable to the doctrine of 
Calvin. Accordingly the elector Augustus summoned 
a convention of theologians at Torgau in 1574. Hav- 
ing clearly learned the views of the Crypto-Calvinists, 
as they were generally called, he treated them with se- 
verity, imprisoning some and banishing others. After 
various consultations, James Andreii especially, in a 
convention of many divines assembled at Torgau, by 
order of Augustus, drew up the treatise designed to bring 
peace to the Reformed Church, and which received the 
name of the Book of Torgau. This book, after being 


TORIBIO 


49 G 


TOKRENTIUS 


examined and amended by many theologians, was again 
submitted to certain select divines assembled at Ger- 
niauy, and resulted in the famous Formula of Concord 
(q. v.). Sec Moslieim, Ecclesiastical II Story, V, , iii, 151 sq. 

Toribio, Alfonso Mongkovejo, St., a Spanish prel- 
ate, was born at Mavorga in 1538, and studied at Valla- 
dolid, giving himself meanwhile to t he most austere form 
of religious life. From this he was called, in 1575, to 
the College of San Salvador. In 1580 he was made 
archbishop of Lima; he was consecrated at Seville, and 
immediately departed for Peru. He entered Lima May 
*21, 1 5s 1. The diocese covered a large extent of terri- 
tory, and the means of communication were very poor; 
but Toribio determined to make a tour of it in person, 
lie sent evangelists into the remote districts, and did 
all in his power to elevate the Indians, who became 
much attached to him. His liberality was great, and 
crowds of poor people would wait at his door for alms. 
His knowledge of the language rendered access to the 
people easy, and his labors were incessant. Put the 
fatigue of his long journeys and the warm climate 
proved fatal, and Toribio died during his third episco- 
pal tour, March ‘23. 1606. He was beatified by Clement 
XI in 1679, and canonized in 1720. See Prescott, Con- 
quest of Peru, iv, 3; Pinelo, Vida de Don Toribio , A rzo- 
bispo ile Lima (Madrid, 1653). — lloefer, Xouv. Biog. Ge- 
nerate, s. v. 

Tor'mah (Heb. TormalT, iTS^ri, deceit; Sept, iv 
Kpv<f>y v. r. ptrd dwpiov; Vulg. clam) occurs only in 
the margin of Judg. ix, 31, as the alternative render- 
ing of the Hebrew word which in the text is given as 
“ privily.” By a few commentators it has been conject- 
ured that the word was originally the same with Aru- 
niah (q. v.) in ver.4t,one or the other having been cor- 
rupted by the copyists. This appears to have been first 
started by Kimelii. It is adopted by Junius and Tre- 
mellius; but there is little to be said either for or against 
it, and it will probably always remain a mere conject- 
ure. — Smith. 

Tormentor (fiaaavioTpg, Matt, xviii, 34) signifies 
one who examines by torture, and is derived from j3a- 
oaid^io, which in its passive form means to be tossed 
as by the waves of the sea. Torture, judicially applied, 
must be distinguished from punishment, hotvever cruel 
and barbarous it may be; whether it be capital, as im- 
palement or crucifixion; or secondary, as the putting- 
out of the eyes, or any other kind of mutilation. For 
torture was not intended to act fatally, nor was it, when 
so denominated, inflicted as a part of a judicial sentence. 
See Toutuue. It was usually employed to extort con- 
fession or evidence, as when Claudius Lysias, the chief 
captain, commanded Paul to be brought into the castle 
and “examined by scourging” (Acts xxii, 24). In the 
text first cited it is used as the means of obtaining pay- 
ment of a debt. The “ tormentors” there referred to are 
the jailers, who were allowed to scourge and torture 
the poor debtors in their care, in order to get money 
from them for the grasping creditors, or else to exeite 
the compassion of friends and obtain the amount of 
the debt from them. In early times of Pome there 
were certain legal tortures, in the shape, at least, of a 
chain weighing fifteen pounds, and a pittance of food 
barely sufficient to sustain life (see Arnold, 7 list, of 
Pome , i, 136), which the creditor was allowed to apply 
to the debtor for the purpose of bringing him to terms; 
and, no doubt, they often did not stop here. The inci- 
dent was one with which the hearers of our Lord’s par- 
ables were, no doubt, familiar, and its introduction here 
shows how savage and tyrannical was the spirit of the 
age. It is no small mark of the mild and equitable 
spirit of the legislation of Moses that it did not recog- 
nise the use of torture in judicial trials. — Fairbairn. 
See Corporal Inflictions. For the “torment” or 
tympanism of 2 Macc. vi, 19,28, see Execution; Pun- 
ish. >i ENT. 


Torquemada (Lat. Turrecrenuita ), Juan de, a, 
celebrated Spanish Dominican, was born at Valladolid 
in 1388. lie became a friar in 1403; accompanied his 
superior to the Council of Constance in 1417 ; graduated 
from the University of Paris in 1424; taught theology 
there; was admitted doctor of the Sorhonne in 1429; 
and was successively chosen prior of the Dominican con- 
vents of Valladolid and Toledo. In MSI he was sent 
by pope Eugenios IV to the Council of Basle, where he 
strenuously supported the court of Pome, and contrib- 
uted to the condemnation of the doctrines of Wycliffe 
and lluss. He attended, in 1439, the Council of Florence 
as papal commissary, and was foremost in drawing up 
the “articles of reunion” between the Greek and Latin 
churches, and received from the pope the title of “de- 
fender of the faith.” He was created cardinal Dec. 18, 
1439; and in the year following attended, in the pope’s 
name, the Council of Bourges, where lie kept the French 
prelates on the side of the pope. Ile became bishop 
of Palestrina in 1455, and of Sabina in 1464. His death 
took place at Pome, Sept. 26, 1468. Ills principal works 
are, Meditationes Joannis de Turrecrenuita , etc. (Pome, 
1467, lbl.; Augsburg, 1472, fob; and many later editions): 
— Qiucstiones Spirituals Convivii Delictus Prcefe rentes 
super Eranyeliis (Pome, 1477, fob; Nuremburg, 1478) : 
— Comment arii in Decretum Gratiuni (Lyons. 1519, 6 
vols. fob ; Venice, 1578; Pome, 1726). Many other of 
his writings remain •unpublished. See lloefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Torquemada, Tomas de, the first inquisitor- 
general of Spain, was horn in 1420, and was a monk of the 
Order of St. Dominic at Torquemada, Spain, and prior of 
the monastery of Santa Cruz at Segovia, lie was ap- 
pointed by Ferdinand and Isabella inquisitor-general in 
1483-, and confirmed in that post Oct. 17 of that year 
by pope Innocent VIII, who gave him the title of “con- 
fessor of sovereigns.” In the course of sixteen years he 
gave to the flames no less than eight thousand eight 
hundred victims, besides executing nearly as many in 
effigy, condemning ninety thousand to perpetual impris- 
onment and other severe punishments, and expelling 
from Spain above eight hundred thousand Jews. In 
his later years his authority was curtailed by the ap- 
pointment of four colleagues by order of pope Alexan- 
der VI. lie died at Avila, Sept. 16, 1498. See Hoefer, 
Xouv. Biog. Generate , s. v, 

Torre, Lelio della, professor in tbc Rabbinic Col- 
lege at Padua, was born in the year 1804. When six- 
teen years of age he was teacher in Turin, and in 
1826 he was appointed preacher there. When, in 1827, 
the Rabbinical school was opened at Padua, he was ap- 
pointed one of its professors. Ile died July 9, 1872. 
Torre wrote in German, Italian, French, and Hebrew. 
Of his publications we mention. Specchio , ossia Tarola 
Senottica delle Conjugazioni Ebraiche secondo le Regole 
delV A nalogia, etc. (Padua, 1828) : — Cinque Discorsi detti 
in Padova, con A imotazioni (ibid. 1834): — Della Sod - 
alitii della Legge Mosaic a (ibid. 1836): — Della Condi- 
zione degli Ebrei solto V Imperio Germanico nel Medio 
Ero (ibid. 1842) : — D, / Salmi Volgarizzati sul 
Testo Massoretico, ed lllustrati con .1 rgoinenti e Note (Vi- 
enna, 1845): — fVQX “P'S, Sentenze dei Padre. Xuovo 
Traduzione, etc. (2d cd. Padua, 1862). See Fiirst, Bill. 
Jiul. iii, 435 sq. ; Kavscrling, Bibliothek jiidischer Kan- 
zelredner, in llomiletisches u. litcrarisches Beiblatt to 
the second vol. (Berlin, 1872), p. 58; Servi, in Educa- 
tore Israeli/ ico, July 15, 1872. (B. P.) 

Torrentius ( Van der Bekeii), L.evinus, a Flemish 
Roman Catholic divine, was born at Ghent in 1525. 
Educated first at Louvain, he went thence to Bologna, 
in order to study civil law and antiquities. There he 
so distinguished himself by his skill in polite literature, 
especially poetry, that he became known to the literati 
of Europe. He took holy orders, and was at length 
raised to the bishopric of Antwerp. Hence he was 


TORRE Y 


497 


TORTOISE 


translated to the metropolitan cluirch of Mechlin, where 
he died, in 1595. Torrent ills founded a college of Jes- 
uits at Louvain, to which he left his library, coins, 
etc. Besides I sat in Poems (Antwerp, 1594; printed 
bv Plantin), he wrote Commentaries upon Suetonius 
( i 592) and Horace (1008, 4to). See Chalmers, Biog. 
Diet. s. v. 

Torrey, Joseph, D.D., a Congregational divine, 
was born at liowicy, Mass., Feb. 2, 1797 : and graduated 
at Dartmouth College in 1810. After studying theol- 
ogy at Andover, he became in 1819 pastor of a Congre- 
gational Church at Boyalton, Vt. In 1827 he accepted 
the professorship of Creek and Latin in the University 
of Vermont, which position he retained until 1842, when 
he was chosen professor of intellectual and moral phi- 
losophy. This chair he occupied until his death, at 
Burlington, Vt., Nov. 20. 1807. lie was president of the 
university from 1803 to 1805. 31 r. Torrey was the au- 

thor of a posthumous volume of Lectures : — .1 Theory of 
1 rt (1875'): — editor of the Remains of President James 
Marsh (1843): — Select Sermons of President Worthing- 
ton Smith (1801); to both of which he prefixed care- 
fully prepared Memoirs: — and translator of Neander’s 
tienerul History of the Christian Religion and Church 
(Boston. 1854, 5 vols.), See Alii bone, Diet, of Brit, and 
A me?\ A uthors , s. v. 


starving himself. He died in 1522. See Spooner, Biog. 
Diet, of Fine A rts , s. v. 

Tortoise (D2S, tsdb, so called, according to Gese- 
ni us, from moving slotrly; Sept, 6 Kf>oKvCet\o(j 6 \tf)~ 
(Taiog'f Vulg. crvcodilus) occurs only in Lev. xi, 29 as 
the name of some unclean animal. Boehart {Hieroz.u, 
4(13) with much reason refers the 1 leb. term to the kin- 
dred Arabic dhah, u a large kind of lizard,” which, from 
(he description of it as given by Damir, appears to be 
the Psammosanrns scincns. or Monitor terrestris of 
Cuvier ( ll'egne A mm. ii, 26). This lizard is the varan 
el-hard of the Arabs, i. e. the land-waran {Varavas 
arena r ins), \\\ contradistinction from the varan el-bahr, 
i. e. the water-lizard ( Monitor Nil aliens). It is common 
enough in the deserts of Palestine and North Africa. 
It is probably the KpoKoiei\oQ \tptraio£ of Herodotus 
(iv, 192) and Dioscorides (ii, 71), or perhaps their 
r TKiyKoc •, the Scincus officinalis. — Smith. See Snail. 
The land-monitor {Psammosanrns scincus) is a lizard 
three or four feet in length, which, living in the sandy 
and rocky wastes, subsists on the beetles and other small 
animals that arc found in such arid situations. It is of 
a yellowish or dnskv tint, with darker green spots and 
bands, and with yellow . claws. Tristram, however, 
thinks the animal in question is the “ Crowastix spi - 
nijies, a large species of lizard very common in the des- 



Torrey, Reuben, a Congregational minister, 
was born at Weymouth, 31 ass., April 3, 1789, and 
was a graduate of Brown University in the class of 
1816. lie was licensed to preach in 1817 by the 
Bhode Island Congregational Consociation, and, 
while pursuing his rheological studies, preached 
more or less in different places. He was ordained 
in 3Iay, 1820, and became pastor of the Congrega- 
tional Church in Eastford, Conn., where he remain- 
ed for twenty years (1820-40). On resigning, he 
acted as a supply of the pulpit of the Church in 
North 3Iansfield, Conn., for two years (1841-43), 
and for the next five years (1813-48) was pastor 
of the Church in Prospect, Conn. Subsequently he 
was pastor for seven or eight years of the Church 
in North 3ladison, Conn., and in 1852 removed to 
Elmwood, a part of Providence, B. L, to take charge 
of a Church newly formed in that section of the city. 

His pastorate with this Church continued for eight 
years (1852-60). The remainder of his life was 
spent in Providence, where he died, Sept. 22, 1870. 
(J. C. S.) 

Torrigiano, Pietro, a celebrated Italian sculptor, 
was horn at Florence about 1472. Ho studied the an- 
tiquities in the gardens of Lorenzo the 3Iagnificent in 
company with 31iehael Angelo; but, becoming jealous 
of the growing distinction of the latter, he assaulted 
him so violently that he was obliged to leave Florence. 
He went to Borne, where lie was employed by pope 
Alexander VI; but he afterwards gave up bis profes- 
sion, and became a soldier under t he duke of Valentino, 
and also under Vi tell i and Piero de’ 3Iedici. He again 
returned to his profession, and, executing several bronze 
figures for some Florentine merchants, accompanied 
them to England. He was employed by Henry VIII in 
erecting the tomb of Henry A" 1 1 in Westminster Abbey, 
which was completed in 1519, and, it is supposed, the 
tomb of 3Iargaret. countess of Richmond, in Ilenrv VIPs 
Chapel. He. left England finally in 1519, and visited 
Spain, where he executed several pieces of sculpture for 
convents, etc., and, among others, a group of the Virgin 
and Infant. This was so beautiful that the duke de Ar- 
cos commissioned him to make a copy of it, promising 
liberal payment. Disappointed in receiving a large 
quantity of copper coin, amounting to only thirty duc- 
ats, he seized a mallet and shivered the w'ork into a 
thousand pieces. The duke accused him to the Inquisi- 
tion as a sacrilegious heretic for destroying a figure 
of the Holy Virgin. Torrigiano was condemned, but 
avoided the ignominious end which awaited him by 
X.— I i 


ert and sands of North Africa and Arabia. It is also 
well known in the Judaean wilderness, living in boles 
of the rocks and burrowing in the sand. It sometimes 
attains the length of two feet. Its most peculiar char- 
acteristic is its powerful spiny tail, broad and massive, 
and inernsted with close rows of stout prickly scales. 
This is its weapon of defence, which it uses with effect 
against its assailant. Its color is grass green, spotted 
with brown, but darker when irritated. It has a slow 
and awkward gait, turning its head from side to side 
with great caution as it walks. It rarely bites, but 
when it docs so nothing will induce it to relinquish its 
grasp. It feeds chiefly on beetles, but will attack larger 
animals, even chickens, when in confinement. It is 
eaten by the Arabs’ (A "at. Hist, of the Bible . p. 255). 
See Lizard. 

The same Hebrew word iX, tsdb, is translated “cov- 
ered [wagons]” in Numb, vii, 3, and the same idea 
seems to be prominent in Isa. lxvi, 20, where our trans- 
lators have rendered it “litters.” According to Gese- 
nius; it means in both these passages a sedan or palan- 
quin (so called from being gently borne). See Litter. 

Several kinds of tortoise inhabit Palestine and the 
surrounding regions. Among the land -tortoises the 
bordered tortoise {Testvdo marginata ). probably the 
\e\d)vr} y^epaaia of Aristotle — a little species closely re- 
sembling t lie common T. Greeca — replaces this latter in 
Egypt and the coast of Barbary; and a near ally, T. 
Mauritanica , extends throughout North Africa and 
Western Asia, from Algiers to the Caspian. Besidep 


TORTOSA, COUNCIL OF 


40S 


TOSAPIIOTH 



Water tortoise of Palestine (Ernys Caxpica). 


these, several marsh-tortoises (Emys, etc.) are common 
in the fresh waters ofthu.se regions, and are particular- 
ly troublesome to horses wading or drinking (see Wood, 
Dibit Animals, p. 507 s<].). ISee Zoology. 

Tortosa, Corsn i. ok ( Concilium Dertu sense). This 
council was held in Tortosa, a cathedral city of Catalo- 
nia, Spain, in 142fi, by Peter, cardinal de Foix. All the 
prelates and many ecclesiastics of the kingdoms of Ar- 
agon and Valencia, and of the principality of Catalo- 
nia, attended. The king’s letters-] intent confirming the 
liberties and immunities of the Church were read, and 
at the end of the fourth session twenty canons were ap- 
proved and published, 

4. Orders that nil beneficed clerks and ecclesiastics in 
holy orders shall keep breviaries, in order that they may 
say the office privately when hindered from attending in 
the choir. 

5. Forbids the elevation of unworthy persons to holy 
orders. 

6. Orders curates every Sunday to teach by catechising 
some part of the thinsrs necessary to he known by Chris- 
tians in order to salvation, which it declares to be as fol- 
lows: (1.) What they oucht to beliem , contained in the ar- 
ticles of the faith. (*i.) What they ought to pray for, con- 
tained in the Lord's Prayer. (3.) What they ought to keep, 
contained in the ten commandments. (4.) What they 
ought to avoid, viz. the seven mortal sins. (5 ) What they 
ought to desire, viz. the joys of Paradise. (0.) What they 
ought to /ear, viz. the pains of hell. 

1*. Orders neophytes to bring their children to church 
within eight clays after their birth, in order that they may 
receive baptism. 

15. Forbids the delegates of the holy see to go beyond 
their commission. 

See Mansi, Concil. xii, 40G. — Landoti, Manual of Coun- 
cils, s. v. 

Torture (Lat. torquere , to twist) is pain inflicted as 
a judicial instrument for extracting evidence from un- 
willing witnesses or confessions from accused persons. 
The practice is an ancient one. In ancient Athens 
slaves were always examined by torture, and their evi- 
dence seems on this account to have been deemed more 
valuable than that of freemen. Any one might give 
up his slave to torture, or demand that of his opponent, 
and a refusal to do so was considered as a strong pre- 
sumption against a person. No free Athenian could be 
examined bv torture, and it was not inflicted upon Ro- 
man freemen or citizens until the time of the emperors. 
Then it was sometimes inflicted upon even freemen to 
extract evidence of the crime of hrsn majestas, and thus 
it became a part of the Code of Justinian, lienee it was 
adopted during the Middle Ages by all European states 
in which the Roman law was made the basis of legis- 
lation. It was adopted early and extensively by the 
Italian municipalities. In Germany elaborate appara- 
tus for its infliction existed, not merely in the dungeons 
of the feudal castles, but in the vaults beneath the town- 
halls of Nuremberg and Ratisbon, where the various 
implements used are yet to he seen. It continued to 
he practiced in the. prisons of Germany until they were 
visited by Howard, in 1770. It eeased to be a part of 
the judicial system in France in 17*0; and in Scotland 
it was still in frequent use after the Restoration, and 
was only abolished by 7 Anne, c. *21, sec. 5. In Russia 
it was done away with in 1*01. In the United States 
it has never been reckoned an adjunct of judicial ex- 
amination. 

The first instance we have of its use in England is in 
1310, in aid of the ecclesiastical law, during the strug- 
gle between pope Clement V and the Templars. Ed- 


ward II, when requested to sanction the infliction of 
torture by the inquisitors in the case of certain Tem- 
plars accused of heresy and apostasy, at first refused, 
but, on a remonstrance by Clement, he referred the mat- 
ter to the council, and on the recommendation of the 
council the inquisitors were authorized to put the ac- 
cused to torture, but without mutilation or serious in- 
jury to the person or effusion of blood. During the 
Tudor period, the council assumed the power of direct- 
ing torture-warrants to the lieutenants of the Tower 
and other officers against state-prisoners, and occasion- 
ally also against, persons accused of other serious crimes. 
Under James 1 and Charles I torture was less resorted 
to, and only in state-trials. It was inflicted for the last 
time in May, 1040. The worst application of torture 
was found in t lie hands of the Inquisition. In 1*282 
pope Innocent IV called on the secular powers to put to 
t he torture persons accused of heresy in order to extract 
confessions against themselves and others. The neces- 
sity of secrecy in the proceedings led to its extensive 
adoption, and to refinements of cruelty in its use before 
unknown. See Inquisition. 

The instruments of torture have been many and va- 
rious. The. scourge was the usual instrument of torture 
among the Romans, who also made use of the eqnuleus , 
a sort of upright rack, with pincers added to tear the 
flesh, etc. The most celebrated instrument was the 
‘‘rack,” known in the south of Europe as early as the 
2d century, but introduced into the Tower by the duke 
of Exeter, constable of the Tower. The “boot” was 
the favorite French instrument of torture. In this 
rings of iron were passed around the legs, and wooden 
wedges driven between them and the flesh until the 
muscles were reduced to jelly. Among other means 
of torture were the “thumb-screw;” “iron gauntlets;” 
the “little ease,” a narrow cell in which the prisoner 
was confined for several days, and in which the only 
position possible was one which cramped every muscle; 
the “scavenger’s (properly Skevington’s) daughter,” 
the invention of Sir William Skevington, an instrument 
which compressed the body so as to start the blood from 
the nostrils and often from the hands. The torture by 
water, crucifixion, the fastening of limbs to trees which 
were forced into proximity to each other and then suf- 
fered to fly apart. and pouring melted lead into the ears, 
are a few of the means by which punishment has been 
inflicted. 

See Rarnum, 'Romanism as It Is (index); Jardine, 
On the Use of Torture in the Criminal Law of England 
(Loud. 1830, 8vo); Maclaurin, Introduction to Criminal 
Trials ; Nicolas, Si la Torture est un Mayen Sur a 
verifier les Crimes Secrets (1681, l2mo); Reitemaier, 
Sur la Question chcz les Grecs et les Romains ,* Mitter- 
maier, Das deutsche Strof rerfahren, vol. i. See Toit- 
Al UN TOIL 

Torwood Excommunication. After the skir- 
mish at Airsmoss and the execution of Cameron, Cargill, 
during a field-preaching at Torwood, near Stirling, pub- 
licly excommunicated the king, the duke of York, the 
duke of Monmouth, the duke of Lauderdale, the duke 
of Rothes, General Palziel, and Sir George Mackenzie. 
According to tradition, Rothes, during a dangerous sick- 
ness the following year, sent for some of the Presbyterian 
ministers, and in a fit of remorse confessed the justice 
of the sentence. The duke of Hamilton added, “We 
banish these men. and yet when dying we send for 
them.” — Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop, s. v. 

Tosaplioth (JVSw T) denotes those additions or 
supplementary f /losses to Kashi’s (q. v.) commentary on 
the Talmud which are found along with the latter in 
every edition of the Talmud. The disciples of Rashi, 
when they found that their master’s expositions could 
be extended and improved, set about this work of ex- 
position immediately after his death, filling up every 
gap. and using up every scrap which their searcher 
had left. Out of reverence for him, they would not 


TOSI 


499 TOULOUSE, COUNCILS OF 


put down their opinions in an independent manner, but 
denominated them niSDIP. additions, and hence they 
were called Tosaphists. The first Tosnphists were his 
two sons-in-law, K. Meier ben-Sftinuel and Jehudah beu- 
Nathan. the latter called by way of abbreviation Riban , 
-"-n-i=-n3 “2 HT'iT' his three grandsons, 1*. 

Isaac, R. Samuel, and R. Jacob Tam, sons of K. Meier, who 
are respectively called from their initials Ribam , D 2"H = 
TN'T *p pn^” 1 1, Rashbam (q. v.), and R. Tam (q.v.); 
and. lastly, R. Isaac ben-Asher of Spires, called Riba, 
x'imrrlCX *p pns*' also a relative of Kashi. 
The latter is called rVBOirn 51*3, or the Tosaphist 
kut’ iZoxijv. Besides these, we mention Joseph 1‘orat, 
son of Samuel ben-Meier; Isaac bcn-Samuel of Dom- 
paire, also called Isaac the Elder, a nephew of K. Tam ; 
Samuel bcn-Natronai, called Rashbat, 2 ; Isaac 

ben-Mordeeai. of Augsburg; Isaac Halaban beu-Jacob.of 
Prague, etc. They are enumerated by Zunz in liis Zur 
Geschickte und Liieratur (Berlin, 1845, p. 29 sq.), where 
the student will find all necessary information. (B. P.) 

Tosi, Joseph, a Roman Catholic theologian, was 
born in the year 1824 at Witschcin, in Stvria. In 1846 
he received holy orders, and in 1853 he was promoted 
at Vienna as doctor of theology. In the same year he 
was called as professor of dogmatics to Griitz, where he 
remained until the year 1868. He then went to Vienna 
and lectured until the year 1871, when he was appointed 
canon of St. Stephen’s, and died May 14, 1875. lie pub- 
lished, Lectures on the Syllabus Errorum of the Papal 
EncycL dated Dec. 8, 1864 (Vienna. 1 865) Ut her Re - 
l igionslos if /Ice it und Wissenschaft , Dancinismus und den 
Ursprung des Menschen (Griitz, 1865). Comp. Litera- 
rischer H andweiser fur das hat hoi. Deutschland, 1866, p. 
59, 153; 1875,‘p. 252. (B. P.) 

Tostado, Ai.onso, a Spanish prelate, was born at 
Madrigal in 1400. He studied at Salamanca, and at 
the age of twenty-two received his degree. He was 
elected to the chair of theology, and soon gained a wide 
reputation. In 1431 he was sent to the Council of Basle, 
and by some of his utteVances attracted the attention 
and condemnation of the holy see. In 1443 he was 
ordered to appear before an assembly of theologians at 
Sienna, and was convicted of unsound doctrine. On his 
return to Spain, through the intercession of the king, he 
received the bishopric of Avila, and was also member 
of the Council of Castile. He died near Avila Sept. 3, 
1455. 11 is works are numerous, and a large number 

were published at Venice in 1547, 24 vols. fob; they 
consist of mystical commentaries on the lives of the 
Bible and on Matthew. Besides these are Comentario 
sabre Eusebio (Salamanca, 1506): — Confesionario (Lo- 
groiio, 1520). See Viera v Clavijo, Elogio de Alonso 
Tostado; Antonio, Bibl. Ilisp. Vetus. — lloefer, Nouv. 
Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Total Abstinence. See Temfekance. 

Toii (1 Chron. xviii, 9, 10). See To*f. 

Toule, Council of. See Tousi, Council of. 

Toulmin, Joshua, D.D., an English Unitarian min- 
ister, was born in London May 11, 1740. Educated at a 
Dissenting academy, he became minister of a Dissenting 
congregation in Colvton, Devonshire, and in 1765 of a 
Baptist congregation in Taunton. Afterwards he adopt- 
ed Unitarian views from Harvard College in 1794, and 
in 1804 was chosen one of the ministers of the Unitarian 
congregation at Birmingham, formerly presided over by 
Dr. Priestley. Here Dr. Toulmin continued to labor un- 
til his death, July 23, 1815. He was an able preacher 
and an industrious writer. He wrote, Sermons to Youth , 
etc. (Iloniton, 1770, P2mo; 2d ed. Taunton, 1789, 8vo): 
— Memoirs of F. Socinus (Loud. 1777, 8vo): — Dissipa- 
tions on the Evidences of Christianity (1785, 8vo): — Re- 
view of the Life of John Biddle (1789, 8vo; 1791, 8vo) : 
— History of the Town of Taunton (1791, 4to) : — Sermons 


(1810, 8vc>) : — Historical 1 Jew of the Protestant Dissenters 
in England under King William (1814, 8vo) : — besides 
single sermons, works on baptism, etc. See Allibone, 
Diet . o f Brit, and 4 nier. A uthors , s. \\; Darling, Cyclop . 
Bibliog. s. v. 

Toulouse, Councils of ( Concilium Tolosanuni). 
These councils were held in Toulouse, a city of France, 
capital of the department of llautc-Garoune, and situ- 
ated on the Garonne. It has in it the very remarkable 
Church of St. Semin, a masterpiece of Romanesque ar- 
chitecture, recently restored by Viollet - Lcduc. The 
Church of the Cordeliers was erected in the 13th cen- 
tury, and destroyed by fire in 1871. 

I. The first Council of Toulouse was held Sept. 13, 
1056, eighteen bishops being present. Rambaldus, arch- 
bishop of Arles, and Pontius, archbishop of Aix, pre- 
sided. Thirteen canons were published. 

1. Forbids simony. 

3. Forbids any fees for consecrating a Church. 

4. Forbids all buying and selling of Church preferment. 

5. Enacts that, if a clerk have entered upon the monas- 
tic state in order to obtain an abbacy, he shall be com- 
pelled to continue the religions life, but shall be entirely 
excluded from the honor he coveted. 

6. Orders abbots to see that their monks follow the rule 
of St. Benedict in their manner of life, food, dre.-s, etc. 
Any abbot or monk altering (corrigentes) these institu- 
tions to be corrected by his own bishop. 

7. Enjoins celibacy upon priests, deacons, and other 
clerks holding ecclesiastical dignities; offenders to be 
deprived. 

s. Forbids, under pain of excommunication, lay per- 
sons to apply Church property to their own use. 

9. Forbids "the laity to plunder the effects of dead persons. 

10 and 11. Relate to the payment of Church dues and 

tithes. 

13. Forbids, under pain of excommunication, all inter- 
course with heretics and excommunicated persons, unless 
for the purpose of converting them and bringing them 
back from their evil ways. 

In this council Berenger, viscount of Narbonne, made 
complaint of the conduct of archbishop Guifroi, accus- 
ing him of giving away the lands appertaining to the 
Church of Narbonne to those who had borne arms for 
him. The event of his complaint is unknown, bee 
Mansi, Concil. ix, 1084. 

II. The second council was held July 15, 1119, pope 
Calixtus II presiding, assisted by his cardinals, and the 
bishops and abbots of Languedoc, Gascony, and part of 
Spain. Ten canons were published. 

1. Is directed against the buying and selling of holy 
orders or livings. 

3. Is directed against the followers of Peter de Brnis, 
a sect of Manichteans, ordering that the secular authori- 
ties shall repress those who affect an extreme piety, con- 
demn the holy sacrament of Christ’s body and blood, in- 
fant baptism, the priesthood, and other ecclesiastical or- 
ders, and lawful matrimony; directs that they shall be 
driven out of the Church as heretics. 

5. Forbids to make slaves of free persons. 

10. Excommunicates monks, canons, and other clerks 
who quit their profession, or who allow their beard and 
hair to grow' after the fashion of the people of the world. 

See Mansi, x, 856. 

III. Held in 1161, convoked hv the kings of France 
and England, who were present. One hundred bish- 
ops and abbots of the two kingdoms attended, and sol- 
emnly recognised Alexander III as pope, to the exclu- 
sion of Victor II. See Mansi, x, 1406. 

IV. The Fourth Council of Toulouse was held in Sep- 
tember, 1229. The archbishops of Narbonne, Bordeaux, 
and Aueh w-ere present, with many other bishops and 
abbots. Raymond, count of Toulouse, with several lords, 
attended ; also the seneschal of Carcassone, and the two 
consuls of Toulouse. Forty-five canons were publish- 
ed for the extinction of heresy and the re-establishment 
of peace. 

The first five enact that the archbishops, bishops, and 
exempted abbots shall appoint in every parish a priest 
and two or three laymen of good character, who shall 
lake an oath constantly and minutely to search for here- 
tics in houses, caves, and every place in which they may 
be bidden ; anti, having taken precautions that those 
whom they have discovered shall not escape, to report 
the fact to the bhhop, the lord of the place, or his bailiff. 


TOUP 


500 


touuxox 


G. Orders* that the bailee in which any heretic shall be 
discovered be destroyed. 

S. Forbids to punish any one as u heretic before the 
bishop lias given his sentence. 

10. Orders that heretics who have of their own accord 
recanted shall not be stifle red to remain in their own vil- 
lages, bat shall be carried to some place free from all sus- 
picion of heresy; orders them to wear two crosses upon 
their dress; forbids to intrust, them with any public of- 
fice, etc. 

11. Orders that such as pretend to he converted through 
fear of death, or from any other motive, shall be shut U]» r 
in order that they may never again corrupt others. 

12. Orders every man above fourteen years of age, and 
every woman above twelve, to abjure heresy, to make 
open" profession of the Romish faith, and to swear to 
hunt out the heretics. This to he repeated every two 
years. Recusants to be looked upon as heretics. 

13. Requires all persons arrived at years of discretion 
to confess to their own priest three times a year, and to 
receive the holy comimmion at Christmas, Faster, and 
Whitsuntide; those who neglect to do so to he consider- 
ed as heretic*. 

14. Forbids the laity to have in their possession any 
copy of the hooks of the Old and Mew Test, except, the 
Psalter and such portions of them as are contained in 
the Breviary or the Hours of the Biased Virgin; most 
strictly forbids these works in the vulgar tongue. 

10. Declares nil wills to he void which are uot made in 
the presence of the priest or his vicar. 

25. Forbids to absent one’s self from church on Sunday. 

2G. Declares the following to be festival days, viz. all 
Sundays; Christ mas-day : feasts of St. Stephen, St. John 
the Evangelist, the llolv Innocents, St. Sylvester, the Cir- 
cumcision, the Epiphany; feasts of the Purification, the 
Annunciation, the Assumption, and the Nativity of the 
Blessed Virgin Mary : Easter; the two days after Easter; 
the three Rogation "days ; Whit-Snnday ; the two days af- 
ter Whit-Su inlay ; feasts of the Nativity of St. John the 
Baptist, and the Invention and Exaltation of the Holy 
Cross; the feasts of the twelve apostles; feasts of St. 
Mary Magdalene. St. Lawrence, St. Martin, St. Nicholas, 
and the Dedication of St. Michael ; and the feasts of the 
dedications of every church and of all saints to whose 
honor churches have been built. 

42. Forbids women possessed of castles anrl other for- 
tified places to marry men who are enemies to the faith 
and to peace. 

43. Forbids judges to receive bribes. 

44. Orders that counsel be provided, gratis for the poor. 
See Mansi, xi. 425. 

V. Tliis council was held in May,. 1500, by the car- 
dinal de Jnyeusc, archbishop of Toulouse, assisted hv 
the bishops of St. Papoul, Rieux, and Lavnnr, and the 
deputies of the bishops of Lombez, Panders, Mirepoix, 
and Montauban. Various regulations were made relat- 
ing to t lie duties of bishops, chapters, beneticed clerks, 
priests, and others; they also embrace the following sub- 
jects: the holy sacraments, relies, indulgences, festi- 
vals, vows, seminaries, hospitals, excommunications, res- 
ilience, etc. — Mansi, x\\ 137.8, See Landon, Manual of 
< 'on arils, s. v. ; 11 agenbach, Hist, of Doctrines, i, ) 43. 

Toup, Jonathan, an English clergyman and emi- 
nent critic, was born at St. Ives in December, 1713; and, 
after a preparatory education in tluit town and at. the j 
school of .Mr. (Juriiev, of St. Merrvn, removed to Exeter I 

>1 lege. Oxford, where he took bis degree of A.I>. 1 1 is ! 

A.M. was received at Pembroke Ilall, Cambridge, in 
I75t>. In 1700 he was appointed to the rectory’ of St. 
Martin’s, and in 1774 be was installed prebendary of 
Exeter. In 1770 be was instituted to the vicarage of 
St. Merry n’s. lie died Jan. 10, 1785. llis classical pub- 
lications occupy the first rank : Emendationes in Suidam, 
etc. (Loud. 1700. 8vo; pt. ii, 1704. 8vo; pt.iii. 1700, 8vo) : 
— Epistnfa (') itica a<l (’eiebrrrinvun Yirnm Gttlielnnnn 
Episcoputn G Invest riensem (ibid. 1707, 8vo) : — Cnr<r. Po- 
sferlores, sire .4 ppendicnla A 'otarnmatqne Emendationum 
in Theocritnm, Oxonii nn per rime publiratum (ibid. 1772, 
4to) : — D. Longim Omnia qmv extant Or. et Lat. recen- 
suit, etc. (Oxon. 1778. 8vo, with later editions). See 
Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. ; Chal- 
mers, Ding. Diet. s. v. 

Tournely, IloxonC a French Roman Catholic di- 
vine, was born Aug. 28, 1058, at Antibes. lie received 
bis early education from bis uncle, and when duly pre- 
pared he entered the University of Paris, In 1080 lie 
was made doctor of the Sorbonnc, in 1088 professor at 
Douay, in 1092. professor at the Sorbonne, but retired 


in 1710, devoting himself entirely to literary pursuits, 
and died Dec. 20, 1729. lie published, P reelect tones The- 
o lof/icip lie Mystcrio Trinitatis (Paris, 1720): — Pnrlec- 
t tones Theol.de Ecvies. t'hrisii (ibid, end): — Pm lectio ties 
Theol. de Sacra mentis in (tenure (ibid, cod.): — Prtvlee- 
tiones Theol. de Sacnnnentis D apt is mi et Conjirmatiouis 
(ibid. 1727): — Pnelectiones Theol.de .1 lujust, Eucharistic 
Sacramentis (ibid. 1729): — Pradeetinnes Theol.de Sa- 
cra mentis Pmnitentue et Extrenuc l r net inn is (ibid. 1728). 
See Winer, Jlandbuch tier theol. Liter at ur , i. 420, 4 19, 450, 
453, 457, 400, 401 ; Theologisches Eniversul-Lex. s. v. ; 
Zedlcr, Universal- Lex. s. v. (1*. R.) 

Tournemine, Rene Joseph, a French Jesuit, was 
born April 20, 1001, at Rennes, of a noble family. In 
1080 be entered the Order of the Jesuits, became a monk 
in 10115, and lectured on philosophy’ and theology till lie 
was called to Paris, in 1701, to edit the so-called Me moires 
de Treroux. In 1718. be was appointed librarian, and 
died May 10, 1739. His numerous writings are con- 
tained, for the most part, in t lie M e moires. lie also 
edited I. S. Menochii Brevis Expositio Sensns lateralis 
Tot ins Scriptures, ex Optimis Auctoribns per Epitomen 
collecta (Paris, 1719,2 vols. fob). See Niceron. Me- 
moires, xlii ; Chanffepie, Diction, s. v. ; Dior/. Universal- 
Lex. s. v. ; Theolotj. Universal- Lex. s. v. ; Winer, Dandb, 
der theol. Liter at nr , i, 188. (11. P.) 

Tourneux, Nicolas le, a French divine, was 
born at Rouen, April 30, 1040, and was sent to the Jes- 
uits’ College at Paris, lie completed his philosophical 
studies at the College de Crassius, and was appointed 
vicar of St. Etienne des Tormcsent at Rouen. In 1075 
he gained the prize given by tile French Academy; 
and, reflecting upon t lie inconsiderate manner in which 
he had engaged in all the duties of the priesthood, lie 
renounced it, but was afterwards persuaded to resume 
the sacred functions by M. de Sacy. 1 1 is talents pro- 
cured him a benefice in the holy chapel and the priory 
of Villers, which the archbishop of Rouen gave him. 
lie spent li is last years at his priory of Villers-sur-Frere 
in Tardenois, in the diocese of Soissons. Ilis death oc- 
curred suddenly at Paris Nov. 28, 1080. The principal 
among his numerous works are, La Vie deJesus-Christ: 
— La Meilfenre Mani'ere d'entemire la Messe: — LWnnee 
Chretienne (Paris, 1085, 13 vols. 12mo): — a French 
translation of the Roman Breviary (4 vols. 8vo). An 
Abridgment of the Principal Theological Treatises (4to) 
is also ascribed to Tourneux. See Chalmers, Biog. Diet . 
s. v. 

Tonrnon, Charles Thomas, Maiilard de, an 
Italian cardinal, was born at Turin Dec. 21, 1008. He 
received his education at the Propaganda at Rome, where 
be subsequently taught. lie was made chamberlain of 
honor, and in 1701 was raised to the dignity of patriarch 
of Antioch, and confided with the dilfieult mission of 
regulating the affairs of the Church in China and the 
Indies. In 1702 he departed on his enterprise, touched 
at Madagascar, and the following year reached Pondi- 
cherry. When lie reached Canton, he collected the mis- 
sionaries, told the object of his coming, and ordered that 
all traces of the heathen worship should he removed 
from the churches and houses of the native Christians. 
The emperor was highly incensed. He joined the mis- 
sionaries against Tonrnon, and sent him to Macao, where 
he was imprisoned in the Convent of t lie Jesuits. He 
died June 8, 1710. See Passionci, Memorie Storiche.— 
11 oefer, A 'our. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Tournon, Francois de, cardinal (P Ostia, was 
horn at Tonrnon in 1489. At the age of twelve he took 
the habit of the regular canons of St, Augustine at the 
Abbey of St. Anthony’ in Dauphiuy’. Francis I gave 
him the Abbey of Chaise-Dieu, and in 1517 made him 
archbishop of Embrun. In 1525 lie became archbishop 
of Bourgcs, and from that time his honors increased 
with every' year. Francis I loaded him with benefices 
and offices, and employed him in political and ecclesias- 
tical intrigues. In 1530 he was created cardinal, and 


501 


TOURS, COUNCILS OF 


TOURS, COUNCILS OF 


soon after rose to the dignity of dean of the College of 
Cardinals. lie was one of the principal negotiators of 
the Treaty of Madrid in 152G, and was actively engaged 
in bringing about the Peace of Cainbrai. During the 
quarrel between Henry VIII of England and the holy 
see. Tournon proposed concessions to Clement VII, 
which, if they had been complied with, would have 
prevented the whole Reformation in England. When 
Charles Y invaded Provence, Tournon was made lieu- 
tenant-general of the French army, and directed the 
operations of the war. lie represented France at the 
Conference of Nice, and in 1538 signed the treaty which 
gave France ten years of peace. Tournon was a bitter 
enemy of reform in whatever shape it might come, and 
stained his reputation by his bloody attacks upon heresy. 
The terrible persecution of the Yamlois was in great 
part of his instigation. At the death of Francis I he 
fell out of favor, and under Henry II was obliged to re- 
turn to Koine. In his new diocese of Lyons he carried 
on a fearful persecution against the Calvinists. At the 
death of Henry II lie returned to France, and was called 
to the councils of the queen mother. 11 is appearance 
was the signal for new rigors, and he endeavored to 
obtain the return of the -Jesuits, to whom he gave 
his college of Tournon. lie had great influence over 
Charles IX, and what terrors may not be due to this fact? 
Tournon died at the abbey of Saint-Hermain-des-Pre's 
April 22, 1502. He had little time, among his political 
a flairs, to attend to letters, and left no works behind 
him. See Fleury-Ternal, Hist . da Cardinal de Tournon ,* 
La Thaumassiere, Hist, da Berry ; De Thou, Hist, sui 
Temp. — lloefer, Xouv. Bioy. (deaerate , s. v. 

Tours, Councils of ( Concilium Turonese ). These 
councils were held in Tours, department of Indre-et- 
Loire, France. It is the seat of an archbishopric, and 
the archbishop resides here in a palace of uncommon 
beauty. It formerly contained the celebrated cathedral 
of St. Martin of Tours, which was destroyed in 1793, and 
of which only two towers remain. 

I. The first council was held Nov. 18,461. by St. Per- 
petuus. archbishop of 'lours, assisted by nine bishops. 
Thirteen canons were made for the restoration of the 
ancient discipline. 

1 and 2. Enjoin celibacy upou bishops, priests, and dea- 
cons. 

3. Forbids them to live, or be ou terms of too great fa- 
miliarity, with any woman. 

4. Forbids a clerk to man y a widow. 

5. Exeommiiuicates those who renounce the ecclesias- 
tical state. 

6. Is directed against those who marry or offer violence 
to virgins consecrated to God. 

7. Excommunicates homicides. 

S. Condemns those who fall away from a stale of pen- 
ance after having entered upou it. 

9. Deprives of communion bishops who get possession 
of the bishopric of auother, or who promote the clerks of 
another bishop. 

in. Declares ordinations made contrary to the canons to 
be mill. 

II. Condemns ecclesiastics who leave their own Church 
and go to another diocese without their bishop’s leave. 

12. Condemns clerks who leave their dioceses to travel 
without letters from their bishop. 

13. Condemns usury in clerks; allows other business 
and employments. 

Mansi adds to these thirteen canons six others (Con- 
oil. iv, 1049). 

II. Held Nov. 17, 5G6; convoked by order of king 
Chnribert, and composed of nine bishops, among whom 
were Hermanns of Paris, Prmtextatiis of Rouen, and 
Euphronius of Tours, who presided. Twenty -seven 
canons were published. 

1. Orders provincial councils twice a year. 

3. Forbids to place the body of Jesus Christ upon the 
altar after any fashion, and orders that it shall be placed 
under the cross. 

4. Forbids laymen to come close to the altar with the 
clerks during the office: but allows them, and women 
also, to enter the sanctuary for private prayer at other 
time*, and also in order to leceive the communion. 

5. Orders each Church to maintain irs own poor, that 
they may not be obliged to wander about. 


G. Forbids clerks and lay persons to give letters com- 
mendatory (epitftolimn). and allows this to bishops only. 

12. Orders married bishops to live with t licit* wives as 
with sisters. 

15. Orders that monks who leave their monastery in or- 
der lo marry shall be separated from their wives, and put 
to penance; and that the aid of the secular powers shall 
be entreated in order to effect this. 

17. Orders that monks shall fast during the three Roga- 
tion days and during the whole of Whitsun week; from 
that time to August 1, three days in each week; during 
Septemlier, October, and November, also three day* in 
each week; and during December every day till Christ- 
mas. Again, on the first three days of January ; and from 
Epiphany to Lent, lliree days in each week. 

23. Allows hymns composed by an author of respecta- 
bility to be used at the holy office, besides those of St. Am- 
brose. 

27. Declares that bishops taking any fee, etc., for ordi- 
nation are to be regarded not merely as guilty of sacri- 
lege, but even as heretics. 

See Mansi, v, 851. 

III. Held in <813. by order of Charlemagne, for the 
purpose of re-establishing ecclesiastical discipline. Fif- 
ty-one canons were published. 

1. Orders the people to be faithful to the emjieror, and 
to pray for his preservation. 

2. Orders bishops to give themselves to t lie study of the 
Holy Scriptures, especially of the gospels, and epistles of 
St. Paul, and to try to learn them by heart. 

3. Orders them to acquaint themselves with the canons 
and the pastoral of St. Gregory. 

4. 5, and G. Order that they shall preach frequently; that 
they shall be frugal in their repasts, and entertain the 
poor and strangers, affording them both bodily and spir- 
itual food. 

7. Forbids priests to be present at plays and farces and 
all immodest exhibitions. 

9. Forbids priests to administer indiscreetly tbe Lord’s 
body to boys and any chance persons, lest they be in sin, 
ainfso receive the greater damnation. 

15. Anathematizes those who give money in order to 
obtain a benefice. 

lti. Orders bishops to take care that the tithes of each 
church he divided between the priests, the poor, and the 
repairs, etc., of the church. 

19. \\ arns priests not to administer the holy encharist 
inconsiderately to children. 

21. Forbids priests to eat and drink in taverns. 

27 ami 28. Forbid to give the veil to young widows, 
without good evidence of their sincere love of a religious 
life, and to virgins under twenty-five years of age. 

37. Orders that prayer be made kneeling at all times, 
except on Sundays mid during Easter. 

3S. Warns the faithful not to make a noise when enter- 
ing church, not. to talk when there, and to keep all bad 
thoughts out of their mind*. 

39. Forbids to hold pleadings in churches or church- 
porches. 

40. Forbids to hold pleadings or markets on Sundays. 

43. Is directed against the wicked habit of swearing. 

50. Orders all persons to eoninimncaTe at least thrice 

a year, unless hindered by some great crime. 

See Mansi, vii, 1259. 

IV. Held in 1055, by Hildebrand, tbe Roman legate 
(afterwards Gregory VII), and cardinal (leraldus. In 
t his council Herenger was called upou to defend his opin- 
ions; but, not being able to do so satisfactorily, be re- 
tracted, and made a public confession of the true faith, 
which he signed ; whereupon the legates, believing him 
to be sincere, received him into communion. See Man- 
si, ix, 1081. 

V. Held in 10G0, by cardinal Stephen, the Roman leg- 
ate, and ten bishops. Ten canons were made; the tirst 
four condemn simony. 

G. Declares that those bishops, priests, and deacons who, 
although aware of the interdict of Nicholas II, refused to 
abstain from t he exercise of their functions, being at the 
rime in a state of incontinence, should be irrevocably de- 
posed. 

See Mansi, ix, 1 108. 

YL Held in Lent, 109G, by pope Urban II, who pre- 
sided. The decrees of the Council of Clermont were 
.confirmed. The pope received into favor king 1’hilip 
(who had been excommunicated for forsaking Rertradc. 
his lawful wife), upon his humbly making satisfaction. 
See Mansi, x, 001. 

YIL Held May 19, 1 163, in the Church of St. Maurice, 
bv pope Alexander III, assisted by seventeen cardinals. 
I'li ere were also present, besides Louis YIL king of 
France, one hundred and twenty-four bishops, four him- 


' 502 


TOUSSAIN 


TOURS, COUNCILS OF 

dred ami fourteen abbots, and an immense multitude 
of others, botli ecclesiastics and laics. These prelates 
were assembled from all the provinces in subjection to 
the kings of France and England; some few of them 
aW were Italians, who had declared for Alexander. 
Among the English prelates was Thomas, archbishop 
of Canterbury, who was received bv the pope with ex- 
traordinary honors, all the cardinals present, except 
two in immediate attendance upon Alexander, being 
sent beyond the city walls to meet him. The arch- 
bishop of Canterbury sat on the right hand of the pope, 
the archbishop of York on the left. The immediate 
object of the council was the condemnation of the syn- 
ods of Fisa and Lodi, convoked by the emperor Fred- 
erick. 'fen canons were published. 

2. Condemns usury among the clergy. 

4. Is directed against the Albigeuses, and forbids all in- 
tercourse with them : forbids even to give them a retreat 
or protection, or to buy and sell with them. 

5. Forbids to let churches to priests? for an annual rent. 

S. Forbids monks to leave their cloisters in order to 

practice medicine or to learn the civil law. 

9. Declares all ordinations made hy Oeinvianus, and oth- 
er heretics or schismatics, to be null and void. 

See Mansi, x, Mil. 

VI II. 1 1 eld dune 10, 123G; duhel deMavenne, archbish- 
op of Tours, presiding. Fourteen canons were published. 

1. Forbids the crusaders or other Christians to kill or 
injure the Jews, or to plunder or ill-use them in any way ; 
also orders the secular judges to give up to the ecclesias- 
tical authorities any crusaders whom they may have seized 
on account of any crime. 

7. Orders that all wills shall be put into the hands of 
the bishop or his archdeacon within teu days after the 
death of the testator. 

X. Denounces those who have two wives living, declares 
them to he infamous, and orders that they shall he tied 
up in public, unless t hey can pay a heavy tine; orders 
priests to publish every Sunday in church the sin of hav- 
ing two wives living. 

13. Orders the bishops to instruct and to provide for the 
subsistence t^f the new converts from Judaism and heresy. 

See Mansi, xi, 503. 

IX. Held in 1230, by duhel de Mayenne, arehbishop 
of Tours, and his suffragans. Thirteen canons were pub- 
lished, “ with the approbation of the holy council;” the 
use of which expression in this case shows that the ap- 
probation was not confined to the pope and his legates. 

1. Orders that the bishop shall appoint three clerks, or 
three reputable laymen, in every parish, who shall Take 
an oath to report* faithfully concerning all scandals in 
morality, faith, etc., happening in the neighborhood. 

4. Forbids to teeeive anything for the administration 
of the sacraments; without prejudice, however, to pious 
customs. 

5 and G. Forbid curates and rectors to excommunicate 
their parishioners of their own authority. 

12. Forbids clerks and monks to retain any female ser- 
vants in their houses or priories. 

See Mansi, xi, 505. 

X. Held Aug. 1, 12X2, by John de Mnnsoreau, arch- 
bishop of Tours, who presided. Thirteen canons were 
published. 

1 and 2. Are directed against needless lawsuits. 

3. Forbids clerks and monks to fiequeiu taverns. 

4. Excommunicates tho^e who steal or tear the church- 
books and injure the furniture. 

5. Orders t he observance of customary processions. 

G. Orders the punishment of usurers’ according to the. 
canon of Lyons 

12. Is directed against those who hinder the payment 
of tithe. 

See Mansi, xi, HX3. 

XL A general assembly of the French clergy was held, 
by order of Louis XII, in September, 1510, on account 
of (he sentence of excommunication passed against him 
by pope Julius II. The object of the council was to 
discuss the question how far it was necessary for Louis 
to respect the spiritual weapons of the Church, when 
in the hands of an adversary who used them onlv to 
further injustice, and in matters purely temporal. Eight 
(piestions were discussed. The following are the most 
important • 

2. Is it allowable for a prince, in defence of his person 
and property, not only to repel injustice by force of arms, 


but to seize the lands of the Church in the possession of 
the pope, his declared enemy, not with any view of re- 
taining them, but only in order to cripple the pope’s means 
of injuring him ? Answer in the affirmative. 

3. Is it allowable, for a prince, on account of such de- 
clared hatred on the part of the pope, to withdraw from 
the obedience of the latter, the pope having stirred up 
other princes to make war upon him, and urged them to 
seize upon his terrkorie>? Answer; that it Is lawful so 
to withdraw from obedience, not, however, altogether, 
hut so far as the defence of the prince's temporal rights 
shall render necessary. 

4. This withdrawal from obedience being supposed, 
how is the prince to conduct himself with legard to his 
subjects, and the prelates with regard to other ecclesias- 
tics, in all those matters in which recourse is usually had 
to the see of Koine? Answer: it is necessary in such a ease 
to keep to the ancient common rights, and the Pragmatic 
Sanction taken from the deciees of the Council of Basle. 

j X. I f the pope, without any attention to justice, or even 
I to tlie appearance of right, employs arms and artifices, 
and publishes censures against t he prince, and against 
those who protect and defend him, ought the latter to be 
deserted? Answer: that such censures are altogether 
null, and nut binding in law. 

See Mansi, xiii, 1481. 

XII. Held in September, 1583, Simon de Maille', the 
archbishop, presiding; the bishops of Angers, Nantes, 
Saint-Brien, Bonnes, and Quitnper, and the deputies of 
those of Saint-Malo and Mans, were present. 

A petition was rend, which it was proposed to present to 
the king, Henry HI, requesting him to order the publica- 
tion of the decrees of Trent in his states; al>o another 
petition to the pope, to induce him to remedy certain 
abuses in the matter of benefices. A formulary of faith, 
to he signed by all henericed clerks, was drawn up, and 
1 regulations were made to prevent simony. In conse- 
quence of the appearance of the plague in Tours, the prel- 
I ates adjourned the council to Angers. 

See Mansi, xv, 1001. — Laudon, Manual of Councils, s. v. 

Tousi, Councils of (Concilium Tulle use, or a pud 
Saponarias), were held at Tousi, a place in the diocese 
of Toni. 

I. This council was held in June, 850. Charles the 
Bald and the sons of the emperor Lothaire were present. 
Thirteen canons were published, of which the first treats 
of the reconciliation of Charles and his brother Louis. 
The sixth relates to a charge of treason brought by 
Charles the Bald against Venilon, bishop of Sens. Can- 
on 8 relates to the case of the Breton bishops who had 
been guilty of schism in separating from their metro- 
politan. The tenth contains certain dogmas relating 
to grace (originally put forth in the first six canons of 
Valence, in the Synod of Quiercy), concerning which 
there arose a great contention among the bishops pres- 
ent. Synodal letters were addressed to Venilon, the 
Breton prelates, and to those factious and seditious per- 
sons whose unbridled licentiousness had caused extreme 
disorder. See Mansi, Concil. viii,074. 

II. The second Council of Tousi (also called Concili- 
um Tulle use, or T uss it i cense) was held in SGI). Forty 
bishops from fourteen provinces attended. Five can- 
ons were published, directed against robbery, perjury, 
and other crimes, then very' prevalent. Although onlv 
forty’ bishops were present, these canons are signed by 
fifty-seven, the decrees of councils being often sent to 
the bishops who were absent for their signature. 

1. Is directed against invaders of sacred things. 

2. Concerning tlie incontinence of virgins or widows 
consecrated to Hod. 

3. On perjury and false witnesses. 

4. Against robbers and others guilty of various crimes. 

5. Concerning vagabond clerks and monks. 

V synodal letter was also drawn up, addressed to the 
invaders of ecclesiastical rights and property, and the 
plunderers of the poor. See Mansi, viii, 702. — Landou, 
Manual of Councils, s. v. 

Toussain, or Tussanus, Danikl. a French Prot- 
estant minister, was born at Moutbelliard, in the de- 
partment of I)ouhs, July 15. 1541. After some edu- 
cation in his native place, Toussain went to Basle in 
1555, where he studied two years. He then spent two 
years in Tubingen, applying himself to belles-lettres, 
philosophy, and divinity. Finding himself iudiffer- 


TOW 


503 


TOWER 


ently acquainted with the French language, he went 
to Paris in 155i>, ami, after a residence of a year, went 
to Orleans, wdiere he taught Hebrew for some time, 
and, being admitted into the ministry, officiated in the 
Church there. While in Orleans he was frequently ex- 
posed to dangers arising out of the war between the 
Catholics and Protestants, but escaped them and finally 
reached Heidelberg, whither he had been invited by 
Frederick 111. The prince afterwards employed him 
in visiting the Reformed churches in his dominions. 
On the death of the elector in 157(5, his son, Casimir, in- 
vited Toussain to Neustadt, made him superintendent 
of the churches there, and, on the death of Ursinus. 
professor of divinity. In 1578 he presided at a synod 
assembled by Casimir for the purpose of establishing 
conformity in doctrine and discipline, and of assisting 
the exiles of the palatinate. When the prince became 
regent in 1583, he removed to Heidelberg, and employ- 
ed Toussain in promoting the Reformed religion. In 
1586 he was appointed to succeed Grynams, first pro- 
fessor of divinity at Heidelberg; and in 1594 was chos- 
en rector of the university. He died Jan. 10, 1602, 
and was buried in the university chapel. His publish- 
ed works, in many volumes 4to and folio, are principal- 
ly commentaries on various parts of the Iiible, and de- 
fences of particular doctrines of the Keformed Church. 
His life was published by his son Paul under the title 
Vita et Obit us Danielis Tussuni , etc. (Heidelberg, 1603, 
4to). See Chalmers, Blog. Diet. s. v. 

Tow is the rendering in the A. V. of the lleb, words 
(I) r^3‘3, neo'reth (so called as being shaken off from 
flax in hatched iiig), refuse (Judg. xvi, 9); (2) nr}l‘D, 
pishteh (Isa. xliii, 37), Jinx (as elsewhere rendered). 
See Linen. 

Towel ( Xivnor , for Lat. lintenm , a linen cloth. John 
xiii, 4, 5) was the apron worn by servants and persons 
in waiting (see Galen, De Com p. Med . e. ix; Sueton. 
Calif/. 26). See Arnox. 

Tower is the rendering in 
the A. V. of the following lleb. 
and Gr. words: 1. *jn3, “j’in 2, 
and pHa (Sept. t 7 r«X^tc), from 
*jn2, to "search,” “explore,” a 
searcher or watcher; and hence 
the notion of a watch-tower. 

In Isa. xxxii, 14 the tower of 
Ophel is probably meant (Neh. 
iii, 26). 2. ^3*2, and ^3*2 

or ( 7riipyo ^ ; turns). 

from to “become great,” 
a lofty tower; used sometimes 
as a proper noun. See Mig- 
HOU 3. (7Tf rpo ; muni - 

tio). a strong fortification; only 
once “tower” (Hab. ii, 1). See 
Egypt. 4. 223’ (o1icoq\ do- 
mus ), only in 2 Kings v, 24. 



by his son Jotham in the forests 
(i choreshim ) of Judah (2 Chrnii. 
xxvi, 10; xxvii, 4). Kemains 
of such fortifications may still be 
seen, which, though not perhaps 
themselves of remote antiquity, 
yet very probably have succeeded 
to more ancient structures built iu 
the same places lor like purposes 
(Kobinson, Bill. lies, ii, 81, 85, 180; 
Koborts, Sketches, pi. 93). Besides 
these military structures, we read 
Solitary Tower iu the in Scripture <il towers built in vine- 
East. yards as an almost necessary ap- 

pendage to them (Isa. v. 2: Matt, 
xxi, 33; Mark xii, 1). Such towers are still in use 
in Palestine in vineyards, especially near Hebron, and 
are used as lodges for the keepers of the vineyards. 
During the vintage they are filled with the persons em- 
ployed in the work of gathering the grapes (Kobinson. 
Bill. lies, i, 213; ii, 81 ; Martineau, Bast. LiJe. p. 434; 
De Sail ley, Travels , i, 546; Hackett, Jllustr. of Script. 
p. 163, 171). — Smith. See Lodge. 

Mural towers were in all antiquity built as part of the 
fortifications of towns, especially at the corners of the 
walls and the gates (2 Chron. xiv. 7; xxvi, 9, 15; 
xxxii, 5; 1 Mace, v, 55, xiii, 33, 43, etc.* comp. Isa. 
xxiii, 3; xxx, 25* Ezek. xxvi, 4, 9; see Pliny, II. A. 
vi, 22, 1). Also in the interior of cities towers served 
as citadels (Judg. ix, 46 sq.). Jerusalem (q. v.) was 
especially provided with towers of this description, 
many ol which had special names (Noli, iii, 11 ; xii, 38; 
Jer. xxxi, 38, etc.). Those on the walls and at the 
gates were used for sentries (2 Kings ix, 17; xvii, 9; 
xviii, 8; Ezek. xxvii, 11). The Temple (q. v.) was 
likewise supplied with numerous towers. The “tower 
in Siloam" (q. v. ) (Luke xiii, 4) was probably some 
mural defence near that fountain. — Winer, bee Gate; 
Wall. 



Ancient Assyrians Attacking Mural Towers with Turreted Engines. 


See Ophel. 5. 

usually “corner,” twice only “tower” (Zeph. i, 16; "iii. 
6; ywria; ungulus ). 6. n5I£*2 (< 7 K 07 Ti«; specula ), 

“watch-tower.” See Miziwii. 7. 332^ (oxvpiopa ; 
robur). u a refuge,” only in poetry. See Misgar. 8. 
Uvpyo ^, the general term in the New Test. See For- 
tification. 

Isolated watch-towers or fortified posts iu frontier or 
exposed situations are mentioned in Scripture, as the 
tower of Edar, etc. (Gen. xxxv, 21 ; Mic. iv, 8; Isa. 
xxi, 5, 8, 11 ; Hab. ii, 1 ; Jer. vi, 27 ; Cant, vii, 4); the 
tower of Lebanon, perhaps one of David’s “garrisons” 
( netsib , 2 Sam. vii, 6; Riiumer, PaUest. p. 29). Such 
towers or outposts for the defence of wells, and the pro- 
tection of docks and of commerce, were built by Uzziah 
iu the pasture-grounds ( midbar ) [see Desert], and 


Among many ancient nations, especially the Baby- 
lonians, towers were employed in the siege of cities, as 
appears from the prophets account of the divination 
used by the king of Babylon to determine his line of 
march into the kingdom of Judah: “At his right hand 
was the divination for Jerusalem, to appoint captains, 
to open the mouth in t lie slaughter, to lift up the voice 
with shouting, to appoint battering-rams against the 
gate, and to build a tower (Ezek. xxi, 22). See Bat- 
tering-ram. In t lie Maccabtvan age, towers borne on 
elephants were used to carry warriors in battle (1 Maec. 
vi. 37; comp. Fliny, //. X. xi, l,"turrigeri elephanto- 
rum humeri”). In Roman sieges the tower (rinea, from 
the vine-branches with which it was often thatched), 
run on wheels along an artificial causeway (agger), was 
proverbial (Luke xix, 43). See Mount. 

In the figurative language of Scripture, towers are 



TO WEI 


504 


TO WEI 



used f<*r defenders and protectors, whether bv counsel or 
.strength, in peace or in war (Psa. xviii, 10; lxi, oj. See 
Wail 

TOWER in Christian Architecture. Any at- 
tempt to particularize the various kinds of towers 
which have been adopted by different nations in for- 
mer ages would far exceed the scope of this work ; the 
following observations, therefore, are chiefly confined to 
tho<e which were in use in the Middle Ages in Eng- 
land and t he adjacent parts of Europe, and more es- 
pecially to the towers of churches. Among the Greeks 
and Romans, towers were employed of various forms 
and for different purposes, hut by no means so abun- 
dantly as in after-ages, and in general they appear not 
to have been so lofty as those of mediaeval date. The 
tower of Andronicns Oyrrhcstes, called also t he Temple 
of the Winds, at Athens, is octagonal; at Autun, in 
France, a considerable part of a large and lofty square 
tower of late Roman work exists. The tower for the 
use of bells is supposed not to have been introduced till 
the 5th century, and hence the term campanile, applied 
to the Italian towers. See .Spire. 

In the Middle Ages the towers of castles were nu- 
merous and of striking character. During the preva- 
lence of the Norman style the keep often consisted of a 
large rectangular tower, with others of smaller size at- 
tached to the angles, and these last mentioned general- 
ly rose higher than the main building, as at the White 
Tower of London and the castles of Rochester and 
Guildford. The keep tower of Conisburgh Castle, in 
Yorkshire, which is of the. latest Norman work, is cir- 
cular, with large buttresses on the outside; in other 
examples, especially in those of later date, the keep 
towers are of various forms, often irregular, apparently 
so constructed as being considered best adapted to the 
peculiarities of the sites, and the systems of defence in 
use at the periods of their erection. Resides these main 
towers, many others, which, though of less magnitude 
than the keep, were often of very considerable size, 
were employed in different parts of fort ideations, espe- 
cially at the entrances, where the gateways were gen- 
erally Hanked by towers projecting considerably before 


the main walls; these were pierced with loop-holes and 
oilets, mid were commonly surmounted with machico- 
lations. Sec Turret. 

Cluireh-towcrs of all dates are greatly diversified, not 
only in their details, hut also in general proportions and 
form; they arc occasionally detached from the building 
to which they belong, but are usually annexed to it, 
and are to be found placed in almost every possible sit- 
uation except about the east end of the chancel. In 
all cases their use was for hanging the bells, and hence 
the name belfry. Large churches have often several 
towers, especially when the plan is cruciform; and in 
this ease there are generally two at the west end, and 
one, of larger dimensions, at the intersection of the tran- 
septs, as at the cathedrals of Canterbury, York, and Lin- 
coln. Ordinary parish churches have usually but oik* 
tower. In some examples, where there is an entrance 
to the church through the lower story of a tower, it is 
made to form a porch with an open archway on out* 
side, as at Cranbrook, and many oilier churches in 
Kent; or on three sides, as at Newnham, Northampton- 
shire. In towns, towers are sometimes placed over pub- 
lic thoroughfares, and in such situations are built on 
open archways. It is not unusual to find church-tow- 
ers which batter, or diminish upward: these are gen- 
erally of Norman or Early English date; but in some 
districts, as in Northamptonshire, this mode of construc- 
tion was continued to a later period. 

The towers belonging to the style described in the arti- 
cle Saxon Architecture (q. v.) arc square and massive, 
not of lofty proportions, and apparently never were pro- 
vided with stone staircases. Some of them are consid- 
erably ornamented, as at the churches of Barnack and 
Earl’s Barton, Northamptonshire; and others are very 
plain, as at St. Michael's, Oxford, and St. Beuet’s, Cam- 
bridge: the tower of the Church of Sompting, Sussex, 
which belongs to this style, terminates with a gable on 
each of the four sides, and is surmounted by a wooden 
spire; but whether or not this was the original form 
may be doubted. 

In some parts of Great Britain circular church-towers 
are to he found. These have sometimes been assumed 
to be of very high antiquity, but the character of their 
architecture shows that they commonly belong to the 
Norman and Early English styles. They are built of 
rough Hints, generally of coarse workmanship, with very 
little ornament of any kind, and that little, for the most 
part, about the upper story: one of the best examples 
is that of Little Saxham Church, Suffolk. Plain round 
towers in the counties of Norfolk and Suffolk are of all 
periods: the only materials readily accessible being 
dints, and these not 
admitting of square 
corners, the towers 
were built round, and 
this practice is con- 
tinued even to the 
present day. 

y or man towers are 
generally square, and 
of rather low propor- 
tions, seldom rising 
much more than their 
own breadth above 
tberoofoftheehurch, 
and sometimes not so 
much. They gener- 
ally have broad Hat 
buttresses at the an- 
gles, and are usual- 
ly provided with a 
stum* staircase car- 
ried up in a project- 
ing turret attached 
to one of the an- 
gles; this is very ' 
commonly rectangu- Little Saxham Church, Suffolk. 



TO WEI 


505 


TOWERS 


la r externally, but the form is not un frequently changed 
towards the top, especially if the turret is carried up 
the whole height of the tower: occasionally polygonal 
Norman towers are to be met with, as at Ely Cathe- 
dral. In Normandy a few examples of village church- 
towers of this style exist, which are capped with py- 
ramidal stone roofs, like low square spires, but in gen- 
eral the roofs and parapets are additions of later date. 
Many Norman towers are very considerably ornamented, 
the upper stories being usually the richest, while others 
are very plain. Good specimens remain at St. Alban's 
Abbey; the cathedralsof Norwich, Exeter, and Winches- 
ter; Tewkesbury Abbey ; Southwell Minster; the church- 
es of St. Peter, Northampton; St. Clement, Sandwich; 
Itfly, Oxfordshire: Stewkley, Buckinghamshire, etc. 

In Early English towers much greater variety of de- 
sign and proportion is found than in those of prior date. 
The prevailing plan is square, but some examples are 
octagonal, and occasionally t lie upper part of a square 
tower is changed to an octagon. Projecting stair-tur- 
rets are almost universal, though they are frequently so 
much masked by buttresses as to be in great measure 
concealed. Many towers in this style are of lofty pro- 
portions, while others are low and massive. The best ex- 
amples are generally more or less ornamented, and some 



are very highly enriched. The belfry windows are often 
large and deeply recessed, with numerous bold mould- 
ings in the jambs, and sometimes appear to have been 
originally left quite open. Considerable variety of out- 
line is produced by the different arrangement, sizes, and 
forms of the buttresses at. the angles of towers in this 
as well as in the later styles of Gothic architecture, and 
sometimes, instead of buttresses, small turrets are used, 
which rise from the ground and generally terminate in 
pinnacles. Many towers of this date are finished at 
the top with parapets, some of them with pinnacles at. 
the angles, a few with two gables, called pack-saddle 
roofs (as Brookthorpe, Northamptonshire), and many are 
surmounted with spires, which, although perhaps in the 
majority of cases they are of later date than the towers, 
appear to have been originally contemplated. Exam- 
ples remain at the cathedrals of Oxford and Peterbor- 
ough ; the churches of St. Mary, Stamford ; Ketton and 
Bvhall, Rutland : Loddington and Raundes, Northamp- 
tonshire; Middleton Stoney, ( Ixfordshire, etc. 

In the Decorated and Perpendicular styles towers 
differ very considerably both in proportions and amount, 
of enrichment, and considerable diversity of outline and 
effect is produced by varying the arrangement and form 
of the subordinate parts, such as windows, buttresses, 



Brookthorpe, Northamptonshire, 
cir. 12G0. 


pinnacles, etc.; but 
in general composi- 
tion they do not dif- 
fer very materially 
from Early English 
towers. Many are 
very lofty, and oth- 
ers of low propor- 

lions; some highly '"■* f 


enriched, and some 
perfectly plain ; a 
large, and probably 
the greater, number 
are crowned with 
parapets, usually with 
a pinnacle at each 
corner, and sometimes 
with one or two oth- 
ers. commonly of 
rather smaller size, 
on each of the sides ; 

I many, also, terminate 
I with spires, or, espe- 
! eiallv in the Perpen- 
dicular style, with 
lanterns. Decorated 
towers remain at Lin- 
coln Cathedral; the 
churches of 1 locking- E 
toil and Caythorpe, 

Lincolnshire ; New- 
ark, Nottingham- 
shire; Fi ne don, 

Northamptonshire; St. Mary’s, Oxford, etc. Perpen- 
dicular towers are very numerous in all parts of the 
kingdom, especially in Somersetshire. Among such as 
arc .best deserving of attention may be mentioned those 
at Canterbury. York, and Gloucester cathedrals; and the 
churches at Boston and 
Louth, Li ncol nsh ire ; 

Kettering, Northamp- 
tonshire ; Cirencester, 

Gloucestershire ; Great 
Malvern, Worcestershire; 
and that at St. Mary 
Magdalen College, Ox- 
ford.— Parker, Gloss, of 
1 rch itect. s. v. 

Towers, Joseph, 

LL.I)., a Dissenting min- 
ister, was born in South- 
walk, London, in 1737, 
and was apprenticed to 
Mr. Goad by, printer, at 
Sherborne, Dorsetshire, 
in 1754. lie returned 
to London in 1 7t> 4. where 
he worked at his trade, 
and afterwards became 
[ a hook-seller. lie was 
ordained a preacher in 
1774, and was chosen 
I pastor of a congregation 
j at Highgate. In 1 77S> lie 
became forenoon preach* 

! er at a chapel in New- 
ington Green. He died 
in 1799. Mr. Towers was 
an Arian, though closely 
connected with the Unitarians. He wrote. Her me of 
the Genuine J doctrines of Christianity (Loud. 17G3, 8vo): 
— Observations on Hume's History of England (ibid. 
1778, 8vo): — British Biography (1703-72,7 vols. 8vo ; 
1773-80, 10 vols. 8vo [vols. i-vii by Towers; viii-x by a 
clergyman]') : — Vindication of the Political Opinions of 
Locke (1782, 8vo) : — Memoirs of Frederick the Great 
(1788, 2 vols. 8vo; 1795, 2 vols. 8vo: — Tracts on Polit - 



Brisliugton, Somersetshire. 


500 


TOWX 


TOWEliSOX 

fail and other Subjects (179G, 3 vols. 8vo) besides Ser- 
mmw, aiul articles to the Biogniphia Britannica. Nee 
Allihone, Dirt. of Brit. and Amer . J uthors. s. v. ; Dar- 
ling, Cyclop. Billing. s. v. 

Towerson, Gabkikl, D.D.. a learned English di- 
vinc. was a native of Middlesex, and became a com- 
moner of Queen's College, Oxford, in 11550. whore he 
took Ids A.M. in 1657. In 1660 he was elected fellow 
of All-Souls’, and entered holy orders at about the same 
time, lie was iirst preferred to the rectory of Welwyn, 
iu Hertfordshire, and took his degree ol D.D. in Ko7. 
An April, 1692. he was inducted into the living of St. 
Andrew Undershaft, London, to which he was presented 
bv king William. He died in October, 1G97, and was 
interred at Welwyn. His works are, A Brief Account 
of Some Expressions in St. Athanasius's Cried (Oxford, 
1GG3, I to ): — An 1'Jxplication of the Decalogue, or Ten 
Commandments , and an Explication of the ( atechism of 
the Church of England (Loud. 1676-88, 4 pts. loh): — 
Of the Sacraments in General, etc. (ibid. 1686, 8vo): — 
Of the Sacrament of Baptism in Particular among the 
Heathen and Jems. etc. (1687, 8yo). See Chalmers, 
J>io(/. Diet. s. v.; Allihone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. Au- 
thors. s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. 

Towgood, Micaiah, an English Dissenting min- 
ister, was horn at Axminster in 1700. became pastor at 
Moreton- Hampstead in 1722, removed to Crediton in 
1735, and in 1750 to Exeter, where he died in 1792. 
He wrote, Dissenter’s Apology (Loud. 1739. 8vo) : — Dis- 
senting Gentleman s Answer to Per. Mr. 11 7 / ite (1746-48, 
Gtli ed. 3 vols. 8vo ) : — Essay on Charles 1 (1748; new ed. 
1811, 12 mo ) : — Dissertations on Christian Baptism (1750; 
new ed. with notes, etc., 1815, 12mo). See Allihone, 
Diet. of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v.; Maiming. Life 
and I V citings of Towgood (1792); Skeats, Hist, of Free 
Churches of England, p. 419 sq. 

Towgood, Richard, an English prelate, was 
made dean of Bristol in 1667, and died in 10*3. He 
published a Sermon on Acts vii, 8 (Lond. 1G7G). See 
Allihone, Diet. ofBnt. and Amer. A uthors , s. v. 

Town (not carefully distinguished in the A. V. from 
“city,” which latter is the usual rendering of “Pi? , occa- 
sionally ■•town:” this latter is also the translation, at 
times, of “Pp. prop, a wall, as usually rendered ; “lin, a 
village , as generally rendered ; and so Kibprj in the New 
Test, [once more distinctively KiogoiroXtc;, Mark i,38]; 
rs, a daughter, sometimes tig. employed; HVin, only 
in the phrase llavoth-jair [q. v.]; IT1THE, “ umvalled 
towns.” means rather open country). The tirst mention 
of such collective residence occurs early in the antedilu- 
vian history (Gen. iv, 17), but we are not to think, in 
t lie case of such primitive “cities,” of anything more 
than a mere hamlet, the nucleus, perhaps, of an eventual 
metropolis. Towns, however, appear in the history of 
the patriarchs as strong central points of the agricult- 
ural tribes iu nomadic regions. They were therefore 
enclosed with walls, ami thus each town was originally 
a fortress (see Xu mb. xxxii, 17 ; lienee the term "U2 
literally a fort, applied nar iKo\ip' to Tyre, Josh, xix, 
29: 2 Sam. xxiv. 7); such as the cities which the Is- 
raelites captured and demolished under Joshua. For 
this purpose eminences and hills (comp. Matt, v, 14) 
were naturally selected as more commanding and secure. 
* sites (see Kbuig, De Muutihus, Erbium Antiques. Sedi- 
bns [ Amneberg. 1796]), a precaution which Palestine, 
with its varied surface and exposed situation, especially 
suggested (comp. 2 Sam. i\\6). We know little, how- 
ever, of the exact architectural style of its cities, with 
the exception of Jerusalem. Iu modern times Oriental 
towns are built very wide-spreading, and often include 
extensive open spaces, gardens, etc. (see Thevenot, ii, 
114: Buckingham, p. 95. 335 ; Tavernier, i, 1G9 ; Bosen- 
mUller, Morgenl. iv, 395 sip), e. g. Damascus (Kiimpfer 
estimates Ispahan as more than a day’s ride in circuit, 


.1 mcen. Exot. p. 163). This especially applies to the 
larger cities of Asia, such as Babylon and Nineveh, which 
enclosed an area of many miles (see Bitter, Erdk. xi, 
903). The gates of the cities were closed (Josh, ii, 5 sip ; 
Judg. xvi, 5; 1 Sam.xxiii.7; 1 Kings iv, 13; Bsa. cxlvii, 
13, etc.) with strong folding-doors (ipr^", rr.rri) 
with brazen or iron bars (EPrTPZ), and were surmount- 
ed l>v turrets (2 Sam. xviii. 32), which were guarded by 
sentries (ver. 24 sq.). In these the governors and judges 
held their sittings, aiul a more or less extensive square 
(Zrn, which, however, does not always mean an open 
place, but sometimes a wide [TrXarriio] street, Gen. xix, 
2; Judg. xix, 15, 17,20) adjoined (Ezra x, 9: Neb. viii, 
1, 3, 16; 2 Sam. xxi, 12; 1 Cliron. xxxii, 6; Job xxix, 
7 ; Cant, iii, 2) where the market was held (2 Kings 
vii, 1 ; comp, ayopai. Josephus, Life, 22). The streets 
(r*^n, Job xviii. 17 ; Isa. v. 25; Jer. xxxvii. 21, etc.; 

Cant, iii, 2 ; Eecles. xii, 4, etc. ; 7r \araiai. Matt, 
vi. 5; xii, 19; Acts v, 15, etc.) were not so narrow (yet 
see (jtevmttuq applied to those of Jerusalem in Jose- 
phus, H r «r, vi,8. 5) as in modern Oriental towns (Maun- 
d roll. p. 172; Olearins, p. 291 ; Bussegger, i, 367 ; Uo bin- 
son, i, 38; iii, 697), where, as in Acre (Mariti, p. 246), 
scarcely two laden camels, or in Damascus (Schubert, 
iii, 29) scarcely a single one, can pass (Burckhardt, .4 mb. 
p. 151). The streets of Hebrew antiquity (at least in 
the large towns) had names, which were sometimes 
taken from those of tiie kind of trade carried on in them 
(Jer. xxxvii. 2; comp, ayopai, Josephus, IFur, v, 8, 1, 
like modern bazaars ; Bussell, .4 leppo. i. 29 sq. ; 1 1 armer, 
i, 245 sq. : Arvieux, i, 55 ; Ker Porter, i, 406. 407). They 
were occasionally paved in the later period (Josephus, 
Ant. xv, 9, 6; xvi, 5, 3; xx, 9, 7); in earlier times (comp. 
Isidore, Grig, xv, 16) we find notice of paving in t lie 
court of the Temple (2 Kings xvi, 17). From 1 Kings 
xx, 34 it would seem that kings sometimes constructed 
or improved certain avenues (comp. Posen m filler, Mor- 
genl. iii, 201 sq.). Aqueducts (r*Si*ri) were built in Je- 
rusalem before the exile (2 Kings xx] 20 ; Isa. vii, 3; 
xxii, 9; for Pilate’s undertaking see Josephus, Ant. 
xviii, 3, 2; comp. IU«r. ii, 17, 9; Bobinson, ii, 166 sq.) ; 
other cities were supplied by springs (see Josephus, Ant. 
xvii, 13, 1) and cisterns, the latter, at times, of very ex- 
pensive construction (IFar, vii, 8. 3). See Watkk. 

As to the varied condition of cities in pre-exilian 
rimes of Palestine we have only disconnected notices. 
The oldest ones of the land were destroyed by a natural 
or miraculous combustion in Abraham’s time (Gen. xix, 
24 sq.). During the conquest by the Israelites many 
were destroyed by fire (Josh, vi, 24, 26: xi, 13), but later 
were in part rebuilt (Judg. i, 26; 1 Kings xvi, 24) and 
embellished (Judg. xviii, 28; 1 Kings xii, 25; xv, 17 ; 
xvii, 21 ; eomp. 2 Chron. viii, 5). The Chaldajan inva- 
sion made (especially in the case of Jerusalem) many 
changes, and during the exile most of the cities were 
deserted. The Syrian wars under the Maccabees wasted 
or destroyed several (see 1 Mace, v, 44, 65; ix, (52). Oth- 
ers, however, especially Jerusalem, were fortified, and 
castles and citadels were built (ver. 50: xii, 38; xiii.33 ; 
xv, 7. 39, 40; Josephus, lU«r, iv, 7, 2; Ant. xii i, 16. 
3). During the Homan period cities especially multi- 
plied, chiefly under the patronage of the Ilerodian fam- 
ily; but many of them were largely occupied by Gen- 
tiles, with their heathenish theatres, gymnasia, stadh, 
and temples (ibid, xv, 5, 2; xviii. 2, 1 and 3; xx. 9, 4. 
etc.). Fortifications and towns also increased (ibid, xv, 
9, 4; 11 7/ r, vii, 8, 3). The post-exilian topography ol 
Palestine therefore exhibits many names of places not 
mentioned in the Old Test.: some of them, however, 
may have existed earlier. The district of Galilee was 
especially rich in towns and villages, which amounted in 
all to two hundred and four (Life, 45). See Palestine. 

The names of Palestinian cities were almost invaria- 
bly significant, as appears from the present situation 
and configuration of the land (e. g. Am, fountain ; Beth- 


TOWN 


507 


TOWN-CLERK 


lehem, bread - producing ; Gibeon, elevation ; Mizpah, 
look-out; Hamah, height; many of them, accordingly, 
used with the article). Numbers ol‘ these are com- 
pounded, e. g. with (house; see Rddigcr, De. Arab. 
Libror. Hist. Interpret. p. ‘21), or JTHjr 1 (city), “ISH 
(court), (valley), bzx (meadow), 1X3 (well), }'V 
(spring), and in the post-exilian period with (vil- 
lage); those with bra (Baal) appear to have been of 
Canaanitish origin (sec Panol’ka, Ueb. d. Eiufuss der 
tlottheiten auf Ortsnamen [l!erl. 1842]). Some are of 
dual (Kirjathaim. Jerusalem, Dothan) or plural form 
(Kerioth, Auathoth, Gebim); in otic ease (Beth-horon) 
we have the distinction of upper ami lower villages. 
Several places of the same name are distinguished by 
the name of the tribe added (sec Matt, ii, 1, 5; xxi. 1 1 : 
Luke iv,ol). In Homan times, especially under the ller- 
ods, many old names were displaced by others of Greek 
or Latin origin (e.g. l)iospolis,Neapolis, Sebaste,Ciesarea, 
Tiberias: later .Elia Capitolina), some of which have still 
survived (comp. Amrnian. Marcel, xiv, 8), whiie the most 
of them have again yielded to theolderappellation (comp. 
Josephus, ILu/'ji, 4, 2; A w/.xiii, 13,3; see Poland, Pahest. 
p. 507), or to an imitation in Arabic of a similar sound 
(Palmer, Desert of the Wandering, p. 31). See Name. 

On the population of the eities of Palestine nothing 
definite is known, for the numbers (asJudg. xx, 15) from 
which an estimate might be made are in many eases cor- 
rupt (Josephus’s statements [e.g. IPw, iii, 3, 1] are sus- 
picious; but see Kiiumer, Palust. p.430 sq.). See N umiier. 

A distinction between walled towns and open villages 
is not uniformly maintained in the Old Test., although 
in the later period they began to he distinguished (see 
Pins, Ezek. xxxviii, 11 ; CHjjn, Neh. xi, 25; comp. 
r* , :2, Numb, xxi, 25, 32; Josh, xv, 45; Judg. xi, 26; 
Xeh. xi. 25; CX 2 Sam. xx, 10; see Gesenius, Monum. 
Phan, ii, 263 ; a metropolis or province is called 
in the Talmud, Maas. Sheni, iii, 4, etc.). The New 
Test., however, makes such distinctions (Mark i, 38; 
comp. Matt, x, 1 1 ; Mark vi. 56 [viii, 27] ; Luke viii, 13, 
22; Acts viii, 25): Kiopi /, e. g. Bethphage (Matt, xxi, 
22), Bethany (John xi, l), Emmans (Luke xxiv, 13), 
Bethlehem (John vii, 42); but ttoAjc, e. g. Nazareth, 
Capernaum, Nain: but these terms are used loosely, and 
the compound Kiopo TroXig even occurs. So, likewise, 
Josephus uses 7r6\tg and Kibpij almost interchangeably 
(see Life, 45; Ant. xx, 6, 2), and he occasionally em- 
ploys the diminutive 7ro \i\rt] (MW, iv, 2, l). In gen- 
eral, however, Kinpij (village) chiefly belongs to those 
places whose name is compounded with "SI (Gesenius. 
Thesaur. ii, 707). The Talmudists (but comp. J fegillah, 
i, 3; Erubin, v, 6) distinguish places thus: cities 

with defences; DTP”, towns without fortifications; 
I n "Sr. villages (Lightfoot, I/or. J/ebr. p. 503 stp). lie- 
land gave the first extensive list of the localities of Pal- 
estine (in his Pafccstina), which might be greatly en- 
larged from the Talmud (see Baba Bathru , ii and iii; 
Baba Metsiuh, xi, 5). See Topographical. Terms. 

On the municipal government of pre-exilia n Palestine 
no definite information remains. There were judges 
(S^Sb) and overseers (S*^3fc?) both named as offi- 
cers (Deut. xvi, 18), but the latter title is not clear; and 
elsewhere the elders appear as civil authorities. In 
post-exilian times the magistrates of Palestinian cities 
are called councillors Q5ov\ai, Josephus, Life, 12, 13,34, 
61, 68), at whose head, as it would seem, stands a ruler 
(<ip\iov, ibid. 27 ; War. ii, 21, 3). But from these are 
to be distinguished the territorial orpaTijyoi or tTrap^oi, 
who had their seat in certain towns, and probably had 
civil jurisdiction over a particular district (Life, 9, 11, 
17 ; Ant. xix, 7. 4), On the civil law in cities see the 
Mislma (Sanhedr. i, 1 sq.). See Government. 

The gates of cities were guarded during the day by 
sentinels, who looked out from the turret on the walls 


into the distance (2 Sam. xviii, 24 sq. ; 2 Kings ix, 17 
sq.; comp. Ezek. xxvii, 11), and either with the voice 
or with a horn gave the news (Jer. vi, 17 ; Ezek. iii, 6). 
Night patrols are also mentioned (Cant, iii, 3). Of 
lighting the streets, however, there is no trace, as in 
western towns (Becker, 11 alius, i,333 sq.). See Watch. 

The mile-stones (still extant, Hobinson, iii, 693) set up 
along the roads to indicate the distance of one town from 
another belong to Roman times (see I tlelcr, in the Svhrift. 
d. Perl. A kad. 1812, hist, class, p. 134 sq.). On this point, 
and on the geographical position of towns, there are 
only incidental notices in the canonical books (see Gen. 
xii, 8; Judg. xxi, 19, etc.), and clearer indications ap- 
pear in the books of Maccabees, and particularly in Jo- 
sephus (see Life, 12, 24, 51, etc., collated by Reland, Pa - 
last, ii, c. 6; comp. Mishna, Maas. Sheni, v, 2) ; but it is 
not till the time of Eusebius and his Latin editor. Je- 
rome (in his 0 no mast icon), that, we get definite data on 
these points; while the later itineraries (namely, the 
Itinerar. A ntonini [not the emperor of that name] and 
the Itin. Ilierosol. [both edited by Wesseling, Amst. 
1735, 4to]) and Abulfeda (Tabula Syria ) give full and 
exact details on the subject, which, however, have to be 
supplemented (and often corrected) by modern compari- 
sons and measurements. — Winer. See Geography, 
Town-clerk (ypappartvg, a scribe , as elsewhere 
often rendered) is the title aseribed in the A. V. to the 
magistrate at Ephesus who appeased the mob in the 
theatre at the time of the tumult excited by Demetrius 
and bis fellow-craftsmen (Acts xix, 35). The other pri- 
mary English versions translate in the same way, ex- 
cept those from the Vulg. (Wyeliffe, the Rhetnish), 
which render “scribe.” A digest of Bdekh’s views, in 
his Staatshaushaltung, respecting the functions of this 
officer at Athens (there were three grades of t he order 
there), will be found in Smith’s Did. of Class. Ant. s. v. 
“ Grammateus.” r l’he ypapparteg, or “ town-clerk,” at 
Ephesus was, no doubt, a more important person in that 
city than any of the public officers designated by that 
term in Greece (see Creswell, Dissertations , iv, 152). 
The title is preserved on various ancient coins (Wett- 
stcin, Xor. Test, ii, 586; Akermann, Numismatic Illus- 
trations , p. 53), which fully illustrate the rank and dig- 
nity of the office. 1 1 would appear that what may have 
been the original service of this class of men, viz. to 
record the laws and decrees of the state, and to read 
them in public, embraced at length, especially under 
the ascendency of the Romans in Asia Minor, a much 
wider sphere of duty, so as to make them, in some in- 
stances, in effect the heads or chiefs of the municipal 
government and even high-priests (Deyling, Obserr. iii, 
383; Krebs, Decreta Ilom. p, 362). They were author- 
ized to preside over the popular assemblies and submit 
votes to them, and are mentioned on marbles as acting 
in that capacity. In eases where they were associated 
with a superior magistrate, they succeeded to his place 
and discharged his functions when the latter was ab- 
sent or had died. “On the subjugation of Asia by the 
Romans,” says Baumstark ( Eaidv, Encyclop. iii, 949), 
“ y pap par tig were appointed there in the character of 
governors of single cities and districts, who even placed 
their names on the coins of their cities, caused the year 
to be named from them, and sometimes were allowed to 
assume the dignity, or at least the name. of ’Apytpzvg.” 
See Schwartz, Dissertutiu de Vpappartvm. Magistral u 



Coin of Ephesus referring to the “town-clerk.” 

Obverse: heads of Augustus an«l Livia. Ilrverse : a stas fthe emblem of 
Ephesus'), with the legend (in Greek), “ Arislion Menophantus. recorder 
ot the Ephesians.’* 



TOWNLEY 


508 


TOWNSEND 


Ciritattim .1 site Proconsul is (Altdorf, 1735); Van Dale, | son of the Lows of Masts, from the More Xebochim of 


Dissertot . v. 4 '25; Spanhcim, l)e I'su et Priest. Xu mm, i. 
701: Xew-Euylander, x, 144; Lewin, tit. Paul, i, 315. 
See Amarhi. 

It is evident, therefore, from Luke’s account, as illus- 
trated by ancient records, that the Ephesian town-clerk 
acted a part entirely appropriate to the character -in 
which he appears. The speech delivered by him, it 
may be remarked, is the model of a popular harangue. 


Maimottides, excellently translated, with notes (100 pp.), 
dissertations (nine), and life of the author (ibid. 1827, 
Hvo): — hit rod. to Literary Hist, of the Bible (ibid. 1*28, 
12mo; X. V. 1832 [a kind of a sequel to his Anecdotes. 
and introduction to his Biblical Literature’]')'. — Introd. 
to the Critical titudy of the Old and Xeir Testaments (his 
last): — tiermon (in the volume of Miscellaneous tier - 
mans, by Weslevans, published at the Conference Office 


He argues that such excitement as the Ephesians [ Loud. 1833 J) : — History of Missions (valuable sketches 
evinced was undignified, inasmuch as they stood above * published posthumously in the 11 W. Meth . May. for 
all suspicion in religious matters (Acts xix, 35, 80); 1 1831. an earnest of an exhaustive work to have been 
that it was unjustifiable, since they could establish noth- written had his life been spared): — various articles in 


mg against the men whom they accused (ver. 87); that 
it was unnecessary, since other means of redress were 
open to them (ver. 38, 39) ; and, dually, if neither pride 
nor a sense of justice availed anything, fear of the Ho- 
man power should restrain them from such illegal pro- 
ceedings (ver. 10).— Smith, See Epiiesus; Paul. 

Townley, Janies (l).an English clergyman and 
educator, was born in London in 1715, lie was edu- 
cated at the Merchant Tailors’ School, and thence elect- 
ed to St.John’s (\dlege. Oxford. Soon alter taking or- 
ders he was chosen morning preacher at Lincoln’s Inn 
Chapel, and lecturer of St. Dunstau’s in the East. 
Through the patronage of lady Spencer, to whom his 
wife was related, he obtained the living of St. Bennett. 
Oraccelmrch, London ; and afterwards became gram- 
mar master to Christ’s Hospital, In 1759 he was cho- 
sen high master of the Merchant Tailors’ School, and in 
1777 was presented to a living in Wales by bishop 
Shipley, to whom he was chaplain. He died July 15, 
1778. Besides bis Iliyh Life Below Stairs , a farce 
(Loud. 1759, Hvo) ; False Concord , a farce, (1704. un- 
successful and not printed); The Tutor, a farce (17 G5, 
4to. unsuccessful), he published seven single Sermons 


the Meth. A Jay., etc. 

Dr. Towulev’s fame rests upon his Biblical Litera- 
ture, a work as valuable now as it was upon the day of 
its publication, and which the Eclectic Bedew (xviii. 
381), 407) affirms to be the most comprehensive of the 
kind in the world. It won for him the doctorate from 
an American university (that being the first instance of 
such a degree being conferred upon an English Wesley- 
an minister), the congratulations of the University of 
Dublin, and numerous encomiums — slight compensa- 
tion, however, for the immense labor it cost. For re- 
views and notices of this work see Meth. Quar. Per. 
July, 1843, art. i; October, 184*2, p. G38; Christ. Per. 
[Baptist], June, 1844 (by Dr. Smith); Meth. Quar. May. 
1822, see Index; Ormc, Biblioth. Bib/, p. 435; Horne, 
Introd. etc. On the Life of Dr. Townley, see Minutes 
of Eny. Couf. 1834 ; lloole, 1 ) Vs/. Meth. May. May, 1 835 ; 
Peck, in Amer. ed. of Bib/. Lit. vol. i ; Smith, Hist, of 
11 W. Meth. ii. G49. G50; iii. 1 -14—140. 203; Stevens, Hist, 
of Methodism, ii, 79; Meth. May. 1834, p. 78. 

Townley, John H., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in 1817. In early life he became a devoted Chris- 
tian. His career was short hot brilliant. He was li- 
( 1 74 1-159. each 4to). See Chalmers, Bitty, Diet. s. v.; 1 censed to preach by the Presbytery of Elizabeth, and 


I ordained and installed pastor of the Presbyterian Church 
I at Ilackettstown, N. J. He remained in this charge 
eight years, preaching with great acceptability and nse- 


Allibone. Diet, if Brit, and A wer. A uthors, s. v. 

Townley, James (2), D.D.. an eminent Weslevan 

. . J i t- i i * , < | eigoi Years, preucumg wmi givui 

rm ! n»er.w i , s .bom >" Kn f rln , ,, l ; M : , y 1 1. fu , ltes ;. K remly beloved by tl.o confirmation and people 

of the town. On resigning this charge, he accepted a 


1774, His early education was received at the school 
of Lev. David Simpson (q. v.) of Macclesfield. The 
training of his pious mother and the impressions made 
upon his heart by the funeral services of his lamented 
teacher, resulted in the commencement of that earnest 
and true Christianity which was ever his best adornment. 
He became a local preacher at the age of nineteen, and 
in 179G was received on probation as an itinerant, from 
which time until 1832 he fulfilled the duties of his min- 
istry faithfully and with increasing honor. In 1827 he 
was appointed general secretary of the Wesleyan Mis- 
sionary Society, in which office lie abounded in loving 
and arduous services. At the Conference at Sheffield 
in 1829 he was elected to the chair; he presided at the 
Irish Conference of 1830. and retired to Ilamsgate in 


call to the Church at Morristown, X. J. As in the for- 
mer charge, during his ministry there were repeated 
outpourings of the Holy Spirit, in which many souls 
were converted and added to the Church, so iu this, re- 
vivals followed. His energy and fidelity greatly en- 
deared him to the people of his charge, and gave prom- 
ise of continued success. 1 1 is devotion to the cause of 
Christ, his prompt and ready co-operation in every 
good work, and his ability and fidelity in the discharge 
of every duty devolved upon him, rendered his loss pe- 
culiarly afflicting to the Church and the community. 
He died at Morristown, Feb. 5. 1855. (W. P. S.) 

Townsend, George, D.D., an English divine. 


1832. This forced cessation from active work was due i was horn at Ramsgate iu 1788, and was educated at 
to physical prostration under his great literary, mission- Trinity College, Cambridge, lie became chaplain to 


office, and presidential toils. Dissolution, in fact, was 
already in progress; it was only a question of time. 
After a sickness of great suffering, the spirit of the gen- 
tle and generous Townley was released in the triumph 
of peace and faith, Dee. 12, 1833. 

Amid the active duties of his pastorate and offices. 


bishop Barrington iu 1822, and was canon of Durham 
from 1825 till his death, Nov. 23. 1857. He was t lie 
author id The 0/d Testament A rranyed in Historical and 
Chronoloyical Order, on the Basis of Liy hi foot's Chron- 
icle, etc., with copious indexes (Loud. 1821,2 vols. Hvo): 
— The Xeic Testament A rranyed in Historical and Chron- 


Dr. Townley devoted himself to literary labors w ith an o/oyical Order, etc. (ibid. 1825. 2 vols.8vo; 5th ed. 1 8(»t>. 


indomitable perseverance. 1 1 is studies in Biblical lines 
made him in all probability the most learned mail in 
the Wesleyan Conference after the death of Dr. Clarke 
(whom he only survived fifteen months and a half), 
particularly in all relating to the literary history of t lie 


imp. 8vo; Amer. ed. of both the foregoing, revised by T. 
W. Coit. I).D., Boston, 1837, 2 vols. Hvo) : — The Accusa- 
tions of History ayaiust the Church of Pome (Loud. 1825, 
Hvo; new cd. 1845, ISmo): — Thirty Sermons on some of 
the most. Interestiny Subjects in Theoloyy (1830, Hvo) 


Bible. The follow ing is a list of his works; Biblical Plan for Abolishiny Pluralities and X on-residence, etc. 


Anecdotes (Loud. 1813, 12mo) : — Illustrations of Biblical 
Literature, exhibiting t lie history and fate of the sacred 
writings, including notices of translators and other emi- 
nent Biblical scholars (ibid. 1821,3 vols. 8vo : X. Y. 
1842,2 vols. Hvo): — Essays on various subjects in eoele- 


(ihjd. 1833. Hvo): — Life and Defence, etc., of Bishop 
Bonner (1842, Hvo); Spiritual Communion with God , 
or the Pentateuch and the Book of Job A rranyed, etc. 
(ihiil, 2 vols. roy. Hvo ; vol. i in 1845; vol. ii, October, 
1849) -Historical Researches: — Ecclesiastical and Cir - 


siastical history and antiquity (Lund. 1824): — The Pea- il History, etc, (ibid. 1847, 2 vols. 8vo) : — Journal of a 


TOWNSEND 


509 


TEA CHON ITIS 


Tour in Italy in 1850, with an Account of an Interview 
with the Pope at the Vatican (1850, 8 vo). See All i hone, 
Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. ; Darling, t 'ydop. 
Biblioy, s. v. 

Townsend, John, an English Dissenting minis- 
ter, was born March 24, 1757, in the parish of White- 
chapel, County of Middlesex. He was educated for live 
years at Christ’s Hospital, and was then apprenticed to 
li is father. Having received some religious impres- 
sions from the preaching of the Bev. Henry Peckwell, 
he offered himself as a member at the Tabernacle, and 
commenced public teaching in some of the villages 
around London, but soon received an invitation to sup- 
ply the Independent meeting at Kingston, where be 
was ordained, June 1, 1781. After three years Mr. 
Townsend quitted Kingston and settled at Bermond- 
sey, where he commenced his official duties at mid- 
summer, 1784, and in which situation he continued to 
labor in his Master's vineyard till the period of his 
death, Feb. 7, 1820. 

Mr. Townsend was one of the founders of the London 
Missionary Society. He also aided in the formation 
of t lie Tract Society, the British and Foreign Bible So- 
ciety, the London Female Penitentiary, the Irish Evan- 
gelical, the Society for the Conversion of the Jews, the 
Congregational School (raised entirely by bis influence), 
the Fund For the Belief of Aged Ministers, and espe- 
cially the Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb, which, if we 
are not mistaken, owed its establishment chiefly to bis 
exertions. His sober, solid, judicious hints and obser- 
vations were always listened to with profound atten- 
tion, and his advice, which was never officially obtruded, 
was always acceptable. As a preacher he was distin- 
guished by good sense and sound doctrine, commending 
himself to the conscience and the heart by a clear and 
judicious exhibition of divine truth. His principal 
works are, Three Sermons (1797, 8vo) : — Nine Discourses 
on Prayer (2d ed. Loud. 1799, 8vo) : — Hints on Sunday- 
schools and Itinerant Preaching ( 1801, Svo) : — single 
Sermons (1780-1808). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit . and 
.4 mer . .4 uthors , s. v. 

Townsend, Joseph, an English clergyman, was 
a fellow of Cains College, Cambridge, and studied medi- 
cine at Edinburgh. He afterwards entered bolv orders, 
and became rector of Pewsev, Wiltshire, and chaplain 
to Lady Huntingdon, preaching in her chapel at Bath, 
lie died in 1810. He published, Every True Christian 
a New Creature (Lond. 1705, 12mo): — Thoughts on Des- 
potic and Free Governments (1781-91, 8 vo) '.—Disserta- 
tion on the Poor-laws , by a Well-wisher to Mankind 
8vo): — Observations on Various Plans for the Relief of 
the Poor (1788, 8vo): — The Character of Moses Estab- 
lished for Veracity as a Historian , etc. (Bath, 1813-15, 
2 vols. 4to) : — besides medical and scientific works, ser- 
mons, etc. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. An- 
thors , s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. 

Townsend, Thomas Stuart, D.D., an English 
prelate, was born in Cork about 1801, and became dean 
of Lismore in July, 1849; dean of Waterford in August, 
1850; bishop of Meath in September, 1850; and died at 
Malaga. Spain, Sept. 10, 1852. He published some edu- 
cational and religious treatises. See Lond. A then. 1849, 
p. 829, 1057 ; Lond. Gent. Mag. 1852, ii, 522. 

Townshend, Ciiauxcy Ha he, an English clergy- 
man, was born in 1800, and was educated at Trinity Hall, 
Cambridge, where he graduated A.B. in 1821 and A.M. 
in 1824. He received the university prize for English 
verse (. Jerusalem ) in 1828. During his last, years he lived 
chiefly at Lausanne, Switzerland, and died Feb. 25, 1808. 
lie bequeathed to Charles Dickens money, manuscripts, 
essays, letters, etc., some of which he desired to be pub- 
lished. Accordingly Mr. Dickens published in December, 
1809, Religious Opinions of the Rev. Chimney Townshend, 
published as directed by his will (London. 8vo). He 
also wrote, Poems (ibid. 1 82 1 , Svo) : —Descriptive Tour 
in Scotland (ibid. 1840, 8vo) : — Facts in Mesmerism 


| (ibid. 1840. Svo): — Sermons in Sonnets, etc. (ibid. 1851, 
Svo) : — The Three Gates, in verse (ibid. 1859, Svo). See 
Allibone, Diet . of Brit, and A mer. .4 uthors, s. v. 

Townson, Thomas, I).D., an English clergyman, 
was born at Much Lees, in Essex, in 1715. He was edu- 
cated at Oxford, where he took his degree of A.M. in 
1739; was ordained priest in 1742; became vicar of Hat- 
field Peverel in 1740; senior proctor of the university, 
and rector of I llithtield, Staffordshire, in 1749; and rector 
of Malpas in 1751, where the rest of his life was spent. 
In 1781 he was made archdeacon of Biclimond, and in 
1783 was offered the professorship of divinity at Oxford, 
which he declined. He died April 15, 1792. 1 1 is most 

important works are his Discourses on the Four Gospels , 
chiefly with regal'd to the Peculiar Design of Fuck, and 
the Order ami Places in which they were. Written, pub- 
lished in 1778, which has passed through three edi- 
tions; and his Discourse on the Evangelical History 
front the Interment to the Resurrection of our Lord (1792). 
His collected works were issued in 2 vols. 8vo (Lond. 
1810), edited bv Balph Churton, A.M. See Allibone, 
Diet, of Brit, and A mer. Authors , s. v. ; Kit to, Cyclop. 
s. v. ; Chalmers, Biog. Did. s. v. 

Tozer, Henry, a learned Puritan divine, was bom 
at North Tawton, Devonshire, in 1602; was educated 
at Exeter College, Oxford, and was chosen fellow in 
1623. Having taken orders, he was engaged in moder- 
ating, reading to novices, and lecturing in the chapel, 
lie was adverse to overturning the establishment of the 
Church, and in 1643 declined to be one of the assembly 
of divines. He remained at Oxford, where be preached 
at Christ Church before the king, and at St. Mary’s be- 
fore the Parliament. lie was appointed in 1646 to take 
bis degree of D.D., but declined. Dr. Ilakewell, the 
rector, having left the college, the government, devolved 
on Mr. Tozer, as sub-rector, who manfully opposed the 
illegality of the parliamentary visitation, and maintained 
the rights and privileges of the college. In March, 1647- 
48, he was cited before the parliamentary visitors to an- 
swer the charge of “continuing the common prayer in 
the college after the ordinance for the directory (the 
new form) came in force; also for having sent for and 
admonished one of the house for refusing to attend the 
chapel prayers on that account.” He replied, in effect, 
“that, these matters referred to the discipline of the 
college, and that they could be submitted to no other 
visitors than those mentioned in the statutes,” meaning 
the bishop of Exeter. The visitors ordered him to be 
ejected, but Dr. Tozer continued to keep possession of 
the college for some time, and they expelled him from 
the college and university in June, 1648. He refused to 
| surrender the keys of the college, there being no rector 
to whom be could legally give them: as a consequence 
be was imprisoned. After a while he was allowed to 
remain in bis rooms in the college, and to enjoy the 
profits of a travelling fellowship for three years. On 
the strength of this he went to Holland and became 
minister to the English merchants at Botterdam. He 
died there Sept. 11, 1650. Mr. Tozer published a few 
occasional sermons, Directions for a Godly Life , etc. 
(1628. 8vo) : — Dicta et Facta Christ i ex qnutuor Evan- 
gelist is collecta (1634, Svo). See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. 
s. v. 

Trachoni'tis (Tpuywturt^) is mentioned in the 
Scriptures only in describing the political divisions of 
Palestine at the time of John the Baptist’s first public 
appearance: “Philip was then tetrarch of It urea and 
the region {\tbpac) of Trachonitis ” (Luke iii, 1). Al- 
though Trachonitis was a distinct and well-defined prov- 
ince, yet it appears that in this passage the phrase “ re- 
gion of Trachonitis” is used in a wider sense, and in- 
cluded two or three other adjoining provinces. As con- 
siderable misapprehension lias existed among geogra- 
phers regarding Trachonitis, and as its exact position 
and boundaries were first clearly ascertained by the re- 
searches of recent writers, it may be well in this place 


TRACI IOXITIS 


510 


TRACIIOXITIS 


to give a brief resume of the ancient notices of the 
province, ant} then to show how they can be applied in 
setting aside modern errors and establishing correct 
views. 

Josephus states that Uz, the son of Aram, founded 
Traehonitis and Damascus, which “lay between Pales- 
tine and Oudc-Syria” (.tw/. i, (>, -1). His next reference 
to it is when it was held by Zenodorus, the bandit chief. 
Then its inhabitants made frequent raids, as their suc- 
cessors do still, upon the territories of Damascus (.la/, 
xv, 10, l). Augustus took it from Zenodorus, and gave 
it to Herod the Great, on condition that he should re- 
press the robbers (.1?//. xvi, 0, 1). Herod bequeathed 
it to his son Philip, and his will was continued by Ce- 
sar (H '(/e, ii, 0, 3), This is the Philip referred to in 
Luke iii, 1. At a later period it passed into the hands 
of Ilcrod Agrippa (ll'u/\ iii. 3, 5). After t be conquest 
of this part of Syria by Cornelius Palma, in the begin- 
ning of the 2d century, we hear no more of Traehonitis. 

From various incidental remarks and descriptions in 
Josephus's writings, the position of Traehonitis in rela- 
tion to the other Transjordanic provinces may be ascer- 
tained. It lay on the east of Ganlonitis, while it bor- 
dered on both Auranitis and Bataiuea (liar, iv, 1, 1 ; 

i, 20, 4). It extended farther north than Gaulonitis, 
reaching to the territory of Damascus (Ant. xv, 10, 3, 
and 10, 1 ; I Pur, iii. 10,7). Ptolemy locates the Traeh- 
onitic Arabs along the base of Mount Alsadamus. and 
he includes this mountain in the province of Batamea, 
of which >Saeca?a was a chief town (Geogr.v, 15). Strabo 
states that there were two Trachons (Sco Tpa\iovt(f), 
and he groups Damascus and Trachon together, and 
states that, the latter country is rugged and wild, and 
the people daring robbers (Geogr. xvi, 11). Jerome, 
speaking of Kenath, calls it a city of Traehonitis near 
Bozrah (Onomast. s. v. “Canath”); and the writers of the 
Talmud extend Trachon as far as Bozrah (Light foot. 
Opp. ii, 473; comp. Jerome, Onomast . s. v, “Ituriea;” 
Belaud, Pahvst. p. 100 sq.). 

From these statements, compared with the results of 
modem research, the exact position and boundaries of 
this ancient province can be determined. It extended 
from the southern confines of Damascus, near the bank 
of the Liver Awaj (Pharpar), on the north, to Busrah 
(Bostra and Bozrah), on the south. Bozrah was the 
capital of Auranitis, and consequently that province lay 
along the southern end of Trachon. The province of 
< laulanitis (now Jaulau) was its western boundary. Ba- 
tan;ea has been identified with Ard cl-Bathanych, which 
embraces the whole ridge of Jebel llauran, at whose 
western base lie the splendid ruins of Kenath, one of 
the ancient cities of Trachon (Jerome, Onomast. s. v. 
“Canath,” “ Kenath”), Consequent!}' the ridge of Jebel 
llauran formed the eastern boundan’ of Trachon, which 
extended southward to Busrah in the plain, near the 
south-western extremity of the range (Porter, Damascus , 

ii, 259 sq,; also in Journal of Sac. Lit. for July, 1854). 
The region thus marked out embraces the modern dis- 
trict ol the Lejah. which may be considered the nucleus 
of Traehonitis; also the smooth plain extending from 
its- northern border to the ranges of Khivarah and Ma- 
nia. The rocky strip of land running along the west- 
ern base ol Jebel llauran, and separating the mountain- 
range from the smooth expanse of Auranitis, was like- 
wise included in Traehonitis. This may explain Stra- 
bo’s two 1 raehons. In the ruins of Mnsmeih, on the 
northern edge ol Lejah, Burckhardt discovered a Greek 
inscription which proves that that city was Phaeno. the 
ancient metropolis of Trachon (Travels in Syria , p. 117; 
see also Preface, p. xi). 

At first sight it might appear as if Trachon , or Tra- 
ckonitis (Tpa\uv, or Tpo^wi me), were only a Greek 
name applied to one of the subdivisions of the aneient 
kingdom of Italian; yet. there is evidence to show that 
it is a translation of a more ancient Shemitic appella- 
tion, descriptive of the physical nature of the region. 
Tpax'u r signifies rough and rugged ; and Tpaxwi irit- 


is “a rugged region” (rpa\rc tea! rrerpwfqc ro 7 roc),and 
peculiarly applicable to the district under notice. The 
I lebrew equivalent is .1 rrjob “ a heap of stones 

from 35"l = C5"i), which was the ancient name of an 
important part ol Og’s kingdom in Italian. The iden- 
tity of Trachon and Argob cannot now be questioned. 
It was admitted by the Jewish rabbins, for the Tar- 
gums read Ni'ZT ( Trachona ) instead of (.!?■- 

(job) in Dent, iii, 14 and 1 Kings iv, 13 (Ligbtfoot, Opp. 
ii, 473); and it is confirmed bv the fact that Kenath, 
one of the threescore great cities of Argob (1 Chron. ii, 
23), was also, as has been seen, a city of Trachon. Eu- 
sebius, led doubtless by similarity of names, confounded 
Argob with the castle of Erga or liagaba, near the con- 
tinence of the Jordan and Jabbok. In this lie has been 
followed by Belaud (Paltest. p. 959, 201), Bitter (Pal. 
vml Syr. ii, 1041), and even Bobinson (Bill. Res. App. p. 
1(50, 1st ed,). Nothing can be more clear, however, than 
that Argob, a large province of Italian containing sixty 
great cities, was quite distinct from Bagnba, an obscure 
castle in Gilead (Porter. Jhtmascns, ii, 271). Eusebius 
also confounded Traehonitis and Ituriea ( Onomast . s. v. 
“Ituriea”); a manifest error. William of Tyre gives a 
curious etymology of the word Traehonitis: “Yiiletur 
aiitom nobis a truconibus dicta. Tracones enim dieun- 
tur oeeulti et subterranei meatus, quibus ista regio alum- 
dat” (fiesta Dei per Francos . p.895). Be this as it may, 
there can be no doubt that the whole region abounds 
in caverns, some of which are of vast extent. Strabo 
refers to the caves in the mountains beyond Trachon 
(Geogr. xvi), and he affirms that one of them is so large 
that it would contain 4000 men. Travellers have vis- 
ited some spacious caves in Jebel llauran, and in the 
interior of the Lejah. 

The province of the Lejah (Arab, “the Betreat”) 
comprises the principal pari of t He Hebrew- Argob and 
Greek Trachon. It is oval in form, about twenty-two 
miles long by fourteen wide. Its physical features are 
unparalleled in Western Asia. It is a plain, but its 
surface is elevated above the surrounding plain to an 
average height of thirty feet or more. It is entirely 
composed of a thick stratum of black basalt, w hich ap- 
pears to have been emitted from pores in the. earth in 
a liquid state, and to have flowed out on every side 
until the surface of the plain was covered. Before com- 
pletely cooling, it seems to have been agitated as by a 
tempest, and then rent and shattered by internal con- 
vulsions. The enp-like cavities from which the liquid 
mass was projected are still seen; and likew ise the wavy 
surface such as a thick liquid generally assumes which 
cools while flow ing. There are deep fissures and yawn- 
ing gulfs with rugged broken edges; and there are jagged 
mounds that seem not to have been sufficiently heated 
to flow, but which were forced up by some mighty 
agency, and then rent and shattered to their centres. 
The rock is filled with air-bubbles, and is almost as hard 
as iron. “In the interior parts of the Lejah,” says 
Burckhardt, “the rocks are in many places cleft asun- 
der, so that the whole hill appears shivered and in the 
act of falling down; the layers are generally horizon- 
tal, from six to eight feet or more, in thickness, some- 
times covering the hills, and inclining to their curve, 
as appears from the fissures which traverse the rock 
from top to bottom” (Travels in Syria, p. 112). 

It is worthy of note how minutely this description 
accords with that of Josephus, who says of the inhab- 
itants of Trachon that it was extremely difficult to con- 
quer them or check their depredations, “as they had 
neither towns nor fields, but dwelt in caves that served 
as a refuge both for themselves and their flocks. They 
had, besides, cisterns of w-atcr and well-stored granaries, 
and were thus able to remain long in obscurity and to 
defy their enemies. The doors of their caves are so 
narrow that but one man can enter at a time, while 
within they are incredibly large and spacious. The 
ground above is almost a plain, but it is covered with 


TRACT 


511 TRACTS AND TRACT SOCIETIES 


rugged rocks, and is difficult of access, except when a 
guide points out the paths. These paths do not run in 
a straight course, but have many windings and turns” 

(. I nt. xv, 10, 1). 

The character of the inhabitants remains unchanged 
as the features of their country. They are wild, law- 
less robbers, and they afford a ready asylum to murder- 
ers, rebels, and outlaws from every part of Syria. It 
seems to have been so in Old-Test, times; for when 
Absalom murdered his brother, he tied to his mother's 
kindred in Geshur (a part of Traction), “and was there 
three years” (- Sam. xv, 87,38). See Gesui’u. 

It is a remarkable fact that the great cities of Ar- 
gob, famed at the time of the Exodus for their strength, 
exist still. The houses in many of them are perfect. 
The massive city walls are standing; and the streets, 
though long silent and deserted, are in some places com- 
plete as those of a modern town. The city gates, ami 
the doors and roofs of the houses, are all of stone, bear- 
ing the marks of the most remote antiquity. It is not 
too much to say that, in an antiquarian point of view, 
Traelnm is one of the most interesting provinces in 
Palestine (Porter, Hashan's Giant Cities; Burckhardt, 
Travels in Syria; Graham, in the . Journal of R. G. S. 
vol. xxviii; and Camb. Essays, 18f>8: Wetzstein, Reise- 
bericht iiber Han ran n ml die Traehonen). Such as desire 
to compare with the above account the views previous- 
lv set forth by geographers may consult Lightfoot, loc. 
cit. ; Belaud, Pahest. p. 108 sq. ; Cellarius, Geoyr. Ant. ii, 
617 sq. — Kitto. See A noon. 

Tract, a psalm, or portion of a psalm, sung in the 
Latin mass instead of the Gradual, on fixed days, from 
Septuagesima to Easter, after the Epistle. At the time 
at which the Church is commemorating the passion of 
our Lord, this Tract is slowly chanted in lieu of the joy- 
ous Gradual. It is called the Tract , as some ritualistic 
writers affirm, because it is drawn out in a slow and sol- 
emn strain. It is said that the psalm or hymn chant- 
ed by one voice was the Tract, and when the singer was 
interrupted by the choir his part was known as the 
versicle , and the portions allotted to them were called 
responsories. See Lee, Gloss, of Litury. Terms , s. v. ; 
Walcott, Sac. A rchevol. s. v. 

Tractarianism. See English Church ; Ox- 
ford Tracts; Puseyism. 

Tractator, the name given in the early Church to 
preachers and expositors of Scripture; his sermon or 
treatise being called Tractatus. See Bingham, Christ. 
Antiq. bk. xiv, eh. iv, § 1. 

Tractatus, the Latin name for a sermon, discourse, 
ete. 

Tractoriae, a name sometimes given to the circu- 
lar letters of metropolitans summoning the bishops to 
a council. These circular letters were a legal summons, 
which no bishop of the province might disobey under 
pain of suspension, or some such canonical censure. See 
Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. ii, eh. xvi, § 17. 

Tracts and Tract Societies. The term tract , 
although etymologically signifying something drawn 
out. (Lat. tractus ), has long been employed in the Eng- 
lish language to designate a short or condensed treatise 
in print. It has primary reference to the form of pub- 
lication, and is usually applied only to unbound sheets 
or pamphlets. Thus, a treatise on any topic may be 
published either in a book or tract form, the tract being 
much cheaper than the book, but also much more lia- 
ble to be injured or destroyed. While many political, 
scientific, and other tracts have been published, yet the 
vast majority of publications known" as tracts are of a 
religious character. So generally is this true that the 
word tract used without qualification rarely suggests 
any other idea than that of a brief religions treatise or 
appeal. To some extent the idea has been employed' 
by propagandists of error, but far more generally by 
lovers of truth and by persons willing to make sacrifices 


for its promotion. Had only miscellaneous tracts been 
published, or had the publication of tracts on religious 
subjects only taken place in an accidental or unsystem- 
atic manner, there would have been no occasion for this 
article. 

I. Occasion and Character of the Tract Mo cement . — 
There has, in fact, arisen a great Christian enterprise 
having for its objeet the publication and dissemination 
of religious tracts. This enterprise, like the Gospel it- 
self and other of its auxiliaries, has from small begin- 
nings grown to vast proportions and commanding in- 
fluence. Although its history is chiefly limited to the 
last one hundred years, it has already come to be con- 
sidered one of the cardinal agencies of Christian propa- 
gandism, taking rank with the missionary and Sunday- 
school enterprises, and serving as a powerful auxiliary to 
both. Although asserting no specific divine appoint- 
ment, it nevertheless claims to be authorized hv in- 
spired analogies. The sacred books both of the Old 
and the New Testaments were issued and circulated as 
separate treatises or tracts; so that the Bible itself, in 
its most approved modern form, may be said to be a 
bound volume of traets. 

The principle involved is that of giving truth a per- 
manent and available expression in written or printed 
language, thus enabling it to survive the voice of the 
living teacher, and to reach persons and places to which 
he could never have access. God, from the beginning, 
appointed language as the medium of communication 
between himself and man, as well as between man and 
man. lie spoke to our race, not only through the hear- 
ing of the ear, but also through the perceptions of the 
eye, thus consecrating both spoken and written language 
to the office of religious instruction. In giving a writ- 
ten law, he not only provided for the moral guidance of 
the generation to whom it was first addressed, but for 
all subsequent ages, while he also continued to teach 
and admonish men by the voice and the pen of proph- 
ets and holy men in stieeessive periods. As a counter- 
part of the spoken language to he used in preaching, the 
chosen diseiples of our Lord were inspired to write nar- 
ratives of the life, miraeles, and death of him who was 
the eternal Word, together with the aets and letters of 
the apostles embodying the instructions which they had 
personally received from the Lord himself, and which 
were thus handed down to those who should come after 
them. Spoken language has the advantage of instant 
readiness, wherever there is a tongue to speak and an 
ear to hear. It can also be varied with circumstances, 
and, adapted to the special wants and changing per- 
ceptions of those to whom it is addressed. On the other 
hand, written language is available at all times and in 
all places. It can be cheaply multiplied and scattered 
on the wings of the wind. It also endures from age to 
age, while living speakers die. Great as was the per- 
sonal influence of the apostles through the agency of 
spoken language, the influence of their writings has been 
infinitely greater. Their voices expired with their nat- 
ural life, but their written speech was immortal. It sur- 
vived all persecutions. It became embodied in many 
languages, and was diffused in every direction. It has 
come down through the centuries. It has been taken 
up by the modern printing-press, and having been trans- 
lated into hundreds of tongues and dialects, is now mul- 
tiplied more rapidly than ever before for the benefit of 
the present and succeeding generations. By this adjust- 
ment of Providence, the apostles, though dead, yet speak, 
and will continue to speak to increasing millions while 
the world endures; and those who read their writings 
may not only receive their teachings, but beeome par- 
takers and propagators of like precious faith. They 
may echo the truth which has made them free in their 
own forms of expression and with new adaptations to the 
ever-changing circumstances of humanity. 

A peculiarity of written language is that its dissemi- 
nation challenges co-operation from many not called 
to the office of preaching. Copyists, printers, purchas- 


TRACTS AXD TRACT SOCIETIES 51 

ers. ami distributors may in their several spheres co- 
operate to bring the truth of Hod by means of it into con- 
tact with human hearts. The tract enterprise, iti fact, 
employs and combines for a common purpose many and 
varied agencies. In order that a religions tract may be 
produced and started on a career of usefulness, there 
must first be a writer imbued with the spirit of truth 
and love, and willing to labor with his pen. in order to 
express bis thoughts in language at once attractive and 
impressive. Then there must be a pecuniary invest- 
ment for the publication of the document written. The 
task of publication, although possible to individuals, is 
best performed by public institutions, like the existing 
tract societies, which, having a corporate existence, 
live on though their founders die. Such societies can 
develop and carry out great systems of effort, which 
their projectors may only live to initiate. Superadded 
to the publication of tracts, in order to their extended 
usefulness, there must be co-operative and systematic 
agencies for their proper and continuous dissemination 
among readers. When this complicated machinery of 
moral and spiritual influence is appropriately organized, 
the humblest Christum may come into working rela- 
tions with it and he a helper to its highest success. 
Thenceforward there is* a grand copartnership of re- 
sults. in which those who write, who print, who circu- 
late. and who read may rejoice together. 

As an illustration of the endless stream of influences 
which may How onward from a single instance of bring- 
ing religious truth in a printed form to the attention of 
the unconverted, the following facts are condensed from 
authentic documents. in the latter part of the Kith 
century, a good man, known as Dr. Sibbs, wrote a little 
book entitled The Jimised Reed. A copy of that book, 
sold hv a poor peddler at the door of a lowly cottage in 
England, was the agency of the Christian awakening 
of Kiehard Baxter, who was born in 1015. ‘‘The addi- 
tional reading of a little piece of Mr. Perkins’s work On 
Repentance, borrowed from a servant,” says Baxter, in a 
sketch of his own life, “did further inform me and con- 
linn me; and thus, without anv means but books, was 
Cod pleased to resolve me for himself.” Thus brought 
to t lie knowledge and experience of the truth, Baxter 
became one of the most earnest, preachers and prolific 
writers of any age. He died in 1091, having published 
matter enough to till twenty-three large volumes. Two 
of Ids smaller works — The Call to the Unconverted and 
The Saints' Everlasting Rest — have passed through 
countless editions both in England and America, and, 
doubtless, will continue to he widely read in English- 
speaking countries while time endures. ( ff the full ex- 
tent of their influence it is impossible to form an ade- 
quate estimate, but here and there links in the chain 
<>f sequences can be discovered. Philip Doddridge, 
when young, borrowed the works of Baxter, and in due 
time became the author of the Rise and Progress of Re- 
ligion in the Soul, a work which led William Wilber- 
foree to seek for pardon through the Bedeemer. Wil- 
herforee’s Practical View of Christianity was the instru- 
ment employed by the Holy Spirit to lead to repentance 
and a true faith iu Christ Legh Biehtnond, the writer 
of The Young Cottager, The ! )airyman's Daughter, and 
various other tracts. 51 r. Richmond was a laborious 
clergyman, and for many years a secretary of the Be- 
ligious Tract Society of London. II is tracts above 
named have been translated into many languages, and 
have been instrumental, under the blessing of Hod, in 
the conversion of many precious souls. Only two dnvs 
before bis summons to a better world, be received a let- 
ter mentioning the conversion of two persons, one of 
them a, clergyman, by the perusal of his tract The 
Dairyman's Daughter. Nearly Haifa century has since 
passed away, hut the tract has lived on, and, by the help 
of printers, donors, and distributors, has continued to do 
its work; while many of those converted through its 
influence have themselves become successful actors in 
starting agencies of influence, destined to work on with 


2 TRACTS AXD TRACT SOCIETIES 

ever-increasing and multiplying power. Volumes might 
he tilled with incidents illustrating the utility and pow- 
er of tracts as an agency of evangelization and religious 
influence both in Christian and pagan lands. In fact, 
judging from the reports and annals of the various tract 
organizations, no branch of Christian activity has been 
more uniformly productive of t he best, results than tract- 
distribution. 

While the tract enterprise may thus he spoken of in 
its separate character, it should be borne in mind that 
it seldom nets or stands alone. Its most approved modes 
of action are in connection with Church work at home 
and missionary effort abroad ; consequently its best fruits 
will doubtless he found in the great day to have been 
the joint product of many forms of Christian activity. 
It may be confidently urged that Christian work in con- 
nection with the use of religious tracts is practicable to 
a greater number of people of every age and circum- 
stance in life than any other generally recognised agenev 
of usefulness. Comparatively few are called to be min- 
isters or missionaries. Many cannot be Sunday-school 
teachers. But who cannot, be the hearer or sender of a 
tract? — who, indeed, cannot, with comparatively little 
sacrifice, circulate many tracts through channels of busi- 
ness, in public thoroughfares, through the mails, and, 
what is better than any other way, by personal presen- 
tation ? 

The present is a reading age, and while, on the one 
hand, it is important to antagonize the evils resulting 
from bad reading in all its forms, on the other hand 
there is no community in which many persons may not 
be found who will have little, if any, good reading that 
is not brought to them by the hand of benevolence. 
He that searches them out and bestows upon them good 
gifts in the form of Christian tracts and books, accom- 
panied, if need be, with other acts of kindness, will sel- 
dom fail of doing good; but lie who adds to the tract 
earnest Christian inquiry or conversation will do still 
greater good, and in many instances secure an interest 
in such promises as these — “He which eonvertetli the 
sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from 
death” (James v, 20); “And they that, turn many to 
righteousness [shall shine] as the stars for ever and 
ever” (Dan. xii, 3). Ministers of the Gospel especially 
should consider it a great privilege to have provided 
and reailv to their hand a large supply of Christian 
truth strongly stated, neatly printed, and specially 
adapted to aid and render permanent the very work 
they are endeavoring to do by preaching and pastoral 
labor. In this respect the publications of the tract so- 
cieties become ail arsenal filled with legitimate weapons 
of the Christian warfare, a vast, store of fixed ammuni- 
tion with which to defend the citadel of Christian truth, 
and to assault the positions of the adversary. 

In the pulpit the minister is chiefly limited to his 
own thoughts and expressions. In the use. of tracts he 
may avail himself of the best thoughts, the largest ex- 
perience, and the ablest statements of the wisest men 
who have used their pen for the glory of Hod, His 
own spoken words may vanish with the breath which 
utters them. At most, they are not likely to be long 
remembered ; but the prfnted pages which he scatters 
may remain to be perused when the giver is dead, and 
may even descend to coming generations. In preach- 
ing, the minister is limited to his own personal efforts, 
and can only address those who come to hear him. In 
his pastoral work he is at liberty to seek out the people; 
and often the present of a tract or a book will secure for 
him the friendship and the interested attention of those 
who would not have volunteered to enter his congrega- 
tion. Besides, in the work of tract-distribution, a hun- 
dred willing hands can help him, and feet “shod with 
the preparation of the Hospel of peace” will run for him 
in paths of duty farther and oftener than he with the 
utmost diligence can hope to go himself. Ministers 
should therefore enlist their people in the practical work 
of tract-distribution. This is too great and too good a 


TRACTS AND TRACT SOCIETIES 51 

work to be confined to a few. Specially appointed tract 
committees and visitors have their duties, which should 
neither be omitted nor excused ; yet no individual should 
consider his or her personal responsibility relieved by 
the official appointment of others. The truth is, that 
in order to the full accomplishment of tract-distribution 
as a means of evangelical effort in any community, both 
svstematic and occasional, public and individual, exer- 
tions must be put forth. The periodical distribution of 
tracts through districts and towns is very important, 
but it has disadvantages. For instance, where the dis- 
trict is large there is not time lor sufficient personal con- 
versation with different characters; besides, many will 
not listen to the voice of a stranger. If the Christian 
acquaintances of such persons should give them tracts 
as tokens of friendship, and follow up the gift with af- 
fectionate warning and entreaty, the end would he more 
effectually gained. Thus it is that individual Chris- 
tians, in their several circles of acquaintance and busi- 
ness, have a work to do in which well-selected tracts 
may furnish invaluable aid. 

II. History of Initial Tract Enterprises. — Aside 
from the circulation of portions of the IIolv Script- 
ures in fragmentary or tract form, the use of tracts as 
an agency of religious usefulness dates from the dawn 
of the Reformation in Europe. Long before the inven- 
tion of printing, the early Reformers sent out their little 
tractates to awaken and instruct the people who still sat 
under the shadow of the Dark Ages. Wvcliffe’s writ- 
ings were the means of extensive usefulness. lie sent 
out more than one hundred volumes, small and great, 
besides his translation of the Bible. Notwithstanding 
many of his works were burned and people were forbid- 
den to read them on pain of death, yet they spread far 
and wide. Like seeds of truth borne by the wind, they 
lodged on the soil of the Continent, and brought forth 
fruit there in after-years. Works produced bv the writ- 
ers of that period, although extensively useful, were 
greatly hindered in their circulation by the size and ex- 
pensiveness of the manuscript form in which they were 
issued. 

The invention of printing in the loth century re- 
moved many formidable obstacles to the diffusion of 
truth, and greatly stimulated the literary efforts of those 
who were striving to reform the Church. Luther ap- 
peared, and by his powerful writings and those of his 
associates, millions of people were led to renounce the 
errors than which they previously knew nothing betrer. 
The efforts of the later Reformers are thus characterized 
by one of their opponents: “The Gospellers of these 
days do fill the realm with so many of their noisome 
little books that they be like to the swarms of locusts 
which did infest the land of Egypt.” Fox, the martyr- 
ologist, exults over the work and promise of the art of 
printing in language like this: “God hath opened the 
press to preach, whose voice the pope is never able to 
stop with all the puissance of his triple crown. By this 
printing, as by the gift of tongues and as by the singu- 
lar organ of the Holy Spirit, the doctrine of the Gospel 
soundeth to all nations and countries under heaven; 
and what God revealed unto one man is dispersed to 
many; and what is known to one nation is opened to 
ail ” 

In the 17th century several traces are found of asso- 
ciations for promoting the printing and sale of religious 
works, while much good resulted from the efforts of in- 
dividuals, both in England and on the Continent. At 
length, movements on a larger scale began to be made 
in the line of associated efforts for the diffusion of truth 
in printed form. The earlier organizations of this kind, 
though not strictly tract societies, were preliminary, 
and in some sense introductory, to the great institu- 
tions subsequently formed for the exclusive object of 
printing and circulating religions tracts. In 1701 
the Society for l’romoting Christian Knowledge was 
established in England. In 1742 t he Rev. John Wes- 
leyan the prosecution of his evangelical work in Great 
X.— K k 


3 TRACTS AND TRACT SOCIETIES 

Britain, commenced printing and circulating religious 
tracts by personal effort and the co-operation of the 
preachers associated with him. In 1750 the Society 
for Promoting Religious Knowledge among the Poor 
was organized. In 1756 societies Ibr a similar object 
were commenced both in Edinburgh and Glasgow. Al- 
though the three societies named accomplished good, 
they did not remain permanently established. In 1782 
Mr. Wesley instituted a Society for the Distribution 
of Religious Tracts among the Poor. In his published 
proposals in behalf of the society, he said, “1 cannot but 
earnestly recommend this to all those who desire to see 
true scriptural Christianity spread throughout these 
nations. Men wholly unawakened will not take the 
pains to read the Bible. They have no relish for it. 
But a small tract may engage their attention for half 
an hour, and may, by the blessing of God, prepare them 
for going forward.” Membership in the society required 
the subscription of half a guinea or more, for which a 
(plot a of tracts would be delivered yearly. The publi- 
cations of the society at that, date were thirty in num- 
ber, embracing All ei lie’s Alarm, Baxter’s Call, Ten Short 
Sermons, Tokens for Children, A Word to a Soldier, A 
Word to a Sailor , A Word to a Swearer, A Word to a 
Sabbath-breaker, A Word to a Drunkard, etc. It is not 
difficult to sec in the above scheme, the germ of the larg- 
est tract societies now in existence. Its tenor, more es- 
pecially when taken in connection with Mr. Wesley’s 
methods of supplying religious books wherever his soci- 
eties existed or his preachers went, fully authorized the 
following assertion of his biographer, Richard Watson: 
“lie was probably the first to use, on any extensive 
scale, this means of popular reformation.” About 1700 
Hannah More appeared as a writer of popular tracts. 
Her first tract, entitled William Chip, was published 
anonymously. Having been encouraged by its recep- 
tion, she prepared, with the aid of her sisters, a series of 
small publications, entitled The Cheap Repository Tracts. 
In a private memorandum, published after her decease, 
she said, “ 1 have devoted three years to this work. 
Two millions of these tracts were disposed of during the 
first year. God works by weak instruments to show 
that the glory is all his own.” From that time forward 
the number of persons who made themselves useful by 
publishing and circulating tracts in various ways be- 
came considerably increased. Among them honorahle 
mention may be made of Mrs. Rebecca Wilkinson, of 
Clapham; Rev. Charles Simeon, of Cambridge; and Rev. 
John Campbell, of Edinburgh. 

III. Tract Societies distinctively so-called. — The time 
had now arrived for broader and more thoroughly or- 
ganized movements in behalf of the tract enterprise. 
The Religious Tract Society of London was initiated in 
May, 1799. Rev.Gcorge Burder, Rowland Hill, Matthew 
Wiiks, Joseph Hughes, and others were among its or- 
ganizers. A rule of the society, like that of Mr. Wes- 
ley before noted, provided that its membership “consist 
of persons subscribing half a guinea or upwards annu- 
ally.” The society was placed upon a basis of broad 
catholicity. Its object was defined to be the publica- 
tion of “those grand doctrinal and practical truths 
which have in every age been mighty through God in 
converting, sanctifying, and comforting souls, and by the 
influence of which men may have been enabled, while 
they lived, to live to the Lord, and when they died to die 
unto the Lord.” It is impossible, to give in this article 
a detailed history of any of the societies enumerated; 
brief and general notices must suffice. But in the brief- 
est notice of the Religious Tract Society of London, it is 
not too much to say that in the eighty years of its ex- 
istence ^t has well and faithfully illustrated the catholic 
and evangelical principles announced by its founders in 
the beginning. In so doing it lias accomplished its ob- 
jects on a grand scale and to an unforeseen extent. An 
incidental event of the most interesting character grew 
out of the operations of the Religions Tract Society in 
the third year of its existence. It was no loss than the 


TRACTS AND TRACT SOCIETIES 514 TRACTS AND TRACT SOCIETIES 


preliminary step towards the organization of the llritish 
ami Foreign Bible Society — the parent Bible Society of 
the world. See Biui.k Societies. 

For a score of years the business of the Religious 
Tract Society was of such a moderate extent that a 
small hired depository sufficed for its transaction. 
From 1820 the business so expanded as to require 
the occupation of enlarged premises in Paternoster 
Row, where, in 1843-44, its present commodious build- 
ings were erected. The design of the society contem- 
plated the double purpose of sales at or near cost, and 
gratuitous distribution. Both phases of its work were 
therefore limited to its supply of funds. Its only in- 
come, at lirst, was from the annual subscriptions of its 
members. Hut by degrees, and as necessity required, 
additions were made from other sources, such as congre- 
gational collections, auxiliary societies, life- member- 
ships, legacies, and special donations. As the operations 
of the society increased, new mid varied, forms of action 
were developed, including not only sales through depos- 
itories, but by hawkers or peddlers throughout the prov- 
inces. 1 halations were made not only of tracts, but of as- 
sorted libraries to soldiers’ barracks, to sea-going vessels, 
to emigrant and convict-ships, to workhouses, to coast- 
guard stations, to missionaries’ families, to clergymen, 
to schoolmasters, and city missionaries, to be used for 
loaning to persons in destitute circumstances. During 
the lirst tive years of the society’s existence, it publish- 
ed only sixty-six different tracts in the ordinary form. 
Subsequently it began to enlarge the variety as well as 
the number of its publications, Broadsheets, handbills, 
childrens’ books, periodicals adapted to different ages 
and classes, monthly volumes, standard works, and even 
commentaries on the Scriptures came in turn to be reg- 
ularly and constantly issued under the imprint, of the 
society. From active work in different parts of Great 
Britain, the society was led to extend its work into for- 
eign Helds. Such an extension had not been originally 
contemplated, but nevertheless took place in the order 
of Frovidence, and became a striking illustration of the 
expansive nature of true Christian benevolence. The 
circumstance which Hrst led to the preparation of tracts 
in foreign languages was the obvious duty of giving re- 
ligious instruct ion to a number of prisoners-of-war con- 
lined in England ; and the Hrst foreign languages in 
which t lie society’s tracts were published were the 
French and the Dutch. As was to have been expected, 
the foreign prisoners, when released, carried more or less 
of the tracts they had received to their own countries, 
and thus, to some extent, created a demand for more 
and similar publications in those countries. About the 
same time, a correspondence sprang up between the so- 
ciety and representative evangelical Christians in most 
of the nations of Europe. Soon afterwards the enter- 
prise of foreign missions began to be extended to va- 
rious pagan nations. I?y similar processes, the work of 
the Religious Tract Society has been expanding and en- 
larging ever since, with a prospect of continuous expan- 
sion and usefulness in time to come. 

The Reports of the society from year to year have been 
replete with interesting details, not only of progress, but 
also of results; and yet it may safely be inferred that the 
good which has been directly and indirectly accom- 
plished through its instrumentality has not half been 
told. Eternity only can reveal the full extent of in- 
Hncnees that have been so far-reaching, and in many 
instances so remote from ordinary human observation. 
A few items, condensed from the society’s official docu- 
ments, may serve as partial indications of tbc magnitude 
to which, from the small beginnings noted above, its oper- 
ations have grown. The society has printed important 
tracts and books in one hundred and twenty different 
languages and dialects. Its present annual issues from 
its own depositories and those of foreign societies, 
through which it acts, are about sixtv-three millions, 
and its aggregate issues during eighty years past, have 
been about two thousand millions. It has co-operated 


with every Protestant Christian mission in the world. 
It has assailed popery on the Continent of Europe, Mo- 
hammedanism in the -East, and paganism of various 
forms in heathen lands. It has given a Christian liter- 
ature to nations just emerging from barbarism. Its 
publications have passed the wall, of China, and have 
entered the palace of the Celestial emperor. They have 
instructed the princes of Burmah, and opened the self- 
sealed lips of the devotee, in India. They have gone to 
the sons of Africa to teach them, in their bondage, the 
liberty of the Gospel. They have preached Christ cruci- 
Hed to the Jew and also to the Greek; while in the home 
land they have continued to offer the truths and conso- 
lations of religion to soldiers, to sailors, to prisoners, to 
the inmates of hospitals, and, in short, to rich and poor 
in every circumstance of life. In the year 1849, the 
Religious Tract Society celebrated its semi-centennial 
jubilee. In connection with that interesting event, a 
large jubilee fund was raised to increase the usefulness 
of the society. A jubilee memorial volume was also 
published, setting forth in an able and interesting man- 
ner the history of its Hrst Hftv years of work and prog- 
ress. When, in the year 1899, the society shall cele- 
brate its centennial, a still grander showing of results 
may be expected. 

The additional tract societies of Great Britain, aside 
from merely local organizations, are not numerous. The 
following are the principal: The Religious Tract and 
Book Society of Scotland (Edinburgh). The primary 
organization of this society dates back to 1793. It is 
not a publishing society, and for many years had a feeble 
existence. About. 1850 it adopted a system of colportage 
similar to that of the American Tract Society, and. since 
that period, has greatly multiplied its influence and use- 
fulness. It embraces branch societies at Glasgow and 
Aberdeen, and employs some two hundred colporteurs. 
The Stirling Tract Enterprise, founded in 1848, is chiefly 
a publishing institution, issuing both tracts and period- 
icals. The Dublin Tract Society issues tracts in large 
numbers. The Monthly Tract Society, London, v’as in- 
stituted in 1837. 

In passing from Great Britain to other countries, the 
number of tract societies is found to be very great. For 
tlie most part, they combine, publication with distribu- 
tion, receiving aid from the Religious Tract Society of 
London to enable them to publish tracts and books in 
their several localities. It is therefore deemed sufficient 
to give the title and date of organization, omitting de- 
tails of history and statistics, although in many instances 
of great interest. 

Conti next of Europe. — Tract Society of Norway anil 
Denmark, 1799 ; Stockholm Evangelical Society, 1S15; Re- 
ligions Tract Society of Finland, ISIS; Tract Society of 
Copenhagen, 1820; Stuttgart Tract Society, 1S13; Prussian 
Tract Society, Berlin, 1815 ; Tract Society of Wnpperthal, 
1S14 ; Lower Saxony Tract Society, Hamburg, 1S20 ; Tract 
Society of Leipsie, 1821 ; The Netherlands Tract Society, 
1S21 ; The Belgian Tract Society, 1S35; The Belgian Evan- 
gelical Society, 1S39; Religions Tract Society of Paris, 1S20; 
Evangelical Society of France, 1S29 ; Religious Book So- 
ciety of Toulouse, 1S35 ; Tract Society of Berne, 1S02 ; 
Tract Society of Basle, IS f 0 ; Tract Societies of Lausanne, 
Nenfchfitel, and Geneva, 1S28; Evangelical Society of Ge- 
neva, 1S31 ; Tract Societies of !St. Gall. Zurich, ail’d Chur, 
1S34 ; Tract and Book Publishing House of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, Bremen. 1850. 

India — N ative Tract Society at Nagercoil, Travail core, 
1824; Calcutta Book and Tract Society, 1825; Tract Socie- 
ties of Madras, Bellary, Belganm, Bombay, Surat, and Be- 
nares, 1S25-26 ; Tract Societies of Bangalore, Orissa, Al- 
lepie, Chunar, and Quilon, 1829-30; Tract Societies ofMir- 
zapore, Vizngapntam, Cnddapah, Neyoor, and Mangalore, 
1832-40; Jaffna Religious Tract Society, 1825; Tract So- 
cieties of Cotta and Colombo, 1S35 ; Ceylon Christian Ver- 
nacular Education Society and Religious Tract Society, 
IStJO ; North India Tract Society, Allahabad ; Punjaub Re- 
ligious Book Society ; The Christian Union of Java, 1833; 
Tract. Society of Mauritius, 1S24; Burmah Bible and Tract 
Society, 1861. 

China — From the beginning of Christian missions in 
China the circulation of religious tracts and books has 
been diligently prosecuted. To that end nearly every 
separate mission has served as a publishing agency of 
greater or less extent. Almost all the missions have re- 


TRACTS AND TRACT SOCIETIES 515 TRACTS AND TRACT SOCIETIES 

torv, and helps to Biblical study. Among what are 
called its home publications, 1584 distinct issues arc in 
foreign languages, viz. German, French, Spanish, Ital- 
ian, Portuguese, Swedish, Welsh, Dutch, Danish, Fin- 
nish, and Hungarian, designed for immigrants coming 
to the United States. Of its home publications in the 
English language, 28.000,000 volumes, besides about 
3,000,000.000 pages of tracts, have been issued. < >f its 
periodicals, several of which are illustrated and printed 
in the highest style of typography, over 5,000,000 are 
issued 3’ early to 350,000 subscribers. This society lias 
become distinguished for its faithful and systematic 
prosecution of the work of colportage. By its agents, 
employed chiefly in frontier and destitute sections of 
the country’, it has within a period of forty* years done 
a work equal to that of one man for more than 5000 
years. It has sold more than 11,000,000 volumes, ami 
donated 3,000,000 to destitute persons and families. It 
has made more than 12,000,000 visits to families; in 
about 1,000,000 of which no religious book was found, 
with the exception of Bibles in about one third of the 
number. It has thus done much to meet the moral and 
religious wants of oitr frontier population in advance of 
schools and churches. It is accustomed to make grants 
each year of fifty thousand dollars’ worth of its publica- 
tions for circulation in prisons and hospitals, in Sab- 
bath-schools and mission-schools, in cities and remote 
and lonely hamlets, to soldiers and to sailors on our in- 
land waters, and in hundreds of outward-bound vessels 
for every corner of the globe. The foreign work of the 
society* has been chiefly accomplished through dona- 
tions of mone}’ granted to missionaries in seventy dif- 
ferent foreign stations. By means of some $700,000 
thus appropriated, the society* has printed, in 145 differ - 
ent languages and dialects, not less than 4211 distinct 
publications, including G40 volumes. Thus “fruits of 
the society’s sowing may be found in almost every* land 
— from Bussia to the Cape of Good Hope, and lrom 
China in the East to Hawaii in the West.” 

As a summary showing of the work accomplished 
by* a distributing tract societ} r , the following items are 
copied from the Beport of the New York City Mission 
and Tract Society for 1880: 


ceived from the tract societies of England and America 
aid for their work of publication. In ISIS the Chinese 
Religious Tract Society was organized at Shanghai. 
It is°com posed of representative missionaries of various 
churches, and proposes to organize auxiliaries and local 
societies’wherever Christian churches are established. 

Japan. Active measures are in progress for the prep- 

aration and diffusion of Christian tracts and books in 
Japan. But as vet such efforts are limited to the various 
missions aided by the principal Bible and Tract societies 
of England and America. 

AottiVama.— Tract Society of Sydney, 1823 ; Tract So- 
ciety of Van Diemen’s Land, 1837; Religious Tract Society 
of Victoria, 1855; Victoria Tract Distribution Society, 

^New Zealand.— New Zealand Tract Society, 1839; Wel- 
lington Tract Society, 184$. 

Soirrn Africa.— Cape Town Auxiliary Tract Society, 
1820; South African Ladies’ Tract and Book Society, 1S32. 

West Indies.— Jamaica Tract Society, 1835 ; New Provi- 
dence Tract Society, 1S37. 

Canada. — Tract Society of Quebec, 1S24 ; Tract Society 
of Montreal, 1S25; Religions Tract Society of Toronto, 
1S24; Beligious Tract Society of Halifax, 1824: Religious 
Tract Society of St. Johns, N. B., 1825; British American 
Book and Tract Society, Halifax, 1SGS. 

United States op America. — Massachusetts Society 
for the Promotion of Christian Knowledge, 1803 ; Con- 
necticut Religions Tract Society, 1807; Vermont Relig- 
ions Tract Society, 180S; The Protestant Episcopal Tract 
Society, ISO 1 .); New York Religions Tract Society, 1812; 
Evangelical Tract Society, Boston, 1813; Albany Relig- 
ions Tract Society, 1S13 ; New England Tract Society. 

: ioik. td.. 


1824; American Tract Society, Boston, 1823; American 
Tract Society, New York, 1825; New York City Tract So- 
ciety, 1827 ; New York City Mission and Tract Society, 
1864; Willard Tract Society, Boston, 1866; Monthly Tract 
Society of the United States, New York, 1S74. 

It is not within the design of this article to give the 
history* of the tract societies enumerated ; but it is proper 
to remark that various modifications have taken place 
in the title and specific character of some of the earlier 
American organizations. In several instances primary 
associations have been merged in the formation of more 
important societies, while others have continued under 
new names and with modified forms of action. With 
increasing experience, the tendency has been to cen- 
tralize the work of publication in a few strong societies, 
and to multiply the agencies of distribution outward 
from the great centres of publication. A few examples 
of combination and reconstruction may be noted. The 
New England Tract Society, organized in 1814, became 
ill 1823 the American Tract Society, having its location 
in Boston. The same society* in 1878 was merged in 
the American Tract Society* which was organized in 
New York in 1825. The last-named arrangement was 
consummated none too soon, as great confusion had 
arisen from having two publishing societies of the same 
corporate name. The Baptist General Tract Society, 
organized in Washington in 1824, was subsequently^ 
transferred to Philadelphia, and in 1840 became, wifh 
enlarged designs, the American Baptist Publication 
Society. The New York Methodist Tract Society, 
organized in 1817, subsequently* became incorporated 
as the Tract Society* of the Methodist Episcopal 
Church. 

As a counterpart to the above sketch of the rise and 
development of the Beligious Tract Society* of London, 
and as a specimen illustration of results from about 
half a century’s operations of a similar American or- 
ganization, the following facts are condensed from offi- 
cial publications of the American Tract Society: The 
society has a large and commodious building in Nassau 
Street, New York, with twenty steam-presses, tens of 
thousands of stereotype plates, and every facility* for 
composing, printing, binding, storing, and issuing its 
own publications to the number of 4000 books, 30.000 
tracts, and 20,000 papers daily*. It is therefore enabled 
to abate, in fixing the prices of books, what otherwise 
would have to be added for rent of buildings hired, and 
for the profits of trade. It numbers on its list about G000 
distinct publications, including, besides tracts and hand- 
bills of various kinds, 1240 volumes of biography*, his- 


23,53<l 

15.200 

253,375 

55,501 


RESULTS OF FIFTY-THREE YEARS’ PRACTICAL WORK. 

Years of missionary labor 1,216 

Missionary visits 2,342,205 

Tracts in English and other languages dis-) 50770740 

! tribnted f ’ ’ 

1 Bibles and Testaments supplied to the des-) 207 

tiinie / J ’ 

Books loaned and given 171.708 

Children gathered into Sabbath-schools 112,954 

j Children gathered into day-schools 

| Persons gathered into Bible-classes 

Persons induced to attend Church 

I Temperance pledges obtained 

Religions meetings held 122,100 

Persons restored to church fellowship 3,150 

Converts united with evangelical churches 13.650 

The total amount expended in fifty-three years, $1,170, - 

110 . 01 . 

Iu addition to the above sum expended in the regular 
missionary operations of the society, more than $ 100,000 
have been raised for building mission stations and 
chapels. 

The detailed statistics of the tract enterprise in its 
various forms of action would fill many* volumes with 
facts of intense interest, and form a just basis not only* 
of admiration for its past success, but also of high ex- 
pectation for its expanding and multiplying influence 
in the \*ears and centuries to come. 

IV. 'Collateral Publishing Organizations. — Before pro- 
ceeding to enumerate the more important of them, some 
words of explanation seem necessary. In the develop- 
ment of the tract enterprise, various kinds of organiza- 
tions have been found necessary* or expedient. Only a 
few have become great publishing institutions, and no 
other one has attained such a magnitude of operations 
as that of the Religious Tract Society* of London. Never- 
theless, societies for the effective and appropriate distri- 


TRACY 


TRACTS AND TRACT SOCIETIES 5 

bution of tracts have been fouml essential to the object 
of the enterprise as a whole. They have worked in 
more limited spheres, but have proved indispensable 
to the highest forms of success. Religions reading, 
when merely printed, has no more value than other 
merchandise. A single tract, brought to the eye and 
heart of an interested reader, accomplishes more for 
(lod and humanity than millions of pages resting upon 
the shelves of a depository. Societies, therefore, that 
circulate religious publications, and especially by the 
agenev of skilful and sympathetic Christian workers, 
deserve high respect. Not all of them bear the spe- 
cilio name of tract society. Some of them have min- 
gled the work of Bible and tract distribution. Some; 
have adopted colportage as their chief form of work, 
while others have devoted t heir energies largely to 
other forms of evangelization. In this state of the 
case, it may not be possible to give a complete list ot 
all the societies that have been organized to promote 
the circulation of religious tracts. Still less possible 
would it be to give, within a convenient space, the full 
historical data of all such institutions. Fortunately, 
however, numerous Get nils are quite unnecessary, since 
specimen sketches like those given above arc sntti- 
ciently descriptive of all similar institutions and their 
auxiliaries, whether conducted on a larger or smaller 
scale. 

As to plan of organization, there are two classes of 
tract and book publication societies. One class repre- 
sents united Christian effort in the sense of being com- 
posed of the members of different churches. The other 
is denominational in the sense of separate church ac- 
tion. These two classes of societies, though distinct 
from each other, are by no necessity antagonistic. 
They may, ami usually do, simply represent different 
modes of accomplishing the same or similar objects. 
While in England, owing to the pre-eminence and 
catholicity of the Religious Tract Society, denomina- 
tional action has generally limited itself to the work of 
dissemination, there is at least one important example 
of separate church action — it is that of the Wesleyan 
Methodist Church. By that body the joint enterprise 
of tract and book publication and circulation has been 
continued from the time of its inception by the Rev. 
John Wesley in the first half of the 18th century. The 
publications of the Wesleyan book -room embrace a 
large assortment of tracts, a variety of periodicals, and 
a large list of religious books. A due proportion of 
its tracts and books has been prepared and printed in 
foreign languages, in adaptation to the wants of the 
various mission fields of that Church. Book affairs 
constitute a standard topic of business at the annual 
meeting of the Conference, which officially appoints a 
publishing agent and the requisite editors. It also ap- 
points a tract committee charged with the duty of pro- 
moting the circulation of tracts by means of auxiliary 
and loan societies and suitable grants. As a branch of 
church work, cities, villages, and country neighborhoods 
are districted for consecutive ami periodical visitation 
by tract-distributors. In America, several of the more 
prominent denominations maintain publication societies 
both of tracts and books on a similar plan, although few 
arc as thorough in the work of dissemination. 

The Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge, 
founded in London in the early part of the present cen- 
tury, deserves in several respects to be classed along- 
side of the publishing tract societies of England. It 
issues, chiefly on business principles, a large assortment 
of books adapted to juvenile. Sunday-school, and popu- 
lar reading, all of which have for their object at least 
indirect Christian influence, besides many thousands of 
religious tracts. 

in addition to facts heretofore stated, it must be borne 
in mind that the Sunday-school unions (q. v.) of the 
United States have to a large extent provided the 
Sunday-school tracts and books used by the different 
churches, and thus covered an important department 


of publication embraced within the operations of the 
Religious Tract. Society of Loudon. Besides these, sev- 
eral denominational religious publishing houses have 
grown up, in which vast numbers of tracts, books, and 
periodicals are printed. 

The oldest and largest of these is the Book Concern 
of the Methodist Episcopal Church, which was a direct 
outgrowth of 31 r. Wesley’s publication enterprise in 
England, mentioned above. It was begun in Phila- 
delphia by ollieial action of the Church in 1789, and in 
1804 was removed to New York, where its principal es- 
tablishment has since remained. It has branch pub- 
lishing-houses in Cincinnati. Chicago, and St. Louis, to- 
gether with depositories in most of the large cities. 

Corresponding in character to the above are the 
American Baptist Publication .Society and the Presby- 
terian Board of Publication, both located in Philadel- 
phia. All the institutions thus far named publish more 
or less books and tracts on the subject of temperance. 
But in 1800 t lie National Temperance Society was or- 
ganized in New York, for the express purpose of pro- 
viding a cheap and sound literature on all subjects re- 
lating to theoretical and practical temperance. The 
National Temperance Publication House may therefore 
he numbered among the tract and hook publishing in- 
stitutions of the United States. Its publications, al- 
ready six hundred in number, are circulated to some 
extent through Sunday-schools, but more extensively 
through auxiliary temperance organizations in all parts 
of the land. It may thus he seen that from small begin- 
nings less than a century ago, a vast system of tract 
and book publication in the interest of Christianity has 
sprung up and spread abroad its influence in most of 
the countries and languages of the world. 

V. The literature of the subject is as yet chiefly to 
be foumi in the annual reports of the various societies 
and institutions above enumerated. The Jubilee fi/f- 
morial Volume of the Religious Tract Society (Loud. 
1850, 700 pp. 8vo) is a specimen of many similar vol- 
umes that, will hereafter he forthcoming from that and 
other societies. (D. P. K.) 

Tracts fop. the Times. See Fuseyism. 

Ti actus. See Tract. 

Tracy, Bernard Destult de, a French ascetic 
writer, was born Aug. 25. 1720. at Pnray-le-Fraisil. near 
Moulins. At the age of sixteen he joined the Then- 
tines. and passed his whole life in retirement and piety. 
He died in Paris, Aug. 14, 1878. lie is the author i»f 
several works on practical religion and the biographies 
of saints, for which see Hoefer, Xour. Bioy. Generate , 
s. v. 

Tracy, William, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, 
was horn at Norwich, Conn.. June 2. 1807. He went io 
P hiladelphia and united with the Church in Fehntarv, 
1827. Being induced, by the advice of Rev. John L. 
Grant, to study for the ministry, he accordingly en- 
tered Williamstown Academy, and from thence Williams 
College, where he remained three years, but left be- 
fore graduation. After this he taught school a year 
in Lexington. Kv. Then he spent a year in Andover 
'I'heologieal Seminary, and thence went to Princeton 
Seminary, where he remained two years. He was 
licensed to preach in 1835. and was ordained by the 
Philadelphia Presbytery as an evangelist. Having de- 
voted himself to the work of foreign missions, he sailed 
for India, and, having reached Madras, he went to the 
Madura district, his field of labor, in 1837. lie estab- 
lished a hoarding-school at Tirumangalnm. which grew 
to a high-grade seminary, having fifty pupils. Hi re lie 
spent twenty-two years of his life, and he educated more 
than 250 young men. He prepared many text-books 
in theology and science, and gave important aid in revis- 
ing the Tamil Bible. In November, 1877. bis youngest 
son and wife joined him and his mother in India as 
missionaries, to share their labors and their home, 


TRADE 


517 


TRADITION 


but bis work was clone. After the Sabbath which lie 
spent in the sanctuary, he was attacked with rheumat- 
ic cramps and diarrhoea, which brought, him rapidly 
to the end, and lie died at Tinupuvanam, Nov. 28, 1877. 
(W. P. S.) 

Trade. See Mechanic; Merchant. 

Traditio (kt Rethhtio) Symiiou (delivery of the 
creed). These words are used by ecclesiastical writers 
in reference to the practice generally adopted of re- 
quiring baptized persons to repeat the Creed and the 
Lord’s Prayer, in which they had previously been in- 
structed. In the case of infants the sponsors at first re- 
peated these formularies on behall'of t lie child for whom 
they answered; but afterwards, in the Middle Ages, 
the Romish Church began to dispense with this usage, 
and to satisfy itself with the priest’s repeating them. 
There is still a remnant of this practice in some coun- 
tries: sponsors are subjected to a catechetical examina- 
tion by the minister previously to their admission. — 
Farrar, Eccles. Diet. s. v. 

Tradition ( TTapd^omq ), Jewish. The Jews pre- 
tend that, besides their written law contained in the 
Pentateuch, God delivered to Moses an oral law, which 
was banded down from generation to generation. The 
various decisions of the Jewish doctors or priests on 
points which the law had either left doubtful or passed 
over in silence were the true sources of their traditions. 
They did not commit their numerous traditions (which 
appear to have been a long time in accumulating) to 
writing before their wars against the Romans under 
Hadrian and Severus. The Mishua, the Gernara, and 
perhaps the Masorah were collected by the rabbins of 
Tiberias and later schools. See Rahiuxtsm. Many of 
their false traditions were in direct opposition to the 
law of God; lienee our Saviour often reproached the 
Pharisees with preferring them to the law itself. lie 
also gives several instances of their superstitious adhe- 
rence to vain observances, while they neglected essen- 
tial tilings (Matt, xv, 2, 3; Mark vii, 3-13). The only 
way in which we can know satisfactorily that any tra- 
dition is of divine authority is by its having a place in 
those writings which are generally acknowledged to be 
the genuine productions of inspired men. All tradi- 
tions which have not such authority are without value, 
and tend greatly to detract and mislead the minds of 
men (2 Thess. ii. 15; iii,6). 

In this respect, however, a notable division existed 
among the Jews themselves, which has been transmit- 
ted to the modern representatives of the two great par- 
ties. The leading tenet of the Sadducees was the ne- 
gation of the leading tenet of their opponents. As the 
Pharisees asserted, so the Sadducees denied, that the 
Israelites were in possession of an oral law transmitted 
to them hv Moses. The manner in which the Phari- 
sees may have gained acceptance for their own view is 
noticed elsewhere in this work [see Pharisee] ; but, 
for an equitable estimate of the Sadducees, it is proper 
to bear in mind emphatically how destitute of histori- 
cal evidence the doctrine was which they denied. That 
doctrine is, at the present day, rejected, probably by al- 
most all, if not by all, Christians; and it is, indeed, so 
foreign to their ideas that the greater number of Chris- 
tians have never even heard of it, though it is older 
than Christianity, and has been the support and con- 
solation of the Jews under a series of the most cruel 
and wicked persecutions to which any nation has ever 
been exposed during an equal number of centuries. It 
is likewise now maintained all over the world by those 
who are called the orthodox Jews. It is therefore de- 
sirable to know the kind of arguments by which, at the 
present day, in a historical and critical age, the doc- 
trine is defended. For this an opportunity has lately 
been given by a learned French Jew, grand-rabbi of 
the circumscription of Colmar (Klein, Le Judaisme, ov 
la Verite snr le Talmud [Mulhouse, 1859]), who still 
asserts as a fact the existence of a Mosaic oral law. To 


do full justice to his views, the original work should be 
perused. Put it is doing no injustice to his learning 
and ability to point out that not one of his arguments 
has a positive historical value. Thus he relies mainly 
on the inconceivability (as will be again noticed in this 
article) that a divine revelation should not have ex- 
plicitly proclaimed the doctrine of a future state of re- 
wards and punishments, or that it should have promul- 
gated laws left in such an incomplete form and requir- 
ing so much explanation and so many additions as the 
laws in the Pentateuch. Now arguments of this kind 
may be sound or unsound; based on reason or illogical; 
and for many they may have a philosophical or theo- 
logical value; hut they have no pretence to be regard- 
ed as historical, inasmuch as the assumed premises, 
which involve a knowledge of the attributes of the Su- 
preme Being and the manner in which he would be 
likely to deal with man, are far beyond the limits of 
historical verification. The nearest approach to a his- 
torical argument is the following (p. 10); “In the first 
place, nothing proves better the fact of the existence 
of the tradition than the belief itself in the tradition. 
An entire nation does not suddenly forget its religious 
code, its principles, its laws, the daily ceremonies of its 
worship to such a point that it could easily he persuad- 
ed that a new doctrine presented by some impostors is 
the true and only explanation of its law and has always 
determined and ruled its application. Holy Writ often 
represents the Israelites as a stiff-necked people impa- 
tient of the religious yoke; and would it not he attrib- 
uting to them rather an excess of docility, a too great 
condescension, a blind obedience, to suppose that they 
suddenly consented to troublesome and rigorous inno- 
vations which some persons might have wished to im- 
pose on them some fine morning? Such a supposition 
destroys itself, and we are obliged to acknowledge that 
the tradition is not a new invention, but that its birth 
goes hack to the origin of the religion ; and that, trans- 
mitted from father to son as the word of God, it lived 
in the heart of the people, identified itself with the 
blood, and was always considered as an inviolable au- 
thority.” But. if this passage is carefully examined, it 
will be seen that it does not supply a single fact worthy 
of being regarded as a proof of a Mosaic oral law. In- 
dependent testimony of persons contemporary with Mo- 
ses that he had transmitted such a law to the Israelites 
would be historical evidence; the testimony of persons 
in the next generation as to the existence of such an 
oral law which their lathers told them came from Mo- 
ses would have been secondary historical evidence; hut 
the belief of the Israelites on the point twelve hundred 
years after Moses cannot, in the absence of any inter- 
mediate testimony, he deemed evidence of a historical 
fact. Moreover, it is a mistake to assume that they 
who deny a Mosaie oral law imagine that this oral law 
was at some one time as one great system introduced 
suddenly among the Israelites. The real mode of con- 
ceiving what occurred is far different. After the re- 
turn from the Captivity, there existed probably among 
the Jews a large body of customs and decisions not con- 
tained in the Pentateuch; and these had practical au- 
thority over the people long before they were attrib- 
uted to Moses. The only phenomenon of importance 
requiring explanation is, not the existence of the cus- 
toms sanctioned l>v the oral law, but. the belief accept- 
ed by a certain portion of the .lews that Moses had di- 
vinely revealed those customs as laws to the Israelites. 
To explain this historically from written records is im- 
possible, from the silence on the subject of the very 
scanty historical Jewish writings purporting to he writ- 
ten between the return from the Captivity in B.C.53G and 
that uncertain period when the canon was finally closed, 
which probably could not have been very long before 
the deatli of Antioch ns Kpiphanes, B.C. 104. For all 
this space of time, a period of about three hundred and 
seventy-two years, a period as long as from the acces- 
sion of Henry VIII to the present day, we have no lie- 


TRADITION 


51 S 


TI l A DU CIA N ISM 


brew account, nor, in fact, any contemporary account, 
of the history of the Jews in Palestine, except what 
may be contained in the short works entitled Ezra and 
Nehemiah. The last named of these works does not 
carry the history much later than one hundred years 
after the return from t lie Captivity; so that there is 
a long and extremely important period of more than 
two centuries and a half before the heroic rising of the 
Maccabees, during which there is a total absence of 
contemporary Jewish history. In this dearth of his- 
torical materials, it is idle to attempt a positive narra- 
tion of the circumstances under which t lie oral law be- 
came assigned to Moses as its author. It is amply suf- 
ficient if a satisfactory suggestion is made as to how it 
might have been attributed to Moses; and in this there 
is not much ditlicultv for any one who bears in mind 
how notoriously in ancient times laws of a much later 
date were attributed to Minos, Lyeurgus, Solon, and 
Numa. 

Under this head we may add that it must not be 
assumed that the Sadducees, because they rejected a 
Mosaic oral law, rejected likewise all traditions and all 
decisions in explanation of passages in the Pentateuch. 
Although they protested against the assertion that such 
points had been divinely settled by Moses, they prob- 
ably, in numerous instances, followed practically the 
same traditions as the Pharisees. — Smith. See Sai>- 
DCC'EK. 

TRADITION, Christian. In the older ecclesiasti- 
cal fathers, the words rrapacooiQ and tntdiiio are used 
to denote any instruction which one gives to another, 
whether oral or written. In the New Test, also, and in 
tlte classical writers, irapacovvai and trade re signify, in 
general, to teach, to instruct. In this wider sense, tra- 
dition was divided into scripta and non script a sire 
oralis. The latter, traditio oralis , was, however, fre- 
quently called traditio , byway of eminence. This oral 
tradition was often appealed to by Irenceus, Clemens of 
Alexandria, Tertulliau, and others of the ancient fathers, 
as a test by which to try the doctrines of contemporary 
teachers, and by which to confute the errors of the here- 
tics. They describe it as being instruction received 
from the mouth of the apostles by the first Christian 
churches, transmitted from the apostolic age, and pre- 
served in purity until their own times. 

Oral tradition is still regarded by t he Roman Church 
as a principium cognoscendi in theology, and they at- 
tempt to support their hypothesis respecting it by the 
use made of it hv the lathers. Much dispute has arisen 
about the degree of weight to he assigned to tradition 
generally ; many, however, consider that this is an idle 
controversy, and that each particular tradition should 
he tried on its own grounds. In coming to a decision 
on the merits of the question respecting doctrinal tra- 
dition, everything depends upon making the proper dis- 
tinctions with regard to time. 

In the first period of Christianity, the authority of 
the apostles was so great that all their doctrines and 
ordinances were strictly and punctually observed by the 
churches which they had planted. The doctrine and 
discipline which prevailed in those apostolical churches 
were, at the time, justly considered by others to he 
purely such as the apostles themselves had taught and 
established. This was the more common, as the hooks 
of the New Test, had not, as yet, come into general use 
among Christians; nor was it, at that early period, at- 
tended with any special liability to mistake. In this 
way we can account for it that Christian teachers of the 
2d and 3d centuries appeal so frequently to oral tradi- 
tion. But in later periods of the Church, the circum- 
stances were far different. After the commencement 
of the 3d century, when the first teachers of the apos- 
tolical churches and their immediate successors had 
passed away and another race sprung up, other doc- 
trines and forms were gradually introduced, which dif- 
fered in many respects from apostolical simplicity. And 
now those innovators appealed more frequently than 


had ever been done before to apostolical tradition, in 
order to give currency to their own opinions and regu- 
lations. They went so far, indeed, as to appeal to this 
tradition for many things not only at variance with 
other traditions, hut with the very writings of the apos- 
tles which they had in their hands. From this time 
forward, tradition naturally became more and more un- 
certain and suspicious. No wonder, therefore, that we 
find Augustine establishing the maxim that it could not 
be relied upon, in the ever-increasing distance from the 
age of the apostles, except when it was universal and 
perfectly consistent with itself. The Reformers justly 
held that tradition is not a sure and certain source of 
knowledge respecting the doctrines of theology, ami 
that the Holy Scriptures are t lie only principium coy - 
noscendi. See Knapp, Christum Theology, vii, 3 ; Eden, 
Tkeol . Diet. s. v. ; Cunningham. Hist. Theology , i, liSfi, 
4 SO ; Hagenbach, Hist, of Doctrines (Index); Hook. 
Church Diet. s. v.; Milman, Hist, of the Jews, ii, 42; 
Van Oosterzee. Christian Dogmatics , art. “Faith, Rule 
of.” 

TRADITION, in the Chinch of England , refers to 
customs, forms, rites, ceremonies, etc., which have been 
transmitted by oral communication, and, as used in Ar- 
ticle 34, is not to he understood as including matters of 
faith. The traditions for which the article requires re- 
spect and obedience are all those customs and ceremo- 
nies in established use which are not expressly named 
in the Scriptures, nor in the written laws or rubrics of 
the Church, but stand simply on the ground of prescrip- 
tion. Among these may be mentioned the alternate 
mode of reading the Psalter, the custom of bowing in 
the Creed, the postures in various offices of the Church, 
the use of a doxology and collects after a sermon, the 
practice of pouring the baptismal water upon the head, 
the quantity of the elements consumed in the eueharist, 
etc. Tiiese, though unwritten, are not the less obliga- 
tory when ascertained to be standing customs of the 
Church. The article ordains that “ whosoever, through 
his private judgment, willingly and purposely dot li open- 
ly break the traditions and ceremonies of the Church 
which be not repugnant to the Word of God, and be 
ordained and approved by common authority, ought 
to he rebuked openly (that others may fear to do the 
like) as he that otfendeth against the common order 
of the Church,” etc. See Staunton, Diet, of the Church , 
s. v. 

Traditores {surrenderees or traitors), a name ap- 
plied by the ancient Christians to those persons who de- 
livered up their Bible and sacred utensils of the Church 
to the heathen in time of persecution. See Bingham, 
Christ. Aniiq. bk. xvi, ch. vi, § 25. 

Traducianism is the belief that the souls of chil- 
dren, as well as their bodies, are propagated from their 
parents, and is opposed to Creationism (q.v.) and the 
doctrine of the Pre-existents (q. v.). According to Je- 
rome, both Tertulliau and Apollinaris were advocates 
of this opinion, and the opponents of Pelagianism, in 
general, have been inclined to it. Since the Reforma- 
tion, it has been more approved than any other in the 
Lutheran Church, and that not by philosophers and 
naturalists merely, hut also by divines. Luther him- 
self, though he did not declare distinctly in its favor, 
was also inclined towards this theory; and in the For- 
mula Concord ice it is distinctly taught that, both soul 
and body are propagated by the parents in ordinary 
generation. 'What has rendered the hypothesis more 
acceptable to theologians is its affording the easiest so- 
lution of the doctrine of native depravity; and it seems 
to receive confirmation from the psychological facts that 
the natural disposition of children not unfrequeutly re- 
sembles that of their parents, and that t lie mental ex- 
cellences and imperfections of parents are inherited 
nearly as often by their children as any bodily attri- 
butes. But, after all that can be said, we must be con- 
tent to remain in uncertainty respecting the subject. 


TRADUCIANS 


519 


TRAJAN 


As thou knowest not what is the way of the Spirit, 
nor how the bones do grow ill the womb of her that is 
with child, even so thou knowest not the works of God 
who maketli all” ( Eeeles. xi, 5). See Buck, Theol. 
Diet. s. v. ; Delitzseh, BibL Psychology, j). 128-131: 
Xew-Englandtr, July, 1868, p. 475. See Soul, Origin 
ok. 

Traducians, the adherents of Tradueianism (q. v.). 

Traheron, Bartholomew, a learned English di- 
vine at the period of the Information, was born at Corn- 
wall and educated at Oxford, either in Exeter College 
or Hart Hall. He travelled extensively in Germany 
and Italy, and, returning to England, was made keeper 
{if the king’s library. In 1551 king Edward YI confer- 
red on him the deanery of Chichester. This he lost on 
the accession of queen J\1 ary, and, joining the English 
exiles in Germany, wrote all his important works there. 
The time of his death is uncertain. Traheron’s works 
are, Parveresis, lib. i: — Carmina in Mortem Ilenrici 
Jtudlai: — Analysis Scoparum Johannis Cochlcei : — 
Exposition of a Part of St. John's Gospel (1558, 8vo) : 
— Exposition of the Fourth Chapter of St. John's Revela- 
tion (1557, 8vo) : — An Answer Made by Bartholomew 
Traheron to a Private Papist . 

Traill, Robert, an eminent divine of the Church 
of Scotland, was born at Ely, May, 1642. lie was edu- 
cated at the University of Edinburgh, and pursued the 
study of divinity with great ardor for several years. In 
1666 he was obliged to secrete himself, because some 
copies of An Apologetic Relation, etc., were found in his 
mother’s house; and the following year, being suspected 
of opposing the king, he was obliged to join his father 
in Holland. In 1670 he went to England, and was or- 
dained by Presbyterian divines in London. In 1677 
Mr. 'Traill was imprisoned for preaching privately, but 
was released in October of the same year. He then lo- 
cated at Cranbrook, in Kent, but for many years after- 
wards was pastor of a Scotch congregation in London. 
He was warmly attached to the Calvinistie doctrines, 
and took a zealous concern in the doctrinal controver- 
sies. He died in Slav, 1716. lie published a number 
of theological treatises and discourses, which for many 
years were printed separately, but collectively after his 
death (Edinb. 1745, 4 vols. *12 mo ; 1754, 2 vols. 12mo; 
Glasgow, 1776, 3 vols. 8vo; best ed. 1806, 4 vols. 8vo). 
See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. ; Alii bone, Diet, of Brit, 
and A mer. Authors, s. v. 

Train, Arthur Savage, D.D., a Baptist divine, 
was born at Framingham, Mass., Sept. 1, 1812, and was 
a graduate of Brown University in the class of 1833. 
IJe was tutor in the university two years after his 
graduation, carrying on at the same time his theologi- 
cal studies under Dr. Way land. In 1836 he was or- 
dained pastor of the Baptist Church in Haverhill. M ass., 
where he had a successful ministry of twenty-three 
years. He was elected professor of sacred rhetoric and 
pastoral duties in the Newton Theological Institute in 
1850, and held the office for seven years. In 1866 he 
accepted a call to the pastorate of the Baptist Church 
in Framingham, where he remained until his death, Jan. 
2, 1872. Dr. Train was a trustee of Brown University 
from 1845 till his death. (J.C. 8.) 

Trajan, Marcus Uluius Nerva, emperor of Rome 
from A.D. 98 to 117, is a noteworthy personage in the 
history of ancient times by reason of his personal quali- 
ties, and also as a general and ruler. He is important 
to the history of the Church through his connection 
with the persecution of the adherents of Christianity in 
his time. At tirst tolerated by the policy of the Roman 
rulers as a comparatively feeble though despicable ex- 
crescence on the loathsome superstition of Judaism, 
Christianity was forced upon the notice of the emperors 
by the tumults excited among the populace by heathen 
priests, who observed the remarkable progress of that 
faith with alarm, and Trajan was accordingly led to 




issue edicts for the gradual sup- 
pression of the new teaching 
which transformed men into hat- 
ers of the gods. The adminis- 
tration of the younger lMiny as 
governor of Bithynia was com- 
plicated with matters growing 
out of the rapid extension of 
Christianity and the consequent 
rage of the heathen population 
within his province. He there- 
fore endeavored to etiforce against 
Christians the laws for the sup- 
pression of the really dangerous 
lletceries (see Plinv, Epist. x, 43), 
but found the complaints to be so 
numerous and the result of the 
judicial investigations so unsat- 
isfactory that he referred the 
whole matter to the emperor for 
instructions. Of the accused, 
many denied that they were in 
any way implicated in Christi- 
anity, others declared that they 
had returned to the old faith, and 
offered incense and libations be- 
fore the image of the emperor and 
blasphemed the name of Christ. 

Those who avowed themselves 
Christians confessed to nothing 
of a damaging character. Their 
offence consisted merely in meet- 
ing before sunrise of a specified 
day to sing a common hymn in 
honor of Christ as a god, and in 
the assumption of a voluntary 
obligation, under oath, to commit 
no theft, robbery, nor adultery, 
but to keep a promise and ac- 
knowledge the possession of goods 
committed to their trust. The 
torture applied to two maids 
disclosed nothing more criminal 
than these statements. Trajan 
commended the governor’s ac- 
tion, and observed that no gen- 
eral and definite prescriptions 
could be given for such matters. 

He added that search should not 
be made for suspected persons, 
though, if accused and convict- 
ed, they should be punished un- 
less they interposed a denial of 
the charge of being Christians, 
and authenticated it by calling 
on the gods. Anonymous accu- 
sations of any sort should not be received. The ex- 
ecution of several Christians, among them the aged 
Svmeou, who was the son of Clopas, and successor of 
James at Jerusalem, must be explained in view of the 
fact that the emperor was at the same time regent of 
the State and chief priest ( pontifex maximus ), and 
would consider it necessary to protect and preserve the 
religion which was so closely interwoven with the in- 
terests of the State. The same idea will apply to the 
case of Ignatius. 

Literature.— The principal sources for the history of 
Trajan are Pliny the younger, Epistohe , especially lib. x, 


Trajan’s Column in 
Rome. 



Coin of Trajan. 


TRAMONTANE 


520 


TRANCE 


and Paneyyricus (ed. Gicrig); Dioi* Cass; Hist. Pom. 
lit), lxviii (imfortuiiately extant only in the extract l>v 
Xiphilinus) ; Anrel. Victor, Ctes. xiii, 1 s<). and Epitome 
13; Eutrop. viii, 2; ()n»ius. vii, 2 sq. ; TertulU A polo- 
yet. c. 1 ; Enseb. Hist. Ecel. iii. 12 sq. ; Justin. Apoloyet. 
i, G8 ; Uuflnus, /list. Keel, iv, 9. See 1 Jit terbium Tra- 
janus in Lucent Re product its (IG08); Maimcrt,/i«f Trtj. 
Imp. mi Danuh. Oestie (Norimb. 1793 );. Engel,. Com- i 
ment.de Expedit. Traj. ad Danub.et Oriyine Valachorum 
(Yimleb. 1794), Wolf, Line milde St if tuny Trajan's 
(Herl. 1808, 4to); Fiancke, Zur Oesch. Traj. it. seiner 
Zeityenosseu (Oust row, 1837); Baldwin, Comment, et 
Edict. Yett. Prince. Pom. de Christian is (Hal. 1727, 
4to); Biihmer, A'// Dissert t. Juris Eccl. Ant. ad PUn. 
Sec. et Tertull. (2d ed. ibid. 1729), Martini, I'ersecutt. j 
Christ ianonrm sub Impp. Pom. (Uost. 1802. 4to) , Kbpke, j 
De Statu et Condif. Christ i sub Jtnpp. Pom. Attains 
post Christ. Sice . ( Uerol. 1828), Scln bekh, Kicchen- 
gesch. ii, 320 sq. , Oieseler, Kirchenyesch. i, 134 sq. ; and 
the monographs cited by Yol boding, Judex Proyram- \ 
matum 7 p. 95, 98.— 1 1 erzog, Peal-Encyklop. s. v. ; Smi t h, 
I)ict. >\f Or. and Pom. Ploy. s. v. See Bi.lny. 

Tramontane (across the mountain), a term applied 
by the Italians to those dwelling north of the Alps, and 
especially to the ecclesiastics anti professors of the canon 
law of Germany and France. See LTltuaiuontank. 

Tra nee (tKfTTCHnc, ecstasy'), a supernatural state of 
body and mind, the nature of which has been well con- 
jectured by Doddridge, who defines it “such a rapture 
of mind as gives the person who Hills into it a look of 
astonishment, and renders him insensible of the external 
objects around him, while in the meantime Ins imagina- 
tion is agitated in an extraordinary manner with some 
striking scenes winch pass before it and take up all the 
attention.” lie refers to some extraordinary instances 
of this kind mentioned hv Gualtenus in his note on 
Acts x, 10 (Family Expositor, ad loc. note g). Stoekius 
also describes it as “a sacred ecstasy, or rapture of the 
mind out of itself, when, the use of the external senses 
being suspended, God reveals something in a peculiar 
manner to prophets and apostles, who are then taken or 
transported out of themselves.” The same idea is in- 
timated in the English word trance , from the Latin 
transitus , t lie state of being carried out of one’s self. 
8ee Insinuation; I’Koriitcv. 

1. In the only passage (Numb, xxiv, 4, 1G) in which 
this word occurs in the English of the Old Test, there 
is, as the italics show, no corresponding word in He- 
brew, simply ^£2, “falling,” for which the Sept, gives 
iv vttvoj, and the Yulg. more literally qui cadit. In the 
New Test, we meet with the word three times (Acts x, 
10; xi, 5; xxii, 17), the Yulg. giving “excessus” in the 
two former, “stupor mentis” in the latter. The Greek 
word tKGramg employed in these passages denotes the 
effect of any passion by which the thoughts are wholly 
absorbed. In the Sept, it corresponds to Hl'r, a “won- 
derful thing” (Jer. v, 30), “|’TV2r, "astonishment” (Dent, 
xxviii, 28), and friTT, a prophetic lethargy or “deep 
sleep’ (Gen. ii, 21 ; xv, 12, etc.). In the New Test, it 
usually represents the absorbing effects of admiration 
(Mark v,42; Luke v,2G; Acts iii, 10;; of terror (Mark 
xvi, 8). 

2. I’ sod as the Greek word is by Luke (Acts, nt sup.) 

“ the physician,” and, in this special sense, by him only, 
in the New lest., it would be interesting to inquire what 
precise meaning it had in the medical terminology of 
tiie time. From the time of 11 ippoerates, who uses it 
to describe the loss of conscious perception, it had prob- 
ably borne the connotation which it has had, with 
shades of meaning for good or evil, ever since. Tims. 
Hesyehius gives as the account of a man in an ecstasy 
that he is o tig iavTov pi) wv. Apuleius (Apoluyiu) 
speaks of it as “a change from the earthly mind (aro 
too ytpvov fpovipiarog) to a divine and spiritual con- 
dition both of character and life.” Tertullian ( De A u. I 


45) compares it to the dream-state in which the soul 
acts, but not through its usual instruments. Augustine 
(Confess, ix, 11) describes his mother in this state as 
“abstract a a present ihus,” and gives a description of 
like phenomena in the case of a certain Lestitutus (De 
Cir . Dei , xiv, 24). 

3. We may compare with these statements the more 
precise definitions of modern medical science. There 
the ecstatic state appears as one form of catalepsy. In 
catalepsy pure and simple, there, is “a sudden suspen- 
sion of thought, of sensibility, of voluntary motion.” 
“'flic body continues in any attitude in which it may 
he placed there are no signs of any process of thought ; 
the patient continues silent. In the ecstatic form of 
catalepsy, on the other hand, “the patient is lost to all 
external impressions, hut. wrapt and absorbed in some 
object of t lie imagination.” The man is “as if out of 
the body.” “ Nervous and susceptible persons are apt 
to be thrown into these trances under the influence of 
what is called mesmerism. There is, for the most part, 
a high degree of mental excitement. The patient ut- 
ters the most enthusiastic and fervid expressions or the 
most earnest warnings. The character of the whole 
frame is that of intense contemplative excitement. He 
believes that lie has seen wonderful visions and beard 
singular revelations” (Watson, Principles and Practice , 
leet. xxxix ; Copland, Diet, of Medicine, s. v. “ Catalep- 
sy”). The causes oft his state are to lie traced common- 
ly to strong religious impressions; but some, though. for 
the most part, not the ecstatic, phenomena of catalepsy 
are producible by t he concentration of thought on one 
object, or of the vision upon one fixed point ( Quart. 
Pec. xeiii, 510-22, by I)r. Carpenter ) ; and, in some 
more exceptional cases, like that mentioned by Augus- 
tine (there, however, under the influence of sound, “ad 
imitatas quasi lamentantis cujuslibot hominis voces”), 
and that of Jerome Cardan ( IV/r. Per. viii, 43), men 
have been able to throw themselves into a cataleptic 
state at will. 

4. Whatever explanation may be given of it, it is 
true of many if not of most, of those, who have left the 
stamp of their own character oil the religious history of 
mankind, that they have been liable to pass at times 
into this abnormal state. The union of intense feeling, 
strong volition, long-continued thought (the conditions 
of all wide and lasting influence), aided in many cases 
by the withdrawal from the lower life of the support 
which is needed to maintain a healthy equilibrium, ap- 
pears to have been more than the “earthen vessel” will 
bear. The words which speak of “an ecstasy of adora- 
tion” are often literally true. The many visions — the 
journey through the heavens, the so-called epilepsy of 
Mohammed — were phenomena of this nature. Of three 
great mediaeval teachers, St. Francis of Assisi, St. Thom- 
as Aquinas, and Joannes Seotus, it is recorded that they 
would fall into the ecstatic state, remain motionless, seem 
as if dead, sometimes for a whole dav, and then, return- 
ing to consciousness, speak as if they had drunk deep 
of divine mysteries (Gualterius, Crit.Sac.au Acts x, 10). 
The old traditions of Aristeas and Kpimenides, the con- 
flicts of Dunstan and Luther with the powers of dark- 
ness, the visions of Savonarola, George Fox, Sweden- 
borg, and Bdhme are generieally analogous. Where 
there has been no extraordinary power to influence 
others, other conditions remaining t lie same, the phe- 
nomena have appeared among whole classes of men and 
women in proportion as the circumstances of their lives 
tended to produce an excessive susceptibility to religious 
or imaginative emotion. The history of monastic or- 
ders, of American and Irish revivals, gives countless ex- 
amples. JStill more noticeable is the fact that many of 
the improvisatori of Italy are “only able to exercise 
their gift when they are in a state of ecstatic trance, 
and speak of the gift itself as something morbid” (Cop- 
land, loc. cit.) ; while in strange contrast with their 
earlier history, and pointing perhaps to a national char- 
acter that has become harder and less emotional, there 


TRANCE 


521 


TRAN I 


is the testimony of a German physician (Frank), who 
had made catalepsy a special study, that lie had never 
met with a single case of it among the Jews (Copland, 
loc.cif.; comp. Maury, La Magieet VAstrologie ). 

5. We are now able to take a true estimate of the 
trances of Biblical history. As in other things, so also 
here, the phenomena are common to higher and lower, 
to true and false systems. The nature of man continu- 
ing the same, it could hardly be that the awfulness of 
the divine presence, the terrors of divine judgment, 
should leave it in the calm equilibrium of its normal 
state. Whatever made the impress of a truth more in- 
delible, whatever gave him to whom it was revealed 
more power over the hearts of others, might well take 
its place in the divine education of nations and individ- 
ual men. We may not point to trances and ecstasies as 
proofs of a true revelation, but still less may we think 
of them as at all inconsistent with it. Thus, though 
we have not the word, we have the thing in several 
clear instances in the Bible. Some, perhaps many, 
tilings recorded in Scripture belong to this supernatural 
state of trance which are not expressly referred to it. 
See the long list of such supposed cases in Bp. Law’s 
Consideration of the Theory of Religion (Loud. 1820, p. 85, 
80). We notice here only the most marked examples. 

In the Old Test, a state of supernatural ecstasy is 
evidently denoted by the “deep sleep” which fell upon 
Adam during the creation of Eve (Gen. ii, 21), and dur- 
ing which, as appears from the narrative, he was made 
aware of the transaction, and of the purport of the at- 
tendant circumstances (ver. 21-24). See Marriage. 
A similar state occurs again in the “deep sleep” which 
fell upon Abraham (xv, 12), during which the bondage 
of his descendants in Egypt was revealed to him. Pos- 
sibly all the accounts recorded in that chapter occurred 
in ••vision” (ver. 1-12), which ultimately deepened into 
the trance (ver. 12-21). Comp. ver. 5, 12, where he is 
said to have seen the stars, though the sun had not gone 
down. The apparent objection that Abraham was 
“brought forth abroad” to see the stars is only of the 
same nature with others explained in the art. Tempta- 
tion of Christ. Balaam, as if overcome by the con- 
straining power of a spirit mightier than his own, “sees 
the vision of God, falling, but with opened eyes” (Numb, 
xxiv, 4). The incident of the ass speaking to him, etc., 
is also understood by many learned Jews and Christians 
to have occurred in a vision (Bp. Law, ut sup,). To 
the same mode of divine communication must be re- 
ferred the magnificent description in Job iv, 13-21. 
.Saul, when the wild chant of the prophets stirred the 
old depths of feeling, himself also “prophesied” and “fell 
down” (most, if not all, of his kingly clothing being 
thrown off in the ecstasy of the moment) “all that day 
and all that night” (l Sam. xix, 24). Something there 
was in Jeremiah that made men say of him that he was 
as one that “is mad and maketh himself a prophet” 
(Jer. xxix, 2G). In Ezekiel the phenomena appear in 
more wonderful and awful forms. lie sits motionless 
for seven days in the stupor of astonishment, till the 
word of the Lord conies to him (Ezek. iii, 15). The 
-hand of the Lord” falls on him, and he too sees the 
“ visions of God” and hears the voice of the Almighty, 
is “lifted up between the earth and heaven,” and passes 
from the river of Chebar to the Lord’s house in Jerusa- 
lem (vi ii, 3). As other elements and forms of the pro- 
phetic work were revived in “ the apostles and prophets” 
of the New Test., so also was this. More distinctly even 
than in the Old Test., it becomes the medium through 
which men rise to see clearly what before was dim and 
doubtful, in which the mingled hopes and fears and 
perplexities of the waking state are dissipated at once. 
Though different in form, it belongs to the same class 
of phenomena as the “gift of tongues,” and is connected 
with “visions and revelations of the Lord.” In some 
cases, indeed, it is the chosen channel for such revela- 
tions. To the “trance” of Beter in the city, where all 
outward circumstances tended to bring the thought of 


an expansion of the divine kingdom more distinctly be- 
fore him than it had ever been brought before, we owe 
the indelible truth stamped upon the heart of Christen- 
dom, that God is “ no respecter of persons,” that we may 
not call any man “common or unclean” (Acts x, xi). 
To the “trance” of Paul, when his work for his own peo- 
ple seemed utterly fruitless, we owe the mission which 
was the starting-point of the history of the Universal 
Church, the command which bade him “depart . . . far 
hence unto the Gentiles” (xxii. 17-21). Wisely, for the 
most part, did that apostle draw a veil over these more 
mysterious experiences, lie would not sacrifice to them, 
as others have often sacrificed, the higher life of activity, 
love, prudence, lie could not explain them to himself. 
“ In tlie body or out of the body,” be could not tell, but 
the outer world of perception bad passed away, and he 
had passed in spirit into “paradise,” into “the third 
heaven,” and had heard “ unspeakable words” (2 Cor. 
xii, 1-4). Those trances too. we may believe, were not 
without their share in fashioning his character and life, 
though no special truth came distinctly out of them. 
United as they them were, but as they have seldom been 
since, with clear perceptions of the truth of God, with 
love wonderful it) its depth and tenderness, with energy 
unresting, and subtle tact almost passing into “guile,” 
they made him what he was, the leader of the apostolic 
band, emphatically the “ master-builder” of the Church 
of God (comp. Jowett, Fragment on the Character of St. 
Paul'). 

Persons receiving this divine influence often fell to 
the earth under its influence, as in ordinary catalepsy 
(Gen. xvii, 3, etc.; 1 Sam. xix, 24, Heb. or margin; 
Ezek. i, 28; Dan. viii. 18; x. 15, 1G; Bev. i, 10, 17). It 
is important, however, to observe that in all these cases 
the visions beheld are also related ; hence such cases are 
distinguished from a mere deliqvium animi. We find 
likewise in the case of Peter that “he fell into a trance” 
(or rather a “ trance fell upon him,” iirkTrtaw IF aoriv 
tKaramg), during which he “saw a vision,” which is 
therefore distinguished from the trance (Acts x, 10, 
comp. Paul’s tranee, xxii, 17 ; 2 Cor. xii, 2, etc.). The 
reality of the vision is established by the correspondence 
of the event. The nearest approach we can make to such 
a state is that in which our mind is so occupied in the 
contemplation of an object as to lose entirely the con- 
sciousness of the body — a state in which the highest 
order of ideas, whether belonging to the judgment or 
imagination, is undoubtedly attained. Hence we can 
readily conceive that such a state might he supernatu- 
rallv induced for the higher purpose of revelation, etc. 
The alleged phenomena of the mesmeric trance and 
clairvoyance, if they serve no higher purpose, may as- 
sist our conceptions of it. — Kitto; Smith. See Vision. 

Trani, a name common to some Jewish authors, of 
whom we mention the following; 

1. Isaiah da, so called after his native place Trani, 
a seaport town of Naples, and, by way of abbreviation, 
Rid= “Pi* from the initials iVr'i'*' i, i. e. 

R. Isaiah da Trani , flourished about A.D. 1232-70. He 
may be regarded as the founder of the school of Tal- 
mudical and traditional exegesis in Italy. He wrote 
not only numerous annotations on the Talmud, and the- 
ological decisions (2 n pC2) connected with traditional 
law, but also scholia (C'p* -2) to tlie Bible, which are 
as follows: iT^inn “'pi -3, Scholia on the Pentateuch 
(Leghorn, 1792) ; — 12 ‘HB "HUp, Annotations 
on Joshua, published, with a Latin translation by J. A. 
Steinmetz, under the title Esaite Comment . in Josuam 
quern in Codice MS. Bibl. Saint. Lips. Description et Ver- 
sione ac Xofis Illustration, Preside J, G. .4 hicht Frudi- 
tornm Kxnmini suhjecit (Lips. 1712); — Annotations on 
Judges and 1 Samuel , printed in the Rabbinical Bibles 
(q. v.). Besides these published commentaries, the fol- 
lowing annotations of Trani are in MS.: a commen- 
tary on Ezra, Cod. Opp.; a commentary on the Five Me- 


TUAXSAXIMATION 


TRAXSCEXDEXTALISM 


o2 2 


gilloth and Daniel, in the Angelica at Rome; conimen- I 
tarics on the minor prophets, Rsalms, and Job, to be 
found in MS. in several Kuropean libraries. See Fiirst, 
Jiibh Jitd. iii, 43«3 stj. ; De’ Rossi, 1 Jizionario Storico 
(derm, transl.), p. 313 sq. ; Steinschneider, Cataloyns 
Libr. /lehr, in Bibl. //mil. col. 1339-92 ; Kitto, Cyclop. 
s. v.; Gnitz, Gesch. d.Juden (Leips. 1373), vii, 175; Jost, 
Gesch. d. Jndenth. it. s. Sekten, iii, 33; Zunz, Zur Gesch. 
it. I .iteratin' , p. 53. 

2. Mosks da, was born at Salonica in 1505. When 
a boy he went to Adrianople, and was educated in the 
house of his uncle. In the year 1521 he went to Safet 
to continue his studies, and four years later he received 
ordination, and in 1535 went to Jerusalem, where he 
died in 1535. 1 1 is success in teaching was so great that 
he was styled “The Light of Israel,” “The Sinaitc of 
Mount Sinai and the Uprooter of Mountains,” because 
he solved the difficulties in the law. lie wrote, 
C n n>>i, on Jewish rites, ceremonies, prayers, morals, 
etc. (Venice, T57G) : — “'■ID r^lp O, a body of Jewish 
laws, in which he distinguishes between the laws writ- 
ten by Moses, those which were transmitted by tradi- 
tion, and those only founded on the decisions of the doc- 
tors:— a collection of decisions in 3 parts, and other 
works of minor import. See Fiirst, Bibl.Jttd. iii, 441 sq. ; 
De’ Rossi, Diziouario Storico (Germ, transl.), p. 319 sq.; 
Basnage, Jlistoire des Juifs (Taylor's transl.), p. 703; 
Adams, [list, of the Jews , ii, 14; Jost, Gesch . d.Judenth. 
it.s . Sekten. iii, 129; Zunz, Zur Gesch. u. Literatur. p. 229, 
230. (B. P.) 

Transanimation, the transfer of souls from one 
body to another = Transmigration (q. w). 

Transcendent, or Transcendental (from tran- 
scendere. to go beyond), words employed by various 
schoolmen, particularly Duns Scotus, to describe the 
conceptions that, bv their universality, rise above or 
transcend the ten Aristotelian categories. Thus, ac- 
cording to Scotus, Ens, or Being, because it is predicable 
of substance and accident alike, of God as well as of the 
world, is raised above these by including or compre- 
hending them. Again, the predicates assumed by Seo- 
tus to belong to Ens, or simple existence, viz. the One, 
the True, the Good — Cnum, Verum, Bonum — are styled 
transcendent because applicable to Ens before the descent 
is made to the ten classes of real existence. Accord- 
ing to Kant, transcendental applies to the conditions of 
our knowledge which transcend experience, which are 
a priori , and not derived from sensitive reflection. 
Between the hitherto convertible terms transcendental 
and transcendent Kant drew a distinction of considera- 
ble importance in understanding his own system. By 
the word transcendental he designates the various forms, 
categories, or ideas assumed to be native elements of 
human thought: implying that, although they are not 
products of experience, they are manifested only in ex- 
perience: such as space and time, causality, etc. The 
word transcendent Kant reserves for those among the 
transcendental or a priori elements that altogether tran- 
scend experience. They may seem to be given in ex- 
perience, but they arc not really given. Such are the 
“Ideas of the Pure Reason,” God, an immaterial soul, etc. 
Transcendental elements, when legitimately applied to 
experience, as causality and relation, are called imma- 
nent. See Chambers's Encychp. s. v. ; Fleming and 
Krautli, Vocab. of Phil. Science, s. v. 

Transcendentalism, a name given to some forms 
of recent German philosophy. Fiehte taught a sub- 
jective idealism, Schelling an objective idealism, and 
Hegel an absolute idealism — regarding thought and be- 
ing as identical. Nature is God coming into self-con- 
sciousness, for he is ever striving after self-realization: 
“ In order to philosophize aright, we must lose our own 
personality in God, who is chiefly revealed in the acts 
of the human mind. In the infinite developments of 
divinity, and the infinite progress towards self-conscious- 


ness, the greatest success is reached in the exertions of 
human reason. In men’s minds, therefore, is the high- 
est manifestation of God. God recognises himself best 
in human reason, which is a consciousness of God. And 
it is by human reason that the world (hitherto without 
I bought, and so without existence, mere negation) comes 
into consciousness; thus God is revealed in the world. 
After arriving at an ideal God, we learn that philosophy 
and religion draw us away from our little selves, so that 
our separate consciousness is dissolved in that of God. 
Philosophy is religion; and ‘true religion frees man 
from all that is low. and from himself, from clinging to 
1-hood ( Ichheit ) and subjectivity, and helps him to life 
in God as the truth, and thereby to true life.’ In this 
ablation of personal identity, we must not claim prop- 
erty even in our own thoughts, llegel teaehes that it 
is God who thinks in ns; nay, that it is precisely that 
which thinks in us which is God. The pure and primal 
substance manifests itself as the subject; and ‘true 
knowledge of the absolute is the absolute itself.’ There 
is but a step to take and we arrive at the tenet that 
the universe and God are one. The Hegelians attempt 
to distinguish this from the doctrine of Spinoza, but 
their distinctions are inappreciable; their scheme is pan- 
theism. And as God is revealed by all the phenomena 
of the world’s history, he is partly revealed by moral 
action, and consequently by sin, no less than by holi- 
ness. Sin is, therefore, a part of the necessary evolu- 
tion of the divine principle; or, rather, in any sense 
which can affect the conscience, there is no evil in sin 
— there is no sin. It was reserved for Hegel to aban- 
don all the scruples of six thousand years, and publish 
the discovery — certainly the most wonderful in the his- 
tory of human research — that something and nothing 
are the same! In declaring it he almost apologizes, for 
he says that, this proposition appears so paradoxical 
that it may readily be supposed that it is not serious- 
ly maintained. Yet he is far from being ambiguous. 
Something and nothing are the same. The absolute of 
which so much is vaunted is nothing. But the conclu- 
sion, which is, perhaps, already anticipated by the read- 
er’s mind, and which leaves us incapacitated for com- 
ment, is this — we shudder while we record it — that af- 
ter the exhaustive abstraction is carried to infinity in 
search of God, we arrive at nothing. God himself is 
nothing!” ( Princeton Essays'). 

These systems of philosophy in Germany, “ that na- 
tion of thinkers and critics,” have, each in its turn, in- 
fluenced the science of Biblical philology; and whether 
it be the moralism of Kant, or the idealism of Fiehte, 
or the deeper transcendentalism of llegel, it makes 
Scripture speak its own dogmas, and consecrates the 
apostles the coryphaei of its system. When Strauss wrote 
his Leben Jesu, Germany was thrilled by the publica- 
tion — all classes of her divines and philosophers, his- 
torians and scholars. When, as in this work of Strauss, 
all historical reality is denied to the gospels, and they 
are declared to be composed, not of facts, but ideas, and 
are affirmed to describe, not a personal God or a histor- 
ical Christ, but a cluster of notions intensely prevalent 
in Judaea; and when it is argued that the names and 
events occurring in the evangelical narrations are but 
symbols of inward emotions, and the blasphemies of 
pantheism are reasoned for from the union of deity and 
humanity in Jesus, as shadowing forth the identity of 
the forms vulgarly named Creator and creature, it is 
easily seen that the author uses the philosophy of He- 
gel as the great organ of perverting and desecrating 
the records of the evangelists, especially of polluting 
the finer and more experimental portions of the work 
of the beloved disciple. Weisse, the producer of a sim- 
ilar mixture of boldness and impiety, declares it impos- 
sible for any one to understand his theology unless lie 
have mastered his philosophy. No one can compre- 
hend the systems of Daub, Schwartz, or Schleiermaeher 
till he has mastered the philosophy which Schelling 
propounded in his early and adventurous youth. “ A 


TRANSELEMENTATION 


523 


TRANSFIGURATION 


life beyond the grave,” says Strauss, “ is the last foe 
which speculative criticism has to encounter, and, if jt 
can. to extirpate.” So, to find a place for such theories, 
this author commenced a series of wild and unjustifia- 
ble attacks on the gospels — finding discrepancies where 
there are none, creating exaggerations where the nar- 
rative is easy and simple, denying the possibility of 
miracles, and involving the whole narrative in confu- 
sion and mystery, in order to destroy its historical char- 
acter, and render its interpretation possible only on the 
supposition of its being a useless and disconnected my- 
thology. Whatever sophistry and perverted logic could 
supply, whatever perplexity a shrewd and malicious 
criticism could suggest, whatever reasoning a clever and 
fascinating philosophy could produce, were used to create 
and garnish the new hypothesis. The whole system is 
a sad memorial of the proud and unhallowed wisdom of 
this world, impugning the revelation already given, de- 
lighting in every high thing that exalts itself against 
the knowledge of God, and exulting in withdrawing 
every thought from the obedience of Christ. Well 
might Eschenmayer speak of the “ Ischariotismus” of 
Hegelianism. While it kissed, it betrayed, and at length 
proceeded to the trial and condemnation of its victim 
{Old and Xeit\ Aug. 1870, p. 18G). — Eadie, Kccles. Cyclop . 
s. v. See Deism ; Pantheism , Rationalism. 

Transelenientation ( trans and elementum ), a 
term used to signify the change of the elements in one 
body into those of another. 

Transfiguration. The Greek word /im//op0w37/, 
well rendered “ was transfigured,” signifies a change of 
form or appearance (Matt, xvii, 2 ; Mark ix, 2), and is 
so explained in Luke ix, 20, “the fashion of his counte- 
nance was altered.” This is one of the most wonderful 
incidents in the life of our Saviour upon earth, and one 
so instructive that we can never exhaust its lessons. 
The apostle Peter, towards the close of his life, in run- 
ning his mind over the proofs of Christ’s majesty, found 
none so conclusive and irrefragable as the scenes when 
he and others were with his Master in the holy mount 
(2 Pet. i, 18) as eye-witnesses that he received from God 
the Father honor and glory, when there came such a voice 
to him from the excellent glory, “This is my beloved 
Son, in whom I am well pleased.” The apostle John 
likewise refers to the convincing power of the “glory” 
exhibited on that occasion (John i, 14). If we divide 
Christ’s public life into three periods — the first of mir- 
acles, to prove his divine mission; the second of parables, 
to inculcate virtue; and the third of suffering, first clear- 
ly revealed and then endured, to atone for sin — the 
transfiguration may be viewed as his baptism or initia- 
tion into the third and last, lie went up the Mount 
of Transfiguration on the eighth day after he had bid- 
den every one who would come after him take up his 
cross, declaring that his kingdom was not of this world, 
that he must suffer many things, and be killed, etc. 

The Mount of Transfiguration is traditionally thought 
to have been Mount Tabor; but as this height is fifty 
miles from Ciesarea Philippi, where Jesus last taught, 
it has of late been supposed to have been a mountain 
much less distant, namely, Mount Ilermon. As there 
was an interval, however, of a week between this and 
the preceding occurrence, we may naturally conclude 
that a part of this time was occupied in the journey. 
See Tabok. The only persons thought worthy to as- 
seend this mount of vis-ion were Peter, James, and John, 
three being a competent number of witnesses, or they 
being more faithful and beloved than any others. What- 
ever the reason was, these three disciples appear on 
more than one other occasioii as an elect triumvirate — 
as at the raising of Jairus’s daughter, and during our 
Lord’s agony in the garden. The disciples, in all prob- 
ability, ascended the mountain anticipating nothing 
more than that Jesus, as at other times (Luke vi, 12), 
would continue all night in prayer to God. When the 
curtains of night closed around them, they were so worn 


out by their labors as to sink down in sleep, till startled 
from their slumbers by the glory of the Lord shining 
round about them ; for, as Jesus prayed, the fashion of 
his countenance was altered, “ and his face did shine as 
the sun, and his raiment was white as the light. And 
behold there talked with him two men, which were Mo- 
ses and Elias, who appeared in glory, and spake of his 
decease, which he should accomplish at Jerusalem.” Pe- 
ter’s words, “Master, it is good for iis to be here,” are a 
natural expression of rapture; and his proposal to build 
three tabernacles indicated his desire both to keep his 
Lord from going down to Jerusalem to die there, and 
to prolong tiie blessedness of beholding with open face 
the glory of God. Such is at least a plausible interpre- 
tation of his language, while “ lie wist not what to say.” 
It is worthy of remark that Peter had no thought of 
tents for himself and his companions, his only desire be- 
ing that the beatific vision might, endure forever. While 
he yet spake, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them 
— not a black cloud such as that which rested on Mount 
Sinai, but a cloud glistening as the Shechinah when 
the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle, or as the 
cloud that filled the house of the Lord when the priests 
were come out of the holy place. “And behold a voice 
out of the cloud” — that is, out of the long-established 
symbol of Jehovah’s presence — “which said, This is my 
beloved son, in whom 1 am well pleased; hear ve him. 
And when the disciples heard it, they fell on their face, 
and were sore afraid” — like Daniel and all others who 
have felt themselves entranced by revelations of God. 
“And Jesus came and touched them, and said, Arise, 
and be not afraid” — showing such gentleness as proved 
him to be fitly named the Lamb of God. How long 
the glorification of our Saviour continued it were vain 
to impure; but it appears from the narrative of Luke 
that he did not lead down his disciples till the day fol- 
lowing that on which they had ascended the height. 
As they descended, he bade his disciples keep what 
they had seen a secret till after his resurrection, doubt- 
less because the whole vision, to those who had not seen 
it, would have been a rock of offence, appearing as an 
idle tale. He also opened their eves to see that Elias 
whom they looked for in the future was to be sought 
in the past, even tn John the IJaptist, who was clothed 
with his spirit amt power. 

The final causes of the transfiguration, although in 
part wrapped up in mystery, appear to be in part plain. 
Among its intended lessons may be the following; First, 
to teach that, in spite of the calumnies which the Phar- 
isees had heaped on Jesus, the old and new dispensa- 
tions are in harmony with each other. To this end the 
author and the restorer of the old dispensation talk 
with the founder of the new, as if his scheme, even the 
most repulsive feature of it, was contemplated by theirs, 
as the reality of which they had promulgated only types 
and shadows. Secondly, to teach that the new dispen- 
sation was superior to the old. Moses and Elias appear 
as inferior to Jesus, not merely since their faces did not, 
so far as we know, shine like the sun, hut chiefly be- 
cause the voice from the excellent glory commanded to 
hear him in preference to them. Thirdly, to gird up 
the energies of Jesus for the great agony which was so 
soon to excruciate him; as in Gethsemane itself an an- 
gel appeared unto him strengthening him ; as the Holy 
Ghost descended upon him in the likeness of a dove 
before his temptation in the wilderness; and as, when 
the devil left him, angels came and ministered unto 
him. Fourthly, to comfort the hearts of the disciples, 
who, being destined to see their Master, whom they had 
left all to follow, nailed to a cross, to be themselves per- 
secuted, and to suffer the want of all things, were in 
danger of despair. Ilut. by being eye-witnesses of his 
majesty, they became convinced that his humiliation, 
even though he descended into the place of the dead, 
was voluntary and could not continue long. Gazing at 
the glorified body of their Master, they beheld not only 
a proof, but an express and lively image, of his resur- 


TR AXSFIGUR ATIOX 


524 


TRANSMIGRATION 


rection, ascension, and exaltation above the heavens. I 
As in a prophetic vision, they beheld him seated upon 
clouds, and seen by every eve as the Judge of the quick 
and the dead, or enthroned in heaven amid the host of 
his redeemed. Henceforth they ceased not questioning 
one another what the rising from the dead should 
mean. Fifthly, to teach that virtue will not allow su- 


For monographs on the transfiguration, see Volbe- 
ding, Judex J’rogrammatum , p. 47 ; Ilase, Leben Jesu , p. 
101 ; Bagot.Cbi the Transjigurution ( Loud. 1840); Anon. 
Tabor's Teachings (ibid. 1807, 1808); also the (Am.) 
Free-will Baptist Quarterly , Jan. 1858. See Jesus 
Christ. 

Transfiguration- (or Jesus-) day was kept in 


pine contemplation, but demands the exercise and ex- t j ie \\ T es t eni Church in the time of St. Leo, and in the 


ertion of our several powers. To some this lesson may 
seem a refinement, hut it is ingeniously deduced by 
Seldeiermacher from the fact that, while Peter yet spake 
in his ecstasy, the vision in which he longed to wear 
out his life vanished away: as if the aim were to teach 
us that when we have ascended the mount of vision on 
the cherub-wings of contemplation, even if we burn to 
dwell there in a perpetual sweetness, yet we must shun 
all monastic seclusion that we may mingle among men 
and do them good; even as the great Exemplar would 
not let his chosen repose in rapturous musings, and had 
scarcely come down front the mountain of his glory be- 
fore he recommenced his works of usefulness. 

The transfiguration is so fine a subject for the paint- 
er that we are not surprised to learn that it employed 
Raphael’s best hours, ami that his portraiture of it is 
confessedly the highest of all efforts of pictorial genius. 
The original work, still unfaded, though more than 
three centuries have passed over it, hangs in the Vati- 
can. A copy of it in mosaic on a colossal scale, and 
which might pass with most men for the original, tills 
the head of the left aisle in St. Peter’s at Home. The 
design is as simple as the artless narrative of the evan- 
gelists. In the centre, and in raiment white as the 
light, is he, the fashion of whose countenance was al- 
tered. On either hand, and floating on the air, appear 
m glory Moses and Elias. Beneath, the disciples, over- 
shadowed by a bright cloud, their hands shielding their 
dazzled eyes, are fallen on their faces, sore afraid of the 
voice proceeding out of the cloud, but catching glimpses 
of Jesus transfigured before them.— Kitto. 



Raphael's Representation of the Transfiguration. 


Greek Church about A.I). 700. llv a bull of Calixtus 
III, 1456 (or 1457), it was ordered to be generally ob- 
served, in memory of t lie victory of llmmiades and the 
Hungarian army over Mohammed and the Turks. In 
the English calendar it stands on Aug. 6. In France, 
after consecration, the chalice was filled with new wine, 
or, as at 'fours, received some of the juice of the ripe 
grapes; and the clusters are blessed in Germany and 
the East on this day. — Blunt, Diet . of Theol. s. v. ; Wal- 
cott, Sac. A rchieol. s. v. 

Trausitorium, a term for a short anthem, or re- 
spond, in the rite of Milan, chanted after the communion 
of the priest. — Lee, Gloss, of Lit urg. Terms, s. v. 

Translation, Biblical. See Versions. 

TRANSLATION”, in ecclesiastical usage , is the re- 
moval of a bishop from the charge of one diocese to 
that of another. After such removal, the bishop, in 
all his attestations, dates from the year of his transla- 
tion {anno translation is nostree), not from that of his 
consecration {anno conseerutionis nostra>\ In the early 
Church a bishop could not translate himself to another 
see without the consent and approbation of a provincial 
couneil. Some, indeed, thought it absolutely unlawful 
for a bishop to forsake his first see and betake himself 
to any other, because they looked upon his consecration 
to he a sort of marriage to hi> church, and therefore 
looked upon his removal to another see as spiritual 
adultery. 

Transmigration (a passing over), in the theolog- 
ical acceptation of the term, means the 
supposed translation of the soul after 
death into another substance or body 
than that which it occupied before. The 
basis of this belief being the assumption 
that the human soul does not perish to- 
gether with the body, it can belong only 
to those nations which believe in the im- 
mortality of the soul. But in proportion 
as such an idea is crude or developed, as 
it is founded merely on a vague fear of 
death, and a craving for material life, or 
on ethical grounds, and a supposed causal 
connection between this ami a future life, 
the belief in transmigration assumes va- 
rious forms. 'The notion, dating back to 
a remote antiquity, and being spread all 
over the world, seems to be anthropolog- 
ically innate, and to lie the first form in 
which the idea of immortality occurred 
to man. 

1. India. — It was in India, where the 
problems of metaphysics and ethics as 
connected with ontology and the destiny 
of the soul were elaborated to the last de- 
gree on a t heist ic basis, that metempsy- 
chosis was most ingeniously and exten- 
sively developed. The Hindus believed 
that human souls emanated from the Su- 
preme Being, which, as it were, in a state 
of bewilderment or forgetfulness allowed 
them to become separate existences and 
to be born on earth. The soul thus 
severed from the real source of its life 
is bound to return to it, or to become 
merged again into that divine sub- 
stance with which it was originally one. 
But having become contaminated with 


TRANSMIGRATION 


525 


TRANSMIGRATION 


sin, it must strive to free itself from guilt and become | 
tit for its heavenly career. Religion teaches that this | 
is done by the observance of religious rites and a life 
in conformity with the precepts of the sacred books; 
philosophy, that the soul will be reunited with Brah- 
man, if it understands the true nature of the divine 
essence whence it comes. So long, therefore, as the 
soul has not attained this condition of purity, it must 
be born again after the dissolution of the body to 
which it was allied; and the degree of its impurity 
at one of these various deaths determines the exist- 
ence which it will assume in a subsequent life. So 
closely was the account of a soul’s misdeeds kept that 
it might pass thousands of years, or knlpas (reons), in 
one or other of the heavens, as a reward for good deeds 
or self-inflicted suffering, and yet be obliged to return 
to earth or hell to expiate as an animal, man, or daemon 
certain sins. To us the details of the soul’s migration, 
as described in the religious works of the Hindus, are 
only interesting as they afford a kind of standard by 
which the moral merit or demerit of human actions 
was measured in India (see Mann, Code of Laws, bk. 
xii). A more general doctrine of the transmigration 
of souls is based by Ilindvt philosophers on the as- 
sumption of the three cosmic qualities of sat two, i. e. 
purity or goodness; ntjas, i.e. troubledness or passion; 
and t Q7n as, i.e. darkness or sin, with which the human 
soul may become endued. On this basis jUauu and 
other writers built an elaborate theory of the various 
births to which the soul may be subject. Mann 
teaehes that “souls endued with the quality of sattwa 
attain the condition of deities; those having the qual- 
ity of rajas , the condition of men; and those having 
the quality of tamos , the condition of beasts.” The 
Buddhistic belief in transmigration is derived from 
that of the Brahmanic Hindus, and agrees with it in 
principle, though it differs from it in the imaginary de- 
tail in which it was worked out. To enlarge here on 
this difference is not necessary, and yet it will not he 
superfluous to point out one great difference which sep- 
arates the notions of one class of Buddhists from those 
of the rest, as well as from those of the Brahmanic 
Hindus. While other Hindus believe that the same 
soul appears at the several births, the Southern Buddh- 
ists teach that the succession of existences is a suc- 
cession of souls; that when the body dies the soul is 
“ extinguished,” and nothing remains but the good and 
bad acts performed in life; the result of these acts be- 
comes the seed of a new life, w hich soul is the necessary 
product of the soul of the former life. This dogma is 
illustrated by various similes, e. g. “One lamp is kindled 
at another; the light of the former is not identical with 
that of the latter, hut, nevertheless, without this the 
other light could not have originated.” 

2. Egypt * — According to the doetrine of the old Egyp- 
tians. the human race originated after the pure gods 
and spirits had left the earth ; and this they did be- 
cause the daemons, who inhabited the earth, had revolt- 
ed against them, and tainted it with guilt. In order 
that the daemons might purify themselves, the gods 
created human bodies, so that in them they might ex- 
piate their guilt. These earthly bodies, united to the 
daemons, are the human race, and human life is mere- 
ly intended as a means of purifying the soul. All the 
precepts regulating the course of life are laid down by 
the Egyptians for this end, and the judgment after 
death in the palace of Osiris decides whether it has 
been attained or not. If it has not. then the soul must 
return to the earth, to renew its expiations, either in a 
human body, in the body of an animal, or in a plant. 
Matter was believed to be a substantial reality; and 
the material form that w*as once united with spirit in 
the one being of man w T as believed to maintain that 
connection so long as the material form remained. 
Hence the Egyptian practice of embalming the dead, 
to arrest the passage of the soul into other forms. 

3. Persia . — The transmigration of souls was also a 


tenet of the Persian religion before the time of Zoroaster, 
and was derived, with the language of A vesta, from In- 
dian sources. Pherecydes of Syr os, who lived before 
the age of Zoroaster, taught the doetrine, and Pythago- 
ras received it in Babylon from t he Magi (q. v.). 

4. Jn Greece , the doctrine of transmigration did not 
become t he belief of the people, but was confined to the 
mysteries and tenets of philosophers, w ho probably re- 
ceived it from Egypt or India. According to some, 
Thales was the first Greek philosopher who propounded 
it; according to others, Pherecydes. the teacher of Py- 
thagoras. It w'as subsequently greatly developed by 
Pythagoras and Plato. The Greek mysteries were, in 
fact, not only a sehool in which metempsychosis was 
taught, hut an indispensable grade or lodge through 
which all of the aspirants must pass before they could 
be purified and go on to higher stages of existence. 
In the system of Plato transmigration had a remedial 
function, and the soul could attain to divinity only by 
a varied probation of ten thousand years. The Epicu- 
reans denied it, but it appears to have been generally 
inculcated as one of the deepest doctrines of the mys- 
teries. The Neo-Platonists, wdio believed in magic, as- 
sumed the doctrine of metempsychosis as a natural in- 
heritance. 

5. Among the Jeics the doetrine of transmigration — 
the Gilgul Xeshamoth — w-as taught in the mystieal sys- 
tem of the Cabala (q. v.). “All the souls,” says the 
Zohar , or Book of Light, “arc subject to the trials of 
transmigration; and men do not know which are the 
ways of the Most High in their regard. They do not 
know how many transformations and mysterious trials 
they must undergo; how many souls and spirits come 
to this w f orld without returning to the palace of the di- 
vine king. . . . The souls must re-enter the absolute sub- 

j stance wlicnee they have emerged. But to accomplish 
this end they must develop all the perfections, the germ 
! of which is planted in them; and if they have not ful- 
| filled this condition during one life, they must commence 
| another, a third, and so forth, until they have acquired 
I the condition which fits them for reunion with God. 
On the ground of this doctrine it was held, for instance, 
t hat the soul of Adam migrated into David, and will 
j come into the Messiah; that the soul of Japhcth is the 
i same as that of Simeon, and the soul ofTerah migrated 
into Job. Modern Cabalbts — for instance, Isaac Lori a 
! — have imagined that divine grace sometimes assists a 
soul in its career of expiation by allowing it to occupy 
j the same body together with another soul, when both 
are to supplement each other, like the blind and the 
lame. Sometimes only one of these souls requires the 
supplement of virtue, which it obtains from the other 
soul, better provided than its partner. The latter soul 
then becomes, as it were, the mother of the other soul, 
and bears it under her heart as a pregnant woman, 
llencc the name of gestation or impregnation is given 
to this strange association of two souls. 

6. Of the Druids , it is told bv classical w’riters that 
they believed in the immortality of the soul, and in its 
migration after a certain period subsequent to death. 
Little is known of the manner in whieh they imagined 
such migrations to take place; but, to judge from their 
religious system, there can be no doubt that they looked 
upon transmigration as a means of purifying the soul 
and preparing it for eternal life. 

7. Xorse. — A very poetical form of belief in transmi- 
gration is found in Germanic mythology, according u> 
which the soul, before entering its divine abode, assumes 
certain forms or animates certain objects, in which it 
lives for a short period — as a tree, a rose, a vine, a but- 
terfly, a pigeon, etc. 

<S. Among the early Christians, Jerome relates, the 
doctrine of transmigration was taught as a traditional 
and esoteric one, which was only communicated to a se- 
lect few. Gnostics and Manielueans welcomed it, and 
the more speculative or mystical of the Church fathers 
found in it a ready explanation of the fall of man and 


TR ANSPORTATIOX 


520 


TR AXSUBST A NTIATIOX 


tli g doctrine of evil spirits. This considerable step to- 
wards reconciling the existence of suffering with that 
of a merciful God was distinctly set forth by Porphyry 
and Origcn, and passed, in all probability, with all the 
strange heresies of “ llluminatidii,” through such insti- 
tutions as the Cairene House of Sight and the Knights 
Templars, into the wild doctrines of the obscure sects of 
the Middle Ages in Europe. The Taborites. an extreme 
branch of the Hussites, are said to have accepted the 
doctrine. 

One great philosopher, at lerfst,of modern times, G. E. 
Lessing, accounted for human progress hv a species of 
transmigration, lie argues that the soul is a simple 
being capable of intinite conceptions, which are obtain- 
ed in an intinite succession of time. The order and 
measure of the acquisition of these conceptions are the 
senses. These, at present, arc five; but there is no evi- 
dence that they have always been the same. Nature, 
never taking a leap, must have gone through all the 
lower stages before it arrived at that which it occupies 
now. . . . And since nature contains many substances and 
powers which arc not accessible to those senses with 
which it is now endowed, it must be assumed that there 
will be future stages at which the soul will have as 
many senses as correspond with the powers of nature. 

9. Modern Savages.— Probably the lowest forms of 
this belief are those found among some of the tribes of 
Africa and America, which hold that the soul, immedi- 
ately after death, must look out for a new owner, enter- 
ing. if need be, even the body of an animal. Some of 
the Africans assume that the soul will choose with pre- 
dilection the body of a person of similar rank to that of 
its former owner. or a near relation of his. They there- 
fore frequently bury tlieir dead near the houses of their 
relatives in order to enable the souls of the former to 
occupy the newly-born children of the latter, and the 
princely souls to re-enter the princely family ; and some- 
times holes are dug in the grave to facilitate the soul’s 
egress from it. 

In North America some tribes slaughter their cap- 
tives to feed with their blood such souls in suspense. 
The negro widows of Matamba are especially afraid of 
the souls of their husbands: for at the death of those 
they immediately throw themselves into the water to 
drown their husbands’ souls, which otherwise, they im- 
agine, would cling to them. The natives of Madagas- 
car seem to have invented a kind of artificial transmi- 
gration ; for in the hut. where a man is about to die 
they make a hole in the roof in order to catch the out- 
going soul and to breathe it into the body of another 
man at the point of death. 

See Metempsychosis by a Modem Pythagorean , in 
Blackwood's Mag . xix. 511 ; Confessions of a Metemp- 
syckosian, in FruseVs Mag. xii, 496; Blunt, Diet of Hist. 
Theology , s. v. ; Chambers' s Encyclop. s. v. ; Delitzsch, 
Biblical Psychology , p. 645; Gardner, Faiths of the 
World; Hendrick, Christianity ; Hardy, Buddhism , art. 
“Metempsychosis;” Teberweg, History of Philosophy 
(see Index). 

Transportation is a term used in Scotland for the 
removing or translation of a minister from one parish or 
congregation to another. 

Transubstantiation (change of substance), a word 
applied to the alleged conversion or change of the sub- 
stance of the bread and wine in the cueliarist into the 
body and blood of Jesus Christ at the time the otliciat- 
ing priest utters the words of consecration. 

1. The Term. — Probably the first to make use of the 
word transubslantiatio was Peter Damin ( Fxpositio Cjan. 
Miss . cap. vii; Mai, Script. Vet. Xov. Coll. VI, ii,215), 
A.I). 9*8-1072; though similar expressions, such as trans- 
it io, had previously been employed. Its use was, how- 
ever, limited, and in the 12th century was becoming 
very rare. Its first appearance as a term accepted and 
recognised by the Church is in the first of the Seventy 
Constitutions presented to the fourth Council of Lateral! 


(1215) by Innocent III, and tacitly adopted by that 
council. The term thus adopted by the 'Western Church 
has its counterpart in the Eastern Church in the term 
M etousiosis (Mfrovaruxng), which was formally adopt- 
ed, in the “Orthodox Confession of Faith of the Catho- 
lic and Apostolic Church of the East,” in 1643; and in 
Art. xvii of the Council of Bethlehem, or of Jerusalem, 
in 1672. 

'Flie Church of England never adopted the word 
“transubstantiation” in any formal document; and at 
the same time that the Council of Trent was fixing it 
upon the Latin Church, the sacred synod of the English 
Church was declaring, in the 28th art. of Peligion, “ Pa- 
nis et vini Trausubstautiatio in Euchnristia ex sacris 
literis probari non potest, sed apertis Script urn* verbis 
adversatur ct niultarum superstitionum dedit occasio- 
nem” (A.I). 1552). This part of Art. xxviii now stands in 
English in the following form : “Transubstantiation (or 
the change of the substance of bread and wine) in the 
supper of the Lord cannot he proved by Holy Writ, but 
is repugnant to the plain words of Scripture, overt hrow- 
eth the nature of a sacrament, and hath given occasion 
to many superstitions” (A.I). 1571). 

II. The Doctrine. — In the Confession of the Synod of 
the fourth Lateran Council, transubstantiation is thus 
defined: “There is only one universal Church, beyond 
which no man can in any way be saved. In which Je- 
sus Christ is himself the priest and sacrifice, whose body 
and blood are really contained in the sacrament of the 
altar, under the form of bread and wine, being transub- 
stantiated, the bread into the body and the wine into the 
blood, by divine power.” By the institution of Corpus 
Christi Day by pope Urban IV in 1264 and pope Clem- 
ent V in 1311 at the Synod of Vienne, the doctrine in 
question was expressed in a liturgical form and its pop- 
ularity secured. Henceforth the sacrifice of the mass 
formed more than ever the centre of the Catholic ritual, 
and reflected new glory upon the priesthood. 

The change effected by transubstantiation is declared 
to be so perfect, and complete that, by connection and 
concomitance, the soul and divinity of Christ coexist 
with his flesh and blood under the species of bread and 
wine; and thus the elements, and every particle there- 
of, contain Christ whole and entire — divinity, humanity, 
soul, body, and blood, with all their component parts. 
Nothing remains of the bread and wine except the acci- 
dents. The whole God and man Christ Jesus is con- 
tained in the bread and wine, and in every particle of 
the bread, and every drop of the wine. The natural 
result of such a doctrine is the elevation of the Host for 
adoration, a practice unknown till the rise of transub- 
stantiation. 

It is claimed by the advocates of transubstantiation 
that it had the belief and approval of the early fathers 
of the Church. Bingham ( Christ . Antiq. bk. xv, ch. v, 
§ 4) asserts that “the ancient fathers have declared as 
plainly as words can make it that the change made in the 
elements of bread and wine by consecration is not such 
a change as destroys their nature and substance, but 
only alters their qualities, and elevates them to a spirit- 
ual use. as is done in many other consecrations, where 
the qualities of things are much altered without any 
real change of substance.” We give some extracts from 
the authorities quoted by Bingham. Thus Gregory of 
Nyssa (/4c Bapt. Christi. iii, 369), “This altar before 
wliich we stand is but common stone in its nature . . . 
but after it is consecrated to the service of God, and 
has received a benediction, it is a holy table, an im- 
maculate altar, not to he touched by any but the priests, 
and that with the greatest reverence. The bread also 
at flrst is hut common bread, but when once it is sancti- 
fied by the holy mystery, it is made and called the body 
of Christ.” Cyril of Jerusalem ( Catech . Myst. iii, note 
3), “ Beware that you take not this ointment to he bare 
ointment; for as the bread in the eucharist, after the 
invocation of the Holy Spirit, is not mere bread, but the 
body of Christ, so this holy ointment, after invocation, 


TUAN SUBSTANTIATION - 


527 


TRAPP 


is not bare or common ointment, but it is the gift or 
grace of Christ and the Holy Spirit, who by his presence 
and divine nature makes it efficacious.” Chrysostom, in 
his famous Epistle to Cwsarius, explaining the two nat- 
ures of Christ — that he had both a human and a divine 
substance in reality— says, “As the bread, before it is 
sanctified, is called bread, but after the divine grace has 
sanctified it by t he mediation of the priest it is no 
longer called bread, but dignified with the name of the 
body of the Lord, though the nature of bread remain in 
it, and they arc not said to be two, but one body of the 
Son; so here, the divine nature residing or dwelling in 
the human body, they both together make one Son and 
one Person.” When this passage was first produced by 
Peter Martyr, it was looked upon as so unanswerable 
that the Romish Church declared it to be a forgery, and 
it was stolen from the Lambeth Library during the 
reign of queen Mary. Theodoret plainly says that the 
bread and wine remain still in their own nature after 
consecration. Augustine, instructing the newly bap- 
tized respecting the sacrament, tells them that what 
they saw upon the altar was bread and the cup, as their 
own eyes could testify to them; but what their faith re- 
quired to be instructed about was that the bread is the 
body of Christ, etc. Answering an objection, supposed 
to be urged, that Christ had taken his body to heaven, 
Augustine replies, “These things, my brethren, are 
therefore called sacraments, because in them one thing 
is seen and another is understood. That which is seen 
has a bodily appearance; that which is understood has 
a spiritual fruit.” lie also says that “this very bread 
and wine are the body and blood of Christ; consequently 
it could not be his natural body in the substance, but 
only sacramentally. The natural body of Christ is only 
in heaven, but the sacrament has the name of his body, 
because, though in outward, visible, and corporeal ap- 
pearance it is only bread, yet it is attended with a spirit- 
ual fruit.” Isidore, bishop of Seville (A.D. 630), speak- 
ing of the rites of the Church, says, “The bread, because 
it nourishes and strengthens our bodies, is therefore 
called the body of Christ; and the wine, because it 
creates blood in our tiesh, is called the blood of Christ. 
Now, these two things are visible, but, being sanctified 
by the Holy Ghost, they become the sacrament of the 
Lord’s body” ( be Eccles. Ojjic. i, 18). Prom the time of 
Paschasius this doctrine had been the subject of angry 
contention, and one of its bitterest opponents was the 
able scholastic writer Duns Scot us, whose opinions were 
maintained in the 11th century by Berengarius and his 
numerous followers. 

III. Arguments. — The doctrine of transubstantiation 
is defended by a literal interpretation of the words 
spoken by our Lord at the last supper, “This is my 
body,” “ This is my blood.” From these words it is ar- 
gued that there is the real bodily presence of Christ’s 
body, which is accounted for by the miracle of a change 
of substance of the bread and wine. In answer, it is 
urged, 

1. The accounts which the Romanists give of this 
supposed miracle are at variance with their own state- 
ment of it. In such a case, for instance, as that of the 
miracle of Moses’ rod, every one would say “the rod 
was changed into a serpent" (all the attributes of this 
last being present), not vice versa ; so that by Roman- 
ists’ own account it is Christ’s body and blood that are 
changed into bread and wine. 

Wherever a miracle was wrought in the Old or New 
Test., as in the instance above alluded to, or in the turn- 
ing of the water into wine at Cana, such change was 
obvious to the senses: the appeal, in fact, for the real- 
ity of the miracle is to the senses; while, therefore, we 
might admit that if a Romish priest were to assert that 
he had converted our Saviour’s body into bread and 
wine, he was safe as far as the senses go, we should hold, 
per contra , that if he professed to have turned bread 
and wine into the body and blood of Christ, that body 
£tid blood ought to be clear to the senses. We had 


bread and wine before the consecration; we have, as to 
sense, bread and wine after. In the whole history of 
miracles, nothing of this sort has ever been known ; nor 
can we. under such circumstances, admit that the al- 
leged change has taken place. Suppose Aaron’s rod 
to have remained still with all the attributes of a rod, 
could Pharaoh and his court believe it to be now a ser- 
pent ? 

2. The late origin of the doctrine of transubstantia- 
tion has been alleged as one reason for its rejection, and 
it. is certainly a point worthy of considerable notice. 
If, however, it had been as early as the superstitious 
veneration for relics and images, it would have been but 
an ancient error. 

3. It must be evident to every one who is not blinded 
by ignorance and prejudice that our Lord’s words, “ This 
is my body,” arc mere figurative expressions; and that 
they were no more likely to be designed to be received 
literally than the declarations made by our Lord that he 
was a “ vine,” a “ lamb,” a “ door,” a “ way,” a “ light.” 

4. Besides, such a transubstantiation is so opposite to 
the testimony of our senses as completely to undermine 
the whole proof of all the miracles by which God has 
confirmed revelation. According to such a transubstan- 
tiation, the same body is alive and dead at once, and 
may be in a million of different places whole and entire 
at the same instant of time; accidents remain without 
a substance, and substance without accidents; and a 
part, of Christ’s body is equal to the whole. It is also 
contrary to the end of the sacrament, which is to repre- 
sent and commemorate Christ, not to believe that he is 
corporeally present (l Cor. ix, 24, 25). 

5. The practical evil of this and of consubstantiation 
(q. v.) is that it leads to the paying divine adoration to 
a bit of bread, and the still more noxious superstition 
of thinking that Christ’s body can be received and act 
like a medicine on one w'ho is “not considering the 
Lord’s body,” as, e. g., an infant, or a man in a state of 
insensibility. 

See Blunt, Diet, of I list . Theol. s. v. ; Gardner, Faiths 
of the World, s. v. ; Bingham, Christ. A ntiq. (see Index) ; 
Brown, Compendium, p. 613; Cosen, On Transubstantia- 
tion (1858); Hagenbach, Hist, of Doctrines (see Index); 
Hill, English Monasticism (Loud. 1867); Kidder, Mes- 
siah, iii, 80; Ivnott, On the Supper of our Lord (1858); 
Smith, Errors of the Church of Rome, dial. 6; Thirl- 
wall, Transubstantiation: What Is It? (1869); Van 
Oosterzee, Christ. Dogmat. (see Index); Watson, Bibli- 
cal Diet. s. v. 

Trap ( mokesh, Josh, xxiii, 13, a snare, as 
elsewhere rendered; midkodeth, Job xviii, 10, 

a noose ; r“TTr*C, mashchith, Jer. v. 26, a destroyer , as 
else w' he re; and so $i)pa. Rom. xi, 9, lit. the chase'). 
See Hunting. 

Trapp, John, a Puritan divine, was horn in 1601, 
and educated at Christ Church, Oxford. lie was school- 
master at Stratford-on-Avon and vicar of Weston-on- 
Avon from 1624 until his death, in 1669. lie wrote, 
God's Love-Tokens (Loud. 1637, 4to): — Theologia. Theo- 
logize (1641 , 8vo) : — Commentaries on the Scriptures , viz. : 
St. John the Evangelist (1646, 4to) ; A 11 the Epistles and 
the Revelation of St. John (1647, 4to; 2d ed. 1649, 4to) ; 
All the New Testament (1647, 2 vols. 4to; new r ed. 1663, 
imp. Svo) ; Pentateuch (1650, 4to; 2d ed. 1654, 4to); 
Joshua to 2d Chronicles ; Proverbs , Ecclesiastes , and 
Songs of Solomon (1650, 4to); The. Twelve Minor 
Projihets (1654, fob); Ezra , Nehem iah, Esther, Job, and 
the Psalms (1656, fob; 2d cd. 1657, fob); Proverbs to 
Daniel (1656, fob) — all published together in 1662 (5 
vols. fob). Sec Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Au- 
thors , s. v. 

Trapp, Joseph, D.D., an English divine, was born 
at Cherrington, Gloucestershire, in November, 1679. 
Educated at first by his father, he was afterwards placed 
under the care of the master of New' College, Oxford, 


TRAPPISTS 


528 


TRASK 


and in 1695 entered Wadham College in the 
same city, lie was chosen a fellow of his 
college in 1704, and lirst professor of poetry 
in 1708. In 1709-10 he acted as manager 
for Dr. Sacheverell on his memorable trial, 
and in 1711 was appointed chaplain to Sir 
Constantine Phipps, lord chancellor of Ire- 
land. In 1720 he was presented to t he rec- 
tory of Datmtzey, Wiltshire, which lie re- 
signed in 1721 for the vicarage of the united 
parishes of Christ Church, Newgate Street, 
and St. Leonard’s, Foster Lane, London. He 
received his degree of D.L). from Oxford in 
February, 1727. lie was, in 1733, preferred 
to the rectory of Darlington, Middlesex, by 
lord Bolingbroke, whose chaplain he had pre- 
viously been. In 1734 he was elected one of 
the joint lecturers of St. Martin’s- in -the- 
Fiehls. lie died at Darlington, Nov. 22, 1747. 

Mr. Trapp was a hard student, and published 
numerous works, viz., Pnelectiones Poetiar , 
etc. (Oxon. 1711-19, 3 vols. 8vo), being bis 
Latin lectures as professor of poetry: — A 
Present dice, etc., in several discourses (col- 
lected in 1722,2 vols. sm, 8vo) : — The ^Eneid 
of Viryil Translated into Plank Verse (1718, 

2 vols. 4 to) : — Explanatory Xotes on the Four 
Gospels, etc. (1747-48, 2 vols. Svo ; Oxford, 

1775, Svo; 1805, Svo): — besides poems, ser- 
mons, theological tracts, etc. See Chalmers, 

Bitty. Diet. s. v. ; AUibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
A mer. .4 uthors , s. v. 

Trappists, the members of a monastic order in the 
Church of Home which is characterized by the extreme 
austerity of its rule. It had its origin in the Cistercian 
abbey of La Trappe in Normandy during the abbacy of 
Bance ((j. v.). This prelate had been grossly addicted 
to sensual pleasures, and had also evinced considerable 
fondness for scholarly pursuits; but his conscience be- 
came awakened, and be was transformed into an intense 
ascetic. He renounced all the beneliees he possessed 
except that of La Trappe; and when he had repaired 
the buildings of that abbey, he undertook the restora- 
tion of its ancient discipline. He introduced a number 
of strict Benedictines, and became a monk himself and 
regular abbot. In 1675 he caused the members of the 
order to renew their vows, and imposed on them the 
additional obligation to preserve unchanged all his ar- 
rangements and rules. 

TIi is immutable rule obliges the Trappists to sleep 
on a bed of straw, with pillow also of straw, placed on 
a board and covered with a blanket. They must rise 
at two o’clock in the morning. Eleven hours of their 
day are devoted to prayers and masses, the remaining 
hours to hard labor performed in strict silence. Scien- 
tific pursuits are forbidden. The Trappist’s thoughts 
are to he directed only to repentance and death, llis 
only speech, apart from hymns and prayers, is the re- 
sponsive greeting “Memento mori.” lie maintains a 
constant fast in the plainness and frugality of his food, 
which is served upon a bare table. After supper and 
subsequent religious meditations and exercises, he labors 
for a time upon the grave he is to oeeupy after death, 
and then retires to rest — at eight o’clock in summer 
and at seven in winter. The order contains lay- 
brothers, professors, and f re res donnes , i. e. temporary 
associates. Its garb consists of a long robe with wide 
sleeves of eonrse grayish-white wool; a black woollen 
cowl with two strips a foot wide which reach down to 
the knee; a broad girdle of black leather, from which 
are suspended a rosary and a knife, symbols of devo- 
tion and toil; and wooden shoes. In the choir a dark- 
brown mantle with sleeves, and a cowl of like color, are 
worn. The lay-brothers wear gray habits. 

Ha nee’s immoderate austerity occasioned the death 
of a number of monks, and brought upon him the cen- 
sure of many critics. His aversion to literary emplov- 



Trappist Monk aud N 


ments was also condemned, among others by Mabillon 
in the Truite des Etudes Monastiques (1691 ). I’he order 
did not spread beyond its original limits until after the 
founder’s death (Oct. 12, 1 7 00), and has never become 
very strong in its numbers. A female branch was in- 
stituted at Clocet, France, in 1705, by princess Louise 
de Coude. The revolution expelled the Trappists from 
France, but they established themselves in Valsainte, 
Freibonrg, Switzerland, where a monastery founded by 
Augustine l’Estrange (1791) was made an abbey by Pius 
VI. and Augustine placed at its head. Again assailed by 
the French and compelled to tiee, the Trappists found a 
temporary home in Poland. They were everywhere 
disliked, however, and found no settled home until after 
t he restoration of the Bourbons in 1817, when they re- 
covered their original abbey of La Trappe. Other sta- 
tions were established, among them a female convent 
near London. In 1834 a papal decretal consolidated the 
Trappists into a Cony reyat inn des Peliyieux Cistercieus 
de X. J). de la Trappe. They possess settlements in 
Algiers and North America, but are chiefly found in 
France. See the Allyem. Darmst. Kirchcuzeituny, 1831, 
p. 1424; 1832, p. 90, 119; 1833, p. 1464; 1835, p. 1087; 
Chateaubriand, Vie de 1 lance (Bar. 1844) ; Hitsert, Orden 
d. Trappisten (Darmst. 1833). 

In 1851 Muard founded an order of Trappist preach- 
ers in the bishopric of Sens, who established themselves 
in a convent near Avallon. They observe the Trappist 
rule and wear the habit of the order, but bv dispensation 
are allowed to break the vow of silence aud serve the 
Church by preaching. See Der Katholik , Sept. 1851, 
p. 239 sq. ; Herzog, Peal-Eucyklop. s. v.; Ilelyot, Gains 
lleliyieux , s. v. 

Trask, John, a Sabbatarian Puritan, was a native 
of Somersetshire, and. after being a schoolmaster until 
he was thirty-four years of age, became a preacher in 
London about 1617. He was at first refused ordination 
by the bishop of Bath and Wells, but “afterwards got 
orders and began to vent his opinions.” He enjoined 
severe asceticism upon his followers, inducing them to 
last three days at a time, alleging that the third day’s 
fast would bring them to the condition of justified saints, 
according to the promise “after two clays he will revive 
us; in the third day he will raise us up, and we shall 
live in his sight” (Dos. vi, 1). Among other precepts 


TRASKITES 


529 


TREASURE 


strictly enforced by Trask was that of doing every tiling 
by the law of Scripture, having been converted to this 
view by the arguments of Ilamlet Jackson. Trask pre- 
scribed to his followers ceremonial customs respecting 
dress and domestic life; required Jewish strictness in 
the observance of Sunday; and eventually adopted Sat- 
urday as the Sabbath. On April 1, 1034, the commis- 
sioners for ecclesiastical causes ordered the prosecution 
of all separatists, novelists, and sectaries, among whom 
the Traskists were named. Trask was brought before 
t he Star-chamber, where his Jndaizing opinions and 
practices were refuted by bishop Andrewes, and he was 
put in the pillory. He is said to have afterwards re- 
canted his errors, hut became an Antinomian before his 
death, the date of which is not given. His followers 
began to be called Seventh-dav men about the year 
1700. The published works of Trask arc. Sermon on 
Mark xci, 16 (Loud. 1615, 8vo): — Treatise of Liberty 
from Judaism (1(1*20, 4to) : — Power of Preaching (1023, 
8vo): — The True Gospel, etc., from the Reproach of a 
Xew Gospel (1030, sm. 12mo). See Paget, Ileresiorjra - 
phy (1002. p. 101, 184) ; Maker, Chronicle ; Fuller, Church 
History of Great Britain; Brook, Puritans ; Chamber- 
lain, Present State of England for 1702. p. 258. — Blunt, 
Diet, of Sects, s. v. ; Alii bone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. 
. 1 uthors, s. v. 

Traskites. See Trask, Jon x. 

Trauthson, the name of an ancient Tyrolese fam- 
ily which furnished two representatives to the episcopal 
otfice in the Church of Borne. The former of these was 
twenty-first bishop of Vienna, and died in 1702. The 
latter, Johann Joseph. Count Trauthson and Faleken- 
stein, was born in 1704 at Vienna, in which city he stud- 
ied (and possibly at Borne and Sienna), became canon 
and provost, and in 1751 was made prince-archbishop of 
Vienna. He issued a pastoral letter in which he urged 
his clergy to prefer the presentation of necessary truths 
to that of merely useful truths in their sermons, and re- 
monstrated against the excessive zeal expended in the 
preaching of the merits of saints, while but little atten- 
tion was given to the preaching of the merits of Christ. 
He also condemned the introduction of odd or laughable 
elements into the preaching. This circular occasioned 
great excitement, and called forth a number of apologet- 
ical and polemical tracts, which are enumerated in Acta 
Ilist.Eccl. xviii, 1008 sq.; lleinsins, Kirchenhist. iv, 320 
sq. ; and Henke, Kirchenyesch. v, 202 sq. Many Protes- 
tants suspected that the archbishop had understated the 
tenets of his Church in order to win over uninformed 
Protestants, and many Bomanists charged him with hav- 
ing begun the betrayal of the Church. Both, however, 
were mistaken. Trauthson was influenced by the “en- 
lightenment” of his time, but was none the less a zealous 
supporter of the Church of Borne. 1 1 is letter was, how- 
ever, productive of no special results. Maria Theresa 
appointed him chief direetor of studies in the University 
of Vienna and director of the Theresiannm, and pope 
Benedict XIV made him cardinal in 1756. lie per- 
suaded the curia to reduce the number of festivals in 
his diocese. He died March 10, 1757. His pastoral 
letter has been translated into many languages. See 
Von Einem, Vei'S. einervollst. Kirchenyesch. d. 18 .Jahrh. 
(Leips. 1782 sq.), i, 554, 590; Sehrbckh, Kirchenyesch. vii, 
309-313; Leben d. Cardindle d. 18 .Jahrh. iii, 2G0.— Her- 
zog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Travelling (prop, some form of rnx. ardch, es- 
pecially rHS, oreaeli, a traveller ; fem. ttrnN, orechdh, 
a “ travelling company” [Gen. xxxvii. 25; Isa. xxi, 13], 
i. e. caravan ) in the East is still much more cumbersome 
than with us, since it is almost exclusively undertaken 
solely on errands of business, and rarely fur purposes of 
pleasure. Its laboriousness is partly occasioned by the 
sandy and desert nature of the country, which often re- 
quires way- marks to be set up for guidance (Arrian, 
Exped. Alex, v, 26); partly by the bad and neglected 
X,— L l 


roads (comp. Philo, Opp. ii, 578), especially in winter 
[see Boai>] ; partly by the general absence of proper 
hotels [see Inn]; ami partly by the bands of robbers 
who infest the country in general (comp. 2 Cor. xi, 2G). 
See Bobber. Commerce (q. v.) is carried on bv means 
of caravans (q.v.), which carryall necessaries with them, 
and are often so- large as to seem like a considerable army 
(see Wellsted, Reisen , p. 227). Part of the company is 
always armed, and constitutes the van and rear guard 
(see Olivier, Voyage, vi, 329 sq.). In the desert a local 
guide is usually employed (comp. Numb, x, 31), and a 
beacon-fire as a standard by night (sec, generally, Jnlin, 
Archiiol. I, ii, 17 sq.). Single travellers in the interior 
of the well-inhabited country, or in Palestine proper, 
usually ride upon asses ( 1 Sam. xxv, 20, 42 ; 2 Sam. xvit, 
23; 1 Kings ii, 40; 2 Chron. xxviii, 15; comp. Luke x, 
34); tourists, however, and sheiks, upon horses; and in 
some instances wagons w*ere anciently used as vehicles 
(1 Kings xii, IS; 2 Kings xix, 21 ; Acts viii, 28) in cer- 
tain parts of the country. Most persons went on foot 
(comp. John iv, G) and carried their most essential sup- 
plies with them (Judg. xix, 18 sq., i. e. i n)pa, Matt, x, 
10), likew ise a tent (q. v.) under which to encamp if in 
a solitary region (I)ionys. Hal. viii, 3). Gloves are men- 
tioned in the Mislma ( Chelhn , xvi. G) as travelling ap- 
paratus. The Jews journeyed to the great festivals in 
caravans (Luke ii, 42, 44) with song and rejoicing. 
Single travellers usually found a ready hospitality (ex- 
cept among the Samaritans towards Jews), and event- 
ually khans (q.v.) were established along the highways, 
especially for non-Israelites (see Beiscgger, Reisen, iii, G2 
sq.). Travellers of distinction were often welcomed 
w r ith torchlights and great ceremony (2 Mace, iv, 22), 
and for princes t lie roads were frequently repaired (Psa. 
lx viii. 5; Isa. xl, 3; Diod. Sic. ii, 13; Arrian, Alex, iv, 
30; Josephus, 115/?-, iii, G, 2). Also on departing they 
w'ere dismissed with an honorary procession ( irpoTciy - 
7rtiy, Acts xxi, 5; deducere, Cicero, Cat. Maj. xviii) and 
many ceremonious attentions (Acts xv, 3; Bom. xv. 24; 
1 Cor. xvi, 1G; 3 John G). Samaria was avoided as a 
route by the Jews. The Gal i beans, in visiting the fes- 
tivals at Jerusalem, usually went along the Jordan or 
through Percea (Luke xvii, 11; John iv, 4; Josephus, 
Ant. xx, G, 1). See Samaritan. Journeying on the 
Sabbath was forbidden in postexilian times (sec Jose- 
phus, A nt. x iii, 8, 4). — Winer. See Sabbath - hay’s 
Journey. On account of the beat travel was some- 
times pursued by night. (Nee, generally, Ilackett, Illustr. 
of Script, p. 12-16.) Sec Journey. 

Travis, George, an English clergyman, was a na- 
tive of I Joy ton, Lancashire, and was educated at St.John’s 
College, Oxford, lie became vicar of East ham and 
rector of Hcndlcy, Cheshire; prebendary of Chester in 
1783; and archdeacon of Chester in 1786. He died 
Feb. 24, 1797. lie published, Letters to Edward Gibbon , 
etc., in defence of 1 John 5. 7 (Chester. 1784, 4 1 o ; cor- 
rected and enlarged, 1794, 8vo). See Alii bone, Diet, of 
Brit, and A mer. .4 uthors, s. v. 

Treasure (prop. 'HSX, to hoard , Sijaavpog'), in 
Scripture signifies anything collected together in stores, 
e. g. a treasure of corn, of wine, of oil; treasures of gold, 
silver, brass; treasures of coined money. Snow, winds, 
hail, rain, waters, are in the treasuries of God (Psa. 
cxxxv, 7; Jer. Ii, 16). We read also of a treasure of 
good works, treasures of iniquity, to lay up treasures in 
heaven, to bring forth good or evil out of the treasures 
of the heart. Joseph told his brethren, when they 
found their money returned in their sacks, that God 
had given them treasures (Gen. xliii, 23). The kings 
of Judah had keepers of their treasures, both in eitv 
and country (1 Chron. xxvii, 25 ; 2 Chron. xxxii, 27, 
etc.), and the places where these magazines w'ere laid 
up were called treasure-cities. Pharaoh compelled the 
Hebrew’s to build him treasure -cities, or magazines 
(Exod. i, II). The w'ord treasures is often used to ex- 
press anything in great abundance, “ In Jesus Christ 


TREASUKEI 


530 


TREE 


are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge” 
(Col. ii, 3). The wise man says that wisdom contains 
in its treasuries understanding, the knowledge of re- 
ligion, etc. Paul (Worn. ii. 5) speaks of heaping np a 
treasure of wrath against the day of wrath; and the 
prophet Amos says (iii, 10) they treasure up iniquity, 
they lay up iniquity as it were in a storehouse, which 
will bring them a thousand -calamities. The treasures 
of impiety or iniquity (Prov. x, 2) express ill-gotten 
riches. The treasures of iniquity, says the wise man, 
will eventually bring no prolit : and, in the same sense. 
Christ calls the riches of iniquity mammon of unright- 
eousness, an estate wickedly acquired (Luke xvi, 9). 
Gospel faith is the treasure of the just ; but Paul says. 
“We have this treasure in earthen vessels” (2 Cor. iv, 
7). Isaiah says of a good man, ‘‘The fear of the Lord 
is his treasure” (xxxiii. G). — Calmet. ( hi the Scripture 
allusions to “ hid treasures’’ see Thomson. Land and 
Book, i, 105 sq.; Freeman, Hand-book of Bible Manners , 
p. 350 sq. Sec Stole. 

Treasurer (technically TIeb. and Cliald. 
bdr, Ezra i, 8; vii, 21 : Cliald. also “ISIS, gidbar , Dan. 
iii, 2, 3; improp. *pb, sokcn, Isa. xxii, 15, an associate, 
i.e. the king’s intimate friend), an important officer in 
all Oriental courts. See King. In Dan. iii, 2, 3, the 
Cliald. adar gazer ( Sept, ropavroc, A. V. 

“judge”), occurs among t he titles of Babylonian royal 
officers, and has (perhaps from the resemblance of the 
word to the Greek yaZa) been thought by some to 
mean the officers of the Turkish court and government, 
now called defterdars , who have the charge of the re- 
ceipts and disbursements of the public treasury. Gc- 
senius and others conceive that the word means chief- 
judges (from “HX, magnificent, and deciders')', 

but Dr. Lee seems to prefer seeking its meaning in the 
Persian adar , tire, and gazrtr , passing; and hence con- 
cludes that the. adargazerin were probably officers of 
state who presided over the ordeals by tire, and other 
matters connected with the government of Babylon. 
See Judge. 

TREASURER, Ecclesiastical,, the keeper of the 
treasures, e. g. the muniments, sacred vessels, relics, and 
valuables of a church, cathedral, or religious house. He 
was known by different names; sacrist, from having 
charge of the sacristy; cellarer, as providing the eucha- 
ristic elements and canonical bread and wine; matricular, 
as keeper of the inventory; const re in France and Ger- 
many; custos and cimeUnrch in Italy; and in the Greek 
sceiwphi/lar. The custos had charge of all the contents 
of the Church, but at length became superintendent of 
deputies, discharging his personal duties, and at last 
took the title of treasurer, as having charge of the relics 
and valuables of the Church. He is the Old-English 
cip'cward and mediaeval perpetual sacristan, and now 
represented by the humbler sexton. Every necessary 
for the Church and divine service was furnished by 
him. The old title of custos descended before the 13th 
century to his church-service. 

In order the treasurer usually succeeded the chan- 
cellor. and had a stall appointed to himself. Ilis dig- 
nity was. founded at York in the 11th century; at 
Chichester, Lichfield, Wells, Hereford, St. Paul’s, in the 
12th; and at St. David’s and Llnndaff in the 13th. It 
has been commonly preserved and exercised since the 
Reformation, both in English colleges and cathedrals, but 
has fallen into disuse at York, Lincoln, and Lichfield, and 
at Exeter, Llandaff, and Amiens is held bv the bishop. 

The monastic treasurer, or bursar, received all the 
rents, was auditor of all the officers’ accounts, paymas- 
ter of wages, and of the works done in the abbey. — Lee. 
Gloss, of JJturg. Terms, s. v. ; Walcot t. Sue. A rchcrol. s. v. 

Treasury (usually ~1S*X, otsdr, a collection, often 
rendered “treasure;” sometimes Hob. genazim 

[Esth. iii, 9; iv, 1], or Cliald. ", “T!a, ginzin [Ezra v, 


17 ; vi, 1 ; vii, 20, “ treasure-house”], a store or deposit), 
See also Asuppim. In 1 Cliron. xxviii, 1 1, the treasury 
of the Temple is called ganzdk ; and means sub- 

stantially the same as the Kopfiavat; of Matt, xxvii, 6, 
namely, the hoard of money contributed towards the 
expenses of that edifice. The same thing, or perhaps 
rather the place where the contribution-boxes for this 
purpose were kept, is designated in the New Test, as the 
ya£o <f)v\ctKtov (Mark xii,4l ; Luke xxi, 1 ; John viii, 
20), and so likewise Josephus (/I nt. xix, (>, 1 ; 1 1 5/r, v, 5, 
2), after the Sept. (Nell. x. 37 ; xiii, 4. 5, 8 ; Estli. iii. 9). 
According to the rabbins this treasury was in the court 
of the women, where stood thirteen chests called trump- 
ets from their form or funnel-shaped month, into which 
t lie Jews cast their offerings (comp. Exod. xxx, 13 sq.). 
See Temple. 

Treat, Samuel, a Congregational minister, was horn 
at Milford, Conn., in 1G47 (or 1G-18), and graduated at 
Harvard College in 1GG9. He was ordained and settled 
at Eastham, Plymouth Colony, in 1G72. Soon after his 
settlement lie studied the Indian language, and devoted 
to the Indians in his neighborhood much of his time and 
attention. Through his labors many of the savages 
were brought into a state of civilization and order, and 
not a few of them were converted to the Christian faith. 
In 1G93 he wrote a letter to Increase Mather, in which 
he states that there were within the limits of East- 
ham live hundred adult Indians, to whom he had for 
many years imparted the Gospel in their own language. 
He had under him four Indian teachers, who read in 
! separate villages on every Sabbath, excepting every 
fourth, when he himself preached the sermons which 
he wrote for them, lie procured schoolmasters, and 
persuaded the Indians to choose from among themselves 
six magistrates, who held regular courts. In 1700 he 
began to serve ihc new settlement of Truro, and per- 
I formed parochial duties until a church was established. 
After having passed near half a century in the most be- 
lcvolent exertions as a minister of the Gospel, he died, 
March 18. 1717. He published the Confession of Faith 
in the Nauset Indian language, and an Election Sermon 
(1713). Sec Sprague, Annals of A mer. Pulpit , i, 183. 

Treaty. See Alliance, 

Trecanum, an anthem sung after the communion, 
before the Gth century, in honor of the llolv Trinity ; 
called l»y this name in Gaul. Some think it was the 
Apostles’ Creed. In the Greek Church there is a con- 
fession of the Holy Trinity sung after the llagia Hagi- 
ois. The latter form is mentioned by Cyril of Jeru- 
salem, Basil, and t he Mozarabie and Gallican liturgies. 
— Walcott, Sac. A rcheeol. s. v. 

Tredischi, Nicholas, an eminent ecclesiastic, was 
a native of Sicily, born towards the close of the 14th 
century, and became one of the most celebrated canonists 
of his time. He was present at the Council of Basle, in 
which lie took a prominent part, and was made a car- 
dinal hv Felix Y in 1440, 

Tree, prop. yv. ets (ch’Ppor), which also signifies 
mood (fiv\or ) ; in Jer. vi,6, the fern. n2£r\ etsdh, is used. 
Besides this generic term, there also occur peculiar words 
of a more distinct signification, e. g. bt‘X, eshel (1 Sam. 
xxii, G; xxxi. 13; “grove” [q. v.] in Gen. xxi, 33), 
which is thought to denote the tamarisk or else the 
terebinth ; b^X. eyl (Isa. lxi, 3 ; Ezek. xxxi, 14) ; Cliald. 
''b^’S.ildn (Dan.iv, 10sq.),prob.thcoifF (q.v.); “H?l yv, 
ets haddr (“goodly tree,” Lev. xxiii. 40) , riX e,s 
ahoth (“thick tree,” ver. 40 ; Nell. viii. 15), and >XS, 
tseef (“shady tree,” Job xl, 21, 22), which designate 
rather vigorous trees in general than specific varieties. 
See Tap.ejixaclks. Festival ok. For a list of all the 
kinds of trees (including shrubs, plants, fruits, etc.) men- 
tioned in the Bible, see Botany. See Taylor, Trees of 
Scripture (Loud. 1842). 


TREE OF LIFE 


531 


TRELAWNEY 



Ancient Assyrians cutting' down Palms of a Besieged City. 

In Eastern countries trees are not only graceful orna- 
ments in the landscape, but essential to the comfort and 
support of the inhabitants. The Hebrews were forbid- 
den to destroy the fruit-trees of their enemies in time 
of war, “for the tree of the held is man’s life” (Dent, 
xx, 19, 20). Trees of any kind are not now very abun- 
dant in Palestine. Some trees are found, by an exam- 
ination of the internal zones, to attain to a very long 
age. There are some in existence which are stated to 
have attained a longevity of three thousand years, and 
for some of them a still higher antiquity is claimed. 

Individual trees in Palestine are often notable for his- 
torical and sacred associations (Thomson, Land and 
Book , ii, 151). See Allon-baciiuth ; Meonenim. 

TREE of Life, etc. Whatever may have been the 
frame and texture of Adam’s body while in Eden, it is 
certain that, being “of the earth, it was earthy,” and 
was thus liable to disease and exposed to decay; just 
as his soul, at the same time, was liable to the greater 
evil of temptation by being exposed to the power of 
the tempter. Hence, while “every tree of the garden 
was given for food,” the tree of life, in t lie midst of the 
garden, was provided by Infinite Wisdom as the ap- 
pointed antidote of disease or decay of the body; while, 
at the same time, the enjoyment of spiritual life, or the 
indwelling of the spirit of God, and the right of access 
to the tree of life, thus securing immortality, were con- 
ditioned on our first parents not eating the forbidden 
fruit of the tree of knowledge (Gen. ii, 9-17). The va- 
rious references to the “ tree of life” evidently consider 
it to have been the divinely appointed medium for se- 
curing the immortality of our first parents (Prov. iii, 

18; xi,30; Ezek. xlvii, 12 ; Rev. ii, 7; xxii, 2, 14). See 
Reineccius, De A rbore Vitas (Weissenf. 1722). See Life. 

The tree, of the knowledge of good and evil, of which 
they were forbidden to eat under penalty of excision 
from the tree of life, and consequent death, which also 
occupied a conspicuous place in the garden, was the 
divinely appointed test of good and evil, the means 
whereby God would try and prove the faithfulness and 
obedience of our first parents. It was the test of moral 
good and evil, i.e. of holiness and sin, and of consequent 
happiness or misery (Gen. iii, 1-24). When, through 
the instigation of the tempter, the first human pair dis- 
regarded the command of their Creator and partook of 
the fruit of the prohibited tree, they lost the indwelling 
of the spirit of God, and forfeited the right of access to 
the tree of life. On that day the sentence of death 
was awarded to the guilty pair. They were now dead 
in the eye of the divine law, and the same condemna- 
tion passed upon the whole race of man. I*y partak- 
ing of the forbidden tree, they obtained an experi- 
mental sense of the distinction between good and evil. 

Hence their expulsion from Eden and removal from the 
tree of life was an act of mercy as well as of justice; 


for, had they been 
allowed to retain the 
use of the tree of life, 
it would, in their con- 
dition, have sustain- 
ed them in an im- 
mortality of guilt and 
misery. See Muller, 
De A rbore Boni et 
Mali , et Arb. Vitie 
(Lips. 1755); Jonrn . 
of /Sac. Lit. Oct. 1 862 ; 
Jan. and Oct. 18G4. 
See Ei>ex. 

Tregelles.SAM- 
DKL PlUDIiAUX, 
LL.D., an eminent 
English Biblical 
scholar, was horn at 
Falmouth, Jan. 30, 
1813. After receiv- 
ing an education at the Falmouth Classical School, 
he was employed in the iron-works at Neath Abbey, 
Glamorganshire, 1828-34, and became, in 1836, a pri- 
vate tutor in Falmouth. Devoting himself to the 
study of the Scriptures, he visited the Continent sev- 
eral times for the purpose of collating the principal 
uncial MSS. At Rome he was permitted to see the 
Vatican MS., but not to copy it. He received his de- 
gree of LL.D. from St. Andrew’s University in 1850, 
and in 1863 received an annual pension of one hundred 
pounds. Of Quaker parentage, he became associated 
with the Plymouth Brethren, was an active philanthro- 
pist, and was appointed a member of the company on the 
revision of the A. V. of the Old Test. Dr. Tregelles 
died at Plymouth, April 24, 1875. lie published, Eng- 
lishman's Greek Concordance to the New Test. (1839, imp. 
8vo; 2d ed. 1844, imp. 8vo; Judex to, 1845, imp. 8vo) 
Englishman's Hebrew and Chaldee Concordance to the 
! Old Test. (1843,2 vols. imp. 8vo): — Book of Revelation 
I in Greek, etc. (1844, Svo) : — Gescnins's Hebrew ami Chal - 
[ dee lexicon to the Old-Test. Scriptures, etc. (1847, 4to; 
last ed. 1857, 4to) : — Remarks on the Prophetic Visions 
of the Book of Daniel (1847, Svo; 4th ed. with notes, 
and Defence of the A uthenticify of the Book of Daniel, 
also published separately, 1852, Svo) : — Book of Revela- 
tion, Translated from the Ancient Greek Text (1848, 
12mo; 1858, 12mo): — Prospectus of a Critical Edition 
of the Greek New Test., etc. (Plymouth, 1848, 12mo): — 
On the Original Ixwguage of St, Matthew's Gospel (Loud. 
1850, Svo) : — The Jansenists: their Rise, etc. (1851, 8vo) : 
— Lecture on the Historic Evidence of the Authorship, 
etc., of the Books of the Neic Test. (1852, small Svo) : — 
Heads of Hebrew Grammar (1852, Svo): — An Account 
of the Printed Text of the Greek New Test. etc. (1854, 
Svo): — The Greek New Test. Edited from Ancient Au- 
thorities. etc. (1857-72); this last is considered his most 
important work: — Codex Zacynthins (1861, small fol.) : 
— Canon Muratorianus, earliest catalogue of books of 
the New Test. (Camb. and Loud. 1868, 4to). For full 
description of works, see Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
A mer. A ufhors , s. v. 

Trelawney, Sir Harry, an English baronet, was 
born in 1756, and was educated at Christ Church Col- 
lege, Oxford. He w r as in succession a preacher among 
the Methodists, then served a Presbyterian congrega- 
tion at West Loo, Cornwall, and afterwards seceded to 
the Rational Dissenters. Returning to the Church of 
England, he obtained a rectory in the west of England, 
ami was made prebendary of Exeter in 1789. Accord- 
ing to Allibone, he died a Roman Catholic, at Lavcrno, 
Italy, in 1834. He published a sermon on 1 Cor. iii, 9, 
Ministers Ixiborers together with God (Loud. 1778, 4to). 
See Ijond. Gent. Mag. 1834, i, G52; Allibone, Diet, of 
Brit, and A mer . A utkors , s, v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. 


TRELAWNEY 


532 


TRENT, COUNCIL OF 


Trelawney, Sir Jonathan, an English baronet 
an<l prelate, horn in 1 G4S, was ordained bishop of Bristol 
in 1G85, translated to Exeter in 1689, and to Winches- 
ter in 1707. He was one of the seven bishops commit- 
ted to the Tower in the reign of James IE Ills death 
oeenrred in 17*21. lie published a sermon on Josh, 
xxiii, 8. 9, Thanksgiving for Victory (bond. 1702, 4to): 
— Caution against False Doctrine (1704, 12mo). See 
Bond. Cent. May. 1827, ii r 409 ; State Trials (Howell’s 
ed.), xii, 182, 187; Alii bone, Diet . of licit, and A mer. 
A uthors , s. v.; Darling, Cyclop . Ziibliog. s. v. 

Tremellius, Emmanvel, a learned Protestant di- 
vine, was born at Ferrara in 1510. By birth a Jew, he 
was educated in the Jewish faith; but he was convert- 
ed to Christianity by the teaching, it is said, of cardi- 
nal Pole and M. A_Flaminio. Through the influence 
of Peter Martyr he st>on after joined the Deformation 
party, and became at* active propagator of their views. 
Having left Italy, he visited Germany and England, 
where he lived in intimacy with archbishops Cranmer 
and Parker, ami for some time supported himself by 
teaching Hebrew at Cambridge. On the death of Ed- 
ward AT be returned to Germany, where he remained 
teaching Hebrew at llurnbaeh and Heidelberg. He 
was next invited to occupy the Hebrew chair at Sedan, 
where he died in 1580. His works are : Rudiment a Liny. 
Deb. (Wittenb,'l541) m ■'TTO “p:n, Initiutio Elec- 
tor um Domini, a catechism in Hebrew (Par. 1551,1552; 
Strasb. 1554: beyd. 1591) Gram. Chatd. et Syr., pre- 
tixed to Interpretatio Syr. A T . T. Ilebraicis Typis J Re- 
script a (Par. 1569): — Jiiblia Sacra, sire I Abb. Canon. 
Latini recens ex Neb. Facti (Franeof. 1579; bond. 1580). 
See F first, Bibl.Jud. iii, 443; Kitto, Cyclop, s. v. ; Stein- 
sehneider, Bibliogr. 1 landbuch, p. 140; Kalkar, Israel 
and die Kirche, p. 73 sq.; Wolf. Bibl. Ilebr. I, iii, 4, Xo. 
1797: Butters, Emmanuel Tremellius (ZweibrticUen, 
1859); Delitzseh, Strut twf 1 /off nuny (Erlangen, 18G5), 
iv, 28 sq.; Da Costa, Israel and the Gentiles, p. 4G9 sq.; 
Adams, History of the Jews . ii, 7b (B. P.) 

Trench (prop. PlP^ri, tealah , 1 Kings xviii, 32,35, 
38, a channel, or “conduit,” as elsewhere), a kind of ditch 
cut into the earth for the purpose of receiving and 
draining the water from adjacent parts. Something of 
this kind was the trench cut hv the prophet Elijah to 
contain the water which he ordered to be poured on 
his sacrilice (ver. 32), and whieh. when filled to the 
brim with water, was entirely exhausted, evaporated, 
by the fire of the bord which consumed the sacrifice. 
See Elijah. 

Trench (““43. eheyl, 2 Sam. xx, 15, a wall, rampart, or 
bulwark, as elsewhere rendered; magcil, 1 Sam. 

xxvi, 5, 7 ; or n5rC2, magaldh, xvii. 20, a wagon 
hence a defence formed by tbe vehicles of an army; 
yfipat, buke xix, 43, a mound [Eat. vallum'] for block- 
ading a besieged city, formed of tbe earth thrown out 
of a moat and stuck with sharp sticks or palisades) is 
also a military term, and denotes one description of the 
approaches to a fortified town. They were anciently 
used to surround a town, to enclose the, besieged, and 
to secure the besiegers against attacks from them. 
Trenches could not lie. cut in a rock ; and it is probable 
that-, when our bord says of Jerusalem (buke xix, 43), 
“Thv enemies shall east a trench about thee,” meaning, 
“they shall raise a Avail of enclosure,” lie foretold what 
the Jews would harelv credit from the nature of the 
ease; perhaps what they considered as impossible: yet 
the providence of Hod has so ordered it that avc have 
evidence to this fact in Josephus. Avho says that Titus 
exhorting his soldiers, they surrounded Jerusalem with 
a Avail in the space of three days, although the general 
opinion had pronounced it impossible. This eircum- 
vallation prevented any escape from the city, and de- 
terred from all attempts at relief by succors going into 
it. See Siege. 

Trendelenburg, Friedrich Adolf, a German 


philosopher, was horn at Eutin, near bubeck, Now 30, 
1802; and Avas educated at the gymnasium of his native 
toAvu, and at the universities of Kiel, bcipsie, and Ber- 
lin. From 182G to 1833 he Avas private tutor in the 
family of postmaster-general A T on Nagler, and in the 
latter year Avas appointed professor extraordinary of 
philosophy at Berlin. This position Avas exchanged, in 
1837, for that of professor in ordinary, lie Avas elected 
a member of the Berlin academy in I84G, and Avas its 
secretary in the “ historico-philosophieal” section from 
1817 until his death, Jan. 24, 1872. “On that very dav 
the journals announced his decoration by the king as a 
knight of the Order of Merit, for his eminence in science 
and art.” “ The foundation of Trendelenburg’s doctrine 
is essentially Platonie and Aristotelian.” He terms his 
philosophy the “organic view” of the world ; and accord- 
ing to it each loAver stage in existence is the basis of 
the higher stages, and necessarily im*olved in the high- 
er. The soul is t he self-realizing idea of man. God is 
t he unconditioned, not directly demonstrable, hut im- 
plied, Avi tli logical necessity, in the whole fabric of the 
universe and of human thought. Among Trendelen- 
burg’s Avorks are. Element tr Logices .1 ristoteUcev. (Berlin, 
1837; fith ed. 1868): — Lngiselie Enter such ungen (ibid. 
1840; 3d ed. 1870): — Erlauternngen zu den Elemental der 
aristotelischen Logik (2d ed. 18G1): — Xnturrecht anf 
dem Grande der Ethik (2d ed. 18GS). See Bonitz, Zur 
Eriimerung an F. A. Trendelenburg (Berlin, 1872): Bra- 
tuschek, Adolf Trendelenburg (ibid. 1873); Prantl, Ge- 
diichtuissrede auf F. . I. Trendelenburg (Munich, 1873); 
UeberAveg, Hist, of Modern Phil, (see Index). 

Trendelenburg, Johann Georg, a German pro- 
fessor of ancient languages, Avas born Feb. 22, 1757. For 
a number of years he Avas professor of languages at the 
academic gymnasium in Dantzic, Avhere he died March 
1 1,1825. lie published. Pi'imi Libri Maccttbaorum Gmv- 
ci. Text us cum Versione Syriaca Collatio Insfituta (reprint- 
ed in Eichhorn’s Repertorium, xv, 59): — Chrestomathia 
Flaviana, sice Loci I /lustres ex Fhtvio Josepho Delect i 
et A nimatlrersionibus lllu strati (bips. 1789): — Chresto- 
mathia Htxaphtris (ibid. 1794) : — Commentatin in Verba 
Xovissima Daridis 2 Sam. xxiii, 17 (Gott. 1779) : — Die 
ersten A nfangsgriinde der hebr. Sprache (Dantzic, 1784), 
See Fiirst, Bibl.Jud. iii. 443; Winer, 1 landbuch der theol. 
Literatur. ii, 807. (B. P.) 

Trent, the Council of ( Concilium Trident inum), 
Avas held in Trent, a city of Tyrol, Austria, on the left 
bank of the Adige. It lias a cathedral built, entirely of 
marble in the Byzantine style. In the Church of St. 
Maria Maggiore are the portraits of the members of the 
council, Avhich Avas held in this building. This council 
Avas first convoked June 2, 1536. by pope Paul III, to bo 
held at Mantua. May 23, 1537. Subsequently, the duke 
of Mantua having refused to permit the assembling of 
the council in that eity, the pope prorogued the meet- 
ing to November, Avithont naming any place. After- 
wards, by another bull, he prorogued it till May, 1538, 
and named ATecnza as the place of assembly; nomi- 
nating in the meantime certain cardinals and prelates to 
look into the question of reform, Avho, in consequence, 
drew up a long report upon the subject, in Avhich they 
divide the abuses needing correction into tAvo heads: 

1. Those concerning the Church in general. 

2. Those peculiar to the Chinch of Home. 

AVhen the time arrived, however, not a single bishop 
appeared at ATeenza; Avhereupon the pope again pro- 
rogued the council to Easter, 1539, and subsequently for- 
bade its assembling until he should signify his pleasure 
upon the suhjeet. At last, at t lie end of three years, in 
the year 1542. after much dispute between the pope, 
the emperor, and the other princes in the Unman com- 
munion as to the place in Avhich the council should he 
hidden, the pope’s proposition that it should take place 
at Trent Avas agreed to; Avhereupon the bull Avas pub- 
lished, A fay 22, convoking the council to Trent on Nov. 
I in that year. Subsequently he named, as his legatee 


TRENT, COUNCIL OF 533 TRENT, COUNCIL OF 


in the council, cardinal John del Monte, bishop of Pal- 
estrina; the cardinal-priest of Sainte-Croix, Mareellus 
Cervinus; and the cardinal-deacon Reginald Pole. How- 
ever, dilficnltics arose, which caused the opening of the 
council to be further delayed, and the first meeting was 
not held until December, 1545. The great importance 
of this council in the history of the Reformation, and in 
Roman Catholic doctrine since, justifies an unusually 
full treatment of it here. 

< Session / (Dee. 13, 1545). — When the council was 
opened there were present the three legates, four arch- 
bishops. and twenty-two bishops, in their pontifical vest- 
ments. Mass was said bv the cardinal del Monte, and 
a sermon preached by tbe bishop of Bitonte; after which 
the bull given Nov. 19, 1544, and that of February, 1545, 
were, read, and cardinal del Monte explained the ob- 
jects which were proposed in assembling the council, 
viz. the extirpation of heresy, the re-establishment of 
ecclesiastical discipline, the reformation of morals, and 
the restoration of peaee and unity. 

On Dee. IS and 22 congregations were held, in which 
some discussion arose about the care and order to be ob- 
served by prelates in their life and behavior during the 
council. 

On Jan. 5 another congress was held, in which cardi- 
nal del .Monte proposed that the order to be observed in 
conducting the business of the council should be the 
same with that at the last Council of Lateral), where 
t lie examination of the different matters had been in- 
trusted to different bishops, who for that purpose had 
been divided into three classes; and when the decrees 
relating to any matter had been drawn up, they were 
submitted to tbe consideration of a general congrega- 
tion; so that all was done without any disputing and 
discussion in the sessions. A dispute arose in this con- 
gregation about the style to be given to the council in 
the decrees. The pope had decreed that they should 
run in this form, “The Holy (Ecumenical and General 
Council of Trent, the Legates of the Apostolic See pre- 
siding;” but the Gatlican bishops, and many of the Span- 
iards and Italians, insisted that the words “representing 
t he Universal Church” should be added. This, however, 
the legates refused, remembering that such had been 
the form used in the councils of Constance and Basle, 
and fearing lest, if this addition were made, the rest of 
the form of Constance and Basle might follow, viz., 
“which derives its power immediately from Jesus Christ, 
and to which every person, of whatever dignity, not ex- 
cepting the pope, is bound to yield obedience.” 

Session II (Jan. 7, 1510). — At this session forty-three 
prelates were present. A bull was read prohibiting the 
proctors of absent prelates to vote; also another, exhort- 
ing all the faithful then in Trent to live in the fear of 
God, and to fast and pray. The learned were exhorted 
to give their attention to the question how the rising 
heresies could be best extinguished. The question about 
the style of the council was again raised. 

In the following congregation, Jan. 13, the same ques- 
tion was again debated. Nothing was settled in this 
matter, and they then proceeded to deliberate upon 
which of the three subjects proposed to be discussed in 
the council (viz. the extirpation of heresy, the reforma- 
tion of discipline, and the restoration of peace) should 
be first handled. Three prelates were appointed to ex- 
amine the procuration papers and excuses of absent 
bishops. 

In the next congregation the deliberations on the 
subject to be first proposed in the council were resumed. 
Some wished that the question of reform should be first 
opened; others, on the contrary, maintained that ques- 
tions relating to the faith demanded immediate notice. 
A third party, among whom was Thomas Campeggio, 
bishop of Feltri, asserted that the two questions of doc- 
trine and reformation were inseparable, and must be 
treated of together. This latter opinion ultimately pre- 
vailed, but at the moment the sense of the assembly was 
so divided that no decision was arrived at. 


In the congregation held Jan. 22, the party in favor 
of entering at once upon the subject of reform was much 
increased, but the three legates coutiuued their opposi- 
tion to their scheme. Subsequently, however, they pro- 
posed that they should always take into consideration 
together one subject, relating to the faith and one re- 
lating to reform, bearing one upon -the other. 

On tbe 24th a curious dispute arose about the proper 
seal for tbe use of the council. Some desired that a 
new seal should be made; but the legates succeeded in 
having the seal of the first legate attached to the syn- 
odal letters. 

Session III (Feb. 4, 154G). — In this session nothing 
was done except to recite the Creed, word for word. 

In a congress held Feb. 22. the legates proposed that 
the council should enter upon the subject of the llolv 
Scriptures; and four doctrinal articles were presented, 
extracted by the theologians from tbe writings of Lu- 
ther upon the subject of Holy Scripture, which they af- 
firmed to be contrary to the orthodox faith. 

1. That all the articles of the Christian faith necessary 
to he believed are contained in Holy Scripture; and that 
it is sacrilege to hold the oral traditions of the Church to 
be of equal authority with the Old and New Test. 

2. That only such books as the Jews acknowledged 
ought to be received into the canon of the Old Test. ; and 
that the Epistle to the Hebrews, the Epistle of James, the 
Second Epistle of Peter, the Second and Third Epistles of 
John, the Epistle of Jude, and the Apocalypse should be 
erased from the canon of the New Test. 

4. That Holy Scripture is easy to be understood, and 
clear, and that no glo« or commentary is needed, but only 
the Spirit of Jesus Christ. 

The first two articles were debated in tlie four follow- 
ing congregations. As to the first article, the congre- 
gation eante to the decision that the Christian faith is 
contained partly in llolv Scripture and partly in the 
traditions of the Church. Upon the second article much 
discussion arose. All agreed in receiving all the books 
read in the Roman Church, including the Apocryphal 
books, alleging the authority of the catalogues drawn 
up in the councils of Laodicea and Carthage, and those 
under Innocent 1 and Gelasius 1; but there were four 
opinions as to the method to be observed in drawing up 
the catalogue. One party wished to divide the books 
into two classes — one containing those which have al- 
ways been received without dispute, the other contain- 
ing those which had been doubted. The second party 
desired a threefold division: I. Containing the un- 
doubted books; 2. Those which had been at one time 
suspected, but since received; 3. Those which had nev- 
er been recognised, as seven of the Apocryphal books, and 
some chapters in Daniel and Esther. The third party 
wished that no distinction should be made; and the 
fourth that all the books contained in the Latin Vulgate 
should be declared to be canonical and inspired. 

The discussion was resumed on March 8, but not de- 
cided : the members, however, unanimously agreed that 
tbe traditions of the Church are equal in authority to 
Holy Scripture. 

In the following congregation it was decided that the 
catalogue of the books of Holy Scripture should be 
drawn up without any of the proposed distinctions, and 
that they should be declared to be all of equal author- 
ity. 

The authority of the Latin Vulgate (declared in the 
third article to be full of errors) came under considera- 
tion in subsequent congregations, and it was almost, 
unanimously declared to be authentic. With regard to 
the fourth article, it was agreed that in interpreting 
Scripture men must be guided by the voice of the fa- 
thers and of the Church. 

Session IV (April 8, 1540). — Between sixty and sev- 
enty prelates attended this session. Two decrees were 
read : L Upon the canon of Scripture, which declares 
that the holy council receives all the books of the Old 
and New Test, as well as all the traditions of the Church 
respecting faith aud morals, as having proceeded from 
Jhe lips of Jesus Christ himself, or as having been die- 


534 


TRENT, COUNCIL OF 

taled by the Holy Spirit and preserved in the Catholic 
Church by a continued succession; and that it looks 
upon both the written and unwritten Word with equal 
respect. After this the decree enumerates the books re- 
ceived as canonical by the Church of Home, and as they 
are found in the Vulgate, and anathematizes all who re- 
fuse to acknowledge them as such. The second decree 
declares the authenticity of the Vulgate, forbids all pri- 
vate interpretation of it, and orders that no copies he 
printed or circulated without authority, under penalty 
of line and anathema. 

In another congregation the abuses relating to lect- 
urers on Holy Scripture and preachers were discussed; 
also those arising from the non-residenee of bishops. 
After this the question of original sin came under con- 
sideration, and nine articles taken from the Lutheran 
books were drawn up and otic red for examination, upon 
which some discussion took place. Ultimately, how- 
ever, a decree was drawn up upon the subject, divided 
into five canons. 

1. Treats of the personal sin of Adam. 

2. Of i he transmission of that sin to his posterity. 

3. Of its remedy, i. e. holy baptism. 

4. Of infant baptism. 

5. Of the concupiscence which still remains in those 
who have been baptized. 

A great dispute arose between the Franciscans and Do- 
minicans concerning the immaculate conception of the 
Blessed Virgin. The Franciscans insisted that she 
should be specially declared to be free from the taint of 
original sin; the Dominicans, on the other hand, main- 
tained that, although the Church had tolerated the opin- 
ion concerning the immaculate conception, it was suf- 
ficiently clear that the Virgin was not exempt from the 
common infection of our nature. A decree of reforma- 
tion, in two chapters, was also read. 

/Session U (dune 17. 1 frill). — In this session the de- 
cree concerning original sin was passed, containing the 
tive canons mentioned above, enforced by anathemas. 
Afterwards the fathers declared that it was not their 
intention to include the Virgin in this decree, and that 
upon this subject the constitutions of pope Sixtus IV 
were to be followed, thus leaving the immaculate con- 
ception an open question. 

In a congregation held June 18, they proceeded to 
consider the questions relating to grace and good works. 
Also the subject of residence of bishops and pastors was 
discussed. The cardinal del 3lonte and some of the fa- 
thers attributed the heresies and disturbances which 
had arisen to the non-residence of bishops, while many 
of the bishops maintained that t hey were to be attrib- 
uted to t he multitudes of friars and other privileged 
persons whom the pope permitted to wander about and 
preach in spite of the bishops, who, in consequence, 
could do no good even if they were in residence. 

In the congregation held June 30, twenty-live articles, 
professedly drawn up from the Lutheran writings on the 
subject of justification, were proposed for examination. 
Some of these articles seem well to have merited the 
judgment passed upon them; thus, among others, 

5. Declares that repentance for past siu is altogether un- 
necessary if a man lead a new life. 

7. The fear of hell is a sin, and makes the sinner worse. 

S. Contrition arising from meditation upon, and sorrow 
for, pa-t sin makes a man a great sinner. 

11. Faith alone is required; the only sin is unbelief; 
other things are neither commanded nor forbidden. 

12. lie who has faith is free from the precepts of the 
law, and has no need of works in order to be saved ; noth- 
ing that a believer can do is so sinful that it can either ac- 
cuse or condemn him. 

13. No sin separates from God’s grace but want of faith. 

14. Faith and works are contrary to one another; to 
teach the latter is to destroy the former, etc. 

At this time the three ambassadors of the king of France 
arrived — viz. Durse, Liguieres, and Pierre Danez. The 
last mentioned delivered a long discourse, in the course 
of which he entreated the council to suffer no attack to 
be made upon the privileges of the kingdom and Church 
of France. 


TRENT, COUNCIL OF 

In a congregation held Aug. 20, the subject of justifi- 
cation was again warmly discussed, as well as the doc- 
trine of Luther concerning free-will and predestination. 
Upon this latter subject nothing worthy of censure was 
found in the writings of Luther or in the Confession of 
Augsburg; hut eight articles were drawn up fur exam- 
ination from the writings of the Zwinglians. Upon some 
of these there was much difference of opinion. By the 
advice of the bishop of Sinagaglia, the canons drawn up 
embodying the decrees of the council were divided into 
two sets — one set, which they called the decides of doc- 
trine, contained the Catholic faith upon the subjects 
decided; the others, called canons, stated, condemned, 
and anathematized the doctrines contrary to that faith. 
These decrees were mainly composed by cardinal Saintc- 
Croix, who bestowed infinite pains upon them; at least 
one hundred congregations were held upon the subject. 
Afterwards they returned to the consideration of the re- 
form of the Church, and to the question about episcopal 
residence. 3Iost of the theologians present, especially 
the Dominicans, maintained that residence was a mat- 
ter not merely canonically binding, but of divine injunc- 
tion. The Spaniards held the same opinion. The leg- 
ates, seeing that the discussion tended to bring the pa- 
pal authority and power into question, endeavored to 
put a stop to it. 

/ Session VI (Jan. 13, 1547). — In this session the decree 
concerning doctrine was read; it contained sixteen chap- 
ters and thirty-three canons against heretics. 

These chapters declare that sinners are brought into a 
state to receive justification when excited and helped by 
grace, and, believing the word of God, they freely turn to 
God, believing all that he has revealed and promised, es- 
pecially that the sinner is justified by the grace of God, 
given to him through the redemption of Jesus Christ; 
and when, acknowledging their sinfulness and filled with 
a salutary fear of God’s justice, yet trusting to his mercy, 
they conceive hope and confidence that God will he favor- 
able to them for t he sake of Jesus Christ, and thereupon 
begin to love him as the only source of all righteousness, 
and to turn from their sins through the hatred which they 
have conceived against them, i. e. through that repentance 
which all must feel before baptism; in short, when they 
resolve to he baptized, to lead a new life, and to follow 
the commandments of God. 

Alter this the decree explains the nature and eflects of 
justification, saying that it does not consist merely in 
the remission of siu, hut also in sanctification and inward 
renewal. That th e final cause of justification is the glory 
of God and of Jesus Christ and eternal life; the efficient 
cause is God himself, who, of his mercy, freely washes 
and sanctifies by the seal and unction of the Holy Spirit, 
who is the pledge of our inheritance ; the meritorious cause 
is our Lord Jesus Christ, his beloved and only Son ; the 
instrumental cause is the sacrament of baptism, without 
which no oue cau be justified; and, finally, the formal 
cause is the righteousness of God given to each, not that 
righteousness by which lie is righteous in himself, but 
that by which lie makes ns righteous; i. e. with which be- 
ing endued by him, we become renewed in our hearts, and 
are not merely accounted righteous, hut are made really 
so by receiving, as it were, righteousness in ourselves*, 
each according to the measure given to us at the will of 
the Holy Spirit and in propoitiou to the proper dispo- 
sition and co-operation of each. Thus the sinner, by 
means of this ineffable gtace, becomes truly righteous, a 
friend of God, and an heir of everlasting life; and it is 
the Holy Spirit who works this marvellous change in him 
by forming holy habits in his heart— habits of faith, hope, 
and charity— which unite him closely to Jesus Christ and 
make of him a lively member of his body; but no man, 
alt bough justified, is to imagine himself exempt from 
the observation of God's e- mmnndments. No man may 
dare, tinder pain of anathema, to utter such a rash notion 
as that it is impossible for a man, even after justification, 
to keep God’s commandments; since God commands 
nothing impossible, but with the commandment he desires 
us to do all that we can, and to seek for aid and grace to 
enable ns to fulfil that which in our natural strength we 
cannot do. 

The decree further teaches upon this subject that no 
man tuny presume upon the mysterious subject of predes- 
tination so as to assure himself of being among the num- 
ber of the elect and predestinated to eternal life, as if, 
having been justified, it were impossible to commit sin 
again, or, at least, as if, falling into sin after justification, 
be must of necessity be raised agaiu ; that, without a 
special revelation from God, it is impossible to know who 
are those whom he has chosen. It also teaches the same 
of perseverance, concerning which it declares that he 
who perseveres to the end shall be saved; that no oue in 


535 


TRENT, COUNCIL OF 

this life can promise himself an absolute assnranee of per- 
severance, although all ought to put entire confidence in 
God’s assistance, who will finish and complete the good 
work which he has begun in us by working in us to will 
and to do, if we do not of ourselves fail of his grace. 

Further, they who by sin have fallen from grace giv- 
en, and justification, may be justified again when God 
awakens them ; and this is done by means of the sacra- 
ment of penance, in which, through the merits of Jesus 
Christ, they may recover the grace which they have lost; 
and this is the proper method of recovery for those who 
have fallen. It was for the benefit of those who fall into 
sin after baptism that our Lord Jesus Christ instituted 
the sacrament of penance, saying, “Receive ye the Holy 
Ghost; whosesoever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto 
them; and whosesoever sins ye retain, they are retain- 
ed.” Hence it follows that the repentance of a Christian 
fallen into sin after baptism is to be clearly distinguish- 
ed from the repentance required at holy baptism ; for it 
not alone requires him to cease from sin, and to view his 
vileness with horror — i. e. to have an humble and contrite 
heart — but it also implies the sacramental confession of 
iiis sin, at least in will, and the absolution of the priest, 
together with such satisfaction as he can make by means 
of fasting, alms-giving, prayer, etc. Not that anything 
that he can do can help towards obtaining the remission 
of the eternal punishment, due to sin, which is remitted 
together with the sin by the sacrament of penance (or hy 
the desire to receive that sacrament where it cannot be 
had), bu L such satisfaction is necessary to attain remission 
of the temporal penalties attached to sin, which are not 
always remitted in the case of those who, ungrateful to 
God for the blessing which they have received, have 
grieved the Iloly Spirit and profaned the temple of God. 

This grace of justification jnay be lost, not only through 
the sin of infidelity, by which faith itself is lost, but also 
by every kind of mortal sin, even though faith be not 
lost. 

These chapters were accompanied by thirty- three 
canons, which anathematize those who hold the opin- 
ions specified in them contrary to the tenor of the doc- 
trine contained in the chapters. 

Besides this decree, another was published in this ses- 
sion, relating to the Beformation, containing five chap- 
ters upon the subject of residence. 

It renews the ancient canons against non-resident prel- 
ates, and declares that every prelate, whatever he his dig- 
nity, being absent for six months together from his dio- 
cese, without just and sufficient cause, shall be deprived 
of the fourth part of his revenue; and that if he remain 
away during the rest of the year, he shall lose another 
fourth; that if his absence be prolonged beyond this, the 
metropolitan shall be obliged, under paiu of being inter- 
dicted from entering the church, to present him to the 
pope, who shall either punish him or give his church to 
a more worthy shepherd; that if it be the metropolitan 
himself who is in fault, the oldest of his sufftagans shall 
be obliged to present him. 

The decree then goes on to treat of the reform of eccle- 
siastics, both secular and regular; of the visitation of chap- 
ters by the ordinary: and declares that bishops may not 
perform any episcopal function whatever out of their own 
dioceses without the consent of the bishop of the piace. 

Before the seventh session a congregation was held, 
in which it was agreed to treat in the next place of the 
sacraments; ami thirty-six articles, taken from the Lu- 
theran books, were proposed for examination, after which 
thirty canons on the subject were drawn up — viz. thir- 
teen on the sacraments in general, fourteen on baptism, 
and three on confirmation. They relate to their num- 
ber, their necessity, excellence, the manner in which 
they confer grace, which they declared to he ex opere 
operate, i. e. that the sacraments confer grace upon all 
those recipients who do not, by mortal sin, offer a bar to 
its reception ; e. g. grace is conferred by baptism upon 
infants, although they bring with them no pious affec- 
tions. They also drew up a decree declaring that the 
sacraments ought always to be administered gratui- 
tously. 

After this the question of reformation was discussed; 
among other things, it was debated whether a plurality 
of benefices requiring residence is forbidden by the di- 
vine law. 

i Session VII (March 3, 1547). — In this session the 
thirty canons above noted relating to the sacraments 
were read, together with the accompanying anathemas. 
Among the thirteen on the sacraments in general were 
the following : 


TRENT, COUNCIL OF 

1. Anathematizes those who maintain that the seven 
sacraments were not all instituted by Jesus Christ. 

3. Anathematizes those who maintain that any one sac- 
rament is of more worth than another. 

8. Anathematizes those who deny that the sacraments 
confer grace ex opere operate, i. e. hy their own proper 
virtue. 

t>. Anathematizes those who deny that baptism, orders, 
and confirmation imprint an ineffaceable character. 

10. Anathematizes those who maintain that all Chris- 
tians, male and female, may preach God’s word aud ad- 
minister the sacraments. 

11. Anathematizes those who deny that the intention of 
the minister to do what the Church does is necessary to 
the effectual administration of the sacraments. 

12. Anathematizes those who maintain that the siu of 
the minister invalidates the sacrament. 

13. Anathematizes those who maintain that the minis- 
ter may change the prescribed form. 

Among the fourteen canons on baptism ; 

2. Anathematizes those who assert that real aud natural 
waiter is not necessary in baptism. 

3. Anathematizes those who maintain that the Church 
of Rome does not teach the true doctrine on the subject 
of baptism. 

4. Anathematizes those who deny the validity of bap- 
tism conferred by heretics, in the name of the blessed 
Trinity, aud with the intention to do what the Church 
does. 

5. Anathematizes those who maintain that baptism is 
uot necessary to salvation. 

7. Anathematizes those who maintain that the baptized 
need only believe, aud not keep t lie law of God. 

10. Anathematizes those who main tain that sin after 
baptism is remitted by faith. 

11. Anathematizes those who maintain that apostates 
from the faith should be again baptized. 

12. Anathematizes those who maintain that no one 
ought to he baptized until he is of the age at which our 
Lord was baptized, or at the point of death. 

13. Anathematizes those who deny that baptized infants 
are not to be reckoned among the faithful. 

14. Anathematizes those who maintain that persons 
baptized in infancy should, when they come of age, he 
asked whether they are willing to ratify the promise 
made in their name. 

Secondly, the decree of reformation, containing fif- 
teen chapters, relative to the election of bishops, plural- 
ities, etc., was passed. 

In a congregation which followed, the question of 
transferring the council to some other place was dis- 
cussed, a report having been circulated that a conta- 
gious disease had broken out in Trent. 

Session VIII (March 11, 1547). — In this session a de- 
cree was read transferring the council to Bologna, which 
was approved by about two thirds of the assembly; the 
rest, who were mostly Spaniards or other subjects of the 
emperor, strongly opposed the translation. The emper- 
or complained much of the transfer of the council, and 
ordered the prelates who had opposed it to remain at 
Trent, which they did. 

Session IX (April 21, 1547). — In the first session held 
at Bologna, the legates and thirty-four bishops were 
present. A decree was read postponing all business to 
the next session, to be held on June 2 ensuing, in order 
to give time for the prelates to arrive. 

Session X (June 2. 1547).— At this session, however, 
there were but six archbishops, thirty-six bishops, one 
abbot, and two generals iff orders present ; the rest con- 
tinuing to sit at Trent, It was deemed advisable to 
prorogue the session to Sept. 15 ensuing; but the quar- 
rel between the pope and the emperor having now as- 
sumed a more serious aspect, the council remained sus- 
pended for four years in spite of the solicitations made 
by the German bishops to the pope that the sessions of 
the council might continue. 

In 1549, Haul III died, and the cardinal del Monte 
having been elected in his place, under the name of Ju- 
lius III, he issued a bull, dated March 14, 1551, direct- 
ing the re-establishment of the Council of Trent, and 
naming as his legates, Marcellus Crescentio, cardinal; 
Sebastian righino, archbishop ofSiponto; and Aloysius 
Lipomanes, bishop of Verona, 

Session XI (May 1, 1551). — The next, session was 
held at Trent, when cardinal Crescentio caused a decree 
to be read to the effect that the council was reopened, 


TRENT, COUNCIL OF 536 TRENT, COUNCIL OF 


ami that the next session should be held on Sept. I fol- 
lowing. 

Session XII (Sept. 1, 1551). — In this session, an ex- 
hortation was read in the name of the presidents of 
the council, in which the power and authority of (ecu- 
menical councils were extolled; then followed a decree 
declaring’ that the subject of the eueharist should be 
treated of in the next session. Afterwards, the carl 
of Mont lbrt, ambassador from the emperor, demanded 
to be admitted to the council, which was agreed to. 
dames Amyot, the ambassador of Henry H of France, 
presented a letter from bis master, which, after some 
opposition, was read : it explained why no French bish- 
op had been permitted to attend the council. After- 
wards. Amyot. on the part of Henry, made a formal pro- 
test against t ho Council of Trent, in which he complain- 
ed oft lie conduct of Julius 111. 

In the congregation following, the question of the 
eueharist was treated of, and ten articles selected from 
the doctrine of Zwingli and Luther were proposed for 
examination. 

1. That the body and blood oT Christ are present in the 
eueharist only in a figure, not really. 

2. That the* Lord’s body is eaten, not sacramentally, but 
only spiritually and by faith. 

3. * That no rrnnsnhst ambition takes place in the encha- 
rist,b«t a hypostatic union of the human nature of Christ 
with the bread and wine. 

4. That the eueharist was instituted for the remission 
of sins only. 

5. That Jesus Christ in the eueharist is not to be adored, 
and that to do so is to commit idolatry. 

6. That the holy sacrament ought not to be kept; and 
that no person may communicate alone. 

7. That the body ofChrist is not in the fragments which 
remain after communion; hut it is so present ouly during 
the time of receiving, and not afterwards. 

S. That it is siu to refuse to the faithful the communion 
in both kinds. 

y. Thai tinder one species is not contained the same as 
under both. 

to. That faith alone is required in order to communi- 
cate; that confession ought to he voluntary, autl that 
communion at Easier is not necessary. 

In another congregation the question of reform was 
discussed, the subject of episcopal jurisdiction was 
brought forward, and a regulation drawn up concerning 
appeals. No appeal from the judgment of the bishop and 
his officials was allowed, except in criminal cases, with- 
out consulting with civil judgments; and even in crimi- 
nal cases it was not permitted to appeal from inter- 
locutory sentences until a definitive sentence had been 
passed. The ancient right of the bishops to give sen- 
tence in the provincial synods was not, however, re- 
stored. The power was left to the pope of judging by 
means of commissioners delegated in part thus . 

Session XIII (Oct. 11, 1551). — The decree, concern- 
ing the eueharist was read IScpt. 13, and was contained 
in eight chapters. 

1. Declares that after the consecration of the bread and 
wine, our Lord Jesus Christ, very God and very Man, 
is verily, really, and substantially contained under the 
species of these sensible objects; that, it is a sin to en- 
deavor to pn r a metaphorical sense upon the words in 
which onr Lord instituted the holy sacrament ; that the 
Church has always believed the actual body and the ac- 
tual blood, together with his soul and his divinity, to be 
pre-ent under the species of bread and wine after conse- 
cration. 

3. That each kind contains the same as they both to- 
gether do, for Jesus Christ is entire under the spec T es 
of bread, and under the smallest panicle ot that species, 
as also under the species of wine, and under the smallest 
portion of it. 

4. That in the consecration of the bread and wine there 
is made a conversion and change of the whole substance 
of the bread into t he substance of our Lord's body, and a 
change of the whole substance of the wine into that of his 
blood, which change has been filly and properly termed 
“ transit list a n tint ion.” 

5. That the worship of Latvia is rightly rendered by the 
faithful to the holy sacrament of the altar. 

s. That there are three inodes of communicating — (1) 
sacramentally, as in the case of dinners: (2) spiritually, as 
iliey do who receive only in will and by faith; (3) both 
sacramentally and spiritually, as they do’ who actually re- 
ceive, aud with faith and proper dispositions. 


To this decree there were added eleven canons, anath- 
ematizing those who held certain heretical doctrines 
on the subject of the holy eueharist, and especially 
those contained in the ten articles proposed for exami- 
nation in the congregation held Sept. 2. 

Thus, can. 1 condemns the opinion contained in the first 
of those articles; can. 2, that contained in art. 3; can. 3, 
that contained in art. 3; can. 4, that contained in art. 7; 
can. 5, that contained in art. 4; can. 0, that contained in 
art. 5; cau. 7, that contained in art. <»: can. 8, that con- 
tained in art. 2; can. P, that contained in art. 10; can. in 
condemns those who deny that the priest may communi- 
cate alone; and can. 11 condemns those who maintain 
that faith alone, without confession, is a sufficient prepa- 
ration for the communion. 

Afterwards, a decree of reformation, containing eight 
chapters, was read; the subject of it was the jurisdic- 
tion of bishops. 

In a congregation held after this session, twelve ar- 
ticles on the subjects of penance and extreme unction 
were examined, taken from the writings of Luther and 
liis disciples. In a subsequent congregation the de- 
crees and canons upon the subject were brought for- 
ward, together with a decree in fifteen chapters on re- 
form. 

Session X IT {'Sow 25, 1551). — In this session the de- 
cree upon penance, in nine chapters, was read. 

1. States that our Lord chiefly instituted the sacrament 
of penance when he breathed upon his disciples, saying, 
“ Receive ye the Holy Ghost,” etc. ; and the council con- 
demns those who refuse to acknowledge that by these 
words onr Lord communicated to his apostles aud to 
their successors the power of remitting or retaining sius 
after baptism. 

2. That in this sacrament the priest exercises the func- 
tion of judge. 

3. That the form of the sacrament, in which its force 
and virtue resides, is contained in the words of t lie abso- 
lution pronounced by the priest, “Ego te alisolvo,” etc. ; 
that the penitential acts are contrition, confession, and sat- 
isfaction, which are, as it were, the matter of the sacrament., 

4. The council defines contrition to be mi inward sor- 
row for, and hatred of, the sin committed, accompanied 
bv a firm resolution to cease from it in future. With re- 
spect to imperfect contrition, called attrition, arising 
merely from the shame and disgraccfuhiess of sin, or 
from the fear of piiuishment, the council declares that if 
it he accompanied by a hope of forgiveness, and excludes 
the desire to commit sin, it. is a gift of God and a motion 
of the Iloly Spirit ; and that, far from rendering a man a 
hypocrite and a greater sinner, it disposes him (disponit) 
to obtain the grace of God in the sacrament of penance. 

5. The decree then goes on to establish the necessity 
of confessing every mortal siu which, by diligeut self-ex- 
amination, can tie brought to remembrance. With re- 
gard to venial sins, it states that it. is not absolutely nec- 
essary to confess them, and that they may be expiated in 
many other ways. 

0. As to the. minister of this sacrament, it declares that 
the power of binding and loosing is, by Christ’s appoint- 
ment, in the priest, only; that this power consists not 
merely in declaring the remission of sins, but iu the judi- 
cial act by which they are remitted. 

7. As to the reserved cases, it declares it to lie impor- 
tant to the maintenance of good discipline that certain 
atrocious crimes should not be absolved by every priest, 
but be reserved for the first order. 

3. That we can make satisfaction to God by self-im- 
posed inflictions, and by those which the priest prescribes, 
as well ns by bearing’ patiently and with a penitential 
spirit the temporal sorrows and afflictions which God 
sends to ns. 

In conformity with this decree, fifteen canons were pub- 
lished, condemning those who maintained the opposite 
doctrines. After t his, the decree upon the subject of 
extreme unction, in three chapters, was read. 

It stated that this unction was appointed by our Lord 
Jesus Christ as a true sacrament, of the New Test. ; that 
it is plainly recommended to the faithful by Janies, and 
t hat the use of it i> insinuated by Mark. That, the matter 
of the sacrament is the oil consecrated by the bishop, and 
that its form consists in the words pronounced when the 
unction is applied; that, its effect is to wipe out the re- 
mains of siu, and to reassure and comfort the soul of the 
sick person by exciting within him a full confidence in 
God’s mercy, and sometimes to restore the health of the 
body, when such renewed health can advantage the sal- 
vation of the soul. Thar bishops alone may administer 
this sacrament. That this sacrament ought to be iriven 
to those who are in danger of death ; but that if they re- 
cover, they may receive it agaiu. 


537 


TRENT, COUNCIL OF 

The council then agreed upon four canons on the sub- 
ject, with anathemas. 

1. Anathematizes those who tench that extreme unc- 
tion is not a true sacrament instituted by Jesus Christ. 

2. Anathematizes those who teach that it does not con- 
fer grace, nor remit sin, nor comfort the sick. 

3. Anathematizes those who teacli that the Roman rite 
may be set at naught without sin. 

4. Anathematizes those who teach that the npeafiintpot, 
of whom James speaks, are old persons, and not priests. 

•After this the question of reform came before them, and 
fourteen chapters upon the subject of episcopal jurisdic- 
tion were published. 

t. Forbids the granting of dispensations and permis- 
sions by the court of Rome to the prejudice of the bish- 
op’s authority. 

2. Forbids bishops in partibns infidcUum , upon the 
strength of their privileges, to ordain any one under any 
pretext without, the express permission of, or letter dis- 
missory from, the ordinary. 

3. Gives bishops power to suspend clerks ordained 
without proper examination or without their license. 

4. Orders that, all secular clerks whatever, and all reg- 
ulars living out of their monasteries, shall be always, and 
in all cases, subject to the correction of the bishop in 
whose diocese they are, notwithstanding any privileges, 
exemption, etc., whatsoever. 

5. Relates to the conservators. 

6. Orders all clerks, under pain of suspension and dep- 
rivation, to wear the habit suited to their order, and for- 
bids them the use of short garments and green and red 
stockings. 

7. Enacts that a clerk guilty of voluntary homicide shall 
be deprived of all ecclesiastical orders, benefices, etc. 

S. Checks the interference of prelates in the dioceses 
of others. 

0. Forbids the perpetual union of two churches situated 
in different dioceses. 

1ft. Directs that benefices belonging to the regulars 
shall be given to regulars only. 

11. Directs that lio one shall be admitted to t he relig- 
ions life who will not promise to abide ill the convent in i 
subjection to the superior. 

12. Declares that the right of patronage can be given 
only to those who have built a new church or chapel, or 
who endow one already built. 

13. Forbids all patrons to make their presentation to 
any one but to the bishop, otherwise the presentation to 
be void. 

In a congregation held Dec. 23 the sacrament of or- 
ders was considered, and twelve articles taken from 
the Lutheran writings were produced for examination. 
Subsequently eight canons were drawn up condemning 
as heretics those who maintained the following propo- 
sitions: 1. That orders is not a true sacrament. 2. That 
the priesthood is the only order. 3. That there ought 
to be no hierarchy. 4. That t he consent of the people 
is necessary to the validity of orders. 5. That there 
is no visible priesthood. 6. That unction is unnecessa- 
ry. 7. That this sacrament does not confer the Holy 
Spirit. 8. That bishops are not by divine appoint- 
ment nor superior to priests. 

a Session AT (dan. 25, 1552). — In this session a decree 
was read to the effect that the decrees upon the sub- 
ject of the sacrifice of the mass and the sacrament of 
orders, which were to have been read in this session, 
would be deferred until March 19 under the pretence 
that the Protestants, to whom a new safe-conduct had 
been granted, might be able to attend. 

In the following congregation the subject of mar- 
riage was treated of, and thirty-three articles thereon 
were submitted for examination. 

The disputes which arose between the ambassadors 
of the emperor and the legates of the pope produced 
anot her cessation of the couneil. The Spanish bishops 
and those of the kingdoms of Naples and Sicily, as well 
as all who were subjects of the emperor, wished to con- 
tinue the council; but those, on the other hand, who 
were in the interests of the court of Rome did all they 
could to prevent its continuance, and were not sorry 
when the report of a war between the emperor and 
Maurice, elector of Saxony, caused most of the bishops 
to leave Trent. In the meantime some Protestant the- 
ologians arrived, and urged the ambassadors of the em- 
peror to obtain from the fathers of the council an an- 


TRENT, COUNCIL OF 

swer to certain propositions, and to induce them to en- 
gage in a conference with them; both of which, how- 
ever, the legates, upon various pretexts, eluded. 

Session X VI (May 28, 1552). — The chief part of the 
prelates having then departed, the pope’s bull declar- 
ing the council to be suspended was read in this ses- 
sion. This suspension lasted for nearly ten years; but 
on Nov. 29, 1500, a bull was published by Pius IV (who 
succeeded to the papacy upon the death of Julius 111, 
in 1555) for the reassembling of t lie council at Trent 
oil the following Easter-day; but from various causes 
the reopening of the council did not take place until 
the year 1502. 

Session XVII (Jan. 18, 1502). — One hundred and 
twelve bishops ami several theologians were present. 
The bull of convocation and a decree for the continua- 
tion of the council were read; the words “ proponenti- 
lius legatis” inserted in it passed in spite of the oppo- ^ 
si r ion of four Spanish bishops, who represented that the. 
clause, being a novelty, ought not to be admitted, and 
that it was, moreover, injurious to the authority of oecu- 
menical councils. 

In a congregation held Jan. 27 the legates proposed 
the examination of the books of heretics and the an- 
swers to them composed by Catholic authors, and re- 
quested the fathers to rake into their consideration the 
construction of a catalogue of prohibited works. 

Session XVI 1 1 (Feb. 2G, 1502). — In this session the 
pope’s brief was read, who left to the council the care 
of drawing up a list of prohibited books. After this 
a decree upon t he subject of tbe books to be prohibited 
was read, inviting all persons interested in the qnes-> 
lion to come to the council, and promising them a hear- 
ing. 

In congregations held on March 2,3, and 4, they de- 
liberated about granting a safe-conduct to the Protes- 
tants, and a decree upon the subject was drawn up. 

On March 1 1 a general congregation was held, in 
which twelve articles of reform were proposed for ex- 
amination, which gave rise to great dispute and were 
discussed in subsequent congregations. 

Session XIX (Mav 14, 1502). — In this session noth- 
ing whatever passed requiring notice, and the publica- 
tion of the decrees was postponed to the following ses- 
sion. Immediately after this session the French am- 
bassadors arrived, and their instructions were curious, 
and to the following effect: 

That the decisions which had taken place should not 
be reserved for the pope’s approval, but that the pope 
should be compelled to submit to the decision of the 
council. That they should begiu with the reform of the 
Church in its head and in its members, as had been prom- 
ised at the Council of Constance, and in that of Basle, 
l)ii t never completed. That annates should be abolished ; 
that all archbishops and bishops should he obliged to 
residence; that the council should make arrangements 
will) respect to dispensations, so as to remove the neces- 
sity of sending to Rome. TlmKthe sixth canon of C’hal- 
cedou should be observed, which prohibits bishops to or- 
dain priests without appointing them to some specific 
charges, so as to prevent the increase of useless minis- 
ters, etc. 

On May 2G a congregation was held to receive the 
ambassador of France. The Sienr de I’ibrac, in the 
name of the king his master, in a long discourse, ex- 
horted the prelates to labor at the work of reformation, 
promising that the king would, if needful, support and 
defend them in the enjoyment of their liberty. 

Session XX (June 4, 1502). — In this session the pro- 
moter of the council replied to the discourse delivered 
by Ribrac in the last congregation; after which a de- 
cree was read proroguing the session to July 10. 

In the following congregation five articles upon the 
subject of the holy eucharist were proposed for exam- 
ination. 

1. Whether the faithful are, by God’s command, obliged 
to receive in both kinds? 

2. Whether Jesus Christ is received entire under one 
species as under both ? 

3. Whether the reason which induced the Church to. 


538 


TRENT, COUNCIL OF 


TRENT, COUNCIL OF 

?ivc the communion to (lie laity under one kind only 
slill obliged her not to grant t lie cup to any one? 

4. Upon what conditions the cup should be permitted 

to any persons, supposing it to be advisable to grant it ? , 

5. Whether the communion is necessary to children un- 
der years of discretion ? 

The question about the obligation of residence was also 
again mooted; but t lie cardinal of Mantua objected to 
its discussion as entirely alien from the subject before 
them, promising, at the same time, that it should be 
discussed at a lilting season. 

In subsequent congregations bold from tbe Oth to the 
23d of June the subject of the live articles was discussed. 

In a congregation held July H the decree in four 
chapters on the communion was examined. 

Session XXI (July 16, 1562).— The four chapters on 
doctrine were read, in which the council declared: 

That neither laymen nor ecclesiastics (not consecrating) 
are bound by any divine precept to receive the sacrament 
of the eueharist in both kinds; that the sufficiency of 
communion in one kind cannot be doubted without in- 
jury to faith. Further, that the Church has always pos- 
sessed the power of establishing ami changing in the dis- 
pensation of t.hc sacraments (without, however, interfer- , 
ing with essentials) according as she has judged to be 
most conducive to ihe honor due to the holy sacrament, 
and to the good of the recipients, taking into account the 
diversities of place and conjuncture; that, although Jesus 
Christ instituted and gave to his apostles the sacrament 
under two kinds, it is necessary to believe that under 
cither kind Jesus Christ is received whole and entire; 
and that no diminution is experienced in any of the 
graces conveyed by the sacrament. Lastly, that children 
not arrived at years of discretion are not obliged to re- 
ceive the eueharist. 

Four canons in conformity with this doctrine were then 
read : 

1. Against those who maintain that all the faithful are 
under obligation to receive in both kinds. 

2. Against those who maintain that the Church has not 
sufficient grounds for refusing the cup to the laity. 

8. Against those who deny that om* Lord is received 
entire under each species. 

4. Against those who maintain that (he eueharist is 
necessary to children before they come to the exercise of 
their reason. 

Subsequently nine chapters on reform were read, hav- 
ing regard to the duties of bishops, education of clerks, 
etc. 

A few days after this session the Italian bishops re- 
ceived a letter from the pope, in which he declared that 
he was far from wishing to hinder the discussion of the 
question concerning the nature of the obligation to res- 
idence; that he desired the council to enjoy entire free- 
dom, and that every one should speak according as his 
conscience directed him; at the same time, however, 
he wrote to his nuncio, Visconti, bidding him take se- 
cure measures for stifling the discussion, and for send- 
ing it to the holy see for decision. 

In the congregations held after the twenty-first ses- 
sion, the question was concerning the sacrifice of the 
mass; and all the theologians agreed unanimously that 
the mass ought to be regarded as a true sacrilice under 
tbe new covenant, in which Jesus Christ is offered un- 
der the sacramental species. One of their arguments 
was this, that. Jesus Christ was priest after the order 
of Melcliizedek ; i lie latter offered bread and wine; and 
that, consequently, the priesthood of Jesus Christ in- 
cludes a sacrifice of bread and wine. 

In a congregation held about Aug. 18, tbe archbishop 
of Prague presented a letter from the emperor, in which 
he made earnest entreaties that the cup might be con- 
ceded to the laity. This delicate subject was reserved 
for special consideration in a subsequent congregation. 

Tbe decree on the subject of the sacrifice of the mass 
being now completed, the members began next to con- 
sider the subject of communion in both kinds. Three 
opinions principally prevailed among the prelates: 1. 
To refuse the cup entirely; 2. To grant it upon certain 
conditions to be approved of by the founcil ; 3. To leave 
the settlement of the matter to the pope. The Span- 
ish and Venetian bishops supported the first opinion. 


Among those who were inclined to grant the cup were 
cardinal Madrucio, the bishop of Modena, and flaspard 
Uapal, bishop of Leira. But among the strongest ad- 
vocates for granting the petition was the bishop of the 
Five Churches, who implored the prelates to have com- 
passion on the churches, and to pay some regard to the 
pressing entreaties of the emperor. On the other hand, 
the patriarchs of Aquileia and Venice, and the Latin 
patriarch of Jerusalem, were in favor of refusing; the 
latter maintained that bv giving way to them the peo- 
ple would be rather confirmed in the error of supposing 
that the body only of our Lord is contained under tbe 
species of bread, and tbe blood only under that of wine ; 
that if they gave way now, other nations would require 
the same, and they would go further, and would next 
require the abolition of images, as being an occasion of 
idolatry to the people. Other bishops, supporting this 
opinion, reminded t he assembly that the Church had 
been led to forbid the use of the cup from a fear lest the 
consecrated wine should he spilled or turn sour, and that 
the former accident could hardly he prevented when 
t be holy sacrament was carried long distances and by 
bad paths. The archbishop of Bossano, the bishops of 
Cava, Ahneria, Imola, and llieti, with Bichard, abbot of 
Breval, at (tenon, were also among those who spoke in 
favor of absolutely refusing the cup. On the eve of the 
twenty-second session a decree passed by which it was 
left to the pope to act as he thought best in the matter, 
the numbers being ninety-eight for the decree and thir- 
ty-eight against it. The discussion lasted altogether 
from Aug. 15 to Sept. 16. 

Session XXII (Sept. 17, 1562). — One hundred and 
eighty prelates, with the ambassadors and legates, were 
present at this session. The doctrinal decree touching 
the sacrifice of the mass, in nine chapters, was published. 
It was to the following effect : 

1. Although our Lord once offered himself to Cod the 
Father by dying upon the altar of his cross, in order to 
obtain thereby eternal redemption for us, nevertheless, 
since his priesthood did not cease at his death, in order 
that, he might leave with his Church a visible sacrifice 
(such as the nature of man requires), by means of which 
the bloody sacrifice of the cross might be represented at 
the last supper, on the same night that he was betrayed, 
in the execution of his office as a priest forever after the 
order of Melchizedek, he offered his body and blood to the 
Father under the species of bread and wine, and gave the 
same to his apostles; and by these words, “This do in re- 
membrance of me,” he commanded them and their suc- 
cessors to offer the like sacrifice, as the Catholic Church 
has always believed and taught. 

2. As the same Jesus Christ who once offered himself 
upon the cross with the shedding of his blood is con- 
tained and immolated without ihe effusion of blood in 
the holy sacrifice of the mass, this latter sacrifice is truly 
propitiatory, and that by it we obtain mercy and forgive- 
ness; since it is the same Jesus Christ who was offered 
upon the cross who is still offered by t lie ministry of his 
priests, the only difference being in the manner of offer- 
ing. And the mass may be offered, not only for the sins 
and wants of the faithful who are alive, but also for those 
who, being dead, are not yet made pure. 

3. Although the Church sometimes celebrates masses in 
honor and in memory of the saints, the sacrifice is still of- 
fered to God alone, for she only implores rheir protection. 

4. The Church for many ages past has established the 
sacred canon of the mass, which is puie and free from ev- 
ery error, and contains nothing winch is not. consistent 
with holiness and piety, being in truth composed from 
our Lord’s words, the traditions of the apostles, and the 
pious institutions of the holy popes. 

5. The Church, in order the better to set forth the maj- 
esty of so great a sacrifice, has established certain cus- 
toms — such as saying some things at mass in a low voice, 
otliers aloud; and lias introduced certain ceremonies— as 
the benediction, lights, incense, ornaments, etc., after the 
tradition of the apostles. 

(i. Although it is to be desired that at every mass all 
the faithful should communicate, not. only spiritually, 
but also sacramentally, nevertheless the council does not 
condemn private masses in which the priest only com- 
municates, but, on rhe contrary, approves and authorizes 
them, for they are celebrated by the proper minister in 
behalf of himself and the faithful. 

7. The Church has ordained t hat the priest shall mix 
water with the wine, because there is reason to believe 
that our blessed Lord did so, and because both blood and 
water issued from his side; which sacred mystery, by the 
use of this mixture, is remembered. 


530 


TRENT, COUNCIL OF 


TRENT, COUNCIL OF 

S. Although the mass contains much to edify the peo- 
ple, the fathers did not judge it right that it should he 
celebrated in the vulgar longue, nud the Roman Church 
has preserved the use; nevertheless, the clergy should at 
times, and especially on festivals, explain to the people 
some part of what they have read to them. 

9. Anathematizes, in nine canons, all those who deny 
the affirmative of twelve of the thirteen articles proposed 
in the congregation following the twenty-first session, viz. 
the 1st, 3d, 13th, and 4th, 2d, lUth, 7th, 11th, 5th, Slh, Uth, 
and Gth (which see). 

Then followed a decree concerning what should be ob- 
served or avoided in the celebration of mass: 

Bishops were ordered to forbid and abolish everything 
which had been introduced through avarice, irreverence, 
or superstition, such as pecuniary agreements for the first 
masses, and forced exactions made under the name of 
aim*; vagabond and unknown priests were forbidden to 
celebrate, also those who were notorious evil livers; no 
masses were to be said in private houses; all music of an 
impure and lascivious character was forbidden in church- 
es, and all worldly conversation, profane actions, walking 
about, etc. Priests were forbidden to sav mass out of the 
prescribed hours, and otherwise than Church form pre- 
scribed. It was also ordered to warn the people to come 
to church on Sundays aud holidays at least. 

In the third place, the decree of reformation was read, 
containing eleven chapters: 

1. Orders that all the decrees of the popes and the coun- 
cils relating to the life, morals, and acquirements of the 
clergy should be in future observed, tiuder the original 
and even greater penalties. 

2. Enacts that bishoprics shall be given only to those 
persons who possess the qualifications required by the 
camms, and who have been at least six months in holy 
orders. 

3. Permits bishops to appropriate the third part of the 
revenue of the prebends in any cathedral or collegiate 
church for daily distributions. 

4. Declares that no one under the rank of snbdeacon 
shall have any voice in the chapter; that all the members 
shall perform their proper offices. 

5. Eli acts that dispensations extra cvrvtm (i. e. granted 
anywhere out of the court of Rome) shall be addressed 
to the ordinary, and shall have no effect until he shall 
have testified that they have not beeu obtaiued surrepti- 
tiously. 

6. Treats of the care to be observed in proving wills. 

7. Orders that legates, nuncios, patriarchs, and other 
superior judges shall observe the constitution of Inno- 
cent TV beginning “ Romana,” whether in receiviug ap- 
peals or granting prohibitions. 

8. Orders that bishops, as the delegates of the holy see, 
shall be the executors of all pious gifts, whether by will 
or otherwise; that to them it appertains to visit hospitals 
and other similar communities, except those under the 
immediate protection of the king. 

9. Directs that those to whom the care of any sacred 
fabric is intrusted, whether laymen or clerks, shall be held 
bound to give account of their administration yearly to 
the ordinary, unless the original foundation require them 
to account to any other. 

10. Declares that bishops may examine notaries, and 
forbid them the exercise of their office in ecclesiastical 
matters. 

11. Enacts penalties against those who usurp or keep 
possession of the property of the Church, aud pronounces 
anathemas against them. 

With respect to the concession of the cup to the laity, 
the- council declared, by another decree, that it judged 
it convenient to leave the decision to the pope, who 
would act in the matter according as his wisdom should 
direct him. 

In a congregation certain articles relating to the 
reformation of morals were discussed, and the theolo- 
gians were instructed to examine eight articles on the 
subject of the sacrament of orders. This occupied many 
congregations, in one of which a large number of the 
prelates, chiefly Spaniards, demanded that there should 
be added to the seventh canon, concerning the institu- 
tion of bishops, a clause declaring the episcopate to lie 
of divine right. An attempt was made to stitie the dis- 
cussion, but John Fonseca, a Spanish theologian, among 
others, entered boldly upon the subject, declaring that 
it was not, and could not be, forbidden to speak upon the 
matter, lie maintained that, bishops were instituted 
by Jesus Christ, and thus by divine right, and not mere- 
ly by a right conferred by the pope. The discussion of 
this question proved highly disagreeable at Rome, and 


the legates received instructions on no account to per- 
mit it to be brought to a decision. However, in sub- 
sequent congregations the dispute was renewed with 
warmth ; in the congregation of ( )ct. 13, the archbishop 
of Granada insisted upon the recognition of the institu- 
tion of bishops, and their superiority to priests, jure di- 
vino, The same view was taken in t he following con- 
gregation by the archbishop of Braga and the bishop of 
Segovia; and no less than fifty-three prelates, out of one 
hundred and thirty-one present, voted in favor of the 
recognition of the divine institution and jurisdiction of 
bishops. According to Fra Paolo, the number amounted 
to fifty-nine. The dispute was, however, by no means 
ended. On the 20th the Jesuit Lainez, at the instiga- 
tion of the legates, delivered a powerful speech in oppo- 
sition to the view taken bv the Spanish bishops, deny- 
ing altogether that the institution and jurisdiction of 
bishops were of divine right. However, powerful as 
was bis speech, be was answered by the bishop of Paris 
so effectually that the legates, to their great discompos- 
ure, saw the views of the Spanish prelates gain ground. 
The latter then declared formally that unless their de- 
mand were granted, and the order and jurisdiction of 
bishops declared in the canon to be jure Oirino , they 
would thenceforth absent themselves from all the con- 
gregations and sessions. 

In the meantime the cardinal of Lorraine arrived at 
Trent with several French prelates, and was received 
with honor. In a congregation held Nov. 23, he read 
the letter of the king of France to the council, in which 
he strongly urged them to labor sincerely to bring about 
a sound reformation of abuses, and to restore its pristine 
glory to the Catholic Church by bringing back all Chris- 
tian people to one religion. After the letter was finished 
the cardinal delivered a speech, strongly urging the 
necessity of proceeding speedily with the work of refor- 
mntion, in which he was followed by Du Ferrier, the 
king’s ambassador, who spoke his mind freely. 

All this time so little progress had been made with 
the canons and decrees that when Nov. 2fi, the day 
fixed for holding the twenty-third session, arrived, it 
was found necessary to prorogue it. After this, in the 
following congregations, the subject of the divine right 
of bishops was again discussed, when the French bishops 
declared in favor of the views held by the Spaniards. 

At the beginning of the year 15G3 the French am- 
bassadors presented their articles of reformation under 
thirty- two heads. Their principal demands were as 
follows ; 

6. That no person should be appointed bishop unless 
he were of advanced age, and of good character and ca- 
pacity. 

7. That no curates should he nominated unless they 
were of good character and abilities. 

9. That bishops, either personally or by deputy, should 
preach on every Sunday aud festivals, besides Lent and 
Advent. 

10. That all curates should do the same wheu they had 
a sufficient audience. 

12. That incapable bishops, abbots, and curates should 
resign their benefices, or appoint coadjutors. 

14. That all pluralities whatever should be abolished, 
without any consideration of compatibility or incompati- 
bility. 

Hi. That steps should be taken to provide every bene- 
fited clerk with a revenue sufficient to maintain two cu- 
rates and to exercise hospitality. 

17. That the gospel should he explained to the people 
at mass, and that after mass the priest should pray with 
the people in the vulgar tongue. 

15. That the ancient decretals of pope Leo and Gelnsius 
on communion in both kinds should be re-established. 

19. That the efficacy of the sacraments should also be 
explained to the people before their administration. 

20. That benefices should be conferred by bishops within 
six months; after which time they should devolve to the 
immediate superior, and so gradually to the pope. 

21. That they should abolish, as contrary to the canons, 
all expectatives, regressions (returning to a benefice wnich 
has been once resigned), resignations, etc. 

23. That simple priories should he reunited to the cure 
of souls, originally intended by the foundation, which 
had been separated from them, and assigned to perpetual 
vicars with miserable pittances. 


TRENT. COUNCIL OF 540 TRENT. COUNCIL OF 


27. That bishops should take in hand no matter of im- 
portance without the advice of their chapters; and that j 
canons should he compelled to continual residence. 

31. That no sentence of excommunication ' should be 
passed until three monitions had been issued, and thou 
only for grievous faults. That bishops should he desired 
to give benefices rather to those who drew back from re- i 
ceiving than to such as sought for Them. 

3*2. That diocesan synods should be assembled at least ! 
once a year, provincial synods every three years, and yen | 
era! councils every teu years. 

The pope, in order to elude the difficulty in which he 
was placed by the demand of t lie Spanish ami French 
bishops that the divine right of bishops should be in- 
serted in the seventh chapter, sent a form for the ap- 
proval of the council, in which it was declared that 
“bishops held t he principal place in the Church, lmt in 
dependence upon the pope.” This, however, did not 
meet with approval, and, after a long contest, it was 
agreed to state it thus, that “they held the principal 
place in the Church under the pope" instead of in de- 
pendence upon him. However, a still warmer contest 
arose upon the chapter in which it was said that the 
pope had authority to feed and govern the Universal 
Church. This the Galilean and Spanish bishops would 
by no means consent to, alleging that the Church is 
the first tribunal under Christ. Accordingly, they in- 
sisted that the words unirersas ecclesias, “ all churches.” 
should be substituted for Unirersam Ecclesinm. The 
Galileans even more strenuously denied that “the pope 
possessed all the authority of Jesus Christ,” notwith- 
standing all the limitations and explanations which 
were added to it. 

On Feb. 5 the legates proposed for consideration eight 
articles on the subject of marriage, extracted from so- 
called heretical books: 

1. That marriage is not a sacrament instituted by God. 

2. That parents may aunul marriages contracted by their 
children clandestinely. 

3. That, a man may marry again during the life of his 
first wife, divorced on account of fornication. 

4. That polygamy is allowed to Christians, and that to 
forbid marriages at certain seasons is a heathen supersti- 
tion. 

5. That marriage is to be preferred to the state of vir- 
gin it v. 

0. That priests in the Western Church may marry, not- 
withstanding their vow. 

7. That the decrees of consanguinity and affinity laid 
down in Lev. xviii are to be observed, and no others. 

S. That the cognizance of causes relating to marriages 
belongs to the secular princes. 

These articles were discussed in several congregations. 
The sixth article came under consideration March 4: 
all agreed in condemning it as heretical, but they were 
divided upon the grounds of their opinion. The ques- 
tion was alterwards discussed whether it. was advisable, 
under the circumstances of the times, to remove the re- 
striction laid upon the clergy not to marry; this was in 
consequence of a demand to that effect made by the 
duke of Bavaria, Strong opposition was made to this 
demand, and many blamed the legates for permitting 
the discussion, and maintained that if this license were 
granted the whole ecclesiastical hierarchy would fall to 
pieces, and the pope he reduced to the simple condition 
of bishop of Bonn 1 , since the clergy, having their affec- 
tions set upon their families anti country, would he 
inevitably detached from that close dependence upon 
the holy see in which its present strength mainly con- 
sists. 

In the meantime, the cardinal of Mantua had died, 
and the pope despatched two new legates to the council, 
cardinal Morone and cardinal Navagier. The French 
continued their importunities on the subject of reforma- 
tion, and were as constantly put off upon one pretext or 
another by the legates, and thus much time was wasted. 

In a congregation held May 10, a letter from the 
queen of Scots was read, in which she expressed her 
sorrow that she had not one Catholic prolate in her do- 
minions whom site could send to the council, and de- 
clared her determination, should she ever attain to the 
crowu of England, to do all in her power to bring that 


kingdom, as well as Scotland, back to the Roman obe- 
dience. 

All this time the contests about the institution and 
jurisdiction of bishops, and the divine obligation of res- 
idence, continued ; and at last, in order to accommodate 
matters, and bring things to an end, it was resolved to 
omit altogether all notice of the institution of bishops 
and of the authority of the pope, and to erase from the 
decree concerning residence whatever was obnoxious to 
either party. They then fell to work upon the decree 
concerning t lie reformation of abuses. 

Session XXII I (July 15, 15(>3). — At this session 20S 
prelates, besides the legates and other ecclesiastics, were 
present, with the ambassadors of France, Spain, Portu- 
gal, etc. The sermon was preached by the bishop of 
Paris, who seems to have contrived in it to give offence 
to all parties. After the sermon, the hulls authorizing 
Morone and Navagier to act as legates for the pope were 
read, together with the letters of t he king of Poland, the 
duke of Savoy, and the queen of Scotland. Lastly, t lie 
decrees and canons drawn up during the past congrega- 
tion were brought before the council. The decree upon 
the sacrament of orders, in four chapters, was read, and 
eight canons on the sacrament of orders were published, 
which anathematized, 

1. Those who deny a visible priesthood in the Church. 

2. Those who maintain that the priesthood is the only 
order. 

3. Those who deny that ordination is a true sacrament. 

4. Those who deny that the Holy Spirit is conferred by 
ordination. 

5. Those who deny that the miction given at ordination 
is necessary. 

6. Those who deny that there is a hierarchy composed 
of bishops, priests, and ministers in the Catholic Church. 

7. Those who deny the superiority of bishops to priests, 
or that they alone can perform certain functions which 
priests cannot, and those who maintain that orders con- 
ferred without the consent of the people are void. 

s. Those who deny that bishops called by the authority 
of the pope (qni avetoritate Romani pontificis assumuntur) 
are true and lawful bishops. 

After this the decree of reformation was read, contain- 
ing eighteen chapters, on the residence of bishops, and 
on other ecclesiastical affairs. 

In the following congregations the decrees concern- 
ing marriage were discussed, and it was unanimously 
agreed that the law of celibacy should be continued 
binding upon the clergy. 

Moreover, twenty articles of reformation, which t lie 
legates proposed, were examined; and during the dis- 
cussion letters were received from the king of France, 
in w'hich he declared his disappointment at the meagre 
measure of ecclesiastical reform proposed in these arti- 
cles, and his extreme dissatisfaction at the chapter in- 
terfering with the rights of princes. Shortly after, nine 
of the French bishops returned home, so that fourteen 
only remained. 

On Sept. 22 a congregation was held, in which the 
ambassador l)u Ferrier spoke so warmly of the utter in- 
sufficiency of the articles of reform which the legates 
had proposed, and of their conduct altogether, that the 
congregation broke up suddenly in some confusion. 

To till up the time intervening before the twenty- 
fourth session, the subjects of indulgences, purgatory, 
and the worship of saints and images were introduced for 
discussion, in order that decrees on these matters might, 
be prepared for presentation in the twenty-fifth session. 

Session AW/F (Nov. 11, 15(53). — In this session the 
decree of doctrine and the canons relating to the sacra- 
ment of marriage were read. 

After establishing tbe indissolubility of the marriage 
tie by Holy Scripture, it adds that Jesus Christ, by his 
passion, merited the grace necessary to confirm and sanc- 
tify the union betwixt man and wife. That the apostle 
means ns to understand this when he says, “Husbands, 
love your wives, ns Jesus Christ loved the Church;” and, 
shortly after, “This sacrament is great : I speak of Jesus 
Christ and the Church.” Marriage, under the Gospel, is 
declared to he a more excellent state than that of mar- 
riage under the former dispensation, on account of the 
grace conferred by it, and that, accordingly, t lie holy fa- 


541 


TRENT, COUNCIL OF 


TRENT, COUNCIL OF 

thers, councils, aud universal tradition rightly tench ns to 
reckon marriage among the sacraments of the new law. 

There are twelve canons, with anathemas, upon the 
subject. 

1. Anathematizes those who maintain that marriage is 
not a true ^icrament. 

2. Anathematizes those who maintain that polygamy is 
permitted to Christians, 

3. Anathematizes those who maintain that marriage is 
unlawful only within the degrees specified in Leviticus. 

4. Anathematizes those who deny that the Church lias 
power to add to the impediments to marriage. 

5. Anathematizes those who maintain that the marriage 
tie is broken by heresy, ill-conduct, or voluntary absence 
ou either side. 

6. Anathematizes those who deny that a marriage con- 
tracted, but not consummated, is annulled by either of 
the parties taking the religious vows. 

7. Anathematizes those who maintain that the Chnrch 
errs in holding that the marriage tie is not broken by 
adultery. 

S. Anathematizes those who maintain that the Church 
errs in separating married persons for a time in particular 
cases. 

9. Anathematizes those who maintain that men in holy 
orders, or persons who have taken ihe religious vow, may 
marry. 

10. Anathematizes Ihose who maintain that the mar- 
ried state is preferable to that of virginity. 

11. Anathematizes those who maintain that it is super- 
stitious to forbid marriages tit certain seasons. 

12. Anathematizes tho-e who maintain that the cogni- 
zance of matrimonial causes does not belong to the ec- 
clesiastical authorities. 

After this a decree of reformation was published relat- 
ing to the same sacrament, containing ten chapters. 

1. Forbids clandestine marriages; orders curates to 
publish the names of the parties about to contract mar- 
riage on three consecutive festivals in church during the 
solemn mass ; orders that two or three witnesses be pres- 
ent at the marriage, and declares all marriages to he null 
which are not solemnized in the presence of the clergy- 
man of the parish, or of some other priest, having his per- 
mission or that of the ordinary. 

2. Treats of the impediments to marriage, which were 
in some respects relaxed, i. e. the impediments to mar- 
riage between a godparent and godchild and the parents 
of the godchild was removed ; also that between the per- 
son administering baptism aud the person baptized, or 
his or her parents. 

3 and 4. Also refer to the relaxation of the impedi- 
ments. 

5. Those who wilfully contract marriage within the 
prohibited degrees are sentenced to be separated without 
any hope of obtaining a dispensation. 

G. No marriage to he allowed between a ravisher and 
t lie woman ravished while she remains in his power; if, 
however, when at liberty, she consents, they may be mar- 
ried— the ravisher, and all aiding aud abetting, to be 
nevertheless excommunicated. 

7. Care to he used in permitting wanderers to receive 
the sacrament of marriage. 

8. Fornicators, whether married or single, to he ex- 
communicated, unless they will put away their mistresses 
after three monitions. The women, after three monitions, 
to be driven out of the diocese unless they obey. 

9. Forbids all masters, magistrates, etc., under anath- 
ema, to compel those under their coutrol to marry against 
their own inclinations. 

10. Confirms the ancient prohibitions to celebrate mar- 
riages between Advent and Epiphany, and between Ash- 
Wednesday and the octave of Easter. 

After this a decree, containing twenty-one articles, upon 
the reform of the clergy was read, setting forth the duty 
of bishops to visit their dioceses; to preach in person or 
bv deputy ; relating to dispensations, sacraments, visita- 
tions, pluralities, etc. 

Sp* ' sion XXV and last, (Dec. 3 and 4, 15G3). — At this 
session the decrees concerning pnrgatorv, the invoca- 
tion of saints, and the worship of images and relics were 
read. 

1. Of Purgatory.— Declares that the Catholic Chnrch, fol- 
lowing Holy Scripture and tradition, has always taught, 
and still teaches, that there is a purgatory, and that the 
souls which are detained there are assisted by the suf- 
frages of the faithful and by t he sacrifice of the mass. 
Orders all bishops to teach, and to cause to be taught, the 
true doctrine on this subject. 

2. Of the Invocation of Saints. — Orders bishops and oth- 
ers concerned in the teaching of the people to instruct 
them concerning the invocation of saints, the honor due 
to their relics, and the lawful use of images, according to 


the doctrine of the Chnrch, the consent of the fathers, and 
the decrees of the councils; to teach them that the saints 
offer up prayers for men, and that it is useful to invoke 
them, and to have recourse to their prayers and help. It 
further condemns those who maintain that the saints in 
rest ought not to be invoked, that, they do not pray for 
men, that it is idolatry to invoke them, that it is contrary 
to Holy Scripture, etc., and that their relics and their 
tombs onght not to be venerated. 

On the subject of images, the council teaches that those 
of our Lord, the Blessed Virgin, and of the saints are to 
be placed in churches; that they onght to receive due 
veneration, not because they have anv divinity or vir- 
tue in them, but because honor is thus reflected upon 
those whom they represent. By means of these repre- 
sentations the people are instructed in the mysteries 
of the faith, and, by thus seeing t lie good deeds of the 
saints, are led to bless God, and endeavor themselves to 
do likewise. 

The council then proceeds to anathematize all who 
hold or teach any contrary doctrine. 

Lastly, in order to remedy abuses, it declares that if 
in any scriptural painting t lie Divinity is represented 
under any figure, the people should be warned that it is 
not intended that the Divinity can be seen by mortal 
eyes; further, that all things tending to superstition in 
the invocation of saints, the worship of their relics, and 
the right use of images should be done away with; 
that care should he taken not to profane the festivals 
of the saints, etc.; that no new miracles or relics should 
be admitted without the bishop’s consent, and iliat any 
other abuses should be rectified by the bishop and pro- 
vincial council. 

These decrees were followed by one of reformation, 
I consisting of twenty-two chapters, which relate to the 
regular clergy. After this another decree, in twenty- 
one chapters, on general reformation, was read. 

A decree was also published upon the subject of in- 
dulgences to this effect, that the Church, having re- 
ceived from Jesus Christ the power to grant indul- 
gences, and having, through all ages, used that, power, 
the council declares that their use shall he retained as 
being very salutary to Christian persons and approved 
by the holy councils. It then anathematizes all who 
maintain that indulgences are useless, or that the Church 
has no power to grant them. At the same time, it de- 
sires that the ancient custom of the Church be adhered 
to, and that they be granted with care and moderation, 
forbidding all trafficking in them. 

Further, the council exhorted all pastors to recom- 
mend to the observance of all the faithful whatever had 
been ordered by the Church of Home, established in this 
or in any one of the teeumenieal councils, and to im- 
press upon them especially the due observance of the 
fasts and festivals of the Chnrch. 

The list of books to be proscribed was referred to the 
pope, as also were the catechism, missal, and breviaries. 

Then the secretary, standing up in the midst of the 
assembly, demanded of the fathers whether they were 
of opinion that the council should be concluded, and 
that the legates should request the pope’s confirmation 
of the decrees, etc. The answer in the affirmative was 
unanimous with the exception of three. The cardinal- 
president Alorone then dissolved the assembly amid loud 
acclamations. 

Tn a congregation held on the following Sunday, the 
fathers affixed their signatures to the number of two 
hundred and fifty-five — viz. four legates, two cardinals, 
three patriarchs, twenty-five archbishops, one hundred 
and sixty-eight bishops, thirty-nine proctors, seven ab- 
bots. and several generals of orders. 

The acts of the council were confirmed by a bull 
bearing date Jan. G. 15G4. The Venetians were the 
first to receive the Tridentine decrees. The kings of 
France, Spain, Portugal, and Poland also received them 
in part; and they were published and received in Flan- 
ders, in the kingdom of Naples and Sicily, in part of 
Germany, in Hungary, Austria, Dalmatia, and some part. 


TREXTAL 


542 


TREUENFELS 


of South America, also among the Maronites. The 
Churches of England. Ireland, Scotland, Russia, Greece, 
Syria, Egypt, etc., reject the authority of this council. 

In France the Council of Trent is received generally 
as to doctrine, but not altogether as to discipline. Va- 
rious regulations which were deemed incompatible with 
ihe usages of the kingdom, the liberties of the Gallican 
Church, the concordat, and the just authority of the 
king, were rejected (see "Mansi, Concil. xiv, 7*25 ; Landon, 
Manual of Councils, s. v.). 

Literature . — The history of the Council of Trent was 
written chiefly by two able and learned Catholics — Fra 
Paolo Sarpi, of Venice, an almost semi-Protestant monk, 
Istoria del Concilia Trident ino (Lend. 1010; translations 
in French and German ; Engl, transl. by Brent, ibid. 
1070), in opposition to the papal court, and (against 
him) cardinal Sforza Pallavieino, Istoria del Concilio di 
Trento (Home, 1050-57, 2 vols. fol.). 

The canons and decrees of the council were first pub- 
lished by Paul Manutius (Home. I5G4), and often since 
in different languages. The best Latin edition is by Le 
Plat (1779), and by Schulte and Richter (Leips. 1853) ; 
and the best English edition is by Rev. J. Waterworth, 
with a History of the Council (Lond. 1848). The Cate - 
chism, an authorized summary of the faith drawn up by 
order of the council, appeared at Rome in 1500. The 
original acts and debates of the council, as prepared by 
its general secretary, bishop Angelo Massarelli (0 vols. 
large fob), were deposited in the Vatican Library, and 
remained there unpublished for more than three hun- 
dred years, until they were brought to light, though 
only in part, by Aug. Theincr, in Acta Genuina SS. 
(Ecum. Concilii Tridentini nunc primum. inteyre edita 
(Lips. 1874. 2 vols.). The most complete collection of 
the official documents and private reports bearing upon 
the •council is that of Le Plat, Monum.ad Histor. Cone. 
Trident. (Lovan. 1781-87, 7 vols.). New materials were 
brought to light by Mendham (1834 and 1840) from the 
MS. history by cardinal Palcotto; by Sickel, Actenstiicke 
a?ts osterrrichisehen Archiren (Vienna, 1872) ; and by 
Dr. Ddllinger, Ungedruckte Berichte nnd Tayehiicher znr 
Geschiehtc drs Cone, von Trient (Nordlingen, 1870, 2 
pts.). Among Protestant historians of the Council of 
Trent are Salig (1741-45. 3 vols.) ; Danz (1840) ; Buck- 
lev (Lond. 1852); and Bungener (Paris, 1854; Engl, 
transl. X. Y. 1855). On the Tridentine standards see 
Schaff, History of the Creeds of Christendom (1870), i, 
90 sq. See. in general, also Cunningham, Hist. Theol. 
(see Index); Ilagenhach, Hist, of Doctrines (see Index); 
Mosheim, Eeeles. Hist. vol. iii (Index). In particular 
see The Council of Trent, and its Proceedings (Presb. 
Board of Publication, Phila. 1835, 18mo) ; Pallavieino, 
Hist, du Cone.de Trente (Mont rouge, 1844, 3 vols. 8vo); 
Dupin, Hist, du Cone.de Trente (Brussels. 1721, 2 vols. 
4to); Salig, Vol 1st. Hist, des Tr. Cone. (Halle, 1741, 3 
vols. 4to) ; Con raver. Ilist. do la Deception du Cone, de 
Trente (Amst. 1750). Sec Councils. 

Trental, an office for the dead in the Latin Church, 
consisting of thirty masses on thirty consecutive days. 

Trepalium, a name given to the rack used for ex- 
amining witnesses bv torture. According to canon 33, 
Council of Tarragona, presbyters and deacons were for- 
bidden to stand at the Trepalium while persons were 
tortured. See Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. xviii, ch. v, 
§34. 

Trespass (E'rN. ynilt ; Trapcnrnof.ia') is an offence 
committed, a hurt, or wrong done to a neighbor; and 
partakes of the nature of an error or slip rather than of 
deliberate or gross sin. Under the law, the delinquent 
who had trespassed was of course hound to make satis- 
faction; lmt an offering or oblation was allowed him to 
reconcile himself to the Divine Governor (Lev. v, 6, 15). 
Our Saviour teaches us that whoever does not forgive 
the trespasses of a fellow-man against himself is not to 
expect that his Father in heaven will forgive his tres- 
passes (Matt, vi, 14, 15). 


Trespass-offering (nrx, ashdm, once [Lev. vi. 
5] fern. which properly denotes the act of tres- 

pass, as elsewhere). This sacrifice was offered for indi- 
viduals only, and chiefly lor such transgressions as were 
not punishable by the laws of the State (vii, 19). The 
victim sacriticed was different on different occasions. 
L A trespass-offering was brought when a person did 
not inform of a crime committed l>v another (v, 1); 
when a person had touched any unclean object, and 
had omitted the sacrifice of purification (ver. 2, 3); 
when a person had, through forgetfulness, neglected to 
fulfil his rash vow. In each of these cases the offering 
was a ewe or a she-goat ; or, if the sacrifieer were poor, 
it might consist of doves or fine hour, without oil and 
incense (ver. 4-13). 2. When a person had, through 

mistake, applied to a common purpose anything which 
had been consecrated to a holy use (ver. 10, 10; xxii, 
14), or had in any way violated an engagement, or de- 
nied stolen property, or concealed any lost thing which 
lie had found. In these cases the offering was a ram. 
and the restoration of the alienated property, with one 
fifth of the value; in the former ease to the priest, in 
the latter to the owner or his heirs (vi, 2-7). 3. When 

any person had, through ignorance, done something for- 
bidden, the victim was a ram (v, 17. 18). 4. When a 

] man had a criminal connection with a betrothed fe- 
male slave ( xix, 20-22), or had, in later times, con- 
tracted an idolatrous marriage, the victim was a ram 
(Ezra x, 19). So also a Nazarite who had contracted 
1 defilement by touching a dead body (Numb, vi, 9-12% 
and a leper who had been healed, were to bring a lamb 
for a trespass-offering (Lev. xiv, 12, 24). In this offer- 
ing the victim was slain on the north side of the altar, 
the blood sprinkled round it, and the pieces of fat burned 
upon it. See Sin-offering. 

Among the Hebrews trespass-offerings, like all other 
expiatory sacrifices, were symbolical representations of 
the great work, for the effecting of which the Messiah 
was promised to fallen man (Bsa. xl, 0. 8; Heb. viii, 3; 
ix, 14, 20, 28; x, 5. 10). As it was the design of the 
Mosaic law to remind the Hebrews that they were 
guilty of sin and liable to death, so every sacrifice was 
a memorial of this mournful truth, as well as a type of 
the work of our Redeemer. When a Hebrew had com- 
mitted a trespass against the divine law, providing the 
transgression was such as admitted an expiation, he 
had to offer the requisite sacrifices before he could be 
restored to his civil privileges. With t his a mere 
worldly-minded Hebrew was content; but, as no mere 
animal sacrifice could make atonement for sin, to the 
sincere believer the sacrifice was only tbe symbol ami 
type of something spiritual. It reminded him that his 
! sins had not only excluded him from the divine favor, 
hut that he deserved death and subsequent, agony; it 
directed him to the need of a sacrifice for sin ere God 
would forgive his transgression; and it assured him 
that, just as by sacrifice lie had been restored to his 
civil and political rights, so by faith in the great sac- 
rifice for sin on the part of the lamb of God might he 
be restored to the divine favor, and to a place in that 
spiritual kingdom of which the Hebrew nation was the 
type. See Propitiatory Sacrific es. 

Treuenfels, Auraua.m, a Jewish rabbi and doctor 
of philosophy of Germany, was horn at Detmold in the 
year 1818. After visiting the gymnasium of that place, 
he went, in 1837. to Hanover, where he studied under 
I)r. Adler (now chief rabbi of England). In 1839 he 
pursued a course of studies at the Bonn University, and 
completed his Rabbinical education at Frankfort. In 
1844 he was appointed rabbi at Weilbnrg, in Nassau, 
and in 1800 he was called to Stettin, where he died, 
Jan. 30, 1879. He published, X-*lT oiler elie 

kleine Genesis vnd die nock rorhamlenen Bruch stuche 
derselhen. yriec&iseh nnd deutsch, nnd mit Anmerkungen, 
in the I.iteratnrblaft des Qj-ients, 1840, No. 129; — Ueber 


543 


TRIAL, FORENSIC 


TREVES, COUNCILS OF 

den Bibelcaiion des Flavius Josephus (1849). But his 
literarv activity was ehietiy displayed in the Israeli- 
tische Wochenschrift, which he published in connection 
with Dr. M. Ra Inner. (B. P.) 

Treves, Councils of ( Concilium Trevirensc ), take 
their name from Treves, a town of Rhenish Prussia, in 
which they were held. The town is situated on the 
right bank of the Moselle, and had in I87L a population 
of 2 1,442. It is a decayed place, noted for its ultra- 
montanism. The cathedral contains many relics— the 
principal one being the Holy Coat of Treves — and Bo- 
man remains. It has a priestly seminary, a gymnasium, 
a library of 100,000 volumes, a museum full of valuable 
antiquities — including the famous Codex A lire us, or 
MS. of the Gospel in gold letters, presented to the Ab- 
bey of St. Maxim in bv Ada, sister of Charlemagne. 

1. The First Council was held in 948. The legate 
Marinas, the archbishop of Treves, and several bishops 
here excommunicated Hugo, count of Paris, and two I 
pretended bishops, made by Hugo, the pseudo-archbish- 
op of Rheims. See Mansi, Cojicil . ix, 632. See Ingel- 

1IEIM. 

JI. The Second Council was held in 1518 by John, 
count of Isembourg, archbishop of Treves, who presided. 
Ten chapters, and a decree against the concubinary 
clergy, were published. Sec Mansi, ConeiL xiv, 006. 

III. The Third Council was held by John, archbishop 
of Treves, in 1549. Twenty canons were published. 

1. Forbids to believe, hold, or teach any other than the 
Roman doctrine. 

2, 3, 4. Of preachers. 

0. Orders that the hours be duly said by clerks, and 
that those who caunot attend at the time in the choir 
shall say them privately. 

Of the celebration of the mass. 

10. Provides for lessening the number of festivals, and 
gives a list of those which shall in any case be retained. 

11, 12. Of the religions and their houses. 

15. Of schools. 

17, IS. Of the immunity of churches. 

10. Of the life and deportment of the clergy. 

20. Provides that the heads of monasteries and colleges, 
and others of the clergy, shall be supplied with a copy of 
these canons. 

See Mansi, xiv, 705. — Landon, J lanuul of Councils , s. v. 

Treves, IIolv Coat of. See Holy Coat of 
Treves. 

Trevett, Bassett, D.D., a clergyman of the Prot- 
estant Episcopal Church, was a native of New York. 
He was ordained in 1841, became professor of languages 
in St. James’s College, Maryland, in 1843, and occupied 
the same position in St.John’s College, Annapolis, Md., 
being elected thereto in 1855. Subsequently be be- 
came rector of St. James’s Church, North Salem, N. J., a j 
position which he held at the time of his death, March S, , 
1 865. See A mer. Quar. Church Rev. J uly, 1 865, p. 3*21 . 

Trial, a term used in Scripture only in the sense of 
testing (usually some form of ]n3, doKipj) or coki/uov; 
but once Job ix, 23 , elsewhere “ temptation” 

[q. v. ]; and so irtipa, Heb. xi, 36; 7rrpiomc, “ fiery 
trial,” l Pet. iv, 12, lit. burning, as elsewhere rendered), 
to denote painful circumstances into which persons are 
brought by divine Providence with a view to illustrate 
the perfections of God, bring to light the real character 
of those who are thus tried, and by the influence of 
temporal suffering, which shows the transitor}" nature 
and uncertain tenure of all earthly advantages, to pro- 
mote their eternal and spiritual interests. See Temrt. 

TRIAL, Church. See Excommunication. 

TRIAL, Forensic (denoted in Heb. by *p^J, to hold 
a court , while is the sentence rendered by the 

judge, whether favorable or adverse, both terms being 
usually rendered “judgment” in the A. V. ; Gr. Kpiotc). , 
Originally the head of the family was the umpire among 
the Hebrews, with the power of life and death (comp. 
Deut. i, 16). Later the elders (q. v.) succeeded to a 
similar authority. According to the Mosaic law, there 


were to be judges in all the cities, whose duty it was to 
exercise judicial authority over the surrounding neigh- 
borhood. Weighty eauses were submitted to the su- 
preme ruler. Originally trials were everywhere sum- 
mary. Moses, in bis laws, did not establish any more 
formal or complicated method of procedure, lie was, 
nevertheless, anxious that strict justice should be ad- 
ministered, and therefore frequently inculcated the idea 
that God was a witness (Exod. xx, 21; xxiii, 1-9; 
Lev. xix, 15; Deut. xxiv, 14, 15). In ancient times, 
the forum or place of trial was in the gates of cities 
(Gen. xxiii, 10: Dent, xxi, 19). In the trial the ac- 
cuser and the accused appeared before the judge or 
judges (xxv, 1), and both the implicated parties stood 
up. The witnesses were sworn, and in capital cases 
also the parties concerned (I Sam. xiv, 37-40; Matt, 
xxvi, 63). In order to establish the accusations, two 
witnesses were necessary, and, including the accuser. 
three. The witnesses were examined separately, hut 
the accused person hail the liberty to he present when 
they gave their testimony (Numb, xxxv, 30; Deut. 
xvii, 1-15; Mark xxvi, 59). The sentence was pro- 
nounced soon after the completion of the examination, 
and the criminal, without any delay, even if the offence 
was a capital one, was taken to the place of punishment 
(Josh, vii, 22; i Sam. xxii, 8; 1 Kings ii, 23). See 
L’Empcreur, De Legibus Ihbrccorum Forensibus (Lngd. 
1637); Ziegler, De Juribus Judtcorum (Yitemb. 1684). 
See J urge. 

The following remarks respecting certain special in- 
stances of judicial proceedings in the New Test, are 
taken from Smith’s Diet, of the Bible : 

1. The trial of our Lord before Pilate was, in a legal 
sense, a trial for the offence leesce majestatis — one which, 
under the Julian law, following out that of the twelve 
tables {Digest, iv, 1,3), would he punishable with death 
(Luke xxiii, 2, 38; John xix, 12, 15). See Jesus 
Christ. 

2. The trials of the apostles, of Stephen, and of Paul 
before the high -priest were conducted according to 
Jewish rules (Actsiv; v, 27; vi, 12, xxii, 30; xxiii, 1). 
See Stephen. 

3. The trial, if it may be so called, of Paul and Silas 
at Philippi was held before the duumviri, or, as they 
are called, G-parijyoi, praetors, on the charge of innova- 
tion in religion — a crime punishable with banishment 
or death (Acts xvi, 19, 22). See Sergeant. 

4. The interrupted trial of Paul before the proconsul 
Gallio was an attempt made by the Jews to establish a 
charge of the same kind (Acts xviii, 12-17, see Conv- 
beare and llowson, i, 492-496). 

5. The trialsof Paul at Cawarea (Acts xxiv, xxv, xxvi) 
were conducted according to Roman rules of judicature, 
of which the procurators Felix and Festus were the rec- 
ognised administrators. (1.) In the lirst of these, before 
Felix, we observe ( a ) the employment by the plaintiffs 
of a Roman advocate to plead in Latin [see Orator]; 
(5) the postponement ( ampliatio ) of the trial after Paul's 
reply (see Smith, Diet, of Class. Antiq. s. v. “Judex”) ; 
(c) the free custody in which the accused was kept, 
pending the decision of the judge (Acts xxiv, 23-26). 
(2.) The second formal trial, before. Festus, was proba- 
bly conducted in the same manner as the former one be- 
fore Felix (xxv, 7, 8), hut it presents two new features: 
(u) the appeal, appellatio or provocatio , to Ciesar by 
Paid as a Roman citizen. The right of appeal adpopu- 
lum , or to the tribunes, became, under the empire, trans- 
ferred to the emperor, and, as a citizen, Paul availed 
himself of the right to which he was entitled, even in 
the case of a provincial governor. The effect of the ap- 
peal was to remove the case at once to the jurisdiction 
of the emperor (see Couybenre and Howson, ii, 360; 
Smith, ut sup. s. v. “ Appellatio;” Digest, xlix, 1, 4). 
(5) The conference of the procurator with “the council” 
(Acts xxv, 12). This council is usually explained to 
have consisted of the assessors, who sat on the bench 
with the preetor as consiliarii (Sueton. Tib. 33 ; Grotius, 


TRIAL SERMON 


544 


TRIBE 


On .1 cts xxv : Convbcarc and How-son, ii, 358, 301). I 
J hit, besides the absence of any previous mention ofany I 
assessors (see below), (lie mode of expression ov\\u\t)- 
aac f itra roe avfifi ovMov seems to admit tlie explana- 
tion of conference with the deputies from the Sanhe- 
drim (to avpfi.). J hull’s appeal would probably be in 
the Latin language, and would require explanation on 
the part of t he judge to the deputation of accusers be- 
fore he carried into e fleet the inevitable result of the 
appeal, viz. the dismissal of the case so far as they were 
concerned. See Ball. 

t>. We have, lastly, the mention (Acts xix, 38) of a 
judicial assembly which held its session at Ephesus, in 
which occur the terms dyopaloc (i. e. tjft'tpcti') dyovrai 
and di'3Y>7rarof. The former denotes the assembly, then 
sitting, of provincial citizens forming the convent us. out 
of which the proconsul, di'3 , c7r«roc, selected “judiees” j 
to sit as his assessors. The di'SoTraroi would thus be i 
the judicial tribunal composed of the proconsul and his 
assessors. In the former ease, at. Caesarea, it is difficult 
to imagine that there could be any convent us and any 
provincial assessors. There the only class of men qnali- 
lied for such a function would be the Boman officials at- 
tached to the procurator-, but in Proconsular Asia such 
assemblies are well known to have existed (Smith, Diet, 
of Class. A ntiq. s. v. ‘‘ I’rovincia”). 

Early Christian practice discouraged resort to heathen 
tribunals in civil matters* (1 Cor. vi, 1). See Pixisti- 
31 EXT. 

Trial Sermon. See Trials. 

Trials, the name given in ecclesiastical diction to 
those discourses delivered before the presbytery by 
students who have finished their course, and are seek- 
ing to be licensed to preach. These discourses are a 
sermon, a lecture, a homily, an exegesis or exercise with 
additions, and a thesis. There are also examinations 
on systematic theology and practical piety, on Church 
history, and on the Greek and Hebrew Scriptures. 

Triangle Controversy, The, was a dispute oc- 
casioned by The Triangle, a book by Samuel Whelpley 
(1816) against limited atonement, inability, and imme- 
diate imputation. The controversy led to the trial of 
Albert Barnes and of Lyman Beecher for alleged heresy, 
and finally to the disruption of the Presbyterian Church 
in 1837. See l lagenbaeli, Ilist. of Uoct. ii, 442. 

Tribe (Si-*? and both originally meaning a 

rod or branch ; 0?>\//) is the name of the great groups 
of families into which the Israelitish nation, like other 
Oriental races, was divided. The modern Arabs, the 
Bcdawin, and the. Berbers, and also the Moors on the 
northern shores of Africa, are still divided into tribes. 
The elans in Scotland are also analogous to the t ri bos 
<>f the ancient Israelites. The division of a nation into 
tribes differs from a division into castes, since one is a 
division merely according to descent, and the other 
superadds a necessity of similar occupations being 
prevalent among persons connected by consanguinity. 
There occurs, however, among the Israelites a caste 
also, namely, that of the Lcvites. In Gen. xlix the 
tribes arc enumerated according to their progenitors; 
viz. 1, Bonbon, the first-born; 2, Simeon, and 3, Levi, 
instruments of cruelty; 4, Judah, whom his brethren 
shall praise; 5, Zebulon, dwelling at the haven of the 
sea; 0. Issachar. the strong; 7, 1 )an, the judge ; 8, Gad, J 
whom a troop shall overcome, hut who shall vanquish at 
last; 9, Asher, whose bread shall be fat; 10, Naplitali, 
giving goodly words ; 1 1, Joseph, t lie fruitful bough ; 12, 
Benjamin, the wolf: all these were originally the twelve 
tribes of Israel (sec Allin, Prophecies of the Twelve Tribes 
[Loud. 1855]). In this enumeration it is remarkable that 
the subsequent division of the tribe of Joseph into the two 
branches of Ephraim and Mnnasseh is not vet alluded 
to. After this later division of the very numerous tribe 
of Joseph into the two branches of Ephraim and Manas- 
soh had tgken place, there were, strictly speaking, thir- 
teen tribes. It was, however, usual to view them as 


comprehended under the number twelve, which was the 
more natural, since one of them, namely, the caste of 
the Lcvites, did not live within such exclusive geo- 
graphical limits as were assigned to the others after 
they exchanged their nomadic migrations for settled 
habitations, but dwelt in towns scattered through all 
the other twelve tribes. It is also remarkable that the 
Ishmaelites, as well as the Israelites, wore divided into 
twelve tribes: and that the Persians also, according to 
Xenophon ( Cyropmlia , i. 2,4 sq. ), were similarly di- 
vided. Among other nations also occur ethnological 
ami geographical divisions, according to the number 
twelve. From this we infer that the number twelve 
was held in so much favor that, when possible, doubt- 
ful eases were adapted to it. An analogous ease we 
timl even at a later period, when the spiritual progeni- 
tors of the Christian $MCtt;d(pv Aor, or the apostles, who 
were, after the death of Judas, t lie election of Matthias, 
and the vocation of Paul, really thirteen in number, 
were, nevertheless, habitually viewed as twelve: so that 
wherever, during the Middle Ages, any division was 
made with reference to the apostles, the number twelve, 
and not thirteen, was adopted, whether applied to the 
halls of theological libraries, or to the great barrels of 
costly wines in the cellar of the civic authorities at 
Bremen. Concerning the arrangement of these tribes 
on their march through the wilderness, in their en- 
campments around the ark, and in their occupation of 
the land of Canaan, see the cognate articles, such, as 
Exodk ; Enga.wilwent ; Genealogies ; Leviter, 
Wandering; and the names of the several tribes. We 
confine ourselves here to two points. 

1. The “ Lost Tribes ." — This lias been an inexhausti- 
ble source of theologico-historicM charlatanism, on which 
there have been written so many volumes that it would 
be difficult to condense the contradictory opinions ad- 
vanced in them within the limits of a moderate article. 
Suffice it to say that there is scarcely any human race 
so abject, forlorn, and dwindling, located anywhere be- 
tween the Chinese and t lie American Indians, who have 
not been stated to be the ten tribes which disappeared 
from history during and after the Babylonian captivity. 
If the hooks written on the ten tribes contained much 
truth, it would he difficult to say where they are not. 

The truth, however, of the matter seems rather to be 
as follows. After the division of the Israelites under 
Jeroboam and llehoboam into the two kingdoms of 
Judah and Israel, the believers in whom the feelings 
of ancient theocratic legitimacy and nationality pre- 
dominated, and especially the priests and Levites, who 
were connected by many ties with the sanctuary at 
Jerusalem, had a tendency to migrate towards the vis- 
ible centre of their devotions; while those members of 
the tribes of Judah and Benjamin who had an individ- 
ual hankering after t lie foreign fashions adopted in 
Samaria, and the whole kingdom of Israel, had a ten- 
dency externally to unite themselves to a state of 
things corresponding with their individuality. After 
the political fall of both kingdoms, when all t lie princi- 
pal families connected with the possession of the soil 
had been compelled to emigrate, most Israelites who 
had previously little feeling for theocratic nationality 
gradually amalgamated !>v marriages and other con- 
nections with the nations by which they were sur- 
rounded; while the former inhabitants of the kingdom 
of Judah felt their nationality revived by the very dep- 
rivation of public worship which they suffered in for- 
eign lauds. Many of the pious members of those tribes 
which had formerly constituted the kingdom of Israel 
undoubtedly joined the returning colonics which pro- 
ceeded, by permission of the l’ersian monarchs, to the 
land of their fathers. However, these former mem- 
bers of the other tribes formed so decidedly a minority 
among the members of the tribe of Judah that hence- 
forth all believers and worshippers of Jehovah were 
called CHTP, ’lovcatot, Judcei, Jews. Tims it eatne 


TRIBE 


545 


TRIBE 


to pass that the best, although smaller, portion of the I 
ten tribes amalgamated with the Jews, some of whom 
preserved their genealogies till after the destruction of 
Jerusalem; while the larger proportion of the ten tribes 
amalgamated with the Gentiles of Central Asia, to 
whom they probably imparted some of their notions 
and customs, which again were, in a state more or less 
pure, propagated to distant regions by the great na- 
tional migrations proceeding from Central Asia. We 
are glad to timl that this, our historical conviction, has 
also been adopted by the most learned among the Jews 
themselves (see Jost, Allyemeine Geschlchte des Israeli - 
tischen Volkes [Berlin, 1832], i, 407 sq., 416 sq.). — Kit to. 
See Captivity. 

II. Boundary - lines of the Tribes Identified. — This 
topic has usually been abandoned by commentators as 
hopeless. Keil ( Comment . on Josh.) is really the only 
one who has seriously grappled with its difficulties, 
some of which even he is compelled to pronounce in- 
soluble. See each tribe in its alphabetical place. 

1. Reuben.— On the south, bein<* the southern boundary 
of the trans-Jordanic tribes, beginning at the mouth of 
the river Anion (Wady el-Mojeb) on the Dead Sea; thence 
along the Arnon to Aroer (A rail*) (Josh, xiii, 10); thence 
along the south-eastern boundary of the trans-Jordanic 
tribes (which extended as far as the “plain” or table- 
land stretehing eastward from Jordan [xii, 1], being that 
containing Medeba and Dibon [xiii, 9]) (north-easterly 
along the Wady Eukheileh to Lejfim); thence along the 
eastern boundary of the trans-Jordanic tribes (east of the 
ruins of EMIerri) ; then with an inclination west of north 
so as to exclude Jazer (ver. 25) (Setr), also Rabbath-am- 
inon (2 Sam. xi, 1) (to a point below Jebeiha which was 
excluded, probably being the Jogbehah of the Gadites, 
Numb, xxxii, 35) ; thence entirely south of Gilead (Josh, 
xiii, 25) (directly west, down the wadies Naur and Hes- 
bau), excluding Beth-haran ( Beit-haran ) (ver. 2T) and 
Atroth-shophan (near Merjnkkeh) (Numb, xxxii, 35), but 
including Heshbon (Hesban), Elealeh (El-’Al), Bamoth 
(comp, xxi, 19, 20) (probably Jebel Humeli), and Nebo 
(now discovered in Jebel Neba) (xxxii, 37 ; Josh, xiii, 17) ; 
thence southerly along the Jordan to the place of begin- 
ning (ver. 23). 

2. Gad.— On the south, following the northern line of 
Reuben from the Jordan to the eastern boundary of the 
trans-Jordanic tribes (at Jebeiha); thence north by east 
along the eastern boundary of the trans-Jordanic tribes 
(around the northern brow of Jebel Zerka) (to a point op- 
posite Jerash [Gerasa] between Jebel Zerka and Jebel 
Kafkafka) ; thence in a north-westerly direction across 
the region of Gilead (Josh, xiii, 25, 3t), passing nenrMahn- 
naim (ver. 26, 30) (Mahneh), to the southern extremity of 
the sea of Cinnereth (sea of Galilee) (ver. 27), with the 
Jordan for the western boundary. 

3. Manasseh East. — On the south, following the north- 
ern line of Gad to its intersection with the eastern boun- 
dary of the trans-Jordanic tribes (at the opening of the 
valley between Jebel Zerka and Jebel Kafkafka, with the 
plain lying east of the latter) ; thence north-easterly along 
the boundary of the trans-Jordanic tribes (in a direct, line 
across the last-named plain, over the northern end of Jebel 
es-Znmle, and partly across the plain of the Hain an), and 
again along the same boundary with a northerly and 
north-westerly curve through the plain of Bashan (Josh, 
xiii, 30) (i.e. the Ilanran), so as to include Edrei (which 
may be Draa or Bern) (ver. 31), and so on north-westerly 
to the vicinity of Mount Ilermou (ver. 11) (i. e. Jebel esb- 
Sheikh, where the northern line probably followed the 
iresent boundaries of the Arab elans along the top of the 
lemon range to its junction with Wady el-Teim at Has- 

beivah) ; where it joined the northern "boundary of the 
cis-Jordauic tribes at the “entrance into Hamath” (Numb, 
xxxiv, 8); thence southerly along the sources of the Jor- 
dan (down Nahr el-Banias and its brook), through the 
lake of Merom, the upper Jordan, and the sea of Galilee, 
to the place of beginning (ver. 10-12). 

4. Judah. — Ou the south, the southerly boundary of 
Canaan, beginning on the border of Edom, at the south- 
ern bay of the Dead Sea, southward (along theGhor) past 
the ascent of Acrabbim, near the desert of Zin (the Wady 
el-Jeib or the Arabah), to the vicinity of Kadesh-barnen 
(Ain-weibeh or Ain-hasb) (Josh, xv, 1-3; Numb, xxxiv, 
2-4); thence westward to Hezron, along the southern 
boundary of Canaan (perhaps through Wady Fikreh) 
(where we may assign a location) to Adarof llnzar-addar ; 
thence westerly around (perhaps by wadies Maderah and 
Marreh) to Karkaa (perhaps in this latter), then still 
westerly to Azmon (possibly in the vicinity south of the 
aucient'Elusa) ; thence north-westerly (perhaps by Wady 
en-Abiya) ro “ the river of Eirypt" (or El-Arish), and so on 
to the Mediterranean, which formed the western boundary 
or Palestine (Josh, xv, 3, 4, 12; Numb, xxxiv, 4, 6). Sec 

X.— M 31 


Quar. Statement of “Pal. Explor. Fund.” p. 6S sq. ; April, 
1874, p. 68, S2 ; July, 1874, p. 190. 

On the north, beginning at the northern bay of the 
Dead Sea (which formed the eastern boundary), where 
the Jordan empties into it (see this whole line in Josh, 
xv, 5-12, and inversely in xviii, 14-20): obliquely across 
the plain of the Jordan to Beth-hoglah ( Aiu*-hajla), 
thence to Beth-arabah (at first included, but afterwards 
excluded) (hence situated probably at the present Knsr 
Hajla); thence to the stone of Bohan (apparently very 
near the last place, and on the eminences in the side of 
Wady Dabus); thence (westerly) iu the direction of Debir 
(which must therefore be placed on the west side of Wady 
Dabus [near its head], which last the boundary erossed, 
as expressed by coming) from the valley of Achor, thence 
northward towards Gilgal or Geliloth (which is explained 
as being in front of the ascent to Adummim (apparently 
lying on the hills skirting the Jordan just west of Gilgal, 
to which the access would be by the valley on the south 
side of Jebel el-Fasea ; Adummim [probably at ed-Dem 
near es-Sumreh] being further described as lying on the 
south side of the “river,” probably Wady Kelt); thence 
to the waters of En-shemesh (probably the “fountain of 
the apostles,” on the road between Bethany and Jericho); 
thence (across the Mount of Olives by way of Bethany) 
to En-rogel (the well of Job near Jerusalem); thence 
around the valley of Hinnom (but at a later date across 
Mount Moriah, which David purchased, and north of Je- 
hus, which he conquered, and thus acquired both for Ju- 
dah), through Hie valley of Gilum to the hill at its north- 
western end, bounding the plain or valley of Rephairn 
west of the city; theuce along the ridge of this elevated 
plain or “hill” to the fountain of Nephtoah (probably 
’Ain Yalo in Wady el-Werd, which last it probably fol- 
lowed after crossing the “giants’ plain;” for it must 
have bent considerably to the south, since it passed near 
Rachel’s sepulchre, umv Kubbet Rahil, between Jerusa- 
lem and Bethlehem [1 Sam. x, 2]) ; thence in the direction 
of Mount Ephron (lying considerably northward of this 
vicinity, although among its “cities” may properly have 
been reckoned Kirjalii-jear im ; this line being probably 
carried through Wady Bittir, then by Wady Sataf, due 
north! to Kirjath-jearim (otherwise Baalah or Kirjath- 
baal) (now Kuryet el-Knab); thence west (across the in- 
tervening valley occupied bv the Beni-melik in the di- 
rection of Yalo) to the ridge of Seir (perhaps indicated 
by the modern Saris); thence (south-westerly along this 
mountain) to a more southern spur called Mount Jearim 
(just across Wady Ghurab), where is located (Kesla, the 
representative of) Chesabm (or Cbesullotli) ; thence (still 
keeping south-westerly along the same range ofhills, be- 
tween Zanoah [Zanua], and Zorah [Sura], the last of which 
was afterwards assigned to Dan, with several other cities 
on this part of the boundary [Josh, xix, 41 sq.]) to En- 
shemesh (nr lr-sheniesh ) (now Ain-shems); thence (a 
little south of Wady Surar) near Timimth (Tibueh) and 
Ekron (’Akir) (the last three towns being finally reck- 
oned as belonging to Dan), and so on to the Mediterra- 
nean, passing successively Shicron (perhaps Beii-sit), next 
Mount Baalah (possibly Tell Hermes), and finally Jabneel 
(elsewhere Jnbneh [now Yebna]) (but eventually desert- 
ing the Nahr Rubin a little beyond its junction with 
Wady Marubah, and running thence south-west so as to 
include Gederah [Gheterab], but exclude Jabneh and 
Bene-berak [Burka], reaching the sea by Wady Sumt). 

Of Judah only are there any distinct and regular sub- 
divisions given (for Keil’s arrangement of the towns of 
Simeon in four groups according to Josh, xv, 21-32 [Com- 
ment. ad loc.] is not justified by the parallel passage [Josh, 
xix, 2-S], nor by the analogy of enumeration in the case 
of the other subdivisions of Judah [xv, 33-62] and Benja- 
min [xviii, 21-2$], nor with the Masoretic punctation 
[“and” being omitted only between different designa- 
tions of tiie same locality], nor, finally, with the actual 
juxtaposition of the sites). The southernmost section 
(stretching apparently entirely across from the Dead 8ea 
to the Mediterranean) constituted the territory of Simeon, 
including (as appears from a comparison of Josh, xv, 21-32 
with xix, 1-S) twenty- nine (strictly twenty- six) cities 
(namely, Kabzeel, Eder, Jagur, Kinah, Dimonah, Adadali, 
Kedesh [Kadesh-b arnea], Razor, the twofold town Ith- 
nnn-Ziph [Zephath] with its neighboring ruins, Horniah 
[? llnzar-addar], Telem, Shetna or 8heba [llazar-shual], 
Moladah, Heshmon [Azmon], Beth-pnler, Beer-.-heba, the 
twin-towns Bealoth or Balah [Ramath-nekeb] and Biz- 
jothjah-baalah or Baalath-beer [Lehi],Iiin, Azem, Eltolad, 
Chesil or Bethul. ZikUig, Madmannah or Beth-marcabotli, 
Sunsannah or Hazar-snsnh, Lebaoth or Beth-lebnoth, Shil- 
hitn or Shartthen, and the double town Ain-riinmou or En- 
rimmon), besides three villages dependent upon two of 
these (namely, llazor-hndattah and Kerioth-bezron or Ha- 
zor-amam [belonging to Razor proper], and Bazar-gad dull 
[to Hazar-shual]), and in addition two of the towns in the 
plain (namely, Ether and Ashan), with others doubtless 
not here enumerated. The plain district or “ valley” was 
again subdivided into four sections — the first comprising 
(originally) fourteen towns (Gederah and Gederothaim be- 
ing the same), situated in the north-western corner of the 
tribe; the second comprising sixteen towns, situated im- 
mediately south of this, iu the western part of the tribe; 


TRIBE 


540 


TRIBE 


the third comprising nine towns (two of which, as above, ] 
weir afterwards set oft* to Simeon, doubtless lying on the , 
southern boundary between t he tribes), situated east of 
the last group and south of the preceding, in the middle j 
of the tribe, east of the road leading from Elemheropolis 
to Jerusalem ; the fourth comprising the live principal 
Philistine towns, situated on the extreme west of the 
tribe along the Mediterranean coast (Ekron being really 
in Dan, and Guth-mizpeh in the “valley”). The highland 
district, or “ mountains, " was likewise subdivided into 
tive groups — the first containing eleven chief towns, situ- 
ated along the border of Simeon in the middle: the second 
containing nine chief cities, situated immediately north 
of the foregoing in the southern part of the tribe around 
Hebron; the third containing ten metropolitan towns, 
situated immediately east of the two preceding ; the 
fourth embracing six principal cities, situated immedi- 
ately north of the last two groups, as far as Jerusalem, on 
the northern boundary; and the liftli containing only two 
metropolitan towns, situated in the northern medial an- 
gle between the last-named group and the valley district. 
The remaining districts embraced the desert tract or “wil- 
derness” along the Dead Sea, and included six chief towns 
(Beth-arabah being in Benjamin). The remarkable addi- 
tion in the Septuagint (at ver. 59) of eleven cities (namely, 
Tekoah, Bethlehem, Pliagor, Etum, Knloii, Tatum, Saris, 
Karem, Gallim. Bother, and M emu-hall), probably real lo- 
calities (<ee each in its place), is perhaps entitled to a place 
in the genuine text, and would indicate a group between 
the. third and fourth above, reaching to Jerusalem (Kulou, 
Saris, and Gallim being in Benjamin). 

5. Simeon .— This tribe had a portion set off from the 
above bounded territory of Judah (Josh, xix, 1-8), embrac- 
ing some seventeen or twenty cities (according as we make 
several in the list identical or different), of which only two 
or three have been located with any degree of definiteness, 
namely, Beer-sheba (probably Bii-es-Saba), Moladah (per- 
haps el-Mil), and Honnah (or Zephath, possibly represent- 
ed by the pass es-Snta) : this much only is evident, that 
they all lay on the extreme south of Judah, and we shall 
therefore probably be not far from correct if we draw the 
dividing line between Judah and Simeon west by north 
from the Dead Sea at Massada, up Wady Sebbeh, thence 
across in the same direction from Ehdeit, just south of 
Arad (Tell Arad) and Jattir (’At tir), to the junction of Wady 
Khameilifeh with Wady Klutlil; thence still in the same 
direction up the former of these wadies to the summit of 
the mounts of Judah ; thence west by south (along Wady 
Sheriah) to the Mediterranean, a short distauce south of 
Gaza (Ghuzzeh). 

0. lietijetmith — On the north, following the boundary of 
Ephraim (Josh, xvi, 1-3, 6,7; xviii, 1 1-13), beginning at the 
Jordan opposite Jericho (probably at the mouth of Wady 
Nnwaimeh); thence (across the plain of the Jordan along 
this wady) to the northward of Jericho (ver. 12) (so as to 
include Zemaraiin [es-Stiinrah], ver. 22); thence northward 
(ver. 12) by the water east (i. e. north-east) of Jericho (xvi, 
1) (perhaps lias el-Ain, which discharges its water in that 
direction) through the mountainous (xviii, 12) desert (xvi, 
1) of Beth-aven (Beni-.-alim) (xviii, 12), that extends from 
Jericho to the hilly region of Beth-el (xvi, 1) — a description 
that appears to apply as well as any to the plain north- 
west. of Jebel Kuruntnl (Mt. Quarantania), the northern 
part of which the line would partly traverse, so as to in- 
clude (xviii, 23,24) Ophrah (perhaps et-Tayibeh) and Oph- 
ni (probably Jil'na) (probably np Wady el-Anjeh) as it as- 
cended Wady Ilabis, passing Naarah (xvi, 7, Naarath- 
Naaron) on the way, which lay east of Beth-el (1 Cliron. 
vii, 2S) (perhaps at el-Nejenieli); from Bethel (now Beilin) 
(which, being included in Benjamin, the expression “to 
the side of Ltiz southward” [Josh, xviii, 13] must be in- 
terpreted as indicating that t he line ran between Beth-el 
on the south and the ancient site of Luz a little to the 
north, the two spots being distinguished in Josh, xvi, 2, 
although occupying the same vicinity) the Hue passed 
(directly south-west along the Nablus road, west of Bireh 
[Beeruth]), passing Archi (situated perhaps at the mined 
Kefr-nnisr) (xvi, 2) to Ataroth (called also Ataroth-adar 
or Ataroth-addar), in a lower spot near the hill on the 
south side of Beth-lioron the lower (xviii, 13), yet with 
some interval to the east of this last place (xvi, 3), and at 
the southern extremity of this part of the line between 
Ephraim and Benjamin (that faced the easr), not far from 
Beth-horon the upper (ver. 5), and west of Naarah on that 
part of the same line near the Jordan (i. e. facing the 
smith) ;ver. 7); indications that all point to some site 
(for hut. one place of the name seems to be designated, 
since these descriptions [ver. 5, 6 hist clause, 7] are all of 
parts of the same southern hound ary of Ephraim [the first 
two clauses of ver. 6, and the whole of ver. S, however, re- 
fer to the northern border.a* Keil.in his Comment., admits, 
although lie confesses himself unable to clear np the diffi- 
culties of the passage], reckoned first [ver. 5, 6 last clause] 
westward To Beth-horon, and t hence back again [ver. 7] 
more minutely over the same line and eastward to the 
Jordan) directly east of Beth-horon (doubtless the Alara, 
whose ruins are still found at this point, a little north of 
the road from Jaffa to Jerusalem: and in that, case we 
must locate “the hill south of Beth-horon the nether” 
among the eminences opposite Beit Ur el-Tahta, ou the 


south side of Wady Suleiman, through which this road, 
runs); from Ataroth the line ran south-westerly along the 
Wady Suleiman, so as to include Clieplniah (xviii, 26) 
(probably Kellir, near this road), opposite the hill above 
described (ver. 14, where the expression rendered “com- 
passed the corner of the sea” appears to signify [as some 
copies of the Sept, translate] a bend fiom a seaward [i. e. 
westerly] dii action), and again south-easterly to Kirjath- 
jenrim (thus forming the western side), where it joined 
the boundary of Judah, which it followed back to the Jor- 
dan, and so up to t he point of beginning. 

The towns of this tribe enumerated in Josh, xviii, 21-2S 
appear to be classed under two general sections — the 
twelve in ver. 21-2 1 lying north and east of Jerusalem, 
while the fourteen others occupy the more southern ami 
western portion of the territory. At least one of these 
cities, Kirjath-jearim, was really (eventually) within the 
limits of the adjoining tribe, Judah (Jndg. xviii, 12). 

7. Dan. — This tribe was hounded by the Mediterranean 
on the west, and by the tribes of Judah on the south, 
Benjamin on the east, and Ephraim on the north. (The 
Danites also conquered from t he Cannanites Leshem or 
Laisli, in the extreme northern part of Palestine, within 
the bounds of Manasseh east, and retained it under the 
name of Dan.) The only portion unidentified is the north- 
ern boundary, which will he considered under Ephraim. 

8. Ephraim. — The Mediterranean was the western and 
the Jordan the eastern boundary. The southern bounda- 
ry has been already defined from the Jordan westward as 
far as Ataroth : from this point it passed westward (to the 
Jaffa road), in the vicinity of Japhleti (perhaps situated 
at Beit-Unia ; but this word should probably be rendered 
“ the Japhletites,” i. e. family of Japhlet, a descendant of 
Asher [1 Chron. vii, 32, 33], although it is difficult to ex- 
plain their existence in this location), to Beth-boron the 
nether (Josh, xvi, 3); thence more northerly (i. e. in a 
general north-westerly direction) to the Mediterranean 
(probably along the Jaffa road to Wady Bndrus, and 
thence north on the western brow of the* hills to Wady 
el-Anjeh, which it may naturally have followed westward 
to the sea; for it excluded Baalnth [Balat], Jehnd [Yeliu- 
dieh], and Japho [Joppa], xix, 44,45, hut included Beth- 
horon and Gezer [Abn-chnrheb], xxi, 21, 22), passing on 
the way Gezer (xvi, 3) west of Beth-el (1 Citron, vii, 2S [the 
other passages where it is mentioned do not help to fix 
the locality more definitely] : lately thought to have been 
found in Tell Jazer). The remainder of the description 
of the southern boundary (Josh, xvi, 5, last clause of 6, and 
whole of 7) is the same as that of Benjamin on the north. 

The northern boundary (the account in Josh, xvi, 7, with 
the exception of the first name, must he transposed so as 
to connect immediately with the description of the south 
border in ver. ft), beginning at the Jordan (probably at the 
mouth of Wady Fn>ail), passed westward (np this wady, 
otherwise called Wady Mndadireh, or Burshek) to Taa- 
nath-sliiloh (ver. 6) (probably the present Ain-Faria); 
thence north-westerly to Tappnah (xvii, 7) (probably the 
Belad el-Taffue [or Atuf] mentioned by some travellers 
east ol'Shechem); thence northerly to Michmethnh (xvi, 
6: xvii. 7) (apparently at the intersection of the line with 
Wady Tubas); thence, with a north-westerly curve, to 
Asher (ibid.) (probably represented by the modern Ynsir); 
thence the line is only given in general terms as extend- 
ing to the river Kanah on the Mediterranean (xvi. 8 ; xvii, 
9) (no doubt the present Nahr-Falaik, which is the princi- 
pal marshy stream in that region). 

9. Manasseh The boundaries of this tribe are 

given with great indistinctness, and must be in part col- 
lected from the contiguous portions of Ephraim, Asher, 
and Issachar, from which certain towns were set ofi’in ad- 
dition to its proper territory (Josh, xvii, 11). From the 
Mediterranean, the northeru’boiindary, beginning at Car- 
mel (for Dor, below Carmel, is included [ibid.; xix, 26]), 
and following the edge of the mountain (probably along 
the Kishon [Nahr-el-Mukattah]) south-easterly (as far as 
Jokneam [Tell-el-Kamon], and theuce keeping the moun- 
tain more closely so as to throw the plain of Esdraelon 
entirely within Issachar [Gen. xlix, lft]\ so as to include 
(Josh, xvii, It) Mcgiddo (Lejjuu), Taanach (Ta’anuk), but 
so as to exclude (xix, 21) En-gannim (Jeuin); thence (with 
a sharp curve) due north (on the west brow of ills. Gilboa 
and Little llermon), so as to include En-dor (Endnr) 
(xvii, 11), but not Jezreel (Zerin), nor Chesulloth (lksal), 
nor Shuneni (Solum) (xix, IS), nor Tabor (ver. 21) : theuce 
(with another sharp curve) south-east (probably down 
WadyOskeh), so as to include Beth-shean (Beisan) (xvii, 
11), to the Jordan, which formed t he eastern boundary. 

10. fstsachar . — This tribe was hemmed in on t he south 
by Manasseh West, on the west by Asher, and on the 
north by Zelmlun, leaving only the Jordan as a natural 
boundary on the east (Josh, xix, 2*2). 

11. Zelmlun. — In Jacob’s dying blessing (Gen. xlix, 13), 
the territory of this; tribe is prophetically described as be- 
ing suitable for maritime purposes, and as extending 
along a sea as far as Sidon, which must he explained as 
meaning that it reached Phoenicia, through which latter 
seafaring people a communication was kept up through 
the river Kishon and the harbor at Carmel. In Josh, xix, 
10-15, the boundaries are definitely laid down thus: Be- 


TRIBE 


547 


TRIBUTE 


ginning at, a place called Sarid, which is nowhere else 
mentioned in Scripture, but which is here described as 
situated eastward from the Mediterranean, with high 
country intervening, one or two stations distant from the 
river before Jokneam (doubtless the Kishon), also as sit- 
uated west of C'hisloth-tabor, and beyond (i. e. south of) 
Daberath and Japhia, and finally on the southern boun- 
dary (lor the northern line is subsequently described) ; all 
which details point to some spot about midway on the 
northern side of the plain of Esdraelon (probably the ru- 
ins oil the “Mount of Precipitation,” near el-Mezraah, oil 
the north-west); thence westward (“towards the sea*’), 
passing Mnralah (perhaps at Mujeidil) and Dabbasheth 
(perhaps the present Jebata), to the Kishon opposite Jok- 
iiearn (probably Tell el-Kuriidn) ; then returning to Sarkl, 
and passing northerly in thegeueral direction of C'liisloth- 
tabor (lksail) and Daberath (Deburieh) (leavimr these in 
Issachar), so as on the way to iucltide Japhia (Yafa) (sit- 
uated on higher ground); thence (northward) facing the 
east to Gittah-hepher (or Gath-hepher, 2 Kings xiv, 25) 
(at el-Meshad) (included within Zebtilnn) and litah-kazin 
(perhaps the modern Kefr Kenna); finally (as regards 
the southern line) extending (due north) in the direction 
of Rimmon that pertains to Xeah (“ Kinnnon-methoar to 
Neali”) (the former answering doubtless to Rnmaneh and 
the latter possibly to Ninirin, the names apparently being 
associated as adjacent) (and excluding both these, as 
will appear presently), so as to meet the line of Naphtali 
in Aznoth-tabor (apparently Kuril Hattin) (Josh, xix, 34). 
After this the description applies to the northern bounda- 
ry (for the expression “ compassetli it [Rimmon] on the 
north side” cannot mean that the southern border passed 
to the north of Rimmon, as this place belonged to Zebti- 
lnn [1 Chrou. vi, 77, which likewise includes Tabor, 1. e. 
apparently Hattin, in the same tribe ]), which does not 
appear to have extended to the Sea of Galilee (since the 
northern border of Issachar terminated at the Jordan 
[Josh, xix, 22], and the border ofNapbtali, as it included 
various towns on the southern end of the shore [ver. 35; 
Matt, iv, 13], as well as Aznoth-tabor [Josh, xix, 34], 
must have passed up to this last point not far from the 
Wady Besum), turning (with a north-westerly sweep) so 
as to exclude (ibid.) lltikkok (Yakuk), and, passing (ap- 
parently west) along Wady Selameh, so as to include 11 an- 
nethon (perhaps Deir Hannah), and running (south-west) 
to the valley of Jiphthah-el (probably marked by the mod- 
ern Jefat), where it met the border of Asher (ver. 27). 

In the enumeration of the border and interior towns of 
this tribe (Josh, xix, 10-15), twelve metropolitan cities only 
are counted, six others (Maralah, Jokneam, Chisloth- 
tabor, Daberath, Ittah-kazin, aud Jiphthah-el) being sit- 
uated outside the boundary line. 

12. Asher , — The description of the boundary (Josh, xix, 
24-30) begins with a general statement of several towns— 
llelkath (perhaps Ukreth ), Ilali (perhaps Alia), Beten 
(perhaps el-Baneli), Achshaph (probably Kesaf), Alam- 
melech (probably some place on the Wady el-Melek), 
Amad (perhaps Shefu-amar), aud Mishal (probably Mis- 
salli) — as lying near the border, which, crossing Carmel, 
reached to Shihor-libnath (perhaps Wady Milheh ), just 
above Dor (see xvii, 11), leaving in Naphtali the city of 
Heleph (probably Beitlif); then returning eastward the 
same line, passing Beth-dagon (probably llajeb) and the 
city of Zebulun (now Alidin) as far as Jiphthah-el, pur- 
sued this last valley northward past Beih-einek and 
Neiel, leaving Cabnl (Kabul) on the north, and, including 
several cities generally described (Hebron [i. e. Abdon], 
Rehob, llammon, and Kanah), ran east of north (doubt- 
less so as to strike the Litany), and then was continued 
as the northern boundary about opposite Sidon, where 
(without including the Phoenician sea-coast) it turned 
south-westerly (as the western border) past Tyre as far as 
Achzib (Zib). 

In the recapitulation of the cities of this tribe (Josh, 
xix, 25-3h), twenty-two metropolitan towns only are reck- 
oned, three others (Jiphthah-el, Sidon, and Tyre) being 
outside the border, and two other names (Carmel aud 
Shihor-libnath) not being towns. 

13. Naphtali was bounded by Issachar, Zebulun, and 
Asher mi the smith and west, and extended as far as 
Mount Hermon on the north, and eastward by the sea of 
Galilee, the Jordan, sea of Merom, and the Damascus 
road, extending to Judah-upon-Jordan (Tell Naby Sidi- 
huda), and including Beth-Hiemesh (Medjel es-Sheims) 
(Josh, xix, 22). The northerly limits of this tribe are 
stated in the general boundaries of Palestine (q. v.), laid 
down in Nil mb. xxxiv, 7-11, as follows: A line from the 
Mediterranean Sea crossingthe mountain-range (Lebanon, 
or its offshoot Ilermon), aud intersecting the “entrance 
to Ilamath” (Coele-Syriu or the valley of the Leoutes) ap- 
parently at Zed ad (perhaps the present. Jedeideb) ; thence 
to Ziphron (probably another place in the same valley 
[possibly Kaukahaj), and so by way of Hazur-enan (per- 
haps llasbeya) to the edge of t lie Hainan. From TTazar- 
enan, the northern boundary bent southward (so as to 
form in part the eastern boundary), so as to follow sub- 
stantially the eastern arm of the upper Jordan, taking in 
successively Shepham (perhaps Caesarea-Philippi ; comp. 
Baal-gad in Josh, xi, 17) and Riblah (not the Itiblah of 
Hamath, but a much more southerly place), east of Ain 


(perhaps Ihe spring of Tell el-Kady), and so on down to 
the sea of Galilee. The account in Ezek. xlvii, 14-17 
(which is evidently a copy of that in Numbers) contains 
the following additional names: llethlon, Berothah, Sib- 
raim, and Dazar-hatticon, which (at least the middle 
two), from their association with Hamath, appear (in this 
vague enumeration) to have been situated beyond the 
bounds of t lie Oriental Promised Land altogether. 

In the sum of the cities enumerated in connection with 
this tribe, nineteen metropolitan towns only are included, 
live of the names (Allou-zaanaim, Adamt-nekeb, Zidditu- 
zer, Hammath - rakkath, and Migdal -el - Ho rent ) being 
double, aud two others (Aznoth-tabor and .Indali-npon- 
Jordan) lying outside the border. See Palestine. 

Tribolos. See Thorn. 

Tribulation SA/xpuj, both literally signifying 
pressure or straits) expresses in the A. V. much the 
same as trouble or trial, importing afflictive dispensa- 
tions to which a person is subjected either by way of 
punishment (sec Judg. x, 14, Matt, xxiv, 21, 29, Rom. 
ii, 0, 2 Thess. i, 0) or by way of trial (see John xvi,33; 
Rom. v, 3 ; 2 Thess. i, 4). 

Tl ibur ( Concilium Triburense), Councils ok. Tri- 
bur was a royal residence near Mayence, where several 
Church councils were held. 

I. The first council was held in 895. Twenty-two 
bishops were present, including Ilatho, archbishop of 
M ayeiice; Herman, archbishop of Cologne, and Rat- 
bode, aredibishop of Treves. King Arnulphus also at- 
tended, with many of the chief lords of his kingdom. 
Fifty-eight canons were published. 

3. Declares tliar, with the king’s consent, it is ordered 
that all his nobles shall seize those who refuse to perform 
the penance due to their offences, and bring them before 
the bishop. 

4. Regulates the manner of disposing of the pecuniary 
mulct inflicted for wounding a priest f if the latter sur- 
vived, the whole belonged to him ; if he died, it was to be 
divided into three parts, one for his church, one for his 
bishop, and one for his relations. 

5. I m poses five years’ penance for killing a priest, during 
which time the penitent might not eat meat nor drink 
wine, except on Sundays ami festivals. At the end of the 
five years he might be admitted into the Church, but not 
to communion, until the expiration of other rive years, 
during which he was to fast three days in the week. 

10. Renews the canon of the Council of Carthage which 
enacts that a bishop shall not be deposed by fewer than 
twelve bishops; a priest by fewer than six; iior a deacon 
by fewer than three. 

T2. Restricts the solemn celebration of baptism to East- 
er and Whitsuntide. 

13. Orders the division of tithe into four portions: 1, 
for the bishop; 2, for the clerk; 3, for the poor; aud, 4, 
for the fabric. 

15. Orders that the dead be buried, if possible, at t he 
cathedral church: if not, at the church belonging to a 
monastery, in order that they might benefit by the 
prayers of the monks; otherwise in the church to which 
they pay tithe. 

1G. Proves from Scripture that no fee may be taken for 
burials. 

17. Forbids to bury laymen within the church. 

IS. Forbids chalices and patens of wood. 

lh. Orders that water be mixed with the wine in the 
chalice, but that there be twice as much wine as water. 

30. Orders all due respect t<> the sec of Rome, and enacts 
penalties against, those who cause the deatli of Christians 
by enchantments. 

See Mansi, Concil. ix, 438. 

II. The second council convened in October, 1070. 
The pope’s legates, with several German lords and some 
bishops, assembled in council, debated concerning the 
deposition of the emperor Henry IV, in consequence of 
which he passed into Italy, and, after the most humil- 
iating concessions, obtained absolution from the pope, 
Jan. 25, 1077. See Mansi, Concil. x, 355. — Landou, Man- 
ual of Councils , s. v. 

Tribute (prop. (pupoc;), an impost which one 
prince or state agrees, or is compelled, to pay to anoth- 
er, as the purchase of peace or in token of dependence. 
In the Scriptures we find three forms of this require- 
ment. See Tax. 

I. Native. — The Hebrews acknowledged no other sov- 
ereign than God ; and in Exod. xxx, 12, 15, we find they 
were required to pay tribute unto the Lord, to give an 
offering of half a shekel to “make an atonement for 


TRIBUTE 


548 


TRIBUTE-MONEY 


their soul>.” The native kings and judges of the He- 
brew > did not exact tribute. Solomon, indeed, at the 
beginning of his reign, levied tribute from the Canaan- 
ites and others who remained in the land and were not 
of Israel, and compelled them to hard servitude (1 Kings | 
ix. 21-23; 2 Chron. viii, 9); but t lie children of Israel 
were exempted from that impost, and employed in the 
more honorable departments and offices of his kingdom. 
Towards the end of his reign, however, he appears to 
have imposed tribute upon the Jews also, and to have 
compelled them to work upon the public buildings (1 
Kings v. 13. 14; ix, 15; xi, 27). This had the effect of 
gradually alienating their minds, and of producing that 
discontent which afterwards resulted in open revolt un- 
der Jeroboam, son of Xebat. “Thv father made our 
yoke grievous,” said the Israelites to Rehoboam ; “ now, 
therefore, make thou the grievous service of thy father 
and bis heavy yoke which he put upon us lighter, and 
we will serve thee” (xii,4). See Assessment. 

II. Foreign. — The Israelites were at various times 
subjected to heavy taxes and tributes bv their conquer- 
ors, After JiuUea was 
reduced to a Homan 
province, a new poll of 
the people and an esti- 
mate of their substance 
were taken, by com- 
mand of Augustus, in 
order that he might 
more correctly regulate 
the tribute to be exact- 
ed (Josephus. .1 nt. xvii, 

15). This was a capi- 
tation-tax levied at so 
much a head, and im- 
posed upon all males 
from fourteen, and all 
females from twelve, up 
to sixty-live years of 
age (Plpian. Diyest. de 
Censib. lib. iii; Fischer. 

I)e Xnmism. Census'). 

Sec Taxing. 

In oppose the levying of this tribute, Judas the Gau- 
lonite raised an insurrection of the Jews, asserting that 
it was not lawful to pay tribute to a foreigner, that it 
was a token of servitude, and that the Jews were not 
allowed to acknowledge any for their master who did 
not worship the Lord. They boasted of being a free 
nation, and of never having been in bondage to any 
man (John viii.33). These sentiments were extensive- 
ly promulgated, but all their efforts were of no avail in 
restraining or mitigating the exactions of their con- 
querors. See Judas. 

The Pharisees, who sought to entangle Jesus in his 
talk, sent unto him demanding whether it was lawful 
to give tribute unto Ciesar or not; but, knowing their 
wicked designs, lie replied, “ Why tempt ye me, ye hyp- 
ocrites?” “ Kemler unto Cesar the things which are 
Caesar’s, and unto God the things that are God’s.” See 
Penny. 

The apostles Peter and Paul severally recommended 
submission to t he ruling powers, and inculcated the duty 
of paying tribute, “tribute to whom tribute isdue”(Pom. 
xiii. 1-S; 1 Pet. ii, 13).— Kino. 

III. The Temple Tax . — The payment of the half- 
shekel (- half stater= two drachma*) was (as has been 
said above), though resting on an ancient precedent 
fKxod. xxx, 13). yet, in its character as a fixed annual 
rate, of late origin. It was proclaimed, according to 
Rabbinic rules, on the 1st of Adar, began to be collected 
on tin* loth, and was due, at latest, on the 1st of Nisan 
Orishnn. Shekalim , i, 7 ; Surenhusius. p. 260, 260. It 
was applied to defray the general expenses of the Tem- 
ple, the morning and evening sacrifice, the incense, 
wood, showbread. the red heifers, the scape-goat, etc. 
(Mishua, Shekal. loc. cit. ; in Light foot, Ilor. Ihb.on Matt . 



The A -syrian Tartan, or Chiefof 
Tribute. See Raijsakis. 


xvii , 24). After the destruction of the Temple it was 
sequestrated by Vespasian and his successors, and trans- 
ferred to the Temple of the Capitoline Jupiter (Jose- 
phus, I For, vii, 6, 6). See Temple. 

The explanation thus given of the “ tribnle” of Matt, 
xvii, 24 is, beyond all doubt, the true one. To suppose, 
with Chrysostom, Augustine, Maldonatus, and others, 
that it was the same as the tribute (/cf/i aoe) paid to the 
Roman emperor (Matt, xxii, 17) is at variance with the 
distinct statements of Josephus and the Mishna, and 
takes away the whole significance of our Lord’s words. 
It may be questioned, however, whether the full signif- 
icance of those words is adequately brought out in the 
popular interpretation of them. As explained by most 
commentators, they are simply an assertion by our Lord 
of his divine Son ship, an implied rebuke of Peter for for- 
getting the truth which he had so recently confessed 
(comp. Wordsworth, Alford, and others) : “ Then are the 
children (uioi) free;” Thou hast owned me as the Son 
of the Living God, the Son of the Great King, of the 
Lord of the Temple, in whose honor men pav the Tem- 
ple-tribute; why, forgetting this, dost thou so hastily 
make answer as if 1 were an alien and a stranger? — 
Smith. This explanation, however, hardly does justice 
to the tenor of the language. Our Lord had not been 
present at the preceding Passover, and had therefore 
failed to pay the tax at the regular time and place, 
lienee he was waited upon in Galilee for that purpose, 
with some apprehension, perhaps, on the part of the 
collectors, that he might excuse himself for some reason, 
or at least neglect to pay. In his reply he asserts his 
just claim to exemption, not as an alien, but precisely 
because he was a member of the theocratic family in 
the highest sense. He was exempt on the broad con- 
stitutional ground that a king’s son belongs to the royal 
household for whom tribute is collected, and not by 
whom it is rendered. Inasmuch as the tax was for the 
Temple service, Jesus, who was the son of the Lord of 
the Temple, could not be required to contribute to that 
expense. Peter is coupled in the payment, but not in 
the exemption; at least, not on the same ground pre- 
cisely, but, if at all, on the general principle of associa- 
tion with the royal family. See Tkiuute-moxev. 

Tribute-money (CiCpa\pov), the Temple-tax lev- 
ied upon all Jews (Matt, xvii, 24), and likewise (k// r- 
<roe) the money collected by the Romans in payment of 
the taxes imposed upon the Jews (xxii, 19). The 
piece shown to our Saviour at his own request (in the 
latter passage) was a Roman coin, hearing the image of 
one of the Ciesar s, and must have been at that time cur- 
rent in Jtidiea, and received in payment of the tribute, 
in common with other descriptions of money. There is 
no reason to suppose that the tribute was collected ex- 
clusively in Roman coins, or that t he tribute-money was 
a description of coin different from that which was in 
general circulation. See Penny. 

As regards the half-shekel of silver paid to the Lord 
by every male of the children of Israel as a ransom for 
his soul (Exod. xxx, 13. 15), colonel Leake says “that 
it had nothing in common with the tribute paid by the 
Jews to the Roman emperor. The tribute was a dena- 
rius, in the English version a penny (Matt, xxii, 17; 
Luke xx, 24); the duty to the Temple was a didrach- 
mon, two of which made a stater. It appears, then, that 
the half-shekel of ransom had in the time of our Sav- 
iour been converted into the payment of a didrachmon 
to the Temple, and two of their didrachma formed a 
stater of the Jewish currency.” He then suggests that 
the stater was evidently the extant “Shekel Israel,” 
which was a tetradrachm of the Ptolemaic scale, though 
generally below the standard weight, like most of the 
extant specimens of the Ptolemies; and that the di- 
drachmon paid to the Temple was therefore of the same 
monetary scale. “Thus,” says he, “the duty to the 
Temple was converted from the half of an Attic to the 
whole of a Ptolemaic didrachmon, and the tax was 
nominally raised in the proportion of about 105 to 65; 



TRICERIUM 


549 


but probably the value of silver had fallen as much in 
the two preceding centuries. It was natural that the 
Jews should have revived the old name shekel, and ap- 
plied it to their stater, and equally so that they should 
have adopted the scale of the neighboring opulent and 
powerful kingdom, the money of which they must have 
long been in the habit of employing” (Appendix, Xu - 
mismata Hellenica, p. 2,3). See Diijraciim. 

Tricerium ( rpucqpiov ), a three-branched taper, so 
arranged that the wicks of each, though distinct, blend 
into one flame. With this the Oriental bishops sign 
the book of the gospels during certain services of the 
Greek Church. — Lee, Gloss. of Liturg. Terms , s. v. 

Trichotomy (threefold dirision) is the theory ac- 
cording to which man is divided into three parts — body, 
soul , and spirit. This is thought by many to be the apos- 
tolic classification of our nature (l Thess. v, 23). Gener- 
ally soul and body are opposed; but spirit, so contrasted, 
is the highest portion of our nature, allying it to God, 
and on which his Spirit works. Soul (in the German 
sense) is the lower portion, the region of appetite, in- 
stinct, and of much besides which we have in common 
with the lower creation. This idea throws light on many 
passages of Scripture. The body mediates between the 
soul and the external world, the soul between the spirit 
and body, and the spirit between both and God. This 
view of human nature would have prevailed, had it not 
been so keenly opposed by Tertullian, and so slighted 
even by Augustine, and had not Apollinaris adopted it to 
illustrate his erroneous view of our Lord’s nature. He 
denied spirit, in this human sense, to Christ, but held 
that its place was occupied by the Divine Spirit. It 
was held by Luther, as it still is by the more evangeli- 
cal part of the Lutheran Church. The Heformers, how- 
ever, did not consider spirit and soul as different sub- 
stances, but only as different attributes or operations of 
the same spiritual essence. See Soul; Spirit. 

Tridentine (of or belonging to Trent). The term 
is applied to the celebrated council of the Ifith century, 
and to that part of the Church Universal which accepts 
the decrees and canons of the Council of Trent (q. v.). 

Trideutine Profession of Faith, or the Creed 
of Pius IV, is a summary of the doctrines of the Coun- 
cil of Trent, suggested by that council, prepared by a 
college of cardinals under the supervision of pope l*ius 
IV, and issued by him, Nov. 13, 15(14. It consists of 
twelve articles, including the Nicene Creed (q. v.). and 
is put in the form of an individual profession and sol- 
emn oath. It is rerpiircd of all llomau Catholic priests, 
and public teachers in seminaries, colleges, and univer- 
sities. It is also used for Protestant converts to the Ho- 
man Catholic Church, and hence called the “profession 
of converts.” The 10th article reads, “ 1 acknowledge 
the holy Catholic Apostolic Homan Church as the moth- 
er and mistress of all churches; and I promise and swear 
true obedience to the bishop of Home as the successor 
of .St. Peter, prince of the apostles, and as the vicar of 
Jesus Christ.” See Latin text in the two papal bulls 
of Nov. 13 and Dec. 9, 15G4, and in Denzinger’s Enchi- 
ridion , p. 292-294; also a history of this creed by Moh- 
nike, U rknndliche Geschichte der Professio Fidei Triden- 
time (Greifswald, 1822). See Trent, Council of. 

Triennial Visitation, a visitation which is held 
once in three years. In England it is the custom to 
hold episcopal visitations at such intervals. 

Triers, Ecclesiastical. A parliamentary ordi- 
nance was passed in 1654 appointing thirty-eight com- 
missioners to the office of triers: they were chosen by 
Cromwell, and sat at Whitehall. They were mostly 1 n- 
dependents, though some Presbyterians were joined with 
them. They were appointed to try all ministers that 
came for institution and induction, and without their ap- 
proval none were admitted. The opinion of Baxter is 
that they were of essential service to the Church. 11c 
says they saved many congregations from ignorant, un- 


TRIM, COUNCIL OF 

godlv, and intemperate teachers — men who designed 
nothing more in the ministry than to repeat a sermon 
as readers say their prayers, and to patch up a few good 
words together to talk the people asleep on Sunday, and 
all the rest of the week go with them to the ale-house, 
and harden them in their sin; and that sort of ministers 
who either preached against a holy life, or preached as 
men that were not. acquainted with it. They had pow- 
er to eject scandalous, ignorant, and insufficient minis- 
ters and schoolmasters. — Farrar, Eceles. Did. s. v. 

Trigland, Jacob, a Dutch theologian, was born at 
Haarlem, May 8, 1652, and died at Leyden, Sept. 22, 
1705. 1 1 is writings are, Dissertt . Theologico-phUologicu, 

Continens Defensionem Intcgritatis Codicis Sacri adeer- 
sus Xuperas in euni Censor as (Leyden, 1703) : — Diatribe 
de Seda Karteorum (ibid. eod. ; Germ, trails!, bv Fitrst. in 
Liter at urbh des Orients , 1843, c. 12, 23, 39, 763, 776, 794, 
827) : — Dissert at iones Theologicce et Philologicu , Syllnge , 
ut et Orationum Acad. (Delft, 1728): — Triuni Scrip- 
tor uni ilhistr. de Tribus Judteoruni Sect is Syntagma in 
quo X. Serarii (Mayence, 1604). Drusii (Frauecker, 
1603-5), Jos. Scaligcri (ibid. 1605) Opuscula , qua 
eo Pertinent, etc. (ibid. 1703): — Disputt. II de Origins. 
Saci'if riorum (Leyden, 1692): — De Josepho Patriarrha 
in Sacri Bovi Hieroglyph, ah sEgyptiis A dorato (ibid. 
1705). See Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 447; Winer, llandb. 
der theol. Literatur, i, 29, 139, 442, 515, 823. (B. P.) 

Triglaw, in Slavonic mythology, was the supreme 
god of the Servians, Wends, Poles, partly also of the Hu- 
ge » islanders, Pomeranians, Prussians, and Lithuanians, 
lie was, as his name indicates, triple-headed, and there- 
fore represented the Slavonic trinity. The priests pro- 
claimed Triglaw as the unseen supreme sovereign of 
heaven, earth, and the infernal regions, lie was rep- 
resented veiled, in the greatest temple at Stettin, as a 
celebrated man with three heads. A large army of 
priests served him, and taught that he, being long-suf- 
fering and kind-hearted, veiled his face so as not to see 
the evil deeds of men, and seldom made his appearance 
on earth, but taught his priests his will and commands, 
and by means of his holy black steed he distributed 
oracles, etc. This steed governed by its hoofs the 
whole population, and no one would have dared to do 
anything to which it did not give favorable signs. 
1 1 is temple, made of huge wooden posts covered with 
cloths, contained the largest part of all the spoils of 
war. Vast riches were heaped up here, and the super- 
stitious dread of the people was a surer protection than 
marble or granite, perhaps, would have been. The de- 
structive campaigns of Henry the Lion were the means 
of destroying all these temples, and closed to the world 
the inspection of the idols of their gods. — Volhner, IFt/u- 
terb. d. My f hoi. s. v. 

Trim, Council of. Trim is the county town of 
Meath, situated on the river Boyne, about twenty-sev- 
en miles north-west of Dublin. It contains a national 
school, besides other public institutions; a handsome 
Homan Catholic chapel; the remains of Trim Castle; 
and the Yellow Tower, a part of St. Mary’s Abbey, re- 
built by the De Laeys in the 13th century. 

The council was held on the Sunday after St. Mat- 
thew’s Day (1291). Nicholas M‘M«>tissa, archbishop 
of Armagh, presided. The four archbishops, all the 
suffragan bishops, all the cathedral chapters. t>v their 
deputies, and the other orders and degrees of the clergy, 
unanimously agreed in this synod to maintain and de- 
fend each other in all courts, and before all judges, ec- 
clesiastical or secular, against all lay encroachments 
upon, and violations of, their rights, liberties, or cus- 
toms; and. further, amply to indemnify those of their 
messengers, executors of their orders, etc., who might, 
receive loss or damage in the performance of their duty. 
Other articles of agreement were drawn up, pledging 
them to mutual co-operation in enforcing sentences of 
excommunication, etc. See Mant, Hist, of the Irish 
Church, p. 17. — Landon, Manual of Councils, s. v. 


TRDDIEI 


550 TRINITARIAN BROTHERS 


Trimmer, Sarah, a zealous promoter of religious 
education in England, was born at. Ipswich, Jan. 6, 1741. 
She was carefully educated, and while a resident of 
London passed her time in the society of Dr. Johnson, 
J)r. Gregory >harpo. and other eminent persons in the 
literary world. In her reading she was directed by her 
father. Becoming a mother of a large family of chil- 
dren, her current of thought was turned to education. 
Having experienced great success in the plan of educat- 
ing her own family, she naturally wished’ to extend that 
Messing to others, and this first induced her to become 
an author. She strenuously opposed the current of 
French and German infidelity and a lax education in- 
dependent of the history and truths of revelation. Site 
was also an early promoter and supporter of Sunday- 
schools. She died Dec. 15, 1810. Of her works, we re- 
fer to the last London edition: Abridgment of the Xew 
Test. (1352, ISmo): — Abridgment of the Old Test. (1850. 
I2m<>):- — Help to the Unlearned in the Study of the Holy 
Scriptures (1805, 8vo ; 2d ed. 1850, 2 vols. 12mo): — 
Xew and Compnhensive Lessons on the Xew Test. (1849, 
l8mo): — Xew and Comprehensive Lessons on the Old 
Test. (1849, 18mo): — Prayers and Meditations (1812, 
12mo; 2d ed. 1800): — Sacred History (1782-85, 6 vols. 
12mo : 1841-49. 2 vols. I2mo): — Scripture Catechism 
(1851,2 vols. 12mo): — The Economy of Charity (178(5; 
revised 1801): — and many other works oil history, edu- 
cation, etc. See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. ; Allibonc, 
Diet, of Brit, and A mer. .1 uthors, s. v. 

Trimnell, Charles, bishop of Norwich and Win- 
chester, was born at Bipton-Abbots, England, Dec. 27, 
1663. lie graduated with honor at Winchester Col- 
lege. and in 1G88 was appointed preacher at Bolls. In 
11591 he w’as installed prebendary of Norwich, in 1694 
presented by the carl of Sunderland to the rectory of 
Bodingfon, and in 1693 installed archdeacon of Norfolk. 
About this time he was made chaplain in ordinary to 
queen Anne. Having no parochial duty in 1705, he 
for some time took charge of St. Giles’s parish, Nor- 
wich: and in < Ictober, 1706, was instituted to St. James’s, 
Westminster. In January, 1707, Mr. Trimnell was elect- 
ed bishop of Norwich, and in August, 1721. he was 
transferred to the bishopric of Winchester, lie died 
Aug. 15, 1723. lie had a very serious turn of mind, 
and performed the duty of every station with the great- 
est exactness. 1 1 is public life was characterized bv 
great moderation and firmness of spirit. “ lie was a 
lover of peace and order both from judgment and in- 
clination ; and, being a sincere frietid to the Church of 
England, he constantly avowed those principles of toler- 
ation and indulgence which make that Church the 
glory of the Beforination.” Bishop Trimnell published 
lift cen single Sermons, Letters, Charges, etc. (1697-1715). 
.See Chalmers, Bing. Diet. s. v. 

Trine Baptism. A mode of administering the 
sacrament, which was so universal in the primitive 
Church that some entertain no doubt of its being de- 
rived from apostolic tradition. The person baptized 
was thrice immersed, or w'ater was thrice poured on 
him, in the name of the three persons of the Godhead. 
The reason of trine baptism was manifest: the three 
immersions showed the distinction of the three divine 
Persons, although the baptism was only one, in the name 
of the undivided Godhead — “ one baptism for the re- 
mission of sins.” Thus in baptism the unity of the Di- 
vine Nature and the distinction of the three Persons are 
clearly implied and set forth. The first who departed 
from this usage was Eunomius the Arian. Trine baptism 
was acccmji ng to the fiftieth apostolical canon, the bishop 
or presbyter who baptized with one immersion being or- 
dered to be deposed. In the 6th and 7th centuries one 
immersion in baptism was substituted by some ill Spain 
for the ordinary rule of the Church, the Council of Tole- 
do (A.D. 033, canon 6) allowing single immersion in 
Spain, to avoid schism; but this innovation lasted for 
onl 3 r a short period, the early usage being restored, and 


remaining the rule of the Western Church. Single 
immersion lias never been authorized by the Eastern 
Church. See Blunt, Diet. oJ'Doct. and Jlist. Theol. s. v.; 
Landon, Manual of Councils, p. 582. 

Trine -God Controversy. In the churches 
over w hich lliuemar (<p v.), archbishop of Bhcims, pre- 
sided, lie forbade t lie singing of (lie last words of a very 
ancient hymn — Te trina Deltas, intaque poscimus (‘‘Of 
thee, trine Deity, yet one, we ask”) — on the ground that 
this phraseology subverted the simplicity of the Divine 
Nature, and implied the existence of three Cods. The 
Benedictine monks would not obey this mandate of 
Ilincmar; and one of their number, Batramnus, wrote in 
defence of a trine Deity. Godeschalcus, hearing of this 
dissension while in prison, sent forth a paper, in which 
he defended the cause of his fellow-monks. For this he 
was accused by Ilincmar of Tritheism, and was confut- 
ed in a book written expressly for that purpose. But 
this controversy soon subsided; and, in spite of llinc- 
mar’s efforts, t he words retained their place in the hymn. 
See Mosheim, Ch. llist. bk. v, ch. ii, p. 94. 


Trinitarian Brothers, or Order of the Most 
1 1 oey Tr.lNiTY/br/'/ie Redemption of Captives, was found- 
ed by St. John of Matha, who was born at Faucon, l'rov- 
ence, in 1154. When lie first celebrated divine service, 
after bis ordination, he beheld a vision of an angel in 
white, having a cross of red and blue on his breast, and bis 
hands, crossed over each other, rested on the heads of 
two slaves who knelt on each side of him. He, with 
another holy man, Felix do Valois, arranged the insti- 
tution of a new’ order for the redemption of slaves. 
They went to Borne, and received the approval of Inno- 
cent III in 1198. They assumed the white habit, hav- 
ing on the breast a Greek cross of red and blue. They 
returned to France, and received from Gaucher de Cba- 
tillon lands in the province of Valois. The pope also 
gave them at Borne the church and convent of S. Maria 
della Navicella, on the Monte Celio. Honorius III con- 
firmed their rule, and in 1267 Clement IV approved of 
a change in their rules permitting them to purchase 
moat and own horses. They had at one time two hun- 
dred and fifty convents in France, three in Spain, forty- 
three in England, fifty-two in Ireland, besides others in 
Portugal, Italy, Saxony, Hungary, and Bohemia. In 
1594 the Barefooted branch of this order was begun by 
Jean Baptiste de la Conception in the convent of Valde. 
Spain, lie was granted a bull by Clement VIII in 1593 



551 


TRINITY 


TRINITARIAN SISTERS 


to establish a reform in his order and lead them back to 
the ancient practice. The founders of the Trinitarians 
placed themselves under the protection of St. Kadegun- 
da, queen of Clothaire V of France, who afterwards took 
the religious habit and founded a monastery at Poitiers. 
See Jameson, Leg. of Monastic Orders, p.217 sq.; jUigne, 
Diet, des Ordres Re/ig. s. v. 

Trinitarian Sisters. This order was founded at 
Valence in 1615, and constituted a convent in 1696. They 
received fetters patent from Louis in 1712, and were 
registered in Parliament in January, 1728. They es- 
tablished two hospitals, which were in 1802 devoted to 
the care of aged men and women. They have been 
quite flourishing since 1837, See Migne, Did. des Or- 
dres Relig. s. v. 



Trinitarians. A general name for all Christians 
who hold the doctrine of the divine Trinity (q. v.). 

Trinity, The doctrine of the Trinity in the god- 
head includes the three following particulars, viz. (a) 
There is only one God, one divine nature; ( b ) but in 
this divine nature there is the distinction of Father, 
Son. and Holy Ghost, as three (subjects or persons); 
and (c) these three have equally, and in common with 
one another, the nature and perfection of supreme di- 
vinity. It was the custom in former times for theolo- 
gians to blend their own speculations and those of others 
with the statement of the Bible doctrine. It is custom- 
ary now to exhibit first the simple doctrine of the Bible, 
and afterwards, in a separate part, the speculations of 
the learned respecting it. 

I. The Biblical Doctrine. — It has always been allowed 
that the doctrine of the Trinity was not fully revealed 
before the time of Christ., and is clearly taught only in 
the New Test. Yet, while it is true (ij that if the New 
Test, did not exist we could not derive the doctrine of 
the Trinity from the Old Test, alone, it is equally true 

(2) that bv the manner of God’s revelation of himself in 
the Old Test, the way was prepared for the more full 
disclosure of his nature that was afterwards made. But 

(3) respecting the intimate connection of these persons, 
or respecting other distinctions which belong to the 
doctrine of the Trinity, there is nothing said in the Old 
Test. While in each particular text allusion is made 
to a trinity or plurality in God, yet these texts arc so 
many in number and so various in kind that they im- 
press one with t he opinion that such a plurality in God 


is indicated in the Old Test., though it is not fully 
developed or clearly defined. 

(1.) The texts of the Old Test, may be arranged in 
the following classes: 

1. 'Those giving the names of God in the plural form, 
and thus seeming to indicate a plurality of his nature, 
of which C n n’2X. "‘STX, D^TTVIp are cited as examples; 
hut as these may be only the plnralis majestatiens of the 
Oriental languages, they afford no certain proof. 

2. Texts in which God speaks of himself in the plural. 

The plural in many of these cases can be accounted Ibr 
from the use of the plural nouns etc. 

Philo thinks (De Op if. Mnmli , p. 17) that in the ex- 
pression “ Let us make man” (Gen. i, 26), God addresses 
the angels. It is not uncommon in Hebrew for kings 
to speak of themselves in the plural (l Kings xii, 9; 2 
Chron. x, 9; Ezra iv, 18). In Isa. vi, 8 God asks, who 
will go for us (lib), where the plural form may be ex- 
plained either as the plnralis majestaticus , or as denoting 
an assembly for consultation. 

3. Texts in which HTH (Jehovah) is distinguished 

from C'lTsX (Elohim). These texts do not, however, 
furnish any decisive proof; for in the simplicity of an- 
cient style the noun is often repeated instead of using 
the pronoun; and so, from Jehovah may mean from 
himself, etc. Further, the name (Elohim) is 

sometimes given to earthly kings, and does not, there- 
fore, necessarily prove that the person to whom it is 
given must be of the divine nature. 

4. Texts in which express mention is made of the 
Son of God and of the Holy Spirit. 

(a.) Of the Son of God. — The principal text of this 
class is Psa. ii, 7, ‘‘Thou art my son; this day have I 
begotten thee;” comp. Psa. Ixxii, I; lxxxix.27. 'This 
Psalm was understood by the Jews and by the writers 
of the New Test, to relate to the Messiah. But the 
name Non of God was not (infrequently given to kings; 
it is not, therefore, nomen essentice, but dignitatis M essi- 
atue. The passage would then mean, “ Thou art the 
king (Messiah) of mv appointment ; this day have 1 de- 
clared thee such.” In this psalm, therefore, the Messiah 
is rather exhibited as king, divinely appointed ruler and 
head of the Church, than as belonging to the divine 
nature. 

(p.) Of the Holy Spirit.— There are many texts of this 
class, but none from which, taken by themselves, the 
personality of the lloly Spirit can be proved. In these 
texts the term Holy Spirit may mean (1) the divine 
nature in general; (2) particular divine attributes, as 
omnipotence, knowledge, or omniscience; (3) the divine 
agency, which is its more common meaning. Isa. xlviii, 
16. “And now Jehovah (the Father) and his Spirit 
(Holy Ghost) hath sent me” (the Messiah), is supposed 
to teach the whole doctrine of the Trinity. But the 
expression “and his Spirit” is used by the prophets to 
mean the direct, immediate, command of God. 'To say, 
then, the Lord and his Spirit hath sent me is the same 
as to say, the Lord hath sent me by a direct, immediate 
command. 

5. 'Texts in which three persons are expressly men- 
tioned, or in which there is a clear reference to the 
number three (Numb, vi, 24; Psa. xxxiii, 6 ; Isa. vi, 3). 
But the repetition of the word Jehovah in the one text 
is not an undeniable proof of the Trinity; and in the 
other, the word of his month means nothing more than 
his command: and in the last text the threefold repeti- 
tion of the word holy may have been by three choirs, all 
uniting in the last words, “The whole earth is full of thy 
glory.” 

Thus it appears that none of the passages cited from 
the Old Test, in proof of the Trinity are conclusive when 
taken by themselves; but, as was before stated, when 
they are all taken together, they convey the impression 
that at least a plurality in the godhead was obscurely 
indicated in the Jewish Scriptures. 


TRINITY 


552 


TRINITY 


(If.) Since we do not find in the Old Test, clear or 
decided proof upon this subject, we must now turn to 
the Xew Test. The texts relating to the doctrine of 
the Trinity may be divided into two classes — those in 
which the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are mentioned 
in connection, and those in which these three subjects 
are mentioned separately, and in which their nature 
and mutual relation are more particularly described. 

1. The first class of texts, taken by itself, proves only 
that there arc the three subjects named, ami that there 
is a difference between them; that the Father in cer- 
tain respects differs from the Son, etc.; but it does not 
prove, by itself, that all the three belong necessarily to 
the divine nature, and possess equal divine honor. In 
proof of this, the second class of texts must be adduced. 
The following texts are placed in this class: 

31 at t. xviii, 18-20. This text, however, taken by it- 
self, would not prove decisively either the personality 
of the throe subjects mentioned, or their equality or di- 
vinity. For (o) the subject into which one is baptized 
is not necessarily a person, but may be a doctrine or re- 
liyion. ( b ) The person in whom one is baptized is not 
necessarily God, as 1 Cor. i, 18, “ Were ye baptized in 
the name of Paul ?" (c) The connection of these three 

subjects does not prove their personality or equality. 
We gather one thing front the text, viz. that Christ 
considered the doctrine respecting Father, Son, and 
Holy Ghost as a fundamental doctrine of his religion, 
because lie requires all his followers to be bound to a 
profession of it when admitted In' baptism into the 
Church. 

1 Pet. i. 2: “Elect according to the foreknowledge of 
God the Father, through sanctification of the Spirit, 
unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus 
Christ." From what is here said of the Holy Spirit, it 
does not necessarily follow that he is a personal subject; 
nor, from the predicates here ascribed to Christ, that lie 
is necessarily divine. This passage, therefore, taken by 
itself, is insufficient. 

2 Cor. xiii, 14, “The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, 
and the love of God, and the communion of the Holy 
Ghost, be with yon all." Here we might infer, from 
the parallelism of the third member of the passage with 
the two former, the personality of the Holy Spirit ; but 
we could not justly infer that they possessed equal au- 
thority, or the same nature. 

John xiv, 20 offers three different personal subjects, 
viz. the Comforter, the Father, and Christ; but it is not 
sufficiently proven from this passage that these three 
subjects have equal divine honor, and belong to one 
divine nature. 

Matt. iii. 10, 17 has been considered a very strong 
proof-text for the whole doctrine of the Trinity. But 
though three personal subjects are mentioned, viz. the 
voice of the Father, the symbol of the Holy Spirit, and 
Christ, yet nothing is here said respecting their nature. 

1 John v, 7, 8 are generally admitted to be spurious; 
and, even if allowed to be genuine, they do not deter- 
mine the nature and essential connection of the three 
subjects mentioned. 

2. We now turn to the second class of texts, viz. those 
in which the Father. Son, and Holy Ghost are separate- 
ly mentioned, and in which their nature and mutual 
relation are taught. Those texts prove (a) that the Son 
and Holy Spirit, according to the doctrine of the New 
Test., are divine, or belong to the one divine nature; 
and ( b ) that the three subjects are personal and equal. 

(1.) The Deity of the Father. — When the term Father 
is applied to God, it often designates the whole god- 
head, or the whole divine nature; as Bcoc o Warijp. 
1 Cor. viii. 1-0; John xvii, 1-3. lie is often called 
Beoo Ka't \)art)p, i. e. Btot; o n ari]p, or Btoz; oc tcrri 
I\arijp, as Gal. i, 4. All the arguments, therefore, which 
prove the existence of God prove also the deity of the 
Father. 

(2.) The Deity of Christ. — To prove the deity of 
Christ we present three classes of texts. 


(Yz,) The following are the principal texts in which 
divine names are given to Christ: 

John i, 1, 2. Christ is here called 6 Aoyop (the 
Word), which signified among the Jews and other an- 
cient people, when applied to (iod, everything by which 
Cod reveals himself to men , and makes known to them 
his will, lienee those who made known the divine 
will to men were called by the Hellenists \6yoi. It 
was probably on this account that John declared Jesus 
to be the Logos which existed ev ctp\{j ; that the Lay os 
mas with God, and the Loyos was Cod. In this passage 
the principal proof does not lie in the word Aoyoc, nor 
even in the word Be zj, which in a larger sense is often 
applied to kings and enrihlv rulers; hut to what is 
predicated of the Aoyof, viz. that lie existed from eter- 
nity with God, that the world was made by him, etc. 

John xx, 28. Here Thomas, convinced at last that 
Christ was actually risen from the dead, thus addresses 
him, “My Lord and my God." This must not he con- 
sidered an exclamation of surprise or wonder, as some 
have understood it; for it is preceded by the phrase 
| timer avr<y, u he said this to him." Thomas probably 
remembered what Jesus had often said respecting his 
superhuman origin (v, 8, 10, 17). and he now saw it all 
confirmed by his resurrection from the dead. 

Phil, ii, 0, “ Who, being in the form of God, thought 
it not robbery to be equal with God.” There it is said 
of Christ that he is < da Bez^j, Deo aqualis ; not opoiog 
( Bezp, avriStoc, SeoetKeXog, similis J)eo — terms applied 
by Homer to kings and heroes. The term ’icrog Bey, 
on the contrary, is never applied to a finite or created 
being. Hence the Jews (John v, 18) considered it as 
I blasphemy in Christ, to make himself zztoj' B ey. 

John x, 28-30, “I and my Father are one.” These 
words are not to be understood to denote so much an 
equality of nature as unanimity of feeling and purpose. 
Still the passage is quite remarkable; because Christ 
professes to do his work in common with his Father; 
and that is more than any man, prophet, or even angel 
is ever said in the Bible to do. That being one with 
God, therefore, which Jesus here asserts for himself is 
something peculiar, which belongs to him only as he is 
a being of a higher nature. 

Tit. ii. 13, “We expect the glorious appearance,” etc. 
In this passage, since tov is omitted before caorijpoc , 
both peydXov B eov and (norijpog must he construed in 
apposition with Y/jztou Xpujrov. Moreover, e~ /0d?'eza 
is the word by which the solemn coming of Christ is 
appropriately designated. 

In some of the texts in which Christ is called the 
Son of Cod, the name is used in three different senses 
— [ I ] Messiah or king, a title very commonly given to 
the Messiah by the Jews (see 31 at t. xvi, 10; Luke ix, 
20; Matt, xxvii.40; Luke xxiii,35; see also Mark xiii, 
32; 1 Cor. xv, 28); [2] the higher nature of Christ 
(John v, 17 sq.; x.30,33; xx,3I; Bom. i, 3,4); [3] he 
is also called the Son of God (Luke i.35), to designate 
the immediate power of God in the miraculous pro- 
duction of his human nature. 

I [ft .) Texts in which divine attributes and works are 
ascribed to Christ. It is not necessary to find texts to 
prove that all the divine attributes are ascribed to 
Christ. These attributes cannot he separated; and if 
one of them is ascribed to Christ in the Bible, the con- 
clusion is inevitable that he must possess all the rest. 
The following attributes and works are distinctly as- 
cribed to Christ in the Scriptures: 

[i.] Eternity (.John i, 1 : viii, 58; xvii. 5; Col. i, 17). 
[ii.] Creation and preservation of the world (John i, 
1-3, 10; Col.’i. Iff; Bob. i. 10 [where Psa. cii, 20 is 
quoted and applied to Christ]; ii, 10), 
l [iii-] Omnipotence is ascribed to Christ (Phil, iii, 21) ; 
omniscience (Matt, xi, 27). He is described as the 
| searcher of hearts, etc. (1 C’or. iv, 5). 

(z\) Texts in which divine honor is required for 
1 Christ. The following are the principal texts of this 
class: John, v, 23, “All men should honor the Son, even 


TRINITY 


553 


TRINITY 


as they honor the Father;” Acts i, 24; vii, 59; 2 Cor. 
xii, 8, where Christ is approached in prayer; and those 
in which the apostles refer to Christ the texts of the 
Old Test, that speak of the honor and worship of God, 
e. g. Heb. i, 0 from Psa. xcvii, 7 ; also Pom. xiv, 1 1 from 
Isa. xlv, 3; Phil, ii, 10; 2 Cor. v, 8-U ; 2 Tim. iv, 17, 
18. 

(3.) The third point in the discussion of this doctrine 
is the personality and divinity of the Holy Spirit; for 
a full discussion of which see Holy Ghost. 

II. History of the Doctrine . — Respecting the manner 
in which the Father, the Son. and the IIolv Ghost make 
one God, the Scripture teaches nothing, since the sub- 
ject is of such a nature as not to admit of its being ex- 
plained to us. It is therefore to be expected that theo- 
logians should differ widely in their opinions respecting 
it, and that in their attempts to illustrate it they should 
have pursued various methods. 

1. A s Held by the Primitive Christians . — For the first 
age the Scripture is sufficient evidence of the Chris- 
tians’ practice. For, not to insist upon t he precept of 
honoring the Son as they honored the Father; or the 
form of baptism, in which they were commanded to 
join the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost in one act of 
worship; or the injunction to believe in the Soil as they 
believed in the Father, let reference be made only to 
their example and practice. Stephen, the protomartvr, 
when he was sealing his confession with his blood, 
prayed to Christ, “Lord Jesus, receive my spirit,” and 
“Lord, lay not this sin to their charge” (Acts vii, 59, 
60). Paul asserts that he baptized only in the name 
of Christ (1 Cor. i, 13). Notice also his constant use 
of the name of Christ in invocation. There is the well- 
known fact that the early believers were known as 
those who called on the name of Christ (Acts ix, 14, 21 ; 
1 Cor. i, 2; 2 Tim. ii, 22). 

2. As Held in the 2 d and od Centuries . — Towards the 
end of the 1st century, and during the 2d. many learned 
men came over both from Judaism and paganism to 
Christianity. These brought with them into the Chris- 
tian schools of theology their Platonic ideas and phra- 
seology, and they especially borrowed from the phi- 
losophical writings of Philo. As was very natural, 
they confined themselves, in their philosophizing re- 
specting the Trinity, principally to the Logos; connect- 
ing the same ideas with the name \oyo£ as had been 
done before by Philo and other Platonists. Differing 
on several smaller points, they agreed perfectly in the 
following general views, viz.; the Logos existed before 
the creation of the world; he was begotten, however, 
by God, and sent forth from him. 1 >v this Logos the 
Neo-Platonists understood the infinite understanding of 
God, belonging from eternity to bis nature as a power , 
but that, agreeably to the divine will, it began to exist 
out of the divine nature. It is therefore different from 
God, and yet, as begotten of him, is entirely divine. 
By means of this Logos they supposed that God at first 
created, and now preserves and governs, the universe. 
Their views respecting the Holy Spirit are far less 
clearly expressed, though most of them considered him 
a substance emanating from the Father and the Son, 
to whom, on this account, divinity must be ascribed. 
These philosophical Christians asserted rather the di- 
vineness of the Son and Spirit, and their divine origin, 
than their equal deity with the Father. Justin Mar- 
tyr expressly declares that the Son is in God what 
the understanding (rout;) is in man, and that the Holy 
Spirit is that divine power to act and execute which 
Plato calls dptri). With this representation Theophi- 
lus of Antioch, Clemens of Alexandria, and Origen sub- 
stantially agree. According to Tertullian, the persons 
of the Trinity are gradus, former, species unius Dei. 
Thus we find that the belief in the subordination of 
the Son to the Father, for which Arianism is the later 
name, was commonly received by most of those fathers 
of the 2d and 3d centuries who assented, in general, to 
the philosophy of Plato. Another class of learned, phi- 


losophizing Christians substituted another theory on 
the subject of the Trinity, which, however, was none 
the less formed rather from their philosophical ideas 
than from the instructions of the Bible. Among the 
writers of this class was Praxeas. of the 2d century, who 
contended that the Father, Son, and Spirit were not 
distinguished from each other as individual subjects; 
but that God was called Father , so far as he was crea- 
tor and governor of the world; Son (Aoyog), so far as 
he had endowed the man Jesus with extraordinary 
powers, etc. He, in accordance with this view, denied 
any higher, pre-existing nature in Christ; and with him 
agreed Artemon, Noctus, and Beryllus of 1 lustra. Sa- 
bellius regarded the terms Father, Son, and Holy Spirit 
as merely describing different divine works, and various 
modes of divine revelation. 

In the following table the writers of the first three 
centuries on the subject of the Trinity are ranged ac- 
cording to their opinions: 


Catholic. 

Monarchiaxs. 

Justiu Martyr. 

Theophilus of Antioch. 
Athenagoras. 

Irenaeus. 

Clemens Alexandrinus. 
Tertullian. 

Origen. 

Dionysius Alexaudrinus. 
Cypriau. 

Novation. 

Dionysius Ttomamis. 

U hitarians. 

Theodotus. 

Artemon. 

Paul of Samosata. 

Pafripassians. 

Praxeas. 

Noetns. 

Beryllus of Bostra 
Sabellius. 


Among the terms introduced in the discussion of the 
doctrine of the Trinity during this period the following 
are the most common, viz. (I.) Tpiag, introduced by 
Theophilus of Antioch in the 2d century, and often used 
by Origen in the 3d century. Tertullian translated it 
into Latin by the word tr in if as, of which the English 
word is an exact rendering. (2.) Ovata, irxoGTaoiQ. 
These terms were not sufficiently distinguished from 
eacli other by the Greek fathers of the 2d anil 3d cen- 
turies, and were often used by them as entirely synony- 
mous. By the word virocrrcanQ, the older Greek fathers 
understood only a really existing subject, in opposition 
to a nonentity, or to a merely ideal existence; in which 
sense they also not unfrequentlv used the word ovoiit. 
(3.) Persona. This word was first employed by Tertul- 
lian, and by it he means an individual, a single being, 
distinguished from others by certain peculiar qualities, 
attributes, and relations; and so he calls Pater, Filins, 
Spirit ns Sanctus, ires personal (three persons), at the 
same time that he ascribes to them unit as substantue 
(unity of substance), because they belong to the divine 
nature (overia) existing from eternity. 

We call attention to the following as shedding light 
upon the practice of the Church during this period. 
Pliny, a judge under Trajan, in the beginning of the 
2d century took the confessions of some accused Chris- 
tians, and says, “They declared that they were used to 
meet on a certain day before it was light, and, among 
other parts of their worship, sing a hymn to Christ as 
their God.” Polvcarp (Ep. ad Philip, n. 12) joins God 
the Father and the Son together in his prayers for grace 
and benediction upon men. Justin Martyr answering, 
in his Second Apology , the charge of atheism brought 
against them by the heathen, answers, “ That they wor- 
shipped and adored still the God of righteousness and 
his Son, as also the Holy Spirit of prophecy.” Athe- 
nagoras answers the charge of atheism after the same 
manner. Similar testimony is afforded by the writings 
of Lucian the heathen. Theophilus of Antioch. Clemens 
Alexandrinus, Origen, Novation, and others, illustrating 
the practice of the Church in paying divine honors to 
the Son and Holy Spirit. 

3. The Trinity as Held in the 4 th Century . — It had al- 
ready been settled, by many councils held during the 
3d century, and in the symbols which they had adopted 
in opposition to Sabcllius and Paul of Samosata, that 


TRINITY 


554 


TRINITY 


the Father must be regarded as really distinguished 
from the Son, and the Holy Spirit as distinguished from 
both. The relation, however, of the three persons of 
the Trinity, and the question in what the distinction 
between them properly consists, not having been dis- 
cussed, these subjects were left undetermined by the de- 
cisions of councils and symbols. Different opinions pre- 
vailed, and learned men were left to express themselves 
according to their convictions. 

Origeu and his followers maintained, against the Sa- 
bellians, that there were in God Tptlt; v7ro(JTci(Tfuj (three 
persons), but pia o rata (one substance) common to the 
three. Few had as yet taught the entire equality of 
these three persons, but had allowed, in accordance with 
their Platonic principles, that the .Son, though belong- 
ing to the divine nature, was yet subordinate to the 
Father. In the beginning of the 4t.h century, Alex- 
ander of Alexandria, and Athanasius, his successor, at- 
tempted to unite the hypotheses of Origen and Sabel- 
lius, thinking that the truth lay between the two ex- 
tremes. Athanasius stated the personal distinction of 
the Father and the Son to be that the former was with- 
out beginning and unbegotten , while the latter was eter- 
nally bey often by the Father, and equally eternal with 
the Father and the Spirit. 

Arius, about 320, disputed the doctrine taught by Al- 
exander. viz. iv rpiaCt porcioa elvat, and so favored 
the Sabellian theory. As the controversy proceeded, 
Arius declared, in opposition to Sabellius, that there 
were not only three persons in God, but that these were 
unequal in glory (t’o&ng or\ opoicu'); that the Father 
alone was supreme God (dyiviyrog), and God in a 
higher sense than the Son; that the Son derived his 
divinity from the Father before the creation of the 
world, and that he owed his existence to the divine 
will; and that the Holy Spirit was likewise divine in a 
sense inferior to that in which the Father is so. In op- 
position to all the Arian, and various other theories, 
Athanasius and his followers zealously contended. They 
succeeded, at a general council at Nice in 325, in hav- 
ing a symbol adopted which was designed to be thence- 
forward the only standard of orthodoxy. This symbol 
was confirmed bv the council held at Constantinople in 
381, under Theodosius the Great. The distinctions es- 
tablished at Xiee and Constantinople were often re- 
enacted at various succeeding councils. Many urged, 
in opposition, that tritheism (q. v.) was the inevitable 
consequence of the admission of these distinctions, but 
they, nevertheless, remained in force. The council 
adopted the word ojUooiVrocCconsubstantiali tv), explain- 
ing themselves thus : The Son was not created, but eter- 
nally generated from the nature of the Father, and is 
therefore in all respects equal to him, and no more dif- 
ferent, as to nature, from God than a human son is from 
bis father, and so cannot be separated from the Father. 
All that, they meant to teach by the use of this word 
was that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit had the di- 
vine nature and divine perfections so in common that 
one did not possess more and another less; without as- 
serting, however, that there were three Gods: in short, 
that in t lie Godhead there were tres disthicti. imitate es- 
sevtiw conjunct i . See Creed. Nioexr. 

The characteristics by which the persons of the Trin- 
ity may be distinguished from each other under this 
view belong to two classes. 

(1.) Internal (“ characteres intend”). These are dis- 
tinctive signs arising from the internal relation of the 
three persons in the Godhead to each other, and indi- 
cating the mode of the divine existence. The follow- 
ing distinctions are derived from the names Father. 
Son, and Spirit, and from some other Rible phraseology: 
(a.) The Father yenerates the Son, and emits the Holy 
Spirit, genera t FUinm. spiral Spiritnm Sanctum ; and 
possesses, therefore, as his personal attributes, yeneratio 
activa and spiratio actira. (5.) The Son is generated 
by the Father — Filii est generari non generare. T he 
Son, therefore, possesses as his personal attributes Jilia- 


tio,generatio passica ; and also, as he is supposed to emit 
the Spirit in conjunction with the Father, spiratio ac- 
tira. (<■.) The Holy Spirit neither generates nor is gen- 
erated, but proceeds from the Father and the Son — Spi- 
ritus Sanctus est , nee generare vec generari , sed prove - 
dere. In regard to the Holy Spirit, there was nothing 
decided, during the first three centuries, by ecclesiastical 
authority respecting his nature, the characteristics of 
his person, or his relation to the Father and the Son. 
Nor was anything more definite, with regard to his nat- 
ure and his relation to the other persons of the Trinity, 
than what has already been stated, established by the 
council at Nice, or even by that at Constantinople. To 
believe in the. Holy Ghost — to air Horpi uat V 'up <rvp- 
TrpoaKvvovptYov, and Ik rof» riarpo^ tfCTropero/iei'or — 
was all that was required in the symbol there adopted. 
Tint there were many, especially in the Latin Church, who 
maintained that the Holy Spirit did not proceed from 
the Father only, but also from the Son. They appealed 
to John xvi, 13, and to the texts where the Holy Spirit 
is called the Spirit of Christ, e. g. Rom. viii, D. To this 
doctrine the Greeks were, for the most part, opposed, be- 
causc they did not find that the New Tost, ever ex- 
pressly declared that the Spirit proceeded from the Son. 
It prevailed, however, more and more in the Latin 
Church; and when in the 5th and Cth centuries the 
Arians urged it as an argument against the equality of 
Christ with the Father, that the Holy Spirit proceeded 
from the Father only, and not from the Son, the Catho- 
lic churches began to bold more decidedly that the Holy 
Spirit proceeded from both, and insert the adjunct Fili- 
oqne after Patre in the Symbolum Xicano-Constantino- 
politamnn. 

(2.) External (“ charaeteres externi”). These are 
characteristics of the persons of the Trinity arising from 
the works of the Deity relating to objects extrinsic to 
itself, and called opera externa , sire ad extra. They 
are twofold: («.) Opera Dei ceconomica, those institu- 
tions which God has founded for the salvation of the 
human race. The Father sent his Son to redeem men 
(John iii, Ifi, 17), and gives or sends the Holy Spirit 
(xiv, 2G). The Son is sent from the Father, etc., and 
sends the Holy Spirit from the Father (xv. 20). The 
Holy Spirit formed the human nature of Christ (Luke 
i, 35) and anointed it (Acts x, 38), i. e. endowed it with 
gifts; and is sent into the hearts of men, and carries 
them forward towards moral perfection. ( b .) Opera Dei 
attributira , such divine works as are common to the 
three persons, but which are frequently ascribed to one 
of the three. To the Father are ascribed the decree to 
create the world, the actual creation, and the preserva- 
tion of it. To the Son, also, the creation, preservation, 
and government of the world arc ascribed ; also the rais- 
ing of the dead and judgment. To the Holy Spirit are 
ascribed the immediate revelation of the divine will to 
the prophets, the continuation of the great work of sal- 
vation commenced by Christ, and the communication 
and application to men of the means of grace. 

4. History of the Doctrine since the Information . — 
Nearly all the writers upon the subject of the Trinity 
since, the Reformation belong to some one of the general 
classes already mentioned. We present several theo- 
ries. 

(1.) Some have attempted to illustrate and explain 
this doetrine by philosophy; and not a few have gone 
so far as to think they could prove the Trinity a priori. 
and that reason alone furnishes sufficient arguments for 
its truth. Others, again, looked to reason for nothing 
more than an illustration of this factor of the divine ex- 
istence. In the latter class may be placed 1’hilip Me- 
lanethon, who, in his Loci Theologici, thus explained the 
Trinity: ‘‘God from his infinite understanding produces 
thought, which is the image of himself. To this thought 
he imparted personal existence, which, bearing the im- 
press of the Father, is his likeness and resemblance, and 
hence called by John Xoyoc. This illustration of the 
Trinity was received without offence or suspicion, until 


TRINITY 


555 


TRINITY 


the heresy which lurks beneath it was detected and ex- 
posed by Flacius. The latest attempt to explain t lie 
Trinity in this manner may be found in the Berliner 
Alonatsschrift, Sept. 1790, § 280, in an article written 
by Schwab of Stuttgart, who refers to the accidents of 
space, viz. length, breadth, and thickness, as an illustra- 
tion of the Trinity. Among those who supposed that 
the Trinity could be mathematically proved were Bar- 
tholomew Keckerman, in his Systenui Theoloyicum ; 
Peter Poiret,and Daries, who published an essay In qua 
Pluralitas Personam m in Beit ale. . . . Methodo Afathc- 
inaticorum , Demonstratin' (Leovardia?, 1735, 8vo). 

(2.) Others have expressed themselves so boldly on 
the subject of the Trinity that they have seemed to ap- 
proximate towards tritheism ; in which class we may 
mention Matthew Gribaldus of Padua, in the IGth cen- 
tury, who maintained that the divine nature consisted 
of three equally eternal spirits, between whom, however, 
he admitted a distinction in respect to rank and perfec- 
tions. 

(3.) Some modern writers have inclined to adopt the 
Sabellian theory, among whom were Servetus (q. w), 
Grotius, Silver Sacra ; Stephen Nye, Doctrine, of the 
Trinity (Loud. 1701). In this class we place the hy- 
pothesis of Le Clerc, that the Father, Son, and Holy 
Spirit designate the different modifications of the di- 
vine understanding, and the plans which God forms. 
This is the error into which Weigel and Jacob Bblnne 
fell. Many of the modern German theologians have so 
explained the Trinity as to lose the idea of three divine 
persons, for which they have substituted either three 
distinct powers or attributes (as Meier, Seiler, Claudius, 
and Tbllner), or a threefold aejency in God — three eternal 
actions distinct from each other (as S. G. Schlegel, Kant, 
Tieftrunk, Daub, Rebelling, De Wette, and Fcsslcr). 

(4.) The .1 rian theory has also found advocates among 
Protestant theologians, especially those of the 18th cen- 
tury (e. g. Whiston, Harwood, and Wcttstein) ; but the 
system which has met with the most approbation is 
that more refined subordinationism taught by Samuel 
Clarke, Scripture Doctrine of the Trinity (bond. 1712). 

(5.) The Socinians or Photinians. The founders of 
this sect were Lad i us Socinus and his nephew Faust ns 
Socinus (q. v.), who brought over considerable numbers 
to their doctrine in Poland and Transylvania. 

(6.) A new theory on the Trinity was proposed by 
Dr. Urlsperger, Kurzyef assies System seines Portrays 
von Gottes Dreyeiniykeit (Augsburg, 1777, 8 vo). lie en- 
deavored to unite the three theories — the Arian, Sabcl- 
lian, and Niccne — bv making a distinction between tri- 
nit as essentia l is, the internal threefold distinction neces- 
sarily belonging to the divine nature, and trinit as ceco- 
nomica, the three persons revealed to ns in the work of 
redemption. 

It is proper to say that “the conclusion is obvious 
that, while we are taught by the Scriptures to believe 
in three equal subjects in the Godhead, who are de- 
scribed as persons, we are still unable to determine in 
what manner or in what sense these three have the di- 
vine nature so in common that there is only one God” 
(Knapp, Christ. Theoloyy , § 34-44). See Peusox. 

III. Practical Value of the Christian Doctrine of the 
Trinity. — The idea of a triune being — Father, Son, and 
Holy Ghost — is not by any means to be considered as 
separate from that of the nature and attributes of God. 
This apparent tri theism can be considered as the con- 
clusion of true deism, and as a safeguard in the most 
momentous questions. Polytheism, pantheism, and du- 
alism have been to some extent employed to vivify and 
prove the truth of religion; but we would present the 
practical advantages of the doctrine of the Trinity in 
quite a different manner:' not as serving merely to prove 
another proposition without being also true in itself, but 
as aiding us in arriving at the knowledge of God’s nat- 
ure with an efficacy which is essentially inherent to its 
objective and permanent recognition. God may be con- 
sidered either as not true or lofty enough, or not good 


and holy enough, or not essentially active enough ; these 
may be considered the possible faults of a given system 
of deism. So long, then, as it distinguishes only between 
God and the world, and not between God himself, it re- 
tains always a tendency either to return to pantheism 
or to deny the existence of an absolute being. An ab- 
solute safeguard against atheism, polytheism, panthe- 
ism, or dualism cannot be found except in the doctrine 
of the Trinity; for the distinction existing between the 
Divine Being and the world is better made and observed 
as an absolute one by those who worship the triune God 
than by those who do not. Those monotheistic systems 
which were the most strenuously opposed to the idea 
of a Trinity, such as Judaism and Mohammedanism, 
have, by reason of their dryness and emptiness, led to 
the grossest pantheism. 

From the doctrine that the Word, who was God, be- 
came flesh, follows the necessity of considering God as 
personally united with sinless humanity, but at the same 
time, also, the necessity of drawing a clear distinction 
between the divine essence and mere human nature. 
Faith in the everlasting holy love, which is God, can 
only be rendered theoretically and practically perfect by 
the knowledge of the perfect, eternal object of the self- 
consciousness and love of God ; i. e. by the thought of 
the love of God for his only begotten Son. Finally, 
the idea of the fulness of God’s creative and imparting 
nature can only be preserved from diminishing by the 
Trinitarian doctrine of a llolv Ghost. Whatever diffi- 
culties may result from the Christian idea of different 
divine persons, when brought into connection with the 
personality of the divine essence, the apparent contra- 
diction is yet susceptible of a solution; even when we 
do not consider that the Primitive Church did not, for 
a long time, recognise these three persons but as only 
iciorijrtg. inrotTrcteTug, etc. 

The Latin Church alone has, since Augustine, sanc- 
tioned the expression persona in the Symbohnn Qui - 
cnnqne. Augustine himself said, yet, “Tres persona?, si 
ita dicendte sunt.” Some consider the Trinity as essen- 
tial to constitute the perfect personality, and employ the 
metaphysics of consciousness as an analogical proof there- 
of (see Schneider, COlestin , drei yeistliche Gesprdche ii. d. 
Personen d. Gottheit [1834]. i). Others refuse to recog- 
nise the real personality of God in any but one of the so- 
called hypostases: namely, in the Logos, the Son. Such 
is Swedenborg. Others still hold peculiar opinions. At 
any rate, we are obliged, according to the clear sense of 
Scripture, to seek not only the Trias in the subjectivity 
of the representation, nor exclusively in the economy of 
revelation, but also recognise that immediate faith docs 
here contain within itself the germ of endless specula- 
tion; not only because every theological system of an- 
tiquity, from the time when, as reflecting gnosis, it rose 
above the myths, shows certain higher thcogonical ideas 
(in the sense in which Nitzsch has presented it in a his- 
torical and critical manner in his Theol. Stial ch. i), nor 
merely because the Christian theologians of all times 
have made a certain rational understanding of this mys- 
tery possible and found it necessary. It is even essen- 
tially necessary for the Biblical theologian to recognise 
in the notion of the Logos — who is with God and is 
God, the procreative image of God, the inmost spirit of 
God who knew God — the elements of essential, imma- 
nent Trinity. For those only retain the trace of Bibli- 
cal theogony who, in all attempts at -explaining it, keep 
in view the notion of the self-knowledge and self-love 
of God, or of the distinction between the self-concealing 
and self-revealing God. Twesten has latterly greatly 
perfected the philosophy of the doctrine of the Trinity, 
both in its history and in its essence; first by placing 
the Trinity /caret ran chro/caAvipeiog rpoTrov, as subor- 
dinate to the analogical and philosophical interpreta- 
tion; but then, again, Kara rpd7Cov virdp^etog, and 
shows the connection between both interpretations. In 
the first case, he seeks a mediation between the ens ab - 
solutum and the finite world which yet reveals the infi- 


TRIPOLIS 


TRINITY (HEATHEN NOTIONS) 550 


nite, and this lie finds in the primordial, creative thought 
of God. But revelation cannot take place except towards 
discerning beings, and finite beings cannot know God 
save through God. This argument presents the three 
notions of God, Logos, and Spirit, yet forming still but 
one godhead. Such as God reveals himself, such, how- 
ever, he is. This leads us to another consideration, viz. 
that the ego , in order to possess a real, living personali- 
ty, must not only become dually contradistinguished 
within itself, but also, by a third process, reilcctively act 
on itself as a third subject, and be conscious of itself as 
being a perfect image of self. This manner of treating 
this mystery, by analogy, is neither accidental nor gra- 
tuitous, since, according to Scripture, human nature is 
also analogous to the divine. Tertullian and Augustine 
had themselves established their theories already on 
this basis. 

IV. Literature. — This is immensely copious. We can 
here refer only to a few leading authorities. See Baur. 
1 / ist.qf Doctrines ; Burris. The Trinity (Chicago, 1874) ; 
Cunningham. Hist. Theology, i, 207 ; Lamson, Origin of 
Trinity; Lessing, lJas Christenthum it ml die Vermin ft 
(Berlin, 1784, 8vo) ; Marheinccke, Grundlehren derchristl. 
JJogm. p. 129,070 (ibid. 1819) ; Mattisou, The Trinity and 
Modern A ritmism (ISmo); Morns, Commentary; Mos- 
heim, Lehen Serve fs (Helmst, 1748, 8vo); Meier, His- 
torical Development of the Trinity ; Neander, ii, 2, 
891 ; Sailer, Thenrie des Weisen (Spottes. 1781, 8vo); 
Walcli, llistoria Controversy Griecorum Lot inor uni- 
que de Proeessione Spirit us Sancti (Jeiue, 1751, Svo) ; 
Ziegler, G esckicht sent ivich lung des Dogma com heiligen 
Geist. For further literature see Diblioth. Sac. (4844- 
73), index to vol. i-xxx; l)antz, Worterbuch der theol. 
Literatur, s. v. “ Trinitiit Darling, Cyclop. Dibliog. eol. 
208, 1440, 1719-1722; Poole, Index to Period. Lit. s. v. 
“ Trinity.” 

TRINITY, Heathen Notions of. In examining 
the various heathen philosophies and mythologies, we 
find clear evidence of a belief in a certain sort of trinity, 
and yet something very different from the Trinity of 
the Bible. 

In the Egyptian mythology, the powers of the Su- 
preme Being as the producer, the producing, and the 
produced were symbolized by deities who were respec- 
tively father, mother, and child of each other. Every 
Egyptian town had its local triad, but the most famous 
was the great Theban triad of Amcn-ra, Mant, and 
Khousu. Sometimes the king himself, as a god, made 
the third member of the triad. These combinations of 
divine properties must not be confounded with the dog- 
ma of a trinity either of creator, preserver, and destroy- 
er, as in Hindu mythology, or of Creator, Bedeemer, and 
Sanctifier of the Christian faith. The Babylonian my- 
thology offers a trinity, cacii member of the triad hav- 
ing his own wife or consort. At the head of this trin- 
ity stands Ann. representing abstract divinity. He ap- 
pears as an original principle; the primeval chaos, the 
god of time, and the world — uncreated matter issuing 
from the fundamental principle of all things. A com- 
panion deity with Ann is flea, god of the sea and of 
Hades, lie is lord of generation and of all human be- 
ings; he animated matter and rendered it fertile, and 
inspired the universe with life. The third member of 
this triad was Bel (Elu, Eun, Kaptu), the demiurgus 
and ruler of the organized universe. There were also 
second and third trinities descending from the first, but 
becoming more and more defined in character, and as- 
suming a decidedly sidereal aspect. 

The system of Plato may be thus stated: God first 
produced the ideal world, i. o. his infinite understanding 
conceived of the existence of the world, and formed the 
plan of creation. The retd world was then formed after 
this ideal world as its model ; and this was done by unit- 
ing the soul of the world with matter, by which the 
world became an animated, sensitive, rational creature 
— guided, pervaded, and held together hv this rational 
soul. The three principles of Plato were (if) the Su- 


preme God, whom he calls II art)p; ( b ) the divine un- 
derstanding, which he calls vovc,\6yo£,inoTr)p, aoqita; 
and (c) the soul of the world. These views are devel- 
oped in his Tiimeits, etc. The Neo-Platonists eagerly 
embraced these ideas of Plato, and during the 2d and 
3d centuries seemed to labor to outdo one another in 
explaining, defending, and more fully developing them. 
They not only widely differ from Plato, but often dis- 
agree among themselves in their mode of thinking and 
in their phraseology. 

While the dews who resided in Palestine were satis- 
fied with their Pharisao-Kabbiuic theology, and looked 
for their Messiah as a religious reformer, this was not 
the case with those residing elsewhere, who had been 
educated under the influence of the Grecian philosophy. 
These abandoned the expectation of a future Messiah, 
or regarded his kingdom as entirely of a moral nature. 
Among them the theory of the \oyo£ is found as early 
as the 1st century. The \<>yo£ they regarded as ex- 
isting before the Creation, and as the instrument 
through whom God made all things. See Knapp, 
Christ. Theol. p. 145 sq.; Lcnormant, Chald. Magic , 
ch. ix; Smith, Chald. Account of Genesis ; Tholuck, Hie 
speculative Trinitafslekre der neuern Orientalen (Berlin, 
182(1, Svo). 

Trinity, Fraternity of the, a religious society 
instituted at Rome by Philip Neri in 1548. They had 
charge of the pilgrims who were constantly coming to 
Rome from all parts of the world. Pope Paul IV gave 
them the Church of St. Benedict, near which they built 
a large hospital, and in which there was also a college 
of twelve priests for the instruction of pilgrims. — Eadie, 
Lccles. Cyclop . s. v. 

Trinity Sunday, the octave day of the feast of 
Pentecost. The introduction of this day into the cal- 
endar is of comparatively recent date, it being estab- 
lished by pope Benedict XI, A.l). 1305. It is probable 
that, the zeal of many Christians against the use of 
images in the Sth and 9th centuries may have been the 
first cause of the appointment of a distinct day for medi- 
tating upon the nature of the Holy Trinity in unity, or 
the one true God, as distinguished from all idols. The 
reason for its late introduction is that in the creed of 
the Church, and in its psalms, hymns, and doxologies, 
great prominence was given to this doctrine, and it was 
thought that there was no need to set apart a particular 
day for that which was done every day. 

Triphysites (from rpfig, three, and tyvcrsig. natures), 
those divines who, at the fourteenth and fifteenth coun- 
cils of Toledo. A. D. G84, (188, carried their opposition to 
the Monophvsites and Monothelites to such an extreme 
that they declared a belief not only in Christ's distinct 
divine and human natures, hut also in a third nature re- 
sulting from the union of the two. — Blunt, Diet, oj 
Sects, s. v. 

Triplet, a window of three lights. Many sueh 
occur in the First Pointed style, the centre light be- 
ing usual! v longer or more elevated than the two side 
lights. 

Trip'olis (>/ TpiVoXf^). the Greek name of a city 
of great commercial importance, which served at one 
time as a point of federal union for A rad us, Sidon. and 
Tyre (hence t lie name the threefold city), which each 
had here its special quarter. What its Phoenician 
name was is unknown ; but it seems not impossible that, 
it was Kadytis, and that this was really the place cap- 
tured by Necbo, of which Herodotus speaks (ii, 159; iii, 
5). Kadytis is the Greek form of the Syrian Kedutku, 
“the holy,” a name of which a relic still seems to sur- 
vive in the Xahr- Radish, a river that runs through 
Tarabalus, the modern representative of Tripolis. All 
ancient federations had for their place of meeting some 
spot consecrated to a common deity, and just to the 
south of Tripolis was a promontory which went by the 
name of GtoD TtpoGimrov. 


TRIPOLIS 


557 


TRISAGION 


It was at Tripolis that, in the year B.C. 351, the plan 
was concocted for the simultaneous revolt of the Phoe- 
nician cities and t he Persian dependencies in Cyprus 
against the Persian king Ochus. Although aided bv a 
league with Nectanebus, king of Egypt, this attempt 
failed, and in the sequel a great part of Sidon was 
burned and the chief citizens destroyed. Perhaps the 
importance of Tripolis was increased by this misfortune 
of its neighbor, for soon after, when Alexander invaded 
Asia, it appears as a port of the tirst order. After the 
battle of Issns, some of the Greek officers in Darius’s 
service retreated thither, and not only found ships 
enough to carry themselves and eight thousand soldiers 
away, but a number over and above, which they burned 
in order to preclude the vietor from an immediate pur- 
suit of them (Arrian, ii, 13). The destruction of Tyre 
by Alexander, like that of Sidon by Ochus, would nat- 
urally tend rather to increase than diminish the impor- 
tance of Tripolis as a commercial port. When Deme- 
trius Soter, the son of Selencns, succeeded in wresting 
Syria from the young son of Antiochns (B.C. 101), he 
landed there and made the place the base of his opera- 
tions. It is this circumstance to which allusion is made 
in the only passage in which Tripolis is mentioned in 
the Bible (2 Mace, xiv, 1). The prosperity of the city, 
so far as appears, continued down to the middle of the 



Coins of Tripolis. 
picture with two 


folding -doors, set 


Triptych, 

over alrars. The centre panel usually contains the 
chief subject. In the illustration (from the pencil of 
Mr. A. Welbv Pugin) the triptych is a kind of cup- 
board with folding-doors, containing a throned figure 
of the Virgin Mary crowned, and holding her divine 


Gth century of the Christian mra. Dionysius Perie- 1 child in her lap. A figure of Peter on one side and of 


getes applies to it. the epithet Xnrant'iu in the 3d cen- 
tury. In the Pelt Huger Table (which probably was 
compiled in the reign of the emperor 
Theodosius), it appears on the great road 
along the coast of Phoenicia, and at Ortho- 
sia (the next station to it northwards) the 
roads which led respectively into Mesopo- 
tamia and Cilicia branched off from one 
another. The possession of a good har- 
bor in so important a point for land traffic 
doubtless combined with the richness of 
the neighboring mountains in determin- 
ing the original choice of the site, which 
seems to have been a factory for the pur- 
poses of trade established by the three 
great Phoenician cities. Each of these 
held a portion of Tripolis surrounded by a 
fortified wall, like the Western nations at 
the Chinese ports; but in A.D. 543 it was 
laid in ruins by the terrible earthquake 
which happened in the month of July of 
that year, and overthrew Tyre, Sidon, Be- 
rytus, and Byblus as well. On this occa- 
sion the appearance of the coast was much 
altered. A large portion of the promonto- 
ry Thenprosopon (which in the Christian 
times had its name, from motives of piety, 
changed to Lithoprosopon) fell into the sea, 
and, by the natural breakwater it consti- 
tuted, created a new port, able to contain a 
considerable number of large vessels. The 
ancient Tripolis was finally destroyed by 
the sultan El-Mansur in A.D. 1289, and 
the modern Tarabalus is situated a couple 
of miles distant to the east, and is no long- 
er a port. El-Myna, which is perhaps on 
the site of the ancient Tripolis, is a small fishing village. 
Tarabalus contains a population of fifteen or sixteen 
thousand inhabitants, and is the centre of one of the four 
pashalics of Syria. It exports silk, tobacco, galls, and 
oil. grown in the lower parts of the mountain at the foot 
of which it stands, and performs, on a smaller scale, the 
part which was formerly taken by Tripolis as the entre- 
pot for the productions of a most fertile region (Diod. 
Sic. xvi, 41 ; Strabo, xvi, 2; Vossius ad Milam, i, 12; 
Theophanes, Chronographiu, sub anno (>043). — Smith. 
For the modern place, see Pococke, ii, 14G sq. ; Maim- 
drell, p. 2G; Burckhardt, p. 1G3 sq. ; Porter, Handbook, 
p. 542 ; Biideker, Palestine , p. 509 sq. (where a map is 
given). See Phoenicia. 


Paul on the other are painted on the inner panels of the 
doors. — Lee, Gloss, of Lilurg. Terms , s. v. 



Triquetral (three-cornered), a censer used by bish- 
op Andrewes, in which the clerk put incense at the read- 
ing of the first lesson. 

Trisacrameutarians, a controversial name given 
to those reformers who maintained that there are three 
sacraments necessary to salvation, viz. baptism, the 
Lord’s supper, and absolution. This opinion was held 
by some Lutherans at Leipsie, and was authoritatively 
set forth as a doctrine of t lie Church of England in the 
Institution of a Christian Man (15G2). — Blunt, Diet, of 
Sects , s. v. 

Trisagion (rfayayinv, thrice holy) was so called 
because of the thrice repeating “Holy, holy, holy, Lord 


THIS ANTI A 


TRIUMPH 


558 


God of hosts/’ in imitation of the seraphim in the vision 
of Isaiah. The original of this hymn was “Holy, holy, 
holy, Lord Hod of hosts! heaven and earth are full of 
thy glory, who art blessed forever. Amen.” Thus it 
is in the ('onstitutiona, and frequently in Chrysostom. 
Afterwards the Church added some words to it, and 
sang it in this form: "Aytotj 6 Otdf, uyiog t<r\epotj, 
/iyiuc aSin'ctroc, t\£i)truv ijfttit ; (“Holy (lod, holy 
flighty, holy Immortal, have mercy upon us”). The 
hymn is attributed to the patriarch Broelus, in the 4th 
century. Theodosius the younger ordered it to he sung 
in the liturgy, alter his vision of a child chanting it 
during an earthquake at Constantinople. Later still, hv 
Anastasias the emperor, or by Peter Knapheus, bishop 
of Antioch, the following words were added : b v-avpw- 
■&£»£ <Y ///me (“that was crucified for 11 s”). This was J 
done to oppose the heresy of the Theopascliitcs (q. v,), 
which was, in effect, to say that t lie whole Trin- 
ity suffered, because this hymn was commonly applied 
to t he whole Trinity. To avoid this inconvenience, 
Calaiulio, bishop of Antioch, in the time of Zeno the 
emperor, made another addition to it of the words 
“Christ our King.” reading it thus: “Holy God, holy 
Mighty, holy Immortal, Christ our King, that wast cru- 
eified for us, have mercy on us.” These additions occa- 
sioned much confusion in the Eastern Church, while 
t lie Constantinopolitans and Western (’hurch stiffly re- 
jected them. It was chiefly sung in the middle of the 
communion service, though sometimes it was used on 
other occasions. After t he preface this hymn was al- 
ways sung, and, according to Cyril of Jerusalem, Chrys- 
ostom, and the second Council of Vaison, also at all 
masses, matin lenten, or of the dead. — Bingham, Christ. 
Antiq. bk. xiv, ch. ii. § 3. 

Tiisantia, a media- val term for (1) a cloister, or 
(2) a place of retreat for religious persons where medi- 
tations are made.— Lee. Gloss, of Lit ury. Twins, s. v. 

Triscilldce, a sect of Sabellian heretics mentioned 
by Pliilaster (l/ar. c. xciii), Augustine (/far. e. Ixxiv), 
and Pra-destinatus (fJirr.c. Ixxiv) as maintaining the 
opinion that the divine nature is composed of three parts, 
one of which is named the Father, the second part the 
Son, and the third the Holy Ghost; and that the union 
of these three parts constitutes the Trinity. Pliilaster, 
in condemning this heresy, uses expressions very similar 
to some in the Athanasian hymn, “Ergo est vera per- 
sona Patris qua* misit Eilium, et est vera persona qua 
advenit de Patre, et est vera persona Spiritus qua a 
Eilio.et Patre missa est.” -Blunt, Diet, of Sects, s. v. 

Tritheim (Lat. Trithemius'), Johann, a German 
historian and theologian, was horn at Trittenheim, near 
Treves, Feb. 1, 14(52, being the only son of John of 
lleidonberg and Elizabeth of Longway. His early ed- 
ucation was conducted in a desultory manner, but in 
14-S2 be entered the Benedictine abbey at Spanheim, 
where the next year he was elected abbot, and admin- 
istered its affairs with great zeal. In 150(5 he ex- 
changed this position for a similar one in the abbey of 
Wurzburg, where be remained till his death, Dec. 27, 
151(5. His many learned writings are enumerated in 
Jlocfer. A ’our. Dinq. Generate, s. v. The principal ones 
are. he Scriptoribns Kcclesiasticis (1402 ): — Polyyraphia 
(15hS ) : — Steuoyraphia (1531). 

Tritheists, a sect which appeared in the f»th cen- 
tury, and which taught that the Father, Son, and Spirit 
were three coequal, distinct Beings, united by one com- 
mon will and purpose. This sect was divided into the 
Philoponists and Cononitos. according to the names of 
their respective leaders, who agreed in the doctrine of 
the three Persons in the Godhead, but differed in some 
opinions concerning the resurrection of the body. Hav- 
ing made this change in the doctrine of the Trinity, 
they made another change answerable to it in t lie form 
of baptism — baptizing in tlie name oftliree unoriginated 
principles, as three Sons, three Paracletes. As a conse- 
quence of asserting three unbegotten principles, they 


made three Fathers, three Sons, and three Holy Ghosts, 
which was a Trinity of trinities. 

Cyril of Jerusalem ( Catech . c. xvi) attributes the ori- 
gin of Tritheism in its broadest form to Marcion, and 
Hilary (M> Synod, xxii, 5(5) associates it with the her- 
esy of Photimis. 'l he Tritheists of the (5th century did 
not hold the opinion in its broad form, and would have 
shrunk from any such statement as that there are three 
Gods. The Tritheism of the Gth century was revived 
by Boscelin in the 11th, and his Nominalistic opinion 
that the name God is the abstract idea of a genus con- 
taining the three Persons called Father, Son, and Holy 
Ghost was opposed by Anselm ( De Fide Trimtat. etc.), 
and was condemned by the Council of Soissons, A. I). 
1002. In 1(501 the heresy was revived by Dr. Sherlock 
(.4 Vindication of the Doctrine of the Holy wul Krer- 
blessed Trinity ). In a sermon delivered before the Uni- 
versity of Oxford (1(51)5), the preacher maintained the 
theory of Dr. Sherlock that “there are three infinite 
distinct minds and substances in the Trinity,” and that 
“ the three Persons in the Trinity are three distinct 
infinite minds or spirits, and three individual sub- 
stances.” These propositions were condemned by the 
authorities of the university. The speculation of 
Hutchinson in the last, century was very similar in its 
logical consequences to that of the older Tritheists. 
►See Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. xi, eh. iii, § 4; Blunt, 
Diet, of Sects, s. v. 

Triumph (usually 7557 or Spirt pfievto). Al- 

most all ancient nations celebrated success in war by a 
triumph, which generally included a gorgeous proces- 
sion, a display of captives and spoils, and a solemn 
thanksgiving and sacrifice to the gods. Among the 
Egyptians, the triumph of a king returning from war 
was a grand solemnity celebrated with all the pomp 
which the wealth of the nation could command (Wil- 



kinson, .4 nc. Kyypt. i, 277 sq.). The Assyrian sculptures 
abound with similar representations. See Sennacue- 
111 u. 

The Hebrews, under the direction of inspired proph- 
ets, celebrated their victories by triumphal processions, 
the women and children dancing, accompanying their 
steps with various musical instruments (see Judg. xi. 
34-37), and singing hymns of triumph to Jehovah, the 
living and true God. The song of Moses at the Bed 
Sea, which was sung by Miriam to the spirited sound of 
the timbrel (Exod. xv, 1 21), and that of Deborah on 
the overthrow of Barak (Judg. v, 1-31), are majestic 
examples of the triumphal hymns of the ancient He- 
brews. Triumphal songs were uttered for the living 
(l Sam. xviii, (5-S; 2 Cliron. xx, 21-2S) and elegies for 
the dead (2 Sam. i, 17-27; 2 Cliron. xxxv, 25). The 
conquerors were intoxicated with jov, and the shout, of 
victory resounded from mountain to mountain (Isa. xlii, 
11 ; lii, 7, <S; Lxiii, 14; Jer. 1, 2. Ezek. vii, 7; Nah. i, 
15). Monuments in honor of victory were erected, and 
the arms of the enemy were hung up as trophies in the 
temples (1 Sam. xxi, !>; xxxi, 10; 2 Sam. viii, 13; 2 
Kings xi, 10). Indignities to prisoners formed a lead- 


I 


TRIUMPH 559 TRIUMPH 



Ancient Assyrian King in Procession after \ictones. 

ing feature of triumphs among ancient nations general- 
ly; and among the Assyrians and Babylonians atrocities 
were frequently practiced, such as maiming, blinding 
[see Eye], and killing, especially in the ease of rebel 
princes. See Captive. To put one’s foot upon the 


pear to have been much 
practiced by the covenant 
people, but it forms the 
ground of many figurative 
representations in the pro- 
phetical Scriptures ( Psa. 
ex,l; Isa. lx, 14; 1 Cor. xv, 
26). See Foot; Neck. 

Among the Greeks, it 
does not appear that tri- 
umphs were accorded to 
victorious generals, but 
conquerors occasionally 
entered their native cit- 
ies attended by their vic- 
torious soldiers bearing 
branches of palm. Such 


head or neck 
of a conquered 
foe was an an- 
cient, though 
s o in e w h a t 
h a rbarou s, 
custom, mark- 
ing the com- 
plete subjec- 
tion of the 
vauqu ish eel 


eustom appear 
among the 
monumental 
remains ol'an- 
tiquity; and, 
following the 

Assyrian King Placing the Foot on the prevailing 
Neck of an Euemy. 1 . , P 

usage m this 

respeet, we find Joshua ordering the five kings of the 
Cauaanites, who had taken refuge in a cave, to be 



processions beeame very common under the successors of 
Alexander the Great, particularly the Seleueidie of Syria 
and the Ptolemies of Egypt, who are generally believed 
to have been the inventors of the toga palmata, or robe 
adorned with representations of palm-trees interwoven 
into its fabric. It is clearly to the Graeco-Syrian form 
of triumph that the apostle John alludes in the Apoca- 
lypse, when he describes those who had overcome by the 
blood of the lamb standing “before the throne, clothed 
with robes, and palms in their hands” (Iiev. vii, 9). 

Next to the Egyptians, the Homans were chief 
among ancient nations in attributing importance to a 
triumph, and exerting themselves to bestow a gorgeous 
brilliancy upon the triumphal procession. The highest 
honor which could be bestowed on a citizen or magis- 
trate was the triumph or solemn procession in which a 
party. Many | victorious general passed from the gate of the city to 
re present a- ! the Capitol. He set out from the Campus Martins, and 
tious of this | proceeded along the Via Triumphalis, and from thence 
through the most public places of the city. The streets 
were strewn with tlowers, and the altars smoked with 
incense. First went a numerous band of music, singing 
and playing triumphal songs; next were led the oxen 
to be sacrificed, having their horns gilt and their heads 
adorned with fillets and garlands; then followed the 
spoils taken from the enemy, carried in open wagons, or 
on a species of bier called ferctrum , around which were 
displayed the golden crowns sent by allied and tribu- 
tary states. The titles of the vanquished nations were 


brought out that his captains might come one after an- inscribed on wooden frames; and images or represen ta- 
other and put tboir foot on the necks of the prostrate [ tions of the conquered countries and eities were exhib- 
prinees (Josh, x, 24). Literally this usage does not ap- ! ited. The captive leaders followed in chains, with their 



Komau Triumph. 


» 


TRIUMPIIUS 560 TROAS 


children arul attendants; after the captives came the 
lielors, having t heir fasces wreathed with laurel, follow- 
ed by a great company of musicians and dancers, dressed 
like satyrs, and wearing crowns of gold; in the midst 
of whom w r as a pantomime, clothed in a female garb, 
whose business it was with his looks and gestures to in- 
sult the vanquished. A long train of persons followed, 
carrying perfumes ; after whom came the general, dress- 
ed in purple, embroidered with gold, wearing a crown 
of laurel on his head, holding a branch of laurel in his 
right hand, and in his left an ivory sceptre with an 
eagle on the top, his face painted with vermilion, and a 
golden ball hanging from his neek on his breast, lie 
stood upright in a gilded chariot adorned with ivory, 
drawn by four white horses, attended by his relations 
and a great crowd of citizens, all clothed in white. It 
was creditable to Roman morality that a public slave 
accompanied the conqueror in his chariot, to remind 
him of the vicissitudes of fortune, and to present to him, 
in the midst of all his glory, the remembrance of the 
varied changes and chances of mortality. The con- 
queror’s children sometimes accompanied him, and some- 
times rode in a second chariot, escorted by the lieuten- 
ants and military tribunes who had served in the war. 
The consuls, senators, and other magistrates followed 
the general’s chariot on foot; and the whole procession 
was closed by the victorious army, drawn np in order, 
crowned with laurel, decorated with the gifts which 
they had received for their valor, and singing their own 
and their general’s praises. See Smith, Diet, of Class. 
Antiq. s. v. See Titus (Emperor'). 

Paul makes frequent allusions to such triumphal pro- 
cessions (Col. ii, 15, Eph. iv, 8), with which he compares 
the. triumphs of Christ’s followers in spreading abroad, 
in every place, the perfume of the gospel of salvation 
(2 Cor. ii, 1^-16). Our Saviour’s triumphal entry into 
Jerusalem (Matt, xxi, 1-9) was a token of his royal char- 
acter (see the monographs in Ilase, Lehen Jesu, p. 181). 

Triumphus, Augustinus, an Augnstinian hermit- 
monk who was a native of Ancona, attended the Uni- 
versity of Paris for a time, and was present at the Coun- 
cil of Lyons in 1271. lie also sojourned at Venice while 
engaged in the publication of several small books in 
honor of the Virgin, and at Naples, where he became 
the favorite of kings Charles and Hubert, and where he 
died in 1328, at the age of eighty-five years. A num- 
ber of published and unpublished works from his pen 
are yet extant. We note one On the Ecclesiastical 
Power, addressed to pope John XXII (Augsburg, 1478) : 
— A Commentary on the Lord's Prayer ; — Comments on 
the Are Maria and the Magnificat (Pome, 1590, 1592, 
1003); — a MiUeloquium from the works of Augustine, 
untinished bv Triumphus, but completed bv the Augns- 
tinian Bartholomew of U rhino (Lyons, 1555). Of un- 
published writings we mention, Four Books on the Sen- 
tences : — On the Holy Ghost , a polemic against the 
Creeks : — On the Spiritual Hymn : — On the Entrance into 
the Land of Promise : — On the Knovdedye and Faculties 
of the Soul: — Theorems respecting the Resit erection of 
the head: — Expositions of Ezekiel and all Xetc-Test. 
Books: — hiscourses of the Lord: — On the Saints: — On 
the Moralia of St. Gregory. See Pamphi litis, Chron. 
Eremit. S. August, p. 40; Cave, Script. Ecd. Hist. Lit. 
(Gen. 1720). — Herzog, Heal- Encyklop. s. v. 

Trivet, Nicholas, an English Dominican monk, 
was born at Norfolk about 1258. 11c was educated at 

Oxford and Paris, and became prior of English houses 
of his order. He died in 1328. lie was the. author of 
Annales Sex Regum Anglia, cum Continuatione tit et A. 
J lurimiithensis Chron icon, etc. (Oxon. 1719-22,2 vols. 
8vo). He left many MSS. on various subjects of phi- 
losophy and theology, as well as a Commentary on Sen- 
eca's Tragedies, etc. See Chalmers, Bing. hid. s. v. ; 
Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Trivulzi, the name of several cardinals of Italian 
extraction, but of French association in the diplomatic 


movements of their age. See Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Gene - 
rale , s. v. 

1. Agostino was the nephew of Antonio (1); be- 
came deacon in 1517, archbishop of Peggio in 1520, and 
successively bishop of Bobbio (1519-21 ), Toulon (1524), 
Asti (1528), Baveux (1529), and Brugnato (1535); and 
died at Pome, March 80, 1548. 

2. Antonio (1) was born at Milan in January, 1457, 
and alter various diplomatic services was made bishop 
of Coma in 1487, and cardinal in 1501. He died at 
Rome, March 18. 1508. 

3. Antonio (2), nephew of the following, was made 
successor of his uncle Agostino as bishop of Toulon ill 
1528, and cardinal in 1557. He died June 26, 1559. 

4. SuAKAMiccio, a learned lawyer, was made pro- 
fessor of canon law at Pavia in 1491, and in 1499 coun- 
sellor of Louis XI L He became cardinal in 1517, bish- 
op of Coma in 1508, and afterwards <4* Piacenza (1522- 
26). lie died at the monastery of Maguzzano, near 
Verona, Aug. 9, 1527. 

Tro 'as (Tjowrtg). The city from which Paid first 
sailed, in consequence of a divine intimation, to carry 
the Gospel from Asia to Europe (Acts xvi,8, 11) — where 
he rested for a short time on the northward road from 
Ephesus (during the next missionary journey), in the 
expectation of meeting Titus (2 Cor. ii, 12, 13) ; where, 
on the return southwards (during the same missionary 
journey), he met those who had preceded him from 
Philippi (Acts xx, 5. 6), and remained a week, the close 
of which (before the journey to Assos) was marked by 
the raising of Eutyelnis from the dead during the pro- 
tracted midnight discourse; and where, after an inter- 
val of many years, the apostle left (during a journey the 
details of which are unknown) a cloak and some books 
and parchments in the house of Carpus (2 Tim. iv, 13) — 
deserves the careful attention of the student of the New 
Test., and is memorable as a relic of the famous city of 
Troy. 

The full name of the city was Alexandria Troas 
(Livy, xxxv, 42), and sometimes it was called simply 
Alexandria, as by Pliuv ( Hist. Xat. v, 33) and Strabo 
(xiii, 593), sometimes simply Troas (as in the New Test, 
and the Ant. Bin. See Wesseling, p. 334). The former 
part of the name indicates the period at which it was 
founded. It was first built by Antigonus. under the 
name of Antigonia Troas. and peopled with the inhab- 
itants of some neighboring cities. Afterwards it was 
embellished by Lysimachus, and named Alexandria 
Troas. Its situation was on the coast of Mysia, oppo- 
site the south-east extremity of the island of Tenedos. 
The name Troad strictly belongs to the whole district 
around Troy. 

Under the Pomans it was one of the most important 
towns of the province of Asia. It was the chief point 
of arrival and departure for those who went by sea be- 
tween Macedonia and the western Asiatic districts; and 
it was connected by good roads with other places on t lie 
coast and in the interior. For the latter see the map 
in Leake’s J sia Minor, and in Lewin’s St. Paul, ii, 81. 




TROAS 


501 


TROGYLLIUM 



Ruins of the Gymnasium at Troas. 


The former cannot be better illustrated than by Paul’s 
two voyages between Troas and Philippi (Acts xvi, 11, 
12; xx, G), one of which was accomplished in two days, 
the other in live. At this time Alexandria Troas was a 
coin)}) a with the Jus Italicum . This strong Roman con- 
nection can be read on its coins. The Romans had a 
peculiar feeling connected with the place, in consequence 
of the legend of their origin from Troy. Suetonius tells 
us that Julius Gesar had a plan of making Troas the 
seat of empire (Cevs. 70). It may perhaps be inferred 
from the words of 1 lorace ( Conn . iii, 3, 57) that Augustus 
bad some such dreams. Even the modern name Eski- 
Stambul or Eski-Islamiboul (“ ( lid Constantinople”) seems 
to commemorate the thought, which was once in Con- 
stantine’s mind (Zosim. ii, 3b; Zonar. xiii, 3), who, to 
use Gibbon’s words, “before he gave a just preference 
to the situation of Byzantium, had conceived the design 
of erecting the seat of empire on this celebrated spot, 
from which the Romans derived their fabulous origin.” 

The ruins at Eski-Stambxd are considerable. The 
most conspicuous, however, especially the remains of 
the aqueduct of 1 1 erodes At ticus, did not exist when 
Paul was there. The walls, which may represent the 


extent of the city in the apos- 
tle’s time, enclose a rectangu- 
lar space, extending above a 
mile from east to west, and 
nearly a mile from north to 
south. The harbor (Cony- 
beare and llowson, St. Paul, 
i,283) is still distinctly trace- 
able in a basin about 400 feet 
long and 200 broad.— Smith. 
Descriptions in greater or less 
detail are given by Pococke, 
Chandler, Hunt (in Walpole’s 
J femoirs). Clarke, Erokesch, 
Richter (Widlfukrten.^AWl), 
Olivier, Fellows, and the la- 
ter travellers mentioned in 
M urray's Handbook for Tur- 
key it, A sia, p. 1 53 159. The 
vicinity has recently become 
noted for the discovery of 
what are presumed to be the ruins of ancient Troy at 
Ilisarlik by Schliemann (Troy and its Remains [Fond. 
1875]). See also Maclaren, Plain of Troy (Edinb. I8G3) ; 
Mover, Gesch . von Troas (Leips. 1877). 

Trogyl'Iium (TpioyvWtov), the rocky extremity 
of the ridge of Mycale, which is called thus in the New 
Test. (Acts xx, 15) and by Ptolemy (v, 2), and Troyili - 
um (TpeoytXiov) by Strabo (xiv, G36). It is directly op- 
posite Samos (q. v.). Tlie channel is extremely narrow. 
Strabo (loc. cit.) makes it about a mile broad, and this 
is confirmed by tlie Admiralty charts (1530 and 1555). 
Paul sailed through this channel on his wav to Jerusa- 
lem at the close of his third missionary journey (Acts 
xx, 15). The navigation of this coast is intricate ; and 
it can be gathered from ver. G, with subsequent notices 
of the days spent on the voyage, that it was the time of 
dark moon. Tims the night was spent at Trogyllium. 
It is interesting to observe that a little to the east of the 
extreme point there is an anchorage which is still called 
St. Paul's Port. — Smith. Pliny refers to three small 
islands lying about Trogyllium, and names them Sanda- 
lion, l’silon, and Argennon (Hist. Nat. v, 37). The port 
where Paul anchored is generally considered to be that 



X.-N x 


Plan of the Remains of Troas. 


TUOIL 


5C2 


TKOKI 



Plan ufTrogyllium aud its Adjoining Islands. 

sheltered by Sandalion; but the port now known as the 
Port of St. Paul is that protected by the island of Nero, 
the ancient Argentum (Lewin, N5 Paul, ii, 80). See 
Pail. 

Troll, Samuel, a Swedish prelate, was born May 
22, 170(5. at Saint Sebedwi (L)aleearlia), being the son 
of a pastor. lie studied philosophy at the University' 
of Stockholm, and became successively grand almoner 
of the king (April 22. 1740), president of the consistory 
(Jan. 2, 1742), bishop of Westerns (April 23. 1751), and 
archbishop of Ppsala (Nov. 8, 1757). where lie died, 
Jan. 18, 17(54. lie was a learned and eloquent preacher, 
and left, many funeral discourses, etc. 

Troll, Uno, a Swedish prelate, son of the forego- 
ing, was born at .Stockholm, Feb. 24, 174(5. Alter a brill- 
iant course of .study at Ppsala, and extensive travels in 
tierrnany, France, and England, lie became successively 
almoner of the regiment (1773). preacher in ordinary to 
the king (1775), bishop of Linkbping (1784), presi- 
dent of the consistory of Stockholm and archbishop of 
Ppsala (Aug. 3(1, 1787), where he died, July 27, 1803. 
lie wrote several historical sketches, for which see Iloe- 
fer, A 'onv. I Hog. Gent-rule, s. v. 

Troki, Isaac ukn-Aukaiiam, a Jewish scholar, who 
derived his name from his native place. Troki, a town in 
the Pussian province of Wilna, was born in 1533. At 
the time in which our hero was horn, Poland was not 
only l lie seat of Jewish learning. Imt also the scene of 
action of the different sects to which the Hel'ormation 
gave rise. •• In the earlier years of the religious He for- 
mation of the Kith century, the scepticism which had 


it had worn so jauntily since the revival of letters. 
The Council of Trent, while reviewing every article 
of Homan theology, having stated in its canons the 
fundamental articles of Christian faith with a clear- 
ness that was indeed much needed, gave strict in- 
structions to all the licensed preachers of their Church, 
and so enabled them to assume a new appearance of 
sound faith, at least in those particulars which would 
contrast not only with their former heterodoxy, now to 
be concealed, but with t lie open heterodoxy of certain 
fugitive Italian Protestants. These persons found con- 
genial society among the Jews in Poland, who. while 
heroically adhering to the letter of the Mosaic law, 
had nevertheless not accepted the more fully unfolded 
verity of Christian revelation. Heretics they were 
in the eve of Home, and the persecution that haunted 
them drove them at once into the arms of the Polish 
Karaites; for. like them, and even more than they, 
these protesters against Home hated tradition and all 
human authority. Like the Karaites, they were stur- 
dy Monotheists in the same narrow sense. They out- 
ran Ari us in the race of unbelief. Their own Socino 
left his name to a sect just as Sadok had left his; and 
Socino, with his principal followers, chose Poland to 
be at once their asylum and t heir citadel. From that 
time it became the centre of Sociuianism in Europe. 
In Poland the Jew and the Christian both enjoyed re- 
ligious liberty, and for once the most orthodox of the 
Israelites and the least orthodox of the Christians 
could fraternize on one point, and on only one.” One 
of those Jews was Isaac, lie was brought up in the 
study of Talmudism as a branch of Jewish learning, 
and in the faith of the Karaite, cold withal, until 
quickened and elevated under the impulse of persecu- 
tion. Young Isaac, to whom Hebrew was vernacular, 
was also liberally educated in the Latin and Polish 
languages. In these languages he read the chief 
controversial writings, as they were issued by their 
eminent authors, against the Church of Home. He 
carefully studied the Catholic- Polish version of the 
Hible, made by Leonard from the Vulgate, which ap- 
peared in Cracow in 15(51, and again in 1575 and 1577; 
the Calvinistic-l'olish version, called the Hndzivil Bible, 
and published in 15(53; and the Socinian version, made 
also from the original texts, by the celebrated Simon 
liudiiy, which was published at Nieswiez, in Lithuania, 
in 1570; as well as the writings of Nicholas Partita. 
Martin Cheehowiz. and Simon Uudny, the heads of 
Cnitariauism in Poland. As all these sects, who differ- 
ed from each other on almost every other point, agreed 
in their attack upon the Jews and t heir faith, the rabbi 
set to work on a confutation of Christianity, lie read 
the New Test., in Jhidny’s version, with the cool and 
orderly habit of a hard-working student. Every pas- 
sage on which he could lix a doubt or hazard a denial 
was marked as it stands in the sacred book, and for the 
purpose of controversy. The entire stock of anti-Chris- 
tian cavils with which educated Jews, at least, are fa- 
miliar, combined with the objections of the Soeinians, 
were brought to bear on t lie New Test, by direct attack 
on all the leading sentences in relation to the person, 
life, and ministry of Christ. The work, written in He- 
brew. under t lie title of Confirmation of the Faith, p'Tn 
nr^X.and which has a world-wide celebrity, Isaac tin- 
ished in 1503. when sixty years of age. The work is 
interesting for ils quotations from some little-known 
Christian and polemical works in the Polish language, 
aud because it has been made use of by critical writers 
upon the New Test, from Voltaire to Strauss; for the 
former at least acknowledges, in his Melanges, iii. 344: 
11 a rassemble toutes les difiicultes que les incrednles 


prevailed so generally in Home and the Italian states, 
chiefly among the higher clergy, and perhaps most in- j out. prodiguees depuis. . . . Enfln, incrednles les plus dt* 
tensely in the highest, tainted t lie Italian mind, and im- I termines n’ont prosque rien allegue qui no suit dans ce 
parted a peculiar stamp of heterodoxy to the adherents re m part de la foi du rabbin Issac.” The book is divid- 
nl'the Heformation in that country. The court of Home ed into two parts — the first, which is devoted to an ex- 
liad sagaciously put olV the garb of pagan laxity which animation of the objections raised by Christians against 


TROLLE 


5G3 


TROPHIMUS 


Judaism, and which is subdivided into fifty chapters, 
discusses very minutely the interpretation of the Mes- 
sianic passages of the Old Test, and their application to 
Christ as the predicted Messiah; while the second part 
is taken up with a critical examination of the state- 
ments made in the sundry books of the New Test. 
Troki died in 1594. II is work was first published by 
Wagenseil, with a Latin translation, in his collection of 
The Fiery Darts of Satan (Tela lynea Sat ante) (Alt- 
dorf, 1681), from a MS. obtained from an African Jew, 
which was imperfect. A reprint of this vitiated text 
without the Latin translation appeared in Amsterdam 
in 1717, and in Jerusalem in 1845. The best edition, 
however, is that edited by rabbi L). Deutseh, with a 
German translation (Soli ran, 18155). Besides this Ger- 
man translation, there is another by 31. Gelling (l lamb. 
1(531-33). It was translated into Spanish by Isaac 
Athia, and into Italian by 31. Luzzatto. The work has 
also been refuted by 31uller, Confutatio Libri Chiznk 
Emma, comprised in his Judaismus e.r Rabbinoruni 
Script is Detect ns, etc ,, Refit at us (ibid. 1(544); by Goiis- 
set, Teniio Controrerss . . adrersus .habeas, Oppositns R. 
Isaac Chissuk Emium (Dordrecht, 1088), which, how-' 
ever, was not satisfactory to the duke Louis of Orleans 
(d. 1752), who wrote another refutation; by Gebhard, 
Centum Luca AT. T. Vindicata adrersus Chissuk Enut- 
na (Greifswalde, 1099); Storr, Ecangelische Claubens- | 
kraft . (irr/en das Werk Chissuk Emu an (Till). 1703); 
and by Kidder [Bp.], in his Demonstration of the Mes- 
siah (2d ed. Lond. 1720). See Wolf, Dili. I lehr, iv, 039 
sq. ; Iloefer, A 'our. Ring. Generate, xxvi, 10; F first, Ribl. 
Jud. ii, 138; iii, 448, De’ Bossi, Dizionario Siorico 
(Germ, transl.), p. 320 sq. ; id. Ribtioth . .4 utiehristiana, p. 
42 sq.: Kit to, Cyclop . s. v. ; Steinselmeider, Cataf. Libr. 
Ilebr . in Bibl. Rod!, col. 1074 sq.. and his Jewish Liter- 
ature, p. 212; Etheridge, I at rod . to Ilebr. Lit. p. 444; 
Bole, Hist, of the Karaite Jeirs, p. 170 sq.-, Basil age, Hist, 
des Juifs (Taylor’s transl. p. 772 ; Geiger, Isaak Troki , 
cm Apologet des Judenth. am Elide des 1 titen Jnhrhdts. 
(Breslau, 1853; reprinted in his Xachyelassene Schriftcn, 
iii, 178, Berlin. 187(1); id. Droben jiidischer Vertheidiyuny 
yeyen christliche Auyrife, in Lieberinann’s Kalender. 
1854; Griitz, tjesch. d. Judea, ix, 49b sq.; Becker, in Sa at 
an f Ho funny (Erlang. 1870), vii. 154 sq. ; Ffirst, in the 
same quarterly (ibid. 1871), viii, 224 sq. (B. I’.) 

Trolle, Gust Avrs, a Swedish prelate, descended 
from a noble Danish family named Erik, was born near 
the close of the 15th century, and became archbishop 
of Gpsala Oct. 30, 1514, but was besieged in his palace 
by an old family enemy; and, although reinforced by 
the interdict anil troops of pope Leo X, he at length fell 
in battle on the island of Fionia, and died at Gottorp, 
near Sleswiek, July 11, 1535. For the details of his 
stormy career see Hoofer, A our. Rioy. Generate, s. v. 

Tromm (Tan der Tronnnen, Lat. Trout wins}, Aura- 
li am, a learned Protestant divine of Holland, was born 
at Groningen, Aug. 23, 1(533, and studied the classics, 
philosophy, and theology in that university. He trav- 
elled through Germany, Switzerland, France, and Eng- 
land, and on his return was appointed curate at TIaren. 
In 1671 he. was invited to the pastorate of Groningen, 
and continued there until his death, 31 ay 29, 1719. 
John 31artinius, of Dantzie, having begun a Concor- 
dance of the Old Testament in Flemish, Tromm com- 
pleted it. (Amsterd. 1685-92, 2 vols. fid.). He also pub- 
lished a Greek Concordance of the Sept nay int (Utr. 1718, 

2 vols. fid.), which has remained a standard work. 

Tronchin, Louis, a Swiss divine, was horn at 
Geneva, Dec. 4, 1629, and after studying theology there 
and at Saumur, lie travelled abroad and then became 
preacher at Lyons in 1654. in 1661 he was made pro- 
fessor of theology in Geneva, where he died, Sept. 8, 
1705. He was noted for his mildness during the Cai- 
vinistic controversy of his time. 

Tronchin, Theodore, a learned Swiss divine, 
father of the preceding, was born at Geneva, April 17, 


1 1582. He was well educated, visited foreign universi- 
ties, and on his return to Geneva, in 1(50(5, lie gave such 
! proof of his learning that he was chosen professor of 
the Hebrew language. He was made minister in 
1608, and created rector of the university in 1(510. In 
1616 he was promoted to the professorship of divinity. 
He was sent, from Geneva to the Council of Dort, where 
he displayed his great knwoledge in divinity, and a 
moderation which was highly applauded. Fur several 

01 his works set* Iloefer, A ouv. Rioy. Generate, s. v. ; 
Herzog, Real- Encyclop. s. v. 

Troop is, in the A. V., especially employed as the 
rendering (sometimes "band,” etc.) of yedud, 

which means a marauding party, in the forays for which 
Palestine has always been notorious, especially beyond 
the Jordan (Gen. xlix. 19: l Sam. iii, 22 ; xxii.30; xxx, 
8; Job xix, 12; Psa, x vi ii, 29 ; Jer. x viii, 22 ; Hos. vi, 9; 
vii, l ; 31ic. v, 1). 

Tropaea (rpo7r«m), the name of churches erected 
in honor of martyrs, or dedicated to them. The reason 
of the name is found in the reported appearance of the 
cross to Constantine, and in the laharum on which, ac- 
cording to Eusebius, were inscribed the words too orau- 
pou TpoTraan’. — Farrar, Eccf.es . Diet. s. v. 

Tropes, or sequence, are verses sung before the holy 
Gospel in the mass. They are a kind of prose, written 
in a species of verse, though unfettered by any recog- 
nised law of metre. They were introduced at the. close 
of the 9th century. Four only are found in the Boman 
missal. See Sequknck. 

Troph'imus (T po^tpoij, nutritious ) a Hellenistic 
Christian, who with others travelled with the apostle 
Paul in the course of his third missionary journey, and 
1 during part of the route which he took in- returning 
j from .Macedonia towards Syria (Acts xx. 4). A.D. 5L 
From what we know concerning the collection which 
was going on -at this time for the poor Christians in 
Jud;ea, we are disposed to connect him with the busi- 
ness of that contribution. Both lie and Tychicus ac- 
companied Paul from Macedonia as far as Asia 
rT/c ’A<t mp lac. cit . ), but Tychicus seems to have re- 
mained there, while Trophimus proceeded with the 
apostle to Jerusalem. There he was the innocent cause 
of the tumult in which Paul was apprehended, and from 
which the voyage to Borne ultimately resulted. Cer- 
tain Jews from the dictrict of Asia saw the two Chris- 
tian missionaries together, and supposed that Paul had 
taken Trophimus into the Temple (xxi. 27-29). From 
this passage we learn two new facts, viz. that Trophi- 
mus was a Gentile, and that he was a native not sim- 
ply of Asia, but of Ephesus. A considerable interval 
now elapses, during which we have no trace of either 
Tychicus or Trophimus; but in the last letter written 
by Paul, shortly before his martyrdom, from Borne, he 
mentions them both (Tr^iKor cririoreiAa tiq "litytoo}', 

2 Tim. iv, 12; Tpo^ipov d7r&\i7roa iv M tXijrtp dad t- 
vorvra, ver. 20 ). From the last of the phrases we 
gather simply that the apostle had no long time before 
been in the Levant, that Trophimus had been with 
him, and that he had been left in infirm health at 
31i!ctus. Of the further details we are ignorant; but 
this we may say here, that while there would be con- 
siderable difficulty in accommodating this passage to 
any part of the recorded narrative previous to the voy- 
age to Borne, all difficulty vanishes on the supposition 
of two imprisonments, and a journey in the Levant 
between them. Trophimus was no doubt at A1 iletus 
on the occasion recorded in Acts xx. 15-38, but it is 
most certain that be was not left there. The theory 
also that he was left there on the voyage to Borne is 
preposterous; for the wind forced Paul’s vessel to run 
direct from the south-west corner of Asia AE i nor to the 
east end of Crete (xxvii. 7). We may add that when 
Trophimus was left in sickness at. 31 iletus, whenever 
that might be, be was within easy reach of his home 
friends at Ephesus, as we see from xx, 17. 


TROPIC I 


501 


TROYES. COUNCILS OF 


Stanley thinks that Trophimus was one of the two 
brethren who, with Titus, conveyed the Second Epistle 
to the Corinthians (2 Cor. viii, 10-24). “Trophimus 
was. like Titus, one of the lew Gentiles who accom- 
panied the apostle; an Ephesian, and therefore likely 
to have been sent l>v the apostle from Ephesus with 
the first epistle, or to have accompanied him from Ephe- 
sus now; lie was. as is implied of ‘this brother,’ whose 
praise was in all the churches, well known; so well 
known that the -lews of Asia [.Minor?] at Jerusalem 
immediately recognised him ; he was also especially 
connected with the apostle on this very mission of the 
collection for the poor in Juthca. Thus far would ap- 
pear from the description of him in Acts xxi. 29. Kroin 
xx, 4 it also appears that lit 1 was with Paul on his re- 
turn from this very visit to Corinth’’ ( Commentary on 
Corinthians, 2d ed. p. 192). 

The traditional story that Trophimus was one of the 
seventy disciples is evidently wrong; but that part of 
the legend which states that lie was beheaded by Nero's 
orders is possibly true (Menol. Gr. iii, 57). — Smith. 

Tropici are those who explain away, by figura- 
tive interpretations, texts of Scripture which Catholic 
faith and tradition require to be otherwise interpreted. 
Athanasius (Ad Scrap. i, 2, 10, 21) gives the name Tro- 
pici to the Dnmmatomachi (q. v.) in so marked a man- 
ner that it lias narrowly escaped becoming a proper 
name of that sect. Tor example, they argued that in 
I Tim. v, 21 the name of the Holy Spirit would natu- 
rally follow the names (if Father and Son, that the term 
“elect angels," tropically taken, includes the Holy Spir- 
it, the inference being that the llolv Spirit is a created 
angel. The word Tropici lias been used, again, by Cath- 
olic writers to describe those who err regarding the holy 
sacraments, and explain as mere figures the words of our 
Lord in John iii, 5; Matt.xvi,2t>. — Blunt, Did, of Sects, s.v. 

Tropltas (Tpomrat) were a sect of heretics who 
held that our Lord acquired a body of flesh by conver- 
sion of the substance of the godhead into the substance 
of flesh; an opinion which arose in the latter time of 
the Aiian controversy among those who, maintaining 
the true divinity of the Son of Cod, and rightly desir- 
ing to maintain his sinlessness, were perplexed by the 
erroneous assumption that the human body, as such, is 
and cannot but be the seat of sin. To avoid the im- 
piety of attributing a sinful body to our Lord, they de- 
vised the tenet that the body of Christ is consubstan- 
tial with his divinity, which passes into the somewhat 
more definite proposition that the substance of the 
Word is converted into the substance of Hesh, and that 
the Hesh being in the form of man is thus called hu- 
man. This heresy was first dealt with by Athanasius 
(Epistle to Epictetus), A.D. 370. Apollinaris was at the 
head of those who denied the true incarnation of Christ, 
asserting the general proposition that the Son of God 
did not assume that which in man is the seat of sin; 
and varied applications of this proposition were made 
hv his followers. A belief in the possibility of the 
conversion of the godhead into flesh almost neces- 
sarily presupposes the reception of the Cabalistic doc- 
trine t hat all matter is an emanation from God. Ath- 
anasius remarks that Valentinus fancied the llesh to 
he a part of Deity, and so com bided that the passion 
was common to the whole Trinity. Fabricius remarks 
that the heresy is confuted by Tertnlliau. The Coun- 
cil of Chalcedou determined that the two natures in 
Christ are united uTpiirno^. — Blunt. Diet, of Sects, s. v. 

Tropological Lntf.rvrktatiox is where a moral 
signification is given to a passage. An illustration will 
explain this sense. In Dent, xxv, 4 we read, “Thou 
shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the corn.” 
1’aul (1 Cor. ix, 9) quotes this precept of the law, add- 
ing the comment. “ Doth God take care for oxen? Or 
saith he it altogether for onr sakes? For our sakes, no 
doubt, this is written.” — Blunt, Diet, of Doctrines , s. v. 
See Hkumfxeutics. 


Trork, Pkri.ky, a Baptist minister, was horn at 
Williamstown, Vt., Sept. 11,1813. lie studied theology 
at Hamilton, graduating in the class of 1841, and be- 
came pastor of the church in East Lansing, N. Y., in 
1842, where he remained until the fall of 1847, and then 
removed to Sheboygan Falls. Wis., and commenced his 
labors as a missionary. Here lie remained nine years, 
until an overworked brain compelled him to leave the 
ministry for a time. When his health was in a meas- 
ure restored, he returned to his work. 1 1 is longest pas- 
torate was at Bipon. Wis., where he remained for five 
years. 1 1 is last days were spent with his former Church 
at Sheboygan. He died in the hospital for the insane, 
near Oshkosh, Aug. 1 1. 1877. See Sew York Examiner 
and Chronicle . (J. C. S.). 

Tiosle, Council of ( Concilium Trosleiamtm), was 
held in Troslc, a small village near Soissons, France. It 
assembled June 2l>, 909, llerive. archbishop of liheims, 
presiding. The decrees of this council are signed by 
twelve prelates, and are contained in fifteen chapters, 
they are in the form rather of long exhortations than 
of canons, showing the pitiable condition of the Church. 

I. Orders due respect to the Church, to clerks, and to 
monks. 

3. Kelates to the reform of abuses in monastic institu- 
tions. 

4. Anathematizes those who pillage the Church. 

5. Anathematizes those who injure and persecute the 
clergy. 

<>. Is directed against those who refuse tithe. 

7. Against rapine and robbery, and orders restitution. 

8. Is directed against the violent abduction of women, 
and incest. 

J). Forbids priests to have women in their houses. 

10. Exhorts all Christians to charity, and to avoid lux- 
ury and excess. 

II. Forbids perjury and oath-breaking. 

12. Is directed against passionate and litigious persons. 

13. Against liars and homicides. 

14. Denounces those who plunder the property of bish- 
ops after their death. 

15. Contains an exhortation to all the faithful to ab- 
stain from sin and to do then* duty. 

Sec Mansi, Concil . ix, 520. — Land on, Manual of Coun- 
cils, s. v. 

Trost, Martin, professor of Hebrew at Witten- 
berg, where lie also died, April 8, 1(>3<>, was born at 
Hoxter in the year 15*8. He published, Gntmmatica 
JJebroica Universalis (llalnia?, 1027, and often); excerpts 
from his grammar were published by Baldovius, Geze- 
lius, Mitternaeht, and Mylius: — Disputatio de Mutatione 
Pnnctornm Ilebraorum Generali (Wittenberg. 1033): — 
Novum Test. Syr. cum 1 \rsione Latina ex Direr sis Edi - 
tionibus Jlecensitum. A cccsserunt in fine notationcs vari- 
ant is lection is collector a M. Tr. (Cot hen, 1021). See 
Fiirst, Bibl. Jwl. iii, 119; Winer. Handbuch dcr theol. 
Literatur, i, 55 ; ii, 808 : Steinschneider, Biblioy. Hand - 
buch, p. 141. (B. 1*.) 

Troth (truth), a. word occurring in the Prayer-book 
only in the marriage service, thus, “And thereto I 
plight thee my troth;" that is, “ thereto ] most solemn- 
ly pledge thee my truth and sincerity.” Near the end 
of the same service the minister says that t ho persons 
now married have “pledged their troth each to other,” 
i. e. have promised to he true and faithful to each oth- 
er. — Stanton, Diet, of the Church, s. v. 

Trough (rj7 w. shdketh, from np'j. to drink), a ves- 
sel of wood or stone for watering* animals (Gen. xxiv, 
20; xxx, 38). See Wki.l, But in Exod. ii, 10 a dif- 
ferent term rah at, from the idea of Jlmriny; “gut- 

ter,” Gen. xxx, 38, 41) is employed for the same thing. 
See also 

Troyes, Cofni n.s of (Concilium T ricassi n u m), w e re 
held in Troyes, France, a city which has a splendid 
Gothic cathedral, founded in 1208; the Church of St. 
Cibaii; the Church of St.John, in which Henry V of 
England was married ; the Church of Sainte-Madcleinc, 
containing a stone rood-loft of great beauty; and a 
public library of 110,000 volumes. 


T RUBE I 


565 


TRUCE OF GOD 


I. Held Oct. 2.'>, 8tl7. About twenty bishops, from 
the kingdoms of Charles and Lothaire, were present, 
who wrote a long letter to pope Nicholas 1, in which 
they gave the history of the affair of Kblio, and of the 
priests whom he had ordained. They, moreover, be- 
sought the pope not to interfere with the rule laid down 
bv his predecessor, and not to permit, in future, the 
deposition of any bishop without, the intervention of 
the holy see. This was in accordance with the prin- 
ciples of the false decretals of the pope. iSee Mansi, 
Condi, viii, 868. 

ft. Held in 878, by pope John VIII, who presided 
over thirty bishops. The former had come into France 
to escape from the violence of Lambert, duke of Spolet- 
to. In the first session, the pope exhorted the bishops 
to compassionate the injuries which the Roman Church 
had suffered from Lambert and bis accomplices, and to 
excommunicate them. The prelates, however, declined 
to act until the arrival of their brethren. In the sec- 
ond session, John read an account of the ravages com- 
mitted by Lambert, after which the council declared 
him to be worthy of death and anathema. The arch- 
bishop of Arles presented a petition against bishops and 
priests leav ing one Church for another, and also against 
persons deserting their wives in order to marry other 
women. In the third session, the bishops declared 
their consent to the pope’s propositions, ilincmar of 
Laon, whose eyes had been put. out, presented a com- 
plaint against his uncle, and demanded to be judged 
according to the canons. Ilincmar of Rheims required 
that the cause might be delayed, to give him time to 
reply to the complaint. Further, the sentence of con- 
demnation passed against Formosus, formerly bishop of 
Porto, and Gregory, a nobleman, was read, anathema- 
tizing them without hope of absolution; as also vvere 
the canons forbidding the translation of bishops, viz. 
those of Sardica, Africa, and of pope Leo. Seven can- 
ons were published. 

1. Orders that temporal lords shall show due respect to 
bishops, and that they shall not sit down in their pres- 
ence without their permission. 

7. Forbids to receive anonymous accusations against 
any person. 

III. Held in 1104, by the legate Richard, bishop of 
Albano, whom Paschal 1 1 had sent into France to absolve 
king Philip. The council was very numerous, and 
among those present we find Ivo of Chartres. Hubert, 
bishop of Senlis, accused of simony, cleared himself by 
oath. The election of the abbot Godefroi, by the peo- 
ple of Amiens, to the bishopric of that town was ap- 
proved, and, in spite of the abbot’s resistance, he was 
compelled to consent to it. See Mansi, Condi, x, 738. 

IV. Held in 1107, by pope Paschal II, who presided. 
The main object, of this council was to excite the zeal 
of men for the Crusade, besides which sentence of ex- 
communication was denounced against those who should 
violate the Truce of God. The freedom of elections 
of bishops was asserted and established, and the con- 
demnation of investitures repeated. Several German 
bishops were on various accounts suspended. Mansi 
{Condi, x, 751) adds five canons to those usually attrib- 
uted to this council. 

1. Orders that any one receiving investiture at the 
hands of a layman shall he deposed, as well as the per- 
son ordaining or consecrating him. 

^ • Held Jan. 13, 1128, by the legate Matthew, bish- 
op of Albano. assisted by the archbishops of Rheims and 
Sens, thirteen bishops, and by St. Bernard, St. Stephen, 
and other abbots. A rule was drawn up for the Order 
of the Templars, instituted in 1 1 18, prepared bv author- 
ity o( t lie pope and of the patriarch of Jerusalem. In 
this council the white dress was given to the. Templars. 
See Mansi, Condi, x, 922.— Landou, Manual of Coun- 
cils, s. v. 

Truber, Primus, a notable personage in the Ref- 
ormation in Germany, was consecrated to the priesthood 
by Peter Bonomus, bishop of Trieste, and took charge 


of the parish of Lack in 1527. In 1531 lie became a 
canon of Laibach, where the new doctrine was already 
promulgated, and soon afterwards lie took ground in 
opposition to the Church of Rome. lie was assailed 
by the clergy and the government, but protected by the 
nobles until 1540. Bishop Bonomus then called him to 
Trieste. In 1517 the bishop of Laibach, Crban Tex- 
tor, procured an order for the apprehension of 'Truber, in 
consequence of which the latter was compelled to flee, 
lie found a new parish at Rothenburg in the following 
year, and while there he entered into wedlock with a 
woman named Barbara. From 1553 to 15T>0 be was 
pastor at Kempteu. As early as 1550, or, perhaps, ear- 
lier still, 'Truber bad endeavored to minister to the needs 
of hiscountrymen by preparing translations in theWend- 
isli dialect of an Abecedarinni and a catechism, which 
were printed, with Latin letters, at Tubingen. The 
prosecution of his plans was made possible through Ver- 
; gerins (q. v.), who induced duke Christopher of Wiir- 
temberg to pay for the printing. In 1555 the Weiidish 
Gospel of St. Matthew appeared in print, and in 1550 the 
j other historical books of the New 'Test. Romans, both 
epistles to the Corinthians, and Galatians were published 
in 1501. After various vicissitudes, Truber obtained the 
parish of Uracli, wdiere the famous baron I Inns Uuguacl 
became his patron and enabled him to establish his own 
press for t he printing of Slavic books. The types used 
w r ere both Glagolitic and Cyrillic. See Glagouta. The 
accounts of the printing-office are still in existence, and 
I show that many princes and towns contributed to its 
support. Its publications included Luther’s catechisms, 
t he A upsburp Con fession, and the Apology. Mclancthou’s 
Lod Communes , the Wort cm berg Church Discipline, the 
Benefcium Christ i. and spiritual hymns: but the enter- 
prise was not remunerative, and was abandoned soon 
after the death of baron Ungnad in 1504. Truber pass- 
ed the last twenty years of his life in charge of the par- 
i ish of Deredingeu. near Tubingen. Two days before lie 
died he dictated to his amanuensis the dosing sentences 
| for liis translation of Luther’s Hauspostille. He died 
June 28, 1580, after a brief illness, and in the seventy- 
eighth year of his age. See Sillem, Primus T ruber ^der 
rieformaior K rains (Erlang. 1801); Schmirrer, Sla - 
rischer Biicherdruck in Wiirtemberp (Tiib. 1799); and 
| particularly Herzog, Rmtl-Encyklop. xxi, s. v., where a 
much more complete and somewhat divergent sketch of 
Truber’s career is given. 

Tmblet, Nicholas C. J., a French ahbe, of tempo- 
rary fame, w as born at St. Malo, in December, 1697, 
There are no memoirs of his education or early prog- 
ress, but it appears that he was treasurer of the Church 
of Nantes, and afterwards archdeacon and canon of St. 
Malo. II is irreproachable conduct and agreeable man- 
ners procured him very general esteem as a man, but as 
a writer he never ranked high in public opinion, and 
though ambitious of a seat in the French Academy, did 
not secure that honor until 1761. lie died in March, 
1770, at his native place. 1 1 is principal works are, Es- 
so is de Litterature et de Morale, (4 vols. J2mo): — Pa- 
neppriques des Saints: — Memoires pour serrir a Vllis- 
toire de. Messieurs de. la Motte et de. Fontemlle (Amst. 
1701). He was also a contributor to the Journal des 
Savons and Journal Chretien. See Chalmers, Biop, i)ict. 
s. v. ; Ilocfer, Xouv. Biop. Cenei'ale, s. v. 

Truce of God, a scheme set. on foot by the Church 
in the Middle Ages for the purpose of quelling the vio- 
lence and preventing the frequency of private wars, oc- 
casioned by the fierce spirit of barbarism. It was first 
proposed at the Council of Charroux in 989, adopted by 
the Council of Orleans in 1010, and by the Council of 
Limoges in 1031. In France a general peace and cessa- 
tion from hostilities took place A.D. It), 32, and contin- 
ued seven years, through the efforts of the. bishop of 
Aquitaine. A resolution was formed that no man 
should, in time to come, attack or molest his adversa- 
I rics during the season set apart for celebrating the 


TRUE 


566 


TRUMBULL 


groat festivals of the Church, or from the evening of j 
Thursday in each week to ihe morning of Monday in 
the week ensuing, t lie intervening days being conse- 
crated as particularly holy- -Thursday as the day of our , 
Lord's ascension; Friday as that of his Passion; Sat- 
urday, when he rested in the grave; and Sunday, the 
day of his resurrection. In It >34 it was opposed by 
the bishop ofCambray. Later it was extended to near- 
ly all the more important fasts, feasts, and Indy seasons 
of the Church. England (1042) and Italy adopted the j 
custom, which was further continued by the second and J 
third Lateral! councils (A. 1). 1 139, 1 17‘d). A change in the 
dispositions of men so sudden, and one which proposed 
a resolution so unexpected, was considered as miracu- 
lous, and the respite from hostilities which followed 
upon it was called the “Truce of Cod.” This cessation 
from hostilities during three complete days every week 
allowed a considerable space for the passions of the an- 
tagonists to cool, and for t lie people to enjoy a respite 
from the calamities of war, and to take measures for 
their own security. The triumph of legal over feudal 
government eventually did away with the institution 
and the ueces.sity for it. Sec Trench, Mediaral Church 
History, p. 424 s<p 

True, CtiAtM.Ks K., D.D., an eminent Methodist 
Episcopal divine, was born in Portland, Me., Aug. 14, 
1*09. The family afterwards removed to Boston. lie 
graduated at Harvard University in 1832, having 
been converted at the East ham camp meeting while 
connected with that college, and immediately com- 
menced preaching in the vicinity, being among the 
lirst Methodist preachers at the opening of denomina- 
tional services in Newton Upper Falls, established 
through the faithful endeavors of Marshall S. llice. 

1 1 is early efforts awakened great attention, llis per- 
sonal appearance was attractive, his voice pleasant, his 
address graceful, and his discourses often very eloquent. 
He entered the New England Conference in 1833, was 
an agent of the New’ England Education Society in 
1834. and became the lirst principal of the Amenia Sem- 
inary in 1835. lie entered the New York Conference 
in l*3l>, and had a memorable experience, both in the 
conference and in his charge at Middletown. Conn., in 
the antislavery controversy, having early taken very 
pronounced grounds on the question. In 1*38 lie was 
transferred to the New England Conference, and sta- 
tioned at Lynn, lie remained, tilling appointments i 
with much acceptablcncss. in Poston and vicinity until 
184*.), when lie was elected professor of intellectual and 
moral science in Wesleyan University. He became 
again a member of the New York Conference in 18(H), 
luit re-outered the New England Conference in 1863. 
From 1870 to 1*73 he was a financial agent of the Wes- 
leyan University, and was a member of the New York 
East Conference until his death, which occurred sud- 
denly, dune 20. 1*7*. During his last years lie was 
connected with one or two of the charitable societies 
whose otliees are in New York city, and supplied the 
pulpits of charges in the New York East Conference not 
far distant from his home. Dr. True wrote a text-book 
upon logic, and several interesting volumes of a histori- 
cal character, lie was a man of line abilities, an origi- 
nal thinker, with marked repose of mind and manner, 
self-reliant, and with just enough eccentricity to give 
an original tlavor to his opinions, lie was a good 
preacher, at times powerful in discourse, and particular- 
ly effective in exhortation. See Minutes of Ann not 
Conferences, 187!», p. 3t) sq. 

True Reformed Dutch Church is an organi- 
zation which grew out of the secession of the Lev. Sol- 
omon Eroeligh. I).D., in 1822. lie was a professor of 
theology, a mail of erudition, and pastor of the two 
congregations of Hackensack and Scliralenburg, N. J., 
which he carried with him. His secession was the cul- 
mination of difficulties of long standing, in which he 
was subjected to censure for aggression upon a neigh- 


boring Ohurcli. He refused to submit io the auihori- 
(ies of 1 1 io Ulnirch. A number of disaffected minis- 
ters united with him. together with portions of their 
churches. The grounds alleged for their separation 
were that the Dutch Church had become erroneous 
in doctrine, lax in discipline, and corrupt in practice. 
The confusion, strife, and troubles produced by this 
conflict were long and bitter. The ‘‘True Peformed 
Dutch Church” retains the standards of the Church 
which it left, and declares that it alone keeps them in 
their purity. It holds no fellowship with any other de- 
nomination, refuses to co-operate with the benevolent 
religious institutions of the. age, and is generally anti- 
nomian in sentiment and practice. The churches of 
this sect arc less than twenty in number, small, feeble, 
and dwindling away with the survivors of the original 
strife. They are located in New Jersey and New York. 
For full accounts, reference is made to their pamphlet 
entitled Hensons Assigned by a X umber of M blisters, 
Ciders, and Det icons jor Declaring 'J'hemsdres the True 
informed Hutch Church in the Vnittd States of America. 
See also Corwin, Manual of the Ref, Church in America; 
Taylor, Annuls of Class is and 'Township of Her yen, very 
full and accurate. (\V. J. Ik T.) 

Tnillo, CoixeiL of, the name by which the sixth 
Council of Cox st an tin oi*i. is (q. v.) is called, from the 
circumstance of its having been held in the domed chapel 
of the palace. 

Trumbull, Benjamin, D.D., a Congregational 
minister, was born in Hebron, Conn., Dec. 1*.). 1735, 
j graduated at Yale College in 1759, and was ordained 
December, 17G0, pastor at North Haven, where he re- 
mained until his death. Feb. 2, 1*20. lie published, . I 
Discourse Delivered at Freemans' Meet iny (1773): — .1 
Plea in Vindication of the Connecticut Title to the Con- 
tested Lauds lyiny 1 1 r est of the Produce of Xe w York, 
A dd cessed to the Public (1770) : — .1 n A ppeal to the Pub- 
lic respecting Dirorce (17*5) : — An Address on Family 
Religion (1*07 ): — Twefre JJiscourses on the ] ferine Ori- 
gin of the Scriptures (1*10): — .1 General History o f the 
United States, etc, (cod .): — Tiro Pamphlets on tin- Un- 
lawfulness of Marrying a Wife's Sistt-r (cod.): — .4 
Complete History of Connecticut (2 vols. 1707, 1*18): — 
and several occasional Sermons. See Sprague, A muds 
of the . I mer. Pulpit, i. 584. 

Trumbull, Robeit, D.D., a distinguished Baptist 
minister and scholar, was born in Whiteburn, Linlith- 
gowshire, Scotland, Sept. 10, 1800. lie was brought 
up as a Presbyterian. Having graduated at the (Jlas- 
gow University, he attended the theological lectures of 
Drs. Chalmers and Dick in Edinburgh, having among 
bis fellow -students llobert l'ollok, the author of the 
Course of Time. While pursuing his theological stud- 
ies, he changed his sentiments on the subject of Chris- 
tian baptism, and connected himsell with a Baptist. 
Church. For a year and a half he preached in West- 
mancotte, Worcestershire, England. In 1833 he came 
to this country, and for two years was pastor of the 
Second Baptist Church in Danbury, Conn., when he was 
called to the pastorate of the First Baptist. Church in 
Detroit, Mich., where he remained two years, and then 
j became pastor of tbc South Baptist Church in Hartford, 
Conn. In all these churches his labors were greatly 
blessed. For two years he continued in Hartford, and 
then accepted a call in 1839 to what is now’ the Harvard 
Street Church in Boston, where bis six years’ (1*39- 
15) ministry added greatly to t lie strength of the 
Church. In July. 1845. he returned to Hartford, to 
take the pastoral charge of the First Baptist Church in 
that city, llis connection with that Church as its min- 
ister continued for twentv-fonr years. “ Under his ear- 
nest and faithful ministry the Church enjoyed a succes- 
sion of revivals and constant accessions, till it became in 
numbers, beneficence, and influence one of the strongest 
in the denomination.” The unusually long pastorate 
of Dr. Trumbull closed in l*t>9. It was not his wish 


TRUMP 


567 


TRUMPET 


again to become a permanent pastor. For more than ' 
two years he preached in New Haven, supplying the | 
pulpit of a mission chapel in Dwight Street one year, 
and another year preaching in a chapel in the north- 
western part of the city. I>r. Trumbull was chosen in 
1872 secretary of t he Connecticut Baptist Convention. 
In this capacity he served for the remainder of his life, 
performing a work for the feeble Baptist churches in 
Connecticut the value of which cannot be overestimated. 
II is memory is cherished with warm affection in the 
community and state which he so long blessed by his . 
Christian ministry. For a little more than tive years 
he devoted himself with great zeal to his work, and saw I 
it abundantly successful. He died at Hartford, Nov. 
20, 1877. Dr. Trumbull was a voluminous writer, con- 
sidering the amount of ministerial work he performed 
during his life. Among his published writings were 
the following: Olympia Mo rata (1842): — Vuiet's Vital 
Christianity — a translation (1<S4(3): — Genius of Scotland 
(1847): — Pulpit Writers of France and Switzerland 
(1848 ):— Genius of Italy (1849) : — Tkeophany. or the 
Manifestation of God in Christ (1851): — Vi net's Miscel- 
lanies (1852) : — Life Pictures (1857). lie edited «ilso i 
sir William Hamilton's Discussions on Philosophy , Lit- 
erature, and University Reform, lie was the editor of 
the Christian Review for two years. See Christian Sec- 
retary, Nov. 28, 1877. (d. C. S.) 

Trump (nd\TriyZ, 1 Cor. xv, 22; 1 Tliess. iv, 1G). 
See Trumpet. 

Trumpet is in the A.V. usually the rendering of 1 
one or the other of the two Hebrew words detailed be- 
low ; but besides these it occasionally stands as the rep- 
resentative of the following: iC mm ',yolwl, Fxod. xix, Id, 
the jubilee (q. v.) trumpet; takda, Ezek. vii, 14, 

prop, the bloiciny of the trumpet. See Trumpets, 
Feast oe. 

1. 12" jSn. chatsotserdh (Sept. rraA7r<y£, Vulg. tuba'), 
prob. an onomatopoetic word, like the Lat . taratantara, 
from the quivering reverberation of its sound, was the 
straiyht trumpet (Josephus, Ant. iii, 12, G; Jerome, ad 
Has. v, 8: Ihixtorf, Lex. s. v.), and is the term used in 
Numb, x, 2,8, 0, 10; xxxi, G; 2 Kings xi, I I (“trump- 
eter, 1 ’ in first occurrence); xii, 13; 1 Chron. xiii, 8; 
xv, 24, 28; xvi, G, 42; 2 Chron. v, 12, 13; xiii. 12, 14; 
xv, 14; xx, 28; xxiii, 13: xxix, 2G, 27, 28; Ezra iii, 10; 
Neh. xii, 35,41 ; l’sa. xcviii, 0 ; llos. v, 8. There were 
originally two such, which the priests used on festive 
occasions (Numb, x, 2 sq. ; comp, xxxi, 6; 2 Kings xii. 
13). Later (in David’s time) the instruments were of 
a richer character (1 Chron. xv. 24; xvi, 42 ; 2 Chron. 
v, 12 sq. ; xxix, 20; for a conjecture as to their form, 
sec Sommer, Bill. A bhandl. i, 3D sq.). Similar ones wore 
employed in the year of jubilee (2 Kings xi, 14), and 
for popidar proclamations (Hos. v, 8); comp. Rosellini, 
Momun. IF. iii, 32; Wilkinson, ii, 2G2. The form of this 
trumpet is indicated in the sculpture on the Arch of 



Titus at Home (see Reland, Spoil a Tempi i IJieros . p. 184 
sq.) and on coins (Frbhlich, Aval. Syr. proleg. p. 80, pi. 
18, rig. 17 and 18), and it appears to have emitted a clear, 
shrill tone (comp. Foskcl, i, 8G), adapted to an alarum 
). Sec Musical Instruments. 

2. “£1w\ shophdr (Sept, usually <rd\7ny£, Ynlg. buc- 
cina). was the curved trumpet or horn (Lat. litnus) for 
signals; and is the word elsewhere rendered “trumpet” 
in the A.V. (“cornet,” 1 Chron. xv. 28; 2 Chron. xv, 
14; I*sa. xcviii, G ; llos. v, 8). It was sounded in the 
year of jubilee (Lev. xxv, 9; the Talmudic New-year’s- 
day, Mishna, Rosh hash-Shunuh. iii. 3), in battle (dob 
xxxix,25 [28]; Jer. iv, 5; vi, l),and by sentinels (Ezek. 
xxxiii, G) ; and had a loud (Isa. 1 vii i, 1) tone like a thun- 
der-peal (Exod. xix, 1G, 10). Some writers fail to dis- 
tinguish this from the preceding kind of trumpet (Crcd- 
ncr, Joel, p. L64 sq. ; Hoffmann, in Warnekros, l lehr. Al- 
terth. p. 508 sq.) ; both instruments are named in the 
same connection in 1 Chron. xv, 28; 2 Chron. xv, 14; 
l’sa. xcviii, G; llos. v, 8 (sec Zoega, De Bnccina [Lips. 
1712]). Jerome (on the passage last cited) clearly dis- 
tinguishes the shophdr: “Bnccina pastoralis est. et cor- 
nu recurvo efticitur, mule ct. propric llcbraicc soph nr, 
Gr;ecc fcqoann/ appellatur.” According to the Mislnia 
(ytt sup.), however, the shophdr was sometimes straight 
and at others crooked (see Doughtad Ana/ect. i, 00 sq.). 
Curved horns (as of oxen or sheep) are still common in 
the synagogue under the same name (rVPSVI?); ac- 
cording to the Gemara ( Shabb . xxxvi, 1), origi- 

nally denoted only the curved horn, and not until the 
downfall of the Jewish polity was it confounded with 
the mr^n. The second Temple contained thirteen 
boxes (in the court of the women), shaped like (straight) 
trumpets ( shopharoth ), for the deposition of alms 
( Mislma, Shekal. vi, 5 ). The horn with which the 
year of jubilee was ushered in is technically called (as 
above observed) 5ri\ fully ‘srPll YHjJ orbr^tt rr 
(Josh, vi, 4 sq.) ; and the force of breath required to 
sound it is denoted by the term 7 ? to draw out (see 
Winer’s Simonis Lex. p. 334, 584; comp. CJraser, Kathol. 
Messe, i, 107 sq.). See Count: r. 



Various Forms of Trumpets. 

J, ?, 3, 4. Ancient horns and curved trumpets; 5. Straight trumpet; 

6. Pipe. 

As above intimated, the Lord commanded Moses to 
make two trumpets of beaten silver, for the purpose of 
calling the people together when they were to decamp 
(Numb. x). They chiefly used these trumpets, how- 
ever, to proclaim the beginning of the civil year, the 
beginning of the sabbatical year (Lev. xxiii. 24 ; Numb, 
xxix, 1), and the beginning of the jubilee (Lev. xxv, 3, 
10). Josephus says (Ant. iii, 12. G) that they were near 
a cubit long, and that their tube or pipe was of the 
thickness of a common flute. Their mouths were no 
wider than just admitted to blow into them, and their 
ends were like those of a modern trumpet. There were 
originally but two in the camp, though afterwards a 


5(38 


TRUST-DEEDS 


TRUMPETS, FEAST OF 

great number were made. In the time of Joshua there j 
were seven (Josh. iii. 4), and at the dedication of the 
Temple of Solomon there were one hundred and twenty 
priests that sounded trumpets (2 Chron. v, 12). The 
following particulars concerning' the use of trumpets in 
the Temple will be useful, and are collected chiefly from 
Light foot’s Temple Service. The trumpets were sound- 
ed exclusively by the priests, who stood not in the Le- 
vitieal choir, hut apart, and opposite to the Lcvites. on 
the other side of the altar, both parties looking towards 
it — the priests on the west, side and the Levites on the j 
east. The trumpets did not join in the concert, but j 
were sounded during certain regulated pauses in the J 
vocal and instrumental music. “The manner of their 
blowing with their trumpets was first a long plain blast, 
then a blast with breakings and quaverings, and then 
a long plain blast again. . , . The priests did never 
blow but these three blasts went together. . . . The 
Jews do express these three several soundings that they 
made at one blowing by the words (translated) ‘An 
alarm in the midst, and a plain note before and after it;’ 
which our Christian writers do most commonly express 
bv taratantara , though that word seems to put the 
quavering sound before and after, and the plain in the 
midst, contrary to the Jewish description of it.’’ See 
Xiv\v Vkar, Festival of. 

In addition to the sacred trumpets of the Temple, 
whose use was restricted to the priests, even in war and 
in battle, there were others used by the Hebrew gener- 
als (Judg. iii, 27). Ehud sounded the trumpet to as- 
semble Israel against the Moabites, whose king, Eglon, 
he had lately slain. (lideon took a trumpet in his hand, 
and gave each of his people one, when he assaulted the 
Midiauites (vii, *2, 10). Joab sounded the trumpet as 
a signal of retreat to his soldiers, in the battle against 
Abner (2 Sam. ii, 28), in that against Absalom (xviii, 
16), and in the pursuit of Sheba, son of Biehri (xx, 22). 
See Wail 

In 31 at t. vi, 2 we read, “ When thou doest thine alms, 
do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites 
do in the synagogues,” and most expositors have regard- 
ed this as an expression derived by an easy metaphor 
from the practice of using the trumpet to proclaim what- 
ever was about to be done, in order to call attention to 
it and make it extensively known. Others, however, 
refer it to the trumpet-shaped boxes in which the alms 
were deposited (see above), and which gave a ringing 
sound as the coin was dropped into them. See Temple. 

TRUMPETS, Feast of (firkin Numb. xxix. 

1 ; Sept, i) fit pa oiffiaalaQ ; Vulg. dies clangor is et tuba- 
rum; nr^pri ‘(".“IT, Lev. xxiii. 24; firiffioavrov <ra\- 
iriyyioi ’ ; sabbatum memoriale clanycntibus tubis : in the 
Mishna, n:S‘n “ the beginning of the year”), the 

feast of the new moon, which fell on the first of Tisri. 
It differed from the ordinary festivals of the new moon 
in several important particulars. It was one of the 
seven days of Holy Convocation. 8ee Feast. Instead 
of the mere blowing of the trumpets of the Temple at 
the time of the offering of the sacrifices, it was “a day 
of blowing of trumpets.” In addition to the daily sac- 
rifices and the eleven victims offered on the first of 
every month [see New Muon], there were offered a 
young bullock, a ram, and seven lambs of the first year, 
with the accustomed meat-offerings, and a kid for a sin- 
offering (Numb, xxix, 1-6). The regular monthly of- 
fering was thus repeated, with the exception of one 
young bullock. 

It is said that both kinds of trumpet were blown in 
the Temple on this day, the straight trumpet (FnSSH) 
and the cornet or 'u)) a,1<l tl,at elsewhere any 

one, even a child, might blow a cornet (Keland, iv, 7, 2 ; 
Carpzov, p. 425; Hash hash-Shan. i. 2). When the fes- 
tival fell upon a Sabbath, the trumpets were blown in 
the Temple, but not out of it ( Posh hash-Shan. iv, 1). 
See J i ni lee. 


It has been conjectured that Psa. lxxxi, one of the 
songs of Asaph, was composed expressly fur the Feast 
of Trumpets. The psalm is used in the service for that 
day by the modern Jews. As the third verse is ren- 
dered in the Sept., the Vulgate, and the A.V., this would 
seem highly probable — "Blow up the trumpet in the 
new moon, the time appointed, on our solemn feast day.” 
But the best authorities understand the word translated 
new moon (HCS) to mean full moon, lienee the psalm 
would more properly belong to the service for one of the 
festivals which take place at the full moon, the Passo- 
ver, or the Feast of Tabernacles (Hesenius, Thesaur. s.v. ; 
Bosenmuller and lleiigsteuberg on Psa. lxxxi). 

Various meanings have been assigned to the Feast of 
Trumpets. Maimonides considered that its purpose was 
to awaken the people from their spiritual slumber to 
prepare for the solemn humiliation of the Day of Atone- 
ment, which followed it within ten days. This may re- 
ceive some countenance from Joel ii. 15, “ Blow the 
trumpet (“E* 1 T) in Zion, sanctify a fast, call a solemn as- 
sembly.” Some have supposed that it was intended to 
introduce the seventh or sabbatical month of the year, 
which was especially holy because it was the seventh, 
and because it contained the Day of Atonement and the 
Feast of Tabernacles (Fagius, in Lev. xxiii, 24 ; Bnx- 
torf. Syn. Jnd. c. 24). Philo and some early Christian 
writers regarded it as a memorial of the giving of the 
law on Sinai (Philo, Opp. v, 4(3. ed. Tanch. ; Basil, in 
Psa. Lxxxi; Theodoret, Qutrst. xxxii in Ltv.). But there 
seems to be no sufficient reason to call in question the 
common opinion of Jews and Christians, that it was the 
festival of the New-year’s-day of the civil year, the first 
of Tisri, the month which commenced the sabbatical 
year and the year of jubilee. If t he New-moou Festi- 
val was taken as the consecration of a natural division 
of time, the month in which the earth yielded the last 
ripe produce of the season, and began again to foster 
seed for the supply of the future, might well be regard- 
ed as the first month of the year. The fact that Tisri 
was the great month for sowing might thus have easily 
suggested the thought of commemorating on this day 
the finished work of creation, when t he sons of Hod 
shouted for joy (Job xxxviii, 7). The Feast of Trump- 
ets thus came to be regarded as the anniversary of the 
birthday of the world (Mishna, Hash hash-Shan . i, i ; 
Hupfcld, Zte Pest. J/tb. ii, IS; Buxtorf. Syn. Jud. c. 24). 

It was an odd fancy of the rabbins that on this day, 
every year. Hod judges all men, and that they pass be- 
fore him as a Hock of sheep pass before a shepherd 
(llosh hash-Shan. i, 2). — .Smith. See New Yeah. 

Trust in Hod signifies confidence in or depend- 
ence upon him. This trust ought to be — 1. Sin- 
cere and unreserved, not in idols, in men, in talents, 
riches, power, in ourselves part and in him part (Prov. 
iii, o-6); 2, Universal — body, soul, circumstances (1 
Pet. v, 7); 3. Perpetual (Isa. xxvi, 4); 4. With a live- 
ly expectation of his blessing (Mie. vii, 7). The encour- 
agement we have to trust in him arises — I. From his lib- 
erality (Bom. vi ii, 32; Psa. lxxxi v, II); 2. II is ability 
(James i, 17); 3. His relationship (Psa. ciii, 13); 4. His 
promise (Isa. xxxiii, 16); 5. His conduct in all ages to 
those who have trusted him (Hen. xlviii. 15, *16; Psa. 
xxxvii.25). The happiness of those who trust in him 
is great, if we consider, 1. Their safety (exxv, 1); 2. 
Their courage (xxvii. 1) ; 3. Their peace (Isa. xxvi, 3); 
4. Their character and fruitfulness (Psa. i, 3); 5. Their 
end (xxxvii, 37; Job v, 26). — Buck, Theul. Diet. s. v. 
See Faith. 

Trust-deeds arc forms of conveyances of real es- 
tate specifying some trust for which the property is 
held. At an early period of his history Wesley pub- 
lished a model deed for the settlement of chapels, to the 
effect that the trustees, for the time being, should per- 
mit Wesley himself, and such other persons as he might 
from 'time to time appoint, to have the free use of such 


TRUSTEES 


50 0 


TRUTH 


premises, to preach therein God’s word. After his death, 
and that of Charles Wesley and William Grimshaw, the 
chapels were to be held in trust for the sole use of such 
persons as might he appointed at the yearly conference 
of the people called Methodists, provided that the said 
persons preached no other doctrines than t hose contain- 
ed in Wesley’s Notes on the New Test., and in his four 
volumes of /Sermons. This was followed, on Feb. 28, 
1784, by the Deed of Declaration, explaining the words 
‘•yearly conference of the people called Methodists.” 
This Deed of Declaration is recognised in the trust- 
deeds of all the chapels built by the Wesleyans. hi the 
Methodist Episcopal Church it is directed that the fol- 
lowing trust-clause shall be inserted in each deed: “ In 
trust, that said premises shall be used, kept, maintained, 
and disposed of as a place of divine worship for the use 
of the ministry and membership of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church in the United States of America; subject, 
to the discipline, usage, and ministerial appointments 
of said Church, as from time to time authorized and de- 
clared by the General Conference of said Church, and the 
Annual Conference within whose bounds the said prem- 
ises are situate. In trust, that said premises shall be hold, 
kept, and maintained as a plaee of residence for the use 
and occupancy of the preachers of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church in the United States of America who may, 
from time to time, be stationed in said plaee; subject to 
the usage and discipline of said Church, as from time 
to time authorized and declared bv the General Confer- 
ence of said Church, and by the Annual Conference 
within whose bounds said premises are situate.” 

Trustees are Chnreh officers appointed for the pur- 
poses of holding the legal title to Church property, and 
of taking eare thereof. In the different branches of 
Methodism there are some differences of provision, but 
in general principles they are the same. In the Meth- 
odist. Episcopal Church the Discipline says, “ Each 
board of trustees of our Church property shall consist of 
not less than three nor more than nine persons, each of 
whom shall be not less than twenty-one years of age. 
two thirds of whom shall be members of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church.’’ Where the Church has not received 
a legal act of incorporation or charter, and where the 
law of the state does not specify any particular mode of 
election, “the trustees are elected annually hv the Fourth 
Quarterly Conference . . . upon the nomination of the 
preacher in charge, or the presiding elder of the district. 
Where the state or territory direets the mode of elec- 
tion, that mode must be strictly observed; and where 
charters of incorporation are obtained, they speeifv the 
particular qualifications and time of election of these 
officers.” 

The trustees have the charge of all repairs to be 
made on Church property, and of all financial matters 
pertaining to its preservation; are directed by the Dis- 
cipline to make an annual report to the Fourth Quarter- 
ly Conference of the amount and value of the property, 
expenditures and liabilities, etc. ; and are held amena- 
ble to the Quarterly Conference for the manner in which 
they perform their duty, By the action of the General 
Conference of 1876 trustees are forbidden to “mortgage 
or encumber the real estate for the current expenses of 
the Church.” 

TRUSTEES, General Board of. The General 
Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, in 1864, 
appointed a eommittee of seven to report a plan of trus- 
teeship. The report of the eommittee was adopted, and 
is substantially the same as the section of the Discipline 
on that subject. The General Conference appointed a 
board whose headquarters should be at Cincinnati, and 
which was incorporated with the title of “the Board of 
Trustees of the General Conference of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church in the United States,” and its char- 
ter was recorded July 11, 1865. According to the Dis- 
cipline, “ The duty of the board shall be to hold in trust, 
for the benefit of the Methodist Episcopal Church, any 


and all donations, bequests, grants, and funds in trust, 
ete., that may be given or conveyed to said board, or to 
the Methodist Episcopal Church, as such, for any be- 
nevolent object, and to administer the said funds, and 
the proceeds of tlu* same, in accordance with the direc- 
tion of the donors,” etc. 

Truth, conformity to fact. 

1. It has been distinguished by most philosophical 
writers, according as it respects being, knowledge, and 
speech, into 

(l.) Veritas entis, or truth of the thing. The founda- 
tion of all truth is in truth of being — that truth by 
which a thing is what it is, by which it has its own 
nature and properties; and has not merely the appear- 
ance, but reality, of being. Philosophy is the knowl- 
edge of being; and if there were no real being — that is, 
if truth could not be predicated of things— there could 
be no knowledge. 

(2.) Veritas eognitionis, or truth of knowledge. Truth, 
as predicated of knowledge, is the conformity of our 
knowledge with the reality of the object known ; for, as 
knowledge is the knowledge of something, when a thing 
is known as it is that knowledge is formally true. To 
know that fire is hot is true knowledge. Objective 
truth is the conformity of the thing or object known 
with true knowledge. 

(3.) Veritas sigui, or truth of the sign. This consists 
in its adequateness or conformity to the thing signified. 
The truth and adequacy of signs belong to enunciation 
in logic. 

2. Scientific truth consists in the conformity of thoughts 
to things; and moral truth lies in the correspondence 
of words with thoughts; while logical truth depends on 
the self-eonsistencv of thoughts themselves. 

3. Truth, in the strict logical sense, applies to propo- 
sitions, and nothing else; and consists in the conformity 
of r lie declaration made to the actual state of the ease. 
In its etymological sense, truth signifies that which the 
speaker believes to be the fact. In this sense it is op- 
posed to a lie, and may be called moral. Truth is not 
nnfrequently applied to arguments, when the proper 
expressions would be “correct,” “conclusive,” “valid.” 
The use of truth in the sense of reality should be avoid- 
ed. People speak of the truth or falsity of facts; where- 
as, properly speaking, they are either real or fetitious. 
It is the statement that is true or false. 

4. Necessary truths are such as are known indepen- 
dently of inductive proof ; are those in which we not only 
learn that the proposition is true, but that it must be 
true; are those the opposite of which is inconceivable, 
contradictory, impossible. Contingent truths are those 
which, without doing violence to reason, we may con- 
ceive to be otherwise. 

5. Absolute truth is the knowledge of God, the ground 
of all relative truth and being. All relative truth is 
partial because each relation presupposes something 
which is not relative. As to us relative truth is par- 
tial in another sense, because the relations known to us 
are affected by relations which we do not know, ami 
therefore our knowledge oven as relative knowledge is 
incomplete as a whole and in each of its parts. At the 
same time, relative knowledge is real knowledge; and 
if it were possible habitually to realize in consciousness 
that it is partial, it would be strictly true so far as it 
goes. See Blunt, Diet, of Hist. Tkeol. s. v. ; Fleming, I ' o - 
cab. of Philos. Sciences, s. v. 

6. In Scripture language, eminently, God is truth; 
that is, in him is no fallacy, deception, perverseness, etc. 
Jesus Christ, being God, is also the truth, and is the true 
w r ay to God. the true representative, image, character, 
of the Father. The Holy Spirit is the Spirit of truth, 
who communicates truth, who maintains the truth in 
believers, guides them in the truth, and who hates and 
punishes falsehood or lies, even to t lie death of t lie 
transgressor (Psa. xxxi, 5; John xiv, 6, 17; Acts v, 3, 
etc.). 

Especially is truth a name given to the religion of 


570 


TSINXIN 


TRYP1L-KNA 

Jesus, in opposition to that of the Jew and that of the 1 
heathen. As contrasted with the Jewish system, it was 
tin > ‘•truth” in the sense of “ reality," as distinguished 
from t lie ’’emblems,” symbols, representations, of that 
realitv; from the u shadow of good things to come,” 
contained i 11 the Levittcal law: in thU sense it is that 
the apostle tells us “the law was given by Closes, but 
grace and truth came by Jesus Christ.” As contrasted 
with paganism. Christianity was truth opposed to false- 
hood, The heathen mythology not only was not true , 
but was not even supposed as true: it not only deserved 
no faith, but. it demanded none. Jesus inaugurated a 
new way of propagating a religion, by inviting converts 
not to conform to its institutions, but to “ believe” and to 
to let their actions be agreeable to truth : nothing, then, 
was more natural than that Christianity should receive 
names expressive of this grand peculiarity, the (ruth 
and the faith. See Whately, Essays on I )ij)ie tildes of 
St. Paul, essay i. 

Tryphae'na (T pixfian-a, luxurious), a person men- 
tioned in connection with Tryphosa (q. v.), the two be- 
ing Christian women at Rome, who. among those that 
are enumerated in the conclusion of Paul’s letter to that 
city, receive a special salutation, and on the special 
ground that they are engaged there in “laboring in the 
Lord” (Rom. xvi, 12). A.l). 55. They may have been 
sisters, but it is more likely that they were fellow-dea- 
conesses, and among the predecessors of that large num- 
ber of official women who ministered in the Church ol 
Rome at a later period ( Eusebius, I/ist. Fed. vi, 43) ; for 
it is to be observed that they are spoken of as at that 
time occupied in Christian service (r«c Korruomtij, 
while the salutation to Persis, in the same verse, is 
connected with past service (/yrit; hco7ria<r€J'). 

We know nothing more of these two sister-workers 
of the apostolic time; but the name of one of them oc- 
curs curiously, with other names familiar to ns in Paul’s 
epistles, in the Apocryphal .1 cts of Paul and Thecla. 
See Thecla Legend. There Trypluena appears as a 
rich Christian widow of Antioch, who gives Thecla a 
refuge in her house, and sends money to Paul for the 
relief of the poor (s°e Jones, On the C anon , ii, 371, 880). 
It is impossible to discern any trace of probability in 
this part of the legend. 

It is an interesting fact that the columbaria of “Ce- 
sar’s household” in the Viyua Codini. near the Porta S. 
Scbastiano, at Rome, contain the name Trypluena, as well 
as other names mentioned in this chapter, Philologns 
and Julia (ver. 15), and also Amplias ( ver. 8). See 
Wordsworth, Tour in Italy (I8G2), ii, 173. — Smith. 

Trypho, an eminent man, who was seized as a 
Christian and imprisoned at. Nice, about A.l). 50, in 
company with another, named Respicius. They were 
soon after put to the rack, which they bore with admi- 
rable patience for three hours, and uttemf the praises 
of the Almighty the whole time. They were then ex- 
posed naked to the severity of the open air, which be- 
numbed all their limbs, as it was in the very depth ol 
winter. — box, Book of Martyrs, s. v. 

Try'phon (Tpn0wr, a not mifroquent Creek name 
of the later age), a usurper of the Syrian throne. His 
proper name was Dwdotus (Strabo, xvi, 2, 10; Appian, 
Syr. 08). and the surname Tryphon was given to him, 
or. according to Appian, adopted by him, after his ac- 
cession to power (Livv, Ejut. liii, lv). lie was a na- 
tive of Cariana, a fortified place in the district of Apa- 
mea, where he was brought up (Strabo, loc. cif.). In 
the time of Alexander Ralas he was attached to the 
court (Appian, lor. cif., covXoq thiv (SaotXUov, Diodor. 
Fr. xxi, ap. 31 idler, /list. Or. Fray m. ii, 17, arpaTi}- 
yoc : 1 Macc. xi, 30, riov napd *A\f£.) ; but towards the 
close of bis reign lie seems to have joined in the con- 
spiracy which was set on foot to transfer the crown of 
Syria to Ptolemy Philometor (ver. 18; Diodor. loc. cit.). 
After the death of Alexander Ralas he took advantage 
of the unpopularity of Demetrius II to put forward the 


claims of Antiochus VI, the young son of Alexander (l 
3Iaec. xi, 39). R<\ 115. Alter a time he obtained the 
support of Jonathan, who had been alienated from De- 
metrius by 1 1 is ingratitude, and the young king was 
crowned (RC. 1 11). Tryphon, however, soon revealed 
his real designs on the kingdom, and, fearing the oppo- 
sition of Jonathan, he gained possession of his person 
by treachery (xii, 30-50), and after a short time put 
him to death (xiii, 23). As the way now seemed clear, 
he murdered Antiochus, and seized the supreme power 
(ver. 31, 32), which he exercised, as far as he was able, 
with violence and rapacity (ver. 34). 1 1 is tyranny 

again encouraged the hopes of Demetrius, who was en- 
gaged in preparing an expedition against him(RC. 
141), when he was taken prisoner (xiv, 1-3). and Try- 
phon retained the throne ( Justin, xxxvi, !; Diodor. 
Ley. xxxi), till Antiochus VII, the brother of Deme- 
trius, drove him to Dora, from which he escaped to Or- 
tliosia, in Phoenicia (1 Macc. xv, 10 11; 37-39), RO. 
139. Not long afterwards, being hard pressed bv An- 
tiochus, he committed suicide, or, according to other 
accounts, was put to death by Antiochus (Strabo, xiv, 
5, 2; Appian, Syr. G8. Ai'tio\oc ~ tcrtirti . . . arv 
TTorty 7To\Aoj). Josephus (.la/, xiii, 7, 2) adds that lie 
was killed at. Apamea, the place which he made his 
headquarters (Strabo, xvi. 2, 10). The authority of 
Tryphon was evidently very partial, as appears from 
the growth of Jewish independence under Simon Mac- 
cabivus, and Strabo describes him as one of the chief 
authors of Cilieian piracy (xiv, 3. 2). 1 1 is name oc- 

curs on the coins of Antiochus VI, and he also struck 
coins in his own name. — Smith. Sec Antiochus; De- 
metrius. 



Coin of Tryphon. 

Trypho'sa (Tpv<j>woa, luxurious'), a Christian fe- 
male at Rome, addressed by Paul (Rom. xvi, 12). A.D. 
55. See Try piles a, 

Tsab. See Tortoise. 


Tsabians (from X-LL a host) were those who wor- 
shipped the heavenly hosts, that being one oft he earliest 
forms in which idolatry appeared. This species of idol- 
atry first prevailed in Chaldiva, whence it spread overall 
the Last, passed into Egypt, and thence found its way 
into (Jreecc. The sun, moon, and each of the stars was 
believed to be a divine intelligence, who exercised a con- 
stant influence for good or evil upon the destinies of 
men. — Blunt , Faiths of the World, s. v. See Sabians. 

Tsabua. See Hyena. 

Tsaphtsapliali. See Willow. 

Tschiiner, See Tzschirnkr. 

Tschornaboltzi (or rather Tehernoltzi ), a Russian 
sect, the members of which refuse to take an oath, hold 
it. unlawful to shave the beard, and do not pray for the 
emperor and imperial family according to t lie prescribed 
form. They have many tilings in common with the 
other sects, and believe that the end of the world is at 
hand. See Russian Sects. 

Tseba. See Sabaotii. 

Tsebi. See Roe. 

Tselatsal. See Locust. 

Tsepha. See Cockatrice. 

Tsephardea. See Frog. 

Tseii. See Balm. 

Tsing-Chamun-Keaou, or Tea -sect of China 
(q. v.). 

Tsinnin. See Thorn. 


TSIPHONI 


TUBAL 


5*71 


Tsiphoni. Sec Adder. 

Tsippor. See Sparrow. 

Tsirah. See Hornet. 

Tsiruph (ri-ns), or anagram , is a Cabalistic rule 
according to which various words are formed through 
the change of any word into other> by the transposition 
of the component letters. Thus “ in the be- 
ginning,” has been anagramatized il'X “a cove- 

nant of tire.” to accord with Dent, xxxiii, 2, “from his 
right hand went a tiery law for them.” In a Cabalistic 
book entitled upwards of seventy combina- 

tions of this single word arc formed by B. Simeon ben- 
.Tochai. The Cahalists say that because the Hebrew 
letters are spiritual, and simple figures, they can there- 
fore be construed in different ways; but this can be done 
in any language. Thus Herbert anagramatized the Vir- 
gin Mary into Army , as seen in the following two lines: 

“How well her name an Army doth present, 

In whom the Lord of hosts did pitch his tent !’’ 

(B. I’-) 

Tsiyim. See Wilderness, Beasts of. 

Tsonkhapa, a Thibetan reformer and monk, was 
born A.I). 1355, in tbe d ist riot of Amdo. lie strictly 
prohibited ordinary tricks and pretended miracles of 
charlatanism, and united and reconciled the dialectical 
and mystical schools of modern Buddhism, lie also 
published most comprehensive works. Ilis innovations 
were, never universally acknowledged. Ilis followers, 
however, called Gelnkpa, or Gablaitpa , are the most 
numerous, and wear a yellow garb, t lie others having 
chosen red. See Thibet. 

Tsor. See Flint. 

Tsori. Sec Balm. 

Tu'bal (Heb. Tuba!', in Gen. x, 2; 

Ezek. xxxii, 2G; xxxix, 1], of uncertain signification; 
Sept. 0o/3.-, \, except in Ezek. xxxix, 1, where Alex. 
0of3^j ; Vulg. Thnbal , but in Isa. Ixvi, 10, Italia). In 
the ancient ethnological tables of Genesis and l Citron. 
Tubal is reckoned with Javan and Meshech among t lie 
sons of Japheth (Hen. x, 2; 1 Citron, i, v). B.C. post 
2514. The three are again associated in the enumera- 
tion of the sources of the wealth of Tyre: Javan. Tu- 
bal, and Meshech brought slaves and copper vessels 
to the Phieiiician markets (Ezek. xxvii, 13). Tubal 
and Javan (Isa. Ixvi. 10), Meshech and Tubal (Ezek. 
xxxii, 2G; xxxviii, 2, 3; xxxix, 1), are nations of the 
north (xxxviii, 15; xxxix, 2). Josephus ( .1 nf. i, G, 1 ) 
identities the descendants of Tubal with the rberiaus, 
that is — not, as Jerome would understand it, Spaniards, 
hut— the inhabitants of a tract of country between the 
Caspian and Enxine seas, which nearly corresponded to 
the modern Georgia. Knobel connects these Iberians 
of tli e East and West, and considers the Tibareni to 
have been a branch of this widely spread Turanian 
family, known to the Hebrews as 'rubai ( Volkertafel d. 
(Jen. § 13). Bochart (Khaleg, iii. 12) makes the Moschi 
and Tibareni represent Meshech and Tubal. These 
two Colcliian tribes are mentioned together in Herodo- 
tus on two occasions: first, ns forming part of the nine- 
teenth satrapy of the Persian empire (iii, 94), and again 
as being in the army of Xerxes under the command of 
Ariomardus the son of Darius (vii, 78), The Moschi 
and Tibareni, moreover, are “constantly associated, 
under the names of M it Mai and Tnpfai , in the As- 
syrian inscriptions’’ (Sir i I . Bawlinson. in Bawlinson’s 
Herod, i, 535 ). The Tibareni are said by the scho- 
liast on Apollonius Bhodius (ii, 1010) to have been 
a Scythian tribe, and they as well as the Moschi are 
probably to be referred to that Turanian people who 
in very early times spread themselves over the entire 
region between the Mediterranean and India, the Per- 
sian Gulf and the Caucasus (liawlinson, Herod, i, 535). 
In the time of Sargon, according to the inscriptions, 
Anibris, the son of Ivhuliya, was hereditary chief of Tu- 


bal (tbe southern slopes of Taurus). He “had culti- 
vated relations with the kings of Musak and Yararat 
(Meshech and Ararat, or the Moschi and Armenia), 
who were in revolt against Assyria, and thus drew upon 
himself the hostility of the great king (ibid, i, 1G9, note 3). 
Ill former times the Tibareni were probably more im- 
portant ; and the Moschi and Tibareni, Meshech and 
Tubal, may have been names by which powerful hordes 
of (Scythians were known to the Hebrews. But in his- 
tory we only hear of them as pushed to the farthest 
limits of their ancient settlements, and occupying mere- 
ly a strip of coast along the Enxine. Their neighbors 
the Chahkeans were in the same condition. In the 
time of Herodotus the Moschi and Tibareni were even 
more closely connected than at a later period, Ibr in 
Xenophon we find them separated by tbe Macroncs and 
I Mossy meci (.1 nab. v, 5, 1 ; Pliny, vi. 4, etc.). The lim- 
its of the territory of the Tibareni arc extremely diffi- 
cult to determine with any degree of accuracy. Alter 
a part of the ten thousand Greeks, on their retreat with 
Xenophon, had embarked at Cerasus (perhaps near the 
modern Kerasun Dcre Sii), the rest marched along the 
coast, and soon came to the boundaries of the Mossy- 
nivci (Anab. v, 4, 2). They traversed the country oc- 
cupied by this people in eight days, and then came to 
the Chaiybes, and after them to the Tibareni. The 
eastern limit of the Tibareni was therefore about eighty 
or ninety miles along the coast west of Cerasus. Two 
days’ march through Tibarene brought the Greeks to 
, Cotyora (ibid, v, 5, 3), and they were altogether three 
days in passing through the country (Diod. Sic. xiv, 30). 
Now from Cape Jasonium to Boon, according to Arrian 
(Heripl. 1G). t lie distance was 90 stadia, 90 more to Co- 
tyora, and GO from Cotyora to the river Melaiithius, mak- 
ing in all a coast line of 240 stadia, or three days’ march. 
Prof. Bawlinson (Herod, iv, 181) conjectures that the 
Tibareni occupied the coast between Cape Vasun (Ja- 
sonium) and the river Melanthius (Melet Irmak); but 
if we follow Xenophon, we must place Boon as their 
western boundary, one day’s march from Cotyora, and 
their eastern limit must be sought some ten miles east 
of the Melet Irmak, perhaps not far from the modern 
Aptar, which is three and a half hours from that, river. 
The anonymous author of the Periplus of the Enxine 
says (33) that the Tibareni formerly dwelt west of Co- 
tvora as far as Polemonium, at the mouth of the Pole- 
man chai, one and a half miles cast of Fatsah. 

In the time of Xenophon the Tibareni were an inde- 
pendent tribe (.1 nab. vii, 8, 25). Long before this they 
were subject to a number of potty chiefs, which was a 
principal element of their weakness, and rendered their 
subjugation by Assyria more easy. Dr. I Hacks (quoted 
by Bawlinson, Herod, i, 380, note 1) has found as many 
as twenty-lbur kings of the Tuplai mentioned in the in- 
scriptions. They are said by Apollonius Bhodius to have 
been rich in Hocks (Ary. ii, 377). The traffic in slaves 
and vessels of copper with which the people of Tubal 
supplied the markets of Tyre (Ezek. xxvii, 13) still 
further connects them with the Tibareni. It is well 
known that the regions bordering on the Pont us Eu Ki- 
ll us furnished the most beautiful slaves, and that the 
slave-traffic was an extensive branch of trade among 
the Cappadocians (Polvb. iv. 38, 4 ; Horace, Kp. i, G, 39; 
Persins, Sat. vi, 77; Martial, Kp. vi, 77 ; x, 7G, etc.). 
The copper of the Mossynceci, the neighbors of tbe Tib- 
areni, was celebrated as being extremely bright and 
without any admixture of tin (ArLtot. l)e Mir . .1 moult. 
G2); and the Chalvbes, who lived between these tribes, 
were long famous for their craft as metal-smiths. We 
must not forget, too, the copper-mines of Chalvar in 
Armenia (Hamilton, .1 sia Min. i. 173). 

The Arabic version of Gen. x, 2 gives Chorasan and 
China for Meshech and Tubal; in Eusebius (see 4 lo- 
ch art) they arc Illyria and Thessaly. The Talmudists 
(Yoma, fol. 10,2), according to Bochart, detine Tubal as 
“the home of the Unhid x),” whom he is in- 


TUBAL-CAIX 


672 Tl'T.IXGEX SCHOOL, THE OLD 


clineil to identify with the Huns (Rhaleg, iii, 12). They 
may, perhaps, take their name from (F'noe, the modern 
1‘nieli, a town on the south coast of the Black Sea, 
not far from Cape Yasun, and so in the immediate 
neighborhood of the Tibareni, In the Targum of II. 
Joseph on 1 Chron. (eil. AYilUins^ is given 

as the equivalent of Tubal, and Wilkins renders it by 
Bithynia. lint the reading in this passage, as well as 
in t lie Targmns of Jerusalem and of Jonathan on Ceil, x, 
is too doubtful to be followed as even a traditional au- 
thority. — Smith. See Ktiinolocv, 

Tu'bal-eain (lleb. Tu'bal Ka'yin, ‘,;JT ap- 

parently of foreign etymology; Sept, o Bo/JfcX ; Vulg. 
Tubal rain), the sou of Lantech the Canute by his wife 
Zillah (Cen. iv, 22). 1 *.< \ cir. 3700. lie is called “a 

furbisher of every cutting instrument of copper and 
iron.” The Jewish legend of later times associates him 
with his father's song. “ Lamecli was blind," says the 
story as told by Kashi, “ and Tulml-cain was leading 
him; and he saw Cain, ami he appeared to him like a 
wild beast, so lie told his father to draw his bow, and he 
slew him. And when he knew that it was Cain his 
ancestor, he smote his hands together and struck his son 
between them. So he slew him, and his wives with- 
draw from him mid he conciliates them.” In this story 
Tubal-cain is the ‘■young man” of the song. Kashi ap- 
parently considers t lie name of Tubal-cain as an appel- 
lative, for he makes him director of the works of Cain 
for making weapons of war, and connects “Tubal” with 
tabbvl , to season, and so to prepare skilfully, lie 
appears, moreover, to have pointed it 2I1T), tobel, which 
seems to have been the reading of the Sept, ami Jose- 
phus. According to the writer last mentioned (Ant. i, 
2, 2), Tubal-cain was distinguished for his prodigious 
strength and his success in war. 

The derivation of the name is extremely obscure. 
Ilasse ( Kntderkungen , ii, 37, quoted bv Knobel on (leu. 
iv, 22) identities Tubal-cain with Vulcan; ami Butt- 
mann (Mythol. i, 134) not only compares these names, 
but adds to the comparison the Tt\\ivtc of Khodes, the 
first workers in copper and iron (Strabo, xiv, 654), and 
Dwalinn, the daemon smith of the Scandinavian my- 
thology. Gesenius proposed to consider it a hybrid 
word, compounded of the lVrs. tupal , iron slag, or scoria. 
and the Arab. kain. a smith ; hut this etymology is more 
than doubtful. The Scythian race Tubal, who were 
coppersmiths (Ezek. xxvii, 13), naturally suggest them- 
selves in connection with Tubal-cain. — Smith. 

Tubie'ni (Toi'/3i»Ji'oi ; Alex, Ton/tfriVoi : Vulg. Tu- 
biamei). The “Jews called Tubieni” lived about Cha- 
rax, 750 stadia from a strongly fortified city called Cas- 
pis (2 Mace, xii, 17), They were doubtless the same 
who are elsewhere mentioned as living in the towns of 
Touhion (A. V. “ Tubie”), which again is probably the 
same with the Ton (ip v.) of the Old Test. — Smith. 

Tubingen School, This Old, The origin of this 
school, which became so noteworthy a factor in the de- 
velopment of Krotestant theology during the latter half 
of the l-Sth century, is associated chiefly with the per- 
sonality and influence of (1. ( '. Storr (<p \\), professor of 
theology in tlx* Luiversity of Tubingen, ami, at a later 
day, court-preacher at Stuttgart. This scholar gather- 
ed about him a number of pupils, whom be impressed 
with the broad culture and thorough and comprehen- 
sive learning as well as logical arrangement and ex- 
traordinary clearness of his lectures, ami whom he capti- 
vated by his evident piety, dignified demeanor, and un- 
varying kindness. Storr s dominant elements of char- 
acter, whether as a man or a scholar, were, however, 
wholly of the objective class. His piety was not the 
expression of profound religions feeling, but of rigidly 
earnest and conscientious principle; and as his heart 
lacked fervor, so bis intellect was deficient in imagina- 
tion and the true speculative quality. The age in 
which he lived was a period of unrest. The orthodoxy 


of Brent ius and Jakob Amlreii was beginning to loosen 
its hold upon the times. J, W. Jiigor. the learned chan- 
cellor (1702-20), had ventured upon the innovation of 
introducing a more attractive method in theology than 
that in vogue. Platt’ and Wcismann also broke away 
from t he polemical methods of orthodoxy, and sought 
to impart greater simplicity ami life to theological in- 
struction. In another direction, the so-called enlight- 
enment or neology of the KSth century was gaining 
prominence and power, ami was rejecting not merely 
the form, but the substance, of the orthodox teachings. 
Storr was not aide to deny that the cri>is which had 
come upon theology had its origin in very adequate 
causes; but he could not fully accept all its results, and 
therefore assumed a position midway between the con- 
tending parties, so as to be able to retain much of the sub- 
stance oft lie old orthodox theology while adopting much 
of the methods of the new. lie endeavored to base his 
teaching wholly on the Scriptures, and for that purpose 
brought together a mass of isolated passages to serve 
as the basis of his theology; but he had no conception 
of the organic unity of Scripture, of its living combi- 
nation into separate principles, and of a consequent ge- 
netic unfolding of scriptural truths. Baur strikingly 
remarks that Storr recognised no canon, but only pas- 
sages, of the Scriptures. His system was furthermore 
impaired by the Pelagianizing tendency of his mind, 
which led him to tone down the contrast between the 
fundamental doctrines of sin and grace, and to make 
grave concessions to neology with regard to the doc- 
trines of the atonement ami of the person of Christ, 
llis great object was to render Christianity plausible to 
the destructive criticism of his time; and the endeavor 
to realize that object occasioned in his bearing a cer- 
tain indecision and ambiguity of manner, so that bis 
theology is made to seem forced ami constrained. Great 
attention is given to the discussion of unimportant and 
particular ideas, while the thought of a connected and 
organic system of Christianity has no proper recogni- 
tion in his works. This disposition to expend effort 
upon subordinate details is apparent in all his works, 
and especially in his criticism of Kant’s Religion inner - 
halb tier Grenzen tier reinen Yernunfi, and in the works 
he aimed against the “accommodation hypothesis” of 
Sender, Teller, and others. It was his misfortune to 
want the historical sense, and that attitude of imparti- 
ality towards doctrine which would have enabled him 
to discover the gradual development of scriptural truth, 
llis system of Christian dogmatics and ethics aims to 
he simply a bringing-together and connecting of the 
results of exegesis; and this aim is realized by the mo- 
saic-like collocation of isolated passages in sueh a man- 
ner as to justify the above criticism of Banr that Storr 
had no authoritative rule, but only a fragmentary view 
of Scripture. In this way lie gave expression to tin* 
principle of the authority of Scripture upon which he 
professed to erect his entire system. 

The school of Storr was, more particularly, composed 
of Johann Friedrich Flatt, Friedrich Gottlieb Siisskiml, 
and Karl Christian Flatt, all of them pupils, successors, 
and in part colleagues of Storr in the theological facul- 
ty (for a more particular notice of these scholars, see 
the articles under their names). The older Flatt was 
an acute and learned man. exceedingly conscientious 
and careful, naturally cheerful, but infirm in body and 
greatly attlicted by repeated sorrows, in consequence of 
which he developed a measure of irritability and mel- 
ancholy in his disposition. He left lectures on Chris- 
tian ethics and on the Panline epistles, which were pub- 
lished from notes l»y his pupils. Siisskiml devoted his 
scientific activity chiefly to the elucidation of funda- 
mental questions in doctrines and apologetics consid- 
ered with reference to the philosophy current in his 
day. Against Kant and Fiehte he discussed the office 
and the limitations of reason, and against Schelling he 
endeavored to secure the theistie basis of Christianity, 
llis investigations in the line of doctrine were chiefly 


tuch 


TCMXGEX SCHOOL, TIIE X E \V o\ 

concerned with the idea of the possibility of the for- 
giveness of sins, or, in other words, of the remission of 
penalty. He also discussed, in a fragmentary wav, the 
theology of Schleiermacher (see Susskind, Yermischtc 
Schriften , 1831). 1 1 is leading personal traits were great 

intellectual penetration and energy of the will, united 
with sternness of manner and the utmost conscientious- 
ness of spirit, lie was a master in logic, bold and con- 
tident in debate, the dialectician of his school. His 
ability was nevertheless impaired by the lack of spec- 
ulative power and depth. The younger Flat t was rath- 
er a receptive than an independently creative charac- 
ter. llis earliest work attempted to prove that the 
Kantian theory of atonement, according to which the 
forgiveness of sins is determined by, and consequent on, 
the measure of moral reformation, is not the only rea- 
sonable, but also the only allowable, view under the 
New Test, lie was induced to retract the teachings of 
that book, and in time became wholly identified with 
the tendency of Storr and the elder Flatt. 

The peculiarity of these theologians lay in the ab- 
stract theism beyond which they were not able to ad- 
vance bv reason of the want of true philosophical sense. 
They employed a pitiless logic to expose the gaps and 
weaknesses of transcendental speculation, but failed to 
attain to a living apprehension of their own theism; 
and, while they defended their theory of revelation with 
the utmost tenacity, they rendered that theory thor- 
oughly intolerable to reason by numerous provisos, ex- 
planations, and modi licat ions. This criticism applies 
to everything which is peculiar to their teaching, and 
indicates what is, more than any other feature, the 
characteristic of their school. 

Affiliated to this school, though less closely than the 
men already named, was Ernst Gottlieb Bengel, pro- 
fessor of historical theology at Tubingen. This scholar 
passed beyond the ordinary favorable attitude of the 
school of Storr in his fondness for Socinian views, and 
was also a Ivantianizing, rationalizing supranatnral- 
ist. So firmly was he intrenched in such views that 
he steadily refused to be influenced by any new ten- 
dency which the changing philosophy of a new a*ra 
might bring to bear upon theological inquiry. He 
scarcely indicated that he knew of the existence of 
Schleiermacher, and prevented the appointment of 
Bockshammer — who had written an unusually able 
work on the freedom of the will — to the faculty as 
the successor of the elder Flatt, because of Bocks- 
hammer’s departure from the old plan to which Ben- 
gel was committed. Other adherents of this school, 
as Steudel, Christian Friedrich Schmid, etc., remained 
more faithful to the Storrian ideas in some respects, but 
were, on the other hand, gradually led away from the 
traditional position of the Tubingen school through the 
intluence of the theology of Schleiermacher. New men, 
new tendencies, new methods, have taken the place of 
the old, not only with respect to the external fact, but 
even as regards the results of what was at one time a 
noteworthy factor in the development of theological 
science. The Tiibingen school has produced, upon the 
whole, effects much less important to such development 
than its prominence would seem to warrant. 

See Herzog, Real- Encyklop. s. v„ and the various 
names mentioned in this article in Ilerzog and this Cy- 
clopedia. See also Rationalism. 

TUBINGEN SCHOOL, Tins New. A very differ- 
ent ;era was inaugurated in the University of Tubingen 
on the appointment of F. C. Baur (q. v.) as professor 
of theology in 1820. lie began to attack the objective 
positions of Christianity through the Pauline epistles, 
selecting some of these only as authentic, and pointing 
out alleged discrepancies between them and other parts 
of the New-Test, history. His theory, which is summed 
up in his work on the apostle Paul, is, in brief, that, tak- 
ing the epistles to the Galatians, the Romans, and the 
Corinthians especially as guides, we find therein “ex- 
posed the fact that there were two parties in the early 


3 

Church, the Pauline and the Petrine. These strug- 
gled for supremacy, and the conflict was a long one. 
Peter was a thorough Jew, and his side predominated 
even after the death of the principal combatants. Ju- 
daism was the cradle of Christianity; and the latter 
was only an earnest, restless, reformatory branch of the 
former. But it was not an offshoot as yet, for Christi- 
anity was essentially Jewish all through its first histor- 
ic period. The canonical writings of the New Test., 
which constitute the chief literature of the first two 
centuries, are the literary monument of Christianity 
while it was yet undeveloped and undetached from Ju- 
daism. These writings are the medial hit) theology of 
those distant days. The Petrine party was very strong 
until the middle of the 2d century, when it was obliged 
to yield to, or rather harmonize with, t lie Pauline. 
Many’ causes contributed to bring the two factious to- 
gether. There was an absence of growth quite incom- 
patible with their respective strength. Alone, they 
were almost unable to brave the storm of persecution. 
Finally, for the sake of security and propagation, they 
laid down their weapons and united under one banner. 
From this union came the subsequent growth of Chris- 
tianity. The canonical works so much revered by the 
Church had been written in the interest of one or the 
other of these parties. Since the enmity has been de- 
stroyed, ilieir literary productions must be considered 
in tlie light of history. The Church is therefore much 
mistaken in attaching importance to the Scriptures, for 
they were written for a timeserving end, and are quite 
unworthy of the interest which we attach to them.” 

It is obvious how destructive to the essential faith 
of Christians were these positions, and yet it is wonder- 
ful that they were broached with so much assurance, 
although based upon so trivial a comparison of circum- 
stances. Nevertheless, a numerous circle of disciples 
clustered around Baur, and the)' enjoyed his leadership 
until his death, in 1800. But the writings of both the 
master and his school were quickly answered by the 
best theologians of Germany, such as 'Thiersch, Dorner, 
Leelder, Lange, Schaff, Bleek. Ilase, Bunsen, and I isch- 
endorf. Yet the effects of the insinuations, suspicions, 
and criticisms of Baur were for a long time a serious 
hindrance to the truth. The authors of the move- 
ment were disciples of the Hegelian philosophy. Their 
aim was to explain the origin of Christianity by natu- 
ral causes alone. In this endeavor they but reproduced 
in a new and ingenious form the exploded infidelity of 
a former age. And the primitive doctrine of snpranat- 
uralism was again defended by an appeal, as of old and 
ever, to facts of the inspired records and the instinctive 
convictions of humanity. Yet some of its champions 
in this contest were themselves unconsciously infected 
more or less by the insinuating influences of the new 
scepticism, and were led to make concessions which 
later and sounder theologians have seen to be unneces- 
sary and untenable. 

Meanwhile, the attack upon the fundamental doc- 
uments of Christianity was resumed in a still more vir- 
ulent form by l). F. Strauss (q. v.), on his appointment 
to the theological faculty of Tubingen in 1832, and cul- 
minated in bis famous Leben Jesn , which boldly im- 
pugns the historical truth of the Gospel itself. For the 
discussion of the controversy resulting, see Mythi- 
cal Theory. A strong reaction has long since set in 
against these negative views, even in Tubingen itself, 
so that what has recently been known as “the Tubin- 
gen theology” is likely soon to be a thing of the past. 
See Hurst, Hist, of Rationalism, p. 280 sq. ; Cook, Mon- 
day Lectures , ser. i; Fisher, Snpernat. Oriyin of Chris- 
tianity, p. xxx v. See N kolo< ; v . 

Tuch, Johann Christian Frieoricii, a Protestant 
divine ot Germany, was born Dec. 17, 1<S0(>, at Qucdlin- 
burg. Having prepared himself for the university at 
the gymnasium in Nordhausen, he went in 1N28 to 
Halle, where he attended the lectures of Gesenius. 
Here he also commenced his lectures on Oriental lan- 


TUCIIET 


574 


TUCKERMAX 


guages and Old-Test, exegesis. In 1839 tlie Zurich 
University made him Hcenl intc: t»f theology, while the 
philosophical faculty of Halle appointed him cxtraordi- , 
nary professor. In 1841 he was called tt> Leipsic. and 
was made ordinary professor in IIS Id. having shortly be- ( 
lore been honored with the doctorate by the Tiibingcn 
faculty. In 1853 he was made third professor and can- 
on of Zeitz, and died as lirst professor, April 12, 1837. 
II is main work is his learned Commentary on Genesis 
(Halle, 1838; 2d ed. 1871). He also published Cont- 
men/atinnis tie Lipsiensi Codice Ptntateuchi Syri. Munn- 
script*) Particnla / (Lips. 181ft): — Cpmmeiitatioues Geo- I 
yraphictv. Pars /, Pc Sinn Prbe A mmadrersiones tres 
(ibid. 18 In'): — Peise ties Sheikh Ibrahim el- K hi jar i <1- 
J let lent (lurch e inen 7 It < il I V i fasti n as (ibid, i860) : — Com- \ 
mentatio tie M aiaa\e>)Z? in A{)fii)\ntc, 1 Macc.ix, 2 
(ibid. 187)3): — Pie llimmelfahrt Jesn (ibid. 1857): — 
Qntestiones tie Pitt Hi .Joseph i Libris I/istoricis (ibid. 
187)1) ): — Qntest tones ele Pi aril Joseph i loco D. 
i r. 8. 2 (ibid. 18(50). See Fiirst, Jiibl. Jnd. iii. 450; 
Zuchold. D ibl. Then/, ii, 137)2: Theol. Pnirersal- Lex. \ 
s.v.; H ilgenleld,Ze/7$c///7/?, 1871, ])t. iii ; I )iestel, Gtsch. I 
d. alien Testaments in der christl. Kirc/ie , p. 013, 1548. 
730; Literarischer / lanthreiser Jiir das kathol. Peutseh- 
land , 18(17, p. 203. (I). 1’.) 

Tucher, Cimisropti Kaki. Gottliicb vox, a fa- 
mous jurist of Germany, was born May 14. 1708. at 
Nuremberg. He studied jurisprudence at Erlangen, 
Heidelberg, and Berlin, and after having occupied 
prominent positions in his profession, he died at Merlin. 
Feb. 17, 1877. lie is known as the author of the fol- 
lowing hymnologieal works: Schatz des eranyelischeu ■ 
A' irchenyrsanyes. der Melodic nnd Harmonic nach . ans 
den Quellen des HI. nnd 17. Jahrhnnderts yesch opft. etc. 
(Stutt. 1840) : — Schatz ties erttnye/ischen Kirchenr/esanys 
im 1. Jahrhundert der Reformation (Leips. 1848, 2 vols). 

(H. P.) 

Tucker, Abraham, a metaphysical writer, was 
born in London in 1705, and was educated at Bishop’s 
Stortlord School and Merton College, Oxford, lie 
studied for a while at the Inner Temple, but was not 
admitted to the bar. fie died in 1774. lie published, 
Free- trill, Pore - knoirledye. and Pate: a Prayment by 
J-Jdtrard Search (Loud. 1733. 8vo): — Man in (Juest of\ 
Himself '. or a Defence of the Indiridmdity of the Unman 
Mind or Self etc., by Cu filbert Comment , Gent. ( 1733, 
8vo). 1 1 is great work, however, is The Liyht of Nat- 

ure Pursued , by Edtcard Search (1738-78: Cambridge, 
Mass., 1831. 4 vols. 8vo, with later editions, and an 
abridgment by William llazlitt, 1807, 8 vo). See Alii- 
bone, Diet, of Jlr it. and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Tucker, Elijah W„ a Congregational minister, 
was born at Dorchester, Mass., March 31, 1810, lie 
was converted at the age of twenty, graduated at Brown 
University in 1838, and at Andover Theological Semi- 
nary in 1811, and labored at South New Market. N. II., 
in 1841 sip ; Chatham, Mass., in 1843 sq. ; Essex, 
Conn., in 18.52 : Goshen, Conn., 1853-58; Preston, Conn.. 
1858-05; and Nnrthlield, Conn., in 1835, until his death. 
Aug. 3, 18(53. M r. Tucker was a direct, earnest preach- 
er. and a sympathetic, watchful pastor. Revivals re- 
sulted from his labors in almost every field. See Cony. 
Quarterly , 1837, p. 43. 

Tucker, Elisha, D.D., a Baptist minister, was 
born at Bensselaerville, Albany County, N. V.. Dec. 24. 
1704. I!i< early education was limited. lie began to 
preach in 181(5. and was ordained pastor of (lie Baptist 
Church of C oventry, Chenango County, N. Y., Aug. 10. 
1818. Here lie continued with great success until Aug. 
12. 1822. when lie became pastor of the Church at Fre- 
donia, X. Y. lie was afterwards pastor of the First 
Baptist Clmreh in Buffalo from September, 1831, until 
October, 1833: then of die Second Baptist Church of 
Rochester, N. Y., until May. 1841; and of the Oliver 
Street Baptist Church. New York city, until 1848. In 
1851 his health became very much impaired, and he 


began travelling in the hope of improving it. but died 
Dec. 20, 1853. lie was the eldest of six brothers, tive 
of whom enteied the ministry. Dr. Tucker published 
a Sermon Delict red at Fredonia at the Ordination of 
Mr. J arins Handy (1823). See Sprague, .1 nnals of the 
A mer. Pulpit, vi, 337. 

Tucker, Josiah, D.D., a learned English divine, 
was born at Laugberne. Carmarthenshire, in 1711. He 
was educated at St.John’s College, Oxford, and in 1737 
became curate of St. Stephen's Church, Bristol, and was 
subsequently appointed minor canon in the cathedral 
of that city. On the death of Mr. Cateott, lie became 
rector of St. Stephen’s, and in 1758 was created dean of 
Gloucester. Mr. Tucker was an able advocate of the 
great political questions of the day, and was bold and 
determined in the principles which he advocated. lie 
died Nov. 4, 1733. He wrote, 1'he Fitments of Com- 
merce and Theory of Taxes (Bristol, 1753, 4to ): — Six 
Sermons (1772, 12mo): — four tracts, etc., on political 
and commercial subjects (Glouccs. 1774. 8vo): — besides 
Tretitises , etc. See Chalmers, Ditty. Piet. s. v. ; Alli- 
bone, Piet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors , s. v. 

Tucker, Levi, D.D.. a Baptist minister, w as born in 
Schoharie County, N. Y., July 3, 1804. He studied the- 
ology at the Hamilton Institution. graduated June3. 1823, 
and on the 10th of the same month was ordained pastor of 
the church at Deposit, N. Y. In the summer of 1831 he 
accepted a call to settle at Blockley (now West Phila- 
delphia), Pa., where he labored w ith great success, act- 
ing also for a while as agent of the Baptist Educational 
Society of that state, until the spring of 1833, when he 
removed to Cleveland, ( >. After remaining there seven 
/ears, he was for a while pastor of the Washington 
Street Baptist Church in Buffalo, and on Dec. 23, 1848, 
became pastor of the Bowdoin Place Church. Boston. 
His health having become greatly impaired, he re- 
signed his charge in September, 1852. and took a jour- 
ney to England, France, Italy, and Egypt, whence he 
returned in the early part of August. 1853, and died 
on the 23d of the same month. See Sprague, .1 nnals 
of the A mer. Puljtit. vi, 783. 

Tucker (or Tooker), William, D.D., a learned 
English divine of the 13th century, was born at Exeter, 
lie was educated at New College, Oxford, and was ad- 
mitted perpetual fellow in 1577. In 1585 lie was pro- 
moted to the archdeaconry of Barnstable, in Devon- 
shire. lie was eventually made chaplain to queen 
Elizabeth. Dr. Tucker afterwards became prebendary 
of Salisbury, and took bis degree of D.l). in 1534. He 
was made canon of the church at Exeter, and was in- 
stalled dean of Lichfield, Feb. 21. 1304. He died at 
Salisbury, March 13, 1320. I)r. Tucker was esteemed 
an excellent Greek and Latin scholar. He was an able 
divine, a person of great gravity and piety, and well 
read in curious and critical authors. Ilis publications 
are, Charisma, sire Rabilium Sanitation Gratia, etc, 
(Loud. 1597, 4to), a historical defence ol the power of 
royalty to cure the king’s evil : — Of the Fabric of the 
Church and Churchmen's Liriny (ibid. 1304, Svo) : — Sin- 
yulttre Certamen cunt Martino Decant) Jesn it a (ibid. 
1311. 8vo), written in defence of James I against Becan 
and Beliarrnine. See Chalmers, Ditty. Piet. s. v. ; Alli- 
bonc, Piet, of Dr it. and A mer. Authors, s. v. 

Tuckennan, Joskpii. D.D., a Unitarian minister, 
was born in Boston, Mass., Jan. 18. 1778. and graduated 
from Harvard College in 1798. After devoting himself 
to the study of theology, under Rev. Thomas Thacher 
of Dedham, he was ordained and installed as pastor in 
Chelsea, Nov. 4, 1801. While at Chelsea, bis attention 
was drawn to the temptations and necessities of sea- 
faring men, and in the winter of 1811-12 he founded 
the lirst society for the religious and moral improve- 
ment of seamen. In 1813 Mr. Tnckerman visited Eng- 
land in search ofhcaUh, but soon returned without hav- 
ing experienced much apparent advantage from his 
tour, lie resigned his charge at Chelsea in 1826, 


TUCKNEY 


575 


TUDOR STYLE 


preaehing bis farewell sermon on Nov. 1. lie imme- 
diately entered upon his work as minister at large in 
Boston, devoting himself to the visitation of the poor 
and destitute for the remainder of his life. In 1833 he 
again went to Europe, returning in the following year, 
lie died in Havana, whither he had gone for his health, 
April 20, IS 10. lie published a large number of Ser- 
vians, Letters, Fssags, etc. (1800-38). See Sprague, An- 
nals of the .1 mer. Pulpit , viii, 345. 

Tuckney, Anthony, a learned Nonconformist di- 
vine of England, was born at lvirton, Lincolnshire, in 
September, 1591). lie was matriculated at Emanuel 
College, Cambridge, at fourteen, received his degree of 
A.3I. in 1020, and was chosen fellow of his college three 
years after. In 1027 he took his degree of 15.L)., and 
became assistant to the famous vicar John Cotton, upon 
whose departure he was chosen to the vicarage. When 
the assembly of divines met at Westminster, 31 r. Tuck- 
ney was one of the two nominated for the county of 
Lincoln, and was appointed minister of St. Michael 
Querne’s, Cheapside. In 1045 he was appointed master 
of Emanuel College, hut. did not entirely reside on this 
employment until 1018, when, being chosen vice-chan- 
cellor, he removed with his family to Cambridge, and 
took his degree of D.l). the year after. In 1053 he was 
chosen master of St. John’s, and two years after regius 
professor of divinity. At the Kestoration complaints 
were made bv royalists against Mr. Tuckney. who re- 
signed both positions June 22, 1061, receiving a pension 
of T 100 per year. The rest of bis life he spent in re- 
tirement, mostly in Loudon. Although appointed com- 
missioner at the Savoy Conference, he never attended it. 
In the time of the plague he lived at Cohvich llall. near 
Nottingham, where he was troubled and confined, but 
was discharged in a few months. Upon the passage of 
the Five-mile Act he removed to Oundle. and thence 
to Warmington, Northamptonshire. After the fire of 
London ho removed to Stockerston, Leicestershire, and 
then to Tottenham, and in 1669-70 to Spitalvard, where 
he died in February. 1670. He wrote, Sermon on Jer, 
viii , 22 (Loud. 1643, 4to): — Five Sermons (1656. 12 mo) : 
— Fort g Sermons (1676, 4to), published by bis son: — 
Letters , etc. See Chalmers, Biog. Diet . s. v. ; Allibone, 
Diet . of Brit, and A mer . A utkors, s. v. 

Tudehope, Ahciiihald. a Presbyterian minister, 
was born at Paisley. Scotland, Aug. 19, 1801 : graduated 
at the University of Glasgow in April, 1822; studied 
theology at the Divinity Hall of the Belief Synod in 
Paisley; was licensed by the Kelief Presbytery of Glas- 
gow in 1828, and ordained pastor of the Church in An- 
nan, in Dumfriesshire, Scotland, Oct. 14, 1831. In 1838 
he emigrated to the United States, and became pastor 
of the Ninth Presbyterian Church, Philadelphia, where 
he remained till 1849. lie died Dec. 6, 1861. lie was 
an instructive preacher, and his sermons to children 
were specially successful efforts. See Wilson, Presb. 
I list . Almanac , 1863, p. 214. 

Tudela, Benjamin iben-Jonah) ok, the famous Jew- 
ish traveller of the 12th century, is known for his research- 
es on the state of the various colonies of the Hebrew 
people, both in the East and in the West. From 1165 
to 1173 he travelled in several countries in Europe, Asia, 
and Africa, and published his results in his J lassaoth, or 
Itinera riant of Benjamin. Among Christians the hook 
lias not been favorably received. In the first place, the 
whole of its complexion is Jewish — recording in every 
place of his arrival the census, condition, and leading 
names of his nation; scarcely ever noticing the objects 
which usually invite the attention of Gentile travellers, 
such as customs, climate, language, politics, history, etc. 
In the second place, lie commits numerous errors in 
dates and names when he does refer to Gentile history; 
and, thirdly, the farther he advances from home, the 
more wonderful are his reports concerning the numbers 
and wealth of the Jews. These considerations have in- 
duced every one of his translators to believe that he 


never quitted Spain, but made a compilation of all the 
travellers’ tales he could gather respecting foreign lands. 
On the other hand. Gibbon ( Decline , v,34N, Milman’s ed.) 
remarks, “The errors and fictions of the Jewish rabbi are 
not sufficient grounds to deny the reality of his travels.” 
In our days, however, deeper investigation has certified 
the reality of the voyage, and the actual truth of many 
of its details, which are, however, mixed up with much 
that is fabulous, and accompanied by many incredible 
tales. This curious book of travels was edited, with a 
Latin translation, by Arias Montanos at Antwerp in 
1622, and by L’Empereur at Leyden in 1633; with an 
English translation it was published in Purchas’s Pil- 
grims (Loud. 1625, ii, 1 137); by Harris, in Collection of 
I \> gages and Travels (ibid. 1744-48), i, 546-555; by 
Gerrons (ibid. 1784); by Pinkerton, in his Collection of 
1 \> gages and Travels of the World (ibid. 180 I -14), vol. v ii ; 
and in Kuhn’s Fa rig Travels in Palestine (ibid. 1848, p. 
63-126). 'fhe best edition is that of Asher, The Itinera rg 
of Rabbi Benjamin of Tudela (translated, etc. ; vol. i, bib- 
liography and translation, Loud, and Perl. 1840; vol. ii, 
notes and essays, ibid. 1841). A French translation is 
given in Kergeron, Collection de Voyages, faits princi- 
pa lenient en A sie. dans les XIP, XI IP, XI V e . et AT* 
Siecles (the Hague, 1735, 2 vols.) ; by llarratier (Amst. 
1784, 2 vols.); another transl. appeared at Paris in 1830; 
a Dutch transl. by Kara (Amst. 1666); and a German 
transl. in Jewish characters by Arbicb (Eraukf.-on-tlie-M. 
171 1). See Flirst, Bibl. Jud. i, 1 17 sq.; De’ Kossi, Dizio- 
nario Storieo, p. 321 sq. (Germ, transl.) ; Gratz, Cesch. d. 
Juden , v i, 214; Kraunsehweiger, Cesch. d. Jnden in d. 
roman. S tauten, p. 154; Dessauer, Cesch. d. Israelites p. 
289, 371-420; Just, Cesch. d. Judenth. n.s. Sekten , ii, 54; 
iii, 363; Kasnage, flistoire des Jnifs, p. 617 (Taylor’s 
transl.); Da Costa, Israel and the Gentiles , p. 283 sip; 
Lindo, History of the Jems in Spain , p. 67 ; Finn, Sephar- 
dim, p. 210 sq.; Etheridge, Introduction to Hebrew Lit- 
erature. p.259; Adams, History of the Jews (Boston, 
1812J, i, 238 sq. (K. V.) 

Tudor, Salathiel, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in Bedford County, l‘a., in 1789. Converted 
when a youth, be labored as a local preacher for eleven, 
years, and was received on trial in the Pittsburgh Con- 
ference in 1827. In 1829 his health declined; in 1830 
he was a superannuate, and he died Nov. 26 of the same 
year. As a preacher he was acceptable and useful. 
“ 11 is end was peaceful ami glorious.” JSee Minutes of 
A nnual Conferences, 1832, p. 159. 

Tudor Flower. See Trnou Style. 

Tudor Hose. A conventional representation of the 
rose, found in Third-pointed architectural work, both in 
wood and stone carvings, adopted in honor of the Tudors. 

Tudor Style. This name is used by some writers 
on Gothic architecture, hut they do not agree in the 
application of it. It is variously employed to designate 
the Perpendicular style throughout its continuance — the 
latter period of this style — and the mixed style which 
sprang up on the decline of Gothic architecture, usually 
called Elizabethan. The term is not very extensively 
used, and is most commonly understood to mean late 
Perpendicular work, and Henry VIPs Chapel at West- 
minster is looked upon as the most perfect specimen in 
this style. The Tudor Flower is a flat tlower, or leaf, 
placed upright on its stalk, much used in Perpendicular 
work, especially late in the style, in long suites as a 



TUESIILMEL 


57G 


TULU 


crest, or ornamental finishing, on cornices, etc. The ex- 1 
arnples (filler considerably in detail, but the general ef- 
cct does not vary much. — l'arker, Gloss . of A refuted. | 
s. v. 

Tliesllimel Ekueni. in Lamaism, is the name for 
one of the. seven sanctuaries which are placed upon the 
altars in front of the idol. It is a drawing, upon a gold 
background, representing an ambassador of the heaven- 
ly kingdom and also the god of the temple. 

Tuet, Esprit Ckauuk, a French ascetic author, 
was born about 1715 and died about 1787, and was the 
writer of a number of religious tracts and sermons, for 
which see Hoofer, Xour. Blog. dene rale, s. v. 

Tufa, a porous stone (called travertine when com- 
pact) found in calcareous streams, and used, from its 
lightness, in vaultings, as at Bredou and Canterbury. 

Tuff-taffeta, a kind of inferior silk used in chureh- 
liangings. 

Tuiscon, in German mythology, w r as an earth-born 
god, from w hom all Germans are said to have sprung. 1 le 
was highly esteemed by his son, man. The Druids sacri- 
ficed human beings to him. According to the accounts 
given bv C:esar, these sacrifices were made not only in 
Germany, hut throughout the whole of Gaul. Some 
hold him to be a historic person, others a personified idea. 

Tukkiyim. See Peacock. 

Tukudh Version. This version is of a very re- 
cent date; and the translation of the four gospels and 
the epistles of John into that dialect w as undertaken by 
the British and Foreign Bible Society, at the request of 
the Gluirch Missionary Society, and was made in the 
year 1872 by t he Rev. lb McDonald, who had been labor- 
ing among the people with much success. As to the dia- 
lect itself, it is spoken by a tribe of Indians on the river 
Yucon, on the confines of the Arclic region. 51 r. Mc- 
Donald, who ha's been laboring there for the last, sixteen 
years, has reduced the language to writing, and in his 
translating efforts has had the assistance of a native 
( ’hrislian. The syllabic characters which were adopted 
in the Tree version were first tried, but the unusually 
.large number of syllables in the language obliged the 
translator lo fall hack upon the Homan characters. The 
following, taken from the report t F the British and For- 
eign Bible Society for the year 1878, will be of interest 
to the student: “ The Tukudh tribe, which is often 
known by the name of Loucheux, from a peculiarity in 
the eves of some of the natives, is small, not including 
more than about, eight hundred, nearly the whole of 
whom are under Christian instruction. Their numbers, 
however, are on the increase, and it is not improbable 
that some neighboring tribes will become incorporated 
with them, and thus add considerably to the commu- 
nity. Like most, of the North American Indian tribes, 
the Tukudh Indians have among themselves certain re- 
ligions beliefs on which it is not impossible to build up 
the pure theology of the Bible. Their name Tukudh 
signifies ‘ haughty people." When the geographical 
position of Mr. McDonald’s station at Fort Macphcrson 
is considered, it will not he wondered at that these peo- 
ple are living in primitive simplicity. The edition re- 
quested is to consist of live hundred copies, and some of 
the gospels it is proposed to hind separately. The ex- 
pense of the work will he large and the readers few’; 
but w hen a language has been reduced to written form, 
and Christian men capable of translating the. Scriptures 
are available, the committee deem it a matter of clear 
duty to go forward in printing the Word of God, even 
though hut a comparatively small population may be 
benefited by their labors."’ According to the report for 
1871), about 810 copies altogether have been circulated 
among these people. (B. 1\) 

Tulclians, or Tulchan Bishops. A tulchan 
was the effigy of a calf, or rather it was a stuffed calf- 
skin, set up before a cow w hen she was milked, under 
the belief that the animal thereby yielded her milk more 


freely. The cuslom lias long been discontinued. Under 
the regent Morton, and after 1572, attempts were made 
to introduce bishops into the Presbyterian Church of 
Scotland. The men who consented to take the title had 
bound themselves, as the price of their elevation, to re- 
ceive only a small part of the revenues, the rest going 
to Morton and his lordly colleagues. “The bishop had 
the title, but my lord had the milk.” Such bishops 
were called tulclians by the people. The first tulchan 
was John Douglas, appointed to the see of St. Andrew’s. 
Patrick Adamson, w ho afterwards himself became, a tul- 
chan. said in a sermon, “There he three kinds of bishops 
— my lord bishop, my lord’s bishop, and the Lord’s bish- 
op. My lord bishop was in the papistry: mv lord's bishop 
is now, when my lord gets the. benefice, and the bishop 
serves for nothing but to make his title sure; and the 
Lord’s bishop is the true minister of the gospel.” — Eadie, 
Kerb s. Cyclop, s. v. 

Tulisso, in Prussian mythology, w T erc priests of a 
lower order, belonging to none of the three higher class- 
es of Grivaitos. Siggones, and Wurrkaites. The care of 
the sick rested with them, whom they either prepared 
for death, or sought, with their scanty knowledge, to 
cure or to alleviate their sufferings. They resided 
among the populace in villages, and were therefore not 
esteemed very much. 

Tulla Intoon and IIaltiortiin. According to the 
Finnish creed, each man bore within him from his 
birth a divine spirit, who was his inseparable compan- 
ion for life. This-spirit became more closely united to 
its subject in proportion as the latter tore himself away 
from earthly things to retire into the sanctuary of his 
soul. The magician, therefore, aspired to a transcen- 
dental ecstasy ( tulla intooii), to a great state of excite- 
ment of the soul ( tulla haltiorhin ), in which he became 
like t lie spirit dwelling in him and entirely identified 
with it. lie used artificial means, c. g. intoxicating 
drugs, in order to attain to this state of excitement. — 
Lcnormnnt, Chahheau Magic, p. 254. 

Tulloch, James, a Scotch Congregational minister, 
was the first Dissenter who settled in Scotland, lie 
was tutored by Rev. Mr. Ewing of Glasgow, and sent 
out under t lie auspices of the Society for Propagating 
the Gospel at Home. Mr. Tulloch was settled over the 
Congregational Church at Bixter in 1808, and did much 
in establishing new churches and propagating the Gos- 
pel. lie died Feb. 20, 1802. See (Loud.) Cong. Year - 
book, 1804, p. 247. 

Tully, George, an English divine, was educated 
at (Queen’s College. Oxford, and died rector of Gateside 
in 10D7. He was a zealous writer against popery, and 
was suspended for a sermon he preached and published 
in 1080. “ He was the first clergyman who suffered in 

the reign of James 11 in defence of our religion against 
popish superstition and idolatry.” He is best known as 
the author of JKscourse on the Government of the Thoughts 
(101)3-1)4, 8vo). Sec Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A flier. 
Authors, s. v. ; Hook, Eccles . Blog. s. v. 

Tully, Thomas, a learned English divine, was 
horn in the city of Carlisle July 22. 1020; he entered 
t Queen's College, Oxford, in 1034, and obtained a fellow- 
ship. In 1042 he was created A.M., and became master 
of the grammar-school at Tetbury. in Gloucestershire, 
lie afterwards returned to his college, and became a 
noted tutor and preacher there. He died Jan. 14, 1070. 

Tulu, or Tuluvu, is the ancient and proper dia- 
lect of the long narrow tract of land now called Canara, 
situated westward of Mysore, between the range of the 
Western Ghauts and the ocean. Owing to the long sub- 
jection of Canara to Karnata princes, the Karnata or 
Canarese language is now chiefly spoken by the higher 
classes in the province, while the Tulu still continues 
l he vernacular of the common people, especially in South 
( ’annra. In idiom and structure it closely resembles the 
MalayaHm language, and it is w ritten in the same char- 


TUM 


577 


TUNKERS 


actors. Fn 1834 a missionary station was established 
by the German Missionary Society at Mangalore, the 
capital of Canara. In 1844 a translation of the New 
Test, was made, which was published in 1852. See 
Bible of E eery Land , p. 144. (11. 1*.) 

Turn. Among the Egyptians the sun was consid- 
ered in each phase a different god, having its peculiar 
name, attributes, and worship. Thus the sun during 
its nocturnal existence was Turn; when it shone in the 
meridian, it was Ua; when it produced and nourished 
life, it. was venerated as Kheper. Since, according to 
the Egyptians, the night precedes the day, Turn was 
considered to have been born before Ra, and to have 
issued alone from the abyss of chaos. — Lenormant. Chal~ 
die an Magic , p. 81 sq. 

Tumanurong, in the mythology of the Marquesas, 
was a goddess who descended from heaven and was 
immediately made queen by the people, who were 
charmed by her beauty. She married the then ruling 
sovereign, and gave birth to a son, who was able to 
speak immediately after his birth. 

Tumblers, a name given to the Tunkers (q. v.) 
in ridicule of their peculiar motions while undergoing 
the rite of baptism by immersion. 

Tundley, Ralph, an English Congregational min- 
ister, was born at Alton, Staffordshire, in 171)5. He was 
converted under the influence of the Dissenters, became 
interested in Sunday-school work, and at the earnest 
solicitation of the Church at Alton he became their 
pastor and ministered to them until his death, Eeb. 22, 
1803. See (Loud.) Cong. Year-book , 18G4, p. 247. 

Tunic, or Tunicle, a term applied to several arti- 
cles of clerical dress. (1.) A dress worn by the subdea- 
con, made originally of linen, reaching to the feet, ami 
then of inferior silk, and narrower than the dalmatic of 
the deacon, with shorter and tighter sleeves, and devoid 
of the stripes or embroidery of that vestment. For some 
centuries, however, the assimilation has grown so com- 
plete as to render the slight difference between them 
almost imperceptible. Bishops wore both the tunic and 
dalmatic at pontifical mass. (2.) The parru tunica, or 
cotta, a linen habit reaching to the knees, used at all kinds 
of services by simple clerks and others; it differed from 
the rochet, in being fuller. Amalarius speaks of a blue 
tunicle of jacinth color, or subucula, worn by the bishop 
(Rupert says under the chasuble) as emblematical of the 
seamless robe of Christ. (3.) A dress worn by monks. — 
Walcott, Sac. A rchteol. s. v. See Coa t. 

Tunicle-ball, a ball of crystal to which tassels 
were attached, hanging from the shoulders of meduvval 
dalmatics. 

Tunicle-chest, a chest for holding the tunic and 
dalmatic, and differing in shape from those chests 
which contained the copes and chasubles of a sacristy. 
— Lee, Gloss, of Liturg. Terms , s. v. 

Tunis, Jewish Mission at. As early as the year 
1833, the London Society for the Propagation of the 
Gospel among the Jews commenced missionary oper- 
ations in Tunis. The first missionary to that place 
was the late Rev. I)r. F. C. Ewald, who arrived 
there June 30. lie found a Jewish population from 
30,000 to 40,000, all living in their own quarter. There 
was also a large number of Roman Catholics, who had 
their own church and convent, a Greek community with 
church and priest, and about, fifty Protestants without 
the means of grace. Mr. Ewald at once commenced 
divine service, which was attended by almost every 
Protestant. The Jews being accessible in that place, 
opportunities were afforded to the missionary to preach 
unto them the word of God. The Bible in Hebrew 
was eagerly sought after and bought by them, and thus 
the work could be carried on. In 1855 Mr. Page, who 
succeeded Dr. Ewald, established a school there, which 
proved a great success. Owing, however, to the removal 
by cholera of Mr. Page from the scene of his labors, rais- 
X.-Oo 


sionary operations had to be suspended for a time, to be 
resumed again in 1800 by the Rev. Mr. Fenner. In 
July, 1801, a school was opened for Jewish boys with 
six scholars, whose number had increased by the close 
of the year to ninety-nine, all Jewish youths from seven 
to eighteen years of age. In 1802 a girls’ school was 
established through the benevolence of a Christian lady 
in the north of England. Since that time missionary 
operations have been carried on there regularly, and in 
spite of the efforts made by the Israelitish Alliance to 
counterbalance the work of the mission, there were 100 
boys and 305 girls in attendance at the mission schools 
during the year 1878-79. Since 1802, 1000 girls and 
900 boys have passed through the schools. The popu- 
larity of these schools mav be best, seen from the fact 
that a notice of the opening of the mission-schools after 
the summer vacation was put up in the principal syna- 
gogues of Tunis. In connection with the two day- 
schools, Sunday-schools have also been opened there of 
late, besides a night-school which seems very promis- 
ing. Some years ago the society built a chapel, where 
the Protestant community of Tunis is now gathered 
regularly for divine service, and where the sacraments 
arc administered. According to the last report for the 
year 1879, there were fourteen persons engaged at this 
station, viz. two ordained ministers, a colporteur and 
depositary, a schoolmaster, four assistants, a schoolmis- 
tress and four assistants. (B. P.) 

Tunkers (Germ, t unken , “to dip”), a sect of Ger- 
man-American Baptists, called by themselves Brethren. 
Their name is sometimes erroneously spelled Bunkers. 
The sect is said to have been founded by Alexander 
Mack at Schwarzenau, Westphalia, in 1708. Driven 
from Germany, some of them emigrated to America in 
1719, and settled in Pennsylvania. They formed a set- 
tlement at Ephrata, Lancaster Co., under the director- 
ship of Conrad Peysel. Here they built a town in the 
form of a triangle, the houses being three stories in 
height, and each of them a kind of monastery. They 
dressed much in the style of monks and nuns, men and 
women lived in different houses, and they used a vege- 
table diet, practicing considerable mortification. Al- 
though marriage was not forbidden, when couples mar- 
ried they were required to remove from Ephrata. They 
subsequently settled in Ohio, Indiana, Maryland, Vir- 
ginia, and several other states. Their doctrines are 
similar to those of the Mennonites (q. v.), and in dress 
and manners they resemble the Friends. They use the 
kiss of charity, feet-washing, laying-on of hands, anoint- 
ing the sick with oil ; are opposed to war, and will not 
engage in lawsuits. They hold love-feasts, ami an an- 
nual meeting about Whitsuntide, which is attended by 
their bishops, teachers, and representatives chosen by 
the congregations. Universal redemption, though not 
an article of faith, is commonly held by them. Some 
of them are strict Sabbatarians, observing Saturday as 
their (lav of rest. They oppose statistics, which they 
believe to savor of pride, and, therefore, trustworthy 
statements as to their numbers cannot be given; they 
are supposed to number about 1 00,000. By reason of 
their quiet and peaceable lives they have retained a 
name which w r as given to them at first, that of "The 
Harmless People.” 

For the denomination there are now published four 
weekly papers — the Primitive Christian, the Gospel 
Preacher , the Brethren at ITorF, and the Progressive 
Christian. This last is published at Berlin, Pa., by the 
liberals among the Brethren or Tunkers; and its posi- 
tion is defined (in the Independent of May 8, 1879) as 
follows : 

“We are in full accord with the Church on all Gospel 
doctrines and practices; but do not believe in any tradi- 
tion as being worthy of comparison with a divine injunc- 
tion. In fact, we do not regard a custom one hundred <>r 
five hundred years old, whether it originated in the Church 
nr in the world, as possessing any claims upon the aiten- 
tion of Bible Christians. We believe in “nonconformity 
to the world” from all its sinful practices; bnt we hold 


TUN NELL 


578 


TUI IB AX 


that the earth is the Lord’s .and. the fulness thereof, and 
that the inventions and discoveries of man are simply the 
products of the wisdom of God, and should he applied by 
the Christian to the glorifying of his name. We believe 
that the time now is when* we shall neither in the garb of 
a hundred years ago nor in the style of the present nee 
worship the Father; blit when the true worshippers shall 
worship him in spirit and in truth. Wc believe in self- 
denial, but not in stoicism; we advocate close communion, 
but not exclusiveness. In short, we bold that the Word 
of God is our perfect law, which if we obey we do well.” 
See Hap l ists. Germ an. 

Timnell, John, an early Methodist minister, was 
about thirteen years in the work of the ministry; was 
elected to the office of an eider at the Christmas Con- 
ference in 1784; travelled extensively throughout the 
l nited States; was for. years the leader of a pioneer 
hand of preachers among the llolston mountains; and 
died in great peace near Sweet Springs, Va.. in July, 
1700. He was buried by Asbury among the Alleghany 
heights, a martyr to his work. lie was a man of solid 
piety, great simplicity, and godly sincerity : well known 
and much esteemed both by ministers and people lor 
his indefatigable labors, and his commanding talents as 
a ]) readier. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , i, 37 ; 
Hangs. Hist, of the M. E. Church, i. 310; Stevens, Hist . 
of the M. E. church , ii, 34, 38, 39, 43, 53, 99, 272, 297, 490, 

Tunstall (or Tonstall), Cuthbert, a learned 
Romish prelate, was horn at Hntchford, near Richmond, 
Yorkshire, about 1474. lie entered Haliol College, Ox- 
ford, about 1191, hut subsequently went to Cambridge 
and became a fellow of King’s Hall. He afterwards went 
to Padua and took the degree of LL.I). On his return 
to England, archbishop Warham constituted him vicar- 
general, August, 1511, recommended him to Henry VI 11, 
and in December of the same year collated him to the 
rectory of llarrow-on-the-hill, Middlesex, which he held 
till 1522, In 1514 he was installed prebendary of Stow- 
longa, Church of Lincoln, and in the following year ad- 
mitted archdeacon ol'Chester. lie was made master of 
the rolls in 1516. Serving as an ambassador to emperor 
Charles Y, lie was rewarded on his return (prob. 1519) 
hv a series of preferments. In 1519 he was made preb- 
endary of Bontevant,. Church of York; in May, 1521, 
prebendary of Combe and lloruham, Church of Sarum, 
and dean of Salisbury, lie was promoted to the bish- 
opric of Londou in 1522.: was made keeper of the privy 
seal in 1523; and in 1525 he and Sir Richard Wingfield 
went as ambassadors to Spain, In July, 1527, Tunstall 
attended cardinal WoLsev on his embassy to France, and 
in 1529 was oue of the English ambassadors employed 
to negotiate the treaty of Cambrav. On his return he 
exerted himself to suppress Tvndale’s edition of the 
New Test, In 1530 he was translated to the bishopric 
of Durham, where he laid out large sums in improving 
his episcopal houses.. At first Tunstall favored the di- 
vorce of Henry YllI, but afterwards espoused the cause of 
the queen. When Henry took the title of supreme head 
of the Churchy Tunstall recommended this course in his 
injunctions and in a sermon preached at Durham,. He 
also vindicated the king’s supremacy in 1533, in a ser- 
mon preached before the king on Palm-Sunday. In 
1535 he was one of the commissioners for taking the 
valuation of ecclesiastical benefices, and in 1538 was ap- 
pointed to confer about the Reformation with the Ger- 
man ambassadors. A new edition of the English Hihle 
was revised by him and Nicholas Heath, bishop of 
Rochester, in 1541. In December, 1551, he was com- 
mitted to the Tower on a charge of misprision of trea- 
son, and although the bill was thrown out bv the House 
of Commons, he was brought before a commission (con- 
sisting of the chief-justice of the king’s bench and six 
others) and deprived of his bishopric. He continued a 
prisoner in the Tower during the remainder of Edward’s 
reign. On the accession of Mary, in 1553, Tunstall was 
restored to his bishopric, hut, on account of his mild 
treatment of the Protestants, was again deprived, July, 
1559. lie was committed to the custody of Parker, 
then in possession of Lambeth Palace, who treated him 


in a very friendly and respectful manner, until he died, 
Nov. 18, 1559. Tunstall was opposed to making trau- 
substantiation an article of faith, and also held the doc- 
trine of justification by faith only. His principal writ- 
ings are, In La u Jem Matrimonii (Lond. 1518, 4to): — l.'e 
Arte Supputandi (Lond. 1522, 4to ): — Sermon on Roy id 
Supremacy (Lond. 1539, 4to): — Confutatio , etc, (Paris, 
1522, 4 to ): — lie Yeritute Corporis et Sanguinis liomii.i 
Jesu Christi in Kucharistin (Lutct. 1554, 4 to) :■ — ( 'on, - 
pend in ui in Decent Libras Ethicorvm Aristotelis (Pari.-. 
1554, 8vo ) : — Contra Tmpios Blasphematores l)ei Pra- 
destinutionis (Antwerp. 1555, 4to) : — Godly and Devout 
Prayers in English and 1 Ait in, etc. (1558, 8 vo). See 
Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
, 1 mer. .1 uthors , s. v. 

Tunstall, James, D.I>., an English divine, was 
horn about 1710, and educated at St.John’s College, 
Cambridge, of which he afterwards became fellow and 
tutor. Jn 1739 he obtained t he rectory of Stunner, Es- 
sex, and two years later was elected public orator of the 
university, and was appointed chaplain to Potter, arch- 
bishop of Canterbury. In 1744 he was created D.D. at. 
Cambridge; was afterwards collated to the rectory of 
Great Chart, Kent, and to the vicarage of Minster, Isle 
of Thanet; both of which he resigned in 1757 for the 
valuable vicarage of Rochdale, Lancashire, where he re- 
mained until his death, March 28, 1772. 1 1 is writings 

are, Epistolu ad 1 drum Eruditum Conyers Middleton , etc. 
(Camb. 1741, 8vo ) : — Observations on the Present Collec- 
tion of Epistles between Cicero and Brutus: — Sermon be- 
fore the House of Commons (May 29, 1746): — Vindica- 
tion of the Power of the State to Prohibit Clandestine. 
Marriages, etc. (1755 ) : — M arriage in Society Stated, etc. 
(1755 ): — Lectures on Natural and Revealed Religion 
(published after his death, in 4to). See Chalmers, Biog. 
Diet. s. v. ; English Cyclop, s. v. 

Tuonela was, according to I he Finnish belief, the 
river of the country of the dead.— Lenormant, Chald. 
Magic, p. 258. 

Tuoni, was the father of Kivutar, or Kipu-tvpo, the 
Finnish goddess of diseases. — Lenormant, Chald. Magic , 
p. 259. 

Tuquoa, in the mythology of the Hottentots, is 
the evil spirit causing harm and misery, lor whom nu- 
merous sacrifices are offered for the purpose of relieving 
the Hottentots, whom he is said to persecute. 

Tura (or Tuna), Cosimo (Cositu'e da Ferrara), an 
Italian painter, was born at Ferrara in 1406. lie was 
a disciple of Galasso Galassi, and was court-painter in the 
time of the duke Horso d’ Este. He died in 1469. Tura 
worked both in oil and fresco, and painted in the dry, 
Gothic style then prevailing. Among his paintings 
are, Annunciation and Nativity, in the cathedral : — Acts 
of St. Eustace , Monastery of San Guglielmo: — Virgin and 
Saints , Church of San Giovanni : — Christ Praying in the 
Garden, at the Cappuccini : — Madonna with Saints, Rcr- 
lin Museum. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of Fine A rts, s. v. 

Turban. Though it is presumable that in a cli- 
mate like that of Palestine the inhabitants did not ex- 
pose themselves to the cold of winter or the. heats of 
summer without, some covering for the head, there is 
no certain evidence that any such was in common use. 
l’he Hebrews have several words by which articles of 
head-dress are designated, hut they all apparently' be- 
long to coverings which were either ollicial or merely 
ornamental, with the exception of those used by the 
military. 

In the Pentateuch two kinds of head-coverings are 
mentioned as forming part of the priest’s dress, the 
of the high-priest, and the iTV2*\'2 of th£ com- 
mon priests; the former of which was probably a sort 
of tiara, while the latter may have been a turban, hut 
was more probably a high cap of a flower-like shape, 
such as are found among Orientals in the present day 
(Hiilir, Symbolik des mos. Cult, ii, 66). As these head- 


TURCHI 


5*79 


TURIN, COUNCIL OP 


coverings (A. V. “bonnets”) were expressly designed 
for “glory and for beauty” (Exod. xxviii,4U), they ev- 
idently give us no idea of what was commonly worn on 
the head by the people. In the ceremony prescribed 
for the drinking of t he waters of jealousy, the priest is 
directed to loosen (“IE) the woman’s head — i. e. to let 
her hair fall down loosely (Numb. v. 18); and in the 
law concerning the leper it is prescribed that his head 
shall be loosened (21“E); phraseology which seems to 
indicate that it was customary in the Mosaic times to 
hind the hair with a band or fillet, such as we see rep- 
resented on the Egyptian and Assyrian monuments. 
On the other hand, from the stress that is laid in the 
law concerning the Nazarite on his suffering his locks 
to grow, and on his hair thus abundantly grown being 
the crown of God on him (Lev. xiii, 45), it seems fair 
to infer that the cropping of the hair, and perhaps also 
the shaving of the head and the wearing of some cov- 
ering (it may be of artificial hair, as among the Egyp- 
tians), was common among the people. 

In the other books the terms which occur designating 
head-dress, besides those which are regal, such as "iT3 
and [see Crown], and those which are military 

[see Armor], are the following: 

1. rp3'J, tsaniph. This term occurs three times in 
the Old Test. (Job xxix, 11: Isa. Ixii, 3; Zech. iii, 5). 
In all these cases the usage of the word shows that it 
refers, not to an ordinary article of dress, but to one 
which was ornamental and for display. It was prob- 
ably a turban, the word being derived from to roll 
round or wind. Schroder (I)e I 'est. Muller, I/eb. p. 3G4) 
endeavors to prove from the Arabic that this word 
means a narrow strip wound round the head; but his 
instances only prove that the Arabic tsinf and tsinfa 
denote a small band, or the hem of a garment. In Isa. 
iii, 22 the fern, tsemphdh is used of a female head-dress 
worn for ornament. 


ed some- altar-pieces and other pictures for the church- 
es, the most esteemed of which are in the Church of La 
Coneezioue. Among his other principal works at Home 
are. The Flight into Egypt, in San Iiomualdo; The lloly 
Family , in San Lorenzo ; and St. Carlo Borromeo , in San 
Salvatore. There are also to be noticed his Passion of 
the Forty Martyrs, in San Stefano ; and his Piet a at La 
jM isericordia. See Spooner, Blog. Hist, of Fine A ?‘ts, s. v. 

Turck, Anthony, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was a native of New York State, and of Dutch descent, 
lie was received into the travelling connection in 1793; 
“a holy and devout man, indefatigable and successful 
in his labors, subject to great afflictions, temptations, 
and trials,” but with “ increasing sweetness in commun- 
ion with God” towards his end, and victory in death, 
lie died March 13, 1803. See Minutes of Annual Con - 
ferences , i, 109. 

Turibio (Tumulus'), St., is said to have been born 
Nov. 16, 1538, of good family. Every Christian per- 
fection distinguished him in early youth. He was ed- 
ucated at Valladolid and Salamanca, was made presi- 
dent of Granada bv Philip II, and subsequently became 
archbishop of Lima, in South America, though still a 
layman. He was consecrated in 1581, and proceeded 
to initiate an excellent administration, during which 
he founded hospitals, seminaries, and churches, ordered 
diocesan and provincial synods, travelled in the execu- 
tion of his duties over the entire country, and displayed 
great devotion during a contagious pestilence. He is 
credited with the miraculous cure of several persons 
who were sick, ami with at least one successful raising 
of the ilead to life, lie died at Santa, Nov. 23, 1606. 
It is said that his body was brought, undecayed, to 
Lima after a whole year had passed since his decease, 
and that it continued to work miracles. He was ac- 
cordingly beatified in 1679 by Innocent XL and canon- 
ized by Benedict XIII in 1726. See Wetzer u. Weltc, 
Kirchen-Lex . xi, 330; Herzog, Real- Enryklop. s. v. 


2. "i>SE, peer. This word is used of the head-dress 
of distinguished persons, both male and female (Isa, iii, 
20; 1x1,3,10; Ezek. xxiv, 17, 23; xliv. 18). In Exod. 
xxxix, 28 it is used of the priest’s head-dress, as also 
in Ezek. xliv, 18. In all the other instances it indi- 
cates an article of holiday costume. Saalschiitz sug- 
gests that the pier was probably the hat or bonnet, 
properly so called, and the tsaniph the ornamental head- 
band wrapped round it. 

3. tsephirdth , from “iEI£, to circle, a circlet or 
diadem (Isa. xxviii, 5) ; or it may have been a piece of 
fine muslin wound round the turban for ornament, such 
as the Orientals still use. 

4. rr)P, Hr ydh (Prov. i, 9; iv, 9). Some regard this 
as a species of fillet by which the head was bound; but 
it probably means rather a garland or wreath (4' flowers. 

The examination of these terms has failed to convey 
to us any information respecting the ordinary every-day 
costume for the head of the Hebrew people. Probably 
they were wont simply to throw some part of their 
dress over their heads when they had occasion to .ex- 
pose themselves to the weather, or to fold a piece of 
cloth over their heads, as do the Arabs of the present 
day, reserving such articles as those above named for 
holiday or festive occasions (Jahn, Bibfische A rchdolo- 
gie\ I, ii, 2, p. 116; Saalschiitz, Arch, der Ilebr. ii, 22). 
— Kit to. See Head-dress. 

Turchi, Alessandro, called Veronese , also V Orbetto , 
an Italian painter, was born at A’erona (according to Poz- j 
zo) about 1578. When a lad his talent was recognised by 
Pelice Iliccio, who took him into his study, and cart ful- j 
Iv instructed him. Leaving Rieeio, lie went to Venice, 
where he studied with Carlo Cagliari, and then proceed- 
ed to Home. Here he made his home until his death, 
in 1648. Turchi excelled in the choice and distribution 
of his colors, among which he introduced a reddish tint } 
which much enlivens his pictures. At Home he paint- 


Turin, Council of ( Concilium Turinense), was held 
at Turin, Italy, in 398, or, according to others, in 401, 
to settle certain differences which had arisen among 
the Gallican prelates. The bishops of the province of 
Aix, Proculus of Marseilles, Simplicius of Vienne, and 
the bishop of Arles were present. As Turin was at that 
time under the metropolitan of Milan, it is conjectured 
that Simplicianus of Milan convoked it. 

1. The first question settled in the council was that 
of Proculus of Marseilles, who (although that see was 
not in the province) desired to be recognised as metro- 
politan of the province of Narbonne. The council, for 
the sake of peace, granted to Proculus personally, but. 
not to his see. the right of primacy which he claimed, 
declaring, however, that after his death the metropoli- 
tan should be a bishop of the province itself. 

2. The council took into consideration the differences 
between the archbishops of Arles and Vienne, who both 
pretended to the primacy of Viennese Gaul. The de- 
cision was that lie of the two who could prove his city 
to be the metropolis of the province as to civil matters 
should be considered as the lawful metropolitan, and in 
the meantime they were exhorted to live in peace. 

3. The excuses of the bishops Octavius, Ursion, He- 
migius, and Triferius were considered. These prelates 
were accused of having conferred orders irregularly and 
nucanonically. The council decided that, in this case, 
indulgence should be granted to the four bishops; but. 
that, in future, any bishops so violating the ancient de- 
crees of the Church should he deprived of the right of 
ordaining, and of all voice in synodical assemblies; and 
that those who should he so ordained should be de- 
posed. This canon was confirmed in the Council of 
Hiez, A. D. 439. 

Several other regulations relating to the affairs of the 
Church were also made, and eight canons in all pub- 
lished. See Mansi, Concil. ii, 1155. — Landon, Manual of 
Councils, s. v. 


TURKEY 


580 


TURKEY 


Turkey is the largest Mohammedan empire of the 
world, containing extensive possessions in Eastern Eu- 
rope, Western Asia, and Northern Africa. Including the 
provinces in Europe and Africa which are virtually in- 
dependent, and only pay an annual tribute to the Turk- 
ish government, the Turkish empire, in IMHO, had an 
area of 2,302,000 square miles, and 47,000,000 inhabi- 
tants. In consequence of the treaty of Merlin in 1H7H, 
Turkey had to recognise the entire independence of 
Roumania and Servia, and to consent to the occupation 
of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the government of Aus- 
tria. Moreover, Bulgaria and Eastern Koumelia have 
become virtually independent of Turkish rule, leaving 
to the Turkish government only a small territory in 
Europe which is fully under its control. In Africa, 
Egypt and Tunis are likewise independent in point of 
administration. Deducting the dependencies, the Turk- 
ish government, at present rules over a territory of 
1,043,000 square miles, with a population of 23,500,000. 
In June, 1880, the Supplementary Conference at Berlin 
declared that in order to carry out the provisions of the 
treaty of Berlin concerning the rectification of the fron- 
tier between Turkey and Greece. Turkey ought to cede 
to Greece a territory containing about 8292 square miles 
and 400.000 inhabitants. 

[.Vote by the ftd iter.— For the purpose of enabling our 
readers to understand more fully the present complicated 
boundaries of Turkey, we insert a map based upon the 
one recently issued by Stanford, of Charing Cross, Lon- 
don. It will be perceived that, in consequence of the 
late Russo-Turkisb war, Turkey has lost lar more than 


half her European possessions, which are to he hounded 
henceforth by the Balkan Mountains instead of the 
River Save and the eastern Carpathian chain. Rouma- 
nia, Bulgaria, Servia, Bosnia, amt Montenegro are whol- 
ly severed from her. Bulgaria has hist n slice of her 
territory on the west, given to Servia, and another on the 
north-east, given to Ronmauia. Montenegro has gained 
a piece on the north-west from Bosnia, and another on 
the south-east from Turkey. Bosnia, including the part 
ofCroatia formerly in Turkey, together with Herzegovina, 
has been occupied by Austria, and is not likely to be re- 
stored to Turkey. Greece gains a part, of Albania and 
Thessaly ; and Russia that part of Roumania (bounded 
by the Drill h and the Danube) adjoining Bessarabia 
(which she already held). In Asia Russia also acquires a 
district of Armenia adjoining Rut uin. Besides, there is 
created a quasi-independent district of Eastern Roume- 
lia, within the above narrowed limits of Turkey. 'Turkey 
in Europe virtually now consists merely of a part of 
Koumelia and a part of Albania. The interior changes 
in territory and population made by the Berlin treaty are 
stated as follows in the London A them rum. Estimates 
of other statisticians vary considerably from these figures. 


Ceded to Roumania 

Ceded to Servia 

I Ceded to Montenegro 

Ceded to Austria ... 

Ceded to Greece (?) 

To be occupied and administered 

by Austria 

Formed into the principality of 

Bulgaria 

Included in Eastern Rmimelia.. 




6,y3fti 

4,320 

1,540 

15 

5,300; 

28,125 


240,000 1 42, » till) 1 
264, OOrt 75,000 


24,404 

13,640 


40/(00 

2,000 

750.000 

1,061,000 

1,773,000 

740.000 


0,000 
40,000 
51 3,000 ! 


081,500 


205,000) 


Roumania, in exchange for the territory ceded, is called 
upon to surrender 3270 square miles, with 140,000 inhabi- 



Mnp of Turkey in Europe, showing the Territorial Changes made by the Treaty of Berlin. 


TURKEY 


581 


TURKEY 


tants, to Russia. If we exclude the provinces “ indefinite- 
ly” to be occupied by Austria, and Eastern Roumelia, 
there remain to Tu:key in Europe only 74,7t>0 square 
miles, with 4,77y,iHiO inhabitants, of whom 1,521,500 are 
Mohammedans. In Armenia Russia takes 10,000 square 
miles, with about 350,000 inhabitants. Cyprus, intrusted 
to the keeping of England, has an area of 228$ square 
miles, and about 150,000 inhabitants. Many of these ac- 
cessions, however, are already the fruitful source of con- 
tention, and some of them will probably have to be taken 
possession of by force of arms. Greece is at the present 
moment (Aug. 1SS0) preparing to tlo so for her share. It 
is impossible now to predict what the issue will be.] 

The former volumes of this Cyclopaedia have special 
articles on Bulgaria, Egypt, Koum ama, Servia ; and 
on some of the Eastern Churches which are wholly or 
chiefly found in Turkey, as the Jacobites. Nestorians, 
and Maronites. In the present article, after giving- 
such preliminary information of a general character as 
the intense interest at present prevailing on the Oriental 
question seems to demand, we treat, more particularly, 
of the religions of Turkey proper, so far as they have 
not vet been discussed in the special articles which have 
just been referred to. 

I. Geographical and Ethnological Features. — The 
geographical position of the Turkish empire is peculiar, 
and would, under a strong government, be most advan- 
tageous. It connects Europe with Asia, Asia with Afri- 
ca, the East with the West, t he Mohammedan with the 
Christian world. It has an extensive seacoast, which 
is indented by numerous gulfs and bays, and embraces 
many excellent harbors. Some parts of this coast were 
in former times the seat of a very flourishing commerce, 
which would undoubtedly be revived under favorable 
circumstances. Almost the entire territory which is 
subject to direct Turkish ride is noted for its fertility : 
but Turkish misrule has uot only arrested, but dimin- 
ished, its productiveness. By far the greater portion of 
the Turkish possessions is situated in Asia. The Euro- 
pean possessions have always been much smaller, but as 
they contained the capital and seat of government, they 
have hitherto been of much greater political impor- 
tance. This importance lias, however, of late been 
greatl} T reduced by the territorial losses which Turkey 
lias sustained by the last Eastern war and the treaty 
of Berlin. The African part of the Turkish empire con- 
sists almost wholly of tributary states; and the farther 
the territory of one of these states, Egypt, is extended, 
the smaller becomes the hold the Turkish government 
has on it. Although ruling over portions of Europe, 
Asia, and Africa, Turkey is really an Asiatic power. 

While the Turks aie the ruling race of the em- 
pire, they constitute a majority of the total population 
only in the Asiatic possessions. Even Asiatic Turkey 
can hardly be said to be an Ottoman land, for the bulk 
of the people are descendants of the old Seljukian 
Turks who have been subjected by the Ottoman Turks. 
In the African dependencies the Turks are hardly rep- 
resented at all, and in Europe they are almost every- 
where in a minority. According to an elaborate article 
on the ethnographical relations of Turkey in Beter- 
mann’s Geogruphische Mittheilungen , 1870, No. 7, the. 
Turks are to be found as a compact population only in 
three sanjaks, those of Rustchuk, Tulcha, and Varna. 
These three sanjaks formed part of the vilayet of the 
Danube. They are less numerous in the Rhodope 
Mountains. On the shores of the /Egean Sea and the 
Sea of Marmora, and on the south-east shore of the 
Black Sea, they are greatly outnumbered by the Greeks, 
especially in t lie direction of Constantinople. It is a 
remarkable fact that all the sanjaks which contain the 
most compact Turkish population are now subject to 
the semi-independent prince of Christian Bulgaria and 
to the Christian governor of the autonomous province 
of Eastern Ronmelia. The aggregate number of the 
Osmanli Turks in Europe, including Bulgaria, Eastern 
Ronmelia, Bosnia, and Herzegovina, is estimated at 
about 2,000,000. Exclusive of these provinces, over 
which the authority of the sultan is not likely to be 


| ever restored, the number of Osmanlis will barely reach 
1,000.000 in a total population of about 5,000,000. In 
Asia the Turkish race is supposed to number more than 
8,500,000 of a total population of 17,000,000; but this 
number embraces many old tribes who have been totally, 
absorbed and merged in the Turks. The Turcomans, 
who live chietly in Northern Mesopotamia, and number 
about 100,000, belong to the same race as the Turks. 

Up to the time of the late Eastern war, the bulk of 
the population in the European dominions ol Turkey 
was made up of live non-Turkish tribes — Roumanians, 
Servians, Bulgarians, Greeks, and Albanians. The Rou- 
manians, who chiefly inhabit the principality of Rouma- 
uia, where they number about 5,000,000, have long been 
semi-independent of Turkey, and became entirely inde- 
pendent bv the treaty of Berlin. Only about 200,000 
remain subject to Turkish rule. Outside of Roumania 
and Turkey, Austria lias a Roumanian population ex- 
ceeding three millions. West and south of the Rou- 
manians we find two branches of the Slavic race, the 
Servians and the Bulgarians. The Servians embrace 
the inhabitants of the principalities of Servia and Mon- 
tenegro, and of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Both Mon- 
tenegro (q. v.) and Servia (q. v.) are now independent 
states; Bosnia and Herzegovina have been placed under 
Austrian administration, and are likely to become soon 
a part of the Austrian empire. In Bosnia, the landed 
aristocracy, after the conquest of the country by the 
Turks, became Mohammedans, in order to save their 
property and their privileges, but they continue to speak 
the Servian language. Outside of the present and for- 
mer dominions of the sultan, Austria has a Servian pop- 
ulation of about. 4,500,000, called Croatians, Slavonians, 
Dalmatians, and Slovenians. The large majority of the 
Servians belong to the Greek Oriental Church; but in 
Austria and in Bosnia there is also a large Roman Cath- 
olic element. According to a recent work by Klaic on 
Bosnia (Agram, 1878), written in the Croatian language, 
the population of Bosnia is divided, as regards the re- 
ligious denominations, into — Orthodox Greek Church, 
04(1,078, or 4K.4 per cent.; Mohammedans, 480,590, or 
35.9 per cent.; Roman Catholics, 207,119, or 15.5 per 
cent.; and Jews, 3000, or .2 per cent.; but in regard to 
race, 1,291,393 of this population are Slaves, only 2000 
Osmanli lurks, 30,000 Albanians, and 11,000 gypsies. 
Ihe Servians of all the different denominations in Aus- 
tria and the former Turkish dominions are only now 
awakening to the full significance of the fact, that their 
common language makes them joint members of one 
nationality, and a strong movement towards uniting at 
some future time all these members into one state has 
set in. Although the Mohammedan Bosnians are strong- 
ly opposed to this union movement, as well as to the an- 
nexation of their province to Austria, the rule of the 
Osmanli Turks over the Servian nationality may be 
said to be at an end. 

The second Slavic race of European Turkey is the 
Bulgarians. They occupy the country south of the 
Danube, their southern ethnic boundary being a line 
passing through the towns of Nissa, Prisrend, Ochrida, 
Kastoria, Niagostos, Salonica, Adrianople, and Burgas, 
on the Black Sea. The number of Bulgarians is esti- 
mated at from three to four millions. After four cen- 
turies and a half of oppression, they were considered at 
t lie beginning of the 19th century the most wretched 
people of Europe. Then a marvellous awakening be- 
gan. See Bulgaria. In spite of all oppression, they 
laid the foundation of a national system of education, 
and re-established the independence of their national 
Church. The treaty of San Stefano, March 3, 1878, 
between Russia and Turkey, provided lor the establish- 
ment of Bulgaria as a tributary Ottoman principality 
and a national militia. The principality thus consti- 
tuted would have extended from the boundaries of Ser- 
via and Albania to the Black Sea, and from the Danube 
nearly to the /Egean Sea, taking in about fifty miles of 
the /Egean coast. It would have included all the pre- 


TURKEY 


582 


TURKEY 


dominantly Bulgarian districts, both north and south 
of the Balkans, containing an aggregate oi'79,400 square | 
miles and an estimated population of between five and 
live and a half millions. But although the Bulgarians | 
would have been the dominant race, a considerable 
number of Turks, Servians, and Greeks would have i 
been merged in the Bulgarian majority. The treaty 
of Berlin of July 13, 1878, greatly mollified this plan. 
The tributary principality of Bulgaria, as constituted I 
l) v it, contains only 33,000 square miles and about 

1.800.000 inhabitants. The Bulgarian districts south 
of the Balkans were constituted as the autonomous 
province of Eastern Boumelia, the governor of which | 
must be a Christian, but is appointed by tbe Turkish 
government with the consent of the treaty powers. 
Eastern Boumelia has about 13.664 square miles and 

8.30.000 inhabitants, of whom about 600,000 are Bulga- 
rians, 150,000 (Ireeks, and 70,000 Turks. The aggre- 
gate population of Bulgaria and Eastern Boumelia 
reaches about 3,000, 0(H), of whom fully 2,500,000 are 
Bulgarians, and the remainder mostly Turks and Creeks. 
The Mohammedan population is estimated at from 

800.000 to 950,000. but fully two thirds of them are of 
Bulgarian descent. The Bulgarians, generally, were 
greatly dissatisfied with the provisions of the treaty 
of Berlin, and a strong movement began at once for a 
reunion of Bulgaria and Eastern Boumelia, which can 
hardly fail to be ere long successful, and result in the 
emancipation of the entire Bulgarian population from 
Turkish rule. 

The (ireeks, or Hellenes, have a numerical preponder- 
ance in the southern part of European Turkey, especial- 
ly in Thessaly, Epirus, Southern Macedonia, and the 
islands, the most important of which is Crete. They 
are the most civilized among the Christian races of 
Turkey. Their number is estimated at about 1,000.000 
i:i European and 1,000,000 in Asiatic Turkey. The 
people of the predominantly Creek districts expressed 
during the late civil war a desire to be annexed to the 
'kingdom of Creece, and the government of that king- 
dom made in January, 1879, an attempt to occupy these 
districts. The attempt had, however, to be abandoned 
at the request of the great powers. The Congress of 
Berlin expressed a desire that the frontier between 
Greece and Turkey should be rectified to the advantage 
of the former power, and offered the mediation of the 
great powers in case Turkey and Greece should be un- 
able to agree. As this agreement was not reached, the 
supplementary congress held in Berlin in June, 1880, 
designated the new frontier between the two states. In 
Asia, the (ireeks are fast occupying the seaports and 
coast of Asia Minor, from which the Turks are steadily 
retiring before them, and it is believed by many that a 
vigorous Creek kingdom in Europe would soon find a 
legitimate field of expansion along the coast of Asia no 
loss than that of Europe. 

The Albanians occupy the coy n try south of the Ser- 
vians and Bulgarians, and north of the (ireeks. Their 
number is estimated at from 1,200,000 to 2,000,000. More 
than one half of them have embraced Islam, though it is 
said that many of the Mohammedan Albanians remain 
secretly Christian. They are divided into a number of 
tribes. Some of the most warlike mountain tribes are 
Boman Catholics. In the frontier districts the Albanians 
are greatly mixed with Servians in the north and with 
Creeks in the south. They opposed with great vigor 
the cession to Montenegro bv the Turkish government 
of some districts largely inhabited by Albanians, and de- 
clared an intention to oppose no less vigorously the ces- 
sion of some of their southern districts to Creece. The 
Albanians are the only one of the five non-Turkish na- 
tionalities of European Turkey which shows some kind 
of attachment to the Ottoman government. This must 
partly be explained by the predominance among them 
of Mohammedanism, and partly by their determina- 
tion not to be absorbed by Servians and Greeks. The 
increasing consolidation of Servians, Bulgarians, and 


Creeks will, however, cut them off from Constantinople, 
and make it impossible for them to remain a Turkish 
province. 

A curious fact in the relation of the different races 
that people European Turkey is the irregular manner 
in which they are distinguished and mingled. ‘‘No lo- 
cality,” says Baker, in his Turkey, can he found where 
the population is exclusively of the same nationality; 
but a rival race crops up here and there, and jostles its 
neighbors. We find, for instance, a quarter where the 
majority of the population are Bulgarians; but among 
them in considerable numbers are Turks. Creeks, Circas- 
sians, and gypsies. In another quarter the majority are 
Albanians, hut they again have to hear the friction of 
Bulgarians, Wallachians, Creeks, and Turks; and so on 
all over the country. Each of these nations has its 
own language, religion, and customs; and it therefore 
follows that the difficulty of governing the mass lies 
in a direct ratio to the number of races represented 
in it.” This irregular distribution of races has. how- 
ever, been considerably affected by the close of tbe 
Eastern war, when, especially, large numbers of Turks 
and Bulgarians left their endangered homes, and em- 
igrated to districts predominantly inhabited by core- 
ligionists. The Austrian consul Sax (in Oesterreich- 
ische JfonatsschriJ't fur den Orient , 1878) estimates the 
number of those who from the spring of 1877 to the 
close of 1878 changed their residence at more than one 
million. 

II. Origin and Political History. — The Turks are first 
heard of in history when they emerged from the regions 
of Central Asia, and emigrated, early in the Christian 
aera, to the neighborhood of the Aral and Caspian seas. 
In the 6th century they formed an alliance with the 
Boman emperor Justin II; in the 7th they began to 
learn the Mohammedan religion at the hands of the 
Saracens. After their conversion to Mohammedanism 
they rapidly rose in power and influence. One branch, 
which, after its leader, Seljuk, received the name of Sel- 
jnkian Turks, subjugated a large portion of Persia, and 
thence spread into Syria, Armenia, Georgia, and Lower 
Egypt. Under Malek Shah, the grandson of Seljuk, 
the dynasty of the Seljukian Turks was in the 11th 
century the greatest power in Asia. They gradually 
pressed their conquests to the West, and from this time 
a more special and crying persecution of the Christians 
began. After Malek’s death, the empire was divided 
into smaller states, which became rivals, and were 
finally extinguished in the 13th century by the irrup- 
tion of the Moguls under Genghis Khan. Then the 
history of the Ottoman Turks begins. The first men- 
tion of them is made at the beginning of the 13th cen- 
tury, when they emigrated, under the name of Oghuze 
Turks, from the main bod}’ in Khorassan, Persia, to the 
mountains in Armenia, whence a part removed and 
settled near Angora, still acknowledging the suzerainty 
of the Seljukian sultan of leonium. Partly at the ex- 
pense of the (ireeks, partly at that of other Turkish 
emirs or princes, the leaders of this band, Ertoghrul and 
his son Othman, or Osman, gradually grew in power. 
Oth man became the most powerful prince in Western 
Asia, and from him his followers took the name by 
which this branch of the Turks has ever since been des- 
ignated, that of Ottoman, or Osmanli. Shortly before 
the death of Othman, in 1326. his armies took Brousa, 
which became the Asiatic capital of the Ottomans. 
With Othman’s son. Orkhan. the Ottoman empire be- 
gins. He made himself entirely independent of the 
Seljukian sultan, though he continued to hear the infe- 
rior title of emir. During his reign Gallipoli, in the 
Thracian Chersonesus, the first acquisition of the Turks 
in Europe, was conquered, in 1357. and all of Western 
Asia occupied. He imposed upon the conquered Chris- 
tian nations the tribute of children, who were brought 
up in the Mohammedan faith, and out of whom was 
formed the famous force of the Janizaries, who for three 
centuries constituted the strength of the Ottoman armies. 


TURKEY 


583 


TURKEY 


In the reign of Murad I, the successor of Orkhan, Adri- ' 
auople was taken, which became the European capital of 
the Ottomans till they captured Constantinople. When 
the Turks entered Europe, the territory of the Creek 
empire was almost limited to a quadrangle extending | 
from Constantinople to Adrianople, and from the Black 
Sea to the Archipelago, to a small part of the coast | 
near Thessalonien, and the larger portion of the Relo- j 
ponnesns. The bulk of what subsequently became Eu- 
ropean Turkey consisted of the empire of Servia, ex- 
tending from the Danube to the Peloponnesus, and 
bounded on the west by Bosnia and the Adriatic Sea: 
and of the kingdom of Bulgaria, extending from the 
Danube to Adrianople. bounded on the east by the Black 
Sea. The frontier between Bulgaria and Servia was 
constantly changing. When the Turks began to get a 
foothold, Widdin and Sophia were the nearest, Bulgarian 
towns to the frontier. At this time the power of Servia 
began to go down after the death of Stephen Dushan, 
its greatest ruler, and Bulgaria began to split up into 
three separate kingdoms. Thus both were unable to 
resist the advancing Turks, in 1363 the Bulgarian city 
of Philippopolis was taken. About 1371 the chief of 
the three Bulgarian kingdoms, that ofTirnova, became 
tributary. For a while a Slavic confederation, under 
the Bosnian king Stephen, won some successes; but in 
the great battle of Kossova, in 1389. the confederate 
Bosnians, Servians, Bulgarians, and Wallacbians were 
utterly defeated. Two or three years later, Servia and 
Wallachia became tributary, and the greater part of 
Bulgaria was conquered. Murad’s son, Bajazet l, was 
the tirst to exchange the humbler title of emir for that 
of sultan, and also the first who attacked Constantino- 
ple. The progress of the Turks was arrested by the 
stunning defeat which they suffered in 1402 at Angora, 
at the hand of Timur, the famous Tamerlane; but they 
recovered their power under Bajazet’s grandson. INI u rad 
II (1421-51), who conquered Thessaloniea, Corinth, Pa- 
tras, and a part of Albania, which was heroically de- 
fended by the great Scanderbeg. II is son, Mohammed 
II (1451-81), conquered Constantinople, and thereby de- 
stroyed the Greek empire. lie reduced, in 1459, Servia 
from a tributary principality to an Ottoman province; 
in M63 Bosnia was annexed: in 1461, the Christian em- 
pire of Trebizond, in Asia; in 1466, Caramania; in 1479, 
the Peloponnesus, which at that time belonged to the 
Venetians. In 1480 Otranto, in Italy, was captured; 
and the design was openly avowed to conquer all of 
Western Europe and to exterminate Christianity. But 
Mohammed’s death, in 1481. put an end to these 
schemes; Otranto was soon abandoned, and no further 
progress was ever made west of the Adriatic. The 
conquests of Mohammed gave to the Turkish empire 
about the same extent it had before the late East- 
ern war. In the whole of the Balkan peninsula only 
the small mountain district of Montenegro has kept 
its independence to our own times. Selim the Inflexi- 
ble (1512-19) warred against Mohammedan enemies, 
and annexed Syria and Egypt to his dominions. From 
the last of a line of nominal caliphs Selim obtained 
a cession of his rights, and ever since the Ottoman 
sultans have been acknowledged as chiefs of their re- 
ligion by all Mussulmans of the Sunnite sect. During 
the reign of Suleiman 11 (1519-66) the empire attained 
the greatest extent it has ever had. The larger por- 
tion of Hungary was annexed; a Turkish pasha ruled 
at Buda; and the princes of Transylvania, Moldavia, 
and Wallachia became vassals of the sultan. Rhodes 
was taken from the Knights of St. John, and a large 
tract of land in Asia from the Persians. With the death 
of Suleiman the decline of Turkish power began. The 
reign of Selim II, the Drunkard (1566-74), was marked 
bv the first great reverse of the Ottoman arms — the 
overthrow of the Turkish fleet by the fleets of Spain 
and Venice at the battle of Lepanto, in 1571. No last- 
ing conquests of importance were made from this time, 
except the islands of Cyprus and Crete. The frontier 


on the north towards Hungary, and in later times to- 
wards Russia, went steadily hack. The succession of 
great rulers was stopped. The powers of the sultan 
became less, the power of the pashas greater. In 1622 
a sultan was, for the first time, murdered. In the latter 
half of the 17th century the Turks began to lose their 
hold on Hungary. The battle of St.Gotthard, in 1664, 
was the first great overthrow of the Turks by land. At 
the end of the 17th century the "Turks had been at war 
with all their Christian neighbors, and they had lost 
territory at all points except one. In a war against Po- 
land they had gained Podolia ; they had lost, besides 
Hungary, the Peloponnesus, and Azof. All of these ter- 
ritories, inclusive of Podolia, were given up hv the trea- 
ties in 1699 and 1700, The peace of Carlowitz, in 1699, 
marks a point in the decline of the Ottoman power, and 
the Turks were for the first time compelled to treat 
with the Christian powers of Europe on equal terms. 
The wars against Austria, which, with breaks from time 
to time, had gone on since the battle of Mohacz, .1526, 
by which the Turks established their rule over Hun- 
gary, were ended by the peace of Sistova in 1791. The 
result was that Hungary was free<l from the Turk, but 
that Servia and Bosnia were left in his clutches. The 
frontier established by that peace has remained almost 
unchanged. The most dangerous of all the foreign en- 
emies of Turkey proved to he Russia. The wars be- 
tween Russia and the Turks began in the middle of the 
17th century, and the two countries have ever since ap- 
peared as irreconcilable hereditary foes whose inter- 
minable conflict could only be ended "by the destruction 
of the one or the other. The wars between Russia and 
Turkey put on a very distinctive character when Peter 
the Great, in 1696, took Azof, the key of the Black Sea. 
From the time that Mohammed the Conqueror took the 
Genoese possessions in the Crimea, the Black Sea had 
been wholly under the jiower of the Turks. When 
Azof fell into the hands of the Russians, it remained 
for a great time the point of contention between the two 
countries. A new stage in the history of these wars is 
marked by the famous treaty of Kainarji of 1774, which 
ended the first war of Catherine 11 against the Turks. 
This treaty for Ihe first time brought the Ottoman 
power into some measure of dependence. It gave Rus- 
sia a firm foothold on the Black Sea. and the impor- 
tant right to remonstrate in behalf of Wallachia and 
Moldavia, in case of any breach of their privileges by 
the Turks. 

The most prominent feature in the Turkish history 
of the 19th century is the successful revolt of the sub- 
ject Christian nations against the Ottoman power. 
This war of independence began in Servia in the first 
years of the new century. It was at first a rising 
against local tyrants who defied the authority of the 
sultan, but it soon became a war of independence. In 
1826 the independence of the country was recognised 
by Turkey, which was only to receive an annual tribute, 
and for some time retained the right of keeping garri- 
sons in certain fortresses. The Greek war of indepen- 
dence began in 1821. Finding himself unable to sub- 
due both Greece and Servia, the sultan had to apply for 
help to his rebellious vassal, pasha Mehemet Ali of 
Egypt; but the outrages of the Egyptians led to an in- 
terference by England, France, and Russia, who. in 1827, 
in the treaty of London, agreed to make Greece free; 
destroyed, in November, 1827, at the battle ofNavarino, 
the Turkish and Egyptian fleet, ami compelled the sul- 
tan to agree to the treaty of London. In the treaty 
of Adrianople (1829), Turkey had not only to acknowl- 
edge the independence of Greece, hut the almost com- 
plete independence of Moldavia and Wallachia, whose 
iiospodars thereafter held office for lifetime, and to 
cede several fortresses on the coast of the Black Sea 
to Russia. Mahmud II (1808-40) was desirous of in- 
troducing important reforms, and in 1826 exterminated 
the Janizaries; hut while his reforms did little good 
to the Christians, they set his Mohammedan subjects 


TURKEY 


584 


TURKEY 


against him. There were Mohammedan revolts in Al- 
bania ami Bosnia, which were put down in 18:11 and 
1832; hut more important was the rebellion of Mehemet 
Ali of Egypt, who conquered Syria and other Asiatic 
possessions of the sultan, and seemed to threaten the 
very existence of the empire, when (1810) four of the 
great Christian powers of Europe concluded the treaty 
of lluda-l'esth, and compelled Mehemet Ali to give up 
his Asiatic conquests. In the Crimean war (1853-55), 
Turkey would probably have been crushed by Russia 
but for the interference of England, France, and Sar- 
dinia in its behalf. By the treaty of peace in 1850, the 
powers which signed it — France, Austria, Great Britain, 
Prussia, llussia, and Sardinia — declared that the Sublime 
Porte was admitted to partake in the advantages of 
public law and the European concert. This concession 
was made to the Porte in recognition of the hatii -bu- 
rnt tynm (Feb. 18, 185l>), a proclamation which promised 
to the Christians equal civil rights, but which the Porte 
found itself no more able to carry out than a preceding 
reformatory edict, the hatti-sherif' of Gulhane of 1853. 
The approaching collapse of Turkey became more and 
more apparent. Terrible massacres of Christians in 
Damascus and Mount Lebanon led, in I860, to a French 
intervention. In 1831 Moldavia and Wallachia united 
themselves, in spite of the treaty of Paris and of the 
protest of the Porte, into one state, called Roumania. A 
powerful impulse was given to the aspiration of the 
Christians for freedom by the complete victory of the 
nationality principle in Italy and Germany. As the 
Italians and Germans had re-established an Italian 
kingdom and a German empire, thus the Greeks of Tur- 
key expressed a wish for a union with Greece, the Ser- 
vians began to dream of the re-establishment of a large 
Servian empire, the Bulgarians of a Hungarian king- 
dom, the Roumanians of severing the last tie of connec- 
tion with Turkey. The first movement in this direc- 
tion was the insurrection in Crete in 18GG, which was 
suppressed in 18Gfl. The powers which had signed the 
treaty of Paris held a special conference and recognised 
the demands of the Porte as just. In 18G7 the demand 
of Servia that the Turkish garrisons be withdrawn from 
all the Servian fortresses was granted. In 1872 the 
sultan conceded to the khedive of Egypt two important 
attributes of sovereignty, the direct hereditary succes- 
sion and the authorization to make loans. On July G, 
1875, an insurrection broke out in 1 lerzegovina, which 
gradually kindled the great Eastern war. A series of 
joint steps were taken by the great powers of Europe 
to induce the Porte to concede the reform demand- 
ed by the Christian insurgents. The most important 
were, the note of count Andrassv of Dec. 30, 1875; the 
Berlin Memorandum of May 14, 187G; the Constanti- 
nople Conference from December, 187G. to January, 
1877; and the London Protocol of March 21, 1877. On 
April 24 Russia declared war, and at the beginning of 
1878 Turkey was utterly crushed. In the peace of San 
Stefano of March 3, 1878, Turkey had to recognise the 
entire independence of Roumania, Servia, and Monte- 
negro, to cede some additional territory to Servia and 
Montenegro, and to consent to the establishment of an 
independent principality of Bulgaria. In the case of 
Bulgaria, these stipulations were considerably modified 
by the treaty of Berlin of July 13. 1878, as has already 
been stated. Bosnia and Herzegovina were placed un- 
der Austrian administration, and to Greece the annex- 
ation of some Greek districts in Southern Turkey was 
promised. The introduction of the reforms formally 
demanded by the great powers of Europe was again 
promised, and their execution placed under the guaran- 
tee of the great powers. A few weeks before (June 4, 
1878), Turkey had concluded a secret treaty with Eng- 
land, which assumed a protectorate over the Asiatic do- 
minions of the sultan as long as Russia would not return 
its conquests in Armenia. In return, Cyprus was placed 
under English administration, and the Porte pledged it- 
self to carry through administrative reforms in the Asi- 


atic possessions. Thus Turkey appeared in an entirely 
helpless condition, and, so far as its European posses- 
sions were concerned, in a state of total decay. Among 
the European powers, only one — the Tory government 
of England — occasionally used its influence in behalf of 
the Turkish government. The fall of the Tory minis- 
try in 1880, and the access to power of the Liberal par- 
ty, which, during the war, had openly expressed its 
sympathy with the Christian nationalities of the Bal- 
kan peninsula, especially with the Greeks, deprived the 
Mohammedan government of its last hope. As the 
Turks had been unable to agree with the Greek gov- 
ernment about the promised rectification of frontier, the 
powers which had signed the treaty of Berlin held an- 
other special conference at Berlin in June, 1880, and 
designated the districts which, in their opinion, should 
be ceded to Greece. The vital power of Turkey ap- 
pears to be exhausted. A constitution drawn up by 
Midhat Pasha, and proclaimed Dec. 23, 1S7G, which 
promised to the population very extensive rights, failed 
to make any impression either at home or abroad. The 
Parliament which met in March, 1877, attracted more 
attention by its novelty than by its work. 

111. Xational Characteristics and Governmental Pol- 
icy . — Comparing Turkey with the other states of Eu- 
rope, we are struck with one very remarkable distinc- 
tion. In all the other countries of Europe the bulk of 
the people have learned that they have a common coun- 
try, and that, however widely their opinions may differ, 
and however much they may dislike the existing gov- 
ernment, they have important interests in common. 
The Turks have never become a nation. After subject- 
ing many tribes of different race and religion, the ex- 
clusive aim of the sultans has been to keep them in sub- 
jection, and to extort from them as high a tribute as 
possible. The effect of Turkey’s rule has therefore been 
most blighting upon every interest of her subjects. 
Morally, socially, economically, and politically, her de- 
pendencies have sunk, under the combined influence of 
a false, fanatical, and sensual religion, a bigoted, selflsh, 
and imbecile regime, and an ignorant, fatalistic, and ef- 
fete philosophy, to the lowest possible point of civilized 
communities. Corruption reigns in every department of 
i state, and superstition in every form of society. The 
ruling class, being 'Turks and Moslems, feel no sympathy 
with the natives, who are largely Christian and of differ- 
ent races from themselves. Extortion, bribery, chican- 
ery, and treachery have for ages characterized the gov- 
ernment, until it has become a festering ulcer and a burn- 
ing shame upon the face of Europe. But for the in- 
trigues and jealousies among the other European pow- 
ers, each of which has been anxious to outwit the rest 
in seizing upon the spoils of “the Sick Man’s estate,” 
Turkey would have been dismembered long ago by for- 
eign interference, or have collapsed in utter ruin by its 
internal rottenness. England has been largely charge- 
able for maintaining, by her diplomatic policy, this eye- 
sore and blot upon the map of the world. 

Several large territories are but very loosely con- 
nected with the empire. Tunis, in Africa, considers it- 
self as a vassal state of the sultan, but without any defi- 
nite obligation, not even that of paying an annual trib- 
ute. Formerly there were two other states of this class, 
Algeria and Tripoli; but the former has been conquered 
bv France, and the latter has recently come under the 
direct authority of the sultan. The vassal states which 
had only to pay an annual tribute, and were otherwise 
autonomous, were, in 1878, Roumania and Servia, in Eu- 
rope; Samos, in Asia; and Egypt, in' Africa. In 1878 
Roumania and Servia became entirely independent, and 
Bulgaria was erected into a tributary vassal state. Jn 
the autonomous province of Eastern Konmelia, the pow- 
er of the sultan lias been almost reduced to the right of 
.appointing a governor. 

By the old law of succession, which has been left un- 
changed by the constitution of 1876, the crown is in- 
herited, according to seniority, by the male descendants 


TURKEY 


585 


TURKEY 


of Othman, sprung from the imperial harem. The | 
harem is considered a permanent State institution. All 
children born in the harem, whether offspring of free 
women or of slaves, are legitimate and of ecptal lineage; 
but the sultan is succeeded by his eldest son only when 
there are no uncles or cousins of greater age. It has 
not been the custom of the sultans for some centuries to 
contract regular marriages. A special feature attend- 
ing the accession of new sultans to the throne has been 
the slaughter of brothers and other near kinsfolk who 
were feared as rivals. Until very recently the will of 
the sultan was not limited by any law. The precepts 
of the Koran were regarded as the fundamental law of 
the empire. The legislative and the executive authority 
were exercised in the name of the sultan by the grand- 
vizier as head of the temporal government, and the 
Sheik el-Islam as the head of the Church. The consti- 
tution of 1876 pretended to make the sultan a constitu- 
tional monarch, and to provide for the exercise of the 
legislative and judicial powers after the model of the 
West European states; but the constitution thus far 
(1880) is almost a dead letter. Several Christians, how- 
ever, have of late held the position of Minister of State. 
The financial affairs of the government are in a condition 
of thorough and hopeless disorganization, and the time 
of the empire’s complete dissolution cannot be distant. 

IV. Mohammedanism. — The Turks have been a Mo- 
hammedan people from the 10th century, and have ever 
since been the banner-bearer among the Mohammedan 
states. The sultan is regarded as the head of the Sun- 
nite Mohammedans [see Sunnites], not only in Turkey, 
but as far as the Sunnite form of Mohammedanism ex- 
tends. Church and State are so intimately united in 
Turkey that the judicial and the priestly power are vest- 
ed in the same officer, the Ulema, who regards the Koran 
as the sole authority for the decision of ecclesiastical as 
well as civil causes. “The administration of justice in 
Turkey is now divided into two parts — that of the Sheri. 
wherein all judges are Mussulmans, and that of the 
Xizamiyeh , composed of both Christians and Mussul- 
mans. The head of all the courts of the Sheri is the 
Sheik el-lslam, who sanctions all their judgments. The 
judicatory of the Sheri is composed of a high court of 
appeal (.1 rz-odury), divided into two chambers ( Su - 
dur), one for Turkey in Europe, and one for Asia. At 
the head of each is a cazi-asker , literally military judge. 
The eazi-asker is assisted by fourteen honorary chief- 
justices. In the hierarchy of the Ulema the mollahs 
rank next to the cazi-asker, and after them the cadis. 
The first in rank are the mollahs of Constantinople, nine 
in number, and who sit in the court Sheri, at the capi- 
tal, for a year, being taken in turn from the body of the 
mollahs. At its head is the mollab of Stamboul. The 
second in rank is the Mevlevizet, which numbers fifty- 
seven titularies. The mollab, when on duty, serves for 
only a year, and then returns to the roll” (Maker, Tur- 
key). Turkish education, until recently, was also in close 
connection with the State religion. It was organized hv 
sultan Mohammed 1 (1451-81), the greatest soldier- 
statesman that the Ottoman empire has produced, lie 
established elementary schools called mektebs , scattered 
over his empire in every town and in almost every Mo- 
hammedan village, and numerous public schools or col- 
leges of the higher order, which were called medresses , 
in distinction from the mektebs, or elementary schools. 
The medresses went through ten regular courses of 
grammar, syntax, logic, metaphysics, philology, the sci- 
ence of tropes, the science of style, rhetoric, geometry, 
and astronomy. - The taker of a degree in these sub- 
jects received the title of danishmend , which has now 
been replaced by the term soft a. The degree entitles 
him to the mastership of one of the minor public 
schools; but in that case he renounces the prospect of 
becoming a member of the Ulema, or of any of the 
higher educational appointments. For this it is nec- 
essary to go through a still further course of study, and 
to pass several examinations. Incentives to work are 


given in the honors and endowments which are con- 
ferred. The Ulema supplies all the professors of the 
high-schools, who are called mmlerris , and from the 
same order are chosen all the ministers of justice, in- 
cluding the cazi-askors, the mollahs, and the cadis. The 
actual priesthood of Turkey takes a very inferior posi- 
tion in the State. The ministers of public worship are 
called imaums, who officiate at public prayers, and sheiks, 
or preachers. Hut the fact that the appointments to 
the priesthood are allotted to the holders of minor de- 
grees does not, mark, on the part of the Turks, any 
want of respect for their faith. It only arises in conse- 
quence of the legal profession being so intimately con- 
nected with t lie Church as expounders of the law of the 
Koran that they, in fact, form the senior branch of 
the hierarchy. Dervishes, or Mohammedan monks, are 
very numerous and are divided into a number of sects. 
See Dervish. The Vacouf or Church property, which 
belongs to the mosques and other religious institutions 
and to benevolent foundations, is administered by a 
special department of the State called the Evkaf and 
consists of two classes: 1st. Property or its produce ac- 
tually belonging to such ecclesiastical establishments, 
and held and received on their account by the Evkaf; 
and 2d. Property owned by private persons, but lapsing, 
in default, of direct heirs of the owner, to the Evkaf, and 
subject, in the meantime, to a small yearly contribution 
payable to that department; but an owner of Vacouf 
property having no direct heirs is not debarred from 
selling it to a person having such heirs, and so prevent- 
ing it, for the time, from falling into the Evkaf. By a 
recent law a private person holding Vacouf property 
can, on payment of certain fees to the government, 
have it converted into what is called mulkieh , a title 
which gives the holder the fee simple of the land, to do 
with it as he pleases, to leave it by will, and, in default 
of bis doing so, it passes to his next heir. 

Trustworthy statistics on the religious denominations 
of Turkey cannot yet be obtained. E. G. Kavenstein, in 
an article on the population of Russia and Turkey in 
the Journal of the Statistical Society (Loud. 1877), esti- 
mates the total population of European Turkey, exclu- 
sive of Koumania and Servia, but inclusive of Bosnia 
and Bulgaria, at 9,661,000, which he distributes as fol- 
lows among the religious denominations: 

Eukopk. 

Turkish Mohammedans 1,767,500 

Mohammedans of other nationalities. 2,479,500 

Total Mohammedans 

Greek Church 4,705,450 

Armenians 89,000 

Roman Catholics 426,000 

Protestants 10,000 

Total Christians 

Jews 

Gypsies 

Total 


4,247,000 


5,230,450 
7S,000 
104,750 
9, 660^200 


Asia, 

Turks 

Other Mohammedans 

Total Mohammedans 

Greek Church 

Armenians 

Roman Catholics 

Protestants 

Maronites, etc 

Total Christians 

Jezides and Kizilbashi 

Jews 

Gypsies 

Total 


6,973,500 

6,299,850 

1,4S4,S6S 

735.100 

100.100 

10,450 

4S7.000 


13,273,350 


2,S17,51S 
62,000 
106,000 
67,000 
16, 325, SOS 


A Servian statistician, Jakshitsh, gives the following es- 
timates of the population of European Turkey: Chris- 
tdms in Turkey proper, 2,484,501 ; in Eastern Roumelia, 
559,776; in Bosnia, 780,276; in Bulgaria, 1,196,248; to- 
tal, 5,020,801. Mohammedans in Turkey proper, 1,883,- 
P27 ; in Eastern Roumelia, 359,434 ; in Bosnia, 400,635; 
i in Bulgaria, 760,267 ; total, 3,403,463, Jews in Turkey 


TURKEY 


58G 


TURKEY 


proper, 55.018; in Eastern Roumelia, 3900; in Bosnia, 
(JIMS; in Bulgaria, 8050; total. 74,914. Total population 
of European Turkey, 8,100.1 78. According to these au- 
thorities, the aggregate number of Mohammedans in 
European and Asiatic Turkey may be estimated at from 
15,700,000 to 10,500,000, that of Christians of all denom- 
inations at about 8,000,000, that of the Jews at about 

200.000. The aggregate population of the African de- 
pendencies, owing to the rapid expansion of the Egyp- 
tian dominions of late years, was estimated, in 1880, at 

20.500.000, nearly all of whom, with the exception of 
the Copts of Egypt, are Mohammedans. See Moiiam- 
IU HI) an ism. 

V. The Christian Churches of Turkey. — Although the 
Turks, after the conquest of the Balkan peninsula, dis- 
played all the horrors of Oriental despotism, they did 
not aim at the extermination of the Christian religion. 
'There is probably no country of Christian Europe which 
has not imposed, at some time in the course of its his- 
tory, more severe penalties upon the profession of a dis- 
senting Christian creed than the Turks have done upon 
tiie profession of Christianity. The Christians, in their 
civil relations, found themselves greatly oppressed, but 
the Turks did not meddle with the internal affairs of 
the churches. The influence which they usurped by 
the appointment of the high dignitaries in the Eastern 
churches was inspired by considerations not of power 
or proselytism, but of greed. The social advantages 
which an apostasy to Islam involved gradually in- 
duced nearly the whole population of Albania, the en- 
tire nobility of the Bosnians, and large numbers of the 
Bulgarians and other Christian tribes to adopt the re- 
ligion of the conquerors; but the immense majority of 
the population of the European dominions of Turkey 
and large numbers in Asia continued to adhere to the 
several Christian churches. As the military power of 
Turkey began to wane, Russia, France, and other powers 
claimed, and received by treaty, the right of protecto- 
rate over the Turkish subjects professing the national 
religions of the several European countries. In 1830 
the sultan, by the hatti-sherif of Culhane, proclaimed 
the equality of Christians and Moslems before the law. 
The provisions of this charter of religious liberty were 
renewed and extended by sultan Abdul-Mejid in the 
(diarter called the hatti-huniayum, promulgated in Feb- 
ruary, 1850. The renewal of the charter was mentioned 
i i the treaty of Paris as the consideration on which 
t lie powers admitted Turkey to the company of Euro- 
pean states, and guaranteed to it its rights as an inde- 
pendent and inviolable power. The new Turkish con- 
stitution of December, 1870, promised to the professors 
of all religious denominations full equality of civil rights. 
In the first 'Turkish Parliament, which met in 1877, all 
the religions of the empire were fairly represented. Tims 
among the deputies returned from Constantinople were 
live 'Turks, four Christians, and one Jew; and of the 
Christians, one was a Creek, one a Homan Catholic Ar- 
menian, and two (iregorian Armenians. In 1878 the 
treaty of Berlin (art. 0*2) placed the establishment of 
(lie principle of religious liberty to its fullest extent un- 
der the guarantee of all the great powers of Europe. 
When the Turks completed the conquest, of the Balkan 
peninsula, they designated the aggregate of the Chris- 
lian subjects as rajah (herds), while the different tribes 
were distinguished as millet (nation). The Mohamme- 
dan Turks were, however, so strongly inclined to con- 
found Church ami State that they viewed the several 
millets as so many religious communions. Mohammed 
II, after the capture of Constantinople, made the patri- 
arch of that city the secular head of all the rajah be- 
longing to the < Orthodox Eastern or Creek Church. 
The civil functions of the patriarch were shared in dif- 
ferent degrees by the subordinate bishops, and thus the 
entire hierarchy of the Creek Church appeared as the 
actual administrator of the civil interests of the people, 
and as such were held l>v the Porte responsible for the 
loyalty of the population. Besides the millet of the 


Creeks, there are others for the Armenians, United Ar- 
menians, Latins, Protestants, and Jews. Their organi- 
zation is similar to that of the Crocks. The secular 
jurisdiction of the Armenian patriarch includes the Jac- 
obites. For various statistical statements of the pres- 
ent Christian population of Turkey, see above. 

1. The Creek Church. — When the Turks took, in 1453, 
possession of Constantinople, the foremost episcopal see 
of the Eastern Church became subject to their rule. 
'The patriarch of Constantinople had gradually become 
for the Eastern Church what the patriarch of Pome 
became for the West. See Cuickk Cnruni. When 
the termination of ecclesiastical communion between 
the patriarchs of Home and Constantinople became a 
fixed fact, all of the < Orthodox Eastern churches looked 
upon the patriarch of Constantinople as the most emi- 
nent bishop of the Orthodox churches, although man)- of 
them, like the churches of Hussia, were entirely inde- 
pendent of his jurisdiction. As long as there was a 
shlnlow of hope that the Eastern Homan empire would 
be aided by the Catholic Church of Western Europe in 
its resistance to the advance of the Turks, several patri- 
archs of Constantinople had shown a readiness to re- 
unite with Home. To the bulk of the clergy and the 
laity the idea of such a reunion was extremely distaste- 
ful, and after the conquest of Constantinople it was en- 
tirely abandoned. The sultans claimed t lie same rights 
with regard to the appointment of the patriarchs that 
had been possessed by the Eastern or Byzantine emper- 
ors, and the Eastern Church submitted to the demand, 
(ieorgius Scholarius, who was elected patriarch soon 
after t lie conquest of Constantinople, and assumed the 
name of (lennadius. accepted from sultan Mohammed II 
the investiture as patriarch of New Home. The sultan 
showed, however, but little respect for the authority of 
the patriarch, and finally compelled him to resign, not- 
withstanding the petitions of the faithful in his behalf. 
The next patriarch, Joasaph, was banished by the sul- 
tan because he had refused to acknowledge the unlaw- 
ful marriage of a Mohammedan minister with the 
daughter of an Athenian prince. Patriarch Simon, 
also living in the second half of the 15th century, was 
the first, who offered to the sultan one thousand ducats 
for the patriarchate. This money for the confirmation 
of the new patriarch is called kharatzion or peskesion; 
it has not only been always paid since, but the amount 
was constantly increased, and the Turkish government 
generally showed a disposition to sell the patriarchate 
to the highest bidder, and to vacate it as often as pos- 
sible. Only a few of the patriarchs were allowed to re- 
main in office for a long term; generally, after holding 
it for a short term, they were either compelled to resign, 
or they were banished, throttled, or degraded. The 
habit of the patriarch to purchase the confirmation 
by the sultans had a most disastrous influence upon the 
Church. The Si monistic corruption descended from 
t lie patriarchs to the archbishops and bishops, who had 
to pay heavy sums for their confirmation, and, in return, 
tried to indemnify themselves by extorting as much 
money as possible from their people. For political 
reasons, t lie external form of the Church was changed 
as little as possible; but in consequence of the corrup- 
tion' prevailing in the high places, the Church fell into 
great decay. The lower clergy, who were generally 
destitute of a higher education, showed but little sym- 
pathy with the people; and when the government con- 
ferred upon them some privileges, they looked with in- 
difference upon the heavy taxes which oppressed the 
laity. Little resistance was even made hv the clergy 
to the cruel institution of the Janizaries, a military 
corps formed by the children of Christians, who were 
taken away from their parents, educated as fanatical 
Moslems, and used for the compulsory extension of Mo- 
hammedanism. In some of the provinces the power 
of the Christian people to resist the proselytism of the 
Turks gradually relaxed. Especially was this the case 
in Albania, where the Christian population decreased 


TURKEY 


587 


TURKEY 


from 350,000 to 50,000 during the period from 1G20 to | 
1050. Among the apostates were even many priests | 
and monks. The subsecpient history of the Greek 
Church of Turkey does not offer many points of great 
interest. The growing power of Russia extorted from 
the Ottoman Porte in a number of treaties the official 
promise to protect the Christian religion and the Chris- 
tian ‘churches, and made itself chiefly felt in behalf 
of the coreligionists of Russia, the Orthodox Eastern 
Church. Between Constantinople and Rome an entire 
estrangement continued to exist. At the beginning of 
the 17th century the patriarch Neophvtus II of Con- 
stantinople was believed to be favorable to a union 
with Rome; but no formal negotiations were opened, 
and none of the following patriarchs of Constantinople 
has shown any leaning in that direction. All the invi- 
tations and overtures that were made bv the popes met, 
in Constantinople, with a firm and decided refusal: thus, 
iu 1848, an invitation from Pius IX, addressed to the 
entire Eastern Church, for a corporate union with Rome, 
and another in 1869, addressed by the same pope to 
the Creek bishops to attend the Vatican Council, were 
promptly and firmly declined in Constantinople and 
throughout the Creek Church. In the Asiatic part of 
Turkey the patriarch Athanasius IV of Antioch, who 
was elected in 1686. joined the communion of Rome, 
and was followed by a part of the clergy and laity. 
Thus arose the United Creek Church of Turkey [see i 
Creek Clinton, United], which, from Syria, spread 
over all parts of the Turkish empire. In the 16th cen- 
tury both the Lutheran and the Calvinistic theologians | 
endeavored to establish friendly relations with the Creek 
Church, and entered into correspondence with several 
patriarchs of Constantinople. The Lutheran attempts 
were never attended with any success. The Calvinists 
completely gained over to their side one of the most 
gifted patriarchs that have ever occupied the see of 
Constantinople, Cyril Lucar (q. v.), who went so far 
as to transmit to Geneva the form of a Calvinistic con- 
fession of faith; but, with the violent death of the pa- 
triarch, who was strangled, and whose memory was ex- 
ecrated by the Oriental patriarchs, this attempt, too, 
came to an end. and the Greek Church in Turkey, as 
well as in other countries, has kept aloof from all cor- 
porate negotiations with Protestant churches. In the ' 
19th century the attempts made by the more congenial 
Anglican churches of the British isles and the United 
States to establish intercommunion with the various 
Episcopal churches of the East led to friendly corre- 
spondence between the patriarchs of the Creek Church, 1 
<*n the one hand, and the archbishop of Canterbury and 
other Anglican bishops, on the other. At the union 
conferences held at Bonn, Germany, in 1874 and 1875, 
between Oriental, Anglican, and Old -Catholic theolo- 
gians, the Greek Church of Turkey was also represent- 
ed by several theologians. See Russia. 

Until the establishment of the independence of Greece, 
the Turkish empire comprised nearly all the Greek 
churches of the world, except those of Russia and Austro- 
1 lungary. Among the bishops of the Greek Church 
the patriarch of Constantinople holds the highest rank, 
lie alone is invested by the Turkish government with 
the attributes of civil head of the entire Church. In 
regard to ecclesiastical jurisdiction, he is, however, only 
the head of the patriarchate of Constantinople, the oth- 
er three patriarchs (of Antioch, Jerusalem, and Alex- 
andria), as well as the metropolitan of Cyprus and the 
abbot of Mount Sinai, being independent of him. The 
three patriarchs named receive in their berat, or official 
decree of confirmation, the same rights and privileges 
as the patriarch of Constantinople; each of them lias 
his own patriarchal synod, which fills the see in case of 
vacancy. An attempt made by the patriarch of Con- 
stantinople to appoint the patriarchs of the three other 
sees led, from 1843 to 1845, to a violent controversy be- 
tween the patriarch of Constantinople and the Patri- 
archal Synod of Jerusalem, in which the latter remained 


victorious. The three patriarchs communicate, never- 
theless, with the Turkish government through the pa- 
triarch of Constantinople, and are not even allowed to 
come to the capital without his permission. The ag- 
gregate territory of these three patriarchates is. how- 
ever, small, and all the remainder of the Greek churches 
of Turkey was until recently under the immediate juris- 
diction of the patriarch of Constantinople. I he estab- 
lishment of the kingdom of Greece, in 1821, virtually 
severed the connection of the churches of the king- 
dom with the patriarch of Constantinople, on whom 
they had formerly been dependent. The entire inde- 
pendence of the Church of Greece was, however, not 
proclaimed until 1833, when a synod of the bishops of 
Greece met for this purpose at Nauplia, and the formal 
recognition of the independence by the patriarch of 
Constantinople did not take place until 1850. Servia 
and Roumania were virtually as independent of the 
patriarch of Constantinople in ecclesiastical affairs as 
they were of the sultan in politics. The establish- 
ment of their entire political independence, in 1878, en- 
tails the complete severance of their ecclesiastical con- 
nection with Constantinople. The Bulgarians, although 
agreeing in doctrine with the Eastern Orthodox Church, 
were, until 1767, independent of the jurisdiction of the 
patriarch of Constantinople, having a primate and pa- 
triarch of the national Bulgarian Church at Ochrida; 
but in 1767 the last patriarch abdicated, and, by the 
joint efforts of the Turkish government and the patri- 
arch of Constantinople, the Bulgarian Church was not 
only placed under the spiritual jurisdiction of the Greek 
patriarch, but entirely denationalized. Their bishops 
and priests were dismissed, their sees and parishes were 
occupied by Greeks, their monasteries and schools were 
seized, and the revenues appropriated by the Greek 
communities: but the greatest blow of all was struck 
in the elimination of the Bulgarian language and liter- 
ature from all the educational establishments. A strong 
educational movement for re-establishing the rule of 
the Bulgarian language in school and Church set in 
about 1840. It made at once rapid and stead)’ progress 
in the province of education, and at length, in 1870, led 
to the reorganization of a national Bulgarian Church. 
Notwithstanding the most desperate opposition to the 
Bulgarian movement by the patriarch of Constantino- 
ple and the Greek Fanar, the Porte found it necessary 
to yield to the Bulgarians so far as to issue a firman 
which constituted, under the title of The Bulgarian 
Exarchate , a separate spiritual administration, com- 
prising in its jurisdiction the towns and districts of 
Bustch'uk, Silistria, Shumhi, Tirnova, Sophia, Vratcha, 
Lovtcha, Widdin, Nish, Kustenji, Samakov, Yeles (with 
the exception of about twenty villages and three towns), 
the sanjak of Slivmia (except a few villages), the dis- 
trict of Sisopolis, the town of Philippopolis, the district 
of Stanimaka (with the exception of a few villages), 
and the metropolitan diocese of Philippopolis (except a 
few monasteries). The firman further provided that 
the powers of the exarchate be defined by an organic 
code, which was to be in conformity on all points with 
the established laws and religious principles of the Or- 
thodox Church; but to exclude entirely, on the other 
hand, all interference, direct or indirect, on the part of 
the patriarch, with monastic affairs, and more especial- 
ly with the election of the exarch and the bishops. 
The exarch was to be named by imperial berat. He 
I was to be bound, in conformity with ecclesiastical rules, 
to commemorate the name of the patriarch of Constan- 
tinople, and the synod of the exarchate w as to be bound 
i to obtain the holy oils in use in the Church from the 
] patriarchate of Constantinople. Although the patri- 
arch of Constantinople at first excommunicated all who 
availed themselves of the firman and connected them- 
selves with the Bulgarian exarchate, the latter rallied 
more and more all members of the Orthodox Church 
u-ho w’ere of the Bulgarian nationality. The treaty of 
I Berlin of 1878, which provided for the establishment 


TURKEY 


5S8 


TURKEY 


of a tributary principality of Bulgaria, and an autono- 1 
moils province of Eastern Roumelia, in both of which 
countries the Bulgarians are the predominant race, made ' 
the bulk of the Bulgarian nation virtually independent 
of both the sultan and the patriarch of Constantinople, 
and cannot fail to complete, ere long, the organization ( 
of a national Bulgarian Church, comprising all the Or- 
thodox Christians who speak the Bulgarian language, 
and enjoying an independence equal to the national 
churches of Russia, (Ireece, Koumania, and Servia. The 
jurisdiction of the patriarch of Constantinople is there- 
by restricted to those Christians of the Eastern Orthodox 
Church who are of the Greek nationality. See Itusso- 
GllKElv C iiu kcii. 

The office of the patriarch is intended to bo held by 
the occupant for life ; but the Porte may remove him 
on account of high-treason, and t lie synod may ask the 
Porte for his removal on account of bad administration 
and of heresy. Charges of the tirst class are very fre- 
quent; and as it is the pecuniary interest of Turkish of- 
ficials to have the patriarchs removed as often as pos- 
sible, they are always found willing to co-operate in such 
removal. Depositions of patriarchs are therefore very 
frequent. The patriarch is assisted by a “ Holy Synod” 

( Jemaat ), which consists of from ten to twelve metropol- 
itans. besides the patriarch, its president. The patri- 
arch lias the right to select them, with the exception, 
however, of the metropolitans of Ileraclea, Cvziciis, Ni- 
comedia, and Chnlcedon, who are members e? officio , 
and among whom, as they are so near the capital, the 
patriarchal seal, which consists of four parts, is divided. 
As the keepers of the patriarchal seal must always be 
present in Constantinople, the four metropolitans oc- 
cupy a peculiar position, which the Porte recognises 
bv specially enumerating them in the be rat of the pa- 
triarch. The patriarch has no right to send them to 
their dioceses. He may increase the number of the 
members of the. synod," but is not allowed to reduce 
it below ten. It is customary for eight of the met- 
ropolitans who are members of the synod to be pres- 
ent at Constantinople. They are called “the prom- 
inent” ( iyicpiroi ), and are addressed as the “holy 
old ones” (iiyioi yepovret;'). In 1N47, the Porte de- 
sired to add to the synod, for all questions not relat- 
ing to the doctrine or discipline of the Church, three 
lay members— the grand logothete Aristarchi; the ex- 
prince of Samos, Vogorides ; and a rich merchant of 
('bios, Psychari, generally called Messevani ; but the 
synod opposed the plan so strongly that it was aban- 
doned by the Porte. According to a habit which is 
expressly recognised by the sultan, all the patriarchs 
and metropolitans of the Eastern Orthodox Church 
who happen to be present at Constantinople have a 
right to take part in the debates and resolutions of the 
Holy Synod. For questions of minor importance, es- 
pecially such as relate to the administration of the ' 
Church, the decision of the patriarch and the four met- 1 
tropolitans who keep the patriarchal seal is deemed 
sufficient. The Holy Synod is the supreme tribunal for ' 
the clergy of the Greek Church, and serves as a court 
<>f appeal from the decisions of the bishops. Without 
its consent, the patriarch can give no decision in ec- 
clesiastical or temporal affairs, and appoint no bishop. 

1 lie synod alone has judicial and punitive power over 
the patriarch ; and the deposition of the patriarch by the 
Porte, except in cases of high-treason, takes place only 
at the request of the Holy Synod. The most important 
right of the synod is the election of a new patriarch. 

1 he synod regulates and distributes the ecclesiastical 
taxes, and keeps the seals of all the monasteries. It has 
its own seal, consisting of four pieces, one of which is 
kept by the patriarch of Constantinople, and the other 1 
ihree by metropolitans elected by the synod. The 
sessions of the synod are generally held on Sundays 
and holidays, after divine service. ” Most of its decrees 
need for their execution a firman of the sultan. When * 
a new patriarch is to be elected, the members of the ■ 


synod, and the archbishops and bishops present at the 
time in Constantinople, assemble at the synodieon, or 
patriarch’s palace, which is situated in the Fanar, or 
Greek quarter, in order to nominate by ballot, in the 
presence of a commissary of the Turkish government, 
three candidates for the vacant see. All the candidates 
must be metropolitans. As soon as the nomination is 
made, it is communicated to the representatives of the 
Greek community, who are assembled in the vestibule 
ot the synodieon. This assembly designates by accla- 
mation, and the shout of a£tot; (worthy), the candi- 
date of its preference. The election, being thus com- 
pleted, the minutes are signed by all present, and an 
official report is made to the Porte, which then or- 
ders the berut to be drawn up. This official beraf, 
for which a large amount of money has to he paid, 
enumerates all the rights belonging to the patriarch ami 
the synod. On the day after the election, the new pa- 
triarch officially visits the graiul-vizier, who presents 
him with a magnificent suit of clothes, consisting of a 
caftan (a long silken robe), a cloak, a black eapuehon, 
and a patriarchal hat; moreover, with a finely wrought 
patriarchal staff and a white horse. The patriarch pays 
also to the other ministers of the Porte an official visit. 
Soon after these visits follows the inthronization. an act 
of great simplicity, which is performed hv the metropol- 
itan of Ileraclea. The ecclesiastical rights of the pa- 
triarch are very extensive. He appoints, with the con- 
currence of the synod, all metropolitans and bishops, 
lie has supreme jurisdiction in all affairs relating to 
marriage and wills. Complaints against bishops can 
be decided by the government only with the concur- 
rence of the patriarch. The arrest of a Greek prelate 
requires the consent of the patriarch and the co-opera- 
tion of his officers, lie has the right, without restraint, 
to excommunicate any member of the church; to deny 
ecclesiastical burial, etc. lie enjoys the privilege of 
consecrating the holy oil, and has in all dioceses the 
right of the stauropegion , i. e. the right, at the founda- 
tion of a church or a monastery, to erect a cross on the 
spot where the altar is to stand, and thereby to subject 
to his control such church or convent. The civil juris- 
diction which the patriarch enjoys as the head of the 
“Greek nation” (which means, in the official language, 
all the members of the Eastern Church), is in some 
respects even more comprehensive because it extends 
also over the other patriarchal dioceses. This power, 
however, is on the wane. As has already been itidi- 
' eated, the non-Greek nationalities have either achieved 
their entire independence of Turkish rule, or, like the 
Bulgarians, have severed their ecclesiastical connection 
with the patriarch of Constantinople, whose jurisdiction, 
ecclesiastical as well as civil, will be restricted to the 
Church members of the Greek nationality. The patri- 
arch has his own court, before which especially cases 
of minor importance are brought, not only between 
Greeks and Greeks, but also between Greeks and people 
of other churches, even between Greeks and Turks. An 
appeal can, however, be had from the patriarch’s court 
to the Turkish courts. The revenue of the patriarch 
is considerable. lie inherits the property of metropol- 
itans, bishops, priests, monks, and nuns who die without 
legal heirs. If there are legal heirs, the persons named 
may bequeath to the patriarch up to one third of their 
property. Other sources of revenue are the fees for or- 
dination, the tax on the installation of metropolitans 
and bishops, the annual contributions from the bishops 
and from the convents which are immediately subject 
to the patriarch, smaller contributions from each priest 
and each layman of his diocese, the fees of his chancery, 
fees for every marriage and burial, etc. The patriarch 
has the right to have all these dues collected by special 
commissaries, who, if necessary, can invoke the aid of 
the government officials. The patriarch is exempt from 
ordinary taxes, but has to pay a large sum annually to 
the government as a special tax, and to make frequent 
presents to the ministers. The patriarch is assisted in 


TURKEY 


589 


TURKEY 


the administration of the patriarchate by a number of 
officers. They are divided into two choirs — one at the 
light, and the other at the left. The former consists 
of three sections, each of which embraces five persons, 
and is therefore called a 7 rtvTCtg. All these offices were 
formerly of great importance, and, with t lie exception 
of those which required an ordination or had the super- 
intendence of convents, were in the hands of the noble 
(Ireek families, the so-called Phanariotes. The occu- 
pants had a vote at the election and deposition of the 
patriarch. At present, most of these offices are mere 
titles. The only officer who has still an important polit- 
ical position and considerable intiuenee is the grand 
logothete (/leyac \oyo3 , m/<;); or the grand keeper of the 
seal. He is elected by the patriarch and Holy Synod 
from among the Greek notables for lifetime. He is con- 
firmed by the Porte, and can only be removed by the 
concurrent action of both powers. The patriarchate con- 
ducts through him all negotiations with the Porte re- 
lating to its secular privileges; and all the official com- 
munications from the patriarch to the Porte pass through 
his hands. He has the right to countersign all synodal 
resolutions relating to the appointment of metropolitans 
and bishops, and to receive certain fees for drawing up 
the official documents. See Patriarchs. 

The three patriarchs of Alexandria, Antioch, and Je- 
rusalem are not subject to the ecclesiastical jurisdiction 
of the patriarch of Constantinople, but are co-ordinate to 
him. The her at bv which they are appointed confers 
upon them the same rights, and each of them has a 
synod whidh has the same rights as the Synod of Con- 
stantinople. They are inferior to the patriarch of Con- 
stantinople only in so far as they have no civil jurisdic- 
tion. The patriarch of Alexandria has jurisdiction over 
the Greek churches of Egypt, Libya, Arabia, and Nubia; 
the patriarch of Antioch, w r ho resides at Damascus, over 
those of Syria, Cilicia, Mesopotamia, lsauria, and other 
Asiatic provinces: the patriarch of Jerusalem, who re- 
sides at Galata, a suburb of Constantinople, over those 
of Palestine. The aggregate territory of the three pa- 
triarchates is, however, but small compared with that 
of Constantinople. Metropolitans with suffragan bish- 
ops are rare in the Turkish empire. The name metro- 
politan or archbishop is generally only a title which 
confers a higher dignity than the title bishop, but not 
a greater jurisdiction. The title of metropolitan is es- 
pecially given to the bishops of the provincial capitals. 
As bishops must be unmarried, they are generally taken 
from the monasteries. If a layman is to be ordained a 
bishop, be has first to take all orders up to priesthood, 
and then can receive the episcopal ordination only af- 
ter the expiration of thirty days. The candidate must 
be thirty years of age, and at his ordination three bish- 
ops must be present. Bishops are bound to reside in 
their dioceses; and if a bishop is absent from his diocese 
for more than six months, except it be by order of the 
patriarch, he is deposed. The bishop has entire control 
of the Church property of the diocese, and can impose 
taxes upon his diocesans. Without his permission, no 
convent can be built within the diocese. The reve- 
nue of metropolitans and bishops is derived from the 
same sources as that of the patriarch. They receive 
annual contributions from the priests and the laity of 
the diocese, besides fees and inheritances. The income 
of many bishops is considerable. The metropolitans 
and bishops have also an influential position in the po- 
litical administration of the empire, as they are, in vir- 
tue of their office, members of the administrative coun- 
cils, by which the rails of the vilayets are assisted. 
In 1S3G, patriarch Gregory VI and the lloly Synod 
issued a circular in which all bishops were requested 
to establish in their dioceses an ecclesiastical commit- 
tee, after the model of the one existing in Constantino- 
ple, for consulting on the spiritual interests of t lie dio- 
ceses. All the diocesan committees send reports to Con- 
stantinople. and thence receive advice. The commit- 
tees consist of not less than three members, who are se- 


lected from among the educated, virtuous, and zealous 
clergy. One member of the committee lias to examine 
the candidates for ordination, and to instruct and guide 
the confessors. A second member lias to superintend 
the printing and the sale of books, the ecclesiastical dis- 
cipline, and the lives of the clergy. No book can be 
printed without his permission. The third member 
superintends education and preaching. The secular 
clergy are mostly uneducated and poor, and, to sup- 
port themselves and their families, they often carry on 
some trade, cultivate a farm, and perform other man- 
ual labor. The parochial churches are maintained by 
the congregations, and on every Sunday and holiday 
collections are. taken up for the purpose. The koja 
bachi , or chief of the congregation, administers the 
financial affairs, and has, in particular, to take eare of 
the support of the priests, the churches, and the schools. 
No one can be admitted to a male or female convent 
without an examination, or before being ten years of 
age. Besides the monks and nuns who live in convents, 
there are eremites on Mount Atlios, and anchorets in 
Macedonia. See Monks, Eastern. 

The number of metropolitans and bishops who were 
subject to the patriarch of Constantinople before the 
churches of Bonmania. Servia, and Bulgaria had sev- 
ered their connection with him amounted, according to 
Silbernagl (Yerfus&uvy sdmmtlicher Kirch n cks Orients 
[18G5]), to 131, of whom 92 belonged to Europe, 21 to 
Asia, and 18 to the provinces. I 11 consequence of the 
decay of the Turkish empire, a very large number of 
the dioceses are now no longer subject to the jurisdic- 
tion of the patriarch, which, ere long, may be restricted 
to the dioceses in which the people are of the Greek 
nationality. Under the patriarch of Antioch were 12 
dioceses, and to this patriarchate also belongs the arch- 
bishop of Cyprus, who is exempt, and has under bis ju- 
risdiction 5 suffragan bishops. Under the jurisdiction 
of the patriarch of Jerusalem are 14 archbishops and 
bishops, under that of Alexandria 4. The population 
of the patriarchate of Alexandria is reported as only 
5000 souls; that of Jerusalem as 15,000; while the pa- 
triarchate of Antioch comprises 29,000 families. The 
total population connected with the Greek or Orthodox 
Eastern Church of Turkey, after the great territorial 
changes made in 1878, was estimated at 3.800,000 (see A ji- 
pletons ’ Animal Cyclopaedia , 1878, art. “Greek Church”) ; 
but of this number a considerable part belongs to tbe 
Bulgarian dioceses of Eastern Koumelia, which have no 
longer any ecclesiastical communion with the patriarch 
of Constantinople. Of the convents of the Church, 
which are still numerous, the most celebrated are those 
on Mount Athos (q. v.). Of late, education has begun 
to make great progress among tbe population connect- 
ed with the Greek Church. Two theological seminaries 
have been established, the one on the island of Chalki, 
near Constantinople, and the other at Jerusalem ; and no 
one is henceforth to be appointed as bishop who lias 
not been educated at one of these institutions, or is not 
fully up to the standard of the education there impart- 
ed. A flourishing teachers’ seminary, according to the 
German model, has been established at Salonica, in 
Macedonia. See Eastern Church. 

2. The Armenian Church. — For more than three 
hundred years nearly two thirds of ancient Armenia 
has been under the rule of Turkey [see Armenia]; 
and, therefore, although the head of the Church (the 
eatholieos of Echmiadzin) is now a subject of Ilnssia 
(q. v.), the large majority of the adherents of the Ar- 
menian Church are still to be found in Turkey. Among 
tbe Armenian bishops of Turkey, the patriarch of Con- 
stantinople occupies tbe highest rank: he is inferior 
only to the eatholieos of Echmiadzin. An Armenian 
diocese was established at Constantinople as early as 
1307. Archbishop Joachim, of Bursa, was raised to the 
rank of patriarch of Constantinople in 14G1 by the sul- 
tan Mohammed II, and he was at the same time ap- 
pointed the civil head of the Armenian nation. The 


TURKEY 


590 


TURKEY 


patriarch is elected by the notables and the prominent, 
clergymen of the Armenian community of Constanti- 
nople, and is confirmed by the Porte. Formerly the 
Armenian bankers had the ascendency in this assem- 
bly; but in 1839 several Armenian employes of t he 
Turkish government obtained the leading influence. 
The patriarch is entirely dependent upon these laymen, 
who appoint a coadjutor, or have him removed by the 
Turkish government, whenever they please. The new 
patriarch has to make a profession of faith, which con- 
sists of nine articles, the eighth of which designates 
r he patriarch as the vicar of Christ. The berat which 
the patriarch receives from the Porte confers upon him 
a direct power over the priests and laity of his diocese. 
Like the catholieos, he has the right to ordain bishops 
and to consecrate the holy oil. With the exception of 
the patriarch of Jerusalem, he can appoint metropolitans 
and bishops throughout Turkish Armenia; remove, ex- 
ile, and recall them; divide or unite their dioceses. 
The entire property of the Church is under his control; 
in the administration of it he is, however, limited by 
the lay synod, which consists of twenty members elect- 
ed by the people and confirmed by the Porte. More- 
over, he is assisted in the exercise of his ecclesiastical 
functions by a clerical synod consisting of bis officials. 
As he has also civil jurisdiction, he has, like the Greek 
patriarch, his own court and a patriarchal prison, lie 
is the civil head not only of the Armenian nation, but 
also of the Syrian Jacobites. All communications be- 
tween the Turkish government and the Armenians pass 
through his hands; and even the Armenian patriarch of 
Sis and the bishops not directly subject to his jurisdic- 
tion receive their berat through him. Like the Greek 
patriarch, he enjoys a number of honorary rights and 
exemption from taxation, but, in return, has to pay an 
annual tribute to the Porte. 1 1 is revenue consists chief- 
ly of taxes of installation and annual contributions from 
bishops; fees for ordination, for the holy oil, for mar- 
riages: inheritances and donations. Besides the patri- 
arch of Constantinople, the Armenian Church of Turkey 
has patriarchs at. Sis, in the vilayet of Adana, at Jerusa- 
lem. and at Aghtamar, on the island of Van. 

The first patriarch of Sis was elected in 1440, when 
the clergy of Sis, after the death of the catholieos Jo- 
seph 111, feared lest the residence of the patriarch, which 
had been at Sis since 1204, might be removed to Ech- 
miadzin. Without waiting for a general assembly of the 
Armenian bishops, the clergy of Sis hurriedly proceeded, 
conjointly with the people of Sis, to the election of a 
catholieos. The bishops and vartabeds met, however, 
in 1441, at Echmiadzin, and elected as catholieos the 
monk Kvriakos, who was almost generally recognised 
by the Armenian churches. In order to prevent a per- 
manent schism, the privilege was conferred upon Sis 
to be governed by a patriarch, on condition, however, 
that he receive the holy oil from the catholieos as a 
sign of his submission. 'Hie condition was accepted, 
and from that time Sis has had its own patriarchs. Ac- 
cording to a concordat concluded between the catholieos 
of Echmiadzin and the patriarch of Sis, the jurisdiction 
of t he latter was to extend over the Armenian churches 
of Cilicia. Syria, Egypt, and Palestine; but, as the bish- 
op of Jerusalem made himself independent in the mid- 
dle of the 17th century, his jurisdiction has since been 
limited to the Armenian churches of Armenia Minor, 
Cappadocia, and Cilicia, '['lie patriarch of Sis has the 
title “Patriarch and Primate of Armenia Minor and the 
Armenians who arc in Cilicia, Syria, and Palestine, Min- 
ister of the Eight and of the. Throne of St. Gregory 
the Illuminator.” 

The patriarchate of Jerusalem has been in existence 
since the middle of the 17th century, when the catholi- 
cos Philippes conferred upon the archbishop of Jerusa- 
lem the right of consecrating, himself, the holy oil; and 
the archbishop consequently assumed the title of pa- 
triarch. and began to ordain bishops. The patriarch 
of Jerusalem, however, ceased long ago to exercise 


these functions; and his powers have been greatly cur- 
tailed, as the patriarch of Constantinople calls him to 
account when he pleases. In order to guard as much 
as possible bis own independence, the patriarch procures 
from the Turkish government his own berat, and sup- 
ports in Constantinople an agent of his own. lie has 
to pay an annual tribute, not only to the Porte, hut to 
the pasha of Damascus, lie is elected hv his suffragan 
bishops, and has his resilience in the monastery of St. 
James at Jerusalem. His income is derived from the 
same sources as that of the patriarch of Constantinople, 
the presents from the pilgrims to Jerusalem constituting 
an element of special importance. 

In 1114 bishop David ofTornik made himself patri- 
arch of Aghtamar, in Lake Van, and assumed the title 
catholieos. The schism has continued to the present 
day; lmt the patriarchate is of little importance, since 
its jurisdiction extends hardly any farther than Lake 
Van. The patriarch is elected by the bishops and cler- 
gy under his jurisdiction, and is supported by the rev- 
enue of the monastery on the island of Aghtamar. 

The metropolitans, or archbishops, are not distinguish- 
ed from the bishops bv any greater jurisdiction, but only 
by some honorary rights. The catholieos can only he 
elected out of their number. The bishops are regularly 
elected from the unmarried vartabeds. and only occa- 
sionally, and by special permission of the catholieos or 
the patriarchs, from the monks, since, according to the 
Church law, a monk is not to become a bishop. The 
bishop is generally elected by the clergy and the heads 
of families, and after the election he is presented for con- 
firmation to the catholieos or the patriarchs, who appoint 
several (generally three) bishops for examining the can- 
didate. It is required that he be fifty years of age, of 
legitimate descent for three generations, on both father’s 
and mother’s side, and well versed in the Holy Script- 
ures and the canonical law. Many of the metropolitans 
and bishops have no dioceses, but live in convents, and 
there hold the olfice of archimandrite. Many of them 
are at the same time vartabeds. The patriarch of Con- 
stantinople, according to the regulations made by the 
provincial council on Nov. 20, 1830, has under his juris- 
diction 18 archbishops, or metropolitans, and 35 bishops. 
The patriarchate of Sis embraces three towns and forty 
villages. Towards the close of the lGth century the 
patriarch of Sis still had 23 archbishops and bishops 
under his jurisdiction, '['he diocese of the patriarch of 
Jerusalem embraces the churches of Palestine, Syria, 
Akra, and Tripulis. His residence, in the monastery of 
Mar Yakub on Mount Zion, was built in the 11th cen- 
tury, belonged to the Armenians as early as 1238, and 
has been in their undisputed possession since lGGfi. 
Besides the patriarch, 5 bishops and more than 100 
priests live in the -monastery. The total number of 
suffragan bishops is reported to be 14. The diocese of 
the patriarch of Aghtamar comprises two towns and 
thirty villages. In the second half of the 17th century 
he had under his jurisdiction from 8 to 0 bishops n- 
siding in the monasteries on the shore of Lake Van. 
The population connected with the Armenian Ghurch 
is estimated at about 2.400.000, of whom about 400.000 
are in the. European dominions of Turkey. See Arme- 
nian Cnunrir. 

3. Other Oriental Churches. — Besides the Greeks and 
Armenians, Turkey has two other Oriental churches — 
the so-called AT storians and Jacobites. Both have been 
fully treated in former volumes of this Cyclopedia. See 
J A < • ( m ITKS ; N ESTC ) K l A N S. 

4. The Roman Catholic Church in Turkey. — There are 
only a few tribes and congregations in the present do- 
minions of the Turkish empire which have always been 
in connection with the Church of Borne. They are 
chiefly to be found in Albania. The foundation of oth- 
er congregations dates from the time of the crusades, 
which established the Latin Church on a permanent 
basis in Syria, Palestine, and Cyprus. The rule of the 
Venetians in the Mediterranean Sea, and the commer- 


TURKEY 


591 


TURKEY 


cial intercourse between the Balkan*peninsiilA and the 
Catholic nations of Western Europe increased the num- 
ber of Latin congregations in all the large cities of the 
empire. Finally, the unceasing efforts of the numerous 
missionaries which the Church of Rome has supported 
in all parts of the empire have won over fractions of all 
the various Oriental Christian denominations in which 
the empire abounds. These fractions have been allowed 
bv the pope to retain a number of national and ecclesi- 
astical peculiarities; and, while they have adopted the 
doctrines of the Roman Catholic Church, recognise the 
pope as the head of the Church Universal, and must be 
recognised themselves, in the fullest sense of the word, 
as part of the Roman Catholic Church, they appear, 
especially in consequence of the retention at divine 
service of a rite different from the Latin, as a kind of 
semi- independent division of the Church. A correct 
view of the actual strength of the Roman Catholic 
Church in the Turkish empire is best obtained by re- 
viewing the several rites separately. 

The Latin millet embraces the Roman Catholics of 
all rites, except the United Armenians, who have their 
own civil head. The head of the Latin millet is a lay- 
man, who has the title Vekil (representative). He is 
assisted by four deputies of the Latin population, with 
whom he constitutes a permanent council called the 
Latin Chancery. The functions of this council are sim- 
ilar to those of the Greek patriarch. 

(1.) The Latin Rite. — A Latin patriarchate was estab- 
lished at Constantinople in T203, in consequence of the 
crusades. The occupant received a rank next to the 
pope. When Constantinople, in 1453, became the resi- 
dence of the sultan, the Latin patriarchs transferred the 
seat of the patriarchate to Venice, and sent to Constanti- 
nople as their representative a vicar, who for a long time 
was only a monk. When the Catholics, in consequence 
of their increasing number, applied for a bishop, the 
Propaganda prevailed upon the patriarch to appoint an 
assistant bishop for Constantinople, and to pay him a 
regular salary. This bishop sometimes called himself 
patriarchal vicar, sometimes suffragan of the patriarch. 
After some time, the Propaganda found it necessary to 
appoint, in its turn, an apostolical patriarchal vicar. 
When, after the middle of the 17th century, the patri- 
arch took up his residence at Rome, and the patriarchate 
of Constantinople became a mere title in partibus inji- 
delium, which was conferred upon a prelate residing in 
Rome, the apostolical vicar was invested with full juris- 
diction over all Catholics of the Latin rite. The popu- 
lation of his diocese, which extends over Thrace and 
the opposite coast of Asia Minor, is estimated at about 
15,000. The larger portions of the vicariate apostolic 
(formerly archbishopric) of Sophia, which had before 
the late war a Latin population of about 8000, and of 
the diocese of Nicopolis, which had a population of 
about 3000, are no longer under Turkish rule. Roth the 
towns of Sophia and Nicopolis lie within the new prin- 
cipality of Bulgaria. A considerable portion of the arch- 
bishopric of Seopia, or Uskub, in Macedonia (now r the 
western part of Eoumelia) has been annexed to Servia. 
The whole diocese numbered l>efore the war about 8000 
Catholics of the Latin rite. Before the enlargement of 
the principality in 1878, the entire Roman Catholic pop- 
ulation, numbering about 4000 persons, was included 
in the diocese of Belgrade and Semcndria [see Seuvia], 
which belonged as a suffragan see to the ecclesiastical 
province of Anti vari. The two vicariates apostolic of 
Moldavia and Wallachia, numbering in 1878 an aggre- 
gate Roman Catholic population of 114,000,* now belong 
to the independent state of Roumania. The two vi- 
cariates of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which embrace the 
entire Roman Catholic population in the two provinces 
after which they have been called, were in 1878, by the 
treaty of Berlin, placed under Austrian administration. 
The Catholic population in these vicariates is numer- 
ous, especially in the northern and north-western dis- 
tricts of Bosnia, which before the conquest of the coun- 


try by the Turks belonged to Hungary. The bishop 
of Bosnia tied, in consequence of the Turkish conquest, 
to Hungary, and established his residence at Dcacovar. 
The occupant of this see still has the title bishop of 
Bosnia and Sirmium; but, as the Turks did not allow' 
the jurisdiction of a foreign prelate, a vicar apostolic 
was appointed for the Catholics of the Turkish prov- 
inces. The Catholic population is estimated at about 
140,000, that of Herzegovina at 42,000. In the Euro- 
pean provinces remaining under Turkish rule the Ro- 
man Catholic Church has its greatest stronghold in Al- 
bania. There are tw T o ecclesiastical provinces in Alba- 
nia, Antivari-Scutari and Durazzo. The latter has no 
longer any suffragan see, and consists only of the arch- 
diocese of Durazzo. The archdiocese of Antivari and 
the diocese of Scutari w ere united in 1807, at wdiich time 
they had an aggregate Roman Catholic population of 
about 33,000. The suffragan sees of Antivari and Du- 
razzo are Sappa, Pulati, and Alessio, all in Albania, with 
an aggregate population of about 42,000. The diocese 
of Belgrade, in Servia, which has already been referred 
to, also belongs to this ecclesiastical province. The 
island of Scio, which belongs to Asiatic Turkey, has still 
an episcopal see, although the number of Roman Cath- 
olics is less than one thousand. It is a suffragan see 
of the archdiocese of Naxos, which belongs to the king- 
dom of Greece. In the Middle Ages, while this island 
was under the rule of the Venetians, it w’as very flour- 
ishing. and t he Roman Catholic population was numer- 
ous; but during the Greek war of independence nearly 
the entire Christian population w r as exterminated or 
sold into slavery. The population of Cyprus, which in 
1878 was placed under English administration, has rap- 
idly increased during the last twenty years, and the 
Roman Catholic Church there numbers about 10,000 
Catholics of the Latin and Greek rites, and 3000 Mar- 
onites. The flourishing city of Smyrna, in Asia Minor, 
has an archdiocese with about 15,000, nearly all of 
whom live in the capital. The archbishopric in this 
city was restored in 1818, and has now as a suffragan 
see the diocese of Candia, which, after being long con- 
ferred as a title in partibus infidel ium , was restored in 
1874. Besides these dioceses, the Church of Rome has 
an archbishop of Babylon, who resides at Bagdad. For 
the Roman Catholics of Jerusalem, who were formerly 
under the jurisdiction of Franciscan monks, an arch- 
bishopric was established in 1847, the occupant of which 
received the title of patriarch. The number of Roman 
Catholics in Palestine is estimated at about 15,000. Two 
“apostolic delegations” have been established, one call- 
ed “Asiatic Turkey,” and embracing Mesopotamia, Kur- 
distan, and Armenia Minor, and the other Syria; and 
tw'o apostolical vicariates, Aleppo and Asia Minor. The 
number of Roman Catholics in all these dioceses and 
ecclesiastical districts is small, but the bishops and the 
comparatively numerous orders display a considerable 
activity among the Christians of the Oriental rites. 
Several Catholic congregations have been collected in 
the commercial towns of the Arabian coast. They arc 
administered by the apostolical vicar of Aden. The 
number of Catholics in t He African dependencies of 
Turkey is small, but is increasing by immigration from 
Catholic countries of Europe, especially France and It- 
alv. The French population residing in Egypt in 1877 
amounted to 17,000, the Italian to 13.900, the Austrian 
to 0300; the large majority of all these are Catholics. 
The patriarchate of Alexandria, like that of Antioch in 
Asia, is now' a mere title conferred upon an Italian prel- 
ate who resides in Rome. For the 25.000 Catholics of 
Tunis there is a vicar apostolic, and for the 5000 of 
Tripoli a prefect apostolic. 

(2.) The A rmenian Rite . — The Church of Rome began 
to gain a firm footing among the Armenians at the time 
of the crusades. See Armenian Curium. Although 
the bulk of the nation always continued averse to a 
union with Rome, considerable numbers accepted tbe 
union, and, retaining the rites of the national Church, 


TURKEY 


502 


TURKEY 


were organized into a United Armenian Church. The ' 
Meehitarists (q. v.) have gained for this ecclesiastical 
community a greater literary distinction than can be 
claimed by any other Oriental communion. In regard 
to their political rights, the United Armenians were sub- 
ject to the jurisdiction of the patriarch of the National 
Armenian Church until pope I’ins VIII, in 1830. suc- 
ceeded, with the aid of France anti Austria, in making 
them independent. He erected at Constantinople the 
sec of an archbishop-primate for the Catholic Armeni- 
ans, who was to be immediately subject to the holy see. 
At the appointment of the first primate the pope ap- 
pears to have taken into consideration the national 
wishes, and to have conceded to them the right to pro- 
pose three candidates for the vacant see, from whom the 
pope chose one. In 1845 the pope appointed Anthony 
ilassun as successor of the primate, without consulting 
the nation. By a brief of April BO, 1850, pope Bins IX 
erected the towns of Ancyra, Artvin, Bronsa, Erzrum, 
Ispahan, and Trcbizond into episcopal sees of the United 
Armenians, and made them suffragans of the Armenian 
archbishop of Constantinople. The same brief appoint- 
ed the bishops of these sees without consulting the na- 
tion. The United Armenian nation gave its consent to 
the establishment of the sees, but refused to recognise 
the bishops, because they had not previously been con- 
sulted. After some time, they yielded this point also, 
in order to prevent a schism; and the Turkish govern- 
ment, through the mediation of France, gave to the new 
bishops the necessary her at. When the pope estab- 
lished the see of an archbishop-primate at Constantino- 
ple, it was intended to confer upon him also the secular 
jurisdiction over the Catholic Armenians; but the Forte 
did not recognise the primate, and clothed, by a berat 
of 1831, a priest of the Order of Meehitarists with the 
prazfect nra nationalis. At the request of the French 
ambassador, after some time, a patriarch was appointed, 
but without any ecclesiastical functions, and having only 
those secular rights which are connected with the of- 
fices of the Creek and the Gregorian-Armenian patri- 
archs. The patriarch was to be elected by the United 
Armenian community, and to be confirmed by the Forte, 
lie was to be assisted by a council of administration 
consisting of twelve members, who were likewise to be 
elected bv the nation and to be confirmed by the Forte. 
The berat given to the patriarch extended bis jurisdic- 
tion overall the United Eastern churches; but, in con- 
sequence of the religious controversies and inner dissen- 
sions which arose, the patriarch lost the right to repre- 
sent the other Catholic nationalities at the Forte, and 
this right passed over to the vekil of the Latins. In 
18GG Hassun, the archbishop-primate of Constantinople, 
was elected also patriarch of Cilicia, and assumed as 
such the name Anthony Fcter IX. Thus for the first 
time the highest ecclesiastical dignity of the United 
Armenians, the patriarchate of Cilicia, was united in 
one person with the civil headship of the United Arme- 
nian nation which was attached to the office of the. pri- 
mate of Constantinople. Simultaneously with confirm- 
ing the new patriarch, pope Pius IX, in .July, 18G7, issued 
the bull Heversnrits , which abolished the rights that 
hitherto the United Armenians had enjoyed with re- 
gard to the election of their patriarch and their bishops, 
and reserved for the pope rights hitherto not exercised 
by him. The opposition which at once manifested it- 
self against this bull led in 1870 to an open schism. 
The opponents secured the assistance of the Turkish 
government; Hassun was exiled from Constantinople 
and from Turkey, and Kupeliaii chosen in his stead pa- 
triarch of the United Armenians. Besides, a number 
of bishops sympathizing with Kupelian were appoint- 
ed for United Armenian dioceses. Notwithstanding re- 
peated excommunications by Borne, the party headed 
by Kupelian remained in opposition to the pope, and 
assumed a position similar to that of the Old Catholics 
in Western Europe. The Kupelians continued for many 
years to enjoy the patronage and active support of the 


Turkish government, but never succeeded in bringing 
over to tlicir side the majority of the United Armenian 
laity. In 187G a general amnesty, granted by the new 
sultan, Murad, on his accession to the throne, permitted 
Hassun to return to Constantinople. The schism con- 
tinued, however, until 1873, when the efforts made by 
the papal delegates and the ambassador of France se- 
cured the submission of Kupelian and the other bishops 
of the opposition, and the entire end of the schism. 

(3.5 Other United Oriental Hites. — The Human Cath- 
olic Church has also gained over the entire tribe of die 
Maronites, as well as portions of the Ncstorians and the 
.Jacobites in Asia, and of the Copts in Egypt. The 
United Ncstorians are generally called Chaldeans, while 
the United Jacobites arc designated United Syrians. 
Those United Orientals have already been referred to 
in the articles Mauonites; Chaldeans; Coots; .Jac- 
obites. The aggregate number of these religious de- 
nominations is not large. The number of Chaldeans 
(inclusive of the congregations in Persia) is estimated 
at from 20,000 to 30,000, that of the Syrians at from 
3000 to 30,000, that of the Copts at 10,000. From 1870 
to 1879 almost the entire community of the Chaldeans, 
including their patriarch, Andu, and all their bishops, 
was in a state of open rebellion against home. The pa- 
triarch desired to extend his jurisdiction over the Chris- 
tians of St. Thomas in British India, who, like the Chal- 
deans, are United Ncstorians, and number about 100,000. 
Borne objected to this, desiring the Christians of St. 
Thomas to remain as heretofore under the jurisdiction 
of the vicar apostolic of Verapoli, who is of the Latin 
rite. The Chaldeans, moreover, protested against a 
Homan bull, issued in 18G3, which forbade the patriarch 
to ordain bishops without the previous approbation of 
the pope. The Chaldeans had possessed and exercised 
this right from the time when they joined the com- 
munion of Home, and they denied the right of the pope 
to abolish it without their consent. The patriarch and 
the bishops long resisted all the efforts made by Home. 
One of their bishops visited India and prevailed upon a 
large portion of the Christians of St. Thomas to place 
themselves under his jurisdiction, and withdraw from 
that of the Latin vicar apostolic of Verapoli. At length, 
how ever, they relented in their resistance; and, after the 
death of patriarch Andu, the pope succeeded, in 1879, in 
securing the submission of the Chaldeans, and in the 
election of a new patriarch who declared himself will- 
ing to concede all the demands made by Home. Sec 
Thomas (St.), Christians of. 

(4.) Protestantism. — The most important Protestant 
churches in the Turkish empire .are under the care of 
American missionary societies. The Hcv. Fliuv Fisk 
and the Hcv. Levi Parsons w r ere appointed by the Amer- 
ican Board in 1818 ’missionaries to Palestine, and ar- 
rived at Smyrna in 1820. In the next year Mr. Parsons 
went to Jerusalem. A printing-press, designed to print 
books for Turkey, was set up at Malta by the Hev. Daniel 
Temple in 1823, and was removed in 1833 to Smyrna. 
The Hcv. Messrs. William Goodell and Isaac Bird were 
stationed at Beirut, where they began the Syrian mis- 
sion in 1823, and opened schools the next year. In the 
same year the circulation of the Scriptures w\as forbid- 
den by the government. The station at Jerusalem was 
suspended for nine years after the death of Mr. Fisk, in 
1825, and the mission in Syria was suspended for a 
short time in 1828. It was soon resumed; the Hcv. 
William Goodell was appointed to Constantinople, and 
a deputation was sent to vLit the Armenian populations 
of the empire. Mr. Goodell visited the Armenian patri- 
arch and ecclesiastics at Constantinople in 1831, and 
was at. first welcomed by them. Schools were opened 
near Constantinople, and in 1834 stations were establish- 
ed at Trcbizond and Bronsa. The Greek and Armenian 
ecclesiastics became jealous of the progress of the mis- 
sions, and a strong opposition was instigated against 
them; hut in 1839 the new sultan made the first of a 
scries of concessions of religious liberty. In 1841 the 


TURKEY 


593 


TURKEY 


Rev. Cyrus Hamlin opened a school at Bebek, near Con- 
stantinople, which was the beginning of what is now 
Robert College. 

Churches were formally organized at Constantinople, 
Adabazar, and Trebizond in 1846. In the next year the 
Protestants were recognised by the government as an 
independent community, and in 1850 they were accord- 
ed a charter, placing them on the same basis as the 
other Christian communities of the empire. In 1850 
the sultan granted, and in 1800 formally proclaimed, the 
hatti-humayum by which religious liberty and equal 
rights were conferred upon all classes. The missions 
in Syria were transferred to the Board of Foreign Mis- 
sions of the Presbyterian Church in the United States 
of America in 1870. The churches of the American 
Board arc distributed through a territory extending 
from Mosul, on the Tigris, to Monastir, in Macedonia. 
They arc arranged into four missions, which are known 
as the Eastern Turkey (Armenia), Central Turkey (em- 
bracing the country south of the Black Sea), Western 
Turkey (Asia Minor), and European Turkey (Constan- 
tinople, Eastern Routnelia, Bulgaria, and Macedonia) 
missions, and include 90 churches with 7300 mem- 
bers. The Presbyterian Church has 12 churches in 
Syria, with 716 communicants. The Synod of the Re- 
formed Presbyterian Church of North America has a 
mission at Latakia, with 94 members; the Free Church 
of Scotland has two missionaries, with 26 members; an 
independent Baptist missionary reports 11 members, and 
the Friends have 14 members, all in Syria. The Rev. 
Samuel Gobat, an agent of the Church Missionary So- 
ciety, went to Palestine in 1841, and was afterwards ap- 
pointed bishop of Jerusalem. He founded schools, which 
passed in 1877 under the control of the Church Mission- 
ary Society. This society returns 12 native Protestant 
congregations in Palestine, having 1108 members. Other 
societies engaged in Palestine are the London Jewish 
Mission, the Jewish Mission of Berlin, the Crischona 
Mission, and the Kaiserswerth Deaconesses’ Associa- 
tion. 

The Methodist Episcopal Church has a mission in 
Bulgaria, begun in 1857, which included, in 1878, 5 
stations, 38 members, and 13 probationers. The Disci- 
ples of Christ appointed a missionary to Constantinople 
in 1878. The mission of the United Presbyterian Church 
of North America in Egypt, after twenty-five years of 
development, has 9 churches and 947 communicants. 
The Protestant churches have in all in the empire about 
385 preaching-places, more than 100 ordained mission- 
aries with as many churches, and about 10,000 com- 
municants. Besides these, the Jewish mission societies 
of London, the Established and Free Churches of Scot- 
land, and the Irish Presbyterian Church have stations 
and schools at Alexandria, Smyrna, Beirut, Constantino- 
ple, Salonica, Adrianople, and Rustchuk. 

The Protestant religious work is supplemented by 
efficient schools of every grade. The American Board 
has 300 common-schools, 16 boarding-schools for girls, 
and 12 seminaries and training-schools, with a total at- 
tendance of more than 11,000 pupils; the Presbyterian 
Mission in Syria has 84 common-schools, 3 high -sc bools, 
and 2 female seminaries, with a total of 4097 pupils, a 
college, and a theological seminary; the Reformed Pres- 
byterian Mission has 476 day-school scholars; the So- 
ciety of the British Syrian Schools and Bible Mission, 
30 schools and 3000 scholars; and in Syria proper, not 
including Palestine or Asia Minor, there are 1 1,000 chil- 
dren in evangelical schools, of whom about one half are 
girls. In Palestine, there are under the control of the 
Church missionary and other societies some 36 or 37 
Protestant schools, which are attended by Mohamme- 
dan, Jewish, Druse, and Samaritan pupils. The United 
Presbyterians in Egypt have 39 schools, with J893 pupils, 
and 6 theological students in the training-schools. The 
English Church schools at Cairo and Damietta have 
590 pupils. Of the Jewish mission schools, those of 
the Church of Scotland return 1702 Jewish and other 
X.— P p 


than British pupils. At the Syrian Protestant College 
of the Presbyterian Mission at Beirut instruction is 
given in the English language, while the Arabic is 
taught as a classic. The college has a faculty of 8 
professors, 120 students, and a medical department 
which had 23 students in 1877, and which has sent 
out several graduates, who are practicing as physicians 
in different parts of the empire. Robert College, near 
Constantinople, is not immediately connected with any 
Church organization, but is under Protestant direction, 
with a board of trustees composed of citizens of the 
United States. It has a faculty of 15 instructors, in- 
cluding American, European, Armenian, Bulgarian, 
Greek, and Turkish professors, and registered, in 1878- 
79, 151 students, among whom fifteen nationalities and 
all the religions prevailing in the empire were represent- 
ed. Instruction is given in the usual collegiate studies, 
and in fifteen ancient and modern languages. The col- 
lege has a library of 6000 volumes. Central Turkey 
College, at Ain tab, is also an independent Protestant in- 
stitution, in which instruction is given in the branches 
of science and literature, the English, Turkish, and Ar- 
menian languages. 

The American Board has a press at Constantinople, 
and the Presbyterians have one at Beirut, at both of 
which religious, educational, and scientific books are 
published in the languages of the people. The Arabic 
Bible published at. Beirut is circulated in all Mohamme- 
dan countries. Other editions of the Bible are publish- 
ed in all the languages spoken in the empire. The 
w hole number of copies of books, tracts, etc., printed at 
the press of the American Board from the beginning of 
its operations to 1879 is 2,248,354, comprising a total 
of325,503,988 pages, in the Armenian, Armeno-Turkish, 
Greco-Turkish, and Bulgarian languages; and the whole 
number of pages printed on the Presbyterian press from 
the beginning to 1879 is 183,705,027. 

The organization of Protestant churches has been 
generally confined to other than Mussulman popula- 
tions — chiefly to Greeks, Bulgarians, and Armenians. 
It was until recently a capital offence, by the Turkish 
law, for a Moslem to become a Christian. More atten- 
tion is now r given to the evangelization of the Turkish 
population ; but the number of Protestant Turks is still 
very insignificant. The Protestants have acquired a 
good reputation in the communities among whom they 
live, and have gained their esteem and confidence to a 
degree that is rarely accorded to persons professing a 
strange religion. See Syria, Missions in. 

VI. Other Religious Denominations . — The roost im- 
portant of the other religions denominations of the 
Turkish empire are the Jews. Their old native land, 
Palestine, is now a part of Turkey in Asia, but the 
overwhelming majority of its population consists at. 
present of Mohammedans, the total number of Jews in 
all Asiatic Turkey being estimated at only 50,000. It 
is believed that their first appearance in European Tur- 
key may have been connected with the conquests of 
Alexander the Great, who planted many colonies of 
Jews about his empire. Philo mentions Je\vs in Thes- 
saly, Boeotia, Macedonia, etc. Luke speaks of them at 
Thessalonica and Bercea. The Jews have probably been 
settled in Macedonia from the first emigration to the 
present time. In consequence of their expulsion from 
Spain, a large number of Spanish Jew’s settled in Thes- 
salonica. Paul Lucas says that in his day there were 
30,000 in that city, with tw enty-two synagogues. The 
descendants of these Spanish Jew r s spread throughout 
the empire; they continue to speak among themselves 
the Spanish language, but their written correspondence 
is carried on in Hebrew. The great mass of the Jews 
in Turkey are Talmudists, but there exists a small sec- 
tion of Karaites (q. v.). The latter have about a hun- 
dred families at Has-lveui, near Constantinople; there 
are also many in Galicia and the Crimea; but the great 
bulk of the Jew r s of this persuasion are, outside of the 
Turkish empire, in Galicia and the Crimea. “There is 


TURKEY 


594 TURKEY, VERSIONS OF 


also a curious sect of Jews at Saloniea called Mamim , | 
which signifies ‘turncoat.’ They believe in the four- 
teenth false Messiah, Sabati Levi, who, to save his life, 
became with his followers Mohammedans; but these, 
again, have their religious differences, and are divided 
into three sects. They are still Jews at heart, but their 
trilling with two creeds makes them despised and looked 
down upon. They marry among themselves only, and 
live together in a particular quarter of the town. There 
are others of the same sect in parts of Russia. At Sa- 
lonica they are Mohammedans in public and Jews in 
private life. The Jews have no hierarchy, but each 
congregation is independent, and is governed by its own 
chief rabbi; but they have a representative head at 
Constantinople, called the khakhani-bashi , who is chief 
of the Israelitish nation in the empire. The khakham- 
bashi at Constantinople has a court or council to assist 
him in administering both ecclesiastical and civil law. 
It is divided into two parts — first, the M ejliss-i-rouhani, 
or spiritual council, composed ofsix grand rabbins, which, 
as its name implies, deals with questions relating to the 
Jewish religion; and, second, the Mejliss -i- jcsinani, 
or civil council, which deals with questions of civil law, 
and assists the Turkish courts in any questions relat- 
ing to Jews. The same organization applies to each 
grand rabbi, who, in his turn, is assisted by two similar 
councils. As the Jewish law, like that of the Moham- 
medan, is explained by the teaching of the sacred books, 
the establishment of these councils forms a ready means 
of arriving at a judgment on all religious and civil cases 
arising in the Jewish community. The khakham-bashi 
takes rank immediately after the Greek and Armenian 
patriarchs. The Jewish population of the Turkish em- 
pire is estimated at 158,000. The poorer are entirely 
dependent upon the liberality of the upper classes for 
education and relief in case of want, and the obligation 
is met in a most commendable spirit. They possess 
an institution called the ‘ Universal Israelitish Alliance,’ 
which is charged with the administration of education, 
etc. In 1875 the alliance had twenty -one schools 
throughout the empire, which gave instruction to 2094 
children of both sexes, and of this number 809 were ad- 
mitted gratuitously. The teachers of these schools are 
educated in the Rabbinical Seminary at Baris, and they 
give their pupils instruction in foreign languages and 
all the elements of a first-class education. The ele- 
mentary schools, or talnmdtora , are crowded with chil- 
dren of both sexes, who are simply taught to read and 
write” (Raker). The estimates of the Jewish popula- 
tion in the Turkish empire vary greatly. It has al- 
ready been mentioned that Baker, in his work on Tur- 
key, gives the total number as 158,000, ami that in 
the Asiatic possessions they are supposed not to exceed 
50,000. The Servian statistician Jakshitch estimates 
the Jews in the immediate European possessions at 
only 55,000, distributed as follows among the several 
vilayets: Constantinople, 22,943; Adrianople, 13,492; 
Saloniea, 7409; Monastir, 25G6; Kossovo, 1323; Vani- 
na, 4085 ; Crete, 3200 — total, 55,018. The same sta- 
tistician gives the number of Jews in Roumelia at 
39G9, in Bosnia at G9G8, in Bulgaria at 8959 — total in 
Turkish empire in Europe, 74,914. In the Afriean de- 
pendencies, the Jews are chiefly represented in Tunis, 
where they are supposed to number 45,000 souls. See 
Jews. 

There are a number of sects peculiar to Turkey. The 
most prominent among them are the Ansai'ians (q. v.) 
and the Druses (q. v.). The number of gypsies is esti- 
mated at about 200,000. 

VII. Literature . — For information on the religious 
denominations of Turkey, see Baker, Turkey (Bond, and 
N. Y. 1878) ; Audouard, IL Orient el ses Peuplades (Baris, 
1867); Zur llelle von Samo [a Mohammedan dervish, 
previously an Austrian diplomatist], Die Volker des 
osmanischen Reiches ( Vienna, 1877 ) ; Ubicini, Etudes 
llistoriques sur les Populations Chretiennes de la Turquie 
d y Europe (Baris, 18G7). (A. J. S.) 


Postscript . — Since the above was in type, the political 
situation of Turkey has undergone no material change. 
The Turks, as well as the natives, made so much opposi- 
tion to carrying out the provisions of the treaty of Berlin 
that a naval demonstrat ion by t he great European powers 
in the Archipelago became necessary in order to compel 
the surrender to Montenegro of Dulcigno, a seaport of 
Albania, on the Adriatic. Meanwhile both Greece ami 
Turkey continued their warlike attitude and prepara- 
tions, both parties declining the mediation of the other 
powers; but as none of these seemed disposed to aid 
either of the contestants, the latest advices (April. 1881) 
are that a compromise of the boundary question will be 
peaceably effected (by the absolute cession to Greece of 
a part only of the disputed territory in Albania and 
Thessaly, as suggested by Turkey ami recommended by 
the other governments), and that thus a new lease of 
life, for a short time, will be granted to the Turkish rule 
in Europe. 

TURKEY, Versions of. There exist a great many 
translations of the Scriptures which are used throughout 
the Turkish empire, but do not properly belong to Tur- 
key alone, as the following list of versions, furnished to 
us by the Rev. Dr. A. \Y. Thomson, agent of the British 
and Foreign Bible Society at Constantinople, will show : 


Albanian, Gheg. 
Albanian, Tosk. 
Arabic. 

Armenian, Ararat. 
Armenian, Modern. 
Azerbijau. 
Bulgarian, General. 
Bulgarian, Eastern. 
Bulgarian, Western. 
Croatian. 

Greek, Modern. 

Hebrew. 

Judseo-German. 


Jndaeo-Polish. 

Judieo-Spauish. 

Kurdish. 

Kurdish, Anneno-. 
M altese. 
Roumanian. 

Russ, Modern. 
Servian. 

Syriac, Modern. 
Turkish. 

Turkish, Anneno-. 
Turkish, Graeco-. 


These versions have already been treated, more or less 
fully, in separate articles, or will be found in their prop- 
er order in the Supplement. Some of the most im- 
portant translations — such as the Arabic, Turkish, Bul- 
garian, and Armenian — have been prepared entirely by 
American missionaries; and it is very interesting to 
know how their work is appreciated and regarded by 
scholars of other countries.* The British Quarterly Re- 
view , in its January number, 1878. after speaking of the 
work done by Americans in the Turkish empire in re- 
spect to explorations, literature, and education, medical 
practice, and the improved condition of woman, thus 
goes on concerning the Bible translations: 


“The most important contribution, however, which the 
Americans have made to the literature of Turkey is found 
in the accurate translations which they have made of the 
Christian Scriptures. These translations are worthy of 
special notice, because, apart from the religions influence 
of the Scriptures, they are making a marked impression 
upon the intellectual life of the various nationalities of 
Turkey. Fifty years ago there was no version of the 
Scriptures in any one of the modern languages of that 
country. The task of making the.^e translations was not 
an ordinary one. Regard must be had, on the one hand, 
to the uneducated classes— the style must be such that 
the common people would readily understand the mean- 
ing; on the other hand, regard must be had to the edu- 
cated classes — the style must be sufficiently elegant and 
idiomatic to commend itself to the taste of those who are 
proud of the literary excellences of their ancient tongues. 
The Americans may fairly claim that they have succeed- 
ed in this difficult task, in respect, at least, to four of the 
important languages of the country. We refer to the 
modem Armenian, the Arabic, the Turkish, and the Bul- 
garian. The Turkish versions have varied somewhat, ac- 
cording as they have been prepared for the Armenians, 
the Greeks, or the Osmanli Turks. The preparation of 
the entire Bible in the Armeno-TurkHi language (the 
Turkish language written with the Armenian character) 
was the life-work of the late William Goodell, D.D. The 
Rev. Dr. Schauffler has given many years to the prepara- 
tion of a version of the Scriptures in the Arabo-Tnrkish, 
or Turkish written with the Arabic character; while at 
the present time a permanent committee, of which the 
Rev. Dr. Riggs is chairman, is engaged in an attempt to 
recast all the Turkish versions of the Bible, and form one 
that may be printed iu any character. We understand 
that there is oue English representative on this commit* 


TURKEY, VERSIONS OF 595 TURKEY, VERSIONS OF 


tee. The translation of the Scriptures into Arabic is the 
result of the labors of two accomplished Ainericau schol- 
ars— Rev. Eli Smith, D.D.,aiul Rev. C. V. A.Van Dyck, D.D. 
We are assured by many who are capable of judging that 
this Arabic versiou of the Scriptures is worthy of the 
highest praise, and reflects great credit upon the scholar- 
ship of the translators. The same is said of the transla- 
tions of the Bible that have been made in to modern Ar- 
menian and Bulgarian by the Rev. Elias Riggs, D.D. We 
cannot forbear quoting an extract from a letter from Dr. 
Riggs in regard to the time spent on this branch of his 
work: ‘You ask,’ he says, ‘in regard to the time devoted 
to the Armenian and Bulgarian translations of the Bible. 
In both cases the translations were first issued in parts in 
small editions, intended partly to supply the existing de- 
mand and partly to secure criticisms and to leave room for 
corrections arising from comparison of the different parts 
of the Bible. In both cases the whole Bible was finally 
printed in a single imperial octavo volume, with refer- 
ences. To the Armenian Bible (including the two edi- 
tions) I gave most of my time for seven years, and to the 
Bulgarian more than half my time for eleven years. How 
long our committee will take to complete the Turkish 
version it is quite impossible to say. We spent a year on 
the fiuir gospels.’ When we remember that these trans- 
lations are all made from the original Hebrew and Greek : 
and when we remember, also, that the translations, when 
put iu their permanent form, have been commended by 
the best Arabic, Turkish, Bulgarian, and Armenian schol- 
ars of Turkey ; and when we recall, also, the great obsta- 
cles the Americans must have met in carrying these trans- 
lations through the press at Constantinople and Beirut, 
we cannot refrain from expressing our appreciation, not 
only of their high scholarship, hut of their persevering 
diligence and steadfastness of purpose; and we are con- 
vinced that generations of meu yet to come will joiu in 
this hearty commendation.” 

This speaks well of the work performed by these 
American scholars. For reasons stated above, we have 
confined ourselves in this article to the Turkish ver- 
sion properly so called, and to its transcription into the 
Armenian and Greek characters. 

I. Turkish . — The Turkish language, in its numerous 
dialectic varieties, is more or less diffused through the 
vast regions which extend from the •Mediterranean to 
the frontiers of China, and from the shores of the Frozen 
Ocean to Hindustan. The nations to which this lan- 
guage is vernacular have acted an important part in 
history; and though their power has now declined, 
and the Crescent has fallen like a star from heaven, 
yet a member of this race still occupies the throne of 
Constantine. The peculiar dialect of this language to 
which the name of Turkish is generally, by way of pre- 
eminence, applied is spoken in European Turkey by 
the Ottoman or Osmanli Turks, and is the only lan- 
guage which can be employed as a ^general medium 
of communication with all the various kindreds of peo- 
ple inhabiting European and Asiatic Turkey. The 
most ancient Turkish alphabet is the Ouigour, from 
which the Mongolian is derived; but the modern Turks 
use the Arabic and Persian characters. Their present 
alphabet consists of thirty-three letters, twenty-eight 
of which are Arabic, four are Persian, and one is pecul- 
iar to the Turkish. Like most Oriental languages, 
Turkish is written and read from right to left. Two 
versions of the Scriptures in kindred dialects of the 
Turkish language appear to have been completed about 
the same period. One of these versions, executed by 
Seaman, and printed in England in 1666, will be noticed 
in the Supplement, under Karass. The other, compris- 
ing both the Old and the New Test., was the work of Alt 
Bey, whose history is rather remarkable. II is original 
name was Albertus Bobowsky, or Bobovitis. Me was 
born in Poland, in the beginning of the I7ih century, 
and while a youth was stolen by the Tartars ami sold 
as a slave in Constantinople. After having spent twenty 
years iu the seraglio, he publicly embraced Mohammed- 
anism, at the same time assuming the name of Ali Bey. 
He became first dragoman, or translator, to Mohammed 
IV, and was said to be thoroughly conversant with sev- 
enteen languages. At the suggestion and under the di- 
rection of the famous Levin Warner, then Hutch ambas- 
sador at Constantinople, Ali Bey was induced to trans- 
late the catechism of the Church of England into Turk- 
ish, and afterwards betook himself to the translation of 


the entire Scriptures into Turkish. The study of the 
sacred volume was not without effect on the translator; 
for it is recorded that Ali Bey entertained thoughts of 
returning to the Christian Church, and was only pre- 
vented by death from accomplishing his design. When 
his version was corrected and ready for the press, it was 
sent by Warner to Leyden to be printed. It was de- 
posited in the archives of the university of that city, 
and there it remained for a century and a half, until 
baron Von Diez, formerly Russian ambassador at Con- 
stantinople, drew the attention of Europe to this long- 
neglected translation. He offered his services in edit- 
ing the MS. to the committee of the British and For- 
eign Bible Society; and, meeting with great encourage- 
ment to prosecute his design, Mr. Oiez immediately ad- 
dressed himself to the revision of the Old Test. When 
four books of the Pentateuch were revised he died, and 
the work of revision was transferred by the society to 
Kieffer, professor of the Turkish language at the Uni- 
versity of Paris and interpreting secretary to the king 
of France. The new editor disapproved of the plan pur- 
sued by his predecessor, particularly of his insertion of 
vowel -points, and he therefore commenced the work 
anew, applying himself, in the first instance, to the New 
Test. He followed the text of the MS. implicitly, with- 
out collating it with the original Greek; and thus sev- 
eral errors in the text were inserted in the printed cop- 
ies, which were, however, soon detected, and gave rise 
to a printed controversy. The circulation was imme- 
diately suspended, the errors were examined and cor- 
rected by a sub-committee, and Prof. Kieffer commenced 
a laborious and thorough revision of the text bv collat- 
ing every portion, not only with the original, but with 
the English, German, and French versions; with the 
Tartar of Seaman, and of the Scotch missionaries at Ka- 
rass; with the versions of Erpenius and of Martyn ; and 
with those in the London Polyglot. The revision was 
carried on from 1820 to 1828, when the entire Bible, 
with the embodied corrections, was completed, and ob- 
tained the attestation of the most eminent Orientalists 
in Europe. The work was printed at Paris, and the 
original MS. was afterwards returned to Leyden. An 
edition of the Turkish New Test., carefully revised by 
Air. Turabi under the superintendence of Dr. Hender- 
son, was completed by the society in 1853. A subse- 
quent revised edition was printed in 1857. A new 
version was commenced by the Rev. I)r. SchaufHer, 
and the New Test, was printed in 1866. In 1867 the 
Psalms followed, to which were afterwards added the 
Pentateuch and Isaiah. These are, at present, the parts 
published of Dr. Schauffler’s translation. The entire 
Bible was completed in 1873, “ This work,” says the 

Annual Report of the British and Foreign Bible Society 
for the year 1873, “ is of a somewhat extraordinary char- 
acter, requiring rare powers of scholarship for its execu- 
tion. It has occupied many years, and the translator 
has devoted to it the most conscientious and untiring 
application. It has been the one thing to which liis 
mind and learning have been consecrated. The ques- 
tion has been frequently mooted, and is again under dis- 
cussion, whether a distinct translation in Turkish is to 
be published with exclusive reference to the Osmanlis, 
or whether one and the same text may not be made 
available both for Osmanlis ami for other nationalities 
speaking the Turkish tongue, but reading their native 
characters. The latter was the object proposed when 
the translation of Dr. Schauffler was commenced; .but 
the views of the translator became modified in the very 
early stages of his work, and he has aimed to adapt his 
translation in style to the taste of the Osmanlis, be- 
lieving that the style common to the Greeks and Arme- 
nians speaking Turkish is too coarse and degraded to be 
met by a version acceptable to the Osmanlis. It is, 
moreover, alleged that the different nationalities employ 
the same terms frequently in widely different senses. 
This view does not elicit the sympathy or endorsement 
of many of the missionaries, who still hold to the theory 


596 


TURNER 


TURKEY, VERSIONS OF 


that one text should suffice for all classes, and that two 
versions would be injurious to the cause of divine truth, 
on the ground that it might, with some show of propri- 
ety. be objected that Protestants had one Bible for the 
rich and learned and another for the poor and unlearn- 
ed. It is further contended that the necessity for dis- 
tinct texts does not exist; that the style of Turkish 
spoken by the Christian populations has materially im- 
proved in dignity, although not level with that of the 
Osmanlis; and that it would be practicable to educate 
them to something still higher by means of a version 
of the Scriptures in pure idiomatic Turkish, without be- 
ing cast in too lofty and artificial a mould. In order to 
bring the whole question to some practical and satis- 
factory solution, it is proposed that a committee be 
formed, composed of the best Turkish scholars, of which 
Dr. Schauffler shall be president, and to which the ex- 
amination of his translation shall be submitted ; and that 
authority be given to call in the aid of such literary 
effendis as may be judged desirable.” The committee 
of joint revisers was formed; but, states the Report for 
1874, “after a short experiment the venerable translator 
(Dr. Schauffler) resigned his position on the Hoard of 
Iievisers, and handed over the MS. of the Old Test, to 
the agents of the British and Foreign and of the Amer- 
ican Bible Society, at whose expense the translation has 
been made. It is an understood thing that the forth- 
coming Turkish Bible will be based on I)r. Schauffler’s 
work, so that if he should have to regret that the whole 
will not be printed exactly as it leaves his hand, yet he 
will enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that he has con- 
tributed in a pre-eminent degree to this work, which 
was the fondest object of his later years; and that his 
name will go down to future generations associated with 
one of the hardest tasks ever attempted — the translation 
of the whole Bible into Osmanli Turkish.” As to the 
work of the committee, we read in the Annual Report of 
the British and Foreign Bible Society for the year 1879 
the following: “The revision of the Turkish Scriptures 
has been completed, and the version may be fairly con- 
sidered a new translation. The committee began their 
work in June, 1873, and the last words of the Old Test, 
were written at eleven o’clock on May 25, 1878. The 
object of the committee was to produce a complete Bi- 
ble for the Turks, which would be simple in language 
and idiom, and intelligible to the uneducated and ac- 
ceptable to the learned. The committee was composed 
of the Rev. Dr. Schauffler (who soon retired from the 
committee). Dr. Riggs, the Rev. Iv. H. Weakley, and the 
Rev. G. F. Herrick, and these called to their help the 
Rev. Avedis Constautian, pastor of Marash, and two 
Turkish scholars, one of whom soon withdrew, and was 
replaced by a very learned man from the banks of the 
Tigris. One of these Turkish assistants became a first- 
fruit of the new version. The New Test, was first 
printed (Constantinople, 1877), and a second edition, in 
smaller form, was ready in time to send to Russia for 
the Turkish prisoners; and the printing of the Old Test, 
was completed in December, 1878. The Turkish gov- 
ernment, to prevent the publication of the version, in- 
sisted that each copy should bear the imprimatur of the 
Imperial Council of Public Instruction, so that the cop- 
ies go forth with the permission of the Turkish govern- 
ment; and what was meant for a hindrance has turned 
out to the furtherance of the work. The American Bi- 
ble Society has shared with this society the labors and 
expenses of this great work.” As to the MS. of Dr. 
Schauffler, which, as has been stated above, was handed 
to the agents of the British and Foreign and the American 
Bible Society, the translator has completed his final re- 
vision. “ The parts,” states the same report, “ were not 
ready in time to be used by the revision committee, as 
had been intended. The MSS. of the Old Test, (except 
the Pentateuch and Isaiah already published) are now 
deposited in the strong-room of the American Bible 
House. New York, to the joint account of the British 
and Foreign and the American Bible Society.” 


i 


II. Turkish- Armenian. — 'Phis is, properly speaking, a 
Turkish version, but printed in Armenian letters, and 
accommodated to the dialectic peculiarities which pre- 
vail among the Armenians of Asia Minor. A Turkish 
version in their peculiar dialect, and written in their 
characters, was commenced in 1815 by an Armenian ar- 
chimandrite named Seraphim, in concert with another 
Armenian. An edition of five thousand copies of the 
Testament was printed at St. Petersburg in 1819. Mr. 
Beeves, agent of the British and Foreign Bible Society, 
devoted much time and trouble to the preparation of a 
revised edition. The work was afterwards taken up by 
the missionaries of the American Board of Missions; 
and in 1843 the entire Scriptures were printed in 
Smyrna at the expense of the American Society, the 
translation having been made by the Rev. W. Goodell. 
Subsequent editions of the Armeno-Turkish Scriptures 
have been printed at the American Mission press on 
behalf of the British and Foreign Bible Society. 

III. Turkish-Greek. — This, like the preceding version, 

is Turkish, but printed in Greek letters. In 1782 the 
Psalms, translated into Turkish by Seraphim, metropoli- 
tan of Karamania, were printed in Greek letters; and in 
1810 a Turkish version of the Acts and Epistles was 
printed in the same character at Venice. In conse- 
quence of inquiries instituted in 1818 by Dr. Pinkerton, 
respecting the state of the Christian inhabitants of the 
ancient Lydia, Caria, Lycia, Phrygia, Pisidia, Cilicia, 
and Lycaonia, it was ascertained that these poor people 
are all Greeks or Armenians, acquainted with no lan- 
guage but that of their Turkish masters. As they were 
unable to read or write except in their native charac- 
ters, the British and Foreign Bible Society published 
the Turkish Testament in Greek letters, the translation 
having been made by Messrs. Goodell and Bird. This 
edition was printed at Constantinople in 1828. In or- 
der to make it more conformable to the provincial mode 
of speaking Turkish which prevails among the Greek 
Christians of Asia Minor, Mr. Leeves, agent of the soci- 
ety, undertook a new and revised version, assisted by 
Mr. Christo Nicolaides, of Philadelphia, who joined Mr. 
Leeves in 1832, and from that period to 1839 was unin- 
terruptedly employed in the undertaking. The print- 
ing of the entire Bible was commenced at Syra, and af- 
terwards transferred to Athens. In 18G5 the Psalms, 
revised with great care under the editorial superintend- 
ence of the Rev. Dr. Riggs, passed through the press, 
and in 1870 the whole Bible, with marginal references, 
was published in Constantinople. See, besides the Bi- 
ble of Every Land , the Annual Reports of the British 
and Foreign and American Bible Societies; and Reed, 
The Bible Work of the World (Loud. 1879). (B. P.) 

Turlupins, the French name for the Brethren 
of the Free Spirit (q. w). The origin of the word 
is unknown, though it is thought to be connected with 
wolfish or predatory habits. 

Turner, Daniel, an English Baptist minister, was 
born at Blackwater, Hertfordshire, March 1, 1710. lie 
first settled at Reading, ami after devoting some years to 
school-teaching, became, in 1748, pastor of the Baptist 
Church in Abingdon, Berkshire, which position he filled 
till his death, Sept. 5, 1798. Many of his publications 
were highly approved ; among them were, Compendium 
of Social Religion (1758, 8vo) : — Letters Religious and 
Moral (17G6, 8vo) : — Meditations on Scripture (Abing. 
1771, 12mo): — Dissertations on Religion (1775, 8vo) : — 
Essays on Religion (1780, 2 vols. ; Oxf. 1787, 2 vols. 
12mo) : — Expositions on Scripture (Lond. 1790, 8vo). 
See Chalmers, Biog. Diet . s. v. ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, 
and A mer. A uthors , s. v. 

Turner, Francis, an English prelate of the,I7th 
century, received his education at Winchester School, 
graduated at New College, Oxford, April 14, 1G59, and 
took his degree of A.M. there in 1GG3. He received 
his degree of I).D. July G, 1GG9, and in the following 
December was collated tothe prebend of Sneating, in 


TURNER 


597 TURNER 


St. Paul’s. He succeeded Dr. Dunning to the see of 
Chichester, and followed him in the mastership of St. 
John’s College, Cambridge. April 11,1670. In 1683 he 
was made dean of Windsor; was consecrated bishop of 
Rochester, Nov. 1 1 ; and Aug. 23, 1684, was translated to 
the bishopric of Ely. He was one of the six bishops 
who joined archbishop Sancroft on May 18, 1688, in re- 
fusing to read the Declaration for Liberty of Con - 
science, and with them was committed, June 8, to the 
Tower, but was acquitted on the 29th. Refusing to 
take the oath when William and Mary ascended the 
throne, he was deprived of his bishopric, and lived in 
retirement till his death, Nov. 2, 1700. lie wrote, A 
Vindication of the late A rchbishop Sancroft and his 
Brethren, etc. : — Animadversions on the Naked Truth: 
— Letters to the Clergy of h is Diocese : — Brief Memoirs 
of Nicholas Terror (2d ed. 1837, 12mo): — Sermons 
(1681-85). See Bliss’s Wood, Athen. Oxon. iv, 545; 
Burnett, Own Times; Macaulay, Hist, of England, ch. 
xiv, xvi, xvii ; Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. ; Allibone, 
Diet . of Brit, and Anier. Authors, s. v. 

Turner, James (1), a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Bedford County, Va., May 7, 1759. He was con- 
verted in 1789, licensed to preach in 1791, and ordained 
and installed as colleague pastor with the Rev. James 
Mitehel, July 28, 1792, in what was then called the Peaks 
Congregation, lie also took charge of the New London 
Congregation. Here he spent the whole of his minis- 
terial life, and died, Jan. 8, 1828. He was exceeding- 
ly attractive as a preacher; a man of real genius; ac- 
knowledged to be unrivalled among the clergy of Vir- 
ginia in his power over the passions of men. See 
Sprague, Annals of the A mer. Pulpit , iii, 581; Foote, 
Sketches of Virginia , 2d series. 

Turner, James (2), an English Congregational 
minister, was born at Oldham, March, 1782. Ilewasedu- 
cated at Rotherham College, and ordained at Knutsford 
in 1808, which place became the chief centre of his ex- 
ertions. He was for years secretary of the British and 
Foreign Bible Society and the Cheshire Union of Inde- 
pendent Ministers. His judgment and clearness of 
mind were often consulted in private business, and great 
confidence was reposed in him. He died May 22, 1863. 
See (Lond.) Cong. Year-book, 1864, p. 248. 

Turner, Jesse H., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Bedford County, Va., Jan. 1, 1788; was educated 
in Hampden Sidney College, Va.; studied theologyin the 
Union Seminary, Prince Edward, Va.; was licensed by 
Hanover Presbytery and ordained by the same in 1813. 
He began his labors as a missionary in Richmond, Va. ; 
he subsequently preached at Fayetteville, N. C. ; Man- 
chester, Va.; and in Hanover County, Va. He died 
March 13, 1863. He was a sincere, good man, and suc- 
cessful as a preacher. See Wilson, Presb. Ilist. A Imanac , 
1867, p. 454. 

Turner, Joseph M. W., an English painter, was 
born at 26 Maiden Lane, Covent Garden, London, April 
23, 1775. He became a student, in 1789, of the Royal 
Academy, and as early as 1799 was elected an associate 
of the Academy, becoming three years after a full acad- 
emician. In 1807 he was elected professor of perspec- 
tive, but failed on account of literary qualifications. 1 le 
travelled in Scotland, France, Switzerland, and the Rhine 
countries, and paid three visits to Italy. He died at 
Chelsea, Dec. 19, 1851. He bequeathed a noble collec- 
tion of his works to the nation, and they were placed 
in a room in the National Gallery. Among his many 
works we notice, The Fifth Plague of Egypt: — Tenth 
Plague of Egypt: — a Holy Family. He also wrote a 
poem, The Fallacies of Hope. See Ruskin, Modern 
Painters; Thornbury, Life of Turner (Lond. 1862, 2 
vols. ; new ed. 1874). — Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. 

Turner, Nathaniel, a Congregational minister, 
was born at Norfolk, Conn., in 1771 ; graduated at Will- 
iams College in 1798; studied theology with Dr. Cat- 
Hn; was ordained over the Cfmrch in New Marlborough, 


Mass., in 1799 ; and died May 25, 1812. See Cong. Quar- 
terly, 1859, p. 46. 

Turner, Peter, an English Congregational minis- 
ter, was born at Wolverhampton in 1808. His parents 
were Wesleyans, and it was in connection with that 
body that he began to labor, at the age of eighteen, as 
a local preacher. He continued a liberal and zealous 
member of the Wesleyan community until 1846, when he 
joined the Independents, and in 1851 accepted the pas- 
torate of the Independent Church at Evesham, Worces- 
tershire. In 1856 he removed to Southampton, and 
labored with the Congregational Church until his death, 
July 26, 1861. Mr. Turner was very devoted to his peo- 
ple and pastoral duties, and his pulpit ministrations 
were highly prized by all who knew him. See (Loud.) 
Cong. Year-book, 1862, p. 267. 

Turner, Samuel Hulbeart, D.D., an eminent 
Episcopal clergyman and scholar, was born in Phila- 
delphia, Pa., Jan. 23, 1790, and graduated at the Uni- 
versity of Pennsylvania in 1807. lie was ordained 
deacon in 1811, and priest in 1814; was pastor of a 
church at Chestertown, Md., from 1812 to 1817; and 
was elected professor of historic theology in the General 
Episcopal Seminary, New York, Oct. 8, 1818. He con- 
tinued with the institution during its stay in New 
Haven, Conn., and returned with it to New York in 
1821. On Dec. 19 he took the chair of Biblical learn- 
ing and interpretation of Scripture, in which he contin- 
ued till his death, Dec. 21, 1861. lie was also professor 
of Hebrew language and literature in Columbia College 
from 1831. He was the author of, Notes on the Epistle 
to the Romans (N. Y. 1824, 8vo): — with Dr. Whitting- 
ham, Introduction to the Old Testament, transl. from the 
Latin and German of John Jalm (1827, 8vo): — Intro- 
duction to Sacred Philology and Interpretation , transl. 
from the German of Dr. G. J. Planck (Edinb. 1834, 12mo): 
— Companion to the Book of Genesis (N. Y. 1841, 8vo) : 
— Biographical Notices of some of the Most Distin- 
guished Babbies, etc. (1847, l2mo) : — Parallel Refer- 
ences Illustrative of the New Testament (1848, 12mo) : 
— Essay on Our Lord's Discourse, etc., John vi (1851, 
12mo ): — Thoughts on the Origin, Character , and Inter- 
pretation of Scripture Prophecy (1852, 12mo ) : — Epistle 
to the Hebrews, in Greek and English (1852, 8vo) : — 
Epistle to the Romans (1853, 8vo) : — Epistle to the Ephe- 
sians (1856, 8vo). See Autobiography of Samuel II. 
Turner , D.I). (1862, 12mo) ; A mer. Quar. Church Rev. 
1862, p. 734; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Au- 
thors, s. v. 

Turner, Sharon, an English author, was born in 
London. Sept. 24, 1768. After many years’ practice as 
an attorney in the Temple, he retired, in 1829, to Winch- 
more Hill, where he resided until a few weeks before 
his death, which occurred in London, Feb. 13, 1847. 
Mr. Turner is best known by his History of England 
from the Earliest Period to the Death of Elizabeth, etc. 
(Lond. 1799-1805). He also wrote, History of Henry 
VIII, etc. (1826, 4to ): — History of the Reigns of Ed- 
ward VI, Mary, and Elizabeth (1829, 4to) : — Sacred 
Meditations and Devotional Poems by a Layman (1810, 
12mo ): — The Sacred History of the World, etc. (1832, 
3 vols. 8vo). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. 
A uthors , s. v. 

Turner, Thomas, D.D., an English divine, was 
born at St. Giles’s, Heekfield, in 1591. He was edu- 
cated at St. John’s College, Oxford, and in 1623 was 
presented by his college to the vicarage of St. Giles’s in 
Oxford. Laud, when bishop of London, made him his 
chaplain, and in 1629 collated him to the prebend of 
Newington, Church of St. Paul, and in October following 
to the chancellorship of the same church. Charles l 
made him a canon residentiary, and appointed him 
one of his chaplains in ordinary, giving him the rec- 
tory of St. Olave, Southwark, with which he held the 
rectory of Fetcham, Surrey. At the request of Charles l 
he accompanied that prince to Scotland to be crowned. 


TURNER 


598 


TURRET 


In 1 G41 he was preferred to the deanery of Rochester, J 
hut on the death of the king lie was stripped of his 
preferments and treated with indignity. At the Res- 
toration he entered the deanery of Canterbury, August, 
1660. lie died in October, 107*2. See Chalmers, 1 Hog. 
Diet. s. v. 

Turner, William, an English divine, was born 
near Broadoak, Flintshire, and for some time previous 
to going to Oxford he was an inmate of the house of 
l’hilip Henry, father of Matthew, the commentator. 
He took his A.M. at Edmund Hall, Oxford, June 8, 
1075. Becoming, afterwards, vicar of Walberton, in 
Sussex, he resided there in 1697; but the date of his 
death is uncertain, lie published, a Histoiy of A ll Re- 
ligions (Loud. 1005, 8vo) : — Complete History of the Most 
Remarkable Providences , etc. (1007, fol.). “ This curious 
collection ranks with the similar performances of Clark, 
and Wanlev in his History of the Little World, but is 
superior perhaps to both in selection and conciseness.” 
See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Turner, William Hindley, an English Congre- 
gational minister, was born at Beeston, Leeds, in 1784. 
He was educated at Rotherham College, and became an 
exceedingly popular preacher. Mr. Turner’s first settle- 
ment was at Bury, and after seven years’ efficient work 
he removed to Hindley, where he built up a prosperous 
and manly ministry. In 1802 growing infirmities led 
him to resign the stated ministry. He was a disin- 
terested, devoted, and faithful minister of Christ. He 
died Dec. 8, 1808. See (Loud.) Cong. Year-book , 1870, 
p. 324. 

Turnus, in ancient Italian mythology, was the king 
of the Rutuli, and a son of I >aunus and Venelia, who was 
a niece of queen Amata, wife of Rations. Her daughter 
Lavinia, having been destined by fate to zEneas, was 
the subject of dispute between the Trojans and the 
Latins, in which the former were victorious. Turnus, 
after many wild battles, was dually killed in a duel 
with Aineas. 

Turpentine-tree (rep^/zn^oc, repi/SnOoe; Vnlg. 
terebinthus') occurs only once, viz. in the Apocrypha 
(Ecclus. xxiv, 10), where wisdom is compared with the 
turpentine-tree that stretcheth forth her branches.” 
The TEpel3iv$oQ or ripyivS o£ of the Greeks is the 
Pistacia terebinthus , terebinth-tree , common in Palestine 
and the East, supposed by some writers to represent 
the elah (H5N) of the Hebrew Bible. See Oak. The 
terebinth, though not generally so conspicuous a tree in 
Palestine as some of the oaks, occasionally grows to a 



large size. See Robinson (Bibl. Res. ii, 2*22, 223), who 
thus speaks of it. “The butm” (the Arabic name of 
the terebinth) “is not an evergreen, as often represent- 
ed, but its small lancet-shaped leaves fall in the au- 
tumn, and are renewed in the spring. The flowers are 
small, and followed by small oval berries, hanging in 
clusters from two to live inches long, resembling much 
those of the vine when the grapes are just set. From 
incisions in the trunk there is said to flow a sort of 
transparent balsam, constituting a very pure and tine 
species of turpentine, with an agreeable odor like citron 
or jessamine, and a mild taste, and hardening gradually 
into a transparent gum. In Palestine nothing seems 
to be known of this product of the butm I” The tere- 
binth belongs to the natural order A nacardiacece, the 
plants of which order generally contain resinous secre- 
tions. — Smith. See Tekkhintii. 

Turpin (orTilpin),aFrench prelate of the 8th cen- 
tury, of whose early history nothing deliuite is known, 
was a monk of St. Denis, and became bishop of Rheims 
probably in 753, after a long opposition by Milon. lie 
was one of the twelve French bishops present in 769 at 
the council called at Rome by pope Stephen to condemn 
the antipope Constantine. About 786 Turpin founded a 
chapel dedicated to St. Denis, which afterwards became 
an abbacy, lie died Sept. 2,800. lie left a genuine let- 
ter to pope Adrian I, and a romantic Latin Chronicle of 
the wars of Charlemagne against the Saracens in Spain, 
the authenticity of which has been greatly doubted, al- 
though avouched by a declaration of pope Calixtus in 
112*2. The oldest MSS. of it date from the end of the 
11th century, and the first writer who speaks of it is 
Raoul of Tortoire (1096-1145). The Latin text was 
published in 1584 by Sell a rd, in his Germanicarum Re- 
rum Chronogruphi, and French versions have appeared 
by Baguin (Paris, 1527, 4to ; Lyons, 1583, 8 vo, etc.), and 
lately by Ciainpi (Florence, 1822, with a dissertation on 
the author) and lieiffenberg (Brussels, 1836). See Gas- 
con Baris, l)e Pseudo Turpino (Paris, 1865). 

Turpin, Thomas D., a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in Somerset County, Md., June 30, 1805. lie 
was converted Sept. 8, 18*23; licensed to preach Sept. 12, 
18*27 ; admitted on trial in the travelling connection Feb. 
7, 18*29. and was appointed to Union Circuit; in 1830, to 
Pendleton; in 1831, to the Savannah mission; in 183*2, 
to the Black Swamp Circuit; in 1833, to May and New 
River* in 1834, to the Wadmatane and John’s Island 
mission and Orangeburg Circuit ; in 1835, to Pee Dee; 
in 1836, to Laurens; in 1837, again to Pendleton; and 
in 1838, to t lie Cambridge and Flat Woods mission, 
where he died, July 26, 1838. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences , ii, 665. 

Turquoise, a* Persian gem of a peculiar bluish- 
green color, which was very generally used in the Mid- 
dle Ages for the adornment of every species of saered 
vessel, e. g. the chalice, eiborium, altar-cross, mitre, and 
pastoral staff’. — Lee, Gloss, of Lit urg. Terms , s. v. 

Turret, Touret, or Turette, a small tower; the 
name is also sometimes given to a large pinnacle. Tur- 
rets are employed in Gothic architecture for various pur- 
poses, and are applied in various ways; they also differ 
very greatly in their forms, proportions, and decorations. 
In many cases they are used solely for ornament; they 
are also often placed at the angles of buildings, especially 
castles, to increase their strength, serving practically as 
corner buttresses. Occasionally they carry bells or a 
clock, but one of the most common uses to which they 
are applied is to contain a newel , or spiral staircase: for 
this purpose they are usually found attached to church- 
towers, forming an external projection, which very fre- 
quently terminates considerably below the top of the 
tower; but in some districts turrets of this kind general- 
ly rise above the tower, and are finished with a parapet 
or small spire. Turrets of all dates are sometimes per- 
fectly plain and sometimes variously ornamented, ac- 
cording to the character of the prevailing style of archi- 


TURRETINI 


599 


TURIiETINI 



tecture, the upper part heing the most enriched, and 
not unfreqnently formed of open-work. In the Norman 
style the lower part is usually square, and this form is 
continued to the top, but the upper part is sometimes 
changed to a polygon or circle. Few turrets of this date 
retain their original terminations, but they appear to 
have been often finished with low spires, either square, 
polygonal, or circular, according to the shape of the tur- 
ret. In the Early English and later styles they are most 
usually polygonal, but are sometimes square, and occa- 
sionally circular. The upper terminations are very va- 
rious; in the Early English style spires prevail, but in 
the Decorated and Perpendicular not only spires, but par- 
apets, either plain, bat tlemented, panelled, or pierced, and 
pinnacles are used. The peculiar kind of turrets often 
found attached to small churches and chapels, which 
have no tower to receive the bells, is designated by 
the term Dell- gable. — Parker, Gloss, of Architect, s. v. 
See Spire; Tower. 

Turretini, the name of a family of theologians of 
Geneva, whose ancestor, Francis Turretin or Turretini. 
the son of a gonfalonier of Lucca, was expatriated on 
account of his religion. He came to Geneva in 1579. 
Among his descendants three men deserve mention in 
this place. 

1. Benedetto was born in 1588 at Zurich, became 
pastor at Geneva in 1612, and professor of theology in 
1618. In lf>20 he represented the Church of Geneva 
at the national synod of Alais, which introduced the 
decrees of Dort into F ranee, and in the following year 
he was sent to Holland and the cities of the Hanseatic 
Leagtie to solicit aid towards fortifying Geneva, a task 
in which he was eminently successful. He died in 
1631, leaving to the world a number of sermons and 
theological writings. See Leu , All gem, hist. Lexikon, 
xviii, 375; Senebier, I list. Lit. de Geneve , ii, 136. 

2. Francois was born in 1623, became pastor of the 
Italian congregation at Geneva, and in 1653 professor of 
theology. He was sent to Holland on a similar mission 
to that formerly undertaken by his father, Benedetto. 
He is particularly known as a zealous opponent of the 
theology of Saumur [see Amyraut], and defender of or- 
thodoxy in the sense of Dort. He was also one of the 
originators of the Helvetic Consensus (q. v.) lie left 
numerous works, the more important of which, includ- 


ing the Tnstitutio Tkeol. Elenchics , were 
reprinted at Edinburgh in 1847 sq. 

3. Jean Alphonse, the son of Fran- 
cois, was born in 1671, and became the 
pupil of the Cartesian Chouet and of the 
Arminianizing Louis Tronchin (q. v.) at 
Geneva. In 1691 he went to Holland to 
study church history under Spauheim, 
and in 1692 he visited England, where 
he became acquainted with Newton and 
acquired the English language. On his 
return to the Continent he sojourned for 
a time in Baris, and was admitted to the 
society of men like Bossuet, Mabillon, 
IVIalebranche, etc. lie availed himself of 
this opportunity to study Arabic under 
the tuition of the abbe Laugueme. In 
Geneva be was received into the min- 
istry at the age of twenty-two, and soon 
afterwards into the Venerable Compagnie 
des Pasteui-s. His ability as an orator 
at once commanded attention. He was 
accustomed to follow the English prac- 
tice of presenting to the view a leading 
truth or duty: but he made the applica- 
tion of his discourse with greater unc-, 
tion than the English speakers cultivat- 
ed, and by thus combining the methods 
of the Genevan and the English pulpit he 
became the originator of a new method. 
The arrangement of his sermons was nat- 
ural and logical, his statement clear and 
simple, his manner dignified. In 1697 he was made 
professor of church history, and in 1701 became rector 
of the academy. The latter honor was conferred upon 
him ten times, to which fact we are indebted for ten 
important addresses delivered on the successive days 
of promotion. lie followed Tronchin, in 1705, as pro- 
fessor of systematic theology, though still retaining his 
own (historical) chair. He wrote upon almost the 
whole of dogmatics, and connected with these labors 
exegetical lectures on parts of the New Test. 

The influence of Turretini was especially apparent 
in the management of the enterprise to bring about 
the abrogation of the Helvetic Consensus as a bind- 
ing formula. He kept it before the Venerable Com- 
pany, the council, and the Two Hundred until a major- 
ity were gained over to that project; and he induced 
Wake, archbishop of Canterbury, to urge the abroga- 
tion upon leading men throughout Switzerland, and 
also to persuade the king of England to address an ap- 
peal to the cantons in behalf of the same measure. He 
was also prominent in promoting fraternal relations be- 
tween Lutherans and Deformed Christians in Geneva, 
in recognition of which fact he was made a member of 
the Royal Academy of Berlin, and awarded a gold med- 
al by the Prussian king. 

The principal theological works of Turretini, from 
which his tendency may most readily be learned, are, 
Nubes Testium pro Modern to et Pacifico de Debus Theol. 
Judicio et Instituenda inter Protestantes Concordia (1729), 
with a dissertation on the fundamental articles of the 
faith annexed. Such articles he describes as “quorum 
cognitio atque tides ad Dei gratiam salutemqtic obtinen- 
dam necessaria est.” This dissertation exposed Tur- 
retini to attack from two different directions: first, 
from the Jesuit De Pierre, Lyons, 1728, who sought to 
show that the Reformed Church bad no greater reason 
to renounce the communion of the Church of Rome than 
that of the Lutheran Church; and, second, from Crin- 
sons. Protestant pastor of Bionens, 1727. A second and 
more important work is his Cogitationes et Disserta- 
tiones Theologies, in which he displays a liberal type 
of orthodoxy. He emphasizes the importance of natu- 
ral theology in genuine Reformed fashion, but holds 
that revealed religion has for its object merely the sup- 
plementing and completing of what natural religion 


TURRI 


600 


TURTLE 


teaches. He recognises the existence of mysteries in 
revealed religion, but zealously rejects foreign and scho- 
lastic additions in theology. With respect to the doc- 
trine of the divine decrees, he avoids, as lie does every- 
where. all extreme statements, but lays hold on the 
elements of practical utility in the teaching. With 
reference to the doctrine of Divine Providence, he rep- 
resented the optimistic Leibnitzian theory, lie fol- 
lowed that philosopher also in his rejection of innate 
ideas. The Cogitationes contained much apologetical 
material, and earned for their author an honorable place 
among apologists (see Pelt, Encyclop. p. 391 ). The 
form in which his apologetical ideas were given to the 
French world of readers by Vernet is, it should be 
noted, revised and altered, in the first editions with the 
author’s consent, as Vernet claimed; but the improve- 
ment progressed with each successive edition, and Ver- 
net clearly reveals the deism of the 18th century in his 
work. 

In 1725 Turretini was commissioned to deliver the 
so-called Cloture des Promotions , an address in the 
French language, together with the charge prescribed 
by the laws for the occasion, when the Two Hundred 
and the General Assembly of citizens were to elect the 
principal magistrates of the State. The twenty-five 
addresses which he delivered to these bodies were high- 
ly commended because of the striking and practical 
ideas with which they were filled, lie also took active 
part in the improvement of the liturgy, in the ordering 
of week-day services, in the publication of a new edition 
of the French New Test. (1720), in the forming of a so- 
ciety for the religions instruction of youth, and linally 
in the introduction of the public confirmation of cate- 
chumens. He rendered important services to the 
churches of Hungary, Transylvania, the Palatinate, and 
the Waldenses, and maintained an extensive corre- 
spondence with Switzerland, England, Holland, Ger- 
many, etc. George II of England and his consort 
honored him with expressions of their favor, and em- 
ployed him in works of benevolence. His last years 
were disturbed by the troubles of Geneva in 1734. He 
died May 1, 1737. After his death were issued from 
the press his Comment. Theoret.-pract . in Ep. ad Thes- 
salonic. (Basle, 1739 ): — Preelectiones on Romans xi 
(Geneva. 1741): — and a tractate on the exposition of 
Scripture (Berlin, 1766). A complete edition of his 
works appeared in Leeu warden in 1775. 

Sources. — Senebier, Hist. Lit. de Geneve , ii, 259; Sa- 
vons, Hist, de la Lit. Franc, a V Etr anger, etc. (1853); 
Cellerier, L'Academie de Geneve (1855); Vernet, Eloge 
Historique , sur ./. A. Tur. in the Bibl. Raisonnee , xxi; 
various biographical dictionaries; and Herzog, Reul- 
Encgldop. s. v. 

Turri, in the mythology of the Finns, was a god 
of war and hunting, living in steep rocky caverns, and 
was worshipped as the god of the nation. 

Turrigera (or Turrita) ( tower-bearer or towered), 
in Roman mythology, was a surname of Cybele. 

Turselin (Lat. Tursellinus), Horace, a learned 
and indefatigable Jesuit of Rome, was born in 1545, and 
taught rhetoric in that city twenty years, and was rec- 
tor of several colleges. He promoted the study of 
belles-lettres in his society, and died at Rome, April G, 
1599. II is principal works are, Life of St. Francis 
Xavier (best ed. 1596, 4to) : — Historg of Loretto (8vo) : 
— Treatise on the Latin Particles: — Abridgment of Uni- 
versal History from the Creation to 1598, etc. (best edi- 
tions are those which have a continuation by father 
Philip Briet, 1618-61 ; the best French translations are 
by abbe Lagneau, Paris, 1757, 4 vols. 12mo). See Chal- 
mers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Turstine, a monk of Caen, in Normandy, who, in 
1081, was sent over to England and installed first Nor- 
man abbot of Glastonbury Abbey. Through his influ- 
ence, William I granted the abbey a charter, restoring 
its lost lauds, and confirming all its privileges. In a 


general council, he opposed the assumptions of Giso, 
bishop of Wells, and was so successful that Giso had to 
go to Glastonbury and there have decided the question 
of jurisdiction over the two minor monasteries, Muchel- 
ney and Etheling. Turstine then turned his attention 
to the internal arrangements of the abbey, but by his in- 
troduction of foreign practices brought about insubordi- 
nation among the monks. French soldiers were brought 
in, who slew some of the monks while in the sanctuary. 
Turstine was obliged to retire to Normandy in dis- 
grace. William II permitted him to return to the ab- 
bey on payment of five hundred pounds in silver, but 
he seems not to have stayed there. See Hill, English 
Monasticism, p. 247, 248, 252. 

Turtle, or Turtle-dove (TIP), tor , so called, no 
doubt, in imitation of its cooing note; rpuywv), occurs 
first in Scripture in Gen. xv, 9, where Abram is com- 
manded to offer it along with other sacrifices, and with 
a young pigeon (blia, gozdT). In the Levitical law a 
pair of turtle-doves or of young pigeons are constantly 
prescribed as a substitute for those who were too poor 
to provide a lamb or a kid, and these birds were admis- 
sible either as trespass, sin, or burnt olfering. In one 
instance, the case of a Nazarite having been accident- 
ally defiled by a dead body, a pair of turtle-doves or 
young pigeons were specially enjoined (Numb, vi, 10). 
It was in accordance with the provision in Lev. xii, 6 
that the mother of our Lord made the offering for her 
purification (Luke ii, 24). During the early period of 
Jewish history there is no evidence of any other bird 
except the pigeon having been domesticated; and up to 
the time of Solomon, who may, with the peacock, have 
introduced other gallinaceous birds from India, it was 
probably the only poultry known to the Israelites. To 
this day enormous quantities of pigeons are kept in 
dove-cots in all the towns and villages of Palestine, and 
several of the fancy races so familiar in this country 
have been traced to be of Syrian origin. The offering 
of two young pigeons must have been one easily within 
the reach of the poorest, and the offerer was accepted 
according to what he had, and not according to what he 
had not. The admission of a pair of turtle-doves was, 
perhaps, a yet further concession to extreme poverty; 
for, unlike the pigeon, the turtle, from its migratory nat- 
ure and timid disposition, has never yet been kept in a 
state of free domestication; but, being extremely nu- 
merous, and resorting especially to gardens for nidifica- 
tion, its young might easily be found and captured by 
those who did not even possess pigeons. 



Tur tur JEgyptiacus. 


TURTLE 


G01 


TUTIANI 


It is not improbable that the palm -dove ( Turtur 
FEgyptiacus, Temtn.) may, in some measure, have sup- 
plied the sacrifices in the wilderness, lor it is found in 
amazing numbers wherever the palm-tree occurs, wheth- 
er wild or cultivated. In most of the oases of North 
Africa and Arabia every tree is the home of two or 
three pairs of these tame and elegant birds. In the 
crown of many of the date-trees five or six nests are 
placed together; and sportsmen have frequently, in a 
palm-grove, brought down ten brace or more without 
moving from their post. In such camps as Elim a con- 
siderable supply of these doves may have been obtained. 

From its habit of pairing for life and its fidelity for 
its mate, the dove was a symbol of purity and an ap- 
propriate offering (comp. Pliny, Hist. Nut. x, 52). The 
regular migration of the turtle-dove and its return in 
spring are alluded to in Jer. viii, 7, “ The turtle and 
the crane and the swallow observe the time of their 
coming;” and Cant, ii, 11, 12, “The winter is past . . . 
and the voice of the turtle is heard in our land.” So 
Pliny, “ Hyeine niutis, a vere vocalibus;” and Aristotle, 
Hist. An. ix, 8, “ Turtle-doves spend the summer in cold 
countries, the winter in warm ones,” although else- 
where (viii, 5) he makes it hvbernate (0aAfi). There 
is, indeed, no more grateful proof of the return of spring 
in Mediterranean countries than the voice of the turtle. 
One of the first birds to migrate northwards, the turtle, 
while other songsters arc heard chiefly in the morning 
or only at intervals, immediately on its arrival pours 
forth from every garden, grove, and wooded hill its 
melancholy yet soothing ditty unceasingly from early 
dawn till sunset. It is from its plaintive note, doubt- 
less, that David, in Psa. lxxiv, 19, pouring forth his la- 
ment to God, compares himself to a turtle-dove. 

From the abundance of the dove tribe and their im- 
portance as an article of food, the ancients discriminated 
the species of Columbidie more accurately than of many 
others. Aristotle enumerates rive species, which are not 
all easy of identification, as but four species are now 
known commonly to inhabit Greece. In Palestine the 
number of species is probably greater. Besides the 
rock-dove {Columba liria , L.), very common on all the 
rocky parts of the coast and in the inland ravines, 
where it remains throughout the year, and from which 
all the varieties of the domestic pigeon are derived, 
the ring-dove {Columba palu mbus , L.) frequents all the 
wooded districts of the country. The stock-dove ( Co- 
lumba cenas , L.) is as generally, but more sparingly, dis- 
tributed. Another species, allied either to this or to 
Columba liria, has been observed in the valley of the 
Jordan, perhaps Col. leuconota , Vig. (see Ibis, i, 35). 
The turtle-dove ( Turtur our it us, L.) is, as has been 
stated, most abundant, and in the valley of the Jordan 
aii allied species, the palm -dove, or Egyptian turtle 
{Turtur yEgyptiacus , Temm.), is by no means uncom- 
mon. This bird, most abundant among the palm-trees 
in Egypt and North Africa, is distinguished from the 
common turtle-dove by its ruddy chestnut color, its 
long tail, smaller size, and the absence of the collar on 
the neck. It does not migrate, but, from the similari- 




Columba Turtur. 


ty of its note and habits, it is not probable that it was 
distinguished by the ancients. The large Indian turtle 
{Turtur gelastes, Temm.) has also been stated, though 
without authority, to occur in Palestine. Other spe- 
cies, as the well-known collared dove {Turtur risoria, 
L.), have been incorrectly included as natives of Syria. 
— Smith. 

The birds of this subgenus are invariably smaller 
than pigeons properly so called ; they are mostly mark- 
ed with a patch of peculiarly colored scutellated feath- 
ers on the neck, or with a collar of black, and have of- 
ten other markings on the smaller wing-covers. The 
species Columba Turtur, with several varieties merely 
of color, extends from the west of Europe through the 
north of Africa to the islands south of China. The tur- 
tle-dove of Palestine is specially the same; but there 
is also a second, we believe local: both migrate farther 
south in winter, but return very early, when their coo- 
ing voice in the woods announces the spring. — Kitto. 
See Schlichter, I)e Turture (llal. 1738); Tristram, Nat. 
Hist, of the Bible, p. 217 sq. ; Wood, Bible Animals, p. 
419 sq. See Dove. 

Turtle, John, a Wesleyan missionary, was born in 
the County of Suffolk, England, June 9, 1793. He was 
converted in 1811, commenced to preach in 1815, at 
Thetford, and in 1817 he received his appointment for 
the Bahamas, W. I. His first circuit was Eleuthera; 
next, New Providence ; and after that, successively, 
Turk’s Island, Harbor Island, Abaco, Jamaica (1822), 
Abaco, Eleuthera, and Turk’s Island, where he died, Aug. 
16, 1825. Air. Turtle cut short his life by his indefati- 
gable labors. He had natural abilities of a high order, 
and a spiritual life of beauty and consistency. See Wes- 
leyan Meth. Mag. 1828, p. 217 ; Wesleyan Minutes, 182G. 

Turton, Thomas, D.D., a bishop of the Church 
of England, was born in Yorkshire in 1782. He be- 
came a pensioner of Queen’s College, Cambridge, in 
1801 ; two years thereafter he removed to St. Catha- 
rine’s College (then known as Catharine Hall), from 
which he graduated in 1805. In 1806 he was elected a 
fellow of his college, ami in 1807 became a tutor. In 
1822 he was appointed Lucasian professor of mathemat- 
ics, and in 1826 accepted the college living of Giming- 
ham-cum-Trunch, in the County of Norfolk; but was 
recalled to the university in the following year by his 
election to the regius professorship of divinity. In 
1830 he obtained the deanery of Peterborough, which 
office he filled until 1842, when he was appointed dean 
of Westminster. In 1845 he became bishop of Ely. 
He died at his residence in London, Jan. 7, 1864. 
As a controversialist, Dr. Turton has been rarely sur- 
passed. His taste in fine arts was exquisite, and he 
was the composer of several excellent pieces of Church 
music. See American Quar. Church Rev. April, 1864, 
p. 157. 

Turton, William, an English Wesleyan mission- 
ary, was born in the island of Barbadoes, W. I. His 
father was a planter. His first labors were on the island 
of Antigua. In 1798 he received an appointment for 
St. Bartholomew from the English Conference. In 
1800 he was sent to New Providence, and labored for 
the rest of his life on that and adjacent islands. He 
died at Nassau, May 10, 1818, aged fifty-seven, lie 
was a faithful toiler. See Wesleyan Meth. Mag. 1821, 
p. 3, 81 ; Wesleyan Minutes, 1818. 

Tutanus, in Roman mythology, was a deity who 
was implored in times of peril and danger for help 
and protection. 

Tutiani, Bartolomeo, an engraver on wood, who 
is said to have executed some cuts marked with a 
Gothic monogram of his initials. Bartsch describes 
only one cut with this mark, Christ Scoffed at by the 
Jews , in a book (Nuremb. 1515) ; but there is no evi- 
dence that it was engraved by Tutiani. See Spooner, 
Biog. J/ist. of the Fine A rts, s. v. 


TUTILINA 


C02 TWELFTH DAY OF THE MONTH 


Tutilma, in Roman mythology, was a goddess who 
was said to care for the fields of corn and grain. She 
had an altar and a pillar in the circus — no temple, how- 
ever, as she could only be worshipped in the open air. 

Tutilo, a monk of St. Gall and celebrated artist, was 
contemporary with the great teachers Notker Balbulus 
and Radbert of St. Gali, and associated with them in 
friendship and in the work of making Sr. Gall the fore- 
most seat of the arts and sciences in their day. lie was 
of gigantic stature and full of joyous humor; a magister 
ami presbyter according to the necrology, but none the 
less a born artist and unquestioned genius. Driven 
into the world by his artist nature, he nevertheless pre- 
served his piously simple and blameless life. In the 
monastery itself his strength and geniality determined 
his position. He was its butler and sacristan, and also 
the host and companion of visiting strangers, serving in 
the latter capacity down to A.D. 912. 

The Irish bishop or presbyter Mark, and his nephew 
Moengal (the latter preferably called Marcellos bv the 
monks), visited St. Gall in the middle of the 9th cen- 
tury; and Moengal instructed Tutilo, among others, in 
the" art of music until he became a proficient com- 
poser. As an instrumentalist and vocalist he 'cap- 
tivated the ear and the heart. He became himself 
a teacher of music, and in a separate room gave reg- 
ular instruction to the sons of the nobility in the 
use of stringed instruments. Nor did he confine him- 
self to sacred music only; but his finest laurels were 
still gathered in that field. He imitated the Scottish 
custom of associating instrumental music with vocal in 
the worship of the Church, and carried it further. Some 
of the instruments used in the small chapel of St. Gall 
are pictured in old MSS. which are still extant. His 
own most especial creation were the so-called tropes , i. e. 
ornamental melodic additions, with texts, to the hymns 
of the mass, and particularly to its Introit, which were 
intended to impart a specifically festive character to the 
hymns for festal days. His Christmas trope [Jodie Can - 
t audits is well known. These tropes were widely re- 
ceived and used throughout the Church, and were per- 
netuated, under various modifications, down to the 17th 
centurv. He also composed hymns and litanies (see 
the SL Gall MSS. Nos. 37 and 380). 

The genius of Tutilo was displayed with equal force 
in the arts of painting, sculpture, and architecture, lie 
had the independence to work from new, indigenous 
motives as well as from Roman and Byzantine models 
and after a traditional type, llis fame extended wide- 
ly, and made it the fashion to procure works from his 
hand. A statue of the Virgin Mary, erected by him at 
Metz, was wrought in so exalted a manner as to give 
currency to the report that the Virgin herself was his 
instructor. Of his carvings the ivory tables which 
Charlemagne kept under his pillow are especially cele- 
brated. They passed into the hands of archbishop 
Hatto of Mayence, then into those of Solomon, abbot 
of St. Gall, and from him into the possession of the 
monastery. One of them was smooth, and upon its up- 
per surface Tutilo carved the Virgin between four an- 
gels, while its lower surface received a portrayal of the 
legend of St. Gall, in which the saint gives bread to his 
obedient bear in reward for his labor of bearing wood 
for fuel. Stumpf, the ancient Swiss chronicler, men- 
tions also an astronomical chart of brass upon which 
the orbits of the heavenly bodies were beautifully 
marked, as having been one of Tutilo’s masterpieces 
and as being still in existence in bis day. It is now, 
however, lost. On Tutilo’s death he was buried in a 
chapel which was dedicated to his memory and called 
by his name; and he was venerated as a saint. The 
documents of the 11th and 12th centuries always speak 
of him as a saint; but his worship was soon lost. 

Sources. — Ekkehard IV (d. 105(1), Casus Sancti Gal- 
lic reprinted in Pertz, Alonnm. Germanice , vol. ii; Arx, 
Gesch. d. Kantons Sand Galleu (1810), pt. i, p. 97-100; 
Hefele, UTss. Zustand im siidtv. Deutschland u. in d. nordl. 


Scfnveiz, in Theol. Quartalschr. 1838, No. 2. See also 
Diimmler, Formelbuch d.Dischofs Salomo 111 von Con - 
stanz, p. 114; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Tuttle, Amos C., a Presbyterian minister, was born 
at Monekton, Vt., July 28, 1800. He pursued his pre- 
paratory studies in the Academy at Middlebury, Vt. ; 
graduated at Middlebury College in 1827 ; studied the- 
ology privately; was licensed by the Addison County 
Association dune 30, 1829; ordained by an ecclesiasti- 
cal council Oct. 30, 1829; and became stated supply of 
the Church in Whitehall, N. Y., Sept. 1, 1830. In 1832 
he became pastor of the Congregational Church in Hart- 
ford, N. Y. ; in 183G he accepted an agency for the Au- 
burn Theological Seminary; in 1837 became pastor of 
the Presbyterian Church in Fayetteville, Onondaga Co., 
N. Y. ; in 1841, of a church at Liverpool, N. Y. ; in 1844, 
of the Congregational Church in Sherburne, Chenango 
Co., N. Y. ; in 1*856, of the Church in Paw Paw, Van 
Bnren Co., Mich. ; in 1859, of the Church in Lapeer, 
Mich., where he labored until his death, Sept. 24, 1862. 
Mr. Tuttle was a man of more than ordinary mind, well 
educated, and popular as a preacher. See Wilson, Presb. 
JJist. A Imanac , 1863, p. 308. (J. L. S.) 

Tuttle, Jacob, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
at New Vernon, Morris Co., N. J., Aug. 24, 1786. He 
was educated at the Bloomfield Academy, N.J.; studied 
theology privately; taught at the Academy at Newton, 
Sussex Co., N. J., from 1817 to 1820; was licensed to 
preach by the Presbytery of New Jersey April 27, 1820; 
ordained and installed pastor of the West Milford 
Church, Passaic Co., Aug. 14, 1821 ; and removed to 
Ohio in 1832, where he engaged in home missionary 
labors, planting several churches, and was everywhere 
honored as a true man of God. He died Jan. 6, 1866. 
He was a successful minister, full of concern for his 
hearers, and honored of God. See Wilson, Presb. JJist. 
A Imanac , 1867, p. 324. 

Tuttle, Samuel Lawrence, a Presbyterian min- 
ister, was born at Bloomfield, N. J., Aug. 25, 1815. He 
was converted in 1830; pursued his academical studies 
in Newark, N. J. ; graduated at the College of New Jer- 
sey in 1836; studied theology at the Auburn Seminary, 
N. Y. ; was licensed by the Newark Presbytery Oct. 8, 
1840; ordained pastor of the Caldwell Church, N. J., 
March 9, 1841 ; was in the employ of the American 
Bible Society from 1849 to 1854; became pastor of the 
Madison Church, Morris Co., N. J., Jan. 3, 1854; agent 
of the American Bible Society for Western New York 
from 1862 to 1863; and assistant to the secretaries until 
his death, which occurred April 16, 1866. Mr. Tuttle 
was an eloquent preacher. The Rev. Dr. Taylor, one 
of the secretaries of the American Bible Society, gave it 
as his opinion that there was no person so thoroughly 
and minutely acquainted with the history and workings 
of the Bible Society as he. See Wilson, Presb. JJist. 
A Imanac , 1867, p. 327. (J. L. S.) 

Tuttle, Timothy, a Congregational minister, was 
born at East Haven, Conn.. Nov. 29, 1781. He grad- 
uated at Yale College in 1808; studied theology with 
Rev. David Smith of Durham, Conn.; commenced 
preaching at Durham, N. Y. ; and was ordained over 
the Church in Ledvard, Conn., in 1811. Here he 
labored until his death, June 6, 1864. Mr. Tuttle was 
plain in appearance and manners, yet a man of godly 
sincerity and of considerable influence. He was an in- 
structive preacher. See Cong. Quar. Rev. 1864, p. 301. 

Twelfth-day, (1) the feast of Epiphany, being the 
twelfth day after Christmas; (2) the old Christmas- 
day. 

TWELFTH DAY of the Month. In the evening 
service of the Church of England for the twelfth day 
of any month, the hymn after the second lesson, begin- 
ning “ God be merciful unto us,” etc., is omitted, because 
it comes in the regular psalm for the day, and would 
thus occasion an unnecessary and useless repetition. — 
j Stanton, Diet, of the Church , s. v. 


TWELFTH-NIGHT 


603 


TWO 


Twelfth-night, the eve of the festival of the 
Epiphany, which occurs exactly twelve days after the 
feast of Christmas. 

Twelfth-tide. See Epiphany. 

Twells, Leonard, a learned English divine, was 
educated at Jesus College, Cambridge, where he pro- 
ceeded A.B. in 1704. In 1733 the University of Ox- 
ford conferred on him the degree of A.M. by diploma, 
in approbation probably of his Critical Examination. 
etc. He was at that time vicar of St. Mary’s, Marl- 
borough, but in 1737 was presented to the united rec- 
tories of St. Matthew’s, Frida}" Street, and St. Peter’s, 
Cheap, lie' was also a prebendary of St. Paul’s, and 
one of the lecturers of St. Dunstan’s-in-the-West. He 
died Feb. 19, 1741 or 1742. 11 is publications in his 

lifetime were, .4 Critical Examination of the Late New 
Text and Version of the Testament, in Greek and Eng- 
lish (pts. i, ii, Lond. 1731 ; pt. iii, 1732, 8vo): — A Vin- 
dication of the Gospel of St. Matthew (1735, 8vo) : — An- 
swer to the Inquiry into the Meaning of Deemoniacs in 
the New Test. (1737, 8vo): — Answer to the Further In- 
quiry (1738, 8vo). After his death, his Sermons at 
Boyle’s and lady Moyer’s lectures were published for 
the benefit of his family (1743, 2 vols. 8vo). See Chal- 
mers, Biog. Diet. s. v. ; Alii bone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. 
Authors, s. v.; Nichol, Lit. Anec.; id. Illustr. of Liter. 

Twelve. This number was sacred among the 
Jews, probably because it was that of the tribes (q. v.), 
or of the months of the year, or (as some think) of the 
signs of the zodiac. It was symbolical of just propor- 
tion, beauty, and stability. It is sometimes used in the 
general sense of a dozen: thus, Jeroboam’s garment is 
said to have been rent into twelve pieces (1 Kings xi, 
30), and Elisha to have ploughed with twelve yoke of 
oxen, etc. See Number. 

Twesten, August Detlev Christian, a Protestant 
divine of Germany, was born April 11, 1789. at Gliick- 
stadt, in Holstein. He studied theology and philosophy 
at Kiel, and in 1812 went to Berlin, where he became one 
of the earliest followers and an intimate personal friend 
of Schleiermacher. For some time he was professor of 
languages in one of the colleges at Berlin, but in 1814 
he went back to Kiel as professor of theology and phi- 
losophy. After the death of Schleiermaeher, in 1834, 
he was called to Berlin to succeed his teacher in the 
chair of systematic divinity. In 1850 he was appoint- 
ed Oberkirchenrath, and died Jan. 8, 1876, As a writer, 
Twesten was the least prolific of all the more eminent 
German divines. This was owing partly to a certain 
timidity and conscientiousness, and partly to an un- 
willingness to publish anything which he had not first 
thoroughly searched and mastered, and for which there 
seemed to him no urgent need. He wrote an analyti- 
cal logic, a critical edition of the three oecumenical 
creeds and the unaltered Augsburg Confession, essays 
on Ileceius lllyricus, on Schleiermacher’s Ethics, etc. 
But bis main work is his Vorlesungen iiber die Dog- 
mat ik der evangelisch-lutherischen Kirclie (Hamb. 1837, 
2 vols. ), which in its unfinished condition has great 
and abiding excellences; “for he is, perhaps,” says 
Schaflf, “ the clearest thinker and writer among all the 
systematic divines of Germany. He possesses the gift 
of didactic exposition and analysis in an eminent de- 
gree. His learning is always accurate, minute, and 
thoroughly digested; his style transparent, smooth, 
and polished.” The volumes which were published 
contain — the first, the introductory chapters on re- 
ligion, revelation, inspiration, the authority and inspira- 
tion of the Scriptures, the use of reason, the history of 
dogmatic literature; the second embraces only the doc- 
trine of God, the holy Trinity, the creation and preser- 
vation of the world, and angelology. As to his theo- 
logical standpoint, it is, according to Schaflf, “ Schleier- 
macher’s system passing over into Lutheran orthodoxy 
under a modernized form, or the Lutheran scholasticism 
of the 17th century revived, enlarged, and liberalized by 


the scientific influence of Schleiermacher and the toler- 
ant spirit of the evangelical union.” See Theol. Uni- 
versal-Lex. s. v. ; Zuchold, Bibl. Theol. ii, 1353 ; Schaflf, 
Germany , its Universities , etc., p. 320 sq. (B. P.) 

Twichell, Pliny, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
at Athol, Worcester Co., Mass., Feb. 25, 1805. lie was 
educated at Washington College, Pa. ; studied theology 
in Auburn Seminary, N. Y. ; was licensed by the Gene- 
see Presbytery in 1836; and was ordained and installed 
pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Wyoming, N. Y., 
in 1841. Here he labored for fifteen years, until 1856, 
in w hich year he took charge of East Bethany Church, 
where he preached until his death, Sept. 15, 1864. See 
Wilson, Pi'esb. Hist. A Imanac , 1866, p. 180. 

Twilight, Alexander L., a Congregational minis- 
ter and teacher, was born at Corinth, Vt.. Sept. 23, 1795. 
By his own exertions he put himself through Randolph 
Academy and Middlcbury College, graduating in 1823. 
He taught four years in Peru, N. Y. ; was licensed to 
preach by the presbytery in Plattsbnrg in 1827 ; taught 
and preached one year in Vergennes, Vt.; and for eigh- 
teen years was principal of the grammar-school in 
Brownington, Vt., and again from 1852 to 1855. From 
1847 until 1852 he taught in Shipton and Hatley, On- 
tario. He was ordained in Brownington in 1829, and sup- 
plied the pulpit there for many years, but was never a reg- 
ular preacher. He died June 19, 1857. Mr. Twilight’s 
great work was as a teacher; in this he was successful and 
influential. Tie pursued his purposes with undeviating 
energy, and built up his pupils in both character and 
knowledge. He was an able and often eloquent preacher. 
See Cong. Quar. Rev. 1867, p. 281. 

Twining, Tiiomas, a learned Anglican divine, was 
born in 1734, and educated at Sidney College, Cam- 
bridge, being contemporary in that university with 
Gray, Mason, and Bate. Mr. Twining was well versed 
in the composition, harmony, and history of the art 
and science of music. In 1760 he took his degree of 
A.B., and that of A.M. in 1763. He became rector of 
White Notley, Essex, in 1768, ami of St. Mary’s, Col- 
chester, to which he was presented by the bishop of 
London, in 1770. He died Aug. 6, 1804. Sound learn- 
ing, polite literature, and exquisite tastes in all the fine 
arts lost an ornament and defender in the deatli of this 
scholar and worthy divine. See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. 
s. v. 

Twisse, William, D.D., a distinguished Noncon- 
forming Calvinistic divine, was born at Newbury, Berk- 
shire, England, in 1575. He was educated at, and be- 
came subsequently a fellow of, New College, Oxford. 
He became chaplain to princess Elizabeth, afterwards 
queen of Bohemia. After this he was appointed to the 
curacy of Newbury. In 1643 he was elected prolocutor 
of the Westminster Assembly of Divines. He confined 
himself with great thoroughness to the study of theolo- 
gy, and produced numerous works, among which are 
the following: Vanitie (1631, 4to): — V indicia Gratae, 
Potestatis, ac Provident iie Dei (Amst. 1632, 4to) : — Dis- 
sert atio de Scientia Media , tribus Libris absoluta (fol.) : 
— Morality of the Fourth Commandment (Lond. 1641): 
— Treatise on Reprobation (1646, 4to): — Riches of God's 
Love to Vessels of Mercy Consistent with his Absolute 
Hatred, or Reprobation of Vessels of Wrath (Oxf. 1653, 
fol.). This work was strongly recommended by Dr. 
Owen, De Causa Dei contra Pelagium. He left a 
number of works in MS. His death occurred July 20, 
1646. Sec Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. (W. P. S.) 

Two. This number is sometimes used in Scripture 
in a symbolical sense : it typifies the connection between 
the magistracy and the ministry in the persons of 
Moses and Aaron; the two systems of idolatry which 
were learned in Egyptian and Babylonian bondage; the 
Old and New Tests.; the Jewish and Christian dispensa- 
tions; and, among the early fathers, the divine and hu- 
man natures of Christ. Several of the early heretics 
endeavored to introduce the Persian duality into the 


TWOMBLY 


604 


TYCHONIUS 


Christian system, and they therefore declared that the 1 
number two had a more mystic sanctity than any oth- 
er. Traces of this delusion may be found so late as the 
9th century of the Church. See Number. 

Twombly, Israel S., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born at Charlestown, Mass., Sept. 1, 1817. lie was edu- 
cated in Marion County, Mo.; graduated at Lane Theo- 
logical Seminary in 1852; was licensed by Cincinnati 
Presbytery the same year, and ordained by Athens Pres- 
bytery pastor of the Church in Troy, O. lie afterwards 
became pastor of the Church at Pomeroy, O., where 
he died, Oct. 31, I860, lie was a thorough scholar, and 
an earnest and impressive preacher. See Wilson, Presb. 
Hist. Almanac , 1862, p. 198. 

Twyne, Brian, an English divine, was born in 
1579, and admitted a scholar of Corpus Christi College 
in 1594. lie was admitted probationer fellow in 1605, 
and, entering into holy orders, took the degree of B.D. 
in 1610. In 1614 he was made Greek reader of his col- 
lege, in which office he acquitted himself with credit, 
but left his college in 1623. lie was afterwards pre- 
sented to the vicarage of Bye, Sussex, but passed most 
of his time at Oxford in reading, writing, and contem- 
plation. lie died in St. Aldate’s, July 4, 1644. He pub- 
lished Antiquitatis Academia Oxoniensis Apologia , etc. 
(Oxon. 1608, 4to). See Chalmers, Blog. Diet. s. v. 

Tyana, Council of ( Concilium Tganense), was held 
in 367 in Tvana, a town of Asia Minor. There were 
present in this council Eusebius of Caisarea in Cappa- 
docia, Athanasius of Ancyra, Pelagius of Laodicea, Greg- 
ory Nazianzen the elder, and many others who had de- 
clared their belief in the consubstantialitv of the Son 
at Antioch in 363. The letters of pope Liberius and 
the bishops of Italy, Sicily, Africa, and Gaul were read, 
which had been written to wipe out the disgrace at- 
taching to them on account of the Council of Arimi- 
num. Eustathius of Sebaste, formerly deposed, was re- 
established; and a synodical letter written to all the 
bishops of the East, exhorting them to testify in writ- 
ing their rejection of the acts of Ariminum. and their 
adherence to the faith of Niciea. See Mansi, Concil. ii, 
836. — Landon, Manual of Councils , s. v. 

Tychacum, the original name of a Temple of Fort- 
une at Antioch, which was turned into a church, and 
called by the name of Ignatius bv Theodosius. See 
Bingham, Christ. A ntiq. bk. viii, ch. iii, § 4. 

Tyche, in Greek mythology, is identical with For - 
tuna of the Romans. Pindar calls her a daughter of 
Jupiter. She possessed at Thebes, and at numerous 
other places, temples and monuments. 

Tyches, in Egyptian mythology, is one of the four 
protecting domestic spirits which are allotted to each 
human being during the period of life. 

Tycll'icus (Tuyncoc for tv\ikoq, fateful), n com- 
panion of Paul on some of his journeys, and one of his 
fellow-laborers in the work of the Gospel. A. D. 54-64. 
(1.) In Acts xx, 4, he appears as one of those who ac- 
companied the apostle through a longer or shorter por- 
tion of his return journey from the third missionary cir- 
cuit. Here he is expressly called (with Trophimus) a 
native of Asia Minor (’A<7 i«fo£); but while Trophimus 
went with Paul to Jerusalem (Acts xxi, 29), Tychicus 
was left behind in Asia, probably at Miletus ( xx, 
15, 38). (2.) How Tychicus was employed in the in- 

terval before Paul’s first imprisonment we cannot tell; 
but in that imprisonment he was with the apostle again, 
as we see from Col. iv, 7,8. Here he is spoken of, not 
only as “a beloved brother,” but as “a faithful minister 
and fellow-servant in the Lord and he is to make 
known to the Colossians the present circumstances of 
the apostle (rd nar ipk tt avra yvwpiott), and to bring 
comfort to the Colossians themselves Qva TrapaKaXicnj 
ra t; tcaoCsiatj u/iwf). From this we gather that diligent 
service and warm Christian sympathy were two features 
of the life and character of Tychicus. Colossae was in 


Asia; but from the fact that of Onesimus, who is men- 
tioned immediately afterwards, it is said, bf ianv 
vgCjv, whereas Tychicus is not so styled, we naturally 
infer that the latter was not a native of that city. These 
two men were doubtless the bearers both of this letter 
and the following, as well as that to Philemon. (3.) The 
language concerning Tychicus in Eph.vi, 21,22 is very 
similar, though not exactly in the same words. It is 
the more important to notice this passage carefully, be- 
cause it is the only personal allusion in the epistle, and 
is of some considerable value as a subsidiary argument 
for its authenticity. If this was a circular letter, Tych- 
icus, who bore a commission to Colossa*, and who was 
probably well known in various parts of ’the province 
of Asia, would be a very proper person to see the letter 
duly delivered and read. (4.) The next references are 
in the Pastoral Epistles, the first in chronological order 
being Tit. iii, 12. Here Paul (writing possibly from 
Ephesus) says that it is probable he may send Tychicus 
to Crete, about the time when he himself goes to Ni- 
eopolis. (5.) In 2 Tim. iv, 12 (written at Borne during 
the second imprisonment) lie says, “ I am herewith send- 
ing Tychicus to Ephesus.” At least it seems natural, 
with Dr. Wordsworth, so to render airetrreiXa, though 
Bp. Ellicott’s suggestion is also worth considering, that 
this mission may have been connected with the carry- 
ing of the first epistle. (See their notes on the pas- 
sage.) However this may be, we see this diseiple at 
the end, as we saw him at the beginning, connected 
locally with Asia, while also co-operating with Paul. 
We have no authentic information concerning Tychicus 
in any period previous to or subsequent to these five 
seriptural notices. The tradition which places him af- 
terwards as bishop of Chaleedon in Bithvnia is appar- 
ently of no value. But there is much probability in 
the conjecture (Stanley’s Corinthians, 2d ed. p.493) that 
Tychicus was one of the two “brethren” (Trophimus 
being the other) who were associated with Titus (2 Cor. 
viii, 16-24) in conducting the business of the collection 
for the poor Christians in Judosa. As arguments for 
this view we may mention the association with Trophi- 
mus, the probability that both were Ephesians, the oc- 
currence of both names in the Second Epistle to Timo- 
thy (see 2 Tim. iv, 20), the chronological and geograph- 
ical agreement with the circumstances of the third mis- 
sionary journey, and the general language used concern- 
ing Tychicus in Colossians and Ephesians. — Smith. See 
Asia; Ephesus ; Trophimus. 

Tycho, in Greek mythology, was a diemon similar 
to Conisalus, generally found represented in company 
with Priapus. 

Tychonius, a Donatist of the 4th century, who dis- 
played an impartial* and sincere desire to arrive at the 
truth with respect to the controversy between his sect 
and the Church. He is described as having been learn- 
ed in the Scriptures, tolerably acquainted with history 
and with secular literature, and zealously interested in 
the affairs of the Church. He regarded the Church as 
the sole divinely provided remedial institution, into 
which all men must enter if they would attain to sal- 
vation; and therefore held that the moral state of the 
members cannot destroy the value and efficiency of the 
Church. He was also consistent in protesting against 
the rebaptism of persons who became Donatists. 11 is 
views were attacked as heretical by the Donatist Par- 
menian (q. v.), and drew forth an epistle from Augus- 
tine. Tychonius was accused of being a Chiliast, but 
the charge is probably untrue. A single work from his 
pen remains, the Liber Septem Regulis, first published 
by Grynaeus (Basle, 1569), and afterwards in a better 
edition by Gallandi in the Bib!. Vet. Patrum (Yenet. 
1772), viii, 107-129. The work is designed to serve as 
a guide to the interpretation of the Scriptures, and some 
of its rules are still followed by some expositors: e.-g., 
the sixth, De Recapitulation , which teaches that the 
same thing is sometimes repeatedly narrated or de- 


TYCHSEN 


605 


TYLEE 


scribed, especially in the Apocalypse, so that successive 
narratives do not necessarily refer to successive events. 
The book furnished Isidore of Seville the idea for his 
work Sententiarum Libri Tres . As the earliest endeavor 
to construct a theory of Christian hermeneutics, the 
work certainly deserves attention. It would appear 
from Augustine that Tychonius died about 390; but 
Gennadi us {De Script. Eccles. c. 18) fixes a later time. 
Gallandi furnished a sketch of Tychonius in Proleg. to 
Bibl. Vet . Patr. VIII, ii, 5, and a more careful notice is 
given in Tillemont, Memoires pour servir a l' Hist. Eccl. 
\les Six premiers Siecles (2d ed. Paris, 170-1), vi, 81 sq., 
145-150. See Herzog, Reul-Encyklop. s. v. 

Tychsen, Olaus Gerhard, a German Talmudist, 
was born Dec. 14, 1734, at Tondern, a town in Sleswick. 
He studied the classical and Oriental languages in the 
gymnasium of Altona, with the exception of Arabic, 
which he acquired from a merchant whose business had 
caused him to reside during many years in North Africa. 
He finished his theological course at Halle, and was soon 
afterwards appointed a teacher in G. A. Franke’s Or- 
phanage. While so employed he learned the English, 
Hindustani, and Tamil languages from a missionary 
(Schulz). His favorite study, however, was the Rab- 
binical Talmud, in whose language he was so proficient 
as to be able to speak and write with great ease. He 
was, in April, 1759, appointed missionary to the Jews and 
Mohammedans, and travelled in that capacity through 
North Germany, Prussia, Denmark, and Saxony, but 
without accomplishing anything. In the synagogue at 
Altona his sermon even earned for him a severe beating. 
In 1760 Tychsen went to the University of Butzow, in 
Mecklenburg, as mugister legens, and remained there un- 
til Biitzow was united with the University of Rostock 
and transferred to the latter place, when he likewise 
removed thither. He died Dec. 30, 1815. Tychsen had 
earned a great reputation, as is attested by his election 
to numerous societies and by many flattering testimo- 
nials; but this reputation respected simply the extent, 
and not at all the thoroughness, of his knowledge. He 
possessed solid acquirements only in the Rabbinical, and 
joined with them a keen eye and considerable skill for 
the detection of foreign written characters; but he was 
delicient in judgment, ready to venture the most improb- 
able hypotheses, and anxious for notoriety. lie is con- 
sequently important only as a Talmudist, a numisma- 
tist, and an epigrapher. Ilis controversy with Kenni- 
cott and Bayer directed attention to him more than 
any other incident of his career, and it afforded evi- 
dence of all the traits described above — his wide learn- 
ing, obstinate orthodoxy, and want of critical judgment. 
In this dispute he wrote, Tcntamen de Variis Codicum 
I/ebr. Vet. Test. MSS. Generibus (Rost. 1772, 8vo), in sup- 
port of the Masoretic text: — Befreites Tentamen , etc. 
(1774) : — and a supplement (1776). lie insisted that the 
Greek versions had been made from a Hebrew text writ- 
ten in Greek characters, and advocated the no less sin- 
gular theory that the Samaritan Pentateuch had been 
copied from a II ebneo- Jewish (Masoretic) text with the 
vowel-points — the latter in Disputcttio llist.-phil.-crit. 
de Pent . Samarit. etc. (Butzow, 1765, 4to). In 1779 he 
published a work to demonstrate the spurious character 
of all Jewish coins bearing Jewish or Samaritan charac- 
ters, including those of the Maccabtean period, which 
drew forth a reply from the Spanish Jesuit Bayer and 
occasioned a protracted dispute. In the study of Arabic 
coins Tychsen rendered real service, and began the sys- 
tematic study of Oriental numismatics, lie showed 
himself a master in the deciphering of inscriptions (see 
Erkldrung d. arab. Schrifl auf d. rdm.-kciiserl. Kro- 
nungsmantel , in the Meckl.-Schicerin. Gelehrten Beitrage , 
1780, Nos. 42, 45, and the Interpret. Inscript. Cujic. in 
Alarm. Tempi. Patriarch. S. Petri Cathedra [ Rost. 
1787]). Tychsen also published editions of Al-Makrizi : 
Al-Makrizi Hist. Monet le Arab, e Cod. Escurial. (ibid. 
1797, 8 vo) : — and Traetat. de Legalibus A rub. Ponderibus 
et Alensw'is (ibid. 1800, 8vo). Ilis Elementale Arabi- 


cum, etc., is of inferior value, as is also his Element. Sy - 
Hacuni. See Hartmann, Olaus Gerhard Tychsen , etc. 
(Bremen, 1818 sq.) ; De Sacv, Biog. Universelle, xlvii, 
120 sq. — Herzog, Ileal- Encyklop. s. v. 

Tychsen, Thomas Christian, a German schol- 
ar and professor, was born at Horsbvll, in Sleswick, 
May 8,1758; studied at Kiel and Gottingen; trav- 
elled over the Continent after having completed his 
studies; and became professor extraordinary of theol- 
ogy in Gottingen in 1784, through the intervention 
of Heyne, his patron. In 1788 he was made ordi- 
nary professor of philosophy; 1806, councillor; 1817, 
honorary doctor of theology, lie was a member of 
several learned societies, and 'director of the Royal Sci- 
entific Association of Gottingen. He died Oct. 24, 1834. 
This Tychsen, like Olaus G. Tychsen (q. v.), to whom he 
was in nowise related, was more prominent as an Ori- 
ental and classical scholar and antiquarian than as a 
theologian. He composed forty-three books and essays, 
all of which are characterized by learning, thorough- 
ness, and good judgment. We mention, De n apovota 
Christ i et Notionibns de Adventu Christ i in N. T. Obviis: 
— De Josephi Auctoritute et Usu, etc.: — De Litteratura 
IJebr.: — Hlustr. Vuticin. Joelis. c. 3 (Gott. 1788). The 
dispute of Olaus Tychsen with Bayer led him also to 
give attention to the study of Jewish coins. In this 
pursuit he wrote, De Xu mis 1 lebneo-Samarit . etc., in 
Nov. Comment. Soc. Reg. Gott. viii, 120 sq. : — De Xu mis 
Oriental. (1789): — De Xumis Ilasmoaorum , etc., in 
Xov. Com. vol. xii. He furthermore wrote Geschichte d. 
hebr. Liter atur { ibid.). In 1791 he became the collab- 
orator of J. 1). Micliaelis in the Oriental and exegetical 
library published by the latter, and his successor begin- 
ning with vol. ix. lie also completed part iv of Mi- 
chaelis’s Anmerk. Jiir Ungelehrte and vol. vi of his Sup- 
plem. ad Lex. llebr. (1792). lie edited vol. vi of Koppe’s 
edition of the New Test., comprising Galatians, Ephe- 
sians, and Tliessalonians (2d ed. 1791). A complete list 
of his works and detailed sketch of his life may be found 
in Xeuer Xekrolog der Deutsehen (1834, pt. ii; Weimar, 
1836), p. 894-900. — Herzog, Reul-Encyklop. s. v. 

Tye,CiiRiSTOiMiKK, an English musician of the 16th 
century, was born at Westminster, and brought up in 
the Royal Chapel. He was musical preceptor to prince 
Edward, son of Henry VIII. In 1545 he was admitted 
to the degree of doctor in music at Cambridge, and in 
1548 was incorporated a member of the University of 
Oxford. In the reign of queen Elizabeth he was organ- 
ist of the Royal Chapel, and a man of some literature. 
“The Acts of the Apostles,” set to. music by Dr. Tye, 
w r ere sung in the Chapel of Edward VI ; but the success 
of them not meeting the expectation of their author, he 
commenced the composition of music to words selected 
from the Psalms of David. The former w r as published 
w r ith the following title, The Actes of the Appostles, 
translated into Englyshe Metre, etc. (1553, sm. 8vo). He 
also composed A Notable Historye ofXastagio and Tra- 
versari, no less Pitiefull than Pleasaunt ( Loud. 1569, 
12rao). See Allibone, Did. of Brit, and Amer. Au- 
thors, s. v.; Chalmers, Biog. Did. s. v. 

Tyler, Bennet, D.D., an eminent Congregational 
divine, was born at Middlebury. Conn., July 10, 1783. 
His parents were in humble circumstances, and he work- 
ed on the farm until he was fifteen, when an accident 
disabled him so that it w r as resolved to send him to col- 
lege. Ilis own exertions, with some assistance from 
his father, enabled him to graduate at Vale College in 
1804 free from debt. He was converted while at col- 
lege in the great revival of 1802, studied theology with 
Rev. Asaliel Hooker, and in 1808 was ordained over the 
Church in South Britain, Conn., where he remained four- 
teen years. From 1822 to 1828 he was president of 
Dartmouth College, also performing the duties of col- 
lege pastor. In 1828 he succeeded Dr. Pa} r son in the 
pastorate of the Second Church, Portland, Ale., where 
he w r as greatly beloved. Dr. Tyler was a clear, logical, 


TYLEI 


COG 


TYMPANUM 


and pungent preacher, and he specially delighted in doc- 
trinal themes. About this time Prof. N. W. Taylor, of 
Vale Divinity School, enounced views which were re- 
garded by many New England theologians as unsafe 
and unsound. Dr. Tyler was his principal opponent, 
and the long and able discussion which followed belongs 
to the history of controversy. To offset the influence 
of the New llaven theology on the young preachers in 
the state, the Theological Institute of Connecticut was 
founded at East Windsor in 1833. and Dr. Tyler was 
chosen its president and professor of theology. He held 
these positions until his resignation, July Id, 1857. He 
died at East Windsor, after only a few hours’ sickness, 
May 14, 1858. 

Dr. Tyler was a man of humble and sincere piety, and 
of a genial and sympathetic nature. In his theological 
opinions he did not embrace pure Calvinism, but as 
modified by Edwards and his school. He was in full 
sympathy with the traditional theology of New Eng- 
land, and was a straightforward controversialist, avoid- 
ing metaphysical speculations and verbal subtleties. 
In forming his system he began, not with mind, but 
with the Bible. and he looked for no advances in theol- 
ogy except such as come from a richer Christian expe- 
rience. His writings are permeated by a spirit of prac- 
tical religion, and, according to some, checked the in- 
fluence of Dr. Taylor’s views. Dr. Tyler published many 
sermons and controversial articles and pamphlets. His j 
larger works are as follows: History of the New Haven j 
Theology in Letters to a Clergyman (1837) : — A Review of \ 
Day on the Will (1837) '.—Memoir of Rev. A sahel Xet- 
tleton, D.D. (Hartford, 1844, 12rno) '.—Xettleton's Remains 
(ibid. 1845, 12mo) : — The Sufferings of Christ Confined 
to his Human Xature (N. Y. 1845) : — A Treatise on Xew 
England Revivals (1840) '.—Letters to Dr. Horace Bush - 
neil on Christian Xurture (1847-4 S'):— Lectures on Theol- 
ogy (posthumous), with a Memoir by Rev. Nahum Gale, 
D.D. (his son-in-law) (Boston, 1850, 8vo). See Cong. 
Quar. Rev. I860, p. 351 sq. (by A. H. Quint) ; Xew- Eng- 
lander, August, 1850 (by Prof. Lawrence) ; Allibone, Did. 
of Brit, and A mer. .4 uthors, s. v. 

Tyler, Edward Royall, a Congregational minis- 
ter and author, was born at Guilford, Vt., Aug. 3, 1800. 
lie was the son of chief-justice Tyler, two of whose sons 
became ministers in the Protestant Episcopal Church 
and one in the Presbyterian. Edward was converted j 
while a clerk in a counting-house in New York, and 
under the ministry of Dr. Spring. He graduated at 
Yale College in 1825, studied theology, and was ordain- 
ed pastor of the South Church in Middletown, Conn., in 
1827. Here he was successful in building up the Church, 
but. ill-health induced his resignation in 1832. He was 
next pastor in Colebrook, Conn., 1833-33. For a year 
Mr. Tyler was agent of the American Antislavery So- 
ciety, ami from 1838 to its discontinuance in 1842 he 
was editor of the Connecticut Observer. In 1843 the Xew- 
Euglander was established under his proprietorship and 
editorship, and he continued in connection with it until 
his death, except during the periods of his prostration 
through illness. He died Sept. 28, 1848. Mr. Tyler 
contributed twenty-two articles to the first six volumes 
of the Xew- Englander (see these enumerated in that pe- 
riodical, vi, 307). His other publications were, Slavery 
a Sin per se: — Lectures on Future Punishment (Mid- 
dletown, 1829, 12tno) : — Holiness Always Preferable to 
Sin : a Sermon (New llaven, 1829, 8vo). This opposed 
the position of some of the metaphysical divines of New 
England, that God sometimes preferred sin to holiness: 
— The Doctrine of Election: a Sermon (New Haven, 
1831, 8 vo): — The Congregational Catechism (ibid. 1844, 
I8mo). Tyler’s writings are able, and some were 
thought at the time to be unsurpassed in their treat- 
ment of the subject in hand. Many were produced un- 
der the depressing influence of disease. “ He was by 
nature, by culture, and by the grace of God, one of the 
best sort of men, in whom the elements of character are 
ennobled by faith and sanctified by devotion. We have 


seen his uncomplaining patience, his uniform cheerful- 
ness, his kindness and sympathy, his generous impulses, 
his childlike piety.” Sec Xew- Englander, 1848, p. 603 
sq. (by L. Bacon); Cong. Quar. Rev. 1866, p. 287. 

Tyler, J ames Endell, an English clergyman, was 
born at Monmouth in 1789. He was educated at Oriel 
College, Oxford, where he became fellow, dean, and tutor. 
Presented to the rectory of St. Giles-in-the-Fields, Lon- 
don, in 1826, he became canon residentiary of St. Paul’s 
in 1845. lie died in 1852. He wrote, Indices Attici 
(Lond. 1824, 12mo): — Oaths, their Origin , Xature, and 
History (1834, p. 8vo) : — Conversations of a Father with 
his Children (5th ed. 1840, 2 vols. 18mo): — Primitive 
Church Worship (1810, 8vo): — A Father's Letters to his 
Son on Confirmation (1843, 12mo) : — Worship of the B. 
)'. Mary in the Church of Rome (1844, 8 vo) : — Image- 
worship of the Church of Rome (1847, 8vo): — Medita- 
tions from the Fathers of the First Five Centuries (1849, 
2 vols. l2mo) : — Rector's Address to his Parishioners 
(1851, 8vo): — Christian's Hope in Death: — Sermons 
(1852, 8vo). See Allibone, Did. of Brit, and A mer. A u- 
thors, s. v. 

Tyler, Joseph D., a clergyman and instructor of 
the Protestant Episcopal Cl lurch, was born at Brattlebor- 
ough, Vt. He graduated at Yale in 1829, and pursued 
a theological course at Alexandria, Va. His organs of 
hearing having become impaired by disease, he became 
connected with the Deaf-and-Dumb Asylum at Hartford, 
Conn., and subsequently became principal of the Deaf- 
and-Dumb Institution of Virginia. He died at Staun- 
ton, Va., Jan. 28, 1852, He was an excellent scholar, 
and made some graceful contributions to the litera- 
ture of the day. See Amer. Quar. Church Rev. 1852, 
p. 142. 

Tyler, William, a Congregational minister, was 
born at Attleborough, Mass., Jan. 7, 1780, and was edu- 
cated at Brown University in the class of 1800. For 
some time after leaving college he was engaged in sec- 
ular pursuits. Having decided to study theology, he 
placed himself under the tuition of Rev. Dr. Emmons, 
of Franklin, Mass., and was licensed to preach in 1818. 
lie was ordained in 1819 as junior pastor of the Congre- 
gational Church in South Weymouth, Mass., soon be- 
coming sole pastor. He remained thirteen years in this 
place (1819-32). He removed to South Iladlev Falls, 
Mass., in 1832, and was pastor of the Church in that 
place seven years (1832-89). For several years he per- 
formed missionary service, under the direction of the 
Home Mission Society, in the interior of Massachusetts, 
having his residence at Amherst. He removed to 
Northhampton, Mass., in 1847, and became the editor of 
the Courier, published in that place. For several years 
he resided in Pawtucket, R. 1., and represented that 
town in the convention which met in 1853 to revise the 
State Constitution. He removed to Anburndale. Mass., 
in 1863, where he spent the remainder of his life, and 
where he died Sept. 27, 1875. “ He was well instructed,” 
says Prof. Gammell, “in theology, and was particularly 
interested in local history and antiquities, and on these 
subjects he was a frequent contributor to magazines and 
newspapers.” (J. C. S.) 

Tympanum, the triangular space between the hor- 
izontal and sloping cornices on the front of a pediment 
in classical architecture; it is often left plain, but is 
sometimes covered with sculpture. This name is also 
given to the space immediately above the opening of a 
doorway, etc., in mediaeval architecture, when the top 
of the opening is square and has an arch over it; this 
arrangement is not uncommon in England in Norman 
work, and oil the Continent is to be found in each of 
the styles. Tympanums of this kind are occasionally 
perfectly plain, but are generally ornamented with carv- 
ing or sculpture, in Continental work the subjects are 
usually arranged in tiers one above another, and often 
embrace a great number of figures. Also when an arch 
is surmounted by a gable-moulding or triangular hood- 


TYMPE 


G07 


TYNDALE 



Tympanum of Doorway, Estendine, Rutlandshire, cir. IliJO. 


mould, the space included between the arch and the 
mould is termed the tympanum of the gable. — Parker, 
Gloss, of A rchitect. s. v. 

Tympe, Johann Gottfried, professor of theology 
and Oriental languages at Jena, was born in 1G99 at 
Iliederitz, near Magdeburg, and died June 28, 17G8. 
lie wrote, Forma Yerborum Perfectorum Hebraicorum, 
Ckaldaicorum , Syriacorum atque Arnbicorum Commu- 
nis et Harmonica in Tabulis Compendia Exhibita et De- 
scripta (Jena, 1728-32) : — Progr. quo indistinct am Anti- 
quorum Ebrceorum Scriptionem esse recens Commentum 
Morinianam, Certitudini Divinarum Literarum longe 
Permciosissimum Ostendit (ibid. 1730): — Tabulce Uni- 
verses A ccentuationis Hebr.-Chald. turn Pros, turn Metr. 
(ibid. 1740) : — Geneseos Prima quinque Capita et Partem 
Secti Hebraice et Singulornm Yocum Putionem Gram- 
maticam Secundum Pnncipio Danziano exposuit in 
Usum A uditorum (ibid. 1727): — De Cultu Divino ad 
Stata Loca Restricto , etc. (ibid. 1728): — Schediasma, 
quo iterandoi Editiones Concordant iarum Ebrceo-Chal- 
daicarum Chr. Xoldii Novamque Cone. Pronominum, 
etc. (ibid, eod.) : — Forma A rabicorum 1 ’ erborum Perfec- 
torum Descripta (ibid, eod.) : — Biss. / et 1 1 de Descensu 
IV u bis Gloria, in Sanctuarium ante Consecrationem 
Aaronis Facto, ad versus Talmudistas et Veteres Ebrte- 
orum Commentatores (ibid. 1731-33), etc. See Fiirst, 
Bibl. Ilebr. iii, 456; Winer, llandb.der tkeol. Lit. i, 115, 
121 ; Steinschneider, Bibliog. llandb. p. 141. (B. P.) 

Tyndale (or Tindal), William, the Bible trans- 
lator and martyr, was born in the hundred of Berkeley, 
either at Stincheomb or North Niblev, Gloucestershire, 
about the year 1484 (or 1477). At an early period 
lie was sent to Oxford, where he took his degree, 
and also gave instructions in Magdalen Ilall. But he 
left Oxford for Cambridge, where it is believed that 
lie took a degree. In 1502 lie obtained priest’s or- 
ders, and in 1508 entered the monastery at Greenwich 
as a friar. He seems to have already formed the de- 
sign, or even to have actually begun the work, of trans- 
lating the New Test., and had probably imbibed some 
of the notions which were beginning to be circulated in 
favor of reforming the Church. In 1522 (or 1520) Tyn- 
dale is next found as tutor in the house of Sir John 
Welch, of Little Sodbury, not far from Bristol, where he 
preached in the villages and towns on the Sabbath, and 
often disputed with neighboring abbots and other Ro- 
mish ecclesiastics. Here, too, he translated the Enchi- 
ridion Militis of Erasmus, as a present to his host and 
his lady. His free opinions and discussions soon got 
him into troublous examinations before the popish dig- 
nitaries, but no penalty was inflicted on him. He took 
the hint, however, left the county, and went to London, 
his mind being now fully' occupied with the idea of 
translating the Scriptures, lie soon found, as he him- 
self quaintly say's, *‘that there was no room in my lord 
of London’s palace to translate the New Test.; nay T , no 
place to do it in all England.” In London he some- 
times preached at St. Dunstan’s-in-the- West, while 
alderman Humphrey Monmouth took him under his 
protection, and gave him an annuity of ten pounds a 
year to enable him to live abroad, for which ten pounds 


he was in return to pray' for the souls of the 
alderman’s father and mother. Tyndale on 
leaving England went first to Hamburg. It 
is often said that from Hamburg lie proceed- 
ed to Wittenberg, where he met Luther, who 
had now thrown oft’ the last vestige of popish 
thraldom, and that there he completed his 
translation of the New Test. The statement 
is apparently' not correct, for during 1524 he 
seems to have remained at Hamburg, and 
in 1525 he appears to have been first at Co- 
logne and then at Worms. At Cologne Tyn- 
dale seems to have commenced to print his 
first edition in 4to, but after ten sheets were 
printed the work was interrupted, and the 
translator and his coadjutors betook themselves to the 
Lutheran city of Worms, where the quarto was finished, 
and an octavo edition also issued from the press (1525). 
The prologue to the quarto has been republished under 
the name of .4 Pathway to the Scriptures. The trans- 
lator’s name was attached to neither of the two editions, 
and he assigns a reason for this omission in his Wicked 
Mammon , published in 1527. Copies of these versions 
early' found their way into England. In 1526 Tunstall, 
bishop of London, fulminated his prohibition of them, 
and two y'ears afterwards a number of copies were col- 
lected. nay r , some were purchased by the bishop in Ant- 
werp, and burned at St. Paul’s Cross. Warham and 
Wolsev were also dreadfully' enraged, and Sir Thomas 
More was employed to denounce Tyndale, but his gen- 
ius was foiled in the attempt, and Tyndale won a vic- 
tory over the learned chancellor. Of the first edition 
onlv a fragment now exists, and of the second only' two 
copies, one of them imperfect. Two editions were after- 
wards printed at Antwerp, and found their ivay' to Eng- 
land in vessels laden with grain. Endeavors were made 
to seize Ty'ndale and punish all who had assisted him, but 
he removed to Marburg, in Hesse, in 1528, and published 
there a book of great value — The Obedience of a Chris- 
tian Man. The result of all the English opposition 
w r as that, as Fox expresses it, “ copies of the New Test, 
came thick and threefold into England.” We find Tyn- 
dale again at Antwerp in 1529, during which year a 
fifth edition was printed; the four books of Moses were 
also translated, printed each at a separate press, and 
put into circulation. The enemies of the translator en- 
deavored to decoy him into England, but he was too 
wary' to be so easily entrapped, for he well knew what 
displeasure Henry VIII felt at his tract called The 
Practice of Preljntes , and what penalty' the roy'al indig- 
nation would speedily' inflict. After the marty'rdom of 
Frith, Tyuidale set himself to revise and correct the ver- 
sion of the New Test., and it was soon thrown off, with 
this remark in the preface, “ Which I have looked over 
again with all diligence, and compared with the Greek, 
and have weded out of it many fautes.” But his ene- 
mies in England, whose power had been shaken by the 
copious circulation of the English New Test., were the 
more enraged against him, and conspired to seize him 
on the Continent, in the name of the emperor. An 
Englishman named Philips betrayed him, and, acting 
under such information, the authorities at Brussels 
seized him, in the house of Pointz, his friend, and con- 
veyed him to Vilvoorden, twenty-three miles from Ant- 
werp. Pointz, who had with difficulty' escaped himself, 
made every effort for him, but in vain. The neighbor- 
ing University' of Louvain thirsted for his blood. Tvn- 
dale was speedily' condemned, and on Friday', Oct. G, 
153G, in virtue of a recent Augsburg decree, he ivas led 
out to the scene of execution. On being fastened to 
the stake, he cried, in loud and earnest prayer, “Lord, 
open the eyes of the king of England,” and then was 
first strangled and afterwards burned. The merits of 
Tyndale must ever be recognised and honored by all 
who enjoy the English Bible — for their authorized ver- 
sion of the New Test, lias his for its basis. He made 
good his early boast that ploughboys should have the 



TYNDAREUS 


608 


TYPE 


Word of God. His friends all speak of his great sim- 
plicity of heart, and commend his abstemious habits, 
his zeal, and his industry; while even the imperial 
procurator who prosecuted him styles him homo doctus , 
pin.*, et bonus. The works of Tvudale and Frith were 
collected and published (Lund. 1831, 3 vols. 8vo). For 
information respecting Tvudale, his writings, and edi- 
tions of his translations of the Testament, Pentateuch, 
etc., sec Bliss’s Wood, A then. Oxon. i, 04 ; Fox, .1 cts and 
Mon. ; Biog. Brit.; Walter and Offor, Life of Tyndale ; 
Wordsworth, Ecclcs. Biog. ; Newcome, English Bible 
Translations; Johnson, Hist, of English Translations 
of the Bible; Lewis, Hist, of Translations of the Bible 
into English ; Cotton, List of Editions of the Bible in 
English ; Anderson, A nnals of the English Bible ; Horne, 
hit rod. to Study of the Bible; Historical Account, of 
English ) ’ersions of Scripture ; Watt, Bibl. Brit. ; Prince- 
ton Per. x, 321 ; Christian Rev. iii, 130; North Ameri- 
can Rev. lxvii, 322. For fuller list of literature, see Al- 
libone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors , s. v. 

Tyndareus, in Greek mythology, was the hus- 
band of the renowned Leda, and was king in Sparta, 
from which he was driven with his brother Iearius. 
Hercules placed the fleeing brothers again in pos- 
session of their kingdoms. Pausanias saw his grave 
in Laceckemonia before the temple of Jupiter Cos- 
metes (iii, 17, 4). 

Tyndandes, in Greek mythology, was a surname 
of the Dioscuri. 

Tyndaris, in Greek mythology, w r as a surname of 
Helen. 

Tyng, Dudley A., a clergyman of the Protestant 
Episcopal Church, was born in Prince George County, 
Md., in 1825. lie graduated at the University of Penn- 
sylvania in 1843; studied at the Alexandria (Va.) The- 
ological Seminary; became deaeon in 1846 and priest 
in 1849; was first settled as a clergyman in Columbus, 

O., and afterwards w\as rector of Christ Church, Cincin- 
nati ; in 1854 was pastor of the Church of the Epipha- 
ny, Philadelphia, where he remained one year, resign- 
ing and organizing a new parish called the Church of 
the Covenant, of which he was minister at the time of 
his death, which occurred at Brookfield, near Philadel- 
phia, April 19, 1858. See A merican Quar. Church Rev. 
1858, p. 344. 

Type. I. Name. — The Greek word tvttqq , from 
which our type is derived, denotes primarily a blow , 
then the mark left by a blow , then a mark or print of 
any kind, then a figure or image, and final!} 7 a mould or 
model , whether that be viewed as the original from 
which something else has taken its form, or as indicat- 
ing the form which something not yet existing may 
assume. In the New Test, the word occurs in several 
of these senses, and in some passages with a shade of 
meaning pecnliar to itself. In John xv, 25 it is used 
to denote the mark which the nails made in our Lord’s 
hands and feet; in Acts vii, 43 it means a copy or 
image; in ver. 44 and Heb. viii, 5 it signifies a model 
after which something is made; in Rom. vi, 17 it de- 
notes a mould from which a form is derived; in ver. 14 
it conveys the idea *f one person presenting some anal- 
ogy to another person; and in several places it means 
an example which others may follow (1 Cor. x, 6, 11; 
Phil, iii, 17 ; 1 Thess. i, 7 ; 2 Thess. iii, 9, etc.). 

As used by theologians, the word type has received 
a special technical meaning not exactly equivalent to 
any of these usages, though approaching to that of 
Rom. vi, 14, where Adam is said to be the type of 
Christ. They mean by it any object, whether office, 
institution, person, or action, by means of which some 
truth connected with Christianity was prefiguratively 
foretold under preceding dispensations. Such an ob- 
ject the apostles call a a Kid, a shadow or adumbration 
of that which it indicated (comp. Heb. x, 1 ; Col. ii, 17). 
This shadow became a type because it presented the 
model or representation of something yet future. Some- 


times, also, the term 7rapa(3o\i) is used with a similar 
meaning (Heb. ix, 9; xi, 19). 

II. Fundamental Principles . — There are certain no- 
tions which must be assumed as lying at the basis of 
typology. 

1. Spiritual truths, ideas, thoughts, may be represent- 
ed by material symbols, whether actions, institutions, 
or objects. This the usage of all nations establishes. 
More especially was this a favorite method of commu- 
nicating thought among the imaginative Orientals; in 
general, it is found to prevail most in the earlier stages 
of a people’s history, while as yet the use of objects 
that appeal to the senses is more effective than the use 
of written documents. In Scripture, frequent instances 
occur of such symbolical methods of conveying ideas; 
as, for instance, the placing of the hand under the thigh 
for confirmation of an oath; the boring of the ear of 
the servant who declined to avail himself of the liber- 
ty brought by the year of jubilee; the rending of the 
garments in token of grief; and such acts as those of 
Abijah when, in announcing to Jeroboam the secession 
of the ten tribes from the house of Solomon, he tore his 
garment into twelve pieces and gave to Jeroboam ten 
(1 Kings ix, 29); that of Elisha when he indicated to 
the king of Israel the victories which by divine help 
he should obtain over the Syrians by commanding him 
to shoot an arrow 7 from the window eastward after he 
had placed his hand on the king’s hand (2 Kings xiii, 
14-19); and those of Jeremiah and Ezekiel when they 
w r ere signs to the people (Jer. xix, 1-11; Ezek. xii, 3- 
16). 

2. Such symbolical representations may be employed 
to convey religions truth. This usage we find also to 
have prevailed amonsr all nations, especially in the ear- 
lier stages of their history. Among the Jews it was 

abundantly used ; not, however, according to human 
caprice or ingenuity, but always in obedience to the 
express ordinance of God. The symbolical observ- 
ances of an earlier age introduced into the service of 
God, it may be presumed, w'ere also of divine appoint- 
ment, on the general principle that, as God alone can 
declare what worship he will receive, it is only as he 
appoints that any service can be properly offered to him. 

3. The true religion has in all ages been essentially the 
same, so that the truths symbolized by the institutions 
of the earlier dispensations are identical with those more 
directly and fully made knov 7 n to ns under the Chris- 
tian dispensation. The substantial identity of the pa- 
triarchal and Mosaic religions with the Christian must 
be assumed in all attempts to argue from the Old Test, 
to the New, or rice versa, and will not be denied by any 
who receive these books as divine. FTom this it neces- 
sarily follows that what was taught by symbol under 
the ancient economies as part of religious truth will be 
found identical with what is taught in words under the 
new dispensation. 

4. The religion of Jesus Christ is one resting on the 
facts of his personal appearance and work. Out of 
these all its truths flow directly or indirectly; and to 
these they all have respect. lienee the truths taught 
symbolically to the Old -Test, saints, being identical 
with those of Christianity, must also rest on, and have 
respect to, these facts. 

5. A twofold character w r as thus of necessity given 
to the religious institutions of the ancient economies. 
They were primarily symbolical of religious truth. 
They were secondarily predictive of facts in the future 
on w'hich these truths rested. 

III. Nature of Types. — Proceeding on these data, 
we may attempt to construct a typology, the design of 
which shall be to show 7 what are the types in the Old 
Test, and the correspondence between them and their 
antitypes in the New Test. The most important step 
towards this is to determine from the preceding data 
what is the proper idea of a type. This w 7 e would ex- 
press as follows: A type is an institute or act appointed 
by God to symbolize a religious truth, and to prefigure 


TYPE 


6 09 


TYPE 


bv means of analogy or resemblance those facts in the 
mediatorial work of Christ on which these truths rest. 
This definition involves the' following elements: 

1. A type is an institute or act. We use these terms 
in a wide sense, understanding under the former not 
only formal organizations and religious offices, but 
times, places, implements of religious service; and un- 
der the latter not only rites and ceremonies, but special 
acts or series of acts determined by the proper crite- 
rion to b‘e typical. By this definition, however, persons 
and things simply as such are excluded. A person per 
se f or a thing simply as such, cannot possess a symboli- 
cal character; and cannot be the mem, or prefigurative 
sign, of another person or thing, much less of a fact or 
series of facts. A person mav sustain a typical office 
or may perform a typical act, and a thing may be used 
in a typical service or ceremony, but in and by itself 
it cannot be a type. This sets aside a. whole host of 
types which the ingenuity of interpreters has construct- 
ed out of the historical personages of the Old Test. 
That many of these sustained typical offices and per- 
formed typical acts is admitted; but that they were in 
themselves — in their proper individual personality — 
types of our Lord, we cannot believe. The assertion, 
indeed, is to us unintelligible except in a sense which 
would be profane and untrue — viz. that their personal 
character and conduct were a representation of the char- 
acter and conduct of our blessed Lord. It is true that 
for this doctrine of personal types the authority of the 
New Test, has been pleaded. But we are unable to 
find a solitary instance in the New Test, of any histori- 
cal character mentioned in the Old 'Pest, being brought 
forward as having been personally a a Kid of Christ or 
his work. In one passage, indeed, Adam is called a 
rv7Tog of Christ, but tvttoq is not there equivalent to 
c TKia ; and, even if it were, it would not follow that it 
was Adam as a person who was the type of Christ, for 
the apostle is speaking throughout that context of our 
first parent in his official, federal, or representative char- 
acter. The words of Peter also (1 Pet. iii, 21) have 
been cited as showing that a simple historical occur- 
rence may be the type of a Christian truth ; but, what- 
ever the apostle may mean in that passage by calling 
salvation by baptism the dvriTinrov of Noah’s salva- 
tion by the ark, he certainly cannot mean that the lat- 
ter was a divinely appointed prefiguration of the for- 
mer. The utmost that can be drawn from his words 
is that an analogy subsists between the tw o, w'herebv 
the one is fitted to illustrate the other. The strongest 
case in favor of the opinion we are opposing is our 
Lord’s representation of himself as the true bread of 
which the manna w r as the prefiguration. We cannot 
understand this as intimating less than that the manna 
was a type of him. Still it w r as the manna, not as a 
natural phenomenon, hut as a special and peculiar pro- 
vision made by God for the feeding of the people, that 
w'as the type of Christ; and in this divine appointment 
we find what reduces this under the head of proper 
types. 

2. A type is an institute or act appointed by God , and 
by him adapted to the end it is designed to serve. 
Knowing what in due time was to be exhibited to men 
by the mission and w r ork of his Son, God could not only 
predict it in w'ords, but also give by means of sym- 
bolical acts and institutes such representation of it as 
would, in some measure at least, bring before the minds 
of the ancient saints a lively idea of it. As God alone 
could do this, it is on his appointment that the whole 
must rest. “To constitute one thing the type of an- 
other, as the term is generally understood in reference 
to Scripture, something more is needed than mere re- 
semblance. The former must not only resemble the 
latter, but must have been designed to resemble the lat- 
ter. It must have been so designed in its original in- 
stitution. It must have been designed as something 
preparatory to the latter. The type as well as the 
antitype must have been preordained; and they must 
X.-Q q 


have been preordained as constituent parts of the same 
general scheme of Divine Providence. It is this previ- 
ous design and this preordained connection which con- 
stitute the relation of type and antitype” (Marsh, 'Lect- 
ures on Criticism and Interpretation , p. 374). By the 
earlier typologists this condition was neglected, and re- 
semblance was made the sole criterion of the relation 
between an event or person of the ( >ld Test, and a fact 
or doctrine of the New Test, as type and antitype. A 
once popular hook written on this plan is that of 
M ‘Ewen. On the Types and Figures of the Old Test. 
But the principle has been carried out to the wildest 
extent in a work entitled The Typical Testimony to the 
Messiah, by Micaiah Hill (Loud. 1862). 

3. Each act or institute designed by God to serve as 
typical possessed a symbolical as well as a prediciire 
character. "Phis follows from the position that a type 
is a sensible emblem or prefigurative token of some 
spiritual truth, which itself rests upon certain events 
yet future, but of which events a certain degree of 
knowledge is possessed by those to whom the type is 
exhibited. In all such eases a twofold impression is 
conveyed to the mind: in the first place, that a partic- 
ular truth already known is symbolically indicated; 
and, in the second place, that those events on which 
that truth depends shall certainly take place. In the 
testimony of God concerning his JSon there are two 
points — one of fact, and one of doctrine — on both of 
which we must be instructed before we can really be- 
lieve that testimony in all its fulness. What God calls 
us in the Bible to believe is, first, “the truth;” and, 
secondly, that “truth as it is in Christ Jesus.” With 
regard, for instance, to the doctrine of salvation by the 
atonement, there is, first, the general principle that such 
a mode of salvation is reasonable, practicable, and in- 
tended by God; and, secondly, the matter of fact that 
such an atonement has really been presented by our 
Lord Jesus Christ and accepted by the Sovereign and 
Judge of all. Now ii was, of course, the same under 
the Old-Test, dispensation : there were both the doctrine 
to be announced and the fact to be predicted before a 
complete statement of saving truth could be laid before 
the mind; and it w’as only as both of these were appre- 
hended that the belief of a Jew in the truth became 
full and intelligent. Hence every type contained at 
once a symbol of the truth and a prediction of the fact. 
It presented to the senses of the beholder an outward 
sign of a great general truth, and a memorial that in 
due season the event on wdiich that truth rested would 
take place. Thus, for instance, in the case of sacrifice, 
there were both a symbol and a prediction. The slay- 
ing of the animal and the burning of its flesh were em- 
blems of the great truth that the sinner whose substi- 
tute that animal had become deserved death and sub- 
sequent agony, as well as of the general truth that 
God’s plan of saving men from that desert was by the 
substitutionary sufferings of another. AH this, howev- 
er, would have been of no avail to the sin-burdened Is- 
raelite, who knew well that no mere animal could make 
atonement for the sins of man, had not that act prefig- 
ured and predicted the great sacrifice for sin on the 
part of the Lamb of God. But, pointed forward to this, 
his faith obtained an object upon which to rest, and 
he was enabled to rejoice in the salvation of God. So, 
also, with regard to the immediate consequences of sac- 
rifice. When a Jew had committed a trespass against 
the Mosaic law\ he had to offer certain sacrifices before 
he could enjoy his civil and political rights. Immedi- 
ately, however, on presenting these, he stood rectus in 
curia; he was acquitted of the sin he had committed, 
and restored to his civil privileges. With this a mere 
carnal and worldly Jew w r as content. But to the pious 
believer all this was only the symbol and type of some- 
thing spiritual. It reminded him that his sins against 
God had made him guilty and excluded him from the 
divine favor; it directed him to the need of a sacrifice 
for sin ere God would forgive his transgression ; and it 


TYPE 


G10 


TYPE 


assured him that, just as by sacrifice he hail been re- 
stored to his place in the Jewidi State, so by the great 
sacrifice he might be restored to the divine favor, and 
to a place in that spiritual kingdom of which the Jew- 
ish nation was the type. 

4. Though resemblance to that which it is designed 
to prefigure does not constitute the only, or even the 
primary, condition of a type, it is obvious that this 
must form a very important element in the adaptation 
of the type to serve its designed end. Hence we may 
expect to find some obvious analogy not only between 
the symbol and that which it symbolizes, but also be- 
tween the divinely appointed act or institute and that 
which it was designed to prefigure. 

On the other hand, as there must be a similarity or 
analogy between the type and the antitype, so there is 
also a disparity or dissimilitude between them. It is 
not in the nature of type and antitype that they should 
agree in all things; else, instead of similitude, there 
would be identity . Hence the apostle, while making 
Adam a type of Christ, yet shows how infinitely the 
latter excelled the former (1 Cor. xv, 47). So the 
priests of old were types of Christ, though he infinitely 
excelled them both as to his own person and as to the 
character of his priesthood (see lleb. vii. viii, ix, x). ' 
Chrysostom observes (//«/«. fil. in Gen.') that there must 
be more in the type than in the antitype. Hence the 
distinction must be observed between total and partial 
tvpes. This distinction (Ecumenius also draws in com- 
menting on lleb. vii, p. 829. lie savs: ‘O tvttoq ov 
K ara irdvra loag earl t/j dXifitia (t Tret k u avrog ciXip 
Stia eupimctrai , Ka't ravrortiQ piiXXor, )) Tinrog), aXX’ 
tiKuvciQ t\tt nrag icai ivCaX/iara — t; A type does not 
express that which it represents in every minute par- 
ticular, for then, instead of similitude, there would be 
identity, but it contains certain outlines and assimila- 
tions of the antitype.” Cyril of Alexandria, in A mos 
vi. p. 315, also observes on this subject: ‘O tvttoq ovic 
dXifiua, p6p<pm<nv Cf paWov rijg dXiftetag ilotyepu — 
“A type is not the very truth itself, but its representa- 
tion.” 

IV. Relation to other Modes of Teaching. — Having 
thus indicated the nature of a type, we would now point 
out the relation of this mode of teaching divine truth 
to other modes employed in Scripture more or less akin 
to it. 

1. Relation to rmphecy. — Type stands related to 
prophecy as its parallel. Like it, it teaches a present 
truth, and announces a future fulfilment of it: like it, 
also, it lias in its capacity of a type one definite mean- 
ing and one definite fulfilment, to both of which it was 
intended and designed to point. The difference be- 
tween a prophecy and a type lies only in this, that the 
former teaches by words, the latter by things; the for- 
mer, that is, by an artificial combination of signs, the 
latter by a scenical representation of the whole truth 
at once. A word is the symbol of an idea; a type is 
the symbol of some principle or law, and the prediction 
of some great general fact in the economy of redemp- 
tion. See PuoniKCY. 

2. Relation to Parable. — From the word Trapafi bXij 
being used to designate a type, it may be inferred that 
the connection between the two is intimate. A type, 
in fact, may he v iewed as a sort of acted parable . Let 
us suppose, for instance, that our Lord, instead of de- 
scribing in words the conduct and circumstances of the 
prodigal son, had. by the help of suitable actors and 
scenes, made the whole to pass before the eyes and ears 
of his auditors, the lesson would have been conveyed to 
them much in the same way as the truth concerning 
himself was conveyed to the ancient Jews by the typi- 
cal rites of the Mosaic economy. In neither case is the 
lesson new. nor fully to be understood without an eluci- 
datory comment; the object of both being to impress 
vividly a truth, otherwise reasonable or familiar, upon 
the minds of those to whom it is presented. There is 
this difference, however, between such a representation 


and a type — that the former, being merely doctrinal, 
would be exhausted in inculcating a present truth, 
while the latter would, with the doctrine, incorporate 
a prophetic reference to some great event yet to hap- 
pen on which the doctrine was based. See 1 ‘arable. 

3. Relation to Comparison. — The New-Test, teachers 
occasionally, for the sake of illustrating their meaning, 
introduce a comparison, drawn from some well-known 
fact in the history of the Jewish people, between which 
and the point they are discussing there exists some ob- 
vious analogy. In this way our Lord makes use of the 
fact of Moses’ erecting the brazen serpent in the wil- 
derness for t lie purpose of illustrating his own character 
as a deliverer, who was to be "lifted up, that whosoever 
believeth in him should not perish, but have everlast- 
ing life" (John iii, 14, 15). On another occasion he in- 
stituted a comparison between his own case, as about to 
be consigned for a season to the tomb, and that of Jo- 
nah, who had been 4 * three days and three nights in the 
belly of the fish” (Matt, xii, 40). From this it has been 
hastily concluded that these events, and others alluded 
to in the New Test, in a similar manner, were real types 
and prefigurations of the facts they are brought to illus- 
trate. It is obvious, however, that there is a great dif- 
ference between a historical event— whether occurring 
in the natural course of things, or by the special inter- 
position of the divine power, and which a subsequent 
writer or speaker may make use of to illustrate, by com- 
parison, some fact or doctrine of which he is treating — 
and a symbolic institute expressly appointed by God to 
prefigure, to those among whom it was set up, certain 
great transactions in connection with that plan of re- 
demption which, in the fulness of time, lie was to unfold 
to mankind. In the two cases above referred to there 
is the absence of any express evidence that the events 
recorded possess any other than a simple historical char- 
acter. In the case of the brazen serpent, indeed, we have 
divine appointment; but along with the appointment we 
have the specific mention of the purpose for which it was 
set up, which was not to teach any religious truths at 
all, or to form any part of religious worship, but simply 
that it might act as an instrument of cure to the Israel- 
ites who were bitten by the tierv flying serpents. See 
IIrazex Sereent. Yet even in this case it is clear 
from the whole tenor of the narrative that the act was 
significant of more than a mere physical remedy; and 
our Lord’s reference to the event confirms its higher 
import. It is also possible that such a thing as the 
brazen serpent might possess a symbolical character; 
but if any will from this argue that it really had such a 
character, and that it was a symbol of Christ, it will be 
incumbent upon him, in the first place, to show some ev- 
idence in favor of his inference, and, in the next, to ex- 
plain how it should’ come to pass that the express sym- 
bolical antithesis of the Messiah, the serpent , could form 
part of an institute intended to prefigure his work as the 
Saviour of men. As to the ease of Jonah, we do not find 
in it so much as the appearance of anything typical; 
and, indeed, it would have been very strange had God 
caused the prophet, to perform an action typical of the 
burial and resurrection of Christ, under circumstances in 
which there was no human being to receive any instruc- 
tion l>v it except himself. A type is an acted lesson — 
a visible representation of invisible truths. To its util- 
ity, therefore, spectators are as indispensable as actors; 
and where the former are not present, to say that God 
appoints the latter to go through their performance is 
to charge him with doing something in vain. See 
Similitude. 

4. Relation to A llegory. — “ An allegory," says bishop 
Marsh, “according to its original and proper meaning, 
denotes a representation of one thing which is intended 
to excite the representation of another thing.” Adopt- 
ing this as a just explanation, it is obvious that type 
and allegory are closely allied. In both there is an 
original representation which has a meaning of its own, 
and there is the use of that for the purpose of calling up 


TYPE 


Cll 


TYPHON 


to the mind the conception of another thing analogous 
to the former. The two, however, are very distinct. 
They differ in two respects: the one is that the subject 
of an allegory is a mere historical event occurring in the 
ordinary course of things, whereas a type is an act or in- 
stitute expressly appointed bv God to teach some im- 
portant truth ; the other is, that the allegorical sense is 
a fictitious meaning put upon a narrative lor the sake of 
illustrating something else, whereas the explanation of 
a type is its true and only meaning, and is adduced sole- 
ly for the sake of unfolding that meaning. Thus Paul, 
in order to explain the doctrine of the covenants, allego- 
rizes the anecdote of Sara i and II agar recorded by Moses, 
making Sarai represent the Abrahamic or new or ever- 
lasting covenant, and 1 1 agar the Sinaitic or old cove- 
nant (Gal. iv, 24, 25). In the same way he allegorizes 
the fact of the water from the rock following the Israel- 
ites through the wilderness, speaking of it as represent- 
ing Christ in the blessings he confers upon his church 
(1 Cor. x, 4). These allegorizings (aWyyopovpEva) are 
only comparisons without the form ; and their use is ob- 
viously merely to explain one thing by another. The 
radical difference between the exposition of a type and 
an allegorical intrepretation of history, is apparent from 
the use which the apostle makes of them respectively, 
llis allegorizings are mere illustrations on which, by 
themselves, nothing is built; whereas his typical ex- 
planations are all brought forward as forming the basis 
of arguments addressed to those who, admitting the 
type, were thereby pledged to the admission of the 
truths it embodied. See Allegory. 

V. Interpretation of Types. — As a general rule it may 
be laid down that we should always expect to find in 
the antitype something higher and more glorious than 
in the type (Chrysost. in Genes. Horn. 35: pi) tt avra 
cnrairu iv rig tvttoj ' ovdt yap civ tit) tvttoq ft piWot 
7ravra *x tu ' Tcl T V aXifOeia (Topfiauovrci'). This fol- 
lows from the nature of the case. For if the design of 
a type be by outward symbols to foreshadow spiritual 
truths, it follows that, in proportion as the thing signi- 
fied is more valuable than the mere sign, and as things 
spiritual and eternal are more glorious than things ma- 
terial and transitory, the type must be inferior in value 
and in majesty to that which it is designed to prefigure. 

More specific rules having reference especially to the 
Mosaic ritual are — I. The symbolical ritual, as a whole 
and in its individual parts, can set forth only such ideas 
ami truths as accord with the known, and elsewhere 
clearly announced, principles of Old-Test, theology. 2. 
An accurate knowledge of the outward constitution of 
each symbol is an indispensable condition of its inter- 
pretation ; for, as the sole object of the symbol is to con- 
vey spiritual truth by sensible representations, to at- 
tempt to discover the former before we understand the 
latter is to endeavor to reach an end without using the 
means. 8. The first step in the interpretation of a sym- 
bol is the explanation of its name; for, as this is gener- 
ally given with a direct reference to the idea symbol- 
ized, it forms of itself a sort of exponent of the symbol to 
which it is affixed. 4. Each symbol expresses, in gen- 
eral, only one grand idea; at the same time, of course, 
including all subordinate ideas that may be involved in 
it. Thus, in the case of sacrifices, a variety of truths are 
presented to the mind, but all going to make up the one 
grand truth which that rite symbolized. 5. Each sym- 
bol has always the same fundamental meaning, however 
different may be the objects with which it is combined. 
Thus, for instance, the act of purification has the same 
symbolical meaning, whether it is performed upon a per- 
son or an animal, or upon a material object. 6. In in- 
terpreting a symbol, we must throw out of view all that 
is merely necessitated by the laws of its physical con- 
dition, and that does not serve to help out the symbol- 
ical representation. Symbols have often accessories of 
two kinds: the one consisting of such as are in them- 
selves symbolical, and which go to make up the sum 
total of the representation; the other, of such as are, 


from the nature of things, required by the material ob- 
jects composing the symbol for their continued exist- 
ence. Thus, in the case of the candlestick in the sanc- 
tuary, it was provided that it should have branches and 
knops and flowers, and also that it should be supplied 
with snuffers and snuff-dishes. Now, of those accesso- 
ries the former were not indispensable to its serving the 
purpose for which it was designed — that of giving light ; 
but they, having each a symbolical meaning, added to 
the symbolical effect of the whole; whereas the latter 
were merely required in order to prevent the lights 
from dying out for want of cleansing. Keeping this 
distinction in view’, we need not be afraid of going too 
minutely into the explanation of the Mosaic ritual. 
Everything, in fact, of which it w r as composed was a 
symbol, with the single exception of such things as the 
earthly, physical condition of the substance or persons 
employed rendered indispensable. Nay, even these, 
from belonging to a typical institute, such as the nation 
of Israel w’as, acquired a sort of secondary typical char- 
acter; just as the ordinary events of Israelitish history 
have for the same reason a spiritually doctrinal char- 
acter. See Symbol. 

VI. Examples of Types . — In tracing out irho and 
what typified or shadowed forth Christ and his salva- 
tion under the antediluvian, patriarchal, and Mosaic dis- 
pensations, we must be careful not to substitute the sug- 
gestions. of our own imaginations for the intimations of 
Scripture. We must endeavor to learn the mind of God 
as to w’hat actually constitutes a type, either by the ex- 
press declarations of Scripture, or by the obvious analogy 
which subsists between things under the Gospel and its 
antecedent dispensations. Thus guarding ourselves, we 
may notice the various types by which God was pleased, 
at all times, in a sense, to preach the Gospel to man- 
kind. 

1. Among individual persons , before the law, Adam, 
Enoch, Noah, Melchizedek, Abraham, Isaac, and Joseph 
w r ere eminently typical of Christ, but only in certain re- 
lations. Again, under the law, Muses, Joshua, Samson, 
David, Solomon, Elijah, Elisha, Jonah, Zerubbabel, and 
Joshua the high-priest w T ere, in many points, singularly 
types of Christ. 

2. The first-born, the Nazarites, prophets, priests, and 
kings were typical orders of persons. 

3. Under the head of things typical may bo noticed: 
Jacob’s ladder, the burning bush, the pillar of cloud ami 
fire; and, in the opinion of some, the manna, the rock, 
and the brazen serpent. 

4. Actions typical w'ere : the deliverance out of Egypt, 
the passage of the lied Sea, the sojourn in the wilder- 
ness, the passage over the Jordan, the entrance into 
Canaan, and the restoration from Babylon. 

5. Rites typical were: circumcision, various sacrifices, 
and sundry purifications. 

6. Places typical w r ere: the land of Canaan, the cities 
of refuge, the tabernacle, and the temple. 

The above types were designed to shadow forth Christ 
and the blessings of his salvation ; but there w ere others 
also which pointed at our miseries w ithout him. There 
were ceremonial uncleannesses : the leprosy, for instance. 
w\as a type of our natural pollution. — Kitto. 

See Miehaelis, Entwurf der typischen Gottesgelahrtheit 
(Gott. 1783); Keach, Tropologia , p. 225-237; Stiieer, 
Thesaur. ii, 1337 ; Mather, Types of the Old Test. (Loud. 
1705) ; Biihr, Symholik des mosaischen Cult us (Heidelb, 
1.S37, 2 vols.) ; Chevallier, Ilulsean Lecture for 132(5; 
Fairbairn, The Typology of Scripture (Edinb. 1854. 2 
vols.) ; and other works cited by Darling, Cyclop. Bibli- 
og. col. 1303 sq., and by Maleora, Theol. Index, s. v. See 
Messiah. 

Typhoeus=TYniox (q. v.). 

TypllOll ( Typhos , Typhoem , Typhoeus , and Typha- 
on), in Greek mythology, was a monster of remote an- 
tiquity, at one time thought to have been a destructive 
gale of wind, at another time represented as a giant of 


TYPIIRESTUS 


G12 


TYRE 


the earth, ejecting volcanic tlames. I lomer places him 
in the country of Arim, buried in t ho earth, which 
Jupiter strikes with lightning. Hesiod represents Ty- 
phaon and Tvphoens as two different and distinct be- 
ings. Tvphaon is the son of Typhoeus. a mighty 
wind, who with Echidna begets the dog Ortlirus, Cerbe- 
rus, the Lerntean hydra, and Chimtera. Typhoeus is 
the youngest son of Tartarus and G:ea, with one hun- 
dred dragon-heads, frightfully sparkling eves, and hid- 
eous voice, lie attempted to gain sovereignty over 
gods and men, but Jupiter bound him with lightning, 
and he now lies under .Etna, lit Egyptian mythology 
Typhon is the Greek name for the evil spirit repre- 
sented bv the dog-star, originally the intiuenee that 
brought to Egypt the blessing of a yearly overflow of 
the banks of the river Nile, without which the country 
could not flourish. When the worship of Isis and Osi- 
ris came into practice, t lie dog-star was designed to be 
the destroyer of the life of nature by heat, and now 
'Typhon became an evil god, whose names and titles 
upon monuments were destroyed, because he was be- 
lieved to he the enemy and persecutor of Osiris ((]. v.). 
'Typhon owned Nephtliys as his wife, who by him gave 
birth to Anubis. His real Egyptian name is stated 
differently as <! Set or Eutekh. — Vollmer, Wvrterb. d. Jfg- 
fhol. s. v. 

Typhrestus, in Greek mythology, was the son of 
Sperchins, after whom a city in the Trachinian province 
was named. 

Typicum (Or. Tott/kw), a Greek term for (1) a 
book of rubrics; (2) a selection from the Psalter; (3) a 
Sunday service in the Oriental Church. — Lee, Gloss, of 
Liturrj. Terms , s. v. 

Tyr, in Norse mythology, is one of the supreme 
deities of Northern antiquity, a son of Odin and Frigga, 
and brother of 'Thor. As the god of boldness, wisdom, 
and strength, he was implored by the Heldians as well 
as by the Skaldians for his favor, and was worshipped 
with Thor and Odin. At the end of the world he will 
combat with the hell-dog Garm. and each will kill the 
other. Several antiquarians are inclined to identify him 
with Tuiscon. 

Tyran'nus (T/'oui'j'or, sovereign ), the name of a 
rnan in whose school or place of audience Paul taught 
the Gospel for two years, during his sojourn at Ephesus 
(see Acts xix, 0). A. I>. 52, 53. The halls or rooms of 
the philosophers were called <ryo\nt among the later 
Greeks (Liddell and Scott, s. r.) ; and as Luke applies 
that term to the auditorium in this instance, the pre- 
sumption is that Tyrannus himself was a Greek, and a 
public teacher of philosophy or rhetoric, lie and Paul 
must have occupied the room at different hours; wheth- 
er he hired it out to the Christians or gave them the 
use of it (in either case he must have been friendly to 
them) is left uncertain. Meyer is disposed to consider 
that 'Tyrannus was a Jewish rabbi, and the owner of a 
private synagogue or house for teaching (w*l*2 
lint, in the tirst place, his Greek name, and the fact that 
he is not mentioned as a Jew or proselyte, disagree with 
that supposition ; and, in the second place, as Paul re- 
paired to this man’s school after having been compelled 
to leave the Jewish synagogue (Acts xix, 9), it is evi- ! 
dent that he took this course as a means of gaining ac- 
cess to the heathen; an object which he would natural- 
ly seek through the co-operation of one of their own 
number, and not !>v associating hirnself with a Jew’ or a 
Gentile adherent of the Jewish faith. In speaking of 
him merely. as a certain Tyrannus (Tujodi'i'ou rn’o<;)< 
Luke indicates certainly that he was not a believer at 
tirst; though it is natural enough to think that he may 
have become such as the result of his acquaintance with 
the apostle, llemseu ( I hr A postel Panins, p. 218) 
throws out the idea that the hall may have belonged to 
the authorities of the city, and have derived its name 
from the original proprietor. — Smith. See Seelen, De 


Schola Tyranvi, in his .1 feditt. Exeg. ii, 615 sq. ; Wallen, 
Acta Pauli Ephesin. (Grypli. 1783). See Paul. 

Tyrannus, in Greek mythology, was one of the 
Pterelaida*, who were slain in the contest against the 
sons of Electryon. 

Tyrbenus, in Greek mythology, was a surname of 
Apollo. 

Tyre (lfeb. Tsdr, "NS [or ""ili, I Kings v, 1 ; Psa. 
lxxxiii, 7; Ixxxvii, 4; Ezek. xxvi, 15; xxvii, 3, 8, 32 ; 
xxviii, 12; Ilos. ix, 13; Zech. ix, 8; the form likewise 
found in inscriptions, Gesenius, Monum. Phan. p. 201 ] ; 
Sept., New Test., Josephus, and other writers, T/yjoy; 
A. V. “Tyrus” [q. v.] in Jer„ Ezek. [usually], and the 
minor prophets [except Joel] ; see also Tyuian), a cel- 
ebrated commercial city of antiquity (Josh, xix, 25); ‘2 
Sam. xxiv, 7 ; Isa. xxiii, 1 ; Ezek. xxvi, 15; xxvii, 2, 
etc.), situated in Phoenicia, on the eastern const of the 
Mediterranean Sea, in latitude 33° 17' N. (Smythe, 
Mediterranean, p. 400). (The following account of it 
is principally based upon the articles in Kitto and 
Smith, s. v.) See Pikentcia. 

I. The Name. — Its Hebrew name, Tsdr, signifies a 
rock, which well agrees with the site of Etir. the mod- 
em town on a rocky peninsula, formerly an island. 
From the word “Tsor” were derived two names of the 
city, in which the first letters differed from each other, 
though both had a feature of their common parent: 
1st, the Aramaic word Tura ). whence the Greek 
word Tnros, probably pronounced 'Tyros, which finally 
prevailed in Latin, and, with slight changes, in the 
modern languages of the West; and, 2d, Nun/, or JSarra, 
which occurs in Plautus (True, ii, 6, 58, “purpuram cx 
Sara tibi attuli”), and which is familiar to scholars 
through the well-known line of Virgil, “ l T t gemma bi- 
bat, et Sarrano dormiat ostro” (Georg, ii, 503; comp. 
Aid. Gcll. xiv, f>; Silius Italians, xv, 203; Juvenal, x, 
30). According to a passage of Probus (ad Virg. Georg. 
ii, 115), as quoted by Grote (Hist, of Greece, iii, 353), 
the form “Sara” would seem to have occurred in one 
of the Greek epics now lost, which passed under the 
name of Homer. Certainly this form accords best with 
the modern Arabic name of Sur. 

II. Ancient Relations . — I. Old Tyre. — There is no 
doubt that, previous to the siege of the city by Al- 
exander the Great, Tyre was situated on an island; 
but, according to the tradition of the inhabitants, if we 
may believe Justin (xi, 10). there was a city on the 
mainland before there was a city on the island; and the 
tradition receives some color from the name of Palas- 
tyrus, or Old Tyre, which was borne in Greek times by 
a city- on t he continent, thirty stadia to the south 
(Strabo xii, 1 1, 24). Put a difficulty arises in supposing 
that Palietyrns was built before Tyre, as the word Tyre 



Ancient Insular Tyre. 


TYKE 


613 


TYKE 



visited the site of Pakc- 
tyrus can seriously sup- 
pose that any rock on 
the surface there can 
have given rise to the 
name. To escape this 
difficulty, llengstenberg 
makes the suggestion 
that Paketvrus meant 
Tyre that formerly ex- 
isted. “ qme quondam 
fuit;” and that the name 
was introduced after the 
destruction of the great- 
er part of it by Nebu- 
eh ad nezzar, to distin- 
guish it from that part of 
Tyre which continued to 
be in existence ( I)e Rebus 
'Ey riorum, p. 2d). Mo- 
vers, justly deeming this 
explanation unlikely, 
suggests that the orig- 
inal inhabitants of the 
city on the mainland 
possessed the island as 
part of their territory, 
and named their city 
from the characteristic 
features of the island, 
though the island itself 
was not then inhabited 
( Das phonizische A Iter- 
thum, II, i, 173). This ex- 
planation is possible; but 
other explanations are 
equally possible. For 
example, the Phoenician 
name of it may have 
been the Old City: and 
this may have been 
translated “ Paketvrus” 
in Greek. Or, if the in- 
habitants of the main- 
land migrated to the 
island, they may after- 
wards, at some time or 
other, have given to the city which they left the name 
of Old Tyre, without its being necessarily implied that 
the city had ever borne simply the name of Tyre. 
Or some accidental circumstance, now beyond the reach 
of conjecture, may have led to the name. This again 
would tally with the remark of Grote, who observes 
(loc, cif.) that perhaps the Phoenician name which the 
city on the mainland bore may have been something 
resembling Paketvrus in sound, but not coincident in 
meaning. It is important, however, to bear in mind 
that this question regarding Paketvrus is merely ar- 
chaeological, and that nothing in Biblical history is 
affected by it. Nebuchadnezzar necessarily besieged 
the portion of the city on the mainland, as he had no 
vessels with which to attack the island; but it is rea- 
sonably certain that, in the time of Isaiah and Ezekiel 
the heart or core of the city was on the island. The 
city of Tyre was consecrated to Hercules (Melkarth), 
who was the principal object of worship to the inhab- 
itants (Quintus Curtins, iv, 2; Strabo, xvi, 757); and 
Arrian, in his History, says that the temple on the isl- 
and was the most ancient of all temples within the 
memory of mankind (ii, 16). It cannot be doubted, 
therefore, that the island had long been inhabited. 
With this agree the expressions as to Tyre being “in 
the midst of the seas” (Ezek. xxvii. 25, 2G); and even 
the threat against it that it should be made like the 
top of a rock to spread nets upon (see Des Vignoles, 
Chronologic de VIHstoire Sainte [Berlin. 1738], ii, 25). 
As, however, the space on the island was limited, it is 


very possible that the population on the mainland may 
have exceeded the population on the island (see Mov- 
ers, loc, cit. p. 81). 

2. Connection with Salon. — Whether built before or 
later than Paketvrus, the renowned city of Tyre, though 
it laid claims to a very high antiquity (Isa. xxiii, 7 ; 
Herod, ii, 14 ; Quintus Curtins, iv, 4), is not mentioned 
either in the Iliad or in the Odyssey ; but no inference 
can be legitimately drawn from this fact as to the ex- 
istence or non-existence of the city at the time when 
those poems were composed. The tribe ofCanaanitcs 
that inhabited the small tract of country which may 
be called Phoenicia proper was known by the generic 
name of Sidonians (Judg. xviii. 7 ; Isa. xxiii. 2, I, 12; 
Josh, xiii, G; Ezek. xxxii, 30); and this name un- 
doubtedly included Tyrians, tbe inhabitants being of 
the same race, ami the two cities being less than twenty 
English miles distant from each oilier. Hence when 
Solomon sent to I4i rain king of Tyre for cedar-trees out 
of Lebanon, to be hewn by Hiram's subjects, he reminds 
Hiram that “there is not among us any that can skill 
to hew timber like the Sidonians” (I Kings v, G). 
Hence Virgil, who, in bis very first mention of Carthage, 
expressly states that it was founded by colonists from 
Tyre (sEn. i, 12 ). afterwards, with perfect propriety 
and consistency, calls it the Sidonian city (ibid, 1. G77, 
678; iv, 545; see Des Vignoles, loc. cif. p. 25). In like 
manner, when Sidonians are spoken of in the Homeric 
poems (II, vi. 21)0; xxiii, 743; Od. iv, 84; xvii, 424), 
this might comprehend Tyrians; and the mention of 



TYRE 


614 


TYRE 


the city Sirion, while there is no similar mention of 
Tyre, would be fully accounted for — if it were necessary 
to account for such a circumstance at all in a poem — by 
Sidon’s having been in early times more nourishing 
than Tyre. It is worthy, likewise, of being noted that 
Tyre is not mentioned in the Pentateuch : but here, 
again, though an inference may be drawn against the 
importance, no inference can be legitimately drawn 
against the existence, of 'lyre* in the times to which the 
Pentateuch refers. See Su>on. 

3. General Characteristics. — As already intimated. 
Tyre was composed of two distinct parts or towns in 
historical times: the one situated on the mainland, or 
continental Tyre, and one on the island opposite, from 
four to thirty stadia (Pliny, Strabo) distant from each 
other. According to Pliny, the circumference of both 
was reckoned at about nineteen 1 toman miles, the island- 
town comprising about twenty-two stadia. The town 
on the shore was called Paketvrus, not from its having 
been founded before Island-Tv rus — for this, indeed, we 
may assume to have been the first, of the two (Iteland, 
Yitringa, Hengstenberg, etc.) — but from the circum- 
stance of its having achieved a high renown long be- 
fore its much less favorably situated island-sister. Con- 
stantly exposed to earthquakes and deluges — occupying 
a space naturally circumscribed, and rendered still more 
so by the erections necessary for the purple-fisheries 
and manufactories — and cut off from the easy means of 
export and import by caravans that belonged to the op- 
posite city. Island-' Tyrns was by far inferior in impor- 
tance. In fact, only one (the western) part of the isl- 
and had been built o.ver up to the time of Hiram, the 
contemporary of Solomon — viz. the “Old Town” (ro 
ugtvX which probably served as harbor, a place for ar- 
senals and magazines, to Pahvtyrns, that by this time 
had sent out colonies already to Tartessus and the 
northern coast of Libya. The other part of the isl- 
and, or rather a small island by itself, which has now 
ceased to he such, and which was first joined to the cujtv 
as the "New Town” by Hiram, had till then probably 
been inhabited only by the priests attached to the sanc- 
tuary of Melkarr. Besides these two there was a third 
town or suburb, the Eurvchoros (esplanade), formed by 
means of substructions on the eastern side of the rock. 
Paketyrus, extending from the river Leontes on the 
north to the Pas el-Aiu on the south, covered with all 
its outlying parts the whole available maritime strip of 
land, and lay in one of the most fertile and blooming 
plains of Phoenicia (comp. IIos. ix, 13, H2Tw, 

“ planted in a pleasant place or William of Tyre, “ Fer- 
tilitate prteeipua et amoeuitate quasi singulars, habet 
planitiem sibi continuant divitis glebte et opimi soli,” 
xiii, 3). It was watered by several aqueducts, which 
carried the stream from the fountain-group situated in 
the plain itself (head of the well, Pas al-Ayin), not only 
through the whole territory of the continental city, but. 
probably by means of subterranean pipes, also into the 
island-city. Without, this supposition it would hardly 
he credible how the latter, which, up to the siege by 
Shalmaneser (before the 8th century), had subsisted on 
rain-water only collected in cisterns and open canals 
(iVpnywyoj) from the Pas, could have stood the long 
sieges by Nebuchadnezzar (thirteen years) and of Alex- 
ander, who naturally stopped the overground supplies, 
without apparently once suffering from want of water. 
Possibly we may, in a certain annual rite called the 
‘‘Wedding of the land-water to the sea-water,” still 
kept up by the inhabitants, see a faint reminiscence of 
this ancient juncture. Here also stood the ancient roy- 
al palace and the first sanctuary of Hercules, though the 
most celebrated one lay on the island opposite. The 
happy mixture of land and sea scenery thus exhibited 
by the two cities in the time of their prosperity is 
graphically described by Nonnus, a learned Egyptian 
antideologist of the end of the 4th Christian century: 
“The sailor furrows the sea with his oar, as the plough- 


man the soil; the lowing of oxen and the song of birds 
answer the deep roar of the main; the hamadryad 
among the tall trees hears the voice of the nereid call- 
ing to her from the waves; the breeze from Lebanon, 
while it cools the rustic at his midday labor, speeds 
the sailor seaward.” “ O Tvrus,” exclaims the prophet 
(Ezek. xxvii, 3, etc.), “ thou hast said, 1 am of perfect 
beauty; thy borders are in the midst of the sea, thv 
builders have perfected thy beauty.” The poets call 
her “a virgin bathing in the sea. a Tartessus-ship 
swimming upon the ocean, an island on shore, and a 
city in the sea withal,” etc. Above all, however, Non- 
mis makes his Indian hero get into ecstasies at the 
“primeval fountains, especially those where the water 
. . . gushing out, of the depths of the earth, returns 
every hour;” and he mentions three distinct sources or 
water-nymphs — “ Abarberea, the fertile; Kallirrhoe,the 
sweet; and Drosera, the rich and bridal one.” 

The description of Tyre in the prophecy of Ezekiel 
(xxvii, 10) receives striking illustration from what we 
believe to be its earliest coins. These coins were held 
to be most probably of Tyre or some other Phoenician 
city, or possibly of Babylon, on numismatic evidence 
alone, bv Mr, Burgon. of the British Museum. They 
probably date during the 5th century B.C. — they may 
possibly be a little older — but it is most reasonable to 
consider them as of the time of. and issued by, Darius 
Hvstaspis. The chief coins arc octodrachms of the 
earlier Phoenician weight, bearing, on the obverse, a 
war-gallev beneath the towered walls of a city, and, on 
the reverse, a king in a chariot, with an incuse goat be- 
neath. This combination of galley and city is exactly 
what we find in the description of Tyre in Ezekiel, 



which mainly portrays a state-galley, but also refers to 
a port, and speaks of towers and walls. See Naviga- 
tion. 

HI. History. — 1. The early history of Tyre is so com- 
pletely shrouded in mythical mystery that a rational 
reconstruction of it is next to impossible. We hear of 
kings of Phoenicia whose very names mostly prove 
them to be mere types of deities, or special tribes, such 
as Agenor, Phoenix, Phalis, Sidon, Tetramnestus, Ten- 
ues, Strato, Abdalominus (a word spelled in many differ- 
ent ways, the only reasonable orthography of which, 
however, must be Abd - Alonim [ Heb. Elvonim ], 
C’SV'P" “i Z7. “servant of the highest ones, or gods”). 
Abibal, however, is called the first king of Tyre, and 
the predecessor of Hiram (llierom, Suram, etc.), the 
Biblical Chi ram. with whom, indeed, begins what to us 
is approximately the historical period of Phoenicia. We 
have already mentioned the calamity in consequence of 
which the Sidon inns, hitherto the mightiest power of 
Phoenicia, were obliged to leave their capital and seek 
refuge in neighboring Tyre. This took place about 
B.C. 1200, and very soon after that period Tyre assumed 
the hegemony. Before the time of Samuel we already 
hear of the princes (Suffetes) of Tyre oppressing the 
Israelites (Judg. x, 12). 

In the Bible, Tyre is named for the first time in the 
book of Joshua (xix, 20\ where it is adverted to as a 
fortified city (in the A. V. “the strong city”), in refer- 
ence to the boundaries of the tribe of Asher. Nothing 
historical, however, turns upon this mention of Tyre; 


TYRE 


615 


TYRE 


for it is indisputable that the tribe of Asher never pos- 
sessed the Tyrian territory. According to t lie injunc- 
tions of the Pentateuch, indeed, all the Canaanitish na- 
tions ought to have been exterminated; but, instead of 
this, the Israelites dwelt among the Sidoniaiis or Phoe- 
nicians, who were inhabitants of the land (Judg. i, 31, 
32), and never seem to have had any war with that in- 
telligent race. Subsequently, in a passage of Samuel 
(2 Sam. xxiv, 7), it is stated that the enumerators of 
the census in the reign of David went in pursuance of 
their mission to Tyre, among other cities, which must 
be understood as implying, not that Tyre was subject 
to David’s authority, but merely that a census was thus 
taken of the Jews resident there. 

2. But the first passages in the Hebrew historical 
writings, or in ancient history generally, which afford 
glimpses of the actual condition of Tyre are in the book 
of Samuel (2 Sam. v, 11), in connection with Iliram 
king of Tyre ( B.C. 980-947 ) sending cedar-wood and 
workmen to David, for building him a palace; and sub- 
sequently in t lie book of Kings, in connection with the 
building of Solomon’s temple. One point at this period 
is particularly worthy of attention. In contradistinc- 
tion from all the other most celebrated independent 
commercial eities out of Phoenicia in the ancient and 
modern world, Tyre was a monarchy, and not a repub- 
lic; and, notwithstanding its merchant princes, who 
might have been deemed likely to favor the establish- 
ment of an aristocrat ical commonwealth, it continued 
to preserve the monarchical form of government, until 
its final loss of independence. Another point is the 
skill in the mechanical arts which seems to have already 
been attained by the Tyrians. Under this head, al- 
lusion is not specially made to the excellence of the 
Tyrians in felling trees; for, through vicinity to the 
forests of Lebanon, they would as naturally have be- 
come skilled in that art as the backwoodsmen of Amer- 
ica. But what is peculiarly noteworthy is that Tyrians 
had become workers in brass or copper to an extent 
which implies considerable advancement in art. In the 
enumeration of the various works in brass executed by 
the Tyrian artists whom Solomon sent for, there are 
lilies, palm-trees, oxen, lions, and cherubim (1 Kings 

vii, 13-45). The manner in which the cedar-wood and 
tir-wood were conveyed to Jerusalem is likewise interest- 
ing, partly from the similarity of the sea voyage to 
what may r commonly be seen on the Bhine at the pres- 
ent day, and partly as giving a vivid idea of the really 
short distance between Tyre and Jerusalem. The wood 
was taken in ffoats to Joppa (2 Chron. ii, 10; 1 Kings 
v, 9), a distance of less than seventy-four geographical 
miles. In the Mediterranean, during summer, there 
are times when this voyage along the coast would have 
been perfectly safe, and when the Tyrians might have 
reckoned confidently, especially at night, on light winds 
to fill the sails which were probably used on such occa- 
sions. From Joppa to Jerusalem the distance was about 
tliirtv-two miles, and it is certain that bv this route the 
whole distance between the two celebrated eities of Jeru- 
salem and Tyre was not more than 100 geographical, or 
about 122 English, miles. Within such a comparatively 
short distance (which by land, in a straight line, was about 
t wenty miles shorter), it would be easy for two sovereigns 
to establish personal relations with each other, more es- 
pecially as the northern boundary of Solomon’s kingdom, 
in one direction, was the southern boundary of Phoeni- 
cia. Solomon and Hiram may frequently have niet, 
and thus laid the foundations of a political alliance in 
personal friendship. If by messengers they sent riddles 
and problems for each other to solve (Josephus, Ant. 

viii. 5, 3 ; Cont. A plan, i, 17 ), they may previously have 
had, on several occasions, a keen encounter of wits in 
convivial intercourse. In this way, likewise, Solomon 
may have become acquainted with t he Sidonian women 
who, with those of other nations, seduced him to poly- 
theism and the worship of Astarte in his old age. Sim- 
ilar remarks apply to the circumstances which may 


have previously occasioned the strong affection of Hi- 
ram for David (1 Kings v, 1). However this may be, 
it. is evident that under Solomon there was a close alli- 
ance between the Hebrews and the Tyrians. Iliram 
supplied Solomon with cedar-wood, preeious metals, 
and workmen, and gave him sailors for the voyage to 
Ophir and India; while, on the other hand, Solomon 
gave Iliram supplies of corn and oil, ceded to him some 
cities, and permitted him to make use of some havens 
on the Bed Sea (ix, 1 1-14, 26-28: x, 22). Under Hi- 
ram, Tyre not only attained to its fullest glory and re- 
nown among its sister-states, but. the capital itself, en- 
larged by him into three distinct towns, received its 
fullest share of palaces, temples, and public edifices, and 
its two roadsteads and two harbors probably date from 
this period. It is at this period also when the joint 
trading expeditions to Ophir are recorded to have taken 
place, in which the Tyrians furnished the pilots and 
mariners. Iliram himself seems altogether to have 
been a very refined, pious, and peaceful monarch. 1 1 ard- 
Iv an} r wars are recorded during his lifetime, and his re- 
ported interchange of problems with the “ wisest of 
mankind” points to his renown as a bd esprit , These 
friendly relations survived for a time t lie disastrous se- 
cession of the ten tribes, and a century later Ahab 
married a daughter of Ethbaal, king of the Sidoni- 
ans (xvi, 31), who, according to Menander (Josephus, 
Ant . viii, 13, 2), was a daughter of Ithobaal, king of 
Tyre. 

3. Iliram was followed, according to Menander (in 
Josephus) and Theophilus, by Unicast art us, whose four 
sons reigned after him for short periods. First came 
Abdastartus (939-931). who, in consequence of a palaee 
revolution, was followed on t lie throne for twelve years 
by a son of his nurse — a period of internal sedition and 
general lawlessness having intervened, during which (so 
Justin tells us) all the free citizens of Tyre were, mur- 
dered by the slaves. Astartns, the eldest son of Baleas- 
tartus, succeeded to the government, and ruled from 
918 to 907, when a third brother, Astarvmns, was made 
king, lie was murdered nine years later by Bhaletns, 
his youngest brother, who, after a brief reign of nine 
months, was put to death by Ithobaal, priest of Astarte, 
in whose family the kingdom henceforth became he- 
reditary. This Ithobaal, the Ethbaal of Scripture, whose 
daughter was married to Ahab, is called by Josephus 
•‘king of Tyre and Sidon,” a sign of t lie supremacy 
which Tyre had acquired in his day. The drought re- 
ported to have taken place in Judsea under Ahab seems 
to have also touched Phoenicia, and such was ItlmbaaPs 
piety that at his supplication thunder-claps were heard, 
followed by copious rains. It was ehiefiy before his 
reign (898-866) that Tyre commenced to spread its colo- 
nies as far as Africa, Spain, etc. — owing, in the first in- 
stance, probably to the danger of life and uncertainty of 
circumstances into which the country had been plunged 
by the internal conlliets. But Ithobaal himself seems 
to have encouraged colonization, and, in order to pre- 
vent the overcrowding of t lie old cities, to have built a 
number of new eities. Balezor, his son, succeeded in 
865, and was followed by his son Mutton, the office of 
high-priest devolving on his second son, Sicharbaal. 
Glutton died in 833, and left two children, Elissa (Dido) 
and Pygmalion, who were to share the kingdom be- 
tween them, while Elissa, by her marriage with Siehar- 
baal, was to unite the high-priesthood with the crown. 
To this arrangement, however, t he people, averse to 
the supreme priestly power, demurred, and Pygmalion 
was declared sole king. Elissa’s husband having been 
killed, for the sake of his treasures, by the new king, 
and herself being deprived of her dominion, she is said 
to have entered into a conspiracy with the aristocratic 
party, and, in the ninth year of Pygmalion’s reign, as- 
sisted and followed by her brother Barca and the prin- 
cipal families of the land, to have readied Carthage 
(New Town, X'w“in rip), a colony founded some time 


TYKE 


CIO 


TYRE 


before by the Sidonians (about B.C. 813), anil to have 
completely rebuilt it and laid the foundation fora power 
which contended with mighty liome for the empire of 
the world. 

4. The political existence of Palestine, Syria, and 
Phoenicia, which, instead of making a joint desperate 
stand, kept on intriguing and plotting against each oth- 
er — Phoenicia, moreover, being hated and despised bv 
her allies for her iniquitous trade in slaves kidnapped 
among her neighbors, chiefly in duihea — was hence- 
forth doomed. From this time commenced denuncia- 
tions. and. at first, threats of retaliation (Joel iii. 4-8: 
Amos i, 0, 10); and, indeed, though there might be 
peace, there could not be sincere friendship between the 
two nations. Put the likelihood of the denunciations 
being fulfilled first arose from the progressive conquests 
of the Assyrian monarehs. It was not probable that a 
powerful, victorious, and ambitious neighbor could re- 
sist the temptation of endeavoring to subjugate the 
small strip of land between the Lebanon ami the sea, so 
insignificant in extent, but overflowing with so much 
wealth, which by the Greeks was called Phoenicia. Ac- 
cordingly, when the king of Assyria had taken the 
city of Samaria, had conquered the kingdom of Israel 
and carried its inhabitants into captivity, he turned 
his arms against the Phoenician cities. At this time 
Tyre had reached a high point of prosperity. It pos- 
sessed the island of Cyprus, with the valuable mines of 
the metal k * copper” (so named from the island), and ap- 
parently the city of Sidon was subject to its sway. Put 
the Assyrian king seems to have taken advantage of a re- 
volt of the Cyprians; and what ensued is thus related by 
Menander, who translated the archives of Tyre into the 
( ireek language (see Josephus, . ! nt. ix, 14. 2) : “ Ehdreus 
reigned thirty-six years (over Tyre). This king, upon 
the revolt of the Kittaams (Cyprians), sailed with a 
flee t^ against them, and reduced them to submission. 
On the other, hand, the king of the Assyrians attacked 
in war the whole of Phoenicia, but soon made peace 
with all, and turned hack. ( )u this. Sidon and Ace (i. e. 
Akkb or Acre) and Pahetyrus revolted from the Tyr- 
ians, with many other cities which delivered themselves 
up to the king of Assyria. Accordingly, when the Tyr- 
ians would not submit to him, the king returned ami 
fell upon them again, the Phoenicians having furnished 
him with sixty ships and eight hundred rowers. Against 
these the Tyrians sailed with twelve ships, and, dispers- 
ing the fleet, opposed to them, they took tive hundred 
men prisoners. The reputation of all the citizens in 
Tyre was hence increased. Upon this the king of-,thc 
Assyrians, moving off his army, placed guards at their 
river and aqueducts to prevent the Tyrians from draw- 
ing water. This continued for live years, and still the 
Tyrians held out, supplying themselves with water from 
wells.” Put there can hardly be a doubt that Tyre, as 
well as the whole of Pliteuicia, very soon was made 
tributary to Assyria, like all the neighboring countries, 
and the calamities brought upon them all alike by the 
uninterrupted war expeditions of the. Assyrian mon- 
arch s could not but be felt also by the dependencies and 
colonies. These fell more or less about this time into 
the hands of new settlers, from whom again Carthage, 
somewhat later, wrested a part for herself. 

5. After the siege of Tyre by the Assyrians (which 
must have taken plaee not long after P.C. 721), Tyre 
remained a powerful state with its own kings (Jer. xxv, 
22; xxvii, 8; Ezek. xxviii, 2-12), remarkable for its 
wealth, with territory on the mainland, and protected 
by strong fortifications ( ver-. 5; xxvi, 4, 0, 8, 10, 12, 
xxvii, 11; Zceh. ix, 3). Our knowledge of its condi- 
tion thenceforward until the siege by Nebuchadnezzar 
depends entirely on various notices of it by the Hebrew j 
prophets; but some of these notices are singularly full, 
and especially t he twenty-seventh chapter of Ezekiel J 
furnishes us, on some points, with details such as have 
scarcely come down to us respecting any one city of an- 
tiquity, excepting Pome and Athens. One point espe- 


cially arrests the attention, that Tyre, like its splendid 
daughter, Carthage, employed mercenary soldiers (Ezek. 
xxvii, 10, 11). This has been the general tendency in 
commercial cities on account of the high wages which 
may be obtained by artisans in a thriving community, 
compared with the ordinary pay of a soldier, and Tyre 
had been unable to resist the demoralizing temptation. 
In its service there were Phoenicians from Arvad, /Ethi- 
opians obtained through the commerce of Egypt, and 
hardy mountaineers from Persia. This is the lirst time 
that t he name of Persia occurs in the remains of ancient 
literature, before its sons founded a great monarchy 
on the ruins of the Glial divan empire. Independently, 
however, of this fact respecting Tyrian mercenary sol- 
diers, Ezekiel gives interesting details respecting the 
trade of lyre. On this head, without attempting to 
exhaust the subject, a few leading points may be no- 
ticed. The first question is as to the countries from 
which Tyre obtained the precious metals, and it ap- 
pears that its gold came from Arabia by the Persian 
Gulf (v, 22). just as in the time of Solomon it came 
from Arabia by the lied Sea. See Omni. Whether 
the Arabian merchants, whose wealth was proverbial in 
Human classical times (Horace, Od, i, 2 ( J, 1), obtained 
their gold by traffic with Africa or India, or whether it 
was the product of their own country, is uncertain; but 
so far as the latter alternative is concerned, the point 
will probably be cleared up in the progress of geological 
knowledge. On the other hand, the silver, iron, lead, 
and tin of Tyre came from a very different quarter of 
the world, viz. from the south of Spain, where the 
Phoenicians had established their settlement of Tar- 
shish, or Tartessus. As to copper, we should have pre- 
sumed that it was obtained from the valuable mines in 
Cyprus; but it is mentioned here in conjunction with 
Javan, Tubal, and Meshech, which points to the dis- 
tricts on the. south of tlie Black Sea, in the neighbor- 
hood of Armenia, in the southern line of the Caucasus, 
between the Black Sea and the Caspian. The country 
whence Tyre was supplied with wheat was Palestine. 
It may be added that the value of Palestine as a wheat 
country to Tyre was greatly enhanced by its proximity, 
as there was scarcely a part of the kingdom of Israel on 
the west of the river Jordan which was distant more 
than a hundred miles from that great commercial city. 
The extreme points in the kingdom of Judah would he 
somewhat more distant, but the wheat probably came 
from the northern part of.Palestine. Tyre likewise ob- 
tained from Palestine oil, honey, and balm, but not wine 
apparently, notwithstanding the abundance of grapes 
and wine in Judah (Gen. xlix, 11). The wine was im- 
ported from Damascus, and was called wine of Ilelbon, 
which was probably not the product of the country ad- 
joining the. celebrated city of that name, but came from 
the neighborhood of Damascus itself (see Porter, Hand- 
book for Syria, ii, 49"); conip. Athenians, i, hi). The 
Bedawin Arabs supplied Tyre with lambs anil rams and 
goats, for the rearing of which their mode of life was 
so well adapted. Egypt furnished linen Ibr sails, and 
doubtless for other purposes, and the dyes from shell- 
fish, which afterwards became such a source of profit 
to the Tyrians, were imported from the Peloponnesus 
(comp, the Luconieus purpuras of Horace, Od. ii, IS, 7, 
and Pliny, ix, 10). Lastly, from Dedan, in the Persian 
Gulf, an island occupied possibly by a Phoenician colony, 
horns of ivory and ebony were imported, which must 
originally have been obtained from India (Ezek. xxvii). 
Sec CoiuiKurK. 

0. When the iron grasp of Assyria began to relax, the 
Chahheo-Egyptian contest brought still greater miseries 
upon that unfortunate Syro-Phcenician coast, and Pho?- 
nicia, still nominally ruled by Tyre. The Phoenicians, it 
would appear, had allied themselves to the Egyptians, 
who under Psaminetichus had seized upon Philistia, and 
were about to assist Pharaoh-Xecho in his further con- 
quest of the Tyro- Palestinian states. When, therefore, 
at Carchemish, the Egyptians had been defeated by thu 


TYKE 


617 


TYRE 


ChakUeans, the latter instantly followed up their vic- 
tory by occupying Syria, Palestine, and Phoenicia, 
and selling a great number of the inhabitants of the 
latter, about B.O. 005. A league having been formed 
between these states to throw off the foreign yoke, gave 
rise to a new Chaldiean expedition against them under 
Nebuchadnezzar (Jer. xxv, 22 ; xxvii,3 ; xlvii,4), which 
ended with the destruction of Jerusalem (B.C. 588) and 
the reduction of the sea-coast, except Tyre. For thir- 
teen years Nebuchadnezzar besieged it by water and by 
land, but with what degree of success is still a matter 
of debate. Ilitzig, Gcsenius, lleeren, Winer, Kenrick, 
and others hold that the siege was a failure. It is cer- 
tain that the fall of Tyre is mentioned in no ancient 
history — neither by Josephus, nor by the Tyrian histo- 
rian Menander, nor bv Philostrafns. Bcrosus, indeed, 
affirmed that Nebuchadnezzar “subdued all Syria and 
Phoenicia.” but Tyre is not expressly mentioned. Nay, 
Jerome says persons who had examined Greek and 
Phoenician histories, especially the writings of Nicolaus 
Dainascenus, tiud no mention of the siege at all, but 
the reply of the father is only a retort upon the jierji- 
dia et mendacia of profane writers. Jerome’s own as- 
sertion is, “ Deus pnedixerat, hoc suffieit.” The ques- 
tion then comes to be, whether the oracle of Ezekiel 
implies the capture of Tyre. The most graphic de- 
scriptions of this siege arc found in Ezek. xxvi, 7- 
12,17; xxviii, 2; xxix, 18, etc. The prophet’s lan- 
guage, “Son of’man, Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, 
caused his army to serve a great service against Tyrus: 
every head was made bald, and every shoulder was 
peeled ; yet he had no wages, nor his army, for Tyrus, 
for the service that he had served against it. Therefore, 
thus saith the Lord God, Behold I will give the land 
of Egypt unto Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, and 
he shall take her multitude, and take her spoil, and 
take her prey; and it shall be the wages for his army. 
I have given him the land of Egypt for his labor where- 
with he served against it, because they wrought for me, 
saith the Lord God” (xxix, 18-20), would seem to imply 
that Nebuchadnezzar had failed; that his army had put 
forth all its energies, till “every head was bald” by the 
constant pressure of the helmet, and “every shoulder 
peeled” by the hard labor of the trenches and siege- 
work, but that he had been disappointed; that, he got 
“no wages;’’ that the rich booty of the city did not fall 
into his possession, and that therefore Egypt was to af- 
ford him compensation “as a spoil,” “a prey,” “and 
wages for his army.” But surely the author or the col- 
lector of these oracles could not so contradict himself 
and his own utterances as to affirm, as in xxvi, 7-21, 
and then deny, the capture of Tyre by Nebuchadnezzar. 
The narrative of Bcrosus and Jerome is accepted by 
Movers and Ewald, the latter of whom says that Je- 
rome’s statement "quite agrees with the brief words of 
Ezekiel.” It may also be replied, with llaverniek, 
Hengstcnbcrg, Fairbairn, and others, that the meaning 
is that Nebuchadnezzar, though he took the city, yet 
found no lilting recompense, as, according to Jerome, 
the inhabitants had removed all their valuable property 
to the island. That he took Pal a? tyrus seems certain, 
though there is no proof of Jerome’s assertion that, in 
his assault upon the island, he had nearly completed a 
dam, and had erected warlike engines on it. It is plain, 
too, that Tyre made submission to the Chahhean king. 
INI any of the Tyrian royal family resided afterwards at 
Babylon, perhaps as hostages, and several of them were 
asked by the Tyrians at different times and crises to 
come and reign over them. These facts are proofs of 
the Chaldiean- conquest, and that it was more than such 
a capitulation as is admitted by Niebuhr, Bunker, Ken- 
rick, and others (Niebuhr, Gesch. Assur's, p. 216; Bun- 
ker, Gesch.de, t Alterthums , i, 172, Kenrick, Phoenicia , p. 
890; see Pusoy, On Daniel , p. 288). Moreover, Isaiah, 
in his oracle against Tyre, specifically declared that it 
should be destroyed, not by the power which then 
threatened, but by the Chakkeans, a people “formerly 


of no account” (xxiii, 18). The more detailed predic- 
tions of the prophet Ezekiel were delivered a hun- 
dred and twenty years later, B.C. 588. Tyre was not 
taken till the fifteenth year after the captivity, B.C. 
573, more than seventeen hundred years, according to 
Josephus, alter its foundation. Its destruction then 
must have been entire; all the inhabitants were put to 
the sword or led into captivity, the walls were razed to 
the ground, and it was made a “ terror” ami a desola- 
tion. It is remarkable that one reason assigned by 
Ezekiel for the destruction of this proud city is its ex- 
ultation at the destruction of Jerusalem. “ 1 shall he 
replenished now she is laid waste” (xvi,2). This clearly 
indicates that its overthrow was posterior to that event ; 
and if we take the seventy years during which it was 
predicted by Isaiah (xxiii, 15) that Tyre should be for- 
gotten to denote a definite term (which seems the most 
natural sense), we may conclude that it was not rebuilt 
till the same number of years after the return of the 
Jews from Babylon. That it was continental Tyre, and 
not insular Tyre, which Nebuchadnezzar besieged ap- 
pears from the description of the siege which we have 
given us by Ezekiel, for we find that the king cast up 
a mound against it, and erected engines to batter down 
the walls (Ezek. xxviii, 8-10). But that the city on 
the island then escaped this fate is manifest from the 
Phoenician histories. But as to the latter also, at least 
a show of submission, if not a subjection — leaving the 
native sovereigns on the throne, and their wealth and 
naval power untouched — was what Nebuchadnezzar 
gained when he ended the “ wageless” siege (comp, 
xxix, 17). Once more Nebuchadnezzar armed, at the end 
of this war. against Egypt, but Pharaoh-Apries, swift- 
ly marching upon Phoenicia, subduing it and destroying 
its fleet, prevented this expedition. In this expedition 
Apries besieged Sidon, fought a naval battle with Tyre, 
and reduced the whole of the coast of Phoenicia, thong)) 
this could not have had lasting effects (llerod. ii, 161 ; 
Died, i, 68 , Movers, Das phonizische A Iterthinn, ii,451). 
The rule of Nebuchadnezzar over Tyre, t hough real, ma v 
have been light and in the nature of an alliance; and 
it may have been in this sense that Merbal, a subse- 
quent Tyrian king, was sent for to Babylon (Josephus, 
Coni. A plan, i, 21), At this time the ancient constitution 
of Tyre was changed. Itbobaal had been followed by 
Baal, but after Baal two judges (suffetes) took for a cer- 
tain period the place of the monarch. We hear of in- 
ternal commotions — natural enough in a country and 
city upon which calamity after calamity had fallen in 
so short a time, and the existence of two parties in the 
commonwealth that looked respectively to Chahhea anti 
to Egypt could not but foster those internal dissensions. 
In 538, while Eiromus stood at the head of the Tyrian 
or Phoenician affairs, Cyrus captured Babylon, and thus 
became master also of Phoenicia, which had reverted to 
this power. At that time Sidon, being made the royal 
residence, again resumed the hegemony. 

7. During the Persian domination the Tyrians were 
subject in name to the Persian king, and may have given 
him tribute. With the rest of Phoenicia, they had sub- 
mitted to the Persians without striking a blow; perhaps 
through hatred of the Chaldees, perhaps solely from 
prudential motives. But their connection with the Per- 
sian king was not slavish. Thus, when Cambyses or- 
dered them to join in an expedition against Carthage, 
they refused compliance, on account of their solemn en- 
gagements and parental relation to that colony; and 
Cambyses did not deem it right to use force towards 
them (Herod, iii, 19). Afterwards they fought with Per- 
sia against Greece, and furnished vessels of war in the 
expedition of Xerxes against Greece (ibid. vii. 98); 
and Mapen, the son of Sirom the Tyrian, is mentioned 
among those who, next to the commanders, were the 
most renowned in the fleet. It is worthy of notice that 
at this time Tvre seems to have been inferior in power 
to Sidon. These two cities were less than twenty Eng- 
lish miles distant from each other; and it is easy to 


TYRE 


618 


TYRE 



Modern Tyre. 

conceive that in the course of centuries their relative ! 


nomos, or eircle, of the em- 
pire; and up to the time of 
Xerxes the relations between 
the conquerors and the con- 
quered were of a perfect Iv 
friendly nature. lint when 
this king, during his Greek 
invasion, had managed to de- 
stroy the highly prized Pliie- 
uician licet almost complete- 
ly, and to this calamity add- 
ed galling measures and hu- 
miliations without end. the 
people became so exasperated 
that they took part, under 
fSidon’s leadership, in the re- 
volt of Egypt against Arta- 
xerxes Mnomon and Oehus, 
about the middle of the 4th 
century, which ended most 
disastrously for the whole 
country, and particularly for 
Sidon, which, wealth and all, 
was fired by its own inhab- 
itants. Tyre afterwards (350) 
again resumed the sway, un- 
til, after the battle on the 
Jssus, all the Phoenician cities 
except herself paid their al- 
legiance to the Macedonian 
warrior. 

8. It was in consequence 
of this contumacy that Tyre 
was assailed for the third 
time by a great conqueror; 
and if some uncertainty hangs 
over the siege by Nebuchad- 
nezzar, the results of the siege 
by Alexander were clear and 
undeniable. It was essential 
to the success of his military 
plans that the Phoenician fleet 
should beat hiscommand, and 
' that he should not be liable 

t h rough i hei r 1 1 ost i 1 i t y to ha ve 
his communications by sea 
with Greece and Macedonia snddenlv cut off'; and he 


importance might fluctuate, as would be very possible ! accordingly summoned all the Phoenician cities to sub- 
in modern times with two neighboring cities, such, for tnit to his rule. All the rest of them, including A rad us, 
example, as Liverpool and Manchester. It is possi- Hyblus, and Sidon, complied with his demands, and the 
lde, also, that Tyre may have been seriously weakened seamen of those cities in the Persian fleet brought away 
by its long struggle against Nebuchadnezzar. Under their ships to join him. Tyre alone, calculating prob- 
the Persian dominion. Tyre and Sidon supplied cedar- ably at tirst on the support of those seamen, refused to 
wood again to the Jews for the building of the second admit him within its walls; and then ensued a nicmor- 
lemple; and this wood was sent by sea to Joppa, and able siege which lasted seven months, and the success 
thence to Jerusalem, as had been the case with the ma- of 
te rials for the first Temple in the time of Solomon (Ezra Ah 
iii, 7). Under the Persians, likewise, Tyre was visited tin 


of which was the greatest of all the achievements which 
Alexander up to that time had attempted. At that 
time Tyre was situated on an island nearly half a mile 
by a historian, Irom whom we might have derived val- , from the mainland: it was completely surrounded by 
uable information respecting its condition (Herod, ii, 44). prodigious walls, the loftiest portion of which on the 
Imt the information actually supplied by him is scanty, side fronting the mainland reached a height not less 
as the motive of his voyage seems to have been solely than one hundred and fifty feet;” and, not withstand- 

he could not have sticeeed- 
attempt, if the harbor of Tyre to the north 
had not been blockaded by the Cyprians, and that to 
J the south by the Phoenicians. Moreover, owing to in- 
ternal disturbances, Carthage was unable to afford any 


to visit the celebrated Temple of Mclkarth (the Pine- ing his persevering efforts, 1: 
uici an Hercules), which was situated in t lie island, and ; ed in 1 i is attempt, if the lui 
was highly venerated. He gives no details as to the 
city, and merely specifies two columns which he ob- 
served in the temple, one of gold and the other of em- 
erald : or, rather, as is reasonably conjectured bv Sir assistance to its parent state. For seven months Tyre 
Gardiner W ilkinson, ul green glass (Uawlinson, llerodo- sustained one of the most remarkable sieges ever re- 


/«.*, ii,81,iX2). 1 nder the successive Persian rulers Phoe- 
nicia was allowed to retain many of its national insti- 
tutions, and even a certain amount of independence, in 
return lor which it paid a comparatively small tax and 
placed its again powerful tleet at the ‘disposal of the 
conquerors, who entirely lacked that most vital element 
of naval power. Together with Pliilistia and Cyprus, 
it was incorporated under Darius llystaspis in the fifth 


corded ( 11. C. 332). Palaetyrus having been razed to the 
ground, the island-city was connected by the conqueror 
with the mainland by means of a mole, which, once 
destroyed, bad to be reconstructed entirely anew. An 
immense fleet was collected, the ablest engineers of 
Phoenicia and Cyprus exercised all their skill on the 
construction of new battering and other machines; while 
the means of defence on the part of the Tyrians were as 


TYRE 


CIO 


TYRE 


cunning as they were successful, .and fearfully galling 
to the besiegers. At last Tyre fell under a furious 
double attack, and, provoked by their desperate resist- 
ance even after the town was already taken, the sol- 
diery tired it and massacred an immense number of the 
inhabitants. In accordance with the barbarous policy 
of ancient times, 30,000 of its inhabitants, including 
slaves, free females, and free children, were sold as slaves 
(Arrian, iv, 24, 9; Diodorus, xvii, 46). Alexander re- 
placed the population by new colonists, chiefly Carians, 
and soon again the exceptionally favorable position of 
the place regained for it part of its ancient prosperity, 
though its trade is said to have suffered by the vicinity 
and rivalry of Alexandria. 

9. Ptolemy had. after Alexander's death, annexed 
Phoenicia to his kingdom; but when, in B.C. 315. An- 
tigonus returned from Babylonia, he easily expelled his 
garrisons from all the Phoenician cities save Tyre, which 
only surrendered after an eighteen months’ siege. The 
boundaries of its territory at that period were: Sarepta 
to the north, the “ Tyrian Ladder'’ to the south, and 
Kedes and Baka in Galilee to the east. Under the 
Macedonian successors of Alexander, it shared the fort- 
unes of the Seleucidfc, who bestowed on it many privi- 
leges; and there are still in existence coins of that 
epoch with a Phoenician and Greek inscription (Eckhel, 


ing it he says that the circumference of the city proper 
(i. e. the city on the peninsula) was twenty-two stadia, 
while that of the whole city, including Palajtyrus, was 
nineteen lioman miles (///.*/. Xaf. v, 17). The accounts 
of Strabo and Pliny have a peculiar interest in this re- 
spect, that they tend to convey an idea of what the city 
must have been when visited bv Christ (Matt, xv, 21 ; 
Mark vii, 24). It was perhaps more populous than Je- 
rusalem ; and if so, it was undoubtedly the largest city 
which he is known to have visited. It was not much 
more than thirty miles distant from Nazareth, where 
Christ mainly lived as a carpenter's son during the 
greater part of his life (Matt, ii, 23; iv, 12, 13, 18; Mark 
vi, 3). We may readily conceive that lie may often 
have gone to Tyre while yet unknown to the world; 
and. whatever uncertainty there may be as to the ex- 
tent to which the Greek language was likely to be 
spoken at. Nazareth, at Tyre and in its neighborhood 
there must have been excellent opportunities for con- 
versation in that language, with which he seems to 
have been acquainted (Mark vii, 2G). At an early pe- 
riod a Christian community was formed there (Acts xxi, 
3, 7). It was early the seat of a Christian bishopric, 
and Cassius, bishop of Tyre, is named as having been 
present at the Council of Caesarea towards the close of 
the 2d century (Belaud. Pahestina, p. 1054). 



Greek Coin of Tyre. 

Docfr. Xn minor um Vet. iii. 379, etc.; Gesenius, Momim. 1 
Phan. p. 262-264. and Tab. 34). 

10. Beyond this nothing particular is known of Tyre 
from this time forth to the time of the civil wars of 
Borne — with which empire Phoenicia had been incorpo- 
rated together with Syria by Pompev — when Cassius j 
divided Syria into small provinces and sold them sep- 
arately. Tyre for a short period thus became a princi- 
pality again with a king of her own. Under the Ko- 
mans it thus at first continued to enjoy a kind of free- 
dom ; for Josephus mentions that when Cleopatra press- 
ed Antony to include Tvre and Sidon in a gift of Phoe- 
nician and Jewish territory which he made to her, he 
steadily refused, knowing them to have been free cit- 
ies from their ancestors” (.4 nt. xv, 4, 1). Subsequently, 
however, on the arrival of Augustus in the Last (A.D. 
20), be is said to have deprived the two cities of their 
liberties for seditious conduct (IcovXibrraro, Dion Cas- 
sius, Ixiv, 7). Still the prosperity of Tyre in the time 
of Augustus was undeniably great. Strabo gives an ac- 
count of it at that period (xvi, 2, 23), and speaks of the 
great wealth which it derived from the dyes of the cel- 
ebrated Tyrian purple, which, as is well known, were 
extracted from shell-fish found on the coast, belonging 
to a species of the genus Murex. In the days of Eze- 
kiel, the Tyrians had imported purple from the Pelopon- 
nesus; hut they had since learned to extract the dye 
for themselves; and they had the advantage of having 
shell-fish on their coast better adapted for this purpose 
even than those on the Lacedaemonian coast (Pausanias, 
iii, 21, 6). Strabo adds that the great number of dye- 
ing-works rendered the city unpleasant as a place of 
residence. lie further speaks of the houses as consist- 
ing of many stories, even of more than in the houses at 
Borne — which is precisely what might be expected in 
a prosperous fortified city of limited area, in which 
ground-rent would be high. Pliny the LIder gives ad- 
ditional information respecting the city, for in deserib- 


Por a long time Tyre retained her manufactures 
and trade, though a mere shadow of what these once 
had been. Chiefly with regard to her dyeing produce 
Hadrian granted Tyre the title of metropolis, and it 
formed the principal naval station on the Tyrian coast. 
Once again it was fired in A.D. 193, when it took part 
with Septimius Severns against Pescennius Niger in 
their contest for the crown, and Severns gratefully 
bestowed upon the place, which he peopled with his 
third legion, the title of colony and the Jus ltalicmn. 
Such was its elastie vitality that at the time of Con- 
stantine it again equalled all the Eastern cities in 
wealth and commercial prosperity. Jerome, in the 
4th century, calls it the noblest and most beautiful city 
of Phoenicia, and expresses his astonishment at the ap- 
parent nonfulfilmeut of the prophecy which threatened 
its eternal desolation (‘* 4 Xec ledijieaberis ultra' videtur 
facere quaestionem, quomodo lion sit lediticata? quam 
hodie eernimus Phceniees nobilissimam et pulcherri- 
mam civitatem”). 

11. In the 7th century took place the extraordinary 
Arabian revolution under Mohammed which has given 
a new religion to so many millions of mankind. In 
the years A.D. 633-638 all Syria and Palestine, from 
the Dead Sea to Antioch, were conquered by the caliph 
Umar. This conquest was so complete that in both 
those countries the language of Mohammed has almost 
totally supplanted the language of Christ. In Syria 
there are only three villages where Syriac (or Aramaic) 
is the vernacular language. In Palestine it is not the 
language of a single native; and in Jerusalem, to a 
stranger who understands what is involved in this mo- 
mentous revolution, it is one of the most suggestive of 
all sounds to hear the muezzin daily call Mohammedans 
to prayers in the Arabic language of Mohammed with- 
in the sacred precincts where once stood the Temple 
in which Christ worshipped in Hebrew or in Aramaic. 
(As to the Syriac language, see Porter, Handbook for 
Xyria and Palestine , ii, 551.) But even this conquest 
did not cause the overthrow of Tyre. The most essen- 
tial conditions on which peace was granted to Tyre, as 
to other Syrian cities, were the payment of a poll-tax, 
the obligation to give board and lodging for three days 
to every Moslem traveller, the wearing a peculiar dress, 
the admission of Moslems into the churches, the doing 
away with all erosses and all sounds of bells, the avoid- 
ing of all insulting expressions towards the Mohamme- 
dan religion, and the prohibition to ride on horseback 
or to build new churehes (see Weil, Ceseh. der Chalifcn, 
i, 81-82). Some of these conditions were humiliating 
and nearly heart-breaking; but if submitted to, the lives 


TYKE 


620 


TYRE 


and private property of the inhabitants remained un- 
touched. Notwithstanding the establishment of an im- 
perial dyeing manufactory at Constantinople, Tyre yet 
retained* her ancient celebrity for her purple, which was 
imported into Lombardy at the time of Charlemagne. 
Under the caliphs it enjoyed the benefits of a mild and 
enlightened dominion, and during the crusades was 
much admired both for its natural beauty and its fine 
edifices and its generally prosperous aspect. It again 
had at. that time to sustain a long siege, but finally sur- 
rendered (1121), and was made an archbishopric, be- 
stowed four years afterwards upon William of Tyre, the 
chronicler of the crusades. In August, 1102, it was 
fixed as the northern boundary of the Christian terri- 
tories in Palestine, and continued to flourish, chiefly 
through the Venetian trade, as a commercial city until 
the couquest of Syria by Selim I in 1516, from which 
time forth its decline, further aided by the discovery of 
the New World and the route to Asia by the Cape of 
Good Hope, has been rapid and complete. 

IV. Present Condition . — In the first half of the 14th 
century Tyre was visited by Sir John Maundcville, who 
says, speaking of “Tvre, which is now called Sur, here 
was once a great and goodly city of the Christians; 
but the Saracens have destroyed it in great part, and 
they guard that haven carefully for fear of the Chris- 
tians” (Wright, Early Travels in Palestine, p. 141 ). About 
1610-11 it was visited bv Sandys, who said of it, “Hut 
this once famous Tyre is now no other than a heap 
of ruins; yet have they a reverent aspect, and do in- 
struct the pensive beholder with their exemplary frail- 
ty. It hath two harbors, that on the north side the 
fairest and best throughout all the Levant (which the 
cursours enter at their pleasure); the other choked with 
the decays of the city” (Purchas, Pihjrims, ii, 1393). 
Towards the close of the same century, in 1697, Maun- 
drell says of it, “ On the north side it has an old Turk- 
ish castle, besides which there is nothing here but a 
mere Label of broken walls, pillars, vaults, etc., there 
being not so much as an entire house left. Its present 
inhabitants are only a few poor wretches that harbor in 
vaults and subsist upon fishing” (see Harris, Voyages 
and Travels , ii, 84G). Lastly, without quoting at length 
Dr. Kicliard Pococke, who in 1737-40 stated (see vol. x 
of Pinkerton. Toy aye* and Travels , p. 470) that, except 
some janizaries, there were few other inhabitants in the 
city than two or three Christian families, the words of 
Hasselquist, the Swedish naturalist, may be recorded, as 
they mark the lowest point of depression which Tyre 
seems to have reached, lie was there in May, 1751, 
and he thus speaks of his visit: ** We followed the sea- 
shore . . . and came to Tyre, now called Zur, where 
we lay all night. None of these cities, which formerly 


were famous, arc so totally ruined as this except Troy. 
Zur now scarcely can be called a miserable village, 
though it was formerly Tyre, the queen of the sea. 
Here are about ten inhabitants, Turks and Christians, 
who live byjishhuj ’ {Voyages and Travels in the Levant 
[Loud. 1766J). A slight change for the better began 
soon after. Volncv states that in 1766 the Metawileh 
took possession of the place, and built a wall round it 
twenty feet high, which existed when he visi.ed Tyre 
nearly twenty years afterwards. At that time Volney 
estimated the population at fifty or sixty poor fam- 
ilies. Since the beginning of the present century there 
has been a partial revival of prosperity. Lut it has 
been visited at different times during the last thirty 
years by Biblical scholars, such as Lobinson, .Stanley 
{Sinai and Pal. p. 270), and Kenan ( Letter in the Mon- 
iteur, July 11, 1861), who all concur in the account of 
its general aspect of desolation. AT r. Porter, who re- 
sided several years at Damascus, and had means of ob- 
taining correct information, stated in 1858 that •• the 
modern town, or rather village, contains from 80041 to 
4000 inhabitants, about one half being Metawileh, and 
the other Christians” ( Handbook , p. 391). They are 
living among the broken ruins of its former magnifi- 
cence, eking out a scanty livelihood upon insignificant 
exports of tobacco, cotton, wool, and wood. The place 
as it now stands was founded under the old name Sur 
in 1766, and suffered very considerably during the earth- 
quake in 1837. The remains of an ancient cathedral 
church probably enclose the bones of the emperor Fred- 
erick Barba rossa and of Origen. About one and a half 
mile distant from Tyre is the so-called Tomb of Hi- 
ram, an immense sarcophagus of limestone, popularly 
supposed to contain the corpse of that king. See I li- 
lt am. 

The present city lies only upon the eastern part of 
the island, on the junction of the island and isthmus. 
The houses are mostly mere hovels, one story high, 
with flat roofs; and the streets are narrow, crooked, 
and filthy. Yet the numerous palm-trees and pride- 
of- Lidia trees interspersed among the houses and 
gardens throw over the plain an Oriental charm. One 
of the best accounts of its present appearance is given 
by Dr. Kobinson. who spent a Sabbath there in 1838 
(Bib/. Bes. iii, 395): ** I continued my walk,” says he, 
“along the shore of the peninsula, part of which is now 
unoccupied except as ‘ a place to spread nets upon,’ 
musing upon the pride and fall of ancient Tyre. Here 
was the little isle, once covered by her palaces and sur- 
rounded by her fleets; but, alas! thy riches and thy 
fame, thy merchandise, thy mariners and thy pilots, thy 
calkers, and the occupiers of thy merchandise that were 
in thee — where are they? Tyre has indeed become 



Kuins of Tyre on the Maiulaud. 



621 


TYROPCEON 


TYRE, COUNCIL OF 


like ‘the top of a rock/ The sole tokens of her more 
ancient splendor — columns of red and gray granite, 
sometimes forty or fifty heaped together, or marble pil- 
lars — lie broken and strewed beneath the waves in the 
midst of the sea; and the hovels that now nestle upon 
a portion of her site present no contradiction of the 
dread decree, ‘Thou shalt be built no more.’” 

The downfall and permanent desolation of Tyre is one 
of the most memorable accomplishments of prophecy 
which the annals of the world exhibit. The sins which 
sealed its ruin were, in the words of the sacred writers, 
these: “Because that Tvrus hath said against Jerusa- 
lem, Aha, she is broken that was the gates of the peo- 
ple; she is turned unto me: 1 shall be replenished, now 
she is laid waste”(Ezek. xxvi,2), “ Because thine heart 
is lifted up, and thou hast said, 1 am a god, I sit in the 
seat of God, in the midst of the seas” (xxviii,*2). “The 
children also of Judah and the children of Jerusalem 
have ye sold unto the Grecians, that ye might remove 
them far from their border” (Joel iii, G). 

V. Literature. — See, in addition to the works cited 
above, Cellarii Xotit. ii, 381 sq.: Uengstenberg, De Re- 
bus Syriorum (Berol. 1832) ; lthyner, De Tyro (Basil. 
1715); Camenz, De Xace Tyria (Yitcb. 1714); Smith, 
Diet, of Class. Geoy. s. v. ; I’oulan de Bossay, Recherches 
sur Tyre (Paris, 18G4); Thomson, Land and Book, i, 
200 sq. ; Gesenius, Comment, zu Jesa. i, 707 sq.; Wilson, 
Lands of the Bible, ii, 229 ; Badeker, Palestine, p. 420 sq. ; 
Hidgawav. The Lord's Land, p. 004 sq. 

TYPE, Council of. The Arians, through Eusebius 
of Nicomedia, obtained the convocation of this council 
from the emperor Constantine, A.l). 335, under pretext 
of thereby healing the divisions which existed among 
the bishops; but their real intention was to oppress 
Athanasius. The bishops who were summoned to at- 
tend w ere selected by the Eusebian party, and came 
from Egypt, Libya, Asia, and most of the eastern prov- 
inces. The most noted were Marius of Chaleedon, 
Theognis of Nictea, Ursaces of Singedunum, and Yalens 
of Mursia; in all about sixty Arian bishops attended. 
There were also a few bishops present who were not of 
the Eusebian faction, as Maximus of Jerusalem, Mar- 
cellos of Ancy ra, Alexander of Thcssalonica, etc. Con- 
stantine sent the count Dionysius to keep order, who, 
as the event showed, was completely devoted to the 
Eusebian cause, and by his violence destroyed all lib- 
erty of debate. 

Athanasius, compelled by the order of the emperor, 
came to the council, attended by forty-nine Egyptian 
bishops, among whom were Potamon and Paphnutius. 
No accusation was brought against Athanasius on ac- 
count of his faith; but he w r as arraigned for having 
killed a Meletian bishop named Arsenins, and for hav- 
ing forcibly broken into a church while Ischyrus, a pre- 
tended priest, w r as celebrating; and for having over- 
turned the altar and broken t lie sacred chalice. lie 
was made to stand as a criminal, while Eusebius and 
the others sat as his judges, against wdiieh treatment 
Potamon of Heraclea made a vehement protest, heap- 
ing reproaches upon Eusebius. From the very first the 
Egyptian bishops protested against the proceedings; 
but their objections w T ere not heeded. Sozomen says 
that Athanasius appeared frequently before the coun- 
cil, and defended himself admirably, listening quietly 
to all the calumnious accusations brought against him, 
and replying with patience and wonderful sagacity. 
However, his enemies, not contented with the charges 
which they had already brought against him, dared 
to impeach his purity, and introduced into the council 
a debauched woman, whom they had bribed to assert 
that she had been ravished bv him. The utter false- 
hood of the charge was, however, triumphantly proved; 
for Athanasius having deputed one of his priests, named 
Thimoteus, to reply for him, the woman, who was igno- 
rant even of the person of the holy bishop, mistaking 
Thimoteus for him, declared that he was t lie man who 
had offered violence to her at such a time and place. 


Neither w'ere his accusers more successful in their en- 
deavor to fix upon him the murder of Arsenins, who, 
in the midst of their false statements, appeared before 
the council alive. Foiled in both these infamous at- 
tempts, the Arians were filled with fury, and endeavor- 
ed to offer violence to him, in which, however, thev 
were prevented by the officers of Constantine. Noth- 
ing now remained but the charge of having broken the 
chalice, and there being no proof ready, and the clergy 
of the country where the offence was said to have taken 
place having solemnly sworn to the falsehood of the 
charge, a deputation was sent to make inquiry on the 
spot (in the Mareotis), composed of the most decided of 
his enemies. In the meantime, Athanasius, seeing that 
his condemnation, by fair means or foul, was resolved, 
withdrew from Tyre. The deputies, upon their return, 
declared that they had found the charge correct; and 
upon this statement, sentence of deposition was pro- 
nounced, on the plea of his having been convicted of a 
part of the accusation brought against him. More than 
fifty bishops protested against the acts of this assembly. 
See Mansi, Condi, ii, 435; Landon, Manual of Councils, 
s. v. See Athanasius. 

Tyr'ian (Tvpiotf), a native or inhabitant of the city 
of Tyre (Eccles. xlvi, 18). The corresponding lleb. 
word Tsori) is rendered by the indirect phrase 

“of Tyre” in the A. A'. (1 Kings vii, 14; 1 Citron, xxii, 
4; 2 Citron, ii, 14; Ezra iii, 7; Neh. xiii, 1G), and so 
likewise the Greek (1 Esdr. v, 55; 2 Mace, iv, 10; Acts 
xii, 20). 

Tyrimmas, in Greek mythology, was a friend of 
Ulysses, with whom the latter lived while on his jour- 
ney from Troy to Epirus to consult the oracle about 
the war. Tyrimmas had a beautiful daughter, Erippe, 
whom Ulysses loved, and by whom he begot a son, 
Euryalus. 

Tyrius (i. e. the Tyrian), in Greek mythology, was 
an epithet of Hercules, as adored in Cyprus. 

Tyrones I )ki (new soldiers of God), a name given, 
in the early Church, to catechumens, by Tertullian ( De 
Pcmitent. c. G) and Augustine (De Fide ad Catechu- 
men. ii, l), because they were just entering upon that 
state which made them soldiers of God and candi- 
dates of eternal life. See Bingham, Christ. A ntiq. bk. x, 
ch. i, § 1. 

Tyropceon (T vpo7rouov, of the cheese-makers), the 
name of a valley (<pdpa£) in Jerusalem, mentioned only 
by Josephus, who says that the city “was built, one 
quarter facing another, upon two hills, separated by an 
intervening valley, at which over against each other the 
houses terminated.” Again, “The valley of the Tyro- 
poeon, which, 1 have said, divided the hill of the upper 
town from that of the lower, extended as far as Siloam, 
... a fountain whose waters are sweet and copious” 
(lF«r, v, 4, 1). lie also tells us that the “other hill, 
called Akra, which sustained the lower city,” lay oppo- 
site to Mount Moriah, from which it was separated by 
“another broad valley;” and, further, that the whole 
city, situated on these two hills, “lay over against the 
Temple in the manner of a theatre” (A?it. xv, 11, 5). 
Notwithstanding this repeated and seemingly definite 
notice, the position of the valley is still a matter of dis- 
pute. Dr.l!obinson,iu accordance with his theory of the 
site of Akra (q.v.),and of the topography of ancient Je- 
rusalem in general, maintains that it is the small valley 
on the north of Zion; and the English engineers have 
determined that this chasm, although now inconsidera- 
ble, was formerly much deeper, being filled up with the 
rubbish of ages. Most archaeologists, however, have re- 
garded the “ Yallev of the Cheesemongers” as identical 
with the conspicuous anti important one leading from 
the Damascus gate to the Pool of Siloam, which in all 
ages has been the principal drain of the internal waters 
of the city (Thomson, Land and Book , ii, 470; I’ierotti, 
Jerusalem Restored , i, 19). See Jkkusallm. 


TYRRHENE'S 


G22 


TZSCHIRNER 


Tyrrhenus, in Greek mythology, was a son of 
Hercules anil Ompliale, or a son of Telephus ami iliera, 
ami a brother of Tarchon ; or a son of Atvs and Calli- 
then, and brother of Lvdus. lie is said to have intro- 
duced the use of the great sea-shell as a trumpet, lie 
colonized that part of Italy named after him at the time 
of his Hight from Mieonia because of starvation. 

Tyrrhus, in ancient Italian mythology, was a chief 
shepherd of La tin us, king of Italy. He was the owner 
of a beautiful tame deer which Silvia nursed, bathed, 
and ornamented with dowers. The Fury Alceto, sent 
from Tartarus, chased this deer, so that it came within 
reach of Ascanius. who wounded it, whereupon it tied 
towards home. The angry shepherd and his sons, and 
invisibly the Furies also, assembled the neighboring in- 
habitants, and t his was popularly assigned as the origi- 
nal cause of the war which .Eneas was obliged to carry 
on with the Latinians in Italy. 

Ty'rus (TfV> o e)s the Greek form of the name of two 
places in Palestine. 

1. The well-known city of Tyre (q. v.), as the name is 
usually Anglicized, but “Tvrus” in the A. V. in certain 
passages (Jcr. xxv, ‘22: xxvii, 3; xlvii, 4; Ezek. xxvi, 
2,3, 4, 7, 15; xxvii, *2, 3. 8,32; xxviii, 2, 12; xxix, 18; 
11 os. ix, 13; Amos i, 9, 10; Zech. ix, 2,3; 2 Esdr. i, 1 1 , 
Judith ii. 28: 1 Maec. v, 15; 2 Macc. iv, 18, 32, 44, 49). 

2. A place described by Josephus as lying between 
Arabia and dudaea, beyond the .Ionian, not far from the 
country of llcshbon,” where Hyreanus built a strong 
castle, of a snmptuous character, as the centre of his 
power in that region (.4/?/. xii,4, 11). It has been iilen- 
titied in modern times with the magnificent ruins Arak 
el- Emir* four hours from Ilesban, which Tristram mi- 
nutely describes as corresponding to the statements of 
the Jewish historian ( Land of Israel, p. 529). 

TY11US, Ladder of. See Ladder of Tyre. 

Tyson, Michael, a learned English divine, was 
born in the parish of All -Saints, Stamford, Nov. 19, 
J740. He was educated at Benedict College, Cam- 
bridge, where he received his degrees; that of A.B. in 
1764, A.M. in 1767, and B.O. in 1775. After taking his 
bachelor’s degree, he was elected a fellow of his college. 
In 1766 he travelled with Mr. Gough (afterwards the 
celebrated antiquarian), and, after his return in the fid- 
lowing year, was elected a fellow of the Society of An- 
tiquaries, and in 1769 a fellow of the Koval Society. 
In 1770 he was ordained deacon at Whitehall Chapel; 
and in 1773 received the officialty of the archdeaconry 
of Huntingdon from his father, lie was, at the same 
time, bursar of the college, and succeeded to the cure 
of St. Benedict’s Church, Cambridge. In 1776 lie be- 
came Whitehall preacher, and in the same year was pre- 
sented by the college to the rectory of Lambourne, near 
t higar, Essex, lie died May 3, 1780. Mr. Tyson wrote 
an ode On the Birth of the Prince of Wales , and another, 
An Ole to Peace. He was also an excellent draughts- 
man and painter. See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Tyssens, Peter, a Flemish painter, was born at 
Antwerp in 1625; and, after the death of Rubens and 
Vandyck, was considered one of the ablest painters of his 
time. He was made director of the Academy at Ant- 
werp in 1661. *• 1 1 is compositions are copious and in- 

genious, his design more correct, than is usual with paint- 
ers of his country, his coloring strong, clear, and harmo- 
nious.” He died, according to best authorities, in 1692. 
Among Ills works most worthy of notice are. The Martyr- 
dom of St. Benedict, Church of the Capuchins, Brussels : — 
The Crucifixion, at the Church of the Barefooted Carmel- 
ites ; — The . 1 ssnmption of the Virgin. Church of St. James, 
Antwerp. See Spooner, Bing. /fist, of Fine A vis, s. v. 

Tzschirner, Heinrich Gottlieb, a German the- 
ologian and orator, was horn Nov. 14, 1778, at Mitweida, 
in Saxony, lie graduated at Leipsic, and in February, 
1*00, became an adjunct to the philosophical faculty at 
Wittenberg. His lectures were principally concerned 


I with empirical psychology, and yielded fruit in the 
I works Lehen u. Ernie merktr . Selbst murder nebst .1 bhandl. 
iib.d.Selbstmord (1805): — Ceber d. moral . hulijerentis- 
nius: — and Vencandtschaft d. Tugenden und Luster, lie 
was also associated with Manchart in the publication 
of the Xeues Reperi.f.empir. Psychologie. In 1801 the 
sickness of his father called him away from the univer- 
sity, and he became first assistant, and, after the decease 
of his father, deacon at Mitweida. At that time he be- 
gan a history of apologetics, but published only one vol- 
ume (Leips. 1805). In the same year lie was received 
into the theological faculty at Wittenberg, and in 1809 
he removed to Leipsic. where he remained until his 
death, with a temporary interruption occasioned by the 
war of deliverance from French domination, in which 
lie served as chaplain and gained the decoration of the 
green cross (1813). The literary fruitage of his cam- 
paign is contained in the volume Ceber den Krieg , etc. 
.(Leips. 1815). lie died Feb. 17, 1823, regretted by the 
whole community of Leipsic. 

Tzschirner’s theological tendency was that known in 
his day as ivstheticism, whose aim was the reconcilia- 
tion of rationalism and supranaturalism. lie regarded 
Christianity as being in its nature a religion of reason, 

( though introduced by a supernatural revelation. See 
\ Briefe, veranl. durch Reinliards Gestandnisse (Leips. 
1811), and Briefe eines Deutsehen an Chateaubriand . etc., 
published hv Krug. His Dogmatik (published hv llase, 
Leips. 1829) is non-committal, and contents itself with 
merely stating the differences of the two great opposing 
schools of thought in Protestant theology (see Kdhr, 
Krit. P rediger- Billiot hek, x, 1). lie was rather a his- 
torian than a systematic theologian, and disposed to 
hide himself behind his work, lie added the two dual 
volumes to Schriickh’s Church History since the Refor- 
mation; but his principal work, according to his own 
judgment, is his Fall dcs Ucidenihums , published by 
Niedner (Leips. 1829). 

The period following the Napoleonic wars and begin- 
ning with the jubilee of the great Keformation (1817), 
developed Tzschirner into a foremost defender of Prot- 
estantism and popular freedom. Enthusiastically in- 
spired by the study of the great past of the Evangelical 
Church, he yet refused to confine himself to the letter 
of Luther’s authority, but insisted upon the exercise of 
the Protestant principle of intellectual liberty. In view 
of the fact that timid statesmen endeavored to repress 
the enthusiasm of the nation consequent on the defeat 
of Napoleon, and that Komanists and would-be perverts 
I to Romanism charged upon Protestantism the originat- 
ing and development of every revolutionary tendency 
and excess, he devoted his brilliant diction and incisive 
thought to the demonstration that Protestantism tends 
to mature the intelligence and fix the principles of peo- 
ples; and that it therefore tends to peace and quietness, 
and is more favorable to any legitimate form of settled 
government than Romanism. Numerous works, some 
of which became famous and were translated into for- 
eign languages, were the result of this effort — e. g„ Ka- 
tholicismus u. Profesfantismus ans dein Standpnuktc dtr 
Politik (1822). lie also wrote in behalf of oppressed 
Protestants in France, Sardinia, and Hungary (1*24), 
and of the liberties of Greece (1821). 1 1 is Protestant 

contemporaries, for their part, gave him many tokens of 
their appreciation of his labors in their behalf, among 
them the king of Denmark, who in 1826 conferred oil 
him the Order of Danebrog. 

Tzschirner had taken Reinhard for his model as a 
pulpit orator. His sermons are occasionally models of 
pulpit eloquence. They were carefully elaborated and 
strictly memorized, sometimes pervaded with a poetic 
spirit and great freshness, and characterized by the fre- 
quent use of matter drawn from Church history. His 
personality, voice, and manner in the pulpit gave him 
great power over his audiences, despite dithculties he 
experienced with his respiratory organs. Five volumes 
and several separately published Sermons by Tzschirner 


UCALDINI 


C23 


UBOZE 


are extant. His views respecting the effect of ration- 
alistic principles upon the preacher are contained in 
the article Dass die Yerschiedenheit d. Daymen Systeme 
kein Hinderniss des Ziceckes d. Kirehe sei. in Magazin 
fur christl . Prediger , 1823. His theory of homiletics 
sets forth that homiletics “is the art of edifying by 
means of speech which harmonizes with the forms of 
beauty and excites into activity all the faculties of the 
soul, subject to the purpose of promoting piety and vir- 


tue, for which the Church exists” (see Rohr, lit sup. ii, 
2, p. 2 13, art. “ Tzschirner als Ilomiletiker”). 

Literature. — Krug, Tzsehirners Denkmal, etc. (Leips. 
1823); II. G. Tzschirner , etc. (2d ed. ibid. 1828) ; Gold- 
horn, Dr. II. G. Tzschirner , etc. (1828) ; lib hr, Krii. Pre- 
diger-Dibl. 1, i, 126; liftman, Memoria Tzchirneri (Lips. 
1829); and many others. See also 1 Ierzog, Real-Ency- 
klop. s. v., where an extended list of Tzsehiruer’s nu- 
merous works is given. 


u. 


Ubaldini, Roger, archbishop of Tisa in 1276, was 
noted for his cruelty as a Ghibelline chief. Having 
captured Ugolino and his sons of the opposite party, he 
shut them up in a room and left them to die of hunger. 

Ubbonites, the followers of Ubbo Phillips, who 
constituted a moderate class among the fanatical Ana- 
baptists of Germany in the 16th century, and originated 
about look Ubbo was born at Leeuwarden and became 
a Romish priest, but with his brother, Dirk Phillips, 
renounced the papacy as corrupt, and joined the party 
of the Anabaptists, in which both became leaders. The 
Ubbonites agreed with the Anabaptists with respect to 
the sacraments, the incarnation of Christ, and the free- 
dom of the human will, but they did not teach that 
Christ's kingdom is of the earth and that the ungodly 
should be extirpated. They held, instead, that his 
kingdom is spiritual and subject to persecutions, and 
that it must be constantly renewed by regularly called 
apostles. They rejected the doctrine of divorce, and 
regarded themselves as the true Church. They denom- 
inated their meetings for worship “admonitions” and 
their ministers “admonishers,”and they taught the ne- 
cessity to an effective discipline of the rigid use of ex- 
communication. Roth Ubbo and Dirk disapproved of 
the fanatical outbreak at Minister, and the former ac- 
knowledged in a public confession that he heartily re- 
gretted that he had permitted himself to be deceived 
and that he had performed consecrations. He event- 
ually separated from the sect and the party he had 
founded and entered the communion of the Reformed 
Church. He died in 1568. See Jehring, Griindl '. Hi - 
storie . . . der Taufgesinnten oder Mennoniten. etc. (Jena,- 
1720) ; Bergmann, De Ubbone Philippa et Ubbonitis (Rost. 
1733). — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Ubertinus, surnamed, from the village of his birth, 
De Casalt, was a Franciscan monk of the 13th century, 
and belonged to the strict party which insisted upon a 
rigid observance of the vow’ of poverty, and regarded 
the life and work of our Saviour as constituting a mere 
preparation for a higher and more perfect rera of the 
Iloly Ghost. They also denounced the condition of the 
papacy and of the entire Church as being utterly cor- 
rupt. Ubertinus was a pupil of Peter John Olivi (died 
1297), who stood at the head of his party. He de- 
fended the tenets of his party in an apology for Olivi, 
which is given in Wadding, Annales Minorum, etc. 
(Romte, 1733; aim. 1297), xxxvi, 380 sq., and was 
severely assailed. Pope Clement V and many oth- 
ers called him to account for his book, and Ubertinus 
thereupon resolved to sever his connection with his 
order. Pope John XXII permitted him to enter the 
Benedictine convent of St. Peter at Gemblours; but the 
monks refused to receive him, and it is said that he ul- 
timately became a Carthusian. In the meantime, pope 
John had again demanded an explanation of his opin- 
ions respecting the poverty of Jesus, etc., and Ubertinus 
responded that Jesus could not be said to have had 
possession of property in any secular meaning of the 
words (see Wadding, ut sup. vi, 362 scp). In addition 
to the above, Ubertinus wrote a sort of commentary on 
the Apocalypse, entitled Tractatus de Septan Statibus 
Ecclesue (Tenet. 1516). The time and manner of his 
death are unknown. See Herzog, Reul-Eneyklop. s. v. 


Ubiety (Lat. nbi, “ wdiere”) is the presence of one 
thing to another, or the presence of a thing in place. 
The schoolmen distinguish ubiety as 

1. Circumscriptive , by which a body is so in one place 
that its parts are answerable to the parts of space in 
which it is and exclude every other body. 

2. Definitive, as when a human spirit is limited or de- 
fined in its presence to the same place, like a human 
body. 

3. Repletive, as when the Infinite Spirit is present 
through every portion of space. 

This last is sometimes called Ubiquity (q. v.), and 
means the Divine Omnipresence. See lvraut h, Vocab. 
of Phil. Sciences, s. v. 

Ubiquitarians (from the technical term “ubiqui- 
ty” [q. v.]). in ecclesiastical history, a sect of Luther- 
ans which arose and spread itself in Germany, and whose 
distinguishing doctrine was that the body of Jesus 
I Christ is everywhere, or in every place. Brcntius. a 
canon of Wittenberg, one of the earliest Reformers, is 
said to have first broached this error in 1560. Luther 
himself, in his controversy with Zwingli, had thrown 
out some unguarded expressions that seemed to imply 
a belief of the omnipresence of the body of Christ; lbr 
i instance, that the man Christ could be everywhere pres- 
ent, not that he was always and e verywhere present. 
He saw, however, that this opinion was attended with 
great difficulties, and particularly that it ought not to 
be made use of as a proof of Christ’s corporeal presence 
in the encharist. However, after the death of Luther, 
this absurd hypothesis was renewed, and dressed up in 
a speeions and plausible form by Brcntius, Chemnitius, 
and Andreas, who maintained the communication of 
the properties of Christ’s divinity to his human nature. 
It is, indeed, obvious that every Lutheran who believes 
thedoetrine of consubstantiation, whatever he may pre- 
tend, must be a Ubiquitarian. The doctrine again be- 
came a subject of controversy early in the 17th centu- 
ry, between the divines of Tubingen and Giessen, the 
former supporting the Ubiquitarian theory, and the lat- 
ter earnestly opposing it. The Ubiquitarians are strong 
opponents of the Calvinistic and Zwinglian theories of 
the holy encharist, and their dogma is, in fact, a revul- 
sion from them. See Bergier, Diet. de Theologie, s. v. ; 
Cramer, Enchirid. Controllers. Cbiquit. (1613); Dorner, 
Person of Christ, II, ii, 280 sq., 422; Moshcim, Eech-s. 
Ilist. V, iii, 153 sq. 

Ubiquity (Lat. ubique, “ everywhere”) is the opin- 
ion of some German divines that the body of Christ is 
present everywhere by virtue of its union with his di- 
vine nature. It was adopted in 1577 as a mode of ex- 
plaining the eucharistic Presence by those who com- 
piled the Formula of Concord. The party was soon di- 
vided in opinion, some affirming that Jesus Christ dur- 
ing his mortal life was everywhere, others dating the 
ubiquity from the time of his ascension into heaven. 
See Ubiquitarians. 

Ublanizn, in Slavonic mythology, was a domestic 
god of the Poles, whom the negligent, lazy people au- 
thorized to make greater conveniences, and to whom 
they intrusted the protection of their household furni- 
ture. 

Uboze ( Ubosche ), in Slavonic mythology, was the 


UCAL 


624 


UDALL 


name given to the spirits of the departed, who appear- 
ed in t he family circles of their relatives in the form of 
dwarfs. They were therefore worshipped and made 
harmless by being made to eat and drink. 

U'cal (Heb. Ukal', 2ZX, in some copies, Vkkal', 
2TX). According to the received text of Prov. xxx, 1, 
liliiel and Ucal must be regarded as proper names; and 
if so, they must be the names of disciples or sons of 
Agur the son of Jakeh, an unknown sage among the 
Hebrews. Hut there is great obscurity about the pas- 
sage. The Sept, translates rote Triartvovat Bay kui 
TT arofActt ; the Yulg., cum quo est Dens, et qui Deo secum 
morante confortatus. The Arabic follows the Sept, to 
some extent; the Targum reproduces Itliiel and Ucal 
as proper names, and the Syriac is corrupt, Ucal being 
omitted altogether. Luther represents the names as 1 
Leith id and Cchal. Do Wette regards them as proper 
names, as do most translators and commentators. Ju- 
nius explains both as referring to Christ. The Sept, 
probably read 21X1 W -X>. The Yeneto-Greek 
has Ka\ avvgaopat — *p^X1. Cocceius must have point- 
ed the words thus. b^XI 2X 'r^xb, “I have labored 
for God and have obtained;" and this, with regard to 
the first two words, must have been the reading of J. 
D. Michaelis, who renders, “ I have wearied myself for 
God, and have given up the investigation,” applying 
the words to a man who had bewildered himself with 
philosophical speculations about the Deity and had been 
compelled to give, up the search. Berth can also (Die 
Spriiche Hal. Einleit. xvii) sees in the words “I have 
wearied myself for God, and have fainted" (21X1) an 
appropriate commencement to the series of proverbs 
which follow. Ilitzig’s view is substantially the same, 
except that he points the last word 23X1, and renders, 
“and I became dull;” applying it to the dimness which 
the investigation produced upon the eye of the mind 
(Die Spr. Hal. p. 316). Bunsen (Bibelwerk, i, p. clxxx) 
follows Bertheau's punctuation, but regards 2X ‘ , rPX2, 
on its first occurrence, as a symbolical name of the 
speaker. “ The saying of the man ‘ I-have-wearied- 
mvself-for-God 1 have wearied myself for God, and 
have fainted away.” There is. however, one fatal ob- 
jection to this view if there were no others, and that 
is that the verb ?1X2, “to be wearied,” nowhere takes 
after it the accusative of the object of weariness. On 
this account alone, therefore, we must reject all the 
above explanations. If Bertheau’s pointing be adopt- 
ed, the only legitimate translation of the words is that 
given by Or. Davidson (Introd. ii, 338), “I ant weary, 
O God, I am weary, O God, and am become weak.” 
Ewald considers both Ithiel and Ucal as symbolical 
names, employed by the poet to designate two classes 
of thinkers to whom he addresses himself, or, rather, he 
combines both names in one, “ God-with-me-and-I-am 
strong," and bestows it upon an imaginary character, 
whom he introduces to take part in the dialogue. “The 
name ‘God-with-me,’ " says Keil (lliivernick, Einleit . iii, 
412), “denotes such as gloried in a more intimate com- 
munion with God, and a higher insight and wisdom 
obtained thereby, while ‘ I-am-strong’ indicates the so- 
called strong spirits who boast of their wisdom and 
might and deny the holy God. so that both names most 
probably represent a class of freethinkers who thought 
themselves superior to the revealed law, and in practi- 
cal atheism indulged the lusts of the flesh.” — Smith. 
Both names are probably symbolical, but the exact im- 
port remains uncertain. See Proverbs. 

Ucalegon, in Greek mythology, was an inhabitant 
of Troy, an elder honored in the senate. 1 1 is dwelling- 
place adjoining the dwelling of Deiphobus was, with 
the latter’s, entirely destroyed by fire. 

Uckewallists, one of the sects into which the 
old Flemings, or strict Anabaptist followers of Menno. 


divided. They took their name from Uke T Valles, a 
native of Friesland, who published his sentiments in 
1637. In conjunction with John Lens, he propagated 
a doctrine of Universalism. in which he entertained a 
favorable opinion of the eternal state of Judas and the 
rest of Christ’s murderers. 1 1 is argument was this — 
that the period of time which extended from the birth 
of Christ to the descent of the Holy Ghost was a time 
of deep ignorance, during which the Jews were desti- 
tute of divine light; and that, of consequence, the sins 
and enormities which were committed during this in- 
terval were, in a great measure, excusable, and could 
not merit the severest displays of the divine justice, 
lie was excommunicated by lhe Mennmiites of Gron- 
ingen, and banished from the city by its magistrates, 
but settled down in East Friesland. This denomina- 
tion strictly adhered to the doctrineof the jMennonites. 
See Blunt, Diet, of Sects, s. v. ; Theol. Diet. s. v. 

Udaeus, in Greek mythology, was one of the fol- 
lowers of Cadmus, five of whom murdered each other. 
He was grandsire of Tiresias. 

Udainsakr, in Northern mythology, is the name 
given to that part of the land of the blessed where, 
with all earthly wants, all sorrows are at an end, whose 
inhabitants neither sickness nor death befalls. This 
place is in possession of king Gudmund, who was ruler 
of Jotunheim. From this last fact it would seem to 
follow that Udainsakr was not a paradise of the Asos, 
but of the former inhabitants of Scandinavia, the Jotes. 
— Yollmer. Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Udall, Ephraim, a loyal Puritan divine of the 
17 th century, was educated at Emanuel College, Cam- 
bridge, where he took his degree of A.B. in 1609, and 
that of A.jM. in 1614. His only preferment appears to 
have been the rectory of St. Augustine’s. Watling Street, 
London, but the time of his admission is not stated. He 
was sequestered in 1643, having declared openly for 
episcopacy and the liturgy. He died in May, 1647. 
Mr. Udall published, A Coal from the Altar: — A Ser- 
mon on I'sa. xxix, 11 (1629. 4to) : — Communion Comeli- 
ness (1641, 4to), in which he recommends rails around 
the communion-table. See Alii bone, Diet, of Brit, and 
Amer . A uthors, s. v. ; Chalmers, Bio<j. J)ict. s. v. 

Udall, John, a Nonconformist divine of the 16th 
century, was a great sufferer on account of his noncon- 
formity. He died in Marshalsea prison about the end 
of 1592. He published, Sermons (1584—80, 6 vols. 8vo): 
— .1 Demonstration of the Truth of that Discipline which 
Christ hath Prescribed (1588, 4to), for which he was 
condemned to die : — Commentarie on the Lamentations 
i of Jeremy (Lond. 1593, 4to ) ; — Key of the Holy Tongue, 

I etc. (Leyden, 1593, .12mo); said to be the first Hebrew 
grammar in English. Kespecting Udall and his works, 
see Fuller, Church History ; Hallam, Constitutional Hist, 
of England; D'lsraeli, Quarrels of A uthors ; Land. Quar. 
her. x, 104; (Lond.) Gent. Mag. NX II, i, 306; ii, 624; 
Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer . .4 uthors, s. v. ; Chal- 
mers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Udall, Nicholas, an English clergyman, was born 
in Hampshire in 1504 (others say 1506); and was ad- 
mitted to Corpus Christi College, Oxford, June 18, 1520, 
where he became probationer fellow, Sept. 3, 1524. He 
wrote verses for the city of London pageant at the cor- 
onation of Anne Boleyn, May, 1533; took orders in the 
Church of England; and was made master of Eton 
School in 1534. In 1543 he w r as charged with complic- 
ity in the robbery of some college chapel plate, and for 
this is said by some to have been dismissed from the 
mastership of t he school, lie was vicar of Braintree, 
Essex, from 1537 to 1544; entered the service of queen 
Catherine Parr; in 1551 he became canon of Windsor; 
in 1552 was preferred to the rectory of Cal bourne, Isle 
of Wight. He was appointed head -master of West- 
minster School in 1556; and died, according to some au- 
thorities, in December, 1556, but, according to a manu- 


UDINE 


025 


UIILAND 


script note on a copy of Bale, in 1557. Udall was the 
author of several school-books, some poems, etc. See 
Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A /tier. Authors, s. v. ; Chal- 
mers, Bio//. Diet. s. v. 

Udine, Giovanni da, an Italian painter (whose 
family name is variously called Marini, Nanni [contrac- 
tions of Giovanni], and Ricauuitore), was born at Udine 
probably in 1489. lie became a pupil and afterwards 
an assistant of Raphael. On the sacking of Rome he 
tied to his native city; was afterwards engaged by the 
Medici in Florence; and returned to Rome in the pon- 
tificate of Pius IV, where he died, 1561. He painted 
The Holy Virgin and Infant Christ, at Udine; and two 
/Scripture Histories, in the archiepiscopal palace, Udine. 
See Spooner, Dior/. Hist, of Fine .4 rts, s. v. 

Udine, Girolamo da, another painter of Udine, 
Italy, Hourishetl about 1540. Little is known of him. 
There is an altar-piece, The Coronation of the Virgin, in 
the Church of San Francesco, Udine, bearing his signa- 
ture. See Spooner, Blog. Hist, of Fine A rts, s. v. 

Udine, Martino da, called Pellegrino di San 
Danietlo, an Italian painter, was born, according to some 
authorities, at Udine about 1480; others say at the 
Castle of San Daniello, about ten miles distant. He 
studied with Giovanni Bellini during that artist’s resi- 
dence at Udine. Martino died about 1545. He exe- 
cuted many works for the churches and public buildings 
at Udine and San Daniello, among which are, St. Joseph, 
with the Infants Christ and St.John , in the cathedral at 
Udine: — I irgin, with several Female Saints and St. John 
the Baptist , an altar-piece in the Church of Santa Maria 
di Battuti : — several frescos of the Life of Christ, in the 
Church of San Antonio, San Daniello. Sec Spooner, 
Bing. I list . of Fine Arts, s. v. 

Udu, an Accadian deity, and possibly the same with 
the Assyrian Samas, god of the sun. — Lenormant, Chald. 
Magic, p. 17. 

Udur ( the destruction ), in Norse mythology, was one 
of the daughters of /Eger and Ran. 


der. He was appointed abbot of Tre Fontane at Rome, 
procurator in his province, and counsellor to the Congre- 
gation of the Index. Popes Alexander VII and Clem- 
ent IX esteemed Ughelli, and gave him a pension of 
five hundred crowns, lie refused offers of several bish- 
oprics. He died May 19, 1670. Ilis principal work is 
Italia Sacra, sire de Episcopis ltaliee,et 1/tsiilariim Ad - 
jacentium, etc. (Rome, 1042-62,7 vols. fol. ; reprinted, 
Venice, 1717-22, 10 vols.) : — also Lives of the Cardinals 
of the Cistercian Order , etc. See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. 
s. v. 

Uginda is a festival of praying observed among 
the Cheremisses, before harvest iug-time, as an occasion 
for asking the special blessing of the god Ageberen for 
an abundant harvest. 

Ugolino, Blatsio, a Jewish convert of Venice, born 
in 1748, is best known as the editor of a stupendous 
work under the title Thesaurus Antiquit utu/n Sacrarum 
co/nplectens Select issinui Clanssimorum Virorum Opus- 
eula, in quibns Veterum Hebrceorum Mores, Leges , Insti- 
tuta, Ritas Sacri ei Ciriles lllustrantur (Venet. 1744-09, 
34 vols. fol.). This Thesaurus contains w hat the title 
indicates. The republic of learning of the 17th and 18th 
centuries is here represented. The names of Buxtorf, 
Trigland, Witsins, Goodwin, Ilottinger, Pfeiffer, Sigoni- 
us, Rhenferd, Bonfrere, Selden, Lowth, Relaud, Huet, 
Bochart, Cellaring, Prideaux, ('layering. Opitz, Van Til, 
Carpzov, Saubertius, Spencer. Deyling, Wagenseil, etc., 
are found among the contributors to the Thesaurus , 
which forms a library in itself. Of course most of the 
works of the authors mentioned are published separate- 
ly, but, being scarce, this Thesaurus will always be pe- 
rused with great profit by such as have the good luck 
to he near great libraries which can afford to keep this 
stupendous work on their shelves. Besides the scholars 
mentioned above, the editor himself has largely contrib- 
uted to this work. His translations of the Midrashim 
and some of the Talnmdieal treatises, found in vol. xiv, 
xv, xvi, xvii, xviii, xix, xxv, are of great importance. 
The following is a general index of the contents: 


Udvaide, The Council of, was held in 1309, un- 
der Charles I, king of Hungary, and Thomas, arch bish- 
op of Strigonia. It was decreed, 

1. That the angelical salutation should be rung out at 
noou, or at the close of the dnv. 

2. That the inhabitants of Bnda should pay some im- 
post which they had endeavored to evade. 

4. The constitutions of cardiual Genr.it were read, and 
au order made that a copy simitkl be sent to every piel- 
ate, to use in his own diocese; the other regulations 
have perished. 

See Mansi, Concil. Suppl. iii, 335. — Landon, Manual of 
Councils, s. v. 

Ueberweg, Friedrich, a German historian of 
philosophy, was born near Solingen, Rhenish Prussia, 
Jan. 22, 1826. He studied at Gottingen and Berlin, 
w r as tutor at the university from 1852 to 1862, and was 
appointed professor of philosophy at Konigsberg in the 
latter year. He died there, June 7, 1871. lie wrote, 
The Development of Consciousness by Teachers (Berlin, 
1853): — System der Logik und Geschichte der loyischen 
Ijehren (Bonn, 1857; 3d ed. 1868; English transl. by 
Thomas Lindsay, Loud. 1871) : — Grundmss der Geschich- 
te der Philosophic von Thales bis anf die Gegenwart ^Ber- 
lin, 1862-66, 3 vols.; English transl. by Geo. S. Morris, 
X. V. and Loud. 1874, 2 vols.): — Hist, of Philosophy 
(X. V. 1876) : — and other minor works. 

U'el (Heb. Uel', will of God, accord, to Ge- 

seti., but for Abaci [God is father'], accord, to Fiirst; 
Sept. OiojX v. r. Hio/A, Vnlg. Uel), a “son” of Bani who 
divorced his Gentile wife alter the Captivity (Ezra x, 
3 f). B.C. 458. 

Ughelli, Ferdinando, an Italian ecclesiastical his- 
torian, was born at Florence, March 21, 1595. After pur- 
suing his studies with credit, he took the habit of the 
Cistercians, and held several honorable posts in the or- 
X.— K r 


Vol. i treats of sacred seasons among the Jews. 

Vol. ii, iii, and iv treat of Jewish antiquities. 

Vol. valid vi relate to sacred geography. 

Vol. vii, viii, ix, x, xi, xii, and xiii bear upon the taber- 
nacle, Temple, priesthood, and all matters eonuected with 
the same. 

Vol. xiv, xv, xvi, and xvii contain translations of the 
Midrashim, such as Mechilta, Siphra, Si]>hre , Pcsikta, and 
of Tosaphoth, or additions to the Talmud. 

Vol. xviii, xix, and xx contain translations of different 
Talmndical treatises. 

Vol.xxi treats of the synagogue, rites, phylacteries, and 
prayers of the Jews. 

Vol. xxii treats of Jewish sects and proselytes. 

Vol. xxiii treats of Gentile deities. 

Vol. xxiv treats of Jewish theocracy. 

Vol. xxv, xxvi, and xxvii treat of Jewish civil law. 

Vol. xxviii treats of Jewish, Samaritan, and Phoenician 
coinage. 

Vol. xxix treats of vestments. 

Vol. xxx has reference to the rites of marriage, divorce, 
and of Biblical medicine. 

Vol. xxxi and xxxii treat of Hebrew 7 poetry and musical 
instruments. 

Vol. xxxiii relates to mourning and burial rites ami 
usages. 

Vol. xxxiv forms a fourfold index to the whole, giving 
an Index Auctorum , Locornm S. Scripliu ce, Dictionum U> - 
braicannn , and Rerum et Verborum. 

A complete list of the contents of the single volumes is 
given by Mettsel, Bibliotheca Ilistorica, I, i, 118-42; 
and Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. (B. P.) 

Uhland, Ludwig Joseph, a German doctor and 
professor of theology, was born at Tubingen, May 15, 
1722, where he also died, Dee. 15, 1803. He w r rotc, De 
Hist. Restaurati post Dilur. Orbis ab Exit n Now. ex .1 rca 
usque ad Dispersitmem Gentium ( Tub. 1761): — De Or- 
dine V/iticiniorum, quw in Sedeci/n Prophet. Scripta Ex- 
tant, Chronoloyico (ibid. 1778): — Annotationes a/l Loca 
queedarn A most, Imprint. Ilistorica (ibid. 1779-80): — 
Annotationes in Ilosem Cap. iii (ibid. 1787); Cap. v , vi, 
1-3 (ibid. 1789); Cop.vi,±-l \ ; vii, 1-6 (ibid. 1790); Cap. 


UIILE 


G2G 


ULAI 


l iii (ibid. 1701); Cap. }.v (ibid. 1792) : — Dissevtatio Car- 
pet ica in Hagg. ii\ 1-0 (ibid. 1780). See Winer, /land- 
buck tier theol. Literal ur , i, 225-226, *200, 553 ; ii, 810; 
Fiirst, Bibl.Jud. ili, 457 sq. (U. P.) 

Uhle, August Gkorg, a Protestant theologian of 
Germany, was born dan. 10. 1737, at Brunswick, lie 
studied theology and philosophy at llehnstedt. For a 
time he instructed at the Orphanage in Brunswick, when, 
in 1770, he was called as pastor to the Church of St. 
.Egidius at llanover. In 1703 the learned society at the 
Hague awarded to him the second prize for his disserta- 
tion De Jem Christo ]~ero Dei Eilio ; and in the same 
year he was made member of consistory and first court- 
preacher. In 1701 he was appointed general superin- 
tendent, and in 1801 he was honored with the doctorate 
by the Gottingen University, lie died May 1*2, 1804. 
Uhle was not only very well acquainted with the ancient 
classical writers, but also with the writings of Hume, 
Robertson, Gibbon, Tillotson, Saurin.ete. In philosophy 
he leaned more towards the system of Leibnitz and Wolf 
than that of Kant ; he was less satisfied with Fichte and 
Schelling. Among the ( lertnan pulpit orators of the last 
century Uhle holds a prominent place. For his writings, 
see During, Deutsche Kunzelredner , p. 551. (B. P.) 

Uhlemann, Frii:j>ki<’ii, a German doctor and pro- 
fessor of theology, was born at Zeitz. Xov. 26, 1705, and 
died at Berlin, April 10, 1864. lie is the author of //c- 
brdische Bprachlehre (Berlin, 18*27): — Elementarhhre 
der sg rise hen tiprache (ibid. 1820; 2d ed. 1857; Engl, 
transl. by E. Hutchinson, N. Y. 1855): — - lnstitutiones 
Linguae Eamaritanev : acced. Chrestomath. Samar, cum 
Glossario (Lips. 1837): — De Yaria Cantici Cunticornni 
Interpretandi Ratione (Berlin, 1830): — A nleitung znm 
Uebersetzen a us dem Dentschen in das Hebrciische (ibid. 
1830-41, 2 pts. ): — Sy/neon der erste Sdulenkeiliye in 
Syrien und sein Einfluss auf die vritere Ytrbr titling des 
Christenthums im Orient (Leips. 1846). See Zuchold, 
Jiibl. Theol. ii, 1361; Fiirst, Bibl.Jnd. iii, 457; Stein- 
sehneider, Bibliog. Ilandb. p. 1 42. (B. P.) 

Uhlich, Lemciiktut, a German sectary, the head 
of the so-called Lightfriends (Liehtfreunde). was born 
Feb. 27, 1700, at Kbthen. He studied theology at Halle 
from 1817 to 1820 under Wegscheider, was tutor at Kb- 
then, and in 1827 he went to Prussia as pastor in Pom- 
mel te, near Schonebeek. In 1841 he organized the lib- 
eral preachers’ meetings at Gnadau, which dually led 
to the formation of the Society of the Protestant 
Friends, or Liehtfreunde. Uhlich became the spiritual 
bead of this movement, and soon obtained adherents in 
different countries, especially in the north of Germany, 
lie went from place to place for the purpose of pre- 
siding at the meetings held by his adherents, until, in 
1845, he was forbidden to leave his parish without per- 
mission. In the same year he was called to St. Catha- 
rine’s Church in Magdeburg, where lie went on in his 
usual way. But his low views of Christianity brought 
him into conflict with his consistory, until lie was finally 
suspended from his oflice in September, 1847. He now 
left the Church and put himself at the head of a free re- 
ligious congregation at Magdeburg, where he labored 
until March 23, 1872. Uhlich was a preacher of con- 
siderable popular eloquence and managing talent, sin- 
cere withal, and of an unblemished character; but bis 
very low views of Christianity finally led him to a plii- 
lanthropico-pantheistic naturalism, which he presented 
in a popular manner before bis audience. Speaking of 
the Dissenting sects in Germany, Dr. Scbaff, with regard 
to the Liehtfreunde, says, “ It is deeply humiliating 
that a superficial rationalism which was supposed to be 
dead and buried could create such a commotion in a 
state like Prussia, and on t lie classical soil of the Lu- 
theran Reformation. But the emptiest wagons often 
make the greatest noise” (Cennany, its Universities , 
etc., p. 144). Of course it was only a noise, and hence 
as ‘‘for the development of the history of doctrines, the 
Protestant Friends,” as llageubacli says, “ have only 


a negative importance, and their place is rather in the 
transient story of the day than in the earnest history 
of religious truth” ( Hist, of Jtoctrines, ii, 4 10). Uhlich 
wrote a great deal, and his publications consist mainly 
of sermons and discourses, for which see Zuchold, Bibl. 
Theol. ii. 1361 sq. See also his Autobiography (Magde- 
burg, 187*2); Theologisches Universal- Lex. s.v. ; Niedner. 
K irchcngesch ichte. p. 012 sq. (B. P.) 

Ujeil, iu Hindu mythology, was a celebrated king 
in the dynasty of the Children of the Moon, lie was 
married to Marwa, who presented him with two daugh- 
ters, Mirkinda and Lashmene, two of the seven prin- 
cesses that became Krishna's tirst wives. 

Ukko (the ancient or honorable) was the chief god 
of the Finns, “ the celestial old man,” “ the god ol heav- 
en,” lie was the tirst of the trinity composed of him- 
self, Wiiiniimbinen, and Ilmarinen. He appeared some- 
times even as a first principle, whence liis surname of 
Ylijumala, “ the supreme god.” In case of wounds, t lie 
secondary deities were resorted to lor a cure; but, in or- 
der to complete and consolidate the work of the lesser 
divinities, the intervention of Ukko was needed. The 
euro of a wound needing the formation of new tlesh was 
considered a regular act of creation, and therefore the 
help of the creative power himself was necessary. — 
Lenormant, Chafd. Magic (see Index). 

Ukkuma. the great spirit of the Esquimaux, a be- 
ing of infinite goodness, to whom they apply for the sat- 
isfying of all their wants. 

Uknaz. See Ki:naz 4. 

U'lai [many l T, lai~\ (Ileb. Ulay ', [in pause 

“'5 r i>U], probably Pehlvi Am-Halesh , i. e. “pure water;” 
Sept. OhXai; Tlieodotion, Ovfia\ ; Yulg. Ulai) is men- 
tioned by Daniel (viii,2, 16) as a river near Susa, where 
be saw bis vision of the ram and the he-goat. It has 
generally been identified with the Jut Up us of the Greek 
and Roman geographers (Marc. Heracl. p. 18; Arrian, 
Exp. A /. vii, 7 ; Strabo, xv, 3, 22; Ptolemy, vi, 3; Pliny. 
//. A r . vi, 31 ), a large stream in tlie immediate neighbor- 
hood of that city. This identification may be safely al- 
lowed, resting as it does on the double ground of close 
verbal resemblance in the two names, and complete 
agreement as to the situation. The Eukeus has been 
by many identified with the Choaspes, which is un- 
doubtedly the modern Kerhhah. an affluent of the Ti- 
gris, flowing into it a little below Kurnali. By others 
it has been regarded as the Knrim, a large river con- 
siderably farther to the eastward, which enters the Khor 
Bamishir. near Mohammcrah. Some have even sug- 
gested (hat it may have been the Shapur or Sha'ur, a 
small stream which rises a few* miles N. \V. of Susa, and 
flows by the ruins into the Dizful stream, an afiluent 
of the Kuran. 

1. The general grounds on w hich the Eukeus has 
been identified with the Choaspes, and so with the 
Kcrkhah (Saltnasius, Rosenmiiiler, Wahl, Kitto, etc. ), 
are the mention of each separately by ancient writers as 
“the river of Susa,” and, more especially, the state- 
ments made by some (Strabo, Pliny) that the water of 
tiie Eukeus, hv others (Herod., Athenseus, Plutarch, Q. 
Curtins) that that of the Choaspes, was the only water 
tasted by the Persian kings. Against the identification 
it must he noticed that Strabo, Pliny, Solinus, and Poly- 
clitus (np. Strabo, xv, 3, 4) regard the rivers as distinct, 
and that (he lower course of the Eukeus. as described by 
Arrian (Exp. A I. vii, 7) and Pliny (//. X. vi, 26), is such 
as cannot possibly be reconciled with that of the Ker- 
kliah river. 

2. The grounds for regarding the Eukeus as the Ku- 
ra n are decidedly stronger than those for identifying it 
with the Kcrkhah or Choaspes. No one can compare 
the voyage of Nearelms, in Arrian’s fndica , with Ar- 
rian's own account, of Alexander’s descent of the Eulauis 
(vii. 7) without seeing that the Eukeus of the one nar- 
rative is the Pasitigris of the other, and that the Pasi- 


ULAM 


027 


ULLA 


tigris is the Kuran is almost universally admitted. In- 
deed, it may be sai<l that all accounts of the lower Eu- 
keus — those of Arrian, IMinv, Polyclitus, and Ptolemy — 
identify it, beyond the possibility of mistake, with the 
lower Kuran, and that so far there ought to be no con- 
troversy. The difficulty is with respect to the upper 
Eukeus. The Eukeus, according to Pliny, surrounded 
the citadel of Susa (vi, 27), whereas even the Dizful 
branch of the Kuran does not come within six miles of 
the ruins. It lay to the west, not only of the Pasi tigris 
(Kuran), but also of the Coprates (river of Dizl'ul), ac- 
cording to Diodorus (xix, 18, 10). So far, it might be 
the Shapin', but for two objections. The Shapur is too 
small a stream to have attracted the general notice of 
geographers, and its water is of so bad a character that 
it could never have been chosen for the royal table 
{Geograph. Journ. ix, 70). There is also an important 
notice in Pliny entirely incompatible with the notion 
that the short stream of the Shapur, which rises in the 
plain about live miles to the N.N.W. of Susa, can be the 
true Euleeus. Pliny says (vi, 31) the Eukeus rose in 
Media, and flowed through Mesobatene. Now, this is 
exactly true of the upper Kerkhah, which rises near 
Hamadan (Ecbatana), and flows down the district of 
Mahsabadan (Mesobatene). 

The result is that the various notices of ancient writ- 
ers appear to identify the upper Eukeus with the upper 
Iverkhah, and the lower Eukeus, quite unmistakably, 
with the lower Kuran. A recent survey of the ground 
has suggested a satisfactory explanation. It appears 
that tlie Kerkhah once bifurcated at Pai Pul, about 
t wenty miles north-west of Susa, sending out a branch 
which passed east of the ruins, absorbing into it the 
Shapur, and flowing on across the plain in a S.S.E. di- 
rection till it fell into the Kuran at Ahwaz (Loftus, 
Chaldiea and Susiana, p. 424, 425). Thus, the upper 
Kerkhah and the lower Kuran were in old times united, 
and might be viewed as forming a single stream.. The 
name Eukeus (Ulai) seems to have applied most prop- 
erly to the eastern branch stream from Pai Pul to 
Ahwaz; the stream above Pai Pul was sometimes called 
the Eukeus, but was more properly the Choaspes, which 
was also the sole name of the western branch, or present 
course, of the Kerkhah from Pai Pul to the Tigris. The 
name Pasi tigris was proper to the upper Kuran from its 
source to its junction with the Eukeus, after which the 
two names were equally applied to the lower river. 
The Dizful stream, which was not very generally 
known, was called the Coprates. It is believed that 
this view of the river names will reconcile and make in- 
telligible all the notices of them contained in the an- 
cient writers. It follows from this that the water 
which the Persian kings drank, both at the court and 
when they travelled abroad, was that of the Kerkhah, 
taken probably from the eastern branch, or proper Eu- 
keus, which washed the walls of Susa, and (according 
to Pliny) was used to strengthen its defences. This 
water was, and still is, believed to possess peculiar light- 
ness (Strabo, xv, 3, 22; Geograph. Journ. ix, 70), and is 
thought to be at once more wholesome and more pleas- 
ant to the taste than almost any other. — Smith. 

See Porter, Travels , ii, 412 ; lvinneir, Persian Empire , 
p. 100- 10G; Sir II. Hawlinson, in Geopraph. Journ. ix, 
81-93; Layard, ibid, xvi, 91-94; Loftus, Chaldee a and 
Susiana, p. 424-431. 

U'lam (Ileb. Ulam', , porch ; Sept. OvXdp v. r. 
occasionally AiXip), the name of two Hebrews. 

1. First named of the two sons of Sheresh and father 

of Bedan in the Gileadite posterity of Mauasseh ( l 
Chron. vi, 1G, 17). 15.0. cir. 1G18. 

2. The tirst-born of Eshek among the descendants of 
king Saul, and the ancestor of one hundred and fifty 
valiant archers (1 Chron. vi ii, 39. 40). B.C. cir. 588. 

TJlber, Christian Samuel, a Protestant theolo- 
gian of Germany, was born Aug. 2G, 1714, at Landshut, 
in Silesia. He studied at Jena; was appointed pastor 


at Ileinersdorf, in Silesia, in 1737 : in 1741 he was 
called to his native place, and in 1757 to Hamburg, 
where he died Aug. 27, 177G. Tiber was not only a 
man of great learning, but also a good pulpit orator. 
His numerous writings are more of an ascetieal nature, 
valuable indeed for their time, but less so now. They 
are enumerated in Doling, Gelehrte Theoloyen Deutsch- 
lunds, iv, 547 sq. (11. P.) 

Uleuberg, Caspar, a Homan Catholic priest of 
Germany, was born of Lutheran parents in 1549, at 
Lippstadt. lie studied at Wittenberg. At Cologne 
he succeeded in bringing back a cousin of his, who had 
become a Iloman Catholic, to the Lutheran Church ; 
but in 1572 they both joined the Catholic Church, and 
Uleuberg was appointed teacher at Cologne. In 1575 
he received holy orders, was appointed pastor at Kaisers- 
werth, and in 1583 was made canon of the Church of St. 
Swibertus. From 1593 to 1015 he stood at the head of 
the gymnasium in Cologne, where he died as pastor of 
St. Cuuibert’s, Feb. 1G, 1(517. lie is the author of Die 
Psalmen Davids in allerlei teutsche Gesanyreiniengebracht 
(Cologne, 1582; 5th ed. 1709). See Koch, Gesch. des 
deutschen Kirchenliedes , ii, 442 sq. (II. P.) 

Ulfilas (Ulphilas, Ulfila, or Wulfila, prob. — 
Vuljiht, or “ wolfkin”), a Gothic bishop, was born among 
the Goths in 310 (or 311, or 313), and is believed to 
have belonged to a family of Cappadocian Christians 
whom the Goths had carried into captivity (Philostorg. 
Hist. Eccles. ii, 5). Having mastered the Gothic, Greek, 
and Hebrew languages, he became bishop of the Goths 
in 341, and (according to Auxeutius) in 348 settled, with 
permission of the emperor Constantins, in Mcesian ter- 
ritory, near Nicopolis. lie propagated among his peo- 
ple the love of letters, formed an alphabet of twenty- 
four characters, based on the Greek, and translated into 
j\I<eso-Gothie the whole Bible, excepting Kings. Ul- 
filas was a semi-Arian, subscribed to the Creed of Kimini 
in 359, was at the Synod of Constantinople in 3G0, and 
died while attending the (Ecumenical Council of 381. 
Ulfilas’s Bible was constantly used by the Gothic people 
so long as they maintained their nationality, but in the 
9th century it disappeared. In the latter part of the 
I (5th century. Arnold Mercator discovered in the Abbey 
of Werden a fragment containing the four gospels. It 
was the so-called Codex A rgenteus, written with silver 
letters on purple parchment. It is now preserved at 
Upsala, Sweden. Another fragment, containing nearly 
all the epistles of St. Haul, was discovered in 1818 on 
some palimpsests by cardinal Mai and count Castiglioni 
in the Lombardian monastery of Bobbio, and published 
at Milan (1819-39). See Gothic Version. Among 
its recent editors and commentators are Gabelenz, Lobe, 
Massmann, and Stamm. A new edition by Bernhardt 
appeared at Halle in 187G. See Bessel, Ueber das Leben 
des Vljilas und die Bekehruvg der Gothen (I8G0); Waitz, 
Ueber das Leben und die Lehre des Ufjila (1840). 

Ulfruna, in Norse mythology, was one of the nine 
beautiful giant-maidens, and became mother of the god 
Ileimdal, the guard of heaven. 

Ulin, John, a minister of the Methodist Episcopal 
Church, was born in Virginia in 1792 or 1793. After 
preaching ten or eleven years as a local preacher, he 
was admitted to the Ohio Conference in 182G. lie died 
of the cholera, near New Hichmond, O., July 13, 1833. 
Success attended his ministry. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences , ii, 27G. 

Uliiis, in Greek mythology, was a surname of A polio. 
It is uncertain whether he carried this name as a god 
of destruction or preservation. To him Theseus made 
an oath conditioned upon his safe return from Crete. 

UTla (II eh. UIla f , yoke or burden; Sept. ’O \d 
v. r. ’QXd; Vulg. Glia'), a descendant of Asher (perhaps 
the son of Jether or Ithran), and the father of four sons 
esteemed among the valiant chiefs of the tribe (l Chron. 
vii, 39). B.C. apparently cir. 1014. 


ULLAN MACIIAIT^E 


G 28 


ULLMANN 


Ullan Machaitae, in the religion of the Lamaites, 
was a sect calling themselves the Red-caps. They do 
not recognise Dalai-Lama as their head, hut have their 
own chief, Bogdo Lama. The sovereignty belongs to 
the emperor of China. 

Ulldra, in the superstition of the Norwegians, was 
the name of the river deity upon whom depended suc- 
cess and blessing in lishing. His favor was sought in 
like manner to that of Nipen. 

Uller, in Norse mythology, was the son of the beau- 
tiful golden-haired Sif, second wife of Thor; not by 
Thor, however, hut through a former union. Uller is 
renowned as a good protector and an excellent hunt- 
er, and walks upon scales, which are indispensable in 
Norway, with great alacrity, so that no one is compe- 
tent to keep up with him, lor which he is called Weida 
As, the hunting Asa. In the legend of Uller, that he 
was made king subsequent to Odin’s banishment from 
Asgard, eventually, however, was himself banished, and 
slain bv the victoriously returning Odin, the latest ap- 
pendix is quite evident. — Yollmer, Wbrterb. cl. JJythol. 
s. v. 

Ullmanil, Kaku an eminent German doctor and 
professor of theology, was born March 15, 17%, at Epfen- 
bach, in the Palatinate, and studied at the University of 
Tubingen, where he formed an intimate friendship with 
Uhland, Pfizer, and Schwab. In 1819 he took liis'dc- 
gree as doctor of philosophy, and commenced his pro- 
fessional career at. Heidelberg with lectures on exegesis 
and Church history. For ten years he stayed at Heidel- 
berg and published during this period, Dec zieeite Brief 
Petri kritisch untersucht (Heidelb. 1821): — Ueber den 
durch IU. Fr. llinck aus unnen. Uebersetzuug bekannt 
yemachten dritten Brief Pauli an die Corinther (ibid. 
1823) : — l)e Jlypsistariis (ibid, cod.) : — Gregory ofXazi- 
anzum (Darmstadt, 1825; 2d ed. 1867), which, as Dr. 
Sehaff says, is “ the most complete work on the life and 
doctrines of this eminent divine of the ancient Greek 
Church, who, for his able defence of the Nicene faith 
and the divinity of Christ, was emphatically styled the 
■Theologian.’” In 1828, together with his friend Utn- 
breit (q. v.), he also commenced the publication of the 
well-known Studien unci Kritiken, which has been be- 
fore the public ever since, and is still one of the ablest 
and most learned theological journals of Germany. For 
the first volume of this journal Ullmann wrote an essay 
on the Sinlessness of Jesus, which was afterwards printed 
separately, and published in its seventh edition in 1*63 
(Engl, transl. by S. Taylor, Kdinb. 1870). “In its im- 
proved form,” says Dr. Schalf, “it must certainly be 
numbered among the most valuable contributions to 
the apologetic literature of the Church, and is better 
calculated, in our judgment, to satisfy an inquiring and 
well-cultivated mind on the claims of our holy religion 
than many large volumes on the evidences of Chris- 
tianity. It shows the way by which the author him- 
self found the truth, and by which many a theological 
student of Germany has since escaped the whirlpool of 
rationalism and pantheism. ... It is impossible to read 
this book attentively without being edified as well as 
instructed, and overwhelmed with the glory of the only 
begotten of the Father that shines through the veil 
of his flesh upon the eye of faith and enlightened rea- 
son.” In 1829 Ullmann was called to Halle, and for 
about seven years he lectured, besides Church history, 
on symbolics and dogmatics; and in 1836 he returned 
again to Heidelberg as professor of ecclesiastical his- 
tory and Church councillor, and spent there the best 
years of his manhood. When, in 1853, Ullmann was 
elected to the prelacy, or the highest ecclesiastical dig- 
nity of the Evangelical Church, in the grand-duchy 
of Baden, he withdrew from the academic chair and 
took his residence at Carlsrnhe, devoting his whole en- 
ergy to the affairs of the Church. In connection with 
his like-minded colleague, the learned Dr. Biihr, au- 
thor of Symbolism of the Mosaic Worship, he faith- 


fully endeavored to build up the Protestant Church of 
Baden, which was deeply undermined by theological 
rationalism and political red - republicanism. When, 
however, the liberal element became too strong, he re- 
tired in 1861 from all public affairs, and died Jan. 12, 
1865. 

I llmann, starting from the school of Schleiermachcr 
and Neamler, was at first somewhat latitudinnrian in 
doctrine and too compromising in disposition, but lie 
grew with the better spirit of the age in orthodoxy 
and evangelical sentiment. Tims he not only took 
part, while at Halle, in the efforts made against 'the 
still existing remnant of rationalism, but also used all 
means at the General Synod, which met at Carlsrnhe 
in 1855, to have the rationalistic catechism heretofore 
in use replaced by a better one constructed on the basis 
of the small Lutheran and Heidelberg catechisms. 
Similar reforms he introduced with regard to the litur- 
gy and the common school-books. But more than 
through his ecclesiastical reforms, he acquired a last- 
ing reputation by a number of works “equally distin- 
guished Ibr solid and well-diffused historical informa- 
tion, comprehensive views, calm and clear reflection, 
dignified and conciliating tone, and masterly power of 
exhibition.” Besides those already mentioned, we name 
his Uistorisch oder J fythisch (Hamburg, 1838), in which 
he brings out the signification of Christ’s personality 
under a historical point of view, as an unanswerable ar- 
gument to the infidel work of Strauss on the life of 
Jesus: — Bas HVswi <les Christenthums (ibid. 1845; 5th 
ed. 1865), with a critical appendix on Feuerbach’s in- 
famous hook on the essence of Christianity : — Be Be - 
ryllo Bosireno ejusque Boctrina Comment atio ( ibid. 
1835). But his main work, which has assigned to him 
a rank among the first Church historians of the present 
century, is his Reformers before the Reformation (1841- 
42, 2 vols., forming also a part of Clark’s Foreign Theo- 
logical Library). This work “is certainly one of the 
strongest historical arguments Ibr the Deformation 
that have yet been presented. . . . What Flacius at- 
tempted in a crude form in the infancy of Protestant 
historiography, and w ith an unmeasured polemical zeal 
against the Romanists of li is age, Ullmann has carried 
out with all the help of modern erudition, in the calm, 
truth-loving spirit of an impartial historian, and with 
full acknowledgment of the great and abiding merits 
of Catholicism as the Christianizer and civilizer of the 
barbarian nations of the Dark Ages. With him the 
Reformation is not so much a rebellion as the flower 
and fruit rather of the better and deeper life of Chris- 
tianity that slumbered in tbe maternal bosom of me- 
dieval Catholicism. This, it seems to ns, is the. no- 
blest and strongest historical vindication of it” (Sehaff). 
In these two volumes special attention is paid to the 
German and Dutch forerunners of the Reformation from 
the 13th to the 15th century, who are treated with ex- 
haustive minuteness of detail. Here we find trustworthy 
and carefully sifted information on the life and theol- 
ogy of John Goeli, John Wessel, the Brethren of the 
Common Life, and the various schools of the mystics, 
Ruvsbroek, Suso, Tauler, Thomas a Kompis, the anony- 
mous author of the curious tract on German theology, 
and Staupitz, the patron and early friend of Lutlu r. 
The latter and principal part of t be second volume con- 
tains the author’s former monograph on John Wesstd 
(Hamburg, 1834) in an improved form which leaves 
hut little to be added. “But the work of Ullmann, al- 
though very satisfactory as far as it goes, does not ex- 
haust the general subject, which would require two or 
three additional volumes. He loaves out of view the 
important preparatory movement of Wveliffe and the 
Lollards in England, of Huss and the Hussites in Bo- 
hemia, of Savonarola in Italy, and of what is generally 
called the Revival of Letters and Classical Learnii g 
by such men as Erasmus, Reuehlin. Agricola; not to 
speak of the more negative preparation of die Reforma- 
tion by the anti-Catholic sects of the Middle Ages, es- 


ULPIIILAS 


629 


U L r F RAMON T A N ISTS 


pociallv the Waldenses and Albigenses” (ScliafT). Be- 
sides these works there are a number of essays from Ids 
pen in the Studien und Kritilcen , and other treatises 
published separately. See Zuchold, Kill, Theol.W, 1365 
sq. ; Herzog, Real - Encyklop. s. v.; Theohnjisches Uni- 
versal- Lexikon, s. v. ; Schaff, Germany, its Universities, 
etc., p. 345 sq. ; Bev sell lag, Dr. Carl Ullmann (Gotha, 
]<S67) ; Schenkel, A llgemeine kirchliche Zeitschrif (1867), 
p. 87 fob; Kurtz. Lehrbueh dev I\ irchejtgesch ichte (Mi- 
tau, 1874), ii, 384 sq. (B. 1\) 

Ulpliilas. See Ui.fi las. 

Ulric of Augsburg, in the l Oth century, occupied a 
noteworthy position among his contemporaries both as 
a prince and a prelate. He was born about A.D. 890 at 
Augsburg, educated at St. Gall, and ordained to his bish- 
opric Dec. 28. 923. In accordance with the custom of 
his time, he followed with his retainers the standards 
of the emperors Henry I and Otto 1. He was influen- 
tial in securing an armistice between llenrv and his re- 
volted son duke Liutulf in 954, and in the following 
year he won great fame by a successful defence of Augs- 
burg against the Magyars. He was equally zealous in 
the erection and adorning of churches and ehapels, and 
in the restoration of cities, castles, dwellings, and lands. 
His bounty was long the only support of impoverished 
priests and retainers. In the administration of his dio- 
cese he was accustomed to make journeys of visitation 
to dispense justice, confer absolution, and examine the 
official conduct, and private life of his clergy, lie great- 
ly increased the number of festivals and the pomp with 
which they were observed, and he was eminently zeal- 
ous in the collection of relics. He was, in brief, a thor- 
ough exponent of the piety of his age, and also a tine 
specimen of the militant churchman. Towards the 
close of his life he became more thoroughly an ascetic 
than before, and assumed the Benedictine habit. He 
died July 4, 973. Soon after his decease, it was re- 
ported that miracles were wrought upon persons who 
visited his grave, and his memory and remains were ac- 
cordingly highly venerated in Augsburg and vicinity. 
Provost Gerhard, who had been Ulric’s constant com- 
panion in the closing years of the bishop’s life, wrote a 
Life, in which many of these wonders are mentioned; 
and Ulric’s successor in the bishopric, Liutulf, persuaded 
pope John XV to canonize their author. The bull to 
i his effect was issued in February, 993, and is noteworthy 
as the first clearly authenticated document which marks 
t he transition from a saint-worship which grew natu- 
rally out of the excellences of character in Christians, 
to a saint-worship established by decree of the pope. 

Ulric’s name is mentioned in connection with the 
authorship of several writings, but without satisfactory 
proof. The first is entitled Nicolao Domino et Putri S. 
Rom . Led. Pro visor i U. [some MSS. have G.] solo No- 
mine Episc . Amorem ut Filius, Timorem vt Sevens, in 
Martene et Durand, Ampliss. Colleetio, p. 449-454. It 
was first printed by Flacius in 1550, and afterwards in- 
corporated with his Catalogus Testium Yeritutis. The 
second is a Sermo Synodalis Paroch . Presbyt. in Synod. 
Enuntiamlus, on which comp. Vogel, Ratherins von Ve- 
rona (Jena, 1854), i, 343, note. The last is an Epi&t. de 
Vita Notingi Episc. Constantiensis. The best source on 
Ulric is the biography translated bv Gerhard (983-993), 
and published by Waitz in Monum. Scriptores, iv, 377 
sq. The latter also gives a list of later and dependent 
lives. Comp., in addition, Mabillon, Acta SS. Ord. S. 
Bened. Siec. U; and Braun, Gesch.d. Bischofe v. Augsburg 
(Augsb. 1813), pt. i. See Herzog, Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Ull'ich, the name of a Swiss family noted for the 
theological learning of several of its members. 

1. Jean Jacques (1) was born at Zurich in 1509, 
and died there in 1038. He was educated at the schools 
of his own country, and afterwards at Middelbnrg. Leip- 
sie, Wittenberg, and Tubingen, and occupied different 
chairs of theology at Zurich, where he published vari- 
ous Biblical and historical works in Latin. 


2. Jean Jacques (2) was born at Zurich in 1683, 
and died there in 1731. He studied at his native 
schools, and also at Bremen, Franeker, and Leyden, and 
afterwards occupied a chair in the University of Zurich, 
lie wrote, besides sermons and commentaries, two or 
three historical works in Latin. 

3. Jean Caspar was born at Zurich in 1768, and 
died there in 1795. lie studied at his native place, 
and at Utrecht and Bremen, and, after travelling in 
Germany and the Netherlands, was engaged in ecclesi- 
astical labors and Oriental studies. Besides sermons 
and dissertations, he wrote one or two historical works 
in French. 

4. Jean Rodoepme was born at Zurich in 1728, and 
died there in 1795. lie was professor in the gymnasi- 
um there from 1703, and pastor in 1769. and w T as eminent 
for his piety and public sentiment. He left several ser- 
mons and ascetic works. See Biographic U hiverselle. s. v. 

Uliick, Henry, a G erman engraver, who flourished 
at Nuremberg from about 1590 to 1628. lie engraved 
some portraits, etc., among which were twelve circular 
prints, one of them a Crucifixion. See Spooner, Biog. 
Hist, of Fine A rts , s. v. 

Ulster, Synod of, the chief body of Presbyterians 
in the North of Ireland. See Presbyterian Churcii* 
es, No. 7. 

Ultimate Appeal to ScfwIpture Authority. 
It is the opinion of some persons that a considerable 
portion of the essentials of Christianity is not to be 
found in Scripture, but in a supplementary tradition, 
which is to be sought in the works of those early fa- 
thers who were orthodox. Others, again, utterly op- 
pose such notions; and, independently of the consid- 
eration that upon such a theory the foundations of a 
Christian’s faith and hope become inaccessible to near- 
ly the whole of the laity, and to much the greater part 
of the clergy, they reject the system on its own account. 
They acknowledge the authority of no private individ- 
ual. ancient or modern, in a question of doctrine. With 
true respect for all who are entitled to it, and with 
a just acknowledgment of the valuable instruction to 
be derived from their works, they yet consider that, be 
they of what age or of what country they may, anti- 
Nicene, or post-Niccne, Popish or Protestant, they are 
not to stand with them, as Christians, in place of the 
Holy Scriptures; or, as Christian ministers, in place of 
their own Church. — Eden, Churchman's Diet. s. v. See 
Faith, Bulk of. 

Ultor (the Avenger), in Roman mythology, was a 
surname of Mars, in whose honor a temple was built 
by Augustus for the revenge upon the murderers of 
Julius Caesar. 

Ultramontanists (from ultra monies, “beyond 
the mountains”), the name applied to those who recog- 
nise the papal claim of supremacy over every part of 
the Church, as well as over every sovereign within its 
boundaries; and also, since 1870. to those who accept 
the decrees of the Vatican Council. Ultramontanism 
dates from Gregory VII, who propounded the following 
claims: “Quod solus papa possit uti imperialibus in- 
signiis; quod solius papa* pedes omnes prineipes deos- 
culentur; quod illi lieeat imperatores deponere; quod 
a fldclitate iniquorum subjectos potest absolvere.” 
These views are principally maintained in the Italian 
peninsula, hut it is the tone generally adopted by Eng- 
lish seeeders. The free action of national churches is 
wholly superseded by such pretensions. The theory 
has apparently grown up from the feudal relations of 
the papacy as a temporal power. An assertion of au- 
thority so incompatible with catholic liberty aroused 
opposition on the other side of the Alps, in the Galliean 
and German churches, and in the Swiss cantons. Bel- 
larmine’s statements are important as regards papal 
infallibility, lie sets forth the opinion of divines in 
lour propositions: (l)*‘Tlie Roman pontiff ruling any 


ULTKAQUIST 030 

point, even in an oecumenical council, may be guilty of 
heresy, and of teaching others heresy — which has de 
facto happened (’2) “ The Human pontiff may be 
heretical and teach heresy, if he rule anything apart 
from synodical assistance, and this has happened de 
facto;" (3) “The pope cannot be in any way heretical, 
nor teach heresy publicly, even though he rule any 
point oil his own responsibility alone;” (4) That 
“ whether the pope can be heretical or not, he can rule 
nothing heretical as a point to be believed by the 
whole Church.” After the Council of Constance the 
question of the direct or indirect power of the papacy 
over states and sovereigns became the cldef point of 
dispute, and everywhere assumed a national character. 

In Germany Febronitis (bishop Houtheim) wrote a pow- 
erful work against Ultramontanism ; and in 1786, at 
the Convention of Ems, the archbishops of Mentz, 
Treves, Cologne, and Salzburg denounced it. In Italy 
its chief opponent in the last century was Scipione 
Ricci, bishop of Pistoja, who convened a synod in that 
city, September, 1780, and promulgated disciplinary de- 
crees and a doctrinal exposition favoring extreme Gal- 
lieanism and Jansenism. These were partially con- 
firmed, April 23, 1787, by an assembly of the bishops of 
Tuscany, but were condemned by Pius VI, in the dog- 
matic bull A ueforem Jidei, Aug. 28, 1794. 

Among modern assertors of the Ultramontane theory 
the most strenuous are English Humanists, especially 
neophytes. Among Continental writers are bishop 
Ziegler, Das hitholisvhe Glaubensprincip ; Carove. Die 
alleinselignuichende Kirche; Dev Papst im Verhiifiniss 
znm Kaiholicismits ; and the abbe Lamennais in bis 
journal V Avenir. Perhaps the work of greatest in- 
riuenee is Mohler’s Sgmbolik (1832). For a fuller ac- 
count of the controversies to which the claims of Ultrn- 
montanism have given rise, see Immaculate Concep- 
tion ; Infallibility; Papacy. 

Ultraquist, a term of reproach, in the IGth cen- 
tury, against certain persons who were permitted by 
their ecclesiastical rulers, in opposition to Homan cus- 
tom, to communicate under both kinds in the sacra- 
ment of the altar. — Lee, (Jloss. of Lit urg. Terms , s. v. 

Uma, in the epic and Puranie mythology of India, 
is one of the principal names of the consort of .Siva. 
She is also called lhiryd , Devi , Kali, Parvdti, Bhavdni; 
while there arc many more belonging to her of less fre- , 
queut occurrence, as Katyayani, Ambika , HaimavatiA 
Siva, etc. She was the younger of two sisters (Ganga 
being the older), and was so beautiful that she remain- 
ed thirty-six thousand years in the embrace of Siva, 
her husband. She was, however, barren, and inflicted . 
upon all the gods the curse of remaining childless. She 
also cursed the earth, making it constantly subject to 
change, and to be the wife of many husbands. In great 
anxiety, the gods now all turned to Brahma, who prom- 
ised that heaven should not be depopulated, and that 
Uma’s elder sister, Ganga, should, bv Siva, become moth- 
er of a son who should command the heavenly hosts in 
the great Dretnon-war. Thus it happened that Ganga 
became pregnant by Siva, and so also Uma, where- 
upon the latter became reconciled and withdrew the 
curse. Though the popular creed regarded Uma far 
more as the type of destruction than as that of divine 
wisdom, yet the works devoted to her praise never fail 
to extol her also as the personification of the highest 
knowledge. The myths relating to this goddess, who 
is worshipped in various parts of India — particularly in 
Bengal — are met with in the great epic poems and Pu- 
ranas, in poetical works such as the Kumarasambhava. 
and in modern popular compositions. She is as Kali 
(q. v.) the favorite divinity of the Thugs. See Moor, 
Hindu Pantheon; Muir, Original Sanscrit Texts (Loud. 
18(53), vol. iv; the Hariransa, translated by Langlois 
(Paris, 1834-35); and the Markandeya Parana, in the 
Bibliotheca Indicit , edited by Rev. K. M. Banerjea (Cal- 
cutta, 18G2). 


UMBREIT 



Kali (after the figure iu Coleman’s Mythology of the Hin- 
dus), 

Umbraculum (a little shade), an altar canopy, 
more generally called the ciborium (q. v.). 

Umbreit, Friedrich Wilhelm Carl, an eminent 
doctor and professor of theology of Germany, was born 
April 11, 1795, at Sonneborn, near Gotha. He studied at 
Gottingen, where Eichhorn instructed him in Oriental 
languages. In 1818 he took his degree as doctor of phi- 
losophy, and commenced his academical career as a pri- 
vate lecturer at. Gottingen. In 1820 he was called to 
Heidelberg as professor of theology and philosophy, where 
he became intimately connected withUllmann,Rothe,and 
others; and where he also died, April 2G. 18G0. Umbreit 
possessed a poetical nature, and was, as he himself ac- 
knowledged, unfit for ecclesiastico- political questions. 
II is piety had nothing to do with dogmatical hairsplit- 
ting; his faith in the living personal God, as lie revealed 
himself in Christ, his Son, and in the immortality — these 
were the only positions which he would not suffer to be 
attacked, lie wrote, Comment at io exhibens Hi star. Emi- 
rorum al Omrah ex Abu f da (Gott. 181G): — Koheleths, 
des weisen Kbnigs , Seelenkampf (Gotha, 1818) : — Coheleth 
Scepticus de Summo Bono (ibid. 1820): — lUcs bleibff 
Zeitgemdsse Betrachtuvgen des Kuniys vnd Predigers Su- 
lomo, etc.(l lamburg, 1849): — Salomons Lied vender Liebe 
(Gott. 1820; 2d ed. Heidelberg, 1828): — Erinnervng an 
das Hohelied{\ leidelherg, 1839) : — Das Buck Hiob (\h\d. 
1824; 2d ed. 1832): — Commentar iiber die Spriiche S ala- 
mos (ibid. 1820): — De Yeteris Testam. Prophetis, Cla- 
ris s. A ntiqniss. Tcmporis Oratoribus (ibid. 1833): — 
Christl. Erbaunng aus dem Psalter (Hamburg. 1835; 2d 
ed. 1848) : — Der Knecht Gottes (ibid. 1840) : — Practischcr 
Commentar iiber die Prophet en des alien Buiules (ibid. 
1841-46,4 vols. ; Daniel and Jonah are wanting) \—Die 
Siinde , Beit rag zur Theologie des .4. T. (Gotha, 1853) : — 
Der Brief an die. Rbmer. anfdem Grande des A. T. aus- 
gelegt (ibid. 185G). Besides these works, he wrote con- 
tributions to the Studien and Kritiken, Herzog’s Real - 
Encyklop., etc. See Zuehnld, Bibl. Theolog. ii. 13G7; 
Fiirst, Bibl. dud. i ii. 459; Kit to. Cyclop, s. v. ; Herzog, 
Real - Encyklop. xvi, G28 sq. ; Theolog. Universal - Lex. 
s. v.; Sehenkel, Allgem. kirchliche Zei/schrift , I860, vi, 


UMBRELLA 


631 


UNCIRCUMCISED 


11 sq. ; Miihlliauser, in the Xeue evangel. Kirchenzei- I 
tung, 1SG0, p. 23; Zittel, in the Allgemeine Kirchenzeitung, I 
18(50. |>. 54 ; Winer, Ihindbuch der theolog. Literatur , i, 
11, 8*2, 20G, 212, 213. 215; ii, 355 ; Diestel, Geschichte des 
A. T. in der christl. Kirche (Jena, 18(59), p. G58, GGG, GG8 
sq., 774, 781 : Kurtz, Lehrbnch der Kirchengeschichte (3Ii- 
tau, 1874), ii, 31G. (B. I\) 

Umbrella, in ecclesiastical ceremony, is borne over 
bishops and priests during solemn processions at coun- 
cils, and at other high solemnities, especially during 
processions of the blessed sacrament. The name was 
also applied to a kind of baldacchino of reil velvet, with 
golden summits, erected in 1550 over the altar of Win- 
chester College. See Lee, Gloss, of Liturg. Terms , s. v. ; 
Walcott, Sac. A rchtrol. s. v. 

Um'mah (Heb. Ummah 51*2^, union , as often; 
Sept. ’Aftftu v. r. ’Apyw/3 or 'Ap ye/}, Yulg. A mma ), a town 
of the tribe of Asher, mentioned between Aehzib and 
Aphek (Josh, xix, 30). Its site was evidently unknown 
to Eusebius and Jerome (Onomast. s. v. “ Amnia"). Dr. 
Thomson suggests ( Bibliotheca Sacra, 1855, p. 822) that 
it may be the modern village A olam, situated on the 
coast about five miles E.N.E. of IJas en-Nakurah, and 
described by him as a large ruin with excellent w r ater 
and fig-trees ( Land and Book, ii, 156). The Kefr A m - 
mieih suggested by Keil ( Comment . ad loc.) is cpiite be- 
yond the boundaries of the tribe. 

Umuruk, a title of the Chakkvan goddess Bel it. 

Umvin, John Harding, a Welsh Congregational 
minister, was born at A1 eld rith, Jan. G, 1818, and com- 
menced his ministry with village preaching. Find- 
ing Belthom a prosperous field for labor, he settled with 
that people, erected a commodious chapel, and built 
up a large congregation. II is uprightness of character 
and consistent walk in life won for him a large circle 
of true friends, lie died April 11, 18G7. See (Loud.) 
Cong. Year-book, 18G8, p.297. 

Unani Saiictam ( the one holy, i. e. Church) is the 
name of the famous papal bull published Nov. 18, 1302, 
so called from its first tw'o words. In this the memora- 
ble statement occurs, “ We declare, define, and pronounce 
that subjection to the Poman pontiff is for every hu- 


proach of him, robs him of his glory, is a contradiction 
to his will, and a contempt of his authority.” The 
causes of unbelief are Satan, ignorance, pride, and sen- 
suality. The danger of it is great; it hardens the heart, 
tills with presumption, creates impatience, deceives with 
error, and finally exposes to condemnation (John iii, 11). 

Naturalistic unbelief is that w hich is indifferent and 
1 opposed to revelation. The unbelief of reason is the 
making our reason independent of its own needs — the re- 
nunciation of the faith of reason. See Oharnock, 1 1 T orks, 
ii, 601; Case, Sermons, ser. 2; Portens, Sermons, vol. i, 
ser. 2; Owen, Reasons of Faith ; llannam , Compendium, 
ii, 26; Churchill, Essay on Unbelief ; Buck, Theol. Diet. 
: s. v. ; Fleming and Krauth, Vocab. of Phil. Sciences, s. v. 

Unbloody Sacrifice, a theological term to desig- 
nate the holy sacrifice of the altar. 

Unchangeableness of God. See Attributes 
of God; Immutability. 

Uncial Letters — so called as being an inch (Lat. 
uncia) long — characters of a large and round form used 
in some ancient MSS. The earliest form of an alpha- 
bet is its capitals, and the oldest Greek and Latin MSS. 
are written entirely in capitals. Uncial letters, which 
began to take the place of capitals in the middle of the 
5th century, differ from them in being composed of 
rounded and not straight lines, and exhibiting a ten- 
dency towards greater expedition in style. Uncial 
writing arose as writing on papyrus or vellum became 
common, the necessity for more rapid execution leading 
to the practice of curving the lines. Its being more 
easily learned than the cursive style was probably the 
cause of its becoming the favorite mode of w riting books 
of importance among the monkish scribes; while legal 
instruments, which required greater despatch, were exe- 
I cuted by professional scribes in a corrupted form of the 
Homan cursive hand. Uncial writing prevailed from 
the 6th to the 8th, or even 10th, century. The follow- 
ing specimens of uncial Greek and Latin writing are 
from a MS. of the four gospels and Acts of the Apostles 
in both languages, w ritten early in the 6th century, and 
presented to the University of Cambridge by Theodore 
j Beza in 1581. The passage is from John xxi, 19 — “sig- 
| nifving by what death he should glorify God.” 


cm lyteNicoNTi oiuj0anxtcoaoxac€ITONqm 

Greek Uncials. 


$ 1 C N LFK A KS C)-o^ tXtOJCT 6 TV O N ORip |CAb lTd cn 

Latin Uncials. 


man being altogether of necessity for salvation.” It 
also affirms that there are two swords, a spiritual and 
material — the one to be employed by the Church, and 
the other for the Church under the direction of its head ; 
and that to deny the subservience of the latter to the 
former is to maintain the doctrine of two principles, and 
to fall into the heresy of the Mauichueans. See Trench, 
Medieval Church Bist. p. 282. 

Unbelief, the refusing assent to testimony, the 
withholding of due belief. According to Kant, it is the 
withholding of assent to that w hich, though objective- 
ly insufficient as a ground of cognition, is subjectively 
sufficient as a ground of faith. Moral unbelief is the 
rejection of that which, though we cannot know it, is 
yet morally necessary, as faith in God, freedom, and 
immortality. “ It includes,” says Dr. Guvse, “ disaffec- 
tion to God, disregard to his word, prejudices against 
the Redeemer, readiness to give credit to any other 
than him, inordinate love to the world, and preferring 
of the applause of men to the approbation of God.” 
•• Unbelief,” says Charnock, “is the greatest sin, as it is 
the foundation of all sin : it was Adam’s first sin; it is 
a sin against the Gospel, against the highest testimony; 
a refusal to accept of Christ upon the terms of the Gos- 
pel. It strikes peculiarly at God; is the greatest re- 


During the 6th and 7th centuries a transitional style 
of writing prevailed in Italy, and to some extent else- 
where. in which the letters approximated more nearly 
to the Roman cursive hand: this passed bv a gradual 
transition into the minuscule manner, or small hand, 
which, from the beginning of the 10th century, became 
usual in 31 SS. See Silvestre, Universal Paleography 
(transl. and edit, by Sir F. Madden, Loud. 1850) ; Traite 
de Diplomatique, par deux Religieux Benedietins de la 
Congregation de St.-31aur (Paris, 1755). — Chambers's 
Encyclop. s. v. See Manuscripts. 

Uncircumcised (bnr, i. e. having a foreskin, 
cucpofivariav tywtq and so aKpofirarta, the prepuce, 
alone, for “ uneircumcision”), a word literally denoting a 
heathen among the flews. So also it is sometimes used' 
figuratively “of uncircumcised lips,” i. e. dull of speech, 
stammering, one whose lips still have, as it were, the 
foreskin, and are therefore too thick and large to bring 
out words easily and fluently (Exod. vi, 12,30). So, 
likewise, “their ear is uncircumcised,” shut up by a fore- 
skin (Jer. vi, 10); also “their uncircumcised heart,” to 
which the precepts of religion and piety cannot pene- 
trate (Lev. xxvi, 41 ; Dent, x, 16 ; Jer. iv, 4 ; Ezek. xliv t . 
9; Isa. vi, 10; Acts vii, 51 ; James i, 21 ; Col. ii, 13). 
So, also, “ the foreskin of a tree,” i. e. uncircumcised 


UNCLEAN 


C32 


UNCLEAN 


fruit, the fruit of the first three years, which by the law 
was to he regarded as unclean (Lev. xix, ‘23). JSee Cm- 

CUMCISION. 

Unclean (usually some form of the verb 
which is the technical term for ceremonial pollution; 
( ncdSaproc, impure ; but occasionally P * " " , naked; 
UHp, consecrated ; rn*, jllth ,* K'ocror, common'). Ill 
this article we treat ui' food prohibited by the Mosaic 
law, reserving defilements of the person for the follow- 
ing article. See Clean. 

The .lews were forbidden to eat things strangled, or 
dead of themselves, or through beasts or birds of prey; 
whatever beast did not both part the hoof and chew the 
cud; and certain other smaller animals rated as “creep- 
ing things'’ (p^w); certain classes of birds mentioned 
in Lev. xi and Ueut. xiv, twenty or twentv-one in all; 
whatever in the waters had not both fins and scales; 
whatever winged insect had not besides four legs the 
two hind- legs for leaping; besides things offered in 
sacrifice to idols; and all blood or whatever contained 
it (save perhaps the blood offish, as would appear from 
that only of beast and bird being forbidden [Lev. vii,2t>]). 
and therefore flesh cut from the live animal; as also all 
fat, at any rate that disposed in masses among the in- 
testines, and probably wherever discernible and separa- 
ble among the flesh (iii, 14-17; vii, ‘23). The eating 
of blood was prohibited even to “the stranger that 
sojourueth among you” (xvii, 10, 1*2. 13, 14), an exten- 
sion which we do not trace in other dietary precepts; 
e. g. the thing which died of itself was to be given 
“unto the stranger that is in thv gates” (Dent, xiv, ‘21). 
As regard* blood, the prohibition indeed dates from the 
declaration to Noah against “flesh with the life thereof 
which is the blood thereof,” in (fen. ix, 4, which was 
perhaps regarded by Moses as still binding upon all 
Noah’s descendants. The grounds, however, on which 
the similar precept of the Apostolic Council, in Acts xv, 
‘20, 21, appears based, relate not to any obligation rest- 
ing still unbroken on the (fentile world, but to the risk 
of promiscuous offence to the Jews and Jewish Chris- 
tians, “ for Moses of old time hath in every city them 
that preach him.” lienee this abstinence is reckoned 
among “ necessary things” (rd tTrdrayKe^), and “ things 
offered to idols,” although not solely, it may be | (re- 
sumed, on the same grounds, are placed in the same 
class with “blood and things strangled” (dns^crBrai 
tiCioXoSvTwr Kai aiparot; kci'i xi'i ktoo, ver. 2<S. 29). 
Besides these, we find the prohibition twice recurring 
against “seething a kid in its mother’s milk.” It is 
added, as a final injunction to the code of dietary pre- 
cepts in Dent, xiv, after the crowning declaration of 
ver. 21, “for thou art an holy people unto the Lord thy 
Cod;” but in Exod. xxiii, 19; xxxiv, 215, the context 
relates to the bringing first-fruits to the altar, and to 
the “angel” who was to “go before” the people. To 
this precept we shall have occasion further to return. 

The general distinction of clean and unclean is rightly 
observed by Michael is (Smith's Transl. art.ccii, etc.) to 
have its parallel among all nations, there being univer- 
sally certain creatures regarded as clean, i.e. fit for food, 
and the rest as the opposite (comp. Lev. xi, 47). With 
the greater number of nations, however, this is only a 
traditional usage based merely, perhaps, either on an 
instinct relating to health, or on a repugnance which is 
to be regarded as an ult imate fact in itself, and of which 
no turther account is to be given. Thus Michaelis (as 
above) remarks that in a certain part of (iermany rab- 
bits are viewed as unclean, i.e. arc advisedly excluded 
from diet. English feelings as regards the frog and the 
snail, contrasted with those of Continentals, supply an- 
other close parallel. Now, it is not unlikely that nothing 
more than this is intended in the distinction between 
“clean” and “unclean” in the directions given to Noah. 
The intention seems to have been that creatures recog- 
nised, on whatever ground, as unfit for human food, 


should not be preserved in so large a proportion as 
those whose number might be diminished by that con- 
sumption. The dietary code of the Egyptians, and the 
traditions which have descended among the Arabs, un- 
fortified, certainly down to the time of Mohammed, and 
in some cases later, by any legislation whatever, so far 
as wo know, may illustrate the probable* state of the 
Israelites. If the law seized upon such habits as were 
current, among the people, perhaps enlarging their scope 
and range, the whule scheme of tradition, instinct, and 
usage so enlarged might become a ceremonial barrier, 
having a relation at once to the theocratic idea, to the 
general health of the people, and to their separateness 
as a nation. 

The same personal interest taken by Jehovah in his 
subjects, which is expressed by the demand for a cere- 
monially pure state on the part of every Israelite as in 
covenant with him, regarded also this particular detail 
of that purity, viz. diet. Thus the prophet (Isa. Ixvi, 
17), speaking in his name, denounces those that “sanc- 
tify themselves (consecrate themselves to idolatry), eat- 
ing swine’s flesh, and the abomination, and the mouse.” 
ami those “which remain among the graves and lodge 
in the monuments, which eat swine’s flesh, and broth 
of abominable things is in their vessels” (lxv, 4). It 
remained for a higher lawgiver to announce that “ there 
is nothing from without a man that entering into him 
can defile him” (Mark vii, 15). The fat was claimed 
as a burnt -offering, and the blood enjoyed the highest 
sacrificial esteem. In the two combined, the entire vic- 
tim was by representation offered, and to transfer either 
to human use was to deal presumptuously with the 
most holy things. But. besides this, the blood was es- 
teemed as “the life” of the creature, and a mysterious 
sanctity beyond the sacrificial relation thereby attached 
to it. Hence we read, “ whatsoever soul it be that eat- 
eth any manner of blood, even that soul shall he cut 
off from his people” (Lev. vii, 27 ; comp, xvii, 10, 14); 
whereas the offender in other dietary respects was 
merely “unclean until even” (xi,40; xvii, 15). Blood 
was certainly drunk in certain heathen rituals, especially 
those which related to the solemnization of a covenant, 
but also as a pledge of idolatrous worship (Psa. xvi, 4 : 
Ezek. xxxiii, 25). Still there is no reason to think that 
blood lias ever been a common article of food, and any 
lawgiver might probably reckon on a natural aversion 
effectually fortifying his prohibition in this respect, un- 
less under some bewildering influence of superstition. 
Whether animal qualities, grosser appetites, and inhu- 
man tendencies might be supposed by the Hebrews 
transmitted into the partaker of the blood of animals, 
we have nothing to show : see, however, Josephus, A ut. 
iii, 11,2. See Blood. 

It is noteworthy that the practical effect of the rule 
laid down is to exclude all the carnivora among quad- 
rupeds, and, so far as we can interpret the nomenclature, 
the raptures among birds. This suggests the question 
whether they were excluded as being not averse to hu- 
man carcasses, and in most Eastern countries acting as 
the servitors of the battle-field and the gibbet. Even 
swine have been known so to feed; and. further, by their 
constant runcation among w hatever lies on the ground, 
suggest impurity, even if they were not generally foul 
feeders. Among fish, those which were allowed con- 
tain, unquestionably, the most wholesome varieties, save 
that they exclude the oyster. Probably, however, sea- 
fishing w r as little practiced by the Israelites; and the 
Levitical rules must be understood as referring back- 
ward to their experience of the produce of the Nile, 
and forward to their enjoyment of the Jordan and its 
upper lakes. The exclusion of the camel and the hare 
from allowable meats is less easy to account for, save 
that the former never w r as in common use, and is gen- 
erally spoken of in reference to the semi-barbarous des- 
ert tribes on the eastern or southern border-land, some 
of whom certainly had no insuperable repugnance to his 
flesh; although it is so impossible to substitute any other 


UNCLEAN 


633 


UNCLEAN 


creature for the camel as the “ship of the. desert” that 
to eat him, especially where many other creatures give 
meat much preferable, would be the worst economy 
possible in an Eastern commissariat — that of destroy- 
ing the best, or rather the only, conveyance in order 
to obtain the most indifferent food. The hare was 
long supposed, even by eminent naturalists, to rumi- 
nate, and certainly was eaten by the Egyptians. The 
horse and the ass would be generally spared from similar 
reasons to those which exempted the camel. As re- 
gards other cattle, the young males would be those uni- 
versally preferred for food, no more of that sex reach- 
ing maturity than were needful for breeding, while the 
supply of milk suggested the. copious preservation of 
the female. The duties of draught would require an- 
other rule in rearing neat-cattle. The laboring steer, 
man's fellow in the held, had a life somewhat ennobled 
and sanctified by that comradeship. Thus it seems to 
have been quite unusual to slay for sacrifice or food, as 
in 1 Kings xix, 21, the ox accustomed to the yoke. 
And perhaps, in this case, as being tougher, the tlesh 
was not roasted, but boiled. The case of Arauuah’s 
oxen is not similar, as cattle of all ages were useful in 
the thresliing-Hoor (2 Sam. xxiv, 22). Many of these 
restrictions must be esteemed as merely based on usage, 
or arbitrary. Practically, the law left among the al- 
lowed meats an ample variety, and no inconvenience 
was likely to arise from a prohibition to eat camels, 
horses, and asses. Swine, hares, etc., would probably, 
as nearly as possible, be exterminated in proportion as 
the law was observed, and their economic room filled 
by other creatures. Wunderbar ( Biblisch-talm . Medi- 
cin , ii, 50) refers to a notion that “the animal element 
might only with great circumspection and discretion 
be taken up into the life of man in order to avoid de- 
basing that human life by assimilation to a brutal level, 
so that thereby the soul might become degraded, pro- 
faned, tilled with animal affections, and disqualified for 
drawing near to God.” He thinks, also, that we may 
notice a meaning in “ the distinction between creatures 
of a higher, nobler, and less intensely animal organiza- 
tion as clean and those of a lower and incomplete or- 
ganization as unclean,” and that the insects provided 
with four legs and two others for leaping are of a high- 
er or more complete type than others, and relatively 
nearer to man. This seems fanciful, but may, never- 
theless, have been a view current among liabbinical 
authorities. As regards birds, the raptures have com- 
monly tough and indigestible tlesh, and some of them 
are. in all warm countries, the natural scavengers of all 
sorts of carrion and offal. This alone begets an instinc- 
tive repugnance towards them, and associates them with 
what was beforehand a defilement. Thus to kill them 
for food would tend to multiply various sources of mi- 
cleanness. Porphyry (Abstin. iv, 7, quoted by Winer) 
says that the Egyptian priests abstained from all fish, 
from all quadrupeds with solid hoofs, or having claws, 
or which were not horned, and from all carnivorous 
birds. Other curious parallels have been found among 
more distant nations. See Animal. 

But as Orientals have minds sensitive to teaching bv 
types, there can be little doubt that such ceremonial 
distinctions not only tended to keep Jew and Gentile 
apart, but were a perpetual reminder to the former that 
he and the latter were not on one level before God. 
Hence, when that economy was changed, we find that 
this was the very symbol selected to instruct Peter in 
the truth that God was not a “respecter of persons.” 
The vessel tilled with “fourfooted beasts of the earth, 
and wild beasts, and creeping things, and fowls of the 
air,” was expressive of the Gentile world, to he put now 
on a level with the Israelite, through God’s “purifying 
their hearts hv faith.” A sense of this, their preroga- 
tive, however dimly held, may have fortified the mem- 
bers of the privileged nation in their struggle with tiie 
persecutions of the Gentiles on this very point. It was 
no mere question of which among several means of sup- 


porting life a man chose to adopt, when the persecutor 
dictated the alternative of swine’s tlesh or the loss of 
life itself; but whether he should surrender the badge 
and type of that privilege by which Israel stood as the 
favored nation before God(t Mace. i,03, 04; 2 Mace. vi. 
18; vii, 1), The same feeling led to the exaggeration 
of the Mosaic regulations, until it was “unlawful for a 
man that was a Jew to keep company with, or come 
unto, one of another nation” (Acts x,28); and with such 
intensity were badges of distinction cherished that the 
wine, bread, oil, cheese, or anything cooked by a hea- 
then was declared unlawful for a Jew to eat. Nor was 
this strictness, however it might at times he pushed to 
an absurdity, without foundation in the nature of the 
case. The Jews, as, during and after the return from 
eaptivitv, they found the avenues of the world opening 
around them, would find their intercourse with Gentiles 
unavoidably increased, and their only way to avoid an 
utter relaxation of their code would lie in somewhat 
overstraining tiie precepts of prohibition. Nor should 
we omit the tendency of those who have no scruples to 
“despise” those who have, and to parade their liberty 
at the expense of these latter, and give piquancy to the 
contrast by wanton tricks, designed to beguile the Jew 
from his strictness of observance, and make him, un- 
guardedly, partake of what he abhorred, in order to 
heighten his confusion by derision. One or two in- 
stances of such amusement at the Jew’s expense would 
drive t he latter within the intrenchments of a univer- 
sal repugnance and avoidance, and make him seek tiie 
safe side at the cost of being counted a churl and a big- 
ot. Thus we may account for the refusal of the “ king’s 
meat” by the religious captives (Dan. i, 8), and for the 
similar conduct recorded of Judith (xii, 2) and Tobil 
(Tob. i, 11); and in a similar spirit Shakspeare makes 
Shylock say, “ I will not eat with you, drink with you. 
nor pray with you” ( Merchant of Venice , act i, sc. iii). 
As regards things offered to idols, all who own one God 
meet on common ground; but the Jew viewed the pre- 
cept as demanding a literal objective obedience, and 
had a holy horror of even an unconscious infraction of 
tiie law: hence, as he could never know what had re- 
ceived idolatrous consecration, his only safety lay in to- 
tal abstinence; whereas Paul admonishes the Christian 
to abstain, “for his sake that showed it and for con- 
science’ sake.” from a thing said to have been consecrat- 
ed to a false god, but not to parade his conscientious 
scruples by interrogating the butcher at his stall, or the 
host in his guest-chamber (1 Cor. x, ‘25-29) ; and to give 
opposite injunctions would doubtless, in his view, have 
been “compelling the Gentiles to live as did the Jews” 
(tovSai^eu', Gal. ii, 14). Sec Alisgema. 

The prohibition to “seethe a kid in its mother’s milk” 
lias caused considerable difference of opinion among com- 
mentators. Michaelis (art. ccx) thought it was meant 
merely to encourage the use of olive-oil instead of the 
milk or butter of an animal, which we commonly use in 
cookery, where the Orientals use the former. This will 
not satisfy any mind by which the clue of symbolism, 
so blindly held by the Eastern devotee, and so deeply 
interwoven in Jewish ritual, has once been duly seized. 
Mercy to the beasts is one of the under-currents which 
permeate that law. To soften the feelings and human- 
ize the character was the higher and more general aim. 
When Paul, commenting on a somewhat similar precept, 
says, “Doth God care for oxen, or saith he it altogether 
for our sakes?” he does not mean to deny God’s care for 
oxen, but to insist the rather on the more elevated and 
more human lesson. The milk was the destined sup- 
port of the young creature: viewed in reference to it, 
the milk was its “life,” and had a relative sanctity re- 
sembling that of the forbidden blood (comp. Juvenal, xi, 
68, “Qui plus lactis habet quam sanguinis,” speaking of 
a kid destined for the knife). No doubt the abstinence 
from the forbidden action in the case of a young creature 
already dead, and a dam unconscious probably of its loss, 
or whose consciousness such a use of her milk could in 


UNCLEANNESS 


634 


UNCLEANNESS 


nowise quicken, was based on a sentiment merely. But ' 
the practical consequence, that milk must he foregone 
or elsewhere obtained, would prevent t lie sympathy 
from being an empty one. It would not be the passive 
emotion which becomes weaker by repetition, lbr want 
of an active habit with which to ally itself. And thus 
its operation would lie in indirectly quickening sympa- 
thies for the brute creation at all other times. The 
Talmudists took an extreme view of the precept, as for- 
bidding generally the cooking of flesh in milk (Mishna, 
Chitlin , viii; llottinger. Leg. Ilebr. p. 117, 141). 

It remains to mention t lie sanitary aspect of the ease. 
Swine are said to l>e peculiarly liable to disease in their 
own lxidies. This probably means that they are more 
easily led than other creatures to the foul feeding which 
produces it; and, where the average heat is great, de- 
eomi>ositiou rapid, and malaria easily excited, this ten- 
dency in the animal is more mischievous than else- 
where, A nieazel or mezel , from whence we have “ mea- 
sled pork,” is the old English word for a “leper,” and it 
is asserted that eating swine’s flesh in Syria and Egypt 
tends to produce that disorder ( Bart hoi it ms, De Morbis 
Dibl.c.xVu; \Vimderbar,p,51). But there isan iudetinite- 
ness about these assertions which prevents our dealing 
with them scientifically. J teazel or mezel may well, in- 
deed. represent “leper,” but which of all the morbid 
symptoms classed under that head it is to stand for, 
and whether it means the same, or at least a parallel, 
disorder in man and in pig are indeterminate questions. 
See Lki*ku. The prohibition on eating fat was salubri- 
ous in a region where skin diseases are frequent and vir- 
ulent. and that on blood had, no doubt, a similar tenden- 
cy. The case of animals dying of themselves needs no 
remark: the mere wish to insure avoiding disease, in 
case they had died in such a state, would dictate the 
rule. Yet the beneficial tendency is veiled under a cer- 
emonial difference, for the “stranger” dwelling with the 
Israelite was allowed it, although the latter was forbid- 
den, Thus is their distinctness before God, as a nation, 
ever put prominently forward, even where more common 
motives appear to have their turn. As regards the an- 
imals allowed for food, comparing them with those for- 
bidden, there can be no doubt on which side the balance 
of wholesomeness lies. Nor would any dietetic econo- 
mist fail to pronounce in favor iff the Levitical dietary 
code as a whole, as insuring the maximum of public 
health, and yet of national distinctness, procured, how- 
ever, by a minimum of the inconvenience arising from 
restriction. 

Literature. — Bochart, Ilierozoicon ; Forskal, Descrip- 
Hones A mmalivm , etc., quee in It mere Orientali Obser ca- 
vity with his leones Her uni Natural ium ; and liosenmiil- 
ler, Ihmdbnch tier bibl. A Iterthumskuude, vol. iv, Natural 
History , may be consulted on some of the questions con- 
nected with this subject; also, more generally, Mai- 
monides, De ('ibis Vet it is ; Rein hard, De Cibis Jhbneo- 
rum Drohibitis. — Smith. See Foor>. 

Uncleanness (chiefly HN used in the almost 
technical sense of Levitical defilement) is the term by 
which, in the law of Moses, is indicated that condition 
which caused the temporary suspension of a Hebrew 
man or woman from religious and social privileges as a 
subject of the Theocracy. 

1, About seventy specific cases of possible unclean- 
ness are described, and others implied. Various modes 
of classifying them have been resorted to. The old 
Jewish writers made two classes, according to the length 
of the ceremonial suspension. The lighter class em- 
braced the instances of uncleanness for the day; the 
heavier class, those of a longer period ( Desictha , in Ugol, 
xv, 1148; Maimonides, Constitution^ in Ugol. viii, 58, 
where the contaminated of the lighter class is called 
C'“ de die lavandus ; comp. Lightfoot, Harm, of 

(). T. [HW* by Pitman, ii, 122]; although he give's 
four classes, according to time). Other writers (see Cor- 
nelius ii Lapidc on Lev. xv, 22) make also two classes, 


but on a different principle: “Duplex fuit immundities 
llebr. l T na erat peeeatum, quia prrecepto Dei vetita, 
talis erat eomedere earnes immundas. Tnlis etiam erat 
pari lopram, etc. Altera non erat vetita, sed solum ju- 
dicata ct statuta, talis erat tangere leprosum, etc. I live 
non erant peecata, sed tantum indueebant irregularita- 
tetn quandain.” Modern Jews profess to be bound only 
by tbe former of these classes. The threefold classifica- 
tion, however, which is indicated in the law of Moses 
itself seems to be most convenient, and is most com- 
monly adopted — (r/) “Every leper;” (b) “Every one 
that hath an issue;” (r) “Whosoever is defiled by the 
dead” (see Numb, v, 2). The lawgiver, no doubt, here 
refers to his own enactments in Leviticus, and under 
the three generic phrases includes all the instances of 
uncleanness. 

(1.) lie begins with leprosy, the gravest of all in- 
stances. A minute diagnosis of this terrible malady in 
its ceremonial character, and the purification which the 
law prescribed, are given in Lev. xiii. See Lkukosy. 

(2.) Under the second head, of uncleanness from “is- 
sues,” are included all those physical emanations or 
bodily discharges to which either sex is liable. They 
are described in their several details in the following 
passages: [I.] The woman’s periodical issues in Lev. 
xv, 19-24, and irregular issues in ver. 25-27. These 
were alike unclean in themselves (the former for seven 
days, the latter during the irregularity), and communi- 
cated uncleanness during the day alike to “whosoever 
touched her,” “her bed,” or “anything that she sat 
on;” from which uncleanness they escaped “at even” 
by washing their clothes and bathing. Any man who 
so far forgot decency as to lie with her and be stained 
with her menstrual taint incurred an equally long de- 
filement as the woman herself, and like her communi- 
cated uncleanness to the bed whereon he lay. On the 
day after the cessation of her issue (the eighth) the 
woman, for her purification, was to bring two turtle- 
doves or two young pigeons, one for a sin-ollering and 
the other for a burnt-offering, to the priest, who was to 
make atonement for her before the Lord. [2.] The is- 
sues of males, two sorts of which are mentioned in Lev. 
xv, 3, produced uncleanness with effects precisely sim- 
ilar to those of women (see ver. 4-12). This is not 
the place to discuss the nature of these male fluxes; 
Michael is adduces strong reasons for disputing the gen- 
eral opinion, which denies that the Gonorrhaa virulent a 
is referred to in the passage before us {Lairs of J loses 
[Smith's transl,], art, cexii). See Issvk. The purifica- 
tion prescribed for men under this defilement is identi- 
cal with that for women (ver. 13-15). [3.] Sexual 

copulation, including conjugal intercourse, caused to 
both man and woman uncleanness “until t lie even,” 
from which they were to cleanse themselves and their 
garments by bathing and washing (ver. 1G-18). [4,] 

The final result of the sexual act in childbirth produced 
a still more marked defilement (see Lev, xii). The 
mother’s uncleanness in this her puerperal state, on the 
birth of a boy, was identical in duration with that of 
her menstrual issues. Seven days was she unclean 
(ver. 2); on the eighth the child was circumcised (ver. 
3) ; after which the mother remained in private, ex- 
cluded from the sanctuary, during thirty-three days 
more (ver. 4). This period of forty days’ defilement 
was doubled in the case of the birth of a maid child 
(ver. 5). The purification rites of the mother, however, 
were the same, whether observed at the end of the forty 
or of the eighty days. She brought a yearling lamb 
for a burnt-offering, and a young pigeon or turtle-dove 
for a sin-offering, unto the priest, that he might make 
atonement for her before the Lord, and she might be 
cleansed. In ease of inability to bring the lamb, the 
substitution of another young pigeon or turtle-dove by 
tbe mother was allowed (ver. G-8; comp, t lie Virgin 
Mary’s humbler offering in her “low estate,” Luke ii, 
22-24). In our general article on the Law or Moses, 
we bad occasion to remark on t lie probable substratum 


UNCLEAXNESS 


635 


UNCLEANNESS 


of moral and religious mystery which underlies much 
of the ceremonial enactments. The havoc made hy sin 
on our human race seems most strongly indicated by 
the fact that the normal ami inevitable conditions of 
our natural life are affected with nneleanness. The 
gradations of pollution from conception to parturition, 
and their remarkable culmination in the birth of the fe- 
male child, are wonderfully significant of the original 
“transgression,” and of woman’s first and heavier share 
in it (1 Tim. ii. 14 ; comp, with Gen. iii. 6, lfi. 17). 

The two periods in the mother’s purification are. 
however, different in character. “ For seven days, im- 
mediately after she is brought to bed. she lies 
nnX'Zli:, ‘in the blood of her uncleanness: but the 
three-and-thirtv following, rnnu ■’72*12. ‘in the blood 
of her purifying.’ Although the privacy continued to 
the mother, she was after the seven days released from 
the ban of nneleanness. and did not communicate de- 
filement to others, as in the previous period of her per- 
fect isolation and disability. The old Jewish authori- 
ties are as usual very dogmatic on the point; * In Pe- 
sietka, col. 4, it is written, mn2 n 7212. “in the blood 
of her purifying;” HTina 1PI33 CT PrElW 
“ though she issue blood like a Hood, yet is she clean.” ’ 
Nor doth she defile anything by touching it but what 
is holy” (Light foot, Exercitt. on St. Luke [ed. PitmanJ, 
xii,37). 

(3.) Equally noticeable, as might be expected, are the 
traces of this havoc as displayed in the various unclean- 
nesses of death — the third and last of our chapters of 
classification ; and herein we recognise the deeper im- 
plication of our human race in the ruin, above all other 
living beings. “ By the law of Moses,” says Light foot, 
"‘nothing was unclean to be touched while it was alive, 
but only man : a man in leprosy was unclean to be 
touched, and a woman in her separation; but dogs, 
swine, worms, etc., were not unclean to be touched till 
they were dead; and there were alsq different degrees 
herein; while touching a dead beast brought unclean- 
ness for a day, touching a dead man produced the un- 
cleanness of a week,” etc. {Harm, of 0. T. as above). 
This gradation of defilement from contact with death 
is described — («) In Lev, xi, 8, 1 1, 24, 26, 27, 31-35, 39, 
40; xvii, 15. ( h ) In Lev. xxii, 4-8. (e) In Numb, 

xix, 11, 14, 16. (d) In Numb, vi, 9. In the first of 

these four sections, the nneleanness arises from the dead 
bodies of animals, fishes, birds, and reptiles. It was the 
shortest in duration, lasting in every ease only "until 
even;” and it was to be terminated uniformly by the 
washing of the clothes. The last statute, Lev. xvii, 15, 
prescribed ablution of the person also for ‘"every soul 
that eateth that which died of itself, or that which was 
torn with beasts.” In the second section, the same de- 
filement is described as incidental to the priests, no less 
than to the laity, from which they must free themselves 
by ablution. So much for the minor uncleannesses 
from the dead. Our third and fourth sections contain 
the instances where the major disability of seven days 
is occasioned by contact with human dead: “Whoso- 
ever toucheth one that is slain with a sword in the 
open fields, or a dead body, or a bone of a man. or a 
grave, shall be unclean seven days.” As the defilement 
was deeper, so was the mode of purification more elab- 
orate and solemn. For the details of the ceremony — 
the sacrifice of the red heifer without the camp; the 
sevenfold sprinkling of her blood before the tabernacle; 
the utter consumption by fire of the slain animal; the 
cedar-wood, hyssop, and scarlet cast into the burning 
mass; the gathering-up of the ashes; their mixture in 
running water for “the water of separation ;” the sprink- 
ling of this water over the unclean person, on the third 
and the last of the seven days ; his own washing of his 
clothes and bathing of his person, and his final cleansing 
on the evening of the seventh day — the reader will con- 
sult the 19tli chapter of Numbers. Our fourth section 


describes the interruption of the Nazarite’s vow bv any 
sudden death happening in his presence. This mortali- 
ty “lost him” all the days of his vow which had tran- 
spired, and required for its own expiation also the usual 
hebdomad, on the last day of which lie was to shave 
his head, and on the morrow bring two young pigeons 
or two turtles to the priest, that he might present them 
as a sin-offering and a burnt-offering as an atonement 
for the polluted. See Purification. 

2. A few stray instances remain of a peculiar kind, 

which we proceed to class in a supplementary notice. 
(1.) We have then under this head, first, the rases of 
what may be called official nneleanness. [✓/. j The priest 
who superintended the holocaust of the red heifer was 
rendered unclean until evening by the part he took in 
the sacred rite; from this defilement he purified him- 
self by the washing of his clothes and the ablution of 
his person (Numb, xix, 7). This nneleanness was the 
more remarkable from the precautionary character of 
the law, which in other eases seemed strongly to aim 
at preserving the priests, as far as might be, from the 
incidence of ceremonial pollution (see Lev. xxi, 1-4). 
[5.] The man that burned the heifer was involved in 
the same defilement as the priest, from which he was 
also extricated by a similar purification (Numb. xix,8>. 
[t\] So, again, the man who gathered the ashes of the 
consumed heifer was unclean until evening; but from 
this disability he was released by the lesser ceremony 
of simply washing his clothes (ver. 10). Similar in- 
stances of uncleanness, arising out of official routine, oc- 
cur in the ordinances of the Day of Atonement. [</.] 
The man who dismissed the scape-goat was to wash 
his clothes and bathe himself before returning to the 
camp (Lev. xvi, 26), and a like purification was re- 
quired of him who burned the bullock and the goat of 
the sin-offering (ver. 28). [>.] Under this head of 

official nneleanness, we may perhaps place the abnormal 
case of the Israelitish soldiers who slew the Midianites at 
the command of Moses (Numb, xxxi, 17). They were 
to remain outside the camp seven days; purify them- 
selves on the third and on the seventh day; cleanse 
their raiment, etc., with either fire or the water of sepa- 
ration, as the ease might require, and on the last day 
wash their clothes (ver. 19, 20, 23,24). 

(2.) Besides these eases of official uncleanness, we find 
one instance sui generis occurring in Deut. xxiii. 10, 11, 
which, with its purification, is thus described: “ If there 
be among you any man that is uot clean by reason of 
uncleanness that ehanceth him by night, then shall he 
go abroad out of the camp . . . but when evening comet h 
he shall wash himself with water, and when the sun is 
down, he shall come into the camp again.” It may be 
observed that this case is not designated by the usual 
term ; the phrase merely denotes its accidental 

character, TlPIS-aft. 

(3.) Our enumeration, to be complete, should include 
the aggregate uncleanness of the priest and his house- 
hold, and the nation (Lev. xvi); this was expiated by 
the grand ritual of the great Day of Atonement, for the 
imposing details of which ceremony we must refer the 
reader to our article on that subject. 

3. Some few historical instances of nneleanness, and 
more of purification, are mentioned both in the Old 
Test, and the New Test. As being, however, applica- 
tions only of some of the statutes which we have given 
above, we shall refrain from adducing them here, ex- 
cept one ease, which is important because it led to the 
enactment of a proviso in the law. “There were cer- 
tain men, who were defiled by the dead body of a man. 
that they could not keep the Passover on that day.” 
They stated their difficulty to Moses and Aaron, the 
former of whom referred it to the Lord, and obtained 
from him a statute allowing a supplemental celebration 
of the Passover for such as were incapacitated in the 
manner in question or on a distant journey (Numb, ix, 
6-P2). See Passovkk. 


UNCLEANNESS 


G3G 


UNCTION 


In contrast with this relief was the inflexible penalty 
threatened against all wilful neglect of the various rites 
of purification prescribed in the law. The fullest formula 
i*f this penalty occurs in Numb, xix, 20: “ The man 
that shall be unclean and shall not purify himself, that 
soul shall be cut off from among the congregation [or, 
as it runs in ver. Id, ‘from Israel’], because he hath de- 
filed the sanctuary of the Lord.” That, this excision 
meant death is evident from Lev. xv, 31, and xx, 9 (see 
Miehaelis, Lairs of Moses [Smith’s transl.j, iv, 4d. and 
Keil on Gen. xvii, 14). Jehovah, the theocratic king and 
holy God. who had his own ways of ••cutting off” i he dis- 
obedient, is pleased to include in bis sentence of excision 
the reason for its infliction — “because be hath defiled 
the sanctuary of the Lord.” This is in direct accord- 
ance with the principle by which the Divine Legislator 
repeatedly sanctions his laws: “ Ye shall be holy; for 1 
the Lord your God am holy” (Lev. xix, 2, and frequent- 
ly elsewhere), and it was the recognition of these saint- 
ly duties which always characterized the pious Israel- 
ite, “God” (says the psalmist, l’sa. Lxxxix, 7) “is 
greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints 
which is likewise the word used in the for- 
mula of Leviticus; the phrase also, 

which occurs in ver. 5 of this psalm, is the frequent 
designation of the political organization of the Israel- 
ites], and to be had in reverence of all them that are 
about him.” 

The Mosaic ritual on uneleanness illustrates much of 
the phraseology of the Psalms and the prophets, and 
(what is more) many statements in the New Test., not 
only in obvious comparisons, as in the Epistle to the 
Hebrews, but in oblique phrases, such as in Eph.v, 2G, 
27, where the apostle, “speaking of Christ’s washing 
t he Church, that he might present it to himself ‘ with- 
out spot or wrinkle,’ etc., seemeth to allude to the Jews’ 
exceeding great curiousness in their washings for pu- 
rification” (Lightlbot, who quotes Maimonides in Mik- 
raoth , 111, iii, 297). 

In conclusion, we must refer to the notices of purifica- 
tion which occur in the New Test, These are of three 
kinds— (u) the legitimate instances, such as that of t lie 
Virgin Mary (Luke ii, 22), the leper (Mark i, 4J), the 
Nazarite (Acts xxi, 23, 24), all of which make express 
reference to the law; ( b ) the unauthorized eases, such as 
t he traditional and Pharisaical washings of the hands 
(Matt, xv, 2), and of tables, cups, and platters (Mark 
v ii. 4), all which the Lord condemned in strong terms 
as superstitious encroachments on the divine law; (c) 
the doubtful cases, such as the case of those who came 
to Jerusalem to purify themselves before the Passover 
(John xi, 55), and the discussion mentioned in John iii, 
25. “Their controversy,” says Light foot, “was partly 
about the pre-eminence of the Judaical washings and 
the evangelical baptism — and here the Jews and John’s 
disciples were at opposition, and partly about the pre- 
eminence of John’s baptism and Christ’s — and here the 
Jews would hiss them on in the contestation” ( 1 1 T orks 
[ ed. Pitman], v, 67). 

4. Our object in this article has been to collect the 
scriptural laws on uneleanness and purification, we 
have avoided the Jewish traditional doctrines. These 
may be discovered by tbe curious on sucli subjects by a 
careful use of the indexes to tbe works of Light foot, 
Schbttgen (Hone lleb. el Talm »<?.), and Surenhusius 
(Mishtia). Dr. Wotton, in his work on the Mislma (i, 
160-170), has analyzed the Seder Taharoth, or Order of 
Purifications , which contains the authorized tradition 
on the subject oi our article. “ In this order,” says 
Wotton, “ more than in any of the rest, the true Phari- 
saical spirit which our blessed Lord so severely repre- 
hends in Matt, xv and Mark vii is plainly and fully 
seen.” We subjoin tbe names of tbe chief “titles” or 
sections of this order: 1. Kelim, vessels; 2. Ohalut/t, tents 
— treating of pollutions from the dead; 3. Neguim. 
plagues — of leprosy ; 4. Par ah, the red heifer; 5. Taha- 


roth , purifications — relating to lesser uncleannesses 
which last but a day; 6. Mikraoth, collections of water 
for the cleansing baths, etc.; 7. Xiddah , menstrual pollu- 
tions; 9. Zabim , men that have seminal unclean nesses; 
10. Tibbul Yom , washed bv day (see above); and 11. 
Yudaint , bands— the constitutions ill which title have 
no foundation in the written law. — Kitto. See Tal- 
mud. 

Uncles, Joseph, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born Keb. 17. 1812, in Anne Arundel County, Md. 
He was converted when about eighteen years old; fol- 
lowed school-teaching for some time in Eastern Penn- 
sylvania; graduated at Alleghany College in 1838; 
labored two years as professor of moral science in 
j Madison College, Uniontown, Pa., and subsequently as 
I principal of Woodsrield Academy, O., and at Meadville. 
In 1843 he joined the Erie Conference, and labored suc- 
cessively at Greenville. Randolph. Forestville. Portland, 
Jamestown. Silver Creek, Northeast, and Painesville. 
In 1854 Mr. Uncles was prostrated by disease, and re- 
tired to Meadville. where he spent two years as a su- 
perannuate. and where, after two years’ labor at Sha- 
ron, he died. Nov. 12, 1858. He was devout, energetic, 
and eminently successful. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences ', 1859. p. 198; Simpson, Cyclop, of Methodism, 
s. v. 

Unconditioned Election. See Election of 
Grace. 

Unction ( anointing'), an ecclesiastical ceremony 
which consists in the application of sacred oil to a per- 
son or thing. In the Roman Catholic Church there are 
several of these ceremonies, which are described below. 
See Anointing. 

1. Unction of an Altar. — This consists in anointing 
with holy oil the five crosses of an altar-slab by tbe 
bishop who consecrates it. The Latin formula is as fol- 
lows: “ Consecrctur et sanctificetur hoc sepulchrum. In 
nomine Patris, et Filii, et Spirit us Sancli. Pax lmic 
domui.” This rite has been abolished in the Church of 
England since the Reformation. See Chrism. 

2. Unction of the Baptized. — Some, but not all, of the 
ancient ritualists mention an unction preceding bap- 
tism, and used by way of preparation for it. It was 
called yplffic gvcracov i\aiov, the “unction of the mys- 
tical oil.” It was consecrated by the bishop, with the 
prayer that “God would sanctity the oil in the name 
of the Lord Jesus, and grant it spiritual grace ami effica- 
cious power, that it might be subservient to the remis- 
sion of sins, and the preparation of men to make their 
profession in baptism, that such as were anointed there- 
with, being freed from all impiety, might become wor- 
thy of the initiation according to the command of his 
only begotten Son.” Men were thus anointed that they 
might be partakers of the true olive-tree, Jesus Christ.; 
and the exorcised oil was a symbol of their partaking 
of the fatness of Christ, and an indication of the flight 
and destruction of the adverse power. See Ilingham, 
Christ. Antiq. bk. xi, ch. ix. § 2, 3. See Raptism. 

3. Unction of the Confirmed. — This is anointing with 
holy oil those confirmed. In the Roman Church the 
formula runs thus. “ Signo te signo crucis; et confirmo 
te chrismnte salulis. In nomine Patris, et Filii, et 
Spirit ns Saneti. Amen.” In the Church of England 
this rite was abolished at the Reformation, and in the 
Scottish Episcopal Church, as well as the Protestant 
Episcopal Church "bf the United States, no unction is 
now used. See Confirmation. 

4. Unction of a Priest. — This is anointing with holy 
oil a person promoted to the priesthood. This rite is 
peculiarly Latin. When using the holy oil, the bishop 
who ordains prays thus; “Consecrare et sanctificare 
digneris, Domine, manus istas per istam unetibnem et 
nostram benedictionem. Amen. Ut quaecumque bene- 
dixerint benedicantur,et qmeeumque consecraverint con- 
secrentur, et saneti ficentur, in nomine Domini nostri Jesu 
Christi. Ameu.” There is no such consecration in the 


UNIATES 


637 


UNCTION, EXTREME 

Greek form for bestowing the priest hood. See CONSE- 
CRATION. 

5. Unction of the Sick. See Extreme Unction. 

UNCTION, Extreme. See Extreme Unction. 

UNCTION in Preaching is that gracious assistance 
of the IIolv Spirit which quickens the mental powers, 
gives a glow to the feelings, and imparts such a spirit- 
ual tone to the preaching of the Word as renders it effi- 
cacious in making the truth convincing and authorita- 
tive. See Spirit (Holy), Baptism of. 

Undergird ( 07 ro^iovvvpi, lit. to gird under the 
breast, 2 Macc. iii, 10; comp. .Elian, U. II. x, 22), a 
naval term employed (Acts xxvii, 17) to designate the 
act of passing cables around the middle of a ship in or- 
der to strengthen it (so Polybius, xxvii, 3, 3; Appian, 
Bell. Civ. v, 01 ; Plato, Rep. p. GIG). See Ship. 

Underhill, James Evan, an English Wesleyan 
missionary, was a native of Staffordshire. He was ap- 
pointed to Jamaica, W. I., by the Conference of 1817. 
His diligence in study and knowledge of Methodist doc- 
trine ami discipline qualified him to give instruction and 
manage wisely the affairs of his charges. He died of 
fever at Morant Bay, Jamaica, Sept. 24, 1821. in the 
twenty-seventh year of his age. He was much beloved 
by his people. See Minutes of Wesleyan Conference , 
1822. 

Undersetter (3)115, katheph, a shoulder , as usually 
rendered), an appendage to the laver (q.'v.) in the Tem- 
ple of Solomon (1 Kings vii, 30, 31), consisting, according 
to Keil ( Comment . ad loc.) of props running up from the 
body of the vehicle and holding the basin between them. 

Underwood, Alvan, a Congregational minister, 
was born at West Woodstock, Conn., Sept. 8, 1777. lie 
graduated at Brown University in 1708, studied theology 
with Rev. Dr. Sanger, and was ordained pastor in his na- 
tive plaee in 1801, dismissed in 1833, and thereafter sup- 
plied for nearly ten years vacant churches, particularly 
those in West ford and South Killinglv, and finally, for 
a year or more, his former charge in Woodstock, where 
he died, April 4, 1858. He published a few sermons and 
tracts. See Cong. Quarterly , 18G1 , p. 355. 

Underwood, Henry Beman, a Congregational 
minister, son of Rev. Almon Underwood, was born at 
Poughkeepsie, N. V., Dec. 25, 1839. He studied at 
Mo nson Academy, Mass., graduated from Williams Col- 
lege iu 18G2, and from Andover Theological Seminary 
in 18G5, after having spent two years in the Union 
Theological Seminary. He was ordained at Ringwood, 
III., Jan. 19, 18CG, and was acting pastor there until the 
following year, when he began preaching at East Long- 
meadow, Mass., remaining two years. 1 1 is next field 
of labor was Marlborough, N. If.; then Baxter Springs, 
Kan. In 1871 he was installed pastor of the church at 
Hillsborough Bridge, N. II. , in which position lie re- 
mained for one year and four months. The last charge 
which he filled was at Algona, la., where he became 
acting pastor in 1873, and died Sept. 2, 1875. See Cong. 
Quarterly , 187G, p. 43G. 

Underwood, Joseph, a Congregational minis- 
ter, was born at Bradford, Vt., Oct. 2, 179G. He ac- 
quired bis preliminary education at Kimball Union 
Academy from 1817 to 1820, and at Chesterfield Acad- 
emy in 1821, and graduated from Bangor Theological 
Seminary in 1824. His ordination occurred at New 
Sharon, Me., and he was pastor there from 182G to 1831. 
During 1827-30 he was also serving as acting pastor at 
Industry. In this latter office he served the Church at 
North Augusta from 1832 to 1833. He was installed 
pastor at Williamsburgh, Me., in 1833, and remained 
there two years, during which time he was also acting 
pastor at Sebec. The two years following be served as 
a home missionary in Foxcroft, Dover, Atkinson, Milo, 
and Bradford, when he was reinstalled at New Sharon, 
Feb. 22, 1837, remaining there two and a half years. At 
Millport and Veteran, N. V., he was installed pastor in 


1841, and was dismissed in 1843. As acting pastor, he 
preached at Hardwick, Vt., for two years, and then, m 
December, 184G, he was installed there, continuing in 
charge until February, 1858. During the following 
year he was acting pastor at Burke, Vt.; from I8G0 to 
18GG at Barnet; and from 1870 to 1872 he again served 
the Church at Burke. After the last date he resided, 
without, charge* at Hardwick, of which town lie was a 
representative in the Vermont Legislature in 185(5, 
1868, and 18G9. He died July 27, 187G. See Cong. 
Quarterly , 1877, p. 426. 

Undine (from undo, “ wave”), in mediaeval super- 
stition is a water- sprite, corresponding nearly to the 
nymphs of classical mythology. Paracelsus has given 
several minute rules what to do and how to act when 
one has happened to marry an Undine, and Friedrich 
de la Motte Fouque has treated the subject iu a German 
tale entitled Undine. 

Ungal-. Several of the water-gods of the ancient 
Accadian mythology have names beginning with Ille- 
gal, as l T ngal-aba, “ the king of the wave;” Unynl-a - 
abba, “the king of the sea;” Ungal-aruula, 11 the king 
of the river.” See Lenormant, Chald. Magic , p. 184. 

Ungclian, John. See John, Presteii. 

Unger, Salomon Gottlob, a Protestant divine of 
Germany, was born April 25, 1752, at Nieder-Pollnitz, 
near We id a, and died June 16, 1818, at Colleda. in Thu- 
ringia. He wrote. Anmej'kungen iiber den Horns odir 
von der Weissagnng Bar ids mid der Starke ihres Be - 
weises f nr die Gottlichkeit mul Messianitat Jesu (Leips. 
1784): — De Auctoritate Librarian V. T. in Familia I)n 
(ibid. 1785): — Die Schriften des alten Bnndes, etc. (ibid. 
1787) \—De Thermis Sidonis Jos. xi, 8, et xiii, G, Memo- 
ratis Pauca Disp. (ibid. 1803) : — Lutherus .1 uctoritatem 
Librorum Mosis apud Christ! a?ios Vindex (ibid.). See 
FUrst, Bilf.Jud. iii, 4G1 ; Winer, Ilandb . der theol. Li- 
ter atur, i, 820, ii, 811. (B. P.) 

Ungewitter, Reinilvrd Christoph, a Protestant 
theologian of Germany, was born at Marburg, Jan. 25, 
1715. He studied in his native plaee, and when twen- 
ty-one years old he publicly defended his dissertation 
De Studio Prophetico sobrie Instituendo. After com- 
pleting his studies, he went to Cassel in 173G, and until 
the year 1778 he was actively engaged in pastoral du- 
ties. While on a visitation in his function as superin- 
tendent and member of consistory, be was paralyzed, and 
was thus deprived of the power of speech. Although 
unable to preach, yet he performed the duties connected 
with his ecclesiastical position, and died Dec. 31,1784. 
He published, Erkldrung des Brief es des heiligen Jakobs 
(Lemgo, 1754) : — Commentatio de Theologo Tempori Ser- 
vienie (Hersfeldue, 1755) : — Yersuch einer freien Ueber- 
setzung der beiden Brvfe Petri mid der drei Briefe Jo- 
hannis (Frankfort, 1757 ): — Predigten iiber wichtige 
Glaubenswahrheiten and Lebenspfichten (Cassel, 1780-81, 
2 vols.). See During, Gelehrte Thtologen Dentschlunds , 
iv, 551 sq. (B. P.) 

Unhallowed Uses. In the consecration of a 
church or chapel among the Episcopalians, the building 
is said to be separated henceforth “ from all unhallowed, 
ordinary, and common uses.” 'The word “ unhallowed,” 
as here used, does not mean simply such things as are 
morally evil, impure, and contrary to the spirit of re- 
ligion, which is the popular sense, but strictly all such 
purposes as are not hallowed, made sacred, and conse- 
crated to holy purposes.— Stanton, Diet, of the Church, 
s. v. 

Uniates are Eastern Christians in external com- 
munion with the see of Rome, and are most numerous 
in those provinces which formerly belonged to Poland. 
When Sigismund 111 was elected to the crown of Po- 
land, being a zealous agent, of the Jesuits, be at once 
took measures for reconciling the Polish Church to 
Rome. His plans were so successful that the archbish- 
op of Kief summoned a synod at Brest, in Lithuania, to 


UNICORN 


038 


UNICORN 


whom he presented the necessity and advantages of a 
union with Home. The clergy favored the project, hut 
it met with a strong opposition from the laity, and 
could not then he carried into etl'ect. At a synod which 
met at the same place Dec. 2, 1594, the. archbishop ami 
several bishops gave their assent to the scheme of 
union which had been proposed at the Council of Flor- 1 
ence. thus recognising the Pilioijne , or double procession 
of the Nicene Creed, and acknowledging the supremacy i 
of the pope. They stood out, however, for retaining 
the use of the vernacular Slavonic in the celebration 
of divine service for the ritual and discipline of the 
Eastern Church. On the return of the biHiops sent to 
Rome to announce this event, the king, in 159G, con- 
vened the synod at Brest for the publication and intro- 
duction of the union. This was met bv a public pro- 
test on the part of t lie opposite party, which repudiated 
the acts of the Cniates, and declared their unaltered at- 
tachment to the ancient Church of their country and to 
the patriarch of Constantinople. Sigisinuiid deprived 
them of their churches and convents, and forbade the 
promulgation of Greek doctrines in his dominions. This 
division of the Church continued in full force until the 
partition of Poland, in 1772, at which time between two 
and three millions of the Cniates gave up their al- 
legiance to Rome, and returned to the Eastern Church. 
In 1831) 2,000,000 more were reconciled; but there are 
still about 300.000 in Russia and 3,000,000 in Austria. 
See Krasiuski, Reform in Poland; Mouravief, Hist, of 
the Church of Russia ; Neale, Patriarchate of Alexan- 
dria. — Blunt, Hist, oj' Sects, s. v. 

Unicorn is the invariable but unfortunate render- 
ing in the A. V. of a lleb. word which occurs nine times 
in three slightly varied forms (CS"l, reem, Numb, xxiii, 
22; xxiv, 8; plur. [E n EX*T reemini\ Psa. xxix, 0; Isa. 
xxxiv, 7; C^NT recym , Psa. xlii, 10; E“^\ reym, Job 
xxxix, 0, 10; and CT, nan [only with plur. C'E!, re- 
?«?/«], Psa. xxii, 21 ; never with the article; Sept, po- 
voKipu)£ or dcpoe ; Vulg. rhinoceros or unicornis) as the 
name of some large wild animal. More, perhaps, has 
been written on the subject of the unicorn of the an- 
cients than on any other animal, and various are the 
opinions which have been given as to the creature in- 
tended. The etymology of the Heb. term (according 
to Gesenius, from EXH ESP, to he high ; but according 
to Fi'irst. from an obscure root ENT to roar ) affords no 
clear indication of the animal, and hence we must resort 
to indirect means for elucidating the subject. 

I, Scriptural Characteristics. — The great strength of 
the recm is mentioned in Numb, xxiii. 22; Job xxxix, 
11 ; his having two horns in Dent, xxxiii. 17 ; his lieree 
nature in Psa. xxii, 21: his indomitable, disposition in 
Job xxxix. 9-11; t lie active and playful habits of the 
young animal are alluded to in Psa. xxix, G: while in 
Isa. xxxiv, G, 7, where Jehovah is said to he preparing 
“a saeritiee in liozrah,” it is added, “ Reemim shall come 
down, and the bullocks with the hulls.” The following 
is a close rendering of Job’s famous description of this 
animal (xxxix, 9-12) : 

“ Will Reym he disposed to serve thee? 

Would lie perchance lodge on thy stall? 

Canst thou tie Kevin in a furrow [with] his braid? 

Will he perchance harrow valleys after thee? 

Wilt thou trust in him, becanse vast [is] his force; 

Or leave to him thy labor? 

Wilt thou believe in him, that he will return [home] 
thy seed. 

Or [into] thy threshing-plat gather [it]?” 

II. Modem Attempts at Identification. — 1. The retail 
of the Hebrew Bible has little at all to do with the one- 
horned animal mentioned by Ctesias (Indica, iv, 25-27), 
/Elian (Xaf. A mm. xvi, 20), Aristotle (Hist. Auim. ii, 2, 
8), Pliny (//. A T . viii. 31), and other Greek and Roman 
writers (Solin. 55: Nieeph. II. E. ix, 19), as is evident 
from Dent, xxxiii, 17, where, in the blessing of Joseph, 
it is said, “ His glory is like the firstling of his bullock, 


and his horns are like the horns of a unicorn ” (TPJD 
CX* .), not, as the text of the A. Y. renders it, ‘‘the horns 
of unicorns .” The two horns of the retm are “the ten 
thousands of Ephraim and the thousands ol’ Manasseh” 
— the two tribes which sprang from one — i. e. Joseph, 
as two horns from one head. This text puts a one- 
horned animal entirely out of the question, and, in con- 
sequence, disposes of the opinion held by Bruce ( Trar . 
v, 89) and others, that some species of rhinoceros is de- 
noted, or that maintained by some writers that (he retan 
is identical with some one-horned animal said to have 
been seen by travellers in South Africa and in Thibet 
(see Barrow, Travels in South Africa, i, 312-318; Asi- 
atic Journal , xi, 154), and identical with the veritable 
unicorn of Greek and Latin writers. 

Little, however, can be urged in favor of the rhinoc- 
eros, for, even allowing that the two-horned species of 
Abyssinia (R. bicornis) may have been an inhabitant 
of the woody districts near the Jordan in Biblical times, 
this pachyderm must be out of the question, as one which 
would have been forbidden to be sacrificed by the law 
of Moses; whereas the retail is mentioned by Isaiah as 
coming down with bullocks and rams to the Lord’s sac- 
rifice. “Omnia animalia,” says Rosenmiiller (Schol. in 
Is. loc. cit.), “ad sacrificia idonea in iinum congregan- 
tur.” Again, the skipping of the young retail (Psa. 
xxix, G) is scarcely compatible with the habits of a rhi- 
noceros. Moreover, this animal, when unmolested, is 
not generally an object of much dread, nor can we be- 
lieve that it ever existed so plentifully in the Bible 
lands, or even would have allowed itself to be suffi- 
ciently often seen so as to be the subject of frequent, 
attention, the rhinoceros being an animal of retired 
habits. 

2. Bochart (Hieroz. ii,335) contends that the Hebrew 
retail is identical with the Arabic rim , which is usually 
referred to the Oryx lencoryx , the white antelope of 
North Africa, and at one time, perhaps, an inhabitant 
of Palestine. Bochart has been followed by Rosenm id- 
ler, Winer, and others. 

But with regard to the claims of the Oryx lencoryx. 
it must be observed that this antelope, like the rest of 
the family, is harmless unless wounded or hard pressed 
by the hunter; nor is it remarkable for the possession 
of any extraordinary strength. Figures of the oryx 
frequently occur on the Egyptian sculptures, “being 
among the animals tamed by the Egyptians and kept 
in great numbers in their preserves” (Wilkinson, Anc. 
Egypt, i, 227, ed. 1854). Certainly this antelope can 
never be the fierce indomitable retail mentioned in the 
book of Job (see Lichtenstein, Ceb. d. A ntilopen des nordl. 
Africa [ Berl. 182GJ). See Antelope. 

3. Arnold Boot (Animad. Suer, iii, 8 [Loml. 1644]), 
with much better reason, conjectures that some species 
of Crus, or wild-ox, is the retan of the Hebrew Script- 
ures. lie has been followed by Sclmltens (Comment, in 
Jubnm xxxix , 9, who translates the term by Eos syfres- 
tris; this learned writer has a long and most valuable 

! note on this question), Parkluirst (Heb. Lex. s. v. ENH), 
Maurer (Comment, in Job . loc. cit.). Dr. Harris (Xat. Hist, 
of the Bible), and by Cary (Xotcs on Job, loc. eit.). 

Considering that the retail is spoken of as a two-horn- 
ed animal of great strength and ferocity, that it was ev- 
idently well known and often seen by the Jews, that it 
is mentioned as an animal tit for sacrificial purposes, and 
that it is frequently associated with bulls and oxen, we 
think there can be no doubt that some species of wild- 
ox is intended. The allusion in Psa. xeii, 10, “ But 
thou shalt lift up, as a recym, my horn,” seems to point 
to the mode in which the Boridte use their horns, low- 
ering the head and then tossing it up. But it is impos- 
sible to determine what particular species of wild-ox is 
signified. At present there is no existing example of 
any wild bovine animal found in Palestine; but nega- 
tive evidence in this respect must, not be interpreted as 
affording testimony against the supposition that wild 


UNICORN 


G39 


UNICORN 


cattle formerly existed in the Bible lands. The lion, 
for instance, was once not un frequently met with in 
Palestine, as is evident from Biblical allusions; but no 
traces of living specimens now exist there. l)r. Both 
found lions’ bones in a gravel bed of the Jordan some 
few years ago; and it is not improbable that some future 
explorer may succeed in discovering bones and skulls 
of some huge extinct Crus, allied, perhaps, to that gi- 
gantic ox of the llercynian forests which Cajsar (Bell. 
Gall. vi. 20) describes as being of a stature scarcely be- 
low that of an elephant, and so tierce as to spare neither 
man nor beast should it meet with either. “ Notwith- 
standing assertions to the contrary,” says Col. Hamilton 
Smith (Ivitto, Cyclop, art. “ Bcem”), “the urns and the 
bison were spread anciently from the Bhiue to China, 
and existed in Thrace and Asia Minor; while they, or 
allied species, are still found in Siberia and the forests 
both of Northern and Southern Persia. Finally, though 
the buffalo was not found anciently farther west than 
Aracoria, the gigantic Gaur (Bibos gaums) and several 
congeners are spread over all the mountain wildernesses 
of India and the , Sheriff al-\Yady ; and a further colossal 
species roams with other wild bulls in the valleysof Atlas. 
We figure Bibos cacifrons, a species which is believed 
to be still found south-west of the Indus, and is not re- 
mote from that of the Atlas valleys.” See Wild Bull. 



4. Bussell ( Aleppo , ii,7), Robinson (Bibl. Res. ii, 412), 
and Gesenius (Thesanr. s. v.) have little doubt that the 
buffalo (Bubalus buffalos) is the reem of the Bible; and 
this opinion is shared by Umbreit, Ilitzig, Ewald, Heng- 
stenberg, and other commentators. Although the Chain - 
sa. or tame buffalo, was not introduced into Western 
Asia until the Arabian conquest of Persia, it is possible 
that some wild species (Bubalus arnee, or />. brachyce - 
ms) may have existed formerly in Palestine. See 
Buffalo. 

III. The Unicorn Proper. — 1. Legendary Xotiees . — 
Throughout classical antiquity (as seen above) vague 
notions of a true unicorn prevailed. In the ovot dypiot 
of Ctesias, which were larger than horses — white, with 
a horn on the forehead a cubit long, which were very 
swift and strong, not ferocious unless at- 
tacked, and then irresistible, so that they 
could not be taken alive — we can trace the 
original of the familiar form that figures 
in the English national, heraldic shield. 

Aristotle and Herodotus follow Ctesias, 
and Strabo gives the unicorn a deer-like 
bead. Oppian makes it a bull with un- 
divided hoofs and a frontal horn; and Ca> 
sar, who puts it in the llercynian forest, 
gives its single horn palmate branches like 
those of a deer. Pliny draws the portrait 
with the greatest attention to details. It 
was a most savage beast, generally like a 
horse, with the head of a deer, the feet of 
an elephant, the tail of a boar, a deep bel- 
lowing voice, and a single black horn, two 
cubits long, projecting from the middle of 
its forehead. See the Awh. and Mag. of 
Nat. Hist. Nov. 1802. 

Although the medalltc history of the 


kings of Maeedon (Havercampius,(?e??.//iV.[in the Dutch 
language]) furnishes no coins bearing a single-horned 
goat, it is still asserted by Maillot and others that such 
was to be found among their ensigns; but this was most 
probably after the Macedonian conquest; for a single- 
horned ibex appears on the bas-reliefs of Che el-Minar ; 
another occurs on a cylinder; and one cast in brass, sup- 
posed to have been the head of a Macedonian standard, 
was found in Asia Minor, and presented to the Antiquari- 
an Society of London. If mysterious names were resolv- 
able by the canons of pictorial definition, the practice of 
imagining horns to be affixed to the most sublime and 
sacred objects would be most evident from the radical 
meaning of the word cherub, where t lie notion of horns 
is everywhere blended with that of “power and great- 
ness.” See CuEut'niM. There were also horns at the 
corners of altars — the beast with ten horns in Daniel, 
etc. (eh. vii). In profane history we have the goat- 
head ornament on the helmet of the kings of Persia, 
according to Ammianns, more probably Ammon horns: 
such Alexander the Great had assumed ; and his suc- 
cessors in Egypt and in Persia continued a custom 
even now observed by the chief cabossiers of Asliantee, 
who have a similar rain-head of solid gold on the front 
of their plumy war-caps. Indeed, from early antiquity 
Greek and Ionian helmets were often adorned with two 
horns; among others the head of Seleucus I (Nicator) 
appears thus on his coins. The practice extended to 
metal horns being affixed to the masks or chaffrons of 
war-horses (so coins of Seleucus Nicator) and of ele- 
phants (Antioehus Soter) ; and they form still, or did 
lately, a part of the barbed horse-armor in Bajahstan. 
Triple-horned and bicorned helmets arc found on early 
Gallic and Iberian coins; they were again in use dur- 
ing the chivalrous ages; but the most remarkable, the 
horn of strength and dominion, is seen elevated on the 
front of the helmet impressed on the reverse of the 
coins of the tyrant Tryphon, who, in his endeavors to 
obtain Syria, was at war with Antioehus Sidetes during 
the a?ra of the Maccabees, and was not likely to omit 
any attribute that once belonged to its ancient kings. 
See IIokn. 

2. Scientific Descriptions . — In later times the fancy 
ran riot in describing and figuring the unicorn, and no 
one who attempted a l fist aria Xuturalis thought his 
work complete without full particulars concerning this 
interesting beast. As some of the descriptions of the 
ancients were a little inconsistent with each other, and 
as t lie materials were too valuable to allow any to be 
sacrificed, different species of unicorn were established, 
in the copiousness of which the most fastidious student 
might satisfy his choice. Thus there were the wald- 
esel, the meer-wolf, the ox-hoofed unicorn, the camel- 
hoofed unicorn, the sea- unicorn (not the cetacean so 
named), the two-horned wald-esel (one horn behind 
the other), and several others, all of which are duly 



Unicorn (Rhinoceros simus). 


UXICULUS 


040 


UNION WITH CHRIST 


indefatigable Johnston (Hist. Xu/.' their country. This bull was, however, overruled for 

good. It tended to confirm Protestants in their sepa- 
ration from Komc; and it affords a full and satisfactory 
answer to the falsehood put forth by popish priests, 
that they do not hide the Scriptures front the people. 
See Blunt, Diet, of Tlteol. s. v.j Farrar, Keeks. Diet. 
s. v. 

Unio MystTca (mystical union) is a theological 
term applied to that intimate union between God and 
man that results through the exercise of saving faith, 
some features of the old descriptions which had been See Ilagenbach, Hist, of Doctrines (I860), i, 188; ii, 


figured by the 
1057). 

Admitting that there is abundance of chaff in all 
this, naturalists have for some time been inclining to 
admit that there may be some little wheat also (see 
Meyer, Ueb.il. Siingthier Reem [Leips. 1790]). The rhi- 
noceroses of India and Africa showed that a single cen- 
tral horn was not in itself unnatural; and the discov- 
ery of several species of this huge pachyderm in the 
outheru [tarts of the latter continent has brought out 


assumed to be fabulous. Some years since the mis- 
sionary Campbell excited much interest by sending 
home from South Africa the head of a rhinoceros which 
came much nearer that of the traditionary unicorn 
than anything as yet known to naturalists. It bore a 
single straight slender horn, projecting from the face 
to the height of three feet, with a small tubercle- 
shaped horn immediately behind this. The zoological 
researches of Dr. Andrew Smith, and the exploits of 
not a few naturalist sportsmen in the wild-beast regions 
lying to the north of the Cape Colony, have made ns 
familiar with this species ( Rhinoceros shuns), as well as 


288. 

Union American Methodist Episcopal 
Church, Tu 15, was founded by Kev. Peter Spencer, 
in Wilmington, Del., June, 181.1, and was composed of 
seceding colored members of the Methodist Episcopal 
Church. It was chartered under the tide of “The 
African Union Church,” which it retained until af- 
ter the war, when its present name was adopted. 
Originally the ministers served without compensation, 
and without any limit to their term of service. The 
societies, though, adopting common articles of religion, 


familiar with this species (Rhinoceros sunns), as well ns ’ ..... 1 . ,, . , ” , ’ 

. , . v .ft , usages, ami discipline, were distinct from each other. In 

others with a similar arrangement ol horns. — Ivitto; , ^ . 1 , 

18< 1 a convention was called, which adopted nil itinerant 
hmitli ; tairbairn. . . ...... ’ . . ' . 

’ ministrv, limiting the pastoral term to two vears; and 


Uniculus, a Low-Latin term for an alms-box with 
a perforated cover. 


permitting compensation. The doctrines are precisely 
those of the Methodist Episcopal Church, as are also the 


Uniformity. The ecclesiastical use of this word ' general features of the government. They have a gen- 


is to denote the use of one and the same form of public 
prayers, administration of sacraments, and other rites, 
etc., prescribed by the Acts of Uniformity. The first 
of these was issued by Parliament during the reign of 
Elizabeth, and provided — lor the first offence, forfeiture 


eral conference, meeting once in four years; annual con- 
ferences, of which there are now five; quarterly confer- 
ences; love-feasts; and class-meetings. A general super- 
intendent is elected by the General Conference, who holds 
his office for four years, and is eligible to re-election. The 


of one year’s profits and six months’ imprisonment; for general superintendent in 1878 was Kev. Edward Will- 
the second offence, deprivation of all spiritual promo- iams, and two subsuperintendents, Kev. John C. Kainsev 
tions and imprisonment for one year; and for the third and Kev. A. S. Sandlord, D.D. The statistics in 187G are 
offence, deprivation of all spiritual promotions and im- given as follows: 
prisonment for life (see stat. 1 Eliz. 
c. 2, § 4-8). According to the act 
passed in the reign of Charles 11, 

U>02, every person obtaining prefer- 
ment in t lie Church or universities 
must declare his assent to everything 
contained in t be Hook of Common 
Prayer. See Conformity. 


Oaileittices. Preachers. Me. nbers. 

S. S. Sch' liirs». ( lull cli Property. 

Delaware and Pennsylvania . 

New England 

New Jersey 

Canada West 

GO 

25 

G 

5 

25 

1347 

GOO 

3O0 

300 

3)5 

21 NO 

200 

103 

50 

$50,000 

45.000 

35.000 

5.000 

5.000 


Total j 121 

2802 J 2533 

$140,000 


Uuigenitus (so called from its first word, referring 
to the vnly-beyutten Son), Tiie Bull, was an instrument 
which was issued by pope Clement XI, and made its 
appearance on Sept. 8, 1713. It was directed against 
the French translation of the New Test, with notes, 
published by Quesnel, a celebrated Jansenist. In con- 
sequence of the disputes which this hook had occasion- 
ed, it had previously been condemned in 1708; but, this 
step being found ineffectual, Clement proceeded to con- 
demn one hundred and one propositions contained in 
the notes. The following may he taken as a specimen 
of the opinions denounced by this bull : “ No graces are 
given except through faith.” “The reading of the Sa- 
cred Scriptures is lor all.” “The obscurity of the Sa- 
cred Word is no reason for laymen to dispense them- 
selves from reading it.” “The Lord's day ought to be 
sanctified by Christians for works of piety, and, above 
all, for the reading of the sacred Scripture. It is dam- 
nable to wish to withdraw a Christian from this read- 
ing.” This bull, procured by Louis XIV and the Jes- 
uits, produced great commotions in France. Forty Gal- 
lican bishops accepted it; but it was opposed by many 
others, especially by Noailles, bishop of Paris. Sixteen 
bishops suspended the bull in their dioceses. They 
were supported by the universities of Paris, Kheims, 
and Nantes, and by the Paris faculties of theology, law, 
and arts. Many of the prelates and other persons ap- 
pealed in vain to a general council, and were for this 
reason ealled Appellants. A persecution was raised 
against those who adopted the principles of the Jan- 
senist Quesnel, and many of them were obliged to Hoe 


Union with Christ, that act of divine grace by 
which we are joined to Christ ; and is considered, I. As 
virtual, or that which was formed from all eternity 
(Eph. i. 4) ; 2. Vital, or spiritual , formed in the moment 
of our regeneration (John xvii, 20; 1 John iv, 13). It is 
represented in the Scripture by the strongest expres- 
sions language can admit of, and even compared to the 
union between the Father ami the Son (John xvii, 11, 
2L etc.). It is also compared to the union of a vine 
and its branches (xv,4, 5) ; to the union of our food wil h 
our bodies (vi. 50, 57); to the union of the body with the 
head (Eph. iv, 15. 10); to the conjugal union (v,23,30); 
to the union of a king and his subjects (Mutt.xxv, 34, 
40); to a building (l Pet.ii.4, 5; Eph. ii, 21, 22). It is 
also represented by an identity or sameness of spirit (I 
Cor. vi, 17) ; bv an identity of body (xii, 12, 27) ; by an 
identity ol interest (Matt, xxv, 40; John xx. 17). This 
union must be considered, not as a mere mental union only 
in comfort or notion ; nor a physical union, as between 
the head and the members; nor as an essential union, 
or union with the divine nature ; hut as a mystical union 
(Eph, v, 32); an honorable union (1 John iii, 1,2); a su- 
pernatural union (1 Cor. i,30); holy (1 John iii. 24); nec- 
essary (John xv, 4) ; inviolable (Horn, vi ii, 38,30). Some 
state it thus: 1. A union of natures (Ilob. ii, II); 2. Of 
actions, Christ’s obedienee being imputed to us, and our 
sins reckoned to him (2 Cor. v. 21) ; 3. Of life (Col. iii, 4); 
4. Of sentiment (2 Cor. v. 17); 5. Of interest (Matt. xxv, 
34, etc.) ; 0. Of affection (2 Cor. v, 14); 7. Of residence 
(John xvii, 21). The at) vantages of it are knowledge 
(Eph. i, 18), fellowship (1 Cor. i, 9), security (John xv), 


UNION OF CHURCHES 641 UNITARIANISM 


felicity (1 Pet. i, 8), spirituality (John xv, 8) ; and, in- 
deed, all the rich communications of spiritual blessings 
here and hereafter (Col. i, 22). The evidences of union 
with Christ are : light in the understanding (1 Pet. ii, 9) ; 
affection to him (John xiv, 21); frequent communion 
with him (1 John i, 3); delight in his word, ordinances, 
and people (Psa. xxvii, 4; cxix) ; submission to his 
will, and conformity to his image (1 John ii, 5). See 
Dickinson, Letters , let. 17 ; Flavel, Method of Grace, ser. 
2 ; Polhill, On Union ; Brown, Compend. Y, i. — Buck, 

UNION of Churches, in English law, is the com- 
bining and consolidating of two churches into one. It 
is also where one Church is made subject to another 
and one man is rector of both, and where a conventual 
Church is made a cathedral. In the first case, if two 
churches were so mean that the tithes could not afford 
a competent provision for each incumbent, the ordinary, 
patron, and incumbents might unite them at common- 
law before any statute was made for that purpose ; and 
in such case it was agreed which patron should present 
first; for though, by the union, the incumbency of one 
Church was lost, yet the patronage remained, and each 
patron might have a quare impedit, upon a disturbance, 
to present it in his turn. The license of the king is 
not necessary to a union, as it is to the appropriation 
of advowsons; because an appropriation is a mortmain, 
and the patronage of the advowson is lost, and, by con- 
sequence, all first-fruits and tenths; whereas in a union 
these consequences do not follow. The three statutes 
in existence relating to union of churches are the 37 
Henry VII I, c. 21 ; the 17 Charles II, e. 3 ; and the 4 and 
5 William and Mary, c. 12. — Eadic, Eccles. Cyclop . s. v. 

UNION, Congregation al. Cornier says of such 
unions, “The recent formation of the Congregational 
and Baptist unions has given rise to the notion that 
there exists among the Nonconformists of the present 
day a disposition to abandon the principles of strict In- 
dependency, and to adopt a new species of machinery 
or organization more nearly approaching to Presbyte- 
rianism. For this idea there is no foundation. These 
unions differ in no other respect than in their more ex- 
tended or comprehensive character from the county 
unions and associations of churches which have always 
existed in both denominations for similar objects. They 
have no relation to a scheme of Church government; 
their object is not to set up a Church or to create a 
jurisdiction, but simply to facilitate a general co-oper- 
ation for common and public objects of a religious nat- 
ure.” — Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop, s. v. See Independents. 

UNION, IIypostatical, is a theological term de- 
vised by the old divines to express the union of the 
human nature of Christ with the divine in one person. 
It must be observed that this union is not consubstan- 
tial, as of the three persons in one Godhead ; nor phys- 
ical, as soul and body united in one person; nor mysti- 
cal, as between Christ and believers; but so that the 
manhood subsists in the second person, yet without mak- 
ing confusion, both forming but one person. Sec Ari- 
anism; IIypostatical Union; Person of Christ; 
Sabelliaxs. 

Unitarianism, belief in the unity of God. In 
a comprehensive sense it includes, with a part of Chris- 
tendom, Jews, Mohammedans, Deists, and all who wor- 
ship God as one. For this use, however, the accepted 
term is Monotheism. Within the ranks of Christendom 
the name Unitarian is given to those who reject the 
dogma of the Trinity in its varying phases of a three- 
fold or tripersonal Deity, whether three in substance or 
only in name and form, and who maintain the essential 
unity of God as Creator and Father, and the created 
nature and subordinate rank of Jesus Christ. Within 
this range opinions about Jesus vary from those that as- 
sign him a pre-existent and superangelic rank to an es- 
timate purely human. While the name strictly touches 
this doctrine only, it is vitally related and gives charac- 
ter to the whole system of belief concerning human nat- 
X. — S s 


ure and need, human life and its purpose, this world and 
its meaning, and the future world and man’s destiny. 

I. History of the Belief — 1. In the Early Church . — 
Unitarianism has accompanied Christianity from the 
beginning, at least as one form of its faith. Unitarians 
maintain that their faith is that of the early Church as 
taught by Jesus Christ and his apostles. They appeal 
to Jesus as the supreme teacher of Christianity, finding 
in his word and character the essence of the Gospel. 
They state their chief tenets in the language of the 
New Test, without note or comment, “To us there is 
but one God, the Father;*’ “This is life eternal to know 
thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou 
hast sent.” They hold that the doctrine of the Trinity, 
so startling to Jews trained in the worship of one God 
and expecting a Messiah of human lineage, would have 
required a statement more explicit than any found in 
the Bible record. They hold that the doctrine, at best, 
is an inference from texts of obscure meaning or doubt- 
ful genuineness, every one of which is separately aban- 
doned by prominent Trinitarian scholars as not express- 
ly teaching the doctrine; while the Homan Catholic 
holds it on the authority of the Church, deeming it not 
clearly taught in the Bible. 

Unitarians consider the doctrine of the Trinity a 
gradual development, as Gentiles came into the Church 
and subjected the Gospel to the intluenee of Oriental 
speculations and Greek philosophy. The followers of 
Zoroaster and Plato, teaching the eternal antagonism 
of spirit and matter, filled the time with speculations 
concerning God as a superior essence creating the world 
by inferior divinities. In the Platonic doctrine of the 
Logos began the gradual deification of Jesus, consum- 
mated only by votes of successive councils of the 4th 
century. A succession of testimonies meanwhile show 
the continued existence of faith in the undivided unity 
of God. In the latter half of the 2d century, Justin 
Martyr says, “ Some there are among ourselves who ad- 
mit that Jesus is Christ while holding him to be man 
of men.” Still later, Tertullian says, “ Common people 
think of Christ as a man.” About the year 200 Tertul- 
lian was himself the first to introduce into Christian 
theology the word “Trinitas.” The unity of God was 
expressly taught by a sect called the “ Monarchians.” 
Some held that God the Father himself was born and 
snffered in human form, and hence were called “Patri- 
passians.” Of these were Beryllus, bishop of Bostria in 
Arabia; Praxcas, who came from Asia Minor to Rome; 
Noetus, of Smyrna; and, still later, Sabellius, a presby- 
ter in the Church about A.D. 250, the most original 
and profound mind among the Monarchians. The 
teachings of Sabellius are variously represented b} r 
friend and foe, and are not now very accurately to be 
known, lie had followers as late as the 5th century in 
Mesopotamia and in Rome. Others held that Christ 
was in nature purely human, but exalted by his supe- 
rior measure of divine wisdom and ‘inspiration. Of 
these were Theodotus of Byzantium, Artemon of Rome, 
and Paul of Samosata. This noted teacher, bishop of 
Antioch from the year 260, makes prominent the human 
personality of Christ, teaching that “ Christ was a man,” 
“exalted to peculiar union with the divine nature by 
the illumination of divine wisdom.” Deposed in 269, 
his name became a synonym for heresy; and in the 
next century the celebrated historian Eusebius confirms 
the testimony that he taught “that Christ was in nat- 
ure but a common man.” Speculation and controversy 
thus went forward until, in the beginning of the 4th cen- 
tury, the relation of God and Christ had become a ques- 
tion of substance or resemblance. In the famous theo- 
logical struggle over the terms homo- and homoi-ousian, 
whether God and Christ were of the same or only similar 
nature, Arius maintained that Jesus was a created being. 
He was opposed by the bishop Alexander, aided by Ath- 
anasius ; and the controversy waxed hot and opinion was 
divided, until Constantine, recently come to the throne as 
the first Christian emperor, summoned in A.D. 325 the 


UNITARIANISM 


G42 


UNITARIANISM 


Council of Nice, in which the angry storm of the three 
hundred theologians was allayed and Arius and his doc- 
trine condemned. The historian Eusebius naively says, 
“ The emperor succeeded in bringing them into simi- 
larity of judgment and conformity of opinion on all 
controverted points.” For another century controversy 
continued as to the Holy Spirit, the double nature of 
Christ, and Mary as Mother of God, all of which were 
gradually settled by majority votes of successive coun- 
cils, culminating in the Creed long attributed to Atha- 
nasius, but now believed to have been written a hun- 
dred years after his death. 

In surveying the opinions of the early Church, it thus 
becomes clear that Unitarianism existed from the be- 
ginning; that the belief in the Trinity and the Deity 
of Christ was three or four centuries gradually forming; 
that during this period the range of opinions concern- 
ing Jesus was as widely varied as at the present time; 
that two or three hundred years after the death of Christ 
it was still doubtful, and settled only by the majority of 
a council, whose decision was secured through the influ- 
ence of a newly converted emperor, whether the Chris- 
tian Church should regard Jesus as a person in the God- 
head, or, as the apostle Peter declared him, a man ap- 
proved by signs and wonders which God did by him. 
The Unitarian deems the whole question a corruption 
of the pure Gospel bv philosophic speculation, and seeks, 
as the essence of Christianity, the practical religion 
taught by Jesus Christ — of love to God and man. 

It may be added as a fact of interest, and one signifi- 
cant of the aid rendered to Christianity by this branch 
of the Church, that one of the chief lights of Arianism, 
the Gothic Ulfilas, born near the Lower Danube at about 
the time of the Council of Nice, and consecrated bishop 
at the age of thirty, devoting himself to the religious 
and social development of his people, familiar with the 
Latin, Greek, and Gothic languages, rendered his name 
forever to be honored by his translation of the Bible 
into his native tongue, which at once helped to give 
lasting form to the Gothic language and to perpetuate 
Christianity among the Gothic people. For four cen- 
turies the Goths were accompanied in their migrations 
by this sacred national work, portions of which still re- 
main in the University Library of Upsal, in Sweden. 
The sect of the Nestorians, also, who may fairly be 
counted on the Arian side, at about the 7th century, 
were the first to carry Christianity to the far East, into 
Persia and China. 

2. The Reformation reveals Unitarianism existing, 
and awakens it to renewed life. It accompanied Prot- 
estantism from its cradle, as it had accompanied primi- 
tive Christianity. Before Luther’s death it had ap- 
peared in Italy, Hungary, Poland, Switzerland, Ger- 
many, and England. In the contest with the pope and 
his hierarchy, the majority of Protestants, absorbed in 
the struggle for freedom, accepted, unchallenged, as their 
hereditary belief, the substance of doctrine of the Romish 
Church. Yet in every Protestant confession the doc- 
trine of the Trinity is reiterated as if on the defensive; 
while the testimonies of Calvin, Melancthon, and oth- 
ers against the Unitarian heresy reveal its strength. 
Among the many who, before and after the Reforma- 
tion, bore witness to their faith in persecution and death, 
Unitarianism has its own list of confessors and martyrs. 
In bishop Mant’s History of Ireland is a brief account 
of Adam Duff, who for his denial of the Trinity was 
burned alive, near Dublin, in 132G. The early theolog- 
ical repositories make record of a priest, William Tav- 
lour, put to death as an Arian, in England, in 1422. 

Conspicuous among the Reformers were the Unitari- 
ans Servetus and the Socini. Michael Servetus, born 
in Villanueva, Aragon, in 1509, the year of Calvin’s 
birth, while studying law at Toulouse, heard of the con- 
test, left his home and his profession, and sought the 
Reformers (Ecolampadius, at Basle, Bueer and Capito, 
at Strasburg, and Calvin, at Paris. His bold genius 
pushed past them in seeking a rejuvenated Christiani- 


ty. Skilled in mathematics and the Oriental languages, 
in law, medicine, and theology, his fearless spirit of in- 
quiry and eager thirst for truth gave the highest interest 
to his religious speculations. “Your trinity,” he de- 
clares, “ is a product of subtlety and madness. The Gos- 
pel knows nothing of it. The old fathers are strangers 
to these vain distinctions. It is from the sehool of 
Greek sophists that yon, Athanasius, prince of trithe- 
ists, have borrowed it.” Such sentiments provoked bit- 
ter hostility. Zwingli denounced him as “ that wicked 
and cursed Spaniard;” Calvin spoke of him as the “fran- 
tic” Servetus, who “has thrown all things into confu- 
sion.” When Servetus published his Seven Boohs on 
the Errors of the Trinity , and his more noted work on 
the Restoration of Christianity , severely criticising Cal- 
vin’s views, his doom was sealed. On his flight from 
persecutors at Vienne, as he stopped at Geneva, Calvin 
caused his arrest and trial. The flames of Protestant 
persecution dismissed into eternity, through frightful 
agony, this brave soul that dared assert the absolute 
unity of God. The leading Reformers expressed no re- 
gret, but silently or openly approved it. See Servetus. 

Ltelius Soeinus, born in Siena in 1525, of distinguished 
ancestry, familiar with Biblical languages, an able critic, 
a member of the famous Vicenza Secret Religious Socie- 
ty of Forty, on their dispersal fled to France, England, 
Poland, and at last to Zurich, where he died at the age 
of thirty-seven. A student rather than reformer or 
controversialist, he yet left behind him a deep impress 
of his free and original thought. Ilis nephew, Faust us 
Soeinus, born also in Siena in 1539, was expelled from 
Italy at twenty, studied at Basle, visited Poland and 
Transylvania, where, carrying forward his uncle’s 
thought and work until his death in 1G04, he became 
the more active and noted leader of Socinianism (q. v.). 

Less conspicuous, but with these, may be named in 
Germany, Cellarius, Capito, Johann Denk, Sebastian 
Frank, and the scholarly Ludwig IIetzer,one of the ear- 
liest, who, for writing against the Deity of Christ, n r as 
imprisoned by the magistrates of Constance, and suffer- 
ed death in 1529 ; also Claudius of Savoy, George Blan- 
drata in Transylvania, Gonesius and Farnovius in Po- 
land, Stephen Dolet, friend and disciple of Servetus, 
who, at the age of thirty-seven, was tried for heresy 
and burned alive in Paris in 1546; and John Valentine 
Gentilis, who preached in France and Switzerland, and 
suffered death at Berne in 156G, saying, as he laid his 
head on the block, “Many have suffered for the glory 
of the Son, but none have died for the glory and su- 
premacy of the Father.” 

3. In Italy , before the Reformation, the doctrine of 
the Trinity encountered dissent, the advocates of which 
were driven from the country, or were attracted by the 
larger freedom farther North. Thus went forth many 
to Switzerland, Germany, Hungary, and Poland ; among 
whom were the famous Socini and the celebrated 
preacher Bernardo Occliino. Hundreds also were put 
to death, among whom were James Palaeologus, burned 
at Rome, and Sega and Guirlanda, drowned at Venice. 
It was in this interest of reforming the faith that the 
society was formed in Vicenza, of forty persons of tal- 
ents and learning, discarding the Trinity, meeting in 
secret, of whom, after 1546, many v f erc imprisoned and 
others suffered death. From that time there has been 
no recognised or organized Unitarian body of any 
strength in Italy, although it is believed there are 
many wdio hold this faith. The advocate Magnani 
lias for years conducted Unitarian service at Pisa. The 
astronomer Filopanti has lectured in Bologna, Milan, 
Rome, and Naples upon Channing, the distinguished 
American Unitarian leader, of whom further mention 
will be made below. Professor Ferdinando Bracci- 
forti has translated Channing’s works into Italian, and 
has for years conducted Unitarian service at Florence 
and at Reggio. Professor Sbarbaro, in the Rivista 
Europa of October, 1879, argues that Channing sup- 
plies the form and spirit of the religion needed by the 


UNITARIANISM 


643 


UNITARIANISM 


craving heart of thoughtful Italy. He there says, “I 
have made choice of Channing as the most eloquent 
witness and an irrefragable proof of the new evolution 
of Christian thought in the world, and of the reform 
which is in process of initiation in human religiousness; 
because in the story of his career, and in the fortunes of 
his books, in the marvel of their rapid diffusion in all 
corners of the civilized earth, is to be seen the most lu- 
minous and triumphant proof of the reality of that 
movement which is inwardly transforming European 
society, and bringing it, little by little, to worship un- 
der the roof of a new temple, that Church really cath- 
olic, whose frontal shall bear, without untruth, the in- 
scription ‘To the One God, 7 which Mazzini hailed on 
the facades of the Unitarian churches of Hungary.” 

4. In France, reporting two million Protestants, since 
the martyrdom of Dolet in Paris, no specific Unitarian 
movement has been known. But during the last fifty 
years, in the Reformed Church, which is mostly Trin- 
itarian, has been a growing liberal party ; among whom 
the Coquerels, father and son, Martin Paschoud, Fon- 
tanes, Colani, Vincent, and the present liberal Parisian 
pastor Auguste Hide have substantially represented Un- 
itarianism. Their papers were formerly Le Reformateur , 
and Le Disciple de Jesus , and at present La Renaissance, 
Says Renan, in a brilliant essay on Channing in 1863, 
“France has rejected Protestantism. She is the most 
orthodox country in the world, because she is the most 
indifferent in religious matters.” 

5. In Switzerland, where the early Unitarian mar- 
tyrs (Hetzer, at Zurich, in 1529, and Servetus, at Gene- 
va, in 1553) paid the penalty of their lives, the spirit of 
liberty in Church as in State has prevailed; and, with- 
out separate formal organization, Unitarian sentiments, 
from the first, have been steadily held. The Swiss 
Church has been committed to no dogmatic declaration, 
but only “ to preach purely and fully the Word of God 
as contained in the Holy Scriptures.” The Genevan 
Church, in general, denies the equality of the Son with 
the Father, and the Godhead of the Messiah. The cor- 
respondent of the Evangelical Christendom , Feb. 1, 1875, 
says, “The Grand Council of Basle, on the question of 
the Deity of Christ, on May 2, 1871, decided in the neg- 
ative by a vote of sixty-three voices against forty-eight.” 
Etienne Chastel, professor of ecclesiastical history at 
Geneva, is among Channing’s most ardent admirers. 
French Switzerland has itself produced two great lib- 
erals, Samuel Vincent and Alexander Vinet, who were 
largely in sympathy with Unitarian thought. 

G. Holland , like Switzerland and America, always 
hospitable to those who arc exiles for conscience, has 
never been wanting in representatives of a free theolo- 
gy. Of its two and a half million Protestants, about 
four fifths belong to the Reformed Church ; which, again, 
has its two parties of Orthodox and Moderns. Since the 
burning of Flekwyk, a Dutch Baptist, for his denial of 
the Trinity in 15G9, there has been continued progress. 
In a popular religious work by Dr. Matthes, it is a sig- 
nificant fact that the chapter on God has no allusion to 
the Trinity; but at the close occurs a foot-note in which, 
with the calm spirit of the historian rather than that of 
the controversialist, he speaks of “the antiquated doc- 
trine of the Trinity.” The creed adopted at the Synod 
of Dort in 1G18 has given place to the acceptance of the 
Bible as the standard of faith, together with the tolera- 
tion and diversity of sentiment which are sure to follow. 

7. Germany , that gave the world, along with Luther, 
some of the first Unitarian reformers, during the suc- 
ceeding three and a half centuries, without any distinct- 
ly organized Unitarian movement, has, with its noted 
scholarship and philosophy, produced all shades of ra- 
tionalism, from extreme orthodoxy to extreme unbe- 
lief. In South Germany, governmental statistics of 
18G1 report 325,000 Unitarians. Says Dr. Beard, “ The 
Trinity subsists among the learned of Germany only in 
name. The patristieal doctrine has been attenuated to 
a shadow or reduced to nothing; if brought down into 


scriptural form it is abandoned; if converted into three 
‘somewhats,’ it is no longer such as the creeds declare 
or their advocates recognise. The doctrine once taught 
and held for an essential article of Christian faith is vir- 
tually repudiated and silently disowned.” A translation 
of Chanuing’s complete works, by Sydow and Sehultze, 
w r as published in Berlin in 1850. After that, the chev- 
alier Bunsen, in his God in History , speaks of Channing 
as “a grand Christian saint and man of God — nay, also 
a prophet of the Christian consciousness regarding the 
future.” The Protestanten-Verein of Germany, estab- 
lished at Eisenach in 18G5, a free Union Association, 
holding annual conference sessions, though not organ- 
ized on a dogmatic basis and not professedly Unitarian, 
welcomes and cherishes fellowship and sympathy with 
the Unitarians of England and America. 

8. In Poland the Unitarian faith early took a firm 
hold and spread rapidly, aided by refugees who there 
found a hospitable asylum. Yet it was not without 
persecution at the start. In 1539, in the market-place 
in Cracow, was burned Katharine Vogel at the age of 
eighty, wife of a goldsmith and alderman, condemned 
for denying the Deity of Christ and affirming the divine 
unity. In 1552 the Bible was translated, chiefly by 
Unitarian scholars, into the Polish language. Hither 
came Faustus Socinus, around whom flocked converts 
from all ranks and classes of society, among them many 
of the nobility. These, protected from persecution by 
the privileges of their rank, proved especially favorable 
to a movement which, more than any other of the time, 
seemed destructive of the traditions and prestige of the 
Romish Church. The prosperous commercial city of 
Racow, with its large printing establishment publishing 
many of the best books of the day, became its head- 
quarters. Here was issued the famous Kacovian Cate- 
chism, which became widely known and influential, and 
was afterwards signally burned in London. King Sig- 
ismund II became a convert, and during his reign this 
party of reformers grew strong enough to form a church 
of their own. For a century it flourished, till, in 1GG0, 
prince Casimir, a cardinal and a Jesuit, coming to the 
throne, with unrelenting persecution burned the homes 
of its adherents, drove them into silence, exile, or death. 
So effectually did he exterminate it, and with it the 
spirit of liberty in the state as in religion, that it may 
fairly be said that Jesuit tyranny at once obliterated a 
church and a nation. 

9. In Transylvania , Unitarianism was earliest de- 
clared by Francis David, first Unitarian pastor and 
bishop ; and afterwards by Socinus and by Georgio 
Blandrata,an Italian from Piedmont, who became court 
physician to Sigismund. In 1540 David preached to 
a multitude in the open streets of Thorda, asserting the 
Father to be the only God. By his preaching from 
place to place large numbers were converted, including 
the king himself, and nearly the whole city of Klausen- 
bnrg, and many Unitarian churches were established. 
While persecution was rife in the rest of Europe, Tran- 
sylvania was early conspicuous for religious liberty. 
Four forms of Christianity — the Roman Catholic, the 
Reformed Evangelical, the Lutheran, and the Unitari- 
an — were recognised by law with equal rights, with pen- 
alties for those only who should infringe the rights of 
others. Under this broad tolerance, Unitarianism, which 
was, indeed, instrumental in producing it, gained a strong 
foothold, which, under subsequent persecution, it has 
never wholly lost. Unhappily, the early tolerance was 
of short duration. The bishop, Francis David, himself 
became a martyr to his faith, dying in prison in No- 
vember, 1579, an event, the tercentenary anniversary of 
which, in 1879, was celebrated in the land of his mar- 
tyrdom, The Unitarians of Transylvania are said to 
have at one time possessed four hundred church build- 
ings, eleven colleges, and three universities. Through 
the last two centuries the iron hand of Austrian and Jes- 
uit oppression has largely dispossessed them of church- 
es, schools, lands, and even of civil as well as religious 


UNITARIAN ISM 


64 -! 


UNITARIANISM 


rights. They were robbed of their churches, which were 
transferred to the Jesuits. During the present century, 
they are regaining privileges and strength, and are re- 
ported as having a population of 00,000, now increasing, 
with 12G churches; a university at Klausenburg with 
T2 professors and 300 students; two smaller colleges at 
Thorda and St. lverezstur; a newspaper, The Secdsow - 
er; and many distinguished scholars and literary men, 
preachers and civilians, in their ranks. Their Church 
government is that of Episcopacy, strongW modified by 
Congregationalism, their present bishop being Joseph 
Ferenez. A special intimacy of fellowship has recent- 
ly been cherished and growing between them and the 
Unitarians of England and America. With their aid 
the translation of Clianning’s writings has been widely 
circulated among the people of Hungary of all sects. 

10. England , though later than the Continent in re- 
ceiving the Unitarian faith, was visited by Ocehino, 
Soeinus, and other reformers. In 1548, the priest John 
Asheton was cited to Lambeth for Arian sentiments, 
and saved his life only by recanting. Under a similar 
charge occurred several martyrdoms. George von Par- 
ris, a devout German surgeon, for denying the Trinity 
was burned at Smithficld in 1551, during the brief 
reign of Edward VI. During the reigns of Mary and 
Elizabeth, Ilammont, Lewes, Ket, Wright, and many 
others met a similar fate. In the reign of James I, in 
1011, the Unitarian Bartholomew Legate became the 
last of the Smithficld martyrs; and in 101*2, at Lich- 
field, Edward Wightman, a Unitarian Baptist, was the 
last martyr who was burned for heresy in England. 
In the time of Cromwell, John Biddle formed in Lon- 
don the first English Unitarian Church, and gained the 
title of the father of the English Unitarians, but per- 
ished in prison for his faith. In 1640 the synods of 
London and York deemed it worth while to issue a 
special canon against Soeinianism. And in 1G52 the 
Bacovian Catechism, which had been translated into 
English and actively circulated, was burned in London. 
To such strength and influence had Soeinianism grown 
there during the century that in 1055 Dr. Owen writes 
of it, “The evil is at the door; there is not a city or 
town, scarce a village, in England wherein some of this 
poison is not poured forth.” Before the close of the 
17th century, London had houses of Unitarian worship. 
Milton was an Arian, as has been proved since his death. 
Sir Isaac Newton is now known to have written anony- 
mously on the Unitarian side. Locke wrote a work on 
The Reasonableness of Christianity , which is substantially 
Unitarian. The scholarly Lardncr, author of The Credi- 
bility of the Gospel History , one of the ablest defences ever 
written, held Unitarian opinions. That these views had 
notably invaded the Established Church is testified by 
Palmer in 1705 writing that there were “ troops of Uni- 
tarian and Socinian writers, and not a Dissenter among 
them.” Itev. Thomas Emlyu preached the Unitarian 
faith in Dublin and London. The Act of Uniformity 
in 1062 expelled from the Church of England two 
thousand ministers, mostly Calvinistic Presbyterians. 
Free from dogmatic tests, many of these ministers and 
their followers gradually became Arminian, and ulti- 
mately Unitarian. After the passing of the Tolera- 
tion Act in 1089 legalizing Nonconformity, the way 
was opened by which the prevailing faith largely pass- 
ed into Unitarianism. Half the Unitarian churches in 
England to-day are of this Presbyterian origin. Un- 
til 1813 the law made it blasphemy to speak against 
the Trinity; but a more tolerant public sentiment had 
long rendered the law a dead letter. Unitarianism as 
an organized movement was most distinctly initiated 
by Dr. Theophilus Lindsey, who in 1774 resigned his 
charge in the Established Church and became pastor 
of a Unitarian congregation in Essex Street, London. 
A still more important apostle was the noted Dr. Jo- 
seph Priestley. Born in 1733, educated a Calvinist, 
distinguished for his scholarship and scientific attain- 
ments, in 1755 he became pastor of a small Dissenting 


congregation in Suffolk, and a conspicuous champion 
of the humanitarian theology. Believing in the Bible 
as a divine revelation, and in the miraeles as creden- 
tials of Christ’s authority, while continuing to hold 
some tenets of Calvinism, he rejected the Trinity and 
vicarious atonement as unscriptural, wrote to show how 
these dogmas came in as later corruptions of primitive 
Christianity, and held that Christ himself claimed to 
be simply a man. 1 1 is views brought upon him oblo- 
quy and persecution ; and, at the hands of a mob losing 
his books, manuscripts, and philosophical instruments, 
he was virtually banished from his native land. In 1792 
he removed to America, gave courses of lectures in 
Philadelphia, which added fresh stimulus to the rising 
Unitarianism, but retired for his closing years to the 
small neighboring village of Northumberland, where 
he died in 1804. In 1813 the Unitarians were first 
placed by law on an equality with other Dissenters. 
For some years sharp controversy continued as to the 
proprietary rights in certain Church properties held 
by them, but claimed by orthodox Dissenters. These 
claims were finally silenced in favor of the Unitarian 
occupants by the Dissenters’ Chapels Act of 1844. At 
the present time there are reported about 350 Unitari- 
rian churches in England, mostly Congregational in 
Church government, and of which one fourth have 
been formed within the last twenty- five years. In 
Northern Ireland there is a Unitarian population of 
about 10,000, still Presbyterians in Church government. 

In Scotland there are in the larger cities and towns 
about ten Unitarian churches. In that country occur- 
red the last execution for blasphemy against the Trini- 
ty in the person of a young student, Thomas Aiken- 
head, hanged near Edinburgh in 1690. The present 
Unitarian Church of Edinburgh, originally strictly 
Calvinistic, having adopted the principle of free in- 
quiry, became Arian and finally humanitarian under 
the pastorate of Dr. Sonthwood Smith in 1812. In 
Wales about thirty-four churches of this faith are re- 
ported; and there are several strong societies at Mon- 
treal, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and other places in 
the British colonies in Canada, India, and Australia. 
The English Unitarians maintain a missionary college 
in Manchester, a Presbyterian college at Carmarthen 
which educates Unitarian and Independent ministers, 
and the larger, unseetarian institution of Manchester 
New College, removed recently to London. In their 
interest are conducted several weekly religious papers : 
The Inquirer , The Christian Life, The Unitarian Her- 
ald, and the new periodical The Modern Review. Their 
representative missionary society is the British and 
Foreign Unitarian Association, formed in London, May 
25, 1825. Among the leading writers may be named (be- 
sides Priestlcj', Lindsey, and Belsham early in the cen- 
tury), more recently, Levs. John James Taylor, Charles 
Beard, John Hamilton Thom, and James Martineau, 
one of the greatest living exponents of the higher phi- 
losophy of the spirit versus modern materialism. It 
may be truthfully added that the movement of English 
Unitarianism is outgrowing the legalism and literalism 
of a philosophy which narrowed its earlier faith, and is 
reaching a broader and deeper spirituality. 

11. In America, the free inquiry and open field of 
thought from the beginning have been favorable to 
Unitarian views, and the movement for spiritual liberty 
found special stimulus in the public sentiment following 
the lievolution. The Pilgrims, bringing to America 
the parting injunction of their pastor, John Iiobinson, of 
Leyden, that there was “more light to break out from 
God’s Word, ’’organized the first Congregational churches 
in New England at Plymouth, Salem, and Boston upon 
covenants so broad and undogmatie that these have 
required no change in accepting the Unitarian faith. 
Without doubt, the prevailing sentiment was mainly 
Calvinistic at the start, yet with a measure of Ar- 
minianism intermingled that grew imperceptibly, until 
for the last century and a half the progress of Unita- 


UNITARIANISM 


G45 


UNITARIANISM 


rian sentiments may be distinctly traced. Dr. Gay, of 
Hingham, ordained in 1717, is supposed to have been 
the first American preacher of Unitarianism. Before 
the Revolution, many lawyers, physicians, tradesmen, 
and farmers were Unitarians, according to the testimony 
of the elder president Adams, himself a Unitarian ; and 
not the laity only, but many of the clergy, prominent 
among whom was Mayhew, of the West Church, Bos- 
ton. In 1708 the famous Hopkins prepared a sermon 
especially against what he deemed the heresy of the 
Boston ministers. In 1783. under the lead of their 
young minister, Rev. James Freeman, then recently or- 
dained, the Episcopal Church of King’s Chapel in Bos- 
ton expunged from its Book of Common Prayer all ref- 
erence to the Trinity and the worship of Christ, and 
thus became the first distinctively Unitarian Church in 
America. Its liturgy and Church organization continue 
substantially the same at the present time. Priestley’s 
coming gave fresh impulse to this faith, and the writings 
of Lindsey and Belsham found their way hither. In a 
letter to Dr. Lindsey, in London, Rev. James Freeman 
writes that there were “many churches in which the 
worship was strictly Unitarian, and some of New Eng- 
land’s most eminent clergymen openly avowed that 
creed.” In 1801 the oldest Puritan Church in America, 
the original Church of the Mayflower, established at 
Plymouth in 1620, by a large majority vote declared it- 
self Unitarian; and with no change in its covenant, 
using the identical statement of faith drawn up by its 
Pilgrim founders, it to-day accepts the Unitarian name 
and fellowship. Free from restraints of dogmatic creeds 
and tests, the New England Congregational churches 
were especially hospitable to inquiry and progress. By 
imperceptible degrees change came. In 1805 the Uni- 
tarian Rev. I)r. Ware was made professor of divinity at 
Harvard University, Cambridge. This fact excited op- 
position and controversy. In 1815 a controversy be- 
tween Dr. Channing and Dr. Worcester resulted in open 
rupture between the Trinitarian and Unitarian Congre- 
gationalists. In 1816 the Divinity School at Cambridge 
was established by Unitarians. Harvard College was in 
their hands, and chiefly by their influence has main- 
tained the undenominational position which it claims 
to-day. For ten years, from 1815 to 1825, the contro- 
versy waxed hot; lines of separation were drawn, and 
churches and men took sides. As the churches divided 
the majority carried their name and property to Trini- 
tarian or Unitarian ranks. Meanwhile the seceding mi- 
norities organized anew on one side or the other. Thus 
the ancient parishes, each coextensive with its town, 
were divided ; and in many New England towns the old- 
est church, retaining its ancient Congregational liberty 
and usages, became in faith and fellowship Unitarian. 

II. Organization and Present Condition . — During the 
eventful decade just reviewed, Rev. William Ellery 
Channing (born in Newport, R. I., April 7, 1780), then 
in the prime of manhood, with early ripeness of spiritual 
fruitage, became, by eloquence of tongue and pen, the 
conspicuous leader of the Unitarian movement. At the 
ordination of Jared Sparks, in 1819, as minister of the 
Unitarian Church in Baltimore, his discourse expound- 
ing Unitarian Christianity made a profound impression. 
Ilis intense dislike and dread of sectarianism gave to 
his preaching an emphasis of individualism and spirit- 
ual liberty. Never permitting himself to become the 
devotee of a sect, to him Unitarianism owes much of its 
freedom from sectarian and dogmatic trammels. Less 
a controversialist than a devout and practical preacher, 
he fearlessly, yet reverently, sought the truth, brought 
into prominence the spiritual elements of human nat- 
ure, subjected religious systems to the test of the soul’s 
best instincts and sentiments, and made it his supreme 
aim to kindle the aspiration for holinesss. II is testi- 
mony was chiefly borne to the fatherhood of God and 
the brotherhood of man, to the worth of human nature 
and blessedness of human life, to the dignity of labor 
and the elevation of the working classes, to spiritual 


freedom and the divine mission and authority of Jesus 
Christ, lie has come to be recognised by all sects as 
one of the foremost of American preachers and writers, 
a leading champion of religious and civil freedom, of 
education and philanthropy, a seeker for truth, a lover 
of mankind, and a devoted advocate of Christianity. In 
April, 1880. the centenary of his birth was celebrated in 
London and in several of the larger cities in America, 
many persons of other denominations joining, and the 
corner-stone was laid of a memorial church at Newport, 
his birthplace. See Channing. 

The division in the Church was not of Unitarian 
seeking. The Unitarian leaders were willing, in the 
large fellowship and free faith of Congregationalism, to 
maintain the unity of the Church unbroken. They 
would have borne their testimony to truth as they saw 
it, urging all others freely to do the same. The neces- 
sity of separation was enforced by fellowship with- 
drawn, controverted opinions put forward as tests, and 
by charges made that rendered it impossible to stay. 
After the break had come, it was with no desire to 
build a new sect or to prolong the bitterness of contro- 
versy — it was to do their own part in the vineyard 
that the Unitarians went apart and worked in their 
own way. But, from the first, their attitude has never 
ceased to be that Church unity is to be found, not in 
identity of opinion, but in personal freedom and in 
brotherly love; and they have declared their readiness 
on this broad basis to join in fellowship with all who 
claim to hold the Christian faith and who prove their 
diseipleship by consistent lives. In the exercise of free- 
dom there have always been within the Unitarian fold 
varieties of individual opinion, while in the same free- 
dom a few have gone into the Trinitarian household 
and others into a position antichristian or non-Christian. 

On May 24, 1825, wasJormed in Boston “ The Ameri- 
can Unitarian Association.” Its first article declares 
its purpose to be “to diffuse the knowledge and pro- 
mote the interests of pure Christianity,” It was incor- 
porated in 1848, with the right to hold trust funds, and 
has at the present time about $200,000. Without ec- 
clesiastical authority, it is purely a missionary organi- 
zation, using annual contributions from the churches 
for publishing and distributing books and tracts, sus- 
taining missionaries, aiding feeble churches, and plant- 
ing new ones. Its operations are mainly in the home- 
field of America. For forty years its activities were 
small, the missionary spirit of the denomination being 
checked by dread of the sectarian spirit, and the benev- 
olent gifts of the people taking more the direction of 
education and general philanthropy. But within the 
last fifteen years its income has greatly increased, in 
1866 and 1872 exceeding $100,000, although it by no 
means receives all of the denominational gifts for relig- 
ious missionary purposes. 

On April 5, 1865, a convention, consisting of the pas- 
tor and two delegates from each church or parish in the 
Unitarian denomination, met in the city of New York 
and organized a National Conference, “ to the end of 
energizing and stimulating the denomination with 
which they are connected to the largest exertions in 
the cause of Christian faith and work.” Its preamble 
declared that “the great opportunities and demands for 
Christian labor and consecration at this time increase 
our sense of the obligations of all disciples of the Lord 
Jesus Christ to prove their faith by self-denial, and by 
the devotion of their lives and possessions to the service 
of God and the building-up of the kingdom of his Son.” 
It is a representative body of pastors and delegates, 
chosen and meeting biennially, purely advisory in char- 
acter, for counsel and fellowship. Its meetings are held 
in September at Saratoga, open to the public, and are 
steadily increasing in the numbers attending, also in 
interest and in practical purpose and value. Since its 
formation, the Unitarian churches of America have 
given more for missionary purposes than in all their 
previous history. Within smaller and more convenient 


UNITARIAN ISM 


GIG 


UNITARIANS 


territorial districts have been formed also local confer- 
ences with more frequent meetings, which have been 
successful in fostering fellowship and co-operation, and 
a more devout and earnest religious life. 

Without other ecclesiastical authority, the govern- 
ment of the churches and their usages and modes of 
worship arc purely Congregational. The rites of bap- 
tism and of the Lord’s supper are recognised and ob- 
served, not as having mystic value or binding authori- 
ty, but as having spiritual worth and inllnence. The 
denominational Year-book for 1880 reports 340 churches, 
of which 2-10 arc in New England, chiefly in Massachu- 
setts, and 100 mainly in the West; 400 ministers, 20 
local conferences, besides a number of organizations of 
purely benevolent aim and purpose. Two theological 
schools are sustained — one at Cambridge, founded in 
181 G, having four professors and about twenty students, 
and a library of 18,500 volumes, while the large Univer- 
sity library of 240,000 volumes is also open to its use. 
About $140,000 have recently been added to its endow- 
ment fund to increase its corps of professors. The 
Theological School at Meadville, Pa., was formed in 
1S44, and has four resident professors, 15,000 volumes in 
its library, and about twenty students. 

The periodicals of the denomination are the Unita- 
rian Review , the Christian Register , now in its fifty- 
ninth year; The Dayspring, a Sunday-school paper, 
all published in Boston, while several smaller organs 
arc published elsewhere. The denomination is rich in 
its literature, especially in the direction of practical and 
devout religions sentiment. The works of Cbanning, 
now widely circulated among English-speaking people 
all over the world, are translated in part or entire into 
the Dutch and German, French, Italian, Swedish, Hun- 
garian, Icelandic, and Russian languages. There may 
also be mentioned as leading Unitarian preachers and 
writers, Ilenrv Ware (father and son), James Walker, 
Theodore Parker, Edmund II. Sears, Orville Dewey, 
William II. Furness, Henry W. Bellows, James Free- 
man Clarke, Frederick II. Hedge, and Andrew P. Pea- 
body. Unitarian writers are also largely represented 
in the walks of history and literature in America as in 
England. It may be added that Unitarian sentiments 
are held substantially by “ Uni versalists,” “Christians,” 
“Hicksitc Quakers,” and “Progressive Friends.” 

III. Doctrinal 1 leu's. — In seeking the present form 
of Unitarian faith, it is needless to recount the specula- 
tions of earlier times. The tenets of Sabcllius and Paul 
of Samosata and Arius, also of Servetns and the Socini, 
in their special forms sharing the crudities of contem- 
poraneous thought, have largely passed away. They 
are not to he quoted as authority. They are simply 
in the line of historical progress, agreeing only in the 
single fundamental thought that God is one, and Jesus 
Christ a created and subordinate being. Unitarianism 
is characteristically not a fixed dogmatic statement, 
but a movement of ever-enlarging faith. It welcomes 
inquiry, progress, and diversity of individual thought 
in the unity of spiritual fellowship. With faith in the 
unity of God as its key-note, it asserts the unity of all 
truth in nature, history, experience, and the Bible; the 
unity of the Church as based on character, not on dog- 
ma; and the unity of spiritual life in this world and the 
next. Its leading principles are, first, the freedom of 
every individual soul to seek the highest trnth and to 
obey it ; and, second, that character is the test of Chris- 
tian disciplcship. Unitarians declare life, not dogma, 
to be the essence of Christianity. They deem Chris- 
tianity to be essentially a reasonable religion, according 
with the truths of nature, instructing reason and ap- 
pealing to it as interpreter and judge. They hold it to 
be a progressive religion: that its principles, like the 
axioms of mathematics, are eternally true, but that its 
germs unfold with the increasing intelligence of man- 
kind. Right belief they deem important for right liv- 
ing, and they emphasize the value of righteousness as 
establishing the kingdom of God on earth, and as alone 


fitting the soul for his kingdom above. They refuse 
to formnlate their belief in fixed creeds of ecclesias- 
tical and exclusive authority ; because these never set- 
tle open questions, but only start fresh controversy; 
because they limit inquiry and hinder progress; and be- 
cause they make dogma instead of character, and opin- 
ion instead of spiritual purpose, the bases and tests of 
fellowship. Yet, while refusing any authoritative creed 
statement, there is an unwritten consensus of faith in 
which Unitarians are substantially agreed. They believe 
in the one God as the Creator of the universe and Father 
of all souls ; a Father who wills man’s welfare, desiring 
that not even the least shall perish ; the Fatherly Friend 
in all worlds, who docs not wait for forgiveness and 
favor to be purchased, but freely pours forth blessing 
on all who will accept it; Father of the sinner as of the 
saint, seeking every wanderer with his pursuing love, 
and punishing the erring not for his pleasure, but for 
their profit, that they may become partakers of his holi- 
ness. Unitarians believe in man as naturally neither 
saint nor sinner; that his nature is not corrupt and 
ruined, but undeveloped and incomplete; that lie in- 
herits tendencies to good as well as to evil, and that 
he is sinful only as he knowingly and wilfully docs 
wrong; that he needs regeneration, the unfolding and 
renewal of his spiritual nature, which he experiences 
through obedience to the truth, under that divine in- 
fluence which is called t lie Holy Spirit; that, as a 
child of the Infinite, allied to the Supreme Goodness 
by ties that cannot be sundered, having in him a 
spark of divinity that makes his ultimate redemp- 
tion an inextinguishable hope, he yet needs to be 
taught and inspired of God, but with the aid of the di- 
vine grace, which is his birthright privilege, he is able 
to climb to celestial summits. Unitarians believe in 
Jesus Christ, as the four evangelists describe him, as 
at once Son of God and Son of man. They care little 
for metaphysical speculation about the mystery of his 
nature, but emphasize his word and life as a practical 
help for human salvation. They hold that he is our 
Saviour as he becomes to us the Light of the World, the 
Fountain of Living Water, and the Bread of Life; our 
Saviour by illustrating the eternal principles of right, 
inspiring his followers to holiness, and imparting to 
them true life more abundantly; our Saviour so far 
as he leads and helps us to be large-hearted, truth- 
seeking, pure, loving, and devout; that he came into 
the world to bear testimony to the truth, and was here 
not to be ministered unto, hut to minister, and that he 
proved himself humanity’s Lord and Leader by his di- 
vine helpfulness. Under the inllnence of elevated 
views of mail’s spiritual nature, affirming his innate 
power of apprehending religious truth, Unitarianism, in 
declaring the humanity of Christ, docs not bring Jesus 
down, but lifts humanity up. It asserts that Jesus was 
purely human only to show that human nature itself is, 
in the phrase of Athanasius, homoousian , of the same 
substance with God, and that Jesus is the best expres- 
sion of that divine humanity which is the birthright 
and promised destiny of all souls. While they are jeal- 
ous of ecclesiastical authority or dictation, and perpet- 
ually refuse to limit their belief by formula, the Uni- 
tarians have, in public assembly of the American Uni- 
tarian Association, and in representative meetings of 
their national and local conferences, repeatedly reaf- 
firmed their attitude of Christian discipleship, and 
shown that they hold themselves to be a body of be- 
lievers upon the Christian foundation and within the 
Christian Church. They deem the mind of Christ the 
best index of Christianity. For the sources of Uni- 
tarian thought, therefore, they refer to Unitarian litera- 
ture, more especially to the New Test., and supremely 
to the word and life of Jesns Christ. (K. R. S.) 

Unitarians, a general name for those bodies of 
professed Christians who do not fully recognise the 
equality of the three Persons in the Godhead. The 
essential errors of Unitarianism, as evangelical Trin- 


UNITAS FRATRUM 


047 UNITED BRETHREN IN CHRIST 


itarians regard them, are a denial (a) of the true di- 
vinity of Jesus Christ; and (6) of the inherent and 
total moral depravity of human nature. These two 
are claimed to be not simply dogmas, but facts sustain- 
ed by observation and history as well as by the plain 
and constant teachings of the Holy Scriptures. They 
are intimately correlated to each other; for if Christ 
be not truly divine, then there is no adequate atone- 
ment for human sin; and, conversely, if man be not es- 
sentially a sinner, he needs no such divine Saviour. 
Hence our Lord in treating with Nicodemus announced 
the necessity of a radical, moral change as the first and 
all-important condition of Christianity (John iii, 1-13). 
Accordingly the doctrine of a spiritual and fundament- 
al regeneration will be found to be the true touchstone 
of all evangelical orthodoxy, and those branches of 
Christendom who lay most stress upon it prove to be 
the most efficient in the moral renovation of mankind. 
Humanitarianism alone can never be more than a neg- 
ative and powerless, because a really false, view of the 
actual condition and relation of the race as respects 
their Creator and Redeemer. See Humanitarians. 

In the same summary manner, Unitarians reject, as 
being to them unphilosophical and unintelligible, the 
divinity of the Holy Spirit, a doctrine which all who 
have passed through the pangs of true contrition into 
the joys of conscious pardon and heavenly communion 
find so comforting and necessary to the explanation of 
their own religious experience (Rom. v, 1-5; 1 Cor. ii, 
10-14). See Trinity. 

While pointing out these, as we deem, radical defects 
in Unitarianism as a system of Christian faith, we nev- 
ertheless are bound to bear witness to the literary cult- 
ure, social refinement, and moral virtues which Unita- 
rians as a body have exhibited, and to their amenity 
and ameliorating influence in the defence of civil rights 
and the general cause of philanthropy. These we at- 
tribute, however, not so much to their creed as to the 
hereditary effect of early Puritan training and the pow- 
er of a sound Christianity diffused through the commu- 
nity in the midst of which they live and operate. See 
Unitarianism. 

Unitas Fratrum. See Moravians. 

United Armenians, a name applied to those 
Armenian Christians who acknowledge the pope; the 
orthodox Armenians being called Cregorians. The 
Armenian rite in the Roman Catholic Church has one 
patriarch and primate (in Cilicia), four archbishops (at 
Constantinople, Aleppo, Seleucia or Diarbekir, and Lem- 
berg), besides two in partibns , and sixteen bishops. 
Their union took place from 1314 to 1344. They num- 
ber some 100,000, of whom 78,000 are in Turkey and 
Persia (20,000 under the archbishop of Constantinople, 
56,000 under the patriarch of Cicilia, and 1000 in Mount 
Lebanon). Austro-H angary, in 1870, had 8279 United 
Armenians; Russian Caucasia and Siberia, in 1869, had 
13,722. In 1872 a very considerable part of the Turk- 
ish United Armenians left the Roman Catholic com- 
munion and joined the Old Catholic movement. See 
Armenian Ciiurcii. 

United Brethren in Christ, the full title of a 
body of evangelical Christians in this country. 

I. Origin . — In the year 1752, the Rev. Philip William 
Otterbein (q.v.), a distinguished scholar and missionary 
in the German Reformed Church, emigrated from Dil- 
lenberg, in the Duchy of Nassau, Germany, to America. 
Not long after his arrival in his new field of labor, he 
became deeply impressed with the necessity of a more 
thorough work of grace in his heart than he had ever 
before experienced. Lancaster, Pa., was his first pas- 
toral charge, and, early in his ministry there, on a cer- 
tain occasion, he passed from his pulpit to his study, 
and there remained in earnest prayer until God, in his 
mercy, poured upon his soul the spirit of grace and 
power. Mr. Otterbein, from this time forth, preached 
with an unction which neither he nor his people had 


realized before. Having now entered, as it were, upon 
a new life, he was eminently fitted for a leader. He 
was calm, dignified, humble, and devout. After six 
years of service at Lancaster Mr. Otterbein transferred 
his labors to Tulpohocken, Pa., at which place he intro- 
duced evening meetings, and in them read portions of 
the Bible and exhorted the people to flee from the wrath 
to come. At this time there was not a Methodist socie- 
ty in America. The German churches of the land, es- 
pecially, were sunken in lifeless formality. The “ new 
measures” of Mr. Otterbein brought upon him severe 
criticisms, if not actual persecution. 

While Mr. Otterbein was engaged in enforcing ex- 
perimental godliness at Tulpohocken, the Rev. Martin 
Boehm, a zealous Mennonite, was led into the light of a 
new life. These men were ministers of churches wide- 
ly different in doctrines and modes of worship. Two 
awakenings were now in progress — one under the la- 
bors of Mr. Otterbein in Tulpohocken, the other led by 
Mr. Boehm in Lancaster County, Pa. During a “great 
meeting” held in a barn in that county, these two min- 
isters met for the first time. Mr. Boehm preached the 
opening sermon in the presence of Mr. Otterbein. As 
the heart of the preacher warmed with his theme, it 
kindled a flame in the soul of the other. At the close 
of the sermon, and before Mr. Boehm could resume his 
seat, Mr. Otterbein arose, and, embracing the preacher in 
his arms, exclaimed aloud, “JPe are brethren .” These 
words afterwards suggested the name which the denom- 
ination now bears. 

From this time these godly men became co-laborers, 
and travelled extensively through Eastern Pennsylva- 
nia, Maryland, and Virginia. In the meantime other 
German ministers of “like precious faith” were raised 
up through their labors, and numerous societies were 
formed in the states mentioned. It seems to have been 
no part of Mr. Otterbein’s purpose to organize a new 
church. He ouly sought to impress upon the con- 
sciences of the people generally, and of formalists in 
particular, that a vital union with Christ is essential to 
a religious life. Providence so shaped circumstances 
that Mr. Otterbein, without his own seeking, was placed 
at the head of a new denomination. 

The eminently Christian character of Mr. Otterbein, 
and his usefulness in founding this Church, make it 
proper that a few sentences more be written of him. 
lie was born at Dillenberg, Germany, March 6, 1726, 
and resided in his native land twenty-six years, and in 
America sixtv-one years, dying Nov. 17, 1813, having 
continued his ministry to the close of his long life. He 
was an eminent scholar in classical attainments, and in 
philosophy and divinity. He was held in high esteem 
by bishops Asbury and Coke of the Methodist Church, 
and assisted, by special request, at the ordination of the 
former. On hearing of his death, bishop Asbury said of 
him, “Great and good man of God! An honor to his 
Church and country; one of the greatest scholars and 
divines that ever came to America, or who were born 
in it.” 

As the work thus begun grew to considerable pro- 
portions, it became very important to consider the best 
means of perpetuating and extending it. Conferences 
were therefore annually held for this purpose, beginning 
at Baltimore in the year 1789. In 1800 the societies 
gathered were united in one body, under the name of 
the “United Brethren in Christ,” and elected Air. Ot- 
terbein and Martin Boehm their superintendents or 
bishops. At that time there was little uniformity 
among them as to doctrine. Some were German Re- 
formed, others were Mennonites or Lutherans, and a few 
were Methodists. In regard to the mode of baptism, 
probably to meet the wishes of the Mennonites, they 
agreed that each man should act on his own convic- 
tions. From 1800 to 1815, the growth of the Church 
was steady, but not speedy. Several new conferences 
were formed, and the work extended westward of the 
Alleghany Mountains. 


UNITED BRETHREN IN CHRIST 648 UNITED BRETHREN IN CHRIST 


At a conference held in Ohio in 1814 it was resolved 
to call a general council for the purpose of agreeing 
upon some system of discipline. It was also deter- 
mined that the members of this council should be elect- 
ed from among the preachers by the vote of the people 
throughout the whole Church. Under this order the 
first General Conference was convened on June 6, 1815, 
at Mount Pleasant, Pa. 

II. Doctrines. — At this conference the following sum- 
mary of doctrines was adopted, and remains unchanged 
to the present time : 

In the name of God, we declare and confess before all 
men that we believe in the only true God, the Father, 
the Son, and the Holy Ghost; that these three are one— 
the Father in the Sou, the Son in the Father, and the 
Holy Ghost equal in essence or being with both; that 
this triune God created the heavens and the earth, and 
all that in them is, visible as well as invisible, and fur- 
thermore sustains, governs, protects, and supports the 
same. 

We believe in Jesus Christ; that he is very God and 
man ; that he became incarnate by the power of the Holy 
Ghost in the Virgin Mary, and was born of her; that he 
is the Saviour and Mediator of the whole human race, if 
they with full faith in him accept the grace proffered in 
Jesus; that this Jesus suffered and died on the cross for 
us, was buried, arose again on the third day, ascended 
into heaven, and sitteth on the right hand of God, to in- 
tercede for us; and that he shall come again at the last 
day to judge the quick and the dead. 

We believe in the Holy Ghost; that he is equal in being 
with the Father and the Son, and that he comforts the 
faithful, and guides them into all truth. 

We believe in a holy Christian Church, the communion 
of saints, the resurrection of the body, and life everlast- 
ing. 

We believe that the Holy Bible, Old and New Testament, 
is the word of God ; that it contains the only true way to 
our salvation ; that every true Christian is bound to ac- 
knowledge and receive it, with the influence of the Spirit 
of God, as the only rule and guide ; and that withont faith 
in Jesus Christ, true repentance, forgiveness of sins, and 
following after Christ, no one can be a true Christian. 

We also believe that what is contained in the Holy 
Scriptures— to wit, the fall in Adam, and redemption 
through Jesus Christ— shall be preached throughout the 
world. 

We believe that the ordinances, viz. baptism, and the 
remembrance of the sufferings and death of our Lord 
Jesus Christ, are to be in use and practiced by all Chris- 
tian societies; and that it is incumbent on all the chil- 
dren of God particularly to practice them ; but the man- 
ner in which ought always to be left to the judgment and 
understanding of every individual. Also the example of 
washing leet is left to the judgment of every one, to prac- 
tice or not; but it is not becoming for any of our preach- 
ers or members to traduce any of their brethren whose 
judgment and understanding in these respects are differ- 
ent from their own, either in public or private. Whoso- 
ever shall make himself guilty in this respect shall he 
considered a traducer of his brethren, and shall be an- 
swerable for the same. 

III. Organization and Govenmenf. — The polity of 
the Church is outlined by the following constitution, 
established in 1841 : 

We, the members of the Church of the United Breth- 
ren in Christ, in the name of God, do, for the perfecting 
of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edify- 
ing of the body of Christ, as well as to produce and secure 
a uniform mode of action, iu faith and practice, also to de- 
fine the powers and the business of quarterly, annual, and 
general conferences, as recognised by this Church, ordain 
the following articles of constitution : 

Art. I, § 1. All ecclesiastical power herein granted to 
make or repeal any rule of discipline is vested in a "eu- 
eral conference, which shall consist of elders elected by 
the members in every conference district throughout the 
society; provided, however, such elders shall have stood 
in that capacity three years in the conference district to 
whicli they belong. 

§ 2. General Conference is to be held every four years; 
the bishops to be considered members and presiding of- 
ficers. 

§ 3. Each annual conference shall place before the so- 
ciety the names of all the elders eligible to membership 
in the General Conference. 

Art. II, § 1. The General Conference shall define the 
boundaries of the annual conferences. 

§ 2. The General Conference shall, at every session, elect 
bishops from among the elders throughout the Church 
who have stood six years in that capacity. 

§3. The business of each nnuual conference shall be 
done strictly according to Discipline; and any annual 
conference acting contrary thereunto shall, by impeach- 
ment, be tried by the General Conference. 


§ 4. No rule or ordinance shall at any time be passed 
to change or do away the Confession of Faith as it now 
stands, nor to destroy the itinerant plan. 

§ 5. There shall be no rule adopted that will infringe 
upon the rights of any as it relates to the mode of bap- 
tism, the sacrament of the Lord’s stumer, or the washing 
of feet. 

§ 6. There shall be no rule made that will deprive local 
preachers of their votes in the auunal conferences to 
which they severally belong. 

§ T. There shall be no connection with secret combina- 
tions, nor shall involuntary servitude be tolerated in any 
way. 

§ S. The right of appeal shall he inviolate. 

Art. III. The right, title, interest, and claim of all prop- 
erty, whether consisting in lots of ground, meeting-houses, 
legacies, bequests, or donations of nuy kind, obtained by 
purchase or otherwise, by any person or persons, for the 
use, benefit, and behoof of the Church of the United 
Brethren in Christ, are hereby fully recoguised and held to 
be the property of the Church aforesaid. 

Art. IV. There shall be no alterntiou of the foregoing 
constitution unless by request of two thirds of the whole 
society. 

Membership in the Church is conditioned upon a be- 
lief in the Bible as the Word of God, the experience of 
pardon of sins, a determination by grace and a good life 
to save the soul, and a pledge to obey the discipline of 
the Church. 4 

Only one order of ministers is recognised by the 
Church, viz. that of elders. The bishops of the Church 
are only elders elected for a term of four years as super- 
intendents of the whole field. 

Her ecclesiastical bodies consist of official boards, 
quarterly, annual, and general conferences. The latter 
meet quadrennially. Her officers are, superintendents 
of Sabbath-schools; stewards, who attend to the finances 
of the churches; class-leaders, or subpastors, who have 
charge of classes for spiritual instruction and worship; 
preachers in charge, who have the pastoral care of a 
mission, circuit, or station ; presiding elders, who are 
elected by the Annual Conference from among the or- 
dained elders, and who travel over a certain number of 
fields of labor, preside at the quarterly conferences, and 
see that all the laborers in their respective districts 
faithfully perform their duties; and bishops, or general 
superintendents of the whole Church, who preside at all 
the annual and general conferences. 

The method of supplying the churches of the denomi- 
nation with pastors is that known as “ the itinerant 
system.” Pastors in charge are subject to removal or 
reappointment at the end of each conference year by a 
committee constituted by the Annual Conference, com- 
posed of the bishop, the presiding elders of the past and 
the present year, and an equal number of local elders 
or preachers. A minister cannot remain in the same 
charge more than three years, except by the consent of 
two thirds of the members of the Annual Conference. 

Presiding elders have no limit as to the time they 
may serve on a district, subject only to the option of 
the Annual Conference. Bishops may be re-elected 
every four years indefinitely by the General Conference. 

The General Conference of 1877 made provision for lay 
representation in the annual conferences, leaving it to the 
will of the several annual conferences to accept or not. 
A considerable number of conferences have adopted it, 
and its introduction is believed to be advantageous. 

IV. Xumbers, Operations, and Sphere . — The statistics 
of the denomination in 1879 show 47 annual confer- 
ences^ mission districts, 2217 ministers, 4356 organized 
churches, 154,796 members, 2152 houses of worship, 319 
parsonages, 3268 Sabbath-schools, 187,203 officers, teach- 
ers, and scholars in Sabbath-schools. During the year 
1879 the Church contributed for the support of the Gos- 
pel and for connectioual purposes £661,662.56. 

During the past thirty years the denomination has 
been active in the educational work, and has now thir- 
teen colleges and seminaries and one theological school. 
The latter is located at Dayton, O., and wholly under 
the management of the General Conference. 

The Missionary Society of the Church is thoroughly 
organized, and since its origin, in 1853, has gathered 


UNITED CHRISTIANS 


649 UNITED EVANGELICAL CIIURCII 


and expended for the spread of the Gospel nearly two 
millions of dollars. The missionaries of the Church are 
scattered over many portions of the United States and 
territories, in Canada, Germany, and Western Africa. 
There are in the foreign work 12, in the frontier de- 
partment 140, and on home missions 210 missionaries. 

A Women’s Missionary Soeiety was established in 
1877, and has founded one mission in Germany and one 
in Africa. 

A Church Erection Society was organized in 18G9 by 
the General Conference. The object of this organiza- 
tion is to aid feeble churches in erecting houses of wor- 
ship. Already many congregations have been assisted 
by funds raised by this society. 

A Sabbath - school Association was established in 
18G9, and gathers by systematic annual collections a 
liberal sum each year to aid Mission Sabbath-schools 
in all parts of the denomination and in heathen lands. 
The Church is deeply interested in the work of saving 
the children, and no appliance useful to this end is with- 
held from them. * 

The literature of the Church is found chiefly in strict- 
ly denominational books and periodicals. It has a pub- 
lishing house at Dayton, O., under the supervision of 
the General Conference. Its net capital on the 1st of 
April, 1880, was $144,G0G.I0. It is out of debt, and has 
a handsome balance of cash in the treasury. Its pe- 
riodical literature is of a high moral tone, and compares 
well with the best of its kind everywhere. The house 
issues nine periodicals, with an average aggregate cir- 
culation of 175,000 copies. 

The Church of the United Brethren in Christ is not 
an offshoot of any other Church or churches, but bears 
the impress of a providential upraising for the accom- 
plishment of a special mission. It presents no new doc- 
trine, and is distinguished mostly as an organization in 
which the ministry and people have an equal propor- 
tion of power, and the rulers hold office only by the 
authority and consent of the governed. Its history has 
been marked by radical reformatory ideas, which have 
doubtless in some degree retarded its growth in num- 
bers. Slavery, the use of intoxicating drinks as a bev- 
erage, and the making and trading in ardent spirits, 
Freemasonry, and other secret societies are entirely pro- 
hibited on pain of excommunication. Its field thus far 
has been mainly among the rural populations of the 
land. Its ministers and people are striving to main- 
tain the old landmarks of a vital and experimental re- 
ligion, insisting upon the witness of the Spirit and a 
holy heart and life. (W. J. S.) 

United Christians op St. Thomas, a body of 
East Indian Roman Catholics, chiefly found in Travan- 
core, at the southern extremity of India. In 1599 the 
Synod of Diamper (Udiamperoor) compelled the an- 
cient Church of St. Thomas Christians to conform to 
the Church of Rome, conceding to them a modern 
Syrian rite. In 1G53 nearly all fell away, but were 
soon after induced in great numbers to return, chief- 
ly by the labors of the Barefooted Carmelites. At 
present more than one half are of the Latin rite, but a 
portion retain the Oriental rite. They are chiefly in 
the vicariate apostolic of Verapoli (Latin rite), reported 
in 1868 as having 295 priests and 233,000 members. 
See Thomas (St.), Christians of. 

United Copts are those who, since 1732, have ac- 
acknowledged the authority of the pope. They are of 
two rites — the Egyptian, and the Ethiopie or Abyssin- 
ian — and in Egypt they number 12,000. In 1855 the 
pope appointed one of their priests vicar apostolic and 
bishop in partibus. See Couts. 

United Evangelical Church, a denomination 
in Germany, formed in 1817 by a union of the Lutheran 
and Reformed churches. Attempts at uniting' these 
churches were made as early as 1529, when leading the- 
ologians of both schools held a conference at Marburg. 
Other conferences were held at Leipsic in 1G31, and at 


Cassel in 1GGI. In 1703 Frederick I of Prussia con- 
vened several Lutheran and Reformed theologians at 
Berlin to discuss the practicability of a union, but was 
successfully opposed by the Lutheran clergymen. A 
“ Plan of Union,” proposed by Klein m and Plaff, theolo- 
gians of Tubingen (1710-22), met with little favor. 
About the beginning of the 19th century, however, a 
voluntary union of the two communities was established 
in some parts of South Prussia, which extended in 1805 
to many congregations at Cologne, Wurzburg, and Mu- 
nich. In 1810, king Frederick William took up the 
subject warmly, and in 1814 drew up, chiefly with his 
own hands, a liturgy, which was adopted in the Royal 
Chapel, and authorized for use elsewhere. A royal proc- 
lamation followed, dated Sept. 27, 1817, in which the 
king requested the Lutherans and the Reformed through- 
out his dominions to unite in one community, and ex- 
pressed his intention of taking part in a united celebra- 
tion of the holy communion in the Royal Chapel at Pots- 
dam, on Oet. 31, the occasion of the tercentenary of the 
Reformation. A synod assembled on Oet. 1 at Breslau, 
and another subsequently at Berlin ; both of them read- 
ily adopting the proclamation, as did most of the minis- 
ters and laity throughout Prussia. A general assent 
was given to the movement on the day mentioned by 
the king, viz. Oet. 31, and not long after it was ordered 
that the distinctive names “Lutheran” and “ Reformed” 
should be disused in all official documents, and the Unit- 
ed Evangelical Church alone recognised as the national 
religion. It soon spread beyond the boundaries of Prus- 
sia, and was adopted in Nassau, Hanover, and Bavaria 
in 1818, in Hesse -Cassel in 1822, and in Wiirteraberg 
in 1827 ; but it did not extend either to Lutheran Aus- 
tria, on the one hand, or to Calvinistie Switzerland, on 
the other. Even in Prussia the revised Service-book 
which the king set forth in 1821 was rejected by many 
congregations, and uniformity was far from being estab- 
lished even within the bounds of the united body. On 
June 25, 1830, the king directed that the Service-book 
should be used in all churches; but a number of the 
Lutheran clergy refused to adopt it, and were suspend- 
ed, some of them being treated with great severity, and 
even imprisoned. 

Three parties arose in the Church. One, generally 
called the Confederalists, under the leadership of Prof. 
Ilengstenberg and Dr. Stahl, maintained that the union 
consisted in a mere external confederation and subjec- 
tion to the same general Church government; and that 
the individual churches remained Lutheran, Reformed, 
or United. A second party, commonly called the Con- 
sensus party, took for its doctrinal basis the Bible and 
the common dogmas of the Lutheran and Reformed con- 
fessions. It controlled the theological faculties of most 
of the universities, and had among its leading men 
Nitzseh, Twesten, Hoffmann, Niedner, Tholuek, Julius 
Muller, Jacobi, Dorner, Lange, Stier, Herzog, and Rothe. 
The third, or Union, party rejected the authoritative 
character of the old symbolical books of both the Lu- 
theran and the Reformed denomination, and based them- 
selves on the Bible simply, claiming, at the same time, 
the right of subjecting the authenticity of the Old and 
New Tests, to critical examination. This party includ- 
ed many of the disciples of Tubingen, and liberal divines 
of different shades of opinion. 

The persecution of the “ Old Lutherans” was kept up 
until the death of Frederick William. A milder policy 
was introduced by his son, who succeeded him in 1840; 
and in 1845 the Old Lutherans were allowed to organize 
into a separate community, but did not receive any 
share of the public funds. In 1873 laws were passed 
substituting the principle of ecclesiastical self-govern- 
ment for that of the eonsistorial administration thereto- 
fore exereised by the State. In January and February, 
1875, provincial synods met in all the eight old prov- 
inces of Prussia, and in November and December an ex- 
traordinary general synod met at Berlin, to make all 
necessary preparations for a transfer of the government 


UNITED METHODIST CIIURCII 050 UNITED SOCIETY OF BELIEVERS 


of the Church to a regular general synod. United 
Evangelical churches were also formed in other Ger- 
man states; in Nassau, 1817; the Havanan Palatinate, 
1818: linden, 18*21 ; and in Wi'irtemberg, 1827. In Aus- 
tria and Prance a fusion of the Lutheran and Reformed 
churches has also many friends, but nothing practical 
has been as yet accomplished. In the United States 
a branch of the United Evangelical Church was estab- 
lished at St. Louis in 1840, when six German ministers 
organized an ecclesiastical body called Evangeliscker Kir- 
chenverein des 11 'estens (Evangelical Church-Union of 
the West). This body, in 1850, was divided into three 
districts, and in 1800 changed its name to “German 
Evangelical Synod of the West.” In 1870 it reported, 
at the General Assembly held in Louisville, as follows: 


Ministers. 

Congregations. 

Voting Mem- 
bers. 

Communicants. 

Total Population. 

1G2 

300 

12,000 

about 20,000 

about 50,000 


Another branch of the United Evangelical Church was 
constituted in 1848, under the name of “Evangelical 
Synod of North America.” In May, 1859, it split into 
two independent bodies, one of which assumed the name 
“ United Evangelical Synod of the North-west,” and the 
other “United Evangelical Synod of the East.” Both 
of them united in 1872 with the “German Evangelical 
Synod of the West,” constituting the fourth and fifth dis- 
tricts of this body. In 1874 the Church was redistrict- 
ed by the General Conference held in Indianapolis into 
seven particular synods. It then numbered about 300 
ministers and 40,000 communicants. The Church has 
a theological seminary in Warren County, Mo. ; anoth- 
er educational institution at Elmhurst, III.; and three 
denominational papers. See Bunsen, Signs of the Times; 


to establish a theological seminary. The Wesleyan 
Methodist Association retained its separate identity till 
1857, when, by uniting with the Wesle\'an Reformers, it 
became merged in the United Methodist Free churches. 
The union w as completed, and the name adopted, in the 
town of Rochdale. This body is the third in numerical 
importance of English Methodist denominations, having 
its seat principally in England. Only three of its cir- 
cuits are in Scotland, and it has no footing in Ireland. 
It has missionary stations in Jamaica, Victoria, Queens- 
land, New Zealand, Eastern Africa, and China. 

The constitution of the body is democratic, the mem- 
bers of its annual assembly being freely chosen repre- 
sentatives. This assembly does not regulate the inter- 
nal affairs of circuits, they being independent, except on 
matters of conneetioual import. The home circuits are 
divided into districts; but the district meetings do not 
wield any important functions. The various schemes, 
funds, and institutions of the body are intrusted during 
the year to committees which are, for the most part, 
elected annually. It id so with the Conneetioual Com- 
mittee (which may be regarded as the executive of the 
body), with the Foreign Missionary Committee, the 
Chapel Fund Committee, the Superannuation Committee, 
and the Book-room Committee. Ashville College is gov- 
erned by a body of trustees elected for life, and a com- 
mittee of six elected for three years, but so arranged 
that two retire each year. The Theological Institute 
is governed by a body of trustees elected for life, and 
nine others chosen annually. The conneetioual officers 
are the president of the assembly, the eonneetional sec- 
retary, the conneetioual treasurer, and the correspond- 
ing secretary. 

In 1877 their statistical report showed as follow's: 


Ilin. Min. 
405 


Local Preach- 
ers. 

3501 


Leaders. 

4430 


Members. 

72,997 


Members on 
Trial. 
09S4 


Chapels. 

1530 


S. Schools. 
1305 


Teachers. 

20,205 


Scholars. Raised for Missions. 

1S3,3G4 £17,787 11.5. Sid. 


liering, Geschichte derlcirchlichen Unionsversnche (Leips. 
1836-38. 2 vols.); Kahnis, Hist. Germ. Protestantism ; 
Muller, Die evangdische Union (Leips. 1854); Nitzseh, 
Urlaindenbuch der evangelisdien Union (Bonn, 1853); 
Schnfi, Germany, its Theology, etc. (Phil.1857); Stahl, Die 
lutherische Kirdie und die Union (Berlin, 1858). 

United Methodist Free Church, an English 
branch of the Methodists which w'as formed in 1857, 
w'hen the Wesleyan Methodist Association and the 
larger portion of Wesleyan Keformers amalgamated. 
The origin of this Church dates back to 1827, when 


See Simpson, Cydop. of Methodism , s. v. See Meth- 
odism, 8. 

United Nestorians. See Chaldeans; Nes- 
torians. 

United Original Seceders. See Presbyte- 
rian Churches, 5. 

United Presbyterian Church. The genea- 
logical descent of the existing body may be best ex- 
hibited by the following pedigree [see Presbyterian 
Churches, 2, 14] : 


SECESSION OK ASSOCIATE SYNOD, 
Separated from the Scottish Establishment, 
A.D. 1733. 

I 


Burghers, 
A.D. 174G. 
I 


Antiburghers, 
A.D. 1746. 

I 


Old-light Burghers, 
A.D. 1700. 


New-light Burghers, 
A.D. 1709. 


— New-light Antiburghers, 
A.D. 180G. 


Relief 

Separated from 
Scottish Establish- 
ment, A.D. 1753. 


United Secession, 
A.D. 1S20. 

Morisonians, 
A.D. 1841. 
United Presbyterians, 

A.D. 1847. 


Protesters, 

A.D.1S20. 


Part joined the 
Scottish Establish- 
ment, A.D. 1839. 


Original Burghers, = 
A.D. 1S39. 


Old-light Antibnrghers, 
or Constitutional 
Associated Pres- 
bytery, A.D. 1S0G. 


Original Seceders 
representing Associate 
I Synod of A.D. 1733. 
United Original Seceders, A.D. 1S40. 

A large portion joined the Free Kirk, 1S52. 


trouble arose in Leeds in reference to the introduction 
of an organ into Brunswick Chapel. This resulted in 
the organization of the Protestant Methodists, who had 
a separate existence until 1836, wdien they became 
merged in the denomination formed in that year, and 
known subsequently as the Wesleyan Methodist Asso- 
ciation. The immediate occasion of the formation of 
the latter body was the determination of the conference 


United Secession Church, The, was formed in 
Scotland in 1820 by a reunion of the Associate (or Bur- 
ghers) and the General Associate (or Antiburghers) Syn- 
od. In 1847 it W’as united to the present United Pres- 
byterian Church. 

United Society of Believers in Christ’s 
Second Appearing, the name given to themselves by 
the Shakers (q.v.). 


UNITED STATES 


G51 


UNITED STATES 


United States of America is tlie full title of 
the principal nation on the Western continent, occupy- 
ing the whole central portion of North America. See 
America. In this article we propose to treat our coun- 
try only in its general religious aspects, leaving its oth- 
er features to the secular cyclopaedias. For the relig- 
ious beliefs and customs of the aborigiucs, sec Indians 
(North American). 

I. Church History. — 1. Religious Character of the 
Original Settlers. — New England was originally settled 
by the Puritans (q. v.) from England. These were a 
band of dissenters from the faith and practice of the 
Established Church of England who were persecuted 
for their dissent and granted no rest in their own land. 
Accordingly they decided to leave their own country 
for one that would permit them liberty of conscience in 
religious worship, and, after one unsuccessful attempt 
at departure, finally set out from the coast of Lincoln- 
shire in the spring of 1608 for Holland. They reached 
Amsterdam in safety, where they passed one winter; 
and then removed to Leyden. Here the}' enjoyed that 
religious liberty for which they were seeking; but they 
were in a strange land, among a strange people, who 
used .a strange language. The love of country was 
still warm in their hearts notwithstanding their perse- 
cution at home, and during the ten years they remain- 
ed in Holland they became thoroughly anxious to re- 
turn to the allegiance of their mother country. With 
this desire in their hearts, they sent John Carver and 
Robert Cushman to England to ask permission of the 
government for the Pilgrims at Leyden to settle in 
America. After some hesitation on the part of the 
king and the ministry, they obtained from the former 
an informal promise that he would not disturb them in 
America if they should decide to go there. Arrange- 
ments were completed for their removal to America, 
and they landed on Plymouth Rock on Monday, Dec. 
11 (old style), 1(120. Their arrival occurred in the 
dead of winter, and they were obliged during the long 
and seva*e season that followed to undergo great priva- 
tion and suffering. Diseases engendered by the rigors 
of the climate swept away one half of their number. 
But the spirit which had brought the Pilgrim Fathers 
to New England caused them to remain undaunted by 
opposition, from whatever source. These were a vigor- 
ous and determined people, with strong convictions on 
all questions of morals and religion. They took posses- 
sion of the new country and held it. They increased 
in number and gradually extended their borders over 
our present New England, and became as zealous for 
their religion as had been the English government be- 
fore they left England. If the Church was not under 
the control of the State, the State was under the control 
of the Church ; for a man could not hold office except 
he were a member of the Church ; and religion lay at 
the basis of their political system. Notwithstanding 
their own bitter experience in their old home, they 
were intolerant of all dissent in their new abode, and 
they sometimes ran to great extremes of fanaticism 
against so-called heretics. Puritanism, however, has 
exerted a powerful influence for good in the develop- 
ment of American institutions by holding out sternly 
for the right in government as well as in private life. 

Rhode Island was settled originally by the Baptists, 
followers of Roger Williams (q. v.). In 1636, along 
with a few companions, Roger Williams, seeking for 
a refuge beyond the limits of the Plymouth colony, 
founded Providence Plantation, and made it a resort 
for all the distressed and persecuted of whatever name 
or faith. Notwithstanding this liberality on the part 
of the founder, the colony was settled chiefly by those 
of the Baptist communion. 

Connecticut was contested ground between the Eng- 
lish settlers of Plymouth and the Dutch of New Neth- 
erlands. The Dutch, finding that the English were 
about to establish a colony in the valley of the Con- 
necticut River, built a fort at Hartford called the House 


of Good Hope; but this was not regarded by the Eng- 
lish as of any right belonging to the Dutch, and they 
proceeded to settle the country from Plymouth. In 
1G35 a colony of sixty persons left Boston for Connect- 
icut, where they arrived in due time, and settled at 
Hartford, Windsor, and Wethersfield. A little later 
other settlements were formed, and in 1639 the leading 
men of New Haven adopted the Bible as their political 
constitution. At the Restoration in England, Connect- 
icut obtained a royal charter, and thus became a colo- 
ny free and independent in all except the name. Pu- 
ritan influence was in the ascendency, and the colony 
enjoyed great prosperity and freedom from invasion. 

New York was settled originally by the Dutch as a 
trading -post. A colony was planted on Manhattan 
Island (the present site of New York city), and the 
village was called New Amsterdam. In 1G23 a consid- 
erable addition was made to the numbers of the colony 
by the arrival of thirty families of Dutch Protestant 
refugees from Flanders, called Walloons. They came 
to America to escape the persecutions which they had 
to undergo at home. The settlements were extended 
rapidly, even to the present site of Albany. In I62G 
Manhattan Island was purchased from the Indians for 
twenty-four dollars. There was a bond of sympathy 
between the Walloons and the Pilgrims of Plymouth 
in that they were alike refugees from persecution at 
home, and, furthermore, the English remembered their 
kind treatment in Holland. Visits were exchanged and 
a friendly intercourse was kept up. The English noti- 
fied their neighbors of their own claim to the territory 
of the Hudson, and advised them to make good their 
titles by accepting deeds from the council of Plymouth. 
In 1664 the Dutch power in America was complete- 
ly broken. All the territory possessed by Holland in 
this country had been granted by Charles II to his 
brother James, duke of York, who made haste to se- 
cure the land thus granted. A squadron was sent 
against New Netherlands, and easily subdued the coun- 
try. Thereafter the country and city passed under 
the name of New York. English settlers were brought 
in, but they lived at peace with the Dutch ; even the 
strifes of the two home governments failed to embroil 
the colonists of New York in a contest. From the time 
of the English conquest of the territory, the Episcopal 
Church was established by law, and was supported by 
the usual taxation and grants of land. Traces of both 
the Dutch and English forms of worship are abundant 
in New York at the present time. (Dutch) Reformed 
churches and societies are numerous, as also are the 
Protestant Episcopal. 

New Jersey was at first a part of New Netherlands, 
and was settled bv the Dutch, especially in the north- 
ern part in the vicinity of New Amsterdam (New York). 
But, on the reduction of the Dutch power to submission 
to the English, that portion of the territory likewise 
passed under the control of the duke of York. It was 
assigned, however, to lord Berkeley and Sir George Car- 
teret. A liberal government was provided, and in the 
first assembly, held in 1668, the Puritans were in the 
ascendency, and the customs of New England were 
largely adopted in New Jersey. In IG76 the colony 
was divided into two sections by a line starting at 
the southern point of land on the east side of Lit- 
tle Egg Harbor, and extending north-northwest to a 
point on the Delaware River in latitude 41° 40'. 
The territory lying east of this line was to be known 
as East Jersey, and remain under the control of Sir 
George Carteret; while that lying between the line 
and the Delaware was called West Jersey, and had 
been assigned to certain Quakers (William Penn and 
others) in trust for Edward Bvllinge. The western 
section, being under the control of the Quakers, be- 
came a place of refuge for the persecuted of that name. 
Many Friends found homes here, and enjoyed great 
prosperity. In 1682 William Penn and some other 
Quakers purchased the territory of East Jersey from 


UNITED STATES 


G52 


UNITED STATES 


the lieirs of Sir George Carteret, anti extended their 
control over the whole province. Robert. Barclay, an 
eminent Scotch Quaker, was chosen governor for life, 
and continued to administer the government until 1690, 
when he died. During this period East Jersey received 
a large accession of Scotch Quakers, and a still larger 
accession of Scotch Presbyterians. The northern sec- 
tion of the state retains a large number of the followers 
of the early Dutch Protestants, while the central and 
southern portions have the descendants of the Scotch 
Quakers and Presbyterians. 

William Penn (q. v.) was greatly pleased with the 
success of the Quaker colonics in New Jersey, and form- 
ed the project of establishing a free state on the banks 
of the Delaware, founded on the principle of universal 
brotherhood. After a vigorous effort, seconded by pow- 
erful friends in Parliament, he obtained a charter in 
1681 by which he became proprietor of Pennsylvania. 
Emigrants flocked to the new colony, a liberal govern- 
ment was planned, the land was purchased from the In- 
dians, and relations of friendship were established with 
the savages which lasted for a long period of time. It 
is a pleasure to look back upon the history of Pennsyl- 
vania. It is one continued reign of peace and prosper- 
ity, resulting from the righteous principles upon which 
the colony was founded and maintained. Immigration 
was encouraged by the liberal policy of the proprietors, 
and 'thousands of German Protestants, who fled from 
persecutions at home, came and settled to the westward 
of the English communities. Their descendants remain 
to this day, and arc among the most industrious and 
thrifty people in the whole land. Many Huguenots 
also came from France and formed settlements, and Irish 
Protestants occupied lands still farther west. From 
these different classes of emigrants have sprung the va- 
rious prevailing religious bodies of Pennsylvania; but 
the Quakers and Germans have made the deepest im- 
pression upon the country, and they have had more to 
do in shaping the religious sentiment and policy of the 
people than any other. 

Delaware was settled by the Swedes. Gustavus 
Adolphus, as early as 1626, had formed a plan of colo- 
nization, but was prevented from carrying it out by dif- 
ficulties at home, and the plan was put into execution 
by Oxcnstiern, the Swedish minister. In the early part 
of 1638 a company of Swedes arrived in Delaware Bay. 
They purchased from the Indians the country lying to 
the west of the bay, from Cape Henlopen to Trenton 
Falls, and named it New Sweden. This territory com- 
prised the present state of Delaware and a part of Penn- 
sylvania. But the colony of New Sweden was of short 
duration. In 1655 the country was entirely subdued 
by the Dutch of New Netherlands. 

The colony of Maryland was founded as a home 
for persecuted Catholics. Sir George Calvert, of York- 
shire, England, a man of liberal education, large expe- 
rience, and a devoted Catholic, was desirous of founding 
a colony which should afford a home for the persecuted 
Catholics of his own land, and should grant equal toler- 
ation to all creeds. About the year 1630 he obtained 
from king Charles I a charter for a new colony on the 
Chesapeake, but died before the colonization began. 
His son, Cecil Calvert, received the charter June 20, 
1632, and named the new province Maryland. 1 1 is 
brother, Leonard, was sent out with the colony as gov- 
ernor. The provisions of the charter were the most 
liberal that had yet been granted. Christianity was 
the religion of the State, but no preference was ex- 
pressed for any creed. Free-trade was guaranteed, and 
arbitrary taxation forbidden. The power of making 
the laws of the colony was conceded to the colonists or 
their representatives. Under these liberal provisions, 
and the prudent conduct of the officers and the colonists 
themselves, the enterprise was very prosperous, and the 
colony grew very rapidly. Religious toleration and 
freedom of conscience were reiterated in the legislation 
of the colonial Assembly, and Maryland, along with 


Rhode Island and Connecticut, wont far beyond the other 
colonies in securing liberty of conscience. In 1691 the 
patent of the Baltimores w'as taken away by king 
William III. During the following year Sir Lionel 
Copley assumed the government of the province, and 
a revolution was speedily effected. The Episcopal 
Church was established by law, and supported by tax- 
ation ; religious toleration was abolished, and the former 
liberal policy entirely swept away. 

On April 10, 1606, king James I granted a patent to 
an association of nobles, gentlemen, and merchants re- 
siding in London, called the London Company, assign- 
ing to them all the region between the thirty-fourth 
and thirty-eighth degrees of north latitude. The af- 
fairs of the company were intrusted to the management 
of a superior council, residing in England, and an infe- 
rior council, residing in the colony. To carry out the 
purpose for which the charter was granted, a fleet of 
three vessels was litted out, to be under the command 
of Christopher Newport. On Dec. 9, 1606, the vessels 
set sail, and in May following landed on the banks of 
the James River, in Virginia, fifty miles from Ches- 
apeake Bay. Here they immediately laid the founda- 
tions of Jamestown, the oldest English settlement in 
America. The first settlers of Jamestown were idle, 
improvident, and dissolute. While a few were laborers 
and artisans, the great majority w ere enrolled as gen- 
tlemen. John Smith, the best and most energetic man 
of the colony, was accused of conspiracy and sedition, 
but was able to defend his name against the accusa- 
tions. The colony was organized by making known 
the names of the inferior council, and the election of 
Edward Wingfield as governor of Virginia. The new 
colony had a hard struggle for its existence. The idle- 
ness and dissolute habits of the settlers, the treachery 
of some of the leaders, and the civil dissensions which 
arose in the community threatened to break up the set- 
tlement in the very beginning. But, after various dis- 
asters and discouragements, Smith was elected presi- 
dent, and began a vigorous administration which add- 
ed new life to the enterprise. By the undaunted cour- 
age of the officers from this time onward, and the en- 
couragement given by the arrival of new accessions to 
their number from time to time, the colony was able to 
maintain its existence. The settlements were extend- 
ed, and the colony grew into a flourishing province. 
The Episcopal Church was established by law and sup- 
ported by taxation ; churches were built in various 
parts of the province, and remained for many years. 
Along with the English revolution came religious in- 
tolerance in Virginia. In March, 1643, a law was en- 
acted by the Assembly declaring that no person who 
did not assent to the doctrines of the Established Church 
should be allowed to teach, or to preach the Gospel, 
within the limits of Virginia. Their persecution of the 
Puritans within their borders brought upon the Virgin- 
ians the distrust of the colonists of New England for 
many years. 

The attempt to form settlements in the Carolinas 
was for a long time unsuccessful. In 1663 began the 
first colonial settlements in North Carolina on the Cho- 
wan River and Albemarle Sound. The colony passed 
through many vicissitudes of fortune, but the settlers 
remained in possession of the territory. In 1704 an at- 
tempt was made by Robert Daniel to establish the 
Church of England. George Fox, the founder of the 
Quakers, at one time (1672) made a visit to the settle- 
ments of Carolina, and obtained many hearers to his in- 
structions. Other Quakers came from New England 
and Delaware, and made their homes in this colony. 
In 1707 a band of French Huguenots were added to the 
settlers; a hundred German families from the banks of 
the Rhine came to find a home on the banks of the 
Neuse; and a number of Swiss peasants founded New 
Berne, at the mouth of the River Trent. Little atten- 
tion was paid to questions of religion at first. There 
was no minister in the colony until 1703, and no church 


UNITED STATES 


G53 


UNITED STATES 


until 1705. But the largest liberty of conscience was 
allowed, and a field opened for the sowing of precious 
seed. 

South Carolina was colonized in 1670, and Old Charles- 
ton founded. The present city of Charleston was laid 
out and a beginning made in building ten years later. 
In 1686 South Carolina began to receive the Huguenots 
(q. v.) from France, and in a short time had more of 
these French refugees than any other American colony. 
The proprietors pledged them protection and citizen- 
ship, but, owing to the unsettled condition of their po- 
litical plan, the Huguenots were kept in suspense for 
many years. The first general act of enfranchisement 
was passed in their favor in May, 169 1, and their full 
political rights were established in 1697. In 1695 began 
the administration of John Archdale as governor, lie 
was a Quaker of distinction, and ruled with such wisdom 
and moderation that the colony greatly prospered. lie 
was instrumental in procuring the passage of a law by 
which all Christians, except the Catholics, were fully 
enfranchised; and the exception was made against his 
earnest protest. The policy of South Carolina, as well 
as that of her northern sister, had been one of religious 
toleration and civil liberty; consequently no church 
was established by law, but Christians of all denomina- 
tions were welcomed to her shores. The Dutch came 
from the banks of the Hudson, the French vine-dressers 
were sent by king Charles; Churchmen and Dissenters 
from England, Irish peasants, Scotch Presbyterians, and 
Huguenots, all found a home and welcome under the 
genial sun of South Carolina. 

The colony of Georgia was founded as an asylum for 
the oppressed poor of England and the distressed Prot- 
estants of other lands. James Oglethorpe, an English 
cavalier and member of Parliament, obtained a charter 
from George II, by which the territory between the Sa- 
vannah and Altamaha rivers was organized and granted 
to a corporation for twenty-one years in trust for the 
poor. This charter was dated June 9, 173*2, and the 
new province was named Georgia, in honor of the king. 
The organization of the colony was on a liberal basis. 
Oglethorpe, who was the first governor, was a High- 
Churchman, but made no distinction among the immi- 
grants who came. Swiss peasants, Scotch Highlanders, 
and German Protestants from Salzburg came and made 
their home with the English. Then came the Mora- 
vians with their vital religion, and the Methodists, in 
the persons of John and Charles Wesley and George 
Whitefield. The labors of the Wesleys were not pro- 
ductive of any permanent results, but those of White- 
field were more successful. 

The colonization of Florida was first effected in 1565. 
Pedro Melendez, a Spanish soldier of a wicked disposi-' 
tion and evil habits, was commissioned by Philip II to 
explore the coast of Florida, conquer the country, and 
plant a colony in some favorable site. Melendez ar- 
rived in sight of land on St. Augustine’s day, but did 
not land until Sept. 2. The harbor and the river which 
enters it were named in honor of that saint. On the 
8th of the same month, after the proclamation of the 
Spanish sovereignty and the celebration of mass, the 
foundations of St. Augustine were laid. This is the old- 
est town in the United States, having been founded 
seventeen years before Santa Fe, and forty-two years 
before Jamestown. The founders were Catholics, and 
their dastardly leader was a cruel monster who hoped 
to regain the favor of his countrymen by murdering the 
members of a Huguenot settlement about thirty -five 
miles above the month of the St. John’s Biver. The 
work was done in a most heartless manner, and the 
French settlement entirely broken up. The outrage 
was subsequently avenged by Dominic de Gourges, a 
soldier of Gascony, who attacked successively three 
Spanish forts on the St. John’s, captured the inmates, 
and afterwards hanged the principal of them. 

When La Salle visited the lower Mississippi valley in 
1682 he took possession of the country in the name of 


Louis XIV of France, giving it the name of Louisiana. 
A settlement was attempted by Iberville and his follow- 
ers at Biloxi, in 1699. He died before the project was 
fairly successful, and was succeeded in command by 
Bienville, who was driven from his post by the Indians 
and compelled to take up his abode at the present site 
of New Orleans. Others succeeded Bienville in the gov- 
ernorship of the new territory, but he was reappointed in 
1718, and began to build a town on the site he had for- 
merly’* selected as headquarters, and named the city New 
Orleans, in honor of the Duke of Orleans. In 1723 it 
was made the capital of the province. A large tract of 
country was ceded by France to Spain in 1762, and re- 
mained under control of that power for thirty-eight 
years, but was restored in 1800, and in 1803 sold by Na- 
poleon Bonaparte to the United States for 811,250,000 
and the assumption of certain ■ claims due from the 
French government to citizens of the United States, 
amounting to 83,750,000. Thus was purchased, at a 
cost of 815,000,000, nearly all the territory included in 
the present states of Louisiana, Arkansas, Missouri, Iowa, 
Minnesota, Dakota Territory, Nebraska, most of Kansas, 
Indian and Wyoming territories, part of Colorado, and 
the whole of Montana, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington 
Territory. This was afterwards divided np from time 
to time as the wants of the population required. The 
Mississippi valley, while under the control of the French, 
had many settlements of French Catholics, which have 
left their impress upon the country to a greater or less 
extent. 

The first attempt to colonize Texas was by the French 
under La Salle in 1687 ; but this great explorer lost his 
life in returning towards the Mississippi during the 
same year, and the men who were left to hold the post 
established were either killed or driven away. In 1690 
a trading-post and a mission were established by the 
Spanish, and subsequently other settlements were made 
by the same power. Then in 1735 a French colony 
was sent into Texas from the Bed Biver. But neither 
the French nor the Spanish held possession of the coun- 
try unmolested. After the Louisiana purchase, difficul- 
ty arose between Spain and the United States as to the 
boundary, the United States claiming the territory west 
to the Bio Grande, while Spain claimed it east as far as 
the Sabine. This was finally settled by treaty, in which 
the United States guaranteed to Spain her territory 
west of the Sabine. Mexico became independent in 
1821, and Texas formed a part of it, being united under 
one government with Coahuila. But while Coahuila 
was exclusively Mexican, Texas was settled largely by 
colonists from the United States, generally under grants 
of land from the Mexican government. Thus there ex- 
isted a natural barrier between the Texans and the Mex- 
icans, and, after much dissatisfaction with the govern- 
ment of the latter, the former fought for and gained 
their independence in 1836. Texas was annexed to 
the United States in 1846. 

Tennessee was originally a part of North Carolina, 
and was settled mainly by emigrants from that State. 
Kentucky belonged to Virginia, and was settled like- 
wise by Virginians. The other Western States lying 
east of the Mississippi were included in the Territory 
north-west of the Ohio. The French under La Salle had 
explored this region, laid claim to it, and established 
trading-posts guarded by forts in various, parts of it, but 
they finally relinquished their claim to it. A consid- 
erable part of this territory was claimed by Virginia, 
Pennsylvania, New York, and New England under their 
original territorial grants; but these claims were all re- 
linquished except a part belonging to Connecticut, called 
the Western Beserve, and a Virginia reservation, now a 
part of Indiana, each including about 3,700,000 acres. 
Emigration extended into this section from the older 
states, as a rule, on the lines of latitude, although there 
were many exceptions, and each new settlement par- 
took of the characteristics of the region from which it 
was peopled. The first settlement in Ohio was at Ma- 


UNITED STATES 


654 


UNITED STATES 


rietta in 1788, formed by a colony from New England. 
Many localities in Southern Ohio were settled by emi- 
grants from Virginia, while the northern section was 
peopled by New-Englandcrs. The oldest, settlements 
in Indiana were made by the French at Vincennes, 
Corydon, and other places in that vicinity, in 1702. 
Michigan and Illinois, as well as Wisconsin and Minne- 
sota, had numerous settlements which were formed by 
the French Catholics in the lGth and 17th centuries. 
►Subsequently these states, especially Michigan, Minne- 
sota, and Wisconsin, were tilled up largely from the New 
England States and New York. 

Like the rest of the Mississippi valley, Iowa was ex- 
plored and claimed by the French, bnt was a part of the 
Louisiana purchase, and so became the property of the 
United States government. The first white settlements 
under the authority of this government were made in 
1833-3-1 at Fort Madison, Burlington, and Dubuque. 
The inhabitants of Iowa have always taken high ground 
on all questions of civilization, education, and morals. 

The Pacific Slope has received its population in recent 
times. The southern portion extending far towards 
Texas was formerly a Spanish possession, and there yet 
remain many Spaniards and Mexicans within those 
states and territories. The population of California grew 
up very rapidly after the discovery of gold in 1848. 
Miners, speculators, and adventurers rushed thither 
from all parts of the country, and formed a very mot- 
ley crowd. Many of these remained, but by far the 
larger portion returned to their former homes or wan- 
dered to other lands. Oregon was included in the Lou- 
isiana purchase, and began to be settled by emigrants 
from the States about 1832. In 1834 the missionary 
colony of Dr. Marcus Whitman and Ilev. Mr. Spalding 
entered Oregon, and in 1842 the emigration to that re- 
gion was large. 

The settlement of Utah constitutes a remarkable 
chapter in the history of our country. The Mormons 
(q. v.), under the leadership of Joseph Smith, made their 
lirst settlement in Missouri, where they grew to be a 
body of considerable numbers; but their theories and 
habits were distasteful to the people of that state, and 
they were compelled to remove in 1840. They found 
their way across the Mississippi into Illinois, where they 
founded the city of Nauvoo. Here they increased to 
ten thousand in number, but w r ere obliged to leave this 
place also on account of the dissatisfaction of the peo- 
ple among wdiom they lived. In 184G they removed 
beyond the Rocky Mountains to the basin of the Great 
Salt Lake, and founded Utah Territory. In this terri- 
tory they have held sway during all the succeeding 
years, and have lived in defiance of the laws of the 
United States, with, seemingly, no power to check them. 
A new a?ra seems to be dawning. Law-abiding and 
Christian people are finding homes within the limits of 
the territory, and a population is fast growing up w hose 
influence will secure the execution of the laws of the 
land. 

New Mexico w r as colonized by the Spaniards about 
the close of the 17th century. Many missions were es- 
tablished by the Homan Catholics and many of the In- 
dians were converted to that faith. The mineral wealth 
of the country was discovered, the colonists opened and 
worked the mines, and enslaved the Indians for that 
purpose. At length the Indians shook oft* the power of 
their oppressors and drove the Spaniards from their ter- 
ritory; but near the close of the 17th century the latter 
regained a part of their former power. In 1821, along 
with the rest of Mexico, New' Mexico became indepen- 
dent of Spain, and was a part of that republic until 184S, 
when it was ceded to the United States. The Gadsden 
purchase was added in 1853, when it included all of Ari- 
zona and part of Colorado. Arizona was set off from it 
in 18C3, and a portion of Colorado in 18G5. The inhab- 
itants are largely Mexican, Spanish, and Indians, with 
an ever-increasing number of emigrants from the Unit- 
ed States. 


2. Effects of more Recent Immigration . — The United 
States are peculiar among all the nations of the earth, 
as being composed of a population entirely foreign in its 
origin. While other countries have been invaded and 
the lands occupied by conquerors, largely to the exclu- 
sion of the natives, yet the old stock has not been en- 
tirely rooted out, but has become the basis of the suc- 
ceeding race. In English history, the Anglo-Saxon 
united with the old Celtic stock, and the Norman with 
the Saxon, forming the Anglo-Norman race of the pres- 
ent. lint in America the aborigines have always been 
treated as aliens and intruders, and are fast declining 
towards extermination. The great breadth of our un- 
occupied lands, and the excellent opportunities for ob- 
taining cheap homes, have rendered America a favorite 
resort for emigrants from all parts of the world, so 
that at the present time more than thirteen per cent, of 
our population are foreign-born. The aggregate immi- 
gration from 1820 to 1810 was 750,940; from 1841 to 1850 
itw r as 1,713,251 ; from 1851 to 18G0 it was 2,598,214; from 
18G1 to 1870 it w r as 2,491,451 ; and from 1871 to 1878 it 
w r as 2,177.108 — making a total of 9,731,073; in the year 
ending June 30, 1880, it v r as 457,243 persons. Of t his 
vast number about one fifth have been from Ireland, 
one fourth from England, one tenth from Scotland and 
Wales, four fifteenths from Germany, one thirtieth 
from France, the remainder (nearly one sixth) from 
Scandinavia, Switzerland, Italy, Austria, Spain, Portu- 
gal, Russia, Holland, Belgium, China, etc. More than 
one twentieth of this immigration has been from Roman 
Catholic countries, and, in addition to this, a large pro- 
portion of those from other countries are of the same 
faith. Thus we have added to our population from 
foreign countries a large Catholic element, besides the 
natives who are of that faith, and the rapid increase of 
their numbers by the ordinary methods of propaga- 
tion. Among these Catholics have come many Jesuits 
(q. v.), some from choice, others because of their expul- 
sion from their European homes, who have used their 
influence so far as it was in their power to mould the 
government to their own ideas. Officers have been 
elected at the dictation of the priesthood, political par- 
ties and municipal governments have been under their 
control, and vast wealth has been amassed at the ex- 
pense of the public. They have maintained their own 
schools, and have waged an unceasing warfare upon the 
public-school system of our states. They have fought 
hard to exclude the Bible from the public schools, and, 
when it was accomplished in a few r instances, denounced 
them as godless schools. Under pretext of the right 
of conscience, they have sought and obtained a division 
of the public-school funds in a few instances. 

Protestant immigrants, as a rule, have been in sym- 
pathy with onr institutions from the first, and have 
readily fallen in with American ideas and practices. 
The recent accessions from the British isles have found 
the institutions and customs established by their ances- 
tors, and have easily accommodated themselves to the 
new order. German Protestants as w’ell as Roman 
Catholics have less readily Americanized. They con- 
tinue, as far as possible, to use their native language 
and retain their German habits. They gather into 
communities of their own, and thus, in a degree, iso- 
late themselves from American society. Of the great 
mass of Protestant immigrants who arrive here from 
European countries, by far the larger part are poor; 
but in so far as they honestly endeavor to adapt them- 
selves to their new surroundings they make good citi- 
zens. The Jew's who come among us are mainly from 
Germany. They still continue to be a despised race, 
and are compelled to seek their society among their 
own numbers. They live together in communities, and 
have but little sympathy with American customs. With 
our Sabbath and the prevailing religion they are utter- 
ly at variance. A few infidels arrive from time to time, 
and join with those of our own country in antagonizing 
so much of our present system as is designed to restrain 


UNITED STATES 


655 


UNITED STATES 


Sabbath-deseeration and 
preserve a wholesome re- 
gard for the laws of God. 

The Mormons of Utah 
iincl it to their interest 
to add to their numbers 
by means of converts se- 
cured in European coun- 
tries. These, however, 
make their homes within 
the limits of the Mormon 
territory, and their influ- 
ence is not felt exeept in 
the increased strength of 
the sect with which they 
have united. There have 
been considerable acces- 
sions to our population 
in late years from China, 
mainly on and near the 
Pacific coast. The Chi- 
nese, however, do not 
come to remain here, but 
simply to improve their 
temporal condition, and 
then return to their for- 
mer home. There are 
certain kinds of labor in 
which they exeel, and 
their services may be 
had at a lower price 
than those of an}" other 
people. Henee “Chinese 
cheap labor” has become 
a proverb among us, and 
has been the occasion of 
serious disturbances in 
various parts of Califor- 
nia, loafers and politi- 
cians making it the pre- 
text for deeds of violence 
and shame. 

The general influence 
of foreign immigration 
upon our institutions has 
been most noticeable in large cities and towns, and in 
respect to the observance of the Sabbath and temper- 
ance. Very many who come to ns from foreign lands 
have been addicted to the use of strong drinks at home, 
and their improved financial condition and the absence 
of restraint give them opportunities for indulging their 
appetites to an extreme. They are thus plunged into 
excesses which exert a very baleful influence upon our 
country. The traffic in lager-beer is almost entirely 
dependent upon our German population for its main- 
tenance. With them the Sabbath is a holiday, and is 
spent in visiting beer-saloons, parks, and gardens, and 
picnic excursions of various kinds. Wherever they ex- 
ist in sufficient numbers to exert a controlling influence, 
their shops are kept open on the Sabbath, and the traffic 
is carried on nearly as on any other day. Their exam- 
ple is contagious. Many Americans who first looked 
upon the practice with horror, in time have become so 
accustomed to it that they no longer feel any annoy- 
ance, and finally begin to purchase goods upon the Sab- 
bath. In this way the former reverence for the sacred 
day, so nearly universal in our country, is fast passing 
away, so that to-day more people are found pleasure- 
seeking, or engaged in labor, on the Sabbath than are 
found in churches in many localities. These evils are 
more especially apparent in large cities. Many of these, 
or at least whole wards in' them, are made up almost 
entirely of foreigners. These become citizens while yet 
ignorant of the duties of citizenship, and fall under the 
control of unprincipled politicians, by whom the design 
of a free government is perverted, and the principles of 
morality are disregarded. 


POPULATION OP TIIE UNITED STATES AND TERRITORIES IN 1SS0. 


State or Territory. 

| Total. 

Male. 

Female. 

| Native. 

| Foreign. | White. 

1 Colored.*] 

Alabama 

Alaska 

1,262,794 

622,800 

039,904 

1,253,121 

9,073 

002,328 

600,249 

Arizona 

40,411 

28,202 

12,239 

24,419 

10,022 

■ 35,178 

5,203 

Arkansas 

S02,5G4 

410,3S3 

380,1 SI 

792,209 

10,295 

591,011 

210,953 

California 

SG4,68G 

518,271 

340,4 15 

572,000 

292, 0S0 

707,200 

97,420 

Colorado 

194, G49 

129,471 

05,178 

154,809 

39,780 

191,452 

3,197 

Connecticut 

022, 683 

305, SS0 

; 310,797 

492,879 

129,804 

010,884 

11,799 

Dakota 

135,1S0 

S2,302 

52,878 

S3,3S7 

51,793 

133,177 

2,003 

Delaware 

146,(554 

74,153 

83,594 

72,501 

137,182 

9,472 

120,198 

20,450 

Dist. of Columbia. 

177, G3S 
207,351 

94,044 

100,523 

17,115 

118,230 

59,402 

Florida 

135,393 

; 1 31.958 

257,031 

1,528,733 

9,720 

141,832 

125,519 

Georgia 

1,539,048 

701,184 

21,818 

, 777,804 

10,315 

814,251 

724,797 

Idaho 

32,011 

1 10,793 

j 1,491,330 

22.029 

9,982 

29,011 

3,000 

Illinois 

Indian... > 

3,078,709 

1,5S7,433 

2,495,177 

SSS, 592 

; 3,032,174 

40,595 

Indiana 

1,978,302 

l,oi 0*070 

! 907,080 

1,S34,597 

143,705 

1,939,094 

39,208 

Iowa 

1,024,020 

848,234 

t 770, 3S0 

1,303,132 

201,488 

1,014,006 

9,954 

Kansas 

995,900 

530,725 

459, 24 1 

880,201 

109,705 

952,050 

43,910 

Kentucky 

1,G4S,70S 

832,070 

SI 0,032 

1,589,237 

59,471 

i 1,377,1S7 

271,521 

Louisiana 

940,103 

408,83.1 

| 471,270 

885,904 

54,139 

455,007 

485,090 

Maiue 

018,945 

324,084 

324.801 1 

590,070 

58 809 

640,903 

2,042 

Maryland 

934,032 

402,004 

472,028 

851,984 82,048 

724, 71S 

209,914 

Massachusetts 

1,7S3,012 

858,475 

924,537 

1,339,919 

1,247,985 

443,093 

1,704,004 

19,008 

Michigan 

1,030,331 

802,270 

774,055 

3Ss,34G 

1,014,078 

22,253 

Minnesota 

780,800 

419,202 

361,544 

513,107 

207,099 

770,940 

3,860 

Mississippi 

1,131,592 
2,1 OS, 804 

507,137 

1,127,424 

504,455 

1,122,424 

9,108 

479,371 

052,221 

Missouri 

1,041,380 

1,957,564 

211,240 

2,023,508 

145,236 

Montana 

39,157 

28,181. 

10,977 

27,042 

; 11,515' 

35,440 

3,711 

Nebraska 

452,433 

249,275 

203, 15S 

355,043 

97,3901 

449, S00 

2,027 

Nevada 

62,205 

42,013 

20,252 

170,409, 

30,023 

25,0421 

53,574 

8,091 

New Hampshire.. 

340,934 

170,575 

300,961 

40,023 

221,585 

340,204 

720 

New Jersey 

1,130,983 

559,823 

571,100 

909, 39S 

1,091,947 

39,030 

New Mexico 

118,430 

63,751 

54,679! 

108,498 

9,932 

108,127 

10,303 

New York 

5,083,810 

2,506,283 

2,577,527, 

3,872,372 1,211,438 

5,017,110 

60,694 

North Carolina... 

1,400,047 

088,203! 

711,8441 

1,390,368 

3,079, 

807,478 

532,509 

Ohio 

3,198,239 

1,014,105 

1,584,074 

2,803,490 

394,7431 

3,118,344 

79,895 

Oregon 

174,707 

103,388’ 

71,379 

144,327 

30,440 

103,087 

U,GS0 

Pennsylvania 

4,2S2,7S0 

2,130,635 

2,140,151 

3,095,253 

587,533 4,197,100 

85,680 

Rhode Island 

270,52s 

133,033 

143,495 

202, 59S 

73,930 

209,931 

6,587 

South Carolina ... 

995,022 

490,4091 

505,153 

9S7.9SI 

7,641 I 

391,224 

004, 39S 

Tennessee 

1,542,463 

709,374 

773,089, 

1,525,881 

10,582; 

1,139,120 

403,343 

Texas 

1,592,574 

838,719 

753,855 

1,478,05s 

114,510 

1,197,499 

395,075 

Utah 

143,900 

74,470 

09,436 

99,974 

43,932 

142,3S(I 

1,526 

Vermont 

332, 2S0 

100, sSS 

105,398: 

291,340 

40,046 

331,243 

1,043 

Virgiuia 

1,512,800 

745,839 

700,907i 

1,498,139 

14,00 1 

880,981 

631, S25 

Washington 

75,120 

45,977 

29,1431 

59,259 

15, SOI 

07,349 

7,771 

West Virgiuia 

018,443 

314,479 

303,904 1 

000,214 

18,229 

592,006 

25,837 

Wisconsin 

1,31 5, 4S0 

080,106 

035,374, 

910,063 

405,417 

1,309,022 

5,858 

Wyoming 

20, 7SS 

14,151 

6,G37 

.14,943 1 

5,845 

19,430 

1,352 

Totals 

50,152,800 

25, 520, 5S2 24,032,284 43,475,500 6,077,300 43,404,870 

6,747,990] 


* Including negroes, Indians, Chinese, etc. 

3. Denominational Organization . — The early colo- 
nists, who had never known any other relation between 
the Church and State than the control of the latter over 
the former, naturally began with the old order of things; 
but they soon perceived that the liberty which they 
sought was not consistent with such control, and they 
gradually abandoned it. The effort soon came to be, 
not to control the Church by law, but to emancipate 
conscience; and at the organization of the Federal gov- 
ernment all were ready for a Church free from State 
control. See Church and State. The early settlers 
of Virginia brought with them the Episcopal form of 
service [see England, Church of], and it was carried 
to other parts of the land. Out of this grew the Prot- 
estant Episcopal Church (q. v.) of this country. The 
Reformed (Dutch) Church (q. v.) was the outgrowth 
of the Dutch settlements in New York and New Jersey. 
The Puritans of New England retained their peculiari- 
ties, which have come down to us in the Congregation- 
alists (q. v.). The Presbyterian churches (q. v.) of this 
country originated from parties of immigrants from 
England, Ireland, and Scotland, who settled within the 
limits of various colonies. These united subsequently 
according to their former organizations on the other 
side of the Atlantic. The Raptists (q. v.) originated 
among the Puritans and were banished from their 
midst. Their history is well given under the appro- 
priate heads. Methodism (q. v.) in this country was 
propagated by the followers of Wesley. Their zeal 
and energy were great, and their growth rapid in con- 
sequence. The Roman Catholics of Maryland were 
from England, those of Florida from Spain, those of the 


UNITED SYNOD 


656 


UNIVERSALISM 


Lake region and the Mississippi valley from France. 
See Roman Catholic Cm non in the United States. 
The Quakers (q. v.) originated in England, and found 
their way among the American colonists. They found- 
ed large and nourishing colonies of their own, and prop- 
agated their doctrines with unprecedented zeal. 

II. Ecclesiastical Statistics. — These are given in de- 1 
tail under each denominational head in this Cyclopedia. 
Their aggregate is presented in tabular form at the 
foot of the preceding page, and is made up from the 
census of 1S80 and other sources. 

United Synod of the Presbyterian Church. 
See Presbyterian Churches, 1G. 

United Syrians, one of the Syrian churches | 
which dates from the 17th century, when a numerous 
party under Andreas Achigian, their first patriarch, se- 
ceded from the Jacobites, and acknowledged the au- 
thority of the pope. They have a patriarch at Aleppo, 
styled patriarch of Antioch; and archbishops of Aleppo, 
Babylon, Damascus, and Seleucia, besides eleven bishops. 
They number about 30.000. See Syrian Churches. 

Unity, as a philosophical term, signifies oneness. 
Aristotle makes it the element of number, and defines 
it as indivisibleness. In the Kantian philosophy it is 
defined as “that mental representation in the under- 
standing by which the manifold is thought of as linked 
together.” It is by the same authority classified as 
analytic, or unity of a logical connection; and synthetic , 
or unity of intentions in the concept of an object. 

As a theological term, unity is employed to signi- 
fv a oneness whether of sentiment, affection, or behav- 
ior (Psa. cxxxiii, 1). The “unity of the faith” is an 
equal belief of the same great truths of God, and the 
possession of the grace of faith in a similar form and 
degree (Eph. iv, 13). The “ unity of the spirit” is that 
union between Christ and his saints by which the same 
divine spirit dwells in both, and they have the same 
disposition and aims; and that unity of the saints 
among themselves by which, being joined to the same 
head, and having the same spirit dwelling in them, they 
have the same graces of faith, hope, love, etc., and are 
rooted and grounded in the same doctrine of Christ, and 
bear a mutual affection to each other. When Christian 
unity is spoken of in the New Test., it generally means 
the unity of dispensation for the various classes of con- 
verts. It is expressive of the great principle that all 
were to be under one fold and one Shepherd. 

UNITY of the Church is a phrase employed to 
denote that all true believers are “one body in Christ.” 
The Church is not to be considered as one on account 
of the common origin of the different societies, but be- 
cause they were formed on common principles. There 
is no necessity for a visible head, as is now claimed by 
the Church of Rome, in order to unite all parts of the 
universal Church into one communion; nor is it nec- 
essary that the whole Church should agree in all 
rites, ceremonies, and observances in order to the same 
result. The circumstance of its having one common 
head, Christ, one Spirit, one Father, are points of unity 
which no more make the Church one society on earth 
than the circumstance of all men having the same Cre- 
ator, and being derived from the same original pair, 
renders the human race one political community. The 
scriptural representations of this unity of believers in 
Christ is thus summarized by Chrysostom : “ He is the 
head, we are the body; he is the foundation, we are the 
building; he is the vine, we are the branches; he is the 
bridegroom, we are the bride ; he is the shepherd, we 
are the sheep; he is the way, we are the travellers; we 
are the temple, he the inhabitant; he is the first-born, 
we are the brothers; he is the heir, we are the co-heirs; 
he is the life, we are the living. These things are man- 
ifestly one.” The unity of the Church is not so much 
an accomplished fact as the original design would have 
it, nor as must be in the future. The intimacy of this 
union is indicated in our Saviour’s intercessory prayer, 


' in which he asks that the members of this body may 
be one, as he and the Father are one. See Neander, 
l list . of the Church , i, 180, 181 ; Ilagenbach, Jlist.ofJJoct. 
i, 193 ; Bingham, Ch. A ntiq. bk. vi, ch. iii ; bk. xvi, eh. i. 

UNITY of God is a terra used to denote that there 
is but one God or self-existent being. The unity of 
God is argued from his self-existence, his independence, 
the perfection of his nature, his omnipotence, and the 
unity of design in the works of nature. The doctrine 
was lost sight of by heathens, and maintained by Israel 
and in the Gospel. The Scriptures make no attempt to 
prove the doctrine, but assert it unequivocally. See 
Exod. xx, 3; Deut. iv, 33; vi, 4; Psa. lxxxvi, 10; 1 
Cor. viii, 4, 0, etc. When the doctrine of the Trinity 
(q. v.) was formulated, it became necessary for the 
Church to declare that this does not conflict with the 
doctrine of his unity. See Ilagenbach, Hist, of Doct. i, 
102,330; Van Oosterzec, Christian Dogmatics, i, 250. 

UNITY of the IIujian Race. See Adam. 

Universal Bishop, a title assumed by the Ro- 
man prelates succeeding Gregory I (590-G04). The 
patriarchs of the Eastern Church, particularly John 
Jejunator, had claimed the title of oecumenical patri- 
arch. This Gregory denounced as arrogant and anti- 
christian. The title, however, was adopted by the suc- 
cessors of Gregory in its original signification. See 
Trevor, Rome, p. 104; Schaff, Hist, of the Christian 
Church, ii, 328 sq. See (Ecumenical Bishop. 

Universal Friends, a sect which arose in Yates 
County, N. Y., near the close of the last century, pro- 
fessing to be followers of Jemima Wilkinson (q. v.), 
a Quakeress, who professed to work miracles, and as- 
sumed the title of “the universal friend of mankind.” 
The sect is now almost extinct, and the Universal 
Friends are sometimes called 1 Vilkinsonians (q.v.). 

Universal German Library is a work begun 
in 17G5, under the direction of Frederick Nicolai, with 
about fifty writers, afterwards increased to one hundred 
and thirty. It became at once the public organ of all 
those who felt called upon to lift their voice against 
superstition, fanaticism, and prejudice, as well as every- 
thing which was spiritually elevated or that was relat- 
ed to a more lively imagination and a deeper feeling. 
It was the high tribunal of rationalism. Not alone the 
orthodox, nor supposed enthusiasts and pietists, nor 
Lavater, but Goethe, and even poetry, and philosophy 
wherever it arose above arbitrary and secular discus- 
sion (e. g. Kant and Fichte), were spurned by this in- 
quisitorial court as folly, flattery, and secret Jesuitism. 
The much-lauded tolerance was immediately converted 
into intolerance and bigotry. All the articles in the 
Library, however, were not colored by Nicolai’s scepti- 
cism, for there were also many weighty opinions of 
worthy scholars. The work served an important pur- 
pose in bringing to the knowledge of the world literary 
productions of value, and in fostering and encouraging 
a taste for reading. See Ilagenbach, IJist. of the Church 
in the 1 8th and 19 th Centuries, i, 307 sq. 

Universal Redemption. See Atonement; 
Redemption. 

Universalism. The ultimate restoration of all 
sinners to happiness and the favor of God is maintained 
by Universalists (q.v.) on the ground that the final ex- 
clusion of any soul from heaven would be contrary to 
the illimitable love of God; that the wrath of God is 
only exercised against sin — repentance, even in the fut- 
ure life, bringing about a restoration to his love. But 
this supposes a distinction between sin and the sinner 
which is not only without foundation in the Holy Script- 
ures, but is contradictory to their statements. AYe are 
nowhere told, as regards a future state, that God’s 
wrath against sin will only continue so long as sin re- 
mains, but that the sinner himself who dies impenitent 
will be eternally punished. 

Again, it is asserted that Scripture has no plain dog- 


UNIVERSALISM 


657 


inatie statements at all as to the possibility or impossi- 
bility of repentance after death (i. e. in hell). There 
are terrible threats of divine vengeance which will 
overtake the ungodly; but there are some distinct ut- 
terances of a hope embracing all times, existence, and 
states, and the specific question at issue does not seem 
to be raised by Scripture. Such utterances are sup- 
posed to be contained in 1 Cor. xv, 22-28; Eph. i, 9, 
10; Phil, ii, 9-11 ; Col. i, 19, 20. Now it may fairly 
be admitted that the passages cited do appear to favor 
Universalism, and they might have been so understood, 
had it been elsewhere taught ill Scripture; but they are 
of no weight whatever in opposition to its clearest and 
most emphatic declarations. The apostle here says 
that God will be all in all — that all things shall be sub- 
dued unto Christ, reconciled unto him, and that every 
tongue shall confess that he is Lord of all. But such 
statements must be viewed in connection with other 
passages of Scripture which contradict the doctrine of 
universal salvation, and also according to scriptural 
usage and the meaning which can only be given to 
many parallel passages. For example, our Lord says 
that when lilted up on the cross (referring to the pres- 
ent efficacy of his atonement) he will draw all men 
unto him (John xii, 32). No declaration can be more 
positive and unequivocal than this; and yet, literally 
understood, it is not merely untrue, but contradictory to 
other statements of Scripture, e. g. that no man can 
eome to Christ except the Father draw him, and that 
they only are drawn who hear and learn of the Father 
(vi, 44, 45) — certainly not all men. Such is the usage 
of Scripture language; a thing is spoken of as being 
really effected to indicate the certainty of the purpose, 
and that every provision has been made for its accom- 
plishment, though eventually through man’s sinfulness 
(rod's benevolence may be frustrated. See Puroatohy. 

Again, Christ died for all men, and God would have 
all men to be saved — statements obviously leading to 
the supposition, at least, that all mankind will at last be 
saved. Yet in other passages of Scripture there is an 
apparently discordant statement that Christ died for 
“ many,” laid down his life for “ the sheep,” and the object 
of redemption is said to be to “gather together in one 
the children of God which are scattered abroad” (Blunt, 
Diet, of Theol. s. v.). These passages are to be recon- 
ciled by the ready answer that provision indeed is made 
for the salvation of all, but its actual effect will depend 
upon the voluntary embracing or rejecting of it on the 
part of men individually. See Redemption. 

Dr. Chauncy’s arguments in favor of Universalism 
( Salvation of All Men ) are these: L Christ died not 
for a select number of men only, but for mankind uni- 
versally, and without exception or limitation, for the 
Sacred Scriptures are singularly emphatic in expressing 
this truth (John i, 29; iii, lb, 17; Bom. v, G; 1 Cor. xv, 
3; 1 Thess. v, 10; lleb. ii, 9; 1 Bet. iii, 18; 1 John 
ii.2). 2. It is the purpose of God according to his good 

pleasure that mankind universally, in consequence of 
the death of his son Jesus Christ, shall certainly ami 
finally be saved (Bom. v, 12, etc.; viii, 19-24; Eph. i. 
9, 10; iv, 10; Col. i, 19, 20; 2 Tim. i, 4). 3. As a 

means in order to men’s being made meet for salvation, 
God will sooner or later, in this state or another, reduce 
them all under a willing and obedient subjection to his 
moral government (Psa. viii. 5, G; Matt, i, 21 ; John i. 
29; 1 Cor. xv, 24-29; Phil, ii, 9-11; Heb. ii, G, 9; 1 
John iii, 8). 4. The Scripture language concerning the 

reduced or restored, in consequence of the mediatory in- 
terposition of Jesus Christ, is such as leads ns into the 
thought that it is comprehensive of mankind univer- 
sally (liev. v, 13). The opponents, however, of Dr. 
Chaunev and this doctrine observe, on the contrary 
side, that the Sacred Scriptures expressly declare that 
the punishment of the finally impenitent shall be eter- 
nal (Matt, xii, 31, 32: xvii, 8; xxv, 41, 4(1 ; xxvi, 24; 
Mark iii, 29; ix,43; Luke xii, 10; Eph. ii, 17; 2 Thess. 
i, 9; Heb. i, 4. G; x, 26, 27; 1 John v, 1G: Jude xiii: 

X.— T t 


UNIVERSALISTS 

Bev. ix, 3; xiv, 11; xx, 20). — Henderson’s Buck. See 
Hell. 

In short, severe as may seem the doctrine of eternal 
punishment, and however much we may naturally wish 
to avoid its acceptance, this is not a question lor us to 
solve according to our inclination. We must ask, with 
reference to all matters connected with the future world, 
What has God revealed? what has he declared? The 
Scriptures are the ultimate appeal, and these to candid 
and thoughtful minds have ever been plain and positive 
on the subject. Moreover, the same abstract arguments 
which are often adduced against the everlastiny punish- 
ment of sin apply to its present punishment, and, indeed, 
against the fact of sin itself. If God loves man and 
loves holiness, why does he suffer him to sin at all? 
We are thus brought back to Butler’s immortal argu- 
ment, and constrained to bow to the sovereign will of 
the Almighty, The following judicious remarks are 
from Van Oosterzee, Christian Dogmatics, ii, 438: 

“The duration of future punishment is most definitely 
represented in Holy Scripture as absolutely eudle»s (Mark 
iv, 44-50; Rev. xiv. 11, etc.). Even if the word eternal 
does not in itself denote absolute endlessness, it is surely 
a different matter when eternal pain is without any limi- 
tation associated with eternal life (Malt, xxv, 40). We 
will here only call to mind the fact that those who main- 
tain the contrary of restoratiouism can bring forward nu- 
merous and plain statements of the Lord and his wit- 
nesses; at any rate, the possibility of an endless misery 
is most distinctly declared in Matt, xii, 31, 32; and such 
words as those in Luke xvi, 26; Matt, xxv, 10, 41 ; xxvi, 
24 could hardly be vindicated from a charge of exaggera- 
tion if he who spoke them had himself seen even a ray 
oflight in the outer darkness, and been able aud willing 
to kindle it before others’ eyes. In no case could such a 
ray be seen without previous contrition and conversion; 
but, viewed even psychologically, this latter is certainly 
nowhere to be looked for less than in a hell of sorrow 
and despair, not to say that the Gospel nowhere opens up 
to ns a certain prospect of the continuance of the gracious 
work of God on the other side of the grave. He who here 
talks of harshness must by no means forget that sinful 
man is a very partial judge in his own case ; that nothing 
less than the highest grace is boldly and stubbornly set at 
naught in the case here supposed ; and that there always 
will be, according to the teaching of Scripture, an equita- 
ble distinction in the rewards as well as in the punish- 
ments of the future (Luke xii, 47, 4S ; Ham. ii, 12 sq.). 
Ay, even if men might flatter themselves with a diminu- 
tion or postponement of the punishment, there still would 
always he a remembrance of the incalculable mischief 
which they had done to themselves and others, and this 
would be a dark cloud before the sun of an eventual hap- 
piness. Least of all could they hope for such an end who 
have known the irreat salvarion, and all their lives un- 
gratefully despised it (Matt, xi, 24; lleb. ii, 3). As to the 
heathen and others who, entirely without their own fanlt, 
have missed the way of life. Holy Scripture nowhere com- 
pels ns to believe that these should summarily, and on 
that account alone, lie the victims of an eternal damna- 
tion. While there is only one way salvation (Acts iv, 
12), the Merciful One will make it known to men in some 
way (1 Pet. iii, 19). We can safely leave to God thejusti- 
ticalion, even in this respect, of his own government of 
the world : hut we must take careful heed that we do not 
try to he more merciful aud wise than he to whom sin, as 
long as it continues to he sin, is thoroughly damnable. 
Even in preaching the Gospel, his servants are not free to 
leave this darker side entirely unmentioned. The state- 
ment of it should always he joined with that of the friend- 
ly light of grace, -and let the preacher take care that he 
does not lead his hearers in The way of despairing fear or 
unbelieving doubt by yielding to the desire to paint hell 
as black as possible. The best statement of the prospect 
of the sinner is that of ‘ going to his own place,* i. e. to the 
land of his own choice, where he may still continue to 
dwell.” 

See Punishment, Future. 

Universalists, a Christian sect believing in the 
final destruction of sin and the reconciliation of all souls 
to God through the Lord Jesus Christ. They claim 
that there is proof of the existence of their doctrine, 
Universalism, and of the activity of its advocates un- 
der various names, from the introduction of Christiani- 
ty to the present time. 

I. Orifjin and History . — (I.) Informal. — 1. In For- 
mer Centuries. — The earliest notices now to be found 
of Universalism after the days of the apostles are in 
the writings of some of the more prominent Gnostie 


UN I VERBALISTS 


058 


UNIYEKSALISTS 


sects, as the Basilidians, Carpoeratians, and Valent in- 
iatis, about A. I). 130. The ultimate purification of the 
race was, according to their theories, bv means of t lie 
discipline of the souls of the wicked through transmigra- 
tion. In the /Sibylline Oracles, which appeared A.l). 150, 
ITniversalism is taught as resulting from the prayers 
of the saints all'ected by the miseries of the damned. 
The Almighty is represented as granting this favor to 
the redeemed on account of the great love which he 
bears to them for their fidelity. In 11)5 Clemens Alex- 
andrinus, who was president of the Catechetical School 
at Alexandria, advocated Universalism on the ground 
of the remedial character of all punishment, llis pupil 
and successor in the school. Origen Adamantius, famous 
alike for his learning, piety, and zeal, taught Universal- 
ism on the ground of the ever-continuing freedom of 
the will, the deep mental and spiritual anguish occa- 
sioned by the light and knowledge of the truth until it 
leads to repentance, and then the harmony of the soul 
with God. Origen’s position, abilities, and untiring 
efforts for the spread of the Gospel gave him great in- 
fluence with his pupils, and with the Church at large, 
in whose behalf he became a voluminous writer. In 
addition to his position and work in the school of Alex- 
andria, he also had care for several years, in connection 
with Pamphilius, of the theological school at Csesarea, 
one of whose distinguished pupils was the celebrated 
Gregory Thaumaturgus, a great admirer of his master’s 
theories, and finally, about A.L). 235, his strong defender 
and ardent eulogist. Pamphilius, and Eusebius, the 
first Church historian, also defended Origen’s doctrines 
from charges brought against them by the Western 
Church, and in answering the complaint that he denied 
all future punishment they quote from his writings in 
contradiction thereof, not only Ids positive assurances 
of future and severe punishment, but his equally posi- 
tive assertion that such correction is purifying ami sal- 
utary. In A.l). 304, Titus, bishop of Bostra, wrote in 
advocacy of Universalism, contending that, although 
there are torments in the abyss of hell, they are not 
eternal, but that their great severity will lead the wick- 
ed to repentance and so to salvation. Gregory of Nys- 
sa, A.l). 380, also advocated Universalism on the same 
grounds. Contemporary with him was the justly cel- 
ebrated defender of orthodoxy, Didymus the Blind, a 
successor of Origen in the school at Alexandria, and a 
zealous Universalist. Prominent among his scholars 
was .Jerome, eminent alike for his abilities, his incon- 
sistencies, and instability. I’niversalism as taught hv 
Origen is clearly and ably set fort li by Jerome in his 
commentaries on the epistles, and in his letters. John, 
bishop of Jerusalem at this period, was also an advo- 
cate of Universalism on Origen’s theory. Another con- 
temporary, Diodorus, a teacher of great repute in the 
school at Antioch, and afterwards bishop of Jerusalem, 
was also a Universalist, who, in opposition to the then 
general prevalence of allegorical interpretation, strictly 
adhered to the natural import of the text in his many 
commentaries on the Scriptures, lie defended Uui- 
versalism on the ground that the divine mercy far ex- 
ceeds all the effeets and all the deserts of sin. His pu- 
pil and successor in the school, Theodore of Mopsuestia, 
A.l). 420, called “the crown and climax of the school 
of Antioch,” and by the Nestorians, whose sect he found- 
ed, “the interpreter of the Word of God,” and whose 
writings were text-books in the schools of Eastern Syr- 
ia, was a prominent and influential Universalist. Ilis 
theory was that sin is an incidental part of t he devel- 
opment and education of the human race; that, while 
some are more involved in it than others, God will 
override it to the final establishment of all in good, 
lie is the reputed author of the liturgy used by the 
Nestorians, a Church which at one time equalled in 
its membership the combined adherents of both the 
Greek and Latin communions, and which has had no 
rival in military zeal. In the addresses and prayers of 
this liturgy Universalism is distinctly avowed. Thc- 


' odoret, A.l). 430, bishop of Cyprus in Syria, a pupil of 
Theodore of Mopsuestia, was also a Universalist, hold- 
ing the doctrine on the theory advocated by the Anti- 
ochian school. 

For some time prior to this, certain opinions of Ori- 
gen on pre-existence and on the salvation of the devil 
had been in dispute and pronounced heretical by a 
synod; but his doctrine of the universal salvation of 
the human race had not been involved in this condem- 
nation. At a local council called hv the emperor Jus- 
tinian at Constantinople, A.L). 544, Origen’s doctrine 
of universal salvation was declared heretical. Nine 
years later another council was held by the same au- 
thority at the same place, when condemnation was pro- 
nounced on the Nestorians, although their belief in 
L T niversalisn> was not mentioned. It has been com- 
mon to call this an oecumenical council, but without 
warrant (see the action of the Latin Church in refusing 
to recognise it or to send a legate to it). Ddderlein. in 
his Institutes of Christian Theology , after quoting the 
decree of Justinian against Origen, says, “That was 
not the belief of all, and in proportion as any one was 
eminent in learning in Christian antiquity, the more 
did he cherish and defend the hope of the termination 
of future torments.” Drexelius, in his defence of eter- 
nal punishment, gives this testimony : “ That God should 
doom the apostate angels and men at the day of retri- 
bution to eternal torments seemed so hard and incredi- 
ble a doctrine to some persons that even Origen him- 
self, who was mighty in the Scriptures, and no less 
famous for his admirable wit and excellent learning, 
presumed to maintain in his hook of principles that 
both the devils and the damned, after a certain period 
of years, the fire having purged or cleansed them from 
their pollutions, should be restored to grace. Augus- 
tine and others set forth his error and condemned 
him for it. But, notwithstanding their condemnation, 
this error has found a great many in the world who 
have given it a kind of civil reception. The A niti, 
heretics so called, dispersed this error throughout all 
Spain under various interpretations.” Gieseler, the ec- 
clesiastical historian, says, “The belief in the inalien- 
able capacity of improvement in all rational beings, and 
the limited duration of future punishment, was so gen- 
eral, even in the West, ami among the opponents of 
Origen, that, even if it may not be said to have arisen 
without the influence of Origen’s school, it had become 
entirely independent of his system.” And Augustine 
bears this testimony: “Some — nay, very many — from 
human sympathy commiserate the eternal punishment 
of the damned and their perpetual torture without in- 
termission, and thus do not believe in it; not, indeed, 
by opposing the Holy Scriptures, but by softening all 
the severe things - according to their own feelings, and 
giving a milder meaning to those things which they 
think arc said in them more terribly than truly.” 

Universalism almost wholly disappeared during the 
period known as the Dark Ages, although there are oc- 
casional glimpses of it even in the mutilated records 
which the papal Church has permitted to descend to 
us. In the 7th century, Maximus, the Greek monk 
and confessor. taught Universalism; in the 8th, Clem- 
ent of Ireland was deposed from the priesthood for 
teaching that when Christ descended into hell he re- 
stored all the damned; while in the Oth, John Seotus 
Erigena, a famous philosopher who stood at the head 
of the learned of the court of France, was a bold de- 
fender of Universalism. In the 11th century, the Albi- 
genses were, according to papal authorities, Universal- 
ists; in the 12th, Baynold, abbot of St. Martin’s, in 
France, was charged before a council with holding 
“that all men will eventually be saved;” in the 13th, 
Solomon, bishop of Bassorah, discussed the question of 
universal salvation, answering it in the affirmative. 
The Lollards in the 14th century taught Universalism 
in Bohemia and Austria; and at the same period a 
council convened by Langman, archbishop of Canter- 


UN I VERS A LISTS 


659 


UN I VERS ALISTS 


bury, gave judgment against Universal ism as one of 
the heresies then taught in that province. In the ear- 
ly part of the 15th century, a sect called “Men of Un- 
derstanding” taught Universalism in Flanders, advo- 
cating it on the ground of the German Mystics, as did 
Tauler of Strasburg, and John Wessel, who, with oth- 
ers, have been called “the Reformers before the Ref- 
ormation,” whose writings Luther industriously studied 
and greatly admired. 

2. In Modern Times. — With the Reformation, Uni- 
versalism made a fresh appearance early in the 16th 
century, chiefly among some of the Anabaptist sects. 
The seventeenth article of the Augustine Confession. 
1530, was expressly framed to •* condemn the Anabap- 
tists, who maintain that there shall be an end to the 
punishments of the damned and of the devils.” Denk, 
ILetzer, and Stanislaus Pannonius were the most emi- 
nent defenders of Universalism at this period. Later 
in the century, Samuel Huber, divinity professor at 
Wittenberg, taught Universalism, it is alleged by Span- 
heim ; and because, says Mosheim, he would not go back 
to the old methods of teaching, ** he was compelled to 
relinquish his office and go into exile.” Early in the 
17th century, Ernest Sonner, professor of philosophy at 
Altorf, published “a theological and philosophical dem- 
onstration that the endless punishment of the wicked 
would argue, not the justice, but the injustice, of God.” 
John William Petersen, at one time court preacher at 
Lntin, and subsequently superintendent at Lunenberg, 
adopted and defended Universalism with such zeal 
that he was cited before the consistory, and, as he could 
not conscientiously renounce his convictions, was de- 
prived of his office and forced into private life. In his 
retirement he wrote and published three folio volumes 
on Universalism, entitled Musterion Apokatastaseos 
Panton, m which he mentions many who had defended 
that doctrine. The volumes appeared between the 
years 1700 and 1710. They opened a century of spir- 
ited controversy, of which Mosheim says, “The points 
of theology which had been controverted in the 17th 
century were destined to excite keener disputes in the 
18 th, such ‘ as the eternity of hell torments , and the fnal 
restoration of all intelligent beinys to order, perfection, 
and happiness.’” Dietelmair, an opponent of Univer- 
salism, wrote on its history about the middle of this 
century. In the preface to his work he speaks of the 
“contests which raged vehemently enough within the 
very bounds of the orthodox Church in the end of the 
last century and the beginning of the present.” Among 
the defences of Universalism contained in the first vol- 
ume of Petersen’s work was the Everlasting Gospel , at- 
tributed to Paul Siegvolk, which was but an assumed 
name of George Klein-Nicolai, deposed for his Univer- 
salism as preacher of Friessdorf. lie published other 
works in defence of Universalism, but the most rapid 
and lasting popularity belonged to the Everlasting Gos- 
pel, which in forty-five years passed through five edi- 
tions in Germany. In 1726 John Henry Hang, pro- 
fessor at Strasburg, having procured the assistance of 
Dr. Ernest Christoph Ilochman, Christian Dippel, Count 
De Marcev, and others, commenced the publication of 
the Berlebnrger Bibel, an entirely new translation 
and commentary of the Holy Scriptures. They made 
themselves familiar with all the writings of the Mys- 
tics, and in their great work taught and defended Uni- 
versalism from the Mystical standpoint. Their work 
fills eight large folio volumes, the last of which was 
published in 1742. Strong persecution assailing them, 
and no printer being willing to risk his office in doing 
their work, they were compelled to purchase their own 
type and a small press. When the Church they had 
established was at last broken up by their enemies, the 
members fled to America, taking their press with them, 
and it was set up by Christopher Sower in German- 
town, Pa. One of I)e Mareev’s intimate friends was 
George De Benneville, born of French parents in Lon- 
don in 1703. Before he was twenty years of age he 


commenced preaching in France, where he was arrest- 
ed and condemned to die, but was reprieved on the scaf- 
fold by Louis XV. Making his way into Germany, he 
there preached Universalism several years, and then 
came to America. In 1727 appeared Ludvig Gerhard’s 
Complete System of the Everlasting Gospel of the Resto- 
ration of All Things, together with the Baseless Opposite 
Doctrine of Eternal Damnation. The author was at 
one time professor of theology in the University of 
Rostock, and his publication called forth, according to 
Walch, no less than fourteen volumes in reply. Jung- 
Stilling. in the latter part of the 18th century, an able 
defender of Christianity against German rationalism, 
was an ardent and eminent Universalist. Prof. Tho- 
luek wrote, in 1835, that this doctrine “came particular- 
ly into notice through Jung-Stilling, that eminent man 
who was a particular instrument in the hand of God 
for keeping up evangelical truth in the latter part of 
the former century, and at the same time a strong pa- 
tron to that doctrine.” During the present century, 
Universalism has made rapid progress in Germany. 
Olshausen says of it that it “has, no doubt, a deep root 
in noble minds, and is the expression of a heart-felt de- 
sire for a perfect harmony of the creation.” Dr. Dwight 
wrote in 1829 “The doctrine of the eternity of fut- 
ure punishment is almost universally rejected.” Sim- 
ilar testimony was borne by Prof. Sears in 1834: “The 
current hypothesis is that in the middle state, interven- 
ing between death and the resurrection, the righteous 
will gradually attain to perfection; and that to all the 
wicked, whether men or angels, the Gospel will be 
preached, and that they will ultimately accept it and 
be restored.” 

In Switzerland Universalism was advocated in the 
last century by Marie Iluber, whose World Unmasked 
was translated and republished both in England and 
America. In 1786 Ferdinand Oliver Petitpierre pro- 
mulgated Universalism in a work entitled Thoughts on 
the Divine Goodness, of which several English and Amer- 
ican editions have been published. Lavater, the great 
physiognomist, and the intimate friend and correspond- 
ent of Jung-Stilling, was a Universalist. Later J. H. D. 
Zschokke advocated Universalism in his Stunden der 
Amlacht, the favorite book with the late prince Albert, 
and after his death translated into English by request 
of queen Victoria for general circulation among her 
subjects. In France, in the last century, Rev. Thomas 
Cuppe wrote in defence of Universalism. Later in the 
same century, Chais de Sotircesol wrote and published 
in its defence. In the present century the Coquerels — 
father and sons Athanase and Etienne — have advocated 
it in the pulpit and from the press. In Scotland Rev. 
James Purves wrote in defence of the doctrine, and es- 
tablished a Universalist society about 1770; Rev. Neil 
Douglass founded another about 1800; and within twen- 
ty-five years four or five others were started, largely 
through the instrumentality of Mr. Douglass and his 
successor, Rev. William Worral. These societies are 
either disbanded or merged in the Unitarian churches, 
which in Scotland are all Universalist in their views of 
destiny. Prominent among the Scotch Unitarian Uni- 
versal is ts was Dr. T. Southwood Smith, who published, 
in 1816, Illustrations of the Divine Government, a book 
that has passed through several editions. Thomas 
Erskine, recently deceased, was also an able writer oil 
Universalism. At present there are a few distinctive 
Universalist churches and a convention in Scotland. 
In Wales Universalism was preached as early as 1782. 
In 1783 Rev. Thomas Jones, who had been educated at 
lady Huntingdon’s school, became a Universalist. He 
subsequently came to America, and after being the suc- 
cessor of Winchester at Philadelphia for about eight 
years, he removed to Gloucester, Mass., and was the 
successor of Murray for forty- five years. 

In England the Protestants, in drawing up their 
Forty -two Articles of Religion, in 1552, condemned 
Universalism. Ten years later, when the convocation 


UX I VERSA LISTS 


G60 


UXIVERSALISTS 


revised the doctrines of the Church, the number of arti- ’ 
cles was reduced to thirty-nine, omitting, among others, ; 
the one condemning Uuiversalism. Since that time I 
Uuiversalism has not been a forbidden doctrine in the J 
Church of England, but has been advocated and defend- i 
ed by some of the most eminent members of its corn- ! 
munion— such men as Dr. I lenry More. Sir George Stone- 
house, lip. Thomas Newton, Dr. David Hartley, Will- 
iam Whiston, Dr. Thomas Burnet, Revs, Frederick W, 
Robertson, Charles Kingsley, Stopford Brooke, and ean- 
ou Farrar, and indirectly by archbUhop Tillotson. The 
1‘reshvterian Parliament of 1618, which temporarily 
overthrew Episcopacy, passed a law against all heresies, 
punishing the persistent holders of some with death, 
and of others with imprisonment. “That all men shall 
be saved” was among the heresies punishable in the 
hitter manner. 'This law was not long operative, lor 
the Independents, headed hv Croinwell, soon overthrew 
the law-makers. Gerard Winstanlev published a work 
iu advocacy of Uuiversalism only a few days after the 
passage of the law, which was soon followed by similar 
works from bis pen. William Earbury fearlessly preach- 
ed Uuiversalism, Richard Coppiu was active in its ad- 
vocacy, publishing largely in its exposition and defence, 
and was several times tried for his idle nee. Samuel 
Bichardson, an eminent Baptist, also wrote strongly in 
its behalf. Sir Henry Vane (the younger ), member of 
the Parliament dissolved by Cromwell, and in 1636 gov- 
ernor of Massachusetts, was a Universalist. Jeremy 
White, one of Cromwell’s chaplains, preached Uni ver- 
balism, and published a work which has passed through 
several editions. Jane Lead, a Mystic, was the author 
of several Universalist books. Ilcnrv Brooke, a literary 
writer, avowed his belief iu Uuiversalism in bis Fool 
of Quality, and in a poem on the Messiah. William 
Law, author of the Serious Call , declared in his Let- 
tern, “ As for the purification of all human nature, I 
fully believe it, either in this world or some after- 
ages.” 'The Lnglish literary reviews of the last cen- 
tury contain many notices of works in defence of Uui- 
versalism, 

In 1750 James Rellv, who had been a preaeherin White- 
field’s connection, shocked at the doctrine of reprobation, 
was by meditation and study led into another scheme 
of redemption, some of the peculiarities of which may 
be said to have had their origin with him. Accepting 
as true the common theory that all men, having sinned 
in Adam, justly incurred eternal damnation, and that 
Christ had borne this infinite guilt and punishment in 
behalf of all who should be saved, Belly was moved to 
find, if possible, some ground of justice in such a scheme. 
The divine law explicitly declares that “the soul which 
sinneth, it shall die,” and that the innocent shall not 
suffer for the guilty. Mow could a transfer of human 
sin and penalty to Christ be consistent with that law? 
How could it be reconciled with equity V 'The divine 
sovereignty, without regard to inherent justice in the 
plan, could not account for it; for the absoluteness that 
could set justice aside might just, as easily, and more 
mercifully, have gone straight to its aim bv remitting 
instead of transferring sin and its deserts. To say that 
the sufferings of Christ were merely accepted as satisfao* 
faction for human deserts, only reckoned as such, by 
Hod’s sovereign pleasure, was no adequate explanation, 
since they were thus only a fictitious, not a real, satis- 
faction; and. further, any sufferings whatsoever, even 
those of a man. would have answered just as well as an 
arbitrary acceptance of the coequal of God. The per- 
fect consistency of God’s procedure, its absolute harmo- 
ny with justice and equity, Belly found, as he claimed, 
in such a real and thorough union of Christ with the 
human race as made their acts his, and his theirs. All 
men, he held, were really in Adam and sinned in him, 
not by a fictitious imputation, but by actual participa- 
tion; equally so arc all men in the second Adam, “the 
head of every man,” and he is as justly accountable for 
what they do as is the head in the natural body ac- 


countable for the deeds of all the members united to 
that bead. Accordingly Christ, in his corporate capac- 
ity, was truly guilty of the offence of the human race, 
and could be, as be actually was, justly punished for it; 
and the race, because of this union, really suffered in 
him all the penalty which he endured, and thus fullyl 
satisfied justice. There is no more punishment, there- 
fore, due for sin, nor any further occasion for declaring 
the demands of the law, except to make men feel their 
inability to obey, and thus compel them to an exclu- 
sive reliance on Christ the head. He has elfeeted a 
complete and finished justification of the whole world. 
When man believes this he is freed from the sense of 
guilt, freed also from all doubt and fear. Until he be- 
lieves it be is, whether in this world or in another, un- 
der the condemnation of unbelief and darkness, the only 
condemnation now possible to the human race. In il- 
lustration and defence of this theory, Belly wrote and 
published several books, preached zealously in London 
and vicinity, and gathered a congregation in the me- 
tropolis. After'his dentil in 1778, two societies were 
formed from his congregation; but both have now 
ceased to exist, as has the society gathered by Win- 
chester about 1789, and the Church founded by David 
Thom, D.D., in Liverpool in 1825. 'The Unitarians in 
England are all believers in Uuiversalism, as are also 
many of the Congregationalists. 

3. In America Uuiversalism is the result of tile proc- 
lamation of a variety of theories, some of them at a very 
early date, all resulting in one conclusion — the final ho- 
liness of the human race. Sir Ilenrv Vane, as was said 
above, was a Universalist. It is not known that while 
in America he made any public avowal of that belief; 
but the presumption is that be did not stand alone. Iu 
July, 1684, Joseph Gatehell, of Marblehead, Mass., was 
brought before the Suffolk County Court for discoursing 
“ that all men should be saved,” and. being convicted, 
was sentenced “to the pillory and to have his tongue 
drawn forth and pierced with a hot iron.” Dr. George 
De Benneville, also mentioned above, came to America 
in 1741, expressly called of God, as he believed, to 
preach the Gospel in the New World. For more than 
fifty years he preached in various parts of Pennsylvania, 
Maryland, Virginia, and the Carolinas. He was not. an 
organizer, but simply a preacher, and quite a volumi- 
nous writer, though only a few of his productions were 
published. For several years he was welcomed to the 
pulpits of the “ Brethren” (Dnnkers). It was no doubt 
at bis suggestion that Siegvolk’s Ererlastiuy Gospel was 
translated into English, and published by Christopher 
Sower, printed, probably, on the identical press on which 
the Berleburyer Bibel had been struck off. This edi- 
tion was reviewed by Rev. N. Romp, a German minister 
in Philadelphia. Alexander Mack, an eminent preach- 
er among the Dimkers, replied to Pomp, defending Sieg- 
volk’s views. This work was never published, but the 
MS. is still preserved. There was found among Dr. De 
Benneville’s papers, after his death, in 1793, a Commen- 
tary on the Apocalypse , which was printed in German, 
at Lebanon, Pa., in 1808. There was also Fnirersalism 
in the Episcopal Church. Rev. Richard Clarke, rector 
of St. Philip’s in Charleston, S, C., from 1754 to 1759, 
was a pronounced advocate of it; as was Rev. John Ty- 
ler^ rector of t lie Church in Norwich, Conn., who wrote 
a work in its defence, which was published by some one 
to whom he had loaned his MS., about 1787, Some of 
the Congregationalists of New England were believers 
in Universnlism ; among them Dr. Jonathan Mavhew, 
minister of the West Church iu Boston from 1747 to 
1766, who distinctly avowed his belief iu it in a pub- 
lished Thanksyiriuy Sermon , Dec. 9, 1762. Dr. Charles 
Chauncy, minister of the First Church in Boston from 
1727 to 1787, issued a pamphlet on the subject in 1782, 
which was reviewed bv Dr. Samuel Mather. In 1784 
bis larger work The Sal ration of All Men was publish- 
ed, a second edition following in 1787. Dr. Joseph 
Huntington, minister in Coventry, Conn., from 1762 to 


UNIVERSALISTS 


661 


UN I VERS A LI STS 


1791, left a work in favor of Universalism, entitled Cal- 
vinism Improved , which was published in 179b. 

(II.) Formal. — In 1770 John Murray (q. v.4, who had 
formerly been a Methodist in Ireland and England, but 
more recently a convert to the views of James Kelly, 
came to America and commenced the proclamation of 
Universalism on the Kellyan theory. After itinerating 
a few years in various parts of the country, from Vir- 
ginia to Massachusetts, he made his home in Glouces- 
ter, Mass., where, in 1779, he organized a society of Uni- 
versalists, under the name of “ The Independent Chris- 
tian Church.” With the exception of a few mouths 
spent in the army, as chaplain of the Khode Island Bri- 
gade, he ministered to the society in Gloucester, making 
occasional missionary tours through the country till 
1793, when he removed to Boston, where a society had 
been formed in 1785. and remained there as its pastor 
till his death, in 1815. 

In 1781 Elhanan Winchester, who had been an emi- 
nent Baptist clergyman in Philadelphia, became a Uni- 
versalis!, and gathered a Universalist society in that 
city, which took the name of “ Universal Baptists.” As 
a Baptist his views were moderately Calvinistic, if not 
wholly Artninian, and his Universalism differed in little 
or nothing from the present so-called evangelical doc- 
trines, except in regard to the duration and design of 
future punishment and the tinal restoration of all lost 
men and angels. Fifty thousand years, which would 
bring in the great jubilee, was the extreme limit in his 
theory of the punishment of the most sinful. Mr. Win- 
chester itinerated extensively, as far south as the Caro- 
linas and north to Massachusetts. Like De Benneville, 
he was fur a time welcomed to the pulpits of the Hun- 
kers, who, from their first coming to America in 1719, 
have been believers in universal restoration, although, 
in the main, holding it privately. Some of their preach- 
ers were bold in its advocacy; and it was proclaimed 
and defended in several of their published works, nota- 
bly so by James Bolton, who, in 1793, published a pam- 
phlet at Ephrata, Pa., in which lie censures the “ Breth- 
ren” for not giving greater publicity to it, asserting 
that “ the German Baptists (D tinkers) all believe it.” 
About the year 1785 the Dunkers became alarmed by 
the preaching of some persons, now unknown, against 
future punishment, and finally took action that cut off 
John Ham, one of their preachers of this theory, and 
his followers from the Church, and forbade the procla- 
mation of Universalism in any form. In 1786 Mr. Win- 
chester went to England, where he preached and pub- 
lished books in defence of his views and established a 
society. lie returned to America in 1795 and dietl in 
1796. 

Contemporary with Murray and Winchester was Ca- 
leb Rich, of Massachusetts, who gathered a Universalist 
society in the towns of Warwick and Richmond. Mr. 
Rich may be said to have anticipated many of the 
views afterwards more fully elaborated bv Ilosea Bal- 
lou, and probably had great direct influence in forming 
the -opinions of the latter. 

In New Jersey several Baptist preachers and their 
congregations became Universalists. In Pennsylvania 
there was a congregation of Kellyan Universalists, and 
the “Universal Baptists” before mentioned, in Phila- 
delphia, while societies had been organized in Bucks 
and Washington counties. Rev. Abel Sarjent, minister 
in the latter locality, organized Universalist churches 
on the basis of t lie doctrine of the divine unity, in op- 
position to the Trinity, publishing the creed (if those 
churches in the Free Universal Magazine , edited bv 
him in 1793-94. Of t lie existence of these churches 
the Universalists in the eastern portion of the country 
were for a long time ignorant. Rellvanism made but 
little progress, Mr. Murray complaining in 1787 that he 
knew of but one public advocate of Universalism in 
America who fully sympathized with him in his views. 
This was the Rev. John Tyler before mentioned. 

Rev. Hosea Ballou commenced his career as a Uni- 


1 versal ist preacher in 1790. Originally a Calvinistic 
Baptist, he was a Trinitarian Universalist until 1795, 
when lie avowed his belief in Unitarian views of God 
and Christ; and in 1805 published his Treatise on Atone- 
ment. in which he combated the doctrine of vicarious 
sacrifice, contending that the life and death of Christ 
were for the reconciling, not of God, but of man, and 
avowed his belief that the punishment of the sins of 
mortality was confined to this life, and that if punish- 
ment were experienced in t he life, beyond the grave, it 
would be for sins committed there. In 1818 lie had 
satisfied himself that there is no sin beyond the grave, 
and consequently no punishment after death. By 1830 
Mr. Ballou’s views were quite extensively held in the 
denomination, and some of the believers in future limit- 
ed punishment seceded from the Universalist Conven- 
tion and established the denomination of Restoration- 
ists. Although this secession was led by a few emi- 
nent men, it was not considered expedient nor in any 
sense called for by quite as many and as eminent be- 
lievers in future retribution who remained in the old 
organization. The position of these latter was that 
Universalism was not, and never had been, the belief in 
no future punishment, nor the belief in a brief or long- 
continued retribution hereafter; but the belief that God 
would, through Christ, in his own good time, “restore 
the whole family of mankind to holiness and happiness.” 
As there had never been entire unity of sentiment as to 
the time when this result would be reached, but had 
been tolerance of opinion on that as on other differences, 
they saw no occasion for a division on account of pres- 
I eut differences. The “ Restorationist Association” ex- 
isted about eleven years, its last session being held in 
1841, at which time the publication of its organ, The 
Independent Christian Messenger, ceased, and it became 
I extinct as a sect. Some of its preachers returned to the 
fellowship of the Universalist Convention, some affili- 
ated with the Unitarians, and others wholly withdrew 
from the ministry. Mr. Ballou died in 1852. His work 
and memory are held in reverent esteem by the entire 
denomination, and by none more ardently than by the 
many who do not accept his theory of sin and retribu- 
tion. See Ballou. 

(III.) Sources of History. — Ddderlein, Institutio Theo- 
Ing. Christiance (1787), ii, 199. 202; Berti, Breviarinm 
Hist. Feel. cent, viii-xii, c. 3; Priestley, Hist, of the 
Christian Church , per. xviii, lect. ix, p. 136, 137; Asse- 
mani, Bibliotheca Orient tilis, 111, i, 323, 324; Du Pin, 
Feel. Hist. vol. xii, cli. viii. p. 1 13, 115; Mosheim, Feel, 
Hist. cent, xv, pt. ii, eh. v; cent, xvi, sec. iii. pt. ii, eh. 
i; cent, xviii, sec. 20; Ballou, A ncient History of Uni- 
versalism (2d ed. 1872); Beecher, Scriptural Doctrine 
of Retribution ; Dunster, Translation of Drexelin s Con- 
siderations on Eternity (1710); Davidson, Translation of 
Gieseler's Compendium of Ecclesiastical History (1819), 
i, 320, 321; Augustini Enchiridion ad Lnurentium, c. 
cxii; Olshausen, Comm, on Matt. .rz7, 3 1 , 32; Law, Col- 
lection of Letters (1762), letter xii, p. 172; Account, of 
the Berlebnrger Bible, in The Universalist (Boston, Nov. 
8, 1878); Whittemore, Modern History of Universalism 
(ibid. 1860); Dalcho, Hist. of the Prof. Up. Ch. in South 
Carolina (1820); Eddy, Papers on Universalist Conven- 
tions and Creeds , in Universalist Quarterly , 1874-80; 
Thomas, A Century of Universalism ; Eddv, MS. His- 
tory of Universalism in Gloucester , Mass., 1774-1874; 
Whittemore, Memoir of Rev. Hosea Ballou (4 voK); 
Life of Rev. Xathuniel Stacy (autobiography); Smith, 
Historical Sketches of Universalism in the State of Xew 
York. 

II. Organization and Goveimment. — In the early his- 
tory of Universalism in America, the first form of or- 
ganization was simply into legal societies; afterwards 
into churches within the societies. The only exception 
to this was, commencing with 1790, in Pennsylvania, 
where the Church became both the legal organization 
and the religious body of communicants. The Univer- 
! salists in Gloucester, Mass., the first to organize, banded 


UN I VERS ALISTS 


662 


UN I VERS ALISTS 


themselves together by ail agreement of association in 1 
1779, which they changed to a charter of compact in 
1785, and were incorporated in 171)2. Members of the 
society and their property being seized for payment of 
taxes to the first parish in Gloucester, the Universalists 
entered suits in the courts in 1783 to establish their 
right to exemption from taxation Ibr the support of any 
other than their own minister. Bv reason of various 
delays and appeals the ease did not reach a linal decis- 
ion till 178G, when the rights of the Uni verbalists were 
established. Meanwhile congregations and societies 
gathered in other parts of Massachusetts and in Brfode ' 
Island. desiring counsel and advice, united with the so- 
eiety in Gloucester in holding an association at Oxford, 
Mass., in 1785. The charter of compact, which was 
the basis of organization in Gloucester, was taken to 
this association, and, on being slightly amended, was 
recommended to the societies represented, who were also 
requested to take on themselves the name of ” Indepen- 
dent Christian Society, commonly called Universalists;” 
to keep up a correspondence with each other; and to 
meet annually, by delegates, for conference. The legal 
rights secured the following year by the decision of the 
Gloucester suit seem to have accomplished all that the 
association aimed at, and no session was held after 1787. 
In 171)0 the congregations organized in Philadelphia by 
Murray and Winchester became one, and, feeling the 
necessity of a more perfect organization of the believers 
at large, issued a call for a convention, which was held 
iu May of that year in Philadelphia, at which time a 
profession of faith and platform of government for the 
churches was drawn up and recommended to all the 
churches for their adoption. Five churches were rep- 
resented in this convention, and seven preachers were 
in attendance. The annual meetings of this conven- 
tion were all held in Philadelphia ; but the distance from 
that city to New England was so great, and the incon- 
veniences of making the journey were then so numer- 
ous, that in 171)2 the Universalists of Boston asked and 
obtained permission to organize another convention for 
the Eastern States. This convention held its first ses- 
sion at Oxford, Mass., in 1793. and adopted, the follow- 
ing year, the Philadelphia profession and platform, and 
recommended them to all their churches. In 1802, 
churches and associations of churches having increased, 
and a diversity of speculative opinion prevailing, the 
New England convention deemed it best to unite, if 
possible, on a profession of faith, and to establish well- 
defined rules of government, ordination, fellowship, and 
discipline for the use of that body. This was accom- 
plished in 1803, by the adoption at the session held in 
Winchester, X. 11 ., of such definite rules, and of the fol- 
lowing Profession of Belief; 

“Art. 1. We believe that the Holy Scriptures of the Old 
and New Testaments contain a revelation of the character 
of God, and of the duty, interest, and final destination of 
mankind. 

“ Art. 2. We believe that there is one God, whose nature 
is love, revealed in one Lord Jesns Christ, by one Holy 
Spirit of Grace, who will finally restore the whole family 
of mankind to holiness and happiness. 

“Art. 3 We believe that holiness and true happiness 
are inseparably connected, and that believers ought to be 
careful to maintain order and practice good works ; for 
these things are good and profitable unto men.” 

This has remained unchanged to the present time. 
The Philadelphia convention ceased to exist in 1809; 
hut the New England convention, though with changes 
both in form of government and in name, has continued 
to the present, and is now “ the Universalist General 
Convention.” It is composed of clerical and lay dele- 
gates from the slate conventions, and from the parishes 
and churches in states and territories where no state 
organization exists. Every parish, to be counted in the 
basis of representation, must maintain its legal existence 
and support public worship; and every minister must 
be actually engaged in the work of the ministry unless 
disabled by age or sickness. Preachers and parishes 
must assent to the Profession of Belief; and no parish 


can settle a minister not in fellowship, nor can a minis- 
ter settle over a parish not in fellowship. 'The conven- 
tion establishes uniform rules for fellowship, ordination, 
and discipline, and is the final court of appeal in all 
cases of difficulty between conventions, or between con- 
ventions and parishes, or ministers, not otherwise set- 
tled by subordinate bodies; blit it has no power to in- 
terfere with the affairs of a parish in the settlement or 
dismissal of a minister in fellowship; nor can it, under 
any circumstances, do more, than to withdraw fellow- 
ship from those who are convicted of offences. State 
conventions are composed of ministers in fellowship, 
and of delegates from parishes and churches. They 
can make any regulations and adopt any policy not in 
conflict with the constitution and laws of the General 
Convention; provide for the enforcement of the rules 
on fellowship, ordination, and discipline; and raise and 
disburse funds for local missionary work. In several 
states associations still exist composed of comities or of 
neighboring parishes extending over larger territory; 
but, under the present laws, these have no ecclesiastical 
authority, and are only a medium of local conference 
and encouragement in religious growth. Parishes are 
local legal organizations for the purpose of holding prop- 
erty and conducting the business necessary to the main- 
tenance of religious worship. Aside from a required as- 
sent to the Profession of Faith, and their obtaining the 
fellowship of the State Convention, or, in localities where 
no such organization exists, the direct fellowship of the 
General Convention, all parishes are Congregational in 
the management of their affairs, and are subject only to 
the civil laws of the state or territory where they are 
located. Churches, with the exception of those in Penn- 
sylvania, as before noted, are the religions organizations 
created within the legal parish. In them the ordi- 
nances of the Gospel are administered; and the purpose 
of their existence is the union of believers and the 
quickening and increase of their religious life, obedient 
to the command of the Lord and his apostles. Sunday- 
schools are also established in the parishes, and are, 
while independent in the management of their affairs, 
ehielly watched over and directed by the Church. 

111. Doctrine s. — The Winchester Profession (given 
above) is regarded as a sufficiently full and explicit 
statement of the belief required in order to fellowship 
in the Universalist Church, and as affording the great- 
est latitude in differences on all minor points. But a 
more particular statement of the general belief of Uni- 
versalists of the present day may be briefly set forth as 
embracing the following particulars: 

1. Of God . — That he is infinite in all his perfections, 
the Creator and Preserver of all worlds, and of all the 
beings that inhabit them; revealed to man in all that 
nature teaches of wisdom and design; in conscience, 
which discriminates between right and wrong; and in 
the Holy Scriptures, and especially in his full perfection 
in .lesus Christ. That it is fundamental in the revela- 
tion through Christ that God is the Father of the spirits 
of all flesh, who brought men into being with a fixed 
and loving purpose that their existence should prove a 
final and endless blessing to them; and that while he is 
strictly just in his dealings with all, he never loses sight 
of his great purpose in their creation; and that, with- 
out violation of their moral freedom, he will, through 
the gracious influences of the Gospel, subdue and win 
all souls to holiness. That his government, laws, and 
purpose are the same in all worlds, death in no way af- 
fecting his attitude towards men; but that he is to be 
found wherever sought, and will always accept and for- 
give all who call upon him in sincerity and truth. 

2. Of Christ . — That he is not God, but God’s highest 
and only perfect representative, sent by the Father not 
for the purpose of affecting God’s attitude to man. but of 
reconciling man to God; that be lived, taught, wrought 
miracles, suffered, died, and was raised from the dead 
and ascended into heaven, according to the Scriptures; 
that he alone can lead men to the Father, and is the 


UNIVERSALISTS 


663 


UNIVERSALISTS 


only perfect way, truth, and life for man; that he is 
Lord both of the dead and the living, aide to save to 
the uttermost, i. e. in all places and under all circum- 
stances, all who come to God by him ; and that he must 
reign till every creature in heaven and in earth, and 
under the earth, confesses him Lord, to the glory of God 
the Father, and God is all in all. 

3. Of the Holt / Spirit. — That while it is not now to 
be expected that God’s Spirit will, as in apostolic days, 
be manifest in conferring miraculous power on believers, 
the promise of its assistance is still fulfilled in the souls 
of believers, to whom the Spirit comes as the Comforter, 
and, as testified to by the apostle, helps their infirmities, 
inspires their prayers, and pours into their souls the 
peace of God which passeth all understanding. 

4. Of Man. — That “a man is the image and glory of 
God;” and that whatever tendencies may be inherited, 
or by whatever sins man may defile himself, the divine 
image is never wholly destroyed, but that under the 
care of the appointed refiner and purifier, the stains, de- 
filement, and dross can all be removed, and the divine 
likeness be manifest; that the human will, which con- 
sents to sin, can also determine on holiness, and use all 
the means appointed for its attainment. 

5. Of Sin. — That it is never transferable, but consists 
in personal disobedience to the divine law, and is the 
greatest evil in the universe; that no necessity for it is 
laid on any mortal, yet that it is incidental to the career 
of a being who can be drawn away of his own lusts and 
enticed, and who is created with the ability of choosing 
good and evil. 

6. Of Rewards and Punishments. — That obedience to 
the divine law, the attainment of holiness, piety, and 
the Christian graces, are their own exceeding great re- 
ward, and are manifest in the soid’s consciousness of 
nearness to God and of approval bv him ; that punish- 
ment is in like manner the natural fruit of sin, aliena- 
tion, a cloud between us and God, the burden and sor- 
row of an unreconciliation and enmity. That while the 
reward is intended to keep us in love with obedience, 
the punishment is designed to make us feel that it is an 
evil and bitter thing to sin against God, and to incline 
ns to repent and turn to our peace, possible only in holi- 
ness. 

7. Of Conversion. — That conversion, regeneration, the 
new birth, or whatever else the turning from sin to 
holiness may be called, is the change effected in the 
will and heart of man, when, wrought upon by the gra- 
cious influences of the Gospel, he turns from his sinful 
loves and ways, and, drawn by the Spirit of God, seeks 
to consecrate all his powers to holiness and duty; that 
while the commencement of such a change must of ne- 
cessity be instantaneous, it is only by patient continu- 
ance in well-doing that it is completed. 

8. Of Salvation. — ' That salvation is deliverance from 
the practice and love of sin, the bringing of the soul out 
of its bondage of error and evil into the liberty of obe- 
dience to tiie truth, and love to God and man; that 
Christ saves when he turns men awav from iniquity, 
and that his saving work will not be completed till God’s 
law is written in and obeyed by every heart. 

9. Of Forgiveness. — That the forgiveness which God 
promises to all who confess and forsake their sins is the 
covering of past offences from sight, and bringing them 
no more to remembrance against the penitent ; and that 
this is the forgiveness which Jesus teaches us that we 
ought to exercise towards all who are penitent for any 
wrong which they have done to us. 

10. Of Immortality. — That God has implanted in all 
men “ the power of an endless life;” and that what is 
called the resurrection is not simply the fitting of man 
with a spiritual body, but also his rising up into a pro- 
gressive life. That death effects no moral change, but 
that in many respects the entrance on the life immor- 
tal must work a change on man’s ignorance and error; 
that all sensual temptations, peculiar to a life in flesh 
and blood, will be absent from the world of spirits; and 


that whatever discipline any may need for past offences, 
or to overcome the effects of sin on the soul, will be ad- 
ministered in love, and will be efficacious for their sal- 
vation. 

IV". Usages and Worship. — The usages of the Univer- 
salist churches do not differ much from those of other 
denominations that conduct their parish affairs on In- 
dependent or Congregational principles. The following 
are perhaps peculiar: 

1. Ordination , Transfer, and Discipline. — For the or- 
dination of a minister, the rule is for the parish desiring 
that ordination may be conferred to make formal appli- 
cation to the convention Committee on Fellowship, Ordi- 
nation, and Discipline, who, if there is no ground for ob- 
jection, give permission to the parish to call a council, 
consisting of ten ordained ministers and lay delegates 
from ten parishes, who, on assembling, organize by the 
appointment of a moderator and clerk, and proceed to 
an examination of the fitness and qualifications of the 
candidate. If these are found satisfactory, the request for 
ordination is granted, and the parish are authorized to 
hold the ordination service at their convenience, which 
being done, the clerk of the council forwards to the con- 
vention committee a certified statement of the doings 
of the council, and of the fact that ordination has been 
conferred, whereupon the committee furnishes the new 
minister with a certificate of his ordination. On re- 
moving from the jurisdiction of one state convention to 
another jurisdiction, it is a minister’s duty to request of 
the convention committee in the state where he has 
been residing a letter of transfer, which, if he is in good 
standing, is granted, and is of the nature of a recom- 
mendation to the convention into whose bounds he is 
removing. This transfer it is his duty to present to the 
committee of that convention, who thereupon grant him 
its fellowship. Should a minister neglect to seek such 
transfer, he is subject to discipline by the convention 
from which he removed, and will in time be disfellow- 
shipped by having his name dropped from the roll of 
ministers. A minister disfellowshipped for this or any 
other cause must, if he desires to be restored to fellow- 
ship, seek his restoration from the convention which 
punished his offence; but if denied restoration there, he 
may appeal to the General Convention. 

2. The Dedication of Children. — When John Murray 
began to preach in America, he was frequently impor- 
tuned by parents to baptize their children; but, believ- 
ing that adults were the only proper subjects for Chris- 
tian baptism, he refused. As, however, lie regarded 
children as the gift of God and members of the body of 
Christ, he felt that some ceremonial recognition of this 
fact would be appropriate and salutary, and originated 
a rite which he called the “dedication of children.” 
Either in the church or elsewhere, as was most con- 
venient, parents brought their children to him, who, if 
infants, he took in his arms; if older children, they stood 
by his side, and he, placing his hand on the child’s head 
and pronouncing its name, declared it gratefully re- 
ceived as God’s gift, and solemnly dedicated to his 
loving service, pronouncing on it the blessing which 
Moses was directed to command Aaron to pronounce on 
the children of Israel: “The Lord bless thee and keep 
thee. The Lord make his face shine upon thee, and be 
gracious unto thee. The Lord lift up his countenance 
upon thee, and give thee peace.” This service is now 
very generally observed among Universalists, the sec- 
ond Sunday in June being set apart for it, and desig- 
nated “Children’s Sunday.” It is customary on this 
occasion to decorate tne churches with flowers; ami as 
no very general objection to infant baptism now exists 
among Universalists, baptism is in most cases a part of 
the ceremonial. 

3. Christmas , Faster , and Memorial. — Christmas has 
always been a day of special notice with Uuiversal- 
ists, and of late Easter is appropriately celebrated, A 
Sunday in October is set apart in most Universalist 
churches as Memorial Sunday, the services being made 


UNI VERBALISTS 


064 


UNI VERS ALISTS 


appropriate to a loving remembrance of the members J 
of the Church ami congregation who have died during 
the year. On this day the churches are decorated with 
fall tlowers and leaves. 

4. Public Worship. — The public worship of God is 
conducted by Universalists in much the same manner 
as by Protestants generally. It consists of reading of 
the Scriptures, prayers, singing, and sermon. A few 
churches make use of a liturgy, of which several have 
been prepared, but most congregations have an extem- 
pore service. Baptism and the Lord’s supper are ob- 
served in all Universalist churches. The mode of the 
former is left to the choice of the candidate. The in- 
vitation to the latter is extended to all who may feel it 
to be either a duty or a privilege thus to remember the 
Lord Jesus Christ. Sunday-schools and conference and 
prayer meetings are regularly held in most of the , 
churches. 

V. /Statistics . — The Universalists have one General 
Convention and twenty-four subordinate conventions, 
the latter being located in Alabama, Connecticut. 
Georgia, Illinois, Indiana. Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, 
Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, 
New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oregon, 1 
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, Wisconsin, Cana- 
da, and Scotland. Parish organizations exist in Cali- 
fornia, Colorado, Dakota, District of Columbia, Florida, 
Idaho, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, Nebraska, 
North and South Carolina, Tennessee. Texas, Virginia, 
ami West Virginia. The total number of parishes is 
959, with which 42,500 families are connected; 733 
churches, with a membership of 37.825; Sunday-schools, 
t>99; teachers and pupils, 59.(533 ; church edifices, 784; 
total value of parish property above indebtedness. 
$6,417,757; ministers, 724; licensed lay preachers, 9. 

The General Convention is incorporated and empow- 
ered to “hold real and personal estate to the value of 
8500,000, to be devoted exclusively to the diffusion of 
Christian knowledge by means of missionaries, publica- 
tions, and other agencies.” The “Murray Centenary 
Fund,” raised in 1870, ami named in honor of Rev. John 
Murray, the centennial anniversary of whose coming to 
America was then observed, amounted, at the session 
of the convention in 1879, to $121,794.54. A “Minis- 
terial Relief Fund,” founded by the bequest of the late 
John G. Gunn, amounted at the same time to $8077.94. 
The “Theological Scholarship Fund,” consisting of re- 
turned scholarship loans, amounted to $5439.32. The 
treasurer’s receipts from all sources, in 1879, were 
$19,540.74. The income of the Murray Centenary 
Fund is designed to aid in the education of the clergy, 
the circulation of denominational literature, and in 
church extension. About forty theological scholar- 
ships are continued in force each year, aggregating 
nearly $6000. These are expected to be repaid, with- 
out interest, at the earliest convenience of the benefici- 
aries after graduation and settlement, and the amounts 
thus returned are invested, the income to be appro- 
priated to future loans. 

Several of the state conventions are incorporated, 
and in a few of them permanent funds are established. 
Either as held by the conventions directly, or by or- 
ganizations existing in their jurisdiction, the aggregate 
amount of such funds, the incomes of which are devoted 
to missionary work, Sunday-school aid, and ministerial 
relief, is $89,578.65. 

The “ Woman’s Centenary Association,” now incor- 
porated. was organized in 1869 to assist in raising 
the Murray Centenary Fund, to which it contributed 
$35,000. In addition to this, it, has raised about 
$120,000. with which it has helped colleges and schools, 
given relief to aged and infirm ministers and ministers’ 
widows, started a Memorial Chapel at Good Luck.N.J., 
where Murray preached his first sermon in America, 
and supported a missionary in Scotland. It lias also 
put in circulation 3.000.000 pages of tracts, besides a 
large number of denominational books and papers. 


The “Universalist Historical Society” was organized 
in 1834 for the collection and preservation of facts per- 
taining to the history and condition of Uuiversalism, 
together with books and papers having reference to the 
same subject. It has a library of over 2000 volumes, 
now at Tufts College, College Hill, Mass. The collec- 
tion embraces a complete set of the writings of the 
Greek and Latin fathers, many French and German 
works, and a nearly complete line of modern books bolli 
for and against the doctrine of Uuiversalism. 

VI. Institutions. — t. Colleges, Theological Schools, and 
Academies. — There are four colleges, two theological 
schools, and six academies under the auspices and 
patronage of Universalists. Tufts College, located on 
College Hill, Middlesex Co., Mass., was incorporated in 
1*52, and opened for students in 1855. Its assets are 
about $900,000; number of professors and teachers, 12; 
students, 62. Lombard University, located at Gales- 
burg, 111., was incorporated in 1852, and opened for 
students in 1855. Assets, $175,000; professors and 
teachers, 6; students, 58. St. Lawrence University, at 
Canton, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y,, was incorporated in 
1856; assets, $234,350 ; professors and teachers, 7 ; stu- 
dents. 44. Buchtel College, Akron, O., was incorporated 
in 1871 ; assets, $250,000; professors and teachers, 10; 
students, 108. St. Lawrence Theological School, a de- 
partment of St. Lawrence University, was opened in 
1857. It has 3 professors and 24 students. Tufts Di- 
vinity School, a department of Tufts College, was 
opened in 1869, and has 4 professors and 32 students. 
Clinton Liberal Institute, established at Clinton, Oneida 
Co., N. Y., in 1831, and recently removed to Fort Plain, 
N. Y., has $100,000 assets, 10 teachers, and 100 students. 
Westbrook Seminary, Stevens Plains, Me., was opened 
for students in 1834. Its assets are $100,000; number 
of teachers, 7 ; of students, 80. Green Mountain Per- 
kins Academy, at South Woodstock, Vt., was opened in 
1848; assets, $15.000 ; teachers, 8; students, 55. God- 
dard Seminary, Barre, Vt., was opened in 1863; assets, 
$60,000; teachers, 7 ; students, 76. Dean Academy, 
at Franklin, Mass., was incorporated in 1865; assets, 
$240,000; teachers, 8: students, 70. Mitchell Semi- 
nary, at Mitchellville, la., was opened in 1872; assets, 
$25,000; teachers, 9; students, 95. Total amount in- 
vested by the twelve educational institutions, $2,099,- 
350. 

2. Publishing House. — The Universalist Publishing 
House, located at Boston, Mass., was incorporated in 
1872. Its trustees are elected by the state conventions 
of Maine, New Hampshire. Vermont, Massachusetts, 
and Rhode Island. The net assets of the house, con- 
sisting of periodicals, books, plates, etc., are about 
$31,000. The number of volumes which it has pub- 
lished, and of which it owns the title and copyright, is 
one hundred and thirty. It also issues five of the twelve 
periodicals published by the denomination. 

3. Missions. — Missionary work is performed in the 
bounds of the several state conventions; in some di- 
rectly by agents or superintendents in the employ of 
the conventions, in others by means of local associa- 
tions, and in still others by the voluntary labors of the 
ministry. The only foreign mission is the one sustain- 
ed by the Woman’s Centenary Association in Scotland. 

VII. Literature. — American Universalist literature 
dates from the publication of a translation of Siegvolk’s 
Everlasting (iospel in Pennsylvania in 1753. William 
Pitt Smith, M.D., of New York, published a small book 
entitled The Universalist in 1787. Joseph Young, SI. D., 
also of New York, wrote and published Calrinism and 
Eniversalisrn Contrasted in 1793. Rev. Elhanan Win- 
chester’s Dialogues on Universal Restoration, published 
in London in 1788, were republished in Philadelphia in 
1791. A Treatise on Atonement, by Rev. llosea Ballon, 
was published in 1805. Sinee that time the Univer- 
salist press lias issued hundreds of volumes. Some of 
the more prominent in the various departments of de- 
nominational literature are, 


665 


UNIVERSITY 


UNI VERS ALIST3 

i. In Polemics: Smith, On Divine Government ; Bal- I 
four, Inquiries into the Scriptural Import of the l Ft> ?*(/.$ 
Sheol , Iludes, Tartarus, and Gehenna, and the IFon/x 
Satan and Devil; Discussion between Ezra Stiles Ely, 
D.D., and Rev. Abel C. Thomas; Debate between Rev. 
David Holmes and Rev. J . M. Austin; lingers, Pro and 
Con of U niversulism ; Harrison, A ion- A ionios ; Discus- 
sion between Rev. E. Manford and Rev. J. S. Sweeney ; 
Thayer, Origin and History of the Doctrine of Endless 
Punishment ; Miner, The Old Forts Taken; Sawyer, 
Endless Punishment in the Very Words of its Advocates. 

ii. Doctrinal and Expository : Ballou, Lecture Sermons 
ami Select Sermons ; \V hit temore, Xotes on the Parables ; 
(Jobb, Compend of Christian Divinity ; Thayer, The The- 
ology of Universalism ; Williamson, Rudiments of Theo- 
logical Science and Philosophy of Universalism ; St cere, 
Footprints Heavenward; Mayo, The Balance, or Moral 
Arguments for Universalism ; Brooks, Universalism in 
Life and Doctrine; The Latest Word of Universalism, 
thirteen essays by thirteen clergymen. 

iii. Commentaries : Mauley, Biblical Review (5 vols. 
on the Old Test.) ; Cobb, Explanatory Xotes and Prac- 
tical Observations on the Xew Test.; Paige, Commentary 
on the Xew Test, (except the book of llevelation), 6 vols. ; 
Whit temore, Commentary on the Revelation of St. John. 

iv. Works in Defence of Christianity : Winchester, 
Reply to Paine's Age of Reason; Ballou, Letters in De- 
fence of Revelation ; Pickering, Lectures on Divine Rev- 
elation; Smith, Causes of I njidelity Removed; Thayer, 
Christianity ((gainst Infidelity; Williamson, An Argu- 
ment for Christianity and Sermons for the Times and 
People . 

v. Practical Religion and Consolation : Chapin, Dis- 
courses on the Lord's Prayer, Lessons of Faith and Life, 
Hours of Communion, The Crown of Thorns ; Adams, 
The Universalism of the Lord's Prayer; Bacon, The Pas- 
tor's Bequest (sermons) ; Ballou, Counsel and Encourage- 
ment (discourses on the conduct of life) ; Thomas, The 
Gospel Liturgy (a prayer-book for churches and fami- 
lies) ; Hanson, Manna (a book of daily worship) ; Quim- 
bv, Heaven our House (a comfort to all who mourn); 
Thayer, Over the River (a book of consolation for the 
sick, the dying, and the bereaved). 

vi. History and Biography : Ballou, A ncient History 
of Universalism from the Time of the Apostles to the 
Reformation; Whittemore, Modern History of Univer- 
sal ism from the Time of the Reformation; Thomas, A 
Century of Universalism in Philadelphia and Xew York; 
Smith, Historical Sketches of Universal ism in the State 
of Xew York; Life of Rev. John Murray, commenced 
by himself and completed by his wife; Stone, Biography 
of Rev. Elhanan Winchester; Rogers, Memoranda ; Me- 
moir (autobiography) of Rev. Xathaniel Stacey; Me- 
moirs of Rev. Hose a Ballou, by Maturin M. Ballou (1 
vol.), and by Whittemore (4 vols.) ; Sawyer, Memoir of 
Rev. Stephen R. Smith; Autobiography of Rev. Abel C. 
Thomas; Cook [T. D.], Memoir of Ilev. James M. Cook; 
Bacon [Mrs. E. A.], Memoir of Rev. Henry Bacon; Ad- 
ams, Memoir of Rev. John Moore ; Gillette and Crush, 
Life of Rev. E, M. I Cooley ; Adams, Memoir of Thomas 
Whittemore, D.I). 

vii. Periodicals : The first Universalist periodical was 
probably that started by Ilev. Elhanan Winchester, in 
London, England, in 1787, entitled The Philadelphian 
Magazine. It was continued several years bv Rev. Will- 
iam Vidler, and finally merged in the Monthly Reposi- 
tory. 'I’lie first American Universalist periodical was 
The Free Universalist. Magazine , published in New 
York and Baltimore by Rev, Abel Sarjent (1793-94). 
Rev. John Murray's friends published in Boston two 
volumes of a small magazine called The Berean, com- 
menced in 1802. Several others followed, and from 
first to last a great many have been put before the 
publie. 

The periodical publications at present are the follow- 
ing: Weekly papers, seven, viz. The Christian Leader 
(successor to the U hiversalist Magazine } started in Bos- 


ton in 1819, and the Utica Magazine, commenced at 
Utica, N. Y., in 1827), published by the Universalist 
Publishing House, Boston, G. 11. Emerson, D.I)., editor; 
the Star in the IFcs/. established in 1827, published at 
Cincinnati, O., J. S. Cantwell, D.D., editor; the Gos- 
pel Banner, started in 183G, published at Augusta, Me., 
G. W. Quimby, D.I)., editor; the Xew Covenant, com- 
menced in 1847, published at Chicago, 111., edited by J. 
NY. Hanson, D.D. ; the Xew Religion, published at Nor- 
way, Me., Rev. J. A. Seitz editor; the Atlanta Unirer- 
salist, at Atlanta, Ga., Rev. W. C. Bowman editor; and 
The Myrtle, an illustrated Sunday-school paper, issued 
by the Universalist Publishing House, Mrs. E. INI. Bruce 
editor. There are two papers published once in two 
weeks — the Universalist Herald, at Notasulga, Ala., 
edited by Rev. John C. Burrus; and the Guiding Star , 
an illustrated Sunday-school paper, at Cincinnati, O., 
Mrs. Caroline M. Soule editor. The Sunday-school 
Helper, devoted to Sabbath-sclmol teaching, is published 
monthly by the Universalist Publishing House, edited 
by Rev. G. L. Demarest. Manford's Magazine, com- 
menced in 1857, is published monthly at Chicago, III., 
Rev. E. Manford and Mrs. 11. B. Manford editors. The 
Universalist Quarterly, commenced in 1844, is issued in 
January, April, July, and October by the Universalist 
Publishing House, edited by T. B. Thayer, D.D. The 
Universalist Register, a statistical year-book, lias been 
issued regularly since 1836; published by the Univer- 
salist Publishing House, and edited by Mrs. C. L. E. 
Skinner. (R. E.) 

Universality of Grace, a doctrine introduced 
into the French Reformed theology, under the influence 
of John Cameron, in the early part of the 17th century, 
and advocated by Amyraldus (Amyraut), Placteus, and 
Pajon. Cameron himself taught the imputation of 
Christ’s passive obedience alone, and advocated the 
hypothetic universalism of divine grace, which was 
more fully developed by Amyraut. “The peculiarity 
of Amyraldism,” says Schweizer,“ is in the combination 
of real particularism with a merely ideal universalism.” 
See Hagenbach, Hist, of Doct. ii, 180, 275. See Atone- 
ment. 

Universals, a term used in philosophical language, 
and divided into three classes, viz. : 

1. Metaphysical, or “universalia ante rem,” denoting 
those archetypal forms according to which all things 
were created. As existing in the divine mind, anil fur- 
nishing the patterns of the divine working, these may 
be said to correspond with the ideas of Plato. 

2. Physical, or “universalia in re,” bv which are meant 
certain common natures which, one in themselves, are 
diffused over or shared in by many— as rutionulity in 
men. 

3. Logical, or “universalia post rem,” denoting gen- 
eral notions framed by the human intellect, and predi- 
cated of many things on the ground of their possessing 
common properties — .as tree, which may be predicated 
of the oak, maple, birch, willow, etc. 

In ancient philosophy the universals were called pred- 
icables, and were arranged in five classes, genus, species , 
differentia, proprium , and accidents. 

Ill the system of Aquinas universals are thus treat- 
ed: I. A parte mentis, or a parte intellect us , involve the 
theory that universals are mental only — subjective. 2. 
A parte m involve the theory that universals corre- 
spond with objective things. iSee Krauth and Fleming, 
Vocab. of Phil. Science, s. v. 

Universe, as defined by Dr. Porter ( Human Intel- 
lect, p. 646), is the collective whole, t He totality of be- 
ing as a unit; the world, in its philosophical or univer- 
sal sense. For its origin, see Creation ; World. 

University, a universal sehool; an assembly of 
students of all countries, students in every branch of 
learning, in one general society, having their own seal 
and place of business. Camden says the term was gen- 
erally used in the reign of Henry HI (of England). Dur- 


GGG 


UNWIN 


UNKNOWN GOD 

ing the 1 2th century there were several eminent uni- 
versities in Europe. Spain ami (lennany had univer- 
sities of schools where the students formed part of the 
corporation. Paris and England had universities of 
masters only; some in Germany and France were of 
either kind. See College. 

Unknown God (iiyvtoarog Seoc, A. V. unfortu- 
natelv “ the unknown God,” instead of im an unknown 
God’'*), the inscription observed by Paul on some site 
consecrated to a deity whose name had been lost — a fact 
which he ingeniously adduces in his speech before the 
citizens to show their scrupulousness, and to lead them 
to the knowledge of the true God (Acts xvii. 23). There 
is no evidence that it was a spot dedicated to the wor- 
ship of Jehovah, as some commentators have imagined. 
See the monographs cited by Volbeding, Index Pro- 
gram matum, p. 82. See Alta it; Athens. 

Unknown Tongue (1 Cor. xiv, 2, 4, 13, 14, 10, 
27) is a gloss of the A. V. ; for the Greek lias simply 
7 ,Vu< 7 <t«, a tongue, obviously meaning a different living 
language from that ordinarily employed by the speaker 
(yXuxraa ir'tpa , Mark xvi. 17 ; Acts ii,4). Others un- 
derstand an ecstatic utterance of abrupt, incoherent, and 
unintelligible expressions which needed an interpreter. 
See the monographs cited by Volbeding, Index Pro - 
grammutum , p. 73. See Srini rt al Gifts. 

Unlearned (uypdppaTOQ, unlettered , Acts iv. 13; 
ap-aziiQ, uniustnuieJ, 2 Pet. iii. Id; cnraidti’TOQ, un- 
tutored, 2 Tim. ii, 23; Icubrpc. private, 1 Cor. xiv, Id, 23, 
24; ••ignorant,” Acts iv, 13; ki rude,” 2 Cor. xi, d). In 
Acts iv, 13, the Jewish literati apply the term to Peter 
and John, in the same sense in which they asked, w ith 
regard to our Lord himself. “How knowetli this man 
letters, having never learned” (John vii, 15). In nei- 
ther ease did they mean to say that they had been al- 
together without the benefits of the common education, 
w hich consisted in reading and writing, and in an ac- 
quaintance with the sacred books; but that they were 
not learned men, had not sat at the feet of any of the 
great doctors of the law, and had not been instructed 
in the mysteries and refinements of their peculiar learn- 
ing and literature. An apostle also uses it to describe 
those who are little acquainted with the mind of (rod 
and the teaching of his .spirit (2 Pet. iii, 1G). The •• un- 
learned questions” mentioned by Paul are those which 
do not tend to edification in sound and substantial re- 
ligious knowledge. See Education. 

Unleavened Bread (i"t£“2, iiZvpoe), bread baked 
from unfermented dough. The Hebrews early knew 
the art of raising bread by means of leaven ("SO, 
Z>vp i ) ; on the various ancient kinds of this see 
Pliny, xviii, 2G) prepared from the dregs or yeast of 
wine, or from a mixture of flour and water, which spon- 
taneously ferments if allowed to stand, and which may, 
either moist or dried, be preserved for a considerable 
period for this purpose (Mislma. Pesach, iii, 1; Challa , 
i, 7 ; comp. Ilarmer, Obserr. iii, G5). Sometimes they 
baked bread without being leavened, especially when in 
paste (Gen. xix, 3; Judg. vi, lit; 1 Sam. xxviii. 24), as 
the modern Bodawin regularly do (Arvieux, iii, 227). 
This was formally presented for the paschal cakes 
Exod. xii, 8, 15, 20; xiii. 3, G sq.), and this fact 
became a symbol of the festival which thence was pop- 
ularly designated as “ the feast of unleavened bread.” 
See Passover. In fact, the Jews were expressly pro- 
hibited from all use of leaven during the seven days of 
its continuance, ami even from having any leaven in 
their houses for all that time (Exod. xii, 19; xiii, 7 ; 
comp. 1 Cor. v, 7); so that, they were obliged to seek 
and carefully remove all traces of it on the eve of the 
14th of Nisan (see Pesaeh. i iii; Schott gen, IJor. Ifebr. 
i, 598). They usually burned it ( Pesach , ii, 1), but not 
in an oven; and were so scrupulous as not even to allow 
domestic animals to eat it during that period (ibid.). 
The sacrifieial eakes of the meat-offering were also re- 


quired to contain no leaven (Exod. xxix, 2 ; Lev. ii, 
11: Numb, vi, 15, 19; comp. Amos iv, 5; Mishna, Me- 
vac . v, 1 ; Pesach , i, 5; see Of ho, Lex. Ii<tbb. p. 227 : a 
similar usage prevailed iu the Homan ritual; see Plu- 
tarch, Qutesf. Pom. 109; comp. Oasaubon, on Pcrs. Put. 
i); on the other hand, the Pentecostal loaves, which 
represented the usual food of men, were leavened (Lev. 
xxiii, 17). Also the cakes which served as a basis 
(perhaps bv way of platter) for the thank-offering were 
baked with leaven (Lev. vii, 13). — Winer. See Bread; 
Leaven. 

Un'lli (Tleb. Pnni', [but text in Neh. l r nno f , 
Ii"], according to Gesen. for [depressed], but ac- 
cording to Fiirst for [ Urtniah, heard of Jehovah] \ 

Sept, variously, lii'i v. r. ‘Aid, '1 avid, ete. ; Vulg. Ani, 
Haunt), the name of two Levites. 

1. One of the relatives of II email who were appoint- 
ed door-keepers and musicians to the tabernacle bv Da- 
vid (1 Chnrn. xv, 18.20). 15.0. 1043. 

2. One of those appointed to a similar service on the 
return from Babylon (Neh. xii, 9). B.C. 535. 

Unili, an archbishop of the 10th century who made 
a missionary tour into Denmark, and was instrumental 
in establishing Christianity throughout the kingdom. 
He was greatly aided hv llarakl, son of king Gurm, and 
a convert to the Christian faith, although the king him- 
self remained a pagan. See Neander, Hist, of the Church , 
iii, 288. 

Unmfer, a very common funeral title of Osiris 
(q. v.), signifying the “ Good Being.” 

Unpardonable Sin, or “Sin against the Holy 
Ghost” (Matt, xii, 31, 82. and parallels), appears in the 
first instance to have been the ascription of the benefi- 
cent miracles of Jesus to Satanic power; and it seems 
to be unpardonable because it argued such an utter per- 
version of moral sense as to place the person capable of 
it beyond the province of divine grace. Similar cases 
of spiritual hardening or judicial blinding are elsewhere 
referred to in Scripture (Eph. iv, 18. 19; Heb. vi, G). 
See the Latin monographs on the subject by Deutsch- 
niann (Yiteb. 1G68), Heidegger (Tig. 1675), Fastenati 
(Hal. 1751), and others cited by Hase, Leben Jesu, p. 
152. See Blasphemy; Six. 

Unselt, Samuel Friedrich, a Protestant theolo- 
gian of Germany, was born in 1742 at Dantzic. lie 
studied theology at Leipsie, where his acquaintance 
with Gellcrt had the greatest influence upon him. From 
Leipsie he returned to his native city, where he was 
appointed rector of St. Mary’s. For twelve years he 
labored as a teacher, when he was called as pastor to 
l’raust, not far from Dantzic. A few years later he was 
called to Glut la ml*, where lie died, May 1, 1790. lie 
wrote, Disserfatio de Nutura Cimrersimns (Gedani, 
1 7 03) : — Dissert.de Locorum Veteris Testament i in Nova 
A ccommodatione Orthodoxu (Lips. 17GG). See Doring, 
Deutsche Kanzelredner, p. 552 sq. (B. P.) 

Unterberger, Ignatius, a German painter, was 
born at Karales, in the Tyrol, in 1744. After acquiring 
the elements of design from his father, he went to Home, 
at the age of twenty, and studied with a brother. In 
1776 lie settled at Vienna, and became the favorite 
painter of the minister Kaunitz. He died in 1797. 
Among his principal works are, the Descent of the Holy 
Spirit, iu the principal church of Kbnigsgriitz ; and 
Peace and Love, represented by a young girl earessing 
a lamb. See Spooner, Blog. Hist, of the Fine. Arts , s. v. 

Unwin, William Jordan, LL.l)., a Church of 
England divine, was born at Great Coggeshall. Essex, 
Nov. 29, 1811. He was educated at Totteridge ; pre- 
pared for the ministry at. Kothwell, Highbury College, 
entering in 1830, and Glasgow University, which he 
entered in 1833, and where he graduated in 1835, tak- 
ing the two degrees of bachelor and master of arts. On 
leaving Glasgow he became pastor of Cutting Lane 
(now Beaumont) Chapel, Wuodbridge; and in 1842 miti- 


UNWRITTEN WORD 


667 


UPIIAM 


ister of the Independent Congregation, St. Heliers, Jer- 
sey. In both spheres oflahor he adorned his profession 
bv the consistency of his life, and benefited his people 
by the earnestness of his preaching. Being eminently 
fitted by his attainments and predilections for educa- 
tional work, he was. in IK 18, appointed by the Congre- 
gationalists principal of the Training Institution, first 
established in Liverpool Street, and afterwards removed 
t<» Ilomerton College. In these two places, with quiet 
industry, unflagging zeal, conscientious attachment to 
Congregational principles, and fervent devotion to the 
Church, he labored until 1875, when failing health 
obliged him to relinquish his favorite employment. 
Numerous works useful for elementary schools proceeded 
from his pen; also an able letter on Education the Work 
of the People. Dr. Unwin was remarkable for his con- 
scientiousness, integrity, his vigorous mind, accurate 
scholarship, firm purpose, and domestic affections. He 
died in 1877. See Evangelical Magazine , April, 1877, 
p. 223. 

Unwritten Word. “That authority to which 
the llomish Church could lay no claim from the purity 
of its members it endeavored to support during the 
Dark Ages by its arrogant pretensions. The Scriptures, 
even in the Latin version, had long become a sealed 
book to the people; and the Roman see, in proportion 
as it extended its supremacy, discouraged or proscribed 
the use of such vernacular versions as existed. This it 
did, not lest the ignorant and half-informed should mis- 
take the sense of Scripture, nor lest the presumptuous 
and the perverse should deduce new errors in doctrine, 
and more fatal consequences in practice, from its dis- 
torted language, but in the secret and sure conscious- 
ness that what was now taught as Christianity was not 
to be found in the written Word of Cod. In mainte- 
nance of the dominant system, tradition, or the unwrit- 
ten Word, was set up. This had been the artifice of 
some of the earliest heretics, who, when they were 
charged with holding doctrines not according to Script- 
ure, affirmed that some things had been revealed which 
were not committed to writing, but were orally trans- 
mitted down. The Pharisees before them pleaded the 
same supposititious authority for the formalities which 
they added to the law, and by which they sometimes 
superseded it, ‘ making the Word of God of none effect,’ 
as our Saviour himself reproached them. Upon this 
ground the Romish clergy justified all the devices of 
man’s imagination with which they had corrupted the 
ritual and the faith of the Western Church” (Southey, 
Book of the Church). See Tradition. 

Unxia, a surname of Juno in Roman mythology, 
was the goddess of anointing. The young women in 
Rome are said to have anointed the doors of their fut- 
ure dwellings with salve before entering them, in order 
that nothing evil should enter their house. From this, 
Juno, the directress of marriages, received the above 
name. 

Unzer, Johann August, a German physician, born 
April 29, 1727, and died April 2, 1799, was distinguished 
by his works on physiological and psychological sub- 
jects, among which maybe mentioned, A New Doctrine 
concerning the Movements of the Soul and the Imagina- 
tion: — Thoughts on Sleep find Dreams: — On the Sensi- 
tive Faculties of Animated Bodies: — The Phgsiologg of 
A nimated Nature: — and Physiological Researches (\I 'll- 
99). See Hoefer, Nouv. Blog. Generate , s. v. 

Upanishad (from upa, “beneath” or “near;” »/, 
“in;” and sad, “ to sit”) is the name of those Sanscrit 
works belonging to the Vedic literature which contain 
the mystical doctrine of the Hindus on the nature of a 
Supreme Being, its relation to the human soul, and the 
process of ereation. The object of the Upanishads is to 
impress the mind with a belief in one Supreme Spirit; 
to show that this Supreme Spirit is the ereator of the 
world; that the world has no reality if thought of be- 
sides Brahman; and that the human soul is identical in 


nature with that same Spirit whence it emanates. They 
are looked upon as inspired writings. See Muller, /list, 
of A nc. Sanscrit Lit.; Muir, Original Sanscrit Texts. 

Upfold, Gkorgk, M.D., D.D., LL.I)., a Protestant 
Episcopal clergyman, was born at Shemley Green, 
near Gulford, England, May 7, 179G. He came to 
America in 1802, and settled at Albany, N. Y. In 
1814 he graduated at Union College, Schenectady. In 
1810 he graduated in medicine in New York, ami com- 
menced practice in Albany soon after. He soon, how- 
ever, entered upon the study of theology, and was or- 
dained minister in 1818. He was minister at Lansing- 
burg, N. Y., from 1818 to 1820; rector of St. Luke’s, New 
York city, from 1820 to 1828, and a portion of this time 
(1821-25) assistant minister of Trinity Church; rector 
of St. Thomas’s Church, New York city, from 1828 to 
1831 ; rector of Trinity Church, Pittsburgh, Pa., from 
1832 to 1850; and was consecrated bishop of Indiana in 
1849. He died at Indianapolis, Aug. 26, 1872. 

Upham, Charles Wentworth, an American 
author and Unitarian minister, was born in St.John’s, 
N. B., May 4, 1802. He graduated at Harvard College 
in 1821, and at the Cambridge Divinity School in 1824, 
and was colleague of Dr. Prince, pastor of the First Uni- 
tarian Church in Salem, from 1824 to 1844. He then 
left the profession on account of bronchial weakness, 
and engaged in various pursuits. lie edited the Chris- 
tian Register, travelled as agent of the Massachusetts 
Board of Education, was member of the Massachusetts 
House of Representatives in 1849, of the State Senate 
from 1850 to 1851, was mayor of Salem in 1852, member 
of the National Congress from the Sixth District from 
1854 to 1855, State senator in 1858, and representative 
from 1859 to 1800. lie died at Salem. June 15, 1875. 
He wrote, Letters on the Logos (1828 ) : — Prophecy as an 
Evidence of Christianity (1835): — Lectures on Witch- 
craft, comprising a History of the Salem Delusion of 
1092 (1831; enlarged ed. 1807, 2 vols. 8vo ): — Life of 
Sir Henry Vane (in Sparks’s A me r. Biog. 1835 ) : — Life 
of John C. Fremont (1850 ): — Memoirs of Francis Pea- 
body (1809) : — Life of Timothy Pickering (1807-72). 

Upham, Thomas Cogswell, D.D., an Ameri- 
can divine and author, was born at Deerfield, N. H., 
Jan. 30, 1799. He graduated at Dartmouth College in 
1818, and at Andover Theological Seminary in 1821, 
when he became assistant teacher of Hebrew in the 
seminary, and translated Jalm’s Biblical Archaeology. 
In 1823 he became associate pastor of the Congrega- 
tional Church in Rochester, N. H., and in 1825 professor 
of mental and moral philosophy in Bowdoin College, in 
which position he remained until 1807. He died in 
New York, April 2, 1872. Among his numerous works 
may be mentioned, Manual of Peace (1830) : — Elements 
of Mental Philosophy (1839, 2 vols. ; abridged ed. 1804) : 
— Outlines of Disordered Mental Action (1840) x—Life 
and Religions Experience of Madame Guyon (1847): — 
Life of Faith (1848) : — Pnnciples of the Interior or Hid- 
den Life (eod.) : — Philosophical and Practical Treatise 
on the Will ( 1850): — Treatise on the Divine Union 
(1851): — Religious Maxims (1854): — Life of Madame 
Catherine A damn ( 1850) : — Letters , Esthetic , Social , 
and Moral, written from Europe, Egypt, and Palestine 
(1857) Method of Prayer (1859): — also The Absolute 
Religion (published posthumously in 1872). 

Upham, William D., a Baptist minister, was born 
at Weathersfield, Yt., Feb. 13, 1810. He developed early 
in life a strong love for literary pursuits, and at the age 
of eighteen he determined to devote himself to the study 
of law. With this object in view, he entered Brown 
University in the autumn of 1831. He seems to have 
imbibed sceptical views, ami with that conceit which 
not unfrequently accompanies pride of intellect in young 
men in a course of study, he regarded Christianity as, 
on the whole, hardly worthy of his notice. While en- 
gaged in teaching at Dedham, Mass., the winter suc- 
ceeding his entrance into college, the Spirit of God ar- 


UPIIARSIN 


608 


UPPER CHAMBER 




rested his attention, and, after a severe struggle, he 
accepted Christ as his Saviour, By his conversion, 
all his life-plans were changed, and he resolved to 
devote himself to the service of the Lord, lie 
became a member of the First Baptist Church in 
Providence, ILL, in the fall of 1 5S32, and the Church 
gave him its approval in his purpose to enter the 
Christian ministry. Want of means compelled him 
to leave college at the close of his second year, and 
he spent the next three years in teaching in Wick- 
ford, R. 1. Here he labored not only in his special 
vocation as a teacher, hut as a Christian, anil the 
existence of the Church in Wickford is largely ow- 
ing to his toils and sacrifices, lie removed to 
Ludlow, Vt.. in 183G, and was for a time principal 
of the Black Liver Academy, lie was ordained 
to the Cospol ministry in Ludlow in November, 

1-837. and in December of the following year he 
became pastor of the Second Baptist Church in 
Townshend, Vt. He secured from the outset the 
affections of his people, and his labors were great- 
ly blessed. A few years only of service in the 
cause he so much loved were allotted to him. 

Four years and a few months lie remained in the 
pastoral office, and then was called to a better 
world. Mis death occurred dune 30, 1843. See 
Baptist Memorial, ii, 209. (.1. C. S.) 

Uphar'sin (Dan. v, 25). See Mene. 

U'phaz ( Heb. Uphaz ', signif. uncertain; 

Sept. M Vulg. Ophaz, obri/znni), the name 
of a gold region (Jer. x, 9; Dan. x, 5), like Tarsi) ish 
and Ophir (comp. Psa. xlv, 10; 1 Chron. xxxix, 4), and 
hence thought by most expositors to be a corruption of 
the latter name (so the Targum, Syriac, and Tlieodo- 
tiou). Flirst, however, suggests (I/eb. Lex. s. v.) that it 
may be compounded of ?I5<, wash , and TE, pure gold; and 
that since it is interchanged with Sheba (Psa. lxxii, 15), 
it may he regarded as the name of a gold wash in South- 
ern Arabia. Its resemblance to M uphaz (TE'^2; A. V. 
“ best”) in 1 Kings x, 18 is perhaps not accidental. See 
Gun in. 

Upis, in Greek mythology, was a surname of Diana . 
A certain tutoress was also called so, and likewise a 
nvmph of Diana. Upis was, likewise, the name of 
a Hyperborean woman who, with Arge, paid a tribute 
to Delos for Diana, according to an oath respecting the 
birth of Apollo. Again, Upis was the name of the 
father of Diana, husband of Glance. Lastly, it was a 
surname of Xemesis. 

Upper Chamber (or Room) (HJ35, alhjdh , as 
in modern Arabic; 2 Kings i, 2; xxiii, 12; 1 Chron. 
xxviii, 11:2 Chron. iii, 9; “ summer-parlor,” Jtidg. iii, 
23; *‘]oft,”l Kingsxvii, 19.23; “chamber over the gate,” 
2 Sam. xviii, 33; elsewhere '‘chamber” simply; «j'w- 
yfoi , Mark xiv, 15; Luke xxii, 12; vTnptpov, Acts i, 
13; ix, 37, 39; xx, 8), a sort of guest-chamber not in 
common use, in the upper part of the house, where the 
Orientals received company and held feasts, and where 
at other times they retired for prayer and meditation 


House with au AUyah. 


Front View of the Balcony of a “Chamber ou the Wall.” 


(Mark xiv, 15; Luke xxii, 12). Among the Hebrews 
it seems to have been on, or connected with, the fiat 
roofs of their dwellings; in Greek houses it occupied 
the upper story (1 Kings xvii, 19, 22; 2 Kings iv, 10; 
Acts i, 13; ix, 37, 39; x,9;-xx,8). Robinson describes 
the “upper room of a respectable house at Kamleh as a 
large airv hall, forming a sort of third story upon the 
flat roof of the house” (Bibl. lies, iii, 20). Jowett de- 
scribes the chief room in the houses of II avail (opposite 
Lesbos) as in the upper or third story, secluded, spacious, 
and commodious, “higher and larger than those below, 
having two projecting windows, and the whole floor so 
mucli extended in front beyond the lower part of the 
building that the projecting windows overhung the 
street” ( Christ . lies. p. 07). From such a chamber, 
Eutyehns, who was sitting on the window, or on an ele- 
vated divan, fell through the window into the street 
(Acts xx, 0-12). In 2 Kings i, 2 we are told t hat Aha- 
ziah “fell down through a lattice in his upper chamber 
that was in Samaria.” Indeed, it is likely that those 
accidents were by no means rare in the East. A person 
accommodated here can go in and out with perfect in- 
dependence of the main building of the inner court, into 
which he probably never enters, and does not in the 
least interfere with the arrangements of the family. A 
visitor or friend is almost never accommodated any- 
where else, and certainly never in the interior court 
(Kitto, Diet. Bible , note in 2 Kings iv, 10). Rich luxu- 
rious men are charged with sinfully multiplying cham- 
bers of this sort (Jer. xxii, 13, 14). As spoken of by 
the prophet, they would seem to have been both large 
and built for the purposes of comfort and luxury. We 
find accordingly frequent mention made of them in 
connection with kings, who appear to have used 
them as summer-houses for their coolness (Judg. iii, 
20; 2 Kings i, 2; xxiii, 12). The 
summer-house spoken of in Script- 
ure was very seldom a separate 
building. The lower past of the 
house was the winter- house, the 
upper room was the summer- 
house. If the} 7 are on the same 
story, the outer apartment is the 
summer - house, the inner is the 
winter-house (Thomson, Land and 
Book, i, 235; Robinson, Bibl. Res. 
iii, 417). We find the upper rooms 
allocated to the use of those proph- 
ets whom it was wished to honor 
particularly (1 Kings xvii. 19; 2 
Kings iv, 10). They were also used 


UPSAL 


GOO 


on account of their size anti coolness as places for as- 
sembly (Acts i, 13; xx, 3), and for similar reasons 
the dead were laid out in them (ix, 39). There ap- 
pears to have been an upper room over the gateways 
of towns (2 Sam. xviii, 33), and on their roofs, as being 
the highest part of the house, idolatrous worship was 
paid to Baal (2 Kings xxiii, 12). In allusion to the 
loftiness of the upper room, the psalmist beautifully de- 
scribes God as laying the beams of his upper chambers 
in the waters, and from thence watering the hills (Psa. 
eiv,3, 13).- See Oiiamuek; House. 

Up sal, a town of Sweden, forty-five miles north- 
west of Stockholm, was, during the Middle Ages, tlie 
stronghold of paganism. It lias a beautiful Gothic ca- 
thedral, built from 1 2.“>S to 1435. Its interior is magnifi- 
cent and richly decorated, but its exterior has suffered 
much from fire, notably in the conflagration of 1702. It 
is the finest cathedral in that region. See Neander, 
Hist, of the Church , iii, 292 sq. 

Upton, James, a learned schoolmaster and divine 
of the Church of England, and editor of classical works, 
was born in 1070, and died in 1749. 

Ur, the name of a place and of a man. (In the dis- 
cussion of the former, we chiefly adopt the art. from 
Smith’s Diet, of the Bible , with additions from other 
sources.) 

1. The original seat of Abraham’s family, whence he 
set out for Canaan (Gen. xi, 23, 31 ; xv, 7 ; Neb. ix, 7). 
See Abraham. 

F. The Name. — This is invariably “ Ur of [the] Chal- 
dees” Ur Kasdhn; Sept, i ) %< opa tiov 

XaXectuo n; Yulg. Ur Chahbeoruni [but in Neh. ignis 
Chuldteoruni]). The oldest derivation of the word "HX 
is from the Heb. “SIX. or "lix, Hfjht, in the sense of fre 
(so the Targum and Jerome). This derivation is no 
doubt connected with the legends in the Koran and 
Talmud, which represent Abraham as escaping by mir- 
acle from the flames into which Nimrod or other idol- 
atrous persecutors had thrown him (see Wagner, in 
the Thesaur. Theol.-philol. i, 173). Various other ety- 
mologies have been proposed: some taking the word as 
“H, a mountain; some as denoting the east , or the Htjht- 
ffit'ing reyiou ; while Ewald, from the Arabic, makes it 
“ place of sojourn,” and others look to the Zendic vara , 
a fort (Gesen.), or the Sanscrit ur, a town, or even the 
lleb. “P", a city (Bonomi, Xbieveh , p. 41). The name, 
however, was probably indigenous, and belongs to the 
old Chaldee of the first empire, the Assyrian 6>«,aud the 
cuneiform Htir. 

II. Sites Proposed. — 1. One tradition identifies Ur 
with the modern Orfah. in the north-west part of Meso- 
potamia. There is some ground for believing that this 
city, called by the Greeks Edessa, had also the name of 
Orrha as early as the time of Isidore (B.C. eir. 150); and 
the tradition connecting it with Abraham is perhaps not 
later than Ephraem (A.D. 330-370), who makes Nimrod 
king of Edessa, among other places ( Comment . in Gen., 
in Opp. i r 53, B.). According to Pocoeke (Description of 
the Bast, i, 159), that Ur is Edessa or Orfah, is “the 
universal opinion of the Jews;” and it is also the local 
belief, as is indicated by the title “Mosque of Abraham,” 
borne by the chief religions edifice of the place, and the 
designation “Lake of Abraham the Beloved,” attached 
to the pond in which are kept the sacred fish (Ains- 
worth. Travels in the Track, ete., p. 04; comp. Niebuhr, 
V op ape en .1 rabie, p. 330). 

2. A second tradition, which appears in the Talmud 
and in some of the early Arabian writers, finds Ur in 
If 'arka, the ’() p\<h) of the Greeks, and probably the 
Erech of Holy Scripture (called 'Op A ^> r the Sept.). 
This place bears the name of fluruk in the native in- 
scriptions, and was in the country known to the Jews 
as “ the land of the Chaldaeans.” 

3. A third tradition, less distinct than either of these, 


UR 

but entitled to at least equal attention, distinguishes Ur 
from Warka, while still placing it in the same region 
(see Journal of A sbitic Society, xii, 431, note *2). There 
can be little doubt that the city to which this tradition 
points is that which appears by its bricks to have been 
called line by the natives, and which is now represented 
by the ruins at Muyheir, or l 7 my heir, on the right bank 
of the Euphrates, nearly opposite to its junction with 
the Shat el- Hie. The oldest Jewish tradition which 
we possess, that quoted by Eusebius from Eupolemus 
(Prcep. Er. ix, 17), who lived about B.C. 150, may be 
fairly said to intend this place; for by identifying Ur 
(Uria) with the Babylonian city, known also as Ca- 
marina and Chaldieopolis, it points to a city of the 
Moon, which llur was — Kamar being “the moon” in 
Arabic, and Khaldi the same luminary in the Old Ar- 
menian. 

4. An opinion unsupported by any tradition remains 
to be noticed. Boohart, Calmet, Bunsen, and others 
identify “ Ur of the Chaldees” with a place of the name 
mentioned by a single late writer (Ammianus Marcelli- 
n us) as “a castle” existing in bis day in Eastern Meso- 
potamia, between llatra (El-Hadhr) and Nisibis (Amm. 
Mare, xxv, 3). The chief arguments in favor of this 
site seem to be the identity of name and the position of 
the place between Arrapachitis, which is thought to 
have been the dwelling-place of Abraham’s ancestors in 
the time of Arphaxad, and llaran (Harran), whither he 
went from l T r. 

5. It may be added that Titch regards Ur as a Median 
town called Quipa by Strabo (xi, 523), a view followed 
to some extent by Ewald, Lengerke, Bitter, and Knobel. 

III. Probable Identification.— It will be seen that of 
the four or five localities thought to have a claim to be 
regarded as Abraham’s city, two (or three) are situated 
in Upper Mesopotamia, between the Mims Masius and 
the Sinjar range, while the other two are in the alluvial 
tract near the sea, at least four hundred miles farther 
south. Let us endeavor first to decide in which of these 
two regions Ur is more probably to be sought. 

That ClmhUea was, properly speaking, the southern 
part of Babylonia, the region bordering upon the Gulf, 
will be admitted by all. Those who maintain the north- 
ern emplacement of Ur argue that, with the extension 
of Chahkean power, the name travelled northward, and 
became coextensive with Mesopotamia; but, in the first 
place, there is no proof that the name Chaldiea was ever 
extended to the region above the Sinjar ; and, secondly, 
if it was, the Jew s at any rate mean by Chaldiea exclu- 
sively the lower country, and call the upper Mesopotamia, 
or Padati-Aram (see Job i, 17; Isa. xiii, 19; xliii, LI, etc.). 
Again, there is no reason to believe that Babylonian 
power was established beyond the Sinjar in these early 
times. On the contrary, it. seems to have been confined 
to Babylonia Proper, or the alluvial tract below Hit and 
Tekrit, until the expedition of Chedorlaomer, which was 
later than the migration of Abraham. The conjectures 
of Ephraem Syrus and Jerome, who identify the cities 
of Nimrod with places in the upper Mesopotamian coun- 
try, deserve no credit. The names all really belong to 
Chaldiea Proper. Moreover, the best and earliest Jew- 
ish authorities place Ur in the low region. Eupolemus 
has been already quoted to this effect. Josephus, though 
less distinct upon the point, seems to have held the same 
view (Ant. i, G). The Talmudists also are on this side 
of the question ; and local traditions, which may be 
traced back nearly to the Hegira, make the lower coun- 
try the place of Abraham’s birth and early life. If Orfah 
has a Mosque and a Lake of Abraham, Cutha, near Baby- 
lon, goes by Abraham’s name, as the traditional scene 
of all his legendary miracles. 

Again, it is really in the lower country only that a 
name closely corresponding to the Hebrew "HX is found. 
The cuneiform llur represents "l^X letter for letter, and 
only differs from it in the greater strength of the aspi- 
rate. Isidore’s Orrha ("O ppit) differs from Ur consid- 


UR 


670 


UR 


erablw and the supposed Cr of Ammianns is probably ' in the real Chaldaea— the low country near the Persian 
not Ur, but Adur. r Phe Orehoe ('()p\ o//) of Southern Gulf. The only question that remains in any degree 
Mesopotamia (Ptolemy. Geoyr. v. *20; comp. Strabo, xvi, doubtftil is whether Warka or Mugheir is the true local- 
1, (j), noted by later writers (Cellarius, Geoyr. ii. 7Gt> ; | ity. These places are not far apart, and either of them 
Honomi, Xinerth , p. 41 , is probably different from is suflicieiitlv suitable. Doth are ancient cities, proba- 


the Ovpp of .Josephus and the O vpit) of Kupolemus. 

The argument that Ur should be sought in the neigh- 
borhood of Arrapachitis and Seruj, because the names 
Arphaxad and Serng occur in the genealogy of Abra- 
ham (Bunsen, Eyypi's Place , iii,3t>(>, 3t>7), has no weight 
till it is shown that the human names in cpiestion are 
really connected with the places, which is at present 
assumed somewhat boldly. Arrapachitis eomes proba- 
bly from Arnpkha, an old Assyrian town of no great 
consequence on the left bank of t he Tigris, above Nine- 
veh, w hich has only three letters in common with Ar- 


bly long anterior to Abraham. Traditions attach to 
both, but perhaps more distinctly to Warka. On t lie 
other hand, it seems certain that Warka, the native 
name of which was lluruk , represents the Erech of Gen- 
esis, which cannot possibly be the Ur of the same book. 
See Eukcij. Mugheir, therefore, which bore the exact 
name of ’Ur or llur. remains with the best claim, and is 
entitled to be (at least provisionally) regarded as the 
eitv of Abraham. 

If it be objected to this theory that Abraham, having 
to go from Mugheir to Palestine, would not be likely 


nhaxad iTrrsnX); and Seruj is a name which does to take Haran {liar ran) on his way, more particularly 
* as he must then have crossed the Euphrates twice, the 

answer would seem to be that the movement was not 


not appear in Mesopotamia till long after the Christian 
jcra. It is rarely, if ever, that w'e can extract geograph- 
ical information from the names in a historical gene- | 
alogv; and certainly in the present case nothing seems 
to have been gained by the attempt to do so. 

On the whole, therefore, we may regard it as tolerably 
certain that “ Ur of the Chaldees” was a place situated 


r r (Z VC s — ^ 


H H H H. 2946 yards round, a a a. Platform on which the 

of platform a, twelve feet below surface, c. Tomb mound, 

Mr. Loftus. ////. Comparatively open space of very low mound#. 


that of an individual, but of a tribe travelling with 
large flocks and herds, whose line of migration would 
have to be determined by necessities of pasturage, and 
by the friendly or hostile disposition, the weakness or 
strength, of the tribes already in possession of the re- 
gions which had to be traversed. Pear of Arab plun- 
derers (Job i, In) may very probably have caused the 
emigrants to cross the Euphrates before quitting Baby- 
lonia, and having done so, they might naturally follow 
the left bank of the stream to the Melik, up which they 
might then proceed, attracted by its excellent pastures, 
till they reached llarran. As a pastoral t ri lie proceed- 
ing from Lower Babylonia to Palestine must ascend the 
Euphrates as high as the latitude of Aleppo, and per- 
haps would tind it best to ascend nearly to Bir, llarran 
was but a little out of the proper route. Besides, the 
whole tribe which 
accompanied Abra- 
ham was not going 
to Palestine. Half 
the tribe were bent 
on a less distant jour- 
ney; and with them 
the question must 
have been, where 
could they, on or 
near the line of 
route, obtain an un- 
occupied territory. 
They could not di- 
rectly cross the open 
desert between Bab- 
ylonia and Palestine. 
Even caravans trav- 
elling from Bagdad 
to Damascus are 
obliged to take the 
route by llarran. 

I V. Description of 
the Modern Locality. 
— 'Ur or II ur, now 
Mnyheir, or Uni-Mu - 
yheir , t lie bitumeii- 
ed,” or “the moth- 
er of bitumen,” is one 
of the most ancient, 
if not the most an- 
cient, of the Chaldte- 
an sites hitherto dis- 
covered. It lies on 
the right bank of the 
Euphrates, at the 
distance of about six 
miles from the pres- 
ent course of the 
stream, nearly oppo- 
ie house d U built, d. House cleared. b. Pavement at edjre s j te t | ie point where 
. 4, ,, I, Polm. «t which excavation. w.re mad. by ^ Euphrateg 



so q 


0 


Scale of yards. 


Plan of Mugheir Ruins. 


UR 


671 


UR 


ceives the Shat el -Hie from the Tigris. It is now 
not less than 125 miles from the sea; but there are 
grounds for believing that it was anciently a mari- 
time town, and that its present inland position has been 
caused by the rapid growth of the alluvium. The re- 
mains of the buildings are generally of the most archaic 
character. They cover an oval space 1000 yards long 
by 800 broad, and consist principally of a number of 
low mounds enclosed within an enceinte, which on most 
sides is nearly perfect. The most remarkable building 
is near the northern end of the ruins. It is a temple 
of the true Chahhean type, built in stages, of which two 
remain, and composed of brick, partly sun-burned and 
partly baked, laid chiefly in a cement of bitumen. It 
is in the form of a right-angled parallelogram, the long- 
est sides of which are the north-east and south-west. 
One angle points due north. The lower story is sup- 
ported by buttresses thirteen inches deep, and, with the 
exception of those at the angles, eight feet wide. The 
building measures 198 feet in length anil 133 in breadth. 
The lower story is twenty-seven feet high, and has but 
one entrance, which is eight feet wide. The outer sur- 
face is faced with “red kiln-baked bricks” to a thick- 
ness of ten feet; but 
the whole interior is 
of sun-dried bricks. 

In each of the angles 
of this building, six 
feet inward, near the 
foundation, an in- 
scribed cylinder was 
discovered, which ap- 
pears to have served 
t lie same purpose as 
the documents at 
present deposited be- 
neath the foundation- 
stones of our great 
buildings. These 
cylinders are now in 
the British Museum. 

The bricks of this 
building bear the 
name of a certain 
Urukh , who is re- 
garded as the earli- 
est of the Chahhean 
monumental kings, 
and the name may 
possibly be the same 
as that of Orchamus 
of Ovid (Met am. iv, 

212). 11 is supposed 

date is B.C. 2000, or a little earlier. ’Ur was the capi- 
tal of this monarch, who had a dominion extending at 
least as far north as Nifler, and who, by the grandeur 
of his constructions, is proved to have been a wealthy 
and powerful prince. The great temple appears to 
have been founded by this king, who dedicated it to 
the moon-god, Ifnrki , from whom the town itself seems 
to have derived its name. Ilgi, son of Urukh, com- 
pleted the temple, as well as certain other of his father’s 
buildings, and the kings who followed upon these con- 
tinued for several generations to adorn and beautify the 
city. The tablets of the Chahkeans discovered at Mu- 
gheir are among the most interesting ever brought to 
light. These records bear the names of a series of 
kings from Urukh (B.C. 2230) to Nabouidus (B.C. 540), 
the last of the series. Among others is that of Kudur- 
mapula, or Chedorlaomer (Gen. xiv, 1). The temple 
was dedicated to Sin, or “the moon,” which clement 
was preserved by the Greeks in the name Mesene, ap- 
plied by them to the surrounding region. “The cylin- 
der inscriptions of Mugheir are invaluable documents 
in confirming the authenticity and truth of Scripture. 
They not only inform us that Nabouidus, last king of 
Babylon, repaired the great temple of the moon at llur, 


but they also explain who Belshazzar was, concerning 
whom the early Bible critics have in vain endeavored 
to reconcile conflicting statements. In the book of 
Daniel (v, 30) be is alluded to as the king of the Chal- 
dees when Babylon was taken by the united armies of 
the Medes and Persians. The account of Berosus does 
not, however, agree with that of Scripture. It states 
that Nabouidus, after being utterly routed in the open 
plain by Cyrus, shut himself up in the city of Borsippa, 
but was soon obliged to surrender his person to the con- 
queror. From Daniel, therefore, we are led to conclude 
that Belshazzar was the last Chahhean monarch ; while 
Nabouidus is represented in the same capacity by Bero- 
sus. . . . Sir Henry Bawlinson’s reading of the Mugheir 
cylinders entirely reconciles these discrepancies. The 
records distinctly state that Belshazzar was the eldest 
son of Xaho nidus, and that he was admitted to a share 
of the government” (Loft us, Chaldtea and Susiana, p. 13; 
comp .Journal of Asiatic Society, xv, 2G0 sip). See 
Belshazzar. 

’Ur retained its metropolitan character for above two 
centuries, and even after it became second to Babylon 
was a great city, with an especially sacred character. 


The notions entertained of its superior sanctity led to 
its being used as a cemetery city, not only during the 
time of the early Chaldiean supremacy, but throughout 
the Assyrian and even the later Babylonian period. It 
is in the main a city of tombs. By far the greater 
portion of the space within the enceinte is occupied by 
graves of one kind or another, while outside the en- 
closure the whole space for a distance of several hun- 
dred yards is a thickly occupied burial-ground. Tt is 
believed that ’Ur was for 1800 years a site to which 
the dead were brought from vast distances, thus resem- 
bling such places as Kerbela and Nejif, or Meshed Ali, 
at the present day. The latest mention that we find 
of ’Ur as an existing place is in the passage of Enpole- 
mus already quoted, where we learn that it had changed 
its name, and was called Camarina. It probably fell 
into decay under the Persians, and was a mere ruin at 
the time of Alexander’s conquests. Perhaps it was the 
place to which Alexander’s informants alluded when 
they told him that the tombs of the old Assyrian kings 
were chiefly in the great marshes of the lower country 
(Arrian, Exp. Alex, vii, 22). The mounds that mark 
the site of its great temples are bare ; the whole coun- 
try around it is a dismal swamp. In regard to ’Ur, 



Ruins of Temple at Mugheir. 


URAETTIR 


672 


UR BAX IV 


as well as to Babylon, tbe words of Isaiah are true, I 
‘•The beauty of the Chaldees’ excellency shall be as 
when Cod overthrew Sodom and Comorrah” (xiii, 1!)). 
See Djftus, Chaldtra, ch. xii; Bawlinson, Ancient Mon- 
archies^ i, 15 sq., 27, I OS, 17)3; Jour. Royal Geoyr . Roc. 
xxvii, 185. See Chalimca. 

2. Ur, light ; Sept, 'ilpd v. r. Oi>po[<pctfi], etc.; 

Yulg. Ur.') The father of Kliplial or Eliphalet. one of 
David's warriors (l Chron. xi, 35). B.C. ante 1043. In 
the parallel list of David’s warriors (2 Sam. xxiii, 34) 
we have the son’s name thus stated, *• Eliphelet the son of 
Ahasbaijthe son of the Maaehathite,”or the Maaehathitc 
simply, as it should doubtless be made to read; while 
the above passage still more corruptly gives two per- 
sons, “ Eliphal the son of Ur. llepher the Meeherathite,” 
which should probably be corrected so as to refer to one 
individual, either by the rejection of the name llepher 
altogether, or its identification with one of the preced- 
ing; Ibr the personages named before and after these in 
the two accounts are evidently the same, and the sub- 
joined sum is full by counting these as one. See David. 

Uraettir, in Norse mythology, denotes the entire 
dynasty of the Trolles, Tlmsses. serpent-like dwarfs and 
giants, the Jotes. Sehwarzelfs. and Dockelfs. 

Uranius, a Nestorian of Syria who applied the pre- 
cepts of Aristotle to the Eiitvchiau controversies and 
propagated his doctrines in Persia, lie succeeded in 
convincing Chosroes on many points, and was so popu- 
lar with this ruler that he always had him at his table. 
JSee Mosheim, Eccl. /list, i, 388. 

Uranus (Lat. Calus), the heaven, in Greek mythol- 
ogy, was the progenitor of the whole line of Grecian 
gods. 1 1 is first children were the Ilecatonchires (Ceu- 
ti manes). Afterwards he begot, through Glia, the Cy- 
clops. These were imprisoned in Tartarus because of 
their great strength. This so moved their mother to 
anger that she incited her subsequently born children, 
the Titanes, against the father, who drove him from 
the throne of the earth, after Kronus (Saturnns), his 
younger son, had, with a diamond sickle, disqualified 
him for the further production of children. The sea 
received the mutilated organs, which gave life to Venus. 
From the blood which was spilled there sprang the 
Giants, the Furies. and the Melian nymphs. See Smith, 
Bict. af Gr. and Rom. I/log. and Mythol. s. v. 

Urban I, pope from A.D. 223 to 230, was a native 
of Borne, but tradition mentions nothing worthy of note 
concerning him except that he persuaded several Bo- 
mans to suffer the martyr’s death, and was finally mar- 
tyred himself under Alexander Severus. May 25 is 
dedicated to his celebration. 

Urban II, pope from A.I). 1088 to 1000, previously 
named Odo of Lagny, was born in Chatillon-sur-Marne. 
and became successively canon of Bheims, prior of 
Glugny, bishop of Ostia, and legate to the court of the 
emperor llenrv IV. In the latter station he labored 
efficiently to insure the papal prerogative in connection 
with the Investiture controversy. Me followed Victor 
III as pope, and represented the Gregorian party in his 
administration. He succeeded in maintaining himself 
against pope Clement 11, who was elected by the im- 
perial party, and also in greatly extending the influ- 
ence and reputation of the papacy throughout the West. 
In 1083 he convened a couneil at Home which de- 
nounced the ban upon the emperor, his pope, and their 
adherents. At. the Concilium Meljitanum , in 1090, he 
enunciated the decree that the laity could possess no 
right whatsoever against the clergy (see Mansi, Col- 
lectio Concil. xx, canon 11,723 [Ye.net. 1775]). lie was 
driven from Borne by the emperor, and compelled to 
seek a refuge with count Boger, upon whom he had 
conferred the districts of Apulia and Calabria. He 
retaliated by renewing the ban over his enemy (1091) 
and forming an alliance with Conrad, the emperor's 
son, who rebelled and made himself king of Italy. Ur- 


ban returned to Borne (1093) and from that time in- 
terfered most notably in the affairs of the world, lie 
excommunicated 1‘hilip of France, who had driven 
away his queen and married Bert rada, consort of count 
Fnlco of Anjou. At the Council of Clermont (1095) he 
forbade the investiture of bishops by the hands of the 
laity of any rank whatever, and also the assumption of 
feudal obligations to king or other layman by any cler- 
gyman. He was not successful, however, in compelling 
1 the princes to give up their sovereignty in ecclesiastical 
affairs*, and was even compelled to create count Boger 
of Sicily, his own protege', legate to Sicily, in order that 
he might be able to enforce his decree without alien- 
ating the count from his side. The Council of Cler- 
mont was also specially important as furnishing the oc- 
casion for the organization of the Crusades for the con- 
quest of the Holy Sepulchre. Urban delivered a fiery 
address, which gave the stimulus for the first crusade; 
and the new movement so increased his own power 
that he became able to expel his rival from Borne and 
utterly destroy his influence. Other councils were 
held in France under his direction, in one of which, at 
Nistnes, he released Philip of France from the ban, in 
recognition of his separation from Bertrada. Some- 
thing of regard was also paid by him to the politically 
important reunion of the Greek and Latin churches. 
In England William Bufus proved an obstinate oppo- 
nent to the papal plans, but in Spain these plans re- 
sulted in a large extension of the power of the Church. 
Urban’s influence over matters of doctrine was less pro- 
nounced than over matters of administration; but he 
nevertheless caused the teachings of Berengar (q. v.) to 
be condemned at the Council of Piacenza, and at Cler- 
mont the practice of dipping the bread used in the sac- 
rament in wine. In the latter council he also pro- 
nounced a general and complete absolution — a measure 
which from that time became pre-eminently a priv- 
ilege. of the pope. He assured to all Christians who 
should take up arms against the infidels entire forgive- 
ness of sins, and also blessedness ami inclusion among 
the number of martyrs, if they should fall during the 
campaign. The power of the complete absolution was 
therefore based on the idea of the sin-extirpating power 
of martyrdom. Urban died .Line 20, 1099. See Vita 
et Epist. Urh. It, in Mansi, ut supra , 642-719, and tbe 
literature in Gieseler, Lehrb. d. Kirchengesch. ii, 2 (4th 
ed. Bonn, 1848), p. 39 sq., 508. — llerzog, Real-Encyklop. 
s. v. 

Urban III, previously Lambert or Hubert Crirelli , 
of Milan, was archdeacon at. Bonrges and later at Milan, 
archbishop of Milan, and cardinal. He was made pope 
in 1185. and is noteworthy only because of his unin- 
terrupted and unprofitable quarrels with the emperor 
Frederick, for which see Gesta Trevironnn (Trev. 1830), 
i vol. i ; and Gieseler, p. 90 sq. Urban died Oct. 19, 1 187. 
See Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Urban IV, pope from A.D. 1201 to 1204, named 
Jacob Pantaleon , the son of a shoemaker at Troyes, 
studied at Baris and became canon of Troyes, and after- 
wards bishop of Liege. Innocent IV sent him as legate 
to Germany, and Alexander IV nominated him patri- 
arch of Jerusalem. 1 1 is brief pontificate was disturbed 
by political agitations growing out of his determination 
to destroy the influence of the Sicilian king Manfred in 
the affairs of Italy, and his interference with the dis- 
puted succession of the German throne. He appointed 
fourteen cardinals to serve as counsellors, forbade the 
election of Conradin, the last representative of the 
house of Hohenstaufen, to the German throne, under 
pain of excommunication, and cited Bichard of Corn- 
wallis and Alfred of Castile, the competitors for that 
throne, to Borne, that they might await his decision. 

| lie also despatched a cardinal-legate to England to as- 
sert the authority of the papacy in the administration 
of that country; and he summoned Manfred before his 
tribunal, and when that king disregarded the summons, 


URBAN Y 


G73 


URBAN VIII 


transferred his kingdom to duke Charles of Anjou. 
Manfred, however, resisted, and subjugated bv force of 
arms a larger portion of the States of the Church. 
Urban was compelled to flee for safety to Orvieto, and 
afterwards to Perugia, where he died. Oct. 2, 1201. lie 
is notable for having brought about a general observ- 
ance of the Feast of Corpus Christi. His literary re- 
mains include, besides a number of bulls, a small collec- 
tion of Epistolw. See Mansi, Concil. xxiii, 1076 sq. ; 
Gieseler, p. 166 sq. ; and Herzog, Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Urban V, the last of the Avignon popes, reigned 
from 1 362 to 1370. His name was William Grimvard , 
ami he had been a Benedictine monk, abbot at Auxerre 
in 1353, and at St. Victor’s, in Marseilles, in 1358. lie 
was rated as a most capable canonist, and had officiated 
as teacher of canon and civil law in Montpellier, Avi- 
gnon, Toulouse, and Paris. lie succeeded Innocent VI 
in the pontificate, and found himself at once in difficult 
circumstances. It! Italy Bernabo Visconte had rebelled 
and taken possession of several cities belonging to the 
Church, which could only be recovered through a treaty 
by which the pope pledged himself to the payment of 
a ransom amounting to half a million gold florins. Eng- 
land had refused to pay the customary tribute, and Ed- 
ward III had even caused a very resolute denial of such 
revenues to be opposed by the Parliament to the pope’s 
demand. The Turks were threatening danger to Cy- 
prus. Urban sought to advance the papal interests 
amid these complications by means of legates, the 
preaching of a new crusade against the Turks, and a 
removal of the papal seat to Rome. Greatly to the dis- 
satisfaction of many cardinals, the latter project was ex- 
ecuted in 1307, the pope leaving Avignon April 30, and 
reaching Rome Oct. 10. He was received by queen 
Joanna of Naples, on whom he conferred a golden rose 
and a consecrated sword. The emperor John Paleolo- 
gus came over to the faith of Rome and promised fealty 
to the papal authority, Oct. 18, 1309. But, urged by the 
French cardinal, the pope returned to Avignon in .Sep- 
tember, 1370. Soon afterwards he died (Nov. 13), and 
was buried, according to his request, at Marseilles. It 
is to be added that Urban cultivated a strict morality, 
required bishops to reside in their dioceses, and zealous- 
ly combated the growing simony and accumulation of 
benefices in the hands of individual prelates. Several 
of his bulls condemn, in addition, the formation of unions 
and the incorporation of benefices. See Mansi, xxvi, 
422 sq. ; Gieseler, ii, 3, 92 sq., 117 sq. ; and Herzog, Real - 
Encyklop. s. v. 

Urban VI, the first to ascend the papal chair in 
the period of the “ great schism,” was previously named 
Bartholomew of Prig nano , and was a native of the city 
of Naples. He became archbishop of Bari and followed 
Gregory XI, April 8, 1378, the people of Rome having 
demanded an Italian pope, lie attempted to reform 
the many and scandalous abuses which had grown up 
during the absence of the popes at Avignon, and did 
not hesitate to assail even bishops and cardinals; and 
having offended the clergy, he was unfortunate enough 
to alienate the good-will of many intiuential laymen, 
also, by his haughty and arbitrary manner. The car- 
dinals, therefore, proceeded to elect a new pope on the 
plea that the election of Urban was not freely made, 
but was forced on the cardinals by the people. Count 
Robert of Geneva was the new choice, and he assumed 
the title of Clement VII ; and as Urban retained a large 
body of adherents, the great schism was at once con- 
summated. Urban was supported by Italy, England, 
Germany, and Poland. Queen Joanna of Naples and 
Sicily had acknowledged him, but was driven into an 
alliance with Clement by his pride and obstinacy; and 
he thereupon induced the heir to her throne, duke 
Charles of Durazzo, to invade her territories. Soon af- 
terwards he quarrelled with Charles also, and excom- 
municated that prince. The cardinals, who had con- 
spired with Charles against him, were imprisoned and 
X.— U u 


tortured, and, after a time, five of them were put to 
death. To Ladislaus, the heir of Charles, Urban denied 
the possession of Naples, claiming that it was a papal 
lief, and he organized an expedition to defend his claim ; 
but when his soldiers deserted his standard, he returned 
to Rome, October, 1388, and employed himself thence- 
forward more especially with ecclesiastical affairs. He 
ordered that the Jubilee should be observed once everv 
thirty-throe years, and that its next celebration should 
take place in 1390. lie also introduced the Feast of the 
Visitation of Mary, and decreed that divine worship 
might be celebrated on Corpus Christi Day, even during 
the enforcement of an interdict. He died Oct. 15, 1389, 
as many supposed, of poison. See Mansi, p. 009; Gie- 
seler, p. 132 sq. ; Herzog, Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Urban VII, of Genoese extraction, though born at 
Rome, was previously named John Baptist Castagna. 
lie was archbishop of Rossano, member of the. Council 
of Trent, repeatedly a legate to Germany and Spain, 
and, finally, a cardinal. He was elected to the papacy 
as the successor of Sixtus V, but died twelve days after 
the election, and before his consecration, Sept. 27. 1590. 
See Ranke, Die rom . Papste , etc. (Berl. 183G), ii, 210 sq. ; 
Herzog, Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Urban VIII, pope from 1023 to 1G44, was a native 
of Florence named Majfeo Barberini , and a pupil of the 
Jesuits, lie developed a fondness for poetry, and en- 
tered the service of the curia, in which he filled many 
positions of great importance. His most intiuential 
work was perhaps the promotion of the restoration of 
the Jesuits to France. After he had become cardinal- 
priest and archbishop of Spoleto, he was elected to suc- 
ceed Gregory XV in the pontificate, Aug. G, 1023. His 
tastes were altogether those of an Italian secular prince, 
and he gave attention chiefiy to the erection of fortifi- 
cations, the enlisting of soldiers, the collecting of arms, 
etc. Amid the complications of the time, he at first 
supported the interests of France against Austria and 
Spain, and, in connection with Richelieu, was led even 
to the cultivation of relations with Protestants, so that 
he was not in sympathy with the Jesuitical method of 
enforcing the Edict of Restoration of 1029 in Germany, 
and directed his legate to the Diet of Ratisbou in 1030 
to oppose the wishes of Austria. Complaints against 
this tendency were naturally raised by the Catholic 
princes and clergy, and found expression in the assem- 
bled Consistory itself. A number of cardinals even har- 
bored the idea of convoking a council in opposition to 
the pope. In 1031 he inherited the duchy of Urbino, 
but thereby became involved in difficulties with the 
duke of Parma and his allies. His nepotism also con- 
tributed towards the troubles of his pontificate. De- 
spite his dislike of the governments which were most 
zealously devoted to the interests of Rome, Urban was 
an unwavering defender of the traditional theory of the 
papacy within the Church itself. He gave effect to 
the canonization of the founders of the orders of Jesuits 
ami Oratorians; beatified Francis Borgia and others; 
added the Collegium de Propaganda Fide (also Collegium 
Urbanum) to the Congregatio de Fide Cathol. Propa- 
ganda; gave to the bull In Caena Domini its present 
shape; abolished the order of female Jesuits; caused 
the publication of a new edition of the Breviary; con- 
demned Galileo and his teachings; and in the bull De 
Eminenti declared himself against Jansen (q. w). He 
forbade the clergy to use snuff in church on pain of ex- 
communication. Urban was not, upon the whole, illit- 
erate. His poems consist in part of paraphrases of 
Psalms and passages of the Old ami New Tests, in I lora~ 
tian measures, and in part of hymns on the Virgin and 
different saints. They were published in Antwerp, 
1034; Paris, 1642; Oxford, 1720. lie was also the au- 
thor of Epigrams which were published with comments 
by Dormulius (Rome, 1643). Urban died July 29, 1644. 
See Simonin, Sylvce Urbaniance s. Gesta. Urbani (Antw. 
1037) ; Ranke, Die rom. Papste (Appendix), iii, 408 sq., 


URBANE 


on 


433 sq. ; Gieseler, Lchrb. d. Kirchengesch. (Bonn, 1855), 
iii, 2, 592; Herzog, Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

TJr'bane [some Uv'bnne, others Urba'ne] or rather 
l ' ms an (Ovpfiavog, Gnvcized from the Eat. Crbtwus, 

i .q. of the city, or urban), a Christian at Borne saluted 
by Haul as having been his associate in labor (rbv 
cvvtpu v t)piov tv \pt(T7f»)) in the list of those addressed 
(Bom. xvi, 9). A.D. 55. 

Urbaneiises, one of the numerous small sects of 
the Donatists in Numidia, mentioned by Augustine 
t Crescom. iv, 70). 

Urbanis, Giulio, an Italian painter, of San Daniel- 
le, studied with Bomponeo Amaltco, and followed his 
manner. Lanzi mentions a fresco by him at San Da- 
niello representing the Virgin with the Infant Christ, 
seated upon a throne, surrounded by Thomas the apos- 
ile, Valentine, and other saints, signed ‘'Opus Julii Ur- 
banis, 1574.” See Spooner, Blog. Hist, of Fine A rts, s. v. 

Urbino, Salomon ben-Abkaiiam, a Jewish writer 
who flourished in 1480, is the author of a lexicon on 
the synonyms of the Old Test., entitled btV\X,The 
Tabernacle of the Congregation, \\\ allusion to Exod.xxxiii, 
7, “because therein are congregated expressions which 
differ in sound, but are like in sense” (P" 1 - “IPTI"! “112 - 

rs'inr-: rsri rnx -xrn: crrn -fb-b tj-). 

The synonyms are divided into groups, the alphabetical 
order of which is determined by its most important 
word. Each group commences with the formula 
PTPn? nnr.n TJX n*3«n, i. e. the word which is 
put down is to teach, being made up from the abbrevi- 
ation of the title of the work, viz. “nxn, and is illus- 
trated by quotations from the Old Test, and the corre- 
sponding passages from the Targum, as well as by quo- 
tations from Saadi a Gaon’s Arabic translation of the 
Pentateuch, the works of Dunash ibn-Librat, llai Gaon, 
Ibn-Ganach.lbn-Giath, Nathan ben-Jechiel.Ibn-Balaara, 
Nachmanides, lbn-Saruk, etc. The lexicon was pub- 
lished at Venice in 1548, and is now very rare. See 
Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 461 ; De’ Bossi, Dizionario Storico. 
p. 323 (Germ, transl.); Steinschneider, Catalogus Libr. 
llebr. in Bibl. Bod/, p. 2391 ; Kit to, Cyclop, s. v. ; Geiger, 
in Zeitschrift tier deutsch. morgenl. (iesellsch. (Leips. 1863), 
xvii, 321 ; Wolf. Bibl. Ilebr. i, 1037, etc. (B. P.) 

Urbs Beata Hierusalem. This rugged but fine 
old hymn, composed in dedicatione ecclesier , and of which 
the author is not known, belongs to the 8th or 9th cen- 
tury. Trench calls it “a hymn of degrees ascending from 
things earthly to things heavenly, and making the first 
to be interpreters of the last. The prevailing intention 
in the building and the dedication of a church, with 
the rites thereto appertaining, was to carry up men's 
thoughts from that temple built with hands, which they 
saw, to that other built of living stones in heaven, of 
which this was but a weak shadow.” This fine hymn, 
the first lines of which run thus, 

“ Urbs beata llierusalem, dicta paucis visio, 

Qme constrnitur in coelis vivis ex hipidihus, 

Et ub angelis ornata, velnt sponsa nobilis: 

Nova veniens e caelo, nuptiuli thalnmo 
Pneparata, tit sponsata copuletnr Domino; 

Platete et niuri ejus ex anro purissimo,” 

has proved the source of manifold inspiration in circles 
beyond its own. To it we owe the 

“Jerusalem, my happy home;” 
or the same in a less common but still more beautiful 
form, 

“O mother, dear Jerusalem 1” 

It has also inspired some of the singers of Protestant 
Germany. In the German language we have two noble 
hymns which at least had their first motive here. The 
one is that by Meyfahrt, 

“ Jerusalem, du hoohgebaute Stadt;” 
the other by Kosegarten, 

“Stadt Gottes, deren diamaut’nen Riug.” 


URIAH 

In English our hymn is found in Lyra Mystica (Lond. 
1809), p. 409 : 

“ Blessed city, holy Salem, 

Home of peace, bv seers deseried; 

Rising in the courts of heaven, 

Built of living stones and tried ; 

By angelic hands adorned, 

As her fellows deck a bride. 

Coming newly formed from heaven, 

Ready for the nuptial bower, 

Wedded to the Limb forever, 

As a bride in blissful hour. 

All her streets have golden pavement, 

Golden ramparts round her tower,” etc. 

Our hymn has been translated into German by Schlos- 
ser, Sim rock, Bam bach, and others. The original is 
given by 'French, Sacred Latin Poetry , p. 311 ; Biissler, 
.1 iLSwahl altchristlicher Lieder, p. 201 ; Bambach, A ntho- 
lor/ie christl. Gesdnge, p. 179; Simroek, Lauda Stott, p. 
322. (B. P.) 

Urd, in Norse mythology, was the destiny of the 
past, who, with her two sisters, Waranda and Skuld, sits 
under the tree Ygdrasil, where they daily receive ad- 
vice. 

Urdaboril, in Norse mythology, is the spring of 
the past, at which the three deities sit ; from which clear 
spring they daily draw for themselves new wisdom, and 
with whose waters they moisten the roots of the tree 
Ygdrasil. 

Urgel, Council of. Seo de Urgel is a city of 
Spain on a plain among the Pyrenees, containing an 
ancient cathedral and other ecclesiastical buildings. A 
council was held here in 799 by Leidrade, archbishop of 
Lyons, whom Charlemagne had sent, together with Ne- 
fridius of Narbonne, the abbot Benedict, and several oth- 
er bishops and abbots, to Felix, bishop of Urge). They 
succeeded in persuading him to present himself to the 
king, promising him full liberty to produce in his pres- 
ence those passages from the fathers which he believed 
to favor his notions. — Landon, Manual of Councils, s. v. 

Urghier, in Thibetan mythology, is one of the su- 
preme deities of the Lamaites, generated from a flower. 

UrgiafFa, in Norse mythology, was one of the nine 
giant maidens who were mothers of lleiradal. 

U'ri (lleb. l T ri f , fery [comp. <Fami’6c]), the 
name of three Israelites. 

1. (Sept. Or pi or Qvpiag .) The father of Bezaleel, 
one of the architects of the tabernacle (Exod. xxxi, 2; 
xxxv, 30; xxxviii, 22; 1 Chron. ii, 20; 2 Chron. i, 5), 
B.C. ante 1657. lie was of the tribe of Judah, and 
grandson of Caleb ben-Hezron, his father being Hur, 
who, according to tradition, was the husband of Miriam. 

2. (Sept. ’Adai.) The father of Geber, Solomon’s 
commissariat officer in Gilead (1 Kings iv, 19). B.C. 
ante 1010. 

3. (Sept. ’QcovS v. r. ’QiWf.) One of the gate-keep- 
ers of the Temple, who divorced his wife after the exile 
(Ezra x, 24). B.C. 458. 

Uri'ah(Heb. Uriyah', light [or Jtre] of Je- 

hovah ; occasionally [in Jer. only] in the prolonged form 
Uriya’hu , Sept, usually Qvpiag, and so the 

New Test, and Josephus; A. V. in some cases “ Urijah” 
[q. v.]), the name of several Hebrews. 

1. The last named of the principal thirty warriors of 
David's army (1 Chron. xi, 41 ; 2 Sam. xxiii, 39). Like 
others of David's officers (lttai of Gath ; Ishbosheth the 
Canaanite, 2 Sam. xxiii, 8, Sept.; Zelek the Ammonite, 
2 Sam. xxiii, 37), he was a foreigner — a Hittite. His 
name, however, and his manner of speech (xi, 1 1) indi- 
cate that he had adopted the Jewish religion. He mar- 
ried Bathsheba, a woman of extraordinary beauty, the 
daughter of Eliam — possibly the same as the son of 
Ahithophel, and one of his brother officers (xxiii, 34) ; 
and hence, perhaps, as professor Blunt conjectures (Coin- 
cidences, 11, x), Uriah’s first acquaintance with Bath- 
sheba, It may be inferred from Nathan’s parable (2 


URIAH 


G75 


URIEL 


Sam. xii,3) that he was passionately devoted to his wife, 
and that their union was celebrated in .Jerusalem as one 
of peculiar tenderness. lie had a house at Jerusalem 
underneath the palace (xi, 2). In the first war with 
Ammon (B.C. 1035) he followed Joab to the siege, and 
with him remained encamped in the open field (ver. 11). 
He returned to Jerusalem, at an order from the king, on 
the pretext of asking news of the war — really in the 
hope that his return to his wife might cover the shame 
of David’s crime. The king met with an unexpected 
obstacle in the austere, soldier-like spirit which guided 
all Uriah’s conduct, and which gives us a high notion 
of the character and discipline of David’s officers. He 
steadily refused to go home, or partake of any of the 
indulgences of domestic life, while the ark and the host 
were in booths and his comrades lying in the open air. 
lie partook of the royal hospitality, but slept always 
at the gate of the palace till the last night, when the 
king at a feast vainly endeavored to entrap him bv in- 
toxication. The soldier was overcome by the debauch, 
hut still retained his sense of duty sufficiently to insist 
on sleeping at the palace. On the morning of the third 
day, David sent him back to the camp with a letter (as 
in the story of Bellerophon) containing the command 
to Joab to cause his destruction in the battle. Josephus 
(Ant. vii, 7, 1) adds that he gave as a reason an imag- 
inary offence of Uriah. None such appears in the act- 
ual letter. Probably to an unscrupulous soldier like 
Joab the absolute will of the king was sufficient. The 
device of Joab was to observe the part of the wall of 
Uabbath-Ammon where the greatest force of the be- 
sieged was congregated, and thither, as a kind of forlorn- 
hope, to send Uriah. A sally took place. Uriah and 
the officers with him advanced as tar as the gate of 
the city, and were there shot down by the archers on 
the wall. It seems as if it had been an established 
maxim of Israelitish warfare not to approach the wall 
of a besieged city; and one instance of the fatal result 
was always quoted, as if proverbially, against it — the 
sudden and ignominious death of Abimelech at Thebez, 
which cut short the hopes of the then rising monarchy. 
This appears from the fact (as given in the Sept.) that 
Joab exactly anticipates what the king will say when 
he hears of the disaster. Just as Joab had forewarned 
the messenger, the king broke into a furious passion on 
hearing of the loss, and cited, almost in the very words 
which Joab had predicted, the case of Abimelech. (The 
only variation is the omission of the name of the grand- 
father of Abimelech, which, in the Sept., is Ner instead 
of Joash.) The messenger, as instructed by Joab, calm- 
ly continued, and ended the story with the words “Thy 
servant also, Uriah the Ilittite, is dead.” In a moment 
David’s anger is appeased. He sends an encouraging 
message to -Joab on the unavoidable chances of war, 
and urges him to continue the siege. It is one of the 
touching parts of the story that Uriah falls unconscious 
of his wife’s dishonor. She hears of her husband’s death. 
The narrative gives no hint as to her shame or re- 
morse. She “ mourned” with the usual signs of grief 
as a widow, and then became the wife of David (2 Sam. 
xi, 27). — Smith. See David. 

2. A priest during the reign of Ahaz (B.C. cir. 738), 
whom Isaiah took as a witness to his prophecy concern- 
ing Maher-shalal-hash-baz, with Zechariah, the son of 
Jeberechiah (Isa. viii, 2). He is probably the same as 
Urijah the priest, who built the altar for Ahaz (2 Kings 
xvi, 10). If this be so, the prophet summoned him as 
a witness probably on account of his official position, 
not on account of his personal qualities; though, as the 
incident occurred at the beginning of the reign of Ahaz. 
Uriah’s irreligious subserviency may not yet have man- 
ifested itself. When Ahaz, after his deliverance from 
Bezin and Hekah by Tiglath-pileser, went to wait upon 
his new master at Damascus, he saw there an altar 
which pleased him, and sent the pattern of it to Uriah 
at Jerusalem, with orders to have one made like it j 
against the king’s return. Uriah zealously executed 


the idolatrous command, and when Ahaz returned, not 
only allowed him to offer sacrifices upon it, but basely 
complied with all his impious directions. The new al- 
tar was accordingly set in the court of the Temple, to 
the east of where the brazen altar used to stand; and 
the daily sacrifices, and the burnt-offerings of the king 
and people, were offered upon it; while the brazen al- 
tar. having been removed from its place and set to the 
north of the Syrian altar, was reserved as a private al- 
! tar for the king to inquire by. It is likely, too, that 
Uriah’s compliances did not end here, but that he was 
a consenting party to the other idolatrous and sacrile- 
gious acts of Ahaz (see 2 Kings xvi, 17,18; xxiii,5, 11, 
12 ; 2 Chron. xxviii, 23-25). — Smith. 

Uriah or Urijah was apparently the high-priest at the 
time, but of his parentage we know nothing positive, lie 
probably succeeded Azariah, who was high-priest in the 
reign of Uzziah (or else Amariah III, otherwise called 
Jothan), and was succeeded by that Azariah who was 
high-priest in the reign of Hezekiah. Hence it is prob- 
able that he was son of the former and father of the 
latter, it being by no means uncommon among the He- 
brews, as among the Greeks, for the grandchild to have 
the grandfather’s name. Probably, too, he may have 
been descended from that Azariah who must have been 
high-priest in the reign of Asa. But he has no record 
in the sacerdotal genealogy (l Chron. vi, 4-15), in which 
there is a great gap between Amariah in ver. 11, and 
Shallum, the father of llilkiah, in ver. 13. Josephus, 
however, says that he was the son of Jothan and the 
father of Neriah (Ant. x, 8, 6). See High-priest. 

3. Urijah the son of Shemaiah of Kirjath-jearim ; 
he prophesied in the days of Jelioiakim concerning the 
land and the city, just as Jeremiah had done, and the 
king sought to put him to death; but he escaped, and 
tied into Egypt. II is retreat was soon discovered: El- 
nathan and his men brought him up out of Egypt, and 
Jelioiakim slew him with the sword, and cast his body 
forth among the graves of the common people (Jer. 
xxvi, 20-23). B.C. (308. The story of Shemaiah ap- 
pears to be quoted by the enemies of Jeremiah as a 
reason for putting him to death; and as a reply to the 
instance of Micah the IMorasthite, which Jeremiah’s 
friends gave as a reason why his words should be lis- 
tened to and his life spared. Such, at least, is the view 
adopted by Bashi. — Smith. 

4. One of the priests (being of the family of Ilakkoz, 

A. V. “Koz”) who stood at Ezra’s right hand when he 
read the law to the people (“ Urijah,” Neb. viii, 4). B.C. 
458. He is probably the same with the father of Mere- 
moth, one of the priests who aided Nehemiah in re- 
building the walls of Jerusalem (Ezra viii, 33; Neh.iii, 
4,21). 

Uri'as (0 vptag). the Greek form of the name of 
Urijah the priest in Ezra’s time (l Esdr. ix,43; comp. 
Neh. viii, 4), and of Uriah the husband of Bathsheba 
(Matt, i, 6). 

TJ'riel (Ileb. Uriel'. b^^^.Jire [or light ] of God; 
Sept. Oupo/X), the name of three Hebrews. 

1. A Kohathite Levire, son of Talvath, and father of 
Uzziah (1 Chron. vi, 24 [9]; apparently the same in 
Zephaniah (ver. 36). B.C. cir. 1550. See Samuel. 

2. Chief of the Ivohathites of the family of Korah 
in the reign of David, who assisted, together with one 
hundred and twenty of his brethren, in bringing up the 
ark from the house of Obed-edom (l Chron. xv, 5, 11). 

B. C. 1043. 

3. Uriel of Gibeah was the father of Maachah, or 
Michaiah, the favorite wife of Behoboam, and mother 
of Abijali (2 Chron. xiii, 2). B.C. ante 973. In xi,20 
she is called “Maachah the daughter of Absalom;” and 
Josephus (J??/. viii, 10, 1) explains this by saying that 
her mother was Tamar, Absalom’s daughter. Kashi 
gives a long note to the effect that Michaiah was called 
Maachah after the name of her danghter-in-law, the 
mother of Asa, who was a woman of renown, and that 


IJRII 


07(5 


URIM AND THUMMIM 


her father's name was Uriel Abishalom. There is no [ 
indication, however, that Absalom, like Solomon, had 
another name, although in the Targum of K. Joseph on 
Chronicles it is said that the father of Maachah was 
called Uriel, that the name of Absalom might not be 
mentioned. — Smith. See Maacii.wi. 

4. Uriel is also named in the Apocrypha (2 lvsdr. iv, 
1,3(1; v, 20; x, 28) as an angel or archangel; and in 
the book of Enoch he is described as “the angel of 
thunder and lightning” (eh. xx), and as being “ placed 
over all the lights of heaven” (Ixxv, 3). 

Urii, in Slavonic mythology, was a deity among the 
Wends, worshipped mainly by magicians as their pro- 
tector. 

Uvi'jall (t7. 2 Kings xvi. 10. 1 f. 15. 1G; b . Jer.xxvi, 
20, 21, 23; c. Neh. iii, 4,21). See Uriah. 

Urim and Thummim (TIeh. Urim ve -Thummim , 
the Anglicized form of two Hebrew 
words used (always together [except in Numb, xxvii, 
21 : 1 Sam. xxviii, G, where the former occurs alone; in 
Deut. xxxiii, 8, they are in the reverse order] and with 
the article [except in Ezra ii, Go; Nell. vii. Go]) with 
reference to some obscure mode of divination in con- 
nection with the sacerdotal regalia (Exod. xxviii, 30; 
Lev. viii, 8), but concerning which both ancient and 
modern interpreters have greatly differed. (In the fol- 
lowing discussion of the subject we use in part the state- 
ments found in Kitto and Smith s. v.) 

1. Etymological Import. — These words are Hebrew 
plurals, not proper names, but appellatives of frequent 
occurrence in the singular. They are generally consid- 
ered to be plurales excellent ice, denoting by a metonymy 
the things or modes whereby the revelation was given 
and truth declared. 

1 . In Urim , Hebrew scholars, with hardly an excep- 
tion, have seen the plural of “HX ( Ur, light o i f re). 
The Sept., however, appears to have had reasons which 
led its authors to another rendering than that of <pdjQ 
or its cognates. They give ?/ di'iXtoaiQ (Exod. xxviii, 
30; Eeclus. xlv, 10), and CijXot (Numb, xxvii, 21 ; Deut. 
xxxiii, S; 1 Sam. xxviii, 6); while in Ezra ii, 63, and 
Neli. vii, G5, we have respectively plural and singular 
participles of (pwriZio. In Aquila and Tlieodotion we 
find the more literal (pioncrpoi. The Yulg., following 
the lead of the Sept., but going further astray, gives 
doctrina in Exod. xxviii, 30 ami Deut. xxxiii, 8 ; omits 
the word in Numb, xxvii, 21, paraphrases it by per 
sacerdotes in 1 Sam. xxviii, G, and gives judicium in 
Eeclus. xlv, 10, as the rendering of di)Xiooig. Luther 
gives Licht . The literal English equivalent would of 
course be “lights;” but the renderings in the Sept, and 
Yulg. indicate, at least, a traditional belief among the 
Jews that the plural form, as in Elohim and other like 
words, did not involve numerical plurality. Rellarmiue, 
wishing to defend the Yulg. translation, suggested the 
derivation of Urim from n^P, “ to teach” (Duxtorf, Diss. 
de Ur. et Tk.). 

2. Thummim. Here also there is almost a consensus 

as to the derivation from CH (Tom, perfection, com- 
pleteness) ; but the Sept., as before, uses the closer Greek 
equivalent -tXtiog once (Ezra ii, G3), and adheres else- 
where to ; and the Yulg., giving perfect ns 

there, in like manner gives veritas in all other pas- 
sages. Aquila more accurately chooses TsXeiwGtic. Lu- 
ther, in his first edition, gave Vulligkeit. but afterwards 
rested in Recht. 

What has been said as to the plural of Urim applies 
here also. Dellarmine ( ut sup.) derives Thummim from 
■J^X, to be true. Dy others it has been derived from 
DXri, contr. DfV=“ a twin,” on the theory that the two 1 
groups of gems, six on each side the breastplate, were 
what constituted the Urim and Thummim (IJ. Azarins, 
in Huxtorl, loc. cit.). “ Light and perfection” would 
probably be the best English equivalents. The as- 


sumption of a hendiadys, so that the two words = “ per- 
fect illumination” (Carpzov, .1 pp. Crit. i, 5 ; Dlilir, Sym- 
bolik, ii, 135), is unnecessary, and, it is believed, unsound. 
The mere phrase, as such, leaves it therefore uncertain 
whether each word by itself denoted many things of a 
given kind, or whether the two taken together might 
be referred to two distinct objects, or to one and the 
same object. The presence of the article il, and yet 
more of the demonstrative PX before each, is rather in 
favor of distinctness. Thummim never occurs by itself, 
unless with Ziillig we rind it in Psa. xvi, 5. 

IL /Scriptural Statements , — 1. The mysterious words 
meet us for the first time, as if they needed no expla- 
nation, in the description of the high-priest’s apparel. 
Over the ephod there is to be a “breastplate of judg- 
ment” Sept. XoyfioR Kptoftuc, Yulg. ra- 

tionale judicii), of gold, scarlet, purple, and fine linen, 
folded square and doubled, a “span” in length and 
width. In it are to be set four rows of precious stones, 
each stone with the name of a tribe of Israel engraved 
on it, that Aaron may “ bear them upon his heart.” See 
Ephod. Then comes a further order. Inside the breast- 
plate, as the tables of the covenant were placed inside 
the ark (the preposition bs is used in both cases, Exod. 
xxv, 1G; xxviii, 30), are to be placed “the Urim and the 
Thummim," the light and the perfection; and they, too, 
are to be on Aaron’s heart when he goes in before the 
Lord (ver. 15-30). Not a word describes them. They 
are mentioned as things already familiar both to Closes 
and the people, connected naturally with the func- 
tions of the high-priest, as mediating between Jehovah 
and his people. The command is fulfilled (Lev. viii, 8). 
They pass from Aaron to Eleazar with the sacred 
ephod and other pontificalia (Numb, xx, 28). When 
Joshua is solemnly appointed to succeed the great hero- 
lawgiver, he is bidden to stand before Eleazar, the priest, 
“who shall ask counsel for him after the judgment of 
[the] Urim,” and this counsel is to determine the 
movements of the host of Israel (xxvii, 21). In the 
blessings of Closes, they appear as the crowning glory 
of the tribe of Levi (“ tliv Thummim and thv Urim are 
with thy Holy One”), the reward of the zeal which led 
them to close their eves to everything hut “ the law and 
the covenant” (Dent, xxxiii, 8, 9). Once, and once only, 
are they mentioned by name in the history ol the Judges 
and the monarchy. Saul, left to his self-chosen dark- 
nesses answered “neither by dreams, nor by [the] Urim, 
nor by prophet” (1 Sam. xxviii, G). There is no longer 
a priest with Urim and Thummim (Sept. to7q tori - 
town Kat rot£ rtXf/oic, Ezra ii, 63; o tyujTtGiov, Neh. 
vii, 65) to answer hard questions. When will one ap- 
pear again? The son of Sirach copies the Greek names 
fijXoi, dXlfteia) in his description of Aaron’s garments, 
but throws no light upon their meaning or their use 
(Eeclus. xlv, 10). 

2. Desides these direct statements, there are others in 
which we may, without violence, trace a reference, if 
not to both, at least to the Urim. When questions pre- 
cisely of the nature of those described in Numb, xxvii, 
21 are asked by the leader of the people, and answered 
by Jehovah (Judg. i, 1 ; xx, 18) — when like questions 
are asked by Saul of the high-priest Ahiah, “wearing 
an ephod” (1 Sam. xiv, 3, 18) — by David, as soon as lie 
has with him the presence of a high-priest with his 
ephod (1 Sam. xxiii, 2, 12, xxx, 7, 8), we may legiti- 
mately infer that the treasures which the ephod con- 
tained were the conditions and media of his answer. 
The questions are in almost all cases strategical, “ Who 
shall go up for us against the Canaanites first?” (Judg. 
i, 1 ; so xx, 18), “Will the men of Iveilah deliver me 
and my men into the hand of Saul?” (1 Sam. xxiii, 12), 
or, at least, national (2 Sam.xxi, 1). The answer is, in 
all cases, very brief; but more in form than a simple 
ves or no. One question only is answered at a time. 

3. It deserves notice, before we pass beyond the range 


URIM AND THUMMIM 


677 


UKIM AND TIIUMMIM 


of scriptural data, that, in some cases of deflection from 
t he established religious order, we tind the ephod con- 
nected not with the U rim, but with the Teraphim, which, 
in the days of Laban, if not earlier, had been conspicu- 
ous in Aramaic worship. Mieah. first consecrating one 
of his own sons, and then getting a Levite as his priest, 
makes for him “an ephod and teraphim” (Judg. xvii, 
5; xviii, 14,20). Throughout the history of the north- 
ern kingdom, their presence at Dan made it a sacred 
place (ver. 30), and apparently determined Jeroboam’s 
choice of it as a sanctuary. When the prophet IIo- 
sea foretells the entire sweeping-away of the system 
which the ten tribes had cherished, the point of extrem- 
est destitution is that “they shall he many days . . . 
without an ephod, and without teraphim” (Hos. iii, 4), 
deprived of all counterfeit oracles, in order that they 
may in the end “return and seek the Lord.” It seems 
natural to infer that the teraphim were, in these in- 
stances, the unauthorized substitutes for the Urim. The 
inference is strengthened by the fact that the Sept, uses 
here, instead of teraphim, the same word {3>)\ujv) which 
it usually gives for Urim. That the teraphim were 
thus used through the whole history of Israel may be 
inferred from their frequent occurrence in conjunction 
with other forms of divination. Thus we have in 1 
Sam. xv, 23 “witchcraft” and “ teraphim” (A. V. “idol- 
atry”), in 2 Kings xxiii, 24 “ familiar spirits,” “ wizards, 
and teraphim” (A. V. “images”). The king of Baby- 
lon, when he uses divination, consults them (Ezek. xxi, 
21). They speak vanity (Zech. x,2). See Teiiapjiim. 

III. Theories of Interpreters . — When the Jewish exiles 
were met on their return from Babylon by a question 
which they had no data for answering, they agreed to 
postpone the settlement of the difficulty till there should 
rise up “a priest with Urim and Thummim” (Ezra ii, 
63; Neh. vii, 65). The inquiry what those Urim and 
Thummim themselves were seems likely to wait as long 
for a final and satisfying answer. On every side we meet 
with confessions of ignorance — “ Non constat” (Kimehi), 
“Neseimus” (Aben-Ezra), “ Difficile est invenire” (Au- 
gustine), varied only by wild and conflicting conject- 
ures. 

1. Among these may be noticed the notion that, as 
Moses is not directed to make the Urim and Thummim, 
they must have had a supernatural origin, specially 
created, unlike anything upon earth (U. ben-Naehman 
and Hottingerin Buxtorf, Diss.de Ur.et Th. in Ugolino, 
xii). It would be profitless to discuss so arbitrary an 
hypothesis. 

2. A favorite view of Jewish and of some Christian 
writers has been that the Urim and Thummim were 
identical with the twelve stones on which the names 
of the tribes of Israel were engraved, and the mode in 
which an oracle was given was by the illumination, 
simultaneous or successive, of the letters which were to 
make up the answer (Jalkut Sifre, Zohar in Exod. f. 105; 
Maimonides, li. ben-Nachman, in Buxtorf, loc. cit. ; Dru- 
sius, in Crit. Sac. on Exod. xxviii; Chrysostom, Grotins, 
et al.). Josephus (Ant. iii, 7, 5) adopts another form of 
the same story, and, apparently identifying the Urim 
and Thummim with the sardonyxes on the shoulders 
of the ephod, says that they were bright before a vic- 
tory, or when the sacrifice was acceptable, dark when 
any disaster was impending. Epiphanius {lie XII 
Gemm.) and the writer quoted by Suidas {s. v.'Ecpovd) 
present the same thought in yet another form. A sin- 
gle diamond {ciddfjiag) placed in the centre of the breast- 
plate prognosticated peace when it was bright, war when 
it. was red, death when it was dusky. It is conclusive 
against such views (1) that, without any evidence, with- 
out even an analogy, they make unauthorized additions 
to the miracles of Scripture ; (2) that the former iden- 
tify two things which in Exod. xxviii are clearly dis- 
tinguished ; (3) that the latter makes no distinction be- 
tween the Urim and the Thummim, such as the repeat- 
ed article leads us to infer. 

3. A theory involving fewer gratuitous assumptions 


is that in the middle of the ephod, or within its folds, 
there was a stone or plate of gold on which was en- 
graved the sacred name of Jehovah, the Shem-hamme- 
phorash (q. v.) of Jewish Cabalists; and that by virtue 
of this, fixing his gaze on it, or reading an invocation 
which was also engraved with the name, or standing in 
his ephod before the mercv-seat, or at least before the 
vail of the sanctuary, he became capable of prophesy- 
ing, hearing the divine voice within, or listening to it 
as it proceeded, in articulate sounds, from the glory of 
the Shechinah (Buxtorf, loc. cit. 7; Lightfoot, vi, 278; 
Braunius, J)e Vest it n llebr.u ; Saalschiitz, A rchdolor/. ii, 
363). A wilder form of this belief is found in the Cab- 
alistic book Zohar. There the Urim is said to have 
had the divine name in fortv-two, the Thummim in 
seventy-two letters. The notion was probably derived 
from the Jewish invocations of books like the Clavicula 
Salomon is. See Solomon. 

Another form of the same thought is found in the 
statement of Jewish writers that the Holy Spirit spake 
sometimes by Urim, sometimes by prophecy, sometimes 
by the Bath-Kol {Seder Olam, e. xiv, in Braunius, loc. 
cit.), or that the whole purpose of the unknown sym- 
bols was “ad excitandam prophetiam” (B. Levi ben- 
Gershon, in Buxtorf, loc. cit.; Kimehi, in Spencer, ut 
inf). A more eccentric form of the “writing” theory 
was propounded by the elder Carpzov, who maintained 
that the Urim and Thummim were two confessions of 
faith in the Messiah and the Iloly Spirit (Carpzov', 
A pp. Crit. i, 5). 

4. Spencer {De Ur.et Th.) presents a singular union of 
acuteness and extravagance. He rightly recognises 
the distinctness of the two tilings which others had 
confounded. Whatever the Urim and Thummim were, 
they were not the twelve stones, and they were distin- 
guishable one from the other. They were placed in- 
side the folds of the doubled choshen. Besting on the 
facts referred to, he inferred the identity of the Urim 
and the Teraphim. This was an instance in which the 
divine wisdom accommodated itself to man’s weakness, 
and allowed the debased superstitious Israelites to re- 
tain a fragment of the idolatrous system of their fa- 
thers, in order to wean them gradually from the system 
as a whole. The obnoxious name of Teraphim was 
dropped. The thing itself was retained. The very 
name Urim was, he argued, identical in meaning with 
Teraphim (Urim — “ lights, fires;” Seraphim =“ the 
burning, or fiery ones; n and Teraphim is but the same 
word, with an Aramaic substitution of n for 2J). It. 
was therefore a small image probably in human form. 
So far, the hypothesis has, at least, the merit of being 
inductive and historical; but when he comes to the 
question how it was instrumental oracularly, he passes 
into the most extravagant of all assumptions. The im- 
age, when the high-priest questioned it, spoke by the 
mediation of an angel, with an articulate human voice, 
just as the Teraphim spoke, in like manner, by the in- 
tervention of a diemon ! In dealing with the Thum- 
mim, which he excludes altogether from the oracular 
functions of t lie Urim, Spencer adopts the notion of an 
Egyptian archetype, which will be noticed further on. 

5. Michaelis {Laics of Moses, v, 52) gives his own 
opinion that the Urim and Thummim were three stones, 
on one of which was written Yes, on another No, while 
the third was left blank or neutral. The three were 
used as lots, and the high-priest decided according as 
the one or the other was drawn out. He does not think 
it worth while to give one iota of evidence; and the 
notion does not appear to have been more than a pass- 
ing caprice. It obviously fails to meet the phenomena. 
Lots were familiar enough among the Israelites (Numb, 
xxvi, 55; Josh, xiii, 6 sq.; 1 Sam. xiv, 41 ; Prov. xvi, 
33), but the Urim was something solemn and peculiar. 
In the cases where the Urim was consulted, the an- 
swers were always more than a mere negative or af- 
firmative. 


URIM AXD TIIUMMIM 


678 


URIM AXD TIIUMMIM 


6. The conjecture of Zilllig (Comm, in A poc. Exc. ii), 
though adopted by Wilier {lit alu\), can hardly be looked 
on as more satisfying. With him the Urim are bright, 
i. e. cut and polished, diamonds, in form like dice; the 
Thummim perfect, i. c. whole, rough, uncut ones, each 
class with inscriptions of some kind engraved on it. 
lie supposes a handful of these to have been carried in 
the pouch of the high-priest's choshen , and when he 
wished for an oracle, to have been taken out by him 
and thrown on a table, or, more probably, on the ark of 
the covenant. As they fell, their position, according to 
traditional rules known only to the high-priestly fami- 
lies, indicated the answer, lie compares it with for- 
tune-telling bv cards or coffee-grounds. The whole 
scheme, it need hardly be said, is one of pure invention, 
at once arbitrary and offensive. It is at least question- 
able whether the Egyptians had access to diamonds, or 
knew the art of polishing or engraving them. See 
Diamond. A handful of diamond cubes, large enough 
to have words or monograms engraved on them, is a 
thing which has no parallel in Egyptian archaeology, 
nor, indeed, anywhere else. 

7. The latest Jewish interpreter of eminence (Kalisch. 
om Exod, xxviii, 31), combining parts of the views (2) 
and (3), indentifies the Urim and Thummim with the 
twelve tribal gems, looks on the name as one to be ex- 
plained by a hendiadys (light and perfection = perfect 
illumination), and believes the high-priest, by concen- 
trating his thoughts on the attributes they represented, 
to have divested himself of all selfishness and prejudice, 
and so to have passed into a true prophetic state. In 
what he says on this point there is much that is both 
beautiful and true. Light foot, it may be added, had 
taken the same view (ii, 407 ; vi. 278). and that given 
above in (3) converges to the same result. See Trance. 

8. Philo, the learned contemporary of Josephus, rep- 
resents the Urim and Thummim as two images of the 
two virtues or powers — cijXwoi v rt icai dXifteiav. The 
full quotation is: To \o ytiou (the pectoral, or breast- 
plate) ; TtTpdyiov or. SnrXoir KartaiavaZsTO, (odavti 
fioKTi^.'tva cuo ciptTiig dyaXparotpopij (that they might 
carry the image of the two powers); CtjXojaiv re koi 
aXifitiav (7>e Vita Mosis, lib. iii. p. 152, t. 2. ed. Man- 
gey). He also uses the following words ( I)e Monarch. 
lib. ii, p. 824 •, 0pp. ii, 226): ’Etti tov Xoydov Cittu 
vepdopara KaTcnroudXXti , 7rpooayopunov to piv C))- 
Xiooiv. to E dXifituii’. This statement of Philo has 
been thought by many recent interpreters to be sup- 
ported by certain external evidence. It had been no- 
ticed by all the old commentators that a remarkable 
resemblance existed between the Urim and Thummim 
of the Jewish high-priest and the custom recorded by 
yFJian ( Var . Hist, xiv, 347) of the Egyptian archjudge, 
who was always a priest venerable for age, learning, and 
probity, and who opened judicial proceedings by sus- 
pending, by a gold chain hung round his neck (comp. 
Gen. xii, 42), an image made of a sapphire stone, which 
was called ’AX ifieia, i. e. “truth,” and with which Dio- 
dorus Siculus (i, 48, 75) says he touched (ttpoctSGtq) the 
party who had gained the cause. Certain traces of a 
similar custom among the Homans had also been ad- 
verted to — namely, that among the Vestal Virgins, at 
least she that was called Maxima, and who sat in judg- 
ment and tried causes as the Poutifex Maximus did, 
wore a similar aniepectorale. (Lipsius, De Vesta et 17s- 
talibus Syntagma [An tv. 1603, ap. Plant.], cap. ult.). 
Put these resemblances among the Egyptians were con- 
sidered to have been derived by them from the Jews, 
in consequence of their correspondence with them after 
Solomon’s marriage with Pharaoh’s daughter (Patrick, 
on Exod. xxv Hi, 30). Subsequent discoveries, however, 
among the antiquities of Egypt lead to the conclusion 
that these resemblances belong to a much earlier period. 
Sir G. Wilkinson says the figure of Truth which the 
Egyptian archjudge suspended from his neck was, in 
fact, a representation of the goddess who was worshipped 
under the dual, ox double, character of Truth and Justice, 



Ancient Egyptian Standing Figures of the Goddess of 
Truth and Justice. 

and whose name. Thmei, the Egyptian or Coptic name 
of Justice or Truth (comp, the Greek appears to 

have been the origin of the Hebrew' Thummim — “a 
word,” he remarks, “according to the Sept, translation, 
implying truth, and bearing a further analogy in its 
plural termination.” lie also remarks that the word 
Thummim, being a plural or dual word, corresponds to 
the Egyptian notion of the “ hco Truths.” or the double 
capacity of this goddess. “ This goddess,” be says, “ fre- 
quently occurs in the sculptures in this double capacity, 
represented by two figures exactly similar,” as in the 
above cut. “ It is,” 
he adds, “further ob- 
servable that the chief- 
priest of the Jews, who, 
before the election of 
a king, was also the 
judge of the nation, 
was alone entitled to 
wear this honorary 
badge. Does the touch 
of the successful liti- 
gant with the figure, 
by the Egyptian arch- 
judge, afford any il- 
lustration of such pas- 
sages as Isa. vi,7 ; Jcr. 
i, 9; Estb. v, 2, or of 
those numerous i n- 
Aiicient Egyptian Sitting Figure stances in which 
of t lie Goddess of Truth and touching is rep resell t- 
Jusliee. ed as the emblem or 

means of miraculous virtue?” Our authority for 
these Egyptian antiquities adds that the ancient 
(Sept.) interpretation of the L T rim and Thummim, 
as signifying “light and truth,” presents a striking 
analogy to the two figures of He, the sun, and Thmei, 
truth, in the breastplate worn by the Egyptians. 
Here Thmei is represented, as she frequently is, 
by a single figure wearing two ostrich feathers, her 
emblem, because all the w ing - feathers of this bird 
w'ere considered of equal length, and hence meant true 
or correct” (Anc. Egypt. [Loud. 1842], ii, 27, etc.; v, 
28, etc. See also other remarks on the dual offices 
of Thmei, in Gallery of 
A ntiquities, selected from 
the Ilritish Museum by 
F. Arumlale and J. Bo no- 
mi). Upon a view of the 
preceding facts, even so 
orthodox an antiquarian as , 

Hengstenberg {Egypt and \ 
the Book of Moses, eh. vi) F j gures ou Egyptian Breast- 
adopts Mr. Mode’s opinion, plates. 



p Cl ' P 

m 





i 



URIM AND THUMMIM 


679 


URLSPERGER 


that the Urim and Thummim were “ things well known 
to the patriarchs,” as divinely appointed means of in- 
quiring of the Lord (Gen. xxv, 22, 23), suited to an in- 
fantine state of religion; that the originals were pre- 
served, or the real use at least, among the Abrahamidaj, 
and, at the reformation under Moses, were simply rec- 
ognised; that the resemblances to them among the 
Egyptians were but imitations of this primeval mode 
of divine communication, as were the heathen auspices 
of similar means originally connected with the sacrifice 
of animals. 

In opposition to this view of a direct Egyptian origin 
of the objects in question, it has been forcibly urged 
(I) that the words Urim and Thummim do not, in fact, 
mean Truth and Justice ; (2) that, with the exception of 
the single and undistinctive use of the term “judgment” 
in connection with the choshen , or pontifical 
perforate, there is no magisterial function of the high- 
priest in the cases of consultation, like that of the Egyp- 
tian archjudge; and (3) that, if such an image were in- 
tended, it is strange that no description is given to iden- 
tify it, nor any prescription made as to its form or struct- 
ure in the Mosaic account, as there is of all the other 
articles of the priestly regalia (see Keil, Commentary , 
ad loe.). 

IV. Oracular Use . — The process of consulting the 
Lord by Urim and Thummim, and the form in which 
the answer was returned, are not explained in Script- 
ure, and all we can say on the subject is from Rabbin- 
ical tradition. The rabbins say that the manner of 
inquiring was as follows: the priest put on his robes, 
and went (not into the sanctuary, where he could go 
but once a year), but into the sanctum, or holy place, 
and stood before the curtain or vail that divided the 
sanctuary from the sanctum. There he stood upright, 
facing towards t he ark of the covenant, and behind 
him stood the person for whom he inquired, in a right 
line with the priest, facing the back of the latter, but 
outside the sanctum. Then the priest inquired of God 
concerning the matter required, in a low voice, like one 
praying half audibly, and, keeping his eyes upon the 
breastplate, he received by Urim and Thummim the 
answer to his question. Maimonides says it was not 
lawful to inquire by this mode for private individuals, 
but only for the king, or for him on whom the affairs 
of the congregation lay. 

With respect to the mode in which the answer was 
returned, Prideaux, and some other Christian commen- 
tators, think that when the high-priest inquired of the 
Lord, standing in his robes before the vail, that an audi- 
ble answer was returned from within. But the rabbins 
say that the answer was given by certain letters en- 
graven on the stones in the breastplate becoming pe- 
culiarly, prominently lustrous, in proper order, so as to 
be read by the high-priest into words. For instance, 
when David inquired of God whether he should go up 
to one of the cities of Judah (2 Sam. ii, 1), the answer 
was, “Go up,” n>2, alah ; the letters V, b, and H became 
in order prominently lustrous, and thus formed the word. 
These explanations evidently depend upon the Talmud- 
ic theories above recited as to the form and nature of 
the objects themselves. See Divination. 

V. Typical Significance . — The office of the high-priest 
and his dress, as well as the tabernacle and its furniture 
and service, were all typical of the Christian dispensa- 
tion, or of the office and person of Christ; in whom, 
also, the Urim and Thummim, as well as the other types 
and foreshadowings, were fulfilled. He was Light, Per- 
fection, Manifestation, and Truth. He was the ‘-true 
Light, that lighteth every man that eometh into the 
world” (John i, 0). “Being made perfect, he became 
the Author of salvation to all that obey him” (Heb. v, 
0). He was “ God manifest in the flesh” (1 Tim. iii, 16). 
He was “the Way, the Truth, and the Life” (John xiv, 
6), and he “ came to bear witness to the Truth” (xviii, 


37). By Urim and Thummim a measure of the Holy 
Ghost was granted to the Jewish high-priest ; Christ is 
a high-priest in whom are all the gifts of the Holy 
Ghost without measure (iii, 34). “He put on right- 
eousness as a breastplate” (Isa.lix, 19) ; and by his mer- 
its and intercession as our continual High-priest, he has 
given to us to “ put on the breastplate of faith and love” 
(I Thcss. v, 8). Some have seen the Urim and Thum- 
mim the object alluded to by John as “the white stone” 
( \pi)(poi ; XtvKij) of the Christian mysteries (Rev. ii, 17). 
See Type. 

VI. Literature . — In addition to the works cited above, 
and those referred to by Winer {Realicorterb. s. v.) and 
by Darling ( Cyclop . Bibliograph. col. 231 sq.), there are 
monographs on this subject in Latin by Calov (Viteb. 
1675), Wolf (Lips. 1740), Schroder (Marb. 1741), and 
Stiebriz (Hal. 1753); and in German by Bellermann 
(Bcrl. 1824) and Saalschutz (Konigsb. 1849). See IIigu- 

PKIEST. 

Uiius, in Greek mythology, was a surname oi Jupi- 
ter, who sends good winds to those at sea. 

Uriya (or Orissa) Version. Uriya, the ver- 
nacular dialect of Orissa (q. v.), is a tolerably pure dia- 
lect of the Sanscrit, possessing some Persian and Arabic 
terms, borrowed through the medium of the Hindus- 
tani, with others of doubtful origin. It is closely con- 
nected with Bengali, but greatly differing in pronun- 
ciation, for an effeminate style of articulation is preva- 
lent in Bengal, while the inhabitants of Orissa have a 
broad and almost rustic accent. The Uriya has also a 
written charaotcr peculiar to itself. 

The first version of the Scriptures in this dialect was 
commenced by the Serampore missionaries in 1803, and 
an edition consisting of one thousand copies of the New 
Test, was printed in 1811. The first edition of the Old 
Test., also consisting of one thousand copies, was print- 
ed in 1819. The New Test, was soon exhausted, and 
a second edition of four thousand copies left the press 
in 1822, in the same year in which a mission by the 
General Baptist Society was established at Cuttack, 
the capital of Orissa. In 1832 a second edition of the 
Old Test, left the press, together with a separate edition 
of the Psalms. In 1838 the Rev. Messrs. Sutton and 
Noyes undertook a new version of the Scriptures in 
Uriya. Dr. Sutton commenced with the book of Gen- 
esis, and when the translation was completed be carried 
on both the printing and binding at Cuttack. An edi- 
tion of the Old Test, he completed for the Bible Society 
in 1844. In 1854 an edition of two thousand copies of 
the Gospel of St. Luke, from Dr. Sutton’s version, was 
issued from the Cuttack press at the instance of the 
Bible Society. In the Report for 1863 we read that 
the New Test, has been revised, but the Old Test, 
has been reprinted as before. Whether Dr. Sutton 
completed his version or not we are unable to state. 
The only notice we find again concerning the Uriva 
version since 1863 is the statement made in the Annual 
Report of the British and Foreign Bible Society for the 
year 1873 that “the Rev. Dr. Buckley has completed 
the printing of a revised version of the Old Test, at the 
society’s expense.” From the Report for the year 1879 
we see that up to March 31, 1879, the British and For- 
eign Bible Society had disposed of 4000 Bibles and ONI 
Tests., 34,000 copies of portions of the Old Test., and 
2000 copies of portions of the New Test., or altogether 
of 40,000 copies, in part or in whole, of the Uriya ver- 
sion. (B. P.) 

Urlsperger, Johann August, a German theolo- 
gian and controversialist, was born Nov. 25, 1728, and 
during most of his public life was pastor and senior at 
Augsburg. He was possessed of great learning and 
penetration, and was a fearless and earnest thinker, 
lie was also a foremost champion of evangelical truth 
against the attacks of the philosophical and rationaliz- 
ing neologies of his country, and contributed several 
trenchant works to the literature of that controversy, 


URLSPERGEI 


680 


URSINUS 


among thorn, Versuche eincr gen an on Bestimmung des 
Geheinmissts Codes (1709*74, 4 pts. 4to) ’.—Kurzgef assies 
System dev Dreieinigkeitsleh re : — Truktat vom gottlichen 
Ebenbilde. He founded the “ Deutsche Christenthums- 
Gesellsehaft” (German Society for Christianity ), the 
idea for which lie took from the British Society for Pro- 
moting Christian Knowledge (founded 1698) and the 
Swedish society “I>e Fide et Christianismo.” The so- 
ciety was lirst established in Basic, but failed to under- 
take the work for which Urlsperger had called it into 
being — the advocacy and defence of pure doctrine — and 
devoted its efforts rather to the promotion of true piety. 
Though disappointed, Urlsperger gave his services re- 
peatedly to the society, and continued to travel over 
the Continent and to England in its behalf, until he 
died at Hamburg, Dec. 1, 1806. See Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. s. v. ; but comp. Smith’s Ilagenbach, Hist, of 
Doctrines , § 295, p. 3. 

Urlsperger, Samuel, a Protestant divine of Ger- 
many, father of the preceding, was born Aug. 31, 1685, 
at Kirchheim,in Wiirtemberg. He belonged to a Hun- 
garian Protestant family, which with many others was 
obliged to leave the country during the Thirty Years’ 
War. He studied at Tubingen, where he publicly 
spoke on Ratio et fdes collate contra Zuekium et Poire- 
turn. He continued his studies at Erlangen from 1708, 
and after a short stay at Jena and Halle, he went to 
Leyden, Utrecht, London, Oxford, and Cambridge. Af- 
ter his return to Germany, he was appointed pastor in 
1713 at Stettin. In 1714 lie went, to Stuttgart as court 
preacher and member of consistory. Deposed from his 
office in 1718, he was appointed in 1720 superintendent 
at Herrenburg, and three years later he was called to 
Augsburg, where he died, April 21, 1772. Besides a 
number of sermons, he published, A usjnhrliche X a ch- 
i' icht von den sahburyischen Emiyranten , die sich in 
Amerika niedergelassen habtn (Halle. 1735-52,3 vols.) : 
— A merikanisches Ackerwerk Codes oder zuverlassige 
Xachrichten von dein Zustande der von den salzbur - 
gischen Emiyranten erbanten Stadt Eben-Ezer (ibid. 
1754-66). See During, Gehhrte Thcoloyen Deutsch- 
lands , iv, 559 sq. ; Koch, Gesch. des deuischen Kirchen- 
liedes , v, 71 sq. (B. P.) 

Urquehart, John, a graduate of the University of 
St. Andrew’s, Scotland, and a youth of singular promise 
and piety, was born in Perth, June 7, 1808. In April, 
1824, he made a decided profession of piety, and con- 
secrated his powers entirely to the service of his Re- 
deemer. He left the university in 1826 with the repu- 
tation of being by far the most eminent of his class, al- 
though then but seventeen years of age. He decided 
to become a missionary to the heathen, hut, on account 
of his youth, was induced to wait a while before enter- 
ing upon the arduous duties of that station. He died 
•Ian. 10, 1827, at the age of eighteen. See his Memoirs, 
Jitters, and Select Remains, by Orme. 

Urquhai t, John F., a minister in the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Montgomery 
County, Ala., Sept. 15, 1811. He experienced religion 
when,abont nine years old, moved with his parents to 
Florida in 1852. joined the Florida Conference in 1860, 
and labored in it faithfully until his death, Aug. 19, 
1864. Mr. Urquhart was a young man of lively spirit, 
refined and elevated by grace, and very promising. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences of the M. E. Church, 
South, 1864, p. 522. 

Ursacius, bishop of Liugidunum, in Moesia, during 
the 4th century, is noted as being a disciple of Arius, 
and one of the prominent leaders of the Arian court- 
party. See Xeander, Hist, of the Church, ii, 404 sq. 

Ursi Clints, anti pope, was a deacon of Rome, and 
claimed the election as successor of Tiberius over Dam- 
asus (q. v. ), who was elected (A.D. 366) by a larger 
party of the clergy and the Roman people, and was rec- 
ognised by the emperor Valcntinian I. After a pro- 


tracted conflict, Ursicinus was driven out of Italy, and 
went to Cologne. He returned to Italy in 381, and re- 
newed the agitation, but was finally banished by the 
Council of Aquilcia. He is not included in the lists of 
popes. See Herzog, Real-Encyklop . s. v. 

Ursins (Orsha), the name of a French family emi- 
nent, from the 15th century, for its services in State and 
Church and historical literature. Two of them are ap- 
propriate here. 

1. Jacques Jouvenkl des, brother of the succeed- 
ing, was born in Paris, Oct. 14, 1410, and became suc- 
cessively archdeacon of the Cathedral of Paris (1441) 
and archbishop of Rheims (Sept. 25, 1444) ; but in 1449 
he resigned the latter position in favor of his brother, 
receiving the two dioceses of Poitiers and Frejus. He 
died at Poitiers, March 12, 1457. lie was occupied in 
several political and ecclesiastical negotiations of the 
time. 

2. Jean Juvenal (or Joni'enel des), .Jr., a prelate 
and historian, was born in Paris, Nov. 23, 1388, and, al- 
ter studying at Orleans and Paris, became doctor in 
utroque jure, and enjoyed some minor offices; but was 
driven into exile with bis parents in 1418. In 1425 he. 
returned as advocate-general under Charles VII, and 
soon rose through lower ecclesiastical positions to the 
bishopric of Beauvais (1431). In 1444 he was trans- 
ferred to the see of Laon, and in 1449 he became arch- 
bishop of Rheims, where he died, July 14, 1473. lie 
was engaged in several diplomatic embassies, and wrote 
a number of ecclesiastical works, for whicii see Hoefer, 
Xouv. Bioy. Generate, s. v. 

Ursiuus, Johann Heinrich, a Protestant theo- 
logian of Germany, was born at Spires, Jan. 26, 1608, 
and died at Ratisbon, May 14, 1667, where he had 
been superintendent since 1655. He is the author of 
Analectorum Sacrorum JAbri Duodecim (Frankf. 1668- 
70, 2 vols.) : — Compendium IJistor. de Ecclesiar. Ger- 
manicar. Oriyine et Proyressu ab A dscensione Domini 
usque ad Carolum Magnum (Nnremb. 1664): — Ecclesi- 
astes sire de Sacris Concionibus (Frankf. 1659) : — Sacra r. 
Concionum jnxta Di versus Tractandi Methodos Para- 
diymata (ibid. eod. ). See Winer, J/andb. der theol. 
JAteratur, i, 30, 778; ii, 58; F first, Bibl. Jud. iii, 462. 
(B. P.) 

Ursinus (Beer), Zacharias, a German theologi- 
an of the 1 Gt.ii century, the friend and pupil of Melanc- 
thon, the friend of Calvin and Peter Martyr, and one of 
the two authors of the Heidelberg Catechism, was born at 
Breslau. July 18. 1534. He accompanied Melancthon to 
the religious colloquy of Worms in August, 1557 ; after- 
wards visited Calvin at Geneva; and, finally, went to 
Paris, where he studied Hebrew under Jean Mercier. 
On bis return he was called to the service of his native 
city, and became fourth professor of the ('olleyia Primi 
Or dims in September, 1558; but the mildness of bis 
views respecting the eucharist having excited contro- 
versy, he solicited a release from that office, which was 
granted April 26, 1560. in this dispute he wrote the 
Theses de Sacra meat is (in Tract. Theol. an. 1584, p. 339- 
382). He went to Zurich, and became the companion 
and pupil of Peter Martyr, with the result that he dis- 
covered himself to be no Lutheran, and not even a mere 
Philipist, but altogether a supporter of the views of Cal- 
vin, Beza, and Peter Martyr. 

Ursinus was soon afterwards called to the Collegium 
Sapientiir in Heidelberg, and to its duties afterwards 
added the chair of dogmatics. He began his theologi- 
cal prelections Sept. 1, 1562, and in the following year 
undertook also the delivery of the Smnlay-afternoon 
sermon on the catechism. To these various duties he 
added the formation of a constitution for the. churches 
of the Palatinate, in which he was aided by Olevian, 
but whose defence devolved on him alone. It was in 
the prosecution of this work that he began his active 
literary life. He wrote a Verantwortnng against criti- 
cisms and perversions of the Heidelberg Catechism, which 


URSINUS 


681 


URSULA 


formed the principal element in the new constitution; 
an A nt wort auf etlicher Theoloyen Censur, and other 
works. When the Maulbroim Convention grew out of 
these discussions [see Maulbroxx], Ursimis was one 
of the collocutors for the Palatinate, and demonstrated 
by his readiness and keenness that he was one of the 
ablest disputants of the time. The Wiirtembergers 
having violated the agreement to refrain from publish- 
ing the proceedings, the Heidelbergers were obliged to 
respond; and the duty of correcting the perversions 
which had gone out before the public devolved again 
on Ursimis. From this time onward he was involved 
in the controversy about the eorrect interpretation of 
Art. x of the Augsburg Confession , in which the strict 
Lutherans insisted that Luther’s writings, especially his 
polemical writings, should be considered the only guide, 
and endeavored to deprive all who did not hold their 
view of the legal standing assured to those who accept- 
ed the Confession as a statement of their faith. Weary 
of the endless dispute, Ursinus closed his share in the 
controversy in 15G6, with the determination to write no 
more. lie was worn out. His health was impaired, 
and he was obliged to seek relief from excessive labors 
by resigning the chair of dogmatics to Hieronymus 
Zaachius, Feb. 10, 1568. A few months later, however, 
a new conflict demanded his attention. George With- 
ers, an Englishman, had defended in a disputation at 
Heidelberg the thesis that the administration of ecclesi- 
astical discipline in all its extent belongs properly to 
the ecclesiastical ministerium in connection with an or- 
ganized presbyteriate ; and Olevian had endorsed that 
opinion, while Erastus opposed it. Each side gained 
adherents without being able to intimidate its oppo- 
nents. Beza and Bollinger were called on for advice, 
and, eventually, Ursinus was required by the eleetor to 
state his views. He did this in 1560, in so candid and 
kindly a manner as to win approval even from those 
who did not accept his conclusions. The elector finally 
decreed the erection of presbyteries and the execution 
of discipline. 

The accession of the eleetor Louis inaugurated a new 
order of things in the Palatinate, under which Luther- 
anism was able to regain its predominance. The Colie - 
yinm Sapient ice was closed in September, 1577, and LTr- 
sinus was dismissed from his post. A professorship in 
Lausanne was at once offered him, but he declined it, 
and accepted, instead, a call to Xeustadt, where the the- 
ology of the Reformed Church found a refuge in the 
Collegium Jllustre Casimirianum . lie had previous]}* 
published, in Latin and German, the confession of faith 
appended to the late elector’s will (1577), and was soon 
afterwards commissioned, in connection with Zanchius, 
to draw up for the Frankfort Synod (September, 1578) 
a confession which should be accepted in the Reformed 
churches of all European countries. This office he de- 
clined on the grounds of ill-health and distrust of his 
ability. He began his lectures on Isaiah May 26, 1578, 
and subsequently participated in the conflict over the 
acceptance of the Formula Concordia % having contrib- 
uted the most powerful argument in opposition to that 
measure. He died March 6, 1583, at Xeustadt. 1 1 is 
literary remains were intrusted to Prof. Jungnitz, and 
he, with other friends of the departed scholar, collected 
and published many works which, until then, existed 
only in MS., and gave the author’s name to others 
which had previously been anonymously published. 
The Heidelberg Catechism, with notes, and Lectures on the 
Organon of Aristotle, etc., were published at Xeustadt. 
Parens, at a later day, issued a corrected edition of 
the Exposition of the Catechism ( lirem. 1623, 8vo); 
and a complete edition of Ursinus’s works was issued 
by Reuter, his pupil and immediate successor in the 
Sapientice. 

See Adam. 177. German . Theologorum ; Heppe, Gesch . 
d. deutsch. Protest a ntismus ; id. Dogmatik d. deutsch . Pro- 
testanfismus, i, 158-160; Sudhoff, Olerianus u, Ursinus 
(Klberfeld, 1857) ; id. Leben d. Ydter d, reformirt. Kirche } 


vol. viii ; Gillet, Crato von Crafftheim (Frankf. I860); 
Herzog, Real- Encgklop. s. v. ; Smith’s Hagenbach, 1 list, 
of Doctrines, ii. § 222, and § 223 a, 4. 

Urstier, in Chinese and Persian mythology. There 
is said to be erected in China, at Miako, in a large pago- 
da, a statue of a bull entirely of gold. If the reports of 
the Holland expeditions are true, it is marvellous what 
a similarity there is in the fable of this bull and that 
worshipped by the Persians and Egyptians. lie is rep- 
resented as in the act of springing, with the intention 
of breaking an egg that lies swimming in the water 
close by a rock. The Chinese, Egyptians, and Persians 
agree in saving that in this egg the world lay hidden. 
This egg was swimming about the water until a rock 
appeared in the water, against which it leaned itself. 
Then the Urstier came, cracked the shell with his horns, 
and from this egg there sprang the world and all that 
is in the world, and the breath of the bull gave man life. 
— Vollmer, Worterh. d. MgthoL s. v. 

Ursula (St.) and The. Eleven Thousand Virgins. 
The legend states that Ursula was the daughter of The- 
onotus, or Diognetus, of Britain. She was demanded 
in marriage by a heathen prince named TIolofernes,aml 
consented to bis demand on condition that he should 
become a Christian and allow her three years before the 
marriage in which to make a pilgrimage. lie conform- 
ed to her will, and, with his religion, changed his name 
into ^Etherius; and she took ship with eleven thousand 
virgins. They went first to the port of Tila, in Gaul, 
and thence up the Rhine to Cologne and Basle, after- 
wards continuing the pilgrimage by land as far as Rome. 
When they returned, pope Cyriacus, with a retinue of 
clergy, joined the immense procession; and at Basle the 
bishop Paul, or Pautuhis, likewise. At Cologne the re- 
turning pilgrims were attacked, while disembarking, by 
hordes of wild Ilunnish barbarians and were all massa- 
cred, though the heathen king, At tila (Etzel), admired the 
beauty of Ursula and desired to spare her, that she might 



URSULINES 


632 


URWICK 


become bis wife. She fell pierced with an arrow, which 
lias become her peculiar attribute in artistic represen- 
tations of this saint. Immediately after the massa- 
cre heavenly hosts, equal in number to the murdered 
virgins, appeared and put the barbarians to llight. The 
delivered inhabitants of the city thereupon buried the 
fallen pilgrims, and erected to each one a stone bearing 
her name — the names having been obtained from James, 
a bishop, who was in the train of the pilgrims and who 
had found a refuge in a cave from the fate of his com- 
panions. Soon afterwards Clemantius, a pilgrim from 
Greece, having been urged in repeated dreams, erect- 
ed a church among the graves in honor of Ursula and 
her eleven thousand companions. The sanctity of this 
place of burial is apparent from the fact that no oth- 
er interments, even though they be of the bodies of 
baptized children, can be performed in its hallowed 
soil. 

The origin of the Ursula legend is probably to be 
found in the ancient marivrologies and saints’ chron- 
icles of a date earlier than the 12tli century, the legend 
having been current in this form in Germany since that 
period, while a somewhat different version has prevailed 
in England. This rehearses that Maximus, the usurper 
in Gaul (383-388) and former commander in liritain, 
had required of king Dionotns of Cornwall a number 
of marriageable girls for his legionaries, and that the 
king at once forwarded sixty thousand virgins of com- 
mon and eleven thousand of noble rank, among them 
his own daughter Ursula. They were driven by storms, 
“ad barbaras insulas appulsa\” and murdered by the 
Huns and Piets (?). The earliest mention of any sim- 
ilar event is found in the poetical martvrology (ad 
Oct. 21) of Wandelbert of Priim, who died in 870 (see 
D’Acherv, Spicileg. ii, 54). The martvrology of the 
monk Usuard of St. Germain, written about 875, men- 
tions two virgins of Cologne, “Martha et Saida, cum 
aliis pluribus” (Acta SS. [Bo]].] Jim. 7, 013). and vari- 
ous ecclesiastical calendars of Cologne of scarcely more 
recent date mention eleven virgins and give their 
names. The massacre itself is w ith great unanimity at- 
tributed to the Huns, under the command of A t tila. 
For a thorough discussion of the extent to which the 
legend involves credible truth we refer to Zbckler, in 
Herzog’s Real - Encyklop. s. v. See Crombacb, Ursu- 
la Yindicata, etc. (Col. 1047, fol.), the most extensive 
work; id. A net. sire Lib. XII S. Ursula I ’indie. (4to); 
also Vadian, Ciratio de XI Millibus Virginian (Vien.1510); 
Usher in Antiq. Eccles. Britan. (Loud. 1087), p. 107 sq. ; 
Baronius, M artyrol. Rom. ad Oct. 21 ; id. .1 nnales. ad an. 
383, No, 4, etc.; Jameson Legendary A rt. ii,501 sip 

Ursulines, the name borne by the nuns and Tbe- 
atines of a charitable order in the Church of Rome, 
which was founded Nov. 25, 1535, at Brescia by Angela 
Meriei (q. v.), and became prominent among the benev- 
olent orders instituted in the 10th century to impede 
the progress of t lie Protestant Reformation. Their 
original rule did not require ascetical retirement from 
the world nor the wearing of a peculiar dress. Even 
the obligation to chastity was rather recommended 
than imposed. Put, after the papal confirmation of the 
order had been obtained (June 9, 1544), the rule be- 
came more strict. Formal congregations were organ- 
ized, whose members, for the most part, lived together 
in convents. A girdle of leather to symbolize virgini- 
ty was added to the garb. More extended measures 
to uniform and regulate the order were taken under 
the direction of cardinal Borromeo, who w as from the 
first its zealous patron. By the end of the lGtli centu- 
ry the order had become established in France, and 
rapidly increased the number of its convents. The sin- 
gle congregation of Paris possessed over eighty such 
houses. In time this congregation devised a new rule 
which was approved by pope Paul V, and has become 
the model for the rules of the congregations of Bor- 
deaux, Dijon, and Lyons (see Const it ut. d. Rtliyeuses de 
iS. Urs. de la Congreg. de Paris , 1648, and Rey lenient, 


1673). It adds to the three solemn vows of Augustine 
a fourth, which requires the instruction of female youth, 
'fhe garb consists of gray skirt, black robe, leathern 
girdle with iron buckle, black cloak without sleeves, a 
bead -cloth with short white veil, and a large black 
thin veil over all. The French congregations origi- 
nated the Ursuline order in Germany. In the time of 
its greatest extension the order consisted of about twen- 
ty loosely connected congregations, having, perhaps, 
350 convents and 15,000 to 20,000 nuns, the maximum 
number of inmates being GO nuns and 20 lay-sisters to 
a convent. The Ursulines are distinguished by a con- 
scientious performance of the obligation to instruct the 
young. In Italy and Switzerland the congregated or 
non-regnlated Ursulines compose the body of the order, 
and they observe a more ascetical rule than the regu- 
lated nuns. They devote eight days annually to the 
spiritual exercises prescribed by Loyola, teach young 
girls daily, catechise adults on Sunday, visit the sick, 
dispense alms, and bold conferences every Friday. 
Their novitiate extends over three years. The differ- 
ent 1 louses are al- 
most everywhere un- 
der the direction of 
the diocesan bishops. 

See Les Chrcnnqius 
de VOrdre des Ursu- 
lines ( Paris, 1G7G ), 
vol. ii ; Journal des 
Illustr. Religeuses de 
VOrdre de B. Urs. 
iv, 1 600 ; Mayer, Ur- 
sul. - Orden ( Wurz- 
burg, 1692); llelvot, 

Geschichte aller Bla- 
ster- n. Ritter-Orden, 

, 178 sq. ; Crome, 

Gesch. d. Mbnclts- 
Orden, ch. iv. — Her- 
zog, Real - Encyklop. 
s. v. The first Ursn- 
line colony in Amer- 
ica was founded by 
Marie Guvart at 
Quebec in 1639 ; and 
there are now con- 
vents of this order 



also at Trois Rivi- 


ITsnliiie of Trois Rivieres, Canada. 


£res and Chatham, in Canada; and in the United States 
at Morrisania, N. Y. ; at Cleveland, Toledo, and Fay- 
etteville, (). ; at Springfield and Alton, 111.; at Colum- 
bia. Savannah. and Augusta. Ga. ; at New Orleans, San 
Antonio, Galveston. Louisville, and St. Louis. But they 
have ceased to exist in Italy, Switzerland, and Germany 
since 1871, See Apple tons' Cyclop, s. v. 

Urued, a title of the god Bilgi in Chaldtean my- 
thology, signifying “protector of the bouse.” See Le- 
normant, Cliald, Magic, p. 186. 

Uruker, in Chahkean mythology, was the name of 
a wicked ihvmnn, “ enormous” and “multifold.” See 
Lenormant, Cliald. Magic, p. 8, 10. 

Uru Sukhar, in Chaldsean mythology, was a title 
of the god Bilgi, signifying “protector of the family.” 
See Lenormant, Cliald. Magic, p. 186. 

Urwick, Wii.i.iam, D.D., an Irish Congregational 
minister, was born at Shrewsbury, Dec. 8, 1791. He 
graduated at Iloxton College, and settled at Sligo; be- 
came interested in important discussions with the Ro- 
man Catholic divines, and by the brilliancy of his ar- 
guments and the overpowering force of his mind won 
for himself a place among the foremost defenders of the 
Gospel of Christ. In 1826 Dr. Urwick accepted the 
pastorate of York Street Chapel, Dublin, and during 
the long period of bis public ministry was recognised 
as an able advocate of the religion of Christ. He was 
intimately associated with the Irish Evangelical Socie- 


USAGERS 


683 


tv, Home Mission, anti the Evangelical Alliance. He 
died July 19, 1868. See (Loud.) Cong. Year-book, i860, 
p. 285. 

Usagers and Collegers, two parties existing in 
the Church of Scotland in the reigns of George 1 and 
George II. As the bishops who had been ejected from 
their sees during the Revolution were gradually re- 
moved by death, others were consecrated in their stead, 
without diocesan authority, to preserve the apostolic 
succession until the former condition of affairs should be 
restored. On the death of bishop Rose of Edinburgh, 
in 1720, the last of the old diocesan prelates, it was pro- 
posed that the Church should henceforth be governed 
by a college of bishops. The proposal was supported 
by the lay party and opposed by the clergy. Another 
cause of division arose in view of the fact that some 
of the diocesan party favored the adoption of certain 
usages into the Church of Scotland which had been 
lately revived in England, viz. — (1) mixing water with 
the wine; (2) commemorating the faithful departed; 
(3) the invocation in the prayer of consecration; (4) 
oblation before administration. Bishop Gadderar, one 
of the defenders of the usages, being subsequently 
chosen bishop of Aberdeen, the party opposed to the 
college system became identified with the usages. 
Hence the terms Usagers and Collegers. See Blunt, 
Diet, of Sects, s. v. 

Use, the form of external worship peculiar to any 
Church ; also the ritual of a Church or diocese arranged 
bv authority and generally followed. In England each 
bishop formerly had the power of making some im- 
provements in the liturgy of his Church; in process of 
time different customs arose which were so distinct as 
to receive the name of “ uses.” We thus have the 
uses of Sarum, Bangor, York, Hereford, Durham, Lin- 
coln. The Use of Sarum became the most general. 
All were practically abolished in the 16th century. 
See Hook, Church Diet . s. v. 

Ushas, in Hindu mythology, is one of the female 
deities of the Yedas — the Dawn. She is represented 
as possessing very pleasing attributes, such as the bring- 
er of opulence, the giver of food, endowed with intel- 
lect, truthful, and the like. See Chambers's Encyclop. 
s. v. 

Usher (or Ussher), James, an illustrious prelate, 
and a great luminary of the Irish Church, was born at 
Dublin, Jan. 4, 1580. He was educated at Trinity Col- 
lege, Dublin, being one of the first three scholars ma- 
triculated. In 1601 he was ordained ; in 1603 he became 
chancellor of St. Patrick’s, and soon after professor of di- 
vinity at the university; in 1619 he was made bishop 
of Meat h ; and in 1624 he became archbishop of Armagh 
and primate. During the troubles arising out of the 
war between Charles I and the Parliament, Usher had 
to leave Ireland, and was subjected to much hardship, 
his property being seized and his revenues distrained. 
He obtained the see of Carlisle (in commendam ), but 
from that but little emolument accrued to him. He 
afterwards became preacher at Lincoln’s Inn, and was 
one of the six divines allowed by Parliament to confer 
with Charles at Carisbrook. No man could be matched 
against him in debate, and during the Civil War he 
preached many bitter sermons against the Independents. 
In 1642 he removed to Oxford, but, the king’s power 
declining, he retired to Cardiff. He was recognised as 
one of the greatest scholars of his time. Richelieu is 
said to have offered him a high position in France. He 
declined a professorship at Leyden. His later years 
were spent in the family of lady Peterborough at Rei- 
gate, where he died, March 21, 1656. Usher was a la- 
borious student, and amassed vast learning. His .1 n- 
ihiles Vet . et Novi Test. (1650-54, fol.) established his 
fame as a scholar and a ehronologist, and fixed the Bib- 
lical chronology which has since been generally follow- 
ed in this country, and which is adopted in the A. V. 
He wrote also De Greeca LXX. Versione Syntagma : — 


USQUE 

Epistola ad L.Capellum de Variis Text. f/eb. Lectionibus 
(1652) : — Britannicarum Ecclesiarum A ntiqaitates (1639, 
fob; enlarged ed. 1677): — and a multitude of works on 
the ecclesiastical controversies of the day, and on some 
questions in theology. Ilis library, for which he col- 
lected books and MSS. from all quarters, was, after his 
death, presented to the Dublin University, where it re- 
mains. lie succeeded in obtaining six copies of the 
Samaritan Pentateuch and several MSS. of the Syriac 
version. His collected works have been edited by 
Dr. Elrington (1847, 16 vols. 8vo), with a life of the 
author. 

Usher, John (1), an American Episcopal minister, 
was born in 1689; graduated at Harvard College in 
1719; studied theology; went to England for holy or- 
ders, and returned as missionary of the Society for Prop- 
agating the Gospel in Foreign Parts; and was appoint- 
ed to the mission at Bristol, R. I. He died at Bristol, 
April 30, 1775. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pul- 
pit, v, 48-50. 

Usher, John (2), son of the preceding, was born at 
Bristol, R. I., 1722; graduated at Harvard College in 
1743; practiced law for many years; commenced read- 
ing service, after the death of his lather, in 1775; was 
ordained by bishop Seabury in 1793, and rector of the 
parish until 1800. lie died July, 1804. See Sprague, 
A muds of the Amer. Pulpit, p. 49. 

Usous, in Phoenician mythology, was, according to 
tradition, handed down by Sanchoniathon as a brother of 
llvpsuranius, who at first protected his body with hides 
of animals which he had killed ; and when rains and 
winds came, and fire broke out through friction of the 
trees one with another, he risked himself upon a tree, 
whose branches be had cut off, out upon the treacherous 
sea. He dedicated two pillars to fire and wind, and sac- 
rificed the blood of the animals he had slain. — Vollmer, 
Worterb. d. J fythol. s. v. 

Usque, Ahraham, whose Christian name was Du- 
arte Pinel, belonged to those unhappy Jewish exiles who 
were driven from the Spanish peninsula in 1492. He 
sought refuge at Ferrara, in Italy, where he established, 
under the name of Abraham Usque, a great printing 
establishment, in order to supply the Marranos with He- 
brew books. He not only edited various Rabbinical 
works, but also published the celebrated Spanish trans- 
lation of the Hebrew Scriptures entitled Biblia en Len- 
gun Espailola, traduzhla Palabra por Palabra de la 
Verdadera f/ebraica, por muy excelentes let 7-ados. 17 sfa 
y exammada por el Ofcio de la I/iquisicio?7, which he 
dedicated to Hercules II and Donna Gracia Nasi (Fer- 
rara, 5313 = 1553). There is a great deal of dispute about 
this Bible, since two editions of it were simultaneously 
printed — the one edited by Duarte Pinel, at the expense 
of Gerdnimo de Varjas, and the other edited by Abra- 
ham Usque, at the expense of Jom Tob Athias. But 
the difficulty is easily removed by identifying Usque 
with Pinel, De Vargas with Athias; Duarte Pinel be- 
ing the Portuguese name and Abraham Usque the Jew- 
ish, and so Gerdnimo de Varjas being the Spanish and 
Jom 'fob Athias the Jewish name. There is no doubt 
that both were Marranos, and used their Christian name 
in the edition which was printed for the Spanish-speak- 
ing Christians; while in the edition for their Jewish 
brethren they used their Jewish name, under which 
they have become known. Usque, or Pinel, began this 
version in 1543 and completed it in 1553, after ten years 
of diligent labor. And though the names of the trans- 
lators are not given, it being simply remarked “ made 
by very excellent scholars” (“ por muy excelentes letra- 
dos”), yet there can be but little doubt that he was 
the principal author of it. lie adopted the literal trans- 
lation of the Pentateuch published in the Constanti- 
nople Pentateuch Polyglot (1547), which was common- 
ly in use by the Jews in Spain in the middle of the 
16th century, and which is most probably the early 
Spanish translation of the Middle Ages falsely attrib- 


USSERMANN 


6S4 


USURY 


uted to David Kimchi (see Steinselmeider, .Jewish Lit- 
erature, p. 132). There were two editions, published 
simultaneously, as has already been intimated : one was 
intended for the Jews, and the other was designed to 
acquaint Spanish - speaking Christians with the Old 
Test. New editions of the former appeared at Ferrara, 
1030 ; Amsterdam, 1011; Venice, 1617 ; and with cor- 
rections. improvements, and an introduction by Manas- 
seh ben -Israel, Amsterdam, 1630; with tables of the 
llaphtaroth, indices of chapters, judges, kings, and 
prophets of Israel according to the “TO, as well 

as with an elaborate introduction by Gillis Joost (ibid. 
1646), and with a new preface and corrections by Sam. 
% de Cazeres (ibid. 1061 ). See Fiirst, Bill. ,/ud. iii, 463 sq. ; 
l>e’ Rossi, Dizionario Storico, p. 324 (derm, transh); id. 
De Typagraphia Ilebrceo-Ferrarensi , p. 28-40 ; Stein- 
sell tieider, Catalog. Lihr. llebr. in Bibl. Bodl. col. 195; 
Etheridge, Introduction to Hebrew Literature, p. 453; 
Ticknor, History of Spanish Literature , i, 41, note 
(Amer. ed.) ; Finn, Sephardin, p. 468 sq.; Lindo, His- 
tory of the Jen's in Spain , p. 361 ; Da Costa, Israel and 
the Gentiles, p. 3114 sq. ; Ivitto, Cyclop, s. v. ; Kayserling, 
Gesch. d. .luden in Portugal , p. 268 ; driitz, Gesch. d. .la- 
den, ix,344 sq. ; Rosenmiiller, Handbuch fitr die Litera- 
tur der bibl. Kritik und Exegese , iv, 208 sq. ; Simon, 
Ilistoire. Crit. da V.T. p. 311. (14. F.) 

Ussermann, JEmilian, a Roman Catholic divine 
of Germany, was born at St. Ulrich, in Baden, Oct. 30, 
1737, occupied the chair of theology at Salzburg from 
1767 to 1769, and died Oct. 27, 1798, as doctor of theol- 
ogy and capitulary in the monastery of the Benedic- 
tines of Sauct Blasien. ile is the author of, Episcopatus 
Wireebnrg. sub Metropoli Moguntina Chronol. et Diplo- 
mat. Jllnstratus (Sanet Blasien, 1794): — Episcopatus 
Bamberg. . . . Illustr. (ibid. 1801): — Suceincta Explicatio 
Locorum quorundam Dificiliorum Pcntateuchi quoad 
Sensum Literalem. Moralem , Polemieum , Allegoricnm et 
Antilogicum ex Contextu prcvcipue Loeis Parallelis ac 
IJnguis Adornata (Munich, 1767): — Compendium Syn- 
taxeos I1ehraic.ce, ana cum Analysi Libri Gene seas, etc. 
(Salzburg, 1769). See Fiirst, Bibl. J ad. iii, 465; Winer, 
Handbuch der theol. Literatur , i, 779, 787. (B. P.) 

Usteri, Leonhard, a Swiss theologian, was born 
Oct. 22, 1799, at Zurich. He studied in his native 
place, and having been ordained in 1820, he went to 
Berlin to attend the leetures of Schleiermaeher. In 

1823 he returned to his native eity, and commenced a 
course of private lectures on the Pauline epistles. In 

1824 he was called to Berne as professor and director 

of the gymnasium, and died there Sept. 18, 1833. He 
combined exact scholarship with philosophic depth and 
acumen. He wrote, Comment at io Critica , in qua Joannis 
Evangelium Genuinum esse , ex Comparatis 1 V Evangeli- 
ornm de Ccena Ultima et de Passione Jesu Christi Xar- 
radonibus Ostenditur (Turiei, 1823), written against 
Bretsehneider : — Entwiekelung des Punlinischen Lehr- 
begrifes in seinem Yerhiiltnisse zur biblischen Dogma tik 
des Xeuen Testaments, etc. (Zurich, 1824; 6th ed. 1851): 
— Commentar iiber den Brief Pauli an die Galater (ibid. 
1833). He also published some essays in the Stud, n . 
Krit. See Then log. Universal-Lex. s. v. ; Znehold, Bibl. 
Theolog. ii, 1373; Winer, Handbuch der theol. Literatur, 
i, 32, 88, 261, 294 ; ii, 812. (B. P.) 

Ustick, Hugh Stewart, a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born at Bloom ingburgh, O., Sept. 9, 1832, He 
pursued bis academical studies in Salem Academy, Ross 
Co., O., and graduated at Miami L T niversitv in 1853. 
He studied- theology in New Albany Seminary; was 
licensed to preacli by Ohillicothe Presbytery in 1855; 
employed by the American Tract Society during 1856: 
anti ordained as pastor of the Presbyterian Church at 
Hamilton, O., in May, 1857. He died Oct. 31, 1857. 
See Wilson, Presb. Hist. A Imanac, 1864, p, 200, 

Ustick, Stephen C., a prominent Baptist lay- 
man, son of the Rev. Thomas Ustick, was born in New 


York city in 1773. Ile was a printer by trade, and de- 
voted himself to his secular calling with great activity. 
For many years he was a deacon in the Burlington, 
N. J., Baptist Church, and took a deep interest in all 
plans for religious work, both at home and abroad. 
For some time his home was in Washington, I). C. 
lie removed to Batavia, O., in which place he died, 
Nov. 11, 1837. Mr. Usiick was one of the founders 
of the Baptist Triennial Convention, formed in 1814 
with special reference to carrying on the work of for- 
eign missions. >See the Missionary Jubilee , p. 119. 
(J.C.S.) 

Ustur, in Chnldrcan mythology, was a class of 
protecting genii with the face of a human being, 
and referred to in Ezekiel’s (i, 10; x, 14) vision by 
the river Chebar. See Lenormant, Chaldcean Maaic, 

p. 121. 

Usuard, a French hagiographer of the 9th century, 
was a monk of Saint-Germain-des-Pres at Paris. He 
wrote a Martyroloyy under the countenance of Charles 
the Bald, which was first, printed at the end of Rudi- 
ment um Xovitiomm (1475), and afterwards served as 
the basis of the M artyrologium Ronuinum. He died 
Jan. 8, 876 or 877. See Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generale, 
s. v. 

Usurpation of a Benefice is the act (by a 
stranger who has no right to do so) of presenting a 
clerk, who is thereupon admitted to, and instituted in, 
a Church benefice. Anciently such an act deprived the 
legal patron of his advowson ; but now no usurpation 
can displace the estate or interest of the patron, but rhe 
true patron may present upon the next avoidance, as if 
no such usurpation had occurred. — Lee, Gloss of Liturg, 
Terms , s. v. 

Usury (T(w3, neskek, lit. a biting, i. e. extortion; 
tokqq, yield; twice [Neh.v, 7, 10] X 'i' "2 , m ash sh d, debt) 
is used in the A.V. in the Old-English sense of interest 
for money loaned, and not necessarily in the odious and 
later signification, an unlawful contract for the loan of 
money, to be returned again with exorbitant increase. 
By the laws of Moses the Israelites were forbidden to 
take usury from their brethren upon the loan of money, 
victuals, or anything else, not, it has been observed by 
Michaelis, as if he absolutely and in all eases condemned 
the practice, for he expressly permitted interest to he 
taken from strangers, hut only out of favor to the poorer 
classes. In other words, he did not mean to represent 
that the taking of interest for the loan of money was in 
itself sinful and unjust; but as at that period the Israel- 
ites were comparatively a poor people and strangers to 
commerce, they borrowed, nut with a view to profit, but 
from poverty, and in order to procure the common nec- 
essaries of life. It would therefore have been a hard- 
ship to have exacted from them more than was lent. 
The Israelites were, however, permitted to take usury 
from strangers, from the Cannanites and other people 
devoted to subjection. This was one of the many means 
they adopted for oppressing and ruining the Canaanites 
who remained in the land. The Israelites were not a 
commercial people, nor were the laws and regulations 
under which they were placed framed with a view to 
encourage them to become such, but rather to preserve 
them in the possession of their family inheritances, and 
in the cultivation of a simple, unostentatious, frugal 
mode of life. Among themselves, therefore, only such 
lending as ministered help to the struggling poor, and 
served to tide them over trials and difficulties, was con- 
sistent with the spirit of the old economy; not such as 
tended to embarrass their circumstances, and at their 
expense enabled a griping neighbor to enrich himself. 
This last is the only kind of usury forbidden in the 
law, and the avoiding of this is sometimes given among 
the characteristics of the upright and godly man (Psa. 
xv, 5; Jer. xv, 10). It is also that which when prac- 
ticed was denounced as a crying inquitv, and exposed 


UTENHEIM 


GS5 


USURY 

those who did it to judicial condemnation (Prov. 
xxviii, 8). 

The practice of mortgaging land, sometimes at ex- 
orbitant interest, grew up among the Jews during the 
Captivity, in direct violation of the law (Lev. xxv, 30, 
37; Ezek. xviii. 8, 13, 17). We find the rate reaching 
1 in 100 per month, corresponding to the Homan cente- 
sinue usurer, or 12 per cent, per annum — a rate which 
Niebuhr considers to have been borrowed from abroad, 
and which is, or has been till quite lately, a very usual 
or even a minimum rate in the East (Niebuhr, Hist, of 
Home, iii, 57, Engl, transl.; Yolney, True, ii, 254, note; 
Chardin, Voy. vi, 122) ; but under Turkish misrule it 
now often reaches 40 or 50 per cent. (Cornier, Tent 
Work in Palest, ii, 2(58). Yet the law of the Koran, 
like the Jewish, forbids all usury (Lane, Mod. Eyypt. i, 
132; Sale, Koran , c. 30). The laws of Menu allow 18 
and even 24 per cent, as an interest rate; but, as was 
the law in Egypt, accumulated interest was not to ex- 
ceed twice the original sum lent (Laws of Menu, viii, 
110, 141, 151; Jones [Sir W.j, 1 1 r orJcs, iii, 295; comp. 
Diod. Sic. i, 9, 79). This Jewish practice was annulled 
bv Nchemiah, and an oath exacted to insure its discon- 
tinuance (Neh.v, 3-13; comp. Selden, l)e Jur.Xat.vi,\Q ; 
Hoffmann, Lex. s. v. “ Usura”). Our Saviour denounced 
all extortion, and promulgated a new law of love and 
forbearance: ‘’Give to every man that asketh of thee, 
and of him that taketh away thy goods, ask them not 
again.” “Love ye your enemies, and do good, and lend, 
hoping for nothing again” (Luke vi, 30, 35). 

The practice of usury was severely censured by the 
ancient Church and strictly forbidden to the clergy. 
One law prohibited a usurer from ordination. Many of 
the ancient canons condemned it in unmeasured terms. 
One of the canons of Nice says, * k Forasmuch as many 
clerks, following covetousness and filthy lucre, and for- 
getting the Holy Scriptures (which speak of the right- 
eous man as one that hath not given his money upon 
usury), have let forth their money upon usury, and 
taken the usual monthly increase, it seemed good to 
this great and holy synod that if any one, after this de- 
cree, shall be found to take usury, or demand the prin- 
cipal with half the increase of the whole, or shall invent 
any such methods for filthy lucre’s sake, he shall be de- 
graded from his order, and have his name struck out of 
the roll of the Church.” The same practice is censured 
by the Apostolical Canons; the Council ofEliberis; the 
first and second councils of Arles; the first and third of 
Carthage; the Council of Laodicea and of Trullo. Usury 
was of various kinds; sometimes it was called centesi- 
mm, the hundredth part of the principal being paid 
every month. This was allowed by the civil law, but 
it was generally condemned by the Church. Another 
form of usury was called sescnplum; that is, the whole 
and half as much more. This was condemned by a law 
of Justinian and reprobated by the Church. Other forms 
of lower interest were allowed, such as half or third of 
the centesimal interest. See Bingham, Keel. Antiq. p. 
200-201, 1014, etc. 

Hut the taking of usury in the sense of receiving a 
reasonable rate of interest for the use of money em- 
ployed in merchandise belongs to a different category, 
and is nowhere forbidden; nor is it more contrary to 
the law of love than the plying of merchandise itself 
for the sake of gain. Hence it is referred to in New- 
Test. Scripture as a perfectly understood and allowable 
practice (Matt, xxv, 27 ; Luke xix, 23) — a practice which 
the Jews of all ages, from the time of the Exile, when 
they began to be in a manner driven to commerce for 
their support, have felt themselves at liberty to carry 
on. That it may be, and often has been, carried on by 
them as well as others in a wav far from consistent 
with the great principles of equity, there can be no 
doubt; but this belongs to the abuse, not to the use, of 
the liberty in question, and is to be condemned on com- 
mercial as well as moral grounds. Applied to Christian 
times, the spirit of the old enactments regarding usury 


finds its fulfilment in the frank and timely ministration 
of pecuniary help from those who can give it to persons 
on whom misfortune and poverty have fallen, and, as re- 
gards commercial transactions, in the maintenance of 
upright and honorable dealings. 

The exaction of an exorbitant rate of interest for the 
loan of money was first prohibited in England during 
the reign of Edward the Confessor; but that law is con- 
sidered to have become obsolete, as in 112*5 usury was 
forbidden only to the clergy, and in 1138 it was decreed 
by the Council that “such of the clergy as were usurers 
and hunters after sordid gain, and for the public em- 
ployment of the laity, ought to be degraded.” In 1 199, 
the last year of the reign of liichard I, the rate of inter- 
est for money was restricted to 10 per cent., which con- 
tinued to be the market rate until t He reign of Henry 
VIII. In 1311, Philip IV fixed the interest that might 
be exacted in the fairs of Champagne at 20 per cent. 
James I of Arragon, in 1242, fixed it at 18 per cent. In 
1490 the rate of interest in Placentia was 40 percent. 
Charles Y fixed the rate of interest in his dominions at 
12 per cent. In 1540 the rate in England was fixed at 
10 per cent.; in 11524 it was reduced to 8; in IG51 to 0; 
and in 1714 to 5 per cent., at which it remained until 
1833. By 3 and 4 William 1Y, c. 98, bills not having 
more than three months to run were exempted from 
the operation of the laws against usury, and by l Vic- 
toria, c. 80, the exemption was extended to bills pay- 
able at twelve months. By 2 and 3 Victoria, c. 37, 
it was enacted that bills of exchange and contracts 
for loans or forbearance of money above £10 shall not 
be affected by the usury laws. Five per cent, is still 
left as the legal rate of interest for money, unless it 
shall appear that any different rate was agreed upon 
between t lie parties. — Kitto; Smith; Fairbairn. In 
most of the United States a certain rate (now generally 
six per cent.) is fixed by law, and penalties are imposed 
for exacting a higher rate. See Loan. 

U'ta (Ocrd; Vulg. Utha ), a corrupt Greek form (l 
Esdr. v, 30) of the lleb. name (Ezra ii, 45) Akkub 
( q. v.). 

Utanubaden, in Hindu mythology, is the eldest 
son of king Suayambhu, the progenitor of the entire 
generation of men. He was married to Sunadi, by 
whom he had a son, Druwen, who already in his fifth 
year was a saint endowed by Vishnu with wisdom, 
and ruled the kingdom of his father through a period 
of twenty-six thousand years, and was finally trans- 
planted into the polar star. 

Utenheim, CimisTorn von, bishop of Basle in the 
mra of the Heformation, and an unconscious agent in 
preparing the wav for that change in his diocese, was 
born about 1450 of an ancient and noble family, and in 
time became a representative of the views of Gerson 
(q. v.). He was made a canon at Strasburg, and after- 
wards provost; became rector of the newly founded 
University of Basle, master, doctor of canon law, and, 
it is said, general of the Order of Cluniacensians. In 
A.D. 1500 he ivas made administrator of the diocese of 
Basle, and in 1502 bishop. He introduced an economi- 
cal administration, which enabled him to liquidate the 
debts of his diocese, and in time to promote the inter- 
ests of learning, but which, to some extent, offended his 
clergy, and caused the Council of Basle to suspect him 
of entertaining ambitious designs in the direction of re- 
covering rights over the town which his predecessors 
had alienated for money. This dispute ended eventual- 
ly in the refusal on the part of the town to pay the 
bishop's penny, which formed the last, evidence of epis- 
copal authority in secular matters. In spiritual and ec- 
clesiastical matters, Utenheim also placed himself at 
once on the side of reform. In obedience to the direc- 
tions of the Council of Basle, he framed synodal statutes, 
and convened a synod, Oct. 23, 1503, which he address- 
ed in words of earnest exhortation and warning, to the 
end that a purer, life among the clergy might restore 


UTGARD 


UYTENBOGAERT 


686 


the Church to respect among the laity, and might in- 
troduce a purer morality among the people. 4 he stat- 
utes he had prepared were then adopted; the clergy 
promised to conform to them, and pledged themselves 
to hold two synods annually, at which reports should 
he rendered concerning their own conduct and the 
moral and religious state of the people, and measures 
for further improvement should be devised. This en- 
deavor was nevertheless fruitless, because opposition 
and disobedience from bis clergy soon appeared in 
measure too great for him to control; but it led to the 
inception of a new plan for reforming the diocese, which 
has given this bishop a noteworthy place among the 
forerunners of the Reformation. In 1512 he called Ca- 
pito (q. v.) to become preacher in the cathedral, and 
three years afterwards CEcolampadius, neither of them 
representatives of rigid Romanism, and both destined 
soon to become leaders in the tendency away from 
Rome. Erasmus was also valued by the bishop, and 
invited (June 13, 1517) to make Basle his home; and 
when Luther began his work, Utenheim rejoiced in his 
boldness, and read his writings with avidity. So late 
as 1519 Oapito wrote to Luther that a learned and very 
upright bishop had promised a refuge to the Reformer 
in case of need, which bishop was certainly none other 
than Utenheim. It soon became apparent, however, 
that Luther’s work was causing material damage to the 
bishop and bishopric of Basle, and the prelate there- 
upon began to take retrograde steps. He lirst demand- 
ed and received a coadjutor in his office. A public and 
notorious violation of the fast on Palm-Sunday furnish- 
ed him with a desired occasion to issue a mandate for- 
bidding the public mention of Luther and threatening 
punishment for all further transgressions of the law of 
fasting. Erasmus responded to that mandate in a cir- 
cular letter addressed to the bishop, which may have 
restrained the latter from extreme measures, but which, 
nevertheless, caused his own expulsion from the town 
soon after Easter, 1522. It is certain that Utenheim 
always remained accessible to the evangelicals; but, 
on the other hand, he advised the Church of Zurich not 
to risk the second disputation set down for September, 
1523, and joined the association of German bishops for 
giving effect to the Edict of Worms, lie retained the 
friendship of Erasmus to the last, and permitted the 
latter to express his views respecting the Church very 
frankly. Worn out with age, ill-health, and anxiety, 
he retired in 1524 to Bruntrul. In February, 1527, he 
asked to be released from bis official duties, and died 
March 16 of that year. See Sudamis, Easilea Sacra , 
etc. (Bruntmt, 1668); Ochs , Gesch. d. Stadt Easel, eh. iv ; 
Erasmus, I 'latenso, Th. Moro, etc.; Scnltetus, A males 
ad A. 1519 ; Wirz, I ! el vet. Kirch.-Gesch. v, 284 ; Wursti- 
seu, Easier Chronik, p. 564 ; Letters of ilerm. Buscli and 
Glareau to Zwingli (ed. Schuler and Seliulthess), vii, 1, 
195-197 ; Ranke, Deutsche Gesch. im Zeit alter d. Refor- 
mation , ii, 518; Herzog, Leben Oekolumpad's (i, 9 sq.), 
Eeitrdge zur Gesch . Easels ( 1 839), and Real- Encyklop. s. v . ; 
also Tonjola, Easilea Sepulta Detecta, Appendix, p. 25. 

Utgard, in Norse mythology, is the realm of Ut- 
gardsloki, lying at the end of the world, and is the land 
of giants and magicians. It became known from Thor’s 
journey to Utgard. 

U'thai [many U'thai'] (Ileb. Uthay ', help- 
ful), the name of two Hebrews. 

1. (Sept. rVwSi v. r. FwSi ; Vulg. Othei.) A person 
(called “the son of Ammihud”) of the family of Rharez, 
whoresided at Jerusalem after the return from Babylon 
(1 Chron. ix, 4). B.C. 536. He is usually thought to 
be identical with Athaiaii (q. v.) of the somewhat 
parallel passage (Neh. xi, 4) ; but none of the names in 
liis ancestry (except Pharez) agree. 

2. (Sept. 0 iftai v. r, Oc3< ; Vulg. Uthai.) First 
named of the two “sons of Bigvai,” who returned with 
seventy males from Babylon with Ezra (Ezra viii, 14). 

<B.C. 459. 


U'tlii (0 iVSri), the Greek form (1 Esdr. viii, 40) of 
the Ileb. name (Ezra viii, 14) Utiiai (q. v.). 

Utilitarianism, a term first applied to the doc- 
trine of utility (q. v.) by John Stuart 31 ill, and adopted 
by very many since that time. The term utility was 
first employed to distinguish the doctrine by Jeremy 
Bent ham. See Mill, Utilitarianism . 

Utility, in ethico-philosophical terminology, is the 
doctrine that actions are right because they are useful 
or tend to promote happiness. It is thus defined by 
Mill ( Utilitarianism , p. 9): “ The creed which accepts 
as the foundation of morals utility, or the greatest hap- 
piness principle, holds that actions are right in propor- 
tion as they tend to promote happiness, wrong as they 
tend to produce the reverse of happiness. By happi- 
ness is intended pleasure and the absence of pain; by 
unhappiness, pain and the privation of pleasure.” The 
fundamental objection to the doctrine is thus stated by 
Dr. Reid (Active Powers , essay v, ch. v): “Agreeable- 
ness and utility are not moral conceptions, nor have 
they any connection with morality. What a man 
does, merely because it is agreeable, is not virtue.” 
See Fleming and Krauth, }’ocab. of Philos, s. v. 

Utino, Leonardo da, an Italian Dominican, rector 
of a gymnasium at Bologna, chaplain to Eugene IV, 
and provincial of liis order for Lombardy, flourished in 
A.D. 1444. His works consist of two series of sermons 
and two treatises — De Locis Communibns Pradicatorum 
and De Legibus . See Mosheim, Church Ilist. bk. iii, 
cent, xv, pt. ii, ch. ii. 

Utraquists, a name at first given to all those 
members of the Western Church in the 14th century 
who contended for the administration of the eucharist 
to the laity sub ntraque specie , i. e. in both kinds. The 
name was applied especially to the Calixtines (q. v.) 
in the 15th century. See Fisher, Hist, of the Ref. 
p. 178 sq. 

Utrecht, Peace of. Utrecht is a city of the 
Netherlands, capital of the province of the same name, 
and noted for the treaties which were signed there to 
close the War of the Spanish Succession. The prelimi- 
nary terms of the treaty between Great Britain and 
France were signed Oct. 8, 1711. A congress was 
opened at Utrecht Jan. 12, 1712. Arrangements be- 
tween the two powers were completed in August of the 
same year. Agreement was also reached with Holland, 
Portugal, Prussia, and Savoy soon afterwards. Each 
of the contracting parties treated in its own name, and 
hence there were as many as nine different treaties 
signed April 11, 1713. Many changes were made in 
the possessions of the powers named, and Protestantism 
made substantial gain on the continent of Europe. 

Utug, in Chakkean mythology, is the generic name 
of the inferior and malevolent spirits properly called 
daemons. They are said to inhabit the desert and to 
cause diseases of the forehead. See Lenormant, Chal- 
deean Magic, p. 24 sq. 

Uua, in Egyptian mythology, is the name of the 
bark or vessel in which the image of the deity Ra (the 
sun) was carried by the priests. See Lenormant, Chal- 
dee an Magic, p. 83. 

Uwienon, Council of (Concilium Unienoviense'), 
was held in 1375, under Jaroslav, archbishop of Gnesen. 
Several statutes were drawn up for the reformation of 
ecclesiastical discipline, and a subsidy granted by the 
clergy towards the expenses of the war against the 
Turks. See 3Iausi, Concil. xi, 2043; Landon, Manual 
of Councils, s. v. 

Uytenbogaert ( Uytenbogard , Wytembogard'), 
Hans, one of the most prominent and influential ad- 
herents of Arminins, after the death of that scholar a 
leader of the Remonstrants — an independent and earnest 
and yet a moderate and considerate man, everywhere 
maintaining a firm and upright character, and inces- 


UYT1IAGE 


687 


uz 


santly engaged in promoting peace among the parties 
of Protestantism — was regarded as the ablest and most 
distinguished preacher of his time among the Remon- 
strants. Ilis custom was to avoid, as far as possible, 
the application of scholastic forms, and to base his dis- 
courses directly on the Scriptures. He was born at 
Utrecht in 1557, studied at Geneva under Beza, and be- 
came pastor in his native town in 1581. From this 
post he was dismissed in 1589, because of the moderate 
views he held respecting the already controverted doc- 
trine of predestination. In 1590 he was called to the 
Hague, where he became chaplain to the court of the 
prince of Orange and tutor to his son, and acquired 
great reputation and influence. He united with Armin- 
ius in petitioning the States-General to convoke a synod 
at which they might defend their party and views 
against the charges continually urged against them by 
the Gomarists. An interview between Arminius and 
Gomarus was the only result of this effort, and the dis- 
pute was afterwards continued without any relaxation 
of its bitterness. Uytenbogaert carried himself with 
dignity throughout. He delivered an address before 
the States, in which he set before them the rights and 
duties they were bound to observe. lie showed the in- 
admissibility of compulsory support of a symbol, demon- 
strated that the clergy itself had occasioned the troubles 
in the Church, and that its object was to enforce the 
principle of the independence of the spiritual power, 
lie demanded that the States should examine the ques- 
tions in dispute themselves and bring them to a conclu- 
sion; that in the event of a synod being convened no 
decisions should be reached before the opposing party 
should have had opportunity to be heard; and, tin ally, 
that if fraternity between factions could not be attained, 
mutual toleration at least should be insured. After the 
death of Arminius, in 1609, Uytenbogaert was associated 
with Kpiscopius in the leadership of his party and in 
the Remonstrance through which they presented their 
doctrinal system to the view of the States of Holland 
and West Friesland (1610). lie accompanied an em- 
bassy to Paris as its chaplain about this time, and in 
the following year participated with Kpiscopius and 
others in a colloquy with their opponents at the Hague 
in the vain hope of securing peace. In 1616, Henry 
Koseus entered legal complaint against him on account 
of a particular exposition given bv him of the five 
points of the Remonstrance. In 1619 he presided over 
a Remonstrant synod at Walwyck, which fact intensi- 
fied the hostility to which he was exposed. lie there- 
upon retired to Antwerp until 1622, during which time 
sentence of banishment and confiscation of property was 
pronounced against him, and afterwards to Rouen, in 
France. In 1626 he came back to Rotterdam and lived 
in secrecy, endeavoring to secure a revocal of his sen- 
tence and aiding with counsel and act in the measures 
of his party. His goods were restored to him in 1629, 
and in 1631 he was permitted to be present during pub- 
lic worship at the Hague. He was even allowed to 
preach a few times, but his enemies succeeded in com- 
pelling him to finally desist from exercising the func- 
tions of the ministry, lie died Sept. 24, 1644. II is 
writings are chiefly in the Dutch language. Among 
them are a Church History (Rotterdam, 1646): — a 
treatise De Auctoritate Mayistratus in Rebus Eccles. 
(ibid. 1647): — and a translation of the Confessio site 
Declaratio Sentential Pastorum. See Sehrockh, Christl. 
Kirchenyesch. seit d. Reform. (Leips. 1806), v, 226-276, 
and the literature there given; also Gieseler, Kirchen- 
yesch. (Bonn, 1852), iii, 21, 33; Herzog, Real-EncyHop. 
s. v. 

Uythage, Conrad Cornelis. a Dutch scholar of 
the 17th century, is the author of Tlp3n Revela - 

tio Punctationis sive Dissertatio de Antiquorum sine 
Punctis Leyemli Ratione deque Vocalium Kovitaie 
(Lugd. Bat. 1680):— mTlp m-ip, De Lectione 

Scripturce S. Scriptorumque Rabbinorum absque Punctis 


(ibid. 1680) : — A rtificium Tnvestiyand. Radd. Flebr. Bre- 
viss. Prreceptis Comprehensum Exemplisque I Hast rat um 
et Consilium de Studio Rabb ., etc. (ibid. 1682): — Artiji- 
cium Coynoscenda rum Radicum Jltbr. in Nomiuibus sat 
Derivatis Absolut is (ibid, eod.) : — Explicatio R. Mosis 
Maimonidis super Patrum , s. Seniorum Jndteor. Sen- 
ientias complect. VLJI Capita, ubi Prceclara Malta, 
cum in Theoloyia turn Philosophia doctissime Expli- 
cantur (ibid. 1683). All these writings are now very 
scarce. See Flirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 466; Steinschncider, 
Bibliog. /Jandb. s. v. ; 1M idler, “lEDH rPZ, or Catalogue 
of Hebrew and Jewish IFmvts (Amst. 1868), p. 323. 
(B. P.) 

Uz (Ileb. Uts, wooded), the name of three men, 
and also of a region. 

X. (Sept. 05£ v. r. y Qc, Vulg. Us or Hus.') First 
named of the four sons of Aram (Gen. x, 23), and grand- 
son of Shem (1 Chron. i, 17, where the lineage is con- 
densed). B.C. post 2500. 

2. (Sept. OvZ, Vulg. Hus, A. V. “ II uz. 1 ’) The oldest 
of the eight sons of Nahor by Milcah (Gen. xxii, 21). 
B.C. cir. 2000. 

3. (Sept. Tig, Vulg. Hus.') First named of the two 
sons of Dishan the Ilorite chieftain (Gen. xxxvi,23; 1 
Citron, i, 42). B.C. post 1950. 

4. The Land of Uz was the country in which Job 
lived (Job i, 1; Sept. Aval rig. Vulg. Hus). As the ge- 
nealogical statements of the book of Genesis are un- 
doubtedly ethnological, and in many instances also geo- 
graphical, it may fairly be surmised that the coincidence 
of names in the above cases is not accidental, but points 
to a fusion of various branches of the Shemitic race in 
a certain locality. This surmise is confirmed by the 
circumstance that other connecting-links may be dis- 
covered between the same branches. For instance, Nos. 
I and 2 have in common the names Aram (comp. Gen. 
x, 23; xxii, 21) and Maachah as a geographical desig- 
nation in connection with the former (1 Chron. xix. 6), 
and a personal one in connection with the latter (Gen. 
xxii, 24). Nos. 2 and 4 have in common the names 
Buz and Buzite (vcr. 21 ; Job xxxii, 2), Cliesed and 
Chasdim (Gen. xxii, 22 ; Job i, 17, A. V. “ Chaldreans”), 
Shuah, a nephew of Nahor, and Shuhite (Gen. xxv, 2; 
Job ii. 11). and Kedem, as the country whither Abra- 
ham sent Shuah, together with his other children by 
Keturah, and also as the country where Job lived (Gen. 
xxv, 6 ; Job i, 3). Nos. 3 and 4, again, have in common 
Eliphaz (Gen. xxxvi, 10; Job ii, 11), and Teman and 
Teraanite (Gen. xxxvi, 1 1 ; Job ii, 11). The ethnolog- 
ical fact embodied in the above coincidences of names 
appears to be as follows: Certain branches of the Ara- 
maic family, being both more ancient and occupying a 
more northerly position than the others, coalesced with 
branches of the later Abrahamids, holding a somewhat 
central position in Mesopotamia and Palestine, and again 
with branches of the still later Edomites of the south, 
after they had become a distinct race from the Abra- 
hamids. This conclusion would receive confirmation 
if the geographical position of Uz, as described in the 
book of Job, harmonized with the probability of such 
an amalgamation. As far as we can gather, it lay either 
east or south-east of Palestine (Job i,3) [see Bene-Ke- 
deji] ; adjacent to the Sabteans and the Chaldteans (Job 
i, 15, 17), consequently northward of the Southern Ara- 
bians, and westward of the Euphrates; and, lastly, ad- 
jacent to the Edomites of Mount Seir, who at one pe- 
riod occupied Uz, probably as conquerors (Lam. iv, 21), 
and whose troglodytic habits are probably described in 
Job xxx, 6, 7. The position of the country may further 
be deduced from the native lands of Job’s friends, Eli- 
phaz the Temanite being an Iclumtean, Elihu the Buzite 
being probably a neighbor of the Chaldreans, for Buz 
and Chescd were brothers (Gen. xxii, 21, 22), and Bildad 
the Shuhite being one of the Bene-Kedem. YY hether 
Zophar the Naamathite is to be connected with Naamah 
in the tribe of Judah (Josh, xv, 41) may be regarded as 


UZA 


GS8 


UZZA 


problematical : if he were, the conclusion would be fur- 
tlier established. From the above data we infer that 
the land of Uz corresponds to the Arabia Deserta of 
classical geography, at all events to so much of it as lies 
north of the 30th parallel of latitude. 'Phis district has 
in all ages been occupied by nomadic tribes, who roam 
from the borders of Palestine to the Euphrates, and 
northward to the coniines of Syria.— Smith. See Jon. 

“The laud of Uz” is mentioned only in two other pas- 
sages of Scripture. Jeremiah in one passage (xxv, ‘20; 
Sept. Oe£,Vnlg. A usitis) groups it with Egypt, Philistia. 
Edom, and Moab; and in another he appears either to 
identify it with a portion of Edom, or to affirm that 
some of the Edomites in his days inhabited U z (Lam. 
iv. ‘21 ; OvZ. Hus). These various statements show that 
Vz was closely connected with Edom, and thus in gen- 
eral corroborate the above position. See Idum.ea. 

As to later opinions, Josephus says that Uz founded 
Trachonitis and Damascus (.!«/. i, tl, 4). The former 
province lies in Dash an, and extends as far south as 
1 lustra. it may have formed part of the land of Uz. 
Jerome appears to identify l T z with Damascus and 
Trachonitis, following Josephus (Qwest, in Gen. a*, ‘25; 
comp. Onomast. s. v. “ Uz”). Bochart makes no less than 
three places of this name: 1. The Gkutah of Damascus, 
confounding the Arabic Gkutah with the Ilcb. ’T'l?, 
words which are altogether dissimilar; ‘2. The region 
of A usitis , named from Uz, the son of Xahor (Gen. xxii, 
*21); 3. Uz of Edom, the land of the patriarch Job (Opera, 
i.80). There seems to be no sullicient authority for this 
threefold division. The general opinion of Biblical ge- 
ographers and critics locates “ the land of Uz” somewhere 
in A rabia Petrcea. Whether the name of Uz survived 
to classical times is uncertain: a tribe named .Ksitie 
(A lalrar) is mentioned by Ptolemy (v, 19, 2); this Bo- 
chart identifies with the Uz of Scripture by altering 
the reading into Avoirai (Phaleg, ii, 8); but, with the 
exception of the rendering in the Sept. ( iv r V 

Avairwi , Job i, l ; comp, xxxii, 2), there is nothing to 
justify such a change. Gescnins ( Thesaur . p. 1003) is 
satisfied with the form .Esitje as sufficiently correspond- 
ing to Uz, without any such change; as also Winer 
(Ileulw. s. v.) and most others. See Spanheim, Hist. 
Jobi , iv, 10 sc(. ; Buddei Hist. V. T. i, 370: Carpzov, In- 
trod. ii, 42 ; Muller, De Ten-u Jobi, in the Thes. Vet. Test. 
i, 540: Fries, in the Stud. u. Krit. 1851, vol. ii ; and the 
commentaries on Job. See Arabia. 

Uza, in Oriental mythology, was an idol of the an- 
cient Arabians which Mohammed destroyed, ordering 
its priests to be strangled. 

U'zai [most U'za'i] (Hob. Uzrnf, strong ; Sept. 
E vZai v. r. Em, Vulg. Ozi), the father of Palal, which 
latter was one of those who aided in the reconstruction 
of the walls of Jerusalem after the Captivity (Neh. iii, 
25). B.C. ante 416. 

U'zai (lleb. UzaT , bpX, perhaps separate; Sept. 
Ai£?;\ and A tO)r, v. r. A i'/3//A and AtW;\ ; Vulg. Uzal 
and IIuzul), the sixth named of the thirteen sons of 
.loktan among the descendants of Shem (Gen. x, 27 ; 
1 Chron. i, 21 ). B.C. post 2400. See Joktan. 

Abraham Zakuth,a learned Jewish writer, states that 
Sanaa, the metropolis of Yemen, is by the Jews called 
Uzal (Bochart, Opera, i, 114); and in the Kamiis, Azal 
(or Uzal) is said to be the ancient name of Sanaa (Goli- 
us, Lex. Arab. s. v.). This was still further confirmed 
by Xiebnhr, who heard, when travelling in Yemen, the 
same statement made by Mohammedan natives (De- 
scription de V A ruble , iii, 252). It was originally A wzdl 
(llm-Khaldun, ap. Canssin, ICssai , i, 40, note; Marasid, 
s. v. : Gesen. Lex. s. v. ; Bunsen, Bibelwerk, etc.). The 
printed edition of the Marasid writes the name UzdL 
and says, “ It is said that its name was Uzal; and when 
the Abyssinians arrived at it, and saw it to be beautiful, 
they said ‘San’ii.’ which means beautiful: therefore it 
was called San’a.” The Hebrew name probably appears 


in the (Avaapa or Av^apa) of Ptolemy (Geor/r. 

vi, 7), and the .4 u sard is of Pliny, a city of Arabia Felix, 
celebrated for its myrrh (Hist.Aiat. xii, 36). See Eth- 

NOU KiV. 

Sanaa is situated in a mountainous region in the cen- 
tre of Yemen, about 150 miles from Aden and 100 from 
the coast of the lied Sea. Its commanding position, its 
strong fortifications, the number of its mosques and min- 
arets, and the size of its bouses render it one of the 
most imposing cities in Arabia. It has a citadel on the, 
site of a famous temple called Beit-Glmmdan, said to 
have been founded by Sliurabll, which was razed by or- 
der of Otliman. It is abundantly watered by mountain 
streams; and the gardens, orchards, and fields around it 
are said to rival in luxuriance and beauty the famous 
' plain of Damascus. In the town of Sanaa there are 
still some 15,000 Jews, while in the various parts of Ye- 
men their numbers arc supposed to amount to 200,000. 
Sec Michaclis, Spinier/, ii, 164-175; Forster, Geor/r. of 
Arabia, i, 143; Bitter, Erdkunde , xii, 815-810. See 
Arabia. 

Ezekiel, in bis description of Tyre, says, as rendered 
in the A. V. : “Dan and Javan going to and fro (lleb. 
Meiizdl, bt^X’C ; Sept. tZ, ’Am)A ; Vulg. Mosel), occupied 
in thy fairs; bright iron, cassia, and calamus were in 
thy market” (xxvii, 19). The structure of the passage 
unquestionably favors the translation, “ Dan, and Javan 
of Uzal (bux*!), conveyed to your markets wrought 
iron, cassia,” etc. There can be little doubt, therefore, 
that the prophet, alludes to the great city of Yemen, the 
neighborhood of which is known to have been famous 
for its spices and perfumes. This view is strengthened 
by the fact that Javan occurs in the Kamus, and is said 
to be a town of Yemen. The expression Javan of Uzal 
is thus appropriate, for the latter was the name of the 
capital and of a district connected with it. The names 
Dedan, Arabia, Kcdar, and Sheba, following immediate- 
ly in the prophetic narrative, indicate the country to 
which the eye of the sacred writer was directed. See 
Javan. 

Uz'za (lleb. Uzza', XT?, strength ), the name of 
three Hebrews. See also Uzzaii. 

1. (Sept. ' AZ,a ; Vulg. Oza.) First named of the tw o 
sons of Fluid the Benjamite. born to him after the re- 
moval of his former children (L Chron. viii, 7). B.C. 
ante 1612. See Shaiiaraim. 

2. (Sept. ’()£«; Vulg. Aza.) Apparently the propri- 
etor of a garden in w hich Manasseh and Amen were 
buried (2 Kings xxi, 18, 26). B.C. ante 642. See be- 
low 7 . 

3. (Sept. ’AZa v. r. ’A £(5, ’A £f, etc.; Vulg. Aza.) The 
head of a family of Xethinim w'lio returned from Baby- 
lon with Zerubbabel (Ezra ii, 49; Neh. vii, 51). B.C. 
ante 536. 

L T ZZA, The Garden of (lleb. gan Uzza, XT? 'I ; 
Sept. /O/ 7 T 0 C ; Vulg. hortus Aza), the spot in which 

Manasseh, king of Judah, and his son Amon, w ere both 
buried (2 Kings xxi, 18, 26). It was the garden attach- 
ed to Manasseh’s palace (ver. 18; 2 Chron. xxxiii, 20), 
and therefore presumably w'as in Jerusalem. The fact 
of its mention show's that it w’as not where the usual 
sepulchres of the kings were. Josephus (Ant. x, 3, 2) 
simply reiterates the statement of the Bible. It is in- 
geniously suggested by Cornelius a Lapide that the gar- 
den was so called from being on the spot at which Uz- 
zah died during the removal of the ark from Kirjatb- 
jearim to Jerusalem, and which is known to have re- 
tained his name for long after the event (2 Sam. vi, 8). 
Sec Obed-edo.m. The scene of Uzzah’s death was it- 
self a threshing-floor (ver. 6). and the change of the 
word from this, goren, “,“15, into gan, garden, would 
not he difficult or improbable. 

Bunsen (Bibeltcerk, note on 2 Kings xxi, 18), on the 
strength of the mention of “palaces” in the same para- 
graph with Ophel (A. V. “ forts”) in a denunciation of 


uzzaii 


689 


UZZIA 


Isaiah (xxxii, 14), asserts that a palace was situated in 
the Tyropneon valley at the loot of the Temple mount, 
ami that this was in all probability the palace of Manas- 
seh and the site of the Garden of Uzzah ! — Smith. See 
Uzzaii. 

Uz'zah (Hob. Uzzah strength , i. q. l T zza , 
which in a few passages stands instead of it; Sept. 'OZd 
[and so Josephus] v. r. ’A £d; Vulg. Oza), the name of 
two Hebrews. 

1. A Merarite Levite, son of Shimei (q.v.) and father 
of Shimea (l Chron. vi, 211 [Heb. 14] ; A. V. “ Uzza”). 
H.C. ante 1013. For a refutation of some arbitrary hy- 
potheses of interpreters on this genealogy, see Keil ad 
loc . 

2. One of the sons of Abinadab, in whose house at 

Kirjath-jearim the ark rested lor twenty years. In 2 
Sam. (vi,3 in the A.V. ; and in verses 0,7,8 in the Heb. 
also) he is invariably called “Uzzah;” but in l Chron. 
(xiii, 7, 9, 1 1) as invariably “ Uzza.” The eldest son of 
Abinadab (L Sam. vii, l) seems to have been Eleazar, 
who was consecrated to look after the ark. Uzzah. 
probably, was the second, and Ahio (q. v.) the third. 
The latter two accompanied its removal when David 
first undertook to carry it to Jerusalem. B.C. 1043. 
Ahio apparently went before the cart — the new cart 
(l Chron. xiii, 7)— on which the ark was placed, and 
Uzzah walked by its side. The procession, with all 
manner of music, advanced as far as a spot variously 
called “the threshing-floor” (ver. 9); “the threshing- 
floor of Chidou” (ibid.); “the threshing-floor of Na- 
ehon” (2 Sam. vi, 6, Sept. “Naclior”). At this point — 
perhaps slipping over the smooth rock — the oxen (Sept, 
“the calf”) stumbled (Sept, “overturned the ark”). 
Uzzah caught it to prevent its falling. He died imme- 
diately by the side of the ark. 1 1 is death, by whatever 
means it was accomplished, was so sudden and awful 
that, in the sacred language of the Old Test., it is as- 
cribed directly to the divine anger. “The anger of the 
Lord was kindled against Uzzah, and God smote him 
there.” “For his error,” adds the Hebrew text, 

“because he put his hand to the ark” (1 Chron. xiii, 10). 
Josephus {Ant. vii. 4, 2) makes the sin to be because he 
touched the ark not being a priest (see below). But 
the narrative seems to imply that there was a rough, 
hasty handling of the sacred coffer. The event pro- 
duced a deep sensation. David, with a mixture of awe 
and resentment, was afraid to carry the ark farther; and 
the place, apparently changing its ancient name [see 
Uzza, Garden of], was henceforth called “ Perez- Uz- 
zah” (q. v.), the “breaking” or “disaster” of Uzzah (2 
Sam. vi, 8; 1 Chron. xiii, 1 1). — Smith. See David. 

Josephus distinctly says that Uzzah was of a Leviti- 
eal family {Ant. vi, 1, 4). It was because Abinadab. his 
father, was a Levite. no doubt, that the ark was taken 
into his house at Kirjath-jearim. as it was afterwards 
taken into the house of Obed-edom, the Gittite, for the 
same reason. Nor can it be very well understood how, 
if Abinadab was not a Levite, his son Eleazar should 
have been consecrated to take charge of the ark (I Sam. 
vii, 2). It is possible that Abinadab (Sept. ’Agivaddfi, 
Josephus, ’AgivdSafioz) was the same as Amminadab , 
spoken of in l Chron. xv, 10 as one of the chiefs of the 
Levites appointed by David to bring up the ark from 
the house of Obed-edom to Jerusalem. It is most rea- 
sonable to suppose that the person who had entertained 
the ark at Kiijath-jearim should have the honor of at- 
tending its coming-up afterwards from the house of 
Obed-edom to Jerusalem; and Amminadab was a son 
of Uzziel, and therefore of the family of Kohath, who 
were the persons appointed to bear the ark (vi, 18; 
Numb, iv, 15). But they were forbidden to touch the 
ark. It was only a priest of Aaron’s family, i. e. of the 
high-priest’s family, that was allowed to touch the ark 
(ver. 5, 15). The sin of Uzzah, therefore, was not, as 
commonly represented, that of a layman or an unor- 
dained person presuming to encroach upon the office of 
X.-X x 


1 the ministry, but, if an irregularity at all in this re- 
spect, the sin of those who, being ministers, dare to ar- 
rogate to themselves powers and prerogatives which be- 
long only to higher officers. — Fairbairn. The whole 
proceeding was very disorderly, and contrary to the 
distinct and far from unmeaning regulations of the law, 
which prescribed that the ark should be carried on the 
shoulders of the Levites (Exod. xxv, 14), whereas here 
it was conveyed in a cart drawn by oxen. The ark 
ought to have been enveloped in its coverings, and thus 
wholly concealed before the Levites approached it; hut 
it does not appear that any priest took part in the mat- 
ter, and it would seem as if the ark was brought forth, 
exposed to the common gaze, in the same manner in 
which it had been brought back by the Philistines (1 
Sam. vi, 13-19). It was the duty of Uzzah, as a Levite, 
to have been acquainted with the proper course of pro- 
ceeding; he was therefore the person justly accountable 
for the neglect, and the judgment upon him seems to 
have been the most effectual course of insuring atten- 
tion to the proper course of proceeding, and of checking 
j the growing disposition to treat the holy mysteries with 
! undue familiarity. That it had this effect is expressly 
stated in 1 Chron. xv, 2, 13. — Kit to. See Ark. 

Uz'zen-she'rah (Heb. Uzzen f Sheerah ', 
rn.N/j, ear [i. e. point] of Slier ah ; Sept, vioi ’0£di' 
Vulg. Ozensera), a place in the vicinity of Beth- 
lioron, founded or rebuilt by Slierah (q.v.), an Ephraim- 
itess (1 Chron. vii, 24). The name appears to indicate 
some salient feature of the surface or position. It has 
been thought to correspond with the present Beit Sira , 
which is shown in the maps of Van de Velde and Tob- 
ler as on the north side of the Wady Suleiman, about 
three miles south-west of Beit fir et-Tahta. It is men- 
tioned by Robinson (in the lists in Appendix to vol. iii 
of Bibl. Res. [1st ed.],p. 120), and also by Tobler (J)ritfe 
Wandenmg, p. 188). It is doubtful, however, if the 
boundary of Ephraim ever extended so far south, and 
hence perhaps we should prefer Beit Sirah, a village 
with two fountains in Wady Budrus, two and a half 
miles east of Beitur el-Fohka; or if both these identifi- 
cations fail, possibly the modern village Sir fa , in Wady 
Budrus, about one mile north-west of Beitur et-Tahta 
(Robinson, Bibl. Res. ii, 250). 

TJz'zi (Heb. Uzzi ', *-73?, strong [or my strength , or 
contr. for Uzziah ] ; Sept. '0£i, with occasional v. rr. ; 
Vulg. Ozi or Azzi). the name of six Hebrews. 

1. First named of the six sons of Tola son of Issachar 
(l Chron. vii. 2), and father of five sons who became 
military chiefs (ver. 3). B.C. post 1874. 

2. Second named of the live sons of Bela son of Ben- 
jamin, and, like the preceding one, chief warrior (1 
Chron. vii, 7). B.C. post 1874. 

3. A high-priest, son of Ilukki and father of Zerahiah 
(L Chron. vi, 5, 6, 51; Ezra vii, 4). B.C. cir. 1400. 
Josephus in one passage (Ant. v, 11, 5) gives his name 
and position correctly (''0£<c, Ozis ) ; but in another 
(Ant. viii, 1, 3) he calls either him or his son Joatham 
(Ttud3fl/mt;). 

4. Son of Michri and father of Elah among the an- 
cestors of a Benjamite family in Jerusalem after the 
Exile (1 Chron. ix, 8). B.C. ante 530. 

5. Son of Bani, chief of the Levites at Jerusalem af- 
ter the Captivity (Neh. xi, 22). B.C. 530. 

6. A priest, head of the “course” of Jedaiah in the 
time of the high-priest Joiakim (Neh. xii, 19). B.C. 
cir. 500. He was probably the same with one of the 
priests who sang at the consecration of the new walls 
of Jerusalem (ver. 42). 

Uzzi'a (Heb. Uzziya prob. for Uzziah 
[q. v.] ; Sept. ’O %ta ; Vulg. Ozia), one of David’s sub- 
ordinate warriors, called an “ Ash terat bite” (q.v.), prob- 
ably as having come from Ashtaroth beyond the Jordan. 
B.C. 1053. See David. 


UZZIAII 


GOO 


UZZIEL 


Uzzi'ah (Heb. Uzziyah strength of Jehovah 
[but in the prolonged form l T zziya'hu , except 

in 2 Kings xv, 13, 30; 1 Chron. vi, ‘21; Ezra x, 21; 
Neh. xi, 4; llos. i, 1; Amos i, 1; Zeeli. xiv, 5]; Sept, 
usually Gut with many v. rr. ; Vulg. Ozias jot 

Azias), the name of live Hebrews. See also Uz/.ia. 

1. A Kohathite Levite, son of l r riel and father of 

Shaul among Samuel’s ancestors (1 Chron. vi, 24 [Heb. 
10]). 1».C. cir. lf>15. He is apparently the same with 

Azahiaii (q. v.) the son of Joel and father of Zephaniali 
in the parallel list (ver. 3ti). 

2 . The father of Jclionathan, David’s overseer of de- 
positories in kind (1 Chron. xxvii, 25). B.C. cir. 1053. 

3 . The tenth king of the separate kingdom of Judah. 

B.C. 808-756. Like No. 1 above, he is sometimes called 
Azahiaii (q. v.). 1 ly Josephus (.!«/. ix, 10, 3 sip), and 

in the New Test. (Malt. i. 8,9). the name occurs in the 
same Greek form as in the Sept. (’(Ciac*). The date 
of the beginning of Uzziah’s reign (2 Kings xv, 1) in 
ihe twenty-seventh year of Jeroboam II is reconciled 
by Usher and others with the statement that Uzziah’s 
father, Amaziah, whose whole reign was twenty-nine 
years only, came to the throne in the second year of 
Joasli (xiv, 1); and by the supposition that Jeroboam’s 
reign had two commencements, the first not mentioned 
in Scripture, on his association with his father, Joash. 
during the Syrian war, B.C. 835. Keil, after Capelins 
and Grotius, more violently supposes that the number 
Tl is an error of the Hebrew copyists for T, or 

so that instead of twenty-seventh of Jeroboam we ought 
to read thirteenth, fourteenth, etc. 

After the murder of Amaziah. his son Uzziah was 
chosen bv the people to occupy the vacant throne, at 
the age of sixteen ; and for the greater part of his reign 
of lifty-two years he lived in the fear of Hud, and show- 
ed himself a wise, active, and pious ruler. He began 
his reign by a successful expedition against his father’s 
enemies, the Edomites, who had revolted from Judah in 
Jehoram’s time, eighty years before, and penetrated as 
far as the head of the Gulf of Akaba, where he took 
the important place of Elath, fortified it, and probably 
established it as a mart for foreign commerce, which 
Jehoshaphat. had failed to do. This success is recorded 
in 2 Kings (xiv, 22), but from 2 Cbron. (xxvi, 1, etc.) 
we learn much more. Uzziah waged other victorious 
wars in the .South, especially against the Mehunim 
(<p v.), or people of Maan, and the Arabs of Gurbaal. A 
fortified town named Maan still exists in Arabia Pe- 
trcea, south of the Dead Sea. The situation of Gurbaal 
(ip v.) is unknown. (For conjectures more or less prob- 
able, see Ewald, Geseh. i, 321.) Such enemies would 
hardly maintain a long resistance after the defeat of so 
formidable a tribe as the Edomites. Towards the west, 
Uzziah fought with equal success against, the Philis- 
tines, levelled to the ground the walls of Gath, Jabneh, 
and Aslulod. and founded new fortified cities in the 
Philistine territory. Nor was he less vigorous in de- 
fensive than offensive operations, lie strengthened the 
walls of Jerusalem at their weakest points, furnished 
them with formidable engines of w'ar, and equipped an 
army of 307,500 men with the best inventions of mili- 
tary art. lie was also a great patron of agriculture, 
dug wells, built towers in the wilderness for the pro- 
tection of the llocks, and cultivated rich vineyards and 
arable land on his own account. He never deserted the 
worship of the true God, and was much influenced by 
Zecliariah, a prophet w ho is only mentioned in connec- 
tion with him (2 Chron. xxvi, 5); for, as he probably 
died before Uzziah, he is thought not to have been the 
same as the Zeehariah of Isa. viii,2. So the southern 
kingdom was raised to a condition of prosperity which 
it had not known since the death of Solomon; and as 
the power of Israel was gradually falling away in the 
latter period of Jehu’s dynasty, that of Judah extended 
itself over the Ammonites and Moabites, and other tribes 
beyond Jordan, from whom Uzziah exacted tribute. See 


2 Chron. xxvi, 3, and Isa. xvi, 1-5, from which it would 
appear that the annual tribute of sheep (2 Kings iii,4) 
was revived either during this reign or soon after. 

The end of Uzziah was less prosperous than his be- 
ginning. Elated with his splendid career, he deter- 
mined to burn incense on the altar of God, hut was op- 
posed by the high-priest Azariah and eighty others. 
(See Exod. xxx, 7, 8 ; Numb, xvi, 40; xviii, 7.) The 
king was enraged at their resistance, and, as he pressed 
forward with his censer, was suddenly smitten with lep- 
rosy, a disease which, according to Gerlnch {ad loc.'), is 
often brought out by violent excitement. In 2 Kings 
xv, 5 we are merely told that “ the Lord smote the king, 
so that he was a leper unto the day of his death, and 
dwelt in a several house;” hut his invasion of the priest- 
ly office is not specified. This catastrophe compelled 
Uzziah to reside outside the city, so that the kingdom 
was administered till his death by bis son Jotliam as 
regent. Uzziah was buried “with his fathers,” yet ap- 
parently not actually in the royal sepulchres (2 Chron. 
xxvi, 23). During his reign an earthquake (q.v.) oc- 
curred, which, though not mentioned in the historical 
books, was apparently very serious in its consequences, 
for it is alluded to as a chronological epoeh by Amos 
(i, 1), and mentioned in Zeeli. xiv, 5 as a convulsion 
from which the people ••fled.” Josephus {Ant. ix, 10, 
4) connects it with Uzziah’s sacrilegious attempt to of- 
fer incense, and this is likely, as it agrees with other 
chronological data. See Amos. 

The first six chapters of Isaiah’s prophecies belong to 
this reign, and we are told (2 Chron. xxvi, 22) that a 
full account of it was written by that prophet. Some 
notices of the state of Judah at this time may also be 
obtained from the contemporary prophets Ilosea and 
Amos, though both of these labored more particularly 
in Israel. We gather from their writings (llos. iv, 15; 
vi, 11; Amos vi, 1), as well as from the early chapters 
of Isaiah, that though the condition of the southern 
kingdom was far superior, morally and religiously, to 
that of the northern, yet that it was by no means free 
from the vices which are apt to accompany wealth and 
prosperity. At the same time, Ilosea conceives bright 
hopes of the blessings which were to arise from it; and 
though doubtless these hopes pointed to something far 
higher than the brilliancy of Uzziah’s administration, 
and though the return of the Israelites to “David their 
king” can only be adequately explained of Christ’s king- 
dom, yet the prophet, in contemplating the condition of 
Judah at this time, was plainly cheered by the thought 
that there God was really honored, ami his worship vis- 
ibly maintained, and that therefore with it was bound 
up every hope that his promises to his people would at 
last be fulfilled (Hos. i, 7; iii, 3). It is to be observed, 
with reference to the general character of Uzziah’s 
reign, that t lie writer of the second book of Chronicles 
distinctly states that his lawless attempt to burn incense 
was the only exception to the excellence of his admin- 
istration (2 Chron. xxvii, 2). — Smith. See Judah, 
Kingdom ok. 

4 . Son of Zeehariah and father of Athaiah, the last, 
a descendant of l’erez the son of Jiulah resident in Je- 
rusalem after the Exile (Neh. xi,4). B.C. ante 53G. 

5 . A priest of the “sons” of llarira who renounced 
his Gentile wife married after the return from Babylon 
(Ezra x, 21). B.C. 458. 

Uzzi'el [some Uz'ziel] (II eb. Uzziel ', mg 

strength is God , or peril, simply strength of God— Uzziah 
I [q. v.] ; Sept. ’O^o/X or ’() Zut)\, with some v. rr. ; Vulg. 

Qziel), the name of six Hebrews. 

! 1. Third named of the five sons of Bela son of Ben- 

jamin, heads of valiant families (1 Chron. vii, 7). B.C. 

! post 1874. 

2 . Last named of the four sons of Kohath (Exod. vi, 
18; 1 Chron. vi, 2), also father of four sons (Exod. v, 
22; 1 Cliron. xxiii, 12,20; xxiv. 24 ), and uncle of 
| Aaron (Lev. x, 4). B.C. ante 1G58. His descendants 


UZZIELITE 


691 


YAGA 


were called after him (Numb, iii, 19, 27; 1 Chron. | 
xxvi, 23), Elizaphan beiutc their chief in Moses’ time 
(Numb, iii, 30), and Amminadab in David’s (1 Chron. 
xv, 10). 

3 . Third named of the fourteen “sons” of lleman 
appointed by David as Levitical musicians (1 Chron. 
xxv, 4) ; the same with Azarkel (q. v.) the head of the 
eleventh band of orchestral performers (ver. IS). 

4 . Second named of the two sons of Jeduthun among 
the Levitcs, who, in the days of king llezekiali, took 
an active part in cleansing and sanctifying the Temple 
after all the pollutions introduced by Ahaz (2 Chron. 
xxix, 14). ICC. 726. 

5. Last named of the four “sons” of Ishi, Simeonitish 
chieftains who, after the successful expedition of the 


tribe to the valley of Gedor, went at the head of five 
hundred men, in the days of Ilezekiah, to Mount Seir, 
and smote the remnant of the Amalekites who had 
I survived the previous slaughter of Saul and David, and 
took possession of their country, and dwelt there “ unto 
this day” (l Chron. iv, 42). 1».C. cir. 712. 

6. A “son of llashaiah, of the goldsmiths,” who re- 
paired part of the walls of Jerusalem after the Captivity 
(Neh. iii, 8). 1>.C. 446. 

TJzzi'elite (Heb. Uzzieli ', with the art., 

a patronymic; Sept. "OXn)\ ; Vulg. Ozielites or Ozihdi- 
tes ), the family designation (Numb, iii, 27; I Chron. 
xxvi. 23) of the descendants of Uzziel (q. v.) the Levito. 
In David’s time they numbered 1 12 adult males (xv, 10). 


Vacant See, the territory under the control of a 
bishop which has become vacant by the death or ces- 
sion of the episcopal head. In the ancient African 
Church it was under the control of an inventor or inter- 
cessor (q. v«), who was required to till the vacancy 
within one year or give place to another. But by the 
25th canon of the General Council of Chalcedon (q. v.) 
the metropolitan was required to till the vacant see 
within three months, if possible, under pain of ecclesi- 
astical censure. It devolved upon the metropolitans 
to care for these sees during the vacancy, but the Coun- 
cil of Chalcedon provided that the revenues should be 
cared for by the ceconomns , or steward of the Church. 
See Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. ii, ch. xi ; xv ; xvi. 

Vacant Sundays, in liturgical phrase, are the four 
Sundays after Ember weeks (q. v.) which have no prop- 
er office, owing to the protracted service of ordination 
on the previous night; the Sunday between Christmas 
and Jan. I, because preoccupied with another office: 
and the fourth Sunday in Advent, because the pope 
gave himself to almsgiving, as on Vacant Saturday, 
the day before Palm -Sunday. See Walcott, Sacred 
.4 rchieol. s. v. 

Vacantivi (Grcecized (3aiccn’Ti(3oi) is a name ap- 
plied to wandering clergymen, in ancient times, who 
deserted their own churches and would fix on no other, 
but wandered about from place to place. Such persons, 
having neither letters dismissory nor letters commen- 
datory, and to be suspected either as deserters or as 
persons guilty of some misdemeanor who tied from ec- 
clesiastical censure, were not allowed by the laws of 
the Church to be admitted either to ecclesiastical or 
lay communion. So strict were the laws of the ancient 
Church in reference to the inferior clergy that they 
might not, upon any account, remove from the Church 
to which they were first appointed without the con- 
sent of the bishop who ordained them. See Bingham, 
Christ. Antiq. bk. vi, ch. iv. See Vag antes. 

Vacation, in clerical phrase, is the time from the 
death, resignation, or removal in any other way, of a 
bishop or other ecclesiastical officer, until the office is 
filled by another person; also the season of rest given 
to a minister during some part of the year. 

VACATION of a Benefice is the act of making 
vacant a rectory, vicarage, or other ecclesiastical bene- 
fice by the death, resignation, or deprivation of its legal 
holder. 

VACATION of a Bishopric. See Vacant Sees. 

Vaccaro, Andrea, an Italian painter who was 
born at Naples in 1598. lie studied with Massimo 
Stauzioni, after whose death he was considered the 
ablest artist of the Neapolitan school, and was without 
a rival until the return of Luca Giordano from Rome 
with a new style. In the contest for the large altar- 
piece in the new church of Santa Maria dei Pianti, rep- 
resenting the Virgin liberating the city from pestilence. 


Vaccaro was successful. But Giordano soon carried all 
before him in art, and Vaccaro, attempting to compete 
with him in fresco, which he had not studied in his 
youth, lost his reputation. One of his best works is a 
Holy Family, at Naples. He died at Naples in 1670. 
See Spooner, Bing. Hist, of the Fine A rts , s. v. 

Vaccaro, Domenico Antonio, an Italian sculp- 
tor and architect, born at Naples in 1680. After receiv- 
ing a good education he studied architecture, and attain- 
ed considerable eminence, llis principal works are, at 
Naples, the church called Di Monte Calvino, the Teatro 
Nuovo, the Church of San Michele Arcangelo, and oth- 
er buildings; in other parts of Italy, the Tarcia Palace, 
at Portiei; the Church of Sail Giovanni, at Capua, and 
others. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine Arts. 
s. v. 

Vaccary (Lat. vacca , “a cow”), an old monastic 
term for a cow-house. 

Vach (Sanscrit, speech), another name of Savasicad 
(q. v.), the wife, or female energy, of the Hindu god 
Brahma. 

Vachaspati (Sanscrit, vach, “speech,” and pad, 
“lord”), in Hindu mythology, is one of the usual names 
of Vrihaspati (q. v.), the instructor of the gods. 

Vachery, a term frequently found in monastic in- 
ventories and domestic MSS., denoting a pen or enclos- 
ure for cows. 

Vacuna. in ancient Italian mythology, was a god- 
dess of agriculture, who was worshipped after harvest- 
ing time, and was honored bv rest. 

Vade-mecum (Lat. vade, “go,” and mecum , “with 
me”), a book of prayers which a person carries with him 
as a constant companion. 

Vaeck, Ala in > us, a Lutheran theologian of the 17th 
century, is the author of Tractafus de Principio Prinue 
Theologiee Jesuitirce : — De Judice Cant roversiarum : — 
Contra Pondfcios de Ueducenda Fnione Ecclesiastica. 
See Jocher, A llgemeines Gelch rten-Lexikon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Vaga, Pierino del, an Italian artist, was born at a 
small village near Florence in 1500. His true name was 
Pietro Bnonnacorsi , but he was called by the above name 
after Del Vaga, one of his instructors, who led him to 
Rome, and introduced him into the school of Raphael. 
At an early age he was employed to assist in the decora- 
tions of the Vatican (q. v.), executing a number of the 
linest frescos from the designs of Raphael. One of the 
earliest works of his own design and execution was the 
Creation of Fee, in t he Church of San Marcello, which 
Lanzi pronounces a “most finished performance.” lie 
fled from Italy at the sacking of Rome by the Spaniards 
in 1527, and in 1528 arrived, in a state of distress, at, 
Genoa, where he was employed by prince Doria in deco- 
rating his magnificent palace. It was here that he 
achieved his greatest distinction. He executed many 
works in Lucca, Pisa, Genoa, and elsewhere. Late in 
life he returned to Rome, where he was much employed 


Y AG ANTES 


G92 


YAILL 


by the pope, Paul III, who gave him an annuity of three 
hundred ducats. About 1543 he undertook t lie direc- 
tion of the paintings for the Sala Regia [see Vatican], 
but before the, completion of this work lie died, in 1547. 
See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Vagantes (Cleuht), or Vagi. This title was, 
in the language of the ancient canon law, applied to 
clergymen who were not employed in and supported bv 
a delinite otlice in the Church. Such “acephalous,” 
wandering clergymen were at times very numerous, es- 
pecially in countries which were not fully converted to 
Christianity. It was not always possible to assign a 
definite parish to the missionary who was sent forth to 
labor among a heathen population. Hut the Vagantes 
were found also in Christian lands. Sometimes they 
were persons ordained in order to do missionary work 
whom persecution or fear had compelled to return; and 
often they were impostors who had fraudulently se- 
cured ordination at the hands of some careless prelate. 
This class of persons was always disposed to t rathe with 
its ministerial functions, not only in the way of assist- 
ing regularly inducted clergymen in their work, for pay, 
hut also, and much more frequently, by accepting ser- 
vice as chaplains in the retinue of nobles, and stooping 
to the performance of the most menial and degrading 
otlices. Decrees against such clergymen were issued, in 
occasional instances, as early as the 4th and 5th centu- 
ries. The Council of Chalcedon positively prohibited 
the ordinutio absoluta s. vagci (can. 0, -^tiporovtir d 7ro- 
Xt*rwc;)> and the older canons enforced the principle 
“Xe quis vage ordinetur.” Complaints against the 
Vagantes became especially numerous in the Carlovingi- 
an period, and were often renewed. See the Capitula- 
ries of 739 and 794 by Charlemagne, and comp. Coucil. 
Mogunt. An. 347, and C. Tieinense, An. 850, in Mansi, 
Coned, xi v, 900, 938 ; Agobard of Lyons, L)e Pririlegio et 
Jure Sacerdotii; the Vita of Godehard of llildesheim, 
iv, 20; Gerhoh of Reiehersberg, IAber tie Corrupt a 
Fccfes. in Baluz, Miseelhin. v, 89 sq., and Trartat. 
adv. Simoniucos, in Martene and Durand, Thes. Xoc. 
Anecdot. v, 1459 sq. Bishops in the Church of Rome 
are forbidden to confer superior orders on a clergyman 
who has no definite titulns benefeii , on penalty of be- 
coming personally responsible for his support (c. 4 et 
10, x, lie Prvtb. et Dignit. iii, 5; Cone. Trid. Sess. xxiii, 
c. *23, J)e Ref). The Vagantes may now be considered 
as having ceased to exist in that Church. See Bing- 
ham, Orig. Fed. ii. 387 sq. ; Rlanck, Gcsch. d. christl. Ge- 
sellschaftsverf. i, 375 ; ii, 100 sq. ; Neander, Church Hist . 
vol. ii ; Du Cange, Glossar . Med. et Inf. Latinit . vi, 1392 ; 
Herzog, Real- Fncyklop. s. v. See Vacant n i. 

Vagnucci, Francesco, an Italian painter, was a 
native of Assisi, where he flourished in the first part of 
the 10th century. There are some of his works in the 
churches of that, city, which Lanzi says are “executed 
in the spirit of the old masters,” i. e. somewhat dry and 
hard. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts. s. v. 

Vagrants. See Gykovaoi. 

Vagura Ministerium, a name applied to the 
minister who is ordained without any fixed congrega- 
tion of which to take the oversight. 

Vaiano (or Vajano), Orazio (sometimes written 
1 'aiani). an Italian painter, horn at Florence about 1550. 
He resided a long time at Milan, where he executed 
many works for t he churches and for individuals. See 
Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine Arts , s. v. 

Vail. In the A. V. of the Holy Scriptures this 
orthography is found indiscriminately together with 
“veil.” both for the piece of female apparel and for the 
holy screen of the Tabernacle and Temple. In this art. 
we propose, for the sake of convenience, to consider the 
latter only, leaving the dress for the heading Veil. 

The word exclusively and invariably employed for 
the “vail” between the holy and most holy places is 
pardketh , a fern, gerundial form from * (i 


debar; and hence signifying separation, or screen. The 
Sept, renders it by KaTairkraftfia, which is adopted in 
the New Test. (Matt, xxvii, 51 ; Mark xv, 38; Luke 
xxiii, 45; lleb. vi, 19; ix, 3; x, 20). Josephus em- 
ploys (An/, iii, 0, 5) the corresponding Greek verb 
KaTaTztTdvvvpi. The Heb. term occurs in Exod. xxvi, 
31, 33, 35; xxvii, 21 ; xxx, 0; xxxv, 12; xxxvi, 35; 
xxxviii. 27 ; xxxix, 34; xl, 3, 21, 22, 20; Lev. iv, 0, 
17: xvi, 2, 12, 15; xxi, 23; xxiv, 2; Numb, iv, 5; 
xviii, 7 ; 1 Chron. iii, 14. 

We learn from these passages (especially Exod. xxvi, 
31) that the screen in question was a heavy piece of 
cloth, composed of white linen striped across with 
woollen threads of “ blue, purple, and scarlet,” either in a 
triple strand or more probably in alternate bands, and 
further ornamented with figures of eherul)im, embroid- 
ered apparently with the needle, on one or both sides, 
with gold thread. This was suspended by means of 
silver hooks and rods upon the top of t lie pillars placed 
for that purpose in the Tabernacle, and doubtless like- 
wise in the Temple. In the Ilerodian structure, as we 
learn from the Talmudists, the vail was double, and of 
very great thickness, so as to hang vertically by its own 
weight, and impenetrably close the interior from view. 
It was this piece of tapestry that was rent by the earth- 
quake at Christ’s crucifixion (Matt, xxvii, 51, and paral- 
lels) to signify, no doubt, that the way of aeeess to God 
was then opened to all (see the monographs on the 
event in Volbeding, Index Programmatum, p. 05). This 
explanation corresponds with the apostle’s key to the 
symbolism of the vail, which lie says represented our 
Lord’s human flesh torn by the atonement (lleb. x, 20). 
See Braschius, De Velis Tabernaculi et Templi (Vitemb. 
1718). See Tabernacle; Temple. 

Vail, Edward J., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in 1811. lie entered the New York University, 
and after finishing the course graduated in 1841. He 
soon after entered the Union Theological Seminary, and 
graduated in 1844. In 1815 lie became a stated supply 
in the Church at Oriskanv, N. Y., where he was or- 
dained. After remaining a year at this place, he re- 
moved to Brooklyn, N. Y., where he was without charge 
until 1847, when he was called to supply the pulpit of 
the Church at Jamesville, N. Y. In 1848 he was called 
to the pastorate of the Church in Babylon, L. I. He 
remained in this charge until 1851, when he accepted a 
call to Uniontown, Cal., where he remained three years, 
and removed to San Francisco, and was without charge 
three years, lie was then ealled to Crescent City, and 
supplied the pulpit four years, when he returned to San 
Francisco, and died Nov. 22, 1870. (W. P. S.) 

Vail, Solomon T., a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was horn in 1814, in Saratoga County, N. Y. He 
was converted in 1845; received on trial by the Iowa 
Conference in 1849; and after serving at Anamosa and 
Big Woods missions, he was, in 1851, admitted into full 
connection, ordained deacon, and reappointed to Big 
Woods mission, where he died, July 28, 1852. Mr. Vail 
was intellectual, pious, and a young man of great prom- 
ise. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1852, p. 127. 

Vaill, Joseph (1), a Congregational minister, was 
born at Litchfield, Conn., July 14, 1751. lie graduated 
with honor at Dartmouth College in 1778; studied tlieol- 
ogy privately; was licensed to preach by Litchfield Asso- 
| ciation in May, 1779; and ordained pastor of the Church 
in lladlvme. Conn., Feb. 9, 1780, in which relation he 
continued fifty-nine years. He died Nov. 21, 1838. 
He was a good scholar, an excellent preacher, and dis- 
tinguished for conscientiousness and untiring devoted- 
ness to his work. Besides frequent contributions to 
periodicals, be published a poem entitled Soak's Flood 
(1790) : — another poem entitled .4 n A ddress to a Deist : — 
and an Ordination Sermon (1814). See Sprague, A imals 
of the A mer. Pulpit , iv, 20, note. 

Vaill, Joseph (2), D.D.. a minister of the Con- 
gregational Church, son of t lie preceding, was born 


VAILL 


GO: 


VAISHNAVAS 


at Iladlyme, Conn., July 28, 1790. He graduated from 
Yale College in 1811, and immediately began to teach. 
For six months he was principal of Morris Academy 
in Litchfield, Conn., and for the same period had 
charge of a high -school in Salisbury, Conn. Mean- 
while he was studying theology. 1 1 is first, pastorate 
was in Brimfield, Conn., where he was ordained and 
installed Feb. 2, 1814. In 1834 he accepted a call to 
the Second Church of Portland, Me., where he was in- 
stalled Oct. 15. About this time Amherst College was 
pecuniarily involved, and it was necessary to appoint 
some one to collect funds in aid of it. Mr. Vail! was 
unanimously chosen. For a long time he had been a 
trustee of the institution. At this time (1841) he was 
again pastor at Brimfield, having returned to that 
charge in 1837, and was loath to accept the agency, 
but finally consented and removed to Somers, Conn., 
where he resided nine and a half years, and served the 
Church there as pastor. At the age of sixty-four he left 
Somers and settled as pastor of the Second Congrega- 
tional Church in Palmer, Mass., and he remained in 
this pastorate until Oct. 13, 1807, nearly thirteen years. 
His published sermons, addresses, etc., were about ten 
in number, llis manner in preaching was energetic, 
and he employed gesture and emphasis effectively. In 
Brimfield and Somers he was chairman of the school 
committee. For nearly forty years he was a trustee of 
Munson Academy. While in Portland, he belonged to 
corporations of Bangor 'rheological Seminary and of 
Gorham Academy. The last year of his life he was 
elected to the Massachusetts House of Representatives, 
and was named a member of the joint committee on 
the License Law, before which he read a paper on the 
subject. He died at Palmer, Feb. 21, 1809. See Cong. 
Qmir. 1870, p. 1. 

Vaill, William Fowler, a Congregational min- 
ister, the son of Rev. Joseph and the father of the Rev. 
Thomas Scott Vaill, was born at Iladlyme, Conn., June 
7, 1783. lie was prepared for college by bis father, and, 
mainly by bis own exertions, supported himself at Yale 
College, where he graduated in 1806. He studied the- 
ology with Rev. Asahel Hooker, was licensed to preach 
in 1808, and for twelve years was pastor at North Guil- 
ford, Conn. In 1820 he was appointed by the United 
Foreign Missionary Society superintendent of a mission 
among the Osage Indians, then occupying the Arkansas 
country, where, amid trials and hardship, hope and fear, 
he labored fourteen years, or until the abandonment of 
the mission on account of the removal of the Indians 
farther west. He returned to New England, where he 
preached in various places, until he accepted a commis- 
sion from the Home Missionary Society of Connecticut 
as missionary to Illinois, lie at once went to Wethers- 
field. 111., where he was pastor seven years, and where 
for twenty-seven years he made his headquarters for 
constant and faithful missionary toil. He died with 
the harness on at Wethersfield, Feb. 24, 18G5. Mr. Vaill 
loved his work intensely, and his ardent piety carried 
him forward in it in labors most exhausting. See Cong. 
Qnar. 1805, p. 422. 

Vaillant, Wallekant, a Flemish painter and en- 
graver, who was horn at Lisle in 1023, and died at Am- 
sterdam in 1077, is the author of several prints of sacred 
subjects from various masters, for which see Spooner, 
Ilist. Diet, of the Fine Arts , s. v. 

Vainglory. See Vanity. 

Vairagis is a Hindu term denoting persons devoid 
of passion, and applied to all religious mendicants who 
profess to have separated themselves from the interests 
and emotions of the world. It is used in particular to 
designate the mendicant Vaishnavas (q. v.) of the Ra- 
mauauda class. 

Vaiseshika is the name of one of the two great 
divisions of the Nyaya school of Hindu philosophy, 
agreeing with the Nvaya itself in its analytical method 
of treating the subjects of human research, but differing 


from it in the arrangement of its topics, and in its doc- 
trine of atomic individualities, or viseska.% from which 
the name is derived, lvanada {Jama, minute, and ado, 
eating) is the reputed founder of the school, although 
nothing is known as to his history or date, lie ar- 
ranges the subject-matter of his works under six padar- 
thas, or topics, as follows: (l) substance, (2) quality, (3) 
action, (4) generality, (5) atomic individuality, and (0) 
coinherence. Later writers of the school add to these 
a seventh, viz. non-existence. According to this sys- 
tem, understanding is the quality of soul, and the instru- 
ments of right notion (knowledge from the contact of 
sense with its object, and inference) are treated of under 
the head of buddhi. or understanding. See Bibliotheca 
Indica (Calcutta, 1850); Colebrookc, Miscell. Essays 
(Loud. 1837), vol. i; Muller [Max], in Zeitschrift tier 
deutschen morgeul. Gesellschaft . 

Vaishnavas is the name of one of the three great 
divisions of Hindu sects, designating the worslrtppcrs 
of Vishnu, from which the word is derived. The com- 
mon link of all the sects comprised under this name is 
their belief in the supremacy of Vishnu over the gods 
Brahma and Siva. Their difference consists in the 
character which they assign to this supremacy, and to 
the god Vishnu himself, in their religious and other 
practices, and in their sectarian marks. The following 
are some of the principal sects of t lie Vaishnavas: 

1. The Ramanujas , or /Sri 1 'aislmavas. or Sri Sam- 
pradayins , who derive their origin from Ramanuja, 
a celebrated reformer, native of Perumbur, in the south 
of India. lie was born about the middle of t lie Pith 
century, and is considered hv his followers as an incar- 
nation of Seslia, the serpent of Vishnu. The most strik- 
ing peculiarity of this sect is the preparation as well as 
tiie scrupulous privacy of their meals; for should the 
meal, during its preparation, or while they are eating, 
attract even the looks of a stranger, the operation is in- 
stantly stopped, and the viands buried in the ground. 
The. marks hv which they are distinguished from other 
sects are two perpendicular lines drawn with white 
earth from the root of the hair to the commencement 
of each eyebrow, and a transverse streak connecting 
them across the root of the nose; in the centre is a 
perpendicular streak of red, made with red sanders. be- 
sides other marks painted on the breast and arms. 

2. The llamantimlas , or Ramavats , who derive their 
name from Kamananda, a descendant by discipleship 
from Ramanuja, who probably lived about the close of 
the 14th century. They are by far the most numerous 
class of sectaries in Gangetic India, especially in the 
district of Agra, where they constitute seven tenths of 
the ascetic population. They belong chiefly to the 
poorer and inferior classes, with the exception of the 
Rajputs and military Brahmins. The most important 
difference between them and the Ramanujas consists in 
the fact that Ramanaiula abolished the distinction of 
caste among the religious orders, and taught that one 
who quitted the ties of nature and religion shook off all 
personal distinction. 

3. The Kabir Panthis , founded by Kahir, the most 
celebrated of the twelve disciples of Ramanaiula, be- 
longing, therefore, to the end of the 14th century. They 
believe in one God, the creator of the world, but in op- 
position to the Vedanta (q. v), they assert that lie has 
a body formed of the five elements of matter, and a 
mind endowed with the three gnnas , or qualities: he is 
eternal and free from the defects of human nature, hut 
in other respects does not differ from man. The pure 
man is his living resemblance, and after death becomes 
liis equal and associate. They have no peculiar mode 
of dress, and the sectarian marks are not considered im- 
portant, though worn by some. 

4. The Vallahhaeharyas , or Rndra Sampradayins , 
founded by Vallabha Swainin, or Valla bha Acharva, 
horn in 1479. The principles of the sect, as laid down 
by Vallahlia, are as follows: (1) To secure the firm 
support of Vallabliacharya; (2) To exercise chiefly the 


VAISIIYA 


G04 


VALDES 


worship of Krishna (incarnation of Visliuu); (3) To 
forsake the sense of Vaidik opinion, and be a suppliant 
to Krishna; (4) To sing praises with feelings of humil- 
ity; (5) To believe that Vallablm is a Gopi, or mistress 
of Krishna; (6) To swell the heart with the name 
Krishna; (7) To forsake his commands not for a mo- 
•ment; (8) To put faith in his words and doings; (9) 
To .adopt the society of the good, knowing them divine; 
and (10) To see not the faults, hut speak the truth. 
They are very ignorant and superstitious. 

5. The Madhtvacharyas. or Prahma Sampradayins. 
founded bv a Brahmin named Madhwacharya, who was 
horn in 1 100. The distinguishing doctrine of this seet 
is the identitication of Vishnu with the Supreme Soul as 
the pre-existent cause of the universe; and this prime- 
val Vishnu they atlirm to be endowed with real attri- 
butes, and, although indefinable, to he most excellent 
and independent. There is also a dependent principle, 
a living soul dependent on the Supreme. They deny 
the absorption of the human soul into the universal 
spirit, and the loss of independent existence after death. 

(i. The Vaishmirns of Bengal, founded by Chaitanva, 
who was born at Nadiya in 1485. The most impor- 
tant innovation of this sect, in respect to doctrine, is the 
dogma of bhakti , or faith, which they declare to be in- 
finitely more efficacious than abstraction, than knowl- 
edge of the Divine nature, than the subjugation of the 
passions, or anything deemed most meritorious. The 
bhakti, or faith, comprehends five stages: quietism, as 
that of sages; servitude, which every votary takes upon 
himself; friendship for the Deity ; tender affection for 
the Deity, of the same nature as love of parents for their 
children: and the highest degree of affection, such pas- 
sionate attachment as the Gopis felt for their beloved 
Krishna. 

Besides these, there are many other sects of less impor- 
tance. Those enumerated above are divided into smaller 
sects or divisions. See Wilson, Sketch of the Reliy . Sects 
of the Hindus, in U r or£s (Loud. 18(5*2), vol. i; Karsandas 
Mtdji, History of the Sect of the Mahaajas (ibid. 1865). 

Vaishya is one of the Hindu castes said to have 
sprung from the thigh of Brahma. They are the pro- 
ductive capitalists, and their duties are to keep cattle, 
carry on trade, lend on interest, cultivate the soil, and 
turn their attention to every description of practical 
knowledge. See Indian Castk. 

Vaison, Council of ( Concilium Va sensei). Vaisou 
is a village of France, in Vauclure, fifteen miles north- 
east of Orange, on the Ouveze. Two ecclesiastical coun- 
cils were held there, as follows : 

I. Was held Nov. 13. 442, under the bishop Auspicius. 
Neetarius, bishop of Vienne, was present, and publicly 
maintained that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are but 
one nature, one power, one divinity and virtue. Ten 
canons were published. 

1. Declares that it shall not he necessary to examine 
the Gallicau bishops before receiving them to commun- 
ion, but that it shall be enough to be assured that they 
are not excommunicated. 

2. Declares that the offerings of penitents dying sud- 
denly without receiving the communion may neverthe- 
less be received, aiul that mention is to he made of their 
names at the altars. It permits them burial. 

3. Order.- priests and deacons to receive the holy chrism 
at Easter from iheir own bishops. 

G. Forbids all intimacy with the enemies of religion. 

9 and 10. Are for the protection of the reputation of 
those who, out of charity, take charge of deserted chil- 
dren. 

See Mansi, Condi, iii. 1456. 

II. Was held Nov. 5. 521). Twelve bishops attended, 
among whom were St. Cajsaritis of Arles, who presided. 
Five canons were published. 

1. Enjoins that parish priests shall receive into their 
houses young readers (being single), according to the 
excellent custom in Italy; ihat they shall provide for 
them, and teach them to chant, the Psalms, and make 
them read and study the Holy Scriptures. 

2. Declares that a priest may preach in his own parish, 
hut that when he is ill, the deacons shall lead the Homi- 
lies of the fathers. 


3. Orders the frequent repetition of the Kurie Elcison 
at matins, mass, and vespers: and that the Hanctns be 
snug three times at mass even in Lent, and in masses for 
the dead. 

4. Orders that mention be made of the pope at every 
mass. 

5. Orders that the verse “As it was in the beginning,” 
etc., shall be chanted after the Gloria Patri. 

See Mansi. Concil. iv, 1679; London, Manual of Coun- 
cils, p. 669-670. 

Vajez'atha [some Vajeza'tJui] (II eb. Yayezutha', 
prob. from Pers. rayxt , “ wind,” and zatha, 
“strong;” Sept. Za/3e3 , aiO£ v. r. 7.cif3ovya$a and Zn- 
fiovc&iii’; Vulg. Jezatha'), last named of the ten sons 
of Haman slain by the Jews at Shushan (Estb. ix, 9). 
B.C. 473. 

Val, Andke nr, a French theologian, was born Jan. 
18, 1561, at Pontoise. In 1594 he was made doctor of 
theology at the Sorbonne, and died Sept. 9, 1638. as gen- 
eral-superior of the Carmelite Order at Paris, lie wrote, 
I)e Suprema Romani Pontificis in Ecclesiam Potest ate 
Disputatio : — Elenchus Libelli de Ecclesiastica et Politica 
Potestaie: — Commentarii in Primam Secundte Partis et 
Secundum Secundre Partis Sumnae 1). Thomcr. See 
J ocher, Allgemeines Gtlehrten- 1 .exikon. s. v. ; Winer, 
I/andbuch der theol. Literatur , i, 671. (B. P.) 

Valadon, le Pere Zacuapjk, a French Capuehin 
and missionary, was born about 1680. He labored in 
Asia Minor, hut is especially noted for his devotion to 
the suffering people during the plague at Marseilles, 
lie died in 1746. See Michaud, Biogrcrphie Universe lie 
(Paris, 1843-66). 

Valckenaer, Lodewijk Caspar, a Friesian philol- 
ogist, born at Leeuwarden in 1715. He studied at Fran- 
eker and Leyden ; beeame co-rector of the gymnasium 
of Cam pen; professor of Greek at Franeker (1741); re- 
moved to Leyden as professor of the Greek language 
and antiquities, and died there, March 14, 1785. Among 
his works are, De A ristobulo Judtvo : — Selecta e Scholiis 
L. C. Valckenarii in Libras quosdam X. 1\, published by 
Wassenbergh (Amst. 1815,2 vols. 8vo). 

Valdes (Ital. aides so), Alfonso and Juan de, 
were twin brothers from the town of Cuenca, in Castile, 
and born about A.D. 1500. who in their early years be- 
came attached to the Castilian eourt, and, at a later day, 
sustained relations of some practical importance towards 
the Beformers of the 16th century and their work. 

1. Alfonso accompanied the court, in 1520, to the 
coronation of the emperor Charles V at Aix-la-Cba- 
pelle, and thence to Worms. From the latter town lie 
wrote letters to friends in Spain, in which he depre- 
cated the course which the pope had adopted towards 
Luther. He had just witnessed the burning of Luthers 
writings at Worms when he wrote. In 1524 Alfonso 
was an imperial secretary of state under the grand- 
ehaneellor Gattinara; and in 1527 he began an episto- 
lary correspondence with Erasmus, the great humanist, 
whose writings had shortly before beet) committed to 
the flames in Spain, and in whose defence he had been 
a most ardent advocate, as against the fanatical mob of 
excited monks. In the same year (1527) occurred the 
storming of Borne and the capture of the pope by the 
imperial army under the constable Bourbon; and on 
this event Valdes composed a dialogue intended to set 
forth the sentiment of the eourt respecting the ease. 
The emperor could not deny his responsibility for the 
catastrophe, and his secretary accordingly proceeded to 
show that the pope himself had brought about the dev- 
astation of his capital by warlike agitations and disre- 
gard of the sanctity of his own word, and also by his re- 
fusal to be guided by the warning counsels of judieious 
friends or by the indications of Brovidence. This com- 
position exeited considerable interest, and led the papal 
nuneio Castiglione to lodge a eomplaint against its au- 
thor with the emperor; hut Valdes was safe under the 
protection of the chancellor, and suffered no harm. 


VALDES 


695 


VALDES 


In 1530 Valdes was present with the court at the j 
Diet of Augsburg. The bearers of the famous Protest 
were recommended to him, among others, and found him 
inclined to promote harmony and friendliness above any 
of his associates. He met with Melancthon and dis- 
cussed the religious situation, and was unwearied in the 
work of judicious mediation between the heads of the 
contending parties. After the public reading of the Con- 
fession he prepared a translation for the emperor’s use 
(see Campeggio, in Liirnmer, Monum. 1 \itic. p. 45) ; and 
afterwards lie labored zealously to furnish him with the 
fullest information which the Protestants could supply 
in behalf of their cause. lie has, nevertheless, been sus- 
pected of hostility to the Deformation because he judged 
that the Confession was written in too harsh a tone, and 
yet more because he wrote the emperor’s letter of con- 
gratulation to the Komish Switzers (Brussels, Oct. 1531) 
on the occasion of their victory at Cappel over the 
Zwinglians; but, on the other hand, the nuncio Ale- 
ander complains (ibid. Dec. 30, 1531) that certain per- 
sons at court are practically in sympathy with Luther 
and desirous that his cause should succeed, and that 
they laud Erasmus to the skies only because they are 
not allowed to speak their thoughts respecting Luther. 
Among these courtiers Valdes was unquestionably the 
tirst. It would seem, however, that Valdes left the 
court in 1531, though he remained in the imperial ser- 
vice as late as 1533. He never returned to Spain, pos- 
sibly because he could not be there in safety. Francis- 
co Euzinas (q. v.) wrote to Melancthon in 1545, “If the 
excellent Alfonso Valdes had returned to Spain, even 
tne emperor would have been unable to save him from 
the death which the monks, the satellites of the holy 
fathers, were preparing for him on account of his doc - 
trina and auctoritas .” The time and place of bis death 
are thus far wholly unknown. 

On Alfonso Valdes, see Iia inner, Gesch. Ettropcis seit 
d. 15. Jahrh. i, 264, Docum. Inedit, para la Hist, de Es- 
paita, vol. xxiv ; M idler, Hist, von d. Protestation u. A p- 
pellation , etc. (Jena, 1705), p. 18-190 ; Saubert, Wunder- 
werck cl. A ugspurg. Confession (Nuremb. 1631), p. 220, 
etc.; Jonas, in i Xiedner's Zeitschrifi , 1861, p. 630; Her- 
zog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

2. Juan (1) was, physically and intellectually, strik- 
ingly like his twin brother Alfonso; and, like him, he 
tirst came before the public with a dialogue, publish- 
ed anonymously and, at the same time, as his broth- 
er’s production — probably in 1529. His piece was en- 
titled .4 Dialogue between Mercury and Charon. It be- 
gins with the narration by Mercury of the emperor’s 
attempt to settle his quarrel with king Francis of France 
by a duel (see La Fuente, Hist.de Espafta , xii,497 sq.); 
but the narration is repeatedly interrupted by the in- 
troduction of newly deceased persons, who enter into 
the conversation, and through whom the whole obtains 
a political and religious character. The general corrup- 
tion of the Church is censured. The ignorance and im- 
morality of the clergy and the superstition of the peo- 
ple are plainly characterized, and the Scriptures and the 
grace of God are extolled above the adoration of relics 
and the Virgin Mary. The use of force as a means of 
conversion is condemned. Part second of the work is 
chiefly political, and is a sort of Anti-Machiavel. 
The whole reveals the simplicity of a truly noble mind 
and the tact of a courtier. In 1531 Juan was at Iiome, 
having come thither from Naples, and was engaged in 
the study of natural history. He planned a collection 
of Spanish proverbs, and wrote a Didlogo de la Lengua 
(2d ed. Madrid, 1860), which is highly commended by 
writers on the literature of Spain. His chief interest, 
however, centred in religious reform. For it he labored 
incessantly with tongue and pen, and in its interest he 
became the centre of an association of Christians wdio 
endeavored to lay the foundations of an independent 
kingdom of God without directly assaulting the Church 
of the State. 

In 1536 the emperor issued an edict at Naples which 


forbade association with persons infected with or sus- 
pected of the Lutheran heresy, under pain of death and 
the confiscation of property. After the emperor’s de- 
parture, March 22, the viceroy forbade the preaching of 
Ochino (q. v.), though he was afterwards induced to 
permit its continuatimi to the end of Lent. But during 
this same Lenten period Valdes had a conversation with 
Giulia Gonzaga, the childless widow of Vespasian Co- 
lonna, duke of Traietto. who had been powerfully awak- 
ened under the preaching of Ochino; and he had the 
courage to commit the substance of their conversation 
to paper, under the title Alfubeto Christiana (1st ed. in 
Italian [Venice, 1546] ; 2d ed. Italian, English, and Span- 
ish [Loud. 1860 sq.], consisting of only 150 copies for 
private distribution). In this dialogue he teaches that 
the law shows what we are to do, while the Gospel 
gives the Spirit by which to do it. He insists that the 
soul must choose between God and the world, and de- 
clares that persons whose outward life is entirely correct 
may need a reformation of the inward feelings and dis- 
positions. Christian perfection consists in loving God 
supremely and our neighbor as ourselves. Monks and 
non-monks have only so much of Christian perfection 
as they have of faith and love to God. As the tire can- 
not refrain from giving forth heat, so faith cannot avoid 
the performing of works of love. The soul may have 
full assurance of the forgiveness of sins and of salvation 
in Christ. The evil of sin requires a radical cure, ap- 
plied at the seat of the disease, and cannot be overcome 
by any mere surface remedy. Giulia insists, however, 
upon rules by which to regulate the use of institutions 
of the Church, and Valdes responds that benefit may be 
derived from the adoration of the sacrament, from the 
reading of the Epistles and Gospels, and from the pray- 
ers in the mass; that masses ought to be heard except 
when they would interrupt works of charity; that the 
preaching of the Word should be humbly received. He 
discountenances the repetition of a given number of 
psalms and paternosters. Of confession he says that 
God does not forgive sins because of the confession, but 
because the sinner believes in Christ. The result was 
that Giulia entered the Franciscan convent of Santa Chi- 
ara, though she did not take the vows of the order nor 
exclude herself wholly from society. 

It w r as perhaps in the same year (1536) that Valdes 
dedicated to the duchess Gonzaga his version of the 
Psalms, after the Hebrew (a w'ork never published and 
now lost), and in the following year The Epistle to the 
Romans and The First Epistle to the Corinthians (1st ed. 
Geneva, 1556 sq.; 2d ed. 1856), w^hieh works reveal 
faithful research and sincere modesty in the author, and 
possess both scientific and practical value. Other works 
by Valdes have, almost without exception, been lost to 
posterity, the exception being Consider aziones Dirinas , 
an Italian edition of which appeared in 1550 at Hasle, 
and translations of wdiich were made into Spanish, 
French, English, and Dutch during t lie Ifith and 17th 
centuries. 

Juan Valdes w'as a theologian of the first rank in 
ability, though largely self-trained, and though he nev- 
er entered into orders. Sand, the editor of the Biblio- 
theca Antitrinitariorum (1684), places him at the head 
of his catalogue on the authority of a passage in a Uni- 
tarian publication of 1567, said to be cited from Valdes, 
but u'hich certainly does not prove the charge of anti- 
trinitarianism; and very different sentiments are ex- 
pressed by Valdes in the A Ifabeto Christ, p. 37, and the 
Commentary on First Corinthians , p. 281, etc. In his 
Consider uziones, No. 109, he confesses that the relation 
existing between the Father and the Son exceeds his 
comprehension. In personal intercourse Valdes pos- 
sessed extraordinary influence, especially among the no- 
bles, with whom his rank brought him into contact. 
His manners were polished, his conversation attractive, 
his entire bearing full of charm. Assisted by Peter 
Martyr (Vermigli) of Florence, the Augustiniaii abbot of 
St. Peter ad Aram at Naples, and by Ochino and others, 


VALDES 


696 VALENCIA 


he was able to beget such enthusiasm for the study of ' 
the Bible that a contemporary Neapolitan writer states 
that certain tanners were in the constant habit of dis- ^ 
cussing the Pauline epistles and their most difficult pas- 
sages. Among his friends were also the poet Flaminio 
and the Keformer Pietro Carnes&ehi (q. v.). Valdes 
died in 1540 or 1541. 

See Bo Inner, Cenni Bioyrafd sui Fra tell i Giorwmi e 
Alfonso di Valdesso. 18(51. in the appendix to his edition 
of the Consideraziones ; and id. in Herzog. Real-Ency- 
klop. s. v. 

Valdes, Don Juan (2) de Leal, a Spanish paint- 
er, descended from an ancient family of Austria, was 
horn at Cordova in 1630. He studied in the school of 
Antonio del Castillo, and afterwards removed to Seville, 
where he became one of the most distinguished painters 
of that city, lie was one of the founders of the Acad- 
emy there, and at the death of Murillo became its pres- 
ident, and was esteemed as the head of his profession. 
Among his numerous works may be mentioned, The 
Triumph of the Cross, at Seville: — The Martyrdom of 
Ft. Andrew: — and The History of the Prophet Elias , at 
Cordova. He died in 1691. See Spooner, Bioy. Hist, 
of the Fine .4 rts, s. v. 

Valdes, Don Lucas de, a Spanish painter, son of 
the preceding, was horn at Seville in 161 1. He was in- 
structed bv his father, and painted history and portraits 
with considerable reputation. Some of his works re- 
main in the churches and public edifices of his native 
city, lie died in 1724. See Spooner, Bioy. Hist, of the 
Fine A rts , s. v. 

Valdes, Don Sebastian Llanos de, a Spanish 
painter, nourished at Seville about 1660. lie studied 
under Francisco de Herrera the elder; aided greatly in 
establishing the Academy of Seville, in the presidency 
of which he succeeded Juan de Valdes. Among bis 
large historical works are a Magdalen, \\\ the Church of 
the Kecollets at Madrid:— and a picture of the Virgin 
surrounded by Faints and Angels (1669), in t lie Church 
of St. Thomas, Seville. See Spooner, Bioy. Hist, of the 
Fine A rts , s. v. 

Valdo. See Waldo. 

Vale. See Valley. 

Valence, Councils of ( Concilia Valentina'). Val- 
ence is a town of Dauphiny, France, on the Phone, fifty- 
seven miles south of Lyons. Five ecclesiastical councils 
have been held there, as follows : 

I. Was held July 12, 374. Thirty bishops attended, 
of whom the names of twenty-two have reached ns. It 
is supposed to have been a general Galilean council, or 
at least collected from the chid part of Narbonnesian 
(Laid. The object of this council was to remedy the 
disorders which had crept into the discipline of the 
Church. Four canons were published. 

1. Forbids the ordination in future of men who have 
had two wives, or who have married widows, but it does 
not insist upon the deposition of those who have been al- 
ready ordained. 

2. 'Forbids to grant penance too easily to voting women 
who, after consecrating themselves to God, voluntarily 
embrace the married state. 

3. Forbids absolution until death to those who, after 
baptism, fall back into idolatry, or who have received a 
second baptism. 

4. Orders that all bishops, prie«ts, and deacons falsely 
accusing themselves of any crimes in order to be deposed, 
and so escape the responsibility and weight of their or- 
ders, shall be, in fact, so deposed, and considered as 
guilty of the crimes wherewith they charge themselves. 

See Mansi, Conril. ii, 904. 

II. Was held about 530. in defence of the doctrines 
of grace and free-will, against the Semi-l’elagians. See 
Mansi, Condi, iv, 1678. 

III. Was held Jan. 8. 855, by order of the emperor 
Lothaire. Fourteen bishops, with the metropolitans, 
attended from the three provinces of Lyons, Vienne, 
and Arles. The object of the council was to investi- 
gate the conduct of the bishop of Valence, who was ac- 


cused of various crimes. Tweutv-three canons were 
published. 

The first six relate to the subjects of grace, free-will, 
and predestinatiou, and reject the four canons ofQniercy 
upon the matter. 

7. Relates to the elections of bishops with the unani- 
mous consent of t lie clergy and people of the see. 

12. Forbids, under pain of excommunication, the singu- 
lar combats to which accused persons had recourse in 
those times in order to prove t heir innocence. Directs 
that he who shall kfll or wound his adversary shall he 
treated as a murderer, and excommunicated; and that 
the man killed shall be regarded as a suicide, and forbid- 
den Christian burial. 

14. Enjoins bishops not to give their clergy or people 
cause to compluiu against them ou account of their vexa- 
tions. 

15. Recommends them to lead an exemplary life. 

16. Orders them to preach and instruct their people 
botli in town and country. 

17. Bids them he careful to make their visitations with- 
out burdening any one. 

IS. Orders the re-establishment of schools for teaching 
religion, literature, and ecclesiastical chanting. 

‘20. Orders care in the preservation of the Church orna- 
ments, etc., and forbids their being put to any but their 
proper use. 

22. Forbids bishops to exact their visitation dues when 
they do not make their visitations. 

See Mansi, Condi, viii, 133. 

IV. Was held in 1100 to examine the charge brought 
by the canons of Ant un against Norigaudus. or Norgaud, 
bishop of Aiitun, whom they accused of having got pos- 
session of the see by simony, and of having squandered 
the property belonging to it. The pope’s legates, John 
and Benedict, cited the bishop to appear at this council, 
in spite of the protest of the canons, who declared that 
the legates had no authority to take him beyond the 
province, and in spite of the opposition of the archbish- 
op of Lyons, who complained of the legates having 
taken the judgment of the case out of his hands. The 
question accordingly came before the council, and was 
discussed, but the further consideration of it was re- 
served for the Council of Foictiers. In the meantime 
the bishop was suspended from the exercise of all his 
functions. Hugo, abbot of Flavignv, accused likewise 
of simony, was declared to be innocent. See Mansi, 
Condi, x, 717. 

V. Was held on the Saturday after the Feast of St. 
Andrew. The legates Peter, cardinal-bishop of Alba no, 
and Hugo, cardinal-priest of St. Sabine, convoked this 
council, consisting of four archbishops and fifteen bish- 
ops from the provinces of Narbonne. Vienne in Dauphi- 
ny, Arles, and Aix. Twenty- three canons were pub- 
lished. 

3. Forbids clerks in holy orders, cathedral canons, and 
other beneficed persons to exercise any secular office. 

6. 7, and 8. Enjoin the punishment and public deuouuce- 
ment of perjured persons. 

9, 10, and 11. Relate to the Inquisifiou. 

12. Gives to bishops the correction of sorcerers and 
persons guilty of sacrilege, and, in the event of their re- 
fusing i to amend, enjoins perpetual imprisonment, or 
whatever punishment the bishops may deem right. 

13. Enacts penalties against those who lay "aside the 
cross, which they have assumed upon their dress as a 
token of having* renounced their heresy, or who escape 
from prison, or despise the sentence of excommunication. 

The five next refer to excommunications. 

22 aud 23. Fulminate excommunications against the 
emperor Frederick and all his adherents. 

See Mansi, Condi ix, 696. — Landon, Manual of Councils , 
p. 670 sq. 

Valencia, Council of ( Concilium Valentimim). 
Valencia is a town of Spain, capital of the province of 
the same name, situated ou t lie (luadalaviar, 190 miles 
F.S.E. of Madrid. An ecclesiastical council was held 
here in 524, under king Theodoric. Six bishops at- 
tended, and six canons were published. 

1. Orders that, previous to the presentation of the obla- 
tions and the dismissal of the catechumens, the Gospel 
shall be read after the Epistle, in order that the caie- 
chnmeus, penitents, and even the heathen may hear the 
words of Christ and the preaching of the bishop. 

4. Exhorts bishops to visit their sick brethren in the 
episcopate, in order to assist them in settling their af- 
fairs, aud to atteud to their funerals, lu case of a bishop 


VALENCIA 


697 


VALENTIN 


dying suddenly with no one oi his brother bishops near 
him, it is ordered that the body shall he kept uutil a bish- 
op can come to celebrate his obsequies. 

5. Excommuuieutes vagabond clerks who desert their 
calling. 

ti. Forbids to ordain a clerk belonging to another dio- 
cese, and any person whatever who will not promise to 
remain in the diocese. 

See Mansi, Condi, iv, 1G17. — Landon, Manual of Coun- 
cils. p. G72. 

Valencia, Fray Matias de, a Spanish painter, 
was born at Valencia in 1G9G. His name was Lorenzo 
Chafrion. He studied at Rome, returned to Valencia, 
afterwards went to Granada, where, being reduced to 
distress, he took refuge in a convent. There are some 
of his cabinet pictures in the collections at Valencia, 
and a picture of the Last At upper in t lie refectory of his 
convent. He was drowned in 1749. See Spooner, Biop. 
Hist, of the Fine .4 rts, s. v. 

Valencia, Jacobo Perez de, an anchorite, 
commonly called bishop of Christopolitamis, was born 
about 1420 at Valencia, in Spain, whence he derived 
his name. He became a hermit of the Order of St. 
Augustine, and is the author of Quastiones Qainque 
contra Judeeos de Christo Reparatore Generis Httmaui: 
— Fxpositio Fsalniorum Dacidis (Leyden, 1512, 1514, 
1517). In his Proleg. in Psahnos , tract, vi, he gives 
an amusing account of the origin of the vowel-points: 
“ Rost conversionem Constant ini Magni videntes Rabbi- 
nos omnes Gentiles cum tanta devotione ad tidem Christi 
convert! per totum orbem, et ecelesiam tanto favore pro- 
sperari et etiam quod inrinita multitudo Judaeorum vi- 
dentes manifestam veritatem per experientiam et mira- 
cula, pariter convertebautur, et sic defieiebant qiuestns 
etreditus et tributa Rabbinorum, hac iuiquitate commo- 
tos magna multi tudine congregatos fuisse apud Babylo- 
niam Egypt i, quae dicitur Cavre; ibique quanto majis 
caute potuerunt, conatos fuisse falsiticare et pervertere 
Scripturas a vero sensu et signiticatione. Inde confinx- 
isse supra quinque vel septem puncta loco vocalium, quo- 
rum puuctorum inventores fuisse Ravina et Ravasse duos 
doctores eorum. Addit istos Rabbiuosconfinxisse libros 
Talmud.” lie died Aug. 1, 1491. See Jocher, Al/ge- 
meines Gelehrten- Lexikon , s. v. “ Perez Flirst, Bill. 
Jud. iii, 46G ; Hodv, De Bibliornm Textibus Originalibus 
(Oxford, 1705), 111, ii, 442. (B. P.) 

Valens, in Roman mythology, according to Cicero, 
was the name of the second Mercury. Some declared 
him to be the father of Trophonius. 

Valens, the Roman emperor, the brother and co- 
Augustus of Valentiuian I, is important to Church his- 
tory as the last political representative of Arianism in 
the East. He was nominated to the throne by Valen- 
tinian, March 28, 364, and assigned to the rule of the 
East. His first efforts were directed towards the secur- 
ing of his rule against the pretensions of Procopius, 
whom the late emperor Julian had selected to become 
his successor. It is not certain that other than politi- 
cal motives were at work in this campaign, though 
Milman, basing his remark on a fragment by Eunapins, 
says, in Gibbon, Decline and Fall , iii, 25, “It may be 
suspected that the heathen and philosophic party es- 
poused the cause of Procopius” (but comp. Ammian. 
Marcell, xxvi, 6-9). The next campaign of Valens 
was directed, against the Goths, who had operated along 
the Danube in behalf of Procopius; but before entering 
on that undertaking, the emperor sought to conciliate 
the favor of Heaven by receiving Christian baptism; 
and as the rite was performed by Eudoxius, the Arian 
bishop of Constantinople, the event became decisive of 
the future course of the administration of Valens by 
identifying him with the Arian party and bringing 
him into direct contiiet with the Catholic and semi- 
Arian sections of the Church and empire. The Gothic 
war was successfully completed, and was followed hv a 
systematic persecution of the orthodox and semi-ortho- 
dox party throughout the East. A special edict was 


issued against monks, and military bands were sent to 
traverse the wilderness in which they dwelt to compel 
them to enter the service of the State and contribute to 
its support. Orthodox bishops everywhere were exiled, 
and historians speak of many who were drowned or 
otherwise put to death. The persecution was most se- 
vere where the emperor was himself present; and as 
the operations of the Persian king compelled his pres- 
ence at Antioch, that province became the scene of the 
most thorough and extensive persecution. The most 
horrible incident of the persecution was the destruction 
of eighty presbyters who had been deputed to protest 
against the instalment of the Arian Hemophilus as the 
bishop of Constantinople, instead of Evagrius, the choice 
ot the Catholics, and whom the prajfect Methodius em- 
barked in a vessel which he caused to be burned on the 
high seas. Curiously enough, the persecution resulted 
in the placing of Christian orthodoxy and heathen 
superstition under the same category of enemies to the 
emperor. The heathens hail appealed to an oracle to 
obtain the name of the next emperor, when Valens dis- 
covered their action, and at once proceeded to enforce 
against them the edicts of the empire. 1 1 is ragings 
were, however, brought to a close by the progress of 
events on the northern boundary of his State, where the 
migrating nations involved him in a war which became 
fatal to himself and the country'. His army suffered 
an unexampled defeat near Adrianople (Aug. 9, 379), 
and he was slain. During his reign of fifteen years he 
had done all he could to intensify the hatred of religious 
parties within the empire, and he now achieved the un- 



Coin of Valens. 

enviable distinction of being the first to show to foreign 
invaders the way into the heart of his country. The 
political history of his reign is. upon the whole, given 
with great thoroughness and fidelity bv Ammian. Mar- 
cellinus and Zosimus, while the ecclesiastical may be 
gathered from the writings of Basil the Great and the 
two Gregories, Nvssa and Nazianzen. See also Tille- 
mont, Hist, des Empereurs , v, 33-39; Gibbon, ut sup.; 
Sehlosser, V niversalhistor. Uebersicht , etc., iii, 2, 370; 
the ancient histories of the Church, Socrates, Sozomen, 
etc. ; Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. s. v. ; and Her- 
zog, Real-Kncyklop. s. v. 

Valentia, in Roman mythology, was a goddess of 
health, similar to llygeia, venerated by the city Ocrieu- 
lum, in Umbria, as a protecting goddess. 

V alentia, Gregorio de, a Spanish Jesuit, was born 
in 1551 at Medina del Campo, in Old Castile, and died 
at Rome, April 25, 1G03. He is the author of De Rebus 
Fidei hoc Tempore Controversiis (Leyden, 1591; Paris, 
1 G 10, fob): — De Trinitate Libri V (Ingolstadt, 158G) : — 
De Transsubs/ant. Panis et 17 ni in Corpus et Sunguinem 
Christi (ibid. 1587) : — Disput. de Legitimo Usu Kucha - 
ristiee in Altera tantnm Specie (ibid. eod.). See Winer, 
f/andb. der theol. Literatur, i, 341, 419, 455, 456, 853. 
(B. P.) 

Valentin, Pierre, a French painter, was born at 
Coulommiers-en-Brie, near Paris, in 1600. lie studied 
painting, and went to Rome at an early age, where he re- 
mained during the rest of his life. He painted the Mar- 
tyrdom of Sts. Processo and M artiniano (thought to be 
his best performance): — Decollation of St. John: — St. 
Peter Denying Christ: — Judith with the Head of Holo- 
femes: — The Judgment of Solomon: — ami many others, 
lie was an artist of great promise, but died in the flower 
of his life, in 1632. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine 
A rts , s. v. 


VALENTINE 


098 


VALENTINUS 


Valentine, Sr., a Homan bishop (or presbyter), 
was beheaded in the reign of t he emperor Claudios, 
A.l>. 270, and was early canonized, lie is said to 
have been a man of admirable qualities, and noted 
lbr his love and charity. Feb. 14 is celebrated in his 
honor. The custom of .choosing Valentines on that 
day is accounted for in various ways. By some it 
is said to have arisen from the fact that birds select 
their mates at that season; by others, from a practice 
prevalent at the ancient Homan festival of the Lupcr- 
calia, during the month of February, of placing the 
names of young women in a box, from which they were 
drawn by young men as chance directed. A similar 
custom was followed throughout Europe on the eve of 
Feb. 14 until recently, the person chosen becoming Val- 
entine to the one choosing for a year. See Chambers, 
Book of lhiys, i, 255. See Valentinus, St. 

Valentine, George M., a clergyman of the Church 
of England, of whose birth or early life no record re- 
mains, distinguished himself in the University of Cam- 
bridge, and graduated at Trinity College in 1820. lie 
was ordained in the same year to the curacy of Port- 
isliead, near Bristol, where he gave himself wholly to 
pastoral labors for eight years. In 1837 he offered 
himself to the missionary committee, and in the follow- 
ing year sailed for Bombay, began the study of the na- 
tive language, and taught a small English school. In 
1839 he was married, lie soon entered upon general 
missionary duties, and thus continued until his last sick- 
ness, which in a few weeks terminated in his death, 
July 23, 1843. See Christian Guardian , 1847, p. 433. 

Valentine, Jesse M.,a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South. His early life is unknown, 
lie was transferred from the Tennessee to the Florida 
Conference in 1850, and served faithfully about one 
year, when failing health necessitated bis superannua- 
tion. lie then studied medicine, and became quite suc- 
cessful in its practice, lie entered the army of the Con- 
federates some time in 1831. and was soon after taken 
sick, and died at Gainsville, Florida, in 1832. Mr. Val- 
entine was a graduate of West Point, a tine scholar, 
characterized by strong, logical reasoning powers, ami 
pure language as a preacher, and as a pulpit orator was 
surpassed by few. See Minutes of Annual Conferences 
of M. E. Church , South (1832), p. 410. 

Valentinian I, Roman emperor, was the son of 
Comes Gratianus, and born in A.I). 321 at Ci belie, in 
Pannonia. lie succeeded Jovian on the throne in 331, 
and, having associated his brother Valens with himself 
in the empire, he assumed the government of the West. 
He protected the State against the incursions of the 
Germanic tribes, simplitied and improved the internal 
administration of affairs, and promoted the advancement 
of science and general culture, thereby winning for him- 
self an honorable place in the estimation of the world, 
despite the cruelties with which his life was stained, 
lie died in the year 373. He had been reared amid 
Christian surroundings, and had drawn upon him the 
disfavor of the emperor -Julian by his unfaltering fidel- 
ity to his faith. On assuming the control of govern- 
ment he issued an edict of universal toleration in relig- 
ious matters (see Cod. Theod. IX,xvi, 1,0, ad A.D. 371), 
though he found it necessary to prohibit the offering of 
nocturnal sacrifices, as affording opportunity for polit- 
ical agitations, and also to forbid the practice of magic; 
and the execution of the Edict of Toleration contributed 
greatly towards the advancement of Christianity and 



the decline of paganism. The expression reliyio paga- 
norum — the religion of peasants — occurs for the first 
time in a law of Valentinian of the year 338 {ibid. XVI. 
ii, 18). Valentinian was also tolerant towards the dif- 
ferent parties in the Christian Church, though himself 
an adherent of the Nicene faith. See Annnian. Mar- 
cell. vi and xxx, 9; Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog, 
s. v. ; also Herzog, Ileal- Encyklop. s. v. 

Valentinian II, Homan emperor, was successor to 
his brother Gratian. The only noteworthy incident of 
his reign which requires mention in this place was the 
attempt of the heathen party, in the year 384, to recov- 
er the position it had lost. Symmachus, the pro feet us 
urbis, demanded the retraction of the laws issued by Gra- 
tian against paganism, and insisted that the religio ur- 
bis should be kept distinct from the private religion of 
the emperor. He also asserted that, inasmuch as man 
has no knowledge of divine things, it would be best to 



rely on the authority of antiquity; that heathenism 
had made ancient Home the mi strew* of the world; and 
that the famine of the year 383 must be regarded as a 
consequence of the renunciation of the. ancient religion. 
The emperor was induced, however, chiefly through the 
efforts of Ambrose of Milan, to reject the demand. He 
was murdered by Arbogastes in the year 302. His moth- 
er, Justiua. was a zealous adherent and defender of the 
Ariau party. See Smith, Diet, of Or. and Rom. Biog. 
s. v.; and Herzog, Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Valentinian III, Homan emperor, obtained noto- 
riety by issuing the edict of A.D. 415, w hich contrib- 
uted materially to the elevation of the papacy, for 
which see the articles Leo I and Papacy, lie also 
issued laws against the Manichseans. 1 1 is mother, Pla- 



cidia, administered the government for him until the 
year 450, and afterwards he gave himself up wholly to 
sensual indulgences, and left the control of affairs in the 
hands of a eunuch. He was murdered in 455. See 
Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. s. v. ; and Herzog, 
Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Valentinians, the followers of the Gnostic heretic 
Valentinus (q. v.). 

Valentinus, St., the reputed apostle of Rhaetia and 
bishop of I’assau, is first mentioned, in an authentic 
manner, by Pez, in the biography of the younger St. 
Severin, § 35, in Script ores Rer. Austriacar. i, 88. A 
presbyter, Lticillus, is there made to relate that a Val- 
entine who was his abbot and teacher had ministered as 
bishop of Hluetia early in the 5th century, and had died 
on Jan. 3 of some unmentioned year. Lticillus was ac- 
customed to observe that day in his honor. In one of 
the poems of Venantius Fortunatus (cir. 300) it is said 
that a number of churches of St. Valentinus were then 
planted along the Inn. One hundred years later Cor- 
binian visited the grave of the saint, near the Castle of 
Mais, in the Tyrolese Alps; and soon afterwards (in 730; 
see Ariho, in Vita Corbin. 18, in Meichelbeck, Histor. 
Erising. I, ii, 12) the Bavarian duke Thassilo caused Val- 


VALENTINUS 


699 


VALENTINUS 


entinus’s bones to be removed to Passau. The diocese 
and Church of Passau have since claimed the saint as 
their earliest incumbent and representative. The Ads 
of Saints from which the Bollandists give a description 
of tliis saint are not older than the 11th century; while 
a leaden tablet said to have been found with his relics 
when they were exhumed can scarcely date further 
back than the 12th century. See Ada SS. Holland. 
ad d. 7 Jan. i, 368; Kaderi Hararia Sanda,\,32; Bctt- 
berg, Kirchengesch. Deuischiands , i, 220 sip; comp, ii, 
133. 

Other Valentines, of Pome, Interamna, Africa, and 
Belgium, are mentioned in the A da SS. under Feb. 13. 
See also under March 16, April 14 and 20, June 2, July 
16, Sept. 29, etc. — Herzog, Real- Eneyklop. s. v. It is to 
one of these latter, doubtless, that the popular custom 
of St. Valentine's Day is to be assigned. See Valen- 
tine, St. 

Valentinus, tiie Gnostic, and the Valentinuins. 
The birthplace, and descent of this most famous of 
Gnostics are not known. Epiphanius states that he 
had learned that Valentinus was an Egyptian, and had 
received a Hellenic training at Alexandria (//rer. xxxi, 
2). The opinion that he was of Jewish extraction is a 
bare surmise. He came to Pome in the reign of Anto- 
ninus Pius, probably soon after A. I). 140, while llyginus 
was bishop, and he remained until after Anicetus suc- 
ceeded to the bishopric (Irena?us, iii, 4, 3; comp. Euse- 
bius, //. E. iv, 10 sq.). Epiphanius says ( liter . xxxi, 
7) that he went from Pome to Cyprus, and there first 
became an open enemy to the Church and the head of a 
heretical sect, with which statement should be com- 
pared that of Tertullian, in Prescript. c. 30, that Valen- 
tinus and Marcion had in the beginning adhered to the 
orthodox belief. Tertullian retains them in full mem- 
bership with the Bonian Church as late as the bishopric 
of Eleutheros (with which comp. Ireureus, ut sup.). 
The further story (.4<7r. Valent, c. 4) that Valentinus, 
conscious of his intellectual strength and oratorical pow- 
er, had hoped to be made bishop of the Church, and 
had turned against the Church and the truth because a 
confessor was preferred to him, does not compel the as- 
sumption that disappointed ambition determined him 
to become a heretic. 

The Valent inian system is very obscure with respect 
to many of its details, but its general structure and ma- 
terial contents are quite comprehensible. It constructs 
a Pleroma of (eons, and in the process sets forth an ideal- 
istic view of the entire course of the creation and re- 
demption of the world. The great first cause (fioSog, 
7rpmov, 7rpoapx>h Trponrdrgp ) produced the Nous, or 
J fonogenes, who became the principle of all subsequent 
emanations (cipxu Tiov i rdvriov), and who was equal 
and similar to the Father. The Xous also manifests 
the Bythos, who is otherwise incomprehensible, and is 
in comparison with the latter the revealed God, through 
whom the generation and formation of the reons are 
mediated. With the Bythos was associated a feminine 
principle (ovZvyo q) named Sige (silence), though some 
hold that the Bythos was both masculine and feminine 
in himself, or exalted above all syzygies; and with the 
Xous was associated- Truth (ciKifiiia). These formed 
a productive quaternity which became the origin of all 
things. Xous and Aletheia produced Logos and Zoe, 
and Logos became the father of the remainder of the 
Pleroma. lie expressed what existed seminally in the 
consciousness of Xous, and it thereby received life, and 
obtained concrete form, in the svzygy Anthropos (pri- 
meval man) and Ecclesia. The quaternity thus be- 
came an octave (Ogdons)', and this Ogdoas, which con- 
stitutes the centre ofmonie developments, was reinforced 
by a group of ten aions emanated, according to Iren tens, 
from Logos and Zoe, and another of twelve from An- 
thropos and Ecclesia. or, according to Hippolvtus, the 
ten from Xous and Aletheia and the twelve from Logos 
and Zoe. The derived neons were necessarily subject 
to limitations, as they could have no other recognition 


of the Bythos than that mediated by the Xous, and as 
they were subject to the law of syzygies; and this ne- 
cessity caused them to experience a feeling of deficien- 
cy and want, which ultimately found expression in 
Sophia, the last of the female neons. She vehemently 
desired to unite herself with the Bythos, but was pre- 
vented by l loros (the principle of limitation and differ- 
entiation in the Pleroma), and thereupon she laid aside 
the thought (tr^opgmg) previously entertained and 
t lie passion resulting from her attempt. This ivbh- 
pgmg avv Tip i-xiytvopzrtp tt dSrti became an abortion 
(tKrpojpa), or formless being (ooma op^ot;), produced 
without the co-operation of the male syzvgos. To 
guard against a recurrence of the unnatural event, the 
Father caused a new pair of icons, Christ and the Holy 
Ghost, to be brought forth by the Xous, who restored 
harmony to the Pleroma — Christ by teaching the icons 
that it must, suffice them to know the nature of the 
syzygies and the idea of the unoriginated, and that the 
Great Father of all is infinite and incomprehensible save 
as he is manifested by the Xous (they thus obtained 
a dear understanding of their relation to the Father, 
and learned that the immoderate desire to be united 
with the Bythos was threatening to their own separate 
existence); the Holy Spirit by imparting to them rest 
and contentment, in giving them similarity of form and 
disposition, and making each of them to be, at the same 
time, what all the others were. This constitutes the 
completion of the Pleroma. The representation of llip- 
polytus varies somewhat from that given above. The 
emanation of the abortion from the Sophia brought 
confusion, i.e. darkening of the intellect (dyrorn) and 
formlessness (dpop<pia), into the Pleroma. To remove 
this, Christ and the Holy Ghost were produced, while 
I loros, or Stauros, was brought forth to be the guard and 
protector of the Pleroma. To celebrate the restored 
harmony of the Pleroma, each of the icons contribmes 
the most beautiful and precious it contains to produce 
the perfect beauty, Jesus the Soter. This forms the 
conclusion of the heavenly drama; but in the expelled 
abortion the condition for a real world-process has been 
given. Christ gives to this abortion the form of a 
lower or external Sophia (pop0w(7<£ icar oiu rim* as 
contrasted with the po ptyiovii; /card yvioGtv), or Achu- 
moth , a Sophia of nature, but not of knowledge. Con- 
tact with Christ has given her no permanent ability be- 
yond a confused desire for light ; she becomes the prev 
of sorrow, fear, and despair, all of which are the result 
of dyvoia , a lack of clear, gnostical consciousness. In 
response to her prayers, the Soter Jesus is sent for her 
support (Paraclete), and by him she is delivered from 
her hurtful affections and endowed with gnostical qual- 
ities. She thereupon receives into herself the light of 
the angels who accompany the Soter, and brings forth 
pneumatical fruit in their image. A second process of 
alienation and reconciliation is completed at this point, 
and, as in the former instance, in such a way that the 
affections eliminated from the reonie nature become 
the basis of a further development, while that agonic 
nature itself becomes the guiding principle of the new 
development. These eliminated affections existed in 
the first instances as an incorporeal hyle (v\ij). but were 
soon incorporated in two substances, the hylic and the 
psychical. Fear became specifically psychical, sorrow 
hylieal, despair demoniacal; and the Achamoth thus be- 
comes the mother of all living things and the highest 
eosmical principle, and in her is reflected the Ogdoas of 
the aeonic world, which is the prototype of the eosmical. 
Achamoth makes use of the Demiurge, who is the father 
of the psychical, the former of the hylieal, and the king 
of all, hut whose merely psychical nature deprives him 
of the power to comprehend the thoroughly pneumati- 
eal purpose of the eosmical development. The De- 
miurge forms the entire visible world, and is called 
Ilebdomns , from the seven heavens. He is the lierv 
God of Dent, iv, 24, because he, as the principle of eos- 
mical life, at the same time represents the might of 


VALERIAN 


VALESIO 


roo 


transitoriness. lie constitutes man out of psve Ideal 
iiml hylical elements, but be is not aware that t lie psy- 
chical lias implanted in it pneiimatieal germs which 
t he Sophia designs for further development. Such de- 
velopment receives a decisive impulse through the in- 
tervention of the Redeemer, whose oflice it is to spread 
guostieal light wherever any degree of receptivity 
exists. The Demiurge had promised his people, the 
dews, a Messiah, and in due time causes him to be 
horn (a psychical Messiah) from Mary, through whom 
he passes like water through a channel. The Messiah 
receives pneumatieal endowments from the Sophia, but 
lias in himself no hylical elements which are not capa- 
ble of being saved. 1 1 is psychical body is, however, 
so marvellously constructed that it may be seen and 
touched, and that it may suffer. At this point the 
Valentinians divided into two schools — the one of 
which included llcraeleon and Ptolemy, and is known 
as the Itullotie , which held to the psychical body and 
seemed to make the pneumatieal endowment dependent 
on the Messiah’s baptism; wdiile the Anatolic school, to 
which Axionicus and Ardesianes belonged, held to a 
pneumatieal body formed by the descent ot the Spirit 
(i. e. t lie Sophia) upon Mary and the co-operation of the | 
Demiurge. The passion and crucifixion of our Lord 
likewise receive a symbolical interpretation, though the 
heavenly Soter is not usually allowed to participate in 
them. l’he saving process consists in the exaltation 
of the pneumatieal element in man, and the end of all 
things is the separation of the pneumatieal and the 
psychical from the hylical. Achamoth is thereby fully 
released from her pain, and she returns with the Soter, 
who becomes her husband, and with all perfect pneu- 
matieal natures who have been married to the angels 
of the Soter, into the Pleroma to the eternal marriage 
feast. The Demiurge, with all righteous psychical 
natures, is lifted up to the intermediate place near to, 
but not in, the Pleroma, and afterwards the concealed 
fires break forth and consume matter and themselves. 

The influence of Platonic ideas is unmistakable in 
the structure of this system. Compare, e. g., the k'cVio- 
fia or v(TT£p)]f.ia with Plato’s conception of matter as 
the (it) or. The Keviopa is conceived of as the ne- 
gation of existence or being, and thus serves to show' 
the monistic character of the system, though all gnosis 
involves the dualistie principle of connecting with the 
process of the absolute, as related to the process of the 
world, a negation of itself, an element of tiniteness, and 
of effecting the necessary reconciliation only through 
the development of the world-process. 

See lreiueus, particularly bk. i and ii ; llippolytus, 
A dr. liter, v i, 21 sq. ; Tertullian, A dr. Valentin Clem. 
Alex. Strom., and other works. passim ; < frigen, especial- 
ly in Joannu xiii ; Epiphanius, lia r, xxxi, xxxii, xxxv; 
Theodoret, liter. Fab. i, 7 ; see also liuddiBiis, in Appen- 
dix to Jntrotl. ail Hist. Philos. Ebr. ; Massuet, in l rente us, 
diss. i; Rossel, Theol. Sell rif ten (Perl. 1847), p. 280 sq. ; 
Moller, Gesch. tl. Kosmnloyie ; Meth. Quar. Per. 1880. 
p. 5G7 sq. ; and Herzog, Real- Encyklop. s, v. See Gnos- 
ticism. 

Valerian (fully Publius Licixirs Valehianus), 
Roman emperor from A. I). 253 to 250. was at first friend- 
ly towards Christians, hut in 27)7 began a violent perse- 
cution of them, which continued to the end of his reign. 
Its object was chiefly to destroy the leaders of the Church, 
especially the bishops. They were at tirst forbidden to 
convoke religious gatherings under pain of imprison- 
ment and similar punishments; afterwards were sen- 
tenced, together wdtli their lay adherents, to the mines; 
and, finally, were condemned to execution, in company 
with all priests and deacons, while all such senators, 
knights, etc., as would not renounce the Christian relig- 
ion w^ere threatened with confiscation of property and 
loss of life. The most noted victims of this persecution 
w T ere Sixtus 1 of Rome and Cyprian of Carthage. In 
the year 259 Valerian attempted an invasion of the Per- 
sian kingdom, but was taken prisoner by the Sassanide 


king Sapor, and held in captivity until he died, ten 
years later. 1 1 is son and successor. Gallienus, issued an 
edict of toleration in 2G0, which inaugurated a period 
of forty years of comparative peace and rest for Chris- 
tianity. See Cyprian, Epp. 82, 83; Eusebius, Hist. 
Eccl. vii, ID, II : Neander, Church Hist, ad W, ; Smith, 
Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biop. s. v. ; Herzog, Real-Eucy- 
klop. s. v. 



Valerian, St., was a bishop of Cemele, in the Mari- 
time Alps, now in the archbishopric of Embrun. He 
belonged to the 5th century. He attended a synod at 
lliez in 439, signed the address of the Galliean bishops 
to Leo 1 in 451 (see Leonis 31. Opp. i. 998, 1 1 10 sq.), and 
took sides with the monastery of Lerins, in 454, in its 
dispute with the bishops of the neighborhood. The 
year of his death is not known. He left twenty-nine 
Sermones, or Homilies, and an Epistola ad Monacltns, 
which were published by Sirmond (Par. 1G12) and Rny- 
natdd (Lugd. 1G33). Raynauld’s edition is given also 
in Migne, Patroloy. (Par. 1845), lii. Galland furnished 
an additional edition of Valerian, together with a Pe- 
trus Clnysoloyus, in the Bibl. Max. Patr. (1774), c. 10. 

I See Cave, Script. Eccl. Hist . Lit. i, 427 ; Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. s. v. 

Valeriani, Domenico and Giuseppe, two Italian 
painters, brothers, who flourished at Rome about 1730. 
j They w ere pupils of Marco Ricci, and were jointly em- 
ployed in decorating churches and other public build- 
ings. 

Another Giuseppe Valeriani w'as a Jesuit, and painted 
under Clement VIII several religions pictures, the best 
of which are in the Chiesa del Gesu. 

Valerio, Samuel, a Jewish physician who flourish- 
ed in the island of Corfu in the lGtli century, is the author 
i of T, or a commentary on the book of Esther 

(Veil. 1580), in which he made use of the Talmud, of 
Jewish and Christian exegetieal works, of the philo- 
sophical writings among Jews and Arabs; 
or a commentary on Daniel (ibid. eod.). See Fiirst, L. 
B.iles Orients, 1845, eol. 5GG, GOG; Bibl. Jud. iii, 4G7; De’ 
Rossi, Dizionario Storico (Germ, transl.), p. 325. (15. P.) 

Valet ius, a Spanish monk and abbot w ho flourish- 
! ed in Galicia about G8(). Ilis Life of St. Eructuosus is 
I extant in Mabillon, Acta Sand or. Ord. Bened. tom. ii. 
Some other works exist in 31 S. See 31osheim, Church 
History, bk. ii, cent. vii. pt. ii, eh. ii, 

Valerius, Augustinus. See Valiero Ago- 

STINO. 

Valesians, a sect or community of ascetics said to 
have been founded by Valens of Baeatlia 31etrocomin, 
an episcopal eitv spoken of by Epiphanius and Nicetas 
as being in “Arabia beyond Jordan.” They were said 
by Epiphanius to hold some Gnostic opinions, and by 
St. John of Damascus to be profligate Antinomians. 
They practiced self-mutilation, and enforced the prac- 
tice on all their adherents. See Epiphanius, De lhere- 
sibus , lviii ; St. John of Damascus, De llttresibus , lviii. 

Valesio, Francesco, an Italian painter and en- 
graver. flourished at Venice about 1G12. Little is known 
of his paintings, but his most important work is a set 
of plates of hermits, engraved for a work entitled lllu- 
strium A nchoretorum Eloyiti, bv Jacobus Cavaens, which 
was published at Venice in IGI2. His plates are some- 
times marked Franciscos Yaleyius. See Spooner, Bioy. 
llist. of the Fine A rts , s. v. 


VALESIO 


701 VALLADOLID, COUNCIL OF 


Valesio, Giovanni Luigi, an Italian painter and 
engraver, was born at Bologna in 1501. lie studied in the 
school of the Caracci and executed several works for the 
churches of his native city, such as The Scourging of 
Christ, in the Church of San IMetro; The A nnunciation, 
at the Church of the Mendicant! ; and St. finch Curing 
the Sick of the Plague, in the Church of San Koeco. lie 
went to Rome, where he enjoyed great reputation, and 
where he died in 1010. See Spooner, Biog. I fist, of the 
Fine A i ts , s. v. 

Valesius (properly De Valois'), Hkntiv. a French 
antiquarian and critic, was born in Paris, Sept. 10, 1003, 
and educated in the Jesuit College at Verdun and at Par- 
is. He formed a connection with Pot a vi us and Sirmond 
which existed while they lived. In 10*22 he went to 
Bourges for the study of jurisprudence, and on his re- 
turn spent seven years in the practice of law; but sub- 
sequently gave himself wholly to learned studies, the 
earliest fruit of which was his edition, with critical 
notes, of the excerpta from Polybius, I)iod. Sic., etc., 
made by order of the emperor Constantine Porphyro- 
geuitus, entitled Excerpta Pohjb., J)iod. Sic., Xicol. Da- 
masc., App. Alexandr. etc. (Par. 1031-48). Then fol- 
lowed his valuable critical edition of Ammianus Marcel- 
linns (ibid. 1036; 2d improved ed. by his brother Ha- 
drian, 1081). These works so advanced his reputation 
that he was received into the circle of the foremost 
scholars of his time, as D’Achery, Mabillon, cardinal 
Barberini, Leo Allatins, Grotius, and others. He was, 
however, troubled with weak eyes, and threatened with 
total blindness; but, a reader having been provided, 
he was enabled to prosecute his studies of the ancient 
Church writers, and he was instructed in J050 by the 
French bishops to publish a new and critical edition 
of their works, for which he received au annual pen- 
sion of 000, and after a time 800, livres. lie published 
in consequence, Eusebii llistoria Ecclesiastical — De- 
Vita Constant ini Lib. I V : — Gratia Constant ini ad Sane - 
tos : — and the treatises De Donat ist is, De Anastasi, 
De Translatione LXX 1 nterpretum, De Ilosweidi Mar- 
tgrologio (Par. 1059, 1078). In 1000 Louis XI V appoint- 
ed him historiographer with a salary of 1200 livres, and 
cardinal Mazarin also gave him tokens of favor. In 
1004, at the ripe age of sixty -one years, he married 
Margaret Chesneau, a young girl, and became the father 
of seven children. He continued to employ his time in 
literary pursuits until he died, in Paris, May 7. 1070. 
His later works included editions of Socrates and Sozo- 
men ; treatises on Athanasius, Paul of Constantinople, 
the sixth canon of the Council of Nice (Par. 1008); an 
edition of Theodoret, one of Evagrius, with extracts 
from Philostorgius, and of Theodore Lector (ibid. 1073; 
Mogunt. 1079; Amstel. 1095). lie was planning new 
editions of the Latin historians of the Church when 
death surprised him. In Burmanu, II. Vales. Emend . 
Libr. Quinque et de Crifica Libr. Duo, are given several 
smaller works of Valesius, some of which had not been 
previously published, and also 11. I 'alesii Vita (Par. 
1077, by his brother). In Paris (1094) were also pub- 
lished Valesiuna. See Herzog, Rcal-Encgklop. s. v. 

Valette, Louis, a Protestant theologian, was born 
May 24, 1800, in Savoy. For a unmber of years he was 
chaplain to the ambassador at Naples. In 1851 he was 
called to the Lutheran Church des Vilettes at Paris, 
where he also acted as chaplain to the duchess of Or- 
leans. He was soon called to the presidency of the Lu- 
theran Consistory at Paris, which position he occupied 
till his death, Oct. 20, 1872. (B. P.) 

Valhalla. See Waliialla. 

Vali, in Norse mythology, was a son of Odin, who 
was destined to reappear in the new heavens which the 
All-Father should create after the fall of Walhalla. In 
all other respects the name remained vague, and re- 
ceived no distinct form in the popular imagination. 

Valiero, Agostino, an Italian prelate, was born at 
Leniaco, near Venice, April 8, 1530, of a patrician family, 


being nephew of cardinal Navagero, who directed him 
in his studies at Padua, lie made such progress in them 
that he was appointed in 1550 professor of philosophy 
at Venice, and in 1502 he accompanied cardinal Nauge- 
rius, whose secretary he was, to the Council of Trenr. 
In 1505 he succeeded Naugcrius as bishop of Verona, 
and in 1579 pope Gregory XIII sent him to Dalmatia 
to visit the churches there. In 1583 he was made car- 
dinal, ami in 1585 he was appointed abbot of Forli by 
pope Sixtus V. In 1590 he was a member of the con- 
clave which appointed pope Gregory XIV. After the 
death of Innocent IX, the cardinals contemplated the 
election of Valerius to the papal throne. Clement Vlll, 
however, who was elected in bis stead, appointed him 
examiner of the bishops and member of the Congregatio 
Rif man et Indicts. In 1000 Leo XI made him bishop of 
Palestrina. The dilliculties between the pope and the 
republic of Venice caused his death, which took place 
May 21, 1000. His writings are numerous, and are enu- 
merated in Jdcher, Allgemeines Geleh rten-Lcxikon, s. v. ; 
see also Winer, flandbuch der theolog. Liter at ur , ii, 61; 
Hoefer, Four. Biog. Generate, s. v. (B. P.) 

Valla, I jOKenzo, a Roman priest and controver- 
sialist. was born about 1110. lie was ordained a priest 
in 1431, and taught rhetoric and philosophy at Pavia 
and Milan, where he had bitter controversies with 
the Aristotelian scholastics. In 1443 he left Rome 
and went to Naples, where he was patronized by Al- 
fonso I, but for whose protection the inquisitors would 
have burned him at the stake. lie became reconciled 
I to the pupe, Nicholas V, by whom he was restored as 
canon of St. John Lateran. lie returned to Rome and 
remained there until his death, in 1405. lie wrote 
many important works, among which ar e/)e Fatso Cre- 
dit a et Ementita Const antini Donat ione Declamatio : — ■ 
Elegant iarum Lingute Latiiuc Lib. VI : — In Novum Tes- 
tamentum A nnotationes : — De Collationibus Novi Testa- 
ment : — Notes on Sallust, Livy, and Quintilian: — and 
Translations of the Iliad, Herodotus, Thucydides, etc.; 
besides several controversial works and treatises on logic, 
llis principal works were published at Basle in 1543. 

Valladier, Andre, a learned French ecclesiastic, 
was born about 1505, at St. Paul, near Moutbrison, of an 
ancient family which took its name from the village 
where it had lived. Having finished his early educa- 
tion at Billom,iii Auvergne, he went to Avignon to study 
theology, and entered the Order of the Jesuits (1586), 
where he was appointed to teach the humanities. Jeal- 
ousy at his success in sermonizing led him to leave 
Avignon, and he preached for a time in Moulins, Dijon, 
and Lyons. Ilenrv IV, hearing of his talents, cal le I 
him to Paris as historiographer of his reign (1005); but 
the Jesuits secreted the royal missive, and Valladier, in 
disgust, left their order, and went first to Paris and 
thence to Rome, where he obtained of Paul V letters 
which secured him from further persecution (July, 1008), 
lie preached in Paris before the court with great ac- 
ceptance, and in 1009 was appointed by cardinal Grevy 
his canon, and in 1011 he received the abbey of St. Ar- 
noud. He again became involved in trouble, however, 
but in 1621 he was restored to his office, lie died at 
Metz, Aug. 13, 1038. lie wrote a number of secular 
and religious treatises, which are enumerated in Iloefer, 
None. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Valladolid, Council of ( Concilium apud Vallemo- 
letum or Vallum Oletuni). Valladolid is a well-known town 
of Spain (anciently called Pintia), capital of a province 
of the same name, situated on the left bank of the Pi- 
suerga. An ecclesiastical council was held there in 1322 
by cardinal William, bishop of Savina, and legate of 
pope John XXII. A preface and twenty-seven canons 
were published by his direction, and with the approba- 
tion of the council. 

1. Orders that provincial councils be held every two 
years, and diocesan synods annually. 

2. Orders all curates to read four times a year, in the 
vulgar tongue, to their parishioners the articles of belief, 


VALLARSI 


702 


VALLEY 


the decalogne, the number of the saerameuts, and the 
different virtues and vices. 

4. Orders that Sundays and festivals he kept holy. 

10. Orders that bishops shall assign limits to parishes. 

11. Excommunicates monks who fraudulently evade 
payment of tithes. 

13. Exhorts curates to exercise hospitality. 

14. Forbids to present to churches before a vacancy, or 
to present infants. 

10. Declares those to be excommunicated, ipso facto, who 
eat or sell meat on any fast-day. 

IT. Forbids secular meetings within churches, fairs, etc., 
in church -yards, or to fortify churches as places of de- 
fence. 

20. Grants to clerks three years for study, during which 
time they may receive the fruits of their benefices with- 
out residence. 

23 aud 24. Excommunicate those who sei/.e men and 
sell them to the Saracens; also all wizards, enchanters, 
and those who consult them. 

See Mansi, Concil. xi, 1682. — Landon, Manual of Coun- 
cils, p, 673. 

Vallarsi, Domenico, an Italian antiquarian, was 
born at Verona, Nov. 13, 1702, and studied the humani- 
ties with the Jesuits with such .success that at the age 
of twelve be maintained a public thesis on philosophy, 
lie afterwards entered the order, and applied himself to 
the study of Hebrew, Greek, and ecclesiastical history. 
He finally went to Home as reviser of the ancient lan- 
guages, and there became a noted authority on the an- 
tiquities of the Middle Ages, a subject on which he 
wrote several works. He also edited the Opera Omnia 
of Jerome (Verona, 1734, 12 vols. lol.), and those of Ty- 
ra nnus Rutinns (ibid. 1745, 4to). lie died at Verona, 
Aug. 14, 1771. See Hoeler, Xour. Biog. Generale, s. v. 

Valle, Andrea della, an Italian architect of the 
16th century, was born at Padua. His principal work 
was tiie Carthusian monastery, two miles from Padua. 
This structure, from its beautiful design, lias been at- 
tributed to Palladio. He published an edition of the 
imprinted works of Palladio, in which he inserted live 
plates. See Spooner, Bing. Hist, of the Fine A rts , s. v. 

Vallee, Geoffroi, a French deist of the latter part 
of the 16th century, was the son of the controller of the 
public domain, lie gave himself up to philosophical 
speculations, which ended in rejecting all religious be- 
lief. In consequence of an infidel work which he wrote, 
entitled La Beatitude des Chrestiens (2d ed. 1770, 8vo), 
lie was imprisoned, and, after trial, was hanged, and his 
body burned at Paris, Feb. 9, 1574. See Hoefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generale, s. v. 

Vallee (or Valee), Simon, a French engraver, 
is said to have been born at Paris about 1700. He stud- 
ied under P. Drevet, and executed several plates in a 
neat and tasteful style. Among them are the follow' - 
ing: The Transfiguration (Raphael) : — St. John in the 
Be serf (id.): — The Flight into Egypt (Carlo Maratti): — 
The Resurrection of Lazarus (Girolamo Muziano) : — 
The Finding of Moses (Francesco Romazelli) : — and 
others. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Vallemont, Pierre le Lorraine , abbe de, a French 
writer, was horn at Pont-Audemcr, Sept. 10, 1649, of a 
Norman family. He entered the religious order; was 
made doctor of theology; lived successively at Rouen, 
where his peculiar views encountered opposition; at 
Paris, where he superintended the education of a young 
nobleman; at Versailles, as prior of St. James de Bres- 
suire; and finally returned to his native place, where he 
died, Dec. 30, 1721. It is not known for what reason 
he took the surname of Vallemont. His w ritings, which 
are of a philosophico-religious character, are enumerat- 
ed in Hoefer, Xour. Biog. Generale, s. v. 

Vallensis, Johannes, of Autun, France, who lived 
in the 16th century, is the author of Grammatica He - 
braica (Paris, s. a.) : — Opus de Prosodia llebrerorum in 
IV Libros Di visum (ibid. 1545) : the first hook contains 
Accentvum Jnrentio; the second, Granunat. ct Musici 
Locus; the third, Ilhetorici Accent. Ojfic. etc.; the 
fourth, Xafural. Accent. Locus. See Fiirst, Bibl. dud. 
iii, 468; Steinschneider, Bibl. Handb. No. 2055. (B. P.) 


Vallensis, Theophilus, who lived in the 17th 

century, is the author of Enchiridion IAnguce Sanctie s. 
Kbreea Grammatica (Lips. 1631). See Fiirst, Bibl.Jud. 
iii, 468 ; Steinschneider, Bibl. Handb. No. 2057. (B. P.) 

Vallet (or Valet), Grill at me, a French engraver, 
was born in Paris in 1636. After some study of his art 
he went to Rome, where he resided many years. His 
plates w'ere executed with the graver, and his prints 
possess considerable merit. He died in 1701. Among 
his prints the following deserve mention: The Xativity ; 
The Holy Family; Melchizedek bringing Presents to A bra - 
ham ; The Last Supper — ail after Raphael: — The Holy 
Family, after Guido, also after Albano: — and several 
others. See Spooner, Biog. I Fist, of the Fine Arts, s. v. 

Vallette, William, a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, studied medicine early in life; joined the Illinois 
Conference in 1839; was transferred to Rock River Con- 
ference in 1840; and in the following year was ordained 
deacon. In 1846 hsvmorrhage of the lungs incapacitated 
him for further ministerial labor, and caused his retire- 
ment to Elgin as a superannuate, where he spent the 
remainder of his days in the practice of medicine. He 
died in 1871. See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1872, 
p. 113. 

Valley (also Vale), a hollow' sw’eep of ground be- 
tween two more or less parallel ridges of high land. 
Vale is the poetical or provincial form. It is in the 
nature of the case that the centre of a valley should 
usually be occupied by the stream which forms the 
drain of the high land on either side, and from this it 
commonly receives its name. Valley is distinguished 
from other .terms more or less closely related — on the 
one hand, from “glen,” “ravine,” “gorge,” or “dell,” 
which all express a depression at once more abrupt and 
smaller than a valley; on the other hand, from “plain,” 
which, though it may be used of a wide valley, is not 
ordinarily or necessarily so. It is to he regretted that 
W'ith this quasi-precision of meaning the term should 
not have been employed with more restriction in the 
A.V. See Toroouariiioal Terms. 

The structure, of the greater part of the Holy Land 
does not lend itself to the formation of valleys in our 
sense of the w r ord. The abrupt transitions of its crowded 
rocky hills preclude the existence of any extended sweep 
of valley ; and w here one such does occur, as at 1 lebron, 
or on the south-east of Gerizim, the irregular and nn- 
symmetrieal positions of the enclosing hills rob it of the 
character of a valley. The nearest approach is found 
in the space between t lie mountains of Gerizim and 
Ebal. which contains the town of Nablus, the aneient 
Shechem. This, however, by a singular chance, is not 
mentioned in the. Bible. Another is the “valley of 
Jezreel,”the undulating hollow' which intervenes be- 
tween Gilboa (Jebel Fukua) and the so-called Little 
Her moil (Jebel Duhv). See Palestine. 

Valley is employed in the A.V. to render the follow- 
ing Heb. and Gr. words. See Dale: Plain. 

1. Bik'dh (PW£2, from to cleave; Sept. 7rf0iW) 
appears to mean rather a plain than a valley, wider 
than the latter, though so far resembling it as to be en- 
closed by mountains, like the w ide district between Leb- 
anon and Antilebanon, which is still called the Beka'a. 
It denotes a wide alluvial bottom, and its levelncss is 
plainly referred to in Isa. xl, 4. It is usually rendered 
“valley” (Dent, viii, 7; xi, 1 : xxxiv, 3; Josh, xi, 8, 
17 ; xii, 7 ; 2 Chron. xxxv, 22; Psa. civ, 8; Isa. xli, 18; 
Ixiii, 14; Ezek. xxxvii, 1,2; Zech. xii, 11); elsewhere 
“plain” (Gen. xi. 2; Neh. vi, 2; Isa. xl, 4; Ezek. iii, 
22, 23; viii, 4; Amos i, 5). This Heb. term is applied 
to the following places: 

(1.) The Valley of Shinar I~!. k £2), the rich 

plain of Babylonia (Gen. xi, 2). See Siiinar. 

(2.) The Valley of Jericho prH) ri5’p3), the low'er 
end of the Ghor, or plain, through which the Jordan 


VALLEY 


VALLEY 703 


flows into the Dead Sea (Deut. xxxiv, 3). See Jer- 
icho. 

(3.) The Valley of Lebanon (*p:nbn n?I?2 ), the 
plain of Coele-Syria between the Lebanon and Antileb- 
anon ranges (Josh, xi, 17). See Lebanon. 

(4.) The Valley o/Meyiddo nrp3), a part of 

the plain of Esdraelon, through which the Kishon 
flowed (2 Chron. xxxv, 22; Zech. xii, 11). See Me- 
giddo. 

(5.) The Valley of Mizpeh rr^2), the plain 

of the Ilauran or of Gilead, east of the Jordan (Josh, xi, 
4). See Mizpeii. 

(0.) The Valley of Sharon rc*£2), the level 

tract about Joppa, Lod, and Uamleh (Neh. vi, 2). See 
Sharon. 

(7.) The Valley of Aren (".'iX VVpZ), the plain of 
Damascene Syria (Amos i, 5), thought by some to be 
the same as No. 3. See Aven. 

2. ’ Emek (p?2 2, from p*2P, to be deep; Sept, usually 
fpdpcvyt or xoiXag. occasionally auXiov, 7 reciov, or ’E/ujjc, 
> A(.V.k\ A. V. invariably [except Gen. xiv, 17; 1 Sam. 
xviii. 18] “valley”) designates a long broad sweep be- 
tween parallel ranges of hills of less extent than the 
preceding term, but greater than the following ones, 
and answering quite closely to the Western idea in gen- 
eral of a valley in its proper sense, having the idea of 
lowness and breadth rather than precipitateness or con- 
linement. It is specifically applied to the following lo- 
calities, which we enumerate in alphabetical order: 

(1.) The Valley ofAchor ("ilTP p*CP), a valley near 
the N.W. end of the Dead Sea (Josh, vii, 24, 20; xv, 
7; Isa. lx v, 10; llos. ii, 15). See Achor. 

(2.) The Valley of Ajalon (pP’X ppP), a valley in 
the tribe of Dan (Josh, x, 12). See Ajalon. 

(3.) The Valley of Hebron (yppn p^r), the valley 
in which Hebron lies (Gen. xxxvii, 14). See Hebron. 

(4.) The Valley of Jehoshaphat (WSirirP p ■£!>), the 
valley between Jerusalem and the Mount of Olives (Joel 
iii, 2, 12); in the same connection called figuratively 
the valley of the decision ('j*-T“n“ ppp, ver. 14). See 
Jehoshaphat. 

(5.) The Valley of Jezreel ppP), the east- 

ern extension of the plain of Esdraelon (Josh, xvii, 16; 
Judg. vi, 33; Hos. i. 5). See Jezreel. 

(G.) The Valley of Kez'tz (] r "’pp pp!0, a valley in 
the tribe of Benjamin (Josh, xviii, 21). See Keziz. 

Besides the above, the term is sometimes used as an 
appellative for certain well - known localities, e. g. the 
valley of the weeping (Psa. lx xiv, G; A. V. “ valley of 
Baka” [q. v.]), the valley of blessing (2 Chron. xx, 26; 
A. V. “ valley of Berachah” [q. v.]), the valley of the 
oak (1 Sam. xvii, 2. 19; xxi, 9; A. V. “ valley of Elah” 
[<j. v.]), the valley of giants (Josh, xv, 8; xviii, 1G; 
‘•valley of Ilephaim” [q. v.], 2 Sam. v, 18, 22; xxiii. 
13; 1 Chron. xi, 15; xiv, 9; Isa. xvii, 5), the valley of \ 
Shaveh [q. v.] (Gen. xiv, 17). or of the king (“dale,” 
ibid.; 2 Sam. xviii, 18), the valley of the slime-pits (Gen. 
xiv. 3, 8, 10; A. V. “of SiddinrT [q. v. ]), the valley of 
booths (Psa. lx, G; eviii, 7; A. V. “of Sueeoth” [q. v.]), 
etc. 

o. Gay (X*'?* or or Gey (X^ or X"S; plur. ni’JC 
and from X"j, to flow; Sept, usually <pctpay£), a 

deep narrow ravine with a (winter or perennial) stream 
in the bottom, either between hills (like the Ge-Hinnom 
at.. Jerusalem) or through an open plain (as along the 
Mediterranean or in Moab). In the A. V. it is invaria- 
bly rendered “valley” (in the Sept. occasionally KotXdc, 
vam /, abX J>i\ and even y if). It is applied distinctive- 
ly to the following localities. See also Ai ; Betii-peor, 
etc. 

(1.) The Valley of Hlnnom (-“H ■’», .Josh, xv, 8; 


xviii, 1G; Neh. xi, 30), or of the Son of Uinnom (“]3 
Din, Josh. xv. 8 ; xviii, 16; 2 Kings xxiii, 10; 2 Chron. 
xxviii, 3; xxxiii, G; Jer. vii, 31, 32; xix, 2, G; xxxii, 
35), the ravine on the south-western side of Jerusalem, 
whence the term Gehenna (q. v.). 

(2.) The Valley of Jiphthah-el (bx-nnp^ ^), a ra- 
vine on the boundary between Zebuluu and Asher 
(Josh, xix, 14, 27). See Jiphtiiah-el. 

(3.) The Valley of Zephathah (HP El* Xp5), a ravine 
in the tribe of Simeon (2 Chron. xiv, 10). See Zepjia- 

t’llAlI. 

(4.) The Valley of Gedor (TnS X“'3i), another ravine 
in Simeon (1 Chron. iv, 39). 

(5.) The Valley of Ifamon-gog (J»'S X" 1 ?’, Ezek. 

xxxix, 11, 15), or of the Passengers ( D“lpS*n *£, ver. 
11), a ravine on the east of the Sea of Galilee. See 

H AJION-GOCi. 

(G.) The Valley of the Craftsmen (DTTnnn pS, Neh. 
xi, 35; or Dip." “Hi XN&, 1 Chron. iv, 14), a ravine in 
t lie tribe of Judah. See Chauashim. 

(7.) The Valley of the Mountains C^n'X^, Zeeli. 
xiv, 5, or C^ST 1 ^, ibid.), a ravine near Jerusalem 

c-i-v.). 

(8.) The Valley of Salt (PPD 505), a ravine on the 
S.W. shore of the Dead Sea (2 Sam. viii, 13; 2 Kings 
xiv, 7; 1 Chron. xviii. 12; 2 Chron. xxxv, 11; Psa. lx, 
title). See Salt. 

(9.) The Valley of the Hyenas (S^rhSil *\5), a ra- 
vine in the tribe of Benjamin (L Sam. xi ii, 18). See 
Zeboim. 

Other ravines, such as the valley of vision (Isa. xxii, 
1, 5), of slaughter (Jer. vii, 32; xix, G), are fanciful 
names, and still more tropical, the valley of the shadow 
of death (Psa. xxiii, 4). 

4. Xdchal (bni, from bTj2, to receive , or perhaps to 
flow ; Sept, (papayt, or ye ipdppovi ; ; A. V. often “brook,” 
“river,” “stream”) is the word which exactly answers 
to the Arabic wady, ft expresses, as no single English 
word can, the bed of a stream (often wide and shelving 
and like a “ valley” in character, which in the rainy 
season may be nearly filled by a foaming torrent, though 
for the greater part of the year drv), and the stream it- 
self. which after the subsidence of the rains has shrunk 
to insignificant dimensions. Many of the wadies of 
Syria, owing to the demolition of the wood which for- 
merly shaded the country and prevented too rapid 
evaporation after rain, are now entirely and constant- 
ly dry. See Liver. As Palestine is now emphatical- 
ly a land of wadies, so this lleb. term is of very fre- 
quent occurrence in the Bible. Stanley ( P<dest . ap- 
pend.) enumerates fifteen of these water -courses or 
torrent-beds: those of Gerar, of Esheol, of Zered, of Ar- 
non, of Jabbok, of Kanah, of Kishon, of Besor, of Sorek, 
of Kidron, of Gaash, of Cherith, of Gad (2 Sam. xxiv, 5), 
of Shittim, and of Egypt (Numb, xxxiv, 5 ; Josh, xv, 4. 
47; 1 Kings viii, G5; 2 Kings xxiv. 7; 2 Chron. vii, 8; 
Isa. xxvii, 12). This last could not be distinguished 
bv a mere English reader from the “river of Egypt,” 
namely, the Nile, although in the original an entirely 
different word is used. This name nuchal is also ap- 
plied to the course of the Gihon (2 Chron. xxxiii, 14), 
and sud) wadies are often mentioned in the book of Job 
and elsewhere as characteristic of Arabia ; Canaan it- 
self is said to be a land of them (Dent, viii, 7). See 
Brook. 

5. Hash-Shephclcth (nbs'yfl; Sept.ro 7re(*<op, i) nedtvii) 
is the only ease in which the employment of the term 
“valley” is really unfortunate. The district to which 
alone this distinctive lleb. name is applied in the Bible 
has no resemblance whatever to a valley, but is a broad 
swelling tract of many hundred miles in area, which 
sweeps gently down from the mountains of Judah to- 


VALLEY-GATE 


704 


VAMIS 


wards the Mediterranean. It is rendered “the vale” in 
Dent, i, 7; Josh, x, 40; 1 Kings x, '27; 2 Chron. i, 15; 
Jer. xxxiii, 13; and “the valley” or "valleys” in Josh, 
ix, 1 ; xi, 2, 10 ; xii, 8 ; xv, 33 ; judg. i, 9; Jer. xxxii, 44. 

See SllliPllELAH. 

6. In the New Test, there is little notice taken of the 
external features of Canaan. In Luke vi, 17 we read 
of our Lord standing in “the plain,” tottoq 7rt civog 
(but this should rather be “a level place”); and in iii, 
f> we meet with “valley,” tydpayZ, for X*3, gey, in Isa. 
xi, 4. 

Valley-gate (X?5rt Sept. >) 7 ri'Xi; t7)q <pd- 

payyog ), an entrance at the north-west end of Jerusa- 
lem (Nell, ii, 13; iii, 13; comp. 2 Chron. xxvi,9; xxxiii, 
14); probably corresponding to the present Jaffa (late 
(Keil, Comment, on Xeh. ad loc.). See Jerusalem. 

Valliere, Louise, Duchesne cle la, one of the maids 
of honor to the duchess of Orleans (Henrietta of Eng- 
land), born in the province of Touraine in 1644. She 
became mistress to Louis XIV in 16(11. and loved him 
sincerely, though not for his royal title. She was so 
much ashamed of her equivocal situation that she en- 
tered a convent, from which she was taken forcibly by 
the king in 1670, and entered again by joining the Car- 
melite ( )rder in 1674 as Sueur Louise de la M i sera conk 
(Sister Louise of Mercy). She died at the Laris Car- 
melite Convent in 1710. She wrote Letters and Reflec- 
tions on the. Mercy of God, She has been a favorite 
theme with poets and painters. The Mary Magdalene 
Renouncing the World, painted by Le Brtin as an altar- 
piece for the convent in which she made her profession, 
lias been considered a portrait of her. Others consider 
The Penitent Magdalen in the Munich (iallery as more 
likely to be her portrait. A very good picture of the 
Sceur Louise de la Miseracorde may be seen in the Brit- 
ish M nseum. See Jameson [M rs.], Legends of the Monas- 
tic Orders , p. 427. 

Vallischolares (scholars of the valley ), an order 
of Romish monks collected by the scholares, or four pro- 
fessors of theology of Baris. They were iirst called scho- 
lares, but afterwards, retiring to a valley of Campania 
(1231), their name was changed to that by which they 
are now known. This society was first governed by the 
rule of St. Augustine, but it is now united with the 
Canons Regular of St. Genevieve (q. v.). See Moshcim, 

I list, of the Church, bk. iii, cent. xiii. pt. ii, ch. ii. 

Vallombrdsa (shady valley ), a former Benedictine 
monastery in a valley of the Apennines, eighteen miles 
from Florence, founded in 1039 by Giovanni Gualberto 
Op v.). The present buildings were erected in 1638. 
but the establishment was suppressed in I860 bv the 
Italian government, and the buildings converted into a 
royal school of forestry. 

Vallonia, in Roman mythology, was the nymph of 
valleys. 

Valois, Felix de, a pious Frenchman who. in com- 
pany with John of Mat ha (q. v.), founded the Order of 
Brethren of the Holy Trinity, for the redemption of cap- 
tives. in the early part of the 13th century. He led a 
solitary life at Cerfroi, in the diocese of Meaux, where 
the principal house of the seet still exists. See Jame- 
son [Mrs.], Legends of the Monastic Orders, p. 2 1 7 sq. 

Valpuesta, Pedro, a Spanish painter, born at 
Osma, in Old Castile, in 1614. He is said to have stud- 
ied with Eugenio Caxes, whose style he was the most 
successful in imitating. lie died at Madrid in 1688. 

II is principal works are in the churches and convents 
at Madrid. The most important are a series of pictures 
representing the life of the Virgin, in the Church of San 
Miguel: — The Ilolg Family, in the chapel of the Hos- 
pital del Buensuccso:— six pictures of the history of St. 
('lava, in the convent of the Franeisean Nuns. See 
Spooner. Riog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Valpy, Edward, D.D.. a clergyman of the Church 


of England, born in the island of Jersey in 1764. He 
was educated at Trinity College, Cambridge, took orders 
in the Church, and was fur many years assistant to his 
I brother Richard (q. v.) in the classical department of 
his school at Reading. He became head-master of the 
grammar-school at Norwich in 1810. lie held the rec- 
tory of Thwaite and the vicarage of St. Mary’s. Wals- 
ham, Norfolk. He died at Yarmouth, April 15, 1832. 
His published works are, Fleguntice Latimv (1803): — 
Greek Testament (1816,3 vols.): — The Septuagint (1819): 
— and Homer's Iliad (1819). 

Valpy, Richard, I).l)„ F.R.S., a clergyman of the 
Church of England, born in the island of Jersey, Dec. 7, 
1754. He was educated at the College of Volognes, 
Normandy, 1764 to 1769; at the Southampton Grammar- 
, school ; and at Pembroke College, Oxford, where he 
! graduated about 1776. He took orders in the Church, 
held for several years a living at Bury St. Edmund’s, 
and became rector of Stradishall, Suffolk, in 1787. 
From 1781 to 1830 he was head-master of the celebrated 
school founded at Reading by Henry VII, and composed 
for that institution a series of classical text-books of 
considerable reputation, lie died at Kensington, March 
28, 1836. 

Vamana, the fifth avatar, or incarnation, of Vishnu, 
in which he appears as a dwarf. Bali was a powerful 
king who conquered Indra (q. v.), ruled over the three 
worlds, and tilled t he gods with dismay for their future 
prosperity. Even Vishnu could overcome him only by 
craft. While Bali was performing on an extraordinary 
scale a sacrifice in honor of the gods, in order that he 
might gain still more power by his meritorious action 
and rule more widely than ever, a dwarf approached 
him and did him reverence. Pleased with the devout 
and unpretending manner of the little Brahman, Bali 
asked him to demand a boon, however costly it might 
be. But the dwarf merely asked for so much ground as 
he could measure with three paces. The king smiling- 
ly granted so modest a ret] nest, although his family 
priest Dsanas, suspecting the divine nature of the 
dwarf, strongly dissuaded him from doing so. Then 
the god leaped up as the mightiest of the host of heav- 
en, and strode with one pace over the earth, with a sec- 
ond over the intermediate space or atmosphere, and 
with a third over the sky, thus leaving to Bali only the 
lower regions, which he assigned him as his future 
abode. The utterance of Bali in reference to this dis- 
aster will serve to show how sacred a promise is held 
by the Hindus when once obtained. He said, "If, re- 
nowned chief of the gods, you consider the word which 
I uttered to be deceitful, 1 now do what is sincere and 
can be no deception, place your third step on my head. 
Fallen from niv position, I fear not the infernal regions, 
or binding in bonds, or misfortune difficult to escape, or 
loss of wealth, or your restraint, so much as I am affiiet- 
ed by a bail name” (Muir, Original Sanscrit Texts, iv, 
128). For bis piety and promise-keeping manner he 
was rewarded by Vishnu with the promise that, after a 
temporary residence in one of the most delightful places 
of Pataka (q. v.), he should be born as Indra in the reign 
of the eighth Mann. 

The Vedic conception of the three strides of Vishnu 
is doubtless the basis of the idea from which this 
avatar arose. In this incarnation as dwarf. Vishnu is 
considered to have been a son of the same Kasyapa 
[see Vakaua] who is also the lather of Hiranyakasipu 
and Hiranvaksha; hut while their mother is Diti, the 
dwarf’s mother is A diti (space); and as she had previ- 
ously brought forth Indra, Vishnu is sometimes called 
Upendra, or the younger Indra. As son of Aditi, Vish- 
nu becomes one of the Adityas. See Vishnu. 

Vanns, or Vamachaiis ( left-hand worshippers), 
a Hindu sect who adopt a ritual contrary to what they 
dare publicly avow. They worship Devi, the Sakti of 
Siva (q. v.). The Sakti is personated by a naked fe- 
male, to whom meat and wine arc offered and then dis- 


VAX ARSDALE 


705 


VAX BUXSCIIOOTEX 


tributed among; the attendants. Then follows the reci- 
tation of mantras and texts, the performance of the. mu- 
ll r a, or gesticulations with the lingers, the whole termi- 
nating with the most scandalous orgies. The members 
of this sect are very numerous, especially among the 
llrahminical tribe. Their insignia are a semicircular 
line or lines on the forehead, of red sanders or vermil- 
ion, or a red streak up the middle of the forehead, with 
a red spot at the root of the nose. In worshipping they 
wear a piece of red silk around the loins, and decorate 
themselves with garlands of crimson tlowers. See Gard- 
ner, Faiths of the World, s. v. 

Van Arsdale, Cornelius C. f D.D., a Reformed 
(Dutch) minister of the United States. lie graduated 
at Rutgers College in 1828, and at New Brunswick 'rhe- 
ological Seminary in 1831 ; supplied Central Church, 
Brooklyn, 1838-4*0; South Church, Brooklyn, 1840-41; 
First Church, Philadelphia, 1811-40; Greenwich Church, 
New York eitv, 1852-54. He died in 1850. 1 1 is pub- 

lished works consist of sermons preached on various im- 
portant public occasions. See Corwin, Manual of the 
Rif Ch. in A merica , s. v. 

Van Arsdale, Melville, a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was born in Montgomery County, Ind., 31 arch 
21, 1815; embraced religion in his fourteenth year; stud- 
ied at Thorntown Academy; served as a soldier in the 
Union army; and in 1807 entered the Upper Iowa Con- 
ference. Later he was transferred to the North-west 
Indiana Conference, wherein he labored but a short 
time, and then returned to his father’s home in Thorn- 
town, and died Dec. 25, 1875. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences , 1870, p. 98. 

Van Arsdale, Simeon, a minister of the Re- 
formed (Dutch) Church, was born in 1754. He was 
licensed in 1782, and preached at Keadiugton, N.J., 1783- 
80. He was a powerful and polished preacher, ardent 
in piety, and untiring in all his pastoral labors, but was 
cut off in the very beginning of his ministry, lie died 
in 1780. See Corwin, Manual of the Ref. Ch. in Amer- 
ica, s. v. 

Vanatta, Samuet. F., a Presbyterian minister, was 
horn in Bridgeport, Belmont Co., 0., Sept. 12, 1820. lie 
was educated in Franklin College, New Athens, O., and 
studied theology in the Associate Reformed Seminary, 
Allegheny, Pa. He was licensed by Steubenville Pres- 
bytery, June, 1855. lie died in Vicksburg, Miss., May 
30, 1804. See Wilson, Presb. Ilist. Almanac , 1800, p. 
280. 

Van Bokkelen, James Ellisdox, a Protestant 
Episcopal clergyman, died in Baltimore, Md., Nov. 17, 
1850, aged twenty-five years. lie was a graduate of 
the General 'rheological Seminary, and during his short 
ministry had charge of Grace Church, Elk Ridge Land- 
ing, Md., and St. Paul’s Church, St. Louis, Mo. At the 
time of his death he was assistant minister of St. Timo- 
thy’s Church, Md. See A mer. Quar. Ch. Rtv. 1851, p. 
639. 

Van Brunt, Rutgers, a minister of the Reformed 
(Dutch) Church, was born in New York in 1820. He 
graduated at Hobart College in 1840. and at New Bruns- 
wick Theological Seminary in 1848, when he was licensed 
by the chassis of that institution. He preached at Al- 
bany, N. Y., 1848-49; Newark, N. J., 1849; Smithtown 
and Carmel, N. Y. (Presbyterian), 1851-57; Waterford, 
N. Y„ 1857-01. He died April 28, 1803. He was a 
man of broad and liberal culture, a thorough student, a 
pious and faithful minister. Ilis labors were blessed by 
a revival at Newark. See Corwin, Manual of the Ref. 
Ch. in A merica, s. v. 

Van Bunschooten, Elias, a clergyman of the 
Reformed (Dutch) Church in America, son of a farmer, 
Tennis Van Bunschooten, was born at New Hackensack, 
near Fishkill, N. Y., Oct. 20, 1738. He was one of five 
brothers, none of whom ever married, although all of 
them lived to adult age. One of them, while on a voy- 
1 X.— Y y 


age to the West Indies, was killed by mutineers, with all 
on board except a small boy. < >ne of these mutineers, 
named Anderson, after conviction in New York, was ex- 
ecuted upon an island in the harbor, which has ever 
since been called Anderson’s or Gibbet Island, where 
Gibbs and other pirates were afterwards hanged. There 
were also three sisters, all of whom were mothers of 
large families. 31 r. Van Bunschooten was educated at 
Princeton College ; graduated in 1708; studied theology 
with Dr. II ermanus 31 ever, of Kingston; and waslicensed 
to preach in 1773 by the “General 3Ieeting of 31 inisters 
and Elders.” lie settled that year at Sehaghticoke, 
N. Y., and remained until 1785, when he removed to the 
Kittatinnv valley, which extends from the Delaware to 
the Hudson, and became pastor of three united churches — 
3Iinisink, N.Y.; 31agagcamack (now Port Jervis), N„ Y.; 
and Walpack,N.Y. During his ministry another Church 
was formed at the Clove in 1788 (Dutch kloop , a valley 
cloven by a stream). At this place he ultimately located 
his home upon an extensive farm. In 1803 a plentiful 
revival blessed his faithful ministry. 1 le withdrew from 
active service, on account of age, in 1812, and died Jan. 
10, 1815. 3Ir. Van Bimsehooten’s ministry was pure 
and healthful in its influences, lie was fond of books 
and of learning. He preached equally well in Dutch 
and in English, always from a careful analysis, but often 
with peculiarities of thought which were quite charac- 
teristic, and not always in good taste. His voice was full, 
but not loud, and his manner in the pulpit was earnest 
and impressive, lie was very eccentric. He was about 
six feet high, erect and stately, and there was “some- 
thing about him that reminded you of an Indian chief.” 
Ilis general manner was rather austere, although to in- 
timate friends he could pleasantly unbend. Under bis 
ministry the very primitive and uncultivated people of 
his extensive charge, which was fifty miles long, and in 
a newly opened wilderness region, greatly improved in 
mind, manners, education, and religious spirit, much of 
which is attributed to his influence. He was scrupu- 
lously exact in all his business transactions. His salary 
was about £100 per year. It is said that a defaulting 
deacon, who had collected his salary, mortgaged his farm 
to the dominie to secure his payment. After his min- 
istry ceased this mortgage was foreclosed, and the place 
was given to the Church as a parsonage. He owned a 
mill, and once sent his negro servant on horseback after 
a creditor, who would not wait for three cents change, a 
distance of seven miles, to overtake him and pay his debt 
in full. He married a couple, whom he had been sent 
for to join in wedlock, while the Delaware River, swol- 
len bv a freshet and bridgeless, was running between him 
and the happy parties to whom he could not cross. In 
his marriage register he headed the date column “Time 
of execution.” During his last illness he insisted upon 
paying every one of his neighbors who watched with 
him at night or by day a day’s wages in silver, how- 
ever unwilling they might be. This was his sense of 
exact justice and independence. Inheriting a hand- 
some portion from his father’s estate, and by frugal man- 
agement acquiring a large property, in his old age lie 
devoted an unusual proportion of his worldly goods to 
the cause of ministerial education. At the suggestion 
of his life-long friend Dr. John II. Livingston, who wrote 
him a memorable letter just when he was about remov- 
ing from New York to take charge of the 'rheological 
Seminary in New Brunswick, July 31, 1810 (Life, of Lie- 
inejston , p. 250-250), he donated a large fund, which has 
always borne the founder’s name, to the trustees of Rut- 
gers (then Queen’s) College, to educate “pious young, 
men who hope they have a call of God to preach the 
Gospel of Jesus Christ.” The nomination of incum- 
bents must always be made by the General Synod. The 
manner in which this fund was given was perfectly 
characteristic of the donor. 3Vhile the General Synod 
of 1814 was sitting in New York, the venerable and 
quaint-looking old man, with his broad-brimmed, round- 
crowned hat in hand, walked calmly up the aisle to- 


VAX BUREX 


70G 


VAXDALS 


wards the president’s seat, bowing as he eame up, and 
said, “Mr. President, I want to talk.’’ Nobody knew 
him, and the president asked, “ Ate you a member of 
this body, sir?” “ No. sir,” was the reply, “ but 1 want 
to talk.” The president reminded him that none but 
members had a right to speak, when an aged minister, 
who had just come in. recognised him, and said, “ I 
move that the Pew FI ins Van Bunschooten have leave 
to talk.” It was carried, and then the old patriarch 
went up to the president’s table, drew from his pocket 
a large roll of bank-bills and counted them — $800. 
Then he took another package of obligations, amount- 
ing to * 13.X 10. and counted ibis out, and, in a few well- 
chosen words, donated them to the astonished synod, 
and asked a committee of conference to arrange the 
conditions. Subsequently, by will, he added other sums, 
the whole being allowed to accumulate until it reached 
.$20,001). Such is the history of this endowment, which 
was, so far as is known, the / irst one made in our coun- 
try, and certainly the first made in the Reformed < Tiureh, 
for theological education. Not a dollar of it has been 
lost. The capital now amounts to over $20,000, while 
the interest has educated over one hundred and tirentg- 
ftce young men for the ministry, some of whom have 
been among the most eminent and useful in the service 
of the Church at home and in foreign lands. “ And bv it 
lie, being dead, yet speaketh.” In 1X17 Mr. Van Bmi- 
schooten’s remains were removed, by direction of the 
General Synod, to the graveyard of the ancient church 
in New Brunswick, where they lie beside those of his 
friend Dr. Livingston and other professors of theology. 
At the disinterment of his body, a respectable uncon- 
verted woman of his Church, who stood looking on, was 
so powerfully affected by the recollection of his faithful 
sermons and unheeded private teachings that, as she 
saw the coffin raised, she littered a cry of anguish and 
became almost helpless from the rush of her feelings of 
sin and righteousness and judgment to come; she sank 
almost into despair, and it was nearly a year before she 
found peace in believing. Tbe very singular and vet 
precise and pious terms of tbe formal bequest of Mr. 
Van Bunschooten, and which require it to be read at 
the regular meetings of the synods and classes of the 
Church. not. for aggrandizement or self-ostentation, but 
to be an bumble pattern to others,” were drawn up, 
doubtless at bis suggestion however, by t ho lion. Abra- 
ham Vail Vechten of Albany, an elder of tbe synod and 
member of the committee of conference. The pattern” 
has been nobly followed by others.” See McClure, in 
the Xew R runs icicle Rev. 1X55; Todd, Life of Rev. P. 
Lahagh; Gunn, Life of J)r. ./. II. Livingston; Corwin, 
Manual of the Ref. Ch. in America, s. v. (\V. J. P. T.) 

Van Buren, P. II., a young minister of the Re- 
formed (Dutch) Church, was born at Fulton ville, N. Y., in 
1X46. lie graduated with honors at the University of 
the City of New York in 1X61, and at the New Bruns- 
wick Theological Seminary in 1X67; was licensed as a 
minister in 1X67, and called to the Church at Freehold, 
N. J„ but was prevented from settling by sickness, and 
died in 1X6.S. lie had made thorough preparation for 
the ministry, but lie resigned himself to the will of God 
and departed in peace. See Corwin, Manual of the Ref. 
Ch. in .1 merica, s. v. 

Vance, Andrew, D.D.. a Presbyterian minister, 
was born near Abingdon, Va., July 23, 17XX. He was 
awakened to a sense of liis lost condition, and became 
so concerned that he neither ate, drank, nor slept, and 
was reduced almost to a skeleton. II is whole care after 
conversion was as to how he could do the most good in 
the world, and he determined to preach the Gospel. 
Following out his purpose, he entered Washington Col- 
lege, Last Tennessee, from which he graduated, lie 
was prevented from entering Princeton Theological 
Seminary from want of health, and he pursued his the- 
ological studies with a private tutor. Me entered the 
ministry in 1X28 at Baker’s Creek Church, E. Tenn., 


and was ordained and installed by the Union Presby- 
tery. At the division of the Church in 1837-38 he was 
the only member of the Presbytery who adhered to tbe 
Old-school side. As a result of his adherence his prop- 
erty was all taken from him, and he was reduced to 
poverty. In 1X67 he attended the meeting of the Gen- 
eral Assembly at Cincinnati, ()., after which he re- 
moved to Illinois and had several calls from churches 
in that state; but Providence having opened a way for 
bis return to his old charge at Baker’s Creek, he avail- 
ed himself of it, and returned and resumed his ministra- 
tions. Here he remained and finished his long and use- 
ful labors, lleilied at Unilia. Tenn.. Nov. 1, 1X72. See 
The Presbyterian, Jan. 25, 1X73. (XV. P. S.) 

Vance, Thomas P., a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was converted in 1X27, joined the Kentucky Confer- 
ence in 1X29, in which he continued faithful and suc- 
cessful until his death from bilious fever, Oct. 6, 1831. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1835. p. 343. 

Van Cleef, Counklius, D.D., a minister of the Re- 
formed (Dutch) Church, born at 1 larlingen, N. J., Sept. 
16, 1799. He graduated at Dickinson College in 1823, 
and at New Brunswick Theological Seminary in 1826; 
was licensed at Philadelphia in 1826; missionary at Pal- 
atine, N. J., in 1826; at Manayunk, Pa., 1827 to 1828; 
Athens, 1X28 to 1833; New Hackensack, N. J., 1833 to 
1866, and died June 13, 1875. He was converted at the 
age of sixteen, anil was eminent for piety during his 
whole life. As a preacher he was faithful, earnest, and 
impressive. See Corwin, Manual of the Reformed 
Church in America, s. v. 

Vandals (Yamlali, Wandali, Vindili) were a Ger- 
manic tribe which ranks with the Goths, llerulians, 
Rugians, etc., among the migratory hordes that 
swarmed over the boundaries of the devoted Roman 
empire and founded new states upon its ruins. This 
people possesses great importance, not only for general 
history, but, by reason of its passionate opposition to 
tbe Catholic faith, for the history of the Church as well. 
Their original seat was in t he northern sections of the 
Riesengebirge and the modern Lusatia, whence they 
burst forth in the reign of the emperor M arcus Aurelius 
as the allies of the Marcomanni. Some years later they 
appeared on the borders of Dacia by the side of the Goths 
and Gepidaj, but were induced by the emperor ITobus 
to settle peaceably in that province. They were at a 
later day badly defeated by the Goths, and given a res- 
idence in Pannouia by the emperor Constantine, where 
they sustained friendly relations to their neighbors, and 
received Christianity from the Visigoths in its Arian 
form. 

In the year 406 the Vandals laid aside their peaceful 
habits, and, in conjunction with tbe Alani and tbe Suevi. 
swept in savage irruption over the countries of Western 
Europe. They defeated the Gauls, crossed the Pyre- 
nees, and entered Spain, ultimately settling in the south- 
western part of the peninsula (Vandalitia, Andalusia) 
and making it the base from which they carried barba- 
rous devastations into all the regions accessible to their 
armies, the fanatical suppression of the Catholic party 
being everywhere a noticeable feature in their opera- 
tions. The accession of Gcnseric (Gaiserie, Goisoric) to 
the sovereignty in 428 began a new epoch in their his- 
tory. Count Boniface, the Roman governor of Africa, 
having been goaded on to rebellion through the machi- 
nations of Aetins, the conqueror ofAttihi, invited Gen- 
seric to come to his assistance, and the latter responded 
by crossing over into Africa with more than fifty thou- 
sand men in May, 429. Boniface was soon afterwards 
reconciled to the emperor, through the efforts of Augus- 
tine, bishop of Hippo, and thereupon endeavored to turn 
hack his Vandal allies, first by persuasion and afterwards 
by force of arms, but w ithout success. In 435 they con- 
cluded a treaty with Rome, which gave them the prov- 
inces of Mauritania and Numidia; four years afterwards 
Carthage fell into their hands and was made the capital 


VANDALS 


707 


VAXDERLU 


of their possessions. Sicily, Sardinia, Corsica, Majorca, 1 
and Minorca were included in tlieir empire. In 455 
I tome itself was taken, the emperor Maximus killed, 
and the city given over to pillage during fourteen days 
— June 15-29. Many prisoners, among them the 
empress Eudoxia and her two daughters, and many 
treasures and works of art were taken away to their 
African dominions. The empire twice endeavored to 
punish the insolence and cruelties of these barbarian in- 
vaders — lirst in 4f>7, when a fleet sent against the Van- 
dals was destroyed by Genseric in the bay of Cartha- 
gena; and again in 408, when an expedition sent from 
the East, and commanded by lleraelius, encountered a 
similar fate off the city of Dona. Genseric died Jan. 
15, 477. 1 Tmler his rule the Vandals extended their 

dominions in every direction; but, in the process, con- 
ducted themselves with such barbarity in the securing 
of spoil and the destruction of works of art that the 
world fixed on them its stigma of opprobrium, and per- 
petuated it for all time by the coining of the term Van- 
dalism. Especially cruel was their treatment of ortho- 
dox Christians as it is described by the contemporary 
bishop Victor of Vita in the province of Byzacium. 
Not only were churches and other buildings destroyed, 
hut also cities; fields and plantations were devastated; 
clergymen, wealthy laymen, and women of every age 
and rank were made to endure every form of suffering. 
The torture was in constant use. Masses of people were 
driven together in the vicinity of fortresses impregna- 
ble to the Vandal arms, and there massacred in order 
that the stench of the putrefying bodies might compel 
a surrender. After the capture of Carthage, Genseric 
announced his determination to thoroughly supersede 
the Catholic with the Arian doctrine; and to accom- 
plish this result he either banished or enslaved the or- 
thodox clergy and laity and gave the churches to his 
friends. Humieric, the son and successor of Genseric, 
followed his father’s example. The Catholics of Car- 
thage were at. first permitted to choose a bishop, and se- 
lected Eugenius; but the persecutions soon began afresh. 
Only Arians were allowed to hold office in the State; 
and such Catholics as had been in official stations were 
deposed, deprived of their property, and banished. De- 
voted virgins were tortured to compel the confession 
that they had been guilty of illicit relations with cler- 
gymen of their faith. About live thousand Catholics, 
chiefly clergymen, were banished to the desert, where 
many starved to death and others died of the maltreat- 
ment they experienced. In 484 the African bishops 
were summoned to meet the Arians at Carthage, and en- 
deavor to prove the Plomoousian creed from the Script- 
ures. No bishops from beyond the sea were allowed to 
be present. Previous to the meeting of the synod sev- 
eral orthodox bishops were scourged, and the respected 
and learned bishop Last us of Nepte was burned at t lie 
stake. In the synod Cyrilla, Arian patriarch of the 
Vandals, presided, seated with bis coreligionists upon an 
elevated throne, while the orthodox bishops stood be- 
fore it in the attitude of criminals. When they vent- 
ured to protest against this indignity, as also against 
the assumption of patriarchal functions by Cyrilla, they 
were eacli beaten with one hundred blows with rods. 
To still further intimidate them, the king caused seven 
monks who refused to become Arians to be tortured at 
Carthage and then taken on shipboard to be burned to 
death on the high seas — a plan which failed because the 
vessel would not burn, so that the executioners were 
obliged to beat out the brains of tlieir victims with 
tlieir oars. The Catholics, however, presented the syn- 
od with a clear and concise statement of their doctrines, 
which was publicly read; but no further discussion was 
allowed. The king issued an edict which closed all or- 
thodox churches in Africa on the same day, and confis- 
cated all the property of the orthodox, for the use of the 
Arian. bishops. Soon afterwards a second edict com- 
manded the execution upon Catholics who should not 
have accepted Arianism by June 1,484. of all the pun- 


ishments decreed by Roman emperors against Donatisfs, 
Maiiiclueaus, and other heretics. After 1 1 unneric’s death, 
in 48G, a temporary lull took place in the lever of perse- 
cutions, which continued as long as his successor, Gun- 
datiuiud, occupied the throne; but when Thrusimund be- 
came king, Sept. ‘21, 490, the troubles of the Catholics 
began afresh. Among the sufferers at this lime was 
Fulgentius of Rnspe (q. v.). Upon Thrasimund followed 
the more tolerant Iltlderie, May 20,523; and upon him, 
in 531, the usurper Gelimer, uncle to Genseric. Tin* 
wealth of the Vandals and the enervating climate of 
their home had in the meantime destroyed their robust 
character; they hail also been defeated in several con- 
flicts with the Mauritanians; and were disunited among 
themselves. Under these circumstances, the ambitious 
emperor Justinian despatched an army under Belisarius 
to the support of the Catholic Church in Africa, which 
defeated the Vandal forces in 534, made a prisoner of 
Gelimer, and so completely destroyed the nation that 
its very name was lost. The Synod of Carthage follow- 
ed. in which measures were taken with reference to the 
Arian bishops and persons whom they had baptized; 
and which petitioned the emperor for the return of ec- 
clesiastical property alienated from the Church during 
the persecutions. 

See Procopius, De Bello Vandalico ; Prosper, Chroni- 
con; Idatius, C/ironicon ; Victor. Episc. Yitensis. /list. 
Persecut. Afric. in liuinart, /fist. Persecut. Vandal. (Par. 
1094; Venet. 1732, 4to); Salvian, Ik Gubern. Dei Lib. 
VII; Possidon, Vita S. A uyustini ; Vita IS, Fu/yentii; 
Ivrantz, Wandalia Lib. I (Frankf. 1580, fol.); Gibbon, 
Decline and Fall; Maunert, Gesch.d. Vandalen (Lei] is. 
1785); Papeneordt, Gesch. d. vandal. Herrschafi in 
Afrika (Berlin. 1837) ; Zeuss, Die Deutschen v. d. Xac/t - 
burst iimme (Munich, 1837); Schvockh, Kirchcnyesc/t. 
xviii, 89-121; Gieseler, Kirchenyesch. ; Smith, Diet, of 
Or. and Pom. Geoy. s. v. ; Herzog, Real-Encyklnp. s. v. 

Vaudercook, Jackson C., A.M.,a Methodist Epis- 
copal minister, was born in Lyons, N. V., Aug. 3, 1814. 
He joined the Church in 1833; united with the Black 
River Conference in 1848; and successively served the 
following appointments: South Canton, Fort Covington, 
Gouverueur, Oswego. Fairfield, Geddes, Fulton, Oswego 
a second time. Adams, and a second time Geddes. He 
died at his residence in Fulton, May 27. 18GG. Mr. Van- 
dercook possessed a vigorous and logical mind, was well 
versed in logic and mental and moral science; had a rare 
power of generalization; and was independent, energet- 
ic, and faithful. See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 
18G7, p. 122. 

Vanderliiide, Benjamin, a Reformed (Dutch) 
minister, was born near Hackensack, N. J., in 1719, and 
was the first person educated and licensed in this coun- 
try by the Coetus to preach the Gospel as a minister of 
the Dutch Reformed Church in America. This occur- 
red in 1747, and was the occasion of much previous hes- 
itation and subsequent conflict. The advocates of a 
learned ministry treated it as a dangerous innovation, a 
beginning of revolutionary proceedings, and of defection 
from t lie mother Church in Holland. His examination 
was sustained, and lie was afterwards ordained and in- 
stalled over the Church at Paramus, N. J., of which lie 
remained the acceptable pastor for forty-one years — 
1748 to 1789. He preached also at a place called Ponds; 
and two new churches, Ramapo and Saddle River, were 
organized during his ministry. His wife was a niece 
of general Schuyler, the Revolutionary patriot. He 
died in 1789. See Corwin, Manual of the Reformed 
Church in America, p. 500. (W. J. R. '1'.) 

Vanderlip, Eltas, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in 17G8. He joined the Church in New York 
city when but a young man; labored many years as a 
local preacher; and in 1802 was admitted into the trav- 
elling connection in the Troy Conference, and was ap- 
pointed to Pittsfield Circuit. In 180G Mr. Vanderlip 
located in Albany; the following year lie travelled Ul- 


VAXDEUMEULEX 


08 


VAX DO HEX 


ster Circuit; but poverty again obliged him to locate in I 
1808 and go into business. In 1838 he again united 
with the Troy Conference, and was appointed to Johns- 
town Circuit. In 1810 he was superannuated, and died 
Sept. 3, 18 18. Mr. Vanderlip was deeply pious, very 
zealous, and a preacher of considerable ability. See 
Minutes of Annual Conference s, 18-10, p. 310. 

Vandeimeuleu, Cornelius, a minister of the lie- 
formed (Dutch) Church, born at Mindelliamis, Nether- 
lands. Dec. 15. 1800. lie joined the ('hristelijke Afje- 
schiedene Kerk in Xederland, a body which had separat- 
ed from the National Church, lie preached at Mindel- 
liamis, llotterdam, and Goos from 1830 to 1817, when, 
owing to t lie persecutions sidlered by his Church, lie 
emigrated with a large part of his congregation to Hol- 
land, Ottawa Co., Mich., and founded t he nourishing 
village of Zeeland, where he preached from 1847 to 1850. 
lie was pastor of the First. Church, Chicago, from 1850 
to 1801; Second Church, Grand Kapids, Mich., from 
1801 to 1873. He died Aug. ’23, 1870. See Corwin, 
Manual of the Reformed Church in America, s. v. 

Van der Schuur, K., a minister of the Deformed 
(Dutch) Church, was born at Midwolda, Netherlands, 
April 17, 1803. lie studied under the liev. Mr. Kok, 
and was licensed and ordained by the Church of the 
Separated in 1810; preached at lloogevecn from 1840 
to 1848; emigrated to Michigan in 1848; preached at 
(iraafschap from 1818 to 1850, and at Oostburg, Wis., 
from 1850 to 1800. t>n removing to t lie West, he en- 
tered upon bis labors in the new country, and shared in 
all the hardships of Western pioneer life, lie died Nov. 
17, 1870. See Corwin, Manual of the Ref Church hi 
A merica, s. v. 

Van der Sloot, Frederick William, a minister 
of the German Deformed Church, was born in Dessau, 
Germany, Nov. 11, 1773. His father was a minister. 
Educated in Europe, he emigrated to the United States 
in 1801. Licensed and ordained in 1802, he took charge 
of seven congregations in Lehigh and Northampton 
counties, Da. In 1811 he was called to Germantown, 
near Philadelphia. In 1813 he removed to New Goshen- 
hoppen, Montgomery Co. In 1818 he was called to 
Philadelphia, whore he founded Salem’s German De- 
formed Church. In 1824 he removed to Doekingham 
County, Va„ where he served ten congregations. In 
1827 he became pastor of a charge in York and Adams 
counties, Da., which he served until his death, Dee. 14, 
1831. lie was a line linguist, a good preacher, and also 
a poet, many of his poems having been published. Two 
of his sons entered the ministry. 

Vanderveer, Cyrus G., a minister of the De- 
formed (Dutch) Church, was born in New Hurley, 
N. Y., in 1835. At the age of seventeen he entered 
upon a commercial career, which lasted four years; but 
when he found the Saviour, he gave himself to the 
work of the ministry, lie graduated at the New 
Brunswick Theological Seminary in 1859, when he was 
licensed to preach; became missionary at Havana in 
1859; at Davenport, la., from 1859 to 1801 ; chaplain 
in the army from 18G1 to 1862 ; and corresponding secre- 
tary of the Hoard of Domestic Missions from 1866 to 
1868. He died in 1868. See Corwin, Manual of the 
Ref. Church in A merica, s. v. 

Vanderveer, John, D.D., a minister of the De- 
formed (Dutch) Church, was born in Hunterdon Coun- 
ty, N. J., May 5, 1800. He graduated at the College 
of New Jersey in 1817, and at the New Hrunswick 
Theological Seminary in 1822, when he was licensed as 
a minister, lie was missionary to several towns in 
New York in 1823; pastor at Philipsburg, Pa. (Presby- 
terian), from 1824 to 1S27 ; and teacher at Easton from 
1827 to 1854. He died in 1878. His school at Easton 
was famous for more than a quarter of a century, and 
his pupils carried with them pleasant memories of their 
intercourse with their teacher. See Corwin, Manual 
of the Ref. Church in A merica, s. v. 


Vandervoort, John C., a minister of the Re- 
formed (Dutch) Church, was born at Bound Brook, 
X. J., in 1798. He graduated at Queen’s College in 
1818, and at the New Brunswick rheological Seminary 
in 1819, when he was licensed to preach, lie preached 
at German Valley and Fox Hill, N. J. (Presbyterian), 
from 1819 to 1826; Basking Ridge (Presbyterian), from 
1826 to 1831; First Church, Tolown, from 1834 to 1837; 
Kinderhook, N. Y., from 1837 to 1842; Mellenville, from 
1842 to 1815: New Pal tz, from 1845 to 1848; and Sec- 
ond Church, Ghent, from 1818 to 1851. He died June 
21, 1851. His piety was fervent, and he contented not 
himself with merely illustrating historical truth, but 
carried his appeals directly to the hearts and consciences 
of his hearers. In most of Bis charges his labors were 
crowned with success in the salvation of souls. Sec 
Corwin, Manual of the Ref Church in America, s. v. 

Vandervoort, Paul, a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born in Mongolia County, Ya., June 19, 1828. 
lie joined the Church in 1848, and entered the travel- 
ling connection in the Western Virginia Conference in 
1855. lie served the Church faithfully on seven diflfer- 
| ent circuits, and died at Jollytown, Pa., Aug. 26, 1865. 
Mr. Vandervoort. was courteous and upright in deport- 
ment, calm and lirm in purpose, and practical and fer- 
vent in preaching. See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 

1 866, p. 47. 

Vandewater, Albertis, a Deformed (Dutch) and 
Presbyterian minister, was born near Brunswick, L. T., 
Sept. 21, 1821. lie received his education preparatory 
to college at the school of Dr. J. J. Owen, in Orchard 
Street, New York city, and united, on profession of his 
faith, with the Seventh Presbyterian Church of New 
York city, when about nineteen years of age. lie was 
graduated from the College of New Jersey in 1846, and 
entered the Princeton Theological Seminary in the 
same year. There he took a full three years’ course of 
study, and was regularly graduated in 1849. Not long 
after he became stated supply to the Church at Athens, 
Bradford Co., Pa., where he was ordained as an evangelist 
by the Susquehanna Presbytery, Nov. 5, 1850, and where 
he continued to labor until 1854. He then accepted a 
call to the Deformed Dutch Church of Spot s wood, Mid- 
dlesex Co., N. J., where he was installed Nov. 1, 1854, 
and continued to labor very acceptably and usefully 
over thirteen years, until he was released by the Chassis 
of Monmonth, Nov. 5, 1867. His next charge was the 
United Dutch Deformed churches of Blenheim and 
Brackabeen. N. Y., in the Olassis of Schoharie. where he 
was installed Dec. 18, 1868, and was released March L 
1869. After this he supplied for a short time the De- 
formed Dutch Church of Wolcott (now Fair Haven), 
N. Y., but soon accepted a call to the Deformed Dutch 
Church of Oakland (otherwise called Pands Church), 
in Bergen Co., N. J., where he was installed May 26, 
1869, and released April 23, 1872. After this he re- 
sided about a year at Princeton, N. J., without special 
employment; then taught school for a short time at 
Yardville, Mercer Co.. N. J., after which he taught 
school and preached as a missionary near Farmingdnle, 
Monmouth Co. While laboring there, his efforts were 
blessed with a revival, in which about seventy souls 
were hopefully converted. He was t lien induced to 
remove to Missouri, where he became stated supply to 
the Church of Mine La Motto, in the Presbytery of Po- 
tosi, in the autumn of 1876. Here he was laboring 
faithfully and zealously when he was summoned away 
by death. This event occurred Feb. 28. 1879, at Mine 
La Motte, Madison Co., Mo. His death was a very 
calm and happy one, and full of triumphant faith in the 
Saviour. (W. I \ S.) 

Van Doren, Isaac, a Deformed (Dutch) and 
Presbyterian minister, was born at Griggstown, N. J., 
in 1772. lie was educated in the College of New Jer- 
sey, studied theology privately, was licensed by the 
Classis of New York, and ordained about 1798. In 


1 


VAX DO HEX 


709 


VAX DYCK 


1802 he settled in Ilopewell, Orange Co., N. Y., where, j 
during a pastorate of twenty-three years, lie was blessed 
with eminent success; then removed to Newark, N. J., ! 
and for four years (1825-29) was principal of the Acad- 
emy ; he then, with his eldest son, established a colie- ! 
giate institute on Brooklyn Heights (1829-84); from 
there he removed to Lexington, Kv., where he taught 
(1834-88); and became eminent as a teacher in other 
parts of the West, lie died Aug. 12, 1861. lie was 
the author of a tract entitled J Summary of Christian 
Duty, compiled from the Douay Bible. See Wilson, 
Presb. /list. Almanac, 18G5, p. 133; Corwin, Manual of 
the Ref Church in A merica, s. v. 

Van Doren, Luther Halsey, a Presbyterian 
and Reformed (Dutch) minister, was born at Hopewell, 
Orange Co., N. Y., in 1808. He graduated at the Col- 
lege of New Jersey in 1831, and began his preparation for 
the ministry under the lit. Rev. R. B. Smith, D.I)., LL.D., 
Protestant Episcopal bishop of Kentucky, but was sub- 
secpiently licensed by the Presbyterian Church of Lex- 
ington. Kv.. and ordained presbyter at Columbia, Mo., 
in 1834. He preached for the Presbyterian churches 
of St. Louis, Farmington, and Columbia, Mo. ; Freehold, 
N. J. ; Paducah, Ky. ; Spring Street and Fiftieth Street, 
New York city; and New Vernon, N. J., from 1834 to 
1871; then for the Reformed (Dutch) churches of 
Montville from 1871 to 1874. and Middletown from 1874 
to 1876. lie died in 187G. See Corwin, Manual of the 
Ref Church in America, s. v. 

Van Doren, William, a Presbyterian educator, 
was born at Griggstown, Somerset Co., N. J., March 14, 
1814. lie was prepared for college in the Academy at 
Princeton under the tuition of the Bev. Charles C. Sears, 
and was graduated from theCollegeofNcw Jersey in 1835. 
He united with the First Presbyterian Church of Prince- 
ton, July 14, 1832. On leaving college, he taught in 
Florida about a year, and then entered Princeton Sem- 
inary in 183G, but, owing to a failure of health, remain- 
ed only one year. He was never licensed or ordained, 
but devoted himself to the work of education. He 
was a professor in the college at Columbia, Mo., and af- 
terwards in the Missouri State University from 1837 to 
1843. Next he had charge of the high-school at Lex- 
ington for seven years, until 1850; then served as pro- 
fessor in Westminster College at Fulton for twelve years, 
until 18G2. Li the latter year he removed to Califor- 
nia, where he taught successively at Napa City, Stock- 
ton, Visalia, and Watsonville, establishing an institution 
of learning in each of these towns. While teaching at 
Watsonville his sight failed him, and for two years pre- 
ceding his death his health had been steadily declining. 
At Columbia, Mo., he was ordained ruling elder, and in 
this office had faithfully and very usefully served the 
churches in the towns where he subsequently resided. 
He died at Watsonville, Cal., Dec. 3, 1877. (W. P. S.) 

Van Driessen, Johannes, a Reformed (Dutch) 
minister, was born in 1G97, and educated in Belgium. 
After coming to this country he went to Yale College 
with a commendatory letter from the patroon Van 
Rensselaer, and was then licensed and ordained by the 
Congregationalists at New Haven. This was made the 
occasion of great opposition to him as a minister. II is 
motive was to save the time, trouble, and cost of a jour- 
ney to Holland to procure ordination. The Dutch cler- 
gy denounced him as a schismatic, the Amsterdam Chas- 
sis warned the American churches against him, and his 
troubles multiplied and lasted long. This was the first 
example of “irregular ordination.” as it was regarded, 
that occurred in the northern section of the Dutch 
Church, and it was the real opening of the great con- 
troversy between the Ccetus and Conference parties, 
resulting in the triumph of the former, which was 
the American progressive and independent element, 
lie was settled at Claverack, Kinderhook, and Living- 
ston Manor from 1727 to 1735; at New Paltz from 1731 to j 
1735; at Acquackanonck and Pompton, N. J., from 1735 ' 


to 1748 ; and subsequently at Poughkeepsie, Fishkill, 
and New Paltz temporarily in 1751. lie was at length 
involved in other troubles and silenced. See Corwin, 
Manual of the Ref Church in America, s. v. ; Still, 
Hist. Discourse at New Paltz; Zabriskie, Claverack 
Centennial. (W. J. K. T.) 

Van Driessen, Petrus, a Reformed (Dutch) min- 
ister, brother of the preceding, was minister of the Re- 
formed Dutch Church in Albany from 1712 to 1738. Un- 
til 1727 he also supplied Kinderhook. Mention is made 
of his services for some time at Kinderhook and Sche- 
nectady. During his ministry at Albany a new and 
handsome stone edifice was built, which stood ninety- 
one years on State Street, lie organized the important 
churches of Kinderhook in 1712 and Claverack in 1 7 J G. 
Like his predecessors, Megapolcnsis, Dellius, and Lydins, 
he acted as a missionary to the Indians. In the docu- 
mentary history of New York, among several petitions 
to governor Burnet and his councillors from this pas- 
tor, is one dated Sept. 18, 1722, respecting his labors 
among the Mohawks, asking protection and assistance 
for himself and his interpreter, in which the petitioner 
is described as “finding himself in Conscience thronged 
and moved to continue with them in the doctrine of the 
true knowledge of God, if yet at some Time the Lord 
might give them repentance as by means of the same 
ministracion thro’ the blessing of the Most High has 
been done to Our forefathers.” This is followed by 
a “Lycence by his Excellency,” to Mr. Van Driessen, 
“to Erect and build a meeting-house for the Indians in 
the Mohawk’s country, in order to ye assembling of 
themselves together for ye Solemn Worship of God ; and 
that upon any part of the Lands to them belonging as 
shall be found most Convenient for the purposes men- 
tioned.” The venerable pastor and missionary labored 
with zeal and fidelity among his people at Albany for a 
period of twenty-six years, until his death, which took 
place about Feb. 1, 1738. For five years previously he 
had a colleague, Rev. Cornelius Van Sc hie, who had la- 
bored at Poughkeepsie and Fishkill, 1731-38. when he 
removed to Albany, lie survived his associate only six 
years, dying Aug. 15, 1744, at the age of forty-one. See 
Rogers, Hist. Discourse, p. 20-24; Documentary Hist, of 
A 'em York, iii, 915, 91 G; Corwin, Manual of the Ref. 
Church in A merica. (W. J. R. T.) 

Van Duzer, Joseuii E. A., a minister in the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, South, was born in New York 
city. Sept. 14, 1852 ; was left motherless when an infant; 
received a fair academic education and a good com- 
mercial training; married in early manhood; received 
license to preach in 1873, and united with the Florida 
Conference, and was appointed to the Cuban work, where 
he worked faithfully and beyond his endurance until 
his death, by typho-malarial fever, June 7, 1875. Mr. 
Van Duzer was a man of great energy and remarkable 
consecration. See Minutes of Animal Conferences of 
the M. E. Church, South, 1875, p. 179. 

Van Dyck, C. L., a minister of the Reformed 
(Dutch ) Church, was horn at Kinderhook, N. Y., in 1804. 
He graduated at Union College in 1826, and at New 
Brunswick Theological Seminary in 1829, when he was 
licensed to preach; became pastor at Marbletown, N. Y., 
1829-53; at North Esopus (Port Ewen). N. Y„ 185G-GG. 
lie was converted at the early age of sixteen, and was 
a pious and consistent professor of Christianity from that 
time until his death, in 18GG. See Corwin, Manual of 
the Ref Church in A merica, s. v. 

Vail Dyck, Hamilton, a minister of the Re- 
formed (Dutch) Church, was born in 1807. He gradu- 
ated at Hamilton College in 1826, and at York Theo- 
logical Seminary in 1829. lie preached at Chambers- 
burg, Pa., 1829-33; and at Prattsville, N. Y., 1833-36. 
His constitution having been broken down bv severe 
study during bis seminary course, he died in 183G. See 
Corwin. Manual of the Ref Church in America, s. v. 

Van Dyck, Leonard B., a Presbyterian minis- 


VANDYKE 


710 


VAX GAASBEEK 


ter, was educated for t lie ministry of the Reformed 
(Dutch) Church. He graduated at Union College in 
1824. and at Now Brunswick Theological Seminary in 
1X27. During the latter part of his seminary course a 
controversy was carried on between Princeton and An- 
dover in regard to the doctrines of the extent of the 
atonement, the eternal yeneration of the Son, and the 
procession of the Holy Ghost. Young Van Dyck read 
what was said on both sides of this controversy, and 
was left in doubt as to the true doctrine. In conse- 
quence of Ids unsettled opinions on these great doc- 
trines, ho was advised to remain at the seminary until 
he should become settled, and was not recommended lor 
licensure. Accordingly he returned to his house in 
Coxsackie. X. V., and was licensed bv the presbytery of 
Columbia. X. Y.. in 1827. 1 le was called to the Church 

at Osborn ville(\Yindlinm\Grecne Co., X. Y.,aud labored 
there faithfully and successfully from 1828 until about 
1870, when the loss of his voice compelled him to retire, 
lie then returned to his native village. Coxsackie. where 
he. died. ( let. 2d. 1877. See Corwin, Manual of the lief. 
Church in .1 nurica, s. v. 

Vandyke (Flent. Van Dyck) fir Anthony, a Flem- 
ish painter, was born in Antwerp. March 22, 1590. lie 
was the most illustrious pupil of Rubens. lie visited 
England; thence went to Venice, Genoa, and Pome; re- 
turned to Antwerp in 1027; settled in England in 1032, 
was knighted by Charles I in the same year, and grant- 
ed a life pension of £200 in 1033. He excelled as a por- 
trait-painter, and executed many “crucifixions,” “ pie- 
tas,”and historical pieces, lie died in London, Dec. 9. 
1041. See Carpenter, Memoir of Sir A . 1 \tn Dyck (Lon- 
don, 1844). 

Van Dyke, John P.,a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Adams County. Pa.. < lot. 18. 1803; graduated at 
Miami University in 1820; studied theology privately ; 
was licensed by Miami Presbytery in 1828; ordained 
by Chillieothe Presbytery as pastor of West Union 
Church, ( >.. in June, 1829, which pastorate existed for 
twenty -three years: in 1852 became pastor of the 
Church at Red Oak; in 1854. of Frankfort. Church, Tnd., 
in Logansport Presbytery; in 1850, of Pleasant Ridge 
Church. ().; and died Aug. 13. 1862. lie was an able 
divine; in presbyterial and synodical bodies lie had few 
equals : his preaching was eminently doctrinal, but ar- 
dent and impressive. See Wilson, Dresb. Hist. A Imanac , 
1803. p. 2 1 4. 

Vane (written also Fane), a plate of metal turning 
on a vertical spindle so as to show the direction of the 
wind, frequently fixed on the tops of 
spires and pinnacles, and in other ele- 
vated positions: it is often in the 
form of a cock, and from this cir- 
cumstance is very commonly called 
a v'eathercock. Vanes were in use in 
the times of the Saxons, and in after- 
ages were very extensively employed. 
They were sometimes perfectly plain, 
and sometimes cut into ornamental 
forms, which were not unfreqnently 
heraldic devices. During the preva- 
lence of the Perpendicular and Eliza- 
bethan styles. figures supporting vanes 
were often placed on the tops of pin- 
nacles, and in other exposed situa- 
tions: these were usually in the form 
of small ilags. and were sometimes 
pierced with a representation of some 
armorial hearing. Occasionally the 
vane was shaped like an heraldic device. — Parker, 
Gloss, of A rchitect. s. v. 

Vane, Sir Henry, an English republican and relig- 
ious zealot of the period of the Commonwealth, eldest 
son of a baronet of the same name, was born at. Tladlow. 
in Kent, in 1012. He was educated at Westminster 
School, and entered as gentleman commoner Magdalen 



Stanton Ilarcourt, 
Oxfordshire. 


| College, Oxford, about. 1028; but before matriculation 
j renounced the Church of England and refused to take 
the oath of allegiance, lie travelled in France, Hol- 
land, and Switzerland, and completed his education at 
Geneva, where he became confirmed in the republican 
principles which he had imbibed. and avowed the Puri- 
tan doctrines. The unpopularity of his opinions in Eng- 
land led him to seek a home in America, and he arrived 
in Massachusetts in 1035. where he was received with 
great satisfaction on account of his high reputation and 
social position, and elected governor of the colony in 
1030. Having taken the part of Mrs. Hutchinson in a 
bitter religious controversy then existing, he lost much 
of his popularity, and failed of a re-election for governor 
the following year, lie was then chosen a member of 
, the general court, but returned to England in August, 
1037. He now married a daughter of Sir Christopher 
Wray of Ashby, in Lincolnshire: Mas knighted, and en- 
I tered upon a political career. Through his father’s in- 
terest lie was appointed joint treasurer of the navy 
■with Sir William Russell, and entered Parliament for 
Kingston-upon-llull in 1040, where he almost immedi- 
ately joined Pvm and the anti-court party, of which he 
became one of the most vehement and resolute leaders. 
He took an important part in the impeachment of Straf- 
ford and La mi: became sole treasurer of the navv in 
1042 ; v'as a zealous supporter of Parliament in the Civil 
War, to which body he gave up the fees of his ollice ; 
was a member of the Westminster Assembly; went, ill 
June, 1043, to Scotland as one of the joint commission- 
ers to negotiate an alliance, and was influential in se- 
curing the adoption of the Solemn League and Covenant ; 
enabled Roger Williams to obtain the charter of Rhode 
Island in 1043; Mas one of the chief promoters of the Self- 
denying Ordinance in 1044: opposed the terms of settle- 
, ment ottered by Charles in 1048; became a member of 
the Council of State in February, 1049, in lvhich position 
he remained until Cromwell’s dissolution of Parliament 
in 1053. During this period he had the direction of the 
navy, and important pmvers in reference to the foreign 
M*ars then in progress, lie also enjoyed the friendship 
of John Milton, who addressed one of his sonnets to him. 
After the dissolution of the Long Parliament, he retired 
to his estate of Rabv Castle, where he wrote religious 
treatises and political pamphlets, one of which led to 
his imprisonment for four months in Carisbrooke Castle, 
by order of Cromwell, in 1050. lie remained in oppo- 
| sition until the death of Cromwell, when he was again 
chosen to Parliament, and became the leader of the re- 
publican party, endeavoring to mould the common- 
wealth to his ideas of government, lie was one of the 
twenty persons excepted from the Act of General Par- 
don and t tblivion, passed at the Restoration, and in July, 
1 000, was committed to the Tower. I Ie M*as afterwards 
committed to other prisons, remaining tM*o years in a 
castle in the Seillv Islands, occupied in theological stud- 
ies and writing. On June 2. 1002. he was arraigned for 
high-treason before the Middlesex grand-jnry; found 
guilty on the 6th, and, contrary to a promise made by 
Charles, was beheaded on Tower Hill. June 14. 1002. Uis 
theological Mailings were of a highly mystical type, and 
of very little value. He was a Millenarian. and believed 
or hoped that the Saviour would come and establish a 
fifth universal monarchy. These views gave rise to a 
small sect known as Vanists (q. v.). See Knight, Life 
and Heath of Sir Henry Vane (Lond. 1002) ; Birch. Lives ; 
Ludlow. Memoirs : Sparks, American Bioy rapines, vol. 
iv. 

Van Gaasbeek, Laurkntiits. a minister of the 
Reformed (Dutch) Church, was born in Holland, lie 
graduated from the University of Leyden. May 15, 1074 ; 
sailed from Amsterdam May 13. 1078, arriving in XeM' 
York Aug. 21 of the same year. He reached Kingston 
Sept. 8, and preached his lirst, sermon there one week 
later. He Mas pastor of the Clmreh in Kingston from 
that time until February, 1080, the date of his death. 
See Corwin, Manual of the lief Church in A merica, s, v. 


VAX HARLINGEN 


11 


VAN I A II 


Van Harlingen, Johannes Martinus, a Re- 
formed (Dutch) minister, was born near Millstone, X. J., 
in 1721. of Dutch parentage. He went to Holland to 
complete his studies in one of the universities, and to 
get ordination by the Chassis of Amsterdam, which was 
secured in 1761. In 1762 he returned to America and 
took pastoral charge of the united churches of Neshanic 
and Sourland, in Somerset Co.. N.. I.. where he ministered 
thirty-three years, and died in 1795, universally beloved 
and lamented. A sufficient proof of the esteem in which 
he was held is found in the fact that his name was, after 
his death, given to the village and church and district 
in which he had lived and labored so long, Smirland 
being changed to Harlingen. He preached only in the 
Dutch language until within a few years before his 
death, when, to gratify the younger people, he preached 
occasionally in English, lie was evangelical, faithful, 
a patron of learning, one of the original trustees of 
Queen’s College, and, in all that is known of him, one 
of the best of the old Dutch ministers of the last cen- 
tury. See Corwin, Manual of (he Iitf. Church in A mer- 
ica , s. v.; Sprague, Annals of the Amec. Pulpit , vol. ix. 
(W.J.K.T.) 

Van Harlingen, John M., a Reformed (Dutch) 
minister, nephew of the foregoing, was born at Sourland 
(now Harlingen'), N. 1761; graduated from Queen’s 
College in 1783; studied for the ministry with Dr. 
Livingston ; was licensed by the Christian Synod of the 
Dutch Reformed Churches in 1786; and settled at ^Mill- 
stone and Six Mile Run. X. J., 1787-1)5. From this pe- 
riod he was without charge (1795-1812), probably on ac- 
count of his inanimate pulpit delivery. He was a lover 
of books, and lived chiefly among them ; a close student, 
learned in theology, instructive in conversation, but ex- 
ceedingly retiring and reserved in manner, and very ab- 
sent-minded. While he was without charge he preach- 
ed frequently for neighboring ministers, but bis chief 
work was a full translation of a celebrated Dutch work, 
Van ilcr Kemp on the lleulelhenj Catechism (a series of 
sermons, with a valuable historical introduction, in 2 
vols. 8vo). I>e fore the organization of the Theological 
Seminary at New Brunswick, he had instructed a num- 
ber of young men at his residence in Hebrew and eccle- 
siastical history, with a view to the ministry. In June, 
1812, he was called to the chair of Hebrew and ecclesi- 
astical history in the new seminary, and accepted the 
appointment of the General Synod to the Hebrew pro- 
fessorship, and gave temporary lessons in history. In 
one year thereafter he died at Millstone, after a brief 
and severe illness, June 16, 1813. He was never mar- 
ried. 1 1 is meditative spirit and devout piety, with his 
love of learning, and a sufficiency of this world’s goods, 
enabled him to live much above the world, “using it as 
not abusing it,’’ and devoting himself to his sacred stud- 
ies. He preached both in Dutch and English, and was 
regarded, according to the standard of his time, as a 
proficient in Hebrew and a Christian scholar of eminent 
attainments. See Sprague, .1 nnals of the A mer. Pulpit , 
vol. ix; Corwin, Manual of the Ref Church in America, 
s. v. (W. J. R. T.) 

Van Helmont, Baron Francis Mercurius, a 
Dutch physician and religious enthusiast, was born in 
1618; settled in England, as the family physician of 
lady Conway, at Ragley, and thus became the associate 
of Henry Moore (ij. v.). He was the son of the well- 
known chemist Van Helmont, and gave himself to those 
occult medical studies which were a passion with his 
lather. His works w'ere noted for their eccentricities. 
He died in 1699. See Tulhick, Rational Theol. in En<j~ 
land in the \lth Cent, ii, 329, 

Van Helmont, Serges Jacob, a Flemish paint- 
er. was born in Antwerp in 1683. lie was the son of 
Matthew Van Helmont of Brussels, and w'as instructed 
in his art by his lather; but while the lather painted 
markets, fairs, shops, and similar scenes, the son distin- 
guished himself for religious compositions in the great 


style. He settled at Brussels, and was considered one 
of the best Flemish painters of his time, although, from 
weakness of constitution, he never left his own country. 
The Triumph of Elijah over the Priests of Baal, in the 
Church of the Carmelites; t lie Martyrdom of St. Bar- 
bara, in St. Mary Magdalen’s; and the Triumph of Da- 
vid, in St. Michael's Church at Brussels, are considered 
his masterpieces. He died at Brussels, Aug. 21, 1726. 

Van Hoeck, Jan, a Flemish painter, was born at 
Antwerp about 1600. lie studied with Rubens, and af- 
terwards at Rome. He was much employed by the em- 
peror Ferdinand II of Italy, but. eventually returned to 
his own country, where he died about 1650. lie w r as 
an admirable painter in portrait and history. His most 
famous painting is the Christ on the Cross, in the Church 
of St. Sauveur at Bruges, said to be one of the finest 
pictures in Belgium. 

Van Hook, Isaac A,, a minister of the Reformed 
(Dutch) Church in America. He graduated at Colum- 
bia College in 1797, and at New Brunswick Theological 
Seminary in 1819, w hen he was licensed by the Classis 
of New Brunsw ick. He w r as missionary to Spotswood, 
N. J., 1819-21 ; to Stillwater, N. J., Beaver Dam. Middle- 
town, Kleyn Esopus, and Tiashokc, N. Y., in 1822; pas- 
tor at Fort Miller and Argyle, 1823-24; missionary to 
Wilton in 1825; and corresponding secretary of the Board 
of Missions in 1827. He died in 1834. See Corwin, 
Manual of the Rtf. Church in America, s. v. 

Van Horne, Ahiiam, a minister of the Reformed 
(Dutch) Church, w as born at Whitehouse, N. J., Dec. 31, 
1763. lie graduated at Queen’s College in 1787; studied 
theology privately, and was licensed in 1788; and be- 
came pastor at Wn wanting, Marbletown, and Rochester, 
N. Y., 1789-95; anil at Caughnawaga, 1795-1833. He 
died June 3, 1840. In 1783 he was a commissary in the 
American army. See Corwin, M united of the Ref Church 
in A merica, s. v. 

Van Hovenbergh, EggoTonkexs, a Dutch min- 
ister of the Reformed Church. He was ordained at 
Amsterdam, April 1, 1743; and preached at Surinam, 
South America, 1743-49. On his way back from Suri- 
nam to Holland in 1749 he stopped at New' York, where 
he would have received a call from the consistory but 
for the unsatisfactory position he took concerning the 
Church and ministry of New' York, lie preached at 
Livingston Manor and Claverack, N. Y., 1749-56; and at 
Rhinebeck Flats, 1756 64, when he was suspended, but 
continued to preach until 1767. See Corwin, Manual 
of the Ref. Church in America, s. v. 

Van Husen, Stephen, a Baptist missionary among 
the Teloogoos, w r as born at Catskill, N. Y., Dec. 5, 1812, 
and received his education at. the Hamilton Literary 
and Theological Institution, now Madison University. 
He received his appointment Aug. 23, 1838. lie did 
not reach the Held of his labors, Nellore, until March 21, 
1840. For several years he devoted himself with zeal 
to hiswmrk with but. little apparent fruit, in a section of 
the Teloogoo country which has recently been so won- 
derfully blessed. It was a time for seed-sowing; at last 
the great harvest has come. Mr. Van Iluscn’s health 
broke down under his arduous and often discouraging 
labors, and he returned to his native country, Oct. 1, 1845. 
lie died at Brattleborough,Vt., Dec. 13, 1854. (J.C. S.) 

Van Huysen, Hi:hmanls, an American minister 
of the Reformed (Dutch) Church. 1 1 is early literary 
advantages w'ere small, and he served during the Revo- 
lution as an officer in the American army. At the close 
of the w r ar he sought to enter the ministry. He studied 
under the direction of Dr. J. IL Livingston, and was 
licensed by the Classis of Hackensack, X. J., in 1793. 
He preached at I lelderberg, Salem, and Jerusalem, X. Y., 
1794-1825. He died in 1833. See Corwin, Manual of 
the Ref Church in America, s. v. 

Vani'ah (Heb. V any ah', T\^l^,Jah is praise [Fiirst]; 
Sept, 0 uovvia v. r. 0 uovavia and 0 va\md, Vulg. Va- 


VAN I ERE 


12 


VAN LOO 


via), an Israelite of “the sons of Bani,” who divorced isfactory (Ecclcs. i, 2); to lying (Psa. iv, 2); to idols 


his Gentile wife married alter the return from Babylon 
(Ezra x, 33). B.C. 458. 

Vaniere, Jacqces, a celebrated French Jesuit and 
modern Latin poet, was born at Gausses, in the diocese of , 
Beziers, Languedoc, March it, 1334. 11c* was educated 

at tlie Jesuits’ college in Beziers, and joined the society 
in 1380. lie was afterwards professor and rector of the 
Jesuit schools in Montpellier, Toulouse, and Audi. lie 
died at Toulouse. Aug. *22, 1739. His chief works are, a 
volume of poetical Opuscula : — a flirt ionan / of Poetry, in 
Latin: — and a Latin poem entitled Pnrdittm Rusticum. 
For others, see Hocfer, Sour. Bioy. General?, s. v. 

Vanini, Lucilio. an Italian philosopher born at 
Taurisnno, near Naples, in 1581. lie studied philoso- 
phy, theology, and natural science at Borne and Padua, 
and took holy orders. II is mind was perverted by 
reading Aristotle, Averroes, Cardan, and Pompunazzi. 
lie travelled and preached his inlidel doctrines in Ger- 
many, England, Holland, Switzerland, and France. In 
1 G 1 7 lie left Paris, opened a school at Toulouse, and in- 
fused his impious notions into the minds of his scholars, 
on account of which he was accused of atheism, sen- 
tenced to death, and burned at the stake on the day the. 
sentence was given, Feb. 11', 101!'. He published. A m- 
phithcatrnm .Kterme Proridentur (Lyons, 1015 ): — De 
A dmiraudis Saturee Reyimv Detvque MortuUuni . 1 mi- 
nis (Paris, 1510). See Durand, I At Vie et les Sentiments 
de L. Vanini { Bott.erdam, 1717); Bousselot, (Furies Phi - 
losophiquesde Vanini (Paris, 1841); Hocfer, Soue. Bioy. 
Generate. s. v. 

Van Irhoven, Willem, D.D., an eminent Dutch 
divine, was horn at Kessel, in North Brabant, Nov. 2, 
HU'S, lie received bis early education at ’S Hertogen- 
lx»scli, lirst in the Latin schools, and subsequently at 
the Athenautm ofthat place, lie then repaired to Ley- 
den, where the eminent professors P. Borman. J. Dev- 
in m. and W. Senguerd were his instructors in the an- 
cient and Oriental languages and in philosophy. He 
.a Bo applied himself successfully to the study of ehem- 
i>iry under the celebrated Boerhaave. lie devoted spe- 
cial attention to philosophy, in which he attained great 
proficiency. In 1720 lie defended an essay De Intel- 
Iretu Facilitate re re A ctira. The year following he 
prepared another philosophical essay in Latin, upon 
which lie was promoted to arlimn (iberaliuni mayister 
et philosopher doctor. It was his purpose, however, to 
devote himself to the work of the Gospel ministry, 
lie attended the theological lectures of T. 11. Van den 
I lonert, F. Fabricius, J. March, and J. Wesselius. In 
1722 be was called to Ede, near Aruheim. While dis- 
charging his ministerial duties with ardor and fidelity, 
he zealously prosecuted his studies, lie spent a part 
of each year in Leyden to avail himself of the univer- 
sity library. In 1728 appeared his Conjectanea Philo- 
loyico-critico -theoloyicu in Psahuorum Titulos. This 
work added to his reputation. The next year he pub- 
lished a practical work in Dutch on the Assured Chris- 
tian, which passed through several editions. In 1737 
he accepted a professorship of theology in the Univer- 
sity of Ftrecht. This position he held for twenty- 
three years, with credit to himself and with great ben- 
etit to bis pupils. In 1710 t lie additional duty was 
laid upon him of giving instruction in Church history. 
During his professorate he published but little. He 
died Nov. 18. 1700, deeply lamented at Utrecht, as also 
in the world of letters. See Glasius, Godyeleerd Seder- 
land, ii, 1H3; also Burmanni ( Initio Funeb. in Obit uni 
( Juliet mi Jrhnrii (Traj. ad Uh. 1700). (J. F. W.) 

Vanists is a name given bv Baxter to the Anti- 
nomians (q. v.) of New England on account of the fa- 
vor shown them by Sir Ilenry Vane (q. v.), who was 
then governor of the colony of Massachusetts. 

Vanity (as a rendering of several Heb. words, Gr. 
fiaraioTtjr ) occurs in Scripture only in the Latin sense 
of emptiness, and is often applied to this world, as unsat- 


(Deut. xxxii, *21); to whatever disappoints our hopes 
(Psa. lx, 1 1). In ordinary language the term is applied 
to the man who wishes you to think more highly of 
him than what he really deserves. Hence the vain 
man Hatters in order to be flattered: is always fond of 
praise; endeavors to bribe others into a good opinion 
of himself by his complaisance, and sometimes even by 
good ollices, though often displayed with unnecessary 
ostentation. See Pnu>E. 

Van Keuren, Benjamin, a Beformed (Dutch) min- 
ister, graduated at New Brunswick Theological ►Semi- 
nary in 1824, and was licensed the same year. He be- 
came missionary to Charleston, Mapletmi. and Westerloo, 
N. V., 1821; Esopus, N. Y., 1825-23; Esopus, Hurley, 
and Bloom ingdale, N. V., 1820-34: Esopus and Bloom- 
ingdale, 1834-30; Warwick, N. V., 1830-37; preached 
for t he Presbyterian Church, 1837-50; and died in 1805. 
See Corwin, Manual of the Ref. Church in America, s. v. 

Van Kleek, Kuhakd 1)., a Beformed (Dutch) 
minister, graduated at Union College in 1822, and at 
New Brunswick Theological Seminary in 1825, when 
lie was licensed by the Chassis of New Brunswick, lb* 
preached at Bintau, N. J., 1820-31; taught at Basking 
Bidge (X. J.) Academy. 1831-34; preached at Canajo- 
harie. N.Y., 1834-35; at Berne and Beaver Dams, X. V., 
1835-43; taught at Erasmus Hall, Flatbush, L. L, 1813- 
00; in the grammar-school, Jersey City, N. J.. 1800-70; 
and died in 1870. See Corwin, Manual of the Rtf 
Church in .4 merica , s. v. 

Van Liew, John, D.D., a minister of the Beform- 
ed (Dutch) Church, was burn near Xesiiauie, N. J.. 
Sept. 30, 1708. He graduated at Queen’s College in 
1810, and at New Brunswick ’Theological Seminary in 
1820, when he was licensed by the Chassis of New 
Brunswick; preached for the Presbyterian Church at 
Meadville, Pa., 1820 23; Presbyterian Church, Mend- 
ham, N. J., 1824-25; Beformed (Dutch) Church, Bcad- 
ington, N. J.. 1820-00. He died Oct. 18, 1801'. During 
his ministry of forty-nine years, about six hundred per- 
sons united with the Church. See Corwin, Manual of 
the Ref. Church in .1 merica , s. v. 

Van Liew, John Cannon, at first a minister of 
the Beformed Protestant Dutch Church, and afterwards 
of the Presbyterian Church, was born in Middlebush, 
Middlesex Co., N. J. After pursuing his classical stud- 
ies, he studied theology at the Theological Seminary, 
New Brunswick, in t lie class of 1827 ; was licensed and 
called to the churches of Oat skill. Leeds, and Kiskatom, 
in the Classis of Greene, in 1828, as colleague to his 
uncle* the Bev. Dr. WyckolT; in 1829 took sole charge 
of Leeds and Kiskatom; in 1832 accepted a call to 
Spotswood, N. J., where he opened a classical school, 
and conducted it successfully for several years (1834- 
11); was subsequently rector of the Butgers College 
Grammar - school ; pastor at Piffard, Livingston Co., 
N. V. (1845-49) ; principal of the “ 'Temple Hill” Acad- 
emy at Genesee, Livingston Co.; pastor at Groveland. 
N. Y. ; Stone Arabia and Epbratab, Montgomery Co., 
N. Y. ; Berne and Beaver Dams (1853-01); and finally 
located in New Jersey, where he died in 18G1. Mr. 
Van Liew was a “man of decided mental ability, an 
able advocate in ecclesiastical trials and controversy, a 
critical linguist, and an excellent preacher.” See Wil- 
son, Presb. Hist. A Imanac, 1832, p. 3U0 ; Corwin, Manual 
of the Ref. Church in America , s. v. 

Vanloo, Charles Andre, called the Caraliere 
Carlo Vanloo, a French painter, was horn at Nice in 
1705. lie was first instructed by bis brother Jean Bap- 
tiste. whom he accompanied to Borne and studied under 
Lnti; visited Paris in 1723, where he gained the first 
prize for historical composition; went again to Italy in 
1727, where he studied the works of the masters more 
thoroughly, and took the prize in design at the Acad- 
emy of St. Luke; went to the court of Turin, where he 
painted many pictures; returned to Paris in 1734; was 


YANLOO 


713 


VAN NEST 


admitted to the Academy in 1735; and was knighted by 1 
Louis XV in 175*2, and granted a liberal pension lor life, 
lie died in 1705. 13 is principal works are, The Apothe- 

osis of St. Isidore , in Home: — St. Francis, and St. Mar- 
tha, in the same city: — a series of subjects from the./cra- 
sulem of Tasso, in the royal palace, Turin: — The Mar- 
riage. of the Virgin, in the <iallery of the Louvre, lie did 
important service in reforming the affected and gaudy 
style then prevalent in the French school. Ilis country- 
men are extravagant in his praises; but he may justly 
he compared with the best of the modern Italian paint- 
ers. See Spooner, Biog. Hist. of the Fine Arts , s. v. 

Vanloo, Jean Baptiste, a French painter, was 
horn at Aix in 1G84. He was instructed by his father, 
and went to Toulon, where he executed several works 
for the churches; but the siege of that place in 1707 
compelled him to return to Aix, where he labored for 
five years for small compensation, lie afterwards went 
to Lome under the protection of the prince ofCarignan, 
where he studied the great masters. Acquiring consid- 
erable reputation, he executed, among other works, The 
Scourging of Christ, in the Church of S. Maria in Moiiti- 
eelli. lie next went to Turin, where lie distinguished 
himself by paintings in oil and fresco, and acquired con- 
siderable wealth. He then went, to Paris; lost his fort- 
une in the Mississippi scheme; was chosen a member 
of the Academy ; also professor in 1735; went to London 
in 1757 ; and returned to Aix in 1742. where he died in 
174(5. His best works at Paris are, The Entry of Christ 
into Jerusalem , in the Church of St. Martin des Champs: 
— and St. Ft ter Delivered from Prison , in the Church of 
St. Germain des Pres. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the 
Fine A rts, s. v. 

Van Meter, Henry* L., a Baptist minister and 
missionary to Burmah, was born in Philadelphia, Pa.. 
Sept. 21. 1824. and was a graduate of the University of 
Pennsylvania and of the Hamilton Literary and Theo- 
logical Institute. He was appointed by the American 
Baptist Missionary Union as a missionary to Bassein, 
Burmah, and was ordained Sept. 28, 1848. He proceed- 
ed. immediately after his ordination, to the East, where, 
for about, twenty-two years, with but little intermission, 
he devoted himself to his sacred work. His health 
failing, he returned to his native country. lie had 
been at home but a few weeks when he died, at Mott- 
ville, near Skaueateles Lake, N. Y., Aug. Iff, 1870. 
(J.C.S.) 

Van Mildert, William, D.D., a bishop in the 
Church of England, was born in London in 17G5. He 
studied some years at the Merchant Taylors’ School, and 
then entered Queen’s College, Oxford. Having taken 
his degree, been ordained in 1788, and served some time 
as curate, and afterwards as incumbent of the living of 
Bradden, Northamptonshire (1795), he was in 179G pre- 
sented to the rectory of St. Marv-le-Bow, Cheapside, 
London. He also, in process of time, obtained the vic- 
arage of Fartningham, Kent. In 1812 he was elected 
preacher of Lincoln’s Inn ; in 1813 was appointed regius 
professor of divinity in Oxford; in 1820 was conse- 
crated bishop of Llandaff; and in 182G was transferred 
to Durham. He died Feb. 21, 183G. Bishop Van Mildert 
was distinguished for his theological writings, embrac- 
ing his Bogle Lectures ( 1802-5 j: — his Hampton Lect- 
ures (1814) : — his edition of the writings of Dr. Water- 
land : — and his Sermons preaehed at Lincoln’s Inn. lie 
was eminently generous. See Church of England Mag- 
azine, i, 21 ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A nth. s. v. 

Vannel, an old English term for a fanon or rntpldn, 
sometimes worn round the neck instead of the amice 
(q. v.) ; also used lor the amice itself. 

Vannes, Councilof ( Concilium Veneticum). Vannes 
is a seaport town of Franee, eapital of the department 
of Morbihan, on the south eoast of Brittany, sixty- 
one miles north-west of Nantes. A eonneil was held 
there in 4G5 by St. Perpetuus, the first archbishop of 
Tours, who presided over live other bishops, Palernus 


was in this council consecrated to the see of Vannes, and 
sixteen canons were published (many of which are the 
same with those of Tours) A.D. 4G1. The following are 
peculiar to this council : 

2. Excommunicates those who marry again after hav- 
ing divorced their first wives, unless it was on account of 
adultery. 

T. Forbids monks to retire into solitary cells, except 
they be men of tried virtue, and upon condition that they 
keep within the precincts of the abbey and under the ab- 
bot's jurisdiction. 

8. Forbids abbots to bold many monasteries or cells. 

11. Prohibits priests, deacons, and subdeacons, who are 
forbidden to marry, from attending marriage festivals, 
feasts, and assemblies at which love sougs, etc., are sung, 
and immodest conversations held. 

12. Forbids all clerks to attend Jewish festivals. 

lil. Excommunicates for thirty days ecclesiastics gnilty 
of the sin of druukeuuess, and enjoins even corporal pun- 
ishment. 

14. Excommunicates for seven days clerks who, living 
in the city, absent themselves from matins. 

15. Orders that the same manner of celebrating divine 
service shall be observed throughout the province of Ly- 
ons. 

1<>. Excommunicates those of the clergy who meddle in 
divinations, and snperstitionsly pretend to foretell the 
future by chance readings of lloly Scripture. 

These regulations are addressed to Victorius, bishop of 
Manr, and Thalassius of Angers, who were unable to at- 
tend the council. See Mansi, Concil. iv, 1054. — Laudou, 
Manual of Councils, p. G73. 

Van Nest, Abraham, an eminent Christian mer- 
chant and philanthropist of New York, was born near 
Somerville, N. .1., May 8. 1777. At twelve years of age 
lie left bis father’s house and farm to dwell with liis 
brother in New York, where his subsequent long life 
was spent. Carefully nurtured by his believing par- 
ents, and converted at an early age, he united in the 
communion of the Collegiate Church, of which he was 
a member nearly sixty years, and for about half a cen- 
tury an active officer. By constant re-election he was 
almost a permanent member of the Consistory and of 
the General Synod and other ecclesiastical assemblies 
of the Reformed Church, in which his commanding in- 
fluence was always quietly exerted. He was greatly 
prospered in business, and accumulated a large prop- 
erty, without a stain upon his good name, and he used it 
as a faithful steward of the kingdom of God. He was 
noted for abounding liberality and lor efficient services 
in many benevolent institutions. But Ids chief sphere 
of usefulness was in the Church, as a wise counsellor and 
willing servant. He was president of the Board of Cor- 
poration for many years. As a trustee of Rutgers Col- 
lege, from 1823 until his decease, he did much to revive, 
sustain, and enlarge that institution; and his name is 
perpetuated in one of its edifices, Nest Hall, erected 
in 1812 by the efforts of the alumni, and devoted to the 
Museum of Natural History, Chemistry, Geology, and 
the Literary Societies. He did more than any other 
layman of that day to endow the Theological Seminary 
at New Brunswick by his personal labors with Drs. Lud- 
low, Schoonmakcr, and Jacob Ii. Hardenbergh, as well 
as by bis gifts. For thirty veal's he was honorably 
identified with the polities and government of New York 
city — acting with the Democratic party, and always 
maintaining his Christian integrity amid those testing 
seenes of publie life. 51 r. Van Nest was of small stat- 
ure, with a benevolent and thoughtful countenance and 
entirely unobtrusive manner. Ilis will was strong; he 
possessed great executive ability, prudence, knowledge 
of human nature, and kindness of heart. His piety was 
intelligent, scriptural, and uniformly earnest, and out- 
spoken, lie was a man of prayer, “full of faith and of 
the Holy Ghost.” His home was the abode of a prince- 
ly hospitality, and up to the time of his death one of 
the few remaining landmarks of the wealth and liberal- 
ity of a generation that has passed away. Afflictions 
and age mellowed bis Christian character during the 
later and quiet years of his onee busy life; and he 
“ came to his grave in a full age, like as a shock of corn 


VAX XEST 


714 


VAX NOSTKAND 


comcth in in its season.” He died Sept. 14, 1804. Sec 
.1 M tutorial for Itis Family (1804). (W. J. 14. T.) 

Van Nest, Peter, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in Bethlehem township, Huntingdon Co., X. J.. 
Aug. 5. 1759. In 1771 he went to reside in Philadel- 
phia, Pa. Shortly after his settlement in that city he 
was powerfully awakened to a sense of sin ; it was not. 
however, until 17*8 that Ire was led to see himself as he 
really was. Being in Bristol. England, he went to hear 
Thomas Warwick, a Wesleyan preacher, whose discourses 
were so pungent, and seemed so personal to him, that 
his conscience was profoundly awakened. He at once 
joined the Methodist Church, ami acquired the friend- 
ship of John Wesley. Henry Moore, t he biographer 
of Wesley, commissioned him as a local preacher in 
1704. In 170(5 lie returned to America, and was re- 
ceived on trial in the Philadelphia Conference the same 
year, and appointed to Salem Circuit, in New Jersey, 
hut did not travel it. The next year (1707) he was 
again received, and sent to Middletown Circuit, Conn. 
His subsequent appointments were as follows: in 1708, 
to Croton Circuit, where he spent three months, and 
was then sent to Middletown again: in 1700. to Whiting- 
ham, to form a new circuit; in 1800. to Fletcher (for- 
merly Essex); in 1801, to New London; in 1802, to 
Bay Quinta, Cppcr Canada; in 1803, to Niagara: in 
1804, to Burlington, N. J.; in 1805, to Elizabethtown 
Circuit; in 1806. to Somerset, Md. ; in 1807, to Holland 
Purchase as missionary; from 1808 to 180*), to Cayuga 
District; in 1810, to Gloucester Circuit, X. J.; from 1810 
to 18J4. to East Jersey District; in 1815, to Salem Cir- 
cuit: in 1816, to Freehold ; in 1817, to Bergen ; in 1818. 
to (Gloucester; from 1810 to 1820, as supernumerary; 
and ill 1821, taking a superannuated relation, he resided 
in Pemberton, N. J., until his death, Oct. 17, 1850. Mr. 
Van Nest was revered as a veteran throughout the 
Church. In all his appointments he did brave service, 
and liis labors in New England, Canada. Western New 
York, and New Jersey were instrumental in the rescue 
of hundreds of souls. From the time that he ceased to 
be effective until his death — a period of about thirty-one 
years — lie had his home at Pemberton, N. J.. where he 
was eminently useful and highly respected and ven- 
erated. He watched over the Church in that place 
with exemplary fidelity to the last. When he was in 
his ninety-second year, he was often seen, with staff in 
hand, going about from house to house, and inquiring 
with great interest in respect to both the temporal and 
spiritual welfare of the inmates. 1 1 is death was not 
only peaceful, but triumphant. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences, iv. 568; Sprague, Annals of the American 
Pulpit , vii, 276 ; Stevens, Hist, of the M. E. Church , iii, 
433: iv, 17, 63, 267. (J. L. S.) 

Van Nest, Rynier, a Reformed (Dutch) minis- 
ter, was born near North Branch, N. J., Feb. 8, 1739. 
He studied privately, and was licensed in 1773. lie 
was pastor at Shawanguuk and New Paltz, N. Y., from 
1774 to 1778; married Catharine (11 agar), widow of 
Rev. J. M. Goetschius, of Schoharie, Feb. 24, 1776; was 
pastor at Shawanguuk and Montgomery from 1778 
to 1785; supplied Middleburgh from 1774 to 1780; 
Schoharie from 1780 to 1785; was pastor at Jamaica, 
Newtown, Oyster Bay, and Success, L. I., from 1785 to 
1797, and at Schoharie from 1797 to 1803. lie died at 
Readington, N. J.. July 9, 1813. See Corwin, Manual 
of the Rtf Church in America, s. v. 

Vanni, Carulier Francesco, an eminent Italian 
painter, was horn at Sienna probably in 1505. He re- 
ceived some instruction from his father and afterwards 
from his stepfather, when, at the. age of twelve, he went 
to Bologna and studied under Passarotti. When about 
sixteen he went to Rome, and became the pupil of 
Giovanni tie’ Veeclii, where he chose for his model the 
works of Federigo Bnroccio. On leaving Rome, he 
travelled through Lombardy, and on returning to Sien- 
na executed several works for the churches and con- 


vents. Jle was then invited to return to Rome, where 
he was commissioned by Clement VII 1 to paint the 
picture of St. Peter Rebukiny Simon Magus. This work 
still remains on a marble slab in St. Peter’s, Rome, and 
is an object of admiration. Ills labors so pleased tbc 
pope that he made him a knight of the Order of Christ. 
His principal works at Rome are, St. Michael Vanquish- 
iny the Rebel A nyels, in the Church of San Gregorio: — 
a Pitta, in the Church of Santa Maria ill Valieella : — ami 
The Assumption in the Church of Sail Lorenzo in Miran- 
da. But his best works are (o be found at Sienna, among 
which are the Marriaye of St. Catherine: — the Madon- 
na : — and St. Raymond Walk iny on the Sea. 1 le also exe- 
cuted a few correct and spirited etchings from his own 
designs, which are highly esteemed. He died at Sienna 
in 1610. See Spooner, Rioy. Hist, of the Pine A rts, s. v. 

Vanni, Carulier Michael Angelo, an Italian 
painter of the I7tli century, was the eldest son of the 
cavalier Francesco Vanni. by whom he was instructed 
in the art. 1 1 is fame rests chielly, however, upon his 
invention of a new process of staining marble in imita- 
tion of mosaic. There are some of his paintings in the 
churches and convents of Sienna, hut they are much in- 
ferior to the best productions of liis father. See Spooner, 
Rioy. Hist, of (he Pine Arts, s. v. 

Vanni, Carulier Raffaelle, an Italian painter, 
second son of Francesco Vanni, was born at Sienna in 
1596. He studied with his father, who died when Raf- 
faelle was fourteen years of ago. lie afterwards studied 
at Rome, where lie made such progress as to rival liis 
father. Among liis finest works are t lie Jiirih of the 
Virgin, ai Rome: — the Martyrdom of St. Catherine, at 
Pisa: — and the Procession of our Saviour to ('alrary. 
at Sienna. He was elected a member of the Academy 
of St. Luke in 1655, and was honored with knighthood. 
Sec Spooner, Rioy. Hist, of the Pine A rts , s. v. 

Van Niewenhuysen, Wii.iiei.mi s, a minister 
of the Reformed (Dutch) Church, was born and edu- 
cated in Holland, and called thence, in 1671. to the ( \>1- 
lcgiate Church in New York. lie removed to Breukke- 
leu (Brooklyn) in 1676, but continued to officiate fre- 
quently in New York. lie was a relative ami predeces- 
sor of the celebrated Rev. llenrv Selyns. When gov- 
ernor Andros forced Nicholas Van Rauslaer upon the 
Church at Albany as colleague to (Gideon Sehaats. in 
1675, Van Niewenhuysen was sent from New York to 
assist the aged pastor in resisting the usurpation of the 
civil power, liis ministry in New York was peaceful 
and prosperous; and there is good evidence in liis cor- 
respondence with the Classis of Amsterdam, and in his 
controversy with Andros for the prerogatives of the 
Church, that lie was a learned, able, faithful, and judi- 
cious minister of the (Gospel. Little more is known of 
him. lie died in 1682. He was of the Cocceian school 
in exegesis. Sec Murphy, Antholoyy of New Nether- 
lands, p. 179; Documentary History of New York, iii, 
872-875; Corwin, Manual of the Rtf. Church in Amer- 
ica, s. v. (W. J. R. T.) 

Van Nostrand, Aaron, a Protestant Episcopal 
clergyman, died at Painesville, 0., of camp fever, Feb. 
27, 1863, aged thirty-two years. lie was chaplain of 
the 105th Regiment of Ohio Volunteers, and at the time 
of liis death was rector of St. James’s Church in Pnines- 
ville, which position lie had held for nearly three years. 
Previous to this he had been rector of St. John’s Church. 
Clyde, N. Y., for a period of five years. See A merican 
Quar. Church Rev. April, 1863, p. 152, 

Van Nostvand, Albert, a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was born on Long Island, N. Y„ about 1758. 
lie joined the Methodist society in 1785, at Seriugton, 
and soon afterwards began preaching, which he contin- 
ued, with the approval of the Church, until his death, 
at White Plains, N. Y„ in the latter part of September, 
1796. See Minutes of Annual Conferences^ 1797, p, 73; 
Bangs, Hist, of the M.P . Church , ii, 62. 


VAN NUTS 


7 15 


VAN 1JENSSELAE U 


Vannuys, James IIarvky, a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in Franklin, I ml., Dec. PS, 1831. lie was 
educated in Hanover College; graduated at the Theo- 
logical Seminary, Princeton, X. J., in 1801 ; was licensed 
by the Donegal Presbytery, and went West; and was 
ordained by the Hock Uiver Presbytery in 18(53 as pas- 
tor of the Church at Andover, 111. lie subsequently 
preached at. Wilton Station and Sugar Creek, la. lie 
died Nov. 25, 18(50. He was a warm-hearted Christian, 
and an earnest and very acceptable preacher. See Wil- 
son, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1807, p. '213. 

Van Olinda, Dorw, a Reformed (Dutch) minis- 
ter, was born at Charleston, N. V., in 1800. He grad- I 
uated at the New Brunswick Theological Seminary in 
1824. and was licensed to preach, lie was missionary ^ 
to Johnstown, Al ay field, and Union, N. V., in 1825; 
Palatine from 1825 to 1827; Mapletown, SprakerV 
Basin, and Canajoharie from 1827 to 1831 ; New Paltz 
from 1832 to 1814; and Caughnawaga from 1844 to 
1858. lie died in 1858. lie was large of stature, com- 
manding in appearance, an edifying and instructive 
preacher, and of great executive ability. See Corwin, 
Manual of the Ref. Church in America, s. v. ; Wilson, 
Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1800, p. 204. 

Van Pelt, Peter I., D.D., a Reformed (Dutch) min- 
ister, was born at Bushwick, L. 1., May 27, 1778. lie 
graduated at Columbia College in 1700, and studied 
theology under Dr. J. 11. Livingston, lie received 
license to preach in 1801, and began bis ministry on 
Staten Island in 1802, where he continued until 1835; 
was pastor at Fordham, N. Y., from 1830 to 1847 ; also 
chaplain in the war from 1812 to 1814. He died in New 
York, Jan. 20, 1801. lie published a few sermons and 
orations delivered on important public occasions. See 
Corwin, Manual of the Ref. Church in America, s. v. 

Van Raalte, Albert us C., D.D., a Reformed 
(Dutch') minister, was born at Waarneperveen, Overys- 
sel, Holland, Oct. 17, 1811. lie graduated at the Uni- 
versity of Leyden in 18.31, and at the Leyden Theolog- 
ical Seminary in 1834; was examined in the Provincial 
Synod of the Hague in May, 1835; ordained for general 
service in Amsterdam in the General Synod of the Sep- 
arated or Free Reformed Church of the Netherlands, 
March 4, 1830; was missionary to Genemuiden, then to 
Omrner ( Overyssel), from 1830 to 1844; to Avnheim 
(Guelderland) from 1844 to 1846, when he came to 
America; pastor at Holland, Mich., from 1851 to 1807; 
missionary for the emigration held, Amelia Court-house, 
Ya., from 1800 to 1870; and president of the council of 
Hope College from 1870 to 1874. He died Nov. 7, 1870. 
See Corwin, Manual of the Ref. Church in America, s. v. 

Van Ranslaer (or Renslaer), Nicholas, was 
ordained as a deacon by Dr. Earle, bishop of Sarum. and 
as a presbyter by the bishop of Salisbury; was chaplain 
to the. ambassador of the States-Gencral at London; 
minister of the Dutch Church at Westminster; and 
lecturer at St. Margaret’s, Loathburv, London, lie 
came to America in 1075, with letters of recommenda- 
tion from the duke of York to governor Andros, with a 
view to a living in one of the Dutch churches of the 1 
colony; and also laid claim to the manor of Rensselaer- 
wyek. The governor assigned him to the Dutch ( Ihurch 
in Albany, against the protests of their minister, Gideon 
Schaats, and the people. They denied both the valid- 
ity of his ordination, which was not a tenable objection, 
and the right of the English governor to intrude him 
upon an unwilling Church and congregation. A bitter 
contest and trial at law followed. Dominie Van Niew- 
enhuysen, of New York, was sent to aid in the contro- 
versy. Van Ranslaer, however, continued to officiate 
for about one year. For a short time he was imprison- 
ed for utterances in his pulpit, for which Jacob Leisler 
(afterwards governor) and Jacob Milborne brought 
charges against him. This litigation ended in the de- j 
feat of his opposers, and in the reconciliation of Schaats 
and Van lianslaer. The latter died soon after, and thus | 


ended the disturbances of Church and State produced 
by his coming. He was suspected as a papist in dis- 
guise. His widow, nee Alida Schuyler, afterwards be- 
came the wife of Robert Livingston. See Documentary 
Hist. X. P. p. 872-871). Corwin, Manual of the Ref. 
Church in .1 merica, s. v. (W. J. R. 4’.) 

Van Rensselaer, Cortlandt, D.D.. an eminent 
Presbyterian divine, son of general Stephen Van Rensse- 
laer, was born in Albany, N. Y.. 31 av 25, 1808. He grad- 
uated at Yale College in 1827, and was admitted to the 
bar in 1830; but studied theology in the Princeton 'rhe- 
ological Seminary. N. .1.. and was licensed to preach in 
1834, and ordained in 1835 by West Hanover Presby- 
tery, Va. He organized the First Presbyterian Church 
in Burlington, N. J., and was installed its pastor by 
Philadelphia Second Presbytery in 1837. lie became 
corresponding secretary of the Board of Education of 
the Presbyterian Church from 184(5 until his death, 
July 24, 1800. Dr. Van Rensselaer established in 1818 
The Presbyterian Treasury, a quarto publication, issued 
monthly. This journal was quite popular, but owing 
to the earnest solicitation of other parties, at the end of 
two years it gave place to the Home autl Foreign Rec- 
ord, edited by all the secretaries of the Boards of the 
Church, lie, however, issued, in January, 1851, the first 
annual volume, entitled The Home, School, and Church , 
a thick octavo pamphlet. In 1851 he also issued the 
first number of The Presbyterian Magazine ; and it was 
thus that, by means of all these, the mind of the Church 
became enlightened upon the subject of education. Af- 
ter his death appeared a selection from his published 
writings, under the title of Miscellaneous Sermons, Es- 
says, and Addresses, edited by bis son, C. Van Rensse- 
laer (Phila. 1801, 8vo). ‘‘They bear the impress of bis 
vigorous intellect, and illustrate his various reading, liis 
manly independence, his genuine patriotism, and his un- 
swerving devotion to the cause and kingdom of the 
Redeemer.” 1 1 is critical reviews were discriminating, 
searching, and free from partiality, eminently readable, 
and wholly trustworthy, See Wilson, Presh. Hist. Al- 
manac, 1801, p. 107 ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. 
A uthors, s. v.; North .4 mer. Per. July, 1861, p. 2SG ; Me- 
moirs of S. Grellet (Phila. 1800), ii, 480, note; Eclect. 
May. of For. Lit. Dec. 1800. (J. L. S.) 

Van Rensselaer, ITon. Stephen, a distinguished 
statesman and general in the War of 1812-15, patroon 
of the manor of Ronssolaenvyck. and an eminent Chris- 
tian, was born in New York city Nov. 1, 1704. and grad- 
uated at Harvard University in 1782. In 1780 lie was 
elected a member of the Legislature, and in 1705, at the 
age of thirty-one, was lieutenant-governor and president 
of the Senate of his native state, lie held tins office 
six years. From 1800 to 1820 be was often a member 
of the Assembly, and also sat in two Constitutional con- 
ventions. lie was elected to Congress in 1822; was 
president of the Board of Canal Commissioners fourteen 
years before his death ; and was chancellor of the Board 
of Regents of the University of New York at his de- 
cease. In 1787 he began his military career, and was a 
major-general of Volunteers, commanding on the Niag- 
ara frontier, during the War of 1812-15 with Great 
Britain. He was honorably engaged in the battle of 
Queenstown. Yale College conferred on him the degree 
of doctor of laws in 1825. He was one of the first Board 
of ^Managers of the American Bible Society in 1810, and 
was always foremost with its illustrious founders and 
friends. In the affairs of the Reformed Church, of 
which he was ‘*a burning and a shining light,” he held 
many positions of great prominence and usefulness. 
With perhaps one exception, he was the most wealth}’ 
man in the United States, and he dispensed his money 
with a munificence that was worthy of bis ancient 
patrimony, which embraced a territory of twenty-four 
miles square, having Albany as its centre. From this 
inheritance he was called the patroon, a title now extinct 
by law with “ the death of bis eldest son, and for goner- 


VAX SAXTVOORD 


IG 


VAX VECIITEX 


at inns past the only hereditary title known among us.” 
His private intluence was immense, lie so administer- 
ed his vast estates as to win the confidence of the ten- 
ants and of the whole community in his guileless wis- 
dom and unsullied and unseltish integrity, llis chari- 
ties were continually flowing out with discriminating 
kindness and bountiful benevolence, vet. silent and unos- 
tentatious. As an elder in the Church at Albany, and 
a member of the ecclesiastical courts of his denomina- 
tion^ he bore his full share of labors, responsibility, and 
liberality. Hut he was not a sectarian; he belonged to 
tbe city of God. The manor-house at Albany was not- 
ed for his princely hospitality and Christian influences. 
“The guest who crossed that threshold forgot that he 
was a stranger: and. though poor, amid all the appli- 
ances of uncounted wealth, felt only that he was at 
home.” His piety was radiant with goodness and with 
the beauty of a holy life. He died suddenly, at home, 
dan. 26, 1839. *• I u the midst of his affectionate chil- 

dren and near his devoted wife, within the hall where 
the servant of God and the friend of man ever found an 
unfeigned welcome, his venerable head fell upon his 
bosom. He was asleep in Jesus,” llis portrait, admira- 
bly taken in old age, adorns the hall of the Board of 
Managers of the American Bible Society. His memory 
is an inspiration for the lovers of the country and the 
Church of God. See Bethune, Co tame moral ice Sermon ; 
Kogers, Historical Discourse. (W. J. 1». T.) 

Van'Sa n tvoord, Cornelius, a Reformed (Dutch) 
minister, was born in Holland in 1697, and studied in 
the University of Leyden under the celebrated Prof. 
John Marck. author of the Medulla Theologiev. He em- 
igrated to America in 1 7 1 S. He was first settled on 
Staten Island, over the Dutch and French Huguenot 
churches, to which he preached in both languages from 
1718 to 1742; also for two years (1730 to 1732) at Belle- i 
ville, N. J. In 1742 he removed to Schenectady, N. Y. ; 
and, after a ministry of ten years, died in 1752. llis 
descendants in the fourth and fifth generations are still 
represented in the ministerial ranks of their ancient de- 
nomination. lie was the intimate friend of Mr. Fre- 
linghuysen of Raritan, and was his advocate and de- 
fender in all his trials. In his behalf he published a 
small volume,.! Dialogue between Consult rans and Can- 
didas. lie was a favorite pupil of his revered precep- 
tor John Marek. and translated his Commentary on the 
Book of Rerelation, accompanied by a learned disserta- 
tion of his own, advocating a literal interpretation of 
the Epistles to the Seven Churches of Asia. It was 
published in Holland, with the high commendation of 
Prof. Wesselius. lie was paralyzed some time before 
his decease, hut continued to preach until he was called 
to his everlasting rest. See Brownlee, Hist. Disc, on 
tit a ten Island ; Taylor, A minis of Classis of Bergen ; 
Sprague, Annuls of the Amer. Pulpit, vol, ix; Cor- 
win. Manual of the Ref, Church in America , s. v. 

(W.J.R.T.) 

Van Schie, Cornelius, a Reformed (Dutch) min- 
ister, was horn in 1703: preached at Poughkeepsie and 
Fishkill. N. V., 1731 to 1738; Albany, 1738 to 1744 ; sup- 
plied Claveraek, 1732 to 1743; and died Aug. 15, 1744, 
See Corwin, Manual of the Ref. Church in America, 
s. v. 

Van Sclioick, John, a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born in Monmouth County, X. J., in 1787. 
He was converted in November, 18t)X; admitted on trial 
at the Philadelphia Conference in 1810; and served at 
the following appointments: Anbury Circuit, 1810 ; Dau- 
phin, 1811 ; Morris, 1812; Trenton, 1813 and 1814; and 
Burlington in 1815, where he died in 181(5, Mr. Van 
Sclioick was exemplary in life and conversation, and was 
an acceptable and a successful preacher. See Minutes 
of Annual Conferences , IN 17, p. 203. 

Van Sinderin, Pun anus, a Reformed (Dutch) 
minister, was horn in Holland, and emigrated to Ameri- 
ca, being called in the place of Vineentius Antouides, in 


1746, to preach at Brooklyn, Flatlnnds Bush wick, New 
Utrecht, Flatbush, and Gravesend, where he ministered 
until 1784, and then resigned. In the beginning of this 
pastorate he incurred the displeasure of Johannes Aroii- 
dens, a former pastor and troublesome spirit, by officiat- 
ing at a marriage shortly after his arrival. The quar- 
rel occasioned considerable trouble, but was afterwards 
forgotten. He died Oct. 1. 1803. See Corwin, Manual 
of the Ref Church in .1 me r tea , s. v. 

Van Stavoren, Arrau am. a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born ill Delaware in 1828; graduated at Illinois 
1 College. Jacksonville. III., in 1851; studied theology in 
Lane Seminary, near Cincinnati, (). ; was licensed by 
Cincinnati Presbytery in 1855; and ordained by Schuy- 
ler Presbytery as pastor of the Presbyterian Church in 
Warsaw, 111., in 1857. Here he labored about, a year, 
when he accepted a call to the Church at Montrose, la., 
where he labored earnestly and faithfully until his 
death. April 22, I860. 4, A good writer, and an earnest 

and useful preacher.” See Wilson, Prcsb. Hist. Alma- 
nac, 1862, p. 198. 

Vansyckle, Reuren, a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born in November, 1822. lie was converted 
in his seventeenth year, began exhorting immediately, 
and in 1843 united with the New Jersey Conference and 
was appointed to Newton Circuit. He was sent in 184-1 
to New Prospect ; in 1845, to Stanhope; in 1846. to Bar- 
rv ville; and in 1847 and 1848, to Saudystou. Mr. Van- 
syckle superannuated in 1849; in 1862 was made chap- 
lain of the United States Hospital at Fortress Monroe. 
Va. ; in 1863 was again put on the effective list, and 
thus continued until his retirement, in 1865, to Sparta, 
where he died, March 4. 1867. Mr. Vansyckle was sin- 
cere, original, interesting, zealous, and successful. Sec 
Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1867, p. 39. 

Van Til, Solomon, a learned Dutch theologian, was 
born Dec. 26, 1644. at Weesp. near Amsterdam, of a fam- 
ily originally from the duchy of Cleves. lie studied a( 
Alkmaar and the University of Utrecht; but an imped- 
iment in his speech induced him to change from theol- 
ogy to medicine. Linder the advice of Borman, how- 
ever, he resumed the study of theology at Leyden (1664). 
where he made the acquaintance of Ooeccius, and adopt- 
ed the views of that theologian. In 1666 he became 
pastor of a village in North Holland, and for ten years 
devoted himself to Oriental languages, metaphysics, and 
theology. In 1682 lie was called to Dort as pastor, and 
in 1684 he added to his duties those of the chair of his- 
tory and sacred philology. In August, 1702, he ex- 
changed this position for that of professor of theology at 
Leyden, lie was long afflicted with gout, and died at 
Leyden, Oct. 31,1713. Van Til was of an affable dispo- 
sition. and formed’ a large literary and social circle of 
acquaintances. He wrote much in a peculiar and some- 
what harsh style, chiefly on scriptural interpretation, 
including comments on the Psalms, Malachi, and St. 
Paul’s Epistles. See Hoofer, 1 Xouv. Biog. Gene rale, s. v. 
“ Til.” 

Van Valkenbiugh, Daniel, a Presbyterian min- 
ister. was born at Manheim, Herkimer Co., N. V,, Jan. 8, 
1805; went to school at llartwiek Academy, Otsego 
Co., N. V. : graduated at Union College, N. V.; studied 
theology in Auburn Theological Seminary ; was licensed 
bv the Cayuga Presbytery, Jan. 21, 1827, and ordained 
by the Oneida Presbytery, July 13. 1831. His ministry 
of thirty-six years was devoted to labors in the ehureh- 
es at Evans's Mills, Richfield Springs, Mexico. Taberg, 
Exeter, and Springfield — all in New York. He died Nov. 
24, 1864. As a theologian he was thoroughly read, sys- 
tematic, and able; as a preacher lie was faithful, direct, 
and clear. See Wilson, Fresh. Hist. Almanac, 1866, p. 
230. 

Van Vechten, Jacob, D.D., a distinguished min- 
ister of the Reformed (Dutch) Church, was born at Cats- 
kill. N. Y,, in 1788. He graduated at. Union College in 
1809; at the Associate Reformed Theological Seminary 


VAX YE EX 


717 


VAX VUAXKEX 


in 1813, and at New Brunswick Theological Seminary 
in 1814, when he was licensed by the Classis of New 
Brunswick, lie was pastor at Schenectady, N. V., from 
1815 to 1840, when he removed to Albany, and employed 
his time in preaching in the city and surrounding coun- 
try, and in literary work. In 18(18 he removed to Au- 
burn, where he spent the remainder of his days among 
his children. 11c died Sept. 15, 1871. lie published 
Memoirs of John M. Mason, 1 ).!)., S.T.P., with Portions 
of his Correspondence (1850). See Corwin, Manual of 
the Ref. Church in A merica, s. v. 

Van Veen. See Venius. 

Van Viane (or Vian), Francis, a Flemish the- 
ologian. was born at Brussels, Oct. 3, 1015. He studied 
at the papal college of Louvain; was made director of 
the seminary at Mechlin, minister at Brussels, and pres- 
ident of his alma mater at Louvain; but at length re- 
signed the last-named office. In 1677 he went to Borne 
on a theological errand, lie died at Louvain, Sept. 5, 
1093. See Biographic UniverseUe , s. v. 

Van Viane, Matthew, brother of the preceding, 
also a theologian, a laborious private student, died at 
Louvain in the papal college, Nov. 16, 1003, aged forty 
years. 

Vanvitelli, Lricu, an Italian architect, was born 
at Naples in 1700. lie lirst studied painting, but after- 
wards gave himself to architecture. lie designed sev- 
eral churches in Urbino, and many other religious edi- 
tices in Borne and Naples. His principal buildings are 
the Augustinian convent at Borne, and the palace of 
Caserta, near Naples. 1 le died in Naples, March 1, 1773. 
See Vanvitelli, Vita di Luigi Vanvitelli (Naples, 1823). 

Van Vleck, John, a Beformed (Dutch) minister, 
was born at Shawangunk, N. Y., in 1828; graduated at 
Butgers College in 1852, and at the Theological Semi- 
nary in New Brunswick. N. J.. in 1855. Immediately he 
became principal of Holland Academy, which in 1866 
was incorporated as Hope College.” It is located at 
Holland, Mich., and was begun as a parociiial and civil 
school at a very early period in the large colony of Hol- 
landers which settled on Black Lake in 1847-48, under 
the leadership of the Bev. A. C. Van Baalte, D.D. As a 
missionary of the Beformed Church, Mr. Van Vleck was 
the lirst to preach in English in the colony, and thus 
laid the foundation of the flourishing Second Beformed 
Church in that city. In 1859 he became principal of 
the Academy at Kingston, N. Y. ; and in 1862 assumed 
the pastoral charge of the churches of Middleport and 
Wa warsing, in Orange Co. He died March 15, 1865, 
of consumption, which hail been long preying upon his 
constitution, lie was amiable, greatly beloved, thor- 
oughly trusted, conscientious, spiritually minded, a true 
scholar, and a Christian of exemplary character and 
high attainments in the divine life. He was a superior 
classical scholar and teacher. In the sacred languages, 
especially in Hebrew, he was not only a hard student, 
but an accomplished exegetical writer and instructor. 
He prepared a valuable critical work oil Gethsemane , 
and another was far advanced upon the Song of Solo- 
mon at the time of his death. But he did not live to 
complete them for publication. See Corwin, Manual 
of the Ref Church in A merica , s. v. (W. J. B. T.) 

Van Vleck, Paulus, a Beformed (Dutch) minis- 
ter, whose relation to that body was somewhat irregu- 
lar. The first account we have of him, he was a school- 
master and precentor at lvinderhook, N. Y., in 1702, and 
preaching occasionally, from which, on complaint, he 
was made to desist. He was ordained by Beruardus 
Freeman in 1709 as chaplain of the Dutch troops then 
proceeding to Canada. He was pastor of the Low Dutch 
Church at Neshaminy, Bucks Co., Pa., 1710-12. He 
was accused of bigamy in 1712, and left the country in 
17 1 5. See Corwin, Manual of the Ref. Church hi A mer- 
ica, s. v. 

Van Vlierden, Peter, a Dutch minister of the 


Beformed Church, was born about 1737, and educated 
at the University of Leyden. He was the last minister 
who came from Holland to America until the immigra- 
tion in 1818. He came, however, bv way of the West 
Indies, where he had been settled for a time at St, Croix, 
leaving there in 1792. 1 le preached at Caatsban, N. Y., 

1794-1804, when he was suspended, but restored again 
in duly of the same year, lie died Feb. 21, 1821. See 
Corwin, Manual of the Ref Church in America , s. v. ; 
Sprague, Annals of the A mer. Pulpit , ii, 20. 

Van Voorhis, Stephen, an American minister of 
the Beformed (Dutch) Church. lie was graduated from 
the College of New .Jersey in 1765, and licensed by the 
General Meeting of ministers and elders in 1772; was 
pastor at Poughkeepsie, N. Y., 1773-76; supph* at Dover, 
N. J., 1774; pastor at Bhinebeck Flats, N.Y., 1776-81; 
Philipsburgh, Tarry town, and Cortlandville, 1785-88 ; 
Kingston and Assunpink, N. J. (Presbyterian), 1788-96. 
lie died Nov. 23, 1796. See Corwin, Manual of the Ref 
Church in A merica, s. v. 

Van Vranken, Nicholas, a distinguished cler- 
gyman of the Beformed (Dutch) Church, was born in 
1762 at Schenectady; pursued his studies for the min- 
istry with I)r. Theodorie Bomeyn and Dr. John 11. Liv- 
ingston; and was licensed to preach in 1790 by the 
Synod of the Beformed Dutch Churches. Before enter- 
ing upon pastoral work, he was principal of the Academy 
in Schenectady, which was the germ of Union College. 
After six years of successful teaching in this flourishing 
institution, he became the pastor of the Dutch churches 
of Fishkill, Hopewell, and New Hackensack, in Dutchess 
Co., N. Y. Here he spent his whole ministry (1791— 
1804), refusing all invitations to settle elsewhere, and 
l * serving his generation by the will of God” until he 
was suddenly called from his labors to his reward, May 
20, 1804. His people were waiting his appearance in 
church as usual on a Sabbath morning when tidings 
came of his death, of a rapid and violent inflammatory 
disease. 1 1 is reputation is that of a learned, eloquent, 
fervid, evangelical preacher, whose labors w r ere blessed 
with large additions to his churches, and with the con- 
stantly growing affection of his devoted people. His 
literary and theological attainments were of a high or- 
der. As a pastor he knew his people thoroughly, and 
adapted himself to their spiritual wants with native 
tact and spiritual advantage. On communion occasions, 
after the old Dutch custom, he gave the bread personally 
to each communicant, and addressed them one hv one, 
in Dutch or English, as he chose, with comforting 
words of Holy Scripture, or some pointed sentence litted 
to each ease. He was full of genuine humor, hut main- 
tained his dignity, while giving gentle play to his fund 
of anecdote and mirthful wit. lie excelled in conversa- 
tional talent. 1 1 is manners were engaging, his personal 
appearance very fine and prepossessing, and his social 
qualities endeared him to all who knew him well. See 
Kip, Historical JRscourse; Corwin, Manual of the Ref. 
Church in A merica , s. v. (\V. J. B. T.) 

Van Vranken, Samuel A., D.D., an eminent 
Beformed (Dutch) minister, son of the foregoing, was 
born at Fishkill, N. Y., Feb. 20. 1792. At the age of 
twelve he was sent to New York as a merchant’s clerk, 
but, having become pious, he decided to prepare for the 
ministry. Graduating from Union College in 1815, he 
then studied theology at the Seminary in New Bruns- 
wick under Dr. Livingston, and was licensed to preach 
in 1817. He first settled in Monmouth County, N. J., 
at Middletown and Freehold, 1818-26 ; and in Freehold 
alone from 1826 to 1834. His ministry of seventeen 
years in that county was eminently successful, and re- 
sulted in friendships and blessings that have long sur- 
vived his pastorate. In 1834 he accepted a call to the 
Beformed Church in Poughkeepsie, ami labored with 
great usefulness until 1837, when he succeeded Dr. Jacob 
Broil head as pastor of the Church in Broome Street, 
New York. After four years of service in that important 


VAX YRAXKEX 


71S 


VAX WIXKLE 


metropolitan charge, lie was elected in 1811, by the Gen- 
eral Synod, to the chair of didactic .and polemic theol- 
ogy in the 'rheological Seminary at New Brunswick, 
lie was also chosen by the trustees of Rutgers College 
professor of the evidences of the Christian religion and 
of logic in that institution. Roth o! these olKees lie 
held until his decease, in 1 St> 1 — a period of nearly twenty 
years. I le published, during his ministry in New York, 
two valuable discussions. One is a sermon entitled No- 
cinianism Subvert re of Christianity ; a compact, learned, 
eloquent, and popular presentation of the scriptural ar- 
gument Ibr the deity of Jesus Christ (1*41). The other 
is entitled ll'/msc Children are Entitled to Rapt ism 1 In 
it he gives an exhaustive view of the different sides of 
this vexed question, and advocates with great ingemi- 
itv and power his own doctrine that all the children of 
parents who arc themselves baptized are born in cove- 
nant relations, and are therefore, ipso /ado, entitled to 
baptism. This work occasioned a prolonged and able 
discussion between the Rev. I)r. Jacob Van Veehten and 
the author, which was published in the Christian Intelli- 
gencer. lie was not fond of appearing in print, although 
his occasional newspaper articles, and the little works 
above referred to, gave good proofs of an ability which 
might have been profitably cultivated. Ilis general 
scholarship was good. He possessed a great fund of 
information upon almost all subjects of the day, and 
especially in their religious and theological aspects. Of 
the classics he knew less than of other branches of 
learning, lie was familiar with the philosophical works 
of the best metaphysicians. In theology he was “a 
master in Israel." His lectures for the seminary classes 
were written and rewritten three times with the utmost 
care. Of these he read two eacli week, the students 
taking copious notes and reciting from them at a third 
lecture. Definitions and proof-texts from Scripture and 
the classis aryumentorum were required to be given with 
rigid accuracy. Failure here was total failure. Some 
few pupils, not the most industrious and able, complain- 
ed of this exacting demand; but t he results were seen 
at the annual examinations before the board of superin- 
tendents, and for licensure and ordination, in the clear, 
precise, systematic, analytical knowledge, and in the 
ready scriptural proofs and theological training of the 
twenty or more classes that were educated by him in 
this department. His drill was thorough in its proc- 
esses and admirable in its results. As a preacher he 
was pre-eminent. His majestic body, his animated feat- 
ures. his deep and large bass voice, his solemnity of 
manner, his power of argument, his knowledge of the 
Rible and of human nature, his close dealings with con- 
science; his pathetic, tearful, and awe-inspiring appeals; 
his Christian experience, chastened and enlarged by 
heavy afflictions; and, above all, his manifest conviction 
«»f the truth that he spake with all the earnestness of 
his nature and the ;t unction of the llol v One” — all these, 
combined with fulness of matter, terseness of expression, 
richness of style, and an individuality that marked the 
whole man, made him a prince of preachers, and, in 
many respects, a model to his students. As a pastor, 
also, he was as truly a son of consolation as in the pul- 
pit he was a Roanerges. Ilis exuberant How of spirits, 
liis genuine native wit, his powers of amusement and 
of playful mirth, never lowered his dignity, but made 
his lecture-room a frequent scone of pleasure, and irra- 
diated his home with uncommon attractions. There 
was no professor so accessible, so genial and at home 
with his students. Yet no one over dared to step over 
the bounds of strict propriety in his presence. Ilis re- 
bukes were often tremendous, but uttered in few words 
and seldom needed. In private life he was full of sun- 
shine, generous, unsuspicious, frank, never a croaker, 
always hopeful, a most entertaining talker, and an ex- 
ample of the Christian gentleman. Ilis piety was un- 
affected, simple, childlike, trustful, sympathetic, and 
practical. He never boasted of his religion, but was 
modest and often reticent on the subject in private in- 


tercourse. He was a good representative of Runyan’s 
Great -heart. Among the afflict ed, in the prayer-meet- 
ing, at the sacramental table, and in his pulpit, his heart 
was ever full of Christ. He was no partisan in ecclesi- 
astical affairs, yet necessarily took a leading part in 
most of the great questions of his public ministry in the 
Reformed Clmrch. lie was an effective advocate, a 
formidable antagonist, and yet so fair and free of mere 
cliquish prejudices that his opinions carried great 
weight, and his action was generally approved by its 
consequences, lie died, Jan. 1. 1801, after an illness of 
only one week, from congestion of the lungs. Ilis faith 
triumphed in death. See Corwin. Manual of the lief . 
Church in America, s. v. ; Wilson, Presb. Hist . Alma- 
nac. 180*2, p. 2DI); Christian Infill fencer, Jan. 24, 1801. 
(W.J.R.T.) 

Van Wagenen, John Hardenbergli, a cler- 
gyman of the Reformed (Dutch) Church, was born at 
Rochester, Ulster Co., N. Y., in 1802, and graduated at 
Union College in 1823. and at New Brunswick Theo- 
logical Seminary in 1820. After several settlements in 
Albany. Schenectady, and Columbia counties, lie finally 
accepted the pastoral care of the First Reformed Church 
of Kingston in 1841, where he labored until bis decease 
in 1*44. He had the true spirit of an evangelist. His 
pulpit talents were tine, especially in extemporaneous 
address and on extraordinary occasions. Ilis reading 
was extensive, his mind active, his zeal untiring. Pow- 
erful revivals attended his faithful ministry. During 
the last three years of his life at Kingston, he received 
1 one hundred and sixty-three into the fellowship of the 
Church. He published but one sermon, a powerful 
plea for the support of the ministry. See Corwin. Man- 
ual of the lief Church in America, s. v. (W. J. R. T.) 

Van Wagenen, Jonathan, a preacher of the 
Baptist denomination, was born at New Paltz, Ulster 
Co., N. V. On his father’s side he was of Dutch de- 
| scent, and on his mother’s he was of Huguenot stock. 
His lather was a highly respected citizen. Jonathan 
Dubois, his grandfather, was county judge and a mem- 
ber of the convention that framed for the state of New 
York the constitution of 1*40. The subject of this 
sketch was fitted for college under t lie tuition of Eli- 
phaz Fay. and when Mr. Fay came to Waterville to as- 
sume the presidency of the college, he came with him. 
During his college course, he developed decided liter- 
ary tastes, and held a high rank as an accomplished 
writer. He was graduated in the. class of 1845. For 
one year, 1815-40, lie was assistant teacher in the Ver- 
mont Literary and Scientific Institute at Brandon. 
Subsequently he taught at Macon and Columbus, Miss., 
and for a time preached to a Baptist Church in Shiloh. 
Miss. He never ’received ordination. In consequence 
of ill-health he gave up preaching and teaching, and 
devoted himself to secular pursuits. His death occur- 
red at Smithland. Ky., in March, 1852. See Obituary 
Record of Colby University , p. 43. (J. (’. S.) 

Van Wagenen, William A., a clergyman of 
the Protestant Episcopal Church, died in New York 
city, July 25, 1800. At the time of his death he was 
assistant minister of the Clmrch of the Holy Trinity, 
New York city, having been ordained deacon in 1855. 
lie was a graduate from Princeton Theological Semi- 
nary, and came from a Reformed ('Dutch) family. See 
A mer. Quar. Church Her. Oct. 1800, p. 487. 

Vail Winkle, B. D., a Methodist. Episcopal min- 
ister, was horn in Shelby County, 111., Feb. 1, 1832. 
Ho united with the Clmrch in early life, joined the 
Southern Illinois Conference in 1858. and labored ac- 
ceptably until 1801, when he took a local relation, and. 
entering the army, served four years as lieutenant in t lie 
Seventy-third Illinois Volunteers. In 1808 he was re- 
admitted into his conference, labored in its active ranks 
until 1877, when he became supernumerary, and in this 
relation labored diligently until his death, Feb. 2, 1878. 
Mr. Van Winkle led a truly conscientious, earnest, tin- 


VAN ZANDT 


719 


VARGAS 


compromising Christian life. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences , 1878, p. 5:5. 

Van Zandt, Peter, a minister of the Reformed 
(Dutch) Church, graduated at New Brunswick Theo- 
logical Seminary in 1817, and was licensed by the Clas- 
sis of New Brunswick; was pastor at Schenectady, 
N. V., 1818-22; and missionary to ( hikhill, N. Y., 18*23. 
I Ie died in 1865. See Corwin, Manual of the lief Church 
in .4 merica. s. v. 

Van Zuuren, Casparus, a Dutch minister of the 
Reformed Church who came to America; was pastor 
at Flatlmsh, New Utrecht, Brooklyn, and Flatlands, 
L. I., 1677-85; and preached occasionally at Bush wick, 
Gravesend, Bergen, and Staten Island, lie returned to 
Holland May 17, 1685, and preached at Gonderavh, 1685- 
1704, or longer. In 1 695 his old congregations on Long 
Island recalled him, but he did not accept. See Cor- 
win, Manual of the Ref Church in A merica, s. v. 

Vara, in Norse mythology, was the goddess of truth, 
who presided over witnesses and oaths. 

Varaggio, (It Aron o i>a (French, Jacques de Uo- 
ragine ), an Italian hagiographer, was born about 1*230 
at Varaggio or Yarazze. near Savona, lie became a 
Dominican in 1*254, and taught in various schools with 
great reputation for piety and science. In 1*267 he was 
chosen provincial of his order for Lombardy, and in 
1*268 definitor, in which capacity he raised the interdict 
from Genoa and reconciled the Sicilians to the king of 
Naples. In 1*288 he assisted at the Council of Lucca, 
and in 1*200 at that of Ferrara. In 1*202 he was raised 
to the archbishopric of Genoa, an oltice which he ad- 
ministered with great moderation and yet discipline, 
lie died there, July 14, 1208, leaving many historical 
and legendary works, for which see lloefer. Xouv. Ring. 
Generate , s. v. 

Varaha, the third avatar, or incarnation of Vish- 
nu, in which he appears as a boar. It is supposed to 
have taken plaee at the period of creation when the 
earth was immersed in water, and Vishnu, in order to 
raise it up. assumed the form of a gigantic boar. Jn 
the earlier recension of the Ramdgana (q. v.) and the 
Linga-Purana , the act *>f assuming the form of a boar 
in order to rescue the earth from its imperilled position 
is ascribed to Brahma, the creator of the universe; 
and in the Black Yajurreda, where this idea is first 
met with, it is likewise said that the lord of crea- 
tion upheld the earth, assuming the form of a boar. 
At a later period, however, the incarnation is attrib- 
uted to Vishnu. Between both conceptions there is 
the great difference, however, that in the former the 
transformation of the deity into a boar has appar- 
ently a purely cosmieal character, while in the lat- 
ter it allegorically represents the extrication of the 
world from a deluge of iniquity by the rites of religion. 
The boar as an incarnation of Vishnu is a type of the 
ritual of the Vedas. lie is described as the sacrifice 
personified; his feet being the Vedas: his tusks, the 
sacrificial post to which the victim is tied; his teeth, 
the sacrificial offerings; his mouth, the altar; his tongue, 
the fire; his hairs, the sacrificial grass; his eyes, day 
and night; his head, the place of Brahma; his mane, 
the hymns of the Vedas; his nostrils, all the oblations; 
bis snout, the ladle of oblation; his voice, the chanting 
of the Sdmareda ; his body, the hall of sacrifice; his 
joints, the different ceremonies; and his ears as having 
the properties of voluntary and obligatory rites. The 
above are from the Vishm-Pnrdna . and similar descrip- 
tions occur in the llarivansa and elsewhere. 

In the Bhagavata- Parana, another legend is also 
connected with this avatar, which still more distinctly 
proves that it was viewed in a purely religions light at 
the Purauic period. According to this legend, Jayu 
and Vijayu, two doorkeepers of Vishnu, onee offended 
some Munis who claimed admission to the paradise of 
Vishnu, and in consequence were doomed to lose their 
position in Vishnu’s heaven, and to be reborn on earth. 


They thus became the sons of Kasyapa and Diti, under 
the names of Hiranyakasipu and Hirnnyakshn. The 
latter went straight to heaven to conquer the gods, 
while tlie former remained and conquered the three 
worlds. The gods, thus threatened in their existence 
as well as dominions, implored the assistance of Vishnu, 
who was at that time the mysterious boar, and he slew 
lliranvaksha. A similar contest between Vishnu as 
boar and numerous dromons, progeny of Diti, always 
ending in the defeat of the latter, is also described in 
one of the later portions of t lie Mahahhdrata ; and it 
follows from this and similar descriptions that this 
avatar had lost its original character and assumed that 
common to the others — of representing the deity as be- 
come incarnate — for the purpose of remedying moral or 
religious wrong, or of destroying influences hostile to 
the Brah minic easte. 

Another legend, doubtless a late one, which is chiefly 
believed b} r the Siva (q. v.) religionists of Southern In- 
dia, is by no means so flattering to Vishnu. In that ver- 
sion of the legend Brahma tries to reach the head of 
Siva, while Vishnu assumes the form of a boar and digs 
down into the earth in order to arrive at the feet of the 
god. But Siva is illimitable, and Brahma descends and 
tries to make believe that he has accomplished the feat 
he attempted, but. is exposed and cursed bv Siva. Vish- 
nu ascends from his fruitless effort with his tusks utter- 
ly worn out.. 

Varanes was the name of six Persian kings of the 
dynasty of the Sassanidro. Varanes V, or Bahrain Gour 
(the wild ass), reigned A.D. 4*20-440. The persecu- 
tions against the Christians were carried by him to 
such an extent that thousands of his subjects took ref- 
uge in the Roman dominions. 

Vardeman, Jeremiah, a Baptist minister, was 
born in Wythe County, Va., July 8, 1775. 1 1 is early 

education was limited, lie was ordained in 1801, and 
soon found himself called to the supply of four churches 
in Kentucky, where he had removed some years before. 
In 1810 lie became pastor of David’s Fork Church, Fay- 
ette Co., and in 1830 removed to Missouri, where he was 
the means of establishing several churches. lie took 
an active part in bringing the Baptist denomination in 
Missouri into harmonious co-operation in benevolent ef- 
forts, and in August, 1834, he presided in a convention 
to organize a system of domestic missions in that State. 
In 1840 his health began to fail, but he still continued 
to preach, sitting when he could not stand, until his 
death, May 28, 1 842. See Sprague, A nnals of the A meri- 
ca n Pulpit , vi, 417. 

Varen, August, a Protestant theologian of Ger- 
many, was horn Sept. 20, 1620, at Uelzen, and died as 
doctor and professor of theology at Rostock, March 15, 
1684. lie wrote, Lectio . I cade mica tie Targumim On- 
kelosi , Jonathanis , et eo quod Exstat in J/agiographis 
(Rost. 1644): — Pisputatin de Targumim (ibid, eod.): — 
Exegesis A ug. Confess. (ibid, eod.) : — Disputatio de Mes- 
sia (ibid. 1667) : — Examen Decern Characterum Messhe 
contra Abarhanelem (ibid. eod.). See Fiirsr, Bibl.Jud. 
iii, 46$; Winer, Jlandb. der then?. Lit. i, 330. (B. P.) 

Vargas, Alfonso, a Spanish Auguslinian eremite, 
was a doctor of Paris, bishop of Badajos, and archbishop 
of Seville, where he died, 1350. lie published. Commen- 
targ on the First Book of the. Sentences (Venice, 1400) : 
— (. Incest hues in Aristotelis Libras Tres de Aninm (ibid. 
1566). See Mosheim, Hist, of the Church , bk. iii, eent. 
xiv, pt. ii, eb. ii. 

Vargas, Luis de, a Spanish painter, was horn at 
Seville in 1502. He studied painting in Italy for near- 
ly thirty years, after which he established himself in 
his native city and executed numerous large oil-paint- 
ings and frescos for the churches, only vestiges of 
which remain. Among his admired works are, Adam 
and Ere: — Jesus Bearing his Cross : — and La Genera- 
cion: — all of which remain at Seville. He hastened 
his death by his ascetic tortures, being accustomed. 


VARIATION - 


720 


VARIOUS READINGS 


among other similar practices, to sleep in a coffin, lie 
died at Seville in 15G8. 

Variation, Kkjiit of (Jus Varitvidi}. in canon 
law. is the right of a lay patron, during an established 
period, to suggest for continuation bv the. proper eccle- 
siastical authority the diversion of a benetice already 
presented to a different candidate. Clerical patrons do 
not possess this right. Its exercise is entirely volun- 
tary with the patron, though where the original pres- 
entation was made to a person afterwards found to he 
ineligible or unwilling or unable to receive it, a nor pres- 
entation must take place of necessity. When a patron 
suggests a second person for presentation for reasons 
which do not alfeet the original receiver’s eligibility, 
the question arises whether the spiritual superior is 
obliged to disregard the latter’s claim for institution 
( privative variation}) or whether he may select the per- 
son who seems to himself the more available candidate 
{ cumulative variation ), Upon this question diverse 
views are given hv the authorities; but the law of cu- 
mulative variation would seem to have the greatest sup- 
port in law. Everything in connection with the dis- 
pute depends on the interpretation of cap. 24, x. Dr Jure 
Patronatns , the rescript of which, by pope Lucius 111. is 
as follows: **Quum autem advocatus elerieum idoncum 
episcopo prcesuutavcrit, et postulaverit postmodum, <o 
turn refutato. alium, ;eque idoneum, in eeclesiain admitti, 
quis eorum alteri prafferatur. judicio episcopi credimus 
relinquendum. si laicns fuerit, cni jus com pet it. pneseu- 
tandi. Veruin si collegium vel eeclesiastica persona 
pnesentationem haberet, qui prior est tempore jure po- 
tior esse videtur.” The disagreement occurs on the in- 
terpretation of the italicized words; some understand- 
ing them as having reference to the patron’s action, and 
others applying them to the bishop’s part in the mat- 
ter. The right of a patron to recommend a second per- 
son for the presentation, when the person previously 
recommended was a clericns vlonens , is expressly con- 
ceded by the pope, though he gives the bishop the right 
to determine between them. The extent to which the 
right of variation may be exercised lias also been dis- 
cussed, but without result. See Lippert and Weiss, ,1 r- 
rhiv <1. Kirehenvechtswissenschaft , i, 4; Richter, Kivchen- 
recht (5th ed.). § Do; Lippert, Yersuch eintr hist. -dog- 
mat. Eutwicklnng <1. Lehre com Patvonate (Giessen, 1829) : 
Schilling, Der ktrvhl. Patrouat (Leips. 1854), and the 
literature there referred to; Gerlach, Das Prasentatious- 
rccht auf Pfarreien (Katisbon, 1855) ; Mov de Sons, .1 r- 
vhivfur kuthol. Kirehenrecht , 1857, ii, 412 sq. — Herzog, 
Real-Eneyklop. s. v. 

Varick, Rudolimius Vox. a clergyman of the lie- 
formed (Dutch) Church, was settled upon Long Island, 
in what is now Kings County, over the churches of 
Brooklyn, Flatlands, Btishwick. Flatbush, Xew Utrecht, 
and Gravesend, 1G85-94. With dominies Selvns, Del- 
lius, and Daille, he stood firm against the high-handed 
proceedings of the usurping governor, Jacob Leisler. 
and was obliged to flee to Xew Castle, Del. Upon bis re- 
turn, in 1790, be was charged with treasonable designs 
to rescue the flirt from Leisler, and was dragged by 
armed men from bis bouse, and imprisoned in the fort 
six months, lie was also lined eighty pounds by a pre- 
tended judge, Lanoy; sentenced to prison till the fine 
be paid, and to be deposed from the ministry. 11 is 
friend Selvns was refused as bis bail, and threatened 
with imprisonment. The fine was not paid, and lie 
was released, but died of bis ill-treatment in August, 
1G94, and the persecuting Leisler was deposed and 
executed. See Documentary History of Xew York, 
ii, 45 1 , 432; Letter of Gentlemen of Xew York (1G98); 
Corwin, Manual of the lief. Church in America, s. v. 
(\V. .l.B. T.) 

Varillas, Axtoixe, a French historiographer, who 
was born in 1G24, and died in Paris, June 9, 1G9G, is the 
author of Hist, ties Revolutions A rr trees en Europe en 
Matt 'ere de Religion (Paris, 1G86-89, G vols .): — Histoire 


du Wichfianisme , ou de la Doctrine de Wiclef J. Hus, et 
Jerome de Prague , avec celle des Gnerres de Rohe me qui 
en out ete les Suites (Lyons, 1G82 ): — Xou relies Accusa- 
tions contre I 'art this, ou Remarques Critiques coutre une 
Partie de sou Lirre de l' Histoire de I'/Ieresie (Amsterd. 
IGS7). See Winer. Handbuch dir theolog. Literatur , ii, 
037.734,738. (B. P.) 

Various Readings of tiie Xew Testament. 
By various readings (commonly abbreviated v. r. for the 
singular, and for the plural rr.rr .) are meant the differ- 
ences observed in different manuscript copies of the Holy 
Scriptures. Those found in the Hebrew manuscripts of 
the Old Test, will be considered below. 

The writings of the Xew Test, were copied by hand, 
from the age of the apostles to the date of the first print- 
ing of the Xew Test., a period ofabout thirteen centuries. 
During that time copies were greatly multiplied. Wilh 
the utmost care, there would of necessity lie occasional 
mistakes in copying. The errors of one manuscript 
might be repeated in the copy made from it, and others 
added, and thus the number be continually increasing. 

The liability to mistake was greatly increased by the 
mode of writing in the oldest manuscripts. What is 
called “current hand,’’ in which a long word may lie 
written without taking the pen from the paper, was not 
used. Each letter, of the size and general shape of our 
capitals, was made separately by itself, many with more 
than one separate stroke of the pen. There was no di- 
vision of words. All were written continuously in an 
unbroken line, as may be seen in the specimens given 
in vol. i, p. 155, and vol. ii, p. 389 of this Cyclopaedia. As 
the eye could not readily distinguish words and clauses 
so run together, the scribe would naturally copy each 
letter by itself from its place in the line, often confound- 
ing letters similar in form. In these characters, termed 
uncial, all extant manuscripts dating prior to about the 
10th century were written, and hence they are called un- 
cial manuscripts. See Manuscripts of the Greek 
Testament; also Uncials. 

Far more numerous are the cui' sire manuscripts , so 
called, written in current hand from about the 10th cen- 
tury and onward (see vol. v, p. 727, and specimens 2, 3, 
and 4 on p. 728). Their value«depends on the evidence 
that they are trustworthy copies of ancient manuscripts 
now lost, and contain readings of the true text of which 
these are now the only manuscript witnesses. On such 
evidence some of them are held in high estimation by all 
the leading authorities in textual criticism. That these 
are of great value in deciding where ancient manuscripts 
disagree, and also where their united testimony may for 
just reasons be discredited, is held by a highly influen- 
tial class of critics, of whom Frederick 11. Scrivener is 
the leading representative (see his Plain Introduction to 
the Criticism of the Xew Test. [2d ed. 1874]). 

For the history of the text, and its variations in man- 
uscripts prior to the oldest now extant, see the art. New 
Testament; for the theoretic classification of various 
readings in extant MSS., see the art. Recensions. It 
is proper to add here that the earliest of those varia- 
tions. however minute, are preserved in the primary 
documents that still remain, showing that the sacred 
text has suffered no important change that cannot now 
be detected (Wcstcott). 

L Origin and Xature . — Various readings have arisen 
from many different causes. These have been ascer- 
tained by careful comparison of manuscripts. They are 
mostly such as might be inferred from the nature of the 
ease; and observation lias shown that all variations in 
manuscripts may be referred to one or other of these 
causes, the knowledge of which often aids in determin- 
ing what is the true reading. (The materials for the 
following summary are derived in part from Westcott’s 
articles “ Xew Testament.” § 30-40, and “Language of 
the Xew Testament,” p. 2141, § 1-4, in Smith, Diet, of the 
Bible [Amer. ed.j ; Scrivener, Introd. to Text. Crit. of 
Xew Test. ; Tregolles, Introd. to Text. Crit . of Xew Test., 
in vol. iv of Horne’s I nt rod notion.') 


VARIOUS READINGS 


721 


1. A ccidentitl variations, or errata, from various causes. 
(1.) Merely clerical errors, or slips of the pen; words 
omitted or repeated, misspelled or partially written. 
This is a numerous class, rarely of any importance, to 
which copyists of long documents are always liable. 
The peculiar reading “how strait” (Matt, vii, 14) may 
have arisen, as Scrivener suggests, from the omission of 
the large initial O, reserved for subsetpicnt revision. 

(2.) Errors of sound, arising from different ways of 
representing the same sound. Such are the changes in 
the oldest MSS. between i and tt, ai and c ; and in the 
later between t)i and si, oi and u, o and to, p and s. 
The interchange of cti and € (pronounced alike) is con- 
tinual; form and sots, syerai and t\STt, and the like, 
being used indiscriminately. The vowels o and to are 
thus interchanged Rom. v, 1, “ we have,” and 

sx^ptv, “let us have.” The latter has the weight of 
MS. authority, and, with some constraint, yields a per- 
tinent sense (see Tischendorf, Xov. Test. [8th ed.]), 
though the former seems required by the connection. 
More doubtful is Horn, vi, 15, where dpaprpaopsv, “ shall 
we sin?” is feebly supported; and itpapTpotopsv, “may 
we sin?” has abundant support. Ai and s are inter- 
changed in Matt, xi, 1G, where batpotg is but slightly, 
and tTspotg (omitting avriot /) strongly, supported by 
ancient authorities. So constant is this interchange 
that the difference in spelling has no weight in deter- 
mining the true form of the word. The pronouns bpstg, 
ppstg, and their cases are perpetually interchanged: 1 
John i, 4, pptov for vpwv. Even the readings ppsrspov, 
Euke xvi, 12, and pfiag, Acts xvii, 28, are found in the 
Codex Vuticanus. 

(3.) Errors of Sight . — Of such errata a prolific source 
is furnished by the ancient mode of writing in an un- 
broken line, without division of words. In the confused 
sequence of letters thus strung together, the eye would 
not readily distinguish single words, or letters similar in 
form, lienee arose false division of words; similar letters 
interchanged, repeated, or omitted; repetition or- omis- 
sion of the same combination of letters; omission of the 
second repetition of the same letter or word, etc. In some 
of the following examples the MSS. are cited, by the usual 
notation (vol. v, p. 724, 3 of this Cyclopedia), showing to 
some extent how they stand related to each other. The 
rough breathing is added in some cases to make the form 
more readily understood : Mark xv, 6, on Trapprowro 
(A, B, X), QVTrsp ptowto (B 3 , X c , C, N, X); Rom. xiii, 
9, tot i (jtavTOv (A, B, X, D, E), unr tavrov (F, G, L, P); 
Matt, xxi, 18, siravayaytov (B, X, L), tiravaytav (B 2 , 
X c , C, E, F, G, H, etc.) ; Mark viii, 17, t twists (B, X, C, 
D, L, N), Gvvitrs sn (A, X) ; Luke vii, 21, exaptaaro 
to fiXtirttv (X a , F, L, U); without to repeated, A, B, X, 
D. E, G, II, etc.). From such accidental repetition arose 
the false reading in Rev. vi, 1, 3, 5, 7. The true reading 
is simply, “ Come f’^PX 0 "), summoning forth each rider 
to the service assigned him. The uncial text would 
stand thus: KAIIAEKAIIAOY. B of the Apoc. reads 
it in ver. t, 5, 7, e p\ov Kat i de tcai tSov ( tmrog ). 
There can be no doubt that feat ids arose from accidental 
repetition ; for in ver. 3, where Kat ifiov does not follow, 
tp\ov is not followed by Kai tde. In the same way arose 
the Kat ics of X, which even its partial discoverer makes 
no account of here. 

(4.) Homeoieleuton is so common a cause of error in the 
uncial text as to procure for it a specific name. When 
two successive clauses or sentences begin or end simi- 
larly, the eye of the copyist may be misled bv the sim- 
ilarity, and omit or repeat one of them : Luke vi, 1, o«u- 
TspoirptoTto (A, C, D, E, II, K, M, R, S, U, V, X) ; omit- 
ted in B, X, L, probably from having the same termina- 
tion as the preceding word. In l John ii, 23, two succes- 
sive sentences both end with Trartpa fyst. The copy- 
ist, after transcribing the first, and seeing at the end of 
the second what he had just written, proceeded with the 
next following words. Hence the loss of that genuine | 
X.— Z z 


VARIOUS READINGS 

utterance of the apostle, in all the copies known when 
our current Greek text was formed ; and hence its 
insertion in bracketed italics, as of doubtful authen- 
ticity, in the English New Test. The recovery of the 
old MSS. (A, B, X, C, etc.) has fully vindicated its title 
to its place there. 

2. Incidental variations, peculiar to the age and coun- 
try or mental habits of the copyist. These are due to 
several causes, chiefly the intermingling of dialects in 
the no no) cidXtKTog, the influence of the Alexandrian 
version of the Sept., and the pedantry of the Atticists. 

(1.) Differences in orthography and forms of words; 
dialectic usages of the copyist, or possibly of the orig- 
inal writer: Acts x, 30, svarp v (A, B, X, C, D), swarpv 
(later form in the cursives); Acts vii, 28, fyS'cc (B, X, 
(A, E, H, P); Mark i, 10. svSvg (B, X, L, A), 
f vStcog (A, P, F, IT); Acts xi, 51, a \pt (A, B, X), a%ptg 
B 3 , E, H, L, P) ; Rom. xv, 15, ToXppportpov (X, C, D, 
E, F, G, L, P), ToXppportptog (A, B) : James ii, 1, 7 TjOocr- 
toTroXpft^/iaig (A, B, X, C), Trpo<Jto7roXp\ptaig (K, L, P) ; 
Mark i, 27, <r vvZprstv (A, B, X. C, D, G, L, A), au^prsiv 
(E, F, II, K, M, S, U, Y); 2 Cor. iii, 2, svytypappsvi) 
(A, I), X, D,F, G), syysypappevp (K, L, P) ; John x, 22, 
tvKatvut (B, X, D, L), syKatvia (A, B 3 , X); Acts xxiv, 
4, svKOTrrto (A, X, B, E, H), syKOTTTto (B 3 , II, P) ; Ileb. 
ix, 18, si'KtKatPKTTat (A, X, I), E), syKtKaiviGrat (C, K, 
L, P). These examples betray the tendency to euphon- 
ic change in the usage of the later MSS. The doub- 
ling of , o, usually neglected in the older MSS., is a gram- 
matical correction in the later ones; as in Matt, ix, 3G, 
spippevot (B, X, C, D, L), tppipptvoi (E, F, G, K, L, U, 
X). 

(2.) Tense-forms of Verbs . — («.) Of the same verb: 
Luke i,ol, (wXXijptpi) (A, B, X, C, D) ; James iii, l,Xrjp- 
\pope$a (A, B, X, C), Xiftpops^a (K, L, P) ; John ix, 10, 
i}vstox$))<Jav (B, X, C, D, E, F, G, H, L, AI, X), avsto- 
X$paav (A, K, U, IT) ; Acts xii, 10, pvotyp (A, B, X, D), 
pvoix^p (E, H, L, P) ; Matt, v, 21, spptftp (B, D, E, K), 
epptSp (X, L, AI, S, U, A, II); Rev. xiv, 13, ava7rap(rov- 
rat (A, X, C, B), avairavatovTai (P) ; Acts x, 45, avvpX- 
5av (B, X), auvpXSov (A, D, E, II, L, P) ; ver. 39, avsi- 
Xav (A, B, X, C, D, E), arciXoi' (H, L, P) ; 1 John ii, 19, 
s^pXSav (A, B, C), sZpXSov (K, L, P) ; Luke iii, 22, pv-" 
CoKpaa (A, E, G, II, L, S, IT, X, P, A), svSoKpcra (B, X, F, 
K, AI, U, A, II). ( b .) Interchange of tenses or modes 
where either might seem apposite : John vi, 37, SKpa^sv 
(B, L, T, X), tKpa^tv (X, D); Luke xx, 19, s^pTpaav 
(A, B, X, L, R), tZpTOW (C, D) ; John vii, 29, ansaTsiXav 
(B, L, T), aTTsaraXKsv (X, D) ; ver. 19, dshoKtv (X, L, 
T, P, A, O), tdtoKtv (B, D, H, II 2 ); Alatt. ix, 19, V ko- 
XovSst (X, C. D), 7]koXov$))<jev (B, F, G, K, L, S, U, X, 
A, II); John iv, 17, tnrtg (B, X), snrag (A, C, D, L) ; 
viii, 39, tnrav (B, X. C, D), snrov (L, T, X, P, A, A); 
ii, 28, (rxMfisv (A, B, X c , C, P), ex^psv (X, K, L) ; viii, 
39, sore (B, X, D, L, T), prs (C, X, P, A, A, PI) ; (c.) Inter- 
change of the same tense from different verbs of like 
signification: Acts ix, 26, snupa^tv (A, B, X, C), S7rti- 
paro (E, II, L, P) ; Alark i, 26 (part.), <pwvpaav (B, X, 
L), Kpa^av (A, C, D, T, A, II). 

(3.) Of case-forms there are some variations; as Alatt. 
xxvi, 52, paxatpij (A, B, X, C), paxatpa (B 2 , D, P, A, 
n); Luke xxiv, 1, fiaSttog (A, B, X? C, D, G, H, L), 
fiaSsog (E, K, P,S,U,V). 

(4.) Exchange of terms so nearly equivalent as to be 
used indifferently in certain connections: Alatt. xii, 48; 
xv, 12; xvii, 20, and xix, 21, Xsystv (earlier), tnretv 
(later); xxii, 37, tpavai (earlier), si ttsiv (later): Alark 
xiv, 31, XaXttv (earlier), Xsystv (later); John xiv, 10, 
Xsysiv (earlier), XaXstv (later). So interchanged are 


VARIOUS READINGS 


VARIOUS READINGS 


eyf p$ug and CifytpStig. Matt. i,24 ; eysp^ri] and avaart], 
xvii,9; civacm}vcu and EyipSqvai, Luke ix, 22; ?]XStv 
(v attached) and tnrtjXct, Matt, xiv, 25; t]\Sov and 
u7 rr/X3or, Luke xxiii, 33; cnrtXStn’ and e£eX$eli\ Acts 
xvi, 39; Xiyuvai and tnror , Matt, xiii, 28. These 
words, so nearly equivalent in the connection, might 
readily be eon founded in copying. 

(5.) The same is true of lbrms nearly equivalent in 
sense; as ovCe and oert, o)g and kci&ioq, Acts x,47 ; watt 
and u>(,\ .John xix, 1 1 ; Luke i, 50; and wa7rtp, 2 Cor. 
i, 7 ; pE\pi and stag, Luke xvi, 10; twg on and £u>£ oror, 
xii, 59, the former only in the later uncials, the lat- 
ter in the older and some of the later. It is true, 
also, of other equivalents in sense; as John xiv, 31,tre- 
tgiXcito (A, X . 1)), and evtoXijv tCo)tctv (B, L) : having 
the same meaning, they might easily be confounded in 
copying. 

(G.) Familiar contractions (crasis) abounding in oral 
speech, and often passing into written language; com- 
mon in the earlier MSS., and often resolved in the later: 
John viii, 55, tea v (B, X, D), Kat tetv (A, C, L) ; 1 Cor. ii, 
3, Kuyw (A, B, X, C, P), kcu eyio (l>, E, F, G, L); John ^ 
xiv, 10, Kuyto (15, X, I), Q), k<u rya> (A, L, X) ; ver. 21, 
Kayo) (B, X, 1), G, L), koi tyoj (A, E, 1 1, K). 

(7.) Interchange of the minor connectives: Acts iv, 
14, tov rt (A, B, X, I) 2 ), tov Ce (P); x, 48, irpoa£ 7 «£fn 
it (B, X, E), 7rpoatro^fc rt (A, 11, L, P) ; Mark i, 28, 
Km t£i]XStv (B, X, C, D), tZt]X$E ve (A, T, II). 

(8.) Pronominal forms inserted without affecting the 
sense: Matt. xx, 23, poo (after auurupwr); xix, 28, 
vpsiQ (after KaSiGEaSt) ; Rev. xiv. 13, pot (after Xtyoo- 
af/c). Specially frequent is the insertion of avTog in 
an oblique ease: Acts xi, 13, avTo) (after £t7roi'7a), and 
xii, 9 (after i)koXovxei ) ; Matt, xxv, 4, avnov (after ay- 
ynoig ), and v, 6 (after a7ravTi]Giv) ; xxvi, 17, uvto) 
(after Xtyorrtc)? and xxvii,22 (after Xfyooair). An in- 
structive ease of presumed addition, but more probably 
of unauthorized omission, occurs in the last clause but 
one of Luke xii, 53. The omission of the pronoun in 
the four preceding clauses, where the nearer relation of 
the parties makes it unnecessary, may have occasioned 
its omission here, where it is required by the more re- 
mote relation. Its accidental or misjudged omission 
being more probable than its unauthorized insertion, the 
testimony of A, B, X c , I) in its favor should outweigh 
that of X, A, which yet determined Tisehendorf to omit 
it. Tregelles properly retains it here, and as properly 
omits it in the next clause (with B, D, L against A, T, 
X), the relation being already expressed. It is note- 
worth)’' that the whole passage, as thus read, is striking- 
ly marked by Luke’s characteristic conciseness and pre- 
cision of expression. 

(9.) Change in the order of words; a numerous class, 
as may be seen on almost any page of Scrivener’s No- 
rum Testamentnm (in the Cambridge classics). Many 
of these variations differ from each other no more than 
the English phrases “ /Eneas by name” and “by name 
^Eneas” (Acts ix, 33); “went up straightway” and 
“straightway went up” (Matt, iii, 16). Most of them, 
however, are not easily accounted for. Such cases as 
ytvoptvog to tavrto and tv tctvrio ytvoptvog (Acts xii, 

1 1), and similar colloquial phrases, may have been due 
to local habit and usage. In the greater number, per- 
haps, the copyist himself, after reading a clause, may 
not have recalled, in writing it, the exaet order of the 
words; or he may have been unconsciously misled by 
one occurring to him more correct or pointed in expres- 
sion, or more pleasing to the ear. In many there is 
ground for such preference; as in Acts ix, 13, oa« Katca 
E7 tou)ge roi( ; ayioig gov and oaa Kara rotg ayioig gov 

ETTOUJGE. 

(10.) The article, in the use of which the MSS. are 
very fluctuating, is sometimes neglected or inserted 
without apparent ground. Significant is the reading 


of some MSS. (among them 1)) in Luke xii, 54, “When 
ye see the cloud (“the rain-betokening cloud,” 1 Kings 
xviii, 44) rising from the west.” But the omission of 
the article here is strongly attested bv A, B, X, L, X, A. 

(11.) In the use and disuse of the elision the MSS. 
fluctuate: 1 John ii, 1G, «XX tv (A, X, K, L), aXXa tic 
(B, C); 1 Cor. vii, 4, aXXa 6 (A, B, X, C), «XX o (1), 
E, G, K, L, P). It is probable that the shorter elided 
form was that of oral speech, and passed into the earlier 
written language. More doubtful is the neglected as- 
piration of mutes before the rough breathing: Luke xii, 
53, 1 7Ti into (B, X. T, X, P, A, A); £0 v\o) (A, I), K, L, 
ii). 

(12.) Error from the similar construction of two suc- 
cessive clauses: James ii, 18, the first ek (K, L) for 
\ioptg (A, B, X, C, P), the copyist confounding the ek 
tiov tpyojv of the two clauses. 1 1 is blunder is perpet- 
uated in our current Greek text through the misjudg- 
ment of Mill, whose long and involved exposition of 
the meaning is its own refutation. The H KAINH 
AIA0HKH of Coliimis (1534) has the true reading. 
The English version here follows the true reading. In 
1 Pet. iii, 20, “once — waited.” it follows a false reading 
(« 7 r«£ e'Ce!e\ito) without MS. authority, and received 
on conjecture by Erasmus. The true reading is utte^e- 
ce\eto (A, B, X, C, D. P). 

(13.) Synonyms, and also words that in certain con- 
nections may serve as such, are readily interchanged: 
Matt, xx, 34, opparojv (15, 1), L, G). o tpSaXpiov (X, C, 
N). In xxv, 1G the reading ”made” [five talents] is 
equivalent in meaning to “gained” [five talents]. For 
the former ( nroigGi ) are A, X, X, P, A, 0; for the latter 
(EKEph)Gt) are A 2 , X c , B, 0, D, L. So likewise ix, 29, 
opparon> (D), o<p£raXpo)i> (all others) ; vi, 1, dacaioGV- 
vt]v ( B, X, D), tXtijpoGvvj})' (E, K, L, M, S, U, Z). 
But it may well be doubted whether by the former the 
Saviour meant almsgiving, as implied in the alternative 
reading. He first states the general principle that good 
deeds are not to be done to be seen of men, and then 
illustrates it by the ease of ostentatious almsgiving. 
The phrase was already a familiar one : Psa. evi. 3, “ he 
that doeth righteousness;” Isa. lviii, 2, “a nation that 
did righteousness;” 1 John ii, 29, “everyone that doeth 
righteousness;” iii, 7, 10. So likewise Matt, xxvii, 4, 
aSoiov (A, I», X, C, X), Saratov (B marg. L). 

(14.) Of proper names the variations in spelling are 
very frequent: 1 Cor. xvi, 19, Hprava (B, X, M, P), 
IlpiavtXXa (A, C, D, E, F, G); John vii, 19, M<uua£f; 
(B, X, I), K. L, S, T, X, A, IT), Mojapg (P,A). Most 
significant is the variation in Acts xi. 20, EXXgvag (A, 
X c , D), EXXijviGTag (B, D 2 , E, II, L, P) (comp, vi, 1). 
Of places: Matt, iv, 13, Katpapvaovp ( B, X, D, G), 
KanEpvaovp (C, E, K, L, M, P, S, U, V) ; xv, 39, M a- 
yadav (B, X, D), M«ydaX« (E, F, G, IL K, L, S, IT, V); 
Luke x, 30, I Eptt\o) (B, L, X), l£p<^<u (A, B , X, C, D, 

X). 

3. Intentional I aviations. — Of these the greater num- 
ber affect only the form of the text. 

(1.) Grammatical Changes. — (n.) In the oblique case 
after a preposition, to express what was understood to 
be the required relation: Acts ii, 30, ttaSiaai etti tov 
Spovov (A, B, X, C, D), KaSiaai etti tov Srporov (E, 
P) : Rev. iv, 2, E7ri tov Sporor KaSpptvog (A, B, X), 
£ 7 ri tov Spovov KaSijpEi'og (P); ver. 9, KaSijpEvo) etti 
to) Srpavo) (A, X), KaS’gpEvo) E7Tt tov Spovov (B, P) ; 
xix, 5, a7ro mo Spoi'ov t&]X$E (A, B. C), ek tov Spovov 
I eZijXSe (X, P); Mark vii, 30, jStfiXpptvpv etti Ti]g kXi - 
vi)g (A, N, X, P, II), fiEfiXgptvijv E7n ty\v kXivt]v (B, 
X, D, L, A). ( b .) Rectifying a supposed solecism : Matt, 

v, 28, ETizvgrjoai avrijv (B, D, E, K, L, S, U, V), etti- 


VARIOUS READINGS 


723 


VARIOUS READINGS 


SvfiTjoai avrijg (X 3 , M) ; xv, 32, iffiepai rpeig (B, C, D, 
F, G, II, K, L, j\[, P, S, U, V), tfpepag rpeig (X, E); 
Rev. iv, I, \eywi' (A, B. X), Xtyovau (X c , P) ; ver. 8, \c- 
yoi'rfc (A, B, X, P), Xeyo^ra (in the cursives); xi, 4, 
earioreg (A, B, 58, C), ecrnormi (X c , P). 

(2.) Changes A ffecting the Substance of the Text. — A 
careful examination and comparison of such changes 
will probably lead to the conclusion that the greater 
part of them at least have passed from the margin into 
the body of the text through the want of proper dis- 
crimination in the copyist. In the old MSS. frequent 
omissions in the text are found supplied in the margin, 
to be incorporated in the text of the next copy made 
from it. This being a standing rule, whatever was 
written in the margin might be thus incorporated by 
an incompetent or not sufficiently attentive copyist. If 
a sentence seemed incomplete or irregular in construc- 
tion, or otherwise obscure, inelegant, or apparently in- 
accurate, a remedy was suggested in the margin. A 
conspicuous example occurs in John vii, 39. The whole 
verse in the true text reads thus: “And this he said 
concerning the Spirit which they that believe on him 
should receive; for the Spirit was not yet, because Je- 
sus was not yet glorified.” The brevity and partial ob- 
scurity of the form “was not yet” doubtless occasioned 
the marginal gloss “ given,” found in one uncial, B ((Te- 
dofiei’ov), and the cursive 254 (doStr). This marginal 
gloss becoming incorporated with the text, we have 
“the Spirit was not yet given.” The English version 
properly italicizes given as not authentic Scripture. It 
is not in the K can] Aia^rqici] of Colinteus (1534). A 
similar ease occurs in ver. 8, where oi>7 no (B, L, T, X, 
F, A, A, not in X, D, K, 31, II) probably passed from 
the margin into the text. This reading, on which the 
testimony of MSS. 'is pretty evenly balanced, is proved 
bv historical evidence to he a corruption of the text 
(see Tisehendorf [8th ed.] ; Scrivener, Introd. to Text. 
Crit. [2d ed.], p. 529). It should be observed, more- 
over, that there was no occasion for this qualification, 
for Jesus did not go up to the feast at all. John vii, 10 
should read, according to the MSS., “But when his 
brethren were gone up to the feast, then went he up 
also, not openly,” etc. He went to Jerusalem private- 
ly, taking no part there in the public festival (for he 
could not be found, ver. II), and when it was half over, 
first made his appearance in the Temple as a teacher 
(ver. 14). In Mark i, 2, ev Hcrom no Trpo<f)i]Tio (B, 
X, D, L, A), ev roig TTpoipijraig (A, E, F, G, II, K, M, 
P, S, U, V), the writer specially names Isaiah, because 
his language identifies the promised messenger in the 
person of John, “the voice of one crying in the wilder- 
ness.” The whole prophecy was fulfilled in him, and 
the failure to see this, its central point, may have occa- 
sioned the marginal comment that passed into the text. 
In Gal. iii, I the explanatory gloss “ that ye should not 
obey the truth” is found in C, D c , E, Iv, L, P, but not in 
the older uncials A, B, X, D, F, G. In Horn, viii, I, 
“who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit,” is 
a gloss taken from ver. 4 as characterizing those who 
are “in Christ Jesus.” In Acts xv, 34, “but it pleased 
Silas to abide there still” (not in A, B, X, E, II, L, P), is 
a marginal gloss accounting for his presence there, re- 
ferred to in ver. 40. The doubtful passage in John v, 
3,4 is supposeil by many to have been a marginal com- 
ment (see a full statement of the case, with the reasons 
for and against its genuineness, in Schaff’s edition of 
Lange’s Commentary ). To a misunderstanding of the 
apostle’s language in 2 Cor. viii, 4, we owe the perver- 
sion of his meaning in the current Greek text and in 
the English version. The words inserted from the 
margin, SeZaaSai iffiag, are not in the uncial text (B, 
X, C, D, E, F, G, K, L, P, etc.), and are found only in 
the cursives. In Mark vii. 2 the construction (inter- 
rupted by ver. 3, 4, and resumed at ver. 5) seemed in- 


complete, and hence the marginal supplement, “ they 
found fault.” Only late uncials (F, K, M, X, S, U, II) 
hire efiefrfyavTO, not found in A, B, X, E, G, II, L, V. 
In Matt, xxv, 6 the original form, “ Behold, the bride- 
groom I go ye out to meet him,” has the air of an ex- 
cited, midnight cry. The supplemental ep\irai first 
appears in the later uncials C ', X, P, II, and is not found 
in B, X, C, L), L, Z. 

Marked diversities in Hebraistic and Greek phraseolo- 
gy are noted : Matt, xxi, 23, anrw, TrpoaifXbov 

auno diSamcovrii and fAS’onro^ avrou, etc. Here the 
Hebraism is found in later uncials (E, F, G, 11. K, M, 
S, U, V), and the other in B, X, C, D, L. More marked 
is the Hebraistic Vav c.onvers. represented by kui (xv, 
5; Mark vii, 12) in the same later uncials, and not in 
the earlier. The omission of kch makes the construc- 
tion easy where its presence has caused much perplex- 
ity (see Meyer; also Lange [Amer. ed.], p. 275). 

Assimilation, so called, of the gospels occurs, especial- 
ly of the synoptic gospels. This arose from the habit 
of noting in the margin of one gospel the words of an- 
other for comparison, illustration, or a more full and sat- 
isfactory statement. In Matt, xxv, 13, at the close of 
the parable of the ten virgins, the Saviour adds, “Watch 
therefore, for ye know not the day nor the hour.” A 
copyist added, most probably from the margin, the 
words of Luke xii, 40, “wherein the Son of man 
corneth.” The words added are not in A, B, X, C, D, 
L, X, A, and are found only in C 3 , T, II 3 . In Matt, ix, 
13 the Saviour’s assertion is, “I came not to call the 
righteous, but sinners.” To this the copyist added the 
marginal gloss from Luke v, 32, £j£ peravoiav, found in 
later uncials, but not in B, X, D, etc. In Luke xx, 23, ri 
fie 7 reipa^ere (A, C, D, P), omitted B, X, L, was probably 
added from Matt, xxii, IS^iMark xii, 15. In Mark xiii, 
14, “spoken of by Daniel the prophet,” is transferred 
from Matt, xxiv, 15. Luke xvii, 36, omitted in all the 
uncials except D, U, was inserted from Matt, xxiv, 40. 
In Matt, xx, 22, “and to be baptized with the baptism 
that I am baptized with,” in later uncials, but not in B, 
X, D, L, Z, is taken from Mark x, 38. In Matt, v, 44, 
“bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate 
you,” and the words “them that despitefully use you,” 
are transferred from Luke vi, 27, 28. In Luke v, 38, “ and 
both are preserved,” is from Matt, ix, 17. In xxvii, 35 
the whole verse, after the words “casting lots,” is from 
John xix, 24. The same tendency to supplement one 
account by another, or to harmonize two accounts of 
the same occurrence, is seen in Acts ix, 5, 6, where all 
from ( TicXijpov in ver. 5 to rrpog avrov in ver. 6 is from 
xx vi, 14, 15. 

Supplementing of quotations from the Old Test, only 
partially cited by the sacred writer: Matt, xv, 8, where 
“This people honoreth me with their lips” (omitting 
“draweth nigh unto me with their mouth”) is the true 
reading; and Mark i, 2, “shall prepare thy way” (omit- 
ting “before thee”). Scrivener (Manual of Text. Crit. 
p. 12) notes the following supplements: Luke iv, 18, 
“to heal the broken-hearted;” Acts vii, 37, “him shall 
ye hear;” Kom. xiii, 9. “thou shalt not bear false wit- 
ness;” Heb. ii, 7, “and didst set him over the works of 
thy hands;” xii, 20, “or thrust through with a dart.” 

Other supplementary additions came into the text 
from the margins of MSS. tit ted for reading the church 
lessons, and from lectionaries, church rituals, and litur- 
gies. It was necessary to prefix to each lesson its prop- 
er title, or an introductory clause, or the name of the 
person or class addressed or speaking. In Acts iii, 1 1, 
the title of the lesson, rov laSevrog \ioXov, has come 
in place of the original avrov. The latter is the read- 
ing of A, B, X, C,T), E; the former is found in the 
later uncial P and in cursives. In Luke vii, 31 it 
was necessary to prefix to the lesson the introductory 
clause £i7T£ Ce 6 tcvpiog; found in cursives and the later 


VARIOUS READINGS 


724 


VARIOUS READINGS 


uncial M, wanting in A, B, X, D, L, X, A. The name 
of the one addressed, or speaking, or acting, must often 
be inserted. Hence Hjerou, in place of hitou. Matt, viii, 
5; H/croL»£ added, iv, 18 ; xiv, 22; transferred from the 
last clause to the tirst in John i, 44. In Acts viii, 37, 
without doubt a marginal note came in from the bap- 
tismal formula of a church ritual; wanting in the early 
MSS. A, B, X, C, II, L, P, and feebly accredited other- 
wise. In l John v, 7, 8, from ev rw o vpavio to tv r// 
yj) is now regarded as spurious by all textual critics. 

“ They were originally brought into Latin copies in 
Africa from the margin, where they had been placed as 
a pious and orthodox gloss on ver. 8" (Scrivener, Man- 
ual of Text . Criticism, 2d ed. p. 556, who reviews the con- 
troversy respecting the passage, with a full statement 
of the evidence on both sides). In Matt, vi, 13, from 
on don to the end, the doxologv is wanting in the old- 
est uncials, 15, X, 1>, Z (A, C, P arc defective here), and 
on other diplomatic grounds is discredited by most 
textual critics. It probably originated in the early 
liturgies of the Church. The passage in John vii, 53- 
viii, 11. bracketed as doubtful in some critical editions 
and omitted in others, is regarded as authentic history, 
the record of an actual occurrence in the life of Jesus. 
The question of its genuineness is fully discussed by 
Lange ( Commentary , Amer. ed. p. 268-271, and the chief 
authorities on both sides are stated by I)r. Schaflf, 
p. 267). The passage in Mark xvi, 9-20. omitted in B 
(though a column is significantly left vacant) and in 
X, is found in A, C, D, E, F, G, II, M, S, LT, Y, X, T, A, II 
(see the full statement of the question of its genuine- 
ness in Scrivener, Jntrod. to Text. Crit. p. 507-513). 

Of variations on doctrinal grounds, or in favor of cur- 
rent opinions.no decisive case has been adduced; yet 
subjective considerations might influence the choice 
among different extant readings. In Acts xx,28 is the 
reading tKKXrjenav tov Oeov (B, X) for s/cic\//(Tiav rov 
Kupiov of A, C, D, E. The former being, as Meyer sug- 
gests, Paul’s invariable usage (once Xpicrrov, never kv- 
ptov), it was written parallel with the latter in the mar- 
gin, and thence passed into the text. For the substi- 
tution of 0fo£ in place of iuo£, John i, 18, other causes 
maybe assigned more probable than a purposed change 
of the text from doctrinal preference (see Schaff’s ex- 
haustive note on the passage in his edition of Lange’s 
Commentary, and Tischendorf’s 8th ed. ). Tregelles 
edits the reading 0to£; Tischendorf, with a truer criti- 
cal sense and appreciation of evidence, retains the cor- 
rect reading vioq. To a reverent feeling are probably 
due such variations as Iwo7/0 and 6 tt art)p avrov, Luke 
ii, 33; Uocrprj) Kai 7/ pijrijp and ot yoj Ti£, ver. 44. 

A case of special historical interest, not falling under 
any of the above classifications, occurs in Rev. xv, 3 
(Engl, version), “just and true are thy ways, thou King 
of saints,” But the INIS, from which the book was first 
printed (professedly) reads, “thou King of the nations” 
(rwr sirwv); appropriately here (comp, the next 
verse). This is also the reading of A, B of the Apoc. and 
P (Porphyrian palimpsest). But X and C read “King 
eternal” (aanvun', as in l Tim. i, 17), Lat. Yulg. saculo- 
rum (Cod. Am. ceeloruni). It is probable, as suggest- 
ed by Tregelles (The Revelation in Greek, Edited from 
Ancient Authorities , p. 95), that the true reading, 
E0XQN, was in some MSS. written A10M2N (see 
above, I, 2), then AIOVQN = AIUNQN. Instead of 
the true reading in his MS., Erasmus followed a cor- 
ruption of the Yulg. reading sceculorum, its MS. ab- 
breviation sclorum being easily mistaken for setornm, 
the abbreviation of sanctorum. Thus the reading of 
the current Greek text, and of the English version of it, 
rests solely on a mistaken abbreviation in the Latin 
Yulg. 

To an error of sight and of itacism we owe that won- 
derful beast of the Apocalypse (xvii, 8) “that was, and 
is not, and yet is.” The above-named MS. reads teat 


irapevTi (fan slightly removed from the preceding syl- 
lable, as often in MS.), with a distinctly written a in that 
syllable, and the accentuation of Kai Traptan. The read- 
ing is undoubtedly that of the ancient MSS. : X izapter- 
re ( =7 raptcrrai), A ( C is defective here), B of the 
Apoc., and P, which have naptcrTai. Erasmus’s copy- 
ist, mistaking a for t in 7r ap, and making a false di- 
vision of syllables, wrote fcniTTfp tern ; hence that 
beast, so long the crux interpretum. 

II. Value . — Only readings attested by uncial MSS. 
are now recognised bv most critics; while others, well 
attested by the best cursives, are not taken into ac- * 
count, these later MSS., dating from about the 10th 
century and onward, being appealed to only as corrobo- 
rative of earlier authorities, or in cases where these dis- 
agree. But as the character of a MS., tested by com- 
parative criticism, is often entitled to as much consider- 
ation as its age„ it is not improbable that the most ap- 
proved will vet be allowed their due weight claimed for 
them by Scrivener, their strenuous and able advocate 
(see his Manual of Text. Crit. [2d ed.], p. 465, and ch. 
ix). 

Comparative criticism is “ that delicate and impor- 
tant process whereby we seek to determine the compar- 
ative value and trace the mutual relation of authorities 
of every kind upon which the original text of the New 
Test, is based” (Scrivener, ut sup. p. 462). It has al- 
ready been employed to a certain extent with highly 
satisfactory results; but its laws, and their proper ap- 
plication, are yet to be fully developed. See Criticism, 
Biulical. 

III. Xumber . — The number of various readings is not 
easily ascertained. Since the time of Mill, when they 
are estimated to have been about thirty thousand, it 
has been greatly increased by the numerous MSS. since 
discovered and the more thorough collation of those 
then known. As it often happens that of several read- 
ings one gives the clue to the origin of them all, reduc- 
ing all to one ( Canons of Criticism, ii, 2), so a new read- 
ing may be welcomed as supplying that which is sought. 
For a long time the utmost diligence has beet) used in 
searching through MSS. and recording every deviation 
from a common printed text, even to the slightest pe- 
culiarity in spelling, till the number is increased four- 
fold. Of these at least a fifth part respect only clerical 
errors, differences in spelling, in the form of a tense or a 
case, in the order of words, and the like; while of doubt- 
ful readings that affect the sense the number is far less, 
and those that affect a doctrine or a duty are few, if any. 

Attention was directed to discrepancies in the MSS. 
of the New Test., by the controversies between Erasmus 
and Stunica on the respective merits of the Compluten- 
sian and Erasmian texts. (For the earliest allusions to 
them in patristic writings, see New Testament, II, 

3, 4, 3 ). A formal comparison of different readings 

and their value was first made, though unsatisfacto- 
rily, in Stephens’s third or royal edition (1550). His 
text, very negligently and often capriciously formed, be- 
came the current Greek text in England and America. 
The Elzevir editions ( 1624, fol. ), formed chiefiv from 
Beza’s and the third of Stephens, adding nothing of 
critical value, became the current Greek text on the 
continent of Europe. Yarions readings of the Codex 
A lexandrinus, and a digest of numerous others in Wal- 
ton’s Polyglot Bible (1654-57), are the first collection 
of any value. Of subsequent contributions to textual 
criticism the following may be named as having 
made epochs in the progress of the science [for a full 
account, of the printed editions of the New Test., 
see Criticism B]: Mill’s Greek Test. ( 1707; 2d 
ed. by Kuster, 1710), with various readings from all 
sources then accessible, was the first attempt for a com- 
plete critical apparatus. Bengel (1725-34) led the way 
in the classification of MSS. and versions, relying on the 
oldest authorities. Wcttstein’s Xeic Test. (1751-52) 
added much to the materials for textual criticism, in- 


VARIOUS READINGS 


725 


VARIOUS READINGS 


creasing the collection of various readings from MSS. 
not before or imperfectly collated. With the labors of 
Griesbach ( Symbol™ Critical [1785-93] ; New Test. [2d 
ed. 1796-1806]) began thestrictlv critical treatment of the 
text itself, then for the first time corrected throughout 
from MSS. and other ancient authorities. The labors 
of Tischendorf (1841-73) have made a new sera in the 
science. By his numerous collations and printed texts 
of MSS., with elaborate prolegomena, notes, and fac- 
similes — his discovery of the Codex Sinaiticus and im- 
perial edition of it, with specimens in fac-simile, prol- 
egomena, and full notes, in 1862, preceded by its best 
representative in lithographed fac-simile, the Codex 
Friderico-A ugustunus , with prolegomena and illustra- 
tive comments, in 1846; his eight critical editions of 
the Xew Test.— he has far exceeded all who have labored 
in this field before him, and won for himself the first 
place among Biblical critics. 

On the subject of various readings, see Griesbach, 
Symbol™ Critic ™ (1785-93) and Prolegomena ad Xov. 
Test. (2d ed. 1786) ; Lachmann, Prolegomena ad Nov. 
Test. (1842); Tregelles, Account of the Printed Text 
of the Xeiv Test. (1854) and Inirod. to the Text. Crit. of 
the New Test. (1856); Tischendorf, Prolegomena ad 
Nov. Test. (7th ed. 1859); Scrivener, Plain Introd. to 
the Criticism of the New Test. (2d ed. 1874); Delitzsch, 
llamlschriftliche Fumle (1861-62) ; Conant, Greek Text 
of the Apocalypse, in the Baptist Quarterly, 1871 ; Smith, 
Bible Dictionary (Eng. ed. 1860 ; Amer. ed. 1870), p. 2125- 
2128. (T.J.C.) 

VARIOUS READINGS of tiie Old Test. It is 
now universally admitted that the text of the Old Test, 
has not come down to us without mistakes. Like all 
other ancient books, the Bible has suffered from the 
errors of transcribers ; and thus, in the course of repeated 
copying, many small variations crept into the text, and 
various readings came into existence. These varice lec - 
tiones may be assigned to two sources. They were made 
unintentionally or purposely. 

Accidental Mistakes. — By far the greater num- 
ber of existing various readings owe their origin to 
accident, and may be traced back to the following 
sources : 

1 . Transcribers saiv amiss, and therefore they con- 
founded letters similar in shape. Beth and Kaph, 
Gimel and Nun, Daleth and Resh, He and Cheth, are so 
like that they were exchanged. Thus, in Neh. xii, 3 we 
read 1113335, but in ver. 14 PP3335j IChron.ix, 15,1131, 
but Neh. xi, 17, ">131 ; Gen. x, 3, PBH, but 1 Ohron. i, 
6 , PSil ; Gen. x, 4, 013111, but 1 Chron. i, 7, Q13171 ; 
xviii, 12, OlX"3, but 2 Sam. viii, 12, 01X73, etc. From 
the same cause the copyists transposed letters, words, 
and sentences. Thus we read, 

Josh, xxi, 27, ’p^n, but in 1 Chron. vi, 56, ^751. 

1 Sam. i, 1, inn-p, but in 1 Chron. vi, 19, n7Pf”j3. 

2 Sam. xxiii, 3t,iOmO!l, but iu 1 Chrou. xi,33, iBlimn. 
1 Kings x, 11, D'Wabx, but iu 2 Chron. ix, 10, OiOinbx. 
Psa. lviii, 46, 73irP7, but in 2 Sam. xxii, 46, 113m. 

“ xviii, 50, mill 011313, but in 2 Sam. xxii, 50, 111 Hi 

diho. 

“ » 45,133 133 ib *1573351 *}TX 53'1’b 

ib-vsnni, but in 2 Sam. xxii, 45, 133 
lb 1?B35i ]tX 517335b iWiTlIi 133. 
Comp, also Psa. xcvi, 9-11 with 1 Chrou. xvi, 30-32. 

From the same cause they omitted letters, words, and 
sentences, especially when two periods or clauses termi- 
nated in the same way. Thus Neh. xi, 5, PP35573, but 

1 Chron. iv, 36 ; vi, 15, PP3J5 ; Psa. xviii, 42, 151351, but 

2 Sam. xxii, 42, 7335i. Words were omitted: asinlSam. 
i, 3, where, after 111373, probably LiPOI^B (Sept. Ik 


TtoXtioQ ai)Tov ’ApiaSatp) was left out. The omis- 
sion of clauses or sentences we notice, e. g. 1 Sam. v, 3, 
where, after niri7373, the words 7Xm pm m3 7X3i1 
were omitted, for the Sept, reads icai GoijXSov tig ohcov 
Aaycbu Kal e ldoi>. The last two examples of omission 
bear the technical name of bpotOTeXivrov. 

2. Transcribers heard amiss, and fell into mistakes. 
Here the same observations can be made as above. 
Thus — 

1 Sam. xvii, 34, we find PIT, as in several codd., instead 

of H35. 

“ xxii, IS, 51171, but the Ken, 3X1. 

2 Kings xx, 4, I 13 PI, “ “ “ ISO. 

Psa. xcvi, 12, Tb3i, but 1 Cliron. xvi, 32, pb3i. 

Isa. lxv, 4, pi3, but Ken, p173. 

To this cause must be ascribed the seventeen identifica- 
tions of xb with lb noted in the margin of the Bible. 

3. Transcribers made mistakes from memory. Where 
the copyist trusted too much to his memory, he con- 
founded synonymous terms, as in Lev. xxv. 36, bx with 
b3; in 2 Kings i, 10, 13ir with 173X17, and mm 
with 137 IX ; or he altered the word, after the more fre- 
quent forms, iu parallel passages. Thus, in Isa. Ixiii, 16, 
some have “73 35 “jSTsb instead of "7335 cbl57£, be- 
cause the former is the more common. 

4. Transcribers made mistakes in judgment. They 
misapprehended the text before them, and therefore di- 
vided words badly, misunderstood abbreviations, and 
blundered with regard to the letters called custodes line- 
arum, as well as marginal notes. One word was im- 
properly separated into two, or two combined into one. 
A 11 example occurs in Psa. xlviii, 15, where the text has 
PITS b5 instead of P773b5, unto death instead of for- 
ever. The latter reading is found in many MSS. and 
editions; Sept, tig rovg aabvag-, Vulg. in swcula. On 
the contrary, lv, 16, n773 i33i, the textual reading, denot- 
ing desolations, is directed by the Keri to be divided into 
PI 73 1351 . let death seize. This is adopted by many 
MSS., editions, and old translators, as Sept., Vulg., 
Aquila, Symmachus, Syriac, Arabic, Jerome. 

Abbreviations were usually made by writing the first 
letter of a word and appending a small stroke or two to 
indicate the omission of some letters. Hence the omis- 
sion was sometimes erroneously supplied, or the abbre- 
viated word was considered complete in itself. Thus, 
mm was shortened into 1 or 1 . In Isa. xlii, 19, the 
Sept, has translated mm 1333 by 6 SovXog jaov, 
showing that they mistook 1 1353 for 11353. So 
also in Jer. vi, 11, H7m POP!, the fury of Jehovah , is 
translated by the Sept. 3 vpbv pov, showing that they 
mistook 1 POP for iP73n; Psa. xxxi, 7, 1PX335, / 
hate, all ancient translators understood for mm PX335, 
thou, Lord, hatest ; and this reading is found in Cod. 170. 
It is well known that the Jews did not divide a word 
between two lines. When there was a vacant space at 
the end of a line too small to contain the next word, 
they added letters to fill it up and preserve the uniform 
appearance of the copy. These supernumerary letters 
were generally the initials of the following word, though 
it was written entire in the next line. Ignorant tran- 
scribers may have taken these superfluous letters, called 
custodes Unearum, “keepers of the lines,” into the text. 
Thus it is thought by some that in Isa. xxxv, 1, the com- 
mon reading 13173 0733351 arose from 13173 D 735351, 
by joining the superfluous 73 to the end of the verb. 
On the other hand, transcribers suspected the existence 
of these custodes Unearum in places where they did not 
occur, and omitted part of the text. So in Exod. xxxi, 
8 the word b3, “ all,” appears to have been omitted be- 


VARIOUS READINGS 


726 


VAROTARI 


cause of the following *P32. The omitted word is found 
in the oldest versions. Errors also arose from taking 
marginal annotations into the text. Probably Isa. vii, 
17 furnishes an example, for the clause *VT2JX ">’2 PX 
is unsuitable. To such marginal annotations must be 
ascribed those passages in which to one word a second 
or even a third translation is added. Thus in 1 Sam. xii, 
14 the Sept, reads, for IDrviST X3% icai o u Karecua- 
orevoag >)/*«<; (**ai oil tSXaoag ijfidg). 

in some cases the IMS. itself may have been the cause 
of errors, he it that it was illegible or that some letters 
were obliterated. After all, it must be obvious that no 
intentional errors were made, and the existence of vari- 
ous readings is purely accidental. 

II. Intentional Errors. — After what has been said, it 
would be useless to speak of intentional errors were it 
not for the very fact that Church fathers, Mohammed, 
and scholars of renown have brought such a charge 
against the Jews. Put the charge has not been substan- 
tiated. Their veneration for the sacred books was too 
great to allow them to make alterations, knowing them 
to be wrong. Josephus ( Conf . Apion. i, 8) says, To<tor- 
tov yap aiiovog i TapiyyificoTog, ovre 7T po<rveh>ai 

rig oiVfei', oi>r£ d<f>e\eiv ai»rwr, oiVt peraBelvai re- 
To\(itfKtVj and Eusebius (Pnep. Evany, viii, 0) cites 
from Philo: M>) ptffia ye aorocg povov ram vtt’ aorov 
(Moses) yeypappeinuv Kti'ijacn , d\\a Kcty pvpidictg ai>- 
rovg (iTTorarelr i<7ropeh'at Scirroi', if rotg tKtivov vo- 
yotg teat eSton’ ivarrta 7ret(r5i}vut. Like the Samari- 
tans, the early Christians brought the accusation of cor- 
rupting the text against the Jews. Put these were not 
competent witnesses or righteous accusers. For when 
the Jews quoted from the Hebrew Bible passages differ- 
ing from the Sept., which some of the fathers regarded 
as inspired, it was very easy to say that the Jews had 
corrupted Scripture in such places. This was all the 
reply they could make, being themselves ignorant of 
the Hebrew original. It was different with Moham- 
med (see the Koran, sura ii, 73, 176-178; iii. 188; v, 17). 
I lis charge is equally directed against Christians as 
against Jews, because of his inability to tiud any sup- 
port in the Scriptures for his prophetical pretensions. 

The earliest among Christians who made the charge 
against the Jews of corrupting the text was Justin Mar- 
tyr (comp. Trypho , c. 71, 72, 73), who was followed by 
Iremvus, Tertullian, and others. All these fathers knew 
nothing of Hebrew; they had to avail themselves of 
the Sept. Of more importance is the testimony of Ori- 
gen and Jerome, because they knew Hebrew. It is true 
t hat Jerome, in his Commentary on Galatians iii , appears, 
indeed, to charge the Jews with erasing the word bo in 
Dent. xxvii,26; for he says, “ lucertum habemus utrum 
LXX interpretes addiderint Dent, xxvii, 26 omnis homo 
et in omnibus, an in veteri llebneo ita fuerit et postea 
a Judieis dcletum sit. . . . Quam ob catisam Samaritano- 
rum llebnea volumina relegens inveni bz scri|>tum esse 
ot cum LXX interpret ibus eoncordare. Frustra igitur 
illud tulerunt Jtida?i, ut viderentur esse sub maledicto, 
si non possent omnia complere quae scripta sunt: cum 
antiquiores alterius quoque gentis liter® id positum fu- 
isse testentur.” Put this charge does not appear to 
have been his deliberate opinion, as can be seen from 
his Commentary on Isaiah, a h. vi, where he says, 
‘•Quodsi aliquis dixerit, Ilebrieos libros postea a Judaeis 
esse falsatos, audiat Origenein, quid in octavo volumine 
explanationum Esaisc huic respondeat quaestiuncuUc: 
quod nuuquam Dominus et Apostoli, qui caetcra crimina 
argnunt in seribis et Pharisads, de hoc erimine, quod 
erat maximum, rctienissent.sin autem dixerint post ad- 
ventum Domini Salvatoris et pnedicationem Apostolo- 
rum libros Ilebra?os fuisse falsatos, cachinnum tenere 
non potero, ut Salvator et Evangelista? et Apostoli ita 
testimonia protulerint, ut Judad postea falsaturi erant.” 
In spite of this important testimony, there were not 
wanting some who renewed the old charge. Foremost 


among them were Isaac Vossins, W. Whiston, J. Morinns, 
etc., who again were refuted by Carpzov, De Muis. Teg- 
lor, Poote, Coeceitis, Grabe, Trigland. Bellarmine, R. Si- 
mon. Glassius, Capelins, and a host of others, who, exam- 
ining the question sine studio et ira, were not apt to let 
their sober reason run astray. 

There are two or three places in which the charge of 
intentional corruption has a plausible appearance, viz. 
Psa. xvi, 10; xxii, 17; and Zech. xii, 10; but, without 
entering upon an examination of these passages, as be- 
yond the province of this article, we may state that a 
close examination proves the folly of the charge. 

With regard to the other classes of alterations arising 
from a well-meaning desire on behalf of the text, we 
see no good reason to doubt that readings apparently 
easier or less objectionable were occasionally substituted 
for others; that supposed mistakes were rectified; plaees, 
where something appeared to be wanting, tilled up; and 
passages made conformable to parallel ones. Examples 
of this kind are found in Gen. ii, 2, where, for * 1 2*'2il*n, 
the Samaritan, Sept., and Syriac have "'riTI ; Numb, 
xxvii, 7, where, instead of EPP3X. various MSS. with 
the Samaritan read pTEX with the feminine suffix; 
Judg. xviii, 30, where, for JT2P2, was put M wlL ; I 
Chron. ii, 48. where, for *13 n , several MSS. read rnb*i in 
the feminine; Psa. xxxvi,2. where, for “>23. many MSS. 
and versions read *123. In like manner TT • in Dent, 
xxiii, 2, was separated into IT DIE; and *IDb 72, in 
Psa. xxviii, 8, was changed in some MSS. into V22b 72, 
the latter taken, perhaps, from xxix, 1 1. 

After all, it must appear that all readings must be 
ascribed to purely accidental causes, such as have been 
enumerated above. See Keri and Ketiiib. (I». P.) 

Varisims is the name of a supposed early heretic, 
mentioned by Ittigius (De Iheresiarchis, iii, 1, Appen- 
dix xii) as being named in an anonymous commentary 
on St. Matthew. It is thought the true reading is Bar- 
jesu , and that the person intended is Elymas the sor- 
cerer, who is so called in Acts xiii, 6. See Burton, 
Hampton Lectures, p. 495. 

Varlet, Dominique Marie, a French prelate, was 
born in Paris, March 15, 1678. 1 1 is father, who event- 

ually became a hermit of Mount Valerian, had early des- 
tined him for the Church, and he entered the seminary 
of St. Magloire, where in 1706 he received ordination and 
the diploma of doctor. He served soon after as curate 
of Conflans-Charenton ; but, becoming attached to the 
doctrines of the Port-Loyalists, he opposed the bull Uni - 
yen it us, am] in consequence left for America in 1711, 
where lie instructed the inhabitants of Louisiana. lie 
was recalled to Europe, and appointed bishop of Asealon 
and coadjutor of the bishop of Babylon (Sept. 17, 1718); 
and after consecration (Feb. 19, 1719) lie sailed from 
Amsterdam, crossed Russia, and took up his residence 
at the court of Persia, in Ilamadan. lie was soon de- 
posed by the pope, however; and after settling in Am- 
sterdam (1720) he finally appealed from the bull of the 
pope (Feb. 15, 1723), but, nevertheless, gave ordination 
to four recusant ecclesiastics at Utrecht, publishing in 
his defence his Apoloyies (xVmst. 1724-27). lie died at 
Rhvnwick, near Utrecht, May 14, 1742. See Hoefer, 
Xour. fiioy Generale, s. v. 

Varnell, John M., a minister in the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, South. No record of his birth or early 
life is preserved. He was converted in 1847, received 
into the Ilolston (East Tenn.) Conference in 1849, and 
labored with zeal and fidelity until his death, in 1857. 
51 r. Varnell was a devout, energetic young man. ISee 
Minutes of Annual Conferences, M. E. Church, South, 
1857, p. 753. 

Varotari, Alessandro (II Padoranino'). an emi- 
nent Italian painter, was born at Padua in 1590. He 
received instruction in painting, and began in childhood 


VARRO 


727 


VASHTI 


to study and imitate the works of Titian, which were at 
Padua. He was sent, while young, to Venice, where he 
continued the study of Titian so assiduously as to be 
considered among the foremost of his disciples. II is 
pictures abound in Venice and Padua, but are rarely 
met with elsewhere. The principal are, The Dead 
Christ (now at Florence): — The Supper at Cana , in the 
chapter of La Carita at Venice: — four histories of the 
life of S. Domenico. He died in 1G50. See Spooner, 
Bioy. Hist, of the Fine A rts , s. v. 

Varro, Marcus Terentius, a learned Roman anti- 
quarian, was born in the Sabine town of Reate, 15.0. 116. 
He was descended from an ancient family of senatorial 
rank, and was first instructed by L. TElius, afterwards 
by Antiochus, an Academic philosopher. Varro was 
very prominent in the political history of his time, ad- 
hering to the cause of Pompey, and performing the du- 
ties of general in Spain. He withdrew from public life 
after the defeat of Pompey, and was reconciled to Caesar. 
He was one of the most extraordinary men that ever 
lived; said to be the most learned of the Romans. His 
learning extended to almost every department of knowl- 
edge. His writings embraced grammar, rhetoric, poet- 
ry, geography, history, philosophy, jurisprudence, and 
husbandry, amounting in all to 74 different works, con- 
taining 620 books, 170 of which were in metrical form. 
Only two of his works remain, De Lingua Latina and 
Reram Rusticarum Libri III. Augustine {De Civitate 
Dei, lib. vii) gives an account of his book on Antiquities, 
with copious extracts. Varro distinguished three kinds 
of religion — mythical, which the poets chiefly use; phys- 
ical, which the philosophers use; and ciril, which peo- 
ples use. He spoke in positive disapproval of the myths 
and legends of the popular faith. Augustine says he 
went as far as he dared in that direction. The natural 
philosophy in the various schools he describes without 
censure. Civil theology, or that ordained by the State, 
is minutely described and commended. Varro died 15.C. 
27. See Ueberweg. Hist, of Philos, i, 180; Fisher, Be- 
ginnings of Christianity (N. Y. 1877), p. 128 ; Smith, Diet, 
of Class. Bioy. s. v. 

Vartabeds, an order of celibate priests in the Ar- 
menian Church (q. v.), who are attached to the churches 
as preachers (the married priests do not usually preach), 
and from among whom the bishops and higher clergy 
are taken. It is a degree of honor corresponding very 
nearly to our doctor of divinity, and is given with the 
same solemnity as holy orders. 

Varty, John, an English Congregational minister, 
was bom in London, Nov. 29, 1798. He was educated 
at Hoxton Academy, and ordained at Mitcham, Surrey, 
in 1823. In 1839 he accepted an invitation to the 
Church at Fareham, and for twentv-three years faith- 
1 Lilly labored with that people. Mr. Varty was a decid- 
ed and earnest Christian, and a man of strong piety and 
large Christian influence. He died April 16, 1873.' See 
(Lond.) Cony. Year-book, 1874, p. 358. 

Varuna, in Hindu mythology, is one of the highest 
and most powerful of the gods, yet one of the most vague 
and least known of all deities. In the Vedas this divin- 
ity is often confounded with indra and Agni. See Le- 
normant, Chahleean Magic , p. 131 ; M tiller, Chips from 
a German Workshop (see Index). 

V arus, P. Quintilius, proconsul of Syria for several 
years (between I5.C. 13 and A. D. 7), after Sentius Satur- 
nisms, an office which he administered with such rapac- 
ity that Velleius Paterculus savs of him (ii, 117), “As a 
poor man he entered the rich country, and as a rich man 
he left the country poor.” Some of his governmental 
acts are rehearsed by Josephus (Life, 1 1 ; A nt. xvii, 5 sq. ; 
War, i, 21,5; ii, 3, 1 ; 5, 2). He subsequently sustained 
a notable defeat in Germany. See Smith, Diet, of Class. 
Bioy. s. v. See Governor, 

Vas (or De Vas), Petrus, a Dutch minister of the 
Reformed Church, born about 1658. He is mentioned 


as a candidate at Gravelant, Holland, in 1699; pastor at 
Kingston, N. V., from 1710 to 1756; and often officiated 
at Rhinebeck, having organized that Church. See Cor- 
win, Manual of the Reformed Church in America, s. v. 
Vasa, Gustavus. See Gustav us i (Vasa). 

Vasari, Giorgio, an Italian author and painter, was 
born at Arezzo, in Tuscany, in 1512. He studied art, 
architecture, and painting practically; became the pu- 
pil and friend of Michael Angelo; and obtained the 
patronage of such distinguished persons as cardinal lp- 
polito de’ Medici, pope Clement VII, and the dukes Ales- 
sandro and Cosmo de’ Medici. He painted numerous 
works in various parts of Italy, among them several 
noted pictures in the Palazzo Vecchio in Florence, and 
in the Sala Regia in the Vatican. As an architect 
Vasari attained greater excellence than as a painter. 
He built the church of Abbadia in Arezzo; a great part 
of the palace of Julius 111 at Rome; and the Palazzo 
Uffizi in Florence, commenced in 1561 and completed, 
after his death, by Alfonso Parigi. This last is consid- 
ered by critics to be his best architectural work. Many 
other buildings and parts of structures are ascribed to 
him; and he was chiefly instrumental in re-establish- 
ing the Florentine Academy of Design. He died in 
Florence, Jan. 27, 1574. As a writer on art Vasari at- 
tained considerable celebrity. He entered upon his 
work at the suggestion of cardinal Farnese, anti subse- 
quently enlarged the scope and plan of his book. It is 
entitled Yite de' put Eccelenti Pittori, Scultori, e A rchi- 
tetti, and was first published in Florence in two volumes 
(1550). In 1556 lie undertook a new tour to prepare 
materials for a second edition, which appeared in 1568. 
Several subsequent editions .appeared from time to time, 
a recent one in Florence, in thirteen volumes (1846-57). 
It has been translated into English and published in 
Bohn’s Standard Library. See Spooner, Bioy. Hist, of 
the Fine A rts , s. v. 

Vase. See Basin; Bottle; Bowl; Chalice; 
Cup; Urn, etc. 

Vasey, Thomas (1), was an orphan ward of a 
wealthy and childless uncle, who disowmed him on Va- 
sey’s becoming a Methodist. He began his ministry in 
1776; travelled in the Dales in 1782, Liverpool in 1783; 
and in 1784 he was ordained a presbyter of the Church 
of England by Wesley, and sailed with Dr. Coke to 
America, where he shared the toils and perils of Fran- 
cis Asburv. lie was here ordained by bishop White, 
and afterwards returned to England, and, with Wesley’s 
consent, accepted a curacy. In 1789 he resumed the 
itinerant work, and continued therein until 1811, when 
he was appointed to perform the liturgical services in 
the City Road Chapel. In 1826, with a pension from 
the trustees, he retired to Leeds, where he died very 
suddenly, Dec. 27, 1826, in his eighty-first year. See 
Stevenson, Hist, of City Road Chapel (Lond. 1872, 
8vo), p. 152; City Road Magazine, 1871; Wesl. Meth. 
May. 1827, p. 142; May, 1830 (portrait); Stevens, Hist, 
of Methodism, iii, 467 ; Hist, of Meth. Episc. Church , ii, 
155, 166; Smith, Hist, of Wesl. Methodism (see Index, 
vol. iii). 

Vasey, Thomas (2), an English Wesleyan minis- 
ter, was born in 1779. He was converted in 1794; com- 
menced to preach in 1801 at Barrow and Epworth; was 
ordained in 1804; labored, among others, on the Sun- 
derland, Whitby, Darlington, and Colne (1815) circuits. 
He died of inflammatory fever, May 5, 1818. Many 
w r ere converted through his earnest and godly ministry. 
See Wesl. Meth. May. 1820, p. 401, 481. 

Vasll'ni (Heb. Vashni', my strength, or strong ; 

Sept. Sari; Vulg. Vasseni), the first-born of Samuel ac- 
cording to 1 Chron. vi, 28 [Heb. 13] ; but 1 Sam. viii, 2 
shows that the true reading should be “the sec- 

ond,” and that the name of Joel, the eldest son, has 
dropped out. See Samuel. 

Vash/ti (Heb. Vashti', “'lyr?, Pers. beautiful worn- 


VASISHTIIA 


72S 


VASSILACC1II 


an; Sept. MotiV; Josephus 0 udcmj; Vulg. Vast hi), the 
“queen” (nrpsn) of Ahasuerus (Xerxes), who, for re- 
fusing to show herself to the king’s guests at the royal 
banquet, when sent for by the king, incurred his wrath, 
and was repudiated and deposed (Esth. i), when Esther 
was substituted in her place. B.C. 483. Many attempts 
have been made to identify her with historical person- 
ages; as by Usher with A fossa, the wife of Darius lly- 
staspis, and by J. Capelins with Parysutii ?, the mother 
of (Jehus; but, as was said of Esther (like the “ three- 
score queens” in Cant, vi, 8, 9; comp. Herod, i, 135), it 
is far more probable that she was only one of the infe- 
rior wives, dignified with the title of queen, whose name 
has utterly disappeared from history. See Esther. 
This view of Vashti’s position seems further to tally ex- 
actly with the narrative of Ahasuerus’s order, and Vash- 
ti’s refusal, considered with reference to the national 
manners of the Persians. For Plutarch ( Conjug . Pne- 
cept. c. 16) tells us, in agreement with llerod. v, 18, that 
t lie kings of Persia have their legitimate wives to sit at 
table with them at their banquets; but that, when they 
choose to riot and drink, they send their wives away 
and call in the concubines and singing-girls. Hence, 
when the heart of Ahasuerus “ was merry with wine,” 
he sent for Vashti, looking upon her only as a concu- 
bine; she, on the other hand, considering herself as one 
of the KOvpiSiai yvvdiKtg, or legitimate wives, refused 
to come. Josephus’s statement (Ant, xi, 6, l) that it is 
contrary to the customs of the Persians for their wives 
to be seen by any men but their own husbands is evi- 
dently inaccurate, being equally contradicted by He- 
rodotus (v, 18) and by the book of Esther itself (v, 4, 8, 
12, etc.). — Smith. 

Vasishtha (superlative of Sanscrit rasvmat , 
“wealthy”) is the name of one of the most celebrated 
Vedic Rishis, the author of several hymns of the Eig- 
veda, and a personage important in the early history 
of the Brahmanic or priestly caste of the Hindus. AH 
that is certainly known of him is that he was a sage of 
high reputation, and a priest jealous of the privileges 
and the position of his caste, and ever ready to assert 
its superiority over the second, or military and royal, 
caste. See Muir, Original Sanscrit Texts (Lond. 1858): 
Muller, Chips from a German Workshop. 

Vasquez, Alonso, a Spanish painter, was born at 
Ronda about 1589. He studied at Seville under Anto- 
nio Arfian, and acquired considerable reputation as a 
historical painter. His principal works are in the 
monastery of the Barefooted Carmelites at Seville. He 
died about 1645. See Spooner, Bioy. Hist, of the Pine 
A rts , s. v. 

Vasquez, Dionysius, a Spanish monk, was born 
June 5, 1500, at Toledo. He was a very learned man, 
and one of the first who undertook the edition of the 
Biblia Complutensia, which cardinal Ximenes proposed. 
He died June 1, 1539. His writings, in Latin and Span- 
ish, are mostly in IMS. See Autonii Biblioth. llispani- 
ca; Gandulphus, De 200 Scriptoribus A it gust in i< mis ; 
Jocher, Allgemeines Gelehrten-Lexikon , s. v. (B. P.) 

Vasquez, Gabriel, a Spanish Jesuit, was born 
in 1551 at Belmonte. For twenty-nine years he was 
professor at Alcala, where he died, Sept. 23, 1604. lie 
wrote, Comment t. in Epp. Pauli : — Comment, in Th. 
A quin at is Theologiam : — Metaphgs. Disquisitionum de 
Cnltu Adorationis Libri Tres (Mayence, 1600). His 
works were published in 10 vols. fol. (Lyons, 1620). 
See Autonii Biblioth. H'ispanica ; Allegambe, Bibliothe- 
ca Scriptorum Societatis Jesu; Jocher, Allgemeines Ge- 
lehrten-Lexikon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Vasquez, Juan Bautista, a Spanish painter and 
sculptor, was born at Seville in the 16th century. Ilis 
best painting is a picture of the Virgin and Infant, at the 
altar of the Church of Our Lady of Granada. See Spoo- 
ner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Vassar, John E., a missionary colporteur of the 


American Tract Society, commonly called “Uncle John 
Vassar.” For many years he was foreman in the great 
brewery of his cousin Matthew Vassar, the founder of 
the college at Poughkeepsie which bears the family 
name. John was converted about the year 1843, when 
he rejected an oiler of large wealth from his cousin and 
entered vigorously into the temperance reform move- 
ment. He was among the first colporteurs the Tract 
Society sent to the then Far West. He began his la- 
bors about 1848 in the wilderness of Illinois, and he con- 
tinued in that capacity, with slight interruption, until 
his death. He had a peculiar fitness for his work. 
Thoroughly armed with Gospel texts, and full of ear- 
nestness and unselfish love, he pressed the truth upon 
all; and he was almost invariably received with kind- 
ness by all. He was equally at home among cultured 
families, from Boston to San Francisco, as among other 
classes — farmers, mechanics, lumbermen, miners, soldiers, 
and freedmen. He was specially useful in the late war; 
among whole brigades of soldiers in the army he was 
“ Uncle John,” loved and honored by all. lie not only 
held religious meetings, but he did hospital duty, dug 
graves for the dead, and then performed religious ser- 
vices and communicated with the relatives of the de- 
ceased. Once he was taken a prisoner of war; but, to 
escape his ceaseless religious importunity, he was soon 
set at liberty. Ilis labors were instrumental in the con- 
version of multitudes. Vassar College is a monument 
worthy of the memory of its founder; but more endur- 
ing is the monument of the noble Christian deeds that 
marked the life of this honored and successful mission- 
arv. He died at his home in Poughkeepsie, Dec. 6, 
1878. (W. V. S.) 

Vassar, Matthew, a well-known layman of the 
Baptist denomination, and founder of the college for fe- 
males which bears his name, was born in East Dereham. 
Tnddenham Parish, County of Norfolk, England, April 
29, 1792. In 1796 his father came to America, and took 
up his residence at Wappinger’s Creek, near Pough- 
keepsie, N. Y., w r here he established a brewery. The 
enterprise did not prove successful, and, after various 
reverses of fortune, he became a farmer, in a small way, 
in the vicinity of Poughkeepsie. The subject of this 
sketch, then quite young, commenced the manufacture 
of ale on a small scale. The business grew on his 
hands, until at last it reached such proportions as sur- 
passed the most sanguine expectations of Mr. Vassar. 
For fifty years, until 1866, he continued in this busi- 
ness and accumulated a large fortune. His mind was 
now much occupied with the question as to the best 
disposition he should make of his great gains. lie 
concluded to establish a college for females where the 
opportunities for obtaining an education should be 
equal to those furnished for males. In 1861 he pro- 
cured from the New r York Assembly a charter for Vas- 
sar College, and in February of that year he conveyed 
to the board of trustees bonds and securities to the 
amount in cash value of four hundred and eight thou- 
sand dollars to be used for the purposes of the college, 
lie also gave the grounds on which the college was 
built. The college was opened in 1865, and from the 
beginning has been largely patronized. The gifts of 
its founder continued to be bestowed as the necessities 
of the new institution demanded until they reached the 
munificent sum of over eight hundred thousand dollars. 
While addressing the trustees at the anniversary of the 
opening of the college. Mr. Vassar died, June 23, 1868. 
See A pplet ons' Annual Cgclop. viii, 755. (J. C. S.) 

Vassilacchi, Antonio ( UAliense , or A liense da 
Mild), a painter, w r as born in the island of Milo, in the 
Grecian Archipelago, in 1556. He was sent to Venice 
when quite young, and placed under the instruction of 
Paul Veronese, with whom he made such progress and 
revealed such genius as to excite the jealousy of his 
master, v r ho dismissed him from the studio with the 
advice that he should confine himself to small paint- 


VASSOR 


1 29 


VATICAN 


ings. Suspecting the cause of his dismissal, and confi- 
dent in his own powers, the young artist redoubled his 
efforts to attain excellence. He acquired great distinc- 
tion, was patronized by the doge and principal nobility 
of Venice, was invited to the court of Spain by Philip 
11, and Sigismund, king of Poland, earnestly solicited 
him to enter his service; but he declined these honors 
and remained in Venice, lie executed many works 
Ibr the churches and other public buildings of Venice 
and in other Italian cities. Among his best produc- 
tions are, Abraham Sacrificing Isaac: — Cain Slaying 
Abel: — the Brazen Serpent, in the Church of the Holy 
Apostles : — and the Destruction of Troy, in the Sala della 
Scrutino. lie died at Venice in 1621). See Spooner, 
Biog . Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Vassor, Michel le, a French theologian and his- 
torian, for a number of years a member of the Priests 
of the Oratory, went to England in 1695, where he died 
in 1718, after having joined the Protestant Church, 
lie is the author of Traite de la Maniere iV Examiner 
les Differences de la Religion (Amst. 1697). See Winer, 
ilandbuch der theol. Lite rat nr , i, 341, 668; Flirst, Bibl. 
Jud. iii, 469. (B. P.) 

Vassy, Massacre of. Vassy is a town of France 
in Haute - Marne, on the Blaise, twenty -eight miles 
north-northwest of Chaumont, and is celebrated for the 
massacre of the Protestants by order of Guise. On 
Sunday morning, March 1, 1562, the Duke of Guise, 
with a retinue of nobles and soldiers, arrived at Vassy, 
on his way to Paris. The Protestants were holding 
their meeting in a large barn, to which the duke sent 
some of his soldiers, who provoked a conflict. The rest 
of the soldiers came to their aid, broke open the door, 
slaughtered a large number of the defenceless congre- 
gation, and plundered their houses. After this bloody 
deed, the duke was received at Paris with acclamations, 
while the Protestants throughout France considered it 
a wanton and atrocious violation of the Religions Peace, 
and flew to arms, inaugurating a series of wars which 
only terminated with the accession of Henry IV to the 
throne. See Fisher, Ilist. of the Reformation ( N. Y. 
1873), p. 267 sq. 

Vat. See Wine-fat. 

VAT, a cistern or vessel; a term frequently found 
in the inventories of religious houses. 

VAT for Holy Water, a vessel for holding holy 
water (q. v.). 

Vat able ( Vateble , Vastebled, Guastebled ), Fran- 
cois, a learned Frenchman, was a native of Gamache, 
in Picardy, and served as pastor of Bramet, in Valois, 
until Francis I made him professor of Hebrew in the 
newly founded Colle'ge Royal at Paris. lie was abbe 
of Bellozane when he died, March 16, 1547. His learn- 
ing was comprehensive and his delivery attractive. 
He may be considered the restorer of the study of He- 
brew in France. He wrote nothing for publication. 
A Latin version of the Parra Xaturalia made by him 
is appended to Duval’s edition of Aristotle ; and Robert 
Stephens printed notes on the Old Test, said to be by 
Vatable, which obtained considerable fame. The notes, 
however, correspond in part with those of Calvin and 
other Protestant writers, and were condemned as heret- 
ical by the doctors of the Sorbonne, thus involving 
both Stephens and Vatable in trouble. Stephens’s Bi- 
ble, alleged to be by Vatable, contained the Vulgate, 
Leo Juda’s translation, and the notes already mention- 
ed, and appeared in a first edition in 1545, 8vo, and in 
a second edition in 1547, folio. The latest edition is 
that of Nicholas Henry (Paris, 1729-45, 2 vols. fob). 
Stephens published a separate edition of the book of 
Psalms with yet more extended notes (Geneva, 1556 sq.), 
from which G. J. B. Vogel republished them, together 
with those of Grotius (II al. Magd. 1767, 8vo), and they 
were again reprinted in the Critici Sacri . They are 
characterized by special regard for the grammar and 


idioms of the Hebrew language. See the Biographie 
Unirerselle, lxvii, 569 sq. ; Jdcher, Gelehrten-Lexikon 
(Col. 1466), vol. iv. The latter refers to Adam, 1 'it it 
Eruditorum; Samarthau, Elogia Gallorum; Teissier, 
Eloges des Sarans ; and Blount, Censura Celebrimn 
Auctorum , as his sources. — Herzog, Real - Encyklop. 

S. V. 

Vater, Johann Seveuin, a German doctor and pro- 
fessor of theology, was born May 27, 1771, at Altenburg. 
He studied theology at Jena, but more especially Ori- 
ental languages. From 1792 to 1794 he studied clas- 
sical philology under Wolf at Halle, and was promoted 
in 1794 as doctor of philosophy. In 1796 he com- 
menced lecturing as privat-docent at Jena, was made 
professor of Oriental languages in 1798, and was called 
to Halle iu 1800 as professor of theology and Oriental 
languages. When this university was abandoned in 
1810, he went to Kdnigsberg, to return again to Halle 
in 1820, where he died, March 15, 1826. Vater belong- 
ed to the rationalistic school, and his work on the Pen- 
tateuch is deeply tainted by rationalistic influences; 
but his works deserve notice for their learning. He 
published, flebr. Sprachlehre (Leips. 1797 ; 2d ed. 1812) : 
— Kleinere Ilebr. Sprachlehre (ibid. 1798; 3d ed. 1816) : 
— flebr. Lesebuch (ibid. 1799; 2d ed. 1809); — Iland- 
buch der hebr., syr., chald., und a rah. Grammatik (ibid. 
1802; 2d ed. 1817) ; — A rab., syr., und chald. Lesebuch 
(ibid. 1802)| — Commentar iiber den Pentateuch (Halle, 
1802-5, 3 pts.) ; — A mosi Oracula (ibid. 1810): — Lectio - 
num Versionis Alexandria ee Jobi nondum satis Exami - 
natarum Specimen (Konigsberg, 1810): — Synchroni - 
stische Tafeln der Kirchengeschichte (Halle, 1803 ; 6th ed. 
by Thilo, 1833): — Kirchengeschichte des 18. und 19. 
Jahrhumlerts (Brunswick, 1823 sq., forming pts. v-viii 
of Henke’s Kirchengeschichte ): — Anbau der neuesttn 
Kirchengeschichte (Berk 1820-22, 2 vols.). See Theolog. 
Universal- Lexicon, s. v. ; Niemeyer’s biography of Vater 
appended to the 5th ed. of the Synchronist. Tafeln 
(1828); Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 469; Steinschneider, Bi- 
bliogr. Ilandbuch, s. v. ; Winer, Ilandbuch der theol. Li- 
teratur, i, 45, 100, 115, 197, 218, 223, 226, 370, 388, 406, 
537, 544, 581 ; ii, 23, 326, 814. (B. P.) 

Vates is a term used among the ancient Romans 
with the double signification of poet and jtvophet, the 
two being regarded as identical. By a law of Constan- 
tins in the Theodosian Code, they were reckoned among 
those who practice forbidden arts, such as soothsayers, 
astrologers, augurs, and magicians, and were condemn- 
ed to die as guilty of a capital crime and offence 
against religion. See Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. xvi, 
ch. v. 

Vatican, the papal palace at Rome, so called from 
its situation on the Mens Vaticanus, at the extreme 
north-western part of the city. It is an immense pile 
of buildings, composed of parts constructed at different 
times, and often without due regard to the harmony 
of the entire structure. There existed a palace adjoin- 
ing the basilica of St. Peter’s probably as early as the 
time of Constantine, but certainly in the 8th century. 
In the 12th century this palace was rebuilt by Innocent 
III, and in the following century it was enlarged hy 
Nicholas III. It became the papal residence on the 
removal of the see from Avignon to Rome in 1377, 
when Gregory XI adopted it as the pontifical palace on 
account of its greater security over the Lateran (which 
had been the residence of the popes for one thousand 
years) hy the nearness of the Castle of St. Angelo. 
John XXIII increased this security by building a cov- 
ered gallery connecting the palace with the castle. 
Nicholas V, in 1450, began to improve it on a mag- 
nificent scale, but died before completing his design. 
Alexander VI finished the older portion of the edi- 
fice nearly as we now see it. No part of the palace 
except the private chapel of Nicholas V, called the 
Chapel of San Lorenzo, is older than the time of Alex- 
ander VI (1492-1503), The part constructed by Alex- 


VATICAN 


730 


VATICAN 



REFERENCES TO PLACES IN UPPER FLOOR 


1 . Antjcamcro delle Stanza. 

2 . Chapel of S. I.oreiuo. 

3. Iiali oftLo Uiga. 


4. Sculpture . . 
6. Terra Coitas 

6,7,8. Vases 

9. Bronzes . . . 
10. Pointings. . 




zf* * 


REFERENCES TO DIVISION OF LOWER FLOOR. 


1. ScalaReria. 

2,3,4. ( Nalls of the Torso, Vase, and 
\ Meleager. 

6, 6, 7, 8. i Tribunes of tho Apollo Belvedere, 
\ Laocoon, Antinons, and Boxers. 
9. Hall of the Masks. 

10. Hall of the Muses. 

1 1. Anterooms of Library. 

1 2. A rchiv io Secroto. 

1 3. Christian Antiquities. 


14. Papyri. 

1 5. Early Christian Pointings. 

1G. Roman Frescoes, Mosaics, Tiles, &c. 
1 7. Printed Books. 

1 3. Museo Profano. 

19. Hemicycle of the Pigna. 

20. Base of the Aurrlian Column. 

21. Stairs leading to 2nd and 3rd floors, 

Pinaeotlieea, &o. 




Plan of the Vatican Palace at Rome. 


ander VI is known as the Old Palace, in distinction 
from the later works. To this structure Sixtus IV, in 
1474, added the Sixtine Chapel. Innocent VI 1 1, about 
1490, erected the villa Belvedere, and Julius II (1503- 
13) connected it with the palace by the celebrated 
Loyffid and a terraced court. In the gardens of the 
Belvedere, Julius laid the foundations of the Vatican 
museum. After the death of Julius, Leo X completed 
the Loggia under the direction of Raphael. Paul III 
built the Sala Regia and the Pauline Chapel (1534). 
Sixtus V, near the close of the l(>th century, began, 
and Clement VIII carried to completion, a new and 
more imposing palace on the eastern side of the court 
of the Loggia, which is now the ordinary residence of 
the pope and is by far the most conspicuous of all the 
Vatican buildings. Numerous alterations and improve- 
ments were made by succeeding pontiffs. Urban VIII 
(1323-41) had the celebrated staircase, Seala Regia, 
constructed from designs by Bernini. Clement XIV 
(1739-74) and Pius VI (1775-99) built a new range of 
apartments for the Museo Pio-Clementino. Pius VII 
(1800-23) added the Braceio Xuovo, running parallel with 
the library. Leo XII (1823-29) began a series of cham- 
bers for the gallery of pictures. Gregory XVI (1831- 
43) completed these and placed the Ltrusean Museum 
in its present position. Pius IX (1843-77) enclosed the 
Loggia in glass, removed the gallery of pictures to the 
upper part of the palace, erected the magnificent stairs 
leading to the state apartments, and decorated the 
apartments formerly occupied by the pictures with fres- 
cos to serve as reception-rooms for ladies. It will be 
seen from this account that the Vatican is rather a 
collection of separate buildings than one regular struct- 
ure. It occupies a space 1151 bv 737 feet, and has 8 
grand staircases. 200 smaller ones, 20 courts, and 4422 
rooms. 

The Seala Regia, the great staircase hy Bernini, con- 
sists of two flights; the lower decorated with Ionic col- 
umns, and the upper with pilasters. It leads from the 
extremity of the right-hand portico of Bernini to the 
Sala Regia built during the pontificate of Paul III, as 
a hall of audience for the ambassadors, and covered with 
frescos illustrating various events in the history of the 


popes. It also serves as an ante-hall to the Sixtine ami 
Pauline chapels. 

The Capi-lla Sistina. or Sixtine Chapel , is a lofty ob- 
long ball, 1434 feet long by 504 wide, and decorated with 
a series of frescos representing the principal events in 
Scripture history. It also contains, on the end wall op- 
posite the entrance, the great fresco The Last Judgment. 
Near the Sixtine Chapel is the Capelin Paolina , which is 
only used in great ceremonies, chiefly during Holy Week. 
It is noted for two frescos by Michael Angelo. The Con- 
version of St. Paul and the Crucifixion of St. Peter. The 
great hall leading from the Sala Regia to the Loggia of 
Bramante is called the Sala Ducale , formerly used by 
tbe popes for giving audience to princes, now used for 
holding the public consistories when the newly created 
cardinals are admitted into the sacred college. 

The Museum is entered at the extremity of the lower 
Loggia, to the left on leaving the Sala Ducale. It con- 
tains numerous apartments. The Gallery of Inscrip- 
tions is a corridor 690 feet in length, containing up- 
wards of 3000 specimens of ancient sepulchral inscrip- 
tions and monuments. At the extremity of this gallery 
is the Museo Chiaramonti. which constitutes the second 
division of the gallery, and, exclusive of the Praccio 
Xuovo, or new wing, contains more than 700 specimens 
of ancient sculpture, arranged in thirty compartments. 
The Praccio Xuoro was erected by Pius VII in 1817, 
and is a fine hall 230 feet in length, and well lighted from 
the roof. In this hall are to be seen the famous statue 
of Augustus the Athlete and many others. The Museo 
Pio-Clementino , so called from Clement XIV and Pius 
VI. from whom it received its most important acces- 
sions, is the most magnificent museum of ancient sculpt- 
ure in the world. It contains the collections formed by 
Julius II, Leo X. Clement VII, and Paul 111. In this 
museum may be named, among others, the following 
apartments: Pound Vestibule , Ilall of Meleager, Cortile 
di JUlredere , Hall of the Animals, Gallery of Statues, 
Hall of the M uses. The Gallery of the Candelabra is 
a fine hall about 300 feet long, erected by Pi its VI. anil 
derives its name from several ancient candelabra placed 
in it. It is situated on the upper floor. The Etruscan 
Museum, or Museo Gregor iano, so called from its found- 


VATICAN COUNCIL 


VATICAN MANUSCRIPT 


731 


er, Gregory XVI, is devoted to the preservation of the 
Etruscan antiquities accumulated by his predecessors, 
and is very rich in specimens belonging to this depart- 
ment. The Egyptian Museum is entered from the Mn- 
seo Chiaramonti, and contains Egyptian antiquities of 
great interest. From the Gallery of the Candelabra 
we reach the Arazzi, or Tapestries of Raphael. Then 
eoraes the Gallery of the Maps, a tine hall 500 feet long, 
and celebrated for .its series of maps of Italy and its isl- 
ands, painted for Gregory XII l (1572-85). The Stanze 
of Raphael are a series of four chambers opening out of 
the second range of Loggie, so called from the fact that 
the great life-work of Raphael was the decoration of 
their walls. The chambers are called respectively, Stan- 
za of the Incendio del JJorgo , Camera della Segnatura, 
Stanza of Ileliodorus , Sala of Constantine. 

The Capella di San Lorenzo, built by Nicholas V as 
his private chapel, is interesting for its frescos by Fra 
Angelico da Ficsole; it is also interesting as being the 
only decorated portion of the Vatican older than the 
time of Alexander VI. The Rinacoteca, or Gallery of 
Pictures , contains a small number (less than fifty) of 
pictures; but they arc among the rarest treasures of art 
to be found in the world. The Transfgnration , the 
Madonna da Foligno , and the Communion of St. Jerome 
may be mentioned as examples of these rare works. 

The Library was founded by Nicholas V (1447), by 
transferring to his new palace the MSS. which had been 
collected in the Lateran; and, at his death, it is said to 
have contained 9000 MSS. In 1000 there were 10,000 
MSS., of which 8500 were Latin and 2100 Greek. It 
received important accessions in 1021, presented^bv duke 
Maximilian of Bavaria; in 1058, the library of Ilrbino; 
in 1090, the collection of Christina, queen of Sweden; 
in 1740, the library of the Ottobuoni family. The Vat- 
ican Library is one of the most valuable in the world, 
though not very large as compared with many others. 
There are 23,580 MSS. and 30,000 volumes. 

Vatican Council, the nineteenth and last necu- 
menical council of the Roman Catholic Church, assem- 
bled in the Vatican at Rome Dec. 8, 1809, and continued 
nearly a year. It was called by pope Pius IX, in the 
twenty-third year of his pontificate, by an encyclical 
dated June 29, 1808. The attendance was larger than 
on any previous council. At the opening there were 
719 prelates from all parts of the globe, including 49 
eardinals, 9 patriarchs, 4 primates, 121 archbishops, 479 
bishops, 57 abbots and generals of monastic orders. 
This number afterwards increased to 704; but after the 
outbreak of the Franco-Prussian war it dwindled down 
to less than 200. The whole number of prelates invited 
and entitled to a seat in the council was 1037. Of 
those present a large majority were Italian, while the 
French and German were least in number, although 
strongest in learning and importance of the dioceses 
they represented. The deliberations of the council 
were conducted in strict secrecy, and the results sol- 
emnly proclaimed in four public sessions. The pro- 
ceedings were made public only through information 
obtained from members of the council bv their friends. 

The management of the council was entirely in the 
hands of the pope and his eardinals and advisers. The 
proceedings were entirely in Latin, the official language 
of the Roman Catholic Church. The subjects for con- 
sideration were classified under four heads, or divisions, 
and each division assigned to a congregntio , or commis- 
sion, of twenty-six prelates, presided over by a cardinal 
appointed by the pope. The divisions were faith, dis- 
cipline, religious orders, and rites. The decrees were 
prepared by a commission of the most eminent prelates 
and theologians of the Catholic world, previous to the 
assembling of the council, in the form of schemata, or 
programmes; and on the basis of these the different 
commissions presented decrees for the adoption of the 
eouneil. These were discussed and adopted in secret 
session and the results proclaimed publicly. 

The chief object of the council was to protest against , 


modern infidelity and settle the question of papal infal- 
libility (q. v.). The first two public sessions were held 
Dee. 8, 1809, and Jan. 0, 1870. The third was held April 
24, 1870, and it was here that the “decrees on the dog- 
matic constitution of the Catholic faith” wore unani- 
mously adopted. These decrees are directed against 
modern rationalism, pantheism, materialism, and athe- 
ism, and proclaim the orthodox doctrine of God, the cre- 
ation, and the relations of faith and reason. At the 
fourth “solemn session,” which was held July 18, 1870, 
the “decrees on the dogmatic constitution of the Church 
of Christ” were adopted with two dissenting voices. 
These decrees set forth the doctrine of papal absolutism 
and infallibility, and caused much discussion and the 
departure of a number of bishops before the public vote. 
The eouneil was adjourned and indefinitely postponed 
Oct. 20, 1870, on account of the Franco-Prussian war, 
and the occupation of Rome by Italian troops. 

See Manning, Petri Pririlegium (Lond. 1871); Glad- 
stone, The Vatican Decrees (1874); id. Vaticanism 
(1875); Baeon, An Inside View of the Vatican Council 
(1872). 

Vatican Hill. See Rome. 

Vatican Manuscript (1) (Coi>ex Vatican us, 
designated as B) is one of the oldest and most valuable 
MSS. of the Greek Testament, numbered 1209 in the 
library of the Vatican at Rome, where it seems to have 
been brought shortly after the establishment of the li- 
brary by pope Nicholas V (who died in 1455) ; but noth- 
ing is known of its previous history. It is a quarto 
volume of 140 leaves, hound in red morocco, ten and a 
half inches high, ten broad, and half an inch thick. It 
once contained the whole Bible in Greek, i. e. the Old 
Test, of the Sept, version, excepting Gen. i-xlvi (the 
MS. begins at - Tiikiy, Gen. xlvi, 8). and Psa. cv-cxxxvii, 
together with the New Test, complete down to Heb. ix, 
14, fcetd’a ; the rest of the Epistle to the Hebrews, the 
lour Pastoral Epistles (the Catholic Epistles had followed 
the Acts), and the Apocalypse being written in a later 
hand. The MS. is on very thin vellum; the letters 
are comparatively small and regularly formed; three 
columns are on each page (except in some of the poeti- 
cal parts of the Old Test., which are written stichomct- 
rically, and with hut two columns); each column con- 
tains about forty-two lines, and each line from sixteen 
to eighteen letters, with no intervals between the words, 
a space of half a letter being left at the end of a sentence, 
and a little more at the conclusion of a paragraph. It 
has been doubted whether any of the stops are by the 
first hand; and the breathings and accents are now gen- 
erally allowed to have been added by a second hand. 
This hand, apparently about the 8th century, retraced, 
with as much care as such an operation would admit, 
the faint lines of the original writing (the ink whereof 
was, perhaps, never quite black), the remains of which 
can even now be seen ; and, at the same time, the reviser 
left untouched such words or letters as he wished, for 
critical purposes, to reject, and these still express the 
original condition of the MS., being unaccented. The 
initial capitals are also due to the later hand, being in 
blue or red, as also the broad green bar surmounted with 
three red crosses at the head of each book. Fewer 
abridgments than usual occur. The form of the letters 
points to the 4th century as the date of the IMS. 

The Gospels contain neither the Ammonian sections 
nor the Eusehian canons, nor yet the larger chapters; 
but they are divided into numbered sections; Matthew 
having 170, Mark 01, Luke 152, and John 80. Those 
in the Acts and Catholic Epistles differ from the Eutlia- 
lia.ii, and amount to 79. Raul’s Epistles are treated as 
one book, the sections running on continuously. Thus, 
the last section in Galatians is numbered 58, and Ephe- 
sians begins with 70 (showing an omission of 1 1 sec- 
tions); but after 2 Thessalonians (the last division of 
which is marked 93). Hebrews begins with section 59, 
showing that it once occupied the above gap between 


VATICAN MANUSCRIPT 


732 


VAUGHAN 


❖ 


4 ** x mc 


1 + A 

4 


❖ 



u 


M ak a pi oc^ n h]> o coyKenofeyeHeM 
BOy\H^ceBCDN c= 


J 


KaIpmOaco ApTtoAco n oyKeCTH 
K A. I 6 n_l K A© GA|>A N AO i m CL) NO Y KC KAe »ce 
AAA HGN TtONOHWKYTOe CAHmAAYtY 
KAI 6 N TtoN O midAYTOYm£\€THC 6 
HMepACKAlHYKTO'c 
XAiecTAitbcToj y ao n T o n e <[> y~reY 


Specimen of the Codex Vaticanus (containing Psa. i, 1-B: nanttpioa aD/p oe uvk t-nopev^rj tv (3ov\r\ aoeftwv | xat tv oMo 

apapTtO/\««i/ ovk tent] | nut tin KaStdpav Xotyoiv ova tuauai \ u\\ rj tv tw lo/ita kv to ea\t}fka aw tv | uni tv t>~> vofita uvtov 

/xtAer i]o-e \ >ifitpa<r Kai i vktoct | kAi toToi o a to t-i’\ov to nt<j)VTtv), taken from Sylvestre’s facsimile, No. GO, to the im- 
perfection of which some of the errors iu spelling aud punctuation are probably due. 


Galatians and Ephesians (it now ends with section 61, 
the last four and a half chapters, which are lost, having 
made up the rest). 

The jealousy and illiberally of the papal authorities 
have greatly obstructed the public knowledge of this 
valuable MS. Imperfect collations were early made by 
llartolocci, two for Bentley (by Mico and lhilotta), and 
again by Birch. Tischendorf, Tregelles, and other 
scholars were unable to secure the privilege of more 
than a brief inspection of the MS. At length cardinal 
Mai prepared the New Test, in several forms, which 
were published after his death (ed. Yercellone, 1857, 4 
vols. 4to; 1850, 8vc>) ; but so imperfectly and uncritical- 
ly that no good representative existed until Tischen- 
dorf s revision (Leips. 1867, Svo). In 1868, however, 
the Roman government itself undertook a splendid edi- 
tion of the New Test, portion, with so-called fac-simile 
type (originally cast for Tischendorfs ed. of the Cod. 
Sin.), followed by a similar edition of the Old Test, por- 
tion in 4 vols. 4to. See Tregelles, in Horne’s Jntrod. 
new ed. iv, 158 sq. ; Scrivener, Jntrocl. to the New Test. 
p. 84 sq. ; Schulz, De Cod. Vat. (Lips. 1827) ; Brit. Quar. 
Jie v. Oct. 1858; Brit, and For. Evany. Iter. Jan. 1851); 
Christian Remembrancer , April, 1859; Stud. it. Krit. 
1860, iii. See Manuscripts, Biblical. 

VATICAN MANUSCRIPT (2) ( Codex Vaticanus) is 
also the conventional designation of the Greek MS. 354 
of the four gospels in the Vatican Library, usually de- 
luded as S. The subscription says that it was written 
by Michael, a monk, in the year 949. It is a folio of 
two hundred and thirty-four leaves, written in large, ob- 
long, or compressed uncials. The Epistle to Caspianus 
aud the canons of Eusebius are prefixed, and it con- 
tains many later corrections and marginal notes. Birch 
collated it with considerable care, ai^d Tischendorf 
aud Tregelles cursorily inspected it. See Tregelles, in 
Horne’s Jntrod. iv, 202; Scrivener, Jntrod. to the X. T. 
p. 115. See Manuscripts, Biblical. 

Vaticanus, also Vagitanus, in Roman mythol- 
ogy, was a deity who directed the first lispings of little 
children. 

Vaudois. See Waldenses, 

Vaughan, Henry, a clergyman of the Church of 
England, was born at Mitchelmersh, Hampshire, Jan. 6, 
1X06. He was remarkable from childhood for his gen- 
tle manners and amiable disposition. At the age of 
sixteen he became a candidate for a scholarship at Cor- 
pus Christi College, Oxford ; but, proving unsuccessful, 
he, after two years of private study, entered Wadham 
College. Subsequently he obtained a scholarship at 
Worcester College. An ardent ambition for scholastic 


distinction was now the most prominent feature of his 
character, and by bis overwork he made himself sick and 
brought himself to the verge of death, which resulted 
in his conversion. He returned to college with earnest 
devotion for a ministerial preparation. In 1829 he was 
ordained to the sacred office, and began bis labors as 
reader of the English service at Llangennv, a romantic 
village in the vale of Usk, Wales. Here he also did 
great service, and greatly endeared himself to the peo- 
ple as pastor. In 1830 Mr. Vaughan was appointed to 
the curacy of Crickhowell, Brecknockshire, and in 1882 
vicar, which office he held during life. He died Jan. 
21, 1837. Mr. Vaughan was a great lover of children, 
a tender pastor, an able and promising young preach- 
er. He published several Sermons, and a work on the 
Fruits of the Spirit (Loud. 1841, 8vo). See Christian 
Guardian , 1846, p. 181, 489, 513 ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, 
and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Vaughan, Isaac, an English Congregational min- 
ister, was born at (Headless, March 9, 1813. He was 
educated at Rotherham College, and in 1833 settled at 
Olney; in 1850 he became pastor of the New Taber- 
nacle, Loudon, and in 1858 removed to Masborough. 
He died July 24, I860. Mr. Vaughan was a clear, prac- 
tical preacher; his theology was sound and full, and 
his ecclesiastical principles settled and uncompromis- 
ing. See (Loud.) Cony. Year-book , 1867, p. 823. 

Vaughan, John A., D.D., a clergyman of the 
Protestant Episcopal Church, died at Philadelphia, Pa., 
June 5, 1864. For a long time he was professor in the 
Divinity School. Philadelphia. See A mer. Quar . Church 
Rev. July, 1865, p. 323. 

Vaughan, Martin, an English Wesleyan minis- 
ter, entered the work in 1796, and died Nov. 4, 1846, in 
the eighty-fifth year of his age. He was a faithful and 
affectionate minister, of a retiring disposition, and of few 
words. See Minnies of West. Conferences, 1847. 

Vaughan, Robert, D.D., an English Congrega- 
tional minister, was born at London in 1795. He stud- 
ied for the ministry with Rev. William Thorp. He al- 
ways lamented his want of early educational advan- 
tages. The self-made student, the self-made historian, 
became the self-made and accomplished theologian. 
11 is first pastorate was at Worcester (1819), where he 
labored for six years. But it was after his removal to 
Kensington that he became more extensively known. 
He addressed himself chiefly to men of intelligence and 
culture, and by them his ministry was highly appreci- 
ated. During his ministration at Kensington, he was 
for six years professor of modern history at the London 
University. From 1843 to 1857 he held the principal- 


VAUGHAN 


1 33 


VAULT 


ship of Lancashire Independent College. Dr. Vaughan 
died at Torquay, June 15, 1868. The following are his 
published works: The Life of 1 1 T y cliff e : — Memorials 
of the Stuart Dynasty: — Religious Parties in England: 
— Congregationalism and Modern Society: — The Mod- 
ern Pulpit: — Revolutions in English History: — and Me- 
morial of English Nonconformity . Dr. Vaughan orig- 
inated and edited for twenty years the British Quar- 
terly Review , a work which gave Congregational dis- 
sent a new position in the literary world. “ II is zeal in 
the cause of evangelical truth, in the support of the 
great doctrines of Christian divinity and atonement, 
was very great ; and not only as a theologian, but as 
a Christian, he felt the need of believing those Gos- 
pel truths for the life and comfort of his own soul.” 
See (Loml.) Cong . Year-book , 1800, p. "288. 

Vaughan, Robert Alfred, an Independent min- 
ister, son of Dr. Robert Vaughgn, was born at Worces- 
ter, England, March 18, 1823. lie graduated at London 
University in 1842, and at the Lancashire Independent. 
College in 184G, then studied theology at Halle. He 
was colleague of Rev. William Jay as pastor of Argyle 
Chapel, Bath, 1848-50, and pastor at Birmingham, 
1850-55. He died in London, Oct. 26, 1857. He pub- 
lished, The Witch of Endor and Other Poems (1844): — 
Honrs with the Mystics, a Contribution to the History of 
Religious Opinions (1856,2 vols.): — Essays and Remains 
(posthumously, with a Memoir by his father, 1858, 2 
vols.). 

Vaughan, Thomas, a writer on magic and some- 
time minister of the Church of England, was born at 
Newton St. Bridget. Brecknockshire, in 1621. He was 
educated at Jesus College, Oxford, of which he subse- 
quently became fellow. He officiated as rector of St. 
Bridget, Brecknockshire, afterwards retiring to Oxford, 
where he became famous as a disciple and teacher in 
the school of Cornelius Agrippa. He gave most of his 
time to alchemy and kindred subjects. He died at Ox- 
ford, Feb. 27, 1665. His principal works are, Anthropo- 
sophia Theomagica: — A ninia Magica Abscondita : — 
The Fame and Confession of the R. C., commonly of 
the Rosie Cross . 

Vaughan, William B., a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was born in Sullivan County, Tenn., May 21, 
1851. He was converted in 1872 while attending King’s 
College, and joined the Virginia Conference in 1873. 
Subsequently he entered Drew Theological Seminary, 
where his application as a student brought on the mal- 
ady which caused his death. lie died in Carroll Coun- 
ty, Va., Feb. 3, 1876. Few young ministers have given 
greater hopes for future usefulness than Mr. Vaughan. 
He was earnest, manly, efficient; ready for work on 
earth or for rest in heaven. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences , 1876, p. 16. 

Vault (Fr. voute, Lat. volutus). The simplest and 
most ancient kind used over a rectangular area is the 
cylindrical , called also a barrel, and sometimes wagon- 
vault ; this springs from the two opposite walls, and 
presents a uniform concave surface throughout its whole 
length. The term “cylindrical” properly implies the 
form of a segment of a cylinder, but it is applied to 
pointed vaults of the same description. Vaults of this 
character were used by the Romans, and also by the 
builders in England to the end of the Norman style. 
The Romans also first introduced groining, formed by 
the intersection of vaults 
crossing each other at 
right angles, and some 
of their constructions of 
this kind were of very 
large size. In groined 
vaults the arches which 
cross each other do not 
always correspond in 
width ; in such cases 
Cylindrical Vault. they sometimes spring 



from the same 
level, and conse- 
quently are of 
unequal heights; 
and sometimes 
the springing of 
the narrower 
vault is raised 
so that the tops 
are on the same 
level. Domical, Groiued Vault, 

or hemispherical, 

vaulting over a circular area was likewise practiced by 
the Romans, of which the Fantheon at Rome exhibits 
a magnificent example of one hundred and forty-two 
feet in diameter. The decorations employed on Roman 
vaulting consist chiedy of panels, and flat bands of or- 
nament following the curve of the arch : the applica- 
tion of ribs at that period was unknown. 

In the Norman style cylindrical or barrel vaulting, 
as well as groined vaulting, is used ; the former of these 
is either perfectly devoid of ornament, as in the chapel 
in the White Tower of London, or has plain and mas- 
sive ribs at intervals following the direction of the curve 
of the arch. In groined vaulting the cross-vaults are 
not unfrequently surmounted, or stilted, when they are 
of narrower span than the main vault, though some- 
times in such cases they are both made to spring from 
the same level; but in general the parts of the build- 
ing are so arranged that both vaults are of nearly or 
quite the same breadth. 

In the Early English style, when the use of the 
pointed arch was permanently established, the same 
form was also given to the vaulting; and groined vaults 
at this period were universally adopted. In buildings 
of this date ribs are invariably employed, especially on 
the groins. The simplest arrangement of them con- 
sists of the diagonal or groin ribs, cross-springers, and 
the longitudinal and transverse ribs at the apex of the 
main and cross vaults; but these two last in some ex- 
amples are omitted. Additional ribs are sometimes 
introduced between the diagonals and cross-springers. 
In some buildings in England, and in many on the 
Continent, the vaulting is constructed with the main 
vault double the width of the cross- vaults, with the di- 
agonal ribs embracing two bays or compartments of the 
cross-vaults, as in the choir of Canterbury Cathedral. 

Decorated vaults, for the most part, differ but little 
from those of the preceding style. The longitudinal and 
transverse ribs are occasionally, but not often, omitted, 
and the number of those on the surface of the vaulting 
is sometimes increased ; and in some examples ribs are 




Westminster Abbey, cir. 12C0. 



VAULTING-SHAFT 


734 


VECELLI 


introduced crossing the vaults in directions opposite to 
their curves, so as to form in some degree an appear- 
ance of net-work upon them. The short ribs which 
connect the bosses and intersections of the principal rib 
and ridge-ribs, but which do not themselves either spring 
from an impost or occupy the ridge, are termed lienies , 


and the vaults in which they occur Herne mutts. 

In the Perpendicular style the general construction 
is much the same as in the Decorated, but the ribs are 
often more numerous, and pendants are not uncommon. 

Towards the latter part of this 
style fan -tracery vaulting was 
commonly introduced; this has 
no groins, but the pendent ives 
are circular on the plan, and 
have the same curve in every 
direction, resembling inverted 
curvilinear conoids, and are gen- 
erally covered with ribs and tra- 
cery branching out equally all 
round them. The middle of the 
upper part of the vault, between 
the pendent ives, is usually dom- 
ical in construction, and fre- 
quently has a pendant in the 
centre of each compartment. — 
Parker, Gloss, of A rchitect. s. v. 

Vaulting - shaft, a term 
proposed by Prof. Willis for a 
shaft, small column, or pillar 
which supports the ribs of a 
vault. Shafts of this kind some- 
times rise from the floor, and 
sometimes from the capital of 
a larger pillar, or from a corbel 
. or other projection. The most 

ai Abbey S ch i ! t 1300. tley ,,sual arran S emeilt is that shown 
5 ’ in the example here given, where 

the shaft rises between the spriugings of the arches of 
the nave. — Parker, Gloss, of Architect, s. v. 



Vavasseur, Francois, a Jesuit of France, emi- 
nently distinguished for his accomplishments in belles- 
lettres, was born in 1C05 at Paray. He entered the So- 
ciety of Jesuits in 1621, and taught polite literature and 
rhetoric for seven years. In 1G45 he was called to Paris 
to teach Holy Scripture, and died there Dec. IG, 1G81. 
He understood the Latin tongue very exactly. He wrote, 
Johns , sire de Patientia, Libri 1 1 * (printed very often, last 
edition 1G79) : — Thenrgicon, sire de Miraculis Christi , 
IAbri IV: — De Forma Christi Dissertation ete. II is 
works were published in 1709 at Amsterdam. See Ale- 
gambe, Bibliotheca Scriptornm Societatis Jesu ; Blount, 
Censura Celebrium A uctorum ; A eta Ernditornm Lati- 
norum; Niceron, Memoires; Le Long, Bibliotheqne His - 
toriqne de France; Winer, Handbuch der tkeol. IJfera- 
tur, i, 50*2. (B. P.) 


Vayer, Francois he la Mothe le. See Motiie 
le Vayer. 


Vayu (Sanscrit va, “blow”), in Hindu mythology, 
a deity which originally held an equal rank with Imlra, 
but which much more rarely occupies the imagination 
of the poets than lndra or Agni. See Muir, Contribu- 
tions to a Knowledge of the Vet lie Theogony and Mythol- 
ogy , in the Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society. J8G4. 

Ve, in Norse mythology, was a brother of Vile and 
Odin, which three together created the first parents, 
Ask and Embla. 


Veal, Edward. A .M., an English Dissenting minis- 
ter and tutor, was born in 1631. He was educated at 
Christ Church, Oxford; went to Dublin and became 
senior fellow' of Trinity College; returned to England 
fur ordination ; went again to Ireland and preached there 
for several years; but was afterwards stripped of his fel- 
lowship and returned to England. On the passage of 
the Uniformity Act lie gathered a congregation of Dis- 


senters at Wapping, and continued to preach to them 
until advanced age compelled him to resign. He was 
for a time professor of a Dissenting academy, and train- 
ed up several excellent ministers. He died in 1708. 
See Bogue and Bennett, History of Dissenters, i, 336. 

Veasey, Thomas. B.D., a clergyman of the Church 
of England, was born in 1753. No record remains of his 
early life, lie was some time tutor, and for upwards of 
sixty years fellow, of St. Peter’s College, Cambridge. At 
the time of his death, May 22, 1839, he was the oldest 
resident member of the university, and had proceeded 
to the degree of A.B. in 1778; A.M. in 1781 ; and B.D. 
in 1794. See Christian Remembrancer , 1839, p. 37G. 

Vecclii, Giovanni de’, an Italian painter, was horn 
at Borgo San Sepolcro in 1536. lie studied at Borne 
under Baffaellino della Colie, ami afterwards with Tad- 
deo Zuccaro, who was at that time engaged in embel- 
lishing the palace of the cardinal Alessandro Farnese at 
Caprarola. Here lie was rather the competitor than 
the pupil of Zucearo, and executed several important 
works. His best product ions are in the palace at Ca- 
prarola, in the Church of San Lorenzo in Damaso, and in 
the Church of Santa Maria d’Ara Cceli. Among the lat- 
ter are the Four Doctors of the Church , and several his- 
tories of St. Jerome. He also frescoed the cupola of the 
Chiesa del Gesii. He died at Borne in 1614. See Spoo- 
ner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Vecchia, Pietro, a Venetian painter, was born in 
1605. lie was educated in the school of Alessandro 
Varotari (q. v.), but. did not follow the style of that 
master, lie studied to imilate the works of Giorgione 
and Pordenone, and acquired such skill in this direction 
that his paintings have been mistaken for the produc- 
tions of those masters, even by competent critics. He 
also imitated Titian and other masters with great accu- 
racy, on account of which he was often employed in re- 
storing old paintings. He copied in oil several of the 
historical mosaics in the Church of St. Mark, Venice, 
and painted, among others, two altar-pieces from his own 
designs in the same edifice, The Crucifixion and Christ 
Dricing the Money-changers from the Temple, lie died 
in 1678. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts , s. v. 

Vecchietta, Lorenzo m Pietro {da Siena'), an 
Italian painter and sculptor, was born at Sienna in 1424. 
11 is pictures arc characterized by hardness of style, and 
but few of them remain, lie probably studied sculpt- 
ure under Donatello, and gained great distinction in 
this department. He obtained the commission to exe- 
cute the bronze tabernacle of the grand altar in the 
Cathedral of Sienna, with the marble ornaments. The 
beauty of this work gained for him commissions for vari- 
ous works in sculpture in the buildings of Sienna. .among 
which are two statues of St. Peter and St. Paul, in the 
Loggia del Banco, delicately executed: — a statue of 
Ch? ist , in the hospital of the Scala : — and several works 
in bronze for the baptistery of San Giovanni. He died 
in 1482. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Vecelli (or Vecellio), Francesco, an Italian 
painter, brother of Titian, was born at Cadore, in the 
Friuli, in 1 183. He was instructed by his brother, and 
showed such talents as to excite the jealousy of Titian, 
who is said to have persuaded him to engage in other 
pursuits, lie then entered the army and led a military 
life until the restoration of peace in Italy, when he re- 
turned to Venice and resumed painting, lie now exe- 
cuted some altar-pieces and portraits in the style of Ti- 
tian, possessing so much merit as to excite the alarm of 
the master, who induced him to devote his attention to 
t he decoration of cabinets with small paintings, for which 
there was a great demand at. that time. In 1531 he re- 
linquished painting entirely, and gave his attention to 
merchandising. The duplicity and illiborality of Titian 
towards his brother Francesco are denied by many, on 
the ground that they are incredible. Moreover, it is 
claimed that Francesco was an “erratic and wayward 
genius” who became dissatisfied with an occupation that 


VECIINEIl 


735 


VEDA 


merely gained him his bread, and joined the army. 
When the army disbanded he returned to painring 
again for a time, t hen became a merchant, and finally 
threw away his time and money in the vain pursuit of 
alchemy. II is best works are, The Transfiguration , in 
the Church of San Salvatore at Venice : — and The Nativ- 
ity, in the Church of San Giuseppe at Belluno: — besides 
some of his cabinet pieces. The time of Ins death is not 
known. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Vechner, David, a Protestant theologian of Ger- 
many, was born March 13, 1504, at Freystadt, in Silesia. 
He studied at various universities, and was appointed 
professor of logic at Beuthen. For live years he had 
to leave the country, and after his return he was ap- 
pointed rector at Sprottau. In 1043 he was made dea- 
con at Gorlitz, and in 1002 pastor primarius, and died 
Feb. 15, LOGO. He wrote, Breviarium Germaniie : — 
Spy ration sen Sportella Textuum evangel. Domin. etc. 
See Funeken, Lebensgeschichte tier geist lichen Per sown 
zu Gorlitz; Grosser, Lausitzer Merkwiirdigkeiten ; Witte, 
Jjiarium Biographicum ; Joclier, Allgemeines Gelehrten- 
Lexikon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Vechner, Georg, brother of David, was born at 
Freystadt in 1590. In 1018 he was promoted as doctor 
of theology at Frankfort, and acted for some time as 
professor at the gymnasium in Beuthen. In 1640 he 
was called to the pastorate at Bricg, and died Dec. 24, 
1047. He wrote, Palus Pauli in 2 Cor. xii: — Sinus 
Abrahte: — Regia Animi Professio a Davide facta ex 
Psalm. 101, etc. See Witte, Diarium Biographicum; 
Allgemeines llistorisches- Lexikon ; J ocher, Allgemeines 
Gelehrten-Lexikon , s. v. (B. P.) 

Veda (from the Sanscrit vid, “to know,” literally 
meaning knowledge) is the general name applied to those 
ancient Sanscrit writings on which the early Hindu re- 
ligion was based. The oldest of these works is the Rig - 
vedtt ; next to it are the Yajur-veda and Sama-veda; 
and the latest is the Atharva-vetla. The first three are 
called, collectively, trayi, or “ the threefold,” and all are 
thought to be divinely inspired. Each of the Vedas 
consists of two distinct parts — a Sanhita, or collection of 
hymns or mantras , and a Brahmana. A mantra (San- 
scrit man, 11 to think”) is a prayer, or else a thanksgiv- 
ing, adoration, or praise addressed to a deity. If such 
a mantra is metrical and intended for recitation aloud, 
it is called Rich (praise) ; whence the name Rig-veda , or 
the Veda containing such metrical mantras. If it is in 
prose, it must be muttered inaudiblv, and is called Yajus 
( yaj , “ sacrifice”) ; hence the name Yajur-veda. If it 
is metrical and intended for chanting, it is called Sa- 
man; hence the name Sama-veda. No special name is 
applied to the mantras of the .1 tharva-veda. The Brah- 
mana ( Brahman neuter) designates that portion in prose 
of the Vedas which contains either commandmentsor ex- 
planations, or which gives injunctions for the perform- 
ance of sacrificial acts, explains their origin, and the 
occasions on which the mantras had to be used, by add- 
ing illustrations, legends, or philosophical speculations. 
The Brahmana portion of the Vedas constitutes the ba- 
sis on which the Vedic ritual rests, and the source from 
whence the Upanishads (q. v.) and philosophical doc- 
trines were developed. 

Though Brahmauas and mantras were claimed at a 
later period of Hinduism to have existed from eternity, 
it is certain that the Brahmana portion of each Veda is 
later than some portion, at least, of its Sanhita, for it re- 
fers to it ; and, from the bulk and character of the works, 
they must have been the product of a considerable pe- 
riod of time. Tradition records that Vyasa (q. v.), af- 
ter having compiled and arranged the Vedas, handed 
each of them to four disciples, and that these disciples 
taught them to their disciples, and so on down to dis- 
tant ages. Thus the mantras and Brahmauas passed 
through a large number of schools, called sakhas, and, 
as a natural result, discrepancies gradually arose between 
these schools, both as regards the Vedic texts and the 


manner of interpreting them, which* in the lapse of 
time became very grear. The differences between 
these sakhas did not consist in their various readings 
of the text alone, but in the arrangement as well. The 
number of these sakhas was very large, as may be in- 
ferred from a statement ascribed to the ancient writer 
Saunaka. in which mention is made of live sakhas of 
the Rig-veda , eighty-six of the Yajur-veda , one thou- 
sand ol’ the Sama-veda) and nine of the A tharva-veda. 
But of all these schools the Rig-veda is now extant only 
in one, the Yajur-veda in three (and partially in four), 
the Sama-veda in two, and the A tharva-veda in one. 
The MSS. now in existence are of no great age or au- 
thority; and in cases of disputed authenticity appeal is 
made to the pandits of greatest repute. 

For the religious ideas contained in the Vedas, see 
Hinduism. 

The social condition of the Hindus, as reflected from 
the hymns of the Rig-veda , is not that of a pastoral or 
nomadic people, but of a people somewhat advanced in 
civilization. Frequent allusion is made to towns and 
cities, powerful kings and their enormous wealth. Be- 
sides agriculture, they mention various useful arts, such 
as weaving, melting precious metals, fabricating cars, 
golden and iron mail, and golden ornaments. The em- 
ployment of the needle and the use of musical instru- 
ments were known to them. The Hindus of that period 
were familiar with the ocean, and sometimes went on 
naval expeditions. They had some knowledge of med- 
icine, had made some advance in astronomical calcula- 
tion, and even employed the complicated law of inherit- 
ance. The institution of caste, however, seems at that 
time to have been unknown. 

The only recension in which the Sanhita of the Rig- 
veda has been preserved to us is that of the Sakala 
school; and the hymns are arranged according either 
to the material bulk or their authorship. According to 
the former arrangement, the whole Sanhita consists of 
8 ashtakas, or eights; these are divided into 04 adhy- 
ayas, or lessons; these into 2006 vargas, or sections; 
and these again into richs, or verses, numbering 10,417. 
According to the other method, the Sanhita is divided 
into 10 mandalas, or circles; these into 85 anuvakas , 
or sections; these into 1028 suhtas, or hymns; and the 
hymns into richs , of the same number, of course, as in 
the former arrangement. The number of words is said 
to be 153,820 in this Sanhita. 

The Brahmana portion of the Rig-veda is preserved 
in two works — the Aitareya Brahmana and the San- 
khayana, or Khanshitaki Brahmana. The former con- 
sists of 8 panchikas, or pentades; each of these com- 
prising 5 adhyayas , or lessons; and the 40 adhyayas 
285 khandas, or portions. The latter contains 80 ad- 
hyayas, divided into a number of khandas. 

The precise date of the composition of the Rig-veda, 
much the oldest of the Vedas, is not known. By the 
methods of modern criticism, an approximate date has 
been assigned. Internal evidence, based upon a com- 
parison of the older with the later portions, and coupled 
with such facts as the dispersion of the Aryan race and 
the historical rise of Buddhism, leads to the conclusion 
that the mantras of the Rig-veda were composed bv 
a succession of poets between the 1 5th and 12th cen- 
turies B.O. 

The Sama-veda was compiled chiefly for the perform- 
ance of those sacrifices of which the juice of the Soma 
plant is the chief ingredient; and of these sacrifices the 
Jyotishtonui is the most important. At the performance 
of such Soma sacrifices the verses of the Sama-veda were 
chanted; and there arc special books which teach the 
proper manner of chanting them. The Sanhita of the 
Sama-veda is preserved in two recensions, and consists 
of two parts — the Chhandograntha, or Archika, or Pur- 
varchika , and the Stanbhika, or Uttara grant ha, or Utta- 
rarchika. The first part consists of fifty-nine dasati, or 
decades, which are divided into prapathakas, or chap- 
ters; and these again into ardhaprapathakas, or half- 


VEDAN 


^36 


VEDANTA 


chapters; the entire part containing 5S5 verses. The 
second portion is divided in a similar manner, and con- 
tains 1225 verses. The number of Brahmanas relating 
to this Veda is probably ten, including one of the Ljmni- 
skads and a later Brahmana. 

There are two Yajur-vedas , resulting from a dissen- 
sion between its schools, known as the Black and the 
White. The Black Yajur-veda is the older of the two, 
and lacks that complete separation of the Sanhita and 
Brahmana portions which exists in all the others; but 
this defect is remedied in the White Yajur-veda. The ; 
contents of both are similar in many respects. The 
text of the Sanhita of the Black Yajur-veda is extant 
in two recensions, one of which consists of 7 khandus, or 
books, comprising 44 prapathakas , or chapters, subdi- 
vided into 651 anuvakas, or sections, and containing 2198 
khandikus , or portions. The Sanhita of the White Ya- 
jur-vtda exists also in two recensions, and contains 40 
adhyayas , divided into 303 anuvakas , and subdivided 
into 1975 khaiulikas. 

'i'lie object of the A tharva-veda is to teach how to ap- 
pease, to bless, to curse, etc. Prof. Whitney (. Journal 
oftke A mer. Orient. Soc. i ii, 308) says, “ The most prom- 
inent characteristic feature of this Veda is the multi- 
tude of incantations which it contains; these are pro- 
nounced either by the person who is himself to be ben- 
efited, or, more often, by the sorcerer for him, and are 
directed to the procuring of the greatest variety of de- 
sirable ends. Most frequently, perhaps, long life, or re- 
covery from grievous sickness, is the object sought; 
t hen a talisman, such as a necklace, is sometimes given ; 
or, in very numerous instances, some plant endowed 
with marvellous virtues is to be the immediate external 
means of the cure; further, the attainment of wealth 
or power is aimed at, the downfall of enemies, increase 
in love or in play, the removal of petty pests, and so on, 
even down to the growth of hair on a bald pate.” The 
adherents of this Veda attach great importance to it. 
They claim that the other Vedas enable a man to fulfil 
the dhanna , or religious law, but that the A tharva-veda 
helps him to attain moksha , or eternal bliss. The text 
of this Veda is preserved only in the Saunaka school. 
The Sanhita portion consists of twenty khandus,or books, 
some of which are divided into chapters, containing, in 
all, one hundred and ten sections. 

Of all the Vedas the Rig-veda is by far the most im- 
portant, and carries the greatest weight of authority. 

The literature of the Vedas is quite extensive. The 
text of the Rig-veda has been edited in Homan charac- 
ters by Prof. Aufrecht (Berlin, 1861); in Sanscrit, with 
the commentary of Sayana (A.D. 1400), by Max Muller 
(1849-62); the text of the Sama-veda bv I)r. J. Ste- 
venson (Loud. 1842-43) and Prof. Henley (Leips. 1848); 
the text of the Yajur-veda by Prof. A. Weber (Berlin, 
1852): the text of the Atharvu-veda by Profs. K. Both 
and W. D. Whitney (ibid. 1856). The first complete 
translation of the Rig-veda was made by Prof. II. II. 
Wilson (Lond. 1850-56, 4 vols.). See Both, Zur Lite ra- 
tin' und Geschichte des Weda (Stuttgart, 1846); Weber, 
Akademische I ’orlesnngen iiber indische Lite rat u rgesch. 
(Berlin, 1852); Muller, I list, of Ancient Sanscrit Litera- 
ture (Lond. 1859); id. Chips from a. German Workshop 
(N. V. 1870) ; Whitney, Oriental and Linguistic Studies 
(ibid. 1872); Muir, Original Sanscrit Texts (1867-72,5 
vols.) ; Kaegi, Der Rigveda (Zurich, 1878). For addi- 
tional references, see Hinduism. 

Ve'dan (“i'T,, 1 edan ; Sept, omits, but some copies 
have Adi*, others Atdctv; Vnlg. Dan et ; A. V. “ Dan 
also”), an Arabian city, whence wrought iron, cassia, 
and calamus were brought to Tyre (Ezek. xxvii, 19). 
The Javan mentioned in the same connection apparent- 
ly designates Jawan, a town in Yemen, and Vedan prob- 
ably refers to the city and mart Aden, on the southern 
shores of Arabia, in the province of Yemen. Edrisi not 
only mentions Aden with its port on the Bed Sea, 
whence ships sailed to India and China, but also enu- 


merates among its articles of merchandise the very 
wares mentioned by the prophet. This important place, 
situated on the west coast of the Strait of Babel-man- 
deb, commands the Bed Sea and the Sea of Arabia, as 
Gibraltar does the Mediterranean and a portion of the 
Atlantic; hence Aden has been styled “the Gibraltar 
of the East.” It lies at the base of a mountain which 
rises to the height of 1776 feet. It was called Eden 
(Paradise) by the Arabs because of its splendid climate 
and rich trade. The town is in a hollow formed by the 
vast crater of an extinct volcano, and has a capital har- 
bor. It was a flourishing entrepot in the ancient com- 
mercial world, being known to the Greeks and Homans 
under the name of Adana or Athana. The town play- 
ed an important part under the 1 1 imyaritic, Abyssinian, 
and Sassanide dynasties, was long the capital of Yemen, 
and the greatest emporium of Arabia for the products 
of Southern Asia and Eastern Africa. It first began to 
decline under Turkish rule (1538-1630), and continued 
to do so under all changes until it passed into the hands 
of the English in 1839. It is now a strong garrison, a 
coal depot for the Indian steamers, and a station of the 
Indo-European telegraph line. It is rapidly increasing 
in trade and population. The opening of the Suez Ca- 
nal in 1869 gave a strong impetus to its growth, so that 
it has now' a population of about 36,000. An extensive 
range of rock-cisterns was lately discovered in it, capa- 
ble, it is estimated, of containing 30,000,000 gallons. 
See Arabia. 

Vedanga (from Veda [q. v.] and anga, “limb"), 
the name of six Sanscrit works, the object of which is 
to teach how to read and understand correctly the Vedic 
texts, and how to apply them correctly to sacrificial 
purposes. Their titles are as follows: (1.) Siksha, or 
the science of proper pronunciation. It explains the 
nature of letters, accent, and pronunciation, and is as- 
cribed to Bauini (q. v.). (2.) Chhandas, or a work on 

meter, which is ascribed to Fingala. (3.) Vyakarana, 
or grammar, by which native authorities understand 
the celebrated work of Panini. (4.) Xirukta , or expla- 
nation, which explains difficult Vedic words, and is the 
work of Yaska, who was a predecessor of Panini. (5.) 
Jgotisha, or astronomy, the chief object of which is to 
convey such a knowledge of astronomy as is necessary 
for fixing the days and hours of the Vedic sacrifices. 
(6.) Kalpa , or works on the Vedic ceremonial which 
systematize the ritual taught by the Brahmana portion 
of the Veda, but omitting all legendary or mystical de- 
tail. At a later period these works were supplemented 
by a similar class of works which merely describe tbe 
domestic ceremonies, such as the marriage rite, ceremo- 
nies at the birth of a child, naming the child, cutting 
his hair, etc. See M filler, Ancient Sanscrit Literature. 

Vedanta (Sanscrit Veda [q. v.] and anta, “end;” 
literally the end or uliimate aim of the Vedas) is the 
second great division of the Mimansa (q. v.) school of 
Hindu philosophy. It is chiefly concerned in the in- 
vestigation of Brahman, or the supreme spirit, and the 
relation of the universe and the human soul to it; and 
in contradistinction from the Purrami-mansa, or the 
investigation of the former part of the Vedas, it is called 
Uiiara-niansa, or the investigation of the latter part of 
the Vedas, i. e. the A runyakas and Vpanishads (q. v.), 
which treat of (the neuter) Brahman, or supreme spirit. 

The Vedanta endeavors to prove that the universe 
emanates in a successive development from a supreme 
spirit or soul, which is called Brahman or Parmatman; 
that the human soul is therefore identical in origin with 
Brahman : that the w'orldly existence of the human soul 
is merely the result of this sameness between itself and 
the supreme spirit; and that its final liberation or free- 
dom from transmigration (q. v.) is attained by a re- 
moval of this ignorance, that is, by a proper understand- 
ing of the Vedanta doctrine. See Balkan tyne, A Lecture 
on the Vedanta, embracing the Text of the. Vedanta Sara 
(Allahabad, 1850) ; Bibliotheca Jndica (Calcutta, 1863). 


VEDDEi! 


737 


VEIL 


Vedder, ITermanus, a minister of tlie Reformed 
(Dutch) Church, was born at Rotterdam, N. Y., Nov. 17, 
1777. He graduated at Union College in 1709, and 
having studied theology privately, was licensed by 
the Classis of Albany, Sept. *21), 1801. lie was pastor at 
(Ireenbush and Tnghauic, N. 1'., 1803-50; supplied Lin- 
lithgo, 1800-14; and was pastor at (ireenbush (Galla- 
tin), 1850-04. He died June 29, 1873. See Corwin, 
J [annul of the Ref Church in America, s. v. 

Vedel, Nicolaps, a Protestant divine of Germany, 
who died in 1042, at Franeker, as doctor and professor 
of theology, is the author of Arcana A rminianismi 
(Leyden, 1032-34,4 pts.) : — Rationale Theologicum (Ge- 
neva, 1628): — Comment, de Tempore utriusqne Episco- 
pal as Petri, seu Historia Episcopatus Antiochcni et Ro- 
mani Petri Refutata (ibid. 1024. lib. ii ; Franeker, 1640). 
See Winer, (laiulbuch der theolog. Literatur. i, 353, 373, 
505. (B. P.) 

Vedius, or Vejovis, in Roman mythology, was 
an adopted god of the Tuscans, of dangerous activity. 
His frightful thunderbolts were preceded by deafness to 
those whom they would strike, llis temple was at Rome, 
between the Capitolium and the Tarpeian castle. His 
statue represented a youthful god armed with arrows. 
His festival was celebrated before March 7. Goats were 
sac ri deed to him'. 

Vega, Andreas, a Franciscan of Segovia, who was 
present at the Council of Trent, and died in 1557, is the 
author of a large work De Justified done , printed at Co- 
logne in 1572. He also wrote, Comment, in aliquot Con- 
cilii Tridentini Decreta: — Expos i do in Regnlam S.Eran- 
cisci: — Comment, in Psalmos , etc. See Antonii Bibli- 
otheca Hispanica ; Wadding, Bibliotheca Scriptorum 
Minor am ; J ocher, A Hgemeines Gelehrten-Lexikon, s. v. ; 
Winer, Handbnch der theolog. Literatur , i, 440. (1». P.) 

Vega, Christopher de la, a Spanish Jesuit, was 
born in 1595 at Tafalla, in Navarre; joined the Jesuits 
in 1612, and acted for a number of years as professor of 
philosophy and moral theology at the college in Tara- 
zona; then at Valencia, where he. died, June 18, 1072. 
He wrote, Theologia Mariana : — Comment, in Lib. Judd 
cum: — De Maximo J f alarum Malo: — Casus Varii Con- 
Jessionis, etc. See Winer, Handbnch der theolog. Lite- 
ratur. i,479; Antonii Bibliotheca Hispanica ; Alegambe, 
Bibliotheca Scriptorum Societatis Jesa ; J ocher, Allge- 
meines Gelehrten-Lexikon , s. v. (P». P.) 

Vega, Emanuel de. a Spanish Jesuit, who acted 
as professor of theology at Wilna, in Lithuania, and died 
at Rome, Jan. 27, 1040 or 1048, wrote, De Eucharistia: 
— De Missa : — De Cnltu Dnaginum et Inrocatione, Sanc- 
torum : — De 1 7 ta et Miracvlis Lutheri , Calriui et Bez<e : 
— De Principiis Fidei: — De Distribntione Eucharist i<e 
sub Una Specie: — Defensio xEtermv Christ i. Generations 
Verceque Deitatis : — Qmrstiones Selectee de Libertate Dei 
et !Iominis,de Pnedestinatione, de Concordia Summorum 
nostri Temporis Theologorum (Rome, 1049). See Ale- 
gam be, Bibliotheca Scriptorum Societatis Jesu ; Antonii 
Bibliotheca Hispanica ; Jcieher, A Hgemeines Gelehrten- 
Lexikon , s. v. (B. P.) 

Veiel, Elias, a Protestant theologian of Germany, 
who died as superintendent and librarian at Ulm, Feb. 
23. 1700, where he was born. July 20, 1035, is the author 
<>f Historia et Necessitas Reformationis E range/, per 
Luther. Institute, ex Script is Georgii Princip. Anhalt. 
-Exposifa cum Narrations de Conversions ad Salutarem 
. I ng. Confess. Doctrinam, etc. (Ulm, 1 092). See Winer, 
Hundb. der theol. Literatur, i, 741. (B. P.) 

Veil (or Vail [q. v.]) is an essential article of fe- 
male apparel in the East. See Dress. 

1. Original Terms . — These may be divided, for the sake 
of convenient and dear treatment, into several classes. 

(I.) General . — The following words (which, however, 
are the only ones rendered “ vail” or “veil” in the A. V. 
as an article of dress) may be explained to be rather 
shawls, or mantles, which might at pleasure be drawn 
X.— A a a 


over the face, but not designed for the special purpose 
of veils, or for concealment of the features alone. 

1. Mitpdchath (rnai;^, from to expand) de- 

notes the wide outer and upper garment of a female 
(see Schroder, De I 'estit. Miilier . Heb. e. 10), and is ren- 
dered “vail” in Ruth iii, 15; “wimple” in Isa. iii, 22. 
It evidently was one of the wrappers of different, kinds 
in which the Eastern women envelop themselves when 
they quit their houses. These are of great amplitude, 
and, among the common people, of strong and coarse 
texture, like that in which Ruth carried home her corn 
(Ruth iii, 15). The illustration will show how sufficient 
the out-door veils of the Eastern women are for such a 
use. See YVimple. 



2. Radid (T^H, from “n^i, *° stamp out), rendered 
“veil” in Cant, v, 7 ; “vail” in Isa. iii. 23, apparently 
was another large and loose upper covering, probablv 
of tiner materials, from the maimer in which it is men- 
tioned in these texts. The former passage shows that 
it was an out-door veil, which the lady had east around 
her when she went forth to seek her beloved. See Ap- 
parel. 

3. Tsd'yiph (Cp£2£, from £)£!£, thought by Gesenius 
to be = ££:.*, to cover up), invariably rendered “vail,” 
is mentioned in Gen. xxiv, 65; xxxviii, 14, 19, under 
circumstances which show that it was one of those am- 
ple wrappers which women wore out of doors. The 
etymology, referred by some to the Arabic, subduplica- 
vit , suggests that it was “doubled” over the shoulders, 
or folded about the body, in some peculiar manner which 
distinguished it from other veils. It is clear that it 
concealed the lace, as Judah could not recognise Tamar 
when she had wrapped herself in a tsd'yiph. See Robe. 

4. Masveh (rno^, from HID, to hide), invariablv 
rendered “ vail,” is only used of the veil which Moses 
assumed when lie came down from the mount (Exod. 
xxxiv, 33-35). In 2 Cor. iii, 13-10 Paul designates it 
by the corresponding Greek word KaXvppa, a covering. 
A cognate word, suth (P'O, A. V. - clothes”), occurs in 
Gen. xlix, 11 as a general term for a man’s raiment, 
leading to the inference that the masceh also was an 
ample outer robe which might be drawn over the face 
when required. The context, however, in Exod. xxxiv 
is conclusive as to the object for which the robe was as- 
sumed, and, whatever may have been its size or form, it 
must have been used as a veil. See Mosf;s. 

5. M assekah (niS'C, from 1° screen) is a gen- 
eral term for a covering of any kind (“vail,” Isa. xxv, 

7 ; “ covering,” xxviii, 20). 

6 . The words CVpi* r “ C £ , kesuth eyndyim , literally 
rendered “a covering of the eyes” (Gen. xx, 10), are 
rendered by some interpreters “a veil for the eyes,” 
i. e. a complete veil, to conceal Sarah’s beauty, and that 
she might in future be known to all as a married worn- 


VEIL 


738 


VEIL 



Oriental In-door Veils. 

an. But the phrase “a covering of, or for, the eyes” is 
used in the sense of a present offered as an expiation for 
some fault, in order that one may shut his eyes upon it, 
connive at it, or take no more notice of it: ‘‘Behold, 
this (the thousand pieces of silver) is to thee a penalty 
for all which has happened with thee and before all men” 
— a compensation for the wrong Abimelech did to Sarah 
by forcibly depriving her of her liberty, and a public 
declaration of his honor and her innocence. There can 
be no doubt that the veil for concealing the face is of 
very remote antiquity; but we have no evidence that 
it was a general article of female attire in the time of 
Sarah, either in Egypt or Palestine. From the monu- 
ments of Egypt, it seems not to have been worn by the 
females of that nation, as the women in the reign of the 
Pharaohs exposed their faces and were permitted as 
much liberty as the ladies of modern Europe. This 
custom was not changed till the conquest of Egypt by 
the Persians. See Covering of tiie Eyes. 

7. The Creek word i%otma, literally translated “pow- 
er” in t Cor. xi, 10, seems to denote metaphorically a 
kind of head-gear, a veil, or the ancient con vrechef (ker- 
chief); hence the emblem of subjection to the power of 
a hu.-thand. But the apostle, in pointing out certain 
irregularities in the Christian assemblies, observes that 
“every woman that pravetli or prophesieth with her 
head uncovered dishonoreth her head,” i. e. her hus- 
band. Hence, as the woman is to be in subjection to 
her husband, the apostle enjoins, “For this cause ought 
the woman to bring honor upon her head (i. e. upon her 
husband) for the sake of the angels,” i.e. the ministers, 
that they may not be put to the trouble of adverting to 
any such irregularities in the assemblies of the faithful 
(ver. 3-16). See Woman. 

(II.) Special. — Another class of coverings which 
alone offer any resemblance to the veils used among us 
are those which the Eastern women wear indoors, and 
which are usually of muslin or other light texture, at- 
tached to the head-dress and falling down over the back. 
They are of different kinds and names, some descend- 
ing only to the waist, while others reach nearly to the 
ground, 'l'lie lleb. terms that follow appear to desig- 
nate some of these, but they are never rendered “vail” 
or “veil” in the A. V. 

1. M ispechdh (nn^w'C, from HED, to pour out') is 
used of the veils which the false prophets placed upon 
their heads ( Ezek. xiii, 1«S, 21; A. V. “ kerchiefs”). 
Fhe word is understood by Gesenius ( Thesaur . p. 365) 
of cushions or mattresses, but the etymology of it is 
equally, if not more, favorable to tbe sense of a. flowing 
veil, and this accords better with the notice that they 
were to be placed •* upon the head of every stature,” 
implying that the length of the veil was proportioned 
to the height of the wearer (Fiirsf. Lex, s. v. ; llitzig in 
Ezek, loc. cit.). See Kerchief. 


2. Raal (plur.*rar?o^, from to flutter) 

is used of the light veils worn by females (Isa. iii, 19; 
A. V. “m timers”), which were so called from their rus- 
tling motion. The same term is applied in the Mishna 
(Sab, vi. 6) to the veils worn by Arabian women, mean- 
ing a slender piece of dress fastened above the eyes in 
such a manner that one part was thrown over the head 
and fell down upon the back, while the other shaded 
the face and dropped on the breast ; which perhaps ap- 
proached as near as any other article of antiquity to the 
modern veil. See Muffler, 

3. Tsummdh (iTSX from £?£!£, to cover) is under- 
stood by the A. V. of “ locks” of hair (Cant, iv, 1, 3; vi, 
7; Isa. xlvii, 2); but the contents of the passages in 
which it is used favor the sense of veil, the wearers of 
the article being in each case highly born and hand- 
somely dressed. As these passages refer to the effect 
of the veil as connected with the head-dress, it may per- 
haps have been one of those veils which have been al- 
ready described as a part of in-door dress, although it 
must be admitted that the expressions are almost equal- 
ly applicable to some kind of street- veil. iSee Head- 
dress. 

II. Use . — In ancient times the veil was adopted only 
in exceptional cases, either as an article of ornamental 
dress (Cant, iv, 1,3; vi, 7), or by betrothed maidens in 
the presence of their future husbands, especially at the 
time of the wedding (Gen. xxiv, 65; xxix, 25) [see 
[Marriage], or, lastly, by women of loose character for 
purposes of concealment (xxxviii. 14). But, generally 
speaking, women both married and unmarried appeared 
in public with their faces exposed among the Jews (xii, 
14, xxiv, 16; xxix, 10; 1 Sam. i, 12). At present fe- 
males are rarely seen without a veil in Oriental coun- 
tries, so much so that in Egypt it is deemed more req- 
uisite to conceal the face, including the top and back 
of the head, than other parts of the person (Lane, Mod. 
Eyypt. i, 72). Women are even delicate about exposing 
their heads to a physician for medical treatment (Bussell, 
Aleppo , i, 246). In remote districts and among the low- 
er classes the practice is not so rigidly enforced (Lane, i. 
72). Much of the scrupulousness in respect to the use of 
the veil dates from the promulgation of the Koran, which 
forbade women appearing unveiled except in the pres- 
ence of their nearest relatives (Koran, xxxiii, 55, 59). 
[Mohammedanism has introduced a very marked change 
in this respect wherever its influence has extended. 
The change, as Mr. Lane has remarked (loc. cit.), is pe- 
culiarly observable in Egypt. The bnrko, or face-veil, 
a long strip of muslin, concealing the whole of the face 
except the eyes, and reaching nearly to the feet, which 
is now a regular part of an Egyptian lady’s walking at- 
tire, is never repre- 
sented in the ancient 
paintings and sculpt- 
ures of Egypt, and 
may certainly be in- 
ferred not to have 
been worn. And if 
not in Egypt, still less 
likely in Canaan. It 
is probable that in 
both countries alike 
the chief head-cover- 
ing of the women, be- 
sides the loose mantle 
or kerchief occasion- 
ally thrown over it 
and drawn to some 
extent upon the face, 
was the long plaited i_ 
hair, which appears 
from the Egyptian 

remains to have often ’ ~~ 

consisted of a mini- Ail Egyptian Woman Veiled with 
ber of strings of hair the M Hay ah. 



VEIL 


739 


VEIL. ECCLESIASTICAL 


reaching to the bottom of the shoulder-blades, the ends 
being left loose, or with two or three plaits fastened to- 
gether at the extremity by woollen strings of corre- 
sponding color (Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt, iii, 869). Long 
hair, perhaps similarly done up, certainly often plaited, 
was used by the Greek females; thus very commonly 
they appeared in public, lienee, also, Paul contends, in 
Church meetings they should have a head -covering, 
formed either of a mantle or shawl ( peplum ) drawn 
somewhat over the countenance, or a veil in the strict- 
er sense (KaraicaXvTmo, 1 Cor. xi,5, 6). Such a partial 
covering seemed to become females in public assem- 
blies; and for Christian women to have departed in 
such a matter from the general practice of the coun- 
tries where they resided would inevitably have brought 
reproach upon the Christian name. The attempt of 
some, therefore, at Corinth to do so was wisely discoun- 
tenanced by the apostle as implying an assumption of 
equality with the other sex; and he enforces the cov- 
ering of the head as a sign of subordination to the. au- 
thority of the men (ver. 5-15). The same passage 
leads to the conclusion that the use of the talitli [see 
Fringe j, with which the Jewish males cover their 
heads in prayer, is a comparatively modern practice, 



A Syrian Veiled Woman. 


inasmuch as the apostle, putting a hypothetical case, 
states that every man having anything on his head 
dishonors his head, i. e. Christ, inasmuch as the use of 
the veil would impty subjection to his fellow-men rath- 
er than to the Lord (ver. 4). In modern times, as al- 
ready observed, Oriental females are veiled with great 
strictness. Their ideas of decency forbid a virtuous 
woman to lay aside, or even to lift up, the veil in the 
presence of men. The female who ventures to disre- 
gard this prohibition inevitably ruins her character, 
and is regarded as a woman of easy virtue. To lift up 
the veil is reckoned a' gross insult; and when females 
are out of doors propriety requires a man to let them 
pass without seeming at all to observe them. Some 
of the face- veils worn by modern Syrian, Arab, and 
Egyptian ladies are made of white muslin richly em- 
broidered with colored silks and gold, and hanging 
down be h inti nearly to the ground. Sometimes they 
are made of black crape, and often ornamented with 
spangles, gold coins, false pearls, etc. The mere size 
and shape of the veils differ in different parts of the 
East. The outer garment, when out of doors, is a large 
piece of black silk for a married lady, of white silk for 
the unmarried; for the poorer females white calico, 


which completely conceals every part of the dress ex- 
cepting a small portion of a very loose gown and the 
face- veil. The ladies of Syria often have the veil 
gracefully thrown over the lantur, or horn (q. v.). See 
1 lartmann, JJebracrin, ii, 316 sip, 334 s<p, 4*28 sip; Jahn, 
Archdol. I, ii, 130 sip; Thomson, Land and Book, i, 33 
sq.; Van Lennep, Bible Lands, p. 537. See Attire. 

VEIL, Ecclesiastical. Coverings of this kind 
have been used in various ages of the Church and for 
various purposes. 

1. In the Greek Church the nave was separated from 
the chancel by a partition of lattice-work with a cur- 
tain, and the entrance to the choir was by folding-doors 
in this partition. The doors were provided with a cur- 
tain called Karmrtraffpa, which was drawn aside dur- 
ing the celebration of the eucharist, and, in the earlier 
times, during the delivery of a sermon. Generally, 
however, these veils were drawn, and concealed this 
part of the Church from catechumens anil unbelievers, 
and covered the eucharist during consecration. 

2. A veil or curtain was hung in front of the elinrch- 
door in early times. Jerome tells us that Nepotian 
was very careful to see it in its place. 

3. Bankers were placed at the sides of the altars, let down 
when the priest entered the sauctuarv, and raised every 
Saturday during Lent when the Sunday office began. 
Dorsals and frontal veils were also used at the high al- 
tars of large churches until the end of the 16th century. 

4. Curtains of great richness were used only in Lent, 
one to veil the altar, a second the sanctuary, and a 
third the choir. They were succeeded by permanent 
screens; hence in Spain, as marriages were permitted 
or forbidden, such seasons were called “ veilings open 
or shut.” 

5. A white veil or coif, called relamen dominicale , was 
worn by females at the time of receiving the eucharist 
during the 5Lh and 6th centuries. These veils were or- 
dered by the councils of An tun (578) and Angers. 

6. Th q. vela men mtpt'ade was always used at the mar- 
riage ceremony, and during one part of the service was 
spread over both bridegroom and bride. It was worn 
by the bride as a symbol of maiden modesty and obeili- 
euce to her husband. 

7. A nun’s veil was an ornament used in the time of 
St. Gregory (740), given only to a woman twenty-five 
years of age, and, except in cases of extreme sickness, 
at no time but Epiphany, an apostle’s day, or Low Sun- 
day. The color was sometimes purple or fiame-color. 

8. A cloth called the white birrus , shot with red 
thread in memory of Christ’s Passion, was worn like a 
crown, to preserve' the chrism, hv the baptized, and was 
laid aside with the alb. It fell into disuse in 1090, 
when the chrism was wiped off with some light mate- 
rial like silk. 

9. At a solemn high-mass the subdeaeon muffles his 
arms and shoulders in a scarf or veil in token of humil- 
ity and reverence when he elevates the paten to an- 
nounce the time of communion. The priest also used it 
to envelop his hands at the time of the benediction. 

10. Female penitents wore veils (the vtdamen peniten- 
titp ) and cut their hair short or let it hang loosely about 
their shoulders. The third Council of Toledo (531) ex- 
pressly enjoined the use of these veils. 

11. Veils were also worn by females at confirmation. 

12. A black veil for the head was used by Greek 
priests in reading the prophecies, in allusion to 2 Cor. 
iii, 13-16. 

13. A white damask with fringe, called the church - 
iwj-cloth , was used in the latter half of the 17th centu- 
ry at the churching of women in England. 

14. At Christmas and Easter, formerly, in France, 
three veils were laid upon the altar and then removed 
— the first, black, to represent the time before the law; 
the second, pale, to signify the time of the law; and 
the third, red, to show the time of grace. One was re- 
moved at each nocturn of Christmas. 

15. The covering for the cross and images used in 


VEIL OF THE TABERNACLE UO VEITIl 


England during Lent is called a veil. It signified va- 
riously, according to the different authorities. “the dark- 
ness of infidelity which covered the face of the Jews 
in the Old Test.,” “the mourning and lamentation of 
sinners for their ungodly manners.” 

1G. A covering of silk, embroidered and of the color 
of the season, was used for placing over the chalice and 
paten when prepared for the Christian sacrifice, and | 
for the same purpose when the sacrifice was completed. 
This is called the veil for the chalice. The “white 
linen cloth” of the Church of England eommunioii-ser- j 
vice is also called the veil for the chalice. 

17. At Winchester College a canopy of linscy-wool- 
sev powdered with stars of gold was used to fall over 
the pyx on Palm-Suuday and Corpus Christ i. This 
was called Siiulon, pyx, or Corpus Christi cloth. 

Its. A veil or curtain of silk, satin, velvet, or cloth of 
gold or silver is used to enclose the tabernacle for the 
Blessed Sacrament when reserved in the human Cath- 
olic Church. It is called the veil fur the tabernacle , and 
came into use most, probably when the setting-up of 
tabernacles became general. 

Taking the veil is a term used to designate the act of 
consecration to the Church, when a female takes upon 
herself vows, after which she never appears in public 
unveiled. See Nun. 

VEIL ok 'i n k Tabernacle, Temple. Sec Vail. 

Veil, De (also I)n veil), is the name of two Jewish 
converts, who have become known by their writings in 
the republic of learning. 

1. Charles Maria was born at Metz about 1G25. 
lie received an excellent Hebrew education, and em- 
braced the Homan Catholic faith about 1G55 (?). llis 
learning and great abilities soon secured for him a 
high position in his Church, of which he was a distin- 
guished preacher. He became canon in the Order of 
St. Genevieve, was made doctor of theology by the Uni- 
versity of Anjou, and was also prior of the monastery 
in Metun. lie devoted his time to the exposition of 
the Scriptures in the different positions which he oc- 
cupied. lie published in Latin a t'ommenUiry on the 
Gospels of Matthew and Mark (Angers, 1G72) : — a Com- 
mentary on the Sony of Songs (Paris, 1G73) : — and a Com- 
mentary on Joel (ibid. 1G7G). In these writings I)e Veil 
proved himself such a stanch champion of Humanism 
that he was requested to hold a controversy with the 
Huguenots, at that time the great opponents of the Ho- 
man Church in France. But his diligent inquiry into 
the points of difference between Humanism and Protes- 
tantism brought about a very favorable impression of 
the latter, and the former foe became now a friend of 
the Huguenots. lie was obliged to escape from France. 
In Holland he openly abjured Humanism in 1G78, ami 
soon after he went to England, where he not only formed 
a friendship with men like St illingllcet, Sharp, Tillot- 
son, Patrick, etc., but also received the appointment of 
chaplain and tutor to a noble family. He now pub- 
lished new editions of his commentaries, discarding 
therefrom and refuting therein the doctrines of Home, 
lie also published a Commentary on the Minor Proph- 
ets (Loud. 1G80). These commentaries soon became 
the text-books of the clergy at home and the Heformed 
churches abroad. I>r. Compton, bishop of London, en- 
couraged him to prosecute his Biblical labors, and gave 
him free access to his library at all times. Discovering 
in this library some works of the English Baptists, De 
Veil inquired into the controversy, which resulted in 
liis joining this denomination, to the loss of all his 
friends, with the honorable exception of Tiliotson. De 
Veil gave to tiie public, ns the result, of his researches, 
a Commentary on the Acts (ibid. 1G84). in which he de- 
fended the Baptists’ principle. This commentary he 
translated himself from the Latin into English, and 
published it in 1GS5 (new edition, 1851). De Veil’s 
commentaries are still very valuable. See Filrst, Bill. 
Jud. iii, 470; Kitto, Cyclop, s. v. ; Kalkar, Israd u. die 


Kirche, p. 53 ; Wolf. Bill. Ilebr. i, 1007; iii, 973 ; iv, 9G4. 
,Ve Di veil. 

2. Loris de Com nkoNE, brother of the former, was 
called under Louis XI H as rabbi to Compiegne, where 
lie embraced Christianity, in 1G55. lie studied theol- 
ogy at the Sorbonne, and afterwards went to England, 
where he became librarian to the king, lie translated 
into Latin many sections of Maimonides’ Jad llaehe - 
zaka ; the catechism of Abr. Jagel, Z m Z2 npb (Loud. 
1G79); the Introduction of Abr abanel to Leviticus (ibid. 
1G83). lie published, 0 ratio de Origine et Pnvstantia 
Ling. Ilebr. (Ileidclb. 1G71). See Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. i, 
184 sq. ; iii, 470; Steinschneider, Catuloyns Libr. Ilebr. 
in Bibl. Bmll. p. 2G99 ; id. Bildiogr. llandbuch. p. 143; 
Bartolocci, Bibl. Jud. iii, 843; Kalkar, Israel u. die 
Kirche , p. 52. (1>. 1*.) 

Veillodter, Valentin Karl, a Protestant theolo- 
gian of Germany, was born March 10, 17G9, at Nurem- 
berg. lie studied at Altdorf and Jinn, and was ap- 
pointed, in 1793, preacher in his native ciiv. lie now 
rapidly advanced, and in 1817 the Erlangen University 
honored him with the doctorate. He died April 9, 

I 1828, in his native city. Veillodter was one of the 
most prominent pulpit orators, llis printed sermons oc- 
cupy several volumes. Besides sermons, he published, 
Ktnnmunionbuch fiir gtbildete Christen (13th ed. Nu- 
; renib. 1852): — Ideen iiber Tod und Unsterblichkeit (4th 
1 ed. ibid. 1852): — Gebete am Morgen und Abend (4th ed. 
ibid. 1837). See Zuchold, Bibl. Theolog. ii, 137G sip; 
During, Die deutschen Kanzelredncr des \titen und 1 9ten 
Juhrhn nth rts. p. 55G sq. ; Wilier, Iltmdbuch dir thtol. 
Literal it r (Index). (B. P.) 

Vein (SSI -, mot set, a source , as often), a mine (q. v.), 
as of silver (Job xxviii, 1). 

Veitcli, Elduidce H., a minister in the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Alexandria, Vn., 
in 1810. Nothing deliniie remains concerning his edu- 
cation, conversion, or call to the ministry. In 1831 he 
entered the travelling connection in the Baltimore Con- 
ference, and for thirty-seven years led a devoted, ardu- 
ous life, dying Feb. 10, 18G7. Mr. Veitcli was sound 
and forcible in doctrine as a preacher, original in 
thought and expression. As a counsellor he was wise, 
able, and safe. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 
M. E. Church , South, 18G7, p. 97. 

Veith, J< rni ann Emmanuel, a Homan Catholic di- 
vine, was born of Jewish parentage, July 10, 1787, at 
Kuttenplan, in Bohemia. He studied medicine at 
Prague, and continued the same at Vienna, where, in 
1810. he embraced Christianity. As a physician he oc- 
cupied the highest civic and military positions, which 
he soon exchanged for the study of theology. The 
learned professor of medicine became a student of the- 
ology, and in 1820 he joined the Order of the Ke- 
demptnrists, and in 1821 received holy orders. He now 
commenced preaching, and his church was thronged 
with eager listeners. But the liberal man, with liis 
great independent spirit and witty humor, did not ex- 
actly agree with the strict order, and in 1831 he was 
appointed preacher of St. Stephen’s. Here lie attracted 
all ranks of society, and exerted a great power. It was 
remarkable how Veith, whose outward appearance was 
the least attractive, influenced all classes of Vienna so- 
ciety. from the highest to the lowest. In 1845 bodily 
infirmities obliged him to retire from his high position, 
and in 1817 cardinal-prince Schwnrzcnberg made him 
honorary dean of his cathedral at Prague. In 1848 the 
University of Vienna honored him with the doctorate 
of theology, lie died Nov. 5, 187G. Besides some 
medical works. Veith published a great many liomilet- 
ical and aseetieal works, as Die he iii gen Beige (Vienna, 

| 1833-35, 2 vols.) : — Die Enreckung tics Lazarus (ibid. 
1842): — Lebensbilder aus tier Passionsgrschichte (ibid. 
1830): — Per rerlorene Sohn (ibid. 1838): — Das Voter 
| Unser (3d ed. ibid. 1842): — Ilomiletische Vortrdge fiir 


VELA 


741 


VENABLE 


Sonn- u. Festtage (2d ed. 1835-37. 3 vols.) : — Weltleben 
u. Christcnthum (ibid. 1851 ): — Die Worte </er Feinde 
Christi (ibid. 1829. etc.). See Rosenthal, Convert it en- 
bilder . i, 217 sq. ( Schaifhausen, 1871 ); Uriihl, Gesch. d. 
kathol. Liferatur Deutschland*, ji. 410; Liierurischer 
Ilandteeiser jTtr das kathol. Deutschland, 187(1, p. 532 
sq. ; Delitzseii, Sant auf IIoffnung, 1877, p. 25 sq. (B. 1\) 

Vela, Cristobal, a Spanish painter, was born at 
Jaen in 1598. He studied under Pablo de Ccspedes and 
Vincenzio Cardneei, and afterwards settled at Cordova, 
where be was occupied in painting Ibr the churches 
and convents. Most of his works have perished, or 
been injured by unskilful restoration. There remain, 
however, in the convent of St. Augustine at Cordova 
a series of the prophets by him, well designed. In 1658 
he fell into the well of his own house at Cordova and was 
drowned. See Spooner, Ding. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Velasco, Don Acislo Antonio Palomino 
dk Castro y, an eminent Spanish painter, was born at 
Bujalanee, in Valencia, in 1653. 11 is parents removed 

to Cordova, where he was educated for the Church; but, 
having a passion for painting and some knowledge of 
the art, he placed himself under the instruction of Juan 
de Valdes in 1672. lie became intimate with Juan de 
Alfaro in 1675, and went with him to Madrid, in 1678, 
to assist him in some of his works, lie was next em- 
ployed in painting the ceiling of the Queen’s Gallery 
at the Alcazar, which he did with so much satisfaction 
that he was appointed one of the king’s painters. In 
1690, on the marriage of Charles II, he designed the 
arches and other decorations for the bridal entry into 
the city. This confirmed him in his olliee of painter 
to the king. In 1692 he gave assistance to Luca Gior- 
dano in the great works he was about to execute. In 
1697 he went to Valencia, where he executed some im- 
portant works, principally the frescos in the Church of 
San Juan del Mercado. In 1705 he decorated the Con- 
vent of San Esteban at Salamanca, with some frescos 
representing the Church Militant and Church Trium- 
phant. In 1715 he published the first volume of his 
Museo Pictorico, and in 1724 the second volume. It. is 
by this work that he is chiefly known abroad. Among 
the paintings not already mentioned are the works in 
the Carthusian Convent of Granada, five pictures for the 
grand altar at Cordova, and the hieroglyphics which 
adorned the funeral of Doha Maria Luisa de Saboya. 
Velasco died at Madrid in 1726. lie is known among 
foreign writers chiefly by the name of Palomino. See 
Spooner, Biog. Hist . of the Fine .4 rts, s. v. 

Velasco, Cristobal de, a Spanish painter, was 
a native of Toledo. lie received instruction from his 
father, whose precepts he followed. In 1598 and fol- 
lowing years he did some painting for the archduke 
Albert and Philip III. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the 
Fine A rts, s. v. 

Velasco, Matias de, a Spanish painter, son of 
Cristobal de Velasco, was born at Toledo about the be- 
ginning of the I7th century, lie was instructed by 
his father, and accompanied the court of Philip III to 
Valladolid, where he was employed to paint several his- 
tories of the Virgin for the Boval Nunnery of the Car- 
melites. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Velasquez, Alexandro Gonzales, a Spanish 
painter and architect, was born at Madrid in 1719. He 
studied in the Academy of his native city, and made 
such rapid progress that at the age of nineteen, in con- 
nection with his brother Luis, he was employed to 
paint the decorations of the theatre of the lie tiro. In 
1744 he superintended the painting and sculpture at 
San Ildefonso, and afterwards was employed for three 
years in making the plans and elevations of the palace 
at Aranjuez. In 1752 he was elected subdirector of the 
Academy in the department of architecture, and in 1762 
he was chosen for the same office in that of painting. 
Among his architectural works at Madrid is the mod- 
ernizing of the church Las Ballecas. He instructed 


many pupils, and died in 1772. See Michaud, Bio- 
graphic Universelle ; Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine 
.4 rts, s. v. 

Velde, Adriaan van per, an eminent Dutch paint- 
er, was born at Amsterdam in 1639. He early discovered 
a talent for drawing pictures, and was placed under the 
instruction of John Wyuauts. lie learned from this 
master to sketch from nature, and practiced it all his 
life. He executed several works for the Homan church 
at Amsterdam, the subjects of which were taken from 
the life and passion of Christ. The chief of these is 
the Descent from the Cross. 11 is pictures are held in 
high estimation, and are to be found only in the finest 
collections. One, a Mountainous Landscape, in which 
Jacob, his family, and his servants appear conducting 
their flocks and herds, was sold in 1765 for &630, and in 
1811 for $*4600. Van der Velde died at Amsterdam in 
1672. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine .1 rts, s. v. 

Veli, Benedetto, a Florentine painter, flourished 
about 1650. Little is known of him except that lie 
painted the Ascension of Christ, which is placed at the 
entrance of the presbytery in the Cathedral of Bistoja, as 
the companion to the Pentecost , by Gregorio Pagani. 
See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine Arts, s. v. 

Velthem (or Veltheim), Valentin, a Protes- 
tant theologian of Germany, was born March 11, 1645. 
at Halle, in Saxony, lie studied at Jena, where he 
was made professor of moral philosophy in 1672, and 
professor of theology in 1683. He died April 24, 1700. 
He was a voluminous writer, and a catalogue of his 
writings is given by J ocher, A llgemeines Gelehrten- Lex- 
ikon, s. v. See also Zeumor. Yit<e Professorum Jenen- 
sium ; Pipping, Memorize Theologorum. (B. P.) 

Velthnsen, Johann Caspar, a Protestant theo- 
logian of Germany, was born Aug. 7, 1740, at Weimar, 
lie studied at Gottingen under Walch, Michaelis, 
and Heyue. From Gottingen he went as private tutor 
to Bremervorde, and from thence, in 1767, as deacon to 
1 lameln. In 1770 he was called as chaplain to London. 
In 1775 he went as professor of theology to Kiel, hav- 
ing shortly before received the doctorate from Gottin- 
gen on account of his De Legihus Divinis hand quaquam 
A rbitrariis. In 1778 he was called to Helmstadt as 
professor of theology, general superintendent, and pas- 
tor of St. Stephen’s. At the same time he was appoint- 
ed abbot of Maricnthal. In 1789 he was called to lins- 
tock as first professor of theology and rector of the uni- 
versity. In 1791 he went to Stade as general superin- 
tendent of the duchies of Bremen and Verden, where 
lie died April 13, 1814. Velthusen was a voluminous 
writer, and his writings comprise almost all theo- 
logical branches. They are given by During, Die 
Gelehrten Theologen Deufsch/ands, iv, 577-582; Winer, 
ftandb. der theoi. Liferatur , i, 13, 15, 138, 214,847; ii, 
203, 221, 227, 245, 280, 354, 382; Furst, Bibl.Jud. iii, 
471. (B. P.) 

Venable, Henry Isaac, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born June 28, 1811, in Shelby County, Ky. He 
was prepared for college at Shelbyville under the tuition 
of the Lev. Andrew Shannon: graduated from Centre 
College in 1830; and, while a student in college, united 
by profession with the Church in Danville at about 
eighteen years of age. He then taught school one year 
in Clark County, and entered Princeton Seminary, 
N. J., in 1831. After remaining there one year, he 
went to the Union Theological Seminary, in Virginia, 
where he remained two years, and graduated. He 
was licensed by West Hanover Presbytery April 19, 
1834, and was ordained Oct. 10, 1834. by the Transyl- 
vania Presbytery, Kv., as an evangelist. Having de- 
voted himself to the work of foreign missions, he em- 
barked at Boston, Dee. 3, 1834, for Zululand, in South 
Africa, where he labored with great earnestness and 
self-denial until he was driven from his field by war, 
when he returned to the United States in March, 1839. 


VEXANTIUS 


742 


YEXETA VERSIO 


lie then supplied the Church at Paris, 111., from Oct. 1, 
1839, until Dec. 1. 1841. At the latter date, he founded 
the Edgar Female Academy at Paris, and devoted his 
time and labors wholly thereto until 1850. This acad- 
emy grew and tlourished, expanding into the Edgar 
Collegiate Institute. From 1853 to 1850 he supplied 
the Church at Charleston, 111.; then Oakland (other- 
wise called I Jet h el) Church from April 1, 185(5, to May 
1, 1 81 »(). At the latter date, having accepted a call, he 
was installed pastor of Oakland Church. This relation 
was dissolved, because of inadequate support, April 18. 
1805, alter which lie supplied the Clmreh at Newton 
from 1805 to 1807. then Carlisle and Claiborne church- 
es thirteen months, and York Church (all in Illinois) 
for one year. In September, 1870, by earnest request 
of the parties interested, lie became principal of the 
Edgar Collegiate Institute, which he had founded near- 
ly thirty years before, and continued in charge of it un- 
til. not long before Ids death, he was compelled to de- 
sist from all labor, lie died at Paris, Edgar Co., Ilk, 
May 22, 1878. 11 is death was peaceful, trustful, and 

without fear. lie was a truly godly man, an earnest 
and faith tul minister of the Gospel, a true and sincere 
friend, and universally esteemed and loved by his 
brethren. (\Y. I\ S.) 

Venantius, IIonorius Clkmkntianus Fortena- 
TL'S. See Four L’N ATI’S. 

Venanzi, Antonio (also called Giocarmi, Giovanni 
Battista, and Francesco ), an I.alian painter, was horn 
about 1027. He was first instructed by Guido, and 
then entered the school of Simone Cantarini. lie 
j aiuted two histories of St , . 1 nthony in the church of 
that saint at Pesaro, and the Descent of the Holy Ghost 
in one of t ho churches of Bologna. It is said that he 
was employed at the court of Parma, lie died Oct. 2, 
1705. See Spooner, Bioy. / list . of the Fine Arts, s. v. 

Venatorius, Thomas, whose real name was Ge- 
chanjf takes rank as the earliest Protestant writer in 
t lie department of ethics, lie was horn about 1488 at 
Nuremberg, and received a liberal education at several 
universities. 1 1 is earliest essay in literature was the 
publication, in 1514, of the works of Archimedes, and 
this was followed in 1531 by a metrical translation of 
the Plutus of Aristophanes and by an issue of Pirkheim- 
er’s Anabasis. After completing his university course, 
he entered the Order of Dominican monks, and in 1520 
took up his abode at Nuremberg, where lie gave him- 
self zealously to the work of promoting the reformatory 
movements then rife, lie became preacher in the Hos- 
pital and the Dominican churches in 1523, and ten years 
later pastor of the Church of St. James. In 1524 he 
helped to introduce Osiander’s Guten Fnterricht . . . 
ans yottlicher Schrift ; in 1525 he participated in the 
religious colloquy which determined the case of the 
Gospel in Nuremberg; and in 1526 he began the issue 
of that series of theological works for which he is chiefly 
noted with the book Axiomata Perum Christiana rum. 
11 is next work was a Defensio pro Baptismo ct Fide 
Parvulorum, directed against the Anabaptist theories 
(1527). The most important work of Venatorius is the 
De Virtute. Christiana (1529), in three books. Its start- 
ing-point is the < Fiandrinn idea of faith [see Osianrer], 
and the line of its argument is to show that faith is the 
centre and sum of Christian virtue and the principle 
from which springs the performance of all good works. 
The success of the work was hindered hv the dogmatic 
opposition of Lutheran theology and the author's Osi- 
andriau leanings; hut it deserved notice for its real 
value as well as lor the reason that it was unquestiona- 
bly the earliest independent Protestant essay in the held 
of ethics. In 1534 Venatorius wrote an Epistola A pofo- 
yet.de Sola Fide dustijicante, etc,, which shows that he 
had come over to the orthodox Lutheran view ofjusti- 
fication, though lie still continued his relations of friend- 
ship with Osiander. After a temporary sojourn at Ko- 
thenburg in the interest of the Deformation, in 1544, he 


returned to his Nuremberg parish, and remained in the 
exercise of his pastoral functions and literary labors un- 
til he died, Feb. 4. 1551. See Will, Xiirnbery. Gelehrten- 
Lexikon, iv, 83 sq. ; and an art. in the Stud. u. Krit. 1850, 
No. 4 ; also 1 Ierzog, Deal- Encyklop. s. v, 

Vence, Henri Francois dic, a French Hebraist, 
was horn about 1(575 at Pareid, in Voivre (Bands). 
Having entered the monastic ranks, lie graduated at 
the Sorbonue; and after being preceptor to the children 
of Leopold, duke of Lorraine, he was rewarded by being 
appointed provost of the Church of Nancy. He super- 
intended the printing of the Bible of De Carrieres (Nan- 
cy, 1738-43. 22 vols. 12mo), and added numerous disser- 
tations. which were afterwards inserted in Calmet’s 
Bible (1748-50, and later), lie died at Nancy, Nov. 1, 
1749. See Hoefer, Xouv. Bioy. Generate, s. v. 

Vendidad, in the Parsee philosophy, is the twen- 
tieth nosk , or division, of the Zenda vesta (q. \\). It is 
in the form of a dialogue between Ormuzd (q. v.) and 
Zoroaster (q. v.). 

Venefici {poisoners, sorcerers) were magicians who 
practice their arts against the lives of men. In the laws 
of the early Christian emperors of Home, which granted 
indulgence to criminals at* the Easter festival, the Fe- 
nefei were always excepted as guilty of too heinous 
a crime to be comprised within the general pardon 
granted to other offenders. See Bingham, Christ. Ant iq. 
bk. xvi, ch, v, § 5. 

Venema, Herman, D.D., a learned Dutch divine, 
was horn at Wildervank in 1697. lie was successively 
pastor at Dronryp, and professor of theology and uni- 
versity preacher at Franeker. He died in 1787. lie 
was a voluminous writer in all departments of sacred 
science. He published, Instituiiones Hist or he Ecclesite 
Yeteris el Xovi Testament i (1777): — Dissert at iomnn 
Sac varum Libri Tres (1731) : — Comment urius ad Li- 
brum Fleutico-pmpheticum Malachite (1759): — Disser- 
tationes ad Librnm Geneseos (1747): — Comment arius ad 
Psalmos (1762-67): — Commentarius ad Librnm Pro- 
phetiarum J eremite (1765) : — Lectiones Academics ad 
Ezechielem (1790): — Dissert at tones ad Yaticinia Da - 
nielis Emblematica (1745): — Commentarius ad Daniel. 
(1768) : — Sermones Academici vice Comment arii ad Li - 
brum Prophet iarum Zacharirr (1787) : — Opuscula Jittdi- 
ta (1781) : — Prelect iones de Methodo Prophet ica. 

Venerable is the title given to archdeacons in the 
English Church. 

VENERABLE Bede. See Bede. 

Veneta Versio. The Library of St. Mark’s, at 
Venice, is in possession of a MS. containing a Greek ver- 
sion, by some unknown author in the Middle Ages, of 
various hooks of the Old Test. — namely, the Pentateuch, 
Proverbs, Ruth, Canticles, Ecclesiastes, Lamentations, 
and Daniel. The Pentateuch was edited by Ammon 
( Erlang. 1790-91, 3 vols.) ; the other parts by John Casp. 
d’Ansse de Villoison (Strash. 1784, l vol. 8vo). There 
is no evidence that Holmes even used it in his edition of 
the Sept. De’ Rossi, in his \ 'ari<e Lectioms. has given 
some readings of it ; hut so long as the whole was not 
published, no certainty as to its merits or demerits 
coukl be given. Since 1875 the entire version has been 
given to the public in the edition published by Geb- 
hardt. From the introduction of the editor, and the 
preface by Delitzsch, we see that the translation was 
made in the 14th century by a certain Elissauis who 
lived at the court of Murad 1 at Brusa and Adrianople. 
The translator was a Jew, perhaps a Jewish convert, as 
Gebhardt thinks. See Greek Versions. 

The internal character of the version shows that it 
was made directly from the Hebrew. It is slavishly 
literal, word for word of the original being rendered into 
Attic Greek. In the Chaldee sections of Daniel the 
Doric is used. As it is impossible to adhere with rigid 
exactness to the words of the original, and at the same 
time present the elegancies of the Attic Greek, it is ob- 


YEN ETA VERSIO 


743 


YEN ETA VEllSIO 


vious thnt gross barbarisms must pervade the diction. 
That the Masoretic text was the basis of the translation 
cannot be denied. No important readings have been 
discovered in it which are not in existing Masoretic 
MSS., nor any peculiar to it which are preferable to the 
common text. A great many variations may be traced 
to the confusion from the similarity of letters, others to 
the grammatical ignorance of the translator. Whether 
the MS. he used was divided throughout, like our mod- 
ern copies, by accents, or furnished throughout with the 
present vowel system, since there are many departures 
from the accents and vowel-points, cannot be stated 
with certainty. That the translator consulted the Sept, 
and other Greek versions has been shown beyond a 
shadow of doubt by Gebhardt. Above all, he followed 
David Kimchi’s Liber Modicum, “ISO, which 

he consulted in the interpretation of words, and to which, 
as Gebhardt states, “ panic omnia quie Veil e tie versionis 
propria sunt in text .11 llebraico interpretando originem 
tralumt.” Now, as D. Kimchi flourished in the loth 
century, Davidson’s statement that “ the version must 
be placed after the 9th eeutury'’ must be given up. 
Whether the copy in the Library of St. Mark’s was cop- 
ied from another much older, as Davidson thinks, or 
whether it is the original as presented by cardinal 13es- 
sarion in 14GS, who, according to Delitzsch, was a pupil 
of Piet hon, better known as Georgius Gemistus, a pupil 
and friend of Elissanis the translator, will depend solely 
upon the fact as to who the author of the version was, 
Delitzsch himself calls his hypothesis a conjecture, or, 
to use his own words, “Jam aninnim despondebam, 
(jutim in conjecturam incidi, quam modeste, Lit decet, 
arbitrio legitimorum existimatoruin committo.” He 
then goes on to show the probability of Elissauis, who 
lived in the 14th century, being the translator. Dr. 
Frankl, in reviewing Gebhardt’s edition in Griitz’s Mo- 
ncitsschrift , 1875, p. 37*2 sq., thinks that Shemaria of 
Negroponte was the author of the version. Now, ad- 
mitting this quid pro quo , the version would still belong 
to the 14th century, and the probability is against Da- 
vidson, that the copy preserved in St. Mark’s was copied 
from another much older. 

For the interpretation of the text and the history of 
hermeneutics the Veneta is very important. As for the 
linguistic peculiarities of this version, it contains a great 
many words not found in dictionaries ; thus : 

Exod. xxvi, 0, 11,33; xxxv,ll. 
a 7 pmXeKT 0 ^tc=nS ,, -“n, Dent, xiv, IS. 
uiptofiov?—* NP, Dent, xiv, 5. 
uKp6iro<r2'o?= bn , Gen. xvii, 14. 
ui-aS , >)M«Ticri9=rP2"*i^, Numb, xxi, 3. 
u7ro0\o<W<c=w]V”n , 2, Gen. xxx, 37. 

(3 Pl’OV. xiv, 17. 

7^&)<TTOTr7r— P> Ruth iii, 3. 

5eKuuti5iju!'or= l "^n, Lev. xxvii, 1C. 
e7r<7rXe'7jLiu— Numb. XIX, 15. 

Gen. xiii, 0. 

£»iAoT07ri>a>=: S'C'Zpn, Dent, xxxii, 16, 21. 

Gen. xix, 25. 

A t So<ra>pos=^:P, Gen. xxxi, 47. 
paprvoriats— PTlPP, Rllttl iv, 7. 

^nTpo7r6p7rn=T*21-, Numb, xxxi, 50. 
veai'iffKCTtj^nVTTD, Eccles. xi, 9 ; xii,l. 
b\iya)pa.='2V0, Lev. XXV, 1C. 

7rep^v(7Tof=DT13n, Prov. vii, 1C. 
fdi/TKrrpoi/rril^iDS, Exod. xxvii, 3 ; xxxviii, 3. 
(TV 77 Vtojuoifip a— PS*, Numb, xxxv, 31. 
T«Xapo2-eTfa>=bo50, Prov. iv, S. 

viroif/oia— bs r, Lev. iii, 4, 10. 


0opim*t/iaTa— C ^b}, Lev. xxvi, 30. 
xuAuC&>™?=PPS, Gen. xxxi,10. 

r.nSO^, Lev. xiii, 7, S. 

.wapa- nm*2, Prov. xxvi, 2S. 
a»To3’€Tta)=*| l, 'TNn, Gen. iv, 23. 

Resides these words, the number of which could greatly 
be increased, there are peculiarities in the pronunciation 
of the Hebrew alphabet, especially of proper nouns. 
Thus N is pronounced like a spiritus lenis, but, when fol- 
lowed by au b, like a spiritus asper . Thus lT£} n bN is 
= i\iaagi PObN —iKa^dpijg. 

2, 1 are like /3, 7, 6. 

n is mostly like a spiritus lenis, very seldom like a spi- 
ritns asper. ^ 

is generally = v, rarely = /3; thus Plb^in^xa^a ; 
mn= X a/3d. 
t is £, nn=/3oi-Cor. 

n is generally =x» often also=spiritus asper, as P^n 
=a/u.dS»]. 

ZJ is r. 

*1 is l, but t before “1, as n^li} , H“ l =lepooa-aA«fifi. 

2 is k and x- 
b, T3, D=A, g, v . 

O is f, as w)D“ l =l&>£<: , 0>i9. 

2 is either spiritus lenis or asper, but omitted when in 
the middle of a word. 

S3 is 7 r and <£, as “plU^S^Trto-too ; Z3*lS=<£oimir. 

12 is <r. 
p is k and x* 

P is p. 

12 is cr, in a few cases like f. 
n is $ and t. 

Some peculiarities may also be observed in the pronun- 
ciation of the vowels. Thus : 

. _ T are expressed by e and a. 

=:a, o, a). 

1 t: 

a, at. 

==e, n, a, a<, et. 
or =t, e, v, n, e<, ot. 

*1 or =w, o, ov. 

*! or _ — O, Vj a). 

It will be seen that no definite rules can be laid down. 
Thus is j3ipodoQ. but O^P’O is pepinfu ] ; EP-VJX 

is &(T(Tvpioij but is 7 raS’ptu^ot. 4 he Versio Ve- 

neta does not comprise all the books of the Old Test., 
but only the Pentateuch, Proverbs, Ruth. Canticles, Ee- 
clesiastes, Lamentations, and Daniel. Gebhardt’s Grte- 
cus Venetns contains in* the introduction all the neces- 
sary information, and whatever we read on this version 
in the so-called introductions to the Old Test, must be 
supplemented from the same. To give the reader an 
idea of this version, we subjoin the following specimens, 
placing in juxtaposition, by way of contrast, the same 
passages from the Sept. : 

Veneta. Gen. ii, 4 sq. Srptuagint. 

4 . Attit 7ei'yJ7<x£ir t ov ovpavov Aot»] >? / 3 </ 3 Ao? 7eoto-£f.>? ol>pa- 
Kai t 7 j? 77 ]? ev rip tKTtoS’u t vov Kai 7 r?r. otc ^tieTo’ r) 
a<p€, ev hptpa tov iroietv tov /jjutpa tnoitiae Ki'>p‘o? 6 ©to? 
bvTU)Tt]v T01/ Veoi/ yJ t v bvpa- top ovpavov ai ti,p yt\p Kai 

5. v6v Te, Kcii irdvTa x°P TOl/ T °v 7r< * 1 ' xAw pbv a^pov 7 rpo too 
a7poo tt ptv virupZetev ev tt/ 7ei'6o-3 , at h ri t7]? 71"?, Kui irav- 
7»7, Kai ir&aav f 3 oT<h tiv too t a X'ipTOi' a7poo 7 Tpo too aoa- 
uypou 7 Tfiiv <pv<r€i€v' ov 7<ip tcZAu^' ov •ycip efip t^ev 0 Oeo? 
e fipel-ev o oi/twtJ;? 6 S'to? e7ri eni t ijv yriv, kui ai/^-paiTro? ouk 
t7j? 77/?, Kai ut/SpuTTos o ok 7 ] v tpiu^euSut avTtjv. 

i)v <!>? tpy(t£otTo Tt/v 7 rjv. 

6. i/e 0 fA»] 6 ' uvafiuivot 7 rpo? n»/7»j i^e uvtftiuvev Ik t*j? 7»j?, 

t 7 ? 7»(? Kai a phot ^vpnav to Kai 7 rdo to 7 Tpucranrop 

7Tpocro)7rop tT,? 77]?. t 7 ( ? 77;?. 


VEX ETO GREEK VERSION 


744 VEX I, CREATOR SPIRITUS 


Dan. 

1 . BeXre<ra<rc»p o/3u<rr\ci'5 firot- 
ijcrcp MTTiuat v peytiAav t oicti 
fjLe^tcriii tacra ui x^Xtot?, 

■ntOl' T€ TU*V X‘X<0)1' UKpaTQV 
t-TTllf. 

‘2. /3eXTecru<r<ipo9 e^a ti ^ei'trtA 
Ttp uKpaTUJ trie^hiiv a-y^ea rc« 
Xpi'oea. r<i t' ap^Dpea, rdirep 
tr£i] icyKe i c/5oi<xudie<T<}po9 6 
T»;i'U) 7TaTf/p 7TOT« TW 1 eu> T<p et* 
ItpoDcrciXd/ua, Kai 7r(toiei' «’v 
aDTO»9 O /$u<r< \fc D9 Ot t’ UDTIt) 
pt^KrTiivcf, u aKotTiV oi x« 
7raAAaK« oi. 

(B. P.) 


RaATtiaap 6 f3iicri\evs lirottj- 
ae dttirvov pt7«* toi 9 pe^i- 
OTaffu udtod at <Jpti<m' x*Ai«m, 
/Cat KaTnaiTt Tt*^ x<Attot' o ot- 

i 09, Kui Tmwy. 

BaAnitrap e/Vey t»' t>/ 7 e/«Tet 
tod ott uv, tod C7/ceti' Tfi <r/vti'/| 
Ta xpi'^tt Kai Tti up 7 i>pu, a t?/}- 

»t 7 »cc Na/iot»x°^° l oaop o jrn- 

T»;p aDTOD t-K tod vaoi< tod 
ItpODtraA/pt, /cat TrttTwtra^ ti 
aDTot9 o /luaiAct'f Kai oi ne^t- 
<TTdit9 udtod Kat at 7raAAuK«i 
aDTOD Kat at ITUpUKOtTOt aDTOD. 


Veneto-Greek Version. See Vexeta Versio. 


“Tu septifonnis mnnere, 
Dextrie Dei tn iligitus, 

Tn rite promissunl Putris 
Sermoue dituns guttura. 

“Accende lumen sensibus, 
Infunde amoreni cordibns, 
lntimiu nostri corporis 
Virtute firmans perpeti. 

“llostem repellns longius 
Paceinque dmies prof inns, 
I) tic tore sic te pra*vio 
Vitemus omne noxium. 

“Per te sciamns, d;i. Pntrem, 
Noscainus atqne Filin 111 , 

Te utrinsque Spiritum 
Crednmus omni tempore. 


Venetus, Georg, a Lutheran theologian of Ger- 
many, was born at Veiled ig, in Prussia, whence he is also 
called Venediyer. lie studied at KbnigsUerg and Wit- 
tenberg; was promoted in 1550 as doctor of theology; 
and appointed in 1552 professor of theology at Kdnigs- 
berg. Being opposed to the doctrines of Osiamler, lie 
had to leave his professorship, and went to liostock as 
professor of theology and pastor of St. Nicolaus. In 
1558 he was made superintendent at Colberg, in Pome- 
rania; returned again, in 1567, to Prussia; was appoint- 
ed bishop of Pomezan ; and died at his episcopal see in 
Liebenmiihl, Nov. 3, 1574, He wrote an exposition on 
the Epistle to the Romans in sermons, and a paraphrase 
on the Lord’s Prayer. See Arnold, Historic der koniys- 
beryischen Unirersitat; Freher, Theatrum Eruditorum ; 
Rollins, Bibliotheca XobiHum Theoloyorum ; Jbcher, A 11- 
yemeines Gelehrten- Lexikon, s. v. ( 15. P.) 

Venezia, Lorenzo da, a Venetian painter of the 
14th century, is commended by Zanetti for his altar- 
piece in the Church of St. Anthony of Gastello, for 
which he was paid three hundred gold ducats. Lanzi 
attributes to him a fresco, representing Daniel in the 
Lion's Den , in the Church of Mezzaratta, near Bologna, 
which appears to have been completed about 1370. 
See Spooner, Dioy. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Veneziano, Agostixo, a celebrated Italian en- 
graver, was born in Venice near the close of the 15th 
century. He studied with Marcantonio Raimondi un- 
til the death of Raphael, in 1520, when he worked for 
himself. The large print of the Skeletons , or Jiurying - 
place , after Baccio Bandinelli, is his masterpiece. 
Among his other works arc, The Israelites Gathering 
the Manna (Baphael) : — The Four Evangelists , and a 
Nativity (after Julio Romano) : — Massacre of the Inno- 
cents (Bandinelli) : — The Last Supper (copied from a 
wood-cut of Albrecht Dtirer. Nothing is known of him 
after 1536, 

Vengeance (Or. A/'/o/ ), the heathen goddess of 
retribution (Lat. Justitia), described as the daughter of 
Zeus (Hesiod, Op. 266) and Themis ( Theoy . 902) ami 
the coadjutor (jr uptfipoq) of the former (Sophoc. (Ed. 
Col. 1384; Arrian, Alex . iv, 9; see Montfaucon, Antiq. 
I, ii, 8). The punishment of murderers is particularly 
ascribed to her; and, therefore, besides being the god- 
dess of punishment in a general sense, she is often to be 
considered the same as Nemesis or Vengeance (Eurip. 
Med. 1390; 1 Mon llalic. xi, 37 ; see Mitscherlich, ad 
Horace, Od. iii, 2, 32; Palaiset, Observ. p. 347). The 
word occurs in Acts xxviii,4, but its significance is there 
disguised in the A. V., which renders it “justice.’’ See 
Revenge, 

Veni, Creator Spiritus (Come, Creator Spirit ), 
is the beginning of a grand Pentecostal hymn, general- 
ly ascribed to Charlemagne. The original runs thus: 

“Veni, Creator Spiritns, 

Mentes tnornin visitn, 

Imple superna gratia 
Qme tn creasti pectora. 

“ Q ui Paraclitns diceris 
Deique donum altissimi, 

Fons vivas, ignis, caritas 
Et spiritalis uuctio. 


“[Sit Inns Patri cum Filio, 

Saneto simnl Parade to, 

Nobisque mittat Filins 
Charisma Saudi Spiritus.]” 

This hymn holds a peculiar place among the treas- 
ures which the ancient Church has transmitted to our 
service of song. It is not only a precious heirloom, but 
marks a period in the history of the Church, when, a 
great contest decided, the truth vindicated entered into 
the very life of the Church, and rang forth in gladsome 
accents of praise. Therefore it is, and ever will con- 
tinue, the grand Pentecostal hymn — not merely from 
its contents, sublime as these are, but as the earliest full 
expression, in the language of praise, of the scriptural 
doctrine concerning the work and the person of the 
Holy Ghost, attained after long and bitter fight. But 
that battle lias rolled away; not even its most distant 
echoes are heard in the hymn; and the Veni Creator 
is not a battle-song, not even one of victory, but of tri- 
umph and praise in the enjoyment of the fruits of vic- 
tory. Occupying the most advanced position, and, in- 
deed, the key to the whole, in the doctrine of t he pro- 
cession of the Holy Ghost from the Father and Son, 
holding it securely against all adversaries, the Church 
bursts forth in prayer for his coming and for his work- 
ing, and in praise to his person, in that grand, full- 
toned Pentecostal hymn of the Veni Creator. 

As already stated, popular tradition has ascribed the 
Veni Creator to Charlemagne, but this view is wholly 
untenable. The learned Mono ( llymni Lat. Med.^Evi, i, 
241) states that this hymn existed in MSS. prior to the 
date of Charlemagne. Besides, that emperor was by 
no means sufficiently master of Latin — not to speak of 
Greek — to compose such a hymn in classical metre, so 
strictly observed as in this case. On the other hand, 
the evidence in favor of its composition by Gregory the 
Great is quite preponderating. Its contents and its form 
alike remind ns of this author. To at least seven out 
of its twenty-four lines we can append strictly parallel 
passages and expressions from the undoubted writings 
of Gregory. Besides, it resembles not only in charac- 
ter, but in the use of certain peculiar words and terms, 
the other hymns of Gregory, of which eight are con- 
tained in the Benedictine edition of his works, while 
t he learned Mone traces no fewer than twelve to his 
pen. Again, the character of prayer mingled with 
praise, and the classical metre with partial rhymes, are 
also peculiar to Gregory. The writer evidently knew 
Greek, as appears from the correct quantity in the word 
Paraclitns , in line 5, whereas it is incorrectly given in 
line 26. Hence the whole of this concluding stanza, 
which we have put in brackets, is evidently a spurious 
addition. It is needless in itself, since the doxology is 
already contained in the four previous lines; and it dif- 
fers from the rest of the hymn in its wrong metrifica- 
tion, and by its regular rhyme. Lastly, Gregory, in 
his hymns, not unfrequently borrows from Ambrose, 
and this is also notably the case in the Veni Creator. 
Not to speak of several imitations, lines 15 and 16 are 
taken word for word from a hymn of Ambrose, the Veni 
Redemptor Gentium (q. v.). 

The historical position of Veni Creator in regard to 
the great doctrine of the procession of the Holy Ghost 


YEN 1, REDEMPTOR GENTIUM 745 YEN I, SANCTE SPIRITUS 


may in some measure account both for the place which 
it occupied in the sendees of the Church and for the 
extravagant language in which mediaeval writers refer 
to it. Anciently it was sung not only at. Whitsuntide, 
but. as still iu the Roman Catholic Church, on the most 
solemn occasions — at the election of a pope and of bish- 
ops, at the coronation of kings, at synods, and at the 
elevation and translation of the relics of saints. Its 
“ more than ordinary worth and dignity” have been rec- 
ognised by the Church of England, “ when, dismissing 
every other hymn, she has yet retained this in the 
othces for the ordaining of priests and the consecrating 
of bishops.” It is certainly one of the most magnificent 
compositions, mingling prayer with praise — grand, fnll- 
chorded, rich in tone and melody, and at the same time 
soft, sweet, and touching. In a singular manner it unites 
the doctrinal with the practical — the full-rounded state- 
ment of scriptural truth with conscious need and joyous 
assurance. 

This hymn has been translated repeatedly into Eng- 
lish and German. The following in English is a free 
rendering by an unknown hand, tirst introduced into 
the office for the ordination of priests upon the revision 
of the liturgy of the Church of England in 1GG2, and 
runs thus: 

“Come, Holy Ghost, om* souls inspire 
And lighten with celestial lire. 

Thou the Anointing Spirit art, 

Who dost thy sevenfold gifts impart. 

“Thy blessed unction from above 
Is comfort, life, and fire of love. 

Enable with perpetual light 
The clulness of our blinded sight. 

“Anoint and cheer onr soiled face 
With the abundance of thy grace. 

Keep far onr foes; give peace at home. 

Where thou art guide, no ill can come. 

“Tc-icli us to know the Father, Son, 

And thee of both, to be but One. 

“That through the ages all along 
This may be our eudless song: 

‘ Praise to thy eternal merit, 

Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.' ” 

In German it is found in the collections of Blissler, Sim- 
rock, Ktinigsteld, Ranibach, etc. (15. P.) 

Veni, Redemptor Gentium ( Come , Redeemer 
of the nations), is the beginning of the famous Advent 
hymn written by St. Ambrose. It is “the best of the 
Ambrosian hymns, full of faith, rugged vigor, austere 
simplicity, and bold contrasts.” The German hymn- 
book is indebted to this immortal hymn of St. Ambrose 
for one of its choicest treasures: namely, John Frank’s 
Advent hymn, commencing— 

“Komm, Heidenlieilaud Losegeld, 

Komin, schbuste Sonne dieser Welt, 

Lass abwarts flammeu deinen Schein, 

Denn so will Gott geboren sein.” 

“ It is not a translation,” says Trench, hut “ a free recom- 
position of the original, beside which it is well-nigh wor- 
thy to stand.” The tirst lines of the original run thus: 

“ Veni, Redemptor gentium, 

Ostende partum Virginis; 

Miretnr omne speculum : 

Talis decet partus Deum. 

Non ex virili seniine, 

Sed mystico spiramine, 

Verbnm’Dei factum est caro, 

Fructusque veutris floruit,” etc. 

It has been translated into English by Mrs. Charles 
Neale and others. The latest is that of Dr. U. Palmer, 
and given in Schaff’s Christ in Song ; 

“O thou Redeemer of our race ! 

Come, show the Virgin’s Son to earth ; 

Let every age admire the grace ; 

Worthy a God thy human birth 1 
’Twas by no mortal will or aid, 

But by the Holy Spirit’s might, 

That flesh the Word of God was made, 

A babe yet waiting for the light,” etc. 


It was also translated into German as early as the 
1 5th century. It became better known through Lu- 
ther’s translation, Nun komm der IJeiden fleiland (Eng. 
transl. in Pick, Luther as a f/ymuist). It is also found 
in the collections of Latin and German hymns of Biiss- 
ler, Si m rock, Kouigsl'cld, and others. (15. P.) 

Veni, Sancte Spiritus ( Come, Holy Spirit ). 
This hymn, which Trench declares to he the loveliest 
of all the hymns in the whole circle of Latin sacred po- 
etry, and which dean Stanley calls “the most beautiful 
of all Latin hymns,” is generally ascribed to Robert 11, 
king of France. Whether he really was its author or 
not cannot now be ascertained. Trench does not hesi- 
tate to ascribe it to him. But whoever was its author, 
the Church has reason to be thankful for this precious 
jewel of sacred poetry. This hymn, which is appointed 
in the Roman Church for Whitsuntide, and is contained 
in Luther’s Form of Ordination, runs thus in the orig- 
inal : 

“Veni, Sancte Spiritns, 

Et- emitte ccelitns 
Lueis nue radium. 

Veni, Pater paupernm, 

Veni, Dator munernm, 

Veni, Lumen cordium: 

“Consolator optinie, 

Dulcis hospes aniime, 

Dulce re frige rinin : 

In labore reqnies, 

In :estn temperies, 

In lletu solatium. 

“O lux beatissimn, 

Reple cordis in Lima 
Tnoruni fidelinni. 

Sine t no mi mine 
Nihil est in homine, 

Nihil est iimosinm. 

“ Lava quod est sordklum, 

Riga quod est aridmn, 

Sana quod est sancium : 

Flecte quod est rigidum, 

Fove qnod est languidnm, 

Rege qnod est devinm. 

“Da tuis fidelibns 
In te confideutibus 
Sacrum septenariuin; 

Da virtutis meritum, 

Da salntis exitnm, 

Da perenne gaiulinm.” 

It has very often been translated into English, and 
one of the latest is the translation made by dean Stan- 
ley, running thus : 

“Come, Iloly Spirit, from above, 

And from the realms of light and love 
Thine own bright rays impart. 

Come, Father of the fatherless, 

Come, Giver of all happiness, 

Come, Lamp of every heart; 

“O thou, of comforters the best, 

O thou, the soul’s most welcome guest, 

O thou, onr sweet repose, 

Our resting-place from life’s long care, 

Onr shadow from the world’s fierce glare, 

Our solace ill all woes. 

“O Light divine, all light excelling, 

Fill with thyself the inmost dwelling 
Of souls sincere and lowly; 

Without thy pure divinity, 

Nothing in all humanity, 

Nothing is strong or holy. 

“Wash out each dark and sordid stain, 

Water each dry and arid plain, 

Raise tip the* bruised reed. 

Enkindle what is cold and chill, 

Relax the stiff and stubborn will, 

Guide those that guidance need. 

“ Give to the good, who find iu thee 
The Spirit’s perfect, liberty, 

Thy sevenfold power mid love. 

Give virtue strength its crown to win, 

Give struggling souls their rest from sin, 

Give endless peace above.” 

As this hymn has held a place with the most esteem- 
ed in both the Romish and the Protestant Church, it 
could not fail that Germany should also contribute her 


VEX I A 


46 


YEXNIXG 


share in its translation; and thus, as early as 1511, 
it was translated by Witzel : Komm, heiliger (Jei.it, 
trakrer Gott, and lias ever since found its admirers. 
( 11 . 1 \) 

Venia {favor') is an ancient term, signifying a mo- 
nastic token of reverence, respect, or greeting, with which 
strangers and dignitaries were received on visiting the 
monastery. 

Venial Sin is a sin which, according to the theol- 
ogy invented by the schoolmen and adopted by the 
Church of Home, docs not bring spiritual death, or does 
not turn it away from its ultimate end. As a violation 
of the law of God, such a sin is somewhat subversive of 
its true end: nevertheless, it is too small and insignili- 
cant to wholly subvert it, and therefore pardonable. 
These sins are divided into objective venial sins, where 
the matter of the sin is very small, and subjective venial 
sins, where the sinner commits the transgression with- 
out full advertence or consent. It is certain that, as the 
smallest sins contain in them rebellion against the su- 
preme authority of God, they must be in their own nat- 
ure mortal, or deserving of death; and, on the other 
hand, there is no sin so great that it will not be forgiven 
on repentance and faith in the atonement. Hence the 
distinction between venial sins and mortal sins will not 
hold. See Mortal Sin. 

Venice, Council ok {Concilium Venetian). Ven- 
ice is a fortified city of Italy, capital of the province of 
the same name, situated in the lagoons of Venice, on 
eighty islands, at the head of the Adriatic. An ecclesi- 
astical council was held here in 1177 by pope Alexan- 
der III, assisted by his cardinals and several bishops 
from Italy, Germany, Lombardy, and Tuscany. The 
emperor Frederick, who had previously renounced the 
schism and made peace with Alexander, was present. 
The pope pronounced sentence of excommunication 
against all troublers of the peace. See Mansi, Concil. x, 
148L — Landon, Manual of Councils, p. 074. 

Venier, Pietro, an Italian painter, was born in 
Udine in the latter part of the 17th century, lie stud- 
ied at Venice and executed many works, both in oil and 
fresco, llis best works are said to be some frescos in 
the ceiling of the Church of San Jacopo at Udine, lie 
died in 1737. See Spooner, Biog. Ilist . of the Fine Arts. 
s. v. 

Venilia, in ancient Italian mythology, was a sister 
of Amata (queen of the Latins and mother of Lavinia). 
mother of Turn us. She is thought to have been the 
wife of Faun ns. 

Venison (TI£ or hunting [as often], hence 

the product of the chase, i. e. food), the flesh of any wild 
animal (Gen. xxv, 28; xxvii,3-31). See Hunting. 

Vemte Adoremus {Oh come , let us worship) is 
the refrain of the hymn Adtste Fideles, sung at Christ- 
mas-tide. 

Vemte Exult emus Domino (or Venite, “O, come 
ye”), a psalm (the 05th) or canticle appointed to be 
sung in the matins service of the Church of England 
immediately before the psalms of the day, except on 
Easter- Sunday and on the 19th day of the month, 
when it is sung in the ordinary course of the psalms. 
In the English Prayer-book the Venite comprehends 
the whole of the 95th Psalm. Hut the latter part, 
being considered as referring chiefly to the Jews, has 
been omitted in the American revisal, ami its place sup- 
plied by two verses from the following psalm. In the 
form of prayer for the visitation of prisoners, and in 
that for Thanksgiviiig-dav, a substitute is provided to 
be used instead of the Venite. See Staunton, Diet . of 
the Church, s. v. 

Venius (or Van Veen), Otiio. an eminent Dutch 
painter, was born at Leyden in 1550. He received a 
classical education, and was instructed in design by 
Isaac Nicholas, and in painting by Jodocus Van Win- 


ghen. On account of the civil wars, he retired to Liege, 
and, through the influence of cardinal Grosbeck. he 
went to Pome, where he entered the school Of Federigo 
Zuccaro, at the same time studying diligently the works 
of the masters. He remained several years in Italy, 
and then set out lor home. He stopped on the way at 
Vienna in the service of the emperor, and at Munich 
and Cologne, whorg he executed several works for the 
duke of Bavaria. On his arrival at Brussels, he entered 
into the service of Alessandro Farucsc, prince of Parma, 
at that time governor of the Netherlands. 11c painted 
the portrait of the prince and several historical works, 
which established his reputation as one of the foremost 
artists of his time. After the death of Farnese, he went 
to Antwerp, where he was employed to execute some 
works for the churches and public edifices, and opened 
an academy in which he had the honor of instructing 
Pubens. lie afterwards went to Brussels in the service 
of the archduke Albert, where he remained until his 
death, in 1034. Among his most important paintings 
are the Last Supper, in the Cathedral of Antwerp: — 
the Marriaye of St. Catherine, in the Church of the Ca- 
puchins at Brussels:— the Resurrection of Lazarus, at 
Ghent: — and the Adoration of the Magi , at Bruges, 
lie was also distinguished in literature. He published, 
among others, the War of the Batavians, from Tacitus: 
— Horace's Emblems, with Observations : — Life of Thom- 
as Aquinas: — and Emblems of Love, Divine and Pro- 
fane. Sec Spooner, Bioy. Ilist. of the Fine Arts, s. v. 

Venn, Henry, a pious clergyman of the Church 
of England, was born at Barnes, Surrey, March 2, 1724. 
lie was descended from a long line of ancestry who 
had been clergymen in the English Church, and was 
early destined by his parents to perpetuate the succes- 
sion. Accordingly, he was educated at Bristol and at 
Jesus College, Cambridge, where he graduated in 1745; 
be also obtained a Peestat fellowship in Jesus College, 
where he remained until 1749. He took holy orders 
in 1747, but was not yet converted. Upon due medi- 
tation, however, he was led to see his true condition, 
and sought and obtained rest for his soul. He was 
ever after a pious and devoted Christian. In 1750 he 
accepted the curacies of Friday Street, Loudon, and 
West Horsley, Surrey; and in 1754 he was appointed 
curate of Clapham, which he served five years, preach- 
ing the doctrines of grace for which his labors were so 
famous. He became vicar of Huddersfield in 1759. and 
rector of Yelling, Huntingdonshire, in 1770. He died 
at Clapham, June 24, 1797. Ilis last rectory was in an 
obscure country parish ; but Mr. Venn had access to the 
students of Cambridge, and exercised a highly benefi- 
cial intluence in infusing into their minds evangelical 
principle and holy aspirations. Such were Robinson 
of Leicester, Simeon of Cambridge, Prof. Farrish, and 
others. Among other works, he published The Com- 
plete Duty of Man. or a System of /foci final and Prac- 
tical Christianity (17(13), a work which has obtained 
great popularity. Ilis Life and Letters were published 
in 1834, edited by his grandson, Rev. Henry Venn. See 
Church of England Magazine, i, 390; Christian Guar- 
dian, p. 4U1, 441 ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. 
A uthors, s. v. 

Venn, John, a clergyman of the Church of Eng- 
land, son of Henry Venn of Barnes (q. v.), was born at 
Clapham in 1759. He was educated at Sidney Sussex 
College, Cambridge; instituted to the living of Little 
Dunham, Norfolk, in 1783 ; became rector of Clapham in 
1792. He died at Clapham, July 1, 1813. II is Sermons , 
with Memoir, were published in three volumes (1814- 
I(>). lie also contributed many valuable articles to the 
Christian Observer, and wrote some minor works. See 
Christian Observer, 1813, p. 479 ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, 
and A mer. A uthors, s, v. 

Venning, R alph, a Nonconformist divine, was horn 
about 1(520, and educated in Emmanuel College, Cam- 
bridge. He does not seem to have had any preferment 


VEXTIDIUS 


U7 


VENUS 


in the Church, except the lectureship of St. Olave’s, 
Southwark, from which he was ejected for Nonconformi- 
ty. Much of his time was given to literary pursuits. 
He died March 10, 1673. 

Ventidius (fully P.Ventidius Bassus), a Piceni- 
an who h;ul been taken captive by the Homans, and af- 
terwards rose through many low employments to the 
rank of consul in consequence of his military aid dur- 
ing the wars of the triumvirate, lie was sent by Mare 
Antony as his legate into Asia (B.C. 39), and in the 
end took possession of nearly the entire country, defeat- 
ing the Parthians, and finally gaining a triumph at 
Home, B.C. 36. These exploits are recited by Jose- 
phus {Ant. xiv, la sq.) and the Homan historians. See 
Smith, Diet, of Class. Biog. s. v. 

Ventura, Gioacchino, an Italian philosopher of 
the scholastic type, was born at Palermo, Dec. 8, 1792. 
lie early became a member of the Order of Theatines, 
of which he was soon elected superior-general, and held 
a high position in the Church. He was a prominent 
supporter of the reforms inaugurated by Pius IX, and 
a warm champion of popular rights. But in philoso- 
phy he maintained the fundamental idea of scholasti- 
cism, placing the authority of the Church above reason, 
human conscience, or any other sovereignty. He died 
at Versailles, Aug. 3, 18(51. The following arc his chief 
works: De Methodo Philosopkandi (1828): — De la Vraie 
et de la Fausse Phihsophie (1X7)2): — La Tradition et 
les Semipelugiens de la Philosophic (1854) : — La liaison 
Philosopliiqne et Catholiqne (1854): — La Philosophic 
Ckretienne (1861). See Ueberweg, History of Philoso - 
phi/, ii, 511. 

Venturing Gasparo, a painter of Ferrara, flour- 
ished about 1594. lie first studied under Domenico 
Mona, and then went to Genoa, where he became the 
disciple of Bernardo Castelli. He executed some works 
for tlie churches, but wrought mostly for individuals. 
See Spooner, Biog. l/ist. of the Fine Arts, s. v. 

Venturini, Karl, a Protestant theologian of Ger- 
many and doctor of philosophy, was born at Brunswick, 
Jan. 30, 1771, and died in 1849. lie is the author of, 
Geistder kritischen Philosophic in Beziehung an f Moral 
u. Religion (Altona, 1796-97 ) : — Xatnrliche Gesehichte 
des grossen Propheten von Yazereth ( 1800-2,3 pts. ): 
— Yacht rag dazu (Copenhagen, 1802): — Gesehichte dcs 
Urehristenthums ini Znsamnieuhang mit der natiir- 
lichen Gesehichte des grossen Propheten (ibid. 1807-9,2 
vols.). l T nder the name of Phosphor he published Vom 
religiusen Sehioimlel, wit soldier sick neuerlieh in dem 
Streite der preussischen Rcgiernng mit der rumischen 
Curie znr Schciu gestellt hat (Brunswick, 1839). .See 
Winer, Handbnch der theolog. Literatnr , i, 284, 379; ii, 
203; Zuchold, Bill. Theolog. ii, 995; Theologisches Uni- 
versal- Lex ikon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Venulus, in ancient Italian mythology, was a La- 
tinian whom Latinos fruitlessly sent to Diomede, in Arpi, 
to secure help against .TEueas. 

Venus, the goddess of (sexual) love among the Ho- 
mans, corresponding to Aphrodite among the Greeks, 
and in later times confounded with the Oriental deities 
represented by Mylitta, Ashtoreth (q.v.),etc. The popu- 
lar myths concerning her origin are various. By some 
she is represented as the daughter of Jupiter and Dione, 
but she was poetically said to have sprung from the 
foam of the sea. She became the wife of Vulcan, but 
her amours with nearly all the gods and with many 
mortals were the scandal ol heaven and earth. She is 
depicted under various aspects, but mostly those of un- 
chastity. 

As the creatress of the world, called genetrix , the Ve- 
nus Urania of the Homans and Greeks was sometimes 
depicted as Androgyne, and even in a manner still more 
offensive; and this symbolism seems to typify the fact 
that Venus was feminine, but powerless if alone. When 
she was delineated with a mural crown, the idea em- 
bodied was that she became a mother by her own in- 


herent power. Her frequent symbol was the crescent 
moon. See Qeeen op Heaven. Layard {Yinereh. ii, 
345) identifies her with the llcra of classical antiquity, 
and states that among the Assyrians she sometimes held 
a serpent in one hand, as in an Egyptian tablet. As a 
female winged figure, partly naked, and presiding over 
generation, she is introduced into embroideries of robes 
in the most ancient palace of Minerva. But the ab- 
sence of her obscene symbols in the Assyrian monu- 
ments in general is in remarkable contrast with repre- 
sentations in other Asiatic religions. Rude images of 
this goddess in baked clay have been disinterred among 
the ruins of Bagdad (Layard, Babylon , p. 407). 



Figures of the Assyrian Venus. 


Her worship was of general prevalence 'among the 
pagan nations of antiquity, and meets us at two or 
three points of special Biblical interest. It was an im- 
pure form of the same worship which presented its more 
scientific aspect in that of the temple at Ephesus (q. v.) — 
the personification of the productive powers of nature; 
and there seems to have been the same relation between 
the rites at Ephesus and Sardis and those at Paphos 
that exists even at this time between what is called the 
right-handed and the left-handed worship of the god- 
dess Parvati in India. Among many proofs of this, the 
image of the idol itself may be adduced. It was not a 
human figure. Tacitus {Hist, ii, 3) describes it as con- 
ical, and states that the reason why Venus should be 
worshipped under such a form was not clear. Maximus 
Tvrius (Biss, viii, 8) speaks of it as a white pyramid; 
and there can be no doubt that it was intended to rep- 
resent the same idea as the conical stone of which, in 
later times, Heliogabalus announced himself to he the 
priest. Artemis at Ephesus, the sun at Emesa, and 
Aphrodite at Paphos were symbols or personifications 
of the same attribute — the universal mother; the plas- 
tic or all-forming deity, and the productive impulse of 
nature, were all middle terms for the divine creating 
energy. Unhappily the impurities of the East were 
transferred to Paphos (q. v.), and the worship of Venus 
became a scandal even to the pagan world. The tem- 
ple at this city was like that of Astarte at Carthage, 
and the episode ofThammuz was introduced into the 
myth with a change of name to Adonis. It appears, 
too, that models of the saered image were sold at Pa- 
phos, just as silver shrines were at Ephesus ; and 
Athenteus (xv, 18) tells a story of one Erostratus who 
was saved from shipwreck through the possession of 
such an image. 

VENUS {Fran), in Northern fable. In Thuringia 
there is said to have lived a feeu-queen named Frau 
Venus, who chose the Ildrselberg as her province. 
About her she collected a ravishing court of joy and 
bliss, and they who became her subjects were over- 
loaded with all the happiness and enjoyment which the 
most licentious passions might desire; but they, how- 
ever, lost their soul’s salvation thereby. Among the 
thus living persons, the fabulous stories make mention 


VENUSTI 


VERBERIC 


74t> 



Temple of the Pnphiun Venus Restored. 


especially of one Tannhlitiser, a warrior, who, after hav- 
ing lived a number of years in Venusberg, was sudden- 
ly seized with a feeling of repentance, and accordingly 
went to the pope of Rome to do penance and ask for 
mercy. The pope called his attention to Ids staff, and 
said that when that staff should again begin to bear 
leaves and blossom, then should lie receive forgiveness. 
Tannhiiuser left the presence of the pope discouraged, 
but in the course of a few days the staff began to grow 
green and bear blossoms. Then the pope sought for 
Tannhiiuser everywhere; but he was not to be found, 
for lie had returned again to Venusberg, where he will 
remain in all the ages of eternity (comp. Eckhardt). It 
is only since the 14th century that, t lie first stories of 
the Venusberg appear. At about this time, therefore, 
it seems that the German Uolda-Frir/yu was changed 
into Venus. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Venusti, Marcello, an Italian painter, was born 
at Mantua in 1515. He studied under Pieriuo del Vaga 
in his native city, and afterwards went to Rome, where 
he entered into the service of Michael Angelo, from 
whom lie received instruction. lie imitated the style 
of that great master with excellent success, and exe- 
cuted many of his designs. Resides these, he planned 
and executed many works for the churches of Rome, 
both in oil and fresco, which are admired lor the grand- 
eur of their composition, elegance of design, beauty of 
coloring, and neatness of finish, lie died in 157G. See 
Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Vei acini, Aoostino, a Florentine painter of the 
18th century, studied under Sebastiano Ricci. lie ex- 
ecuted some works for the churches of Florence, which 
gained him considerable reputation. He died in 1702. 
See Spooner, Biorj. I Fist . of the Fine A rts , s. v. 

Veracity of God is his truth, or an exact corre- 


spondence and conformity between his Word and his 
mind. Moses says, “He is a God of truth.” lie is 
true in and of himself; lie truly and really exists ; he is 
the true and living God; all his perfections are true and 
real; truth is essential to him; it is pure and perfect in 
him; it is the first and original in him; he is the foun- 
tain of truth; all his works in creation, providence, and 
grace are according to truth.- — Buck, Thevl. Diet. s. v. 
See Truth. 

Verbal Inspiration. See Inspiration. 

Verberic, Councils of {Concilium Yermeriense'). 
Verberic is in the diocese of Soissons, a fortified town 
of France, department of Aisne, twenty miles south-west 
of Laon, on the left bank of the Aisne. Two ecclesias- 
tical councils were held here, as follows: 

I. Was held in 753, by order of king Pepin. This 
council was, properly speaking, a national assembly. 
Twenty-one canons were published, chiefly relating to 
the subject of marriages. 

1. Declares that the marriages of relatives to the third 
degree of consanguinity are utterly null, so that t lie par- 
ties so married are at liberty, after penance, to marry 
others. That those who are related only in the fourth de- 
gree shall not be separated if married, but be pm to pen- 
ance. 

3. Forbids a priest to marry, under pain of losing his 
rank. Forbids any one to marry the wife of a man who 
has been made priest. 

5. Permits a man whose wife has conspired to murder 
him to put her away, and to marry another. 

«>. Permits those persons who have married slaves, un- 
der the idea of their being free, to marry again. 

9. Declares that in cases in which men are absolutely 
obliged to leave their place of abode to go to live else- 
where, if their wives refuse to <ro with them for no other 
reason than their affection for their country, or relations, 
or pro peri j', it shall be lawful for the husband to marry 
another, hut not for the wife who remains behind. 

14. Forbids bishops, when travelling out of their own 



VEIIBIEST 


749 


VERENA 


diocese, to ordain priests, and orders that persons so or- 
dained, if they be really worthy of the priesthood, shall 
be ordained again. 

15. Allows a degraded priest to baptize a sick person in 
ease of necessity. 

16. Forbids clerks to wear arms. 

19. Forbids married slaves who are sold separately to 
different masters to marry others, although they have no 
hope of ever being united again. . 

21. Enacts that a husband who has permitted his wife 
to take the veil shall not marry another. 

See 31 ansi, Concil. vi, I65G. 

11. Was held in 8G9, twenty bishops being present, 
with Charles the Haiti. Hinemar of Laun was accused, 
and appealed to the pope. lie, at the same time, de- 
manded leave to go to Koine, which, at the instigation 
of his uncle, was refused, but the proceedings against 
him were suspended. See Mansi, Concil. viii, 1527. — 
Landon, Manual o f Councils, p. G75. 

Verbiest, Ferdinand, a Belgian missionary and 
astronomer, was born at 1’itthem, West Flanders, Oct. 
9, 1623. lie studied at Coutrai and Louvain, and grad- 
uated at Seville in 1G55. Having entered the Order of 
the Jesuits, he studied astronomy under Tarquet and 
Sell all. and then set out to preach in China in IG57. 
There he underwent various fortunes, travelling and 
writing astronomical and other works, chiefly employed 
by the Chinese emperor, until his death, at Pekin, Jan. 
23, IG88. See Hoeler, None. Blog . Generate, s. v. 

Verbrugge, Orro, a Herman doctor and professor 
of theology and Oriental languages, who flourished to- 
wards the middle of the 18th century at Groningen, is 
the author of Dissert at to de Trichotomiu in Libras Mo- 
saicos, etc. (Lingen, 1713): — Obser rat tones Philolugicte 
tie Xominnm Hebneorum Plnrali X tuner a (Groningen, 
1730; 2d ed. Erlangen, 1752): — 0 ratio de Statu Judte- 
oruin Tempore Exil'd Babglonici (Groningen, 1730). 
See Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 172; Winer, Ilandb.der theol. 
Lit. i, 119; Steinsehneider, Bibl. Ilundb. s. v. (B. P.) 

Verbruggen (or Terbruggen), Henry, a Dutch 
painter, was born at Utrecht in 1588. lie tirst studied 
under Abraham Bloemacrt, and then went to Italy, 
where he studied ten years at Koine and Naples. He 
acquired considerable reputation there, and executed 
several works for t he churches, one of the best of which 
was a Deposition from the Cross, in one of the churches 
of Naples. He afterwards went to Holland and settled 
at Middelburg. He was admired by Kubens. He died 
at Utrecht in 1G29. See Spooner, Biotj. Hist, of the 
Fine A rts, s. v. 

Verbruggen, Henry Francis and Peter, two 
sculptors and wood-carvers of Antwerp, whose date and 
history are not known, are said to have executed va- 
rious excellent works in the cathedral and churches of 
Antwerp, such as pulpits and confessionals, besides many 
carved decorations in noble mansions of Belgium. Dur- 
ing the civil commotions, some of their works were sold 
and sent to England. See Spooner, Biog. Ilist. of the 
Fine .1 rts, s. v. 

Verbryck, Samuel, one of the progressive clergy- 
men of the Kelormed (Dutch) Church in America, who 
established its independence of the Church in Holland, 
studied under dominies Levdt, Goetschius, and Vander- 
limle. He was licensed by the Ccetus, or American 
Classis, in 1749, and was settled at Tappan and New 
Hempstead (now Clarkstown), N. Y., from 1750 to 1784. 
lie was an ardent friend of ministerial education in this 
country. His efforts to get a charter from the governor 
of New Jersey in 17G1 for an academy so offended many 
of his people that they refused to pay his salary. The 
Conferentie party presented him to the Classis of Am- 
sterdam for ecclesiastical censure, complaining that if 
he procured the charter for an academy, it would only 
multiply just such ministers as himself. But he out- 
lived all this, and saw the full fruit of his labors and 
those of his noble coadjutors in the establishment of 
Queen’s College in 1770, of which he was one of the first 
trustees appointed by the charter itself. Such names 


and services deserve remembrance. Mr. Verbryck was 
a godly minister, and of good repute among all but his 
adversaries in these ecclesiastical and educational con- 
flicts. He died in 1784. See Corwin, Manual of the 
Ilf. Church, s. v. (W.J.K.T.) 

Vercellesi, Seuastiano, an Italian painter who 
lived about the middle of the 17th century, was born at 
Keggio. He was a disciple of Lionello Spada, and exe- 
cuted some works for the churches of his native city, 
but was mostly employed by private individuals. See 
Spooner, Biotj. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Vercelli, Council ok ( Concilium Vercellense ). 
Vercelli is a city of Italy, in Piedmont, province of 
Novara. An ecclesiastical council was held here in 
September. 1050, bv pope Leo IX. Bishops attended 
from various nations. Berenger was cited to appear, 
but refused to attend. Ilis errors were condemned, and 
the book oTJolui Scotus upon the eucliarist was burned. 
See Lanfranc, De Carp. Dotn. lib. 4; Mansi, Concil. ix, 
1055. — Landon, Manual of Councils, p. G75. 

Vercellone, Carlo, a Unman Catholic divine of 
Italy, was born Jan. 14, 1814, at Sordevolo, in Kiedmont. 
In 1829 he joined the Barnabites at Turin, studied phi- 
losophy there, and afterwards theology at Koine, lie 
was appointed president of the College of the Barnabites, 
and died Jan. 19, I8G9. lie is well known for his crit- 
ical labors on the Vulgate, and published, Varite Lec- 
tiones Vulgatie Latino: Fditionis Bibliorum (Kome, 1800- 
64, 2 vols.) : — Dissertazioni . I evade miche di Vario A rgo- 
inento (ibid. I8G4), with the following contents: 

i. Di nn Biblico Codice Palimpseste della Biblioteca 
Valicana proveniente dal Monasterio di Bobbin, p. 1. 

ii. Framenti dell’ Autica Italia scoperti in uu Codice 
Vaticauo, p. 17. 

iii. Dei Correttori Biblici della Bibliot. Vat. p. 35. 

iv. Studii fatti in Roma e Mezzi Usati per Correggere la 
Bibbia Volgata [con Docnmenti], p. 37. 

v. Sidle edizioni della Bibbia falte in Italia nel Seeolo 

xv r p. 97. * 

vi. Dell’ Antichissimo Codice Vatic, della Bibbia Greca 
(con uu Appendice dal cav. G. B. de' Rossi ed una Tavola 
Litograf.), p. 115. 

vii. Avverteuze Critiche snlla Versione Greca delPAn- 
tico Testam. fatta da Aquila, p. 143. 

viii. La Tradizione e la Bibbia, p. 179. 

ix. De llebraica Voce “ Almah" ap. Isa. vii, 14, p. 203. 

x. Della Colt lira Filosotica degli Antichi Ebrei, p. 219. 

xi. Sidle Moderue Instituzioiii Filosotiche, p. 235. 

xii. Dott.rine Filosotiche di Sant’Agostino per uu Riscou- 
tro alia Ideologia delle Scnole Moderue, p. 259. 

xiii. Sullo Studio della Lingua Pniiico-fenieia, p. 305. 

xiv. Sulla Iscrizione Fenian Seoperta a Marsiglia nell’ 
Anno 1845, p. 321. 

xv. Di Bubaste a Proposito di nn Epigrafe Ostieuse, 
p. 339. 

xvi. Gli Ultimi Quattro Anni della Vita del Card. Gerdil, 
p. 365. 

xvii. Di Aleuni Scritti Biblici del L. M. Ungarelli Barna- 

bita, p. 3S5. . 

xviii. Appendice: (1.) Prtefatio ad Biblia Grteca, ed. 
Rom. anno 1857, p. 407. (2.) Pnefatio ad Nov. Testam. 

Grtece, ed. Rom. anno 1859, p. 427. (3.) Praefatio ad Bi- 
blia Vnlgata, ed. Rom. anno 1SG1, p. 431. (4.) Pmefaiio ad 

Nov. Testam. Vidg. ed. Rom. anno 1861, p. 437-440: — 

La Storia dell' Adultera nel Vungelo di S. Giovanni, 
Dissertazione Critica (ibid. I8G7): — Ulteriori Studii snl 
X. T. Greco delV Antichissimo Cod. Vat. (ibid. 18GG). 
(B. P.) 

Verdour is an old English word signifying hang- 
ings for a room or bed, on which are represented trees, 
flowers, and grasses; also an altar-hanging, powdered 
with green leaves and flowers. 

Verdun, Council of ( Concilium Virdunense). Ver- 
dun is a town of France, twenty-eight miles north of 
Bar-le-Duc. on the Meuse, at the head of navigation. 
An ecclesiastical council was held there in November, 
947, bv seven bishops, who confirmed Artaldus in the 
possession of the see of Rlieims, which lingo disputed 
with him. See Mansi, Concil. ix, G22.— Landon, Manual 
of Councils, p. 075. 

Verena, a virgin who is said to have accompanied 
the Thebaic legion of Mauritius, in the 3d century, from 


VEKGA 


750 


VERGERIUS 


Upper Egypt to the West, either as the kinswoman of 
Mauritius or as the bride of Victor, who was one of the 
soldiers. She tarried at Milan in the house of a cer- 
tain Maximus, anil there learned the fate of the legion, 
but, nevertheless, followed it to Helvetia. She settled 
in the vicinity of Solothnrn, obtaining a livelihood by 
personal labor, and aiding, not without the performing 
of many wonders, in the work of converting the Ale- 
manni. Her zeal in this latter work led to her impris- 
onment by a lloman pnetor; but her confinement was ' 
cheered by a visit from the sainted Mauritius, and the I 
pnetor himself was soon compelled to seek relief from 
a severe illness at her hands. After liberation she re- 
moved to the junction of the Aar and the Rhiuc, and j 
by her miraculous power expelled every snake from an 
island which these reptiles had overrun. Site died at 
Zurzaeh, near Costnitz, where her remains yet repose. 
The legend is wholly dependent on the thoroughly 
mythical tradition of Mauritius and the Thebaic legion 
(q. v.). See liettberg, Kirchengesch, Deutschland s, i, 108 
sq. ; also Martyrol. Xotkeri in Cauisius, Led. Antiq. ii, 
3. p. 170, and the Holland. Acta SS. i, in each case un- 
der Sept. 1. — llerzog, Real-Fneyklop. s. v. 


1542, for a period of thirty-two years. He also exe- 
cuted a part of the paintings on glass in the same edi- 
fice. which were continued and completed by his sons, 
Nicolas and .loan. lie died in 1574. See Spooner, 
Blog. Hist, of the Fine .1 rts, s. v. 

Verge (hat. virga) is a sta jf of wood or metal, sur- 
mounted with a tigure, emblem, or device, borne before 
a bishop, dean, rector, or vicar, in entering or leaving 
church, and on other public occasions. Several speci- 
mens of verges of the period of the Restoration, made 
of precious metals, exist in some of the churches of 
London. The term is also used for a rod or stall' car- 
ried as an emblem of authority; also a stick or wand 
with which people are admitted tenants, by holding it 
in the hand and swearing fealty to the owner. — Lee, 
Glossary of Liturg. Terms, s. v. 

Verger ( [riagifer , bast inarms ) is an officer of the 
Chureh of England and Continental churches, who car- 
ries the verge (q. v.) before the bishop, dean, or other 
dignitary. On the Continent they are sometimes fan- 
tastically dressed. 

Verger (or Vergier),DE IIaukexe. See Du- 

VEllGER. 


Verga, Solomon lux-, a Jewish historian, was born 
in Spain in 1450, where lie practiced medicine, lie is 
the author of rn"*”P -"T, the Sceptre of Judah, a Jew- 
ish history, composed in part from notes left by his father, 
and afterwards continued by bis son, rabbi Joseph ben- 
Solomon, of Adrianople. The book itself tells us that 
its author was employed by the Spanish synagogues in 
several difficult negotiations during the later years of 
bis residence in the Peninsula. We have but few par- 
ticulars of his life, after he shared in the banishment of 
his brethren; even the year of his death is unknown. 
The Sceptre of Judah , which was published first in 
Adrianople in 1544, and often since, was translated 
into Jewish-German in 1501, and often; into Spanish 
by Meir de Leon (Amsterdam. 1040); into Latin by 
Gentins (ibid. 1051); but the best translation is the 
German of M. Wiener (Hanover. 1855, 1850, 2 voK). 
Extracts in German are also given by Eisenmenger in 
Xenentdecktes Judeuthum. vol. i ; by Selnidt, Jiidische , 
Denkiriirdigkeiten , vol. i; and by Zednor, Ausirahl his- 
torischer Stiicke avs hebr. Schriftstellern (Berlin. 1840), 
p. 00 sq. See Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 473 sq. ; De’ Rossi, 
IHzionario Storico (Germ, transl. ), p. 320; Finn, Se- 
phardim. p. 450; Steinsehneider, Jewish Literature, 
]). 251; Da Costa, Israel and the Gentiles, p.398 sq. ; 
Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden, ix, 343 sq. (B. P.) 

Vergara, Jose, a Spanish painter, was born at 
Valencia in 1726. He displayed fine artistic powers at 
an early age. He adopted the style of the prints of 
Spagnoietto, and studied the works of Covpel and Paolo 
de Matteis. lie painted many portraits and numerous 
pietures for the churches of Valencia and neighboring 
cities, in oil, fresco, and distemper. The most noted of 
his paintings are the Conception of the Virgin, in the 
Convent of San Franeiseo, at Valencia; and Telemachus 
and Mentor, in the Academy of San Ferdinando. lie 
was chosen director of the Academy of San Carlos, at 
Valencia, and held the office until his death, in 1790. 
See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Vergara, Juan de, a Spanish artist, son and pu- 
pil of Nicolas, was born at Toledo about 1540. He was 
distinguished as a painter, sculptor, and architect, and 
assisted his father and brother in the execution of the 
glass paintings in the cathedral, which occupied about 
forty years. After his father’s death he directed the 
works in painting and sculpture in the cathedral. He 
was very intimate with El Mudo. lie died in 1000. 
See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine Arts , s. v. 

Vergara, Nicolas de (the Elder), a Spanish paint- 
er and sculptor, was born at Toledo about 1510. Ilis 
works are to be found chiefly in the Cathedral of Tole- 
do, where he directed the painting and sculpture from 




Vergerius, Peter Paul ( the Younger'), an Italian 
jurist, priest, and Reformer, ranks as one of the most 
noteworthy personages produced by the 10th century, 
lie was born of noble parents in 1498, at Capo d’Istria, 
and was educated for the law at Padua. After gradua- 
tion and the subsequent practice of bis profession in dif- 
ferent Italian cities, he went to Rome, and was appoint- 
ed, under pope Clement VI 1, papal nuncio to Germany, 
for the purpose of preventing the convoking of a nation- 
al council. A similar mission was intrusted to him by 
Paul III, in connection with which he had interviews 
with Luther and the elector John Frederick. His ser- 
vices were rewarded with the dignity of titulary bishop 
of Madrusium, in Croatia, and afterwards, in 1530, with 
the bishopric of his native town. The curious feature 
is mentioned in this connection that Vergerius spent ten 
years in Capo d’lstria before he obtained consecration 
to the priesthood and the episeopaey: and no light is 
thrown upon his occupations or the mode of administer- 
ing his diocese during that period. In 1540 lie visited 
Worms and took part in the colloquy there held, deliv- 
ering. during its progress (Jan. 1, 1541), a pacific address 
in the interests of a general, and against the holding of 
a national, council, which was censured at Rome as be- 
ing too conciliatory. He at once returned home, and 
entered on the study of the writings of the Lutherans, 
in order that by refuting them he might demonstrate 
the soundness of his own orthodoxy; but he was him- 
self converted by their arguments, and his brother Gio- 
vanni Battista, bishop of Pola, came to share his views. 
Both prelates now began to labor zealously for Christ, 
instructing the people publicly and in private, and urg- 
ing them to lead godly lives. In Capo d’Istria, partic- 
ularly, reforms in t lie monastic institution were energet- 
ically prosecuted; superstitions like the invoking of the 
aid of St. Rocbus against pestilence, and of St. Anthony 
against erysipelas, were condemned; and traditional be- 
liefs like the legends of St. George and St. Christopher 
were declared to be mythical. The consequence was 
that an investigation of the diocese was undertaken by 
a papal commission in 1545. and that the brothers Ver- 
gerius were cited before the legate Della Casa, patriarch 
of Aquileia. They protested and appealed to the Coun- 
cil of Trent, then just opened, and Peter Paul placed 
himself under the protection of cardinal Gonzaga of 
Mantua ; hut afterwards visited Trent, where his request 
to be permitted to speak in his defence was not allowed. 
\ commission found him guilty of heresy. Soon after- 
wards he went to Padua, and visited the unhappy apos- 
tate Francis Spiera (q. v.) repeatedly, with the result to 
himself that he was confirmed in his devotion to the 
Gospel, lie handed an apology to the suffragan of 
Padua, Dec. 13, 1518, in which, while not explicitly con- 


VERGIL 


751 


VERMEULE 


ceding his adherence to the Reformation, lie yet declares 
that the truth must be defended despite every inquisi- 
tion. lie then went to Basle. Ilis brother had previ- 
ously died, probably of poison. 

The earliest held of Protestant labor for Verge rius 
was the villages in the Veltlin, in the Orisons, and he 
became pastor of the little village of Vieosoprano. Ilis 
powerful sermons, in some instances, led the people to 
instantaneously abolish the mass and destroy their im- 
ages. The held was not, however, commensurate with 
his desires, and his situation became unpleasant. lie was 
obliged to take part in negotiations with the adherents of 
Servetus and Socimis among the immigrants from Italy ; 
the region where he labored was predominantly and im- 
movably on the side of Rome; he was dissatisfied with 
the established form of government in the Zwinglian 
churches, and incurred the charge of ambitious med- 
dling, and also excited strong feeling by his advocacy 
of the Calviuian doct rine of the Lord’s supper. In 1553 
a synod framed a confession for the Orisons, and directed 
that all who would not subscribe to its tenets should be 
excluded from fellowship in the Church; and, though 
Vergerius had been the successful means of winning 
eight congregations from Rome to the Oospel, he was 
obliged to leave the country. He found a refuge with 
duke Christopher at Tubingen, and in a few months re- 
turned to his late home with the title of counsellor to 
that patron, after which he definitely established him- 
self at Tubingen in September, 1553. Thenceforward 
he lived in privacy, except when employed in some bold 
missionary enterprise to unreclaimed countries. Poland 
was his favorite field, and was much indebted to him on 
account of his earnest evangelical labors. He also vis- 
ited king Maximilian at Vienna in 1558. and presented 
him with practical evangelical writings, and was suc- 
cessful in inclining him to favor the Reformation. 11c 
revisited the Orisons on both evangelical and diplo- 
matic missions, being especially influential in preparing 
for a renewal of the treaty between that canton and 
France. In addition to such labors, lie occupied him- 
self with the writing of numerous works — polemical, di- 
dactic, and exegetical. Among other works, he publish- 
ed the Bohemian confession of 1535; and, at about the 
same time, he showed inclination to connect himself 
with the Bohemian Church, having written in 1501 to 
its senior, in Little Poland, for admission to its fellow- 
ship. He was, however, deterred from consummating 
the arrangement by an unwillingness to make so impor- 
tant a change at the advanced age he had now reached. 
Ilis motive had been the growing intolerance of the Lu- 
theran Church, which denied peace and comfort to all 
who held the milder Melancthonian views. His request 
to be sent to the colloquy of Poissy in 1501, as the dele- 
gate of the German churches, was denied by the duke, 
because the Council of Trent would grant no safe-con- 
duct unless Vergerius should recognise the Romish 
Church. The greatest fault of Vergerius was a dispo- 
sition to participate in every undertaking and to assert 
his own authority. He thus excited much opposition 
against himself. Many of his coreligionists of early 
times, as Della Casa and others, were guilty of unwor- 
thy assaults upon him ; but many of the most prominent 
personages of the Papal Church gave him an excellent 
reputation. He died at Tubingen Oct. 4. 15G5. and An- 
dreii delivered a panegyric over his remains. See Sixt, 
P. P. Vergerius, etc. (Brunswick, 1S55); and Herzog, 
Real- Enryktop. s. v. 

Vergil, Polypore, a priest of the Roman Church 
and an ecclesiastical historian, was born atUrbino, Italy, 
about 1470. He acquired a considerable literary repu- 
tation by his Prorcrbiorum Libellus (1498) and be Pe- 
ru m Inventoribns (1499). In 1501 lie was sent to Eng- 
land by pope Alexander VI, to collect the papal tribute 
called Peter’s pence, and was the last to bold that office. 
He remained in England the greater part of his life; 
became rector of Church -Langton, in Leicestershire; 
archdeacon of Wells in 1507 ; and a prebendary of Here- 


ford and Lincoln the same year; then prebendary in St. 
Paul’s, London, in 1513. When he had been in Eng- 
land nearly fifty years, he returned to Italy, having re- 
ceived a present of three hundred crowns and leave to 
hold his archdeaconry of Wells and his prebend at Here- 
ford during life. He died in Italy about 1555. He was 
the friend of Erasmus, and wrote several works of value. 
His principal work is a voluminous Latin History of 
England, Hist or be A nglicce Libri XXXVI (Basic, 1533, 
fob). Two volumes of an old English edition of this 
work were edited by Sir Henry Ellis for the Camden 
Society (1811-4(3). The Agathynian Club published 
(N. Y. 186.8) a translation of bis be Henna Inrentoribus, 
by John Langley, with an Account of the Author and 
his Works, by Dr. W. A. Hammond. 

Verhaghen, Pieter Jozef. a Flemish painter, was 
born at Acrschot, South Brabant, about 1728. He stud- 
ied with great diligence, and soon gained the patronage 
of prince Charles of Lorraine, lie visited France, Sar- 
dinia, and Italy at the expense of the government ; .and 
while at Rome he painted two pictures which gained 
him considerable notoriety, one representing Christ 
Crowned with Thorns, and the other Christ with the 
Disciples at Enunaus. Through the fame of the latter 
he gained an audience with pope Clement XIV, who 
presented him with two gold medals, lie afterwards 
visited Vienna, where he was patronized by the empress 
Maria Theresa, to whom he gave the picture of Christ 
at Emma ns. lie returned to Louvain in 1773, where 
he was honored by the citizens with a public reception. 
He executed many works for the churches and convents 
of his country, and died in 1811. See Spooner, Biog . 
Hist, of the Fine Arts , s, v. 

Veri, Anthony. See Verjus, Antoine. 

Veringer, Andreas, a Protestant theologian of 
Germany, was born at Herrenberg, Wiir tem berg, in the 
year 1553. In 1588 he was appointed deacon at his na- 
tive place; was called in 1590 as pastor to Chemnitz, 
in Hungarv, and in 1595 to Feldsperg, in Austria. 
When the Lutherans had to leave the country, lie re- 
turned to his native land; was in 1 GO l pastor at Ro- 
senfeltl; advanced in I (303 as superintendent at Fremlen- 
stadt; was called in 1608 to Stuttgart: advanced there 
in 1609 as member of consistory and court-preacher; 
and died as abbot of Alpirspach Nov. 15, 1609. See 
Firchlin, Memoria Theologorum 1 Yurt ember gensium ; 
Jocher, Allgemeines Gelehrten- Lex ikon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Veritas, in Roman mythology, was the goddess of 
truth, whom the Greeks called ’AXi/Sttu, a daughter of 
Jupiter or Saturn. She is also the mother of Virtue 
and Justice. She is represented as dressed in white. 

Verjus, Antoine, a French Jesuit, brother of the 
diploniate Louis, was born in Paris. Jan. 22, 1632. Being 
admitted into that order at the age of nineteen, he 
taught the humanities for some time in Brittany, and 
then, by the royal order, joined the count of Crecv (his 
brother) in Germany (1672), where he was useful in 
diplomatic services. The remainder of his life was 
spent in laborious missionary work in India. He final- 
ly died in Paris, May 16, 1706, leaving a number of his- 
torical ami other works, for which see Iloefer, Xouv. 
Bing. Generate, s. v. 

Veijus, Frangois, a French ecclesiastic, nephew 
of the preceding, was a priest of the ( Oratory, ami was 
nominated bishop of Grasse. He died Dec. 7, 1710. 

Verjus, Jean, a French preacher, brother of An- 
toine, was early educated for the Church, and, under the 
direction of the Jesuits, made such rapid progress in his 
studies that he was made doctor by the Sorbonue and 
sent to Rome, where he was engaged in literary labors 
under the protection of cardinal Ketz. He died in Paris 
in 1663, at the age of thirty-three. 

Vermeule, Cornelius C., D.D., a minister of the 
Reformed (Dutch) Church, was horn in 1786. He grad- 
uated at Queen’s College in 1812, and at New Bruns- 


VERMEYEN 


752 


VERMIGLI 


wick Theological Seminary in 1814; was licensed by J 
the Classis of New Brunswick in 1814; and was tutor 
in Rutgers College, 1812-14; professor of languages in 
Queen’s College, US 1 4 15; and pastor at Harlem, X. Y„ 
1816-36. He tlied dan. 15. 1859. See Corwin, Manual 
of the lief Church in America , s. v. 

Vermeyen, .Jan Korneeis, a Dutch painter, 
was born at Beverwyk, near Haarlem, in 1500. lie 
was probably instructed by his father, Cornelius, an ob- 
scure painter. The emperor Charles V appointed him 
his principal painter, and he attended the monarch in 
all his expeditions, battles, sieges, and designed on the 
spot all the memorable events of the war by sea and 
land. In 1535 he was present at the siege and capture 
of Tunis, and made designs of the principal events, from 
which he afterwards executed cartoons for the tapestry 
of the Escurial. Rut most of the works which he ex- 
ecuted for the emperor are supposed to have perished 
in the conflagration of the Prado. The latter part of 
his life he spent at Brussels, where he executed many 
works for the churches and public edifices. These are 
highly commended by Van blander. In the Church of 
St.Gcry are two of his pictures, the Nativity and the 
Resurrection . He was also an engraver, but did not 
achieve great distinction in this department. lie often 
received the names Johannes Barbatus, Barbalonya. 
Barbato . and similar titles, from the fact that he had 
a very long beard, which he is said to have cultivated 
with such care that it grew to his feet ; and the emperor, 
in his merry moods, would tread upon it. He died in 
1539. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts , s. v. 

Vermigli (Lat.Vermnlius'). ordinarily known as Pe- 
ter Martyr from his baptismal names, was the most 
learned and celebrated of Italian Protestants in the 
16th century. He belonged to a patrician family of 
Florence, where he was born Sept. 8, 1500, lie entered 
'the Augustine convent at Fiesole in 1516. His father 
had destined him for the service of the State, and dis- 
inherited him when he entered the monastery. In 1519 
he went to Padua to complete his studies. He studied 
Greek without a teacher, made himself acquainted with 
the Aristotelian philosophy, and developed considerable 
dialectical ability. In theology lie passed beyond the 
narrow limits of the scholastic curriculum, and read sev- 
eral of the Church fathers. When twenty-six years of 
age, he was sent out to preach in different towns of Italy. 
He also lectured on literature and philosophy in vari- 
ous convents of his order. He read the New Test, in 
r he original, and employed a Jewish physician at Bo- 
logna to teach him the Hebrew language. He became 
abbot of Spoleto and prior of St. Peter’s ad Aram in 
Naples. Here he was introduced into the circle which 
Juan Valdes (q. v.) had gathered about him; and the 
evangelical intiuenee of that association and of the elo- 
quent Ochiuo (q. v.). whom he met in 1539, decided his 
future course, lie attained to faith in the justification 
of man through Christ, and taught this and other doc- 
trines of the Reformers in the school ami the convent. 
In 1541 he was elected visitator of his order. II is strict- 
ness in the performance of the duties of that office drew 
upon him the dislike of the monks, and led to his being 
transferred to Lucca as prior of San Frediano. He now 
invited a number of scholars who were inclined to ac- 
cept the Gospel to aid in training the novices joined 
with them in the study of the writings of the Reform- 
ers in Germany and Switzerland, preached and taught 
in the same spirit — as did also his vicar and Don Con- 
stantine, the prior of Fregionara — and organized a con- 
gregation of evangelical Christians. At this juncture 
the Inquisition interfered: several of Martyr’s friends 
were apprehended, and he fled to Switzerland, pausing 
at Pisa to write a letter of separation from the papacy, 
which he couched in the form of an exposition of the 
Apostles’ Creed. After a brief delay he obtained the 
situation of professor of the Old-Test. Scriptures, and 
speedily obtained a high reputation as a teacher. He 


was learned, acute, clear, and precise in expression, 
mild and amiable in his manners; he possessed a pure 
and classical Latin style and a vivid eloquence. In 
theology he became a pronounced predestinarian ; with 
respect to the sacraments, he adopted the prevailing 
(Swiss) view. 

In 1517 Vermigli went to England with a view to as- 
sist Cranmer in establishing the Reformation. lie was 
given a professorship at Oxford, and began his work 
with a course of lectures on 1 Corinthians, which he 
published in 1551. In this work he discussed contro- 
verted questions, like the right of priests to marry and 
the nature of the sacrament of the Lord’s supper; on 
the latter question assuming a mystical union with the 
substance of Christ, effected by faith and involving no 
physical contact, and yet so complete that even the 
flesh, man’s physical nature, is strengthened, and the 
whole man brought into fellowship with the Lord. In 
the advocacy of this view lie carried on an extensive 
correspondence with Calvin, and engaged in repeated 
discussions with the other Oxford professors, particu- 
larly Richard Smith. In 1550 he lectured on the Epis- 
tle to the Romans, laying out his strength on the dem- 
onstration of the doctrine of predestination, particularly 
as against the objections of Albert Fighius. These lect- 
ures were published in 1558 at Basle, and afterwards 
repeatedly. The confession formulated by the Synod 
of London in 1552 stated the doctrines of original sin, 
election by grace, and justification, substantially in har- 
mony with his presentation of them. Bucer having in 
the meantime been appointed to Cambridge, both he 
and Reter Martyr participated in the discussions of the 
time respecting the liturgy of the English Church. 
Vermigli lost his wife by death in 1553, and he was 
only restrained from returning to Strasburg after that 
event by being charged with a participation in the 
revision of the laws of the Church. On the accession 
of Alary to the throne, he escaped to the Continent 
with difficulty, and was restored to his former position 
at Strasburg, though the growing Lutheran narrowness 
obliged him to declare his readiness to receive the Augs- 
burg Confession, rightly interpreted, and his determina- 
tion to avoid controversy respecting the Lord’s supper. 
In 1555 he wrote to the Church at Lucca to encourage 
it to firmness under the tyranny of the Inquisition, and 
to the Church in Poland an opinion respecting t he con- 
flicting teachings of Osiander and Stanearus (q. v.). 
The Lord’s-suppcr controversy eventually compelled 
him to seek a new home in Zurich, lie preached there 
occasionally in the Italian Church, and corresponded 
with the leaders of the Anglican Church on matters of 
worship and Church government. In 1559 lie pub- 
lished against bishop Gardiner a large work entitled 
Defensio Duct rime Veteris et ApostoMece de *S. Eucha- 
ristic Sacramento ; and also against Richard Smith a 
Defensio . . . de Ca-Ubatn iSacej'dofum et )\>tis Monasti- 
cs. In 1560 and 1561 he sent two circular letters, on 
the Trinity and the two natures in Christ, to Poland, 
lie defended predestination against Bibliander at Zu- 
rich ; wrote a Dialogus de Unique Christi Xatura 
against Brentius and the doctrine of Christ’s ubiquity 
in the body; and was successful in each essay. In 1561 
he received, for the second time, an invitation to Hei- 
delberg, which he declined; but he attended the Collo- 
quy of Poissy, and spoke in defence of the evangelical 
doctrines and attitude. After his return to Zurich lie 
gave an opinion sustaining Zanclii (q.v.) at Strasburg, 
in a dispute on predestination and the Lord’s supper, 
which has been justly regarded as the confession of 
Zurich respecting these doerincs. lie was engaged on 
a new refutation of Brentius when lie died, Nov. 12, 
1562. After his death his friends published his com- 
mentaries on Samuel, Kings, part of Genesis, and Lam- 
entations, and on Aristotle’s Ethics; also a collection of 
prayers taken from the book of Psalms. In 1575 Rob- 
ert Massov, French preacher in London, collected four 
books o f Loci Communes fromVermigli’s published works, 


VEttMIGLIO 


753 VERNEUIL, COUNCIL OF 


i. e. passages having a bearing upon dogmatics, ethics, 
and polemics (Loud. lbl.). In a revised and enlarged 
form, this work became one of the most important 
sources for the Reformed theology of the Kith century. 
See Simler, O ratio de 1 r ita et Obita I). Petri Martyr is 
(Zurich, 15(32, 4to); Sehlosser, Leben des Theodor Beza 
u. P. AI.Yermiyli (Heidelberg, 1807); Leben d. 1 '(iter u. 
Begr Under d. reformirten Kircke (Elberfeld, 1858), vol. 
vii ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Vermiglio, Giuseppe, an Italian painter, was born 
at Turin in the 17th century. Little is known of him 
except by his works. Lanzi says of his pict ure of Daniel 
in the Lion.*' Den, in the Library della Rassione at Milan, 
that “for correctness of design, beautiful forms, expres- 
sion highly studied, and colors warm, varied, and lucid, 
it is one of the most valuable pictures painted at Milan 
since the time of Gandenzio Ferrari.” lie executed 
with eminent success several other works for the church- 
es at Milan, Mantua, Alessandria, and Novara. He en- 
riched the background of his pictures with tine archi- 
tecture and beautiful landscapes. The latest date known 
of him is 1075. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine 
A rts , s. v. 

Vermilion (TlPr [in pause "dL :, £],s/ms/*eV, accord, 
to Gesen. from its versicolor, but red accord, to Fiirst, who 
compares the Sanser. har ), prob. red ochre (Vulg. sino- 
pis , i. e. rubrica S in opens is, which was the best [Pliny, 
Hist. Nat. xxxv, 5, 13] ; Sept. piXrog, which in Homer 
is i. q. rubrica ), or (according to the Heb. interp.) cin- 
nabar. This well-known metallic paint was first brought 
into use by the Phoenicians, who imported large quan- 
tities of it in the form of a reddish sand from their col- 
onies in Northern Africa. Its bright-red color recom- 
mended vermilion to those who were engaged in dec- 
orating temples (Jer. xxii, 14); hence, whenever it was 
mentioned in Scripture, it was usually associated with 
idolatry. Thus Ezekiel, reproving the apostasy of his 
times, declares that Aholibah “added to her idolatries, for 
she saw men portrayed upon the wall, images of Chal- 
daeans portrayed with vermilion, girded with girdles 
upon their loins, exceeding in dyed attire upon their 
heads, after the manner of the Babylonians, even of 
Chakkea” (Ezek. xxiii, 14). He adds, “and she doted 
upon them as soon as she east her eyes on them.” 
These were, in faet, the representations of the Chahkean 
idols, which many of the Jews were seduced into wor- 
shipping. The author of the apocryphal Book of Wis- 
dom also alludes to this custom : “ The carpenter taketh 
the very refuse of his timber, being a crooked piece of 
wood, and full of knots, and carving it diligently when 
he had nothing else to do, and fashioning it into the 
image of a man, or like some wild beast, laying it over 
with vermilion and with paint, coloring it red, and cov- 
ering every spot therein” (xiii, 14). The accuracy of 
the prophet is corroborated by the recently exhumed 
Assyrian monuments. M. llotta noticed several figures 
on the walls of Khorsabad yet retaining a portion of 
the vermilion (Bouomi, Nineveh, p. 206). There is in 
the British Museum, among the marbles sent from Nim- 
rud by Mr. Lavard, a large slab with a figure of the 
king standing, holding in his right hand a staff, and 
resting his left on the pommel of his sword, still hav- 
ing the soles of his sandals colored red. See Color. 

Vermilye, Isaac D., a clergyman of the Protes- 
tant Episcopal Church, died at Armonk, N. V., Aug. 24, 
18(34, aged forty-five years. At the time of his death 
he w’as rector of St. Stephen’s Church, North Castle, 
N. Y. See A mer. Quar. Ch. Rev. Oct. 1864, p. 484. 

Vermilye, Robert George, D.D., a Congrega- 
tional minister, was born in New York city, March 2, 
1813. He graduated from Columbia College in 1831; 
tvas teacher in the college grammar-school until 1835; 
classical instructor during the two years following; and 
from 1837 to 1843 was adjunct professor, with Dr. Charles 
Anthon, of Greek and Latin. July 25. 1843, he w as or- 
X. — B B B 


| daiued pastor of the Presbyterian Church, German Val- 
ley, N. Y., and was dismissed in 1846. In June of the 
latter year he was installed over the Congregational 
j Church in Clinton, N. Y., and remained in charge until 
1857, in which year he became professor of theology in 
East Windsor Theological Seminary. He died in East 
Lyme, Conn., July 4, 1875. See Cong. Quar. 1876, p.436. 

Vermond, Matthieu Jacques de, a French eccle- 
siastic, was born about 1735, and was at first a surgeon 
in a country village, but devoted himself to the study of 
theology, and in 1757 was made doctor by the Sorbonne. 
lie thereupon became librarian of the college of Mozain ; 
but in 1761) went to Vienna to superintend the educa- 
tion of Marie Antoinette, and after her marriage with 
the dauphin he remained her reader, lie became in- 
volved in the dismal Revolutionary times that folloived ; 
and after various reverses died in obscurity at Vienna 
at the close of that century. See Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generale , s. v. 

Vermule, C. C., a Presbyterian minister, was li- 
censed in 1814 by the Classis of New York, and beeame 
pastor of the Church at Harlem, N. Y., where he labor- 
ed until 1837. lie died in 1858. See Wilson, Presb. 
Hist. Almanac, 1860, p. 204. 

Vernacle is an old English term for the Vera Icon, 
or true image of our Lord’s face and features, as miracu- 
lously delineated on the napkin of St. Veronica (q. v\). 

Vernacular, the dialect or language of a country, 
especially of the common people as distinguished from 
any tongue of the learned. The evidence of Scripture 
is entirely in favor of a service in the vernacular. The 
“ tongues of fire” (q. v.) (Acts ii, 5), Paid’s injunction in 
regard to public service (1 Cor. xiv. 16), and other pas- 
sages clearly point to the same result. The Jewish 
Church was earefid to make the law and the prophets 
familiar by vernacular translations (Neh. viii, 8), and 
the practice of making translations of the Scriptures 
into the vernacular of all nations has been practiced 
from the earliest age.s of the Christian Church. There 
seems to be no good reason why a Church should em- 
ploy a ritual in a dead language; but the Roman Cath- 
olic Church in all countries uses the Latin tongue in 
its liturgies to the exclusion of all others. The Coun- 
cil of Trent (in 1562) ordained as follow's: “Although 
the mass contains much to edify the people, the fathers 
did not judge it right that it should be celebrated in the 
vulgar tongue, and the Roman Church has preserved 
the use; nevertheless, the clergy should at times, and 
especially on festivals, explain to the people some part 
of what they have read to them.” It is worthy of re- 
mark that all the original liturgies were composed in 
the language of the country in which they w r ere first 
used; e. g. the Greek, Roman, Syriac, etc. Therefore 
the allusion, in the above canon, to the practice of the 
fathers is rather unfortunate for the doctrine of an ex- 
clusively Latin ritual. See Latin, Use of. 

Verne t, Jacob, a Swiss theologian. was born at Ge- 
neva, Aug. 29, 1698, of a family originally from Sevne, in 
Provence, who had fled, on account of their religion, to 
Geneva about 1680. lie was early left an orphan, being 
the sixth of nine children; but under the care of his 
maternal uncle, Daniel Leelerc, he made rapid progress 
in study. He spent eight years at Paris, and then trav- 
elled in Italy. He began his ministerial career in 1722, 
and served successively the parishes of Jussey (1730), 
and Saeconex (1731), and finally at Geneva (1734). In 
1737 he was chosen rector of the Academy in his native 
city, and taught, at first, belles-lettres and history, and 
from 1756 theology, lie died there March 26, 1789. 
He w T rote numerous w’orks of a practical religious char- 
acter, for which see lloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generale , s. v. 

Verneuil, Council of ( Concilium Yernense). Ver- 
neuil is a town of France, in Eure, on the Avre, twenty- 
four miles south-southwest of Evreux. An ecclesiasti- 
cal council w r as held here in December, 844. Ebrouin, 


VERNON 


754 


VERONA. COUNCIL OF 


archehaplain of Charles the Bald and bishop of Poitiers, 
presided, with Venilon, archbishop of Sens. Twelve can- 
ons were published, addressed to Charles the Paid. 

1. Contains an exhortation to the king. 

*2, 3. Contain an entreaty that he would send forth a 
commissioner to set in order what was irregular, and to 
repress crime, etc. 

7. Renews the cauon of Gangra against certain female 
religious who, under pretext of higher perfection, had 
taken to wearing male attire. 

s. Directs that when bishops are excused from going to 
the wars, either by infirmity or by the kindness of'the 
prince, they shall appoint fit men to lead their people. 

See Mansi, Condi. vii. 1805. — Lnndon, Manual of Coun- 
cils, p. 676. See Vkrnu.m, Council of. 

Vernon, J. W. M., a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in Indiana, Dec. 7, 1810. lie was left to 
t he care of his widowed mother at the age of six; em- 
braced religion when very young; received license to 
preach in 1851 ; and was admitted to the Illinois Con- 
ference and appointed to Canni Circuit. In I Noli he 
was transferred to the West Wisconsin Conference, and 
appointed to Portage City Mission. After serving this 
Conference in several localities, he, in 18G1, was transfer- 
red hack to the Illinois Conference. His last charge 
was Augusta Circuit, where he died, Feb. 13, 18G3. Mr. 
Vernon was a superior preacher; manly, agreeable, dili- 
gent, devout. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 18G3, 
p. 230. 

Vernon, Thomas, Per., M.D., a Congregational 
minister, was horn in Newport, R. I., Dec. ‘20, 1797. For 
five generations his ancestors had been represented in 
that city. lie graduated at Brown Vniversitv, with 
high rank as a scholar, in the class of 181G. lie com- 
menced and prosecuted the study of law for about one 
year in the city of New York, when he decided to enter 
the Christian ministry. He became a pupil of the cel- 
ebrated Dr. John M. Mason, with whom he remained 
not far from two years, and was then ordained pastor 
of the Church in Rehoboth, Mass., where he remained 
for about sixteen years (1819-35). Loss of voice 
obliged him to retire from the pulpit, lie removed to 
Kingston. It. I., and for several years was engaged as a 
teacher of young men, supplying, as he was able, the 
pulpit of the Congregational Church in that village. 
Abandoning all hope of ever being able to preach, he 
decided to study medicine; and, having fitted himself 
for his ihw profession, he received the degree of M.D. 
from the University of Pennsylvania in 1852. and set- 
tled in Perth Amboy, N. J., where he resided for sixteen 
years (1852-68). After a year spent at the South for 
his health, he took up his residence in Providence, R. I., 
where he resided for the remaining five or six years of 
his life, rendering such service as he was able, both as 
minister and physician, especially to the poor with 
whom he was brought in contact. He died in Provi- 
dence, May 9. 187G. The acquirements of Dr. Vernon 
‘•were varied and thorough, and his spirit and manners 
were always genial and attractive.” lie was a trustee 
of Brown University sixteen years (1844-GO). See 
Cong. Quar. 1877, p. 427. (J. C. S.) 

Vernuil, John, a French refugee, was born at Bor- 
deaux in 1583. and educated in the University of Mon- 
tauban. He lied the country for the sake of his relig- 
ion; entered Magdalen College, Oxford, in 1608; and in 
1625 was incorporated master of arts, being then second 
keeper of the Bodleian Library, in which. Wood says, his 
services were valuable, lie died at Oxford in Septem- 
ber, 1 017. 

Vernum, Council of (Concilium Verneme'), A 
council was held in 754 at a place in France named in 
Latin Vernum . Some doubt exists as to its locality. 
Fleurv and Le Cointe say that it is IV rnon-snr-Seine ; 
Pagi, following Mabi lion, says Verneuil-snr-Oise ; Le- 
beuf and Bouquet maintain that it is a place called 
Ver, or 1 'em, a royal seat, situated between Paris and 
Compiegne. See Vicrnruil, Council of. 


The council was assembled by order of king Pepin, 
and the bishops of all the Galliean provinces attended. 
The object was to re-establish discipline, and they 
agreed to remedy at once the most grievous abuses, 
and to leave lesser matters till a more favorable oppor- 
tunity. Twenty-live canons were published. 

1. Enacts that no bishop shall hold more than one see. 

3. (»ives to the bishop authority to correct both the reg- 
ulars and seculars within Iris diocese. 

4. Orders that two synods be holclen annually in France. 

5. Leaves to the bishop the reform of the religious 
houses in his diocese. If he cannot effect it, he is direct- 
ed to apply to the metropolitan, and lastly to the synod. 

7. Forbids to erect baptisteries without the bishop’s 
permission. 

8. Orders priests to attend the synod of bishops, and 
forbids them to baptize or to celebrate the holy office 
without their permission. 

13. Forbids itinerant bishops (who have no diocese) to 
perform any function. 

14. Forbids all work on Sundays save such as is abso- 
lutely necessary (3 Council of Orange, can. 28). 

17. Forbids to leave a bishopric vacant for more than 
three months. 

15. Forbids clerks to carry their canses before lay tribu- 
nals. 

24. Forbids simony. 

See Mansi, Condi, vi, 1GG4. — Landon, Manual of Coun- 
cils, p. G7G, 

Verocchio, Andhf.a, a celebrated Italian painter, 
sculptor, and goldsmith, was born at Florence in 1432. 
He first distinguished himself as a goldsmith at Flor- 
ence and Rome, and then devoted himself to sculpture 
in bronze and marble. His first work in marble was a 
monument in the Minerva at Rome to the wife of Fran- 
cesco Tornabuoni, which is now in the Florentine Gal- 
lery. Ilis next effort was a colossal bronze figure of 
David, also in the Florentine Gallery. Among his oth- 
er works in this department was the Increilulifg of St. 
Thomas, in t lie Church of Or San Michele at Florence, 
which was finished in 1483. Vasari tells us that he left 
nothing to be wished for in this work. After this Ve- 
rocchio began to turn his attention to painting. Ilis 
work in sculpture had made him a good designer, and 
many pupils visited his academy, among whom were 
Fietro Perugino and Leonardo da Vinci. But the work 
of Da Vinci so far surpassed that of Verocchio that, the 
latter relinquished painting entirely and devoted him- 
self to sculpture. He was engaged to cast an equestrian 
statue of the celebrated general Bartolomeo Colleoui 
for the city ol Venice. 41e completed the model, but, 
in casting the statue, caught cold, and died in a few 
weeks (1488), before the statue was finished. The work 
was completed by Alessandro Leopardi in 1490. Veroc- 
chio’s remains were taken by his disciple, Lorenzo di 
Credi, to Florence and deposited in the Church of Si. 
Ambrogio. See Spooner, /Hog. /list, of the Fine Arts, 
s. v. ; Hoefer, Xoiic. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Veron, Francois, a French controversialist, was 
born in Paris about 1575, of an honorable family. In 
1595 he was admitted to the Order of the Jesuits, and 
applied himself to studies in opposition to the Reforma- 
tion, and he spent his life in public debates and writings 
on that side. He died at Chnrenton, near Paris, Dee. 
G, 1G49. For his works, see Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Ge- 
ne rale, s. v. 

Verona, Council of {Concilium Veronese ), Ve- 
rona is a fortified city of Italy, capital of the province 
of the same name, on the Adige, twenty-two miles 
X.N.E. of Mantua. An ecclesiastical council was held 
here on Aug. 1, 1184, for the purpose of reconciling 
those who had been ordained bv the antipopes. Pope 
Lucius HI published a constitution against the heretics 
in the presence of the emperor Frederick. The object 
was to repress the fury of the Cathari, Patcrini. and the 
other heretics of that period. In this council, we per- 
ceive the commencement of the system of inquisition, 
since the bishops are ordered, by means of commissaries, 
to inform themselves of persons suspected of heresy, 
whether by common report or private information. A 


VERONA 


755 VERONICA 


distinction is drawn between the suspected and con- 
victed, the penitent and rehipsed, and different degrees 
of punishment, are accordingly awarded. Alter all the 
spiritual penalties of the Church have been employed in 
vain, it is ordered that the offenders be given up to the 
secular arm, in order that temporal punishments may 
be indicted. See Mansi, Concil. x, 1737, 1741. — London, 
Manual of Councils, p. 677. 

Verona, Fra Giovanni da, an Italian monk, 
was born at Oliveto in 1490. He became celebrated Ibr 
his decorations of the choirs and sacristies with inlaid 
work of wood. lie practiced the art in various cities 
of Italy, including Lome, where he was employed by 
pope Julius IT. At first woods of different colors were 
used, and large edifices, colonnades, and architectural 
views were represented. The art was afterwards im- 
proved by employing artificially stained as well as nat- 
ural wood, ami bv adding figures. Verona died in 1537. 
See Spooner, Bioy. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Verona, Jacopo da, an Italian painter of the 
14th century, was born at Verona, lie is only known 
by his numerous frescos in the Church of San Michele, at 
Padua, some of which still remain entire. See Spooner, 
Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts , s. v. 

Verona, MafFeo da, an Italian painter, was born 
at Verona in 157G. He studied under Luigi lien fat to, 
but copied the works and adopted the style of Paul 
Veronese. Besides painting several works for the 
churches of his native city and for the Cathedral of 
Udine, he executed many works for the churches of 
Venice, among which may be named two altar-pieces, 
representing the Descent '.from the Cross and the Res- 
urrection. in the Church of San Marco, and Christ Bear- 
ing the Cross and the Crucifixion , in the Chapel of St. 
Isidore in the same church. lie died in IG18. See 
Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine l rts, s. v. 

Veronese, Agostino. See Turchi. 

Veronese, Paul. See Paolo Veronese. 

Veronica, St. (also Berenice, Beronice, and I ’e re- 
nice), is described by tradition to have been a pious 
woman of Jerusalem, who was moved with pity on be- 
holding the bloody and perspiring face of our Lord 
when on the way to crucifixion, and manifested her 
sympathy by giving him her head-cloth to wipe off the 
perspiration. In response to her kindness, the Saviour 
imprinted his features, all distorted as they were with 
pain and suffering, on the cloth, and gave it back to her 
for a memorial and token of his love. This is declared 
to be the origin of one of the oldest of those representa- 
tions of Christ’s features which are said to have not 
been made with hands (eUbveg axttpoTroiijroi Sreortvic- 
roi), and which have given rise to the Christs of Cor- 
reggio and other famous painters of the Middle Ages, 
and also to the class of hymns which are addressed to the 
head of Jesus, e. g. the very ancient sequence Salre 
Sacra Facies, St. Ilernard’s Salre Caput Cruentatum, 
Paul Gerhard’s 0 llaupt roll Bint and Wumlen, etc. 

Various modifications of the legend are: 1. Veronica 
(or rather BqooWiei/) was the woman who had the issue 
of blood and was healed by touching the hem of Christ’s 
garment (Matt, ix, 20 sq.). She is said by Eusebius 
(//. E. vii, 17 sq.) to have subsequently erected a statue 
to Jesus in her native town of Paneas, in Syro-Phceni- 
cia. This is the statement of John Malala, about A.D. 
GOO, in his Chronographia, p. 305. 2. Veronica was a 

niece of Herod the Great by .Salome — an evident con- 
founding of Berenice, the mother of Herodius and 
grandmother of Salome, with Veronica. 3. Veronica 
died as a martyr at Antioch, in company with fifty oth- 
er virgins (Bede and others). 4. Veronica was beloved 
of Amatus, who was described as “famulus S. Virginia 
Marue et Josephi, et Dominus bajalus ac nutritius.” 
Amatus accompanied her in later years to K<$ne, and 
thence in the train of St. Martial to Gaul, where he led 
a holy life in imitation of the hermits of Mount Carmel, 



and died in A.D. 75. 5. The tradition usually received 

in the West states that the emperor Tiberius ordered 
Veronica to Koine that the touch of her sweat-cloth 
might cure his leprosy, and that when the cure was ef- 
fected she persuaded Tiberius to exile Pilate in punish- 
ment for having sentenced Jesus to death. Veronica 
afterwards remained in Kome with her wonderful suila- 
rium, and in her will gave the cloth to Clement, the 
successor of Peter, by whom it was transmitted to suc- 
ceeding popes. The Church of Santa Maria Maggiore 
boasted its possession since pope John VII (705), but it 
is now claimed by St. Peter’s at Kome. Only persons 
of princely degree who have been admitted to the rank 
of titulary canons of St. Peter’s are permitted to look 
upon it. Milan, and Jaen, in Spain, however, both as- 
sert that the cloth is in their possession (see Kenedict 
XIV [Lambertini ]. De Servorum Dei Beatifical, etc. 
iv, 2, 31). Down to the 13th century the cloth itself, 
and not the woman, was called Veronica, a fact which 
throws doubt upon the authenticity of the legend as a 
whole. Papebroch, Mabillon, and others reached the 
conclusion that Veronica was original!} 7 a corruption of 
the words (part Latin, part Greek) rera icon (Ukmv), 
and signifies simply a true, authentic likeness , and many 
modern critics adopt that view. Grimm (Sage row. 
Ur sprung der Christ usbilder, p. 8G) says that the legend 
of Veronica is simply the Occidental version of the 
Eastern tradition of Abgarus (q. v.) of Edessa, which 
narrates that Christ sent both an autograph letter and 
an authentic portrait of himself to that prince. The 
traditional dwelling of Veronica in Jerusalem was shown, 
situated by the way from the house of Pilate to Calva- 
ry, in very recent times. 

See Holland, Acta SS. Feb. 4, i, 449 sq. ; Baronins, 
Annul, ad An. 34, No. 138; Gretser, Sgntagma de Inia- 
ginihus non Manu Fact is (Ingolst. IG22); Chifflet, 
De Lintels Christi Sepulchr. Servatis Crisis Hist orica 
(Antv. 1G24) ; Beausobre, Des Images de Main Divine, 
in the Biblioth. German, xviii, 10 ; Tillemont, Me- 
moires, i, 471 sip; Gieseler, Kirchengesch. i, 8G; Her- 
zog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

VERONICA (Lat. rera , true; Gr. icon, image), a 
napkin or handkerchief with which a Jewish woman, 
named Prounice or Berenice (Lat. Veronica), who had 
been cured of the issue of blood (Matt. ix. 20-22, and 
parallels), is said to have wiped the face of our Lord 
when going to the crucifixion by the Way of Sorrows. 
Wet with blood and other fluids, his likeness was 
stamped upon its triple folds, and the napkin was 
brought in a wooden coffer from Palestine to Kome, 
and eventually placed by Urban VHI in an upper 


YEKOXIUS 


756 


VERSE 


chapel adjoining one of the great piers in St. Peter’s 
Church, where it is still preserved under the charge of 
the canons. It is exhibited 
in a silver case ten times in 
the year to tiie pope, cardi- 
nals, and faithful who are 
placed in the nave. As early 
as the 14th century, painters 
represented a woman holding 
a linen cloth, on which is a 
radiating face, surrounded by 
a halo, with the cross. Since 
that time the attribute has be- 
come the subject. The in- 
animate substance has taken 
life, and the woman is only 
known as Veronica. There 
were icons, or veils, preserved 
at Laon, Cologne, and Milan. See Walcott, tittered Ar- 
clutol . s. v. ; Barnum, Romanism As It Is , p. 491. 



Portrait of Christ on St. 
Veronica’s Handkerchief. 


Veronius ( Erangois Veron ), a French Jesuit, was 
born about 1575, in Paris. At the age. of twenty he 
joined the Jesuits, received holy orders, and labored 
as a missionary among the Protestants of France. In 
I <>22 he received permission to preach and discuss in 
tiie streets and in market-places, as predicat eur du Roi 
pour les controrerses, while the French clergy gave 
him the jurisdiction and an annual pension, lie died 
as pastor in Cliarentou, Dec. 0, 1049. He is said to have 
been well qualified lor missionary work, but, on the 
whole, he was very moderate. At the colloquy at Ca- 
dom, in 1628, he discussed with I Inch art and published 
the acts thereof. Bochart also published the same 
(Saumur, 1080) because Veron had falsified them. lie 
wrote, Methodes de Trader des Controrerses de Religion 
(Paris, 1038,2 vols.) : — Regie de la Foi Catholique (ibid. 
1045; Latin in Migne, Cursits Theologians , i, 1035 sq.): 
- Bail Ion des Jansenistes , against the Jansenists: — be 
also published a revised edition of the Louvain French 
Bible (1G47). See Schrbekh, Kirchengeschichte seit 
dvr Reformation , iv, 251 ; Biographic Universe lie, s. v. ; 
Henke, Calixtus vnd seine Zeit , II, i, 157 sq. ; Theolog. 
Fniversal-Lexikon , s. v. (11. P.) 

V erpoorten, Albrecht Meno, a Protestant the- 
ologian of Germany, was born at Gotha, Oct. 13, 1G72. 
lie belonged to a family which left the Netherlands 
under the persecutions of the duke of Alba. He stud- 
ied at Giessen and Wittenberg. In 1099 be was appoint- 
ed pastor at Sonnenberg, and in 1708 superintendent at 
Nenstadt. In 1724 he was called as rector of the aca- 
demic gymnasium at Coburg, having received the doc- 
torate in the same year. In 1731 be went as rector and 
professor to Dantzic, at the same time acting as pastor 
of Trinity Church, where he died, June 3, 1752. Ver- 
poorten was an excellent theologian. In numerous 
Latin treatises he wrote on exegesis and criticism of 
the New Test., on Church history, and patristics. The 
main results of his studies are found in Fasciculus Dis- 
seriatiimum ad Theologiam maxi me Exegeticam et Phi- 
Inlogiam Sacrum Pertinentium (Gedani, 1739): — Posi- 
tions Theologian ex A rticulisA ugusiume Confessionis, ed- 
ited by his son (ibid. 1751). The number of his larger 
and smaller works amounts to seventy-six. for which 
sec During, Celehrte Theologen Deutschlands im \Sten 
vnd 19 ten Jahrhmulert , iv. 580-588; the works pertain- 
ing to the Old Test, are given bv Fiirst, Bill. Jud. iii, 
475. (B. P.) 


Verpoorten, Wilhelm Paul, a German theolo- 
gian, son of Albrecht Meno, was horn Sept. 4, 1721, at 
Nenstadt. Having graduated at Dantzic with the trea- 
tise De A uctore SecumUn Tertheque Fpistolce Johannis 
(1741), lie went to Jena, where he publicly spoke. (1743) 
on Odor sub Xube Torrent e Esa. xxv, 5, in Yersione 
Hierongmi Ynlgataque Ob v ins, ad Textnm Uebr<rum 
Reiqne ipsius Xaturam Expensus. In the same year 
he went to Leipsie, where, on account of his disserta- 


tion De Concifio (Ecumenico Secumlo, Constant inopoli- 
tano Primo (1745), lie received the privilege of lectur- 
ing. Hut bodily infirmities of His father called him 
home, where lie prepared himself for the ministry. In 
1751 he was appointed pastor at, Stiiblau, near Dantzic; 
in 1702 he was called as second deacon to Dantzic; and 
in 1770 he was placed at the head of the gymnasium 
there, where he died, Jan. 17, 1794. Besides the disser- 
tations already mentioned, he wrote, Diss. Diavg. de 
Ilubitu Legis ad Panitentiam et. Fklem (presented to 
the Kbnigsberg University for the degree of doctor of 
divinity, 1770): — Progr.de Prcesidiis Theologo ex Ifis- 
toria Kcclesiic Petendis (Gedani, 1770) : — Diss.de Resin- 
rectione lmpiorum Merita Christi non Jmpetrata (ibid. 
1774): — Diss. de I 'indiciis Doctrime de Supplied is Dam- 
natorum ^ Eternis (ibid. 1774). For his other writings 
see During, (ielehrte Theologen Deutschlands im I Sten und 
VMen Jahrhundert, iv, 592 sq. (B. P.) 

Verrio, Antonio, a Neapolitan painter, was born at 
Lecce about 1639. Al ter making considerable progress in 
the art, he visited Venice to study the coloring of the 
Venetian school. After some time he returned to Na- 
ples, where he gained much notoriety through the exe- 
cution of certain gay paintings. In 10G0 he painted a 
large picture in fresco of Christ Healing the Sick, in the 
College of tlic Jesuits, which was marked for its fine 
coloring. He next went to France and painted the 
high-altar of the Carmelites at Toulouse. Shortly alter 
this he went to England in the service of Charles II, 
who desired hint to direct the manufacture of tapestry 
at Mortlakc; but the king changed his mind, and Ver- 
rio was employed on the frescos of Windsor Castle. 
After the accession of James 11 he was again enyilovcd 
at Windsor in “ Wolsey’s Tomb-house,” then to be con- 
verted into a Homan Catholic chapel. Kefusing for a 
time to enter the service of William III, he painted for 
the nobility, but afterwards was induced to paint for 
the king, lie was granted an annual pension of 4)200 
by queen Anne, but died in 1707. He is described by 
Walpole as “an excellent painter for the sort of subjects 
on which he was employed, that is, without much in- 
vention, and with less taste; his exuberant pencil was 
ready at pouring out gods, goddesses, kings, emperors, 
and triumphs, over those public surfaces on which the 
eye never rests long enough to criticise, and where one 
should be sorry to place the works of a better master; 1 
mean ceilings and staircases. The New Testament or the 
Homan history cost him nothing but ultramarine; that 
and marble columns and marble steps lie never spared.” 

Verschorists, a seet that derived its denomina- 
tion from Jacob Verschoor, a native of Flushing, in the 
Netherlands, who in the year 1080, out of a perverse 
and heterogeneous mixture of the tenets of Coceeius 
and Spinoza, produced a new form of religion, equally re- 
markable for its extravagance and impiety. 1 1 is disci- 
ples and followers were called Hebrews, on account of the 
zeal and assiduity with which they all, without distinc- 
tion of age or sex, applied themselves to the study of the 
Hebrew language. Their sentiments were nearly the 
same as those of the llattemists (q. v.). See Moslicim, 
Hist, of the Church, bk. iv, cent, xvii, § ii, pt. ii, ch. ii. 

Verschuir, Joiiann Heinrich, a Protestant theo- 
logian of Germany, and professor of Oriental languages 
at Franekcr, who died May 20, 1803, is the author of, 
Dissertatio de Paronomasia Orientalibus multum Ada- 
mata, quee est Octara in ejusdem Dissert utionibns Phi- 
lologico-exegeticis ( Francker, 1773): — Dissertatio Cri- 
tica, qua Lectio Codicis llebrcei in Loco Celebri Deut. 
xxv ii, 4 Defenditur, et Lectio Samaritani Textus tan- 
quam Spuria Rejicitur (ibid. 17G7): — Dissertationes J } hi- 
lologico-exegeticcc (ibid. 1773). See F first, Bibl. Jud. iii, 
475 ; Steinschneider, Biliographisches Jlamlb. s. v. ; Wi- 
ner, Handb. der theol. Liter atur, i, 221. (B. P.) 

Verse, as a written or typographical division in the 
text of the Bible, has a historical and literary interest 
which justifies its full treatment here. 


VERSE 


757 


VERSE 


I. Tn Manuscripts . — Under this head we consider the 
members of rhythmical passages, the logical divisions 
in the prose books peculiar to the versions, and the log- 
ical divisions in the original texts. 

1. The term cerse (versus, from verto, “to turn”), like 
the Greek cmxoc, was applied by the Romans to lines 
in general, whether in prose or verse, but more partic- 
ularly to the rhythmical divisions, which generally com- 
menced the line with a capital letter. The custom of 
writing poetical books in stanzas was common to the 
Greeks, Romans, Arabians, and Hebrews. The poetical 
books (viz. Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, and Can- 
ticles), in the oldest Hebrew MSS., as the Paris, Bod- 
leian, Cassel, and Regiomontanus, are also thus divided ; 
and some poetical passages in the historical books are still 
given in this form in our printed Hebrew Bibles. The 
Alexandrian MS., and those of the Italic version, are 
equally so written; and this division is found in the 
Psalterium Tnricense, the Verona and St. Germain Psal- 
ters, and in Martianay’s edition of Jerome. Athanasius 
applied the term oti^o^ to the passage in Psa. cxix,G2, 
“ [ arose at midnight to praise thee for the judgment 
of thy righteousness and Chrysostom observes, on Psa. 
xlii, that “each stich (cm\o£) suffices to afford us much 
philosophy.” He also uses the term pT/aig in the same 
sense. The poetical books are called by Epiphanius 
the five orr^/pnc- 

It is not improbable that this division may have come 
from the original authors, which the nature of the sub- 
ject, and especially the parallelism of the sentences, 
seems to require (Jebb, Sacred Literature). In the Cod. 
Alex, are equally divided in this manner the songs of 
Moses and of Hannah ; the prayers of Isaiah, of Jonah, 
of Ilabakkuk, Hezekiah, Manasses, and Azarias; the 
Benedicite; and the songs of Mary (Bfordicoe), Simeon, 
and Zachariah in the New Test.; to which is added the 
Morning Ilvmn, or Gloria in Excelsis. 

2. A similar metrical division is found in the Latin 
version. Jerome (Ep. ad Sunn, et Fret.) applies the 
term versiculus to the words “gramlo et carbones ignis” 
(Psa. xviii, 13), assigning as a reason why the Greeks 
had not this versiele after the interposition of two 
verses, that it had been inserted in the Sept, from the 
Hebrew' and Theodotion’s version (with an asterisk). 
He also observes that it w T as not easy to reply to the 
question why Paul, in citing Psa. xiii, added eight 
verses not found in the l!ebrew\ Martianav remarks 
that these eight verses, which form but three divisions 
in the Latin psalters, are thus found in an ancient 
psalter of the Kotvfj and the Italic, in the Abbey of St.- 
Germain-des-Pres : 

Sepulclirum patens est guttnr eorum 
Linguis suis dolose agebant [Psa. v, it]. 

Venenum aspidum sub labris eorum [cxi,3]. 

Quorum os maledictione et amaritudinc plenum est [x, TJ. 
Veloces pedes eorum ad effundeudinn sauguiuein 
Coutritio et infelicitas in viis eorum 
Et viam pacts non coguoverunt [Isa. lix, 7, SJ. 

Nou est timer Dei aute ocnlos eorum [Psa. xxxvi, 1]. 

We need scarcely add that these eight stichs, although 
found in Justin Martyr, in the Vatican MS., and in the 
Vulgate, Arabic, and Ethiopic versions, are an early in- 
terpolation from Rom. iii, 15-18. They are wanting in 
the Cod. Alex. 

Jerome observes ( Prcef ad Job), that the book of Job 
commences w ith prose, glides into verse, and again ends 
with a short comma in prose from the verse “ Idcirco 
me reprehendo, et ago pcenitentiam in cinere et favilla” 
(the form assumed also by the text of the oldest He- 
brew’ MSS.). He adds that there were seven hundred 
or eight hundred verses wanting in the old Latin ver- 
sion of this book, and makes mention of “three short 
verses” in Ezek. xxi and Isa. lxiii. That a stichomet- 
rical arrangement pervaded the whole Latin Bible is 
further evident from the Speculum Scriptutue, attributed 
to Augustine, which contains extracts from Psalms, Can- 
ticles, Ecclesiastes, Job, Hosea, Amos, Micali, Zephaniah, 
Malachi, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Wisdom, Ecelesias- 


ticus, the four evangelists, 2 Corinthians, Philippians, 
Timothy, l John, and Hebrews. All these passages will 
be found extracted in the Christian Remembrancer, 1842, 
p. G7G-G83; and although the first editors of the Spec- 
ulum seem to have misunderstood Augustine’s meaning 
(Simon, Hist. Critique ), it is beyond a doubt that the 
verses in the Speculum (one of w hich w f as “ Popiilus 
ejus et oves pasciue ejus”) w T cre of (he character which 
wc are now describing. Jerome lias not followed any 
of the divisions of the present Hebrew' text, except in 
those passages where lie could not well have avoided 
it — viz., the alphabetical division in the book of Lamen- 
tations, and the alphabetical Psalms; but even here be 
differs from the present divisions (Morini Exerc. Bibl. 
ii, 2). 

Jerome introduced a similar division into the prophet- 
ical books and the books of Chronicles. To this divis- 
ion he, in the prophetical books, applies the terms cola 
and commata (or “ stanzas” and “ hemistichs”), while in 
the Chronicles he only employs the colon, or longer pe- 
riod. “ No one,” he observes, “ when be sees the proph- 
ets divided into verses (versibtts'), must suppose that 
they are bound by metrical lines, or that in this respect 
they resemble the Psalms and the books of Solomon; 
but as the works of Demosthenes and T Lilly are divided 
into colons and commas, although w’ritten in prose and 
not verse, we have, for the convenience of the reader, 
also distinguished our new version by a new species of 
writing.” The Chronicles, he says, he divided into 
members of verses ( per versuum cola), in order to avoid 
an “inextricable forest of names.” 

The following specimens of Jerome’s divisions are 
from Martianav : 

[Job iii.] 

“Pereat dies in qua nnius sum 

et nox in qua dictum est : Conceptus est homo. 

Dies ilia vcrtntnr in teuebras 
non requirnt cum Dens destiper 
et non ilhistretur lumiue.” 

[Isaiah xl.] 

“Con sola mini, Cousolamini, popule mens, 
dicit Dens vester. 

Loquimini ad cor Jerusalem, et advocate earn: 

Omnis vallis exnltahitur, 
et omnis moiis et collis hnmiliabitur, 

Et enint prava in direct a, 
et aspera in vias planas. 

Et revelabitur gloria Domini, 
et videbit, etc. 

Voxdicentis: Clama. 

Et dixi ; 

Quid clamabo ? 

Omnis caro foe mi m, 
et omnis gloria ejus quasi flos agri.” 

[I Oh ron. xiv.] 

“Misit qnoqne Hiram rex Tvri limit ios ad David, et liirna 
cedrina, et artifices parietum, lignormnque, ut a?difi- 
carent ei domum. 

Cognovitque David quod eonfirmnsset enm Dominns in 
regem super Israel, et snblevatum esset regimm suum 
super populmn ejus Israel. 

Accepit qnoqne David alias uxores iu Jerusalem : ge- 
nuitque filios et filias.” 

A division of the prophetical books into cola, or sticks, 
has been considered by some to have had its origin be- 
fore the time of Jerome. Eusebius acquaints us (Hist. 
Eccles. vi. 1G) that Origen, in his Hexapla, divided the 
Greek ami other versions into rioXa, which, however, 
bishop Christopherson (in Euseb. Eccles. Hist.) sup- 
poses to be the columns containing the different texts 
into which Origeu’s Palp plot was divided. Hesychius. 
who died in A.D. 433, also published his (tti\iiphc of 
the twelve prophets, which lie calls an invention of the 
fathers, iu imitation of David and Solomon, who had 
thus divided their rhythmical compositions. He ob- 
serves that be had found a similar division in the apos- 
tolical books. In this case such division must have 
been anterior to the stiehometrieal edition of Euthalius, 
if the date assigned to his publication be correct, viz., 
A.D. 450. It is not improbable that the work of He- 
sychius was but an adaptation of Jerome’s cola and 
commata to the Greek text. This is also the opinion 


VERSE 


758 


VERSE 


of Martianav. Epiphanius ( De Orth. Fid. iv) adds the I 
two books of Wisdom to tl»e poetical books thus arranged. | 
3. We have seen that Jerome imitates the mode of 
writing the works of Demosthenes and Cicero in his 
divisions of Chronicles. This custom of writing Kart) 1 
oriyovg appears to have been usual among profane [ 
writers. Josephus observes that his own Antiquities \ 
consisted of sixty thousand ernyot. although in It tig’s 
edition there are only forty thousand broken lines. 
Diogenes Laertius, in his Lives of the Philosophers , re- 
counts the number of stichs which their works con- 
tained. There have, however, existed doubts as to 
what the tmyoi really were; some supposing them to 
be simply lines, or lines consisting of a certain number 
of words or letters, as in our printed books, while others 
have maintained them to be lines of varied length reg- 
ulated by the sense, like the cola and commata of Je- ! 
romii. The fact is that there are MSS. written in both 
kinds of verses or stichs, with the number of the stichs 
placed at the end of each book; and this is what is 
called stichometry , or the enumeration of lines. The 
introduction of lines regulated by the sense into the 
Xew Test, is supposed to have been a rude substitute 
for punctuation. The second mode, resembling our 
printed books, is also common ; it is that adopted in the 
Charlemagne Bible, at the close of each book of which 
will be found the number of verses — that is, lines of 
equal length — but without any regard to the number of 
words or letters. 

We are not aware at what time or by whom stichom- 
etrv was adapted to the Gospels, but not long after 
the time of Euthalius we find it in common use. The 
Cod. Bezm ( C) and the Clermont MS. (D) are thus writ- 
ten. The following is from C (John i): 

Ev apx*] f l v o A 070? Kat a Ao'yo? >jv irpo ? roi' 0 eoi> 

Kiu Hcor >ii' 6 A070?. oi/rof >)v tv apxo irpos to 1 0 eov 

nuVTU Al aVTOV € *)' £ l £ T o Hat x<*>p‘V UVTOV 
E'j'cvero ovde 6 7£*yoiev’ £>■ av tw 
Zuit) >jv Kat >i £a>n r\v to (/>&>? toii 1 ai/^uoroiv 
Kui to ^>u>r £i' t >/ ckotio <patv€t 
Kui t, okotio. avTo ov KuTtKafiev 
E^fifTO ai'S , p<i>7ror awei/Tu A^eioc 
tlapa 0£uc, ihcmiu uvtov 1<i>an>jr. 

The following is from Acts xiii, IG, in Greek and Lat- 
in (Kipling, p. 747) : 

AvooTaf 6e 6 rtat/Aor — Cnm snrrexisset Panins 
Kut KoTOfl-f itrar Ttj xe<p< erntv— Et sileutium maun postu- 
lasset, dixit, 

AiAp£? torpaijAiTai, Kat al tpofiovfievot tov Geoi' — VI 1*1 Istra- 
lieliti, et qtii timetis Deum 

> KOVCaTC — Andite. 

*0 0€oc tov Auoc tovtov, k. t. A. — Dens populi hnjns, etc. 

Afterwards, in order to save parchment, it became 
usual to write the stichometrical books continuously, 
separating the stichs by a point, but still placing their 
numbers at the end of each book. The following is a 
specimen from the Cod. Cypr. : 

'O Af f-yfpS-m. trapeAa/Je to TruiAiov. Kat Ttjv firiTepa ainav. 
Kat >jA^ev t<s *y>]i/ ItTpajjA. aKOOtrav Af. Ati Apx»?Aaoc fiaatAevae 
tnt rt)c tarAuiuv. ai'Ti 11 puyduv tov narpof uvtov. t(pof 3 t) 5 r\ £K£i 
aneA^etv. 

Sometimes, instead of the point, the stichs commenced 
with a capital, as in the Cod. Boomer., which, however, 
seems to have been written by an ignorant Irish scribe, 
unacquainted with the languages in which the MS. was 
written : 

lit non quasi ex necessitate t era bonnm tmim sit. 
ti'a. fit j ok KuTuiayKrit' to a-yu^ay aov >j. 

Sed volnntarinm forsitan enim ideo t propterea. 

AAAa KaTtKoi'OCioj/. Ti>x a 7 (, p. Aia touto. 

Ad horara t ad tetnpns lit selenium , 

Ex'opia'^a. TTpor copin' tvu. attoKtov | 

ilium t eum recipias non jam quasi eervnm | 

UVTOV a 7 TtX»l? Ol'K £T£I 10S Aoi'Atil'. 

fratrem dileetum maxitne inihi quanto antem 

A Ac Atpov. \-fuTt >)tov. iMuAAitTTa e/101 Iluirco. Ac 

noigis tihi et in enrne et 5u dfio si 

f.uAAop cot Kat. ci'. aupKet Kat cv ku> c< 

igitnr t ergo rae hnbes socintn nccipe il’inn 

ovv fit IIpoaAaySoi avroi 


sicut me. T7. Si antem 
ta>9 £ pat. El Ac 

nut debet hoc 

>j. o<f etXuTat. Tuhto 
scripsi mea inami 

eypatl/a t>j. t/i >1 X'pti. 

dieam tihi quod et te 

Atyto cot. oTt Kat at. 

ita t utiqne frater ego 

Nai. Ilai aAtA^-c. 

[Phileni. 14-20.] 


aliquid nocnit t lae«it te 

.Tt. >|Ac<- K>)fftl' at 

milii imputa ego pmilus 
pot cAAo^a tv)a> itavAot'. 
ego reddam ut non 

t/yu> a7TUT£i<7u>. ha fit) 

ipsnm railii di*bes 
ai'TCU'. pot. it poaotptAtte. 

te fiuur in dfio. 

aov. oiaipav. ev. koj. 


The stichs were sometimes very short, as in Cod. 
Laud. (1C), in which there is seldom above one word in 
each. The Clermont MS. (D) contains a list of the 
stichs in all the Greek books of the Old and New Tests., 
and the Stichometry of Nicephoros contains a similar 
enumeration of the canonical hooks — the antilegoraena 
of the Old and New Tests. — and of the Apocryphal books, 
as Enoch, the Testaments of the Patriarchs, etc. 

Hug {Intend.') observes that the Cod. Alex, might 
be easily mistaken for t lie copy of a stichometrical man- 
uscript, from the resemblance of its divisions to the 
ori\ot, as, )]KOV(ja Ce piovtjg X tyovogg pm. araorag 
IltrjOf. Svaov Kat <paye but these occur only in occa- 
sional passages. 

Instances occur in other MSS. in which the stanzas 
are numbered in the margin, as in the Song of Moses, 
in Greek and Latin in the Psalter of Sedulius of Ireland, 
who flourished in the 9th century. The song consists 
of fortv-two commas or stichs, comprised in seven co- 
lons or stanzas, with a Homan numeral prefixed to each 
— all in t lie handwriting of Sedulius. The Latin is 
Ante-Hieronymian (Montfaucon, Pahrogr. Grcec .; also 
Christian Remembrancer, ut sup., p. G87). 

There is a Greek stichometrical manuscript of Isaiah, 
probably of the 9th century, in the Bibliotheque du Hoi 
(1892), in which t lie stichs do not commence with the 
line; but there is a Greek numeral letter attached in 
the margin opposite each stich, the enumeration re- 
commencing at the end of every hundred lines, in this 
form : 

1. The vision of Isaiah, the son of Amoz, which he saw 

concerning Judah and Jerusalem, in the days of Uz- 
ziah, Jotlnim, Aha/, and Ilezekiah, kings of 

2. Judah. Hear, O heavens, and 

3. give ear, O earth : for the Lord hath spoken. 

4. I have nourished and brought up children, and they 

5. have rebelled against me. The ox knowelh 

!>. his owner, and the ass bis master’s crib: 

7. but Israel doth not know, my people 

8. doth not consider. O sinful nation, 

9. a people laden with iniquity, a seed 

10. of evil-doers, children that are corrupters; they have 

forsa 

11. ken the Lord, they have provoked the ho 

ly one of Israel to auger: they are gone away 
backward. Ye will revolt more and more, etc. 

12. Why should ye he stricken any more? 

Hug is of opinion that the stichometrical system 
gave rise to the continuous and regular grammatical 
punctuation. Attempts at interpunction for the sake 
of the sense were, however, of much greater antiquity 
in profane authors than the icra of stichometry. Gram- 
matical points are said to have been first introduced by 
Aristophanes of Byzantium about two centuries before 
the Christian torn. We have already seen that inter- 
pimetion was in use in MSS. of the New Test, before 
Euthalius, as in the Cod. Alex. Isidore of Spain in- 
forms us that the only note of division in his time 
was a single point, which, to denote a comma, or short 
pause, was placed at the bottom; to denote, a colon , or 
larger pause, in the middle; and to denote a full pause, 
or period, was placed at the top of the final letter of the 
sentence. ‘ Manuscripts of the New Test., as the Zurich 
Cod. Bas. E, have come down to us thus pointed. In 
others, as the Cod. Alex, and Cod. Ephrem., the point is 
placed indifferently at the top, bottom, or middle of the 
letter (Tiseheudorf. Cod. Ephrem.). Others, as L, use 
a cross for the purpose of marking a period, and Colb. 
700 makes use of no other mark. Ilupfeld, however 
{Stud. it. Krit.), doubts whether the points in Cod. Cy- 


VERSE 


759 


VERSE 


prius are notes of the stichs, ami denies any distinction 
between grammatical and other interpimetion. 

Originally there were no spaces between the words, 
but in the 8th or 9th century they began to be sepa- 
rated either by spaces or by points. About the same 
period the present marks of punctuation began to be 
gradually and imperceptibly adopted, and had become 
universal in the l Oth century. Michaelis ( hit rod . eh. 
xiii) says “that Jerome introduced the comma and co- 
lon;” but this was not for the purpose of dividing sen- 
tences. Cod. V, however, in Mattluei, of the 8th cen- 
tury, has the comma and the point, and Cod. Vat. 351 
the colon. The Greek note of interrogation came into 
n>e in the 9th century. After the invention of print- 
ing, the Aldine editions fixed the punctuation, which 
was, however, varied by Robert Stephens in his differ- 
ent editions of the Bible. It is scarcely necessary to 
observe that the punctuation of the Bible possesses no 
authority, ami that no critic hesitates to dissent from 
it. The accents, or the writing Kara 7rpo(upcian, which 
were already in use in the GUI Test., were added by 
Kuthalius to his edition, but were not in general use 
before the 10th century. 

4. The Hebrew MSS. all contain a versicular divis- 
ion, marked with the accent called silluk , and the soph 
pasuk (end of the verse). The word pasuk, plOS, is 
found in the Talmud, where it denotes some division 
of this kind; but whether the Talmudieal pesukim are 
identical with those in the manuscripts has been strong- 
ly contested. It is said in tract Kiddushin (xxx, 1), 
“Our rabbins assert that the law contains 5888 [or, ac- 
cording to Morinus. 8888] pesukim," while, according to 
the division in our Bibles, there are 5845 verses. “ The 
I'salms have eight more.” There are at present 2527. 
“ The Chronicles eight less.” This division rather re- 
sembles the ari\OL in the Sept., of which the P>alms 
contain 5000. In the Mishna {Megillah, iv, 1) it is said, 
“ lie who reads the law must not read less than three 
pesukim. Let not metre than one be read by the inter- 
preter, or three in the prophets.” The passage in Isa. 
lii,3-5 is reckoned as three pesukim. In Taen (iv, 3) 
a precept is given for reading the history of the crea- 
tion according to the parashes and the verses in the 
law; and in the Bah. Talmud ( Baba Bathra, xiv, 2) the 
passage in Dent, xxx v, 5-12 is called “ the last eight 
verses ( pesukim ) in the law.” It is evident, therefore, 
that some at least of our present verses correspond with 
the Talmudieal. The term C^pTO^S, pisukim, is also 
applied in the Gemara, as synonymous with 
to reading lessons in general, and sometimes to short 
passages or half-verses. But no marks appear to have 
existed in the text to distinguish these divisions, which 
were doubtless preserved by oral teaching. The first 
notice of sueh signs is found in Sopherim (iii,7), in these 
words: “Liber legis, in quo ineisum est,et in quo capita 
ineisorum punctata sunt, lie legas in illo.” No sueh 
marks occur in the synagogue rolls. The Sept, and 
Yulg. differ both from the Hebrew and from each other 
in divisions of this character (Psa. xliii, 1 1, 12; xe, 2; 
Lam. iii, 5; Jonah ii, 6; Obad. 9; Vulg. Cant, v, 5; Ee- 
eles. i, 5). The pesukim of the Talmud, which are there 
said to have descended from Moses, may have been 
possibly separated by spaces. From a Targum on Cant, 
v, 13, it appears that the decalogue was originally writ- 
ten in ten lines ( tunimim ). All the pointed or Masoretie 
MSS. eoutain the present verses, divided by the soph 
pasuk (*,). We have already referred to the practice of 
the Masorites in numbering these verses, which was 
done at the end of each book. Thus at the end of 
Genesis, “Genesis has 1534 verses,” etc. ; and at the end 
of the Pentateuch, “The number of verses ( pesukim ) 
in the book of Deuteronomy is 955, its sign [which 
represents the same number]; the middle verse is. ‘And 
thou shalt do according to the sentence’ (xvii, 10); the 
number of parashes is ten, and of sidarim twenty-seven; 


and the number of verses in the entire Pentateuch is 
5245 [5845?]. . . . The number of verses in the Psalms 
is 2527, the sign ~T“X>s; the middle verse, ‘Neverthe- 
less they flattered thee with their month 1 (lxxviii, 36) ; 
the number of sidarim nineteen, and the number of 
psalms 150.” The Venice edition of Ben-Chaijim, from 
which these divisions are taken, omits them in Chroni- 
cles, but they are supplied by two MSS. In the Penta- 
teuch the number of verses in the greater sections, or 
those marked by £ 2 2 and D D D, is also indicated at 
the end of each section, thus: “ Bereshith has 146 verses, 
sign Noah has 153 verses, etc. The entire 

number of verses is 23,206.” Before the Concordance 
of rabbi Nathan, in the 15th century, the Jews made 
their references by citing in the Pentateuch the first 
tw r o words of the Sabbath lessons, making no use 
of the shorter sidarim , or of the open or shut parash- 
es. Of these, which are confined to the Pentateuch, 
there are 290 open and 379 shut. Of the larger 
parashes, or Sabbath lessons. Genesis contains twelve; 
Exodus eleven; Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy 
ten each. Of the lesser sidarim Genesis contains forty- 
two, etc. These always commence in the Pentateuch 
with an open or closed section. From the time of car- 
dinal Hugo’s Concordance citations began to be made 
by chapter and letter. All MSS. of the Vulg. after this 
period began to be thus marked, and we find Nicholas 
de Lyra in the 14th century frequently citing them in 
this manner. The citation of chapter and verse was 
a Jewish improvement of the succeeding century. See 
ScitirruuES, Holy. 

The ancient Greek MSS. which have descended to 
our times also contain a division into short sentences, 
which have been sometimes called ari\oi and verses. 
They are regulated by the sense, and each constitutes 
a full period. They are frequently double or treble the 
length of the verses in our present New Test., although 
sometimes they are identical with them. The Alex- 
andrian, Vatican, Cambridge, Dublin, and other ancient 
MSS., all contain similar divisions. The following is 
from the Cod. Ephremi (1 Tim. iii, 12-16) : 

ArciKovot ecnijjaav fitae ^waiKo? ai'Oper' tckv tav KaAaif irpotci u- 
pevoi Hat tu)v tdaov oikoov ' o't yap ku<\ f>tuKo\it}cavT€? ' /3a - 
Spov iaVTOtS KaX ov irepnrotovi/Tat' Kat iroXXw irapptjctai ei/ 
■nicTTet Tt) ei’ X<*>. ti) ’ 

Xui»Ta cot eXirt^tov eAS’eiv 7r por ce ev t a\ei' eav 6 e 

fipahvvai’ iva ei<bj? 7ra>? dei €V otsto 2reo v uvaCTpetytcSaC tmv 
earn/ tmiXticta ~tov £a)i/Tor* ctvXov sat idpuiupa uA»|- 
Sctar* 

Ku< 6 /uoAo 7 ot//iei'a)c pey a eartv to t>i? eveefleta? pvcTtipiov' 
i>? [?] c0ai' epui^n ev caput * e<5<Ku/ui^ev iFFt* uxjjSr} a-y-ycAoic* 
ev eciv' eirtCTtvSri ev koc/jlio’ avtXtiptp^n ev 

do£t] ‘ 

II. In the Printed Bibles.— 1. In these the numerical 
notation is generally attributed to Robert Stephen, 
or Stephens (Etienne). The origin is, notwith- 
standing, involved in obscurity. Even those who at- 
tribute the invention to Stephens are not agreed as to 
the date. “We are assured,” observes Calmet ( Pref ! 
to the Bible), “that it is Robert Stephens who, in his 
edition of 1515, divided the text by verses, numbered 
as at present.” This division passed from the Latins 
to the Greeks and Hebrews. “Robert Stephens,” says 
Du Pin {Proleg.), “ was the first who followed the Ma- 
sorites in his edition of the Vulgate in 1545.” “ Verses,” 
says Simon {Hist. Critique), and after him Jahn {In- 
trod.). “ were first introduced into the Vulgate and mark- 
ed with figures by Robert Stephens in 1548.” Morinus 
{Exercit. Bill.), who is followed by Prideaux ( Connec- 
tion ), attributes the verses to Vatablus, without naming 
a date, while Chevillier {Hist.de C I mprimerie) and Mait- 
taire {/list or in Stephanorum) assert that Stephens di- 
vided the chapters into verses, placing a figure at each 
verse, in the New Test, in 1551, and in the Old in 1557. 
Chevillier adds that James Faber of Estaples had intro- 
duced the practice in his edition of the Psalms printed 
in 1509 by Henry, father of Robert. Stephens; and he 
is followed by Keuouard {Annales des Etienne [Paris, 


VERSE 


760 


VERSE 


18-13]), in supposing that Stephens took his idea from 
this very work. But, not to multiply instances, Horne 
(Introd. vol. ii. pt. i, eh. ii. s. iii, § 1) gives the follow- 
ing account of their introduction: ‘* Kahbi Mordecai 
Nathan , . . undertook a similar concordance [to that 
of Hugo] for the Hebrew Scriptures; but, instead of 
adopting the marginal letters of Hugo, he marked every 
fifth verse with a Hebrew numeral, thus, X 1, n 5, etc. ; 
retaining, however, the cardinal’s divisions into chap- 
ters. . . . The introduction of verses into the Hebrew 
Bible was made by Athias, a Jew of Amsterdam [10(51], 
. . . with the figures common in use. except those which 
had previously been marked by Nathan with Hebrew 
letters in the manner in which they at present appear 
in the Hebrew Bibles. By rejecting these Hebrew nu- 
merals, and substituting for them the corresponding 
figures, all the copies of t lie Bible in other languages 
have since been marked.” “ The verses into which the 
New Test, is now divided are much more modern [than 
the oriyoi], and are an imitation of those invented fur 
the Old Testament by rabbi Nathan in the loth cen- 
tury. Kobert Stephens was the first inventor.” In an- 
other place (§ 2), Horne has observed that the Masorites 
were the inventors of verses, but without intimating 
that they are the same with those now in use. Doubts 
were entertained on this subject so early as the 16th 
century. “Who first,” observes Elias Levita, “divided 
the books of the Old and New Testaments into 
There are even some who entertain doubts respecting a 
matter but recently come into use, viz., who the person 
was who introduced the division of verses into the Greek 
and Latin Bibles.” Serrarius (Prolog.) makes the fol- 
lowing allusion to the circumstance: “1 strongly sus- 
pect that it is far from certain who first restored the in- 
termitted division into verses. Ilenrv Stephens, indeed, 
having once come to Wurzburg, would fain have per- 
suaded me that his hither, Kobert, was the inventor of 
this distinction in the New Testament ; and I afterwards 
observed this same statement in his preface to his Greek 
Concordance , with the addition that it was on his way 
front Baris to Lyons that he made the division, a great 
part of it while riding on horseback” {inter equitandnm ). 
“ This may, after all, be an empty boast ; but supposing 
it true, as Catholics have used the versions of Aquila, 
Sy mmaehus, and Theodotion, who were apostates or her- 
etics, so may we use this division of Kobert Stephens;” 
and, not able to conceal his mortification that the honor 
should belong to a Protestant, he significantly observes 
that Seneca had found the best scribes (notorii) among 
the vilest slaves. Henry Stephens, in the preface to his 
Concordance, thus expatiates on his father’s invention: 
“ As the books of the New Testament had already been 
divided into the sections (tmemata) which we call chap- 
ters, he himself subdivided them into those smaller sec- 
tions, called by an appellation more approved of by oth- 
ers than by himself, versicles. He wotdd have preferred 
calling them by the Greek tmematia, or the Latin secti- 
uncnhe ,* for he perceived that the ancient name of these 
sections was now restricted to another use. He accom- 
plished this division of each chapter on his journey 
from Paris to Lyons, and the greater part of it inter equi- 
tandum. A short time before, while he thought on the 
matter, every one pronounced him mad, for wasting his 
time and labor on an unprofitable affair which would 
gain him more derision than honor; but lo ! in spite of 
all their predictions, the invention no sooner saw the 
light than it met with universal approbation, and ob- 
tained such authority that all other editions of the New 
Testament in Greek, Latin, German, and other vernacular 
tongues, which did not adopt it, were rejected as unau- 
thorized.” Ileury Stephens had already stated the same 
fact, in the dedication to Sir Philip Sidney, prefixed to 
his second edition of the Greek Testament (1576). We 
now proceed to Stephens’s own statements. 

Upon leaving the Church of Home, and embracing 
Calvinism in 1551, in which year he took refuge in Ge- 


neva, he published his fourth edition of the Greek Tes- 
tament, containing also the Vulgate and the Latin ver- 
sion of Erasmus, with the date in the title mi>lxi, an 
evident error for mdli. The x has been, in conse- 
quence, erased in nearly all the copies. In the preface 
he observes, “As to our having numbered this work 
with certain versicles. as they call them, we have herein 
followed the most ancient Greek and Latin manuscripts 
of the New Testament, and have imitated them the 
more willingly that each translation may be madi the 
more readily to correspond with the opposite Greek.” 
Bishop Marsh (notes to Michaclis), and after him Horne 
(lit svp.'), asserts that“Beza split the Greek text into 
the verses invented by Kobert Stephens;” but the bishop 
is evidently mistaken, as Stephens’s fourth edition is 
divided into these breaks as well as Beza’s (see fac- 
simile in Christian Remembrancer, ut sup.). Each verse 
commences the line with a capital, the figures being 
placed between the columns. 

The fourth edition of the Greek Testament was fol- 
lowed in 1555 by the seventh of the Latin Vulgate, in 
8vo, containing the whole Bible, having the present 
verses marked throughout with numerals, and the fol- 
lowing address to the reader: “Here is an edition of 
the Latin Vulgate in which each chapter is divided 
into verses, according to the Hebrew form of verses, 
with numerals prefixed, corresponding to the number 
of the verse which has been added in otir new and com- 
plete Concordance, after the marginal letters A, B, C, D, 
E, F, G, that you may be relieved from the labor of 
searching for what these figures will point out to you 
as with the finger.” The title-page hears Stephens’s 
olive; and the name of the printer, Conrad Badius, the 
son-in-law of Stephens, with the date, 8 idibus Apr His, 
1555, shows where and when it was printed. It was 
the first edition of the entire Bible printed by Stephens 
since he left the Church of Koine. The text is contin- 
uous, the verses being separated by a ^|, with the fig- 
ures in the body of the text. The next edition of the 
Bible by Stephens is that of 155G-57, in 3 vols. fob, con- 
taining the Vulgate, the version of Pagninus, and Beza’s 
Latin version of the New Test., now first published. 
The notes are those commonly ascribed to Vatablus, 
with those of Claude Badwell in the Apochryphal books. 
The text is broken up into divisions, and there is a no- 
tice to the reader apprising him that this edition con- 
tains the text divided into verses, as in the Hebrew 
copies. 

Again, in the preface to Stephens’s Latin and French 
New Test., published at Geneva in 1552, which is also 
thus divided, but which we have never seen cited, he 
observes: “Et a fin de plus aisement ponoir faire la 
diete collation et eonfrontement, avons distingue tout 
iceluy Nouveau Testament comine par vers, a la fayon 
et maniere (pie tout le Vieil a este eseript et distingue', 
suit par Movse et les proplietes compositeurs et au- 
thetirs, ou par seavans llebrieux stieeedans, pour la con- 
servation des dietes Eseriptnres, suyuans anssi en ee en 
partie la maniere de eeux qui out eseript les premieres 
exemplaires Grees, et les vieulx eseriptsde la vielle tra- 
lation Latine du diet Testament, qni de ehasqne sen- 
tence, ou chasque moitie de sentence, voire de tontes 
les parties d’nne sentence eu faisoyent comme des ver- 
sets. Et en la tin de ehasqne livre mettoyent le notn- 
bre d’ieeulx versets: possible a fin que par ee moyen 
on n’en peust rien oster, car on l’eust appereen en re- 
trouvant le content! du nombre des diets versets.” 
Stephens adds that he has also given references to the 
verses in indexes and concordances, not omitting the 
letters (letlrines) by which the chapters had been di- 
vided by his predecessors into four or seven parts, ac- 
cording to their length, for the purpose of a concord- 
ance. He makes reference to the chapters and verses 
in his Uarmonia Evangelica, taken from the work of 
Leo Judah, and placed at the end of his edition of the 
New Test. (1551). 

Henry Stephens, in his preface to his Concordance , 


VERSE 


761 


VERSE 


states that it was this division which first suggested to 
his father’s fertile mind the idea of a Greek and Latin 
concordance to the New Test., in imitation of his Latin 
concordance, Concordantue Bibl. ntriusque Test amend 
(vii Cal. Feb. 1555, fob); in the preface to which he says 
that he has followed the Hebrew mode of numbering 
the verses. In the title-page lie makes an appeal to 
his brother printers not to ‘"thrust their sickle into his 
harvest,” not that he “feared such plagiary from well- 
educated printers, but from the common herd of illiter- 
ate publishers, whom he considered as no better than 
highway robbers, no more capable of Christian integ- 
rity than so many African pirates.” “Whether his ap- 
prehensions were well founded,” continues his son, “let 
the experience of others tell.” Owing to Stephens’s 
death, in 1559, his Concordance was published by Hen- 
ry Stephens in 1594. 

But it is far from being true that Stephens, as has 
commonly been believed, was the first who either fol- 
lowed the Masorites, or divided the chapters into verses, 
or attached figures to each verse. This had been done, 
not only, in regard to the Psalms, by James Le Fevre, 
in his Psalteriitni Quincuplex in 1509, but throughout 
the whole Bible by Sanctes Pagninus in 1528. The 
Psalteriitni was beautifully printed by Henry, father of 
Kobert Stephens, each verse commencing the line with 
a red letter, and a number prefixed; and we may here 
observe that the book of Psalms was the first portion 
of the Scriptures to which numbers were attached by 
designating each separate psalm by its number. Some 
ascribe this numeration to the Septuagint; it is, we be- 
lieve, first referred to by St. Hilary (/Vre/!), and is found 
in the manuscripts of the Sept. Whether they were 
so numbered at the Christian tera is somewhat doubt- 
ful. In Acts xiii, 33, the second psalm is cited by its 
number, but in some of the best manuscripts the read- 
ing here is the frst psalm. In ver. 35 “in another” is 
said without reference to its number; and Kuinol is 
of opinion that the true reading in ver. 33 is simply ty 
\pa\pip, “in a psalm.” 

In the year 1528 the Dominican Sanctes Pagninus 
of Lucca published at Lyons, in quarto, his accurate 
translation of the Bible into the Latin from the Hebrew 
and Greek. This edition is divided throughout into 
verses marked with Arabic numerals in the margin, both 
in the Old and the New Test. The text runs on con- 
tinuously, except in the Psalms, where each verse com- 
mences the line. There was a second edition, more 
beautifully executed, but without the figures and divi- 
sions, published at Cologne in 1541. The versicular di- 
visions in the Old Test, are precisely the same with 
those now in use — viz. the Masoretic. Each verse is 
separated by a peculiar mark (Cl). 

Masch ( Biblioth . Sac.), in reference to Stephens’s 
statement that he had followed the oldest Greek man- 
uscripts, says that this assertion was made by Stephens 
to conciliate those who were taking all methods of 
blackening him, whereas the aneient divisions were 
quite different. The reader will judge from Stephens’s 
preface to his French translation above cited whether 
this assertion is borne out. Stephens there asserts that 
the authors of the ancient (stichometrical) division 
reckoned by whole books, and he only professes to imi- 
tate them in part , as well as the Hebrew copies; which 
he did by making a versicular division of each chapter, 
and prefixing a figure to each verse (as in Nathan’s 
Concordance ), instead of adding the amount at the cud 
of each book. I lug observes that it is really true that 
ancient manuscripts of the New Test, are sometimes 
divided into smaller sections, which have some analogy 
to our verses, instancing the Alexandrine, Vatican, and 
others. 

It is, however, only in the canonical books of the Old 
Test, that Stephens follows Pagninus. In Matthew’s 
gospel, Pagninus has 577 verses and Stephens 1071. 
The number of verses in each chapter in Stephens is 
often double, frequently treble, that in Pagninus. In 


John v, for instance, Pagninus has 7 and Stephens 22 
verses. In the deutcro-eanouical books, into which no 
Masoretic distinction had found its way, Stephens has 
also a different division; thus in Tobit he has 292 
verses, while Pagninus has but 70; and the same pro- 
portion prevails throughout the other books, only Pag- 
ninus has not the third and fourth books of Esdras, the 
prayer of Manasscs, nor the addenda to Daniel. 

The next edition containing this division into verses 
is Stephens’s eighth and last edition of the Vulgate, 
1556-57, 3 vols. fol. This is one of the editions called 
Vatablus’s Bibles, of which there are three, viz. Ste- 
phens’s nonpareil (1545), his eighth edition of which 
we are now treating, and the triglot edition published 
at Heidelberg in 1599. It is the Bible which Morinus 
(Exercit. Bibl.), Prideaux ( Connect . vol. i), and so many 
others conceived to have been the first containing the 
division of verses. Prideaux observes that Vatablus 
soon after published a Latin Bible after this pattern, 
viz. that of rabbi Nathan (1450), with the chapters di- 
vided into verses. “Soon” after, however, meant about 
a century; Vatablus died March 10, 1547. It is evi- 
dent also, from Prideaux’s note, that he was not aware 
that Vatablus’s Bible was no other than Stephens’s 
eighth edition. 

There was a beautiful edition of the Psalter publish- 
ed in 1555 by Robert Stephens containing the Latin 
of Jerome, with that of Pagninus, the numerals attach- 
ed to each verse being placed in the centre column be- 
tween perpendicular rubricated lines. It is entitled 
Liber Psalmorum Davidis, Tralatio Duplex, Yetvs et 
Xova. Ilcec Posterior Sanctis Parjnini, parthn ab ipso 
Pagnino Recognita partim et Francisco Vatablo, in P ree- 
lect ionibns Emenduta et Exposita. The title bears the 
date MDLV., but in the colophon is the subscription 
“Imprimebat Rob. Stephanus, in sua officina, Anno 
MDLVII, Cal.Jan.” 

The form of printing the Bible in verses, with nu- 
merals, now became established. It appeared in 1556 
in Hamelin’s French version. It found its way the 
next year into the Geneva New Test. (English), print- 
ed by Conrad Badius, of which a beautiful fac-simile 
has lately issued from the press of Mr. Bagster. It was 
adopted, by marking every fifth verse with a Hebrew 
numeral, into the Hebrew Pentateuch, printed that 
same year (1557) at Sabiouctta. In 1559 Ilentenius 
introduced Stephens’s division and figures into his cor- 
rect Antwerp edition of the Vulg., which was follow- 
ed by that of Plantin in 1569-72, and passed into the 
Antwerp Polyglot (1569). 

The Sixtinc edition of the Vulgate (1590) having 
adopted this division, it was continued in the Clemen- 
tine (1592), and has ever since been used in all editions 
and translations in the Roman Catholic Church. Ilen- 
tenius, however, having printed the text continuously, 
with the figures in the margin, and a mark (thus, 9 ) 
at the commencement of each verse, this plan was fol- 
lowed in the Clementine and Sixtinc editions, in which 
the verses are marked with an asterisk, capitals being 
used only at the commencement of a period, while the 
Protestant Bibles of Basle and Geneva commence the 
verse with the line and with a capital letter. In the 
Roman editions the only exceptions are the metrical 
books of Psalms, Job, ami Proverbs, from the tenth 
chapter. 

This division appeared in the Geneva (English) Bi- 
ble in 1560 and 1562, the Bishops’ Bible in 1568, and 
passed into the Authorized Version in 1611. Some of 
the Protestant editions followed the Roman in adopting 
a continued text, of which it, will be sufficient to name 
the beautiful Zurich edition of Osiander, in which each 
verse is distinguished by an obelus in the body of the 
text; and it is to be regretted that this practice has 
not been generally continued either in Protestant or 
Roman Catholic Bibles. We may add that Pagninus, 
Stephens, Frellon, and the Roman editions, all slightly 
vary among each other, both in the divisions and the 


VERSE 


762 


VERSIONS OF THE BIBLE 


placing of the figures. Nor do the chapters, owing to 
a diversity in tiie manuscripts, invariably coincide, as 
t lie vermicular divisions of the Psalms in the Sept, and 
Yulg. are not always the same with the Hebrew; Ste- 
phens’s figures sometimes occur in the middle of a verse 
in the Human editions. 

The Homan edition of the Sept. (1587 and 1589) was 
printed without any division or figures; and the pres- 
ent notation tirst appeared in Plaudit's edition of the 
deutero-canonical books (Antwerp, 1584), from Tobit iv, 
24 (the commencement to iv, 23 being marked by dec- 
ades). The Frankfort edition of the Sept. (1597) has the 
present numeration throughout, but without any notice 
of the fact bv the editors. The numbers are placed in 
the margin, but each verse commences with a capital, 
while in Plant in they are separated by spaces only. 

2. Having now succeeded in detecting the errors of 
former writers, we are arrived at the more difficult task 
of eliciting the truth out. of so many contradictory 
statements. Our limits will not allow us, however, to 
do more than offer the following view as the result 
of our inquiries. 

Habbi Nathan having in his Concordance (in 1450) 
commenced the practice of referring to a vermicular di- 
vision of each of the Latin chapters by the number of 
each Masoretic verse in the chapter, Arabic figures 
were, after the example of Le Fevre's edition of the 
Psalms, affixed to each verse by Pagninus in his Latin 
Bible in 1528. Pagninus introduced a somewhat sim- 
ilar division into the New Test, and Apocryphal books. 
His system was adopted by Hubert Stephens in the 
New Test, in 1551, and in the whole Bible in 1555, 
with scarcely any alteration except in the deutero-ca- 
nouical books and the New Test., wherein he introduced 
a different division. This division was partly founded 
on the practice of ancient manuscripts, and was partly 
his own. But, as his object was to adapt his division 
to his Concordance without any reference to the sense, 
lie unfortunately introduced a much worse division than 
he found in any of his models. It is to he lamented 
that his “ wild and indigested” system of breaking up 
the text into what appear to the eyes of the learned 
ami to the minds of the unlearned as so many detached 
sentences (Miehaelis, Introd .) lias had a deleterious ef- 
fect on the sense of Scripture, and perhaps given rise 
to some heresies (see Pref to Bishop Lloyd's Greek 
Test.). Miehaelis supposes that the phrase “inter equi- 
tandum” does not mean that Stephens accomplished his 
task while actually riding on horseback, hut that dur- 
ing the intervals of his journey he amused himself by 
doing it at his inn. If his division was a mere modi- 
fication of that of Pagninus (see 44 Bible” in Taylor’s ed. 
of Calmet’s Diet.), it might easily have been done “in- 
ter equitandum a phrase which, however we under- 
stand it, not inaptly represents the post-haste expedi- 
tion with which liis work was executed. Whether Pag- 
niims himself adopted his division in the New Test, 
from manuscripts, or what his design was in introduc- 
ing it, must he the result of an investigation which we 
cannot now enter upon. Stephens, it is true, never once 
refers to Pagnimis’s system; hut we could hardly sup- 
pose that he was unacquainted with it, even had we no 
evidence to this effect. The evidence, however, does 
exist, for we find that. Stephens in 155G had in his pos- 
session two copies of Pagninus’s Bible. The preface to 
his edition of 1557 contains the following words: “In 
exteriori autein parte iiiterprctationeni .Sanctis Pagni- 
n i ((plain potissimum, ut maxime fidam, omnes uno ore 
laiidant), erassiorihus litteris exeusani damns: sed hanc 
qnidem certe multi* pari i bus ea quam in aliis editioni- 
bus babes, meliorem. Xacti enim s/unus duo ex prime 
Wins editione exemplaria , in quibns non solum typo- 
graphiea errata non pauea, nee levia, manu propria ipse 
author correxerat, sed rnnltos etiam locos diligentius et 
aceuratius quam antea examinatos, recognoverat.” 

Croius ( Obserrat .) states that he had seen very an- 
cient Latin MSS. containing Stephens’s division, with 


the first letter of each verse rubricated, hut he does not 
designate his MSS. We believe this was a biassed as- 
sertion. There are Latin MSS. with periods so marked, 
hut they are not the same with Stephens’s verses. 
There is in the British Museum also a MS. of part of 
the Sept. (JIarl. 5021), dated in 1647, which is versicn- 
lated throughout, and marked with figures, but the 
verses are much longer than those of Stephens’s. Latin 
MSS. are found divided in the same manner as the 
Greek, one of which is the Cod. Bezic, which was col- 
lated by Stephens for his edition of 1550. Dr. Lau- 
rence’s hook of Enoch is divided into verses, with num- 
bers attached, as well as into chapters called kef el. Dr. 
Laurence savs that these divisions into verses are arbi- 
trary, and vary in the different Ethiopic MSS. of Enoch. 
The numbers, we presume, were added hv the translator. 
By a letter from Dr. Bandinel, keeper of the Bodleian 
Library, we learn that that library possesses an Ethio- 
pic MS. of the New Test, divided into sections and 
paragraphs entirely different from ours, not numbered, 
hut separated by a peculiar mark. The verses in the 
Gospel of the Templars [see Gospels, Spumous], in- 
stead of spaces or figures, are separated by a horizontal 
line [ — J (Bhilo. Cod. Apor.). 

d'he MS. of the Syriac New Test, in the British Mu- 
seum (No. 7157), written at Bethkuko, A.D. 7G8 (see 
Wright, Seiler, p. G51, note), contains a numerical di- 
vision in the Gospels, with the numbers in rubric insert- 
ed by a coeval hand into the body of the text. At- 
tached to each number is another in green, referring to 
a canon of parallel passages on the plan of that of Euse- 
bius, hut placed at the foot of each page. 1 he sections, 
which are called versiculi in the Catalogue, and have 
been mistaken for verses, are more numerous than the 
Ammonian, Matthew containing 42G, Mark 290, Luke 
402, and John 271. There is a complete capitulation 
also throughout all the books, the chapters being sepa- 
rated in the text by a peculiar ornament, with the num- 
ber in the margin: of these chapters Matthew has 22, 
Mark 13, Luke 22, John 20, Acts 25; of the Catholic 
epistles. James 1 and [i] John 6, and the Pauline have 
54. After the first Gospel there is a double number, by 
which the former are recapitulated, and a treble num- 
ber from the Acts to the end. 

The numerical divisions into chapters and verses 
were tirst adapted to liturgical use in the Anglican 
Church— the chapters in Edward YI’s first Book of 
Common Prayer (1549), and the verses in the Scotch 
Liturgy (1637), whence they were adopted into the last 
revision (1662).— Kitto. See Bible. 

VERSE, in poetry , is a line consisting of a certain 
number of metrical syllables; also a separate division 
of a livmn or anthem, sung in divine service. SeeVEH- 
hicle. 

Verse, Noel Aubebt, Sieur de , a French contro- 
versialist, was horn at Alans about 1650. He studied 
medicine at Paris, hut alter»vards turned his attention 
to theology. Having entertained doubts as to the 
Trinity, lie abjured Homan Catholicism, on which ac- 
count he was persecuted, and escaped to Holland, where 
he was enrolled among the citizens of Amsterdam, and 
began the practice of medicine; hut this proving an in- 
sufficient support, lie engaged in literary labors. He 
died in Paris in 1714. For a list of his numerous 
writings, which are chiefly of a doctrinal and histori- 
cal and personal character, see Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Ge- 
nerate, s. v. 

Versicle is a brief and terse exclamation, common- 
ly consisting of a single sentence, with a correspond- 
ing response, which is used in various services of the 
Church, especially in the Church of England; also a 
short antiphon sung towards the altar; also the prayer 
or acclamation at the beginning of the Hours. 

Versions of the Bible, a general name for trans- 
lations of i he Holy Scriptures into other languages than 
the original. 


VERSIONS OF THE BIBLE 


63 VERSIONS OF THE BIBLE 


I. Origin. — After the Hebrew had ceased to be spoken, 
and had become a dead language in the 2d century be- 
fore Christ, and still more alter the spread of Christiani- 
ty, translations of the Hebrew Scriptures into the pre- 
vailing languages of the age became a thing of necessity, 
both to dews and Christians, in Palestine and in oth- 
er countries. Accordingly, almost every language then 
current received at least one version, which became of 
ecclesiastical authority, and was used instead of the 
original Hebrew text. In this way there arose, almost 
contemporaneously, the Alexandrine vendon for the 
Grecian and Egyptian Jews, and the earliest Chaldee 
versions for those who dwelt in Palestine and Babylo- 
nia. After the introduction of Christianity, the Chris- 
tians adopted at first, the Sept.; but in the 2d century 
there appeared three or four other Greek versions from 
the hands of Jewish and Christian translators, the ob- 
ject of which was to supersede the Sept. In this, how- 
ever, they did not succeed, and these works are now 
mostly lost. About the same time, the Syrian Christians 
made the Syriac version, and the Latin Christians pro- 
cured a Latin version of the Sept., which at the close of 
the 4th century gave place to the version of Jerome, 
the present Vulgate. After the wide extension of the 
Arabic language in the 7th century, both Jews and 
Christians began to translate the Scriptures into Arabic 
also — the Jews out of the original Hebrew, and the 
Christians from the Sept. Indeed, this latter is the 
case with all translations of the Old Test, made by the 
Christians into the Oriental languages. 

In the case of the New Test., there did not for a long 
time exist any occasion for a translation, as the Greek 
language, in which it was written, was universally prev- 
alent in the civilized world at the time of the promul- 
gation of the GospeL In certain provinces of the Ro- 
man empire, however, the Latin soon came into com- 
mon use, especially in North Africa, and hence the old 
Italic and afterwards the Vulg. arose. Still earlier a 
Syriac version was made for the use of the Oriental 
Christians, to whom that language was vernacular. 
See Pesiiito. 

II. Literary Character. — The versions of the Script- 
ures are usually divided into the immediate , or those 
made directly from the original text, and the mediate , I 
or those made from other versions. The latter are also 
sometimes called daughters of the former. It is only 
those of the first species which have any hermeneutical 
value; those of the latter kind can only serve for aid in 
the verbal criticism of the versions from which they 


Syriac; 3. Pehlvt, the ancient tongue of Media, a com- 
pound probably of Chaldee and Syriac with Zend ; 4. Va- 
rious Arabic dialects; Himyaritic, the parent of Ekhkili ; 
5. Gheez, or Elhiopic, now superseded hy its modern dia- 
lecis, Tigre' and Aniharic. 

C. Indo-European , with different branches: 1. Medo- 
Persian, including the Persian, Pushtoo, Beloochee, Ivur- 
dish, Ossitiniau, and Armenian; 2. Sanscrit, subdivided 
into («) languages of Sanscritic origin, as Ilimhnvee, 
Bengalee, Assamese, Uriya, Nepalese, Palpa, Knmaou 
and Gnrishal, Caslnnerian, Dogma or Jumboo, Punjabee, 
Moultan or Ooch, Sindhee, Cntchee and Gnjerattoe, Kuu- 
kuna, and Mahratta; (!>) languages of India of non-Sau- 
scritic origin, as Tamili, Telinga, Canarese, Cingalese, 
and Maldivian ; (e) rude and unwritten languages of non- 
Sanseritic origin, as Gondee or Goandee; 3. Indo-Euro- 
pean languages of Europe, subdivided into the different, 
families, as Celtic, Teutonic, Graeco- Latin, Traco-lllyriau, 
and Slavonic. 

I). Ugm-Tarfariaii . — To this class belong all the lan- 
guages of Europe and Asia which are not either Shemitic 
or indo-Enropean, including the Finnish and Samoiede 
languages in the North ; the Georgian and other lan- 
guages of the Caucasus region ; the Turkish, Mongolian, 
and Tnngnsian families of Central Asia; the Japanese, 
Loochooan, and Corean in Western Asia; and theEusku- 
rian, or Basque, in Western Europe. 

E. Polynesian Languages, including two varieties, the 
i Polynesian and Negritian. 

F. African Languages, with four varieties: Coptic, Ber- 
ber, Nigro-IIamitie, and Nilo-IIamilic languages, with 
their various dialects. 

G. American Languages, with numerous groups or fami- 


A different classification is adopted by A. II. Savce, 
in his Introduction to the Science of Languages (Loud. 
1880), ii, 33 sq., following the results of Friedrich Mid- 
ler, in his (Jrundeiss c hr Sprnchwissensckaft (Vienna, 
1870). The following passage from Sayee’s work (lor. 
cit . p. 32) will be of interest: “The test of linguistic 
kinship is agreement in structure, grammar, ami roots. 
Judged by this test, the languages at present spoken in 
the world probably fall, as Prof. Friedrich Midler ob- 
serves, into ‘about one hundred different families,’ be- 
tween which science can discover no connection or re- 
lationship. When we consider how many languages 
have perished since man first appeared on the globe, we 
may gain some idea of the numberless essays and types 
of speech which have gone to form the language-world 
of the present day. Language is the reflection of so- 
ciety, and the primitive languages of the earth were as 
infinitely numerous as the communities that produced 
them. . . . So far as the available data allow, the exist- 
ing languages of the world may be classified as follows” 
(referring to the seventy-six heads adopted), “though it 
must be remembered that in many cases our informa- 


have flowed, and are indeed of no special importance 
even here, except in the case of the Sept., the text of 
which has been so much corrupted. 

The ancient translators possessed neither grammati- 
cal nor lexicographical helps, and followed, therefore, 
everywhere exegetical tradition. As their object, too, 
was always a practical, rather than a learned or scientific 
one, they are often apt to fail in the requisite degree of 
exactness, and sometimes also they interweave their 
own views and impressions in their versions. This last 
circumstance renders these versions less available as 
respects exegesis, but makes them so much the more 
important as historical documents in regard to the 
views of the age and of the sect to which they belong. 
See Criticism. 

III. Class if cation. — In this Cyclopcedia (including 
the Supplement) the reader will find a concise account 
of all the versions of the Holy Scriptures made in an- 
cient and modern times, under the alphabetical order of 
the various languages. In general all the tongues of 
this “ babbling earth” may be arranged as follows; 

A. Monosyllabic Languages.-~The«e are referable, geo- 
graphically and philological ly, to three grand divisions, 
viz.: 1. Languages of China: 2. Languages of the Trans- 
gangetlc peuinsnla or of the ludo-Chinese ; 3. Languages 
of Thibet and the Himalayas. 

B. Shemitic Languages, comprising: 1. Samaritan, orig- 
in dly identical with Hebrew ; 2. Ancient Syriac and Chal- 
dee, which, however, have their representative in modern 


tion is scanty and doubtful, and languages here grouped 
under a single head may hereafter turn out to be dis- 
tinct and unrelated.” See Tongues, Confusion of. 

IV. History of Modern E forts. — At the beginning 
of the present century there existed a number of ver- 
sions, whieh formed a stock for the newly established 
Bible societies to commence upon. There were trans- 
lations into nearly all the languages of Europe, into a 
few spoken in the adjacent parts of Asia and Africa, 
and into four only of countries lying beyond. Some of 
these old versions were not adopted; others were print- 
ed for use until something better could be provided— for 
it is better to give a starving man stale bread than keep 
him waiting while you are baking; and others, again, 
have been employed without material change up to the 
present time. In some countries a single version has 
been accepted, as in England; elsewhere, as in France 
and Germany, use has been made of more than one; 
and in cases where important sections of the people 
have refused one version, it has been the practice of 
most Bible societies to permit them to purchase a ver- 
sion they would receive; provided, always, that it was 
substantially faithful and revealed eleariy the way of 
salvation. 

New translations have been made sinee 1804 in about 
two hundred mid twenty-six languages. To state how 
many have been due to the labors of any particular 
body of missionaries would not be easy, inasmuch as, 


VERSMANX 


764 


YEllVACTOr 


in many cases, various missions have been engaged. 1 
The same difficulty applies, in a measure, to I he work 
of the Bible societies, two or more having often pub- 
lished in the same language. Still the following may 
he taken as an approximate statement, though the cor- 
rectness of the figures is not guaranteed : 


The British and Foreign Bible Society has 


The American Bible Society 41 “ 

The National Bible Society in Scotland 5 “ 

The Bible Translation Society 14 “ 

The Society for l’romotiug Christiau 

Knowledge 17 “ 

The Trinitarian Bible Society 3 “ 

The Netherlands Bible Society 11 “ 

The Bible societies of Germany (viz. the 
Prussian Bible Society, 4; the NVurtem- 
l>erg Bible Society, 4; and the Bremen 

Bible Society, 1) 0 “ 

The Bible societies of Switzerland 9 “ 

The Bible societies of Denmark, Sweden, 
and Norway G “ 


Many of the above translations extend only to a part of 
the Scriptures. The entire Bible has been rendered dur- 
ing the present century into about fj'ty-fve languages, the 
New Test, into eighty -four , and parts only into eighty- 
seven. It may surprise the reader to learn that the work 
should, in so large a proportion of cases, be incomplete; 
but no one will wonder who realizes the prodigious labor 
involved in making a translation of the whole Bible. 
The Burmese version of Judson occupied nineteen 
years; the Bengali of Dr. Carey, at least fifteen years; 
the Tahitian, twenty years; the Arabic, sixteen years; 
the Turkish of Dr. Sehanffler, fourteen years; the Man- 
darin Colloquial of the Old Test., by Dr. Sehereschewsky, 
fifteen years; and, after nearly forty years of study and 
of missionary labor, Dr. Williamson and Dr. Biggs com- 
pleted their Dakota version of the Bible, and one of them 
estimates that he has spent on an average fully thirty 
minutes on each verse lie has translated. How could it 
be otherwise V We can imagine the labor it would cost 
simply to transcribe the book from Genesis to Bevela- 
tion; but how much greater must have been the labor 
of men like Eliot or Moffat, who had to note down 
phonetically the words used by tbe natives, mould 
them by degrees into a written language, and then cast 
into that rough mould the elevated spiritual conceptions 
of the Bible! How difficult to find the equivalents for 
sin, atonement, righteousness, in languages possessing, per- 
haps, a dozen words for murder, according as mother, 
child, or other relative is despatched, but none for grati- 
tude o r forgiveness, because such affections are unknown ! 

Considering the varied difficulties of the work, the 
marvel is that so much has been translated, and trans- 
lated so well. As language, especially the foreign, be- 
comes better known in the course of time, the necessity 
of revision is felt, and by none perhaps so much as by 
the translator himself; and thus it happened that many 
versions were revised at different times, in order to pro- 
duce one Bible for the converts and to avoid the evil of 
varying versions. (B. P.) 

Versmann, Ernst Friedrich, a Lutheran theo- 
logian of Germany, was born July 14, 1814, at Tdnning, 
on the Eider. From 1833 to 1837 he studied theology 
at Kiel and Berlin; in 1840 he was made deacon at 
Itzehoe, in 1857 pastor primaries and provost, in 1868 
member of the Lutheran consistory at Kiel, and died 
Aug. 2, 1873. Versmann belongs to ttie most, promi- 
nent theologians of Sleswick- Holstein. Besides ser- 
mons and other ascetical writings, lie published JJas 
Leben Jesu in 12 Yorti eigen (Itzehoe, 1865). Sec Zueh- 
oid. Bill. Theol. ii, 1384. (B. 1’.) 

Vert, Claude de, a French liturgist, was born in 
Paris, Oct. 4, 1645, educated by the canons of St, Gene- 
vieve at Nantcrre, entered the Order of St. Benedict, 
and became bishop of Gap. After travelling in Italy, 
he was made treasurer to the Abbey of Clugiiv, visitor of 
the order, and vicar-general in 1694. In 1695 he ob- 
tained the priory of St. Peter at Abbeville, and died 


there May 1, 1708. He made the ceremonies of t lie 
Church his particular study, and tried to explain them 
both literally and historically. For his works, see lloe- 
fer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Vertabiets. See Vartabeds. 

Verticordia, in Boman mythology, is a surname 
of Venus, the directrix of the heart. There was a tem- 
ple erected to her when three vestal virgins had fallen 
at the same time, so that she might turn the hearts of 
women from unchastity. To dedicate this temple and 
to erect the statue of the goddess, there were selected 
by lot, out of one hundred of the most virtuous women, 
ten, who then named one of their number (Sulpieia, wife 
of Fulvius Flaecus) for the performance of that duty. 

Vertot, Bexi£ Aukekt DE,a French historiographer, 
was horn in the Castle Bennetot, in Normandy, Nov. 
25, 1655. In 1671 he joined the Capuchins, but, un- 
able to carry out their austere regulations, he joined, 
in 1677, the Premonstratensians at Val-Serrv, in the 
diocese of Soissons. In the same year he was called 
to Premontre, in the diocese of Laons, as professor 
of philosophy, but in 1683 he went as prior to Joyon- 
val, in 1687 to Croissv, and in 1693 as pastor to Fre- 
ville, to leave it soon for Paris, where he intended to 
pursue his studies. In 1701 he was made member of 
the Academie des Inscriptions et Belles-lettres, and in 
1715 historiographer of the Order of Malta, and died 
June 15, 1735. He wrote, JJistoire des Chevaliers Bos - 
pita tiers de S. Jean de Jerusalem , appelles depuis les 
Cheval. de Rhodes , et A vjounPhui les Cheval. de Malte 
(Paris, 1727, 5 vols.). Besides, there are a number of 
dissertations published in the Memoires de l' Academie 
des Inscriptions and in the Journal des Srtrans. See 
Wilier, Uandbnch der theol. Literatnr, i, 728; J ocher, 
.4 llgemeines Geleh rten-Lexikon, s. v. ; Huefer, Xouv. Biog. 
Generate, s. v. (B. P.) 

Vertumnus, in Boman mythology, was a god of 
very doubtful significance, of whom nothing certain is 
known save that in Borne, where the Tuscan street leads 
to the Forum, his statue was erected; and that a feast, 
Vertumnalia, was held on Aug. 27 in honor of him ; also 
that Pomona, the goddess of fruit, was thought to have 
been his wife. Some call him god of the seasons, oth- 
ers god of trade; some say he came from the Tuscans, 
others from the Sabines. 

Verulam, Councils of (Concilium Verulamiense). 
Verulam, or Verulamium, was an ancient town of Eng- 
land, County of Hertford, the site of which is now oc- 
cupied by the city of St. Albans, which is twenty miles 
northwest of London. Two ecclesiastical councils were 
held here as follows: 

I. (Called also Council of St. Albans) Was held A.l). 
429 by SS. Hermanns and Lupus against the Pelagian 
heresy. The authors of this detestable heresy, writes 
Constantius, came to the council glittering with pomp 
and fine dresses, and surrounded by their partisans. An 
immense concourse of people — men, women, and chil- 
dren — were assembled; leave was given to the Pelagi- 
ans to speak first, which they did, and at much length; 
after which the venerable bishops poured forth, in an- 
swer, the torrent of their eloquence, supporting their 
own assertions by divine testimonies. Their opponents 
testified by their silence that they could not withstand 
them, and the assembled multitude with loud shouts 
proclaimed the victory of the Catholics. See Wilkins, 
Concil. i, 3. 

II. Was held A.D. 793, at I ended hv king Offa, arch- 
bishop Humbert, and a large concourse, before whom 
the foundation of the Abbey of St. Alban was discussed, 
and the king recommended a journey to Borne. See 
Mansi, Concil. xiii,861 ; Wilkins, by lladdan and Stubbs, 
ii i, 470. 

Vervactor, in Boman mythology, was a god of the 
fields, who was said to give the fallow ground its fruit- 
fulness again. 


VERY REVEREND 


7(55 


VESPERS 


Very Reverend is a title given bv custom to 
certain clergymen in priests’ orders avIio have attained 
to positions of dignity. In the Church of England it 
is usually reserved for deans and provosts of cathedrals 
and collegiate churches. In the Anglo -Roman com- 
munion it is applied to canons of cathedrals, to certain 
doctors of divinity, and others. 


Vesalia, John i>e, a celebrated preacher and doc- 
tor of theology at Erfurt and Worms, often confound- 
ed with John Wessel (q. v.), with whom he held near- 
ly the same sentiments, was condemned for his theolog- 
ical opinions at Mentz in 1479, and cast into prison, 
where he soon died. A Catholic who witnessed the 
trial says he advanced nothing but what might be de- 
fended, except in regard to the procession of the Holy 
Spirit, in which he agreed with the Greeks. See Mos- 
heim, Hist, of the Church , bk. iii, cent, xv, pt. ii, ch. ii. 

Vesey, William, an American Episcopal clergy- 
man, was born at Ilraintree, Mass., in IG74. He gradu- 
ated at Harvard College in 1(193, and pursued his theo- 
logical studies under the direction of the Kev. Samuel 
Myles, rector of King’s Chapel, Boston. Under a call 
from the members of the Episcopal communion of the 
city of New York, he embarked for England in the 
spring of 1697 to receive holy orders, and was ordained 
by Dr. Henry Compton, bishop of London, Aug, 1(3 of the 
same year. He returned to New York, anil was inducted, 
under command of the governor, into his office by Rev. 
Henricus Selyns of New York, Kev. Johannes Petrus 
of Kingston, Thomas Wen ham and Robert Lurting, 
church- wardens, in the Dutch Church, on Christmas, 
1697, Mr. Selyns and Mr. Vesey preached alternately 
in this church — the one in Dutch, the other in English 
— for about three months. Mr. Vesey was married to a 
Miss Keade early in March following. Meanwhile Trin- 
ity Church, the editiee under construction for the Epis- 
copal society of New York, was approaching comple- 
tion, and was formally opened for public worship on 
Sunday, March 13, 1(598. Mr. Vesey was rector of this 
Church from that time until he was removed by death. 
In 17P2, or about that time, he was appointed commis- 
sary to the bishop of London, which office he also held 
during the remainder of his days. Ilis life, combining 
the two offices of rector and commissary, was a very ac- 
tive and laborious one, and it seems that the work of 
God prospered in his hands. He was largely aided in 
his labors by schoolmasters and catechists provided for 
his assistance, and by regularly appointed assistants at 
different periods, viz. Kev. Kobert Jenny, Kev. James 
Wetmore, Kev. Thomas Colgan, and Kev. Robert Charl- 
ton. Mr. Vesey was a man of eminent piety as well 
as industry, and saw the fruits of his labors and exam- 
ple ripen in an abundant harvest. He died July 18, 
1746, after a ministry of over forty-eight years in the 
same place. See Sprague, 

A unit Is of the A mer. Pul- 
pit, v, 13 sq. 

Vesica Piscis ( blad- 
der of a fish), a name ap- 
plied by Albert Diirer to a 
pointed oval figure, formed 
by two equal circles cut- 
ting each other in their 
centres, which is a very 
common form given to the 
aureole , or glory , by which 
the representations of each 
of the three Persons of 
the Holy Trinity and the 
Blessed Virgin are sur- 
rounded in the paintings 
and sculptures of the Mid- 
dle Ages. It has been con- 4U . . 

jectured that it was adopt- 
ed from the idea that this figure is symbolical, and signifi- 
cant of the Greek word ififvQ (a fish), which contains 



the initial letters of the name and titles of the Sav- 
iour, ’Ujtrovg XjOioroc, Oeou Yidf, Swr/jp. This form, 
however, is by no means always given to the aureole, 
and the idea of any peculiar symbolical meaning being 
attached to it appears to have been adopted almost ex- 
clusively by English antiquaries. This form is some- 
times found in panels and other architectural features, 
and is extremely common in mediaeval seals, especially 
those of bishops and monastic establishments. — Parker, 
Gloss, of Architect, s. v. 

Vespasian, Titus Flavius, a Roman emperor, 
was born A.D. 9, of humble parents, near Reate. a Sa- 
bine village, where his father was tax-gatherer. He 
became a successful soldier, and, after serving in Britain 
and elsewhere, was sent by Nero to Palestine in 66. 
He began the conquest of that country by the storm- 
ing of Sepphoris and Jotapata in 67; and in 6X, after 
hearing of the revolt of Vindex against the emperor, 
he hastened the operations of his army until he had 
taken and destroyed all the towns in his way before he 
reached the neighborhood of Jerusalem itself. At this 
juncture he was chosen emperor by the army in Mcesia, 
and subsequently by the entire East. In 71 be cele- 
brated, in company with his son Titus, the triumph 
which marked the complete destruction of the Jewish 
polity and nation. He afterwards sent Bassus to put 
down the last remnant of the revolt, and to take meas- 
ures that no towns of Palestine should be rebuilt ; but 
he discountenanced cruelty and the abuse of power in 
dealing with the subjugated people. The restless agi- 
tations of the zealots compelled him, nevertheless, to 
put down their rebellious spirit by force in Egypt and 
Cvrene, and led to his order that the Temple of Onias, 
near Leon topol is, should be destroyed. He furthermore 
compelled the entire nation of the Jews to render into 
the Temple of Capitoline Jupiter a tribute equal to the 
tax they had been accustomed to pay to the Temple 



at Jerusalem, lie is, however, to be credited with hav- 
ing displayed, from his point of view, a spirit of fair- 
ness and mildness towards that unhappy people of 
which numerous illustrations may be found. 

Christianity was made to suffer persecution in the 
reign of Vespasian only because, and only so far as, it 
was identified with Judaism, and its troubles cannot be 
laid to the ^charge of the emperor, though Sulpicius 
Severus, in his Chronicle (beginning of the 5th cen- 
tury), decides otherwise. Vespasian died in the tenth 
year of his reign, A.D. 79, being the second emperor of 
Rome to die a natural death and the first to transmit 
the empire to bis son. See the histories, and Herzog, 
Real-Encyliop. s. v. ; also Smith, Diet, of Hr. and Row . 
Biog. s. v. ; and the monographs cited by Volbeding, In- 
dex Programmatum , p. 95. 

Vesperal is a division of the antiphonarinm con- 
taining the chants for vespers (q. v.). 

Vespers (even-song ; Lat . vesper a, ojficium vesperti- 
num, lucernarium ; Gr. \v\vtKov) is the worship ca- 
nonically assigned to the hour of sunset or of lamplight- 
ing, being the last but one of the seven canonical hours 
(q. v.). In significance the vesper service corresponds 
with the daily evening sacrifice of the Old-Test, cultus, 
but also with the descent of Christ from the cross, ami 
it is supposed to coincide in time with the hour when 
the Lord’s supper was instituted. From the fact that 
it is mentioned by the most ancient fathers, it is prob- 
able that, the custom of holding an assembly for public 
worship at this time of the day is of very high antiqiu- 


VESPERS 


76G 


VESTALS 


ty. Tu the 4th century — perhaps in the 3d — there was 
public evening service in the Eastern churches, as we 
learn from the • .1 postolical Constitutions. Cassia n, in 
the beginning of the 5th century, refers the evening 
und nocturnal assemblies of the Egyptians to the time 
of St. Mark the Evangelist. Vespers is the first addi- 
tion to the original three hours of prayer known to 
Cyprian — tertius, sextns , and nouns (see Cyprian, Be 
Orut. Dominica, s. tin.; Chrysostom, Horn. 51) ad Pop. 
Antioch, ; and Jerome, Dp. 22 ad Eustoch. c. 37 ; comp. 
Dan. vi, 11; Acts ii, 15; iii, 1; x, 9). The monastic 
rules of the Gth and 7th centuries had already in- 
creased the number of canonical hours of prayer to 
eight. The original form of the vesper service consist- 
ed of the singing of twelve psalms. This number was 
afterwards reduced to seven, four of which were assign- 
ed to the vesper service proper, to be sung antiphonal- 
ly, and three to the Completorium. Benedict of Nursia 
(q. v.) adds to these psalms the reading of a chapter of 
Scripture, a responsorium, the Ambrosian hymn and 
connected versicle, the Magnificat , and the Litany, the 
Lord’s Prayer, and the closing prayer as constant ele- 
ments of the vesper service. The non-monastic liturgy 
of the Western Church has a similar service, five psalms 
being prescribed instead of four — the number having 
reference to the live senses in man, and denoting also 
the inferior degree of perfection possessed by the secu- 
lar clergy and the laity. The Homan Breviary makes 
vespers the exact counterpart of the Lauds (tj. v.) : five 
psalms with antiphones, a chapter from the Bible, a 
hymn, a vcrsiele with responsorium, the Magnificat 
with antiphone, the daily prayers, with occasional com- 
memorations, suffrages, and proeces. Vespers is the only 
portion of the canonically prescribed worship for each 
day which is constantly celebrated in the public ser- 
vices of the Homisli Church. In the evangelical 
churches voices have been heard asking for a liturgi- 
cal vesper service, particularly on great occasions, and 
especially in the Lutheran Church, and the demand 
lias not been altogether unheeded in many quarters. 
See Evangel. Kirchenzeitung, 18G1, p. 349 sq., 487 sq. ; 
Ilengstenberg, Yespergottesdienstc (Berlin, 1 8G 1) ; Die- 
drieh, Breviurium (ibid. s. a.); Herzog, Real-Ency- 
kiop. s. v. 

VESPERS, Sicilian, a term applied to the massacre 
of the French residents in Sicily by the natives on 
Easter -day, 1282. The tyranny of the French had 
become intolerable to the Sicilians, and a plot was 
formed for their extermination. It was arranged that 
the massacre should begin at the tolling of the bell for 
evening vespers, and the work was so thoroughly done 
that very few of the French escaped. Neither rank, 
age, nor sex received any quarter. It is said that pope 
Nicholas 111 was made acquainted with this plot, but 
died before its execution. 

Vespillones were the undertakers or gravedig- 
gers who formed one class of subordinate servants of the 
early Church, and were so called probably from their 
carrying out the dead in the night. Some trace the 
word to resperus, the evening. 

Vessels, Sacred, of the Altar, is a general name 
for the vessels used in the sacramental and other rites 
of the Church. These are more numerous in the ritual- 
istic churches than in others, and anciently were held 
very sacred. Bv the Council of Laodieea, subdeacons 
were forbidden to handle the plate or to enter the sacris- 
ty ; by the second Council of Home, a reader or ostinrius 
received a like restriction; and by the Council of Agde, 
all not in orders were so prohibited. The principal 
vessels and appertaining articles are the following: 
ampulla, or vessel for holding consecrated oil, or the 
large flagon used for a cruet in the holy sacrament 
censer, or vessel for holding burning incense; chalice, 
the vessel for the sacramental wine; ciborium, either a 
canopy over the altar or a box or vessel to contain the 
bread in the celebration of the eucharist , cotporal, a 


square piece of cloth for holding the body of Christ at 
communion; coluniba, a dove-shaped vessel to contain 
the eucharist suspended over the altar by a chain from 
the roof; cruets, two small flagons for containing the 
wine and water at holy communion; holy-u-uter pot, a 
vat or pot to hold the holy water; monstrance, a trans- 
parent vessel for showing the eucharist in the form of 
bread to the people; paten, the plate on which the 
bread is placed at holy communion; pall, a covering 
for the chalice in certain portions of the mass; purifica - 
tor, a piece oflawn or tine linen for cleansing the chalice 
and paten ; py.r , a box or vessel in which to preserve 
the eucharist, in the form of bread, for the siek and oth- 
er communicants who cannot be present in the church ; 
pyx-cloth, a cloth or veil for covering the pyx; thurible , 
a vessel in which incense is burned. See each word in 
its place. See also Ornaments, Ecclesiastical. 

VESSELS for Holy OtL. 'These, in mediaeval 
churches, were arranged like three towers around a 
central crown-topped spire, with which they were con- 
nected. Each contained a small phial, which could be 
detached when wanted, and a spoon. One of these phials 
held the oil for baptism; a second, chrism for continua- 
tion; and a third, oil for the siek. They were made 
of copper or silver gilt. The ampulla, for chrism, was 
sometimes made of ivory and crystal, to distinguish it 
from the vessels containing the oils. See OtL. 

Vesta, an ancient Latin divinity, the tire-goddess, 
identical with the Greek Ifestia. She was the embodi- 
ment of the idea that 
the State was the great 
family, and occupied a 
prominent rank among 
the Penates, or house- 
hold gods, on which ac- 
count she was called 
wafer, or mother. Each 
community had its pub- 
lic altar to Vesta, the 
central one for the 
whole Latin people be- 
ing at Lanuviuni, about 
twenty miles from Home, 
on the Appian Way, 
where the Homan con- 
suls and other officers 
offered sacriffces on en- 
tering upon their of- 
fices. The Vesta of 
Home had her temple 
in the Forum, near that 
of the Penates, where 
she was served by her 
own priestesses the Ves- 
tals (q. v.), and w here 
was deposited the cel- 
ebrated Palladium, or 
statue of Pallas, the 
pledge of the safety of 
the empire. The fire 
continually burned upon 
the hearth in the Temple of Vesta, and was annually 
renewed on March 1, and at the same time was renewed 
the laurel-tree which shaded her hearth. The statues 
of Vesta before which the devout Homans daily sacri- 
ficed were placed in front of the doors of their houses, 
which, according to some, were hence called vestibules. 
An oath in her name was considered most sacred and 
inviolable. See Vesta li a ; Vestals. 

Vestal Virgins. See Vestals. 

Vestalia, an annual festival, held on June 9 by the 
ancient Homans, in honor of Vesta (q. v.), on the occa- 
sion of which none but women walked to the temple of 
the goddess, and that with bare fq£t. 

Vestals, in the Homan religion. These maiden 
priestesses of Vesta (q. v.) w ere held in high esteem and 



VESTIBULE 


VESTMENTS 


767 


enjoyed great privileges. They possessed, for instance, f 
the right to make a testament as soon as they stepped 
into the. service of the goddess (they were required to 
be ten years old upon entrance). They were further 
allowed a lictor, to announce their coining; and they 
had the right of pardoning a condemned criminal when 
they met him. They also sat in seats of honor at the 
theatre. But they were also subject to very strict ob- 
servances, and incurred frightful punishments in case 
of any failure. The conditions of their acceptance were : 
they and their parents must be free-born; both par- 
ents were required to be living and residing in Italy, 
and carrying on an honorable business. When an 
election was necessary, twenty girls were selected, 
who cast lots in public meetings. But this was not 
necessary when a father lawfully offered, of his own 
free will and accord, his daughter free from all bodi- 
ly imperfections. The number of Vestals was at first 
two, afterwards four, and from Servitis Tullius’s time 
six. Ten years long they were to learn the service, 
ten years they were obliged to serve, and ten years 
they were required to teach the probationers. After 
the expiration of this term of years they were permit- 
ted to marry, but this was not looked upon as honora- 
ble. Their duties were, the performance of the sacri- 
fices, care of the sacred vestibules, preservation of the 
eternal fire, and the strictest virtues, especially chastity. 
If the fire became extinguished, the guilty one was 
beaten with switches; if one was found unchaste, she 
was buried alive. Such an occurrence was looked upon 
as a dreadful sign of the wrath of the gods, and the 
whole city went into mourning. The clothing of the 
Vestals was composed of a long white dress, a priestly 
fillet, and a veil ; still it was not forbidden them to 
adorn themselves. 

Vestibule, a hall or antechamber next to the en- 
trance, from which doors open to the various rooms or 
passages of a house. This is the Vitruvian and the 
modern sense; but the latter includes any lobby, porch, 
or anteroom through which a larger apartment or a 
house, etc., is entered. Vestibulum, in medieval Latin, 
is also used for the vest iar turn, or vestry, and Sometimes 
for the nave, the ecclesiu being strictly the choir only. 
The origin of the word is disputed, but it is probable 
that it first signified the entrance-chamber to the baths, 
where the clothes of the bather were laid aside; and 
hence the entrance to a house or any public edifice. — 
Barker, Gloss, of Architect, s. v. 

Vestment, The, a term usually applied to the chas- 
uble, which is the encharistic vestment, and is used in 
the same manner as the expression the sacrament in 
reference to the Lord’s supper. In medieval times, 
however, it included a complete set of encharistic vest- 
ments — viz., chasuble, amice, stole, and maniple. See 
Vestments. 

Vestment Board is a table sometimes placed in 
the sanctuaries of churches in ancient times, on which 
a bishop’s vestments were placed before assuming them, 
and alter taking them off. 

Vestments, Clerical, are those official garments 
which are worn by the clergy in divine service. The 
following list comprises all the vestments in common 
use, and many that have been used occasionally in dif- 
ferent ages and places : 

1. The alb is a long linen garment with tight sleeves, 
and is confined at the waist by a girdle. 

2. The almnce , or almuthvn i, was a hood of fur worn 
anciently while reciting the offices by canons, and after- 
wards by other distinguished ecclesiastics, as a protection 
against cold. 

3. The amice, or amictus , was an oblong piece of fine 
linen with strings, worn by all clergy above the minor 
orders over the cassock; and was placed first on the head, 
then being adjusted round the neck formed the collar. 

4. Bands , two falling pieces of lawn, edged with a hem 
of the same material, worn in front of the neck. 

5. The biretta, or biretum , is a cap wort) by Western ec- 
clesiastics of all grades. 


6. The cassock , or pellicia ( pellis , fur, the lining of the 
garment anciently), is a garment which fils the body close- 
ly, but is loose and flowing below. 

7. The chasuble was a circular or elliptical piece of cloth 
with a hole in the centre to admit the head, and when 
worn completely covered the body. 

S. The chimera , or chi mere, is a short sleeveless cloak 
worn over the rochet as the ordinary dress of prelates. 

9. The cincture is a flat hand, usually about three yards 
long and four inches wide, used to confine the cassock 
around the waist. 

10. The colobium was like the tunic, except that it was 
without sleeves. 

11. The cope is an exact semicircle, like a cloak, at- 
tached to which is a hood, now n.-ed merely for orna- 
ment. 

12. The cotta is a short surplice either with or without 
sleeves. 

13. The cowl is a monastic head-dress in the form of a 
capacious hood attached to the back of the neck of the 
ordinary dress. 

14. The dulmatica is a long robe with sleeves, open up 
the sides about two feet, and was for many centuries re- 
garded as the peculiar garment for deacons at the Chris- 
tian sacrifice. 

15. The girdle, or cingulum, is a cord of linen, silk, or 
other material, with tassels at the extremities, by which 
the alb is hound about the waist. It is fastened on the 
left side. 

16. The gown is a long loose upper garment. 

17. The hood was a monastic covering for the head. 

IS. The maniple was anciently a mere strip of very fine 
linen attached to the left arm of the priest with which to 
wipe the chalice previous to the first oblation, but after- 
wards it came to be an ornament of great richness worn 
by the priest and his assistants at the Eucharist. 

19. The mitre was a hierarchical head-covering origi- 
nating with the Jews, and worn by Christians of certain 
sects from very early ages. It was of various shapes. 

20. The pallium was an ancient ecclesiastical vestment 
made of white lamb’s-wool, signifying metropolitical juris- 
diction. 

21. The rochet is a frock of fine lawn with tight sleeves. 

22. The scapular, or scupnlary , consisted of two bands 
of woollen stuff, one hanging down the. breast and the 
other down the back. 

23. The scar/ is a hand of silk about a foot wide and ten 
feet long, various sorts of which are in common use in 
the Church of England. 

24. The stole, or orarium, is a narrow band of silk or 
other material, fringed at the ends, and sometimes adorn- 
ed with jewels, worn on the left shoulder of deacons, and 
round the neck of priests and bishops, pendent on each 
side nearly to the ground. 

25. The surplice is a loose flowing vestment of linen, 
reaching almost to the feet, having' sleeves broad and 
full. 

26. The tiara is the triple crown of the pope. 

27. The tippet is a uarrow garment or covering for the 
neck and shoulders. 

28. The tunic and tuniclc are only different names for 
the dalmatica. 

Besides the above-named vestments, the following or- 
naments and appendages deserve mention, as belonging 
to the complete outfit of the officiating ecclesiastic on 
certain occasions : 

1. The crosier was a badge of dignity or authority in 
the form of a shepherd’s crook, curved at the upper end 
and pointed beneath. 

2. The pastoral sta/\s the same as the crosier. 

3. The pectoral is a square plate of gold or silver, either 
jewelled or euamelled, sometimes worn by English and 
other bishops on the breast, over the chasuble, sit mass. 

4. The pectoral cross is a cross suspended from the neck 
by a golden chain, worn by Roman Catholic bishops and 
others, indicating jurisdiction. 

5. The ring was generally adopted about the 4th cen- 
tury by bishops, although sometimes used before that 
time. It was first worn on the middle finger of the right 
hand, but afterwards was placed on the fourth finger. “ 

The foregoing objects are treated more fully under 
their appropriate titles in other parts of this work. 
Illustrations of many of them will be found under the 
article Ornaments, 

Vestments are worn in the ritualistic churches, such 
as the Roman Catholic, the Greek, the Episcopal of 
England and America, and others. They belong to 
bishops, priests, deacons, snbdeacons, acolytes, servers, 
and, in the Church of England, to choristers. In the 
English cathedrals, and in many of the parish churches, 
the singers, men and hoys, are vested in cassock and 
surplice, and sit in a part of the church called the choir, 
between the presbytery and the nave. The encharistic 


VESTMENTS 


7G8 


VESTRY 


vestments are the amice, the alb, the maniple, the eu- 
charistic stole, and the chasuble. The deacon wears 
over his alb a dalmatica, and the subdeacon a tunicle, 
but no chasuble, which is reserved exclusively to the 
celebrant. The deacon wears his stole over the left 
shoulder, with the ends brought together and fastened 
under the right arm. The stole is not worn by the 
subdeacon. In the Western churches acolytes at high 
mass wear albs and amices; at low mass when there 
are neither ministers nor choir, but only a single priest 
with a server, the server wears a cotta or rochet over a 
crimson cassock. In the Greek Church the priest is 
always attended by a deacon vested in alb and dalmat- 
ica. When a bishop is the celebrant, lie wears a dal- 
niatica in addition to the priestly vestments, to signify 
that all the offices of the ministry are united in his per- 
son. 

In the Roman churches the color of the cassock is 
for choristers, servers, or acolytes, crimson ; for the prin- 
cipal acolyte sometimes purple. Subdeacons, deacons, 
and priests wear black, bishops purple, and cardinals 
crimson. The pope alone wears white. The surplice, 
cotta, rochet, alb, and amice are properly made of white 
linen, though in the Western churches all except the 
amice are sometimes made of lace. The maniple, stole, ' 
t unicle, dalmatica, and chasuble vary in their colors, fol- 
lowing the sequence of the, seasons. The Roman se- 
quence, which is now generally followed by the West- 
ern churches, gives white for Christmas, Raster, and 
saints’ days; purple for Advent and Lent; red for Pen- 
tecost and feasts of martyrs; black for Good-Friday, 
and green for ordinary days. The color for ferias , or J 
week-days, usually follows that of the preceding Sun- . 
day. The English or Salisbury sequence differs from ! 
the Roman in employing more colors, and in the order 
in which they are used. Brown or gray is allowed in- 
stead of purple, blue instead of green, and yellow in- 
stead of white on the feasts of confessors. According 
to this sequence, all Sundays at the festal seasons are 
white, and all other Sundays are red. White Sundays 
are followed by white ferias , but at seasons of Advent 
and Lent the ferias are purple; and at the seasons of 
Epiphany, after the octave, and Trinity, they are blue 
or green. The Eastern calendars are numerous and 
complicated, ami they do not appear to recognise any 
uniform sequence of colors. 

The origin of the vestments may be attributed to va- 
rious sources. The linen ones, doubtless, were adopted 
by the early Christians from the Jews; while the oth- 
ers were adopted from garments worn in daily life, 
either as the ordinary dress, or as the vestments of 
kings and noblemen. In the early ages emperors and 
kings were allowed to wear the chasuble, and after- 
wards the tunicle and dalmatica, at their coronations 
and when assisting at high-mass. It is thought by Mr. 
Marriott (Vestiarium Chnstianum) that most of the 
vestments now in use were introduced into the Church 
during the period between the 9th and 12th centuries. 
The vestments used in the Greek Church are the same 
as those enumerated, hut are known by the correspond- 
ing Greek names. The alb is called a chitonion; the 
maniple, an epimanika ; the stole, an oration; the chas- 
uble. a phelottion; tlie dalmatica, a stoicharion ; the pal- 
lium, an omophovion. 

The natural effect of the religious changes of the 16th 
century was to put aside the costume at the same time 
and oil the same grounds as the existing ceremonies. 
This was done by the different churches of the Ref- 
ormation in various degrees. The Calvinistic wor- 
ship dispensed with vestments altogether. The Lu- 
therans generally retained with the cassock the alb, 
and in some countries the chasuble. In the Eng- 
lish Church a variety of practice has existed. The 
disputes about the surplice were very hitter. The Pu- 
ritans objected to its use on the ground of its being a 
relic of popery. As to the rest of the costume, the first 
Prayer-book retained the Roman vestments with little 


change; and, since the rubric of this Prayer-book lias 
not been formally repealed, a ritualistic movement in 
the English Church has reintroduced, in some places, 
almost every detail of the Roman costume in the com- 
munion and other services — an innovation which has 
given rise to vigorous resistance in many instances, and 
some very bitter controversies. 

See Marriott. Vestiarium Christiamnn; Rock, llie- 
ruryia; Neale, lloly Eastern Church ; lllnnt, A nnotated 
Hook of Common Prayer; also the monographs cited 
by Volbeding, Index l’ruyrammatum , p. 171. 

Vestry (rtHIFlS'S, meltachdh , from an obscure root 
nrb, to spread out as clothing; Sept, o1ko£ v. r. peo$d- 
a\ ; Vulg. vestes ), the wardrobe chamber of a temple, 
e. g. that of Baal (2 Kings x, 29) ; containing, doubtless, 
the fine official apparel of the priests. 

YESTKV, in ecclesiastical phraseology, is a room at- 
tached to a church in which to keep the vestments and 
sacred vessels. The ordinary place of the vestry was 
at the north side of the chancel at the east end. There 
was not unfreqiientlv an altar in the vestry; and some- 
times it was arranged with an additional chapter so as 
to form a dooms inclusa for the residence of an officiat- 
ing minister. 

From their meeting in this room certain assemblies 
of the parishioners, for the despatch of the official busi- 
ness of the parish, are called vestries or vestry meetings. 
Such meetings, however, may be held elsewhere in the 
parish as well as in the vestry, provided the proper no- 
tice of time, place, and purpose of the meeting be given. 
The officiating minister, whether he be curate or vicar, 
is ex officio chairman of the meeting. All persons rated 
to the relief of the poor, whether inhabitants of the par- 
ish or not, are entitled to attend the vestry and vote; 
and this right is also extended to all inhabitants com- 
ing into the parish since the last rate for the relief of 
the poor, if they consent to be rated. But no person is 
entitled to vote who shall have neglected or refused to 
pay any rate which may be due and shall have been de- 
manded of him, nor is he entitled to be present at any 
vestry meeting. 

In the year 1831 an act was passed by the British 
Parliament, which has been very generally adopted, en- 
titled “An Act for the Better Regulation of Vestries, 
and for the Appointment of Auditors of Accounts, in 
Certain Parishes of England and Wales.” This act 
does not alter the law in any parish by which it is not 
adopted by a majority of the rate-payers, nor does it in- 
terfere with parishes governed by select vestries. The 
most important provisions are that, in all parishes adopt- 
ing the act, the vestry shall consist of twelve vestry- 
men for every parish in which the number of rated 
householders shall not exceed one thousand; twenty- 
four where they exceed one thousand, thirty-six where 
they exceed two thousand; and so on in the proportion 
of twelve more vestrymen for every thousand rated 
householders; but in no case is the number to exceed 
one hundred and twenty. The rector, district rector, 
vicar, perpetual curate, and church-wardens are to con- 
stitute part of the vestry, and vote in addition to the 
vestrymen so elected; but no more than one such min- 
ister is ex officio to be a part of. or vote at, any vestry 
meeting. One third of the vestrymen go out of of- 
fice annually, and others are elected in their stead. 
Select vestries have arisen from a practice which ob- 
tained in large and populous parishes, especially in and 
about the metropolis, of choosing a select number of the 
chief and most respectable parishioners to represent and 
manage the concerns of the parish for one year. The 
practice has been held by the courts of law to be a good 
and reasonable custom. 

In the Protestant Episcopal Church in America the 
vestry is a committee chosen annually by the parish, 
who, in conjunction with the church-wardens, manage 
its temporal concerns. 

The term vestry is also applied, by accommodation, 


VESTRYMAN 


7G9 


VIAIXNES 


in other ehurehes, to the rooms provided for lectures, 
prayer-meetings, and other week-day sendees. 

Vestryman, a member of the vestry (q. \\). 

Vestry-press, a cupboard to hold the eneharisti- 
cal and other vestments belonging to a church. 

Vestry-trunk, a box, originally made out of the 
trunk of a tree, hollowed, in order to contain the ecclesi- 
a>tieal vestments belonging to a church. 

Vesturer, a sacristan (q. v.), or sexton (q. v.), a 
keeper of the vestments; a sub-treasurer of a collegiate 
clmreli or cathedral. 

Vetch, James Edwards, A.B., an English Congre- 
gational minister, was born at Zacatecas, Mexico. Aug. 
17. 1836. Mr. Vetch graduated at New College, and 
commenced the work of the ministry in Australia in 
1858 — tirst at Melbourne, and latterly at Woolhara, near 
Sydney — and won the respeet and alTeetion of men of 
every denomination, lie died June 17, 1K70. “ His 

character was that of an exemplary Christian gentle- 
man, and ever preferred principle to prosperity.” As a 
preacher he was thoughtful and instructive; as a pas- 
tor and friend he was respected and beloved as few men 
are. See (Loud.) Cony. Year-book, 1871, p. 358. 

Vetliym, an old form of the word fathom , a meas- 
ure of six feet in length. 

Veto Act is the popidar designation of the cele- 
brated act on calls passed bv the General Assembly of 
the Church of Scotland, May 31, 1831, and which, being 
afterwards declared by the courts of law and the Su- 
preme Legislature to be illegal and beyond the powers 
of the Church to enact, gave rise to a collision between 
the Church and State, and led to the formation, in 1843, 
as a separate denomination, of the Free Church of Scot- 
land. The act originated in the motion of Dr. Chal- 
mers, which was seconded by lord Moncrieff. This mo- 
tion is given in full under the article Non-Intrusion- 
ists (q. v.). The act runs as follows: 

“The General Assembly declare that it is a fundamen- 
tal law of this Church that no pastor shall be int 1 tided on 
any congregation contrary to the will of the people; and, 
in order that this principle may be carried into full effect, 
tiie General Assembly, with the consent of a majority of 
the presbyteries of this Church, do declare, enact, and or- 
dain, That it shall he an instruction to presbyteries that 
if in the moderating in a call to a vacant pastoral charge, 
the major part of the male heads of families, members of 
the vacant congregation and in full communion with the 
Church, shall disapprove of the person in whose favor the 
call is to be moderated in, such disapproval shall be deem- 
ed sufficient ground for the presbytery rejecting such per- 
son, and that he shall be rejected accordingly, and due 
notice thereof forthwith given to ail concerned; but that 
if the major part of the said heads of families shall not 
disapprove of such person to he their pastor, the presby- 
tery shall proceed with the settlement according to the 
rules of the Church. And they further declare that no per- 
son shall be held to he entitled to disapprove as aforesaid, 
who shall refuse, if required, solemnly to declare, in pres- 
ence of the presbytery, that he is actuated by no factious 
or malicious motive, but solely by a conscientious regard 
to the spiritual interests of himself or the congregation.” 

See Patronage; Hiding Committees; Settlements, 
Violent. 

Vevers, William, an English Wesleyan minister, 
commenced his itinerancy in 1813 on the Gateshead 
Circuit. lie travelled some of the principal circuits, 
such as Glasgow (1821), Halifax (1824), York (1827), 
Deptford (1832), Leeds (1835), Liverpool (1840), Derby 
(1842), Hull (1K45), etc. He had an active and vigor- 
ous mind, and often evinced great skill in circuit tinanee. 
lie died at the Wesleyan Theological Institution (of 
which he was governor and chaplain) at Taunton, Sept. 
N, 1850, in the fifty-ninth year of his age. He wrote. 
A n Appeal to the Wesleyan Societies on the Attempt now 
made to Subvert their Constitution (referring to the War- 
ren agitation) (Loud. 1834, Svo) : — A Second Appeal , 
Containing a Reply to a Pamphlet entitled A n A jfection- 
ate Address of the United Wesleyan Methodist Associa- 
tion (1835, Svo) ; — A Letter to the Rev. Walter F. Hook , 
N.— 0 c c 


D.D., Vicar of Leeds, on his Inaugural Discourse (2d 
ed. 1836, Svo): — An Essay on the National Importance, 
of J let/lodism (1831, Svo). See Minutes of Wesleyan 
Conference , 1851; Stevenson, Wesleyan Hymn-book and 
its A ssociations , p. 365. 

Vex is used in the A. V. only in the old Lat. accep- 
tation (from veho, to carry, lienee to toss about), as a 
rendering of many lleb. and Greek words, in the sense 
of agitate or disturb greatly, especially to torment or 
afflict. 

Vexilla Regis, a hymn which takes its name 
from the tirst words, Vexilla Regis proderunt (“The 
kingly banners forward go”), sung in procession on Good- 
Friday before the Mass of the ITesanetiiied. It was 
composed by Venantius Fortunatus (q. v.) on the oc- 
casion of the reception of certain relics of St. Gregory 
of Tours and St. Radegund, prior to the consecration of 
a new church at Tours. It is strictly a processional 
hymn, but was afterwards adapted for use in the West- 
ern Church during Passion-tide, and is now used, in an 
English version, very generally in the Church of Eng- 
land. 

Vexillum (a banner) is Ihe eru- 
eilix carried before the pope, with the 
figure towards him, to remind him 
that he should have Christ crucified 
ever before his eyes. 

The word vexillum also denotes a 
flag or pennon of silk or linen at- 
tached to the upper part of a bish- 
op’s pastoral staff by a cord. This 
pennon is then folded round the staff, 
so as to avoid the inconvenience 
which might arise from the moist- 
ure of the hand staining the metal 
of which the staff is made. Many 
examples of the vexillum are repre- 
sented in illuminated MSS., and 
some are to be found on memorial 
brasses and iueised slabs, 

Vezelay, Council of (Concili- 
um Vezeliacmn'), was held in 114G, 
after the capture of Edessa by the 
Saracens. Louis VII, the archbish- 
op, bishops, abbots, and many of the 
nobility of France, attended. St. 
liernard, who was present, urged the 
king, with great eloquence, to succor 
the Christians against the Turks. 

The monarch was among the first to 
assume the cross, together with his 
wife, Eleanor. After them Alphon- 
se, count of St. Gilles; Thierry, count of Flanders ; count 
Guido, and many others of the nobility, took the vow. 
See Mansi, Condi, x, 1100. — Landou, Manual of Coun- 
cils. p. G77. 

Via, Alessandro della, an Italian engraver, flour- 
ished at Venice about 1730. He engraved some por- 
traits and other subjects in an indifferent style, among 
which is one of the Virgin and Infant Christ, with St. 
Sebastian and other saints, after Paul Veronese. See 
Spooner, liiog. Hist, of the Fine Arts , s. v. 

Via Dolorosa. See Jerusalem. 

Via Media (the middle path), a name which An- 
glican High-Chnrehmen claim for themselves, as hold- 
ing a middle position between popery and ultra-Protes- 
tantism. See Oxford Tracts ; Tractarian. 

Viaixnes, Tiiierri Fagnier de, a Freneh contro- 
versialist, was born at Ohalons-snr- Marne, March 18,. 
1659. He was brought up by the Jesuits, and, having 
entered the Order of St. Tlenediet (1677) and completed 
his studies, he was ordained priest (HISS'), and divided 
his attention between preaehing and study. In 1689 
he fell into disgrace with his superiors for opposing 
their orders, and was exiled to the abbey of St. Michael 



Vexillum. 


VIAL 


770 


VICAR EPISCOPAL 


in Thierache, but lie was soon released through the 
intiuenee of his father. After various adventures, he 
became (lG‘JG-1703) director of an academy at limit- 
villiers (diocese of Elieims) ; but, continuing his opposi- 
tion to papal authority, he was imprisoned (1704-14) 
at Vincennes and finally banished. lie retired to Bel- 
gium, and thence to Holland, where he spent the rest 
of his checkered life in the preparation of a few ecclesi- 
astical works, which are recited in Iloefer, Xour. Biog. 
Generate, s. v. lie died at Rhynwick, near Htrecht, 
Oct. 31, 1735. 

Vial is the rendering, in the A. V.,of 7\2, pak (from 
J"C2, to distil), a bottle or flask, e. g. of oil (L Sam. x, 
1 ; “box,” 2 Kings ix, 1,3); and ptuAtj (1 Esdr. ii, 13; 
Rev. v, 8, etc.), a bowl (q. v.). 

Viau. See Van Viaxk. 

Vianagium is a term frequently found in Dug- 
dale’s Monasticon to designate the payment of a certain 
quantity of wine in lieu of rent to the chief lord of the 
vineyard. 

Viani, Antonio Maria (called II Vianino), an 
Italian painter, native of Cremona, flourished in the 
latter part of the IGth century, lie acquired a knowl- 
edge of the art from the eminent painters of Cremona, 
the Campi, and was then invited by the duke Vineen- 
zio Gonzaga to Mantua, where lie executed several pict- 
ures for the churches, among which were St. Michael, in 
the Church of Sant’ Agnese, and the representation of 
Heaven, at the Orsoline, both in the style of his instruc- 
tors. Besides his work in the churches, he was employed 
in many other edifices; and after the death of the duke 
remained in the employ of his three successors. See 
Spooner, I Hog. Hist, of the Fine A rts , s. v. * 

Viani, Domenico Maria, an Italian painter, son 
of Giovanni Maria, was born at Bologna in 1GG8. lie 
received a thorough education in the art from his fa- 
ther, and then went to Venice, where he studied the old 
Venetian masters. Some prefer him to his father, hut 
this preference is not entertained by most critics. He suc- 
ceeded his lather in the school which he had establish- 
ed at Bologna, and instructed several pupils. lie exe- 
cuted many works for the churches of Bologna, Berga- 
mo, Pistoia, and other neighboring cities. The princi- 
pal at Bologna are a series representing the Projdiets 
and Evangelists , in the Church of the Nativity, and 
Christ Healing a Pilgrim , in the Church of the Servi. 
He died at Pistoia in 1711. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, 
of the Fine A rts , s. v. 

Viani, Giovanni Maria, an eminent Italian 
painter, was born at Bologna in 1037. lie studied 
along with Pasinclli in the school of Flamiuio Torre. 
He executed many works for the churches of Bologna, 
as well as for other public edifices. lie opened a school 
opposite to that of Cignani, in which he instructed sev- 
eral pupils. Besides his work as painter, he executed 
several spirited etchings from his own designs and af- 
ter Caraeei. He died in 1700. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, 
of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Viaticum (literally, preparation for a journey) is 
a term corresponding to the Greek tyoSiov. and used to 
designate the sacraments of baptism and the Lord’s 
supper, because they were deemed the necessary pro- 
vision and armor of Christians to sustain and conduct 
them safely on their journey through this world to 
eternal life. More strictly, however, the term viaticum 
denoted the eucharist given to persons in immediate 
danger of death, in which sense it is still occasionally 
used. Death was a journey to the eternal world, and 
this sacrament was deemed the necessary provision for 
that journey. The elements were sometimes placed in 
the coffin of the deceased. The 13th canon of the Xi- 
eene Council provides that none “be deprived of his 
perfect and most necessary viaticum whin he departs 
out of this life.” Several other canons of various coun- 


cils are to the same effect, providing also for the giving 
of the viaticum under peculiar circumstances, as to per- 
sons in extreme weakness, delirium, or subject to ca- 
nonical discipline. 

Vibert, Charles W., an English Wesleyan minis- 
ter, was horn at Penzance, Cornwall, April 3, 1803. He 
united with the Church in his fifteenth year, was re- 
ceived into the ministry in 1.S2G, and, in the midst of 
preparations for removing to South lYthertoii Circuit, 
lie was attacked with paralysis and died in four hours, 
at Bromsgrove, Aug. 2G, 1<S51. lie was a man of unob- 
trusive piety, unimpeachable integrity, and conscien- 
tiously devoted to bis work. See Minutes of Weslegan 
Conferences , 1 855. 

Vicar is one who supplies the place of another. 
Anciently, when a church was appropriated to any of 
the religious houses, the monks supplied the cure by 
one of their own brotherhood, and received the reve- 
nues of the Church to their own use. Afterwards, in 
almost all appropriate churches, it became customary 
that they should he supplied by a secular clerk, and not 
a member of their own house, from which fact and 
duty he received the name of ricarins ; and for the 
maintenance of this vicar about a third part of the 
tithes was set apart, the rest of the tithes being re- 
served to the use of those houses. The tithes set apart 
for the maintenance of the vicar were called lesser or 
vicarial tithes, and the others were called great or rec- 
torial tithes. After the religious houses were dissolved, 
the king became possessed of that share which belong- 
ed to the monasteries, who granted them to divers per- 
sons, now termed lay im proprietors, to whom ordinari- 
ly belong the whole of the great tithes. In the Angli- 
can Church the vicar is a clergyman who is the incum- 
bent of a parish under a rector, the former receiving 
the great tithes, and the latter the lesser tithes. The 
vicar is superior in rank to the curate , but in France 
the opposite usage obtains. 

VICAR Apostolic is a bishop who possesses no dio- 
cese, hut who exercises jurisdiction over a certain ap- 
pointed district by direct authority of t lie pope. Such 
officers have been appointed from time to time in vari- 
ous parts of the Latin Church. There were vicars ap- 
ostolic in France, Spain, and Italy in the 7th and 8th 
centuries, and officers possessing similar powers have 
been appointed from Borne in different countries ever 
since. In England, Dr. William Bishop was conse- 
crated to this office by the title of bishop of Chalcedon, 
June 4, 1G23. In 1G88 four districts were created bv 
pope Innocent XI ; and to these four more were added 
by pope Gregory XVI, July 30, 1840. In place of this 
a new hierarchy was established in England by pope 
Pius IX in 1850. 

VICAR Apostolic of the Xorth Pole is a priest of 
the Romish Church possessing certain episcopal juris- 
diction in Orkney, Shetlaud, Iceland, and the adjacent 
islands. 

VICAR Capitular is the administrator of a diocese 
chosen by the chapter in ease of vacancy. He can per- 
form acts for the government of the diocese, but has no 
episcopal authority. 

VICAR Choral is a minor canon attached to a 
cathedral or collegiate church ; also a layman appointed 
to assist in chanting divine service in cathedral and 
collegiate ehuridies. 

VICAR of Christ is a term by which Roman Cath- 
olics sometimes designate the pope. 

VICAR Episcopal is an officer of the Roman 
Church corresponding to the English archdeacon or 
the (Reck ckorepiscopos. In Africa the city priest was 
one of the cathedral body, who ministered in the ad- 
joining villages. According to Sidonins, he was the 
bishop's chaplain, vidam, notary, treasurer, theologian, 
and steward. 


VICAR FOR AN E 


771 


VICARIOUS SUFFERING 


VICAR Forane (^vicarius foremens . lit. “vicar out 
of doors”) is the delegate of a bishop who exercises 
certain episcopal rights in a part of the diocese only. 
Such officers are not provided for all dioceses. 

VICAll General is a principal official, now called 
chancellor of the diocese; an ecclesiastical judge iu the 
bishop’s court, as the official belonging to the arch- 
deacon. 

VICAR of the Holy See is an officer who has 
been from time to time appointed by the pope to exer- 
cise quasi-episcopal jurisdiction in certain dioceses. II is 
functions and duties are almost precisely the same as 
those of the vicar apostolic (q. v.). Vicars of the lloly 
See were tirst appointed in Gaul by pope Zosimus in 417. 

VICAR of Peter is a term by which the pope of 
Rome is sometimes designated. 

Vicarage (or Vicarage House) is the official 
house of residence for the vicar of a parish. 

Vicarial Tithes are the lesser tithes (q. v.) be- 
longing to a benefice. See Vicar. 

Vicariate, one having delegated power as a vicar. 

Vicarii is a name given to certain officers ordered 
to be appointed by pope Innocent III in 1215, who were 
to have the care of souls in the larger dioceses neglected 
by the worldly-minded bishops. The name was em- 
ployed to distinguish them from the officiates , who had 
simply a coercive jurisdiction. 

Vicarious Suffering of Jesus Christ. Under 
the head of Atonement we have given a historical re- 
view of opinions on this subject, and in the article Me- 
diation we have discussed the character and extent of 
the expiation effected; it remains to consider the ulti- 
mate ground or virtue of such a redemptive act. Why 
was it neeessar}'- that any victim should suffer in man’s 
stead? The real need, as we conceive, lies not alto- 
gether in God’s disposition, but quite as imperatively in 
that of the sinner himself. As the divine law — being 
a transcript of the moral attributes of Deity, and there- 
fore of all moral intelligences — was but the product or 
creature (so to speak) of God himself, he may be con- 
ceived as having the sovereign right — so far as his own 
attitude or interests are concerned — to abrogate, waive, 
or suspend it or its penalty in any case upon his own 
terms or at his simple pleasure. But he could not do 
this arbitrarily, or in such a way as to contradict his 
own nature — that is, in such a manner as to countenance 
sin, to which he is essentially, absolutely, and forever 
opposed. Human sin, be it borne in mind, consists not 
so much in contravening God’s express command as in 
violating the inherent prescriptions of the moral sense 
of the universe, including man himself. If, therefore, 
God should be so weak as to overlook or condone man’s 
crimes, without the fulfilment of such conditions as 
should conserve that moral instinct, he would incur the 
contempt of the criminal himself. In other words, man. 
if pardoned at all, and if so as to feel himself really and 
justly forgiven, must be pardoned in accordance with 
the ordinance graven on his own moral constitution. 
That ordinance may be summed up, if we may inter- 
pret it by consciousness, by the analogies of parental 
conduct and social release, and by the explicit terms of 
Holy Writ, in the one essential requirement of such a 
state of mind, on the part of the culprit, as warrants the 
presumption of voluntary non-repetition for the future 
of a like offence ; that is, in one word, repentance. With- 
out tli is no one feels that he can properly for himself, or 
safely for others, either forgive or be forgiven any fault. 
The question now is, How can this state of mind most 
certainly, effectually, and permanently be produced ? 
That God could infallibly bring it about bv a direct in- 
fluence upon man’s mind no one can doubt, and some 
have gone so far as to assert that this is the actual and 
invariable fact; but this is to deny free agency, and to 
stultify the whole course of the divine procedure in per- 
mitting any sin whatever. We know of no means so 


likely to reduce the natural rebellion and corruption of 
the human heart as that which God has actually adopt- 
ed, namely, by the presentation, in the person of the 
Redeemer, of a specimen of perfect holiness suffering 
the penalty due to the sinful race from pure motives of 
philanthropy and piety. This spectacle at once en- 
hances the majesty of law, puts sin to the blush, and 
enkindles the least spark of magnanimity remaining 
in man’s bosom. There have been instances of simi- 
lar devotion among friends on earth, and these have 
stirred the generous emotions of humanity wherever 
recounted; how much more the unprecedented self- 
immolation of a disinterested (or rather offended) one 
in behalf of guilty man (Rom. v, 7, 8) ! So far, then, 
from the vicarious suffering of Christ being necessary 
to appease the wrath of God, it is really seen to be 
the highest exhibition of bis love yearning for some 
consistent plan of salvation (John iii, ll>). In point of 
fact, it is found that this act — as a divine and not mere- 
ly human expression of sympathy— does melt and sub- 
due the sinful soul, when it eomes to be apprehended 
under the Spirit’s light of conviction, as no denuncia- 
tions of vengeance or view of dangerous consequences 
can do. Yet the penalty must still be held in reserve 
for recusant and hardened cases, else the effect of the 
contrast itself would be destroyed, and the conscience of 
the universe would be shocked. We conclude, then, in a 
last analysis, that the moral purpose and need of the 
death upon Calvary was for the condemnation of sin 
and for a crowning proof of divine intervention. In a 
forensic point of view, it was substitutional, if so accept- 
ed by the party for whose benefit it was volunteered; 
but as a remedial measure, its virtue lies in its power to 
impress and win and reform (John xii, 32). It is thus 
that the cross becomes the instrument of a glorious re- 
generation (Gal. vi, 14). In other words, the final cause 
of the sacrifice of Christ is to be sought, not so much in 
any prudential considerations of the divine government 
or human society as in the essential nature of God him- 
self and in man’s conscience, which is a copy of God’s 
moral consciousness. Both these require a penalty for 
the violation of that law which is written in the consti- 
tution of the intelligent universe, not simply as a vin- 
dictive infliction for the. past, nor merely as a safeguard 
against the future, nor yet purely as a spectacular ex- 
hibition of infinite and gratuitous compassion, but chief- 
ly and imperatively as a satisfaction to the instinctive 
and irrepressible sense of ill-desert which the view of 
sin excites in all right-minded beings, and to stamp it 
with an emphatic rebuke. This is wholly irrespective 
of personal interests, whether of resentment, injury, or 
pride, on the part either of individuals or of communi- 
ties; it is alike, if not equally, shared by the Creator 
and the creature, by the innocent and the guilty. To 
this grand sentiment all other ends are subordinate; 
and thus, as ever with great moral principles, the com- 
paratively minor, although really immense, advantages 
of amnesty and protection and reformation are at the 
same time secured, not by a compromise, but by a full 
and inexorable adherence to the demands of everlasting 
right. The substitution of .Jesus, the innocent victim, 
for the conscious culprit is indeed a device of that love 
which is always fertile in resources; but it is not an 
evasion of justice: it is an accomplishment of the law 
far more significant and effectual than the personal an- 
guish of the sinner himself can be; and yet it leaves 
room for the latter also in the alternative of the refusal 
of the former. Just at this point, too, comes in appro- 
priately the determinative weight of the human will, 
which God has left free to be cast into the scales of des- 
tiny. In the interval which divine forbearance basset 
between the sentence of the convict and his execution 
(Eccles. viii, 11 ; Rom. ix, 22; 1 Pet. iii, 20; 2 Pet. iii, 
0) an ample pardon has been provided, not by “execu- 
tive clemency,” but as a “receipt in full” from a friend- 
ly hand, which needs but the grantee’s endorsement to 
make it valid. That act on the subject’s part is gen- 


VICARS’ COLLEGE 


772 


VICELINUS 


nine penitence , including the individual faith which 1 
alone prevents remorse from degenerating into despair 
(2 Cor. vii. 10); and this complex state of the soul — a 
hopeful contrition — could, so liir as we can see, only be 
engendered by the proper apprehension, under the light 
of the Holy Spirit, of a just but relentless doom, vica- 
riously but fully endured. In the Cross these demands 
all meet and harmonize. 

Vicars’ College is the house of residence of those 
members of a cathedral corporation who do not belong 
to the chapter. Anciently such a building was prob- 
ably attached to most cathedrals. Until the civil wars 
the collegiate life was everywhere maintained in Ung- 
land, and at Hereford so late as 1828. 

Vicars, John, an English Presbyterian minister and 
violent writer on religious and political subjects, was 
born in London in 1582. lie was educated at Christ’s 
Hospital. Loudon, and (Queen’s College, Oxford; and was, 
during the greater part of his life, usher of Christ’s Hos- 
pital. He died in 1G52. He was the author of the 
following works, among others: Prospective Glass to 
Look into Heaven (Loud. 1618, 4to) : — England's Hallelu- 
jah (1631, 4to): — Jehovah Jireh, God in the Mount ; or 
England's Remembrancer (1 04 1-44, 4to) : — God's Ark 
Overtopping the World's IFtU'es (1G4G): — Prodigies and 
Apparitions: — England's Worthies (1G47). 

Vice (Viccirs), Friedrich, a Lutheran theologian, 
was born Sept. 0, 1629, at Breslau, in Silesia. lie stud- 
ied at Wittenberg, and was permitted to lecture there. 
In 1 G 7)8 he was appointed eo-reetor at St. Mary Magda- 
lene’s in his native place; in 1GG5 he was made dea- 
con of St. Elisabeth’s ; in 1GG7 professor of the Elisabe- 
thamim ; and died Jan. 27. 1097,aspastorofSt. Elisabeth’s 
and inspector of t he evangelical churches and schools. 

1 le wrote. Dissert, de Erim et Thummim : — De Pneconio 
.losephi „ Eggptiaco : — De .4 ntiqvitnte Ilehraicce Lingua : 

— Dissertt . aliquot ad Cap. oci Geneseos. See Pantke, 
l 'a stores der Kirch e zu St. Elisabeth in Bresslau ; id. 
Past ores zu St. Maria Magdalene ingleichen Prcepositi 
und Ecclesiastic ; Jocher,.! llgemeines Gelehrten-Lex. s. v. ; 
burst, Hill. Jnd. iii,47G ; Steinsclmeider, Bibliog. lland- 
buch, s. v. (15. P.) 

Vice is a chronic and habitual transgression of the 
moral Law, as distinguished from those transgressions 
which result from momentary temptation. It is a phase 
of sin (cj. v.). and the remarks there made are applica- 
ble here. Vice, like every other habit, is the product 
of repeated acts, and, as the vicious habit strengthens, 
the mind of its victim becomes less and less conscious 
of the evil of which it is the slave, until sin is commit- 
ted almost without knowing it. The hatefulness of vice 
both to Cod and man is shown in the whole of Cod’s 
moral government in the world. Even in tins worltl 
vice is foredoomed bv the unmistakable judgment of 
Cod, and the human agents of the sentence, although 
they be themselves under similar condemnation, allow 
the law to he just. Exalted virtue secures the admira- 
tion of even the worthless, and vieo, when punished, is 
as universally acknowledged by both good and bad to 
have met with its deserts. Societies for the suppres- 
sion of vice have been organized in different countries, 
and meet with universal approval. Their object is to 
co-operate with the properly constituted legal authori- 
ties in preventing and suppressing the various vices 
which are prevalent and most flagrant. 

The greater hopelessness of vice than mere sin very 
clearly bespeaks the wrath of Cod. The evil conse- 
quences of youthful lolly may be lightly thought of for 
a time, but they remain as a root of bitterness to mar 
the peacefulness of more mature years. Even an im- 
prudent choice of vicious companions will often meet 
with the same severe retribution as a course of down- 
right vicious action. It lias been decreed that vice, 
and everything that directly or indirectly belongs to it, 
should not go unpunished ; and its escape from condem- 
nation, so far as its own nature is concerned, is utterly 


| hopeless. The Scriptures are very positive in their de- 
nunciations of vice (see llcb. ii, 1-3; iii, 7-19; iv, 1-13; 
vi,4, G; Horn. i. 29-32). 

Vice-chancellor is the officer chief in authority 
in a university; usually one of the heads of colleges, 
who is selected from time to time to manage the gov- 
ernment of the same in the absence of the chancellor. 

Vice-dean is an officer appointed by the chapter 
of a cathedral, or in some cases by the dean alone, to 
act as the deputy of t he latter, lie is elected annually 
from the residentiaries, and sometimes by them. He 
acts as the locum-tenens of the dean, and is regarded 
as a paterfamilias, lie usually sits in the north-west 
stall, although that is properly appropriated to the heb- 
domadary or canon in residence. In some Italian and 
Spanish foundations lie is called prefect of the choir . 

Vice-dommi (in place of the master ) is a term ap- 
plied to certain ecclesiastical officers, often called beadles 
or bailiffs, appointed about the 8th century from the 
order of laymen, to protect the churches and defend 
them against wrongs. Their work was of such a char- 
acter that it could not properly be performed by eccle- 
siastics. See Neander, Hist, of the Church , iii, 101. See 
Yin am. 

Vice-legate is an officer of the court of Lome who 
acts as spiritual and temporal governor in certain cities 
where no legate or cardinal resides. 

Viceliims, St., the apostle of Holstein, was a na- 
tive of Quernheim,on the Weser. His early education 
was directed by the clergy of that place ; after the death 
of his parents and the loss of his inheritance he became 
the charge of the lady of Everstein; and ultimately, 
having been taunted by the priest of the castle on ac- 
count of his illiteracy, he entered himself at the flour- 
ishing school of Paderborn, and rapidly became noted 
for the energy and suceess with which he pursued his 
studies. After a time lie became principal of the school 
at Bremen. and administered its affairs with great credit 
and success; but his craving for knowledge was such 
that he soon resigned his place and went, accompanied 
by his favorite pupil Thetmar, to Paris, where they sat 
at the feet, of Rudolph and Anselm (q. v.), and acquired 
a correct understanding of the Holy Scriptures and of 
practical Christianity. After his return to his home he 
declined the office of canon at Bremen, and went to 
Magdeburg to prepare himself for the work of a mis- 
sionary to the heathen. He was consecrated priest by 
archbishop Nortbert of Magdeburg, and commissioned 
by archbishop Adalbert H of Bremen to labor among 
the Slavs, and at once petitioned Henry, the powerful 
king of the Obotrites, to allow the preaching of the 
Gospel among his subjects. 

The Obotrites (frequently written A bodrites') were a 
branch of the stock of Wends or North German Slavs. 
They were coarse, cruel, false, and indolent, hut given 
to hospitality towards strangers. Their priests held 
the lirst place in the public estimation, and exercised a 
leading influence over public affairs, besides having ex- 
clusive possession of what little scientific information 
was extant among them. Their mi morons gods — of 
whom Sunmtewid or Svatovid, the lbur-headed victor, 
Prove, the god of justice, and Rudegast were most prom- 
inent — stood under the direction and rule of one supreme 
god of heaven, and administered their offices in his 
name. The Obotrites lirst became acquainted with 
Christianity in the beginning of the 9th century, when 
they allied themselves with Charlemagne in his war 
against the Saxons. They were defeated in 931 at 
Lenzcn, in a bloody battle, by Ilcnry I, made tributary 
to the German realm, and pledged to receive Christian- 
ity. Fora time encouraging progress was made in con- 
verting them to the new religion; lint when the Ger- 
man emperors empowered the dukes of Saxony to gov- 
ern the Wendish tribes, and imposts and taxes were 
consequently increased, a feeling of discontent arose 
which the heathen priests were able to intensify until 


VICENTINO 


773 VICTOR 


it. became open rebellion, anti a contest began between 
the opposing religions which continued during nearly 
a hundred and titty years. In the last quarter of the 
llth century the Christian part of the population was 
wholly subdued, and the country was altogether with- 
out Christian influences until Henry seized the throne 
in 1105, and with the aid of the Saxons overcame his 
opponents. This prince endeavored to accustom his 
subjects to the labor of cultivating the soil, and to re- 
introduce Christianity among them; and the applica- 
tion of Vicelinus and his companions for permission to 
preach the Gospel was accordingly received with favor, 
and a church at Ln beck turned over to them for use. 
Henry’s death, in 112b, destroyed the prospect of suc- 
cessful missionary labor, however, by inaugurating a 
bitter internal war in the kingdom, and Vicelinus was 
obliged to return to Bremen. An opportunity to estab- 
lish himself at. Faldcra (now Neumiinster, in Holstein) 
soon afterwards occurred, which enabled Vicelinus to re- 
turn to the borders of the Slavs; and from this place 
as a centre lie was able to carry the Gospel in every 
direction during many years, and with a measure of 
success which induced other missionaries to come to his 
assistance. An association of celibate laymen and cler- 
gymen was also formed for pious purposes which con- 
tributed materially towards the extension of Christian- 
ity. In 1131 the emperor Lothaire established the fort- 
ress of Segebnrg for the protection of the region in 
which Vicelinus labored, and in time a church and mon- 
astery grew up in its vicinity, which were placed under 
his care; and as the Church at Lubeek was also in- 
trusted to his guidance, he naturally became the head 
of the entire missionary work among the Slavs. One 
of his first undertakings now was the planting of mis- 
sionary training-schools in both Segeburg and Lubeek. 
The death of the emperor, in 1 i37, interrupted the prog- 
ress of Christianity among the Slavs, and once more 
Vicelinus saw the devastations of war sweep away the 
results of the labors of many years. Count Adolphus of 
Holstein finally subdued the restless population, and re-i 
stored the former condition of things. In 1149 Viee- 
linus was consecrated bishop of Aldenburg; but after a 
few years of toil in that ofliee, rendered difficult by the 
exactions of his superior, the archbishop Hartwig of 
Bremen, on the one hand, and of duke Henry the Lion, 
the sovereign of the country, on the other, he suffered 
a stroke of paralysis in 1151 which deprived him of the 
ahilitv to travel and of the power of speech. He died 
Dee. 12, 1154. 

Literature. — Helmold, Chronicon Slarorum (to 1170) ; 
Adami Bremens. Gesta Hamburg. Keel. Pontijic., ed. Lap- 
penberg, in Pertz, Momim. vol. vii, Scriptt.; Saxonis 
G rammatici Hist. Danicee IAbri X VI; Crantz, Metropolis 
and Wandulia; Gerken, Yersveh in d. dltesten Gesch. d. 
Slaven in Deutschl. (Leips. 1771); Gebhard, Gesch. d. 
Slaren u. Wenden (Halle, 1790-97, 4 vols. 4t.o) ; also in 
Welt- II 1st or ie, vol. xxxiii-xxxvi ; Frank, A lies u. nenes 
Mecklenburg ( Leips. 1753-58) ; Rmlloff, Pragmat. I/andb. 
d.mecklenb. Gesch. (1780,2 vols.; 2d ed. 1822); Hetfter. 
Weltkampf d. Deutschen u. Slaren (Ilamb. 1847) ; Lap- 
penberg. Die Bischiife v. Aldenburg , in Pertz, .4 rchiv f. 
iiltere deutsche Gesch ichtshmde, ix, 384-395; Kruse, Le- 
ben d. heil. Vicelin (1828) ; Wiggers, Kirchcngesck. Meck- 
lenburgs (1840) ; Neander. Kirchengesch . v, 1 ; Mooyer, 
Verzeichniss d. deutschen BischOfe (Minden, 1854). — Her- 
zog, Beal-Encgklop. s. v. 

Vicentino, Andrea, an Italian painter, was born 
at Venice in 1539. He was a scholar of the elder Par- 
ma, and followed his style. He was a great plagiarist, 
hut made his selections with good taste and judgment. 
He was one of the most popular artists of his day, and 
found abundant employment in painting lor the church- 
es and public edifices of Venice and other cities of that 
republic, and even beyond its bounds. II is best pict- 
ures are preserved in the collections, among which is 
his Solomon Anointed King of Israel , in the Royal Gal- 
lery at Florence, a picture worthy of great commenda- 


tion. He died in 1014. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the 
Fine A rts , s. v. 

Vicentino, Marco, a Venetian painter, son and 
pupil of Andrea, practiced his art at A r euice with con- 
siderable reputation, and executed many works for the 
churches and for the collections. 1 1 is lame, however, is 
derived more from his father’s name than from his own 
works. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts , s. v. 

Vice-rector is the second in authority to the rec- 
tor, governor, master, or ruler of a college. 

Vice-sacristan is a sacristan (q. v.) or sexton of 
inferior rank or position, who acts during the absence 
of the ordinary sacristan. 

Vici, Andrea del, an Italian architect, was horn 
at Areevia, in the Marca d’Aneona, in 1714. He was 
educated at Perugia, and then sent to Rome to study 
painting under Stefa no Pozzi, and architecture under 
Carlo Murena, but he decided to follow the latter as a 
profession. In 1780 the court of Tuscany appointed 
iiim hydraulic architect and engineer for the Val di 
Chiaua, and in 1787 lie was employed in a similar ca- 
pacity by the papal government in the work of drain- 
ing the Pontine marshes, and preventing the inunda- 
tions of the Teppia. In 1810 he erected the embankment 
to support the left bank of the Teverone. His archi- 
tectural works are considerable in number and impor- 
tance. He was architect to the grand-duke of Tuscany, 
and built, among others, the Palazzo Lapri at Bevagna; 
the Church and Monastery delle Salesiane at Offagna; 
the seminary at Osimo; the Church of S. Francesco at 
Foligno; the Cnpella Gozzoli at Terni; the villa ami 
casini at Monte Gallo; and the superb cathedral at Ca- 
marillo. lie died Sept. 10, 1817. See Spooner, Biog. 
Hist, of the Fine A rts , s. v. 

Vick, J. O., an English Congregational minister, 
was horn at Emsworth, Nov. 11, 1803, and died June 7. 
I8G2. He was occupied in business nearly the whole 
( of his Jife, but frequently was engaged in preaching, 
and for several years labored acceptably as pastor of 
the Church in Waterloo, Portsmouth. See (Loud.) Cong. 
Year-book , 18 03, p. 270. 

Vick, Newet, a Methodist Episcopal minister, was 
horn in Southampton County, Va., March 17, 1700. He 
began preaching in 1788; entered the Virginia Confer- 
ence in 1790; married in 1791 ; removed to North Caro- 
lina in 1799, and three years later to Mississippi, where 
he labored until his decease, near Vicksburg, Aug. 5, 
1819. See Sprague, Annals of A mer. Pulpit , vii, 558. 

Vico (Vighi, or Vicus), Enea, an eminent Ital- 
ian engraver and medallist, was born at Parma about 
1520. He studied under Giulio Romano, and after- 
wards went, to Rome, where he entered the school of 
Marc’ Antonio Raimondi, lie made such progress that 
he was invited to Florence by the grand-duke, Cosmo 
L where he engraved several plates after Michael An- 
gelo, and numerous portraits. From there he went to 
Venice and Ferrara. On returning to Parma in 1554, 
he engraved and published tiie medals of gold and sil- 
ver of the twelve Caesars with explanations. In 1555 
he published at Venice his Discorsi sopra le Medaglic , 
which was several times reprinted. He is considered 
to have been the first who wrote on numismatics. II is 
last work, Imagini delle Donne A uguste , was published 
at Venice in 1557. He died about 1570. Among his 
plates may be mentioned the Conversion of St. Paul, 
after F. Salviati ; the Entombing of Christ , after Ra- 
phael ; and t he .1 nnvnciation , after Titian. See Spooner, 
Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Victor ( the conqueror'), in Roman mythology, was a 
surname of Jupiter, often appearing upon tablets. 

Victor (also Claudius Mauius Victor and Vic- 
toiunus) was a poet ami orator of Marseilles, who lived 
in the former half of the 5th century, and wrote in hex- 
ameter verse a Comment, in Genesin and an Ejnstolu ad 


VICTOli 


774 


VICTORIA 


Solomon. A bbat. de Pcrrersis suce xEtatis Moribus. See 
Max. Bibl. etc. viii, 118. 

Victor, St. '1’he lists of martyrs and saints in the 
Roman Catholic Church include an extended series of 
personages named Victor, concerning whom see Aus- 
Jufirl. Neil.- 1 .exikon and the accompanying Kalmder 
(Cologne and Frankfort, 171!)), p. 2262-2271. See llcr- 
/.og, Real- Encyklof >. s. v. 

Victor ok A nt loc it was a bisliop contemporary 
with Chrysostom (about A.L). 400) who wrote a com- 
mentary on t lie Gospel of Mark, in which he defended 
the view entertained by the Church of Ids day that, 
with reference to fasting, Christians have entire liberty 
of act ion. The commentary is given in Max. Bill. Vet. 
Rat rum (Lugd. 1677). iv, 370. 

Victor of C.vruA was a bisliop in the former half 
of the 6th century (died about 541). lie ranks as the 
earliest Latin eatenator, and wrote De Cyclo Puschali , 
fragments of which work are contained in Bede, and a 
Scholia Vet. Patrum. He also prepared a Latin version 
of Ammon. Alexandrinus’s Harmony of the Gospels 
(Harm. Evangel. A mm. Alexandr. etc. [Col. 1532]). 

Victor of Cartenna was a bishop in the 5th 
century who wrote A d versus A via nos ad Genseric ., 

1 \i tidal. Regent : — De Pcemtentia Pnblica : — Epistola 
Consolatoria ad Basil.: — and several homilies. Ills 
writings are now extant only in part. 

Victor of Carthage, a bishop A. I). 646, is known 
only through a letter addressed to pope Theodore I, in 
which he announced his elevation To the episcopal chair 
and accepted the doctrine of two wills in Christ. 

Victor of Tunfna was a bishop who died about 
A.D. 566. lie was one of the defenders of the so-called 
Three Chapters (q. v.), and was imprisoned and banish- 
ed because of his resistance in opposing Justinian’s 
edict in condemnation of the chapters, lie composed 
a Chronicon ab Orbe Condito , of which the part extend- 
ing from A.I). 444 to 465 is still extant. See Thesaur. 
Temp. Eusebii Puniphili, opera et studio J. J. Scaligeri* 
(Amst. 1658), ii, 1 sq. ; Thesaur. Monum. Eccles. sire 
Ilenriei Canisii Lectiones Antiqnce, ed. Basnage (An tv, 
1725), i, 321 sq. 

Victor of Vita ( Vitensis, not bishop of Utica, as 
is often stated) was a bishop who lived in the latter 
half of the 5th century. In A.D. 487 he wrote a Hist. 
Persecnt. A fric. sub Genserico et Hnnnerico Vandal. Re - 
gibus, which is given in Ruinart, Hist. Persecnt. Vandal. 
(Baris, 1694 ; Venice, 1732). See also Papencordt, Gesch. 
d. vandal. Herrschaft in J i frika (Berl. 1837 ), [j. 66 sq., 

1 13 sq., 269 si]. 

Victor I, pope from 185 to 197, or from 187 to 
about 200, was an African by birth and a hot-blooded 
character. He is noted for the part he took in the dis- 
pute with the Quartodeeiinanians of Asia Minor about 
the observance of Faster, lie wrote a letter to Polve- 
rates of Ephesus demanding that he should conform to 
the Occidental rule respecting Faster, on pain of ex- 
communication in case of refusal; and when Polvcrates 
declined, he severed ecclesiastical relations with that 
bishop and the churches of Asia Minor by which Polye- 
rates was supported. The opposition of many Western 
ecclesiastics to such measures, however, compelled Victor 
to recede from his arbitrary position. The eventual re- 
sult of the whole dispute was the prevalence of the 
Western theory of Faster. See Faster Controver- 
sies. Victor participated also in the beginnings of the 
Monarehian controversy by expelling from the Church 
the Dynamistie Monarehian Theodotus the 'rainier (o 
oKVTtug), who denied the deity of Christ. This step 
gave rise to the sect of Theodotianists, which ex- 
isted for a time in Rome. Certain expressions used 
by Tertullian (H dr. Praxeam, e. 1; App. ad Libr. de 
Prescript, e. 53) would seem to indicate that Victor 
was disposed to favor the views of Praxeas (q. v.) and 
the Patripassians (q. v.)» which were the direct oppo- 


site of the notions entertained by the Ebionizing Dvna- 
mists. See Eusebius, Hist. Eccles. v, 22-28. 

Victor II, pope from 1055 to 1057, was a relative of 
the emperor Henry III. His name was Gebhard, and 
be was previously bishop of Ficbstiidt. Leo of Ostia 
( Chron . Casin. ii, 89) states that the elevation of 
Gebhard to the pontificate was the work of the famous 
Hildebrand. The motive of that schemer’s action in 
choosing so decided a friend of the emperor to 1111 the 
papal chair would seem to have been a desire to divide 
the imperial camp into two opposing factious. The ex- 
periment succeeded well, at least in so far as that Geb- 
hard identified himself with the Cluniaceusian party, 
whose head was Hildebrand. lie attacked the prac- 
tices of simony and marriage among the priests, issuing 
energetic prohibitions and holding several councils in 
France against them. In 1056 he was present at the 
death-bed of Henry III in Germany, and became the 
guardian of the infant heir of that prince and the coun- 
sellor of his widow. He died soon after his return to 
Italy in the summer of 1057. See Pagi, Breriarium 
Paparum Rom. i, 528 sq. : Ildfler, Gesch. cl. dentschen 
Papste ; Gfrorer, Gregor. VII, i, 560; and the Church 
histories. 

Victor III, pope and successor to Gregory VII, 
was a son of Landulph V, prinee of Benevento. 1 1 is 
name was Desiderius, and he had been abbot of Monte 
Casino. Chosen by Gregory, be was elected by the 
cardinals to the papal chair in 1086, but refused to obey 
their call. He laid aside the papal insignia in solemn 
form at Terraciua, and returned to his monastery, but 
in the spring of 1087 was nevertheless induced to enter 
on the high office for which he had been selected. He 
displayed much of the energetic spirit and tendency of 
his predecessor. At Benevento he excommunicated his 
rival, Clement III, and at the same time forbade all in- 
vestiture of clergymen by the laity, called upon the 
Italians to undertake a sort of crusade against the Sara- 
cens of Africa, and instructed all bishops and ecclesias- 
tics to avoid all association with the archbishop Hugo 
of Lyons, who, with the abbot Richard of Marseilles, had 
rebelled against his authority and grossly maligned his 
person. While engaged in the prosecution of far-reach- 
ing plans, he was suddenly cut down by death, in Sep- 
tember, 1087, after having been the actual possessor of 
the papal chair during scarcely half a year. See Leo 
Ostiens. Citron. Casin. eontin. a Petr. Diaeon., bk. iii, 
c. 71, p. 480 sq. ; Muratori, Gesch . Ital. im Mittclalter 
(Germ, trails!.), vi, 464 sq. 

Victor IV, popes. 1. The successor of Anaeletns 
II (died 1138), who was previously cardinal Gregory 
Conti, but who, after a reign of two months, was in- 
duced by Bernard of Clairvaux to give place to the 
more powerful Innocent II (q. v. ; and comp. Petr. Di- 
aeon., in the Chron. Casin. iv, 130). 

2. Antipope against, Alexander HI. lie was pre- 
viously a cardinal, Ocfarianns. Enthroned in 1159, he 
was recognised ami protected by the emperor Frederick 
Barbarossa and endorsed by the synods of Pavia in 
1160 and of Lodi in 1 161, but never equalled his rival in 
eeelesiastieal power or in moral influence. He died in 
1164 at Lueca, and was followed by Paschal III. See 
Von Raumer, Hohenstaufeu, ii, 123 sq. ; Renter, Gesch. 
Alexander's III n. d. Kirche s. Zeit , i, 129, 401 sq. ; 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Victoria, a Christian martyr of the Dioclesian per- 
secution (A.D. 284-812), was a native of an inland town 
in Nnmidia. She was one of a band of Christians who 
had met in the house of a ehtireh reader, and were 
seized and brought to Carthage to be arraigned before 
the tribunal of the proconsul. Her lather and brother 
were still pagans; and her brother, upon her refusal to 
go with him, elaimed that she was not in her right 
mind. “This is ray mind,” replied she, “and I have 
not altered it.” She died in triumphant faith. See 
Neander, Hist, of the Church , i, 152. 


VICTORINUS 


775 


VICTUALS 


Victorinus, bishop of Pettau ( Petarionensis ), 
a town in ancient Pannonia — not of Poitiers, as Baro- 
nius states — lived about A.D. 200, and was an orator 
before be became a bishop. lie was of Greek extrac- 
tion, and was better acquainted with the Grecian than 
the Latin tongue. Of his works, a fragment, De Fubri - 
ca Mnndi , was published by Cave (see below). Jerome 
says that Victorinus wrote commentaries on most of the 
books of the Old Test., and he is also credited with the 
authorship of a commentary on the Apocalypse, lie 
died, according to the Roman martyrology, a martyr’s 
death, under Diocletian, about 303. See Dupin, A T ou- 
relle Bill, des Auteurs Kccles. (Paris, 1G93), i, 194; 
Cave, Seriptornm Kccles. JFist. Lit. (Genev. 1093), p. 73 
sq. ; Max. Bill. Yet. Batr. etc. (Lngd. 1077), vol. iii, 
where the commentary on the Apocalypse occurs, 
p. 414 sq. ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Victory, in Roman mythology, was the daughter 
of Pallas and Styx. Victory personified (called by the 
Greeks NiV'/j) was generally represented in connection 
with other deities, who carry her upon their hands; 
for instance, Jupiter, Minerva, Venus. She also ap- 
pears with victors in races, whose horses she guides. 
She is pictured as a maiden similar to Minerva, with 
wings, a palm-branch, and a wreath. In the accompa- 
nying cut she appears bringing a sacrifice to Minerva. 



Victricius, St. Tradition makes him to have been 
a soldier who became a Christian and wished to leave 
the army, for which reason he was condemned to under- 
go severe tortures, but escaped, because the lictor who 
had him in charge beeame blind, and the prisoner’s fet- 
ters refused to hold him bound. After being liberated. 
Victricius became bishop of Rouen (A.D. 380-390), and 
an active missionary. He sustained intimate relations 
with Martin of Tours and Paulinus of Nola. About 
393 he visited England for the purpose of restoring 
peace to the Church, into which the Pelagian faction 
had brought discord; but was himself suspected of her- 
esy and compelled to visit Rome (403), in order to 
prove his orthodoxy. Pope Innocent I thereupon gave 
him a paper intended to be a guide in the administra- 
tion of ecclesiastical discipline, and also for the deport- 
ment of believers generally. 1 le died, probably, in 407 
or 408, and left a work, entitled De Laude Sanctorum, 
which was published by Lebeuf (Paris, 1739). His day 
is Aug. 7. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Victrix ( the victoress ) was a surname of Venus. 

Victuals (represented bv several Heb. and Gr. 
words, which are variously rendered in the A. V. ). 
The necessary act of taking food was, at a very early 


period of the world’s history, connected immediately 
with religion. Thus the paschal lamb and the unleav- 
ened bread spoke in pleasing tones and by striking em- 
blems, to each successive generation, of the great his- 
torical fact of Tfhieh they were designed to be the per- 
petual memento. In like manner the Lord’s supper 
(1 Cor. xi.20), the breaking of bread from house to house 
(Acts ii, 40), and the ciycnrai, or love-feasts— feasts of 
charity (Jude 12) — were all, especially the first, both 
wisely designed and admirably fitted to bring into play, 
in connection with religion, the better feelings of hu- 
manity, to maintain in everlasting remembrance the 
events which they symbolized, to make eating and 
drinking an act of religion, and to make religion a 
pleasure. See Ac ape; Passover; Suffer. 

1. The productions of a country, at an early period of 
the world, necessarily determined its food. Palestine 
abounded with grain and various kinds of vegetables, 
as well as with animals of different species. Such, ac- 
cordingly, in general, was the sustenance which its in- 
habitants took. See Cereals. 

The use of fire, and the state of the arts of life in a 
country, must also have important influence on its cook- 
ery; in other words, will go far to determine the state 
in which the natural productions of the earth will be 
eaten. If the grain is to become bread, a long, and by 
no means easy, process has to be gone through. Skill 
in preparing food is therefore held in high repute; so 
that, as in Homer, princes slay the cattle, and poetry 
details the process bv which the careass is made ready 
for being eaten (Iliad, i, 457). See Cook. 

Bread formed i£ the staff of life” to the ancient He- 
brews even more than to ourselves; but the modes of 
preparing it have been noticed under other heads. See 
Bread; 31 ill. 

On a remarkable occasion a calf, tender and good, was 
taken, slain, dressed (roasted, most probably [Gen. xxvii, 
7 ; Exod. xii, 8, 9; Jiulg. vi, 19; 1 Sam. ii, 13]; boiling 
was not known till long afterwards), and set before the 
guests, while the entertainer (Abraham) respectfully 
stood at their side, doubtless to render any desirable 
service. The sauce or accompaniments on this occasion 
were butter and milk. From Gen. xix, 3 it may be in- 
ferred that the bread was unleavened. See Butter; 
31 ILK. 

The cases, however, to which reference has been made 
were of a special nature; and from them, as well as from 
what is recorded touching Isaac and Esau and Jacob, 
it appears that flesh meat was reserved as food for 
guests or as a dainty for the sick ; lentils, pulse, onions, 
grain, honey, and milk being the ordinary fare. See 
31 eat. 

The agreeable, and perhaps in part the salubrious, 
qualities of salt were very early known and recognised. 
In Lev. ii, 13, it is expressly enjoined, “ Every oblation 
of thy meat-offering shalt thou season with salt; with 
all thine offerings shalt thou offer salt.” See Salt. 

Locusts were a permitted (Lev. xi, 22) and a very 
common food. At the present day they are gathered 
by the Bedawin in the beginning of April, and, being 
roasted on plates of iron or dried in the sun, are kept in 
large bags, and, when needed, eaten, strewed with salt 
by handfuls. See Locust. 

Of four-footed animals and birds, the favorite food 
were sheep, goats, oxen, and doves. There are few 
traces of the eating of fish, at least in Palestine (Lev. xi, 
9 22; Numb, xi, 5). In the first passage a distinction 
is made between certain fish which might be eaten and 
others which were forbidden. u These shall ye eat of 
all that are in the waters: whatsoever hath fins and 
scales in the waters, in the seas, and in the rivers, them 
shall ye eat; and all that have not fins and scales, they 
shall he an abomination unto you.” See Cattle; Fish. 

The distinction of clean and unclean animals, and of 
animals which might and those which might not be 
eaten, is found to have existed to a great extent in 
ancient Egypt. See Spencer, Ley. Rif. i, 5; Danz, in 


VICTUALS 


776 


VICTUALS 


Meusehen. A r . T , Talm. p. 795; Maimonides, l)e Cilia 
Cetitia, ed. Wbldicke (Lips. 1751); Beinhardt, I>e Cilia 
//tbrteor. (Viteb. 1(597). The Mosaic laws which regu- 
lated the use of animal food may be found in Lev. xi 
and Dent. xiv. The grounds of many of these regula- 
tions may be ascertained with a greater or less degree 
of probability, provided the student is well acquainted 
with the mind and spirit of Hebrew antiquity. Con- 
siderations drawn from idolatrous usages, regard to 
health, the furtherance of agriculture, and established 
customs and tastes, had in each ease an influence in the 
promulgation of these laws. Sec Clean. 

2. In the earliest times water was the common drink. 
That wine of an intoxicating tendency was drunk at a 
very early period appears from what happened to Noah 
(Gen. ix. 20), who seems to have made as well as drunk 
wine. Bread and wine are spoken of in xiv, 18, as of- 
fered for refreshment to Abraham by Melchizedek, king 
of Salem. Water was sometimes put to the wine; at 
others a strong drink was made by mixing with the 
wine aromatic herbs (Psa. lxxv, 9; Isa. v, 22). or a de- 
coction derived from them; myrrh was used for this 
purpose. Date wine was in use, and probably the Egyp- 
tian or malt wine, ZT'S’of, oh'Oi ; Kp&ivoc (Herod, ii, 77). 
Jerome (Opp. iv, 301, cd. Boned.) says that “ drink call- 
ed sicera by the Hebrews (“I'i’) is every kind which 
can inebriate, or that which is made from grain, or of 
the juice of apples, or when the honey-comb is made 
(decoqnuntur) into a sweet and barbarous beverage, or 
the fruit of the palm expressed into a liquor, and when 


repast being taken before noon (Adam, Rom. A ntiq . p. 
577, ed. Major ; Potter, ii, G25 ; Chardin, iv; Jahn, i, 2). 
But from Gen. xliii, Id, 25, it appears to have been the 
custom to dine at noon in t lie days of the patriarchs. 
The same seems to have been the case in Palestine at a 
later period (1 Kings xx, Id; comp. Luke xi. 37; Acts 
x. 10). Convivialities, however, were postponed till 
evening, and sometimes protracted to the following 
morning (Isa. v, 11 ; Mark vi, 21 ; Luke xiv, 24). See 
Bangle r. The meal was preceded by washing of 
hands (Mark vii, 2; Luke xi, 38), which the inode of 
eating rendered necessary,. and bv an invocation of the 
divine blessing (1 6am. ix, 13), termed in Samuel 
and in Greek tvXayta €u\r/j 0 <<yria, blessing, giving of 
thanks (Luke ix. Id; John vi, 11). Similar customs 
prevailed among the Greeks and Bomans. Jahn ( Hill. 
A ntiq. p. d8) has given the short prayer, as preserved in 
the Talmud, which the Jew’s used, as follows: “ Blessed 
be thou, O Lord our God, king of the world, who hast 
produced this food (or this drink) from the earth (or the 
vine)” (Matt, xiv, 19; xv, 3d; xxvi,27). See Meal. 

4. The Hebrews, like the Greeks and Bomans in their 
earlier history, ate sitting (Gen. xxvii, 19; Judg. xix, d; 
1 Sam. xx, 25). A carpet w r as spread, on which the 
meal was partaken. At a later period, however, partic- 
ularly when Palestine came under the influence of Bo- 
man manners, the Jews reclined on cushions or couches 
(Esth. i, d; Amos vi, 4; Luke vii, 37; avtuXtBij, not 
‘’sat,” as in the common translation, but. “reclined”). 
See AcrruATiox. The custom of giving preference in 


water receives a color and a con- 
sistency from prepared herbs.” 

The common people (Mark xii, 37) 
drank an acrid sort of wine, which 
is rendered vinegar in our English 
version (Buth ii, 11; Matt, xxvii, 

48). The Orientals frequently 
l^ed wine in excess, so as to oc- 
casion intoxication, whence are 
drawn many striking figures in 
Holy Writ (Dent, xxxii, 42 ; Psa. 
lxxviii, d5; Isa. v, 11 ; xxviii, 1 ; 
xlix, 2d; .ler.viii.i l; ix,14; xvi, 

48). That indulgence in wine was 
practiced in very ancient days is 
manifest from there being in the 
court of Pharaoh, at the time of 
Joseph, state - officers who had 
charge of the wine, and served the 

point of seat or position to guests of high consideration 
appears, from 1 Sam. ix, 22, to have been of ancient date 
(Amos iii, 12), in the time of Christ (Luke xiv, 8) the 
Pharisees, always eager for distinction, coveted the place 
of honor at meals and feasts. Women were not admit- 
ted to eat with the men, but had their meals supplied 
in their own private apartment (Esth. i, 0 9). In Bab- 
ylon and Persia, however, females mingled with males 
on festive occasions (Dan. v, 2). In gtnrral the man- 
ner of eating was similar to w hat it is in the East at 
the present day. Special care was taken of favored 
persons (Gen. xliii, 54; 1 Sam. i, 4; ix, 22; John xiii, 
2d). Neither knives, forks, nor spoons were employed 
for eating. The food was conveyed from the dish to 
the mouth by the right hand. The parties sat with 
their legs bent under them round a dish placed in the 
centre, and either took the flesh meat with their lingers 
from the dish, or dipped hits of their bread into the sa- 
vory mess and conveyed them to their mouths. In 
Buth ii. 11. Boaz says to Buth, “ Dip thy morsel in the 
vinegar,” w hich explains the language of our Lord, in 
John xiii, 2d, “ lie it is to whom I shall give a sop when 
I have dipped it.” This presenting of food to a person 
is still customary, and was designed originally as a mark 
of distinction, the choice morsels being selected by rbe 
head of the family for the purpose. Drink was handed 
to each one of the guests in cups or goblets, and, at a 


monarch w ith it when he drank (Gen. xl, 1, 1 1 ; comp. 1 
Kings x, 5 ; 2 Chron. ix, 4 ; Neh. i, 1 1). Sec Wine. 

For drinking-vessels there were used the cup and the ! 
howl (Exod, xxv, 33; Numb, vii, 15, 84; Jer. x.xxv, 5; | 
Amos vi, (>). The cup w\as generally of brass covered 
with tin, in form resembling a lily, sometimes circular. 
It is still used by travellers, and may be seen in both 
shapes on the ruins of Perscpolis (1 Kings vii, 2d). The 
howl (Exod. xxv, 33) assumed a variety of shapes, and 
hears many names. Some of these “chargers” appear, 
from the presents made by the princes of Israel (Numb, 
vii), to have been of large size and great splendor; some j 
were silver, some gold (1 Kings x, 21). See Ct’i*, etc. 

3. In Eastern climes the chief meal, or w hat we term 
dinner, is, in consequence of the heat of the middle pe- 
riod of the day, deferred till towards evening, a slight 






Ancients Beclining at Table. 


VICI7S 


777 


VIENNA 


very ancient period, in a separate cup to each person. 
Hence the word cup is used as equivalent to what we 
term a man’s lot or destiny (Psa. xi, 0; lxxv, 8; Isa. li, 
22; Matt, xxvi, 39). — Kitto. See Diet; Eating; 
Foot>; Sur. 

Vicus, Henuicus, a Roman Catholic theologian 
and philosopher, was born in 1536 at Valenciennes, and 
died in 1596 at Armentiers, in Flanders. lie wrote, 
De Christ ia nor inn Sacramento rum Xatura , Ojjiciis , et 
Xumero: — De Descensu Christi ad Inferos: — De Com- 
munione Sanctorum , etc. See Swertii A thence Belyicce ; 
Andreie Bibliotheca Belyica ; J ocher, A llyemeines Ge- 
lehrten- Lexicon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Vida, Marco Girolamo, an Italian poet and priest 
of the Roman Church, was born at Cremona about 1485. 
lie studied at Padua and Bologna, and joined the Order 
of the Canons of St. Mark at Mantua, lie afterwards 
became canon of St. .John Lateran at Rome, and prior 
of San Silvestro at Frascati, and in 1532 bishop of Alba. 
He was a learned scholar, and one of the best Latin 
poets of his day. lie wrote in Italian as well as in 
Latin. Among his works are, a metrical treatise De 
A rte Poetica (Rome, 1527): — Christ ins: — and Scare kite 
Lucius . All of these have been translated into English. 
Vida died at Alba, Sept. 27, 1566. 

Vidal, Diego (called the Elder'), a Spanish painter, 
was born at Valmaseda in 1583. lie is said to have 
studied at Rome, and acquired some reputation as an 
artist. lie was a prebendary of the Cathedral of Sev- 
ille, and painted there a naked fVirist, and the Virgin 
with the infant in her Arms . His drawings are also 
spoken of in terms of commendation. lie died at Sev- 
ille. in 1615. See Spooner, Bioy. Hist, of the Fine Arts, 
s. v. 

Vidal (r>E Liendo), Diego (called the Yonnyer ), a 
Spanish painter, nephew of Diego the elder, was born 
at Valmaseda in 1602. lie studied theology and paint- 
ing at Rome, and was canon of the Cathedral of Seville. 
There are some of his works in the sacristy of the Ca- 
thedral of Valencia, which evince considerable skill. 
He died at Seville in 1648. See Spooner, Bioy. Hist, 
of the Fine .1 rts, s. v. 

Vidal, Dionisio, a Spanish painter, was born at 
Valencia about 1670. lie studied under Antonio Palo- 
mino, to whom he gave assistance in several cities. He 
returned to Valencia and was employed to paint the 
ceiling of the Church of St. Nicolas, from the designs 
of Palomino. lie also executed some works of his own 
composition in fresco for various churches. He died at 
Tortosa, while painting the Chapel of the Virgin of the 
Girdle, but the time is not known. See Spooner, Bioy. 
lUst. of the Fine A rts , s. v. 

Vidam (Lat. vice do mini [q. v]), was, 1. The bish- 
op’s steward in the administration of the Church reve- 
nues, as rhe viscount represented the count. At Rheims 
and Chartres the vidams raised their office into a fief. 
2. The provost or bailiff of the capitular rents, as at Lin- 
coln, Cambrai, Rouen, etc. 3. The term is also applied 
to the heirs of founders of religious houses who had cer- 
tain rights over their estates and attached churches. — 
Walcott, Sac. Arc/neol. s. v. 

Vidas, Elias de, ben- Moses, a Jewish writer of the 
16th century, a pupil of Moses of Cordova, or Cor- 
dovero (q. v.\ is the author of the work on ethics en- 
titled iTCin riTJX"', the beyinniny of wisdom, in five 
parts, of which the first, called nN"H.n treats of 

the fear of God, in fifteen chapters; the second, 
rrunxn, of the love of God, in twelve chapters: the 
third, renmn, with seven chapters, treats of repent- 
ance; the fourth, fTi'npn "\VZ2, with seventeen chap- 
ters, of holiness; while the fifth, m:rn ir'i?, treats 
of humility. Resides some excerpts from and eompends 
of Vidas’s work, the part which treats of repentance has 


been translated into Latin by J. Morin, in his Common - 
tarius de Sacramento Pcemtentup. (Paris, s. a.), and by 
David de Lara into Spanish (Leyden, 1666), who also 
translated the first part, treating of the fear of God 
(Amst. 1633). See F first, Bill. And. iii, 477 sq. ; Do’ 
Rossi, Diziouario Storico (Germ, tnuisl.), p.328. (R. P.) 

Vidua (the widow), a Latin surname of di no. 

Viduae (widows), a term applied to the deaconesses 
of the ancient Church, by Tertullian and others, be- 
cause they were commonly chosen from among the 
willows, and the office was called ch hiatus. Even some 
of the ancient laws required them to be widows, prescrib- 
ing minutely their qualifications in this regard. See 
Bingham, Christ. Antic/, bk. ii, ch. xxii. See Widows. 

Vidiius, in Roman mythology, is the family name 
of the mother of the Fabians in Rome. She is said to 
have been a daughter of Evandcr, the most ancient king 
of Italy, loved by Hercules, through whom she became 
mother of Fabius, the progenitor of the family. 

Vieil, Pierre le, an eminent French painter on 
glass, was born in Paris in 1708. In 1734 be executed 
several excellent works for the Church of St. Etienne du 
Mont, in Paris; and afterwards restored the glass-paint- 
ings in the Cathedral of Notre Dame. He also exe- 
cuted, among other works, the paintings in the Church 
of St. Victor, lie spent fifteen years in preparing ma- 
terials Ibr a work on the art of glass-painting, entitled 
Trait e 11 istorique et Pratique de la Print u re stir Yerre. 
lie also wrote, Essai stir la Print u re en Mosaiqne. lie 
died in 1772. See Spooner, Bioy. Hist, of the Fine A rts. 
s. v. 

Vieira (Vieyra), Antonio, a Portuguese mis- 
sionary, was born in Lisbon, Fell* 6, 1608. of a good fam- 
ily. He was brought up by the Jesuits at Bahia, in 
Brazil, and in 1625 entered their order, lie prepared 
himself by diligent study for evangelical labor among 
the surrounding Indians and negroes, and in 1641 went, 
to Portugal as companion to the viceroy’s son; but on 
their arrival they were mistaken for Spanish emissaries, 
and Vieira was cast into prison. He was soon released, 
however, and preached at the court with such eloquence 
that Juan IV made him his preacher, and engaged him 
in diplomacy at Paris and the Hague. In 1647 he went, 
also to London, and in 1650 to Rome. In 1652 he re- 
turned to Brazil in execution of his cherished schemes, 
hut was unsuccessful in his efforts to rescue the natives 
of Brazil from slavery. He returned again to Portugal 
for further authority, but, after six more years of inde- 
fatigable labor in Brazil, be was finally sent home to 
Lisbon (1661) as a criminal. After various fortunes at 
home and abroad, si ill laboring for religions purposes, 
be died at Bahia, July 18, 1697, the acknowledged head 
of the Jesuitical order in Brazil. He left a number of 
historical and other works, for which see Hoefer, Four. 
Bioy. Generate, s. v. 

Vieira, Sebastiano, a Portuguese missionary, 
was born at Castro Daire (diocese of Lamego) in 1570. 
At the age of sixteen he entered the Order of St. Ignatius, 
and prepared himself for evangelical labor in the East. 
Indies. In 1602 he arrived in Japan, and spent several 
years there; thence he wenr to Manilla, and again to 
Japan, gathering converts continually. Being sent for 
by the home authorities to report at. Rome, he was con- 
demned as a traitor by the Japanese, and on bis return 
was seized, commanded to renounce his faith, and on 
refusal was cruelly martyred, June 6, 1634, See Bio- 
yraphie Universelle, s. v. 

Viel, De. See Dir veil. 

Vienna, Council of (Concilium Vindobonense), was 
held May 10, 1267, bv Guy, cardinal-legate. A consti- 
tution in nineteen articles was published, very similar 
to that drawn up in the Council of Cologne in the year 
preceding. 

By cauou 3, clerks having wives or coucubiues were or- 


TIGER 


11 8 


VIENNE 

dered to (separate from them withiu a month, under paiu 
of beiii£ deprived. 

6. All pluralities were forbidden. 

14. Forbid ;» abbots to consecrate chalices, patens, or any 
ecclesiastical vessel or vestment. 

The last tlve relate to the Jews. 

♦See Mansi, Cone it. xi, 858. 

Vienne, Councils ok ( Concilium apud Vienna m A l- 
lohroynm , or ) iennense)* Vienne is a city of Dauphiue, 
France, where numerous Church councils were held. 

i. The lirst of which mention is made was held A.D. 
174. Of its transactions nothing is known beyond the 
fact that it sanctioned the solemn observance of the 
three davs preceding Ascension-day, which bishop Ma- 
il lercus of Vienne had ordered. 

II. Held A.L). 870, simply confirmed the privileges 
bestowed upon a monastery. 

III. Held A.D. 802, by order of pope Formosus, whose 
two legates, Pascal and John, presided. Several bish- 
ops were present, and four canons were published. 

1, 2. Excommunicate those who seize the property of 
the Church, or maltreat, clerks. 

4. Forbids laymen to present to churches without the 
consent of the bishop of the diocese; also forbids them to 
take any present from those whoui they present. 

See Mansi, Concil. ?x, 433. 

IV. Held A.D. 907 ; was convoked by archbishop Al- 
exander of Vienne, and settled a dispute between abbots 
Aribert and Barnard respecting the income receipts of 
monasteries. 

V. Held A.D. 1112 by archbishop Guido; excommu- 
nicated emperor Henry V because he claimed the right 
of episcopal investiture, and revoked the treaty of 111 1 
which conferred such right upon the crown. 

VI. Held A.D. 1119; was called by pope Gelasins II, 
who had again excommunicated llenrv V, on the occa- 
sion of his setting up an antipope in the person of Greg- 
ory Mil; but nothing whatever concerning the trans- 
actions of this synod is known. 

VII. Held A.i). 1124; was incited by pope Calixlus II, 
and called by archbishop Peter of Vienne; legislated 
with reference to the securing of ecclesiastical privileges 
and possessions. 

VI II. Held A.D. 1142; was chiefly concerned with 
the election of a new bishop. 

IX. Held A.I). 1134, at which archbishop Reginald 
of Cologne vainly endeavored to secure a recognition 
of Paschal III, whom the emperor Frederick had en- 
dorsed. 

X. Held A.D. 1199, by the cardinal-legate Peter of 
Capua, for the purpose of promulgating the decree of 
pope Innocent 111, which punished the king, Philip Au- 
gustus, with excommunication on account of his renun- 
ciation of Inneburgis, his lawful consort, and his subse- 
quent marriage with Agnes of Meran. See Mansi, Con- 
di. xi, 1 1. 

XI. Held A.D. 1289; is barely mentioned in the rec- 
ords, and some authorities deny that it. was held. 

Xil. Held A.D. 131 1 ; known as the fifteenth eeeumen- 
ical council, and the only one of the series to which at- 
taches any considerable importance. It was originally 
ordered, by a papal bull of 1308, to meet Oct. 1. 1310, lmt 
was subsequently postponed for one year. The council 
finally convened, under the presidency of pope Clement 
V. on Oct. 13, 1311. The number of prelates present 
is fixed by some at 114, and by others at 300. including 
the patriarchs of the Latin Rite of Alexandria and An- 
tioch. It discussed methods for preserving the purity 
of the faith, which was impaired by the heretical influ- 
ence oF.lolm of Oliva, and of the Fratricelli, Doleinists, 
Heghards, and Begnins; also the aid to he afforded the 
Holy Land; the reform of ecclesiastical discipline; and 
especially the disposition to be made of the Order of 
Knights Templars. The decisions abrogated the Order 
of Templars: declared the legit imacy of the late pope 
Boniface VI II. and his freedom from the crimes charged 
against him: conceded tithes for six years to the kings 
of France, Kugland, and Navarre, in order that they 


might organize a crusade; and regulated the govern- 
ment of the begging friars and similar matters. Most 
of the decrees which have to do with matters of doc- 
trine and discipline are contained in the so-called Cle- 
mentines (q. v.), and were first promulgated by pope 
John XXII. See also Laitdou, Manual of Councils, s. v. 

Xlll. Held A.D. 1557 ; determined several questions 
of Church discipline; discussed the use of sermons as a 
means of instructing the people; forbade t lie admission 
of strangers to the pulpits; demanded the rendition of 
heretics, and prohibited merry-makings on least-days 
and association with suspected persons; gave directions 
respecting the tonsure and garb of priests; denied to 
monks and nuns the privilege of leaving their convents, 
etc. See Martene, Thesuur . Novus Anecdot. (Lutet. Par. 
1717), iv, 443 sq. 

Sources. — Harduin, A eta Concil.et Epistol. Decretales 
ac Constitute Summorum Pontifcum (Paris, 1714); Man- 
si. Sacrornm Concilionnn Nova et A mplissima Collectio 
(Venet. 1773); Tract. Illustr . Jnrisconsultorvm (ibid. 
1584), XIII, i, 159 sq., where is given Dnrandus, Tracta - 
tus de Modo Celebrandi Gen . Concilii. — Herzog, Real- 
Encyldop. s. v. 

Vieu, Joseph Marie, an eminent French painter, 
and the regenerator of art in France, was born at Mont- 
pellier, June 18, 1713. His enthusiasm for art led him 
to study, against the wishes of his parents, under sev- 
eral masters, among whom were Rivalz of Toulouse, 
and C. Natoire at Paris, where he went in 1740. In 
1743 he gained the prize of the Royal Academy by his 
picture of the Plague, of the Israelites in the Time of 
David. In 1744 he went to Rome, where he spent 
some years in studying the masters and designing from 
the antique, and painted numerous pictures, including 
many altar-pieces of great merit, such as the Slaughter 
of the Innocents, and two pictures now in the Louvre; 
a Sleeping Hermit , and St. Germain and St. Vincent 
Receiving the Cream of Glorg from the Hands of an 
4 jiget. lie returned to Paris in 1750, and was chosen 
a member of the Academy in 1754. While at Paris he 
painted numerous pictures, and labored with excellent 
success to restore in French art the study of the antique 
and of nature as represented in the Italian masters. He 
completed his picture of St. Denis Preaching to the Gauls 
in 1775, when he was decorated with the Order of St. 
Michael, and appointed director of the French Academy 
at Rome, where lie resided until 1781, and was also 
elected a member of the Academy of St. Luke. After 
returning to Paris he was chosen one of the rectors and 
director of the Royal Academy, and in 1789 principal 
painter to the king. At the time of the Revolution 
came a change in his relations to t lie government, but 
Napoleon made him a member of the Senate, a count 
of the empire, and a commander of t lie Legion of Hon- 
or. He died in Paris, March 27, 1809, and was buried 
in the Pantheon. Vieifs subjects are taken chiefly 
from the Scriptures, ancient and modern history, and 
Greek mythology. Among the most celebrated works 
of this artist t he following deserve mention here; St. 
Jerome : — the Embarkation of St. Martha : — Christ 
Breaking Bread: — the Resurrection of Lazarus: — the 
Virgin Attended bg Angels: — and St. Gregory. See 
Spooner, Biog. Hist . of the Fine Arts , s. v. 

Vieux, Rknaud ee. a French historical painter, 
flourished in the latter part of the 17th century. He 
visited Rome for study, and when he returned to France 
produced many works of considerable merit, lfe paint- 
ed several pictures for the Church of the Penitents 
at Avignon from subjects in the history of John the 
Baptist. Two of these were taken to Paris in 1793, 
two are in the Gallery of Nismes, and the rest are at 
Avignon. See Spooner, Biog. Hist . of the Fine A rts , s. v. 

Viger, Francis, a French Jesuit, was horn in 1591 
at Rouen, and was professor of elocution at Paris, where 
he died Dec. 15, 1347. lie edited Fnscbii Frangel. 
Prcpparat in Greek and Latin, accompanied with notes 


VIGERUS 


1 79 


VIGILIUS 


(Paris, 1628). See Alegambe, Bibliotheca Scripforum 
Societatis Jem; Witte, Dutrium Biographicum ; Jb- 
cher, A llgemeines Geleh rtcn- Lexicon, s. v. ; Winer, lland- 
buch der theol. Lit era fur, i, 892. (II. P.) 

Vigerus, Marcus, a Ligurian Dominican, a pro- 
fessor of theology at Padua and Pome, and a cardinal, 
was born in 1440. He wrote various treatises respecting 
the death of Christ, which were printed in two volumes 
at Douay in 1007. He died in 1516. See Mosheim, 

1 list, of the Church , bk. iii, cent, xv, pt. ii, oh. ii. 

Vigier, Geralu, a French hagiographer, who died 
in 1037. lie wrote a I list oi re des Bauds Protecteurs 
d' Auvergne (Paris, 1535, 8 vo) : — and La Monarchic de 
France (ibid. 1070-72; Clermont, 1077,2 vols. fol.). 

Vigil of Lights, an old English term to designate 
Candlemas-eve (Feb. 1). 

Vigilantins, a presbyter of the early part of the 
5t.h century, belongs to the number of isolated testes 
reritatis who rose in opposition to the errors of the 
Church with respect to worship and morals, which were 
becoming increasingly notorious with the advancing 
years of the 4th century. He was a native of Cala- 
gurris, now Casere, in the county of Commenges {Con- 
vennie). His Gallic extraction is indisputably proven, 
despite the fact that some authorities have been misled 
into stating that he was of Spanish family, lie was 
brought up to follow the business of inn-keeping ; but 
in 395 (?) visited Paulinus of Xola (q. v.), and immedi- 
ately afterwards was ordained presbyter. Peeom mend- 
ed to Jerome by Paulinus, he travelled into the East 
and visited Jerusalem in 396, meeting with a friendly 
reception at the hands of Jerome, but making no favor- 
able impression upon his heart. Jerome had two es- 
pecially tender spots in his character — the one an inor- 
dinate vanity because of his learning, and the other an 
exalted opinion of his own orthodoxy; and Vigilantins 
managed to fret them both, lie was not possessed of 
learned culture, though Gennadius credits him with be- 
ing lingua politus ; and yet he laid claim to the literary 
character; and, with the practical disposition of a West- 
ern mind, he objected to the speculative dogmatics of 
Origen, upon whose study Jerome was at that rime em- 
ployed, and even raised suspicions against the sound- 
ness of Jerome’s personal views. Jerome at first at- 
tempted to prove the correctness of his creed; but 
Vigilantins, having refused to avail himself of the 
scholar’s hospitality and departed from Jerusalem, felt 
himself bound by no restraints, and issued an epistle 
condemnatory of Jerome’s Origenism (see Ilieron. Kp. 
cix, 2, inter A drive Fluctus Cottiiqne Ilegis Alpes). in re- 
sponse to which the irascible saint compared him to 
Judas and termed him an ass. Either just before, or 
immediately subsequent to, the sojourn at Jerusalem, 
Vigilantins went to Egypt, but the exact time is not 
determined ; and a similar uncertainty surrounds the 
place of his residence on his return to the West. The 
letters of Jerome appear to compel the conclusion that 
his opponent was settled in Gaul, while Gennadius 
makes him to have charge of a parish in Barcelona. 
We incline to believe the former the only settlement of 
the question which ean be successfully defended. Eight 
years after the departure of Vigilantins from Jerusalem, 
a presbyter named Kiparius notified Jerome that his 
adversary was teaching very questionable doctrine* 
and disturbing the entire (Gallic ?) Church with the 
promulgation of his views. He thereupon renewed his 
attacks upon Vigilantins (Fp. contra Vig. 18), but, much 
to the surprise of himself and other students of the sit- 
uation, without giving wider dimensions to the quarrel; 
for Vigilantins was certainly supported by many of the 
lower clergy and of the laity, and was even protected 
by bishops. No answer was made to Jerome’s abusive 
epistle, and Vigilantins thenceforward drops out of view, 
either beeause he soon afterwards died, or because the 
barbarian invasions of Gaul erowded the paper quarrels 
of incensed churchmen out of sight. 


The views which stirred the soul of Jerome lo wrath 
are not preserved to us in sufficient fulness to furnish a 
connected system. The primary object of attack by 
Vigilantius was the veneration of martyrs and of relics. 

1 le doubted the genuineness of the relics, and condemned 
the bearing about of dead men’s bones enswathed in 
costly wrappings. He also considered the invocation 
of martyrs as a deifying of the creature and a step back- 
ward into heathenism, and insisted that it implies the 
doctrine of their omnipresence, and that their intercession 
cannot l3e safely relied upon, since their prayers in their 
own behalf were not always answered, lie held that 
the miraculous power with which relics were supposed 
to be endowed had not extended further than to the 
close of the distinctively missionary period of the Church. 
The burning of daylight candles in the basilicas was 
rejected by him on the ground that the martyrs, in 
whose honor the basilicas were erected, were rejoicing 
in the light of the Lamb on the throne, and had no 
need of such illuminations. The celebration of vigils 
(q. v.) and martyrs’ feasts was denounced as involving 
danger to public morals; but he violated consistency in 
consenting that vigils might be kept in connection 
with the Easter festival. 

In the field of morals, Vigilantius draws still nearer 
to the evangelical position, particularly upon the ques- 
tion of the celibacy of the priesthood, which he con- 
demned, as he did monasticism, with its voluntary vows 
of poverty and solitude. He reasoned that it is better 
to contribute regularly to the relief of the poor than to 
alienate possessions by a single act, and that to flee 
from the world is not to conquer it. He was especially 
outspoken in criticisms of the fanatical monks of the 
East, whose fantastic eccentricities he had himself ob- 
served. He furthermore opposed the donations of mon- 
ey which it was customary to send to Jerusalem — a 
measure which Jerome might almost regard as a direct 
attack upon himself. In all these arguments, Vigilan- 
tius evidently holds that there is no distinction of mo- 
rality into higher and lower classes, but that the de- 
mands of virtue are equally binding upon all men. lie 
was not the equal of Jovinian (q. v.) in speculative abil- 
ity, but. merely a clear-headed exponent of the instinct 
of an earnest piety which lived in his soul. lie w’as 
pious rather than philosophical; and he was, moreover, 
not deeply learned in the Scriptures. His work -was 
not of lasting consequence, probably because he lacked 
the reformatory spirit which alone is competent to re- 
sist the perverse tendencies of a degenerating age. See 
Jerome, Fpp. and De Viris IHnstribns. with the contin- 
uation of Gennadius (q. v.) ; Paulinus of Nola, Fp. ad 
Sever urn, v, 1 L (Aug. Fpp. 24, 4); Vogel, De Vigilantio 
Iheretico Orthodoxo ( Erfurt, 1756), in Walch, Ketzergesch. 
iii, 673-704. The latter gives, in addition, citations from 
other and earlier writers. See also Baur, Die christl. 
Kirche vom 4. bis zum 6. J uhrhundert , p. 317 sq. ; and 
Lindner, De Jo vino mo et Vigilantio , etc. (Lips. 1840); 
Herzog, Real-Fncyklop. s. v. 

Vigiliae Mortuorum (literally, watches for the 
dead ) is a term for watching by turn, with prayers and 
intercessions, beside the body of a departed Christian 
after death and before burial. 

Vigilius, pope, was bishop of Rome from 540 (536?) 
to 555, and is remarkable from his connection with the 
controversy of the Three Chapters. He was a native 
of Rome, and, in the capacity of deacon, accompanied 
Agapetus (q. v.) to Constantinople in 536, where he em- 
ployed the opportunity afforded by his introduction to 
the imperial court for the realization of ambitious plans 
which neither his theologieal culture nor his character 
for intelligence and spirituality justified. The empress 
j Theodora marked him as a suitable instrument for the 
accomplishment of her ends, and, on the death of Aga- 
petus, caused him to be informed that the succession 
might be secured to him for the price of his support to 
the Monophysite party. This he promised to give. On 


VIGILIUS 


780 


VIGILIUS 


his rot urn to Italy, however, he found the see of Home al- 
ready occupied by Silverius, (lie son of bishop llorntis- 
das, and he accordingly applied to llelisarius, the com- 
mander of the imperial armies, who was then at liaven- 
na, to briii" about the fulfilment of the promise made bv 
the empress: and with the influence of Antonina, the 
wife of llelisarius. and, it is charged, of added pecuniary 
inducements, his object was accomplished. Once in the 
chair, however, he was not very forward to perform his 
part of the agreement, lie wrote, indeed, to the deposed 
Monophvsite patriarchs of the East to declare his sym- 
pathy with their views, but he ret] nested that the con- 
tents of his letter should not be made public, and there- 
by sought to deprive the cause of the empress of what- 
ever aid his influence might afford. 

I’he emperur Justinian entertained the hope of bring- 
ing about an agreement between the contending parties 
in the Church, and was induced to issue an edict in 5f)l 
condemning the so-called Three Chapters (q. v.), which, 
it was said, would remove all the Monophvsite objec- 
tions against the Ohalccdonian decrees; but the edict 
encountered serious opposition everywhere. Even Men- 
nas, the patriarch of Constantinople, was unwilling to 
subscribe to it; the African Church protested against 
its enforcement; and Vigilius dared not oppose himself 
to the fierceness of the storm raised throughout the 
West by the imperial condemnation of its own peculiar 
tenets, lie was accordingly summoned to Constanti- 
nople, and readied the court in 517, bearing with him 
the spoken protests of every community he had touched 
while on the way; but the atmosphere of the court 
wrought, a speedy change in his attitude, and he return- 
ed to his old plan of conciliating the court, but conceal- 
ing bis treachery from the world. He was. however, 
compelled to take an open stand, and therefore tried 10 
shelter himself behind the authority of a synod whose 
convocation he advised; and when the Africans, led by 
Faeundus (q. v.\ were found to possess a majority of 
votes, he practically dissolved the synod by requiring 
the bishops to submit written opinions within a limited 
period. It thus became possible to influence them sep- 
arately and to bring a majority of them into accord with 
the wishes of the emperor; and their opinion, accom- 
panied with his own decision (Judicata m), was imme- 
diately transmitted to the court to prevent any retrac- 
tion. The orthodox opposition immediately broke out 
afresh. Faeundus of Hermiatie was again its leader, 
but it included also persons belonging to the immediate 
train of Vigilius, such as the deacons liusticus and Se- 
bastian. whom he was thus induced to depose and ex- 
communicate. In his alarm at the storm his measures 
had excited, he thought only of averting its shock from 
his own person, lie managed to recover possession 
of hi* jadieatnai. He vowed the condemnation of the 
Three Chapters, and thereby induced the emperor to 
convoke a council, of which he hoped that it would re- 
lieve him of the burden of responsibility under which 
he staggered. When the council came together, how- 
ever, it refused to accede to the desires of the emperor; 
and when the latter sought to compel its obedience, 

\ igilius renounced all ecclesiastical connection with the 
East ami took refuge in flight. He subscquentlv pub- 
lished an encyclical describing his troubles, ami followed 
i liis with the excommunication of Theodore Ascidas, 
the Monophvsite bishop of Ciesarea, who had been a 
prime instigator of the emperor’s action; and the em- 
peror saw himself constrained to convoke a general 
council. It met in bail, and was whollv subservient to 
the emperor. Vigilius refused to participate in its pro- 
ceedings, and sent, instead, a judgment, the so-called 
Constitution, protesting against the condemnation of the 
Three Chapters . The opposition thereupon published 
all the documents in which Vigilius had previously com- 
promised himself in order to obtain favor with the em- 
peror, and ordered the erasure of his name from the 
Diptychs. He was also, it is said, banished; and at auv 
rate made to feel the anger of Justinian in a measure 


1 which induced him to purchase its cessation at the cost 
| of a retraction, in which he approved of the decisions 
of the late council and the condemnation of the Three 
Chapters. He died, however, in 555, before be could 
resume his throne. See Auastasius, Lib. Pontifical., in 
Mansi, vol. ix; Liberatus, Breriarium ; Victor of Tun- 
nuiiuui, Chronicon; Faeundus of llermiane. Pro Defen - 
stone Triuni Capit., and Adc. Mocianmn. all to be found 
in (iallandi Bibl. vol. xi sip See also Waleh. Ketzer- 
yesch. vol. viii ; Neandcr. Kirchenyesch, vol. iii, etc.; 
Herzog, Rea l- Kneyklop. s. v. 

Vigilius the Deacon, mentioned in Gennadius. 
De 1 'iris Jllustribus , No. 51. was doubtless resident in 
Haul, and lived in the second or third decade ofthe 5th 
century. A monastic rule, based upon traditions and 
read in the conventual assemblages, is mentioned as his 
only literary production, llolsten has published such a 
rule, based substantially on Pachomius, in the Codex 
Reyularum, i (Migne, Patrol. 50, p. 370-3*0). Vigilius 
must accordingly be regarded as one of the promoters 
of monastieism upon the basis of the experiences obtain- 
ed by the Oriental Church, of which that age fiirni-hed 
so many. See Cave, Script. Rccles. Hist. Lit. aim. 402: 
Herzog, Real- Kneyklop. s. v. 

Vigilius of Tiiapsus, in the African province of 
llyzacene. His name stands last on a list of bishops 
who attended a conference at Carthage called by the 
Vandal Hunnorie. in A.D. 484, to bring to a conclusion 
the quarrel between the dominant Arian and the op- 
pressed orthodox parties in the Church. A later report 
of his banishment to Constantinople, though not authen- 
ticated, is yet credible because a similar late was expe- 
rienced by his colleagues, and his works justify the e< n- 
clusion that he sojourned in that citv. He was an im- 
portant character among the theological writers of his 
day, possessing a logical, simple, perspicuous style, and 
considerable dialectical skill, and producing a series of 
polemical works which were directed against theArians 
and other heretics. His foremost work was Five Books 
against Eutyches , and it was also the only work he 
gave to the public over his own name — a circumstance 
which led tradition to ascribe it to bishop Vigilius 
of Trent, who was more generally known. Several 
pseudonymous works from the pen of Vigilius of Thap- 
sus were also attributed to other authors in the uncriti- 
cal period of the world; e. g. several controversial dis- 
cussions between Athanasius, Photinus, Sabellius, and 
Ariiis were credited to Athanasius. The standpoint «>f 
Vigilius was that of Chalcedonian orthodoxy, lie holds 
to a distinction of persons and a unity of essence in the 
Trinity, and to a unity of person and a diversity of nat- 
ures in the person of Christ: but he does not even 
imagine that any difficulty is connected with the recep- 
tion of such divergent doctrines, and seems utterly un- 
able to discover any occasion whatever for the rise of 
heretical opinions. The importance of his work is con- 
sequently only relative, as it dealt with the particular 
heresies antagonized in a polemical or apologetieal 
way. He was a dialectician rather than a theolo- 
gian, and his works, if measured by the standards of 
a productive age, have no considerable value, while, if 
they be regarded as designed merely to combine and 
recapitulate the matter furnished by earlier thinkers, 
their value cannot be denied. Editions of the works 
of Vigilius are by Chi Diet ins (Dijon, 1(>I>4) and Chur- 
rcrus (Tiib. 15*28). The books against Eutyches, and 
the disputations with Arius, and with Arius and Sabol- 
ii us. together with twelve (doubtful) books De Trinit ate , 
are given in the Max. Bibl. Patnnn, vol. viii ; and the 
controverted books against Marivad, against Palladios, 
the De Unitate Trinit at is (which is generally ascribed 
to Augustine, but possibly belongs to Vigilius). are in 
vol. iv ofthe same collection. See Tillcnmnt, St. Kuyem, 
arts. li. Iii ; id. Me moires, vol. xvi ; Cave, Script. Cedes. 
Hist, Lit. i, 458 ; 1 lerzog, Real- Kneyklop. s. v. 

Vigilius of Tkknt, bishop, is mentioned by Gen- 


* 


VIGILS 


731 


VIGNOLES 


na<li us in De Yiris Illnstribus , No. 37. as the writer of 
an article “ In Lamlem Martvrum,” addressed to a certain 
Simplicianus, who can only have been the successor of 
Ambrose in the see of Milan. This assigns him to tlie 
4th or 5th century, and proves conclusively that he 
could not have written the books against Eutyches. 
See Vigilius of Tiiapsus. He lived probably not 
later than the reign of Ilonorius. for in his day the 
heathen party was still able to inflict gross indignities 
upon Christians. In Usuard, A eta, under June 26, it is 
stated that Vigilins studied at Athens and was com- 
pelled bv the populace to become bishop of Trent. Af- 
ter a zealous administration of his office, he was stoned 
to death in a distant part of his diocese because he bad 
caused a statue of Saturn to be destroyed. Stilieho was 
consul at the time, which fixes the date in A.D. 400 or 
405. The letters of Vigilins to Simplieian and Chrys- 
ostom are given in Ruinart, under May ‘29. Their su- 
perscription indicates that the missionary field of Vi- 
giliuswas dependent on Milan as the Western metropo- 
lis of that day, and affords ground for the conclusion that 
lie went out from Milan when he entered on that work; 
and the thought is not far to reach that, a Church which 
could prosecute missionary labor on its own account was 
itself an independent Church. See Baronius, Annales, 
aim. 400, Nos. 2-18; Tillcmont, Memo ires, xi; Herzog, 
Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Vigils (rigilice, pernoetationos, 7ravrv\i^g) is the 
term by which are designated in the Kornish Church 
the ceremonies of preparation for the observance of one 
of the great feasts. It originally designated merely the 
nocturnal religious services of the early Christians in 
times of persecution, hut afterwards was applied to the 
services instituted to enforce the idea that the Chris- 
tian ought to be watchful unto prayer even in the night- 
seasons. and assigned to the night preceding the recur- 
rence of a notable feast of the Church. The vigils of 
Easier and Pentecost were regarded as especially holj r 
in the 2d century, and with the former were connect- 
ed the holding of the agapee, or love-feasts, and the cel- 
ebration of the Lord’s supper, while with the latter was 
associated the sacrament of baptism. Only the faith- 
ful were allowed to participate in the vigils of those 
feasts. In the 4th and 5th centuries the Easter vigils 
were generally chosen for the administration of either 
sacrament and for the conferring of orders; and those 
of Pentecost and Christmas held a subordinate place, 
baptism not being administered in connection with the 
latter. In the 12th century vigils were first held in 
honor of the Virgin Mary. 

The celebration of vigils became very splendid after 
the 4th century, but also corrupted with many impro- 
prieties, insomuch that women were prohibited from en- 
gaging in it. Much opposition against their obser- 
vance was aroused in consequence, their most promi- 
nent assailant being Vigilantius (q. v.). The convents 
were the principal agencies for perpetuating the insti- 
tution of the vigils, but the churches gradually abol- 
ished it as a night service, and transformed the services 
into a fast. This gave rise to the Saturday fast. Vigils 
were afterwards observed in the forenoon of the day 
preceding a feast, and were generally adopted. At the 
present time an occasional midnight mass is celebrated 
at Christmas, and a vigil is observed on the evening be- 
fore Easter, in addition to the forenoon vigil. Vigils 
precede the feasts of the Annunciation and Purifying 
of the Virgin, Christmas, Epiphany, Easter, Ascension 
Day, Pentecost, and the days of John the Baptist. All- 
saints’, and the apostles Matthew, Peter, Jude, James, 
Simon, Thomas, and Andrew. Some vigils are privi- 
leged, i. e. have a special service. If connected with a 
second or third grade feast, the officium is celebrated and 
the vigil observed in the lumles and the mass. If two 
priests officiate, one reads the mass for the feast after 
the tertia , the other that, for the vigils after the nona. 
Non - privileged vigils simply commemorate the vigil. 
An occasional vigil is observed in the Protestant 


churches, e. g. the Moravians on Good Friday and 
Easter. See August i, I rchdologie ; Herzog, Real- En- 
cyklop. s. v. ; and the monographs cited by Volbeding, 
Index Programmatinn, p. 115, 121. 

Vignali, Jacopo, an Italian painter, was born at 
Florence in 1592. lie was a disciple of Matteo Kossel- 
li. lie is most conspicuous in his frescos, as seen in 
the Chapel of Buonarotti. He also painted good his- 
torical pictures in the. palaces of many of the nobility, 
and even boasts of noble pupils, lie died at Florence 
in 1664. See Spooner, Blog. /list, of the Fine Arts, s. v. 

Vignerio, Jacopo, a Sicilian painter who flourish- 
e<Vat Messina about the middle of the 16th century. He 
studied under Polidoro da Caravaggio, and followed his 
style. An excellent picture by him of Christ Bearing 
his Cross, dated 1552, still exists in the Church of Santa 
Maria della Scala. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine 
A rts, s. v. 

Vignette (Fr.), in architecture, means a running 
ornament consisting of leaves and tendrils, such as is 
frequently carved in the hollow mouldings in Gothic 
architecture, especially in the Decorated and Perpen- 



Vignette. 


dicular styles; called also Trail. — Parker, Gloss, of A r- 
chitect. s. v. 

Vignier, Nicolas, a French Protestant theologian, 
son of Nicolas Vignier, Sen. (who himself wrote one or 
two religions works), was born in Germany about 1575. 
He studied theology at Leyden, and in 1601 became 
pastor at Blois. He was secretary to the national syn- 
ods at Gap d’AIais, deputy (in 1609) to the Assembly 
of Grenoble, and presided over four provincial synods 
(the last two in 1638 and 1648). He died at Blois 
about 1645, leaving several religious works, for which 
see Hoel'er, Four. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

His son Nicolas likewise served the Church at Blois, 
and died at the age of twenty- four. 

Vignola, Giacomo Barozzio da, an Italian 
architect, was born at Vignola, in Modena, in 1507. 
He studied painting at Bologna, but afterwards went 
to Rome to study architecture, and made it his profes- 
sion. He spent two years in France with Primatiecio, 
and then went to Bologna, where lie constructed sev- 
eral fine palaces and other public buildings. He final- 
\y settled in Home, and was appointed architect by Ju- 
lius III in 1550. lie designed the Church of the Jes- 
uits at Rome, the Caparola palace, and the two lateral 
cupolas of St. Peter’s, of which he succeeded Michael 
Angelo as the architect. He was the author of The 
Five Orders of Architecture and Practical Perspective , 
works which are still among the best authorities on 
t hose subjects. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A i'ts, 
s. v. “ Barozzio.” 

Vignola, Girolamo da, an Italian painter, flour- 
ished at Modena in the first half of the 16th century. 
He was a professed follower of Raphael, and some of his 
frescos still remain in the Church of St. Piero in his na- 
tive city. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Vignoles, Alphonse des, a Reformed theologian 
of Germany, was horn Oct. 9, 1649, at the Castle Au- 
bais, in Lower Languedoc. He studied at Saumur, Par- 
is, and Oxford, and after his return from the latter 
place he was, in 1675, appointed pastor at Cailar, where 
lie commenced his chronological studies. After the 
Revocation of the Edict of Nantes, he was not only de- 
posed from his office, but also deprived of all his books 
and papers, lie went in 1685 to Geneva, thence to 
Lausanne, Berne, and finally to Berlin. In 1688 he 


V1GX0X 


782 


VILLAGE 


was appointed pastor at Halle, in 1089 was called to 
Brandenburg, and was received in 1701 as a member of 
the newly founded Academy of Sciences. In 1703 he 
moved to Merlin, and preached for some time in the 
French Church at Kbpeniek. near Berlin. In 1727 lie 
was made director of the mathematical division of the 
Koval Academy. lie died duly 21, 1714. lie is the 
author o [' < 'hronologie de V I list oi re Suinte <t des Histoires 
Etranyeres (jui la Concernent . depnis la Sortie, d' Egypt e 
jusqn'ii hi Captiviie de Babylone (Berlin. 1738,2 vols.). 
lie also wrote annotations to Leufant's French edition 
of Spanheimii Disquisitio // tutorial de Papa Femina in- 
ter Lewie m IV et Benedict um III (La Have, 1720). See 
Ilistoire de F Academie l toy ale de Berlin; .Richer, .17/- 
yemeines Gelehrten-Lexikon. s. v. ; Winer. Ilandhitch der 
tkeoL Lite rat ur, i, 157, G92 ; Burst, Bill. Jud. iii, 478. 
(B.l\) 

Vigtion, Cl.M'dk, a French painter and engraver, 
was born at Tours in 1590. 11c visited Italy and studied 
there several years. Dumesnil mentions twenty-seven 
spirited and masterly etchings by him, among which | 
are St.John in the Desert : — thirteen plates from the Life 
of Christ: — The Martyrdom of St. Andrew: — Philip 
Baptizing the Eunuch : — and The Coronation of the 17V- 
yin. See Spooner, Bioy. Hist, oj' the Fine A rts. s. v. 

Vigor, Simon, a French prelate, was born at 
Evreux about 1515. He was educated by his father, Re- 
naud, who was physician to Charles IX, Henry III, and 
Catharine de’ Medici. In 1540 Simon joined the house 
of Navarre, and became rector of the university, and 
curate of St. Germain de Vieux. In 1545 he was made 
doctor of theology, and soon after, as peniteneier of the 
Church of Evreux, he accompanied his bishop to the 
Council of Trent; for his services there he was reward- 
ed with the curacy of St. 1 ’aid’s at Baris (15G5). His j 
zealous preaching against the doctrines of the Reforma- 
tion finally led to his promotion to the bishopric ofNar- 
bonne (1570). lie died at Carcassonne, Nov. 1, 1575, 
leaving several sermons and historical treatises, which 
are enumerated in Hoofer. Xottv, Bioy. Generale , s. v. 

Vigor, William, an abbot of Glastonbury, Eng- 
land. He was elected to the office and presented to the 
bishop of Bath, who consecrated him on the day after 
the Vigil of St. Benedict (1219). He is mentioned as 
having been very kind to the monks; and is immortal 
ized in the Chronicles for having ceded half a load of 
grain to each brewing to make the beer better. He 
died Oct. 14, 1223 — but five years after his elevation. 
See Hill, English Monastics m. p.452. 

Viguier, Pierre Francois, a French Orientalist, 
was burn at Besan^on .July 20, 1745. He entered the 
ecclesiastic ranks and taught rhetoric at the college of 
his native place; afterwards he passed into the Congre- 
gation of St. Lazarus, and taught theology in the Semi- 
nary of Sens. In 1772 he went to Algiers to redeem 
the Christian slaves; and in 1783 to Constantinople, as 
apostolical pnvfect of the Jesuit establishments in the 
Levant, where he acquired a knowledge of the Oriental 
languages. After his return to France (1802) he. lived 
in retirement, and died there Feb. 7, 1821. He left sev- 
eral works on Eastern philology, history, etc., for which 
see. Hoefer, Xour. Bioy. Generale, s. v. 

Vihara (Sanscrit, walking , for pleasure or amuse- 
ment), with the Buddhists (q. v.), is the name of their 
temples and convents. Originally it designated the 
hall or halls where the Buddha Sakyamuni, and the 
priests by whom he was accompanied, used to meet; 
but when these halls were converted into temples, the 
name Vihara was applied to them; and when the tem- 
ples became the centre of a number of habitations in 
which the priests belonging to the temples resided, the 
whole monastic establishment was comprised under one 
name. Properly the Vihara merely designates the 
Buddhistic temple, and it is generally used in this re- 
stricted sense. In Ceylon they are permanent struct- 
ures, the walls being plastered and the roofs covered 


with tiles. Surrounding the sanctum there is usually 
a narrow room, in which are images and paintings. 
Opposite the door of entrance there is another door, pro- 
tected bv a screen; and when this is withdrawn an im- 
age of Buddha is seen, which occupies nearly the whole 
of the. apartment, with a table or altar before it upon 
which flowers are placed. The walls of the Vihara are 
covered with paintings, and its stories generally illus- 
trate some legend of Buddha's life. Sometimes no land 
is attached to the Viharas; but often they are rich in 
lands. See H ardv, Eastern M (machism (Loud. 1850). 

Vi Laica Removenda (for remoriny laic force"), in 
English ecclesiastical law, is a writ which lies where a 
clerk intrudes into an ecclesiastical benefice, and holds 
t be same with a strong hand and by the great power 
of the laity. By this writ the sheriff is enjoined to re- 
move by force, and to arrest and imprison all persons 
who make anv resistance. The writ is returnable into 
the Court of the Queen's Bench, where the offenders are 
punished and restitution granted to the sufferer. 

Vila, Lorenzo, a Spanish painter, son of Senen, 
was born at Murcia in 1G82. He was taught hv his fa- 
ther, and executed some very acceptable works for tbe 
churches, after which he became an ecclesiastic. He died 
in 1713. See Spooner, Bioy. Hist . of the Fine A ids. s. v. 

Vila, Senen, a Spanish painter, was born in the 
17th century at Valencia. He studied with Esteban 
March, and resided mostly at Murcia, where he exe- 
cuted many works for the churches, convents, and pub- 
lic edifices. 11 is paintings are said to be more remark- 
able for correctness of design and fine expression in the 
heads than for beauty of coloring. lie died in 1708. 
See Spooner, Bioy. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Viladoniat, Don Antonio, a Spanish painter, was 
horn at Barcelona in 1G78. He made rapid progress in 
the art; and, at the age of twenty-one, was employed 
to paint a series of pictures from the life of St. Bruno 
for the monastery of the Carthusians at Monte Allegri. 
He afterwards painted a similar series from the life of 
St. Francis, for the monastery of t lie Franciscans, at 
Barcelona. lie executed many other works for the 
churches and public edifices of Barcelona. lie also 
painted landscapes, battle scenes, and portraits with 
equal success, and has been regarded by some as the 
foremost Spanish painter of his day. He died in 1755. 
See Spooner. Bioy. Hist, of the Fine A rts , s. v. 

Vilgard (or Bilgard), a grammarian and heretic 
of Ravenna, flourished in the first part of the lltli cen- 
tury. He was charged with being possessed with evil 
spirits in the form of Virgil, Horace, Juvenal, etc., ami 
with teaching subversive doctrines; and was therefore 
condemned to death. See Neander, Hist, oj' the Church. 
iii, G02. 

Vili, in the Scandinavian mythology, was one of the 
brothers of Odin, and a member of the Triad. 

Villacis, Don Nicoeas i?e, a Spanish painter, was 
of noble birth, a native of Murcia, lie was first in- 
structed in design in his native city, and then sent to 
Madrid, where he received instruction from Don Diego 
Velasquez. He afterwards studied in Italy: and on his 
return to Murcia, executed some important works for 
the churches and convents, which have been highly 
commended. The principal ones are a series of pictures 
in the life of San Bias, in the convent of La Santisima 
Trinidad de Calzados: — and the Martyrdom of St. Lo- 
renzo, in the. Church of the Dominicans. Being a 
wealthy nobleman, lie painted only for amusement; his 
works arc therefore rare, lie died in 1G90. See Spoon- 
’ ei> Bioii. Hist, of the Fine A rts , s. v. 

Village, a collection of houses less regular and im- 
portant than a town (q. v.) or city (q. w). See Toro 
(iHAiMUCAE Terms. 

I. Original Terms . — The word “village” stands in the 
A.V. as the rendering of many Deb. and Gr. words, sev- 
eral of which represent quite other ideas. 


VILLAGE 


783 


VILL ALLAN DO 


1. The proper Heb. term for village is ^53, kapheir 
(from “123, to cover; Sept. Kiopt); Vulg. villa), which 
appears also in the forms “P23, kephir (Neh. vi, 2, 
Kojf tip riculus), and “03, kupher (1 Sam. vi, 18, Kioptj, 
villa), and is represented by the Arabic kefr, still so 
much in use. In the Ileb. the prefix caphar implied a 
regular village, as Capernaum, which place, however, 
had in later times outgrown the limits implied by its 
original designation (Light foot, infra ; Stanley. Sin. and 
Pal . p. 521-527 ; 1 Macc. vii, 31). See Carhar. 

Another term, “liin, chat sc r (from 1!in, to hedge in; 
Sept. t7rav\iQ or Ktopij; Vulg. villa, castellum, or oppi- 
dum ), properly an enclosure, is used of farm buildings 
enclosing a court ; of the encampment of nomads (Gen. 
xxviii, 10; Dent, ii, 25, etc.) ; and of hamlets near towns 
(Josh, xiii, 23, 28; xv. 32 sq. ; 1 Chron. iv, 33; Neh. 
xi, 2, 5), especially the unwalled suburbs near walled 
towns (Lev. xxv, 31; comp. ver. 34), They were in 
reality “ pastoral settlements,” or little enclosures form- 
ed partly for shelter, and partly as a kind of defence 
from the wandering Arabs. The enclosures, sometimes, 
were nothing better than tents, but pitched in the form 
of an encampment, as in the case still of the Jehalin 
Arabs, who arrange their tents in a sort of circle for the 
sake of better security and mutual protection (Wilson, 
Lands of the Bible, ii. 710; Robinson, Res. ii, 468). In 
some parts of Syria the term hansh is applied to a few 
houses, which are constructed so as to join together, and 
thereby present a defence against the Arab robbers, the 
entrance into the haush being usually through a strong 
wooden gate, which is firmly secured every evening 
(Burekhardt, Syria, p. 212). Such, probably, of what- 
ever material formed, were the villages spoken of in 
connection with some of the ancient towns of the Is- 
raelites; those, especially, which bordered on pasture 
or desert lands. The places to which, in the Old Test., 
the term chatscr is applied were mostly in the outskirts 
of the country (Stanley. Sin. and Pal. p. 526). 

Different from these were the “P2FI FH23, daughters 
of the city, which were small towns or villages lying 
near to a great city, dependent on it, ami included un- 
der its jurisdiction. See Daughter. 

The term FOin, chav 6th, from Flirt, to breathe, to lire, 
qn. place of living, though others prefer to derive it from 
the Arabic chawa, convolvif, in gyrum se Jlexit, whence 
chewaon, a tent, or a cluster of tents, an abode of nomads, 
also denotes a village. The term occurs only in the 
plural, and only in reference to certain villages or small 
towns bearing the name of llavoth-jair. These are 
mentioned in Numb, xxxii, 42, Dent, iii, 14; Josh, xiii, 
30; Judg. x, 4; 1 Kings iv, 13. See Havotii-jair. 

In the New Test, the term Ktbp?) is applied to Bcth- 
phage (Matt, xxi, 2), Bethany (Luke x,S8; John xi, 1), 
Emmaus (Luke xxiv, 13), Bethlehem (John vii, 42). 
A distinction between city or town (7r6Aig) and village 
(Ktbf.ii)) is pointed out in Luke vii i, 1. On the other 
hand, Bethsaida is called 7T()Xti; (ix, 10; John i. 45), and 
also Ktbfit] (Mark viii, 23, 26), unless by the latter word 
we are to understand the suburbs of the town, which 
meaning seems to belong to “country” (vi, 56). The 
relation of dependence on a chief town of a district ap- 
pears to be denoted by the phrase “villages of C;es- 
area Philippi” (viii, 27). Bethsaida of Gaulonitis, to 
which Herod Philip II allowed the dignity of a city 
(Josephus, Ant. xviii, 2, 1), is called 7 toA ig-, unless these 
two are one and the same place (Thomson, Land and 
Book). 

2. Other terms are improperly thus rendered. Thus 
Hab. iii, 14, the plur. of 7F3, paraz (from 7 j3, to sepa- 
rate, hence to judge, like icpivio), is rendered “villages.” 
It should be “captains,” or “eminent men,” men sepa- 
rated by their rank or prowess from the mass (Sept. dv- 
vdarai', Vulg. princeps, preefectus). In Judg. v, 7, 11, 
the cognate ’pi") S.perazon, properly rulers (Sept, ewa- 


roi), is rendered “villages;” and Ezek. xxxviii, 11, 
ri7FS. perazoth, means “open country.” The cognate 
noun perttzi, however, signifying a countryman, 

a rustic, with “122 prefixed, signifies a “country vil- 
lage” (tpepeZaiog, oppidum). 

The word migrash (from to draw out; 

7Tfpi(T7r6piov ; suburbamnn), transl. “village” in Lev. 
xxv, 31, is more correctly rendered in ver. 31 “suburb.” 

II, Comparative Statements. — Ther6 is little in the 
Old Test, to enable us more precisely to define a village 
of Palestine, beyond the fact that it was destitute of 
walls or external defences. Persian villages are spoken 
of in similar terms (Ezek. xxxviii, 11; Esth. ix, 19). 
The rabbins make the distinction between a city (“P2) 
and a village (" 1 2D) to lie in the former having, and 
the latter wanting, the number of learned men (ten) 
deemed requisite to entitle a place to a synagogue 
(Lightfoot, Chorograph. Matt. Pnemiss. c. 98; and l lor. 
Heb. in Matt . iv, 23). This is a distinction, however, so 
purely arbitrary and artificial that it is worthless for any 
practical purpose. Galilee, in our Lord’s time, contain- 
ed many villages and village-towns; and Josephus says 
that in his time there were in Galilee two hundred and 
four towns and villages (tto\hq icai km pat), some of 
which last had walls (Josephus, Life, § 45). At present 
the country is almost depopulated (Raumer, P( deist, p. 
105; Stanley. Sin. and Pal. p.384). Most modern Turk- 
ish and Persian villages have a menzil or medhdfeh , a 
house for travellers (Burekhardt, Syria, p.295; Jiobin- 
son, ii, 19; Martvn, Life, p. 437). Arab villages, as 
found in Arabia, are often mere collections of stone huts 
— “long, low, rude hovels, roofed only with the stalks 
of palm-leaves,” or covered for a time with tent-cloths, 
which are removed when the tribe change their quarters. 
Others are more solidly built, as are most of the modern 
villages of Palestine, though in some the dwellings are 
mere mud-huts (Robinson, Res. i, 167 ; ii, 13, 14, 44, 387 ; 
Ilasselquist, Trap. p. 155; Stanley, Sin. and Pal. p. 233; 
App. § 83, p. 525). Arab villages of the llejfiz and Ye- 
men often consist of lints with circular roofs of leaves 
or grass, resembling the description given by Sallust of 
t lie Nnmidian mapedia, viz. ships with the keel upper- 
most (Sallust, Jug. 18; Shaw, Trav. p. 220; Niebuhr, 
Descr. de /’.4 rab. p. 54). — Kit to ; Smith ; Fairbairn. 

VILLAGE, in ancient ecclesiastical usage as distin- 
guished from a city , was a place having no magistrates 
of its own and no laws except such as form a part of 
the government and laws of the city on which it is de- 
pendent. Some villages, however, were set apart as 
dioceses and had bishops appointed over them. In the 
early Church, the chorepiscopi were appointed to super- 
intend the work in the villages. See Bingham, Christ. 
A ntiq. bk. ii, ch. xi v ; bk. ix, ch. ii. 

Villalpando, Francisco i>e To rreu rancho he, 
a learned Spanish lawyer of Granada, nephew of Juan 
Bautista, was born at Cordova in 1570, and died there 
about 1645. Me wrote several works of religious char- 
acter, especially on da-monology, for which see Iloefcr, 
None. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Villalpando, Juan Bautista, a learned Spanish 
commentator, was born at Cordova in 1552. At the age 
of twenty-eight years he entered the Order of the Jesu- 
its. He was distinguished for his theological and math- 
ematical knowledge, and as a commentator. Dupiu as- 
sures us that he was one of the most learned, lie was 
skilled in architecture, and in his description of Solo- 
mon’s Temple he exhausted all his powers of conjecture 
and fancy in making it after the plan of perfection as 
given by God himself. He died at Rome, May 23, 1608. 
lie is the author of In Ezech. Explanationes et Appa- 
ratus Vrbis ac Templi Hierosolgmitani Conimentariis et 
Imaginibus Illusfratus (Rome, 1596-1604, 3 vols. fob). 
See Antonii Bibliotheca f/ispanica; Alegambe, Bibli- 
otheca Scriptorum Societutis Jesu ; J ocher, Allgemeines 


VILLAMENA 


784 


VILLEGAIGNON 


Gelehrien-Lex . s. v. ; Winer, flandbuch der theolog. Lit- 
witur, i, 220 : Fiirst, Bill. Jud. iii, 478; Iloefer, Xouv, 
Bing. Generate, s. v. (B. P.) 

Villanieiia Francesco, an Italian designer and 
engraver, was born at Assisi about 1566. He went to 
Rome <1 ii riiii^ the pontificate of Sixtus V and studied 
designing from t lie antique and the works of the great 
masters. His plates are executed entirely with the 
graver, in a masterly style. 11 is prints are considered 
defective on account of the lights being too equally dis- 
tributed over the whole subject, but the defect receives 
a compensation in the correctness of the drawing and 
i he admirable expression of the beads. Among his 
principal works are, Moses /Showing the Brazen Serpent 
to the Israelites, after Perran da Faenza: — The Virgin 
and Infant Christ, with St. Francis, after the same: — 
The Holt/ Family, with St. John , St. Elizabeth , and St. 
June, after Raphael (1002, Kill): — St. Bruno and his 
t 'ompanions Doing Penance in the Desert, after Lanfran- 
oo: — (lie Taking-down from the Cross, after Baroccio: — 
the Presentation in the Temple , after Paolo Veronese: — 
a set of twenty scriptural subjects from Raphael’s paint- 
ings in the Vatican. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the 
Fine A rts , s. v. 

Villanova (Sp. Villanueva. Fr. Yilleneuce). Thom- 
as of, a Romish saint and author, was born at Fuen- 
linna, in t he diocese of Leon, in 1487 (V), but his family 
belonged to Villanova. lie inherited a charitable dis- 
position from Ids parents, and was trained to such a de- 
gree of piety that he received the title of “ the Child of 
Mary.” 1 1 is education was obtained in the University 
of Alcala. After teaching philosophy at Alcala anil 
Salamanca, he renounced the world, and in 1517 entered 
the Order of Augustinian Eremites, tievoting himself, 
after his consecration, wholly to preaching and the care 
of souls. 1 1 is talent, zeal, ami austerity speedily gave 
him rank among his fellows, and raised him to the posi- 
tion of superior over Salamanca, Burgos, and Valladolid ; 
and beyond that to the office of provincial over Anda- 
lusia and Castile. lie was credited with the possession 
of prophetic powers, and received the name of the “Apos- 
tle of Spain.” The emperor Charles V chose him for his 
confessor, and offered him the archbishopric of Granada, 
and after Thomas had declined that honor the emperor 
inducted him into the archbishopric of Valencia, in 1544. 
Villanova’s attention was chiefly given to preaching 
ami devotional exercises in this as in his former stations, 
lie made a visitation of his diocese, held a synod in the 
interests of reform, made provision for schools and hos- 
pitals, and devoted most of his income to charitable 
uses. Unable, by reason of impaired health, to attend 
the Council of Trent, his prayer yet rescued the Span- 
ish bishops from a perilous situation during their voy- 
age thither, and it also refilled a barn which had been 
emptied of its stores to feed the poor, lie died Nov. 8, 
1555, and was buried in the Augustine church at Va- 
lencia. At the time of his burial a boy fell from a 
house, but is reported to have been preserved from in- 
jury bv the intercession of the departed one, and par- 
ticipated in the burial services. Such miracles led Paul 
V to beatify, and Alexander VII to canonize (1G68), 
Villanova. His day was fixed at Sept. 18. Villanova’s 
literary remains consist of sermons and a Commentary 
tm Canticles (Alcala, 1581 ; Brescia. 1G13; Cologne, 1614; 
Augsburg, 1757, and often). Quevedo published Villa- 
nova’s Mfe, and Maimburg published the work in a 
French translation (Paris, 1GGG). See Acta ^..Sep- 
tember (An tv. 1755), v, 799-892; Herzog, Real-Fncy- 
Uop. s. v. ; Hoefer, Xour, Biog. Generate, s. v. ; Jame- 
son, Legends of the Monastic Orders, p. 199 sip See 
Villenkuve, Hospital Sisteus of. 

Villaret, Foulques de, grand- master of the 
Knights of St. John of Jerusalem and brother of Guil- 
laume, soon after his election (1307) put into effect the 
designs of his brother at Rhodes. See Hospitallers. 
In 1309 he resigned his powers and retired to France. 


lie died Sept. 1, 1327, at the Castle of Leiran, in Lan- 
guedoc. See Biographie Universelle, s. v. 

Villaret, Guillaume de, grand -master of the 
Knights of St. John of Jerusalem, was born of an old 
family of Provence. lie was at first prior of St. Gilles 
in Languedoc, and in 1300 succeeded Odo of Pins as 
grand-master. 11 is plans for the safety of the order 
devolved, upon his death, in 1307, upon his brother 
Foulques (q. v.). 

Villaret, Jean Chrysostome, a French prelate, 
was born at Rodez. Jan. 27, 1739. lie studied at the 
Seminary of St. Sulpiee, and, after teaching there, be- 
came grand-vicar, canon, and theologian of his native 
city. Under Necker he entered the civil service. Dur- 
ing the French Revolution, he lived privately in the 
country. In 1802 he was made bishop of Amiens, hut 
soon after he was transferred to the see of Casal. On 
the restoration of Piedmont to Sardinia he resigned, 
and thenceforth lived in retirement. He died at Paris. 
May 12, 1824. See Biographie Cnirerselle, s. v. 

Villars, the name of a French family of Lyons 
noted for the part which it took in public affairs during 
the 16th century. 

1 . F11AX901S. born in 1514, and died Nov. 1, 1582. 
was the son of Pierre, a public functionary of bis native 
city. As lieutenant of the presidia /, he aided in the 
war against the Huguenots, who pillaged his house in 
1 5G2. lie left an A brege da Sacrament de l' A uiel, which 
Balthasar, one of his sons, published in 1594. 

2 . Henri. nephew of Pierre 3, was born in 1G20, and 
died Dec. 28. 1G93. As coadjutor of his uncle (after 
1652), he scrupulously attended to the duties of the see. 

3. Jerome, brother of Pierre 2, died Jan. 18, 1626. 
lie acted as clerk of the French Parliament in 1594, 
and canon and architect of Vienne, where he became 
bishop in 1599. lie was active in subserving the in- 
terests of the Council of Trent. 

4 . Pierre (1), brother of Francois, was born in 1517. 
lie graduated at the University of Padua (1539), and 
attached himself to cardinal Tournon, who occupied him 
with several important errands. In 1555 he became 
clerk of Parliament, in 1561 bishop of Mirepoix, and in 
1575 archbishop of Vienne. He sustained Ileini III 
against the Estates of Blois. In 1586 lie resigned all 
his dignities, and lived in retirement till his death, Nov. 
14, 1592. lie is the author of some ascetic treatises. 

5 . Pierre (2), nephew of the preceding, was born 
March 3, 1545. lie was made doctor by the Surbonne, 
and in 1575 succeeded his uncle as bishop of Mirepoix 
and in 1587 as archbishop of Vienne. In 1599 he re- 
signed his office, and retired first, to Annonay, and after- 
wards to Lyons. lie died July 18, 1613, at Saint-Genis- 
Laval, near Lyons. 

6. Pierre (3), cousin of Pierre 2, became bis coad- 
jutor in 1612. and succeeded him in 1626 as archbish- 
op of Vienne. He died in 1663. 

Villefroy, Guillaume i»e, a French Orientalist, 
was born in Paris, March 5, 1690. He studied at the 
Abbey of Tiron and at the {Seminary of BesaniNm, and 
after ordination and reception of the doctorate lie be- 
came abbot of Blasimont, in Gnienne, and finally (1752) 
professor of Hebrew in t lie College de France at Paris, 
where he died April 4, 1773. He made known several 
valuable Biblical MSS., founded theSoeietedesCapucins 
llebraTsants, and wrote several archaeological works, for 
which see Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Villegaignon, Nicolas Durand de, a Maltese 
knight who achieved an unenviable notoriety in con- 
nection with one of the most interesting episodes of the 
French Reformation. He was a native of Brittany, 
and had distinguished himself as an officer of the royal 
navy. In 1554 he held the rank of vice-admiral of 
Brittany, A dispute with the governor of Brest threat- 
ened to deprive him of the royal favor, and he conceived 
that a successful expedition to South America would be 


VILLEGAIGNON 


785 


VILLENEUVE 


the readiest means to obviate that loss. To secure the 
king’s consent, lie approached admiral Colignv, giving 
himself out as a Protestant, and representing that a col- 
ony in South America would provide the surest refuge 
for his coreligionists against the persecutions they were 
so constantly made to endure, lie sailed from Havre de 
Grace July 15, 1555, with two vessels bearing a large 
number of colonists and a body of soldiers and laborers, 
and reached Brazil in the following November. The 
colony was located on an island near Rio de Janeiro, to 
which they gave the name of Colignv. Here the work 
of fortifying engaged the attention of the commander 
to an extent that, joined with the insufficient and un- 
palatable food the men received, produced much dissat- 
isfaction among his subordinates; but the display of 
zealous energy for the establishing of a Protestant 
Church, which he still kept up, served to quiet the col- 
onists. In March (7 or 10), 1557, a second expedition 
from France arrived, which brought about three hun- 
dred souls, among them the preachers Peter Richer and 
William Chartier; a reputed doctor of the Sorbonne 
named Coitita: John de Lerv, the principal historian of 
the enterprise; and six females. Villegaignon repeated 
the pledges he had made respecting the evangelical 
worship and organization, and Richer preached, on the 
day of arrival, a sermon which was probably the first 
evangelical sermon heard in the New World. 

The arrival of reinforcements relieved the governor 
of the fears which a conspiracy among his people had 
excited. He at once employed the new colonists on 
the fortifications, but allowed them the free exercise of 
their religion, so that a sermon was preached to them 
each secular day and two on Sundays. The Lord’s 
supper was to be administered once a month ; but dis- 
putes, originated by the Sorbounist Cointa, arose on the 
first occasion of its celebration, lie demanded, on the 
authority of the Church fathers, that water should be 
mixed with the wine; that the ministers should wear 
sacerdotal robes, etc. In baptism he required that oil, 
spittle, and salt should be added to the water. Ville- 
gaignon supported his demands, and criticised the con- 
stitution of the Church of Geneva, upon which the col- 
ony was to be modelled. The matter was finally re- 
ferred to Calvin at Geneva, with the proviso that Rich- 
er should not discuss controverted points in the pulpit 
while his colleague Chartier was absent to obtain Cal- 
vin’s decision. Chartier departed, and at this juncture 
Villegaignon threw off the mask. lie had learned that 
his heretical colony had excited the anger of his popish 
masters in France, and he now pronounced Calvin a 
heretic, and declared that he would accept no other de- 
cision than that of the Sorbonne. lie required the re- 
ception of the doctrine of transnbstantiation, and after 
a time forbade public worship, and even the exercise of 
common prayer, lie also oppressed the pious colonists, 
whose conscientious scruples prevented resistance by 
force. At this time a trading- vessel visited the island, 
and a large number of the colonists resolved upon a re- 
turn to Europe ; and the governor thereupon confiscated 
their provisions, books, and tools, and drove them to the 
mainland. Here they gave themselves to missionary 
labor. Lerv wrote down a brief vocabulary of words in 
the language of the Topinambus, the fruitage of a brief 
sojourn extending over no more than two months. The 
natives had received them kindly, but demanded remu- 
neration for everything needed by the exiles; and when 
the latter had bartered away even their clothes, they 
were compelled to embark for France. The vessel was 
found to be unseaworthy, and, after voyaging a week, 
five of the returning emigrants preferred to risk their 
lives in an open boat rather than continue in the ship. 
This boat was driven to the shore and fell into the 
bands of Villegaignon, who had four of the five passen- 
gers put to death as heretics. The fifth was spared be- 
cause he was the only tailor in the colony. 

The ship in the meantime continued its voyage, im- 
peded by storms and constantly requiring the services 
X.— L) i) d 


of all hands at the pumps. A careless sailor burned off 
its rigging. The provisions gave out, so that rats and 
mice were eagerly devoured, as were also shoes and log- 
wood chips. The water also failed. But the port of 
Blavet, in Brittany, was finally reached, May 2G, 1558, 
and the passengers dispersed to their homes. A casket, 
sent over by Villegaignon, was delivered to the magis- 
trate of Ilennebon, and, on being opened, was found to 
contain a fully executed legal process' intended to de- 
liver the returned colonists over to destruction. The 
magistrate, however, disregarded the plan, and aided 
the proposed victims to continue their journey. Richer 
became pastor at La Rochelle, and lived to see the first 
siege of that place. John de Lerv died later as pastor 
at Berne. Soon afterwards the colony was wholly given 
up, and Villegaignon returned to France, Cointa had 
previously been banished from the island, and was never 
heard of afterwards. The Portuguese stormed the fort, 
cut down the remaining garrison as heretics, and con- 
veyed the cannon to Lisbon. In later life Villegaignon 
wrote a violent letter against the Palatine Frederick III, 
on the occasion of his introducing the Reformed doc- 
trine into his principality, and was answered by Peter 
Boquin. lie died miserably in 1571. lie bad destroy- 
ed the earliest foreign missionary enterprise of the Evan- 
gelical Church, and given to that cause its earliest mar- 
tyrs. 

See Lerius Burgundus, Hist. Navigat, in Brasil, etc. 
(Geuev. 158G); Thuanus, Hist, sui Temp. (Offenbach, 
1009); Crespin, Hist, des Martyrs ; Beza, Hist. Eccles.; 
Calvin, Epist. et Respons, (Genev. 1575); Bayle, Diet. 
Hist, et Crit. s. v. “Villegaignon” and s. v. “Richer;” 
' Struve, Pfalz. Kirchenhist. (Frankf. 1721). — Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Villegas -Marmolejo, Pedro de, a Spanish 
painter, was born at Seville in 1520. lie is supposed 
to have studied in Italy. He executed some paintings 
for the churches and public edifices of Seville, and bis 
best productions are said to equal those of Pedro Cam- 
pana, to whom his Visitation of the Virgin Mary to Et. 
Elizabeth , in the cathedral, has often been attributed. 
He died in 1597. See Spooner, Blog. Hist, of the Eine 
A rts , s. v. 

Villeneuve, Hospital Sisters of. This con- 
gregation was founded at Paris, about the middle of 
the 17th cent.nrv, by Ange le Proust, an Augustinian 
prior of Lamballe. In 1GG2 several noble ladies were 
united in a society, un- 
der his direction, for 
the relief of the poor in 
hospitals, and from this 
grew the congregation, 
which was named in 
honor of the recent can- 
onization of St. Thomas 
de Villeneuve. It was 
approved by a bull of lu- 
noeent XII. Le Proust 
gave to it the Augustin- 
iin rule, and before bis 
death it counted thirty- 
six houses. Under his 
successors it has flour- 
ished and spread over 
France, and especially in 
Brittany, including at a 
recent date forty large 
establishments. By the 
statutes of its founder it 
cannot be carried into 
any other country. The 
parent house in Paris 
was the only religious 

. . . „ . . ^ establishment kept open 

Ansnsriman Hosmtal Sister of . . . 1 

St. Thomas of Villeneuve in < l,,r,n g the Reign of I er- 
Ordinary Dress. ror, and the sisters did a 



VILLENEUVE 


786 


VINCENT 


good work in relieving the victims of the massacres of 
1792. The vows of the sisterhood are the same as t lie 
other sisters of their order. They work in poor-houses, 
prisons, houses of refuge, hospitals, and asylums for the 
aged. — Migne’s Ilelyot, (M/res AVfytVMa , ,iii, ( JUU ; iv, 1-41(5. 

Villeneuve, Thomas de. Nee Vielanova, Thom- 
as or. 

Villiers, Cosme de, a French ecclesiastic his- 
torian, was born at St. Denis, near Paris, Sept. 8, 1(5X3. 
lie was educated at the College of Ilarcourt, took the 
ride of the Carmelites, taught philosophy at Ploermel, 
and theology at Nantes, Ilennebon, and St. Pol of Leon, 
and after 1727 gave himself to preaching, lie finally 
went to Orleans as director of the Convent of St. Made- 
leine, and died in 1758, leaving a Bibliotheca Carmeliti- 
ca (Orleans, 1752, 2 vols. fol.). 

Villiers, Henry Montague, D.D., a prelate of 
the Church of England, was born in London, Jan. 4, 
1813. 1 1 is father was the lion. (Jeorge Villiers, son of 

t he carl of Clarendon. Alter tuition in a private school, 
he went to Christ Church, Oxford, and graduated in 
1834; was ordained deacon in 1830, and priest in the 
next year, when he received from the lord chancellor 
the vicarage of Kenilworth. Previous to this he had 
been curate of Deane, Lancashire. In 1841 he was ap- 
pointed rector of St. George’s, liloomsbury ; in 1847 can- 
on of Nt. Paid’s Cathedral, in 1856 bishop of Carlisle, 
and in 1800 he was transferred to the see of Durham, 
lie died Aug. 9, 1801. Bishop Villiers had a very com- 
manding presence, and his well-modulated voice, his 
dignified manner, and his evident sincerity greatly con- 
tributed to his success. As specimens of composition 
there was little in his sermons, and when read they 
seem tame productions, as, indeed, is frequently the case 
with the lectures of mere pulpit orators. As a London i 
clergyman he was most exemplary. Affable, genial, 
and kind, he was universally liked, and his devotion to 
the poor of his flock was earnest and real, lie pub- 
lished two volumes of sermons of average literary mer- 
it. and several little books of family prayers, tracts, etc., 
on which his fame will not rest. In his religious views 
he was an ardent Evangelical, and a determined foe to 
anything savoring of lligh-Churchism. 

Villiers (de Vile de Man), Philippe de, grand- 
master of the Knights nf Rhodes, grandson of the French 
marshal Jean de, was horn at Beauvais in 1404. lie 
was at first grand-hospitaller of the order, later (1513) 
ambassador to the king, and oil .Jan. 22, 1521, was elect- 
ed grand-master in place of Caret to. It was a time of 
great exigency with the order. See Hospitallers. At 
the falling of the island into the hands of the Turks, he 
secured the retreat of his brave followers (dan. I, 1523), 
whom he transferred to Malta, and died there, Aug. 22, 
1534. See llocfer, A our. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Villiers, Pierre de, a French writer, was horn at 
Cognac, May 10. 1048, of a Parisian family. After ear- 
ly study he entered the Jesuitical order (1000), and 
afterwards that of St. Benedict (1089). and finally be- 
came prior of St. Taurin. He died at Paris, Oct. 14, 
1728, leaving a number of theological works, for which 
see lloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Villoldo, Jr.\N de, a Spanish painter, flourished in 
Toledo in the first part of the 10th century. In 1508 
he began the painting of several pictures for the Mozar- 
abie Chapel, in the cathedral, which, with some assist- 
ance, he finished in 1510. In 1547 he was employed by 
the bishop of Placentia to adorn a chapel, which he had 
rebuilt, with a series of forty-live pictures in sacred his- 
tory, from the fall of Adam to the death of Christ. 
These works have been commended for their purity of 
style and correctness of design. He finished the chap- 
el in 1548. lie is supposed to have died about 1551. 
See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine .1 rts, s. v. 

Villotte, J acques, a French missionary, was born 
at Bar-Ie-Due, Nov. 1, 105G. In 1073 he entered the 


Order of the Jesuits, and, after teaching for some time, 
was sent (1088) to America, where (Aug. 15, 1091) he 
took the four monastic vows. After zealous labors 
there, he set out on his return to France (Oct. 29, 1708), 
stopping to report at Koine (1709), and finally took 
charge of different colleges of the order till his death, 
which occurred at St. Nit olas, near Nancy, Jan. 14, 1743. 
lie left some religious works, which are enumerated in 
lloefer, Xottr, Biog . Gene rale, s. v. 

Vilmar, August Friedrich Christian, a German 
doctor and professor of theology, was born Nov. 21, 1800, 
at Stolz, in Kur-IIesso. He studied theology and phi- 
lology at Marburg, and for a number of years lie was 
professor at the Marburg Gymnasium. In 1850 he was 
called as member of consistory to Cassol, and here he 
was one of the main supporters of the Hassenpllug re- 
gime. After the fall of the latter in 1855, Vilmar be- 
came professor of theology at Marburg, and lectured 
mainly on dogmatics, practical exegesis, and pastoral 
theology, lie died July 30, 1808. We cannot, enter 
here fully into the Church history of Hesse, with which 
Vilmar became connected under the Hassenpfitig admin- 
istration. Of his writings we mention, De Genitici Casus 
Syntaxi qnam Prcebeat llarmonia Erangtliorum, Suxa- 
nica Dialecto Stecula IX Conscript a, Comment a tin (Mar- 
burg, 1834): — Die Theofogie der Thatsachen wider die 
Theologie tier Rhetorik (ibid. 1854; 3d ed. 1857): — Spi- 
cilegium Uymnologicnnt (ibid. end. ): — Geschichte ties 
Confessionsstundes der evangel. Kirche in Hessen, etc. 
(ibid. I860): — Deutsche Alterthiimer ini Heliand als Fin - 
kleiduny der evangetisehen Geschichte (ibid. 1802): — 
Die hessische Kirchenordnung ron 1057 in ihrnn Zu- 
sammenhange mid Hirer Bedeutung fur die Gegenwart 
(Frankfort, 1807). After bis death were published, 
j Die augsb. Confession erklart, ed. Piderit (Giitersloh, 
1870) : — Die Lehre rom geistl.Amte (Marburg, 1870) : — 
Theologische Moral, ed. israel (Giitersloh, 1871,3 vols.) : 
— Von der christl. Kirchenzucht (Marburg, 1872): — 
Lehrbuch der Pastoral/ heologie, ed. Piderit (Giitersloh, 
1872): — Dogmatik (ibid. 1874-75,2 vols.): — Predigten 
u. geistliche Reden (Marburg, 1870): — Collegium Bib/D 
cum . Praktische Erkldruug der heiligen S thrift des .4 Iten 
u. Xeuen Testaments, ed. Chr. Midler (Giitersloh, 1879, 
vol. i). See Vilmar’s autobiography in Strieder’s Grand - 
I lage einer hessischen Gelehrten-Geschichte (Cassel, 1803), 
i, 119-140; Theolog. Unirerstd-Lexikon, s. v. ; Zuchnld, 
Bill. Theolog. ii, 1391 ; Literal isclter llautltreiser fur 
das kathol. Deutschhmd, 1808, p. 402; Scliiirer, Theolog. 
Literatnrzeitung (Leipsie, J870), p. 82, 252; 1880, p. 73 
sip (B. P.) 

Vincent of Beauvais (Bellovacensis). snrnamed 
the Speculator, lived in the former half of the 13th cen- 
tury, and was contemporary with Alexander Hales, and 
Thomas Aquinas, etc. lie was educated in Burgundy, 
became a Dominican monk and a realist in philosophy. 
11 is fame as a teacher and a preacher was such that 
Louis IX commanded his presence and entered into per- 
manent relations with him. He probably died in 1204. 
Vincent obtained a literary celebrity through his ency- 
clopaedic works (Specula), which contain a survey of 
the state of learning, particularly in the department of 
philosophy, in that day; and which manifest- a sur- 
prising range of reading on the part of the author, and 
possess great value for the study of the progress of 
learning. The principal work, Speculum Majns, has 
three divisions: (1) Speculum Xatunde, including all 
natural science; (2) Speculum Doctrinale, embracing 
philosophy, grammar, dialectics, logic, rhetoric, ethics, 
mathematics, physics, medicine, chemistry, alchemy, 
etc.; (3) Speculum llistoriufe, which deals with uni- 
versal history from the creation to the year 1204. A 
fourth part, Speculum Monde, is spurious. The Specu- 
lum Majns was first published at Straslmrg in 1473. and 
afterwards frequently, in Latin and also in French ami 
Dutch translations. The four Specula were published 
under the title Spec. Quadntflex (I)uaci, 1024), by the 


VINCENT 


787 


VINCENT 


Benedictines. A pedagogical work from the pen of 
Vincent, entitled De Institutions Filiorum Regiorum seu 
Xobilitun , lias likewise become famous. It was pub- 
lished at Basle in 1481 by Amerbaeh, in a volume con- 
taining also the Tract tit us de Gratia Dei; the Liber tie 
Laiulibus Virginis Glorioscc ; Liber de St, Jolt. K range- 
list a ; Fpist. Consolat. ad Regent Franeorum Ludocicum , 
etc. Several other works were written by Vincent, 
which are extant only in manuscript form. See Subles- 
sor, Vincent von Beauvais , etc. (Frank! - . 1819); Biblio- 
graphic Uuiverselle (Baris, 1827), xlix, lit). — Herzog, 
Real- Fncgldop. s. v. 

Vincent of Lukins, a monk and priest, holds an 
important place in the dogmatics of the Church of 
Lome through his little book Comnwuitoria Duo pro 
Catholicie Fulei Antiquitate cl Cuiversitate adc. Fro - 
Janas Omnium Utereticorum Xoritates ; but history has 
preserved very little respecting the circumstances of his 
life, and that little is drawn simply from the preface of 
the Commonitorinm and from a few scattered notices in 
(icnnadius, De Yiris Illustribus , oh. lxiv. lie was a 
native of (laid, became monk and priest at Leri ns, lived 
under Theodosius II, and died in the reign of Valen- 
tinian I, according to the Homan martyrology, May 23, 
A.L). 450. The Commonitorinm was composed about 
three years subsequent to the Synod of Ephesus (Comm. 
eh. xlii), or in 434, and shows, despite its quiet argu- 
mentative tone and the absence of any polemical refer- 
ence, that it grew out of the. conditions of the time in 
which the author lived. The draft of the greater part 
of the second book was stolen from the author, and its 
substance was consequently incorporated by him in the 
tirst. There are also still in existence sixteen Obser- 
rationes Vincentiame against Augustine’s predestination- 
ism, to which Prosper of Aquitaida responded (Augus- 
tine, Opp. x, App. p. 1843 sq.), and which may have 
been written by his pen. 

The question which engaged the thought of the 
Church in the time of Vincent was the contest between 
Semi- Pelagianism and strict Augustinism, and this 
fact furnishes the key to the interpretation of theCVure- 
mouitorivm (comp. ch. xxxvii, “ Magna et specialis ac 
plane personalis qiuedam sit Dei gratia, adeo ut. sine ullo 
labore, sine ullo studio, sine idla industria, etiamsi nec 
petant, nec qiuerant, nec pulsent, quieunqtie illi ad nu- 
merum suum pertinent — nuuqtiam possint offendere ad 
lapidem pedem suum, id est nunquatn seandalizari 
and also ch. xiv, ‘'Quia magna pars ilia Christiauorum 
Catholicorum tideliurn atque sanctorum, qum ad ruinam 
et perditionem priedestinata est, etiamsi petat a Deo 
sanctitatis perseverentiam, non impetrabit”). A further 
key to the motive of the book is found in the fact 
that monastieism did not take kindly to Augustinism, 
and that in Southern Gaul especially it was penetrated 
with the views ami spirit of the Eastern Church, of 
which statements Hilary of Arles (q. v.), who came forth 
from Lerins, and Faustus « if Heji, who was perhaps the 
ahbot of Lerins when Vincent wrote his book, are in 
proof. 

The Commonitorinm begins with demanding an ob- 
jective guarantee for the truth, and iinds the required 
criterion in Scripture and the tradition of the Catholic 
Church, the latter being necessary because of diversities 
of interpretation of the former. I bis position marked 
the result of the conflicts bv which the Church had 
progressed thus far in shaping its own constitution and 
in forming the New-Test, canon. But then comes the 
question, Does tradition itself require a criterion by 
which it may be tested? How determine what is and 
what is not Catholic? Is there a completed canon of 
tradition as there is a canon of Scripture? Vincent re- 
sponds with the rule, now famous, that we must be 
rhiefly concerned “ut id teneamus quod ubique, quod 
semper, quod ab omnibus ereditum est.” lie is, how- 
ever, disposed to overrate the worth of antiquity, and to 
search rather for that which was held l*v the ancients 
than for that which is true; and he fails to remember 


that antiquity, within the pale of the Catholic Church 
itself, was divided upon many questions, though lie 
gives the definition that what a majority of sucerdotes 
and mugistri have determined is Catholic, lie requires 
even councils to legitimate themselves l>v the tests of 
u nicer sit as and antiqu'd as , and argues that the Catholic 
body of doctrine is an organism which grows, but affords 
place to nothing that is absolutely new; and then ho 
applies the principles he has labored to establish to de- 
stroy the infallibility of certain great ones who have 
made use of the confidence with which they were re- 
garded to introduce novel teachings into the Church — 
the object of Ids attack being assuredly none other than 
the great bishop of Hippo, whose reputation excelled 
even that of the Homan bishop. In a word, Vincent 
endeavors to find in antiquity a protection against the 
arbitrary spirit of the ecclesiastical powers of the pres- 
ent. The weakness in the scheme of Vincent is the 
disregard of the fact that the consent of antiquity can- 
not be established unless the factor of interpretation 
be applied to tradition itself. He accordingly failed to 
take the step in advance, which logical consistency re- 
quired, of making the Church itself tiie court oflast ap- 
peal. The Jesuitism of our day has satisfied this de- 
mand of logic, but at the cost of sacrificing the rule of 
Vincent, as may be seen in the doctrine of the Immacu- 
late Conception, etc. Vincent marks a turning-point 
in the dogmatic spirit of the Church. No previous 
teacher had so explicitly insisted <>n a purely outward 
guarantee for the truth. The fathers had, even in their 
strongest utterances, manifested confidence in the abid- 
ing presence of the Spirit with the Church. The feel- 
ing that the Spirit has departed from the Church finds 
its first pronounced expression here, and this specifical- 
ly Homisli doctrine is thus shown to have had its origin 
in the Semi- Pelagianism of our monk’s attack on Augus- 
tinism. 

Editions of Vincent were published by Baluzius, Cos- 
ter, and Kliiplel — the latter in Augsburg, 1843. Con- 
cerning him, see Tillemont, Memoires , xv, 143-147; 
Dupin, Xouvelle Biblioth. iv, 114 sq. ; Cave, Hist. Lit. 
i, 425; Elpelt, Des Iteil. Vine. v. Lerinum Krmahnunys- 
buckf sein Leben u. s. Lehre (Breslau, 1840); Vossius, 
Hist. Pelagiaua , p. 575; Norisius, Hist. Pelagiana, ii, 2, 

3, 1 1 ; Walch, Ketzergesck. ; Wiggers, A ugustinismus it. 
Semipelag. ii, 105, 208-210; Baur, Das Christenthum vom 

4. bis znm 0. Jahrhundert ; Gengler, in the Quartalschr. 
J'iir kathol. Theologte , 1833, p. 570; Kollner, Sgmbolik 
d. kathol. Kirche . — Herzog, Real- Fncgklop. s. v. 

Vincent (St.) de Paul, a Homan Catholic ecclesi- 
astic and philanthropist, was born April 24, 1576, at 
Pouys, near Acqs, in Gascony, in the reign of Henry 
HI. II is education was intrusted to the Franciscan 
monks after he was twelve years old, and in 1600 he 
was ordained, lie was captured by corsairs while voy- 
aging from Toulouse to Narbomie, taken to Tunis, and 
purchased by a renegade of Nizza, whom he induced to 
return to Christianity. After being liberated, he so- 
journed for a lime in Home, and on his return to France 
became house chaplain to queen Margaret, where he 
was involved in temporary scepticism with regard to 
religious matters. His friend Berulle, founder of a so- 
ciety of Peres de l’Oratoire de Jesus, obtained for him 
the pastorate of Clichv, and the position of chaplain to 
count Gondy and tutor to Ids three sons, liis faithful 
visitation of his parish caused the countess to set apart 
the sum of 16,000 livres for purposes of priestly visi- 
tation over her domains; but the great confidence re- 
posed in him by the countess oppressed him, and he ob- 
tained a new parish at Chatillon-Ies-Dombes (1617) 
among the poor. Here, again, he was eminently use- 
ful, converting Calvinists and worldlings of either sex, 
and organizing the first sisterhood of charity (Confrerie 
tie Charite) with a view to regular and systematic care 
of the poor by women. Having been persuaded to re- 
turn to count Gomlv’s parish, lie repeated the measure 
of organizing sisterhoods, and began to visit the pris- 


VINCENT 


VINC ENT 7S8 


oners, especially the galley-slaves, whose condition was 
miserable in the extreme. For them he established a 
hospital, and he so devoted himself to care for their 
physical and spiritual welfare that many other persons 
were led to imitate his spirit. Louis XIII gave him 
authority to prosecute such labors in 1619 by commis- 
sioning him Atimouier Koval dcs Galores de France. 
At Macon, in Burgundy, lie found a surprising number 
of beggars, who were, besides, ignorant of the common- 
est and most necessary articles of tiie faith; and he 
consequently delayed his journey long enough to organ- 
ize, with the assistance of the local authorities, a sucie- 
tv of St. Charles Borromeo in their behalf (1023). In 
1(525 the donation of the countess Gondv bore fruit in 
the founding of the organization of Priests of the Mis- 
sion (confirmed by Parliament in 1631, and provided 
with a rule of his devising thirty years later), and to 
the service of this society Vincent devoted the principal 
energies of his later years. The object of the order was ■ 
the prosecution of preaching and pastoral labor, per- 
formed in harmony with the plans of the resident bish- 
ops, among the peasantry; but its operations were sub- 
sequently carried on over the cities also. It received 
the cordial support of a number of ladies, some of them 
belonging to the higher orders of society. Its house 
became a benevolent asylum, in which as many as 
eight hundred laymen found a temporary refuge in a 
single year. Especially noteworthy were the labors 
of these priests in the army and among the victims 
of the war on the German border. They collected 
money for the support of the sufferers, and even denied 
themselves bread that the hungry might be fed. Their 
visitations in time extended to the Homan Campagna, 
Tunis, Algiers, Ireland, Poland, Corsica, Madagascar, 
etc. 

The numerous Confreries de Charite suffered from 
the fact that the ladies who composed them were too 
largely engrossed with the care of their own house- 
holds. This induced Vincent, on the suggestion of 
Madame le Gras, to found the Order of Filles de Charite', 
or Sisters of Charity, also called Sceurs Grises. They 
are not nuns. After a novitiate of live years, they take 
a vow which binds them for only a single year. lie 
also organized a society of Matrons, whose work was 
principally attendance at the great hospital of Paris, 
the Hotel I)ieu; and to these must he added a semi- 
nary for his missionary order, modelled after those es- 
tablished among the Jesuits, lie served the govern- 
ment also as spiritual councillor of state. In these 
multifarious occupations he ripened to a gentle old age 
in the imitation of Christ. He shattered his health by 
a winter journey when seventy-four years of age, and 
lingered for eleven additional years, until death relieved 
him, Sept. 27, 1660. He was beatitied in 1727 and can- 
onized 1737. 

See A belly, La Vie de Vincent de Paul (Paris, 1664, 
and often); Collet, La Vie de Saint Vincent de Paul 
( 1748; in extract, Paris, 1819); also St ol berg, Leben 
des heil. Vine . r. Paula , ete. (Munster, 1818), and nu- 
merous later essays; Jameson [Mrs.], Legends of the 
Monastic Orders , p. 347 sq. ; Iloefcr. Xour. Biog. Gene- 
rale , s. v. ; and 1 1 erzog, Real- Envy Idop. s. v. 

Vincent (67.) of Saka<;ossa is one of the most 
venerated martyrs of early times. Tradition relates 
that he was a native of lluesea, in Aragon, and a kins- 
man of the martyr deacon Lanreutius. On the break- 
ing -out of Diocletian and Maximian’s persecution 
(about A.D. 303), he was archdeacon to bishop Valerius 
of Saragossa, and was summoned before the governor to 
answer for his faith. This he did with such boldness 
as to excite the rage of his inquisitors and bring upon 
him the most horrible tortures, which lie intensified by 
mocking the executioners when they wearied of their 
work. He was finally roasted on a red-hot grate, and 
his sores were afterwards rubbed with salt ; and he was 
then thrust into an exceedingly contracted and dark 
dungeon, where he lacked food and had to lie on a sur- 


face of sharp stones, etc. In this condition of misery 
he began to experience bis glorification. Angels brought 
him celestial food and changed his rough couch into a 
bed of roses; and when the people, attracted by the 
report of the miracle, thronged about him, he found 
strength to preach to them. Even the fanatical gov- 
ernor, Dnt'ian of Saragossa, was temporarily subdued, 
and ordered Vincent to be brought from the dungeon 
and placed on a soft bed; but when the latter died, his 
rage broke out afresh, and he commanded that the body 
should be thrown to the wild beasts for food. There- 
upon angels, and even ravens, protected the corpse from 
t he ravenous wolves and vultures. It was then cast 
into the sea, but floated, and reached a safe shore, where 
it was taken up by Christian hands and honorably in- 
terred. At a later day the erection of an altar and a 
chapel introduced the worship of the precious relics. 
This legendary history was already familiar to Augus- 
tine (see serm. 4, l)e Jacob et Esau [in Natali S. 1 'inceniit], 
and serm. 274, 275, 276; comp, also Prudent ins, Periste- 
phanon [ed. Dressel], hymn v, p. 350-371 ; Paulinus of 
Nola, Poem. 27; Venantius Fortunatiis, Curin. viii, 4; 
Gregory of Tours, De Glor. Murtt.c. 90; I List or. F rancor. 
iii, 29; Holland, Passio S. Vine, sub J an. 22; and Ilui- 
nart, Acta Martt. [ed. Galura], ii, 339). The relics of 
Vincent were mostly brought to Lisbon in the Middle 
Ages; but a portion, including his stole, is claimed to 
be in the possession of Paris, and another portion, in- 
cluding one of his arms, in the keeping of Bari, in Apu- 
lia. See Tillemont, J letnoires, v, 215; Herzog, Ileal- 
Encyklop. s. v. 

Vincent Ferraris (Vicente Ferrer ). Sr., a Span- 
ish monk, was born at Valencia, Jan. 23, 1355. His 
parents, although of moderate means, took great pains 
to develop his talents, so that at the age of twelve he 
studied philosophy, and at seventeen he passed beyond 
t he ability of his instructors. He entered the Order of 
St. Dominic, Feb. 5, 1374, taught for some time, then 
preached at Barcelona, and went to Lerida in 1384 to 
receive the doctorate in theology. In 1385 he ex- 
pounded Scripture in the Cathedral of Valencia, and 
preached with such success that the legate Peter took 
, him in 1391 to Paris, and in 1394 he was called to Home 
as confessor of the papal palace. In 1397 he resumed 
preaching, passing through the cities of Spain, France, 
Germany, Great Britain, and Ireland, speaking with 
great fluency and oratorical elegance in the language 
of each country, but encountering many scenes of vio- 
lence. In 1412 he was a delegate to the body which 
elected Ferdinand of Aragon to the throne; in 1415 he 
counselled in favor of Martin V as pope; and in 1417 he 
received a triumphal reception to Vaimes in Brittany. 
He died there April 5, 1419, and was canonized by Ca- 
lixtus III, on June 29, 1455, although the hull to that 
effect was not published till Oct. 1, 1458. He left ser- 
mons and a few other religious works, for which see 
Iloefer, Nouv . Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Vincent, John A., a minister in the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Maury County, 
Tenn., Sept. 24, 1811. He received a careful religious 
training; experienced religion in his fourteenth year; 
was licensed to preach in 1837, and united with the 
Memphis Conference in 1838. He continued labori- 
ously and with fidelity until 1855, when failing health 
necessitated his relinquishing active work, and he lo- 
cated. In 1865 he again entered the effective ranks, 
and in them continued until his death, in 1866. Mr. 
Vincent possessed an untarnished character, considera- 
ble ability as a preacher, and was highly respected. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences of the M. E. Church , 
South , 1866, p. 52. 

Vincent, Thomas, a Nonconformist divine of 
great popularity, was born at Hertford, England, in 1634. 
He was educated at Westminster School, and in 1647 
elected to Christ Cluireh, Oxford. He was chosen cate- 
chist to Dr. Owen, and chaplain to Kobert, earl of Leices- 


VINCENT 


789 


VINCI 


ter. During the plague with which the kingdom was j 
visited, lie exhibited great courage and piety by de- 
voting himself to the service of the sufferers in this 
great calamity. He was ejected in 16(52 for Noncon- 
formity, and preached at Buxton until his death, Oct. 
15, 1678. He was the author of several practical relig- 
ious works, for which see Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
A mer . A uthors , s. v. 

Vincent, William, D.I)., a learned English di- 
vine, was born in London, Nov. 2, 1739. lie passed 
through every gradation of the School of Westminster, 
and in 1757 was elected scholar of Trinity College, Cam- 
bridge. In 17(52 he returned to Westminster as teach- 
er, and in that capacity he proceeded from the lowest 
to the highest situation, becoming dually dean in 1802. 
II is literary work is extensive, and he did much in 
moulding the higher thought of his time, lie died 
Dec. 21, 1815. For his writings, which chiefly relate to 
antiquarian and philological subjects, see Allibone, Diet . 
of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Vincentian Congregation is a brotherhood or 
association of secular priests, who, although not strictly 
a religious order, are bound by vows, and are especially 
devoted to preaching and hearing confession among the 
poor. They are so called from their founder, the Ho- 
man Catholic saint, Vincent de Paul (q. v.). Another 
object is to undertake the direction of episcopal semi- 
naries and other colleges for the education of ecclesias- 
tics, and to direct the annual devotional exercises of 
the secular clergy. 

The name Vincentian is also sometimes given to oth- 
er associations founded by Vincent de Paul. Of these 
there are several sisterhoods, that of Charity being the 
most remarkable, and the Charitable Lay Association, 
which has numerous branches in all Iioman Catholic 
countries. 

Vinci, Leonardo da, an illustrious Italian artist, 
was born in Lower Valdarno, at the Castle of Vinci, in 
1452. lie was the natural son of Pietro da Vinci, but 
his mother is not known. At an early age he evinced 
rare abilities for everything he turned his attention to, 
but more particularly for arithmetic, music, and draw- 
ing. llis drawings appeared something wonderful to 
his father, who showed them to Andrea Verocchio 
(q. v.), and that master, greatly surprised at the merit 
displayed in so young a hand, willingly took Leonardo 
as his pupil. Ilis astonishment was greatly increased 
when he saw the progress made by his pupil; lie felt 
his own inferiority, and, when he saw how far he was 
surpassed by young Da Vinci, relinquished painting en- 
tirely. The tirst original work by Leonardo was the 
Rotella del Fico (round board of a tig-tree), upon which 
liis father requested him to paint something for one of 
his tenants. Leonardo wished to astonish his father, 
and determined to paint something extraordinary, that 
should represent the head of Medusa. Accordingly, 
having prepared the rotella and covered it with plas- 
ter, he collected almost, every kind of reptile, and com- 
posed a monster of most horrible aspect; it seemed 
alive, its eyes Hashed tire, and it appeared to breathe 
destruction from its open mouth. Ilis father was in- 
deed astonished, and carried the picture to a dealer in 
Florence, sold it for a hundred ducats, and bought an 
ordinary piece for a tritle to give to his tenant. Ilis 
talents soon attracted attention at Florence. He was 
possessed of remarkable intellectual powers. He was a 
diligent and successful student of painting, sculpture, 
architecture, mathematics, mechanics, hydrostatics, mu- 
sic, poetry, botany, and astronomy, besides numerous 
manly sports. To this intellectual power he joined ele- 
gance of features and manners. He was affable with 
strangers, with citizens, with private individuals, and 
with princes. Such a combination of qualities in a sin- 
gle individual soon gained him a reputation throughout 
all Italy. 

Da Vinci’s life is divided by Lanzi into four periods, 


the frst of which includes the time he remained at 
Florence, until 1491. lie was a diligent student of his 
art, and endeavored to perfect his designs rather than 
to multiply his pictures. By his knowledge of sculpt- 
ure he gave that perfect relief and roundiicss then want- 
ing in the art of painting, and he imparted such grace 
and spirit to all his works that he fairly earned t he title 
of Father of Modern Fainting. To this period may be 
referred the Medusa ; the Magdalen, in the Florentine 
Gallery; some Madonnas and Holy Families , in the 
Giustiniani and ISorghese galleries; and others. He 
also executed several important sculptures, among which 
are the statue of <87. Tommaso. in Orsan Michele, at Flor- 
ence; the Horse, in the Church of Sts. Giovanni and 
Faolo, at Venice; besides other important models. 

The second period commences with Da Vinci’s resi- 
dence at Milan, which began by invitation of the duke, 
Lodovieo Slbrza, in 1494. lie was appointed director 
of the Academy of Painting, which had lately been re- 
vived. In this capacitj' he banished all the dry Gothic 
principles formerly established, ami introduced the beau- 
tiful simplicity and purity of the Grecian and Human 
style. The duke engaged him in the stupendous proj- 
ect of conducting the waters of the Adda from Morte- 
sana, through the Valteliue and the valley of the Chia- 
venna, to the walls of Milan, a distance of nearly two 
hundred miles. He applied himself with such diligence 
to the preparation for and execution of the work that it 
was accomplished, greatly to the astonishment of all 
Italy. He executed the model for a colossal bronze 
equestrian statue of the duke’s father, Francesco Sforza, 
but could not complete it on account of the financial em- 
barrassment of the duke, two hundred thousand pounds 
of metal being required. It was here, also, that lie ex- 
ecuted his celebrated painting, the Last Supper, on a 
wall of the convent of Santa Maria delle Grazie at Mi- 
lan. This has been considered the masterpiece, not 
only of Leonardo, but of all masters. Unfortunately it 
was executed in fresco with a new combination of ma- 
terials, so t hat in half a century after its execution it 
was greatly defaced. Numerous copies have been made 
which retain much of the spirit of the original. In 
1500 Lodovieo Slbrza was overthrown in battle by the 
French, and made prisoner. Leonardo was, on this ac- 
count, obliged to abandon all his possessions and take 
refuge in Florence. 

The third period of Da Vinci’s life begins with this 
return to Florence. Pietro Soderini. the gonfaloniere, 
now had him enrolled among the artists in the employ 
of the government, and procured him a pension. In 
1502 C’esare Borgia, captain-general of the pope’s army, 
appointed him his chief architect and engineer, and Da 
Vinci visited many parts of the Homan states in his offi- 
cial capacity. In 1503 he was employed to paint one 
side of the eouncil-hall of the Palazzo Veeehio, while 
Michael Angelo was to paint the other side. Leonardo 
drew upon his side the cartoon of the Battle of the Stand- 
ard, which has received much praise from the old Ital- 
ian critics. In 1507 he again visited Milan, where he 
painted a large Madonna and Child. During this pe- 
riod Leonardo produced his best paintings. He was less 
occupied with other pursuits than at any other period, 
and gave his almost undivided attention to the art. 
Among his productions about this time may be men- 
tioned a Holy Family, which found its way to the court 
of Russia; his own portrait, in the ducal gallery at Flor- 
ence ; a portrait, of Raphael; Christ Disputing in the 
Temple, in one of the collections at Home ; the portrait 
of Queen Giovanna. in the Doria Palace; the portrait of 
Mona Lisa, now in t lie Louvre, at Paris; and the car- 
toon of St. .4 nna, drawn for the Church of r he Servi, at 
Florence. In 1512 he visited Milan, and painted two 
portraits of the duke, Maximilian, son of Lodovieo Sforza. 
In 1511 he again returned to Florence. About this 
time he went to Home, drawn thither by the encour- 
agement given to art by the new pope. Leo X. He 
was introduced to the pontiff, who signified his iuten- 


VINCI 


TOO 


VINE 



Da Vinci's First Sketch of the Head of Christ, for his Great Painting of the 
Last Supper. 

tion to employ his services; but, on account of a want 
of courtesy on the part of the pope, or because of t lie ris- 
ing of Buonarroti and llaphae], lie left Borne in disgust. 

Now begins the fourth period of Da Vinci’s life, 
which is marked by his relinquishment, of the art of 
painting. By invitation of Francis I of France, he went 
to Pavia, where he was received with the greatest kind- 
ness by that monarch, taken into his service, and grant- 
ed a salary of seven hundred crowns annually, lie 
went with the king to Bologna to meet. Leo X, and af- 
terwards, about the beginning of 1 51 G, accompanied him 
to France. After he left Italy, on account of enfeebled 
health lie executed little or nothing. The king could j 
not prevail on him to color his cartoon of St. Anna, I 
which he had taken with him; nor was he at all dis- I 
posed to commence any new work. He gradually grew' 
worse during the next five years, during which time he 
Mill received marks of the esteem and favor of the king, 
and died at (’Ion. near Amboise, May 2, 1519. aged sixty- 
.wen, and not seventy-live, as Vasari has stated. Va- 
sari relates that he died in the arms of Francis I, who (gephen seddm ), the vine of Sodom, certainly not a' vine, 
happened to he on a visit to his chamber at the time £ ee y 1NK OK Sodom. 


reasoning upon any established 
basis. The discoveries which made 
Galileo and Kepler, and Maestlin, 
and jMaurolicus, and Castelli, and 
other names illustrious, the system 
ol Copernicus, the very theories of 
recent goologers, are anticipated by 
Da Vinci within the coinpass of a 
few pages; not, perhaps, in the 
most precise language, or on the 
most conclusive reasoning, hut so 
as to strike us with something like 
the awe of supernatural knowl- 
edge. In an age of so much dog- 
matism, he first laid down t lie 
grand principle of Bacon, that ex- 
periment. and observation must he 
the guides to just theory in the 
investigation of nature.” 

Da Vinci’s life has been writlen 
in Italian by Vasari (1550), Amo- 
retti (1784), Bossi (LSI 4); in French 
l>v St. -Germain (1803), Delecluzc 
( 184 l).Dumensil (1850), Bio (1855), 
Clement. ( 1 8G1 ), Moussave (1807); 
in German by Braun (1810); in 
English by 1 law kins (1802), Brown 
(1828), and others. 

Vinckenbooms, David, a 
Flemish painter, was horn at ^Mech- 
lin in 1578. lie was instructed hv 
his father. Philip, an obscure paint- 
er in distemper. 1 le painted land- 
scapes of a small size, and deco- 
rated them with subjects taken 
from the Bible, with fairs, merry- 
makings, etc. One of his most im- 
portant works is a picture, at Am- 
sterdam, of a crowd of people at- 
tending the drawing of a lottery 
by torchlight, lie painted a picture 
of Christ Bear in ff his Cross , in the 
collection of the elector palatine, and Christ Restoring 
Blind Bart inueus, at Frankfort, in each of which a land- 
scape serves for the background. He excelled in mak- 
ing drawings with the pen washed with India ink, 
several of which arc in the British Museum, represent- 
ing the history of the Brodifjal Son. He also engraved 
some plates of landscapes from his own designs, lie 
died at Amsterdam in 1029. See Spooner, Biog. Ilisi. 
o f the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Vine. This well-known and valuable plant is the 
subject of frequent Biblical notice and a conspicuous 
element of Oriental agriculture. 

I. 'Flic following Hebrew' words denote the vine: 

1. Gephen (1SS) f or, more definitely, gephen hay-ydgin 
0?;0 *»?.?)* frequent occurrence in the Bible, and 
used in a general sense. Indeed, gephen sometimes is 
applied to a plant that resembles a vine in some particu- 
lars, as HTj: “Sjj {gephen sadeh), 2 Kings iv, 39, i. e. 
probably the colocyntli plant [see Gounn], or CIO 


that he was seized with the paroxysm. 

Da Vinci achieved distinction in the field of letters 
as well as in that of art. He wrote several treatises on 
various subjects, the principal of which was a treatise 
on painting. Trattato della Rittura (Baris, 1651). Very 
few of his other works have been published, hut in 179' 


2. Sorek (py^), or sorekdh (njTTw), is a term ex- 
pressive of some choice kind of vine (.Ter. ii, 21 ; Isa. v, 
2; Gen. xlix, 11), supposed to be identical with that 
now called in Morocco serki and in Persia kishmish* 
with small round dark berries and soft stones (see 


Venturi collected numerous extracts from his unpub- Niebuhr, Rescript, de l Arabic, p. 147; and Ocdmann, 


lished writings, and published them in an essay entitled 
Fssai sur les Ourrages Bhysicn-Mathematiqnes de JJo- 
nard de Vinci , etc., ‘•which,'’ says Ilallam, “according, 
at least, to our common estimate of the age in which he 
lived, are more like revelations of physical truths vouch- 
safed to a single mind than the superstructure of its 


Sammhmg , ii, 97). From the passage in Jeremiah, it is 
clear that, the sorek denotes not another species of vine, 
hut the common vine which by some process of cultiva- 
tion attained a high state of excellence. 

3. Xazir (*T"T2), originally applied to a Nazarite who 
did not shave his hair, expresses an “undressed vine” 


VINE 


791 


VINE 


(A. V.), i. e. one which every seventh and every fiftieth 
year was not pruned (see Gesenius, Thesaur. s. v.). 

The regular Greek word for “vine” is dpTrtXog, of 
generic signification. 

Grapes are designated by various names: (1.) Eshlol 
(Vs'iTX) is either “a cluster,” ripe or unripe, like mce- 
mns. or a “single grape” (as in Isa. lxv, 8; Mic.vii, 1). 
(•>.) 'Knob (2:2) ; Arab, cynob , “ a cluster.” (3.) Baser 
sour, i. e. unripe grapes (Isa. xviii, 5). (4.) Ze- 

mordh (1TV.2T), “a grape cut off.” The “ blossom” of 
i he vine is called semadar Cant, ii, 13, 15. 

Grape -stones” are probably meant by chart sannini 
A. V. “ kernel,” Numb, vi, 4. The “cuticle” 
of the grape is denominated zdg ibid. loc. rif. ; the 
“ tendrils" by sar'ujim (C^TtE), Joel i, 7. See Gkape. 







Vine of Palestine. 


II. The grape-vine ( Vitis rimferd) is supposed to be 
native on the shores of the Caspian. Its culture “ex- 
tends from about the twenty-first to the fiftieth degree 
of north latitude, and reaches from Portugal on the west 
to the confines of India on the east. It is, however, 
only along the centre of this zone that the finest wines 
are made, those on the north being harsh and austere; 
and the grapes grown at the south are better adapted 
for making raisins, unless when they are grown in ele- 
vated positions or on the slopes of mountains. Liebig 
states that the wines of warm countries possess no odor; 
wines grown in France have it in a marked degree; but 
in the wines from the Rhine the perfume is most in- 
tense” (Hogg, Ver/ef. Kingdom , p. 181). It may be added 
that not only is it largely and successfully cultivated in 
the new world of America, but that, carried across the 
equator, it thrives in Southern Africa anti in the Aus- 
tralian colonies, ami may be regarded as the companion 
of the human family in nearly all the mild and genial 
regions of its sojourn. In the districts of the Caucasus, 
as well as in the elevated valley of Cashmere, the vine 
climbs to the tops of the loftiest trees, and the grapes 
are of fine quality and large size in many places of the 
intermediate country. 

Every part of the vine was, and still continues to be, 


highly valued. The sap was at one time used in med- 
icine.* Verjuice expressed from wild grapes is well 
known for its acidity. The late Sir A. Rurnes men- 
tions that in Cabul they use grape powder, obtained 
bv drying and powdering the unripe fruit, as a pleasant 
acid.* When ripe, the fruit is everywhere highly es- 
teemed, both fresh ami in its dried state as raisins. 
The juice of the ripe fruit, called must, is valued as a 
pleasant beverage, llv fermentation, wine, alcohol, and 
vinegar are obtained; the lees yield tartar; an oil is 
sometimes expressed Irom the seeds; and the ashes of 
the twigs were formerly valued in consequence of yield- 
ing a salt which we now know to be carbonate of potash. 

The first mention of the vine in Scripture occurs in 
Gen. ix, 20: “And Noah began to be a husbandman, 
and he planted a vineyard.” Many are of opinion that 
wine was not unknown before the Deluge, and that the 
patriarch only continued to cultivate the vine after that 
event, as he had done before it; but the fathers think 
that he knew not the force of wine, having never used 
it before, nor having seen any one use it. The grape- 
vine is found wild at this day in the neighborhood of 
Noah’s first vineyard, at the foot of Mount Ararat. 
Humboldt found it on the shores of the Caspian, in 
Caramania, and in Armenia. It is also a native of 
Georgia and of the northern parts of Persia, but does 
not extend to India, though several plants of the same 
familv are common among the mountains of the north- 
ern parts of that rich country. 

Egypt is nowadays by no means eminent for its 
grapes; but the first time after the planting of Noah s 
vinevard that we find the vine mentioned in Scripture, 
it is the vine of Egypt (Gen. xl, 0-11 ; comp. Numb, xx, 
5; Psa. lxxviii, 47). Even although we had not the 
references in Herodotus, and the tradition ascribing to 
Osiris the invention of wine, the frequency with which 
the plant or its fruit is figured on Egyptian monuments 
shows how important it must once have been. See 
ViNEYAUi). The vine, however, was not a native of 
Egvpt, nor does the climate favor it. In ancient times, 
as we learn from the monuments, great care was taken 
in its culture, hut with comparatively little success ; and 
hence the surprise of the spies when sent to survey the 
promised land at the immense clusters ol grapes they 
found. Fearing that their account of their great size 
would not be credited hv persons accustomed to the less 
productive vines of Egypt, they brought back a cluster 
of the grapes to convince them, as we learn in Numb, 
xiii, 23^ 24: “And they came unto the brook of Eshcol, 
and cut down from thence a branch with one cluster of 
grapes, and they hare it between two, upon a staff; and 
they brought of the pomegranates and of the figs. The 
place was called Eshcol because of the cluster of grapes 
which the children of Israel cut down from thence.” 
Some wine, indeed, has been made in Lower Egypt in 
different ages, but it was never celebrated either for 
quality or quantity. From the fortieth chapter of Gen- 
esis, where the dream of Pharaoh’s chief butler is re- 
lated. it would appear that the juice of the grape fresh- 
pressed was drunk by the king, and possibly the Egyp- 
tian grape-juice at that time was used in the state of 
must. Rut though the Pharaohs drank of the “blood 
of the grape” in this imperfect state, the Ptolemies rev- 
elled in the matnrer wines of Palestine, Cyprus, and 
Greece; and one of them, as Josephus tells ns, among 
some magnificent gifts sent to the 1 emplc ol Jerusalem, 
renewed the Golden Vine, the symbol of the Jewish na- 
tion, of which the treasury had been robbed. Rosen- 
m filler tells us that in the Temple, above and around a 
gate seventy cubits high, which led from the porch to 
the holv place, a richly carved vine was extended as a 
border ‘and decoration. The branches, tendrils, and 
leaves were of the finest gold, the stalks of the hunches 
were of the length of the human form, and the bunches 
hanging upon them were of costly jewels. Ilerod first 
placed it there; rich and patriotic Jews from time to 
time added to its embellishment, one contributing a 


VINE 


92 


VINE 


new grape, another a leaf, and a third even a bunch of mener line eharrette entre deux. Ce n’est pas grande 


the same precious materials. See Temple. 

Even before Israel took possession, the land of prom- 
ise was a lain! of vineyards (Dent, vi, 11; xxviii, 29; 
Numb, xiii, 23); and it is interesting to observe with 
what minuteness the divine legislator enacted rules and 
regulations for the culture of their vineyards, while the 
prospective owners still wandered in a burning desert 
(Exod. xxii, 5; xxiii, 11 ; Lev. xxv, 5, 1 1 ; Numb, vi, 
3: Deut. xxii, 0; xxiii, 24; xxiv, 21). For this cult- 
ure the portion of Judah was especially adapted, and in 
obtaining for his inheritance the hilly slopes of the 
south, the prophecy of his ancestor was fulfilled — he 
washed his garments in wine and his clothes in the 
blood of grapes (Gen. xlix. 11). Here, more than else- 
where, are to be seen on the sides of the hills the vine- 
yards, marked by their watch-towers and walls, seated 
on their ancient terraces — the earliest and latest symbol 
of Judah. The elevation of the hills and table-lands 
of Judah is the true climate of the vine, and at Hebron, 
according to the Jewish tradition, was its primeval seat. 
It was from the Judtenu valley of Esheol — “ the torrent 
of the cluster” — that the spies cut down the gigantic 
cluster of grapes. A vineyard on a “ hill of olives” (“ a 
horn the sou of oil,” Isa. v, 1), with the “fence,” and 
“the stones gathered out,” and “the tower in the midst 
thereof,” is the natural figure which, both in the pro- 
phetical and evangelical records, represents the king- 
dom of Judah. The vine was the emblem on the coins 
of the Maccabees, and in the colossal cluster of golden 


nierveille si les raisins sont si beaux et le vin si puis- 
sant.” Strabo states that it is recorded that there arc 
vines in Margiana whose stems are such as would re- 
quire two men to span round, and whose clusters are 
two cubits long ( Geograph . [ed. Kramer], i, 1 12). Now 
Margiana is the modern district of Ghilau, in Persia, 
south-west of the Caspian Sea, and the very country on 
whose hills the vine is believed to be indigenous. Noth- 
ing would be easier than to multiply testimonies rela- 
tive to the large size of the grapes of Palestine, from the 
published accounts of travellers such as Elliot, Laborde, 
Mariti, Duudini (who expresses his surprise at the ex- 
traordinary size of the grapes of Lebanon), Russell, etc. 
We must be content with quoting the following extract 
from Kitto’s Physical Hist, of Palest, p. 330, which is 
strikingly illustrative of the spies’ mode of carrying the 
grapes from Esheol : “ Even in our own country a bunch 
of grapes was produced at Welbeck, and sent as a pres- 
ent from the duke of Jutland to the marquis of Rock- 
ingham, which weighed nineteen pounds. It was con- 
veyed to its destination — more than twenty miles dis- 
tant — on a staff by four laborers, two of whom bore it 
in rotation.” The greatest diameter of this cluster was 
nineteen inches and a half, its circumference four feet 
and a half, and its length nearly twenty-three inches. 

Peth-haccerem, “ the house of the vine” (Jer. vi, 1; 
Neh. iii, 14), and Abel-eeramim, “the plain of the vine- 
yards,” took their respective names from their vicinity 
to vineyards. Gophna (now Jifna). a few miles north 


grapes which overhung the porch of the second Tem- of Jerusalem, is stated by Eusebius (0 nomast. <t>apayli 
pie; and the grapes of Judah still mark the tombstones fiorpvot;) to have derived its name from its vines. Put 
of the Hebrew race in the oldest of their European ( see Oruxi. 

cemeteries, at Prague (Stanley, Sin. and Palest, p. 102). I In Italy vines are trained round the trunk of the elm 
Although from many of its most famous haunts the vine and other trees; in France and Germany lor a lowlier 
has disappeared — for example, from Engedi — both in growth stakes or wooden props are provided. In Pal- 
Southern Palestine and on the slopes of Lebanon there estine, however, the vine is usually planted on the side 
are specimens sufficient to vindicate the old renown of of a terraced hill, and the aged branches are allowed to 
this “land of vineyards.” “The grapes of Hebron are trail along the ground, the fruit-bearing shoots being 
still considered the finest in the Holy Land. Punches ' raised on forked sticks. This latter mode of eultiva- 
weighing from six to seven pounds are said to be by no tion appears to be alluded to by Ezekiel (xix, 1 1, 12): 


means uncommon, and Sir Moses Montetiore said he saw 
one bunch at Hebron a yard long” (Gad by, Wanderings, 
p.458). Schulz (Leif unyen des llochsten, v, 285, quoted 
by Rosenmiiller, Bill. Bot . p. 223) speaks of supping at 
Peitshin, a village near Ptolemais, under a vine whose 
stem was about a foot and a half in diameter, and whose 


; her strong rods were broken and withered.” Dr. Robin- 
son, who has given us much information on t lie vines 
of Palestine, thus speaks of the manner in which he saw 
them trained near Hebron: “They are planted singly 
in rows, eight or ten feet apart in each direction. The 
stock is suffered to grow up large to the height of six or 


height was about thirty feet, which by its branches j eight feet, and is then fastened in a sloping position to 
formed a hut upwards of thirty feet broad and long, a strong stake, and the shoots suffered to grow and ex- 
“The clusters of these extraordinary vines,” he adds, tend from one plant to another, forming a line of fes- 
“are so large that they weigh ten or twelve pounds, toons. Sometimes two rows are made to slant towards 
and the berries maybe compared with our small plums.” each other, and thus form by their shoots a sort ofarch. 
See also Pclon, Observat. ii, 340 : “ Les seps dcs vignes These shoots are pruned away in autumn” (Bill. Res. ii, 
sont fort gros et les rameaux fort spaeieux. Les habi- j 80,81). Sometimes the large stones are built into a 
tants entendent bien com me il la faut gouverner. Car rough wall, about three feet high, and the vines are 
ils la plantent si loing rune de I’autre qu’on pourroit | trained over it, thus exposing a large surface to the sun, 

and ripening magnificent clusters (Tris- 
tram, Travels , p. 606). In the courts of 
many houses vines are trained over a trellis, 
or framework of wood, and in the hot weather 
the ample foliage affords a delightful shadow 
(see 1 Kings iv, 25; Mic. iv, 4). 

Pesides planting the vine and protecting 
it from aggressors, such as jackals or “little 
foxes” (Cant, ii, 15), and that wholesale de- 
stroyer “the boar out of the wood” (Psa. 
Ixxx, 13), to say nothing of unscrupulous 
passengers or mischievous marauders (ver. 
12; Gen. xlix, 22, 23), the careful husband- 
man “ primes ami purges” his vine, that 
it may bring forth more and better fruit 
(John xv, 2). “ The pruniny , or lopping 

of the fruitless shoots, takes place first in 
March, when the clusters begin to form. 
The twig that is lopped off* in March has 
time to shoot by April, when, if it give no 
promise, it is again lopped off, and thus 



iw; • - 

Watch-tower in Vineyard. 


VINE 


93 


VINE 


again, if still fruitless, in May; after which it does not 
shoot forth, and the process of pruning ceases. Such 
is the different treatment of the fruitful and the fruit- 
less branch. From the former a twig or shoot is taken 
away ; the latter is taken away itself, and, its wood 
being untit for any other use, it is cast into the tire 
and burned (Ezek. xv, 2, 5). The purging of the vine 
is elfected by making incisions in it with a knife, which 
requires to be done with great skill and delicacy. In 
this way the infected sap is drawn off, and the diseased 
vine, which would otherwise die, is preserved. This 
is what is called the bleeding of the vine, and is often 
alluded to bv religious writers as an emblem of sancti- 
lied afllict i< m” (Anderson, Bible Light from Bible Lands, 
p. 200). Besides wild-boars, jackals, and foxes, other 
enemies, such as birds, locusts, and caterpillars, occa- 
sionally damaged the vines. 

The vine in the Mosaic ritual was subject to the 
usual restrictions of the “seventh year” (Exod. xxiii, 
1 1) and the jubilee of the fiftieth year (Lev. xxv, II). 
The gleanings, oleloth (ribbj.*), were to be left for the 
poor and stranger (Jer. xlix, 9; I)eut. xxiv, 21). The 
vineyard was not to be sown “with divers seeds” (xxii, 
0), but fig-trees were sometimes planted in vineyards 
(Luke xiii. G; comp. 1 Kings iv, 25: “Every man un- 
der his vine and under his tig-tree”). Persons passing 
through the vineyard were allowed to eat the grapes 
therein, but not to carry any away (Dent, xxiii, 24). 

The vintage, bat sir (-Pj£2), which formerly was a 
season of general festivity, as is the case more or less in 
all vine-growing countries, commences in September. 
The towns are deserted, and the people live among the 
vineyards (2^3) in the lodges and tents (Robinson, ut 
sup. : comp. Judg. ix, 27 ; Jer. xxv, 30; Isa. xvi. 10). 
The grapes were gathered with shouts of joy by the 
“grape-gatherers” ("*^2) (Jer. xxv, 30), and put into 
baskets (see vi, 9). They were then carried on the 
head and shoulders, or slung upon a yoke, to the “wine- 
press” (r:0. Those intended for eating were perhaps 
put into Hat open baskets of wickerwork, as was the 
custom in Egypt. ( Wilkinson, A nc. Egypt, i, 43). In 
Palestine at present the finest grapes, says Robinson, 
are dried as raisins, tsimmuk (p^!2), and the juice of 
the remainder, after having been trodden and pressed, 
“is boiled down to a syrup which, under the name of 
dibs ('rpi), is much used by all classes, wherever vine- 
yards are found, as a condiment with their food.” For 
further remarks on the modes of making fermented 
drinks, etc., of the juice of the grape, see Wine. The 
vineyard (~“13), which was generally on a hill (Isa. 
v, 1; Jer. xxxi, 5; Amos ix, 13), was surrounded by 
a wall or hedge in order to keep out the wild boars 
(Psa. lxxx, 13), jackals, and foxes (Numb, xxii, 24; 
Cant, ii, 15; Nell, iv, 3; Ezek. xiii, 4, 5; Matt, xxi, 
33), which commit sad havoc among the vines, both by 
treading them down and by eating the grapes. With- 
in the vineyard was one or more towers of stone in 
which the vine-dressers, koremim (Cp^lT), lived (Isa. 


i, 8; v, 2; Matt, xxi, 33; see also Robinson, Bill Res. 
i, 213; ii, 81). The press, gath (P5), and vat, yekeb 
(-£?), which was dug (Matt, xxi, 33) or hewn out of 
the rocky soil, were part of the vineyard furniture (Isa. 
v, 2). One of these ancient wine-presses, scooped out 
in the living rock, has been described by Robinson. He 
found it on the road from Akka to Jerusalem. “Advan- 
tage had been taken of a ledge of rock; on the upper 
side, towards the south, a shallow vat had been dug 
out, eight feet square and fifteen inches deep, its bot- 
tom declining slightly towards the north. The thick- 
ness of rock left on the north side was one foot; and 
two feet lower down on that side another smaller vat 
was excavated, four feet square by three feet deep, 
l'he grapes were trodden in the shallow upper vat, 
and the juice drawn off by a bole at the bottom, still 
remaining, into the lower vat. This ancient press 
would seem to prove that in other days these hills 
were covered with vineyards; and such is its state of 
preservation that, were there still grapes in the vicini- 
ty, it might at once be brought into use without repair” 
( Bibl . Res. iii, 137). This may be taken as a type of 
the Hebrew wine-press. Like the Egyptians, the Jews 
may have also employed presses made of wood ; but 
those hewn out of the living rock would be landmarks 
as permanent as threshing-doors similarly constructed 
(comp. Judg. vii, 25; Zech. xiv, 10, with Gen. 1, 10; 2 
Sam. xxiv, 18). It was a simple but sufficient arrange- 
ment, and modern ingenuity lias not much improved on 
it. Nor has any effectual substitute been found for the 
human foot as an apparatus for expressing the juice of 
the grape without crushing the seeds or “ stones.” See 
Wine- fat. 

Approaching Hebron, Dr. Bonar describes the square 
towers in gardens, corresponding to those mentioned in 
Isa. v, 2; Matt. xxi. 33. and adds, “These towers seem 
of considerable size, as if meant for something more than 
watching; and we are told that in summer the inhabi- 
tants of the city take up their residence in their gar- 
dens. and make use of these towers for shelter by night, 
as they do of their olives and vines for shade by day” 
( Land of Promise, p. Gl). Even in spring, and long be- 
fore a single “berry” was ripe, with their fresh and deli- 
cate fragrance, and with their promise of “things not 
seen as yet.” there was a great attraction in the vine- 
yards; and though it were only to see if the “vine 
flourished and the tender grape appeared,” it was worth 
while to arise early and “ go forth to the Held and lodge 
in the villages” (Cant, ii, 1 1-13 ; vii, 1 1, 12). Nor must 
we forget the feathered minstrelsy which at that season 
made the vineyards vocal. They are the hiding-place 
of the bulbul, the nightingale ofRalestine; and in vine- 
yards under Hermon, Tristram, in the course of two 
days, discovered a finch and two warblers, all of them 
perfectly new to ornithology, and all of them “songsters 
of no ordinary power and compass” (Travels, p. GOG). 

Even the leaves and the stocks of the vine are use- 
ful. The cuttings of the vine and the leaves are much 
used for manure to the vineyards. The leaves are also 
used as a vegetable, chopped meat and rice being rolled 



Egyptian Vineyard and Wiuc-press, (From the monuments at Kuruah, Thebes.) 


VINE 


94 


VINE OF SODOM 


lip together in single leaves, and boiled for the table; 
it makes a very agreeable dish. The leaves are also 
used for fodder/ The scarcity of fuel, particularly wood, 
in most parts of the East is so great that they supply 
it with everything capable of burning — cow-dung, dried 
roots, parings of fruits, withered stalks of herbs, and 
tlowers. Vine-twigs are particularly mentioned as used 
for fuel in dressing their food by D'Arvicux. La Uoque, 
and others. Ezekiel says, in his parable of the vine 
used figuratively Ibr the people of ( Jod. “ Shall wood he 
taken thereof to do any work? or shall men take a pin 
of it to hang any vessel thereon V Behold, it is cast | 
into the tire for fuel” (xv, 3, 4). “If a man abide not 
in me ” saitli our Lord, “be is east forth as a branch (of 
t he vine), and is withered: and men gather them, and 
east them into the lire, and they are burned” (John : 
xv. (>). See Er el. 

111. Everywhere present, so beautiful, so valuable, we 
cannot, wonder that the vine reappears on almost every 
page of poetic Scripture; and, almost as if created on 
purpose, it has become the symbol of the believer and 
of the Church. “My beloved hath a vineyard on a 
very fruitful bill.” Thus Israel is a vine brought from 
Egvpt, and planted by the Lord’s hand in the land of 
promise; room had been prepared for it (comp, with 
this t he passage from Belon quoted above); and where 
it took root it tilled the land, it covered the hills with 
its shadow, its boughs were like the goodly cedar-trees 
(Psa. lxxx, S-10). Comp, (imeliu (Travels through Rus- 
sia ami Xorth. Persia, iii, 431). who thus speaks of the 
vines of Ghilan : “ It is fond of forests, . . . and is fre- 
quently found about promontories; and their lower part 
is almost entirely covered with it. There, higher than 
the eye can reach.it winds itself about the loftiest trees; 
and its tendrils, which here have an arm’s thickness, so 
spread and mutually entangle, themselves far and wide 
that in places where it grows in the most luxuriant 
wildness it is very difficult, to rind a passage.*’ To dwell 
under the vine and tig-tree is an emblem of domestic 
happiness and peace (1 Kings iv, 25; Psa. cxxviii, 3 ; 
Mie. iv. 4) ; the rebellious people of Israel are compared 
to “wild grapes,” “an empty vine,” “the degenerate 
plant of a strange vine” (Isa. v. 2,4 [but see Cockle] ; 
Jer. ii, 21 ; Hos. x. 1), etc. It is a vine which onr Lord 
selects to show the spiritual union which subsists be- 
tween himself and his members (John xv, 1A3). With 
a stock or stem and its outgoing branches, a wonderful 
hydraulic apparatus, made for the rapid transmission 
and rich elaboration of the liquid treasures hidden in the 
soil; with feeble and flexible twigs which, in order to 
grow upward, must clasp the elm or cling to the wall: 
with its avidity Ibr the sunshine and the shower; with 
its large soft leaves, and the tender scent of its meek 
inconspicuous blossom ; above all, with its amethystine 
ripeness empurpling autumn’s diadem and inviting the 
world to gladness, it is an admirable emblem of the 
Christian and the Church — of the believing soul and the 
believing society. “My soul cleaveth to the dust,” and 
it. is only by clasping and climbing that the fallen nature 
rises; and, lilu* the vine with its curling tendrils, so with 
the feeble ringers of his faith the Christian takes hold 
and mounts upward. Of the Pock of Ages, of the Pil- 
lar and Ground of the Truth, of the Tree of Life, he 
takes hold: and from the dust, and from amid the 
creeping things, is drawn up into the pure air and the 
sunshine. And just, as he reposes on a sure support — 
a Saviour as faithful as he is mighty — so he has a strong 
affinity for those truths and that communion which 
keep up t he spirit’s life. The vine subsists bv drink- 
ing. It is because he is himself stu b a thirsty plant 
that his clusters an* so refreshing. Through every 
eager channel absorbing the fulness of the neighboring 
well, lie hangs aloft his flasks of nectar — his pensile 
fountain filled with the essence of all the summer, yet 
cooled again by the broad leaves amid which it nes- 
tles. So the believer has not only an aspiring tenden- 
cy, but a thirsty temperament. Longing Ibr that which 


is the very life and renovation of his reawakened im- 
mortality, his “soul thirsteth for Cod, the living Cod;” 
and with great jov it. is that he draws water from the 
wells of salvation. Jf true to his privileges, if planted 
by the river and constantly resorting to Cod and the 
word of his grace, the inner life will be vigorous and 
abundant. Still “fat and full of sap, and ever flourish- 
ing,” through the much fruit which he bears, the world 
shall be the better, the Father shall be glorified. Sec 
C AUDEN. 

VINE OF SODOM (Z1S gephen Seddm ; Sept. 
dgrreXor "SoCopiov; Vulg. vinea Sodomornm') occurs 
only in Dent, xxxii, 32, where of the wicked it is said, 

“ their vine is of the vine of Sodom, and of the fields of 
Comorrali.” It is generally supposed that this passage 
alludes to the celebrated apples of Sodom, of which Jo- 
sephus ( lP</r, iv, 8, 4) speaks, and to which, apparently, 
Taeitus {Hist, v, (5) alludes. Much has been written on 
t his curious subject, and various trees have been con- 
jectured to be that which produced those 

“Dead Sea fruits that tempt the eye, 

But turn to ashes on the lips,” 

of which Moore and Byron sing. The following is the 
aeeount. of these fruits as given by Josephus: Speaking 
of Sodom (vt sup.'), he says, “ It was of old a happy land, 
both in respect of its fruits and t he abundance of its 
cities; but now it is all burned up. Men say that, on 
account of the wickedness of its inhabitants, it was de- 
stroyed bv lightning. At any rate, there are still to he 
seen remains of the divine fire and traces of fine cities: 
and, moreover, ashes produced in the fruits, which in- 
deed resemble edible fruit in color, but, on being pluck- 
ed by the hand, are dissolved into smoke and ashes.” 
Tacitus ( ut. sup.) is more general, and speaks of all the 
herbs and flowers, whether growing wild or planted, 
turning black and crumbling into ashes. 

Some travellers, as Mauudrcll ( Early Trav. in Pales- 
tine [Bohn, 184*], p. 454), regard the whole story as a 
fiction, being unable either to see or hear of any fruit 
that would answer the required description. 1’oeoeke 
I supposed the apples of Sodom to be pomegranates, 
“which, having a tough, hard rind, and being left on 
the trees two or three years, may be dried to dust inside, 
and the outside may remain fair.” ilasselquist (Trav. 
p. 287) seeks to identify the apples in question with the 
egg-shaped fruit of the Solatium melongena when at- 
tacked by some species of tenth redo, which converts the 
whole of the inside into dust, while the rind remains 
entire and keeps its color. Seetzen, in his letters to 
baron Zaeh {Manat. Correspond, xviii, 442), thought be 
had discovered the apples of Sodom in t lie fruit of a 
kind of cotton-tree, which grew in the plain of El-Ghor, 
and was known by the name of Auschar. The cotton 
is contained in the fruit, which is like a pomegranate, 
hut has no pulp. Chateaubriand concludes the long- 
sought fruit to be that of a thorny shrub with small ta- 
per leaves, which, in size and color, is exactly like tin* 
little Egyptian lemon; when dried, this fruit yields a 
blackish seed, which may be compared to ashes, and 
which, in taste, resembles hitter pepper. Burekhardt 
(Travels in Sgria . p. 392) and Irby and Mangles believe 
that the tree which produces these celebrated apples is 
one which they saw abundantly in the Ghor to the east 
of the Dead Sea, known by the vernacular name of 
ashn/r , or oshar. This tree bears a fruit of a reddish- 
yellow color, about three inches in diameter, which con- 
tains a white substance resembling the finest silk, and 
enveloping some seeds. This silk is collected hv the 
Arabs and twisted into matches for their firelocks. Dr. 
Iiobinson (llihl. lies , . i, 523), when at ’Ain Jidy, without 
knowing at the moment whether it had been observed 
by former travellers or not, instantly pronounced in fa- 
vor of the "oshor fruit being the apples of Sodom. Mr. 
Walter Elliot, in an article “on the Poma Sodomitiea. 
or Dead Sea apples” (Trans, of the Entomol . Soc, 1837 
40, ii, 14), endeavors to show that the apples in question 


VINE OF SODOM 


795 


YINET 


are oak-galls, which he found growing plentifully on 
dwarf oaks ( Qnercus infect aria) in the country beyond 
the Jordan. He tells us that the Arabs asked him to 
bite one of these galls, and that they laughed when 
they saw his month full of dust. “That- these galls are 
the true Dead Sea apples,” it is added, “there can no 
longer be a question. Nothing can be more beautiful 
than their rich, glossy, purplish-red exterior; nothing 
more bitter than their porous and easily pulverized in- 
terior” {ibid. p. 16). The opinion of Pococke may, we 
think, be dismissed at once as being a most improbable 
conjecture. The objection to the Solatium meloncjena 
is that the plant is not peculiar to the shores or neigh- 
borhood of the Sea of Sodom, but is generally distribu- 
ted throughout Palestine; besides which it is not likely 
that the fruit of which Josephus speaks should be rep- 
resented by occasional diseased specimens of the fruit 
of the egg-apple. We must look for some plant, the 
normal character of whose fruit comes somewhere near- 
er to the required conditions. Seetzen’s plant is the 
same as that mentioned bv Burckhardt, Irby and Man- 
gles, and Robinson, i. e. the ’usher. Chateaubriand’s 
thorny shrub, with fruit like small lemons, may be the 
Zukknm {Balanites .Etjijptiaca')\ but it certainly can- 
not be the tree intended. It is not at all probable that 
the oak-galls of which Mr, Elliot speaks should be the 
fruit in question; because these being formed on a tree 
so generally known as an oak, and being common in all 
countries, would not have been a subject worthy of es- 
pecial remark or have been noticed as something pecul- 
iar to the district around the Sea of Sodom. The fruit 
of the ’ bsher appears to have the best claim to represent 
the apples of Sodom. The Calotropis procera is an In- 
dian plant, and thrives in the warm valley of ’Ain Jidv, 
but is scarcely to be found elsewhere in Palestine. The 
readiness with which its fruit, “fair to the eye,” bursts, 
when pressed, agrees well with Josephus’s account ; and, 
although there is a want of suitableness between “the 
few tibres” of Robinson, and the “smoke and ashes” of 
the Jewish historian, yet, according to a note by the 
editor of Seetzen’s Letters , the fruit of the calotropis in 
winter contains a yellowish dust, in appearance resem- 
bling certain fungi, but of pungent quality. — Smith. 
From the fact that, in the song of Moses, it is a vine 
which is mentioned, Dr. Hooker argues with much force 
in favor of the eolocyuth [see Gourd], the foliage and 
trailing stem of which are sufficiently vine-like. The 
general use of the word “apple,” in subsequent times, 
carries our thoughts away from the habit of the plant 
to the appearance of its fruit, which in both eolocyuth 
and calotropis is certainly not unlike an apple and very 
unlike a grape. Notwithstanding the highly authori- 
tative opinion in favor of the former, we still lean to the 
calotropis. Found at ’Ain Jidv (Kiigedi) and Kefercin, 
and abundantly on the eastern shore, it is decidedly a 
Dead Sea plant; and there is something in its appear- 
ance and habit which arrests the eve and impresses the 
imagination. Mr. Tristram calls it “the strangest and 
most tropical-looking shrub he ever saw, having hollow 
puff-balls by way of fruit,” ami without hesitation pro- 
nounces it “the true apple of Sodom” {Tran. p. 281). 
Afterwards he describes it as a tree “with cork-like, 
thick, and light bark, wrinkled and furrowed, huge glos- 
sy leaves, rounder than those of the laurel, and almost as 
large as the foliage of the caoutchouc-tree. We might 
have taken it for a species of spurge ( euphorbia ), from 
the abundance of acrid milk it discharged when broken 
or punctured ; but Maundrell at once recognised it as an 
old acquaintance in Nubia. It was now both in dower 
and fruit. The blossoms were like those of some spe- 
cies of caper, and the fruit like a very large apple in 
shape and color — golden yellow— and soft to the touch ; 
but, if ripe, cracking like a puff-ball when slightly press- i 
ed, and containing only a long thread of small seeds on 
a half-open pod, with long silky filaments, which the 
Bedawin prize highly, and twist into matches for their 
firelocks” {ibid. p. 283). The acrid spurge-like juice at | 


once suggests the gall in Dent, xxxii. 32: “Their vine 
is of the vine of Sodom, and of the fields of Gomorrah: 
their grapes are grapes of gall, their clusters are bitter.” 
— Fairbairn. See Apple of Sodom. 

Vinegar Cj’^n; Sept, and N. T. o Zoq; Vulg. ace - 
turn). The Hebrew term chdmets was applied to a bev- 
erage, consisting generally of wine or strong drink 
turned sour (whence its use was proscribed to the Naz- 
arite, Numb, vi, 3), but sometimes artificially made by 
an admixture of barley and wine, and thus liable to 
fermentation (Mishnn, Pesach. iii, 1). It was acid even 
to a proverb (Rrov. x, 2f>), and by itself formed a nau- 
seous draught (Psa. lxix. 21), but was serviceable for 
the purpose of sopping bread, as used by laborers (Ruth 
ii, 14), being refreshing in the heat (Pliny, xxiii, 2(1 ; 
comp. ii. 41)). The degree of its acidity may he inferred 
from Prov. xxv, 20, where its effect on nitre is noticed. 
See Wine. Similar to the chdmets of the Hebrews was 
the acetum of the Romans- a thin, sour wine, consumed 
by soldiers (Veget.Wc Re Mil. iv,7) either in a pure state 
or, more usually, mixed with water, when it was termed 
posca (Pliny, xix, 2D; Spartiaii. lladr. 10). This was 
the beverage of which the Saviour partook in his dy- 
ing moments (Matt, xxvii, 48; Mark xv, 36; John xix. 
21), 30), and doubtless it was refreshing to his exhausted 
frame, though offered in derision either on that occasion 
or previously (Luke xxiii, 3G). The same liquid, min- 
gled with gall (as Matthew states, probably with the 
view of marking the fulfilment of the prediction in Psa. 
lxix, 21). or with myrrh (as Mark states, with an eye 
to the exact historical fact), was offered to the Saviour 
at an earlier stage of his sufferings, in order to deaden 
the perception of pain (Matt, xxvii, 34; Mark xv, 23). 
—Smith. See Grabner. ])e Posca (Mi sen. 1701) ; Pfaff, 
])e Belle Esca (Tub. 1755); By incus. l)e Morte Jcsu 
Chr. iii, 2G5. See Crucifixion. 

Vines, Richard, a learned English divine and pop- 
ular preacher, was born at Blaston, and educated at 
Magdalene College, Cambridge. From the university 
he was elected schoolmaster at Hinckley; entered into 
holy orders, and obtained the rectory of Weddington. 
In 1G44 Mr. Vines was chairman of the assembly of di- 
vines which established the Presbyterian government, 
and, as Fuller says, was the champion of that party. 
When at London he became minister of St. Clement 
Danes, and vicar of St. Lawrence Jewry; and was after- 
wards (1G45) appointed master of Pembroke Hall, in 
Cambridge, which position lie resigned in 1050 on ac- 
count of the Engagement, as lie was of Presbyterian 
sentiments. lie died in 1G55. For his works, which 
are chietiy sermons and other pastoral treatises, see 
Atlibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. A nthors , s. v. 

Vinet. Alexandre Rodolpiie, an eminent Swiss 
divine and author, was born at Ouchv, canton of Yaud, 
near Lausanne, June 17, 1707. He studied in the acad- 
emy at Lausanne, under the direction of the Protestant 
Church, of which lie was ordained a minister in 1819. 
He taught French literature at the University of Basle 
from 1817 to 1837, when he was appointed professor of 
practical theology at Lausanne, which post he held un- 
til 1847, after which he again taught French literature. 
He obtained in 1823, through the efforts of Guizot, a 
prize for his essay Sur la Liberte ties Cnltes. Vi net be- 
came one of the commission for organizing the Protes- 
tant Church in the canton of Vaud ; but his views con- 
cerning the functions of Church and State being reject- 
ed, he seceded from the State Church and aided in 
forming an independent organization, the Free Church 
of Vaud and other cantons. In 1846 (Dec. 2) he lost 
his professorship on account of his opposition to the 
new radical authorities of t lie canton. He died May 
18, 1847. He was an eloquent and earnest preacher, 
clear and brilliant rather than profound in thought; 
and, although highly evangelical and orthodox, advo- 
cated the utmost liberty and toleration of opinion and 
practice in matters of religion. He wrote largely, both 


VINEYARD 


706 


VINEYARD 


on literature and religion, and most of bis 
works have been translated into English, 
llis works on French literature show that he 
was thoroughly acquainted with its history, 
and possessed the critical faculty in no mean 
degree. As a philosophico - religious writer 
he is very popular both in England and 
America. II is principal works are, Chresto- 
viathie F rang disc ( 1 8*20, 3 vols.) : — Histoire de 
la Literature Frangaise au X Vllliewe Siecle 
(1851,2 vols.): — Etudes sur la Literature 
Fran guise ait XfXieme Siecle (18411-51,3 
vols.) : — Me moire en Fuceur de la Libert e des 
Cultes (182<>): — Discours sur quelqnes Sujets 
Peliyeux (1831) : — Essai sur la Manifestation 
des Convictions Reliyienses, et sur la Separation de 
V Eylise et de V Etat (1842): — Etudes sur Blaise Pascal 
(1848) :— Meditations Evanyeliqnes (1840) : — Theohyie 
Pastorale, ou Theoloyie du Miuist'ere Eranyeliqne (1850) : 
— and Homiletique, on Theorie de la Predication (1853). 
llis biography has been written by Scherer, A. Vinet , 
sa Vie et ses (Fur res (Paris, 1853); and by liambert, 
A . Vinet, Histoire de sa }'ie et de ses On v rapes (Lausanne 
and Paris, 1875). See also Saiute -Beuve. Portraits 
Conte mporains, vol. ii. 

Vineyard (E"}3, kerem , an orchard'). In ancient 
Egypt the orchard and vineyard were not separated by 
any wall, and ligs and other trees were planted within 
the same limits as the vines. But if not connected with 
it, the vineyard was close to the orchard, and their mode 
of training the vines on wooden rafters, supported by 
rows of columns, which divided the vineyard into nu- 
merous avenues, was both tasteful and convenient. The 
columns were frequently colored, but many were simple 
wooden pillars, supporting, with their forked summits, 
the poles that lay over them. Some vines were al- 
lowed to grow as standing bushes, ami. being kept low, 
did not. require any support ; others were formed into a 
scries of bowers; and from the form of 
the hieroglyphic signifying vineyard 
we may conclude that the most usual 




the taste of each individual, or the nature of the ground, 
(ireat care was taken to preserve the clusters from the 
intrusion of birds; and bovs were constantly employed, 
about the season of the vintage, to frighten them with 
a sling and the sound of the voice. When the grapes 
were gathered, the bunches were carefully put into deep 
wicker baskets, which men carried, either on their head 
or shoulders, or slung upon a yoke, to the wine-press; 
hut when intended for eating, they were put, like other 
fruits, into flat open baskets, and generally covered with 
leaves of the palm, vine, or other trees. These Hat bas- 
kets were of wicker-work, and similar to those of the 
present day used at Cairo for the same purpose, which 
are made of osiers or common twigs. After the vintage 
was over, t hey allowed the kids to browse upon the 
vines, which grew as standing bushes (comp. Nor. Sat. 
ii, 5, 43); and the season of the year when the grapes 
ripened in Egypt was the month Epiphi. our dune or 
July. — Wilkinson, A nc. Egypt, i, 41 sq. See Vine, Al- 
though the climate of Egypt, especially the annual over- 
flow of the Nile, was not favorable to the culture of the 
grape, yet from the above monuments we infer that its 
cultivation was at one time popular in Egypt, though 
it coidd only have been grown with success in a few of 
the liigh-lving districts, or on artificially elevated beds; 
and when commerce enabled the Egyptians to import 


nifying 

yard. 


Vine- 


wine from other countries better and cheaper than they 
method of training them was in bowers, could manufacture it themselves, they had the good 

sense to abandon this unprofitable branch of industry 
and direct their attention to commodities for which nat- 
ure afforded them greater facilities. See Egypt. In- 
deed, every circumstance proves to us that the cultiva- 
tion of the vine required great eare and attention in 
Egypt. This care was particularly required to guard 
against the hoary night-shade, called by the Arabs aneb 
el-dib, or the wolf-vine, which is common in Egypt and 
Palestine, grows much in the vineyards, and is very 
pernicious to them. It greatly resembles a vine in its 
shrubby stalk. This may have been “the wild vine” 
whose fruit poisoned the pottage which Elisha miracu- 


or in avenues formed by rafters and col- 
Figurative Hie- limns. But they do not appear to have 
rnglyphic sig- attached them to other trees, as the lio- 
mans often did to the elm and poplar, 
and as the modern Italians do to the 
white mulberry, nor have the Egyptians of the present 
day adopted this European custom. When the vine- 
yard was enclosed within its own wall of circuit, i t fre- 
quently had a reservoir of water attached to it, as well 
as the building which contained the wine-press; but 
the various modes of arranging the vineyard, as well 
as the other parts of the garden, depended, of course, on 



VINEYARDS 


797 


VIOLA 


louslv cured (2 Kings iv, 39-41). It is to this also that 
Moses alludes in his prophetic description of the future 
degeneracy of the Israelites, “For their vine is of the 
vine of Sodom, and of the fields of Gomorrah: their 
grapes are grapes of gall, their clusters are hitter: their 
wine is the poison of dragons, and the cruel venom of 
asps” (Dent, xxxii, 32, 33). See Vink of Sodom. 

VINEYARDS, Plain of the Sept. 

’E^tXxappeip v. r. ’ A(3't\ dp tteXmi'ojv ; Vulg. Abel qme 
est vineis consit(i), a place mentioned only in Judg. xi, 
33; possibly now represented by a ruin bearing the name 
of Beit el-Kerm — “ house of the vine” — to the north of 
Kerak (De Saulcy, Karr, i, 353), if the Aroer named 
in the same passage is the place of that name on the 
Arnon (W. Mojeb). It is, however, by no means cer- 
tain; and, indeed, the probability is that the Ammon- 
ites, with the instinct of a nomadic or seini-nomadic 
people, betook themselves, when attacked, not to the 
civilized and cultivated country of Moab (where Beit el- 
Kerm is situated), but to the spreading deserts towards 
the east, where they could disperse themselves after the 
usual tactics of such tribes. — Smith. See Abel-cera- 
mim. 

Vini, Sebastiano, an Italian painter, was a native 
of Verona, who settled at Pistoja in the early part of 
the 16th century. He enjoyed a high reputation, and 
left many works both in oil and fresco. II is most im- 
portant work, however, was in the suppressed chapel of 
San Desiderio, in which the “ facade over the great altar 
was storied with the Crucifixion of the Ten Thousand 
Martyrs — a work abounding with figures and invention.” 
See Lanzi, Sloria Pittorica; Spooner, Blog. Hist, of (he 
Fine A rts , s. v. 

Vintage (prop. batsir), the season of ingath- 

ering of the grape (Lev. xxvi, 5; Isa. xxiv, 13, etc.), 
which of course was one of hilarity. See Harvest. 
The produce of the wine-crop is denoted by the term 
H^PPl, tirosb, “ new wine.” See Wine. For the oper- 
ations of the vintage (Ileuvel,Z)e Yindemia Vet.llebrceor. 
[Tr. ad Rh. 1755]), see Vine. 

Vintimille, Charles Gaspard Guillaume de, 
a French prelate, was born in the diocese of Frdjus, Nov. 
15, 1655, of the distinguished family of I)e Luc. As 
soon as he had obtained licensure from the Sorbonnc, he 
received from his uncle, Jean de Vintimille, bishop of 
Toulon, a cauonship in his cathedral, and he was likewise 
prior of three abbeys in Provence until nominated (June 
27, 1684) to the see of Marseilles; but the political dis- 
turbances of the time prevented his consecration till Jan. 
9, 1692. He was thence transferred (Feb. 1, 1708) to the 
archbishopric of Aix, and finally (May 12, 1729) to that 
of Paris. In all his offices he displayed great fidelity 
and public generosity, but often fell under royal and 
even papal displeasure for his defence of national and 
popular rights. He died at Paris, March 13, 1746. See 
Iloefer, Kouv. Biog. Gene rale, s. v. 

Vinton, John Adams, a Congregational min- 
ister, was born in Boston, Mass., Feb. 5, 1801. lie 
graduated at Dartmouth College in 1828, and at An- 
dover Theological Seminary in 1831. He preached for 
several churches in Maine, Vermont, and Massachusetts, 
from 1832 to 1852. He was the author of the Vinton 
JPemorial (Boston, 1858) : — The Giles Memorial (1861) : 
— The Sampson family in A merica (1864) : — and edited 
a reprint of Deborah Sampson’s Female Rerteiv (1866); 
besides contributing to a number of religious and liter- 
ary periodicals. 

Vinton, Justus H , a Baptist missionary in Bur- 
mah, was born in Willington, Conn., in 1806, and was 
educated at the Hamilton Literary and Theological In- 
stitute, now Madison University. He sailed from Bos- 
ton July 3, 1834, for the field of his missionary labors, 
where he remained, meeting with remarkable success in 
his work, until his return to the United States in 1818. 


lie returned to Burmali in 1850, and continued his 
labors, devoting himself especially to the conversion 
and religious training of the Karens. lie died March 
31, 1858. Mr. Vinton is regarded as one of the most 
zealous and successful missionaries ever sent to heathen 
lands by the Baptists of the United States. (J. C. S.) 

Vinton, Robert Spencer, a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was first employed in pastoral work in 1817; 
joined the Baltimore Conference in 1818; was ordained 
deacon in 1820, and elder in 1822; in 1868 was super- 
numerated, and in 1869 superannuated. During the 
war president Lincoln commissioned him as chaplain in 
the United States army, and charged him with the re- 
ligions watch-care of the military hospitals of Baltimore, 
lie died of paralysis, July 31, 1870. Mr. Vinton was 
devoted, energetic, of spotless reputation, and success- 
ful as a minister. !See M inutes of Annual Conferences , 
1871, p. 19. 

Viol, the rendering in the A. V. at Amos v, 23 ; vi, 5, 
of the lleb. PD3, nebel, which is elsewhere rendered 
“psaltery.” It is a musical instrument, used chiefly 
in worship (1 Kings x, 12; I Chron. xv, 16; xxv, 1; 2 
Chron. v, 12; xxix, 25; Mishna, Succoth, x,4),but also 
in worldly festivals and banquets (2 Chron. xx. 28; 
Isa. v, 12; xiv, II), and is hence often connected with 
ckinnor ' , "H23, the harp or cithara (Psa. lxxi,22; cviii, 
2; cl, 3). It passed from the East to the Greeks, 
and they retained the name ndbla, vctfiXa ; Lat. na- 
blium (Ovid, A rs A mat. iii, 327; comp. Athen. iv, 175; 
Strabo, x. 471). The original form of the instrument 
is uncertain; it was not., however, a proper harp, but 
more like the cithara, which, as Josephus says {Ant. 
vii, 12,3), had twelve strings, and was played by the 
hand. But the expression *Vw- b23, nebel asdr, a 
nebel or “instrument of ten strings,” in Psa. xxxiii, 2; 
cxliv, 9, seems to make against this view, if we render 
it thus, with the Sept. (fo/cd^opCou), anti the number of 
strings may anciently have been fewer, or even vary- 
ing. From another meaning of nebel, leather bottle or 
sack, some understand the instrument pictured by Nie- 
buhr (Taf xxvi; see Pfeiffer, p. 23), but this is more 
probably the kinnor, “lit 3. If Augustine was right (on 
Psa. xxxi and xxvi), cithara and psalterium { nablium ) 
differed in this: that the latter had the sounding-box, 
to which the strings were fastened, on the upper side; 
and accordingly Cassiodorus and Isidorus ( Grig . iii, 75) 
compared it to an inverted A, so that the instrument 
resembled a vessel enlarging upwards. Such instru- 
ments are seen sometimes on Egyptian monuments 
(Wilkinson, ii,280, 282,287). On the other hand, the 
form of the most ancient cithara compared by Thenius 
{Sachs, exeget. Stud. i, 100 sq.) has but a remote resem- 
blance. Cases for the nebel are mentioned in the Mish- 
na ( Chelim , xvi,7). — Winer. See Psaltery. 

The old English viol, like the Spanish riguela, was a 
six -stringed guitar. Air. Chappell {Pop. Mas. i, 246) 
says “the position of the fingers was marked on the 
finger-board by frets, as in guitars of the present day. 
The ‘chest, of viols’ consisted of three, four, five, or six 
of different sizes; one for the treble, others for the mean, 
the counter-tenor, the tenor, and perhaps two for the 
bass.” Etymologically, viol is connected with the Dan. 
Fiol and the A.-S .foele, through the Fr. dole, Old Fr. 
vielle, Med. Lat. vitella. In the Promptorium Parrulo- 
rum we find “ Fyvele, viclla, tidieina, vitella.” Again, 
in North’s Plutarch (Antonins, p. 980, ed. 1595) there is 
a description of Cleopatra’s barge, “ the poope whereof 
was of gold, the sailes of purple, and the owers of silver, 
which kept stroke in rowing after the sound of the mu- 
sicke of flutes, howboves, cytherns, r polls, and such other 
instruments as they played vpon in the barge.” — Smith. 
See Musical Instruments. 

Viola, Domenico, a Neapolitan painter of the 17th 
century, was a disciple and imitator of the cavalier Mat- 
tia Preti. He executed some works of a mediocre grade 


70S 


VI RET 


YIOLE 


for the churches and collections. I le is said to have died 
al>< nit 1 090. See Spooner, fJioy. U ist. of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Viole, D.vsim. Gkokgks, a learned French priest, 
was horn at Soulaire (diocese of Chartres), in 151)8, of 
mi old noble family. In 1 023 he entered the Order of 
Benedictines at St. Maur, ami then studied theology at 
('or! »ie. He spent his days in (piict study and histori- 
cal research, dying at Auxcrre. April 21, 1009, and leav- 
ing several works, for which see Under, A out". JUog. 
dene rale, s. v. 

Violent Hands is a phrase in the rubric of the 
English service lor the burial of the dead, which de- 
clares that those who have committed suicide are not 
to be admitted to Christian burial. 


the Ilcb. word) : it is thus described by Shaw and Jack- 
son as the most venomous of the serpent tribe in North- 
ern Africa and South-western Asia. It is remarkable for 
its quick and penetrating poison; it is about two feet 
long, and as thick as a man’s arm, beautifully spotted 
with yellow and brown, and sprinkled over with black- 
ish specks similar to the horn-nosed snake. These ser- 
pents have a wide mouth with which they inhale a 
great quantity of air, and when inilated therewith they 
eject it with such force as to be heard a considerable 
distance. The modern Oriental name is derived from 
an Arabic word which signifies ‘‘ to burn,” whence some 
have inferred that the fiery serpents sent to chastise 
the Israelites in the desert were leffahs , or vipers, hee 
SKlirKST. 


Viper is the uniform rendering, in the A. V., of 
nrsr, eph'vh (from prob. to hiss), which occurs 

only in Job xx, Id; Isa. xxx, b; lix, 5; and of t\tcva 
( M ai t. iii, 7; xii, 34; xxiii. Jo; Luke iii, 7 : Acts xxviii, 
3). In all instances a venomous serpent is evidently 
denoted, but the particular kind, if anything more than 
a generic term, is indeterminable. The English name 
is derived from the Latin vicipara, which signifies 
••bringing forth its young alive;” but, though the 
voting are thus produced, they are previously formed 
in an egg within the parent’s ovary, and lienee Isaiah’s 
allusion to the hatching of vipers (lix, 5) is perfectly 
justified by physiology and natural history. Hence 
it is used tropically for deceitful and wicked men (Matt, 
iii, 7; xii, 34; xxiii, 33; Luke iii, 7). From the earli- 
est ages tlie “viper” has been dreaded for its venomous 
bite, and made the emblem of everything that is hurt- 
ful and destructive; indeed, its poison is one of the most , 
active and dangerous in the animal kingdom. The | 
true viper is the adder (Pelins herns or Yipera herns), 



Common Viper (Vi/>era herns). 


which retains its eggs until hatched. Its bite, how- 
ever, is not necessarily fatal. So terrible was the nat- 
ure of these creatures that they were very commonly 
thought to be sent as executioners of divine vengeance 
upon mankind Ibr enormous crimes which bad escaped 
the course of justice. The people of Melita showed 
that they were thoroughly imbued with this supersti- 
tion when Paul was shipwrecked on the i>land (Acts 
xxviii, 3). Such a dangerous serpent is known in the 
East by the name of lef'ah (i. c. el-ejjah , equivalent to 



Vipond, David, an English Wesleyan minister, 
was born at Hardwick, Norfolk, in 1778. He was saved 
from infidelity by reading the biographies in the IIV- 
letjnn Methodist Magazine. 1 1 is appointments were 
Canterbury, Newbury. Ilochester, 1808, and Sevennaks, 

1811. lie died at Newbury, of consumption, July 12. 

1812. See 1 1 r esh Meth. Mug. 1813, p. 881; Minutes of 
II W. Coif 1812. 

Vipond, John, a Methodist preacher, was convert- 
ed voting, and in 1707 was admitted on trial bv tbe 
English Wesleyan Conference. In 1709 lie was ap- 
pointed to Whitehaven Circuit, where lie only preached 
a few times. He was seized with a fever and died. 

1 1 is character was unblemished and his talents promis- 
ing. See At more, Meth. Memorial, s. v. 

Vipond, William, an English Wesleyan minis- 
ter, labored successfully on the following circuits: l)iss, 
Yarmouth, Norwich, Brackley, 1800; Newbury, Canter- 
bury, and London West. 1807. He died at Newbury, 
April 2(5. 1800, in tbe thirty-third year of his age and 
the eleventh of his itinerancy. “ His ministerial abil- 
ities were great, bis manner devout, bis language pure 
and impressive, his piety deep, bis information exten- 
sive, and bis usefulness considerable.” See 1 1 esh Meth. 
Mag. 1810, p. 10,40; Minutes of I VesL Coif 1800. 

Virbius, in Human mythology, is the name under 
which Hippolgtus lived after Diana had raised him 
from the dead. She married him to the nymph Egeria 
in the saered forest at Aricia, and lie had a son, whom 
he also called Virbius; this son fought in the army of 
Timms against .Eneas. 

Viret, Petek, a Swiss reformer, was born at Orbo, 
in the canton of Valid, in 151 Land was educated and 
converted from Humanism at Paris. In 1531 Fa rel vis- 
ited Orbe and ordained Viret, despite bis unwillingness, 
to the ministry. In 1534 lie became Farel’s assistant at 
Geneva. Thence lie went to Neufchatcl and Lausanne. 
In October, 1536, be defended certain theses promul- 
gated by Fa rel in a public disputation, and thereby 
contributed to the improvement of the Church of Lau- 
sanne. In tbe following May be responded with a de- 
finitive confession of faith to his colleague Dr. Caroli’s, 
charge of Arianism, and with such success that Caroli 
was dismissed from the pastorate and returned to Hu- 
manism. 'Fhe activity of Viret was now applied in 
many different directions. He labored in Geneva after 
the overthrow of the Anti-Heform party until Calvin 
returned, improved t he discipline of the Church at 
Lausanne, wrote a number of theological and catecheti- 
cal works, and journeyed to distant points in the in- 
terests of the Information. In 1549 Beza was appoint- 
ed professor at Lausanne, and became the friend of Vi- 
ret. Differences began to make themselves felt, how- 
ever. Viret was accused, in 1516, of bolding to Bucer’s 
view of the sacrament of the Lord’s supper, and was 
not confirmed in his office until 1540. The Bernese 
government was dissatisfied with the predominance of 
Calvin’s influence at Lausanne, and raised difficulties 
about the question of excommunication and then about 
predestination. In tbe end Viret was dismissed. He 
went to Geneva aiul became pastor. In 1561 lie was 


VIRGILIUS 


799 


VIRGIN 


called to Nismes. In the following year he counselled 
the preachers assembled at Montpellier to submit when 
the Protestants were obliged to restore their churches 
to the Romanists, and subsequently visited that town 
for his health, lie next accepted a call to Lyons, and 
lived there when the Huguenots seized the city after 
the. massacre of Vassy. After the peace of Amboise 
the mass was again established, but the Huguenots 
were allowed to continue their worship for a time. On 
Aug. 10, 1563, he presided over the fourth French Na- 
tional Synod. lie developed an extraordinary degree 
of literary fertility, lie was drawn into a dispute with 
Italian antitrinitarians and monks. In the period be- 
tween 1503 and 1505 he published nine works, among 
them his chief production, Instruction Chrestienne en la 
Doctrine de la Loy et de I'Evanyile , etc. (Geneva, 1564, 
3 vols. fol,). The book is a noteworthy specimen of 
the literature of the Reformation, containing a complete 
system of morals and politics, and suggestive apologetics 
aimed against atheists and deists. It was written in 
dialogue form, like most of the works of Viret, and 
shows great classical and theological learning, a rich 
imagination, earnest piety, and keen wit; but it suffers 
from diffuseucss and incorrectness, the results of the 
rapidity with which the author worked. In 1565 he 
was obliged to leave Lyons. lie went to Orange, and 
thence to Jeanne d’Albret’s newly erected Academy of 
Orthez. In 1569 he was made prisoner bv the Cath- 
olics, but was soon liberated. He died at Orthez in 
1571. lie was brave and true in his adhesion to the 
evangelical Church, but nevertheless of a mild and 
peaceful temper, lie did not develop the prevalent 
theology, but merely made it accessible to laymen and 
defended it against opponents. His works rank among 
the greatest rarities in literature. Viret’s life is con- 
tained in Leben d. Voter u. Hey r under d. ref Kirche 
(FJberfcld, 1860), vol. ix. See Herzog, Rcal-Encyklop. 
s. v. 

Virgilins, St., was an Irish priest of the 8th centu- 
ry. lie went to France in the reign of Pepin, and found 
his way to Bavaria, where he had trouble with Boni- 
face (q. v.) on several accounts, lie seems to have 
been of good education and talents, but made a blunder 
in repeating the Latin formula in administering bap- 
tism in one instance, which caused Boniface to declare 
it null and void, and to insist upon rebaptism. Virgil- 
ius resisted the claim, and upon an appeal to the pope 
was sustained, lie also held that tin* earth was globu- 
lar, for which he was accused by Boniface of heresy, and 
the pope at (irst excommunicated Virgilius, blit upon a 
more careful hearing restored him. In the year 766, 
through the influence of Pepin, and by the favor of t he 
duke Odilio of Bavaria, he was appointed bishop of Salz- 
burg, which office he held until his death, in 780. While 
at Salzburg he did much to extend Christianity to the 
eastward of him, among the Slavonians and Iluns. See 
Mosheim, Hist, of the Church , bk. iii, cent, viii, pt. i, ch. 
i; Neander, Hist, of the iii, 63. 

Virgin is the rendering, in the A. V., of two Ileb. 
terms, concerning the distinctive use of which some ex- 
egetical and theological controversy has arisen. The 
word fibril, bethuldh (from to separate}, occurs 

forty-nine times in the Old Test., and is translated by 
7 rapz’eVOQ in the Sept., except in two instances. It is 
rendered once by react t; (1 Kings i, 2), and once by 
vbfi(f>i ) (Joel i, 8). See Exod. xxii, 15, 16, 17; Lev. xxi; 
Dent, xxii, xxxii; Judg. xxi, etc. It properly denotes 
a virgin , maiden (Gen. xxiv, 16; Lev. xxi, 13; I)eut. 
xxii, 14, 23, 28; Judg. xi, 37; 1 Kings i, 2); the passage 
iu Joel i.8 is not an exception, as it refers to the loss of 
one betrothed, not married. ft'Z’ZV, 'almdh. (from O^r, 
to conceal ), also properly signifies a virgin , a maiden , a 
young woman unmarried, but of marriageable age. It 
occurs seven times, in four of which it is rendered rt«- 
nc, puella (Exod. ii, 8; Psa. lxviii, 25; Cant, i, 3; vi, 


8), in one (Prov. xxx, 19) vedrpe, and in two (Gen. 
xxiv, 43; Isa. vii, 14) jrapSevoc. The same word is 
also rendered virgo in the Vulg. in these two passages; 
in Exod. ii, 8, puella ; in Psa. lxviii, 26, jnvencala ; iu 
Cant, i, 3 and vi, 8, adolescent ula ; and in Prow xxx, 19, 
adolescent iu, after the Sept. The Syriac follows the 
Sept, in Isa. vii, 14, but in all the other passages 
agrees with Aquila, Svmmaehus, and Theodotion, who 
translate by vtavtt;, not only in Psa. lxviii, 25; 

Gen. xxxiv, 43; Exod. ii, 8; Prow xxx, 19 (in which 
they agree with the Sept.), but also iu Isa. vii, 14. Jus- 
tin Martyr ( Dial.c . Tryph.) complains of the partiality 
of the Greek translators in rendering n«bs* here by 
2 'tai'ic; (a term which does not necessarily include the 
idea of virginity), accusing these Jewish writers of 
wishing to neutralize the application to the Messiah of 
this passage, which the Jews of his time referred to 
Ilezekiali. Jerome says that the Punic for virgo is 
alma, although the word JT!25“ is but twice so render- 
ed in the Vulg. Gesenius (Comm, in Isa .) maintains, 
notwithstanding, that vtcivuj, not 7 rapSsi’oc, is the cor- 
rect rendering in Isa. vii, 14, while he at the same time 
agrees with Justin that the prediction cannot possibly 
refer to Ilezekiali, who was born nine years before its 
delivery. Fi'trst ( Concordance ) explains by “ pu- 

ella, virgo, nubilis ilia vel nnpta, teuera et Horens cetate, 
valeus ae vegeta;” but lleugstenberg (Christology), al- 
though admitting that STcb" does not necessarily mean 
a virgin (which he conceives is plain from Prov. xxx, 
19), maintains that it is always applied in Scripture to 
an unmarried woman. Matthew (i, 23), who cites from 
tlie Sept., applies the passage Isa. vii, 14 to the mi- 
raculous birth of Jesus from the Blessed Virgin. Prof. 
Robinson (Gr. and Eng. Lexicon) considers 7 rapStroc; 
here to signify a bride, or newly married woman, as in 
Homer (II. ii, 514) : 

Ol'f TeKti' ’A cttv ' xa* • • • 7 rapStvo? a\6oni‘ 

(“ Them bore Asiyoche, a virgin pure”— 

(Jowper) ; 

and considering it to refer apparently to the youthful 
spouse of the prophet (see Isa. viii, 3, 4 ; vii, 3, 10, 21), 
holds that the sense in Matt. i. 23 would then be: Thus 
was fultilled in a strict and literal sense that which the 
prophet spoke in a wider sense and 011 a different occa- 
sion. Though the prophet already had a son, it is by 
no means improbable that his former wife was dead, 
and that he was about to be united in marriage to an- 
other who was a virgin. The prophet predicted the 
birth of a male child which should occur within the 
appointed period from one who was then a virgin, an 
event which could be known only to God; and this 
event should constitute a sign, a proof or demonstra- 
tion, to Ahaz of the truth of his prediction concerning 
Syria and Israel. In this remarkable event the proph- 
et directed the minds of the king and people onward to 
the birth of the Messiah from a virgin, and to him the 
name ” Immanuel” should be more appropriately given. 
Hence the evangelist Matthew, considering the former 
event as the predicted type of the latter event, applies 
the passage to the miraculous birth of Jesus from the 
Virgin. See Immanuel; Isaiah. 

The early Christians contended also for the perpetu- 
al virginity of Mary against the Jews, who objected to 
the use of the term f'tot; (until, Matt, i, 25) as implying 
the contrary; but the fathers triumphantly appealed 
against the Jewish interpretation to Scripture usage, 
according to which this term frequently included the 
notion of perpetuity (comp. Gen. viii. 7 ; Psa. Ixi, 7; ex, 
1; Isa. xlvi. 4; Matt, xxviii, 20; and see Suicer, The - 
sour., and Pearson, On the Creed, art. iii). Although 
there is no proof from Scripture that Mary had other 
children [see James; Jude], the Christian fathers did 
not consider that there was any impiety in the suppo- 
sition that she had (Suicer, nt sup.\ But, although not 
an article of faith, the perpetual virginity of Mary was 


VIRGIN 


800 


VTRIPLACA 


a constant tradition ofboth the Eastern and the Western 
Church. The most distinguished Protestant theolngi- 
ans have also adopted this belief, and Dr. Lardner (Cm/- J 
Utility ) considered the evidence in its favor so strong! 
as to deserve that assent which he himself yielded to | 
it. See 1 ‘ekpetual Virginity ok Mary. 

The word Trapzrirac, virgin , occurs in Matt, i; xxv; 
Luke i; Acts xxi; 1 Cor. vii; 2 C(*r. xi, 2; and Apoe. 
xiv, M. In 1 Cor. and Apoc. it is applied to both sex- 
es. as it frequently is by the fathers, who use it in the 
sense of cal ebs. It is sometimes metaphorically used 
in t he New 'Pest, to denote a high state of moral purity. 
— Kitto. So also, among the Hebrews, the population 
of a place or city was sometimes personified as a female 
and called virgin ; thus the inhabitants of Tvre (Isa. 
xxiii, 12). of Babylon (xl vii. 1), of Egypt (Jer. xlvi, 1 1), 
and of .Judah and Israel, i. e. the Hebrews (Lam. i, 15; 
Jer. xiv. 17; xviii, 13; xxxi, 4, 21; Amos v, 2). See 
Daughter. 

Virgin, Charles, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born at Ilopkiuton, N. II., May 8, 1787. He was 
converted at the age of twelve; joined the New Eng- 
land Conference in 1807; served the Church in several 
circuits; was presiding elder on two districts — Boston 
and Kennebec; and after his superannuation he resided 
at Wilbraham, Mass., where he died, April 1, 1853. Mr. 
Virgin’s character was marked by uprightness and de- 
cision ; lie was a great friend to the slave; a man of 
much prayer and emotion. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences , 1853. p. 184. 

Virgin Chimes are the first chimes rung after 
twelve o’clock on Christmas-eve; also the first chimes 
rung on a peal of bells newly consecrated. 

Virgin Mary. See Mary. 

Virgines Dei orCitRiSTi is a common name for nuns 
(q. v.). As early as the 2d century bodily mortification 
and a contemplative life were regarded by many persons 
as indications and means of extraordinary piety. In the 
age of Cyprian and Tertullian the Sacred Virgins of the 
Church, or Canonical Virgins, were recognised as a dis- 
tinct class, and celibacy was extolled as a piece of super- 
eminent piety. Sueli superstition made rapid progress, 
and continues to hold its place in the minds of many to 
the present time. See Virginity. 

Virginiensis Dea, in Homan mythology, seems to 
be identical with the Grecian Lisozoua (girdle-looser). 
She loosed the girdle of the bride on entering the mar- 
riage chamber. 

Virginity, in an ecclesiastical sense, is the unmar- 
ried or celibate state, voluntarily accepted as a means 
of holiness. The pre-eminence of the virgin state is 
very generally taught by the Christian fathers from the 
apostolic age. Virginity was from the first a lifelong 
profession; but virgins did not, at first, live in commu- 
nity. but with parents or relatives. In some eases they 
adopted a peculiar dress; but such was not the general 
usage. The vow was in many instances secretly made, 
and did not require ecclesiastical sanction. Early in the 
3d century, however, the Church gave direct sanction 
to the vow of virginity, and made regulations for the! 
conduct of those who took the vow. It was during the 
same century that community life among celibates orig- 
inated, by the association of those under the vow in one 
home for prayer and works of charity. Since that time, 
in the churches which encourage the monastic life, mi- , 
merous orders of celibates have sprung up, and are to- 
day exercising a considerable influence in the world. 
See Monastic! sji ; Nun; Sisterhoods. 

VIRGINITY. Penetrative, such an extraordinary 
or perfect gift of chastity, to which some have pretend- 
ed, that it overpowered those hy whom they have been 
surrounded, and created in them an insensibility to the 
pleasures of the liesh. The Virgin Mary (q. v.), accord- 
ing to some Romanists, was possessed of ibis gift, which 
made those who beheld her, notwithstanding her beau- [ 


tv, to have no sentiments but such as were consistent 
with chastity.— Buck. 

VIRGINITY, Peruetual, is ascribed to the mother 
of our Lord by the Eastern or Greek Church, which calls 
her dtnrdpB'tvoc, and by tlie Roman, which calls her 
Semper Virgo. In every age of the Church, however, 
there have been those who have maintained that she 
only continued a virgin till the nativity of Christ. Epi- 
phanius, and after him Augustine, give such the name 
of . I utidicouiarianitcp. Bishop Pearson maintains the 
affirmative on the following very unsatisfactory grounds: 
Her peculiar emineney and unparalleled privilege; the 
special honor and reverence due to her son and ever 
paid by her; the regard of t lie Holy Ghost that came 
upon her, and the power of the Highest which over- 
shadowed her; and the singular goodness and piety of 
Joseph, her husband. P»v an accommodation of Ezek. 
xliv, 2, he and many others are inclined to support the 
same side of the question. With respect to Matt. i. 25, 
where it is said “Joseph knew her not until she had 
brought forth her first-born son,” it has generally been 
considered equivocal; but Campbell, Whitby, Bloom- 
field, and other critics regard the phrase as favoring the 
contrary opinion, that she did not continue a virgin. 
See, especially, Whitby’s Note, and we may well acqui- 
esce in the sentiment of Basil there quoted : “What she 
was afterwards (after the birth of our Saviour) let us 
leave undiseussed, as being of small concern to the mys- 
tery.” — Buck. See the monographs cited bv Volheding, 

I Index Progrummatum , p. 118. See Perpetual Vir- 
ginity of Mary. 

VIRGINITY, Tokens of (£“brr2, hethulim, mase. 
plur. of a virgin ; Sept, rd TzapSh’tia ; Vulg. 

signa rirginitatis ; Deut. xxii, 14, 15. 17, 20; elsewhere 
“virginity” simply). The Mosaic laws concerning 
“virginity” are recorded in Deut. xxii, 13-29; comp. 
Matt, i, 18-20. The proofs of maidenhood there referred 
to are thought to have been the bedclolhing stained 
with blood on the wedding-night. See Marriage. 

Virginius, Andreas, a Lutheran theologian of 
Germany, was born Nov. 9, 1590, in Pomerania, lie 
studied at Rostock and Greif&walde, and died as bishop 
of Esthonia and president of the Reval Consistory, Dec. 
I 20. 1004. He wrote, Disput. Jahunnitiece de Prcecijntis 
i Jleligionis Christ. Ca pit ih.: — De Deo in Essentia Uiw et in 
Person is Trino.ex Deuteron. ci, 4; Psa. x.rxiii, 6 ; Matt, 
xxriii, 19; et 2 Corinth, xiii, 13, ete. See Witte, Memo- 
rite Theologorum ; Iiollii Bibliotheca Xobilium Theolo - 
gorxnn ; J ocher, A llgem. Gelehrten-Lexikon , s. v. (B. P.) 

Virgins, Giant, The, in Norse mythology, was a 
name given to the daughters of each Jot, but specifical- 
ly applied to the nine daughters of the giant Geirrbd, 
named respectively Gialp, Greip, Elgia, Angeia, Auergi- 
afa, Ull’run, Sindur, Atla, and Jarnaxa. Once, while 
sleeping beside the sea, they were visited by Odin ; and, 
in consequence, the entire nine became mothers of the 
single son Heimdal. — Vollmer, Worterb.d. Mythol.s. v. 

Virgins of Love is a benevolent society of the Ro- 
man Catholic Church, founded by a noble French lady, 
Louise de Marillac le Gras, and approved by Clement IX 
in 1CG0. They are under the counsel and patronage of 
the Priests of the Missions, and it is their duty to minis- 
ter to the indigent in sickness. They are also called 
Jhwghters of Charity. See Gohillon, IVe de Madame 
le (Iras (Paris, 1673); Mosheim, Hist, of the Church, bk. 
iv, cent, xvii, § ii, pt. i, eh. i. 

Virgo Virgmum ( Virgin of virgins) is a devotion- 
al title in the Latin Church for the Virgin Mary. 

Virilis, in Roman mythology, was a surname of 
Fortvna , a goddess of luck for men, just as Fortima 
Mu/ielris was a goddess of luck for women. As early 
as the time of Ancus Mircius or of Servius Tullius, a 
temple was erected to her memory. To her the women 
prayed for the preservation of their charms. 

Viriplaca, in Roman mythology, the medium of 


VIRTUE 


801 


VISDELOU 


reconciliation between men, was a goddess in whose 
temple, erected upon the Platinum, dissatisfied married 
people complained of their differences. She was famous 
because she generally sent the dissatisfied home recon- 
ciled. 

Virtue, a term used in various significations. Some 
define it to be “ living according to nature others, “ uni- 
versal benevolence to being.” Some, again, place it “in 
regard to truth;” others, in the “moral sense,” Some 
place it in “ the imitation of God;” others, “in the love 
of God and our lellow-creatures.” Some, again, think 
it consists “in mediocrity,” supposing vice to consist in’ 
extremes; others have placed it in “a wise regard to 
our own interest.” Dr. Smith refers it to the principle 
of sympathy ; and Paley defines it to be the doing good 
to mankind, in obedience to the will of God, and for the 
sake of everlasting happiness. Some of these defini- 
tions are certainly objectionable. Perhaps those who 
place it in the love of God and our fellow-creatures may 
come as near to the truth as any. See Edwards and 
Jameson, On Virtue; Grove and Paley, Moral Phil.; 
Cumberland, Law of Nature, i, 4; Beattie, Elements of 
Monti Science , ii, 8, 77; Watts, Self-love and Virtue 
Reconciled ’, 2d vol. of his IPorZ-s, last ed. — Buck. 

The standard of virtue is the will of God as express- 
ed in nature (including the human constitution) and 
his written word. See Fleming and Krautli, Vocab.of 
Philos, p. 487, 548, 907. 

Virtues, Cardinal, are the four virtues Pru- 
dence (q, v.), Justice (q. v.), Fortitude, and Temper- 
ance (q. v.). 

VIRTUES, Theological, are the three virtues 
Faith (q. v.), Hope (q. v.), and Charity (q. v.). 

VIRTUES and Vices is a favorite impersonation un- 
der human forms, in the Middle Ages, as in the Chapter- 
house of Salisbury, England. Tu this manner we have 
allusions to figuresof Love and Hope, Despair and Hate, 
etc., in the churches. 

Virtus, in Roman mythology, was the deified man- 
liness. To her and Honor two temples were erected by 
M. Marcellus. 

Visacci, Antonio (called also II Visaed), an Ital- 
ian painter, flourished at Urbino about 1600. He stud- 
ied under Federigo Baroccio, and, in conjunction with 
other artists, was employed to paint the arches, pict- 
ures, and other decorations in honor of Giulia de’ Me- 
dici, married to the duke of Urbino. He possessed a 
special talent for pen-drawing and chiaro-oscuro. 1 1 is 
pictures of the Prophets were designed in grand style, 
and have been transferred from the cathedral to the 
apostolic palace. Among his other works left at his 
native place is a fine picture of St. Monica, in the Church 
of Sant’ Agostino. lie left some copies from Baroccio 
at various places, particularly at the Cathedral of Cagli. 
He resided and practiced a long time at Pesaro, where he 
instructed several pupils. See Lanzi, Storia Pittorica ; 
Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Viscata, or Viscosa ( the cleaving ), in Roman 
mythology, was a surname of Fortune, under which 
name she had a temple. 

Visch, Karl de, a Cistercian of Flanders, who died 
in the second half of the 17th century as professor of mor- 
al philosophy at Ebersbach, in Germany, is the author 
of Bibliotheca Scriptorum Ordinis Cisterciensis . . . acced. 
Chronologia Antiquissima Monaster iorum hnjus Ordinis 
a 400 et quod excurrit Annis Concinnata (Cologne, 1650). 
He also edited Alani de Insults Opp. Moral. Parcenet. 
et Polem. Correctiora et Illustr, (Antwerp, 1654). See 
Winer, Handbuch der theolog. Literutur, i, 715, 914; 
Jocher, Allgemeines Gelehrten-Lexikon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Visch, Matthias de, a Flemish painter, was born 
at Reningen in 1702. He studied at Bruges, under 
Joseph Van dcr Iverkhove. and in the academy, where 
he obtained the first prize in 1721. lie went to Paris 
in 1723, and from thence to Italy, where he resided nine 
X.— E E E 


years, diligently studying the antique and the works of 
the great masters, lie then returned to Bruges and 
opened a school of design, and executed several works 
for the churches, lie was subsequently appointed di- 
rector of the academy at Bruges, and was noted more 
for his efforts to advance the art and the instruction of 
pupils than for great skill in execution. He collect- 
ed materials for a history of painting in Belgium, which 
were afterwards used by Descamps in his Lives of the 
Flemish Painters. He died in 1765. See Spooner, 
Biog. Ilist. of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Vischer, Peter, a celebrated German sculptor, was 
born about 1460. lie pursued his studies in Italy, 
where he resided several years, llis first great work 
was his monument to the archduke Ernest of Magde- 
burg, erected in the cathedral of that place in 1497. 
A^ischer ultimately settled in Nuremberg, where he 
lived with his five sons. His masterpiece is the Tomb 
of St.Sebald, in the church of that saint at Nuremberg. 
Among other figures in this work are twelve small 
statues, eighteen inches high, of the apostles, which are 
conspicuous for their fine expression. In one part of it 
the artist introduced his own portrait in his working 
dress. lie was occupied in this work thirteen years, 
and received for his own labor and that of his sons only 
2402 florins. He executed some other works of great 
excellence at Nuremberg, and died in 1530. See Spoon- 
er, Biog. Hist, of the Fine .4 rts, s. v. 

Visconti was the name of an illustrious family of 
Lombardy, which separated itself from the sovereignty 
of Milan at the close of the 13th century. The follow- 
ing members are of ecclesiastical importance: 

1. Giovanni de’, fourth son of Mattco the Great, 
was born in 1290, and, having entered the monastic life, 
was made cardinal by the antipope Nicholas V (1329), 
and became bishop of Novara (1330). In 1317 he had 
been nominated to the see of Milan, and m 1333 he se- 
cured authority from John XXII to take charge of that 
diocese, and finally (July 17, 1342) from Clement VI the 
title of archbishop. In 1350 he ransomed the city of 
Bologna from the papal troops, and in 1353 he for a 
while successfully resisted the political combination 
against him, but. in the midst of these events he died, at 
Milan, Oct. 5,1354. 

2. Giuseppe, born about 1570, entered the ecclesi- 
astic ranks, and was one of the four doctors chosen hv 
cardinal F. Borromeo to arrange the books and manu- 
scripts of his new Ambrosian library. He fulfilled all 
his duties with zeal and intelligence. He died at Mil- 
an in 1G33, leaving a few works, for which see Iloefer, 
Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

3. Ottone de’, real founder of the political power of 
the family, was born in 1208 at Ucogne, a village be- 
tween the Great Lake and the Simplon. He early at- 
tached himself to cardinal Ottaviano Ubaldini, who 
presented him to pope Urban IV. and he was accord- 
ingly appointed archbishop of Milan, July 12, 1262. 
His administration was a stormy one during the con- 
test against the Guelphs, and he finally resigned his 
political affairs to his grand-nephew Matteo (surnamed 
the Great). He died at the Convent of Chiara valla, 
Aug. IS, 1295. See Iloefer, None. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Visdelou, Claude de, a French missionary, was 
born in August, 1656, at the Castle of Bienassis in Rle- 
nouf (Cotes-du-Nord). At the age of fifteen he entered 
the Order of the Jesuits at Baris, and vigorously applied 
himself to the study not only of theology, hut also of 
mathematics and languages. In 1GS5 he accompanied 
Tachard and his hand of missionaries, sent out by Louis 
XIV, to China, and soon surprised the natives by his 
rapid acquisition of their language and his other ac- 
quirements. lie engaged in stupendous studies and 
literary labors, the most important results of which 
were embodied in supplementary corrections to D'Her- 
belot’s Bibliotheque Orient ale. The arrival, however, 
of Tournon, whom Clement XI appointed vicar-apos- 


VISE 


802 


VISHNU 


tolie to China, in which capacity he visited Pekin, but 
retired (Aug. 3, 1706) to Nankin, put an end to these 
missionary successes on account of an order (issued by 
Tollmen. Jan. 28, 1707) against the old ceremonies being 
practiced by the Christian converts, which so exasper- 
ated the Chinese emperor that Visdelou was eventually 
compelled to quit Macao (June 24, 1709), and he retired to 
Pondicherry, where he died, Nov. 11, 1737. See lloefer. 
jS'uuv. Bioy. Gene rale, s. v. 

Vise (old form rys~ a screw), a spiral staircase, the 
steps of which wind round a perpendicular shaft or pil- 
lar called the newel. The majority of ancient church- 
towers are provided with staircases of this kind, and 
they are to be found in various situations in most 
Middle-age buildings. During the prevalence of the 
Norman style, the steps were formed of small stones 
supported on a continuous spiral vault reaching the 
whole height of the stairs, one side of which rested on 
the newel, and the other on the main wall; subsequent- 
ly to this period the steps were each made of a single 
stone, one end of which was inserted into the main 
wall, and the other rested upon and formed part of the 
newel. — Parker, Gloss, of A refilled, s. v. 

Vishnu (Sanscrit, rish, “encompass,” or vis, “to 
penetrate”), the second god of the Hindu Trimurti, and 
considered by his worshippers the supreme god of the 
pantheon. In the Kig Veda Vishnu is a representation 
of the sun. who “strides through the seven regions of 
the earth,” and “in three ways plants his step.” Ac- 
cording to one authority, these three steps mean the 
manifestation of the sun at its place of rising, on the 
meridian, and at its place of setting; or, according to 
another, its manifestation on earth, in the intermediate 
space, and in heaven ; and a later commentator remarks 
that Vishnu in the first of these manifestations repre- 
sents tire, in the second lightning, and in the third solar 
light. From this position which Vishnu holds in the 
Pig- Veda, it appears that he was not regarded as su- 
preme, or even as equal, to the other deities who occu- 
pied the foremost rank in the Vedic period. But w hen 
we come to the epic times of Sanscrit, to the Mahabhd- 
vatu and Ramayana , then we lind the sun-god of the 
Vedas rise into sudden prominence, and become identi- 
fied with the eternal prime essence itself. In the Ma- 
in tbhdrat a, however, although treated as one of the 
triad, he is now' and then spoken of as if he w'ere not 
of equal honor with Siva. But the Ramayana is wholly 
devoted to his praise. In that epic he is the chief of 
the gods, and his supremacy is in every way conspicu- 
ous and complete. 

If we are to believe the votaries of Vishnu and those 
who have written in praise of him, we must believe 
that he stands alone as the incomparable chief of the 
Hindi) pantheon, lie is presented to us under almost 


innumerable aspects. As the supreme deity be formed 
heaven and earth. He is the indefinable omnipotent, 
and the comrade of the gods of tire and the spacious 
firmament. He reclines on the lotus; is as tierce as the 
long-tusked boar: is shaded and guarded by the serpent 
of many heads; is the lord of innumerable hosts of the 
monkey-warriors of llammian; the primal tisli of the 
ocean of births; the eternal tortoise who can bear on 
his hack the weight of the universe; the man-lion ; the 
fulfiller of all space, w ho can take upon him t he form of 
a dwarf. Brahma, with his four heads, springs from his 
•navel, lie is the husband of the peerless Sita, who is 
so pure that even the flames of a furnace cannot take 
effect on her person; and is the loved of the CJopis, the 
thousand shepherdesses whom he divinely seduced ; 
while the lovely Lakshmi, goddess of prosperity, sits at 
his feet and fondles her lord. He rides on (iaruda, a 
creature partially man, partially bird. He wields the 
axe, drives the plough, or sits on the throne. He is the 
hero of the Ramayana, and is lauded in the Mahubhd- 
rala under a thousand names. 

But the most remarkable thing about Vishnu as a god 
is bis Avatars (q. v.), or incarnations, in which lie is 
presented to us as the champion of gods and men. The 
myths concerning these arose from the idea that when- 
ever a great physical or moral disorder disturbed the 
world, Vishnu descended in a small portion of his essence 
to set it right, and thus preserve creation. Such descents 
of the god are called A rataras (Sanscrit, ava, from, and 
tri. to descend), and consist in Vishnu’s being supposed 
to have either assumed the form of some wonderful ani- 
mal or superhuman being, or to have been born of hu- 
man parents in a human form, but possessed of miracu- 
lous powers. Some of the avatars are of an entirely 
| cosmical character, while others are probably based on 
historical events, the leading personage of which was 
gradually endowed with divine attributes, until he was 
regarded as the incarnation of the deity itself. They 
are ten in number, and, with the exception of the last, 
belong to the past; the tenth is yet to eome. The 
usual enumeration is as follows: I. Matsya (q. v.), or 
fish; 2. Kfirma (q. v.), or tortoise; 3. Variiha (q. v.), or 
boar; 4. Narasinglia (q. v.), or man-lion; 5. Vamana 
(q. v.), or dwarf; 6. Parasurama (q. v.) ; 7. llama (q.v.), 
or Bamachandra ; 8. Krishna (q.v.) and Balarama; 
9. Buddha (q.v.); and, 10. Kalki. This number and 
enumeration, however, were not at all times the same. 
The Muhabhdrata mentions ten, but with names differ- 
ing somewhat from those given. The Bhayarata-Pu - 
rdna mentions twenty-two, while other works speak of 
twenty-four, or even call them numberless. It is be- 
cause of the peculiar attractiveness to the Hindu mind 
of many of the avatars that Vishnu sprang up to such 
sudden popularity, and has maintained his position so 
long. The sensuality connected with many of the leg- 
ends is the greatest attraction to his 
votaries. It will be admit led by all 
who have read the Purfinas that 
Brahma is represented as a liar who 
lusts after bis own daughter: that 
Siva is an adulterer, and abominably 
vieiousand ferocious; and that Vishnu 
is a fornicator as well as a thief from 
his cradle. It is difficult to choose 
the object of worship from such a 
triad. But the Brahman feels that 
he has no authority to judge the gods 
by any mortal standard. All terres- 
trial matters, good or evil, are only 
regarded as affording sport to the 
idle gods, who are, by virtue of their 
divinity, above all responsibility. 

Vishnu’s wife is Sri or Lakshmi 
(q. v.), and his paradise Vaikuntha. 
When represented he is of a dark 
hue, with four hands, in which he 
holds (1) a conch-shell blown in bat- 



Figure of Vishnu. 


VISIBLE CHURCH 


803 


VISITATIO 


tie, the Panchajawfa ; (2) a disk, the Sudors ana, an 
emblem of sovereign power; (3) a mace, the Kamno- 
daki, as a symbol of punishment ; and (4) either a 
lotus, as a type of creative power, or a sword, the 
Nandaka. Various other representations are men- 
tioned under the different avatars. 

See Wilson, Translation o f the Vishnu- Parana (Loud. 
1834) ; Burnouf, La Bhagavata-Purdna (Paris, 1840- 
47); Langlois, Harivansa (ibid. 1834-35); Lassen, hi- 
dische A Iterthnmskumle (Bonn and Leipsic, 1852 -GG); 
Muir, Original Sanscrit Texts (Loud. 1858-G3) ; Moor, 
Hindu Pantheon; M idler, Chips from a German Work- 
shop (N. Y. 1872); Williams, Hinduism (Loud. 1877). 

Visible Church designates the whole body of the 
professed believers in divine truth united in one body, 
as distinguished from those who are true believers , 
united with the former, yet not to be distinguished 
from them, and hence called the invisible Church. See 
Cnuncn. 

Vision (some derivative of HTH, to behold , bpeuo ; 
or of nx% to see , oizropai ), a supernatural presentation 
of certain scenery or circumstances to the mind of a 
person while awake. See Dream. When Aaron and 
Miriam murmured against Moses (Numb, xii, G-8), the 
Lord said, “ Hear now my words : if there be a prophet 
among you, I the Lord will make myself known unto 
him in a vision, and will speak unto him in a dream. 
My servant Moses is not so, who is faithful in all mine 
house. With him will I speak mouth to mouth, even 
apparently, and not in dark speeches; and the simili- 
tude of the Lord shall he behold.” The false prophet 
Balaam, whose heart was perverted by covetousness, 
says of himself, that he had seen the visions of the Al- 
mighty (Numb, xxiv, 15, 16). In the time of the high- 
priest Eli, it is said (1 Sam. iii, l), “The word of the 
Lord was precious in those days; there was no open 
vision literally, “ the vision did not break forth that 
is, there was no public and recognised revelation of the 
divine will. With this we may compare the passage in 
Prov. xxix, 18, “ There is no vision, the people per- 
ish.” See Urtm. Vision is also sometimes used to sig- 
nify the ecstatic state of the prophets when they were 
favored with communications from Jehovah. See 
Prophet. 

Visit £7r«TJd7rro/*ai). Little mention is made 

in the Bible of ceremonies or complimentary visits of a 
social character. See Courtesy. Guests were wel- 
comed with water to wash their feet (Gen. xviii,4; xxiv, 
32; Judg. xix, 21 ; 1 Sam. xxv, 41 ; Luke vii, 44, etc.; 
comp. Shaw, Travels , p. 208); just as in modern times 
coffee, tobacco, and frequently other refreshments are 
offered, and the beard is sometimes sprinkled with per- 
fumed water (Arvieux, iii. 186; Harmer, ii, 77, 83; iii, 
179). A repast was speedily prepared (Gen. xviii, 4; 
Judg. xix, 21 ; comp. Niebuhr, Bed . p. 58; Arvieux, iv, 
342), and the guest’s animals were provided for (Gen. 
xxiv, 32; Judg. xix, 21). See Hospitality. Pres- 
ents are common to-dav in visits (Harmer, ii, 13). See 
Gift. It was regarded as a sacred duty to visit the 
sick (Sirach, vii, 39; Matt, xxv, 36, 43), and the Tal- 
mudists had the proverb “To neglect to visit the sick 
is the same as to shed blood” (see Schbttgen, Hor. lleb. 
i, 230 sq.) ; a principle of humanity that was recognised 
even among the heathen (see Kvpe, Observ. i, 129 sq.). 
— Winer, i, 166. 

Visitants, nuns of the visitation of Elisabeth, the 
mother of John the Baptist, by Marv, the mother of Jesus, 
constitute an order founded by St. Francis dc Sales — 
whence they are sometimes called Salesians — in con- 
junction with Madame de Chantal. The first house was 
founded at Annecy in the spring of 1610, and in June 
Sales gave the order an exceedingly simple rule. There 
was to be no seclusion, no peculiarity of dress, except that 
its color should be black, and a black veil should cover 


the head, and no mortifications. They were to recite 
only the lesser Officium Maria?. Their houses were all 
to be subject to the diocesan bishop, and were to be 
open for the temporary accommodation of pious females, 
with a view to their spiritual advancement. A special 
peculiarity was enforced from the beginning, however, 
iu the requirement that the sisters should change their 
rosaries, breviaries, crucifixes, etc., each year. Their 
duty consisted in visiting the sick and poor in imitation 
of Mary, who visited Elisabeth. The original form of 
the society was changed in 1618, under Paul V, from a 
congregation to a religion, and it received the name of 
Order of the Visitation (q. v.), with a separate rule 
named after Augustine. The constitutions were framed 
by Francis and confirmed by Urban Y1 11 in 1626. The 
diocesan bishop continued to exercise authority over 
the order within his see. A special garb was prescribed, 
of black, with white veil and black forehead-piece, and 
seclusion was introduced, which did away with the visita- 
tion of the sick and poor. Ascetical practices were not 
made more severe. The order is now extended over 
Ttaly, France, Switzerland, Poland, Austria, Syria, and 
America. It has rendered meritorious service in the 
instruction of the young. See Herzog, Real- Encgklop. 
s. v. ; and Jean Galas et sa Famille (Paris, 1858). 

Visitatio Liminum SS. Apostolornm . A visitation 
of the Church of the Apostles (Peter and Paul) at Pome 
may be imposed by a vow or by legal requirement. The 
former cause was very fruitful of such visits during the 
Middle Ages, and special protection was accorded to 
“ Percgrini qui propter Deum Bomam vadunt, Romipe- 
tae Apostolornm limina visitantes,” etc. It was the spe- 
cial privilege of the bishops to grant dispensation from 
such vows; but the popes introduced a papal reservation 
after a time, to protect themselves against abuses on 
the part of bishops, though the application of such res- 
ervation was connected with conditions which led to 
the practical transfer of the whole business to the 
bishops. 

The Visitatio ex lege is regulated by the pope, in 
whom centres the authority by which the Church is 
governed, and is ordered for the better government ol 
the Church. Each prelate is obliged, to this end, to 
visit Pome at stated times, and to submit written re- 
ports of his charge during the intervals. The earliest 
decree bearing on the subject was issued by a Roman 
synod in 743, which obliged bishops subject to the Ro- 
man see to frequently visit their superior (c. 4, dist. 
xciii ; see also IJber Diumus, op. et stud. Garnerii 
[Paris, 1680, 4to], p. 66). Since the time of Gregory 
VII a similar obligation was imposed on all metropoli- 
tans (c. 4, x, De Jurejurando , ii, 24, Greg. YT1, an. 1079), 
and afterwards on all prelates, particularly bishops, the 
intervals between their visits being regulated by the 
distance of the particular diocese from Pome. Certain 
bishops having secured an exemption from this duty, 
their privilege was revoked by Alexander IV in 1257. 
The bull Romani} s Pont if ex (Bailor, Magn. [ed. Lux- 
emh.], ii, 551), issued by Sixtus V on Dec. 20, 1584, 
commanded the bishops resident in Mediterranean lands 
to visit Rome once in three years; those in Europe, 
outside of Russia and Turkey, once in four; all others, 
living in Europe and eastward of the American conti- 
nent, once in five; and those in the remaining sections 
of the world once in ten years. Benedict XIV extend- 
ed the obligation so as to make it cover all prelates of 
every class who should have territorial jurisdiction, iu 
the constitution Quod Sancta of Nov. 23, 1740 ( Bailor . 
cit. xvi, fol. 11). It is generally conceded that even tit- 
ulary bishops are held to this duty. 

The Visitatio liminum should be made by the prelate 
in proper person, but, in case of need, a substitute spe- 
cially authorized may be employed bv him. The in- 
creased facilities of travel in modern times have made 
such visitations a matter of regular recurrence, and the 
substitution for them of a written report is now infre- 
quent. The report De Statu Ecclesice is, however, part- 


VISITATION 


804 


VISWAMITRA 


ly oral ami partly written. A special instruction re- 
specting it was elaborated by Prosper Lambert ini, the 
subsequent pope Benedict XIV, and is given alter vol. ii 
of his Builarium , and also in the appendix to his work 
De Synodo Diocesana , and in Kichter and Schulte’s edi- 
tion of the Cone. Trident. (Lips. 1853). 

See Ferrnris. Biblioth. Canon ten ; Benedict XIV as 
above; Haugen, l)ie ram. Curie , in Zeitschr.f. Recht u. 
Polltik d.Kirche , hv Jacobson and lJiehter, No. 2; Gie- 
seler, Kirchengesch. ii, 2; Philipp, Kirchenrccht, ii, SI, 
82; Herzog, Real-Fncyklop. s. v. 

Visitation iTTKTKOTri)'), in Scripture lan- 

guage, is sometimes taken for a visit of mercy from God 
((len. 1, 21 ; Exod. xiii, PJ; Luke i, 66, etc.), but oftener 
for a visit of rigor and vengeance. Day of visitation, 
year of visitation, or time of visitation, generally signi- 
fies the time of allliction and vengeance; or of close in- 
spection (Exod. xxii, 34; Isa. xxiii, 17; 1 Pet. ii, 12, 
etc.). 

VISITATION, in ecclesiastical phrase, is the in- 
spection of a province, diocese, archdeaconry, or parish 
church. Formerly these visits were performed by the 
officer with a large retinue, greatly to the inconvenience 
of curates and vicars. As early as 1171) action was 
taken by the pope restricting the retinue of the visit- 
ing prelate, and such restrictive measures have been 
passed frequently since. In the Church of England 
the bishop visits once in three years, in order to give 
his charge and to make inquiry as to the state of the 
churches. The archdeacon visits in his place in the 
interim. The term is also applied to the work of the 
pastor, in Protestant churches, of calling upon the mem- 
bers of the Church to inquire as to the prosperity of 
their souls. In a divine or spiritual sense, the term is 
applied to either a communication of divine love, or to 
any calamity, individual or national. 

VISITATION ok ( the Blessed Virgin) Mary is the 
journey made by the mother of our Lord to the hill- 
country of Judaea, to visit the mother of John the Bap- 
tist. This has been a favorite subject for the artist in 
all ages. See Jameson, Legends of the Madonna , p. 186 
sq. 

VISITATION (of St. Mary), Festival, of the, a 
festival of the Church of Home, instituted about 1338 
by pope L T rban VI, in memory of the visitation of Mary 
(q. v.) to Elisabeth, the mother of John the Baptist. It 
is fixed for July 2. See 
Jameson, Legends of the Ma- 
donna , p. Ih3. 

VISITATION (of St. 

Mary), Order of the, is 
a congregation of nuns, in- 
stituted in 1610 by St. 

Francis de Sales and St. 

Jeanne Fran^oise de Chan- 
tal. The design of the or- 
der was to receive those 
women who. by reason of 
their infirmities of body or 
mind, their extreme pover- 
ty, previous errors of life, 
or state of widowhood, were 
excluded from the other 
regular communities. See 
Migne’s Ilelvot, Ordres Re- 
ligieux, iii, 1)22 sq. ; Jame- 
son, Leyends of the Monastic 
Orders, p. 447 sq. See Vis- 
itants. 

VISITATION, The Sax- 
on, is the inspection of the 
Saxon churches by visitors, 
appointed at the request of 
the theologians in 1527. n^Vit ,,f the Order of the 
The system of supervision Visitation of St. Mary. 


was the outgrowth of the Lutheran Reformation, and 
one feature of the Lutheran polity. Superintendents 
were appointed to take the place of bishops, and exer- 
cise an oversight upon the doctrine and worship of the 
churches, and upon the pastors. See Fisher, Hist, of 
the Reformation , p. 491. 

VISITATION of the Sick is the duty of visiting 
the sick and ministering to their temporal and spiritual 
wants. The appropriate forms used iu the Episcopal 
Church in this work are found in the Book of Common 
Prayer. 

Visitatorial Power is the authority possessed by 
the visitor of a corporate body or ecclesiastical society. 
“ Every corporation, whether lay or ecclesiastical, is 
visitable by some superior; and every spiritual person, 
being a corporation sole, is visitable by the ordinary. 
There is, however, in our ecclesiastical polity, an ex- 
ception to this rule, for, by composition, the archbishop 
of Canterbury never visits the bishop of London. Dur- 
ing a visitation all inferior jurisdictions are inhibited 
from exercising jurisdiction; but this right, from the 
inconvenience attending the exercise of it, is usually 
conceded; so that the exercise of jurisdiction in the 
inferior court is continued notwithstanding.” — Hook, 
Church Diet . s. v. 

Visitor, in official language, is an inspector of bod- 
ies politic, ecclesiastical, or civil. With respect to or- 
dinary ecclesiastical corporations, the bishop is their 
visitor, so constituted by canon law. The archbishop 
is the supreme ecclesiastical visitor in his province, and 
has no superior. The bishops are visitors in their sev- 
eral dioceses of all deans and chapters, parsons, vicars, 
and all spiritual corporations. Visitors of colleges and 
other eleemosynary corporations are generally inde- 
pendent of the diocesan, being extra-diocesan. Some- 
times a visitor or visitor-general is appointed with ex- 
traordinary powers. See llill, English Monasticism, 
p. 494 sq. 

Viso, Fray Cristobal del, a Spanish painter of 
> the 17th century, resided at Madrid, and at one time 
held the office of commissary -general of the Indies. 
He painted all the saints of the Order of San Francisco 
for the chapter-house of the convent of that order at 
Cordova. He was a monk of the same order, and died 
at Madrid about 1700. See Spooner, Blog. lJist. of the 
Fine A rts, s. v. 

Vispered, in tbe Parsce philosophy, is a book of 
the Zeudavesta (q. v.). 

Visscher, Cornelis, a celebrated Dutch designer 
and engraver, was born at Ilaarlem about 1610. He 
studied under Peter Soutman,but adopted a style of his 
own, formed by a combination of the point with the 
graver, in which he has hardly been equalled. His 
works are very numerous, and those from his own de- 
signs arc the most esteemed. He died in 1670. Among 
his prints of sacred subjects may be named, The Angel 
Directing the. Departure of Abraham, after Bassano : — 
.4 bra ham's A r rival at Sichem, id. : — Susanna and the 
Elders , after Guido : — Magdalen Penitent, design doubt- 
ful The Entombment of Christ, after Paul Veronese: 
— The Last Judgment, after Kubens: — and The Holy 
Family. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts , 
s. v. 

Visucius and Visucia were Gallico- Germanic 
gods, of which the first, identical with Mercury, appears 
on a strange tablet recently found on the Neckar. 

Viswamitra (Sanscrit visu-a, “all,” and mitra , 
“ friend,” i. e. friend of all the gods), an interesting char- 
acter in the mythological history of India, was the au- 
thor of many hymns of the Kigvcda [see Veda]; but 
his fame, wbieh pervades all the periods of Sanscrit lit- 
erature, is chiefly founded on the remarkable fact that, 
though by birth a Ivshattriya, or man of military caste, 
he succeeded in having himself admitted into the Brah- 



VITAL 


805 


VITEK 


manic caste, after a long contest which he had to wage 
against the Rishi Yasishtha (q. v.\ From the epic poems 
anti the Puranas, it would seem that the result of this 
contest was the elevation of Yiswamitra to the rank of 
a Brahraana. But* the later traditions relating to this 
contest are otherwise accounted for. It is thought that, 
since the rivalry between Yiswamitra and Yasishtha is 
alluded to in several of the Rigveda hymns, and since 
t he caste distinction of later periods of Hinduism was 
not yet established, these traditions resulted from the 
circumstance that Sudas, a king named in the Rig- 
veda, who employed Yasishtha for his house-priest, al- 
lowed, for some unknown reason, Yiswamitra also to of- 
ficiate for him at sacrifices; and that the latter, incur- 
ring on this ground the jealousy of Yasishtha, had to 
maintain bv force the prerogative conferred on him by 
his royal master. Many legends are related concern- 
ing him. See Muir, Original Sanscrit Texts (Loud. 
1858). 

Vital, St., an early French monk, was born about 
1050 at Tierceville, near Mortain, Normandy, lie left 
his native land to gain instruction from the most learned 
men of his time, was ordained, and became (about 1080) 
chaplain of Robert, count of Mortain, who furnished 
him a prebendship in the collegial church of St.Evroul, 
founded by him in 1082. Yital, nevertheless, renounced 
his honors and emoluments (about 1091), and retired 
among the rocks of Mortain. The number of bis fol- 
lowers increasing, he went (in 1093) to the forest of 
Craon, and afterwards to that of Fougeres. lie finally 
(about 1105) founded an abbey in the forest of Savigny, 
near Mortain, dedicated to the Trinity, which was con- 
firmed in 1112. Thence Yital made extended preaching 
tonrs, the fame of which reached even the papal ears. 
In 1120 he passed over to England, where he made 
many conversions. About the same time he trans- 
ferred to Neuf-Bourg a nunnery which he had founded 
near Savigny, in honor of his sister St. Adeline. He 
died while performing matins at the priory of Dam- 
pierre, Sept. 16, 1122. The monastery established by 
him gave rise to many others, both in France and Eng- 
land, the most remarkable of which were those of La 
Trappe, Fournmont, and Auluoy. It finally (in 1148) 
passed over to the Order of Citeaux. One of the last suc- 
cessors of abbe Yital was Massillon. See Heeler, Xouv. 
Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Vital Ciiajjm, a famous Cabalist and pupil of 
Isaac Loria (q. w), was a descendant of a Calabrian 
family. He was born in 1543, and died in 1620. After 
the death of his teacher, Yital diligently collected all 
the manuscript notes of the lectures which Loria’s dis- 
ciples had written down, from which, together with his 
own jottings, he produced the gigantic and famous 
system of the Cabala entitled the Tree of Life, 
E^nn yV. This work, upon which Yital labored over 
thirty years, was at first circulated in manuscript, copies, 
and every one of the Cabalistic disciples had to pledge 
himself, under pain of excommunication, not to allow a 
copy to be made for a foreign land, so that for a time 
all the codices remained in Palestine. “Chajim’s ex- 
ample,” says Steinsehneider, “gave a great impulse to 
his fertile followers, and not long afterwards, Aaron 
Bereehja of Modena declared (in a manuscript work, 
1629) that he had somewhere read that it is the duty 
of every student to write down the principles of the 
Cabala. With respect to the authenticity and ar- 
rangement of these writings, nearly all of which bear 
the name of Chajim, and are extant in hundreds of 
manuscripts (the very few that are printed having ap- 
peared together with other older Cabalistic works at 
Korez, 1784-85), we find an apparatus criticns of no 
less than four recensions; and Chajim himself began 
bis comprehensive work with such care that he distin- 
guished what he found taught in Loria’s name from 
what he considered as authentic tradition. But his 
own account of the different ways in which he arranged 


and rearranged his materials, and the accounts of those 
who again prepared his writings for the press (viz. his 
son, Samuel Yital of Damascus; the polygrapher -Jacob 
Zemach, a Portuguese physician in Palestine, 1619-52; 
ami his German pupil Me'ir Poppers at Jerusalem, ob. 
1622), and, lastly, a comparison of the different forms in 
which the same formula 1 and plays upon letters appear 
and reappear, must make every honest student despair 
of ever producing light and order out of this vast mass 
of confusion; and we might sum up our judgment, like 
an ingenious bibliographer, in the words “The dream of 
Pharaoh is one.” The work of Chajim consists of six 
parts; a portion of that part which treats of the doc- 
; trine of metempsychosis (E*t1^b:n) has been translated 
into Latin by Knorr von Rosenroth. See Fiirst, Bibl. 
Jud. iii, 479 sq. ; Ginsburg, Kabbalah, p. 135 ; De’ Rossi, 
Dizionario Storico (Germ, transl.), p. 328 sq. ; Grittz, 
Gesch. d. Juden. ix, 445 sq. ; and note, 8, p. lxxv; x, 
125 sq. ; Steiuschneider, Jewish Literature , p. 227 sq. 
(B. P.) 

Vitali, Alessandro, an Italian painter, was born 
at Urbino in 1580. He was instructed by Federigo 
Baroccio, who assisted him in some of his best works, 
lie copied the Annunciation of Loreto, by Baroccio, 
with such success that it might easily be mistaken for 
the original. Ilia St. Agnes, in the cathedral, and St. 
Augustine, in the Church of the Eremitani, at Urbino, 
are among his best works. He died in 1630. See 
Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine Arts, s. v. 

Vitali, Giuseppe, a painter of Bologna, flourished 
about 1700. lie studied under Giangioseftb del Sole, 
and painted history. He executed some works for the 
churches of Bologna, the most, important of which are 
the Annunciation, in San Antonio; St. Petronio, in SS. 
Sebastiano e Roeeo; and the Martyrdom of St. Cecilia, 
in the church of that saint. He died some time af- 
ter L720. See Spooner, Biog. ilist. of the Fine Arts, 
s. v. 

Vitaliail, pope from 657 until 672. In that age 
the pope was subject to the emperor, and Yitalian was 
obliged to write to Constans II to request the imperial 
confirmation of bis elevation to the papal chair. In the 
Monothelite controversy he was obliged to bend before 
the imperial party, which favored the Monothelite error. 
He was also unsuccessful in maintaining the superiority 
over bishop Maurns of Ravenna to which he laid claim. 
Yitalian’s influence seems to have been more powerful 
in England than elsewhere, through the labors of The- 
odore, archbishop of Canterbury, who endeavored to es- 
tablish uniformity with the Church of Rome. Yitalian 
left certain letters which are yet extant; and died, it 
is stated, on Jan. 27, 672. See Herzog, Real-Fncgklop. 
s. v. 

Vitalis a Fukxo, a French prelate, was appointed 
cardinal in 1312. He opposed the Spirituals, and wrote 
mystical expositions of the Proverbs, the Gospels, the 
Apocalypse, and various other portions of the Bible. 
The exegesis of the French writers of this period is 
well illustrated by his Moral Mirror of the whole Bible. 
See Mosheim, Ilist. of the Church, bk. iii, cent, xiv, pt. 
ii, eh. ii. 

Vite, Ti motto (also called della Vite di Urbino ), an 
Italian painter, was born at Urbino in 1470. lie studied 
under Francesco Francia at Bologna, and returned to 
Urbino in 1496. From thence he repaired to Hie acad- 
emy which his relative Raphael had opened in the 
Yatican at Rome, lie assisted Raphael for some time, 
and again returned to Urbino, where he passed the re- 
mainder of his days, lie died in 1524. Among his 
principal works are the Discovery of the Cross, in the 
Church of the Convent uali at Pesaro; the Conception, 
in the Osservanti at Urbino; and the Noli Me Tangere , 
in the Church of Sant’ Angelo at Cagli. See Spooner, 
Biog. Hist, of the Fine A ?ls, s. v. 

Vitek, in Chinese mythology, was an idol worship- 


VITELLIUS 


806 


VITUY 


ped because of his having delivered the earth and the 
kingdom of heaven from the power of the daemons, who 
devastated them, lie is usually represented as of gigan- 
tic size, very fat, and sitting upon a throne, with two dae- 
mons at his side listening to his commands. Numerous 
daily spice-offerings were made to him. At the time of 
the>e offerings his priests related upon their knees the 
great deeds of the god. 

Vitellius, an African Donatist, flourished about 
A.D. 344. lie wrote on the world’s hatred to the ser- 
vants of God, against the pagans, against the Catho- 
lics as traditors, and some other tracts. None of his 
works remain. See Genuadius, De 17m Illustribus , 
s. v. 

Vitellius, Aulus, a Roman emperor, son of Lueius 
Vitellius, the censor, was born A.D. 15. Like his father, 
he was a master of the arts of servile cringing and flat- 
tery. Through the favor of Tiberius, Cains Caligula, 
Claudius, and Nero, he was advanced to high station, 
and on the deatli of Otho was proclaimed emperor in 
Germany at the time Vespasian was engaged in war 
with the dews early in 69. lie was a glutton and vo- 
luptuary, and without either civil or military’ talent. 



Ahont the time he arrived in Rome, Vespasian was pro- 
claimed at Alexandria, and, on the latter arriving in 
Italy at the head of his hostile army, Vitellius was put 
to death, Dee. 22, 69 (Josephus, War, iv, 10; Tacit. 
Hist. ii. 3; Sueton. Vitellius ). See Tillemont, l/is- 
toire dts Emptrturs , vol. i; Smith, Diet, of Class. Biog. 
s. v. 

Vitellius, Erasmus, a Polish bishop, was born 
about 1470, at Cracow, of obseure parentage. He stud- 
ied in the university of that plaee at the expense 
of the family of Ciolek de Vitellio, whose name he as- 
sumed. In 1401 he became doctor at the university, 
and in 1504 was nominated by prince Alexander as 
bishop of I ’lock. He visited Rome twice to present the 
salutations of his sovereign to the pope. In 1518 he 
was sent by Sigismund to the Diet of Augsburg to so- 
licit aid against the Turks, as well as on other diplo- 
matic services. lie died in 1522. See Biographic 
Uni verse lie. s. v. 


the land, lie early began the study of the classi- 
cal and Hebrew languages, and in his sixteenth year 
entered the University of Franeker, subsequently grad- 
uating at Leyden. In 1G81 he was made professor of 
Oriental languages at Franeker, two" years later profess- 
or of theology, and after ten years more professor of 
Church history. In 1G08 he refused a call to Utreeht, 
lie was married, and became the father of four sons and 
one daughter. His last years were tilled with physical 
suffering, from whieh he was released by an apoplectic 
stroke, Mareh 31, 1722. Albert Schultens delivered his 
funeral oration. 

Vitringa was engaged in but two literary contro- 
versies; one of which, with Coeeeius, his former tutor, 
had respect to the form of Ezekiel's temple, and the 
other, with Rhenford, was concerned about the idlers 
of the synagogue (comp. Carpzov, Apparat . 
p. 311). Ill’s Commentary on Isaiah (Leovardia*, 1714- 
20: Basle, 1732, 2 vols. fob; Jlerborn, 1715; Tiibingen, 
1732; in German, abridged, by Duelling, and with pref- 
ace by Mosheim [Halle, 1749-51]) is still worthy of 
note, Gesenius asserts that it weighs down all pre- 
vious expositions of that prophet, and many of more 
modern times. He finds its author given to Coceeian 
methods of interpretation, and prone to apply the proph- 
eev to some particular historical event whenever possi- 
ble ; but also careful to expound the meaning of every 
difficult passage, and thoroughly learned in the lan- 
guages of the Bible and in the antiquities of the na- 
tions. Collocations of passages directed against alien 
peoples are made by him which constitute an important 
feature of his work. Next in value may be considered 
his work on the synagogue, entitled Archisymigogus 
Observatt . Xovis III., ete. (1st ed. Franeker, 1G85, 4to; 
2d ed. 169G, entitled De Sgnagog. Vetere Libri Trts). 
Other and less important works are, Sacrarum Observatt . 
Lib. VI (ibid. 1683-1708 and often), which exposed Vi- 
triuga to the charge of heterodoxy from some critics: — 
A nacrisis Apocalyps. Joannis A post. (ibid. 1705, ete.), 
directed against the Church of Rome: — Hypotyposis 
Ilist.et Chronol. Hacr. a Mundo Condito, ete. (1708 sq.) : 
— Typus Theologies Practices (1716 sq. ). A posthu- 
mous work, Comment, in Libr. Prophet. Zacharies , etc., 
was published by Venema (Leovardia 5 , 1734, 4to). 

Three of Vitriuga’s sons died in early life, the last of 
whom, Horaee, had acquired the reputation of a scholar 
before his decease at the early age of sixteen years. 
11 is observations on Vorst,2>e Ilebraismis , w ere published 
by Lambert Bos in Observatt. Miscell. (Franeker, 1717, 
8vo). A fourth son, Cainpegius, beeame professor of 
theology at Franeker (see the following article). See 
Herzog, Ileal- Encyklop. s. v. 


Vitellius, Lucius, the censor, father of the em- 
peror, was made governor of Syria, at the expiration of 
his consulate, A.D. 35; and the same year, or the year 
following, he came to Jerusalem at the feast of the Pass- 
over, and was very magnificently entertained. lie re- 
leased the city from a tax on fruits, and committed to the 
eare of the Jew’s the high-priest’s habit, with the pon- 
tifical ornaments, which Herod and the Romans had kept 
till then in the Tower of Antonia. He deposed Joseph 
Caiaphas from the high-priesthood, and put in his plaee 
Jonathan, son ofAnanus, but deprived him of his digni- 
ty two years afterwards, and conferred it on Theophiius, 
his brother (Josephus, Ant. viii, G). He was noted for 
his sycophancy and public intrigues (Dio Cass, lix, 27; 
Tacit. . 1 nnal. vi, 32 ; xi, 1-3 ; xii, 5). See Smith, Diet, 
o f Class. Biog. s. v. 

Vitisator, in Roman mythology, w f as a surname of 
Bacchus, who first taught the planting of vines. 

Vitoduianus, Johannes. See Wintektiu-Pm 

Vitringa, Campegius, the elder, the most famous 
of the older expositors of the prophet Isaiah, was born 
May 16, 1669, at Leeuwarden, in Friesland. His fa- 
ther w r as a jurist of high rank in the superior court of 


Vitringa, Campegius, the younger, w’as born at 
Franeker, Mareh 24, 1693, and matriculated as a student 
in 1708. His education w T as directed chiefly by his 
father, and his kinsman Lambert Bos. He beeame doc- 
tor of theology May 23, 1714, and in the following year 
ordinary professor of theology at Franeker. He died 
of inflammation of the lungs. Jan. 11, 1723. His funer- 
al oration was delivered by llemsterhuis. He left an 
Epitome Theologus X (dural is (Franeker, 1731, 4to), 
and a number of dissertations which w’ere collected and 
published by Venema under the title Dissertatt. Sacree, 
together with the oration of llemsterhuis (1731, 4to). 
See Herzog, Reed- Encyklop. s. v. 


Vitruvian Scroll, a 
peculiar pattern of seroll- 
work, consisting of convolved 
undulations, used in classical 
architecture. The name 
is given after the great architectural writer Vitruvius. 

-Parker, Gloss, of A rchitect. s. v. 


Vitruvian Scroll. 


Vitry, 1^i>ouaki> i>k, a learned French philologer 
and numismatist, was horn about 1670. He entered the 
Order of St. Ignatius, studied at Paris, and was engaged 


VITRY 


S07 


YIYES 


all his life in antiquarian pursuits, lie died about 
1730. For liis productions, see Biog rap hie Universe lie, 
s. v. 

Vitry, Maciisor of fna’n nnn^), is the title 
of a ritual of the Synagogue of Vitry, in France, 
compiled about 1100 by II. Simclia of Vitry, a disciple 
of Kashi, and obtained its name from the place in which 
the compiler lived. It not only comprises the whole 
cycle of the daily and festival services, but various 
legal and ritual laws from ancient documents. This 
Machsor, which is of the greatest rarity, has been de- 
scribed bv Luzzatto in the Hebrew essays and reviews 
entitled Kerem Chemed (Prague, 1838), iii, 200. An ac- 
count of a MS. of this Machsor (British Museum Add. 
27,200,27,201) has also been given by Dr. W. Wright, in 
the Jonrn . of Sac. Lit. July, 1866, p.350 sq. See Fiirst, 
Bill. Jud. iii, 483 ; l)e’ Rossi, Dmonario Storico (Germ, 
transl.), p. 330 sq. (B. P.) 

Vittoria, Alessandro, a distinguished Italian 
seulptor and architect, was born at Trento in 1525. 
He studied at Venice under Sansovino, and afterwards 
worked for several years in the Venetian states. In 
statuary and modelling he is said to have been sec- 
ond only to Michael Angelo. In Venice, among other 
works, he executed the statues and ornaments on the 
staircase of the Library of St. Mark, in the Ducal Palace, 
the Council Hall, and various churches. As an archi- 
tect, he completed the Church of San Giuliano at Venice, 
the Chapel of San Fantino, and other works of Sansovino; 
also the chapel and altar of the Rosario in SS. Giovanni 
e Paolo; the monument of Priuli, in the Church of San 
Salvatore; the Oratory of San Girolamo; and the Pa- 
lazzo Balbi, near the Grand Canal. He died in 1G08. 
See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine Arts , s. v. 

Vitula, in Roman mythology, was the goddess of 
joy and merriment generally at the celebration of vic- 
tories. 

Vitumnus (the dispenser of life), in Roman my- 
thology, was said to give life to the newly born. 

Vituriarii is a name applied to certain idolatrous 
officers among the ancient Romans who were votaries 
of Apollo Did ii mams ; hence often called Didunuirii. 
See Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. xvi, ch. v. 

Vitus, St., one of the fourteen so-called helpers in 
need of the Romish Chureh, is stated to have been a 
native of Sicily, and of heathen parentage. He lived un- 
der Diocletian, and fled from persecution to Lower Italy 
and to Rome, where he wrought marvellous cures, but 
was condemned to die because of his unbending fidelity 
to Christianity. As fire would not burn him and lions 
would not tear him, it became neeessarv to torture him 
to death. His body was taken to F ranee, first to Saint- 
Denis and afterwards to Corvey. Portions of his relics 
are preserved at Prague, Salzburg, and elsewhere. A 
seeond martyr of this name is mentioned, whose body 
was brought from Pavia to Prague. See Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. s. v. 

Vitus, Domenico, an Italian engraver, is said to 
have been born about 1536, and to have become an in- 
mate of the Monastery of Vallombrosa, in the Apennines. 
His prints possess considerable merit, among which may 
be named St. Bartholomew (1576): — St. Joachim Hold- 
ing a Censer , after A. del Sarto: — and a set of small 
plates representing the Passion of our Saviour. See 
Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts , s. v. 

Vitus, Stephanus, a Reformed theologian of Ger- 
many, was born at Schaff hausen, Feb. 3, 1687. As for 
his knowledge, he was a self-made man, and, before he 
left his country for attending the lectures at foreign 
academies, he passed, in 1710, an examination pro mi - 
nisterio with sueh an excellency that the city awarded 
to him a present of two hundred thalers. In the same 
year he went to Heidelberg; was appointed in 1711 
co-reetorat the Reformed gymnasium in Ilalle; in 1713, 


rector at Cassel; in 1719, professor of theology and eth- 
ics in the Collegium Carolinnm there; and died May 2, 
I73G. lie was a fierce opponent of the Lutherans, and 
wrote, Apologia . in qua Synodus Dordracena et Refor- 
mata F ides Vindicatin' : — 1 'indie uc quibus ea quaz in 
Apologia Synodi Dordracena ? dicta sunt Yindicantur : — ■ 
Schediasma quo Angustini, Lntheri Supralapsariorum - 
qne Sententia a M anicluvismi Calumnia Yindicatnr. See 
J ocher, A llgemeines Gelehrten- Lexikon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Vivaldus, a Dominiean and prelate, was born in 
Piedmont in the latter part of the 15th century. Ho 
was chosen bishop of Dalmatia in 1519. lie wrote sev- 
eral tracts on experimental religion, which were pub- 
lished at Lyons in 1558. See Mosheim, Hist, of the 
Church , bk. iii, cent, xv, pt. ii, ch. ii. 

Vives, Juan Ludovico, a learned and liberal- 
minded humanist of the 16th century, was born in 
March, 1492, at Valencia, in Spain, and educated at 
Paris and Louvain, lie made himself acquainted with 
the ancient classics, and thereby came to understand 
the barrenness and tastelessness of the scholastic studies 
of his time so thoroughly that he became their open 
adversary, and assailed them in public lectures and in 
repeated publications, chief among the latter being his 
Liber in Pseudo- Dialecticos. His zeal in this work 
gained for him the friendship of Thomas More, Bud- 
deus, Erasmus, and other scholars of similar tendency. 
The publication of an edition of Augustine’s De Civitate 
Dei , dedicated to Henry VI II of England, led cardinal 
Wolsev to invite Vives to England; and as his inde- 
pendent notes appended to the work had involved him 
in disputes with the doctors of Louvain, he was glad to 
accept. liis reception was magnificent. Oxford gave 
him a theological doetorate, and the king discussed sci- 
entific matters with him and appointed him the tutor 
in Latin and Greek of the princess Mary (the Catholic). 
The royal favor was, however, forfeited by Vives when 
he refused to sanction Henry’s separation from his 
queen. Catharine of Aragon. He was thrown into 
prison and kept there more than six months. On his 
release, he fled to Bruges, in Flanders, and from thence 
addressed a letter to the king, in which he admonished 
him against the intended divoree, and pointed out the 
hurtful consequences to State and Church to which 
such a measure would lead (comp. Epist.ad Hen. 1 '///, 
Angf. Regem , in Opp. Omnia, vol. vii). 

The following years were spent by Vives at Bruges 
in undisturbed quietness engaged in literary occupa- 
tions. The ripest fruit of liis mind is the work De Dis - 
ciplinis Lib. XX (Antwerp, 1551), a cyclopedic presenta- 
tion of the sciences, which is characterized by a wide 
reading, frequent exercise of penetrating and sonnd 
judgment, and a wealth of thought, though the nar- 
rowness of his times is apparent and the language is 
often dry and hard. Of equal value is the last work 
upon which he was engaged, the De Yeritate Firlei 
Christiame , in five books. His wife published this book, 
which contains many things not to be freely spoken in 
the Romish Church of later times, and which have oc- 
casioned the suppression of various paragraphs by later 
editors (comp. Henke, Allgem. Gesch. d. christl. Kirche . 
4th ed. 1806, iii, 25G). liis independent spirit ex- 
posed him in life as well to the suspicion of being favor- 
ably disposed towards the Protestant doctrines. He 
died suddenly, May 6, 1540. His complete works were 
published in two folio volumes at Basle in 1555. The 
best and most complete edition is that of archbishop 
Francis Fabian and Fuero, under the title, Jo. Ludov. 
Yives Yalentini Opera Omnia ... a Gregorio Majansio 
(Valencia, 1782 sq. 8 vols. 4to). His published let- 
ters furnish important contributions to his biography. 
See, in addition, Antonius, Biblioth . Ilisp. (Rome, 1672), 
i, 553 sq. ; Dupiu, Biblioth. xiv, 99; Teissier, Eloges , i, 
2G6; Niceron, xxiii, 12 sq. ; Morhof, Polyhistor. passim.; 
J ocher, Allgem. Gelehrten- Lexikon, iv, 1661 sq.; Tenue- 
mann, Gesch. d. Philosophic , ix, 42 sq. ; Ritter, Gesch. d, 


VIVIAN 


808 


VOETIUS 


Christ l. Philosopkie, v, 438 sq. ; Wackier, Gesck. d . L ite- 
ratin', iv, 3; iSchrbckh, Christ I. Kirchengesch. seit d. Re- 
format ion, i, 47 stj. ; Herzog, Real-F.ncyklop . s. v. 

Vivian, H., an English Congregational missionary, 
was born at Penrvn, Cornwall, in 1832. He was edu- 
cated for the missionary work, and accepted by the 
London Missionary Society; and embarked for the 
South Seas, March, 1802. Mitch of Ids time was em- 
ployed in preparing native students for the ministry, in 
which work he was eminently successful. Ilis early 
death (April 11, 1874) was much lamented by the society 
of which he was an able representative, and by the na- 
tives, among whom he did a noble work. See (Lond.) 
Cong . Year-book, 1875, p. 371. 

Vivian, James C., a Church of England divine. 
No record remains of his birth, education, conversion, or 
entrance into the ministry. In 1SG2 he sailed to the 
Sandwich Islands, and there labored for twelve years. 
He died April 11, 1874. Mr. Vivian was a faithful, ear- 
nest, loving preacher and pastor. See Evangelical Mag- 
azine, August, 1874, p. 499. 

Vivian, Thomas,' a clergyman of the Church of 
England, was born near Truro, and educated there at 
the Grammar-school, and at Exeter College, Oxford, 
where he graduated June 19, 1742. He was ordained 
in 1744 to t he curacy of St. Michael's, Penkevil.in Corn- 
wall; and in 1747 was collated vicar of Cornwood, near 
Plymouth, and also licensed as public preacher through- 
out the diocese. He died in April, 1793. Mr. Vivian 
published a sermon of great note on the text “ I have set 
watchmen ;” also Three Dialogues between a M inister and 
One of his own Parishioners: — Exposition of the Cate- 
chism of the Church of England by Question and A nswer : 
— The Book of Revelation, expounded in a historical 
view: — and Cosmology, an inquiry into the cause of 
gravitation. See Christian Observer, March, 1877, p. 
235 ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit . and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Vivier, G. du, a Dutch engraver, flourished about 
1GGG. Little is known of him except by his prints, 
among which are the following: Christ in the Sepul- 
chre : — The Four Evangelists, in one piece : — The Temp- 
tation of St. Anthony : — and Thetis and Chiron. See 
Dumesnil, Le Peintre-Graveur, vol. iii; Spooner, Biog. 
Hist. of the Fine Arts, s. v. 

Viweg, Christian, a German professor of Oriental 
languages of the 17th century, is the author of Jlodo- 
geta Didacticus Jlebr ., Nova Methodo Vniversa hujus 
Linguee Fnndamenta vna cum Praxi decent Horarum 
Spatio felicissime Absolcens (Jena. 1G85): — Uodogeta Di- 
dacticus Linguee Ilebraicec Major (Zeitz, IG88) : — Uodo- 
geta Didacticus Ling. Jlebr., Ostendens moduni hanc Ling. 
Sanctum Discendi Methodo Facili intra duas Sepiimanas 
(Erfurt, 170G): — Phosphorus Veteris Testament i sire Syn- 
taxis Jlebraica (Zeitz, 1G90). See Fiirst, Bibl. Jlebr. iii, 
484; Steinsclmeider, Bibliogr. Uandbuch, s. v. ; Wolf, 
Bibl. Jlebr. ii, G19; iv, 305. (L>. P.) 

Vlerick, Peter, a Flemish painter, was born at 
Courtrav in 1539. He was first instructed by William 
Snellaert, and afterwards by Charles d’Ypres. But the 
capricious disposition of the latter caused him to quit 
his studio in two years. He then travelled through 
France, supporting himself with his pencil, and, after a 
short residence in Paris, he proceeded to Italy. He re- 
mained at Venice four years, during which he secured 
the friendship and instruction of Tintoretto, and then 
went to Pome to study the antique and the works of 
the great masters. He also visited Naples and Puteoli. 
In I5G8 he returned to Flanders, where he spent the re- 
mainder of his life. Among his many excellent works 
are the Brazen Serpent: — .Judith with the Head of Holu- 
fernes: — the Four Evangelists:— and the Crucifixion. 
He was skilled in perspective and architecture, with 
which he enriched his backgrounds. He died in 1581. 
See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Vliet, John George van, a Dutch painter and en- 


graver, was born at Delft in 1G10. He was a disciple 
of Pembrandt, but little is known of bis work as a paint- 
er. He left about ninety prints, from bis own designs, 
after Pembrandt and after J. Lievens, which are exe- 
cuted in an excellent manner and with good effect. 
Among his best prints arc, after Pembrandt. Lot and his 
Daughters; the Baptism of the Eunuch ; and St.. Jerome 
Praying in a Cavern: — after J. Lievens, Jacob Obtaining 
his Father's Blessing ; Susanna ami the Elders ; and t he 
Resurrection of Lazarus. See Spooner, Biog. llist. of 
the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Vocation, or Calling, in theology, is a gracious 
act of God in Christ by which, through his word and 
Spirit, he calls forth sinful men, who are liable to con- 
demnation and placed under the dominion of sin. from 
the condition of the animal life, and from the pollutions 
and corruptions of this work! (Gen. vi, 3; Matt, xi, 28; 
Pom. x, 13-15; Gal. i, 4; 2 Tim. i. 9; 1 Pet. ii, 9, 10; 
iii, 19; 2 Pet. ii, 20), unto “the fellowship of Jesus 
Christ,” and of his kingdom and its benefits; that, being 
united unto him as their head, they may derive from 
him life, sensation, motion, and a plenitude of every 
spiritual blessing, to the glory of God and tlieir own 
salvation (1 Cor. i, 9; Gal. ii, 20; Eph. i, 3, G; 2 Thess. 
ii, 13, 14). See Call. 

Voel, Jean, a French ecclesiastic, was born in 1541 
at Vanx-le-Monclot. and entered the Order of St. Igna- 
tius at the age of eighteen. He taught the humanities 
in various colleges, especially at Lyons and Dole, where 
he filled the office of rector. In 1591 he was sent to 
occupy the chair of rhetoric and Greek at Tournon, 
and he died there March 10, 1G10, leaving a number 
of educational works, for which see the Biographic Vni- 
verselle, s. v. 

Voet, Alexander, a Flemish engraver, was born 
at Antwerp in 1G13. He executed a number of plates 
after the Flemish masters, in imitation of the style of 
Paul Pontius. lie handled the graver well, but bis 
drawing was incorrect, leaving the effect of his prints 
unsatisfactory. .Some of his best prints are the follow- 
ing: after Rubens, Judith with the Head of II olof ernes ; 
The Holy Family Returning from Egypt ; The Virgin and 
D/fant ; and the Martyrdom of St. Andrew: — after Van- 
dyke, the Entombing of Christ. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, 
of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Voetius {Voct), Gyskertus, D.D., theological pro- 
fessor at Utrecht, and one of the most noted men in the 
Dutch Reformed Church of the 17th century, lie was 
born March 3, 1588. at Ileusden, in Holland. He early 
distinguished himself, while a studenl at Leyden, by 
his industry and extraordinary memory, and profited 
greatly by the teachings of Gomarus, Arminius, and 
Trelcatius, Jr. — the first-named having the greatest in- 
fluence over his mind. Assuming the station of a tutor 
in the Jjogicu, he became noted for his keen and bold 
defence of the strictest form of Calvinism. In 1G11 he 
became pastor at Illy men, and labored among the Ro- 
man Catholic population of that village for the exten- 
sion of Protestantism with great success. In 1 G 1 7 he 
accepted a call to his native town of Ileusden, his lead- 
ing motive being a desire to antagonize Remonstrant- 
ism, which was there flourishing. He preached eight 
times in each week, and often acted as reader and pre- 
centor to his congregations. In 1U18 lie was delegated 
to the Synod of Dort,and was influential in shaping the 
actions and results of that body. He afterwards re- 
mained at Ileusden, but extended the area of his labors 
so as to make bis influence felt against Arminianism 
and for the support of the Reformed theology in other 
cities also. In 1G34 he was called to the post of pro- 
fessor of theology and Oriental science at Utrecht : and 
to this he added, three years afterwards, the office of 
pastor to the Utrecht congregation. When the Utrecht 
school was elevated into a university in 1G3G, he inau- 
gurated its new career with a sermon on Luke ii, 4G. 
In the same year he issued a work entitled Proof' of 


VOETIUS 


809 


VOGEL 


the Power of Godliness, which is important as a charac- 
terization of his tendency to insist upon a consecrated 
life as tho attestation of an orthodox faith. This ten- 
dency lie illustrated in his own person by the fidelity 
with which he performed every pastoral duty. The 
street in Utrecht on which he lived bears his name to 
this day, and his portrait is honorably placed in the 
senate -chamber, in recognition of bis services to the 
community. 

Voctius was especially noteworthy as a scholar. His 
industry was such that he rose at font o’clock in the 
morning to begin the studies whose results he imparted 
to his academical hearers, or to the public in his numer- 
ous books. lie gave instruction, public and private, in 
Hebrew, Arabic, and Syriac, as well as theology, and in 
the forty-two years of his professorship gathered about 
him a circle of cultured friends which included many 
of the foremost personages of the time. Ilis great am- 
bition was the achievement of the overthrow of Arrnin- 
ianism, and this influenced his scholarly character as 
well as his general conduct. His exegesis lacked inde- 
pendence, and aimed less at the discovery of what con- 
stitutes religious truth than at the invention of philo- 
logical and other arguments to defend the theological 
system he preferred. Ilis dogmatics were pervaded 
with the spirit of scholasticism, and were expressed in 
a ‘‘barbarous artificial terminology” (Tholuck, A had. 
Leben des 17 ten Jahrh. ii, 216) and an insufferably dry 
and diffuse style, lie was predominantly polemical, 
the Aristotelian philosophy, as modified and improved 
by Christian thought, being one of his chief supports. 
He had no sympathy with Zwingliauism or Melanc- 
thonianism, and no admiration for Grotins. Erasmus 
was to his mind an Arian, Pelagian, Socinian, and scep- 
tic. lie hated, with a perfect hatred, every person who 
could be even suspected of scattering the seed of doubt, 
lie was a Calvinist, also, in his conception of the rela- 
tion sustained to each other by the Church and the 
State, and steadily claimed for the former the right to 
govern her own spiritual possessions and appoint her 
ministers. His views upon this question were violent- 
ly assailed by L. Molinanis, of London, in 1668. 

As a controversialist, Voetius was vehement, and not 
careful as respects the choice of his weapons. Ilis 
works afford abundant evidence that he believed, in a 
practical way, that the end hallows the means. His 
most violent campaign was that directed against the 
Cartesian philosophy in the persons, at first, of the 
Utrecht professors Renerius and Rhegius (1639-42), but 
eventually of Des Cartes himself; and in this he was 
defeated in consequence of the exposure of his duplicity 
in persuading his friend Schoock, professor at Groning- 
en, to write a polemic against Cartesianism, many of 
whose statements he shaped in person, and then denied 
that he was in any way connected with the publi- 
cation of that work. Another important incident in 
the career of Voetius was his contest with Coceeius 
(q. w), which lost its theological and ecclesiastical char- 
acter in a brief time, and became bitterly political and 
personal, and was not even terminated bv the decease 
of the two belligerents. The partisans of the Cocceian 
Federal theology were republicans in their general ten- 
dency, while the Voetians were, as a rule, Orangeists. 
The last decades of the life of Voetius were agitated by 
a controversy with the celebrated Jean do Labadie, be- 
gun on account of the separatist tendency of the latter. 
Several works of attack and defence were issued on 
either side; but peace had not been restored when 
Voetius died. Nov. 1, 1676. lie left three sons: Paul, 
professor of jurisprudence at Utrecht; Daniel, profess- 
or of philosophy; Nicholas, preacher at Heusden and 
Utrecht; and a grandson, John, professor of jurispru- 
dence at Herborn and then at Utrecht. 

With all the faults of his character, Voetius was an 
earnest and sincere Christian, and a most devoted ser- 
vant of the Church. Few men have in any age exer- 
cised greater influence over the Church of their time 


and country. No satisfactory life of Voetius has yet 
been written ; but comp. Gobel, Gesch. d. chrktl. Lebens 
in d. rhein.-westph . evang. Kirche, ii, 1; Rurman, 7 'raj. 
Erud. p. 396 sq. ; Ypey, Gesch. d. chr. Kerk in de 18. 
Eeuw, viii, 122 sq. The most notable works of Voctius 
are, Exercit. Pietatis (Gorinch. 1644) : — Selectic Dkpn- 
tatt. Theol. (Traj. 1648, 5 vols.) : — Politic. Eccles. (Am- 
sterd. 1663, 4 vols.) Diatribe de Theologia (1668): — 
Erpenii Bibliuth. Arabica cum Augmento (1667) : — Ex- 
ercit ia et Biblioth. Studiosi Theologies (Lips. 1668 sq.). 
See, in addition, Disquis. Hist. -theol. de Pugutt inter Yuet . 
et Cartes. (Ludg. Bat. 1861); and llerzog, Real-Ency- 
klop. s. v. 

Vogel, David, a Lutheran theologian of Germany, 
was born Sept. 12, 1674, at Konigsberg, in Prussia, lie 
studied at Leipsic ; was appointed, in 1713, second court- 
preacher at his native place, and in 1714 professor of 
theology besides; and died May 14, 1736. He wrote, 
Disputatio de Festo Natwitatis Christ i: — I)e Stabnlo 
Bethlehcmilico : — De Qucestione: an Creatio J Jundi ex 
Lamine Natural Demonstrari Queat? etc. See Arnold, 
1/ktorie der kbnigsbergkchen Universitat ,* J ocher, All- 
gemeincs Gelehrten-Lexikon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Vogel, Georg J ohanii Ludwig, a German schol- 
ar, well known by his contributions to the text of the 
Old Test., was born March 12, 1742, at Fenchtwangen, 
and died Feb. 12, 1776, at Altdorf. Besides editing Re- 
land’s Comp. Antiquitatum Ilebneorum (Halle, 1769), and 
L. Capelli Critic a Sacra, sire de Variis quee in Sa- 
c?'is V. T. Libris Occurrunt , etc. (ibid. 1775-78), he wrote 
De Codice Bibliorum Ilebraicorum llelmstadiensi (Ilolm- 
stiidt, 1766) : — De Locis Quibusdam Pentateuchi (ibid. 
1766): — Num Lingua Ilebnca Dices an Pauper Did 
Mereatur (ibid. 1766): — Fr. Yatabli Annotationes in 
Psalmos, subjunctis Hug. Grotii Notis, etc. (ibid. 1767); 
— Obsercationes Cf'iticce in Varias qnasdam Lecfiones 
Codicis Ilebrtd Script i Bibliothecai Academicee I/elmsf. 
(Ilalle, 1766): — Dks. de Matribus Lectionis Librario- 
rum olim A rbitrio Relictis (ibid. 1767); — Dks. Inscrip- 
tiones Psalmorum Serins A dditas Yideri (ibid. 1767), etc. 
See F first, Bibl. Jud. iii, 484 sq. , Winer, Jletndbuch der 
theol. Lit. i, 93, 94.96, 137, 187, 205,207.21 1,215, ii,S18; 
Steinschncider, Bibl. llandbuch , p. 144. (I). P.) 

Vogel, Johann Jakob, a Protestant theologian 
and historian of Germany, was born May 4, 1660, at 
Leipsic, where be also studied and was promoted as 
magister artium. In 1686 he was called as deacon to 
Taucha. and in 1697 as pastor to Pauitsch, near Leipsic, 
where he died, July 16, 1729. lie wrote, Leben des 
pdpstlichen Gnaden-Predigers oder Ablass-Cramers Joh. 
Tetzels (Leips. 1717). See Winer, llandbuch der theol. 
Lit. i, 750, Jbcher, Allgemeines Gelehrten-Lexikon, s. v. 
(P,P.) 

Vogel, Matthceus, a Lutheran theologian of 
Germany, was born Sept. 7, 1519, at Nuremberg. He 
studied at Tubingen and Wittenberg, and was called in 
1544 as pastor to Lauffen, not far from Nuremberg. In 
1518 be was appointed deacon at St. James’s in bis na- 
tive place, but had to leave it in 1549 on account of bis 
opposition to the Fonnuke intcrimisticce. lie went to 
Wehlau, where he labored for four years, and in 1554 he 
was called as cathedral preacher to Konigsberg, occupy- 
ing also from 1557 the theological chair. The Osiau- 
drian controversy made it necessary for him in 1566 to 
leave the realm of Prussia, and he went into Suabia, 
was pastor at Ilornberg in 1568, in 1569 pastor and 
superintendent at Geppingen, and in 1580 counsellor 
and abbot at Alpirspaeli. lie died Dec. 3, 1591. He 
is known as the author of Thesaurus Theologicus ex 
Sola Sacra Script ura Depromptus. See Fischlin, Me- 
moria Theolognrum \Yirt other gens turn , id. Yitce Pneci- 
pnorum Cancella riorum et Procancella riorum Ducatus 
Wirtebergici ; Salig, Historic der augspurgischen Con- 
fession; Hartkuoch, Preiissische Kirchen- Historic ; Ar- 
nold, Hktorie der kdnigsbcrgischen Unirersitiit ; Jbcher, 
Allgemeines Gelehrten-Lexikon , s. v. (B. P.) 


YOGEL 


810 


VOLANUS 


Vogel, Paul Joachim Siegmund, a Protes- 
tant theologian of Germany, was born Jan. 13, 1753, at 
Nuremberg. For a number of years he acted as teach- 
er in his native place; was called to Altdorf in 1703 as 
deacon and professor of theology; and in 1808 he was 
called to Erlangen as doctor and professor of theology, 
where he died, April 18, 1834. lie published, .1 ufsdtze 
theol. Inhalts (Nuremb. and Altdorf, 1700-90. 2 vols.): 
— Coinmentatio de Canone Eusebiano (Erlang. 1800-1 1 , 3 
pts.) : — Commentatio de Apocal. Joinmis (ibid. 181 1-16) : 

— De Conjectural Usn in Crisi X. T.; cut Adject a est 
Brevis Coinmentatio de IV Libra Esdrai (Altdorf, 1705): 

— Ceber die letzten Griinde des menschl. und christ lichen 
Glaubens (Sulzbaeh, 1800): — Comment . de Christ ologia 
X. T . (Erlang. 1822,2 pts.): — Diatribe de Resurrectione 
Carnis (ibid. 1819,2 pts. ) : — Ceber die Hojjnung des 
Wiedcrsehens (Nuremb. 1800): — Ceber das Philoso - 
phische n. das Christliche in der christl. Moral (Er- 
lang. 1823,2 pts.): — Synodal - Vortrage (Bayreuth, 
1837). See Winer, I/andb. der theol. Lit. i, 30, 77, 02, 
103.302, 435, 475, 477 ; Zuchold, Bibl. Theol. ii, 1395. 
(P,P.) 

Vogelsang, Heinrich Joseph, a Roman Catholic 
theologian of Germany, was born in 1803. From 1829 j 
he was connected with the University of Bonn, where 
he died April 15, 1803. He is the author of, Lehr- 
buck der christlichen Sittenlehre (Bonn, 1834-39,3 
vols.) : — Files Xiccena de Filio Dei Sand or. Patrum 
atque Doctornm, qui 3 Primis Sieculis Continua Success, 
in Ecclcs. Floruerunt , Tradit . Conjirmata. Dissertat. 
II istor. -theol. (Cologne, 1829). In connection with Aeh- 
terfeld, Braun. Droste, and Scholz, he edited the Zeit- 
schrift fiir Philosophic u. kathol. Theologie (ibid. 1832- 
35). See Winer, llandb. der theol. Lit. i, 14, 318, 597 ; 
Literurischer Ilundweiser fur das kathol. Deutschland, 
1803, p.236. (B. P.) 

Vogler, Valentin Heinrich, a German doctor 
and professor of medicine, who was born at Helmstadt, 
Sept. 17, 1022, and died March 13, 1077, is the author 
of Commentarius de Rebus Xatnralibus et M edicts quarum 
in S. S. Fit Mentio (llelmst. 1082): — De Religione Ju- 
daica et Judceorum Conrersione (ibid. 1680): — Physiolo- 
gia Historic Passionis Jesu Christi. See Joclier, 
Allgemeines G eleh rten- Lex ikon, s. v. , Winer, llandb. der 
theol. Lit. i, 140; Furst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 485. (B. P.) 

Vogt, Carl Avgust Traugott, a Protestant theo- 
logian of Germany, was born at Wittenberg, May 15, 
1808. For a number of years he occupied the pulpit of 
Trinity Church at Berlin, and afterwards went to Greifs- 
walde, w here he died, Jan. 22, 1809, as superintendent, 
member of consistory, and doctor and professor of the- 
ology. In connection with Pelt and Rheinwald, he 
edited Ilomiliariinn Patrist. Co/lectum f A dnott. C-rit ., 
Exeg.. Ilistoricisqne Jnstructum (Berlin, 1829-32 [Germ, 
title, Ilomilet. Bibliothek, ibid.]). Tie published Xeo- 
platonismns u. Christenthum , Untersuchungen iiber die 
Sehriften des Pseudo-Dionysius Areopagita (ibid. 1835). 
See Winer, llandb. der theol. Lit. i, 878, 890; Zuchold, 
Bibl. Theol. ii, 1396. (B. P.) 

Voice. See Batii-kol; Vote. 

Voice-tube is a tunnel or tube placed in the walls 
of the choir, by which means the faithful kneeling in 
i he nave could communicate with the clergy seated in 
the church stalls. 

Void Benefice is a benefice which has become 
void by the death, resignation, or deprivation of its legal 
incumbent; also a benefice which is vacant. 

Voight, Gottfried, a learned German, was born 
in April, 1044, at Delitsch. in Misnia, and was the son 
of a rich merchant, lie studied at Altenbergand Wit- 
tenberg, and was for twenty-three years rector of the 
School of Giistrow, and afterwards of that of St.John 
at Hamburg, where he died, July 7, 16S2. He wrote 
numerous works, chiefly on sacred science and antiqui- 
ties, for which see Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generale , s. v. 


Voight, John Lewis, a Lutheran minister, was 
born at Mansfield, in Prussian Saxony, Nov. 9, 1731. 
lie completed his academical and theological studies, 
and for several years taught in the Orphan House at 
llalle, in which he subsequently became inspector. lie 
was ordained at Wernigerode, and shortly after went to 
London and embarked for Philadelphia, where he ar- 
rived April 1, 1704. After preaching in various places 
for a lew weeks, he was appointed by the president of 
the synod to take charge of the congregation at Ger- 
mantown. In the course of the year, however, he was 
regularly chosen pastor of Germantown and Barren Hill. 
About t he close of the year 1705 he became pastor of 
the churches at Trappe and New Hanover, lie con- 
tinued to reside at Trappe for many years, and to min- 
ister to the above-named and other congregations, but 
finally settled at Vincent, where he spent the remainder 
of his life. lie died Dee. 28, 1800, and was buried in 
front of the church door, where a marble slab marks his 
last resting-place. See Sprague, A nnals of the Amer. 
Pulpit , ix, 41 sq. 

Voigt, Johannes, a German professor of history, 
was born Aug. 27, 1786, at Betteuhausen, near Mein- 
ingen. In 1812 he commenced his academical career 
at Konigsberg, where he died, Sept. 23, 1804. He 
wrote, Hildebrand als Papst Gregorius YI1 und sein 
Zeitalter (2d ed. Weimar. 1840): — Geschichte Preussens 
bis zum Untergange der llerrschaft des deutschen Ordens 
(Konigsberg, 1827-39, 9 vols.): — llandb. der Gesch , 
Preussens bis zur Reformation (ibid. 1842 sq. 3 vols.): 
— Gesch. des deutschen Ritterordens (1857-59, 2 vols.). 
See Literarischer Ilandweiser fur das kathol. Deutsch- 
land, 1864, p. 1 18 , Zuchold, Bibl. Theol. ii, 1397. (B. P.) 

Vois, Rene de, a French ecclesiastic, was born in 
Poitiers in 1665, and entered the Order of the Carmcd- 
ites under the name of Theodore of St. Rene, by which 
he is chiefly known. After fulfilling the charge ofcom- 
missan r -apostolic in England, and that of commissary- 
general of the Carmelites in France, he resigned his 
dignities to give himself to study and devotion, until 
his death, which occurred at Paris in 1748. lie left 
some religious pieces of a historical and practical charac- 
ter. for which see the Biographie Universelle , s. v. 

Voisenon, Claude Henri Fusee de, a French 
abbe, was born at the Castle of Voisenon, near Melun, 
July 8, 1708. lie was early destined for the Church, 
and, although of a worldly temperament, he received 
orders in consequence of feeble health and some pri- 
vate misfortunes. In 1740 he became grand vicar of 
Boulogne, and on the death of his relative the bishop he 
declined the offer of the see, but accepted the abbacy 
of Jard. He gave himself to secular literature, especial- 
ly the drama, and died at his native place, Nov. 22, 
1755, leaving nothing of religious importance. See 
Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generale, s. v. 

Voisill, Joseph de, a learned French Hebraist, 
was born at Bordeaux, about 1010, of an ancient and 
honorable family. At the age of twenty he was placed 
in public position in his native city, but he was led by 
his taste for study to embrace the ecclesiastic life, and 
was made almoner of the prince of Conti. In 1000 he 
produced a French translation of the Roman Missal, 
which, although issued under authority of the viears- 
general of the diocese of Paris, was finally condemned 
and placed in the Index. Voisin continued, neverthe- 
less, to defend himself; hut on the death of his protector 
he retired into privacy, and died in 1085. Of his writings, 
we notice Theologia Judieorum (Paris, 1047, 4to): — De 
Lege Divina (ibid. 1650, 8vo): — De Jubilceo (ibid. 1655, 
8vo) : — Commentarius in Xor. Test. (ibid. 1659, 2 vols. 
8vo), from St. Augustine, and extending only over Matt, 
i. For others, see the Biographie Universelle, s. v. 

Volanus, Andreas, a Polish Protestant author 
and controversialist, was born in the province of Posen 
in 1530. He lived chiefly at Wilna, where he was pas- 


VOLITION 


811 


VOLTAIRE 


tor of the Reformed Clnireh. lie acquired great celeb- 
rity by his controversy with the Jesuits, bv whom he 
was attacked with the most bitter violence. lie also 
wrote against the Socinians, and had theological dispu- 
tations with the Lutherans, in which he displayed great 
talent and learning. 1 1 is object was to unite the Augus- 
tinian and Helvetian confessions in Roland, but in this 
he failed, lie published numerous controversial works, 
whieh were popular in their day, and he is also favor- 
ably known as a political writer by his work De Liber - 
(ate Politica sen Chili (Cracow, 1582). lie died at 
Wilna in 1G 10. See English Cyclop, s. v. 

Volition (Lat. volo, “ to will”) is that act of the 
mind by which it knowingly exerts that dominion 
whieh it possesses over any part of the man, by em- 
ploying it in, or withholding it from, any particular ac- 
tion. See Will. 

Volk (quiet), in Irish mythology. The elves are 
named the quiet people by the Irish, and are supposed 
to be fallen angels banished to the earth for their sins; 
others having committed greater sins were condemned 
as devils. 

Volkel, Joiiann, a Socinian theologian ot Germany, 
was born at Grimma, studied at Wittenberg, and in 
1585 joined the Socinians. He became rector at Weu- 
grow, and died as preacher at Smigla, in Poland, in 
1618. Soeinus, whose amanuensis he had been for 
some time, was his special friend. lie took part in 
the composition of the Catechismus Racoviensis ; his 
own work, De Vera Reliyione , was supplemented by 
John Crell and published at Rakov, 1030 (reprinted in 
Maresii Hydra Sociirianismi Expugnuta , Gron. 1651- 
52). See Pock, Der Socinianismns (Kiel, 1847); The- 
oloy. Universal- Lexicon, s. v. ; Winer, Handbuch der 
theolog. Liter atur, i, 308; Biographic Universelle , s. v. 
(B. P.) 

Volkmar, Gustav, a German doctor and professor 
of theology, was born in 1810 at Hersford, in Kurhesse, 
and died in 1872 at Zurich, as professor of Old-Test, 
exegesis. He published, Das Evangelium Marcions , 
Text und Kritik , mit Riicksicht auf die Evangelien des 
Martyrers Justin , der Clementinen u. der apostolischen 
Voter (Leips. 1852 ): — Die Quellen der Ketzergeschichte 
bis zum Xiednum (Zurich, 1855 ) : — Die Religion Jesu 
(Leips. 1857): — Ueber die riimische Kirche, ihren Ur- 
sprung und ersten Conflict, etc. (Zurich, 1857): — Das 
vierte Buck Esra und die apokalyptischen Geheimnisse 
Uberhaupt (ibid. 1858 ) : — Handbuch der Einleitung in die 
Apokrypken (Tub. 18G0-63): — Commentar zur Ojfen- 
barung Johannis (Zurich, 1862). See Zuehold, Bibl. 
Theol. ii, 1400 ; Filrst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 485. (B. P.) 

Vollborth, Johann Karl, a Protestant theologian 
of Germany, Avas born at Nordhausen, Nov. 24, 1748, 
and died Aug. 29, 179G, as doctor of theology and super* 
inteudent at Gifliorn. He published, Commentatio in 
Mat . ii, 1G, Veram esse Infanticidii Bethlehemi Histori- 
an, non Obstante Josephi Silentio (Gott. 1788): — Eze- 
chiel auf's Xeue aus dem Jiebraischen iibersetzt und mit 
kurzen Anmerkungen (ibid. 1787 ): — Commentatio The - 
ologico-exegetica de Sacrificio Farreo Ilebrieorum, etc. 
(ibid. 1780 ): — Die 12 kleinen Propheten avf's Xeue aus 
dem Hebraischen iibersetzt, etc. (ibid. 1783) : — Erkldrung 
des Propheten IJosea (ibid. 1787) '.—Daniel avf's Xeue 
iibersetzt und mit Anmerkungen, etc. (Hanover, 1788): — 
Prinue. Linear Grammaticce Hebraic, etc. (Lips, 1788): 
— Jereniias avf's Xeue iibersetzt, etc. (Zelle, 1795). See 
Winer, Handbuch der theol. Literatur, i, 293, 555, 599, 
607 ; Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 486; Steinschneider, Bibliog. 
Handbuch, p. 144. (B. P.) 

Volney, Constantin Francois Ciiasseireuf, 
Count of, a French author and atheist, was born at 
Craon, in Anjou, Feb. 3, 1757. lie was educated at the 
colleges of Aneenis and Angers, and studied medicine 
for a time, but gave up the idea of professional life. 
After spending several years in Egypt and Syria, he 


was appointed director-general of agriculture and com- 
merce in Corsica. In 1789 he was elected to the States- 
General, and in 1793 was imprisoned by Robespierre as 
a royalist, gaining his liberty only on the overthrow of 
that officer, July 27, 1794. Soon after this he was ap- 
pointed professor of history in the newly established 
Normal School. Upon the suppression of the Normal 
School in 1795, he proceeded to the United States, where 
he remained until 1798. On his return to France, he 
was elected to a seat in the Senate, and subsequently 
received the titles of count and commandant of the Le- 
gion of Honor. He was one of the senators who voted 
in favor of the decree for the deposition of Napoleon 
Bonaparte, passed April 2, 1814; and on June 4 follow- 
ing was raised to the peerage by Louis XYI11. He 
died April 25, 1820. II is principal works are, Voyage \ 
en Egypte et en Syrie (1787, 2 vols.) : — Les Ruines, ou 
Meditations sur les Revolutions des Empires (1791), a 
work which has often been reprinted and translated, 
and contains his first avowal of those infidel views for 
which he afterwards became so noted: — La Loi Xatu - 
relle, ou Catechisme du Citoyen Fr angitis (1793): — Ilis- 
toire de Samuel, Inventeur du Sucre des Rois (1819): 
— and Recherches Xouvelles sur Vllistoire Ancienne 
(1814). In 1826 his complete works appeared in eight 
volumes. 

Volo, the Latin term for / will, an ancient response 
in the services for Christian baptism and marriage. 

Voloer (or Volower), a term sometimes applied 
to the priest who administered baptism. 

Volowing, a term applied to the ordinance of 
baptism, derived from the response “ volo,” / will, used 
in that ceremony. 

Volpato, Giovanni, a distinguished Italian de- 
signer and engraver, was born at Bassano in 1738. 
He first practiced tapestry embroidery, having learned 
it from his mother; at the same time, however, he occa- 
sionally practiced engraving without any regular instruc- 
tion, and the success of his efforts in this line induced 
him to adopt engraving as a profession. He settled at 
Venice and entered the school of Bartolozzi, afterwards 
went to Rome, and was employed by a society of dilet- 
tanti, who undertook to re-engrave all the works of Ra- 
phael in the Vatican. Volpato engraved on a large 
scale seven of the great works of Raphael in the stanze 
of the Vatican. They were published both in colors 
and plain, and form a splendid and valuable set of en- 
gravings. He was employed by Gavin Hamilton upon 
bis Schola Italica Picture p, and published many prints 
after the celebrated Italian masters, among which are 
the Farnese Gallery, after Annibale Caracei : — two 
Prophets and two Sibyls, after Michael Angelo. He 
died at Rome in 1803. Among the very many works 
of his hand we mention only the following: Christ 
Prayiny on the Mount, after Correggio : — Mary Mag- 
dalene at the Feet of Christ, after Paul Veronese: — the 
Marriage of Cana, after Tintoretto : — and St. Peter De- 
livered from Prison, after Raphael. See Spooner, Biog. 
Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Volpi, Stefano, an Italian painter, flourished at 
Sienna in the first part of the 17th century. lie is sup- 
posed to have been a disciple of Cristofano Casolani, 
as he executed some frescos from the designs of Caso- 
lani for the ehnrches of Sienna. See Spooner, Biog. 
Hist, of the Fine Arts, s. v. 

Volscens, in ancient Italian mythology, was a 
commander in the army of Turnus. He fought against 
.Eneas and killed Euryalus, and was slain by Nisus. 

Voltaire, Francois Marie Aroltet re, a noted 
French author and infidel, was born at Chatenay, near 
Seeaux, Feb. 20, 1694. He was educated at the Jesuit 
college of Louis-le-Grand. In 1712 he accompanied the 
marquis de Chfiteauneuf to Holland, but the exposure 
of his scandalous relations with a woman there occa- 
sioned his recall to Paris. Soon after this he was im- 


VOLTAIRE 


812 VOLUNTARY CONTROVERSY 


I risoned as the alleged author of lampoons on Louis XI V, 
which appeared after the king’s death. In the Bastile 
he wrote part of his epic the Ilenriade , and completed 
his tragedy (Fdipe; on reading which the regent re- 
leased him. On account of an altercation with a chev- 
alier Mohan -Chabot, he was banished, and resided in 
England from 17*20 to 17*21), where he became acquaint- 
ed with lord IJolingbroke and the freethinkers. On re- 
turning to France in 17*21), he found himself idolized by 
the French, and entered at once upon a brilliant career, 
lie wrote his Lettres sur les Anglais, in praise of English 
institutions. In this and other works which appeared 
about this time his deistical views began to crop out; so 
flagrant, were some parts of the Lettres that the work was 
publicly burned. lie only escaped arrest by retiring to 
Cirey, where he made his home with the marchioness 
Chatclet until her death, in 1719. In 1736 he had to 
escape for a time to Brussels, on account of the scandal 
occasioned by his Month tin, lie visited Frederick the 
Great in 1740, and again in 1714 on a political mission. 
In 1750 he again went to Berlin, where Frederick grant- 
ed him a pension of twenty thousand francs, and stud- 
ied with him two hours a day. A violent rupture at 
length occurring between him and Frederick, Voltaire 
resolved to escape. lie carried some of the king’s lit- 
erary work with him, and was arrested at Frankfort un- 
der circumstances of great annoytmee and disgraee; hut 
he afterwards renewed his correspondence with Freder- 
ick. In 1755 he purchased an estate near Geneva, but. 
could not live agreeably with his Swiss neighbors. In 
176*2 he removed to an estate at Fernev, in France, near 
the Swiss border, for the purpose of easy escape from 
one country to the other. I»v this time he had become 
enormously rich through his stock operations and his 
books, lie lived in excellent style, and was very lib- 
eral with his wealth. He had become, in a certain de- 
gree, the founder of a new sect of thinkers and writers 
of a decidedly atheistical tendency, although Voltaire 
himself was a theist, and rebuked the philosophy which 
tried to banish God from the universe. In his eighty- 
fourth year he visited Maris, where he was received 
with all the honor of a hero, and brought out the trag- 
edy of Irene with great enthusiasm. He was, during 
this visit, taken with a violent hemorrhage which 
threatened his life, and sought a reconciliation with the 
Church, that he might not be denied Christian burial. 
He signed a statement that he would die in the Moman 
Catholic faith, and that he asked pardon of God and 
t lie Church for his sins. He recovered from this attack, 
but died soon after, before leaving Paris, May 30, 1778. 

Voltaire was the foremost literary man of his age. 
The secret of his success lay in the remarkable spirit, 
vivacity, and grace with which he portrayed the spirit 
of his age, in his satires, tales, and other short arti- 
cles. “ English writers very rarely understandVoltaire. 
Those who dislike him almost invariably denounce him 
as a wild and reckless scoffer, or insist upon trying him 
by a lofty standard of political philosophy, and passing 
heavy sentence on him accordingly. The truth is that 
Voltaire was no philosopher at all, and was naturally as 
little qualified for such a part as any man of his day. 
lie was not a thinker, lie was a man of certain quick, 
impatient instincts, which sometimes led him right and 
often sent him wrong; and endowed with the most won- 
derful and unrivalled weapon of wit wherewith to fight 
for any cause which, on the spur of a sudden feeling, he 
might happen to embrace.” “ Voltaire was the most 
formidable enemy the Moman priesthood has ever had 
since the Meformation. No man, since Luther, has 
shaken more profoundly the eeclesiastieism of Europe. 
In this respect, rather than by liberal political dogmas, 
he helped effectively to bring on the great Revolution 
of the last century. Rousseau was the real author of 
its dogmas, but Voltaire is the arcli-antidericalist of 
history. In the literary celebration at the Gaiete, Vol- 
taire’s undeniable services to the cause of toleration 
were the emphatic theme. Victor Hugo showed his 


good taste as well as good sense in this respect. All 
Christian men may well acknowledge this, almost the 
only good work of the great writer. The Protestants 
of France universally acknowledge it. Victor Hugo 
gave eloquently the memorable examples of the Calas 
family, and of Labarre. He might have added that of 
the Servien family. Voltaire made Europe ring with 
reports of these eases, till the courts of France had to re- 
habilitate the victims, as far as possible; and popery^ 
reeled under his persistent blows. Toleration in France, 
by which Protestantism has become a part of the na- 
tional religion, dates really from his labors. The Jes- 
uits were subsequently expelled, and Napoleon gave the 
Huguenots a legal status. Aside from this good work, 
Voltaire was almost totally a bad man. lie was a lib- 
ertine; he could lie without scruple, as Carlyle shows 
in the life of the great Frederick; and nothing was too 
sacred for his jest and sarcasm.” 

Among Voltaire’s numerous writings are several trag- 
edies and comedies: Biecle de Louis XIV: — Biecle de 
Louis A T; — Ilistoire de Charles XII: — Histoire de 
Russie : — A nnales de l' Empire : — Histoire dv Purlement : 
— Philosophie : — La Bible Expliqvee — in which his at- 
tacks upon Christianity are expressed without decency; 
and in his references to the philosophy of others he is 
unjust in a high degree : — Dictionnaire Philosophique : — 
Les Quest tones sur les Miracles — an objection to mira- 
cles founded upon the constancy of natural law. His 
works have been published in seventy volumes by Le- 
quien (Paris, 18*20) ; also by Louis Barre in twenty vol- 
umes (ibid. 1856-59). See Vie de Voltaire , by the mar- 
quis of Condoreet; Strauss, Voltaire (1872); Morley, 
Voltaire (1871); and Desnoiresterres, Voltaire et la Bo- 
ciete du X VI I Heme Biecle (1855-76, 8 vols.). 

Vol terra. Francesco di, an Italian architect of 
t lie IGih century, was originally a carver in wood, but 
devoted himself to architecture, and, among other edi- 
fices, erected the Church of San Giacomo degli Iueurabili 
at Rome, the Laneillotti Palace, and the nave of the 
Church della Scala. This last is stately in appearance, 
but has many defects in the details, which detract 
greatly from the beauty of the edifice and the fame of 
the architect. He died in 1588. See Spooner, Biog. 
Hist . of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Voltumna, in ancient Italian mythology, was a 
goddess of the Etrurians, whose temple, situated be- 
tween Ameria, Volsinii, and Falerii, near the ’I iber, was 
the principal gathering-place for that people. 

Volume (H^r, Psa. xl, 7, a roll , as elsewhere ren- 
dered ; Heb. x, 7, a chapter ). See Book. 

Volumnus and Volumna, in Roman mythol- 
ogy, were male or female deities who caused good de- 
sires. 

Voluntary, in Church music, is an instrumental 
piece such as is usually performed on the organ at the 
beginning or ending of divine service. The name 
probably arose from the fact that these effusions were 
generally extemporaneous or voluntary , especially with 
accomplished organists, or were their own selections. 
The term is applied to written compositions in any style 
having the same general design. 

Voluntary Associations are those associations 
which arc formed among religious persons in connection 
with, or independent of, the Church for religious and 
benevolent purposes. They are not required by the 
Scriptures, but are sanctioned by the general tenor of 
the Word, and have been abundantly blessed in the 
spread of the Gospel and the promotion of happiness 
and holiness. Such are missionary societies, young 
men’s Christian associations, and similar organizations. 
See Society. 

Voluntary Controversy is the name applied 
to an animated controversy which commenced in Scot- 
land in 1829, and was carried on for several years be- 
tween the supporters and the opponents of civil estab- 


VOLUNTARY OFFERING 


S13 


VOPIISI 


lishments of religion. The discussion originated from 
the publication of a sermon bv Mr. Andrew Marshall, 
minister of the United Secession Church in Kirkintil- 
loch, in which he attempted to prove that religious es- 
tablishments are unscriptural, unjust, impolitic, secular- 
izing in their tendency, inefficient, and unnecessary. 
This production awakened an unusual excitement in 
the public mind. It rapidly passed through several 
editions, and, more especially in the Church to which 
the author belonged, it was regarded as a most vigorous 
and effective assault upon civil establishments of relig- 
ion. A review of this sermon, however, appeared in the 
Edinburgh Christian Instructor, which maintained with 
great ability the cause of national as against voluntary 
churches. The contest was carried on for some time 
with great energy between Dr. Marshall and his re- 
viewer, until at length various men of ability on both 
sides entered the field, and the point in dispute under- 
went a most searching examination in all its bearings. 
The controversy finally took an organized form, and 
a society was formed, on the part of the dissenters, un- 
der the name of the Voluntary Church Association, 
whose committee issued a periodical bearing the title 
of the Voluntary Church Magazine . Another associa- 
tion was formed, on the part of the national Church, 
under the name of the Association for Promoting the 
Interests of the Church of Scotland, and a periodical 
w'as begun under the title of the Church of Scotland 
Magazine. A treatise was published in 1833 by Dr. 
John Inglis, one of the ministers of Edinburgh, entitled 
A I 'indication of Ecclesiastical Establishments. After a 
short interval, a volume in reply to the Vindication ap- 
peared from the pen of Dr. Marshall. See Gardner. 
Faiths of the World, ii, 9*21. See Church and State; 
Establishment ; Voluntaryism. 

Voluntary Offering (rcn?, Exod. xxxv, 29; 
Ezra i, 4; v, 7), a free gift (iii, 5; viii, 28; Ezek. xliv, 
12): chiefly a voluntary sacrifice opposed to one in con- 
sequence of a vow (Lev. xxii, 23), metaphorically (Psa. 
cxix, 108). See Thank-offering. 

Voluntaryism is a name for the principles or 
system of polity distinctive of those who advocate the 
separation of Church and State, the cessation of State 
endowments and State grants for religious purposes, 
and, in general, of all interference, patronage, or exer- 
cise of authority on the part of the civil power in the 
religious and ecclesiastical affairs of the citizen. The 
terms Voluntaryism and Voluntary have been in use 
since the date of the exciting discussions known as the 
Voluntary Controversy (q. v.) ; and they serve to sug- 
gest the fundamental conception which underlies the 
creed of religious dissent — that all true worship, or ac- 
ceptable service in religion, must be the free expression 
of individual minds; and that religion ought to be left 
by civil society to mould itself spontaneously, without 
violence to individual freedom from any interposition 
of secular authority or compulsory influence. Volun- 
taryism seeks to define more accurately the limits of 
civil power by defining more adequately than preceding- 
theories have done the latitude due to the movements 
of religion. Assigning the magistrate his proper sphere, 
it is equally careful to assign the Church and the indi- 
vidual their appropriate spheres of responsibility and 
duty in reference to religion, within which they may 
work unchecked, in full harmony with all the claims of 
civil order. Voluntaryism may be regarded as the for- 
mula of advanced Protestantism, the corrected doctrine 
of Church and State, which the failure of the experi- 
ment of national churches has forced on public thought. 
It is a protest in modern language against the encroach- 
ment of the temporal power, whether under the name 
of magistrate, nation, or political majority, on the rights 
of individual conscience. See Church and State; 
Establishment. 

Volupia, in Roman mythology, wa3 the goddess of 
prosperity and lust. She had a sanctuary at Rome, 


Volusian was the son of the Roman emperor Cal- 
lus, upon whose elevation in A.D. 251 he was styled 
Ciesar and Princeps Juventutis. In 252 he held the of- 
fice of consul, and was invested with the title of A vgus- 
tus, reigning in conjunction with his father. They re- 
newed the persecutions against the Christians, which 
seemed to be subsiding under their predecessor, Decius. 
Volusian perished with his father at Interamna, in 253 
(or 254). See Mosheim, Ilist. of the Church, bk. i, cent, 
iii, pt. i, ch. ii ; Eusebius, Eccles. Hist. lib. vii, eh. i; 
Cyprian, Epistles lvii, 1 viii ; Smith, Diet, of Class . Biog. 
s. v. 

Voluspa is the oldest and most interesting of the 
Eddas. It contains the whole system of Scandinavian 
mythology — the Creation, the origin of man, how evil 
and death were brought into the world ; and concludes 
by a prediction of the destruction and renovation of the 
universe, and a description of the future abodes of bliss 
and misery. See Norse Mythology. 

Volute (Lat. volutus= turned), a spiral scroll form- 
ing the principal charac- 
teristic of the Ionic capital. 

Volutes are also used oil 
the capitals of the Corin- 
thian and Composite or- 
ders. Several examples 
will be found in the il- 
lustrations accompanying 
the article Order. 

Volutiiia, in Roman Volute, 

mythology, was a rustic 

goddess who effected in grain the shooting -out in 
ears. 

Volvino was a Milanese artist of the 10th century, 
who produced the celebrated palliotto d' oro, or gold pal- 
lium, for the Church of San Ambrogio at Milan, which 
Lanzi says “may be pronounced, in point of style, equal 
to the finest specimens of the dittici, or small ivory al- 
tar pieces, that the museums of sacred art can afford.” 
See Lanzi, Storia Pittorica dell' Italia (Milan, 1824-25). 

Voorst, Conrad. See Vorstius, Conrad. 

Voorst, Johann van, a Protestant theologian 
of Germany, was born at Wesselburg in 1623. lie stud- 
ied at Wittenberg, and was appointed in 1653 rector at 
Flensburg. In 1655 the Rostock University made him 
a licentiate of theology, and shortly afterwards he was 
called to Berlin as rector of the Joachimsthal Gymna- 
sium. In 1660 he resigned his position, and became 
librarian to the elector of Brandenburg. He died Aug. 
4, 1676. He wrote, Dissertatio de Lingua Omnium 
Prana (Flensburg, 1675): — Syntagma Miscellaneorum 
A cademicorum (Rostock, 1652) : — De Ilebraismis Non 
Testament i Comment . (Leyden, 1665): — De XotabUi 
Correctionum Masoreticarum Genere (ibid. 1678): — 
Diatribe de Adagiis X. T. (Berlin, 1669), etc. Sec 
Muller. Cimbria Litterata ; Winer, Handb. der theol. Lit. 
i, 30, 125, 129, 912; J ocher, A llgemeines Gelehrten-Lex. 
s. v.; Filrst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 487; Steinschneider, Bibl. 
Handb. s. v. (B. P.) 

Voorst, Wilhelm Heinrich van dem, a Dutch 
scholar, son of Conrad, was born at Steinfurt, and ac- 
companied his father to Holland, where lie shared his 
fortunes. After the subsidence of the disputes between 
the Gomarists and the Arminians, he returned to Hol- 
land, and became pastor of the Remonstrants at Leyden, 
where he occupied himself in quiet studies until his 
death, about 1660. He translated several Rabbinical 
treatises into Latin, especially Maimonides’ Yvork on 
the Laws of Moses (Amst. 1638; Franck. 1684, 4to), 
See the Biographie Universelle, s. v. 

Voph'si ( Ileb. VophsV, *’021, perh, additional 
[Gesen.] or rich [Filrst] ; Sept. Sn/h' v. r. T a/3/; Vulg. 
Vopsi), the father of Nahbi, which latter Yvas the spy 
appointed by Moses from the tribe of Naphtali to ex- 
plore Canaan (Numb, xiii, 14). B.C. ante IG57. 




VORAGINE 


814 


VOS 


Voragine. See Varaggio. 

Vorilongus, Gulielmus, a French Dominican of 
the loth century, was called to Home by pope Fins II 
to defend his order against the Franciscans relative to 
t lie blood of Christ. lie wrote a Commentary on the 
Four Hooks of Sentences (Lyons, 11*4), and a collection 
of passages from the Sentences, which are against Sco- 
tus. lie died at Home in 1404. See Mosheim, Hist, 
of the Church , bk. iii, cent, xv, pt. ii, eh. ii. 

Voris, Cornelius P., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Switzerland County, lnd., ]\lan.'h 14, 1827. Af- 
ter a good academical course of study, he entered Hano- 
ver College, where, he graduated in 1858. He studied 
theology at Princeton, N. J. He was licensed by the 
Madison Presbytery in April, 1800, but was never or- 
dained. He preached as stated supply in Lexington, 
lnd., for more than a year. He died Aug. 4, 1802. 
See Wilson, Fresh . llist . Almanac, 1803, p. 215. 

Voronikhin, Andrei Nikophouovitcii, a Rus- 
sian architect, was born among the peasantry of count 
Alexander Stroganov in 1700. lie was sent by that 
nobleman, on account of his artistic talents, to Moscow, 
where lie received instruction from the eminent archi- 
tects liazhenov and Kasakov. He was then sent to 
travel with count Paul Stroganov, son of Alexander, 
with whom he visited Southern Russia, Germany, and 
Switzerland, and resided some time in Paris, where he 
continued his architectural studies with diligence. In 
1790 he returned to St. Petersburg, where the assistance 
of his patron soon brought him into notice and employ- 
ment. He became professor in the Academy of Arts, 
and was employed in 1800 by the emperor Paul as 
architect of the magnificent cathedral to be built in the 
Nevskii Prospect, and dedicated to Our Lady of Kazan. 
The edifice was completed in 1815. and forms one of the 
finest architectural works in St. Petersburg. A'oroni- 
khin also erected many other edifices, public and private. 
He died in 1814. See Spooner, Bing, Hist, of the Fine 
A rts , s. v. 

Vorse, D. W., a Methodist Episcopal minister, was 
born in Smyrna, N. V., July 16, 1812. lie experienced 
religion in 1830, was licensed to preach in 1837, and in 
1839 was received into the Erie Conference and appoint- 
ed to Hendersonville Circuit. In 1840 he was sent to 
NewCastle; in 1842, to Cambridge ; in 1843, to M* Kean; 
in 1844, to Napoli; in 1845-46, to Gerry; in 1847-48. 
to Youngsville ; in 1849-50, was superannuated ; in 1851, 
went to Girard; and at the close of that year took the 
superannuated relation, which he sustained till the time 
of his death, in 1809. Zeal and fidelity characterized 
the ministry of Mr. Vorse. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences , I860, p. 251. 

Vorstermans, Lucas, the Elder , an eminent 
Flemish engraver, was born at Antwerp about 1580. 
lie first studied painting in the school of Rubens, but 
afterwards devoted himself entirely to engraving. He 
made a specialty of engraving plates after Rubens, un- 
der the immediate advice of that master, besides the 
works of other masters. Ilis plates are executed en- 
tirely with the graver, and express with great fidelity 
the life and spirit of the original painting. He visited 
England in the reign of Charles I, where he resided 
from 1623 to 1631. and was employed by the king and 
the earl of Arundel. The time of his death is not 
known. A few of his subjects are subjoined : The Fall 
of the Evil Angels: — Lot and his Daughters Leaving 
Sodom: — Job Tempted by his Wife ami Tormented by 
Jhrmons: — Susanna and the Elders: — The Nativity : — 
'The A doration of the Magi (regarded as one of the finest 
productions of the art): — The Return from Egypt, and 
several others, all after Rubens: — The Holy Family , 
after Raphael: — The Entombing of Christ , after the 
same: — Christ Praying in the Garden , after Caraeei: — 
Christ Hound to the Pillar, after G. Seghers, and various 
others. See Spooner. Hiog, Hist , of the Fine A rts , s, v. 


Vorstermans, Lucas, the Younger, a Flemish 
engraver, son of the preceding, was born at Antwerp 
about 1606. Although he had the advantage of his 
father’s instruction, he was not equal to him in skill. 
Some of his best prints are, The Trinity , after Rubens: 
— The Virgin in the Clouds, surrounded by Angels, after 
Vandyke: — and The Triumph of Riches, after Hol- 
bein. See Spooner, Hiog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Vorstius (Voorst), Conrad, an Arminian theolo- 
gian. was born July 19, 1569, at Cologne, of parents who 
became converted from the Roman Catholic to the Prot- 
estant faith. He was educated at Diisseldorf and Co- 
logne, hut could not obtain the academical degrees at the 
latter place because he would not subscribe the Confes- 
sion of Trent. He now resolved to adopt a mercantile 
career, but, after two years (in 1589), went to Ilerborn 
and resumed his learned studies, lie was made doctor 
of theology at Heidelberg in 1594, and in 1596 accepted 
a theological professorship at Steinfurt, after having de- 
clined a position offered him at Geneva through Reza's 
intervention in his favor. At Steinfurt he so distin- 
guished himself as a teacher that calls to other schools 
were repeatedly addressed to him ; but he also began 
to earn the name of a Socinian through the books which 
he gave to the world, and even found it necessary to 
prove his orthodoxy at Heidelberg (1599). The Socin- 
ians endeavored to win him to their side by offering 
him the presidency of the Lublin gymnasium, and sub- 
sequently a theological professorship, but without suc- 
cess. In 1605 Vorstius became preacher and consLfo- 
rial assessor at Steinfurt, and in 1610, after the death 
of Arminius, he accepted a call to Leyden. He was 
preceded thither by his Disputationes X de Nature et 
A ttribntis Dei (1st ed. Steinfurt, 1602 ; and again 1610), 
and was at once violently assailed by the Contra-Re- 
monstrants. or Gomarists, as a Socinian and archhere- 
tic, because of the views lie had set forth in that work 
respecting God, his attributes, and respecting Christ and 
predestination. He was charged with denying the pure 
spirituality of the divine nature, and its simplicity, 
eternity, immutability, and omnipresence ; and also the 
Trinity, the personal union of two natures in Christ, his 
deity, and perfect satisfaction made for our sins. The 
Heidelberg theologians also decided against his book, 
and the Leyden zealots managed to involve even king 
James I of England in the dispute. Vorstius’s book was 
publicly burned at London, Oxford, ami Cambridge, and 
the king wrote out a list of errors which he had found 
it to contain. Vorstius replied to the Heidelbergers in 
Protest at io Epistolica contra Theologorum lleidtdb., etc. 
(Hag. 1610); and to the king in Christiana ac Modesta 
Responsio ad A rticulos guosdaui nnper ex .1 ng/ia Trans - 
missus (Lugd. 1611). The Estates were, however, obliged 
to dismiss him from his post, and to oblige him to re- 
tire to privacy at Tergow ; but even then the assaults 
upon him were not interrupted. Ilis principal adver- 
saries were J. Rogermann, S. Lubbert of Franeker, M. 
Sladus at Amsterdam, etc. Vorstius defended himself 
vigorously in a series of tractates, until the Synod of 
Dort (1619) banished him from the country as a here- 
tic, after which he lived in concealment until 1622, 
when the duke of Holstein afforded a refuge to Armin- 
ians, lie arrived at Tonningen July, 1622, bui died on 
the following Sept. 29. He was buried at Friedrich- 
stadt. It is said that he wrote out a confession of faith 
a short time before his death, in which he avowed his 
adoption of the Socinian views. See Walch, Hist, u. 
theol. Einl. in d. Religionsstrcitigkeiien (Jena. 1734), iii. 
565 sq, ; (1736), 5v, 281 ; Schrockh, Chr. Kircheugesch, 
seit d. Reformation (Leips. 18U6), p. 240 sq. ; and the lit- 
erature there cited. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop, s, v, 

Vortumnus. See Vehtumnus. 

Vos, Aric, an English Congregational missionary, 
was born Nov. 29, 1770. In 1805 he became the agent 
of the London Missionary Society. Ilis first stations 
were Zak lltver and Graaf lieitiet. lti 1811 he removed 


VOS 


815 


VOSS1US 


to Tulbagh, and became pastor of a church over which 
he labored for twenty-five years, lie died June 14, 
1867. Mr. Vos showed to the community in which he 
lived the power of a pure and godly life. See (Lond.) 
Cong. Year-book. 1868, p. 300. 

Vos, Martin de, a Flemish painter, was born at 
Antwerp about 1520. lie first received instruction from 
his father, and then in the school of Francis Floris un- 
til he was twenty- three years old, when he went to 
Italy and spent seven years at Home studying the 
works of the masters, especially of Raphael. He next 
went to Venice, where he received instruction in color- 
ing from Tintoretto, who is said to have disclosed to 
him all the secrets relative to coloring which he had 
either derived from Titian or acquired by his own ex- 
perience, and to have explained to him the rules and 
principles on which he founded his own practice. While 
at Venice he acquired the art of coloring so thoroughly 
that he was employed by the Medici to paint several 
portraits, and also executed several historical works of 
great merit. After an absence of about eight years, he 
returned to Antwerp, and was received into the Acad- 
emy in 1550. He executed several works for the 
churches, which established his reputation as one of 
the ablest artists of his time. He also received com- 
missions for pictures to adorn the churches of other 
cities in the Netherlands, besides numerous portraits, in 
which branch he excelled. 11 is principal works at Ant- 
werp are, the Marriage, of Cana , the Incredulity o f St. 
Th anas, the Miracle of the Loaves and Fishes , the 
Temptation of St. Anthony , in the cathedral, and the 
Last Supper, in the Church of St. James. lie died at 
Antwerp in 1604. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine 
A rts , s. v. 

Vos, Simon de, a Flemish painter, was born at 
Antwerp in 1603. lie studied under Rubens, and be- 
came an eminent painter of history and portraits. He 
painted so much in the style of his instructor that some 
of his works in the churches of Antwerp have frequent- 
ly been mistaken for the works of Rubens. Among 
these are the Resurrection , in the cathedral : — the De- 
scent from the Cross, in the Church of St. Andrew: — 
and St. Xorbert Receiving the Sacrament, in the Abbey 
of St. Michael. He was very diligent, and occupied 
himself continually in studying everything that might 
promote his knowledge, and he was one of the few who 
took pains to make the deepest researches into the true 
principles of his art. The time of his death is not 
known, although it must have occurred some time after 
1662. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Vos, Willem van, a Dutch Anabaptist pastor at 
Amsterdam, who died there Jan, 8, 1823, at the age of 
eighty-four years, was noted for his skill in moral phi- 
losophy. He wrote several prize essays on kindred 
subjects, for which see the Biog. Vniverselle, s. v. 

Vosen, Christian Hermann, a Roman Catholic 
theologian of Germany, was born in 1815 at Cologne. 
He received holy orders in 1839, and from 1844 acted 
as religious instructor of the Catholic College at Co- 
logne, where he died May 12, 1871. He is the author 
of, Rudiment a Linguce Ilebr. (Freiburg, 1860, and often 
since): — Kitrze Anleitung zum Erlernen der hcbr. 
Sprache (ibid. 1853, and often): — Das Christenthnm u. 
die Einspriiche seiner Gegner (3d ed. ibid. 1870) : — Der 
Katholicismns und die Einspriiche seiner Gegner (2d ed. 
1869). See Fiirst, Bibl.Jud. iii, 486 sq.; Literarischer 
J/andiveiser fur das katkol. Deutschland, 1870, p, 353 
sq.; 1871, p. 299. (B. P.) 

Vossius, Gerard, theologian, papal prothonotarv 
and provost of Tongern, a comprehensively learned man 
in the Greek and Latin languages, and a patristical 
scholar, was born about the middle of the 16th century, 
the place of his birth being wholly unknown. He pub- 
lished a Latin edition of Chrysostom’s Orations; an ora- 
tion by Theodoret on benevolence, in Greek and Latin, 
accompanied with various readings and notes; the works 


and life of Gregory Thaumaturgus ; the writings of 
Ephraem (1589) ; and the De Consider at ione of St. Ber- 
nard, with commentary (1594). He also edited Gesta 
et Monum. Greyorvi IX, with scholia (1586); and other 
less important works, as Rhetoricce A rtis Methodus, and 
Comment, in So nudum Scipionis. Just before his death 
he undertook an edition of the works of St. Leo, which 
was not completed, lie died March 25, 1609. 

Vossius, Gerard Jail, a theologian who ac- 
quired reputation as a laborer in the fields of Church 
i history, philosophy, philology, general history, and 
chronology, and also as a controversialist opposed to 
[ the Remonstrants, was the son of a Dutch preacher liv- 
ing near Heidelberg, and was bom in 1577. His edu- 
cation was obtained at Dort and Leyden, under Goma- 
rus, Trelcatius, etc. lie graduated in philosophy, and 
in 1598 became professor at Leyden, and subsequently 
rector of the theological college at Dort, where he re- 
mained until 1614. lie then went to Leyden in a sim- 
ilar capacity. In the Arminian dispute Vossius took 
sides with the Gomarists, without being a rigid adhe- 
rent of their views, however. The action of the Synod 
of Dort had greatly intensified the bitter feeling exist- 
ing between the parties, and this fact became so un- 
pleasant to him that lie resigned his position in the 
university. To retain his services, the chair of rhetoric 
i and chronology was assigned to him. but on the condi- 
tion that he should not write against the transactions 
of Dort. Soon afterwards he published his principal 
work, entitled Historia de Controversiis, qnas Pelagius 
ejusque Reliquie Move runt. Lib. VII (Ludg. Bat. 1618), in 
which he brought together and compared with each 
other the tenets held by Pelagians and Semi- Pelagians, 
and at tbe same time showed that Arminianism differed 
from Semi-Pelagianism, and that the strict theory of 
predestination was not known in the early Church. 
The Contra-Remonstrants thereupon assailed him with 
great violence. In tbe Synod of Tergouw (1620) they 
even excluded him from participation in the sacrament, 
though they revoked that decision in the following 
year. In 1624 the offer of the chair of profane history 
in the University of Cambridge was extended to Vos- 
sius, but declined, as was a second call to England in 
1626. Charles l made him a canon of Canterbury, with 
privilege to live away from England. The desire to 
make terms with his opponents led Vossius in 1627 to 
publish his work De Ilistoricis Latinis, in which he 
stated that he accepted Augustine’s theory of predesti- 
nation, and that this theory was known to the ancient 
Church ; and in which he distinctly renounced Semi- 
Pelagianism. He had ceased, however, to enjoy his 
stay at Leyden, and in 1633 he accepted a call to the 
gymnasium of Amsterdam as professor of history. He 
died March 19, 1649. His works include a lengthy list 
of dissertations on chronological, historical, philosophi- 
cal, and theological subjects. His complete works were 
published in 1701 at Amsterdam. See Jocher, A llge- 
meines Gelehrten- Lexikon, s. v., where a detailed list of 
the writings of Vossius is given.— Herzog, Real-Ency - 
klop. s. v. 

Vossius, Isaac, a Dutch scholar and theologian, 
the only son of Gerard Jan Vossius. who survived him, 
was born at Leyden in 1618. He was educated entirely 
by his father, and at the age of twenty-one he published 
an edition of the Periplus of Scylax, the Greek geog- 
rapher, with a Latin translation and notes, lie then 
travelled through Italy, France, and England for three 
years, during which he collected many valuable manu- 
scripts of ancient writers. In. 1648 he took up his abode 
at the court of queen Christina of Sweden ; but in 1658, 
in consequence of a quarrel with Salmasius, he returned 
to Holland. In 1670 he went to England, where he 
was made a doctor of laws by the University of Oxford, 
and in 1673 appointed canon of Windsor by Charles II, 
and assigned apartments in the Castle, lie died there 
iu 1G88, It is recorded that on his death-bed he re- 


YOTA 


81G 


VOW 


fused to take the sacrament until one of his colleagues 
argued that he ought to do so for the honor of the 
chapter, lie was sceptical in religion, and it is related 
that king Charles said of him on one occasion, “This 
learned divine is a strange man; he will believe any- 
thing except the Bible.” I Tis literary merits are great, 
though his works are not so valuable as those of his 
father. Among his most important works are, Disser- 
tations on the Seventy Interpreters , and their Translation 
and Chronology (1GG3) ; On the Chanting of Poems and 
the Power of Rhythm (1G73): — I Iiook oj \ arious Ob- 
servations ; besides numerous editions of the classics. His 
large and valuable library was purchased by the Uni- 
versity of Leyden. See Foppens, Bibliotheca Belgica; 
Xiceron, Memoires. 

Vota (or Bota), a festival of the ancient Church, 
which fell on Jan. I, so called because it was the day 
of sacrificing for the emperor's safety. 8ee Bingham, 
Christ. A ntiq. bk. xx, ch. i, § iii. 

Vote. The Orientals are not accustomed to formal 
ballots on any occasion, and the Hebrews do not appear 
to have resorted to it in any form unless the lot (q. v.) 
may be so regarded. In Koman times the ( Ireek cus- 
tom of hand - showing (^fiporoi'ew, “ordain”) gradu- 
ally came into vogue, and hence has usually prevailed 
in the Christian Church. In Acts xxvi, 10 (A. A. 
“voice”) the Attic method of public decision by means 
of a tessara (\pt](pog, liev. ii. 17) is thought to be al- 
luded to; but if so, the use of the term is there mere- 
ly metaphorical in the sense of judgment. See Paul; 
Stephen. 

Voting. See Election of Clergy. 

Votive Tablets were memorial or commemora- 
tive tablets dedicated to meritorious personages or to 
the Deity, in commemoration of events of an unusually 
favorable nature. Their use passed over into the Chris- 
tian Church, under the alleged sanction of Exod. xvii, 
14: Psa. cxi.4, etc. These tablets were designed to be 
memorials of thanksgiving, and they were placed in 
churches, chapels, and other sacred localities. They are 
mentioned by Theodoret of Cyrus in 'E Wqvuciov Sepa- 
7 T£vtuci) 7ra£rjpciTMv Disputatt. XII (ad Cod. MSS. Iiec. 
Tli. Gaisford, Oxon. 1833), i, 8. The growing worship 
of saints and relics extended the use of such tablets, and 
the chapels and churches to which pilgrimages were 
made were specially chosen to receive them. The use 
of them still exists in the Church of Borne. They bear 
the words ex voto , and usually represent a picture in 
which one or more persons appear in the posture of 
prayer, and sometimes t he occasion is shown when help 
was obtained or prayer was answered. In the Protes- 
tant churches of Europe memorial tablets, usually in 
honor of deceased ministers who served the particular 
congregation which thus seeks to perpetuate their mem- 
ory, are sometimes found. They are of stone or metal, 
and bear upon their surface a description of the life and 
services, usually in Latin, of him to whom the tablet is 
dedicated. Sometimes, too, they are in the form of a 
siat ue of the person so commemorated. See Herzog, 
Real- Encyklap. s. v. 

Votum. Sec Votive Taijlets. 

Vouet, Simon, an eminent. French painter, was born 
at Paris in 1582. lie received instruction from his fa- 
ther, and made such rapid advances in the art that at 
the age of fourteen he was commissioned to visit Eng- 
land for the purpose of painting the portrait of a French 
nobleman then residing in London. Several years al- 
ter, baron de Saucy, French ambassador to the Porte, 
took him to Constantinople, where lie painted an excel- 
lent portrait of t lie sultan from memory, after seeing 
him at the ambassador’s audience. This performance 
gained him the patronage of the Turkish nobles. From 
Constantinople he went to Venice, to study the works 
of Paul Veronese, and thence to Borne in 1G13, where 
he adopted the style of Caravaggio. He was employed 


by pope Urban VIII and his nephew, the cardinal, to 
paint several pictures for St. Peter’s and the Palazzo 
Barberini, which are said to be among his best works, 
lie was also employed by Louis XIII of France and 
prince Doria of Genoa, and on returning to Borne in 
1G24 was chosen president of the Academy of St. Luke. 
In 1G27 he returned to Paris by invitation of the king, 
and was appointed his principal painter, with apart- 
ments in the Louvre, lie was employed in numerous 
commissions — so numerous, indeed, that he was obliged 
to intrust the execution of the greater part to his schol- 
ars. lie painted ceilings, galleries, altar-pieces, small 
religious subjects, and other easel pictures, and portraits 
in oil and in crayon. The multiplicity of his engage- 
ments induced Vouet to abandon the careful and vigor- 
ous style which lie followed in Italy and during the 
first part of his residence in France; but he neverthe- 
less greatly improved the French school, and he is said 
by French historians to have done as much for painting 
in France as Corneille did for the drama. Among his 
principal works in Paris are the Assumption of the Virgin, 
in the Church of St. Nicolas ties Champs; and the Mar- 
tyrdom of St. A ynes , in the Church of St. Eustache. An 
etching by Vouet of the Holy Family, dated 1G33, is also 
mentioned. lie was followed by a number of disciples, 
who exerted a further influence upon the taste of the 
French school, lie died at Paris in 1G41. See Spooner, 
Bing, llist. of the Fine A rts, s. v. 


Vouillemont, Seisastien, a French engraver, was 
born at Bar-sur-Aube about 1G20. He studied at Paris 
under Daniel Babel, and then went to l’ome, where he 
resided several years, lie engraved several plates from 
the Italian and French masters, as well as from his own 
designs. Among the best of these are the following: 
The Murder of the Innocents: — Christ with his Disciples 
at Emmaus: — Mount Parnassus, all after Baphael : — The 
Holy Family, alter Poussin: — The Virgin and Infant 
Christ, after Parmigiano: — and The Marriage of St. 
Catherine, after Albauo. See Spooner, Bing. Hist, of the 
Fine A ?ls , s. v. 


Voussoir, a name adopted from the French for the 
wedge-shaped stones (or other material) with which an 
arch is constructed, as 
market! in the engraving 
a, a, a; the upper one, 
namely, b, at the crown 
of the arch, is termed 
the key-stone. The lowest 
voussoir, or that which 
is placed immediately 
above the impost, is 
termed the springing- 
stone, or springer. — Par- 
ker, Gloss, of Architect. 
s. v. 

Voussure, a French term, sometimes found in Eng- 
glish manuscripts, signifying a vault. 



Voussoirs. 


Vow neder, a technical word for the idea; 

a prayer , as sometimes rendered) defined as a re- 
ligious undertaking, either. 1. Positive, to do or perform ; 
or, 2. Negative, to abstain from doing or performing a 
certain thing. Vows rest on a human view of religious 
obligations, assuming, as they do, that a kind of recom- 
pense is to be made to God for good enjoyed, or consid- 
eration offered for good desiderated, or a gratuity pre- 
sented to buy off an impending or threatened ill. They 
were quite in place in a system of religion which so 
largely consisted of doing or not doing certain outward 
acts, with a view of pleasing Jehovah and gaining his 
favor. The Israelite, who had been taught bv perform- 
ances of daily recurrence to consider particular ceremo- 
nies as essential to his possessing the divine favor, mav 
easily have been led to the conviction which existed 
probably in the primitive ages of the world, that volun- 
| tary oblations atul self-imposed sacrifices had a special 


vow 


S 1 7 


VOW 


value in the sight of God. When once this conviction 
had led to corresponding practice, it could not be other- 
wise than of the highest consequence that these sacred 
promises, which in sanctity differed little from oaths, 
should be religiously and scrupulously observed. Be- 
fore a vow is taken there may be strong reasons why it 
should not be made; but when it is once assumed, a 
new obligation is contracted, which has the greater 
force because of its voluntary nature : a new element is 
introduced, which strongly requires the observance of 
the vow, if the bonds of morality arc not to be seriously 
relaxed. For example, a person may be of opinion that 
total abstinence is in itself not a virtue nor of general 
obligation, but he cannot doubt that “ breaking the 
pledge,” when once taken, is an act of immorality that 
cannot be repeated without undermining the very foun- 
dations of character; whence it obviously appears that 
caution should be observed, not only in keeping, but also 
in leading men to make, pledges, vows, ami promises. 

The practice of making vows, i. e. incurring volun- 
tary obligations to the Deity, on fulfilment of certain 
conditions, such as deliverance from death or danger, 
success in enterprises, and the like, is of extremely an- 
cient date, and common in all systems of religion. The 
earliest mention of a vow is that of Jacob, who, after 
his vision at Beth-el, promised that in case of his safe 
return he would dedicate to Jehovah the tenth of his 
goods, and make the place in which he hail set up the 
memorial stone a place of worship (Gen. xxviii, 18-22; 
xxxi, 13). Vows in general are also mentioned in the 
Book of Job (xxii,27). With great propriety the per- 
formance of these voluntary undertakings was account- 
ed bv the Hebrews a highly religious duty (Judg. xi, 
35; Eccles. v, 4,5). The words of the last text are too 
emphatic, and in the present day too important, not to 
be cited; '■•Better is it that thou shouldest not vow, 
than that thou shouldest vow and not pay” (comp. Psa. 
Ixvi, 13 sep; lxxvi, 11 ; cxvi, 18). 

Among instances of heathen usage in this respect the 
following passages may be cited: Jer. xliv, 25, and Jo- 
nah i. 1(5; Homer, II. i, 64, 93; vi, 93, 308; Odyss . iii, 
382 ; Xenopli. *4 nab. iii, 2, 12 ; Virgil, Georg. i,436 ; *En. 
v, 234 ; Horace, Carm. i. 5, 13 ; iii, 29, 59 ; Livy, xxii, 9. 
10; Cicero. .4 It. viii, 16 ; Justin, xxi, o — a passage which 
speaks of immoral vows; Veil. Pat. ii, 48. 

I. Jewish loifs. — The law, therefore, did not intro- 
duce, but regulated the practice of vows. The views 
which guided the Mosaic legislation were not dissimi- 
lar to those just expounded. Like a wise lawgiver. 
Moses, in this and other particulars, did not attempt to 
sunder the line of continuity between the past anil the 
present. He found vows in practice; he aimed to reg- 
ulate what it would have been folly to try to root out 
(Dent, xxiii, 21 sq.). The words ill ver. 22 are clearly 
in agreement with our remarks: “If thou shalt forbear 
to vow, it shall be no sin in thee” (see A in. I'resb. Rev. 
July, 1867). The Bible speaks of three kinds of vows, 
for each of which the Heb. has a distinctive term: 
namely, vows of devotion in general (“‘‘ID, neder , prop- 
erly so called); vows of abstinence ("’DX, esdr , or 
issdr, Xumb. xxx,3 sq.); and those of destruction (CHIT 
cherem , avdS(fia). In the present article we confine 
our attention to vows of the first class only, referring the 
other two classes to Corbax and Anathema. (In the 
treatment of this part of the topic we chiefly follow the 
abstract of the Levitical statutes found in Smith, s. v.) 

(I.) As to vows of the first class (neder). the following 
rules are laid down in the Jewish law: A man might 
devote to sacred uses possessions of persons, but not the 
first-born either of man or beast, which was devoted al- 
ready (Lev. xxvii, 26). See First-born. 

1. If he vowed land, he might either redeem it or not. 
If he intended to redeem, two points were to be consid- 
ered — (I) the rate of redemption; (2) the distance, pro- 
spectively and retrospectively, from the year of jubilee. 
The price of redemption was fixed at fifty shekels of 
X.— F F F 


silver for the quantity of land which a homer of barley 
(eight bushels) would suffice to sow (Lev. xxvii, 16; 
see Knobel ad loc.). This payment might be abated 
under the direction of tbe priest according to the dis- 
tance of time from tbe jubilee year. But at whatever 
time it was redeemed, he was required to add to the 
redemption -price one fifth (twenty per cent.) of the 
estimated value. If he sold the land in the mean- 
time, it might not then be redeemed at all, hut was 
to go to the priests in the jubilee year (ver. 20). See 
Laxi>. 

The purchaser of land, in case he devoted and also 
wished to redeem it, was required to pay a redemption- 
price according to the priestly valuation first mentioned, 
but without the additional fifth. In this case, however, 
the land was to revert in the jubilee to its original own- 
er (Lev. xxvii, 16,24; xxv, 27 ; Keil, IJtbr, Arch. § 66, 
80). 

The valuation here laid down is evidently based on 
the notion of annual value. Supposing land to require 
for seed about three bushels of barley per acre, the ho- 
mer, at the rate of thirty-two pecks, or eight bushels, 
would be sutfieient for about ‘two and a half or three 
acres. Fifty shekels, twenty-five ounces of silver, at 
five shillings the ounce, would give £6 5*. ; and the 
yearly valuation would thus amount to about £2 per 
acre. 

The owner who wished to redeem would thus be re- 
quired to pay cither an annual rent or a redemption- 
price answering to the number of years short of the 
jubilee, but deducting sabbatical years (Lev. xxv, 3. 15, 
16), and adding a fifth, or twenty per cent., in either 
ease. Thus, if a man devoted an acre of land in t lie 
jubilee year, and redeemed it in tbe same year, lie 
would pay a redemption-price of 49 — 6=43 years’ value, 
+ 20 per cent. = £103 4.?., or an annual rent of £2 8*. ; 
a rate by no means excessive when we consider — (1) the 
prospect of restoration in the jubilee; (2) the undoubt- 
ed fertility of the soil, which even now, under all disad- 
vantages, sometimes yields a hundredfold (Burckhardt, 
Syria, p. 297). 

If lie refused or was unable to redeem, cither the 
next of kin (Gocl) came forward, as he had liberty to 
do, or, if no redemption was effected, the land became 
the property of the priests (Lev. xxv, 25; xxvii, 21; 
Until iii, 12; iv, 1, etc.). 

In the case of a house devoted, irrespective of the 
land it occupied, its value was to be assessed by the 
priest, and a fifth added to the redemption-price in case 
it was redeemed (Lev. xxvii, 15). Whether the rule 
held good regarding houses in walled cities, viz. that 
the liberty of redemption lasted only for one year, is 
not certain ; but as it does not appear that houses de- 
voted but not redeemed became the property of the 
priests, and as the Levites and priests had special 
towns assigned to them, it seems likely that the price 
only of the house, and not the house itself, was made 
over to sacred uses, and thus that the act of consecra- 
tion of a house means, in fact, the consecration of its 
value. The Mishna, however, says that if a devoted 
house fell down, the owner was not liable to payment, 
but that he was liable if he bad devoted tbe value of 
the house ( Erakin , v, 5). 

2. Animals fit for sacrifice, if devoted, were not to be 
redeemed or changed, and if a man attempted to do so, 
he was required to bring both the devotee and the 
changeling (Lev. xxvii, 9, 10,33). They were to be free 
from blemish (Mai. i, 14). An animal unfit for sacrifice 
might be redeemed, with the addition to the priest’s 
valuation of a fifth, or it became the property of the 
priests (Lev. xxvii, 12, 13). See Offering. 

3. The case of persons devoted stood thus: A man 
might devote either himself, his child (not the first- 
born), or his slave. If no redemption took place, the 
devoted person became a slave of the sanctuary (see 
the case of Absalom, 2 Sam. xv, 8; Michaelis, § 124, ii, 
166, ed. Smith). Sec Nazauite. Otherwise he might 


vow 


818 


VOW 


be redeemed at a valuation according to age and sex, 
on the following scale (Lev. xxvii, 1-7): 


A. 1. A male from 1 month to ft years old, 5 shek- * c 

el> = 3 in 

2. From 5 years to 20 years, 20 shekels =12 40 

3. From 20 years to 00 years, 50 shekels —31 oo 

4. Above 6(7 years, 1ft shekels = 9 30 

B. 1. Females from one month to ft years, 3 she- 

kels = 1 SO 

2. From 5 years to 20 years, 10 shekels — 0 20 

3. From 20 years to no years, 30 shekels =ris 60 

4. Above 00 years, 10 shekels — 0 20 


If the person were too poor to pay the redemption-price, 
his value was to be estimated by the priest, not, as Mi- 
chaelis says, the civil magistrate (Lev. xxvii, 8; Dent. 

xxi, 5; Michaelis. § 145, ii. 283). 

(II.) Among general regulations affecting vows of 
this class, the following may he mentioned: 

1. Vows were entirely voluntary, but once made were 
regarded as compulsory, and evasion of performance of 
them was held to be contrary to true religion (Numb, 
xxx, 2 ; Dent, xxiii, 2 1 ; Eecles. v, 4). 

2. If persons in a dependent condition made vows — 
as an unmarried daughter living in her father’s house, or 
a wife, even if sliq afterwards became a widow, the vow, 
if in the first case her father, or in the second her hus- 
band. heard and disallowed it, was void; but if they 
heard without disallowance, it was to remain good 
(Numb, xxx, 3-1G). Whether this principle extended 
to all children and to slaves is wholly uncertain, as no 
mention is made of them in Scripture, nor by Fhilo 
when he discusses the question ( I)e Spec. Ley. § G, ii, 274, 
ed. Mangey). Michaelis thinks the omission of sons 
implies absence of power to control them (§ 83, i, 447). 

3. Votive offerings arising from the produce of auv 
impure traffic were wholly forbidden (Dent. xxiii, IS). 
A question has risen on this part of the subject as to 
the meaning of the word 2 >3, keleb , “ dog,” which is 
understood to refer either to immoral intercourse of the 
grossest kind, or literally and sirnplv to the usual mean- 
ing of the word. The prohibition against dedication to 
sacred uses of gain obtained by female prostitution was 
doubtless directed against the practice which prevailed 
in Phoenicia, Babylonia, and Syria, of which mention is 
made in Lev. xix, 29; Baruch, vi, 43 ; Herod, i, 199; 
Strabo, p. 5G1 ; August. I)e (Hr. Dei, iv, 10, ami other 
authorities quoted by Spencer ( l)e Ley. Ifebr. ii, 35, 
5GG). Following out this view, and bearing in mind 
the mention made in 2 Kings xxiii, 7, of a practice evi- 
dently connected with idolatrous worship, the word ke- 
leb has been sometimes rendered cinmlus ; some have 
understood it to refer to the first-born, but Spencer him- 
self, ii, 35, 572; Josephus, Ant. iv, 8, 9; Gescn. Thesaur. 
ii, G85, and the Mishna, Temur ah, vi, 3, all understand 
dog in the literal sense. See Don. 

Vows in general and their binding force as a test of 
religion are mentioned, Job xxii, 27 ; Prov. vi i, 14; Psa. 

xxii, 25 ; 1,14; lvi, 12; lxvi, 13; cxvi, 14; Isa.xix,2L; 
Xah. i, 15. 

(III.) Pertain refinements on votive consecrations are 
noticed in the Mishna. e. g. : 

1. No evasion of a vow was to be allowed which sub- 
stituted a part for the whole, as, “I vowed a sheep, but 
not the hones” {Xedar. ii, 5). 

2. A man devoting an ox or a house was not liable 
if the ox was lost or the house fell down; but other- 
wise, if lie bail devoted the value of the one or the oth- 
er of these. 

3. Xo devotions might he made within two years be- 
fore the jubilee, nor redemptions within the year fol- 
lowing it. If a son redeemed his father’s land, he was 
to restore it to him in the jubilee {Erakhi, vii, 3). 

4. A man 'might devote some of his Hock, herd, and 
heathen slaves, but not all these {Erakin. viii. 4). 

5. Devotions by priests were not redeemable, hut were 
transferred to other priests {Era kin, viii, G). 

6. A man who vowed not to sleep on a hod. might 
sleep on a skin if he pleased (Utlto, Lex. Jlabb. p. G73). 


7. The sums of money arising from votive consecra- 
tions were divided into two parts, sacred (1) to the 
altar; (2) to the repairs of the Temple (Belaud, Ant. 
x, 4). 

It seems that the practice of shaving the head at the 
expiration of a votive period was not limited to the 
Xazaritic vow (Acts xviii, 18 ; xxi, 21). 

II. Christian Vows. — The practice of vows, though 
evidently not forbidden, as the above case of Paul 
(Acts xviii, 18) serves to show, does not seem to have 
been at all common in the apostolical Church. With 
the civil establishment under Constantine, however, 
and especially under the growing influence of monasti- 
cism, it early gained extensive and powerful prevalence. 
Bingham cites the ecclesiastical instances and regula- 
tions chiefly affecting church property and religious or- 
ders {Christ. Antiq. bk. xvi, ch. vii, § 9), but they apply 
mostly to medieval times. 

“There is some difference of opinion respecting the 
origin and extent of monastic vows. Some authors af- 
firm that they were made legally binding and indissolu- 
ble as early as the Council of Chalcedon ; but, the more 
general opinion is that, though considered obligatory 
in foro eonscientiie , according to their nature, no civil 
disability or irreversible obligation was incurred bv 
them till the time of Boniface VIII, late in the 13th 
century. The three solemn vows, as they are termed, 
of the monastic orders are poverty, chastity, and obe- 
dience, to which others are occasionally annexed by 
certain religious orders. For example, the fourth vow 
of the Jesuits places every member at the absolute dis- 
posal of the Itoman pontiff, to be employed by him in 
whatever service may be thought most to the advan- 
tage of the holy see. The earliest lawful age for em- 
bracing the monastic profession has varied at different 
periods and in different countries; it was fixed by the 
Council of Trent at sixteen years, before which period 
no religious vow is of any legal validity. Within the 
first five years the vow may be protested against on the 
ground of want of consent, insufficient, age, or irregular- 
ity of novitiate; but after the expiration of that period 
it is held to be indissoluble. Certain extraordinary 
vows — for instance, that of pilgrimage to Borne — can 
only be dispensed with by the pope; others may he re- 
laxed by the intervention of the ordinary of the dio- 
cese” (Eadie). *See Moxasticism. 

In the Church of Borne the subject of vows assumes 
extraordinary proportions. “The objects of these en- 
gagements among Catholics are very various; hut they 
are drawn, for the most part, from what are called the 
evangelical ‘counsels,’ in contradistinction to ‘pre- 
cepts’ or ‘commands’ — the most ordinary subject of 
vows being the so-called ‘evangelical’ virtues of pov- 
erty, chastity, and obedience. Pilgrimages, however, 
acts of abstinence, or other self-mortifications, whether 
of the body or of the will, special prayers or religious 
exercises, are frequently made the object of vows; and 
there is another large class of more material objects, as 
the building of churches, monasteries, hospitals, and 
other works of public interest or utility, to which me- 
diaeval Europe was indebted for many of its most mag- 
nificent memorials of piety and of art. Vows, in the 
Boman Church law, are either ‘simple’ or ‘solemn.’ 
The principal difference between them consists in the 
legal effects of the ‘solemn’ vow, which, where the sub- 
ject of such vow is chastity, renders not merely un- 
lawful, but null and void, a marriage subsequently con- 
tracted. A ‘simple’ vow of chastity makes it unlaw- 
ful to marry, but, except in the Jesuit Society, does not 
invalidate a marriage, if subsequently contracted. Cath- 
olics acknowledge in the Church a power of dispensing 
in vows; but this is held to be rather declaratory than 
remissory, ami it is not acknowledged in the case of 
vows which involve any right of a third party. Bish- 
ops are held to possess the power of dispensing in simple 
vows generally; but the power of dispensing in solemn 
vows and in certain simple vows — as, for example, that 


VOWEL-POINTS 


819 


VOWEL-POINTS 


of absolute and perpetual chastity, and of the greater 
pilgrimages — is reserved to the pope. The practical op- 
eration of the canon law regarding vows has evidently 
been much modified, even in Catholic countries, since 
the French devolution, and the subsequent political 
changes; but this must be understood to regard chiefly 
their external and purely juridical effects. So far as 
concerns their spiritual obligation, the modern Homan 
theolog}' recognises little, if any, change” (Chambers). 
See Wetter uud Welte, Kirchen-Lex. s. v. 

Vowel-points. At no time was the Hebrew sys- 
tem of writing merely a writing of the consonants, but 
from the beginning it had three vowel-signs for the 
vowels a, i, and it. Of these, however, the first (X) was 
used only with a commencing sound, and in a conclud- 
ing sound it was not written, but every consonant was 
sounded with the a . Moreover, in the beginning the 
a sound was very greatly predominant, and only as the 
language became developed the other vowels became 
more frequent, i and ?/, also e , o, ai, and an. Yet the 
writing was developed less rapidly than the pronuncia- 
tion, and thus the vowel-marks n and 1 were not applied 
everywhere, but only in ambiguous forms. As long as 
Hebrew continued to be spoken, men were content with 
this simple vocalization, and the precision and certain 
knowledge of the living language compensated for the 
defectiveness of the written symbols. This can best be 
seen from the s rriptio defectira which so generally ap- 
pears in the earlier books of the Old Test. But when, 
after the Exile, literary activity was awakened, and 
the Jews turned their attention to reading and writing, 
the inconvenience of the old vowel designation was felt 
in proportion as knowledge of the living tongue de- 
creased. In these circumstances, they endeavored to 
retain their knowledge of the current pronunciation by 
a more frequent use of the vowel letters: and the so- 
called script to plena , as it appears in the later books of 
t lie Old Test., was used more and more. Thus we read 

-pvt, ump, n for in, -rip, n^abK, 

2 "l, respectively. This orthography is also seen in a 
greater degree in the Samaritan Pentateuch, and in the 
Talmudical and later Rabbinical language. But so late 
as the time of the Alexandrian version the vocalization 
had not attained to its later perfection, and therefore in 
many cases it deviates from that which is now adopted. 

I. The Origin of the Vowel System. — 1. In the Talmud, 
also, we have no trace of written vowel-signs or accents, 
as some have supposed, nor does it contain even the in- 
cipient features of a written vowel system. The for- 
mulas, so frequently occurring in the Talmud. K^pr bK 
“3 xbx “,3 and no 33 OK UP K“iplb OK 
have often been quoted as a proof that in the time of 
the Talmud the text of the Scripture had been firmly 
settled in respect of the vowels no less than of the con- 
sonants. But this is a mistake. The first formula, 
“ Head not. so. but so,” relates solely to fanciful and play- 
ful changes of words in the text, so that witty applica- 
tions may be made of them. It furnishes no proof that 
the Talmud recognises written vowel-marks. The oth- 
er formula, “A reason for decision according to the Mikra 
and the Masorah,” is used when two Talmudic doctors, 
disputing, base their different opinions on the same 
word in the text, but according to a different reading 
of it — the one reading being called K'^p'E, the other 
The former is the ecclesiastical or canonical 
reading; the latter jthe apocryphal or assumed one. 
The opposition between the two recorded in the Tal- 
mud shows that written vowel -signs were then un- 
known. Both refer to the vocalization, but in such a 
way as proves an uuvowelled text, affording scope for 
interpretations deviating from the established pronun- 
ciation. Another class of passages has been quoted in 
which certain vowel- signs appear to be mentioned. 
These are — 


a. The Talmudic explanations of the Biblical passage 
Neh. viii, S, where, as a means of understanding the 
sense of the law read in public, C n "£2U and 

are adduced, besides the verse-division □ "’p'lDS. 

b. DTCi'a ipTCS and min Iiora are also men- 
tioned. 

Such expressions have been thought to allude not mere- 
ly to divisions of the sense and accents, but also to 
vowel-signs. But does not mean accents , such 

as we now have in the text. It denotes sententia , a 
logical sentence, and 3 " l p , i0*'3 incisa sententia rum, 
divisions of the sense, or short passages. 

The Talmud, therefore, does not contain even the in- 
cipient features of a written vowel system. All the ex- 
pressions which have been referred to such need only 
to be rightly explained, and they will be found to in- 
volve the absence of vowel-points and accents. 

2. From the writings of Jerome, w r e also see that he 
was unacquainted with the present vowel-signs, the ac- 
cents, and the diacritic points of the letters. He never 
mentions them ; and w herever he has occasion to de- 
scribe words, his descriptions refer to the consonants 
alone. His usual expressions, accordingly, are scribitpr 
and scriptum . legitur and ledum — the former two refer- 
ring to the letters, the latter two to their pronuncia- 
tion — and the contrast, implied indicating that while 
the consonants were written, the vowels were supplied 
by traditional usage. This is confirmed by the fact of 
bis remarking in various places that the same word or 
the same letters (idem verbum . or senna iisdem liiteris 
scriptus) might be read (legi) — that is, pronounced, and 
consequently understood (intelligi) — in various ways, ac- 
cording to the connection ( pro qualitate loci or loconnn, 
pro consequent ia , pr out locus et ordo flagituverint), or ac- 
cording to the judgment of the reader ( pro arbiirio 
legentis, voluntate lectorum ) or the vernacular of the 
country (pro varietate regionum ) ; and, on the contrary, 
two words ( utrumque verbum) as to signification were 
written with the same letters. Words of this sort be 
calls ambigua . To such ambiguity ( ambiguitas ser- 
monis) he ascribes the numerous deviations and mis- 
takes of the ancient translators, particularly the Sept., 
whom he blames only where their version does violence 
to the letters, or interchanges words whose letters have 
no similarity to one another. In giving his own ver- 
sion from the Hebrew, he appears sometimes undecided 
which is the right reading, and gives the deviations of 
former translators without making known his own judg- 
ment (comp. Epist . 126, ad Eragr .). Occasionally he 
indicates his opinion by melius or magis, as if one read- 
ing were more probable than another because better 
suited to the connection (see Mic. v, 3; Zeph. iii, 8; 
flab, iii, 4; (ien. xxvi., 12). Such cases, however, are 
the exceptions, for he is usually decided; and where lie 
does give the grounds of his decision, he rests on these 
sources : 

a. lie is often guided by the connection alone. 

b. The authority of his predecessors, particularly Sym- 
maehus and Theodotion, perhaps the majority of them 
in opposition to the ISept., determines him (see Amos iii, 
11; iv, 12,13; Mic. V, 3, 7, 12). 

e. Above all, the authority of the Jewish rabbins bv 
whom he was instructed guided his translations. By 
this he was chiefly influenced, seldom departing from it’s 
voice. “ Hebrreus qui me doetiit. asserebat,” and like ex- 
pressions, we meet with in his expositions, which is but 
natural, considering the circumstances in which he was 
1 placed. Stress has been laid upon the fact that Jerome 
sometimes employs a event us, which erroneously has been 
taken in the sense of a sign for regulating the reading. 
But the accentus of the Latins, like the n poawdia of the 
Greeks, refers to the vocalization and the varying shades 
of ambiguous consonant sounds, but. not to written signs. 
Jerome speaks of diners)# sonis et accentibns profernntur 
(comp. Ad Evagr. 125), while the expression pro varietate 
accent mim is used in the same wav, and of the same 
words, as the phrase juxta ambujuitatem sermon* 8 si 
legatin' , etc. 

d. There is another class of passages in which lie speaks 
with express reference to the original text (in llebrico 
scriptum est or habetur, in llcbrceo multo aider legitur , 


VOWEL-POINTS 


820 


VOWEL-POINTS 


juxta Ilebraicum rertimus, juxta Ilebr. veritatem , etc.), 
mid reject t? a reading adopted by former trun*l:itoi>. 
Here he merely expresses bib conviction that his own 
reading and interpretation are right. And there are 
places when; he thus refers to the original and, with all 
his knowledge, makes mistakes which could only have 
occurred it) the absence of till written vowel-marks. Tints, 
EDJ and Cw, DDDT and DD — ^ 'Z and con- 

vey to him one and the same meaning (comp, llupfeld, 
Kritisehe Helcncht ling emiger dvnkcln und vtitMverxtunde- 
nen Stellen, etc., in the Stmt. u. Krit. 1S30, p. 573, etc.). 

From what lias been said, it is evident that Jerome 
knew no vowel-points, any more than the Talmud, and 
that the Sept, translators did not use a vocalized text. 

3. First Traces . — The Hebrew vocalization was, no 
doubt, suggested by the example of the Arabian, or 
more probably the Syrian, writing; but though it is 
analogous to that of the kindred languages, it is con- 
siderably richer and more elaborate. When the He- 
brew vocalization was introduced has long been a mat- 
ter of uncertainty and dispute. According to a state- 
ment on a scroll of the law, which may have been in 
Susa from the Nth century, Moses the Punctuator was 
the lirst who. in order to facilitate the reading of the 
Scriptures for his pupils, added vowels to the consonants, 
a practice in which lie was followed by bis son Judah 
the Corrector, or Reviser. These were the beginnings 
of a full system of Hebrew points, the completion of 
which lias by tradition been associated with the name 
of the Karaite Aclia, or Acliai of Irak, living about 550, 
and which comprised the vowels and accents, da flesh 
and raplteli , Ktri and Kethib. It was, from its local 
origin, called the Babylonian or Assyrian system (Dip: 

"“i-X Tip:), or the Eastern system. The 
peculiarity of this system consists in having signs of a 
different shape to represent the vowels: thus, kamets is 
^ ; pathach , serjol. ; chirek, or , and if a "> follows, 
merely a dot above it; choJem , ; kibbnts. ; sbeva is , 
and is employed at the end of words also, even above 
n quiescem; only tscre, shurek , and dayesh arc like 
those in use at present in our Hebrew texts. Another 
peculiarity of this system is that the vowels are almost 
uniformly placed above the letters. It is therefore desig- 
nated the superlineary system (PIPED? ip*3*C). Thus, 
e. g., Isa. xlix, IN is, according to the old Babylonian 
vocalization, represented: ZZZ "'XT D^DD ''XT 

"2 *XD !>22p:. This system is best exhibited in the 
Prophet arum Posteriorum Codex Babylomcus Pelropoli- 
tanus (ed. Struck. lYtropoli, INTO), p. 450 sq. 

Almost .simultaneously with these endeavors, the 
scholars of Palestine, especially of Tiberias, worked in 
the same direction; and here rabbi Mocha, a disciple 
of Anan the Karaite, and his son Moses fixed another 
system of vocalization (about 570) distinguished as that 
of Tiberias (TiDD Tp:) and the Palestinian or West- 
ern system (?X“ — n E-X Tp:). It is far more com- 
plete and extensive, and exhibits more sharply the 
niceties of the traditional pronunciation and intonation 
of the text than the Babylonian system, with which it 
competed, and was ultimately adopted bv all the Jews. 
Even the Karaites, who, with their characteristic te- 
nacity and their antagonism to the Rabbauitos, clung 
for some time to the older signs, because they had used 
them before their secession from the Talmmlical sects, 
were at last, in 057, induced to abandon them in favor 
of those adopted in Palestine. 

II. Controversies on the Subject. — Thus much for 
the origin of the vowel-points, which during the lGth 
and 17th centuries wore the cause of the fiercest con- 
troversy that agitated the republic of learning. Some 
centuries before, the dispute about the antiquity and 
origin of the Hebrew vowels commenced, and their au- 
thority was questioned. As early as the 0th century. 
Natronai II ben-llilai (q. \\), in reply to the question 
whether it is lawful to put the points to the svnngogal 


scrolls of the Pentateuch, distinctly declared that “since 
t lie law, as given to Moses on Sinai, had no points, and 
the points are not Siuaitie (i. e. sacred), having been 
invented hv the sages, and put down as signs for the 
reader; and, moreover, since it is prohibited to us to 
make any additions, on our own cogitations, lest, we 
transgress the command ‘Ye shall not add/ etc. (Dent. 
iv,2) ; hence we must not put the points to the scrolls of 
the law.” The passage in the original, as found in the 
Yitry Machsor (q. w), and quoted by Luzzatto in Kerem 
Chemed, iii, 200, runs thus: TOX CX EPPXm 

^tdd nr -b r:r rrvn **ed, mn -ed Tp:? 
-- tdd Tp: *jr: xbi nip: id i:edu: xb 
rpDinb i:b tdxi v^cb imr-s d^ddhh 
=^P'= V x ""s’ 5 =pow i== IS w: 

.mm -ed 

1. T)oivn to and through the Middle Ayes. — Among 
tbe Jews, it was generally maintained that the vowel- 
points were either given to Adam in Paradise, or com- 
municated to Moses on Sinai, or were fixed by Ezra 
and the Great Synagogue. This view was deemed all 
t lie more orthodox since the famous Zahar (q. v.), the 
sacred code of the Caba lists, which was believed to be a 
revelation from God, communicated through IP Simon 
ben-Joebai (q. v.), declared that “the letters are the 
body, and the vowel-points the soul : they move with 
the motion and stand still with the resting of the vow- 
el-points, just as an army moves after its sovereign” 

fnip:i jvrx in^-rzx “pb7X pnb-n x:“;:di 

•pmbr -r,D ■pb^nD irm-.r.DX Zo- 

har , i, 15 b) : that “the vowel-points proceeded from 
the same Ilolv Spirit which indited the Sacred Script- 
ures, and that far be tbe thought to say that the scribes 
made the points, since even if all tbe prophets had been 
as great as Moses, who received the law direct from 
Sinai, they could not have had the authority to alter 
the smallest point in a single letter, though it be the 
most insignificant in the whole Bible” (ibid, on the 
Song of Solomon [ed. Amst. 1701], i. 57 b). R. Levi 
ben-Joseph, author of the book Semadar , quotes, in favor 
of t lie antiquity of the vowel-points, the passage in Deut. 
xxvii, S, “And thou shalt write upon the stones all the 
words of this law very plainly Similar is the view 
expressed in the book Horayoth Ila-kore ( r n ^Tn 
Xnpn), said to belong to tbe 1 1th century. R. Moses 
the Punctuator speaks of a period of forgetting, which 
closes with Ezra, who revealed the vowel-points again. 
Different entirely is the view of Abeu-Ezra, Judah ha- 
Levi. and D. Kimchi. With the appearance of Elias Le- 
vita’s (q. v.) Masoreth ha-Masoreth, the controversy took 
a new phase* lie denied tbe divine origin and antiquity 
of t lie vowel-points. According to Levita, the vowel- 
points and accents did not exist either before Ezra or in 
the time of Ezra, or after Ezra until the close of tbe 
Talmud. They originated with the sages at Tiberias. 
To make good his assertion, he examines the Rabbini- 
cal evidences in favor of the antiquity of the points, 
and comes to the conclusion that they belong to a later 
period, and are consequently of no avail. If he could 
be convinced by the testimony of earlier rabbins, he 
would succumb. In favor of his opinion, he quotes 
Abcn-Ezra, Kimchi, and Judah ha-Levi’s Kusari. He 
especially lays great stress upon the fact that the law 
which Moses put before the children of Israel was a 
plain codex, without, points and without accents, and 
even without the division of verses, as is to he seen to 
the present dav. He reminds us that almost all the 
names both of the vowel-points and the accents are not 
Hebrew, but Aramsean and Babylonian — as, e. g.. tzerc. 
.syt/o/, cholem, melaphum , mappik , da yesh, etc. — and finds 
it very strange that the points and accents, if they were 
actually given by Moses, could have been forgotten. 
Le vita's book excited a great stir among bis co-relig- 
ionists; and to meet it with arguments, Azariah de’ Rossi 


VOWEL-POINTS 


821 


(q. v,), in 1574-75, nearly forty years after the appear- 
ance of Levita's work, undertook a refutation of the 
same. In his work J /tor Enaiin , he quotes the Tal- 
mud, Nedarim , 37 b; the books Ihihir and Zahar ; Je- 
rome, Fpist. 120, ad Evagr. etc. 

Without entering too minutely upon the question, we 
may wind it up by saving that the synagogue of the 
Middle Ages, up to the 10th century, was almost unani- 
mously in favor of the high antiquity of the vowel- 
points. The more important, however, was the voice 
of Levita, proving the very reverse. Among Chris- 
tians, even some centuries before Levita, the vowel- 
points were regarded as later inventions. Prominent 
among them was the Dominican Raymond Martini 
(q. v.), who, in his Puffin Fidei (2d ed. Leips. 1GN7), on 
Hos. ix, 12, remarks, “Casterum sciendum, quod nec 
Moyses punetavit legem, unde Judafi non habent cam 
cum punctis, i. e. cum voealibus scriptam in rotulis 
suis; nec aliquis ex prophetis punetavit librum suum; 
sed duo Judmi, quorum unus diet us est Nephtali , alter 
vero Ben-Acher, totum Vetus Testament urn punctasse 
leguntur; qum qnidam puncta cum quibusdara virgulis 
sunt loco vocalium apud eos: cum qtue venissent ad 
locum isttim, et secundum orthographiam debtiissent 
punctare "HVJ2 incanuitione men , punctaverunt “HIO— 
in recessu meo, utopus incarnationis removerent a 000 .’’ 
Martini’s opinion was confirmed by Nicholas de Lyra 
(q. v.), who, after quoting with approval Raymond Mar- 
tini on IIos. ix. 12, remarks, “ Puncta non sunt de sub- 
stantia littere, nec a principio scripturere fuerunt, unde 
et rotuli qui in synagogis eorum legentur sunt sine 
punctis, sed permagnum temptis postea inventa sunt 
liujus modi puncta ad facilius legend um.” Lyra’s opin- 
ion was regarded as paramount by all succeeding Cath- 
olic writers. 

To invest it with an air of originality, Jacob Perez 
de Valencia (died 1491) gives the. following account of 
the origin of the vowel - points, which we quote, not 
for its intrinsic value, but on account of its amusing 
nature: “After the conversion of Constantine the 
Great, the rabbins perceived that great multitudes of 
Gentiles embraced Christianity with the greatest de- 
votion all over the globe; that the Church prospered 
very favorably; and that also of the Jews an immense 
number became convinced of the truth by experience 
and miracles, whereby their gains and revenues were 
lessened. Roused by this wickedness, they assembled 
in great multitudes at the Babylon of Egypt which is 
called Cairo, where they, with as much secrecy as possi- 
ble, falsified and corrupted the Scriptures, and concocted 
about five or seven points to serve as vowels, these 
points having been invented by Ravina and Ravashe, 
two of their doctors. The same rabbins also concocted 
the Talmud” ( Prolog. in Psalmos , tract vi). Hence he 
maintains “ that no faith is to be placed in the Holy 
Scriptures as the Jews now interpret and punctuate 
them” {ibid, tract, ii, fol. 23, “ Ideo nulla tides adhibenda 
est Scripturae Sacra? sicut hodie habent [JudieiJ sic in- 
terpretatam et punetuatam”). 

2. Darin ff and Since the Deformation. — Passing over 
the names of other Catholic divines who also assumed 
a late origin of the vowel-points, we find that almost 
the entire period of the Reformation sided with Levita. 
Luther (who called the vowels a modern invention — 
nenes M enschenfihidltiti), Calvin, Zwingli, Mereier, Pel- 
lican, Leo Judah, Piscator, John Scaliger, Drusius, ete., 
boldly declaimed against the antiquity, divine origin, 
and authority of the points. The conviction of the 
Protestant leaders “ undoubtedly was that by liberating 
themselves from the traditional vowel -points of the 
synagogue, after having discarded the traditions of the 
Church of Rome, they could more easily and independ- 
ently prosecute their Biblical studies, without any tram- 
mels whatsoever” — thus making the Bible, and the Bible 
alone, without gloss and without tradition, the rule of 
faith and practice. Embittered at the cry of the newly 


VOWEL-POINTS 

risen Protestant leaders that the Bible, and nothing but 
the Bible, is the norma nor mans, Rome soon changed her 
tactics, and Levita’s argument as to the late origin of 
the vowel-points was perused bv her in order to confute 
the claims of her opponents. From Levita’s argument 
she deduced the following: 1. That the Bible could only 
be read in ancient days by the lew authorized spiritual 
teachers; and, 2. That the Scriptures, without these 
points, cannot possibly be understood apart from the 
traditional interpretation transmitted by the Church of 
Rome. This opinion soon found its way into England, 
and was advocated by I)r. Thomas Harding (q. v.), the 
celebrated antagonist of bishop Jewel. 11 is argument 
was as follows: “ Among the people of Israel, the seven- 
ty elders only could read and understand the mysteries 
of the holy books that we call the Bible; for, whereas 
the letters of the Hebrew tongue have no vocals, they 
only had the skill to read the Scripture by the conso- 
nants, and thereby the vulgar people were kept from 
reading of it by special providence of God, as it is 
thought that precious stones should not he cast before 
swine; that is to say, such as be not called thereto as 
being, for their unreverend curiosity and impure life, 
unworthy” (comp, the of John Jewel, bishop of 

Salisbury [ed. Parker Society], ii, G78). 

Similar was the language used on the Continent by 
the Romanists against the Protestants, who appealed to 
the Scriptures in matters affecting their faith and prac- 
tice. Jean Morin us (q. v.) solemnly declares, in his 
learned Exercitationes Biblicce de Ihbrcei Grceeique Tex - 
tus Sinceriiate , that “the reason why God ordained the 
Scriptures to be written in this ambiguous manner (i. e. 
without points) is because it was his will that every 
man should be subject to the judgment of the Church, 
and not interpret the Bible in his own way. For, see- 
ing that the reading of the Bible is so difficult, and so 
liable to various ambiguities, from the very nature of 
the thing, it is plain that it is not the will of God that 
every one should rashly and irreverently take upon 
himself to explain it, nor to suffer the common peo- 
ple to expound it at their pleasure; but that in those 
things, as in other matters respecting religion, it is his 
will that the people should depend upon the priests” 
( Exercitat . [Paris, 1033], IV, ii, 8, 198, etc.). To this 
argument R. Simon, in his JJisioire Critique (Rotter- 
dam, 1085), p. 4G8, replied in the following manner: 
“On pourra dire aussi, par la me me raison, que Dieu 
a voulu soumettre les Mahometans a leurs docteurs 
pour l’interpretation de I’Aleoran, paree qu’il est ecrit, 
aussi-bien que le texte Ilebreu de la Bible, dans ime 
langue qui n’est pas moins incunstanre d’elle-mcme 
que la langue Hebraique. Mais sans qu’il soit besoin 
d’avoir recours an conseil secret de Dieu, il est certain 
que la langue Hebraique a cela de com mini avec les 
langues Arabe, Chaldaique et Syriaque, qu’elles sont de 
leur nature fort impariaites, n’ayaut pas assez de vo- 
velles, pour rendre la lecture des mots qui les composent 
constante et tout-a-fait arretee.” 

The modus operandi of the Catholic controversialists 
caused great alarm among the defenders of Protestant- 
ism, wlio now commenced beating a retreat. They de- 
clared that the points were put to the text by the proph- 
ets themselves, and that to say otherwise was heathenish 
and popish. Thus the charge of Gregory Martin (q. v.), 
in his work entitled A Discovery of the Manifold Cor- 
ruptions of the Holy Scriptures by the Heretics of our 
Days , that. Protestants, in their versions, follow the He- 
brew vowels, which were of recent origin, was rebut- 
ted by Fulke, in his Defence of the Sincere and True 
Translations of the Holy Scriptures into the English 
Ton que, against the Manifold Cavils, Frivolous Quarrels, 
and Impudent Slanders of Gregory Martin, one of the 
Headers of Popish Divinity in the Traitorous Seminary 
of Hheims (Loud. 1583; Parker Society ed. Cambridge, 
1843), p. 578, with the declaration that “seeing our Sav- 
iour hath promised that never a particle of the law shall 
perish, we may understand t lie same also of the proph- 


VOWEL-POINTS 


822 


VOWEL-POINTS 


ets, wlio have not received the vowels of the later Jews, 
but even of the prophets themselves, howsoever that 
heathenish opinion pleaseth you and other papists.” 

Hitherto, both Catholics and Protestants chietiv re- 
lied upon abusing each other. None of them thought 
of examining Levita’s arguments, or of corroborating 
or refuting his statements. To be or not to be, that 
was the question on both sides, and. besides, neither of 
the two parties had sufficient Talmudieal learning and 
critical tact. The first attempt to meet Levita’s book 
was made, as has already been stated above, by the 
learned Azariah dc’ Rossi, in 1574-75, in eh. lix, pt. iii, 
of his work The Light o/ the Eyes ( Meor Enaim [Man- 
tua, 1574 75; Vienna, 1829J), wherein he tried to prove 
the antiquity of the vowel-points from the Zohur and 
the Talmud. 

With weapons like these, the Protestants now opened 
a new campaign, under the leadership of Buxtorf, the 
father (died 1629). with a display of Rabbinical bayo- 
nets. The antiquity and divinity of the vowel-points, 
which were formerly abandoned, were now defended ; 
and in his Tiberias sire Commentaries J fasoreihicus 
(Basle, 1620) Buxtorf made use of De’ Rossi’s argu- 
ments. Feeble as these arguments were, they never- 
theless found many supporters, who ranged themselves 
under the leadership of Buxtorf. who, however, was not 
destined to carry everything before him in his first 
battle against Levitn. The Buxtorf-de’-Rossi alliance 
produced a counter-alliance, headed hv Louis Cappel 
(q. v.). Before Cappel published his treatise, he sent 
it in manuscript to Buxtorf for examination, who re- 
turned it with the request that it might not be printed, 
lie then sent it to Erpenius, who was so convinced by 
its arguments and learning that, without the sanction 
of the author, he printed it at Leyden, under the title 
The Mystery of the Points Unveiled (J rcanum Punctatio- 
nis Revelaium [Leyd. 1624 ; afterwards reprinted by his 
son, Amsterd. 1680, fol.]). 

A time of anxious suspense followed the publication 
of this anonymous work, during which time father Mo- 
rinus published his Biblical Exercitations , as already in- 
dicated above. Morinus, as well as Cappel, denied the 
antiquity of the vowel-points, but each had a different 
aim in view; for while Cappel contended against the 
authority of Ilabbinieal tradition, Morinus contended in 
behalf of Romish tradition, placing the same above 
the Scriptures, which he compared “to a mere nose of 
wax, to be turned any way,” to prove thereby the ne- 
cessity of one infallible interpretation. Albert Pighius, 
a mathematician and controversialist (born in 1490, and 
died in 1542), in his Hierarch. Eccles. Assertio (ed. 
1538), iii, 3, 80, makes a similar statement : “ Sunt enim 
ill* (Seriptur*), ut non minus vere quam festive dixit 
quidam, vclut nasus cereus, qui se horsum, illorsum, et 
in quam volueris partem, trahi, retrahi. fingique facile 
permittit.” When Morinus’s work was published, Cap- 
pel felt rather uncomfortable at this association, and, 
having been made known to the public as the author 
of the .1 rcanum by Coeeeius (in his l)e duobus Talmu - 
dis Titulis Sanhedrim et Maccoth ), Cappel now open- 
ly declared himself as the author in the preface to 
the Animadversio ad Xovam Dnvidis Lyntm (ed. Go- 
marus). The success which had followed the publica- 
tion of the Arcanum was. indeed, very great. Its im- 
mense erudition, conclusive reasoning, and overpower- 
ing arguments soon convinced the most seeptieal schol- 
ars of the late origin of the vowel- points. The follow- 
ers of Buxtorf were for a considerable time doomed to 
almost fatal inaction, till at last, after a silenee of four- 
and-tweiitv years. Buxtorf, the son, who succeeded his 
father, published, in 1648, a reply to Cappel, entitled 
Tractates de Punctorum Yocalinm et Accentuum in Li - 
bris Yeteris Testament i Hebruicis Origine , Antiquitate et 
A uthoritate , Opposites A rcano Punctationis Revclato 
Ludovici Cupelli. Cappel answered in a rejoinder en- 
titled Vindiciee Arcani Punctationis (published by his 
son in 1G89). 


The consequence of this controversy was, that Prot- 
estant Christendom everywhere was divided into two 
hostile camps, vowellists and anti-vowellists. Soon the 
controversy was transplanted to England, where Levita 
and Cappel were represented by Walton, while De’ Rossi 
and Buxtorf were represented by Lightfoot and Owen. 
Walton, in his prolegomena to the London Polyglot (Pro- 
legom. iii, 38-56), speaks at great length concerning the 
controversy, and concludes that the controversy “ is only 
about the present points, in regard to their forms, not of 
their force and signiiieation.” Different entirely was the 
position of Lightfoot. This learned Hebraist thought 
that his dicta would he quite sufficient to silence his 
opponents, and in his Centeria Chorographica, c. 81, he 
comes to the conclusion; “Opus Spiritus Sancti sapit 
punctatio Bibliorum, non opus liominum perditorum, 
exccecatortim, amentium.” This dogmatic and abusive 
assertion of Lightfoot stimulated Dr. Owen to issue his 
attack on Walton’s Polyglot and the anti-vowellists, and 
his defence of the vowel points, with the exception of 
the endorsement and elaboration of Lightfoot’s diatribe, 
is simply made up of De’- Rossi -Buxtorf arguments 
greatly diluted (comp, his Integrity and Parity of the 
Hebrew and Greek Text of the Scriptures, etc. [Lond, 
1659]; iv, 447 sq. of his collected works [Lend. 1823]). 
Within twelve months Walton published a reply, the 
Considerator Considered (Lond. 1659: reprinted in the 
second volume of Todd’s Memoirs of the Life and Writ- 
ings of Bishop Walton [Lond. 1821]). which contains ad- 
ditional and valuable contributions to the literature of 
this controversy. 

Although the antiquity of the vowel-points still found 
advocates in Joseph Cooper ( Dornus Mosaicie Claris, 
sire Legis Septimentum , etc. [Lond. 1673], Samuel Clarke 
{An Exercitation concerning the Original of the Chap- 
ters and 1 'erses in the Bible , etc. [ibid. 1698]), White- 
field (A Dissertation on the Hebrew Vowel-points [Liv- 
erpool, 1748]), and Dr. Gill (.4 Dissertation concerning 
the Antiquity of the Hebrew Language , Letters , Yotvel- 
poinis , and Accents [Lond. 1767]), who published learn- 
ed dissertations in defence of Dr. Owen and against Wal- 
ton, yet it must be admitted that Walton’s works de- 
cided the battle in England in favor of the anti-vowellists. 

On the Continent, Wasmuth, with his Yindiciw Hibr. 
Script. (Rostock, 1664), and others entered the lists in 
support of Buxtorf, whose adherents in Switzerland 
exalted his views to a confessional article of belief in 
the Eormula Consensus , art. iv, can. ii, so that a law 
was enacted in 1678 that no person should be licensed 
to preach the Gospel in their churches unless he pub- 
licly declared that he believed in the integrity of the 
Hebrew text and in the divinity of the vowel-points 
and accents (“codicem Ilebr. Vet. Test, turn quoad eon- 
sonas turn quoad vocalia sive puncta ipsa sive puncto- 
rum saltern potestatem tftoTrvtvGTOv esse”). 

An intermediate course, proceeding on the assump- 
tion that there had been a simpler system of vowel- 
marks, either by three original vowels or by diacritic 
points, was opened up by Rivet us ( Jsagoge sen Intro- 
ductio Generalis , Yet. et Novi Test. [Leyd. 1627], vi ii, 
15, 104), llottinger, and others, and was pursued espe- 
cially by J. I). Miehaelis ( Yon dein A Iter der hebr. Yocale, 
in Orient. Bibl., ix, 82 sq., 88 sq.), Trendelenburg (in 
Eiehhorn’s Repertor . xviii,78 sq.), Eichhorn, Jalin, Ber- 
thold, and others (comp. Diestel, Gesck. dcs alien Test, 
in der christl. Kirche [Jena, 1869], p. 253, 334 sq., 401, 
451, 566, 57(1, 595 sq.). 

The controversy, which so vehemently raged for more 
than three centuries, may now be regarded as ended. 
Modern research and criticism have confirmed the ar- 
guments urged by Levita against the antiquity of the 
present vowel-signs. It is now established beyond ques- 
tion, from the discovery of ancient MSS., that there 
were two systems of vocalization contrived almost si- 
multaneously, the earlier or first system developed by 
Acha, or Aehai, of Irak (Babylon), eir. A.D. 550; the 
later or second system by Mocha of Tiberias, about 570. 


VOWLEFi 


823 


VUEZ 


See Ginsburg, Le vita's Massoreth ha-^fassoretli (Lend. 
1867), p. 44 sq. ; Pick, The Vowel-pouits Controversy , in 
the Presbyterian Quarterly and Princeton Revieic , Jan. 
1877 ; Schnedermann, Die Controverse ties Ludovicns 
Ctippellus mit den Bu.rtorfen iiber das Alter der hebr. 
Punctation (Leips. 1879); Kantzsch, Johttnnes Buxtorf 
der Aeltcre (Basle, 1870). (B. P.) 

Vowler, James, a clergyman of the Church of 
England, studied at Exeter College, Oxford, where he 
took his degree in 1750. In 1751 he became curate of 
St. Agnes’, and died, in the midst of his usefulness, in 
July, 1758. See Christian Observer , March, 1877, p. 232. 

Vowles, James, an English Wesleyan missionary, 
was a native of Bath. He was piously trained, con- 
verted in his fifteenth year, was received into the min- 
istry and sent to Jamaica, West Indies, in 1829; was 
stationed at Port Antonio, attacked by fever on Aug. 
10, 1830, and died on the 1 0th, in the twenty-fourth 
year of his age. Ilis talents were respectable, and his 
amiable disposition endeared him to all. See English 
Wesleyan Minutes , 1831. 

Vredenbergli, Joiix Sciiurkmax, a clergyman of 
the Beformed (Dutch) Church, was born in New Bruns- 
wick, N. J., March 20, 1770, the son of a respectable 
merchant. lie graduated at Queen’s College in 1794, 
studied theology with Dr. John II. Livingston, was li- 
censed to preach in 1798 or 1800 (?), and became pastor 
of his only charge, the Iieformed (Dutch) Church of 
Baritan or Somerville, N. J., June, 1800. Here he min- 
istered until Oct. 4, 1821, when he was suddenly called 
to his reward in heaven. The Church had been di- 
vided before his settlement, but under his ministry it 
was united, and grew with steady increase in strength 
and numbers until his death. Then came the great 
harvest, lie had been engaged for three successive 
days in pastoral visitation with an elder, and was so 
cheered by its results that, despite fatigue, he insisted 
on finishing his round on the third day. lie bade fare- 
well to a lady of his congregation and her husband who 
were just about going on a mission to the heathen. 
They sang together the hymn “ Blest be the tie that 
binds,” and then he offered a prayer so sweet and melt- 
ing that it seemed to carry them up to the gate of heav- 
en. That midnight the bridegroom’s cry was heard, 
and he went out to meet him. He died of epilepsy, 
leaving his widow with her eleven children. Her great- 
est anxiety was “ How shall I train them for heaven?” 
Airs. Vredenbergli was a daughter of the celebrated 
Bev. Janies Caldwell, D.D., of Elizabeth, N. J., the he- 
roic martyr of the Revolution, “and was a babe in her 
mother’s arms when Tory hands took that mother’s 
life.” Nobly did this rare woman fulfil her trust as a 
minister’s wife, and as the mother of her fatherless chil- 
dren. Her husband’s funeral drew crowds of weeping 
friends to the impressive scene. Immediately a won- 
derful revival of religion began, which lasted two years, 
and added to the Church fellowship three hundred and 
sixty-eight souls. It reached all classes of the commu- 
nity, and its subjects, as a body, with very few excep- 
tions, led consistent Christian lives. 

Mr. Vredenbergh was an impressive, earnest, instruc- 
tive preacher, a faithful, skilful, successful, and beloved 
pastor. Ilis amiable qualities endeared him to all that 
knew him. His attainments were respectable. He was 
a great friend of the young people, a judicious counsel- 
lor, and attracted a confidence which he always justi- 
fied. He knew men and he knew God and the Bible 
as few men do. His spirituality was his crowning ex- 
cellence and the secret of his success. See Sprague, 
Annals of the Amei\ Pulpit, \ ol. ix ; Corwin, J fanuul 
of the Ref Church , s. v. ; Walsh, The Martyred Mis- 
sionaries , ix, 107, 201. (W. J. B. T.) 

Vredenburgh, Heckaliaii, a Methodist Episco- 
pal minister, was horn in Westchester County, N. V., 
May 10, 1790. He united with the Missouri Conference 
in 1820, and served appointments in this conference at 


Oka w, Wabash, Honey Creek, and Vermilion. In 1824 
the Illinois Conference was formed, and Mr. Vreden- 
burgh, being within its limits, became a member, and 
served it at Vermilion, Crawfordsville, and Logansport 
Mission. In 1832 the Indiana Conference was formed, 
ami Mr. Vredenburgh, being located within its limits, be- 
came one of its members, and served it until his death, 
Jan. 23, 1809. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1869, 
p. 183. 

Vrihaspati (or Buihaspati, from brih, “hymn” 
or “ prayer,” and pati, “protector” or “lord”), in Vedic 
mythology, is the guardian of t he hymns or prayers of 
the pious addressed to the gods, lie is “ the first-born 
in highest heaven of supreme light,” because the pray- 
ers reach him first; he is “seven-faced,” because his 
faces are the seven Vedic metres; and “represents all 
gods,” when the sacrifice is performed, lie is there- 
fore sometimes identified with Agni. He is represent- 
ed as a priest of the gods, who himself celebrates wor- 
ship and imparts instruction. In the epic and Puranic 
mythology lie is represented as preceptor of the gods 
and Rishis. He also appears as regent of the planet 
Jupiter; and in the ceremonies performed in honor of 
the planets described in the Buninas, a special worship 
is paid him in this capacity. See Chambers's Encyclo- 
pedia , s. v. 

Vrimoet, Emo Lrcirs, a Dutch philologist, was 
born in 1G99 at Emden. In 1722 he was admitted to 
the ministry, and served successively in Loenen and 
Harlingen. Iji 1730 he was called to Franeker as pro- 
fessor of Oriental languages, to which he joined, in 1731, 
the chair of Hebrew antiquities. He was also rector 
of that school, and died there June 15, 17G0. lie pub- 
lished, Dissert at io de Terra* Filiis (j’INn a pud 

llebrceos (Utrecht, 1719): — Diss.de Schiloh (ibid. 1722) : 
— Oratio J nauguralis de Voriis Gent ilium Ipsorumqne 
Christianorum Quorundam Erroribus , etc. (Franeker, 
1731): — Antiquitatum Israeliticarum Theses Controver- 
sy (ibid. 1732-39, 2 vols.) : — Diss.de Sitibus in Jureju- 
rttndo a Veteribus Ilebrteis J f oxime ct Greeds Obserratis 
(Utrecht, 1735): — Diss. de Anleeo Adyti Tabernaculi 
Levitici, ejusque Ratione IAtterali ac Mysterio (Fran- 
eker, 1745) : — Diss. Selecta Yeteris Testamenti prtecipue 
ex Decalogo (ibid. 1753) : — Ad Dicta ( lassie a Tlieologitr 
Dogmaticir V. T. Selecta , etc. (ibid. 1743-57, 3 vols.). Sec 
Bill. Jud. iii, 487 sq. ; Winer, Ilandbnch der theol. Lit- 
eratur , i, 30; Iloefer, Xouc. Biog. Generate , s. v. (B. P.) 

Vrooman, Parent, a minister of tbe Reformed 
(Dutch) Church, was born at Schenectady, N. Y., Dec. 
24, 1725. He studied with Cornelius Van Santvoord 
and Theodoras J. Frelinghuysen, and afterwards at the 
University of Utrecht from 1750 to 1752; was licensed 
by the Chassis of Utrecht, June 7, 1752, and ordained by 
the Classis of Amsterdam, July 3 of the same year; and 
became pastor at New Paltz, Shawangunk, and Mont- 
gomery, N. Y., from 1753 to 1754; and at Schenectady 
from 1754 to 1784. lie died Nov. 15, 1784. During his 
long and laborious pastorate at Schenectady he received 
more than 400 members into the Church, married 358 
couples, and performed 3451 baptisms. He was eloquent 
as a preacher and beloved as a pastor. See Corwin, 
Manual of the Ref. Church in A merica , s. v. 

Vuez, Arnold, a French painter, was born at Op- 
penois, near Saint-Omer, in 1642, He first received in- 
struction from a Jewish painter of Saint-Omer, who rec- 
ommended him to visit Paris, whither he went, and en- 
tered the school of Frere Luc, remaining three years, 
and then went to Italy. At Borne he studied the grand 
works of art, and carried off the first prize at the acad- 
emy. The prince Pamilfi took him under his protec- 
tion, and secured for him many commissions; but his 
success awakened envy among his rivals, and various 
plots were formed against his life. At length, in a per- 
sonal encounter, he killed the intending assassin in self- 
defence. Shortly after this he received an invitation 
from Le Brim to visit Paris, which lie accepted, and 


VUITASSE 


824 


VULGATE 


was kindly received by that artist. The king gave 
him a pension, and he executed many good works. He 
removed to Lille for the purpose of painting a picture 
of the Presentation in the Temple lor the Church of the 
Hospital, and while there he received so many commis- 
sions that he decided to remain there permanently, 
lie was chosen alderman of the city, and died in 1724. 
Yucz executed many pictures lor the churches of Lille, 
Camhray, and Douay. among the best of which arc The 
Resurrection : The Martyrdom of St. Andrew : — The 

Judgment of Solomon: — Daniel in the Pen of Lions : — 
The Discovery oj' the Promised Land: — and The Descent 
from the Cross. Sec Spooner, Biog. Hist. of the Fine 
A rts , s. v. 

Vuitasse, Charles, a French divine, was born 
Nov. 11, HifiO, at Cliauny, near Noyon. After studying 
at Paris, and entering the religious ranks, lie cultivated 
theology, Church history, and the Greek and Hebrew 
languages. In 1(588 he was admitted to the Sorbonnc, 
was made doctor in 1090, and soon after professor of 
theology. His refusal to submit to the bull Unigenitus 
led to his removal in 1714, and he died April 10, 171(5. 
His theological compilations are enumerated in the 
I tioy. Cnirersellc, s. v. 

Vulcan (Gr. "H^anrroc), i' 1 Greek and Roman my- 
thology, was the son of Jupiter and Juno, and conse- 
quently the brother of Mars, to whom, therefore, he 
bears a close relation, because he prepares for him the 
weapons of warfare. A later story says Juno gave birth 
to Vulcan, being jealous because of the birth of Miner- 
va, without the assistance of man, having been made 
fruitful in eating a certain plant. Vulcan is the god 
of lire, and especially in two ways — first as a subterra- 
neous power of nature, showing himself in fire-ejecting 
volcanoes, and second as an indispensable aid for the 
trades and arts of man. The god was born as a weak- 
ling. and was therefore so hated by his mother that she 
planned to dispense with him, whereupon he fell down 
from Olympus. Thetis and Furynome. goddesses of 
the sea, caught him in their laps. With them he then 
remained nine years, and made for them all kinds of 
costly apparel, lie also made at this time an enchant- 
ed chair, from which no one who had seated himself in 
it could rise again without his consent, ami sent it to 
his mother as a present, to punish her for her dislike of 
him. When she was accordingly held fast by the chair, 
no god could persuade him to withdraw the enchant- 
ment save Bacchus, who intoxicated him, Vulcan then 
returned from his hiding-place and was obedient to his 
mother, although she had wished to kill him in his 
childhood. When Jupiter at one time quarrelled with 
her, he actually took her 
part, for which his father 
took him by the foot and 
hurled him from heaven. 
According to some, in 
consequence of this fall, 
according to others, from 
birth, he was lame and 
limped. By Homer he 
has a place of work upon 
Olympus, built by him- 
self, where he also built 
dwellings for the other 
gods. Later his work- 
ing-places are in the fire- 
ejecting volcanoes — as, 
for instance, in JKtna or 
upon Lemnos — and his 
helpers are the Cyclops 
(q. v.) Brontes, Steropes, 
and Ryrncmon. His wife, 
according to the Iliad, is 
Cliaris (Grace); accord- 
ingto the Odyssey. Yenus, 
who, however, wasuntrue 



Antique Head of Vulcan. 


to him. As an ingenious god, who, similar to Minerva, 
teaches men the delightful and conducive arts, he was as- 
sociated with her in religious worship by the Athenians, 
who dedicated feasts to both, and placed their statues 
side by side in their temples. According to Homer, 
Vulcan had no oilspring. Others affirm that lie had 
children by different mothers: Cupid, Erichthnnius, 
I’eripleres, Rahemon, Rhadamanthus, Olenus. Caous, Cse- 
culiis, Serving Tullius, the nymph Thalia, Casmilus. and 
the three Cabiri. The Romans called Vulcan also Mul- 
dber, that is, “ the tnelter.” In Rome he had a number 
of temples, among them one by the Comitium.the mass- 
meeting place, whose erection was sometimes accredit- 
ed to Romulus, at other times again to Titus 'Latins. 
His festival, the Vulcanalia, was celebrated Aug. 23, 
with plays, in the Flaminian Circus, where also a temple 
of t lie god was erected, and at this feast the Romans 
began to work by light, in order to inaugurate the prac- 
tice of working by light, a gift of Vulcan, See Smith, 
Did. of Class, Biog. and Mythol. s. v. 

Vulgar Tongue is the ordinary common language 
of the people or country. The phrase “ vulgar tongue” 
occurs in two or three of the rubrics and exhortations 
of the English Book of Common Prayer ; e. g.. in the 
service for baptism, which makes it obligatory ‘‘that 
baptism be ministered in the vulgar tongue .” The 
preface to the Prayer-book, however, contains a reser- 
vation, that “it is not meant but that when men say 
morning and evening prayer privately, they may say 
the same in any language that they thems< Ires do under- 
stand 'Lite expression stood formerly in the English 
tongue , and was changed in compliance with t lie sug- 
gestion that suppose, as it often falls out, that children 
of strangers who never intend to stay in England should 
be brought there for baptism,” it would he objectionable 
that they should be required to learn the principles of 
religion in the English tongue. Sec Vernacular. 

Vulgate is the popular and convenient designation 
of the common Latin version of the Bible, usually at- 
tributed to Jerome. (In the following treatment of this 
important version we chiefly follow Westcort’s elaborate 
article in Smith’s Diet, of the Bible.) See Versions. 

L Origin and History of the Name. — 1. The name 
“Vulgate,” which is equivalent to Yulgata editio (the 
current text of Holy Scripture), has necessarily been 
used differently in various ages of the Church. There 
can be no doubt that the phrase originally answered to 
the Kona) IkCoohj of the Greek Scriptures. In this 
sense it is used constantly by Jerome in his commenta- 
ries, and liis language explains sufficiently the origin 
of the term: “Hoc jnxta LXX interpretes diximns, 
quorum editio toto orbe vnlyata est” (Hieron. Comm, in 
Isa. Ixr, 20). “Mul turn in hoc loco LXX editio Ilebrai- 
cumque discordant. ITimum ergo de Yulgata editione 
tractahimus et postea sequemur ordinem veritatis” (ibid, 
xxx. 22). In some places Jerome distinctly quotes the 
Greek text : “ Rorro in editione Yulgata dupliyiter legi- 
mus; quidam enim codices habent cijXoi Bow. hoc est 
manifesti sunt: alii cnXaioi Canv, hoc est meticvlosi 
sive mtset'i sunt ” (Comm, in Osee, vii, 13; comp. 8-11, 
etc.). But generally he regards the Old Latin, which 
was rendered from the Sept., as substantially identical 
with it, and thus introduces Latin quotations under 
the name of the* Sept, or Yulgata editio: “Miror quo-: 
modo rulyata editio . . . testimonium alia interpretatio- 
ne subverted t : Congreynbor et glorificabor coram Do- 
mino. . . . Illud autem quod in LXX legitur: Congre- 
gabor et glorificabor coram Domino . . (Comm, in 
Isa. xlix, 5). So again: *• Rhilisthseos . , . aliemgenas 
Yulgata scribit editio” (ibid, xir, 29). “ Rahestinis, 

quos indifferenter LXX alienigenas vocant” (Comm, in 
Ezek. xri , 27). In this way the transference of the 
name from the current Greek text to the current Latin 
text became easy and natural; but there does not ap- 
pear to be any instance in the age of Jerome of the ap- 
plication of the term to the Latin version of the Old 


VULGATE 


S25 


VULGATE 


Test, without regard to its derivation from the Sept., or 
to that of the New Test. 

2. Yet more: as the phrase koiio) tK^oaig came to 
signify an uncorrected (and so corrupt) text, the same 
secondary meaning was attached to vulgata editio . 
Thus in some places the vnlgata editio stands in con- 
trast with the true llexaplarie text of the Sept. One 
passage will place this in the clearest light: “ Brev- 
itcr admoneo aliam esse editionem quant Origenes et 
Caesariensis Eusebius, omnesque Gnecue translatores 
Konn) id est, communem appellant, atque vvlgatam, et 
a plerisque nunc Aoufaai'dc dicitur; aliam LXX inter- 
pretum qiue in i^mrXoig eodieibns reperitur, et a nobis 
in Latinum sermonem tideliter versa est . . . K oivt) au- 
tem ista, hoc est, Communis editio , ipsa est qua? et LXX, 
sed hoe interest inter utramque, quod Kondj pro locis et. 
temporibus et pro voluntate scriptorum vetus corrupta 
editio est; ea autem qua? habetur in i^cnrXoig et quant 
nos vertimus, ipsa est qtue in eruditorum libris incor- 
rupta et immaculata LXX interpretum translatio re- 
servatur” (Ep. cvi, ad Sun. et Fret. § 2). 

3. This use of the phrase Vulgata editio to describe 
the Sept, (and the Latin version of the latter) was con- 
tinued to later times. It is supported by the authority 
of Augustine, Ado of Vienne (A. I). 8G0), R. Bacon, etc.; 
and Bellarmine distinctly recognises the application of 
the term, so that Van Ess is justified in saving that the 
Council of Trent erred in a point of history when they 
described Jerome’s version as “vetus et vulgata editio, 
quae longo tot steculorum usu in ipsa ecclesia probata 
est” ( Gesch . p.34). As a general rule, the Latin fathers 
speak of Jerome’s version as “our” version (nostra edi- 
tio. nostri codices) ; but it was not unnatural that the 
Tridentine fathers (as many later scholars) should be 
misled by the associations of their own time, and adapt 
to new circumstances terms which had grown obsolete 
in their original sense. When the difference of the 
(Greek) Vulgate of the early Church and the (Latin) 
Vulgate of the modern Roman Church has once been 
apprehended, no further difficulty need arise from the 
identity of name (comp. Augustine, ed. Benedict. [Paris, 
1833], v, 33; Sabatier, i, 792; Van Ess, Gesch. p. 24-42, 
who gives very full and conclusive references, though 
he fails to perceive that the Old Latin was practically 
identilied with the Sept.). 

II. The Old Latin Versions. — 1. Origin . — The history 
of the earliest Latin version of the Bible is lost in com- 
plete obscurity. All that can be affirmed with certain- 
ty is that it was made in Africa. During the first two 
centuries the Church of Rome, to which we naturally 
look for the source of the version now identified with 
it, was essentially Greek. The Roman bishops bear 
Greek names; the earliest Roman liturgy was Greek; 
the few remains of the Christian literature of Rome are 
Greek. The same remark holds true of Gaul (comp. 
Westcott, Hist . of Canon of X. T. p. 239, 270, and reff.) ; 
but the Church of North Africa seems to have been Latin- 
speaking from t lie first. At what date this Church 
was founded is uncertain. A passage of Augustine 
(Cont. Donat. Eg. xxxvii) seems to imply that Africa 
was converted late; but if so, the Gospel spread there 
with remarkable rapidity. At the end of the 2d con- 
tun', Christians were found in every rank and in everv 
place; and the master-spirit of Tertullian, the first of 
the Latin fathers, was then raised up to give utterance 
to the passionate thoughts of his native Church. This 
Church father distinctly recognises the general curren- 
cy of a Latin version of the New Test., though not nec- 
essarily of every hook at present included in the canon, 
which even in his time had been able to mould the pop- 
ular language (.4 dr. Prax. v : “In usu est nostrorum per 
simplieitatem interpretationis.” De Monng. xi : “ Sci- 
amus plane non sic esse in Graico authentico quomodo 
in iisum exiit per duarum syllabarum aut callidam ant 
simplieem eversionem”). This was characterized by a 
“rudeness” and “simplicity” which seem to point to 
the nature of its origin. In the words of Augustine (De 


Doctr. Christ, ii. 16 [11]), “any one in the first ages of 
Christianity who gained possession of a Greek MS., and 
fancied that he had a fair knowledge of Greek and Lat- 
in, ventured to translate it” (“-Qui scripturas ex Ile- 
br;ea lingua in Griveam vertenmt mimerari possum ; 
Latiui autem interpretes nnllo modo. l T t enim euivis 
primis tidei temporibus in maims venit eodex Grjvcus, 
et aliquautiilum facultatis sibi utriusque lingua? habere 
videbatur, ausus est interpret ari”). Thus the version 
of the New Test, appears to have arisen from individual 
and successive efforts; hut it does not follow, by any 
means, that numerous versions were simultaneously cir- 
culated, or that the several parts of the version were 
made independently. Even if it had been so, the exi- 
gencies of the public service must soon have given def- 
initeness and substantial unity to the fragmentary la- 
bors of individuals. The work of private hands would 
necessarily be subject to revision for ecclesiastical use. 
The separate books would be united in a volume, and 
thus a standard text of the whole collection would lie 
established. With regard to the Old Test., the case, is 
less clear. It is probable that the Jews who were set- 
tled in North Africa were confined to the Greek towns; 
otherwise it might be supposed that the Latin version 
of the Old Test, is in part anterior to the Christian ;vra, 
ami that (as in the case of Greek) a preparation for 
a Christian Latin dialect, was already made when the 
Gospel was introduced into Africa. However this may 
have been, the substantial similarity of the different 
parts of the Old and New Tests, establishes a real con- 
nection between them, and justifies the belief that there 
was one popular Latin version of the Bible current in 
Africa in the last quarter of the 2d century. Many 
words which are either Greek (machaera, Sophia, peri- 
zoma, poderis, agonizo, etc.) or literal translations of 
Greek forms (vivitico, justifico, etc.) abound in both, 
and explain what Tertullian meant when he spoke of 
the “simplicity” of the translation. 

2. Character. — The exact literality of the Old ver- 
sion was not confined to the most minute observance of 
order and the accurate reflection of the words of the 
original; in many cases the very forms of Greek con- 
struction were retained in violation of Latin usage. A 
few examples of these singular anomalies will convey a 
better idea of the absolute certainty with which the 
Latin commonly indicates the text that the transla- 
tor had before him than any general statements: 

Matt. Iv, IB, “hahitavit in Capharnanm mar it imam.” 

15, “term Neptalim eiant maris.” 

25, “ab Jerosolymis . . . et trans Jordanem.’’ 

v, 22, “ reus erit in gehennam ignis.” 

vi, 19, “nbi tinea et cowestnra exterminat.” 
Markxii, 31, “ majns Itorwn prtrcejttortiin aliud non est.” 
Luke x, 11>, “nihil ros nocebit.” 

Acts xix, 26, “non solum Ephesi sed ptene totim Asiee." 
Roin. ii, 15, “inter sc cogitationum aceusuntium vel etiam 
defendentinm.” 

ICor.vii, 82, “sollicitns est quse sunt Domini.” 

It is obvious that there was a constant tendency to 
alter expressions like these, and in the first age of the 
version it is not improbable that the continual Gnecisrn 
which marks the Latin texts of Dj (Cod. Bezie) and E 2 
(Cod. Laud.) had a wider currency than it could main- 
tain afterwards. 

3. Canon. — With regard to the African canon of the 
New Test., the Old version offers important evidence. 
From considerations of style and language, it seems cer- 
tain that the Epistle to the Hebrews, James, and 2 Pe- 
ter did not form part of the original African version, a 
conclusion which falls in with what is derived from 
historical testimony (comp. The Hist, of the Canon of 
the X. T. p.282 sq.). In the Old Test., on the other 
hand, the Old Latin erred by excess, and not by defect; 
for, as the version was made from the current copies of 
the Sept., it included the Apocryphal books which are 
commonly contained in them, and to these 2 Esdras was 
early added. 

4. Revision. — After the translation once received a 


VULGATE 


826 


VULGATE 


definite shape in Africa, which could not have been long 
after the middle of the 2d century, it was not publicly 
revised. The old text was jealously guarded hv eccle- 
siastical use, and was retained there at a time when Je- 
rome's version was elsewhere almost universally receiv- 
ed. The well-known storv of the disturbance caused 
by the attempt of an African bishop to introduce Je- 
rome's cucurbita for the old haler a in the history of Jo- 
nah (August. Ep. civ, ap. Micron. Epp. quoted bv Tre- 
gelles, Introduction, p. 212) shows how carefully inten- 
tional changes were avoided. Hut, at the same time, 
the text su tiered by the natural corruptions of copying, 
especially by interpolations, a form of error to which 
the gospels were particularly exposed. In the Old 
Test, the version was made from the unrevised edition 
of the Sept., and thus from the first included many false 
readings, of which Jerome often notices instances (e. g. 
Ep. evi, ad Sun. et Eret.). 

The Latin translator of Irennens was probably con- 
temporary with Tertullian, and his renderings of the 
quotations from Scripture confirm the conclusions which 
have been already drawn as to the currency of (substan- 
tially) one Latin version. It does not appear that he 
had a Latin MS. before him during the execution oY 
his work, but he was so familiar with the common 
translation that he reproduces continually character- 
istic phrases which he cannot be supposed to have de- 
rived from any other source (Lachmann, A'. T. i, p. x.xi). 
Cyprian (died A.D. 257) carries on the chain of testi- 
mony far through the next century; and he is followed 
by Lactantius. Juvencus. J. Firmicns Maternus. Hilary 
the Deacon (Ambrosiaster), Hilary of Poitiers (died A.D. 
•1 10). and Lucifer of Cagliari (died A.D. 370). Ambrose 
and Augustine exhibit a peculiar recension of the same 
text, and Jerome oilers some traces of it. From this 
date MSS. of parts of the African text have been pre- 
served. and it is unnecessary to trace the history of its 
transmission to a later time. 

Hut while the earliest Latin version was preserved 
generally unchanged in North Africa, it fared different- 
ly in Italy. There the provincial rudeness of the ver- 
sion was necessarily more offensive, and the compara- 
tive-familiarity of the leading bishops with the Greek 
texts made a revision at once more feasible and less 
startling to their congregations. Thus, in the 4th cen- 
tury, a definite ecclesiastical recension (of the gospels, 
at least) appears to have been made in North Italy by 
reference to the Greek, which was distinguished by the 
name of Italu. This Augustine recommends on the 
ground of its close accuracy and its perspicuity (l)e 
Jtortr. Christ. 15, • In ipsis interpretationihus Itala cae- 
teris prseferatur. nam est verborum tenaeior cum perspi- 
cuitate sentential’), and the text of the gospels which 
he follows is marked hv the latter characteristic when 
compared with the African. In the other books the 
difference cannot be traced with accuracy; and it has 
not yet been accurately determined whether other na- 
tional recensions may not have existed (as seems cer- 
tain from the evidence which scholars have recently 
collected) in Ireland (Hritain), Gaul, and Spain. 

The /tala appears to have been made in some degree 
with authority; other revisions were made for private 
use. in which such changes were introduced as suited 
the taste of scribe or critic. The next stage in the de- 
terioration of the text was the intermixture of these 
various revisions; so that at the close of the 4th cen- 
tury the gospels were in such a state as to call for that 
final recension which was made by Jerome. 

5. Remains . — It will be seen that, for the chief part 
of the Old Test, and for considerable parts of the New 
Lest. (e. g. Apoc. ; Acts), the old text rests upon early 
quotations (principally Tertullian, Cyprian, Lucifer of 
Cagliari for the African text, Ambrose and Augustine 
for the Italic). These were collected by Sabatier with 
great diligence up to the date of his work; but more 
recent discoveries (e. g. of the Homan Speculum) have 
furnished a large store of new materials which have not 


yet been fully employed. (The great work of Sabatier, 
already often referred to, is still the standard work on 
the Latin versions. II is great fault is his neglect to 
distinguish the different types of text — African. Italie, 
British, Gallic — a task which yet remains to be done. 
The earliest work on the subject was by Flainiuius No- 
bi 1 i n s. IV/ us Test. Sec . L X X Lat ine Redd it u m . e t c. [ Komae, 

1 5X8]. The new' collations made by Tisehemlorf, Alai. 
Munter, tYriani, have been noticed separately.) Sec 
Italic Veusion. 

III. Labors of Jerome. — 1. Occasion. — It lias been 
seen that at the close of the 4 th century the Latin texts 
of the Bible current in the Western Church had fallen 
into the greatest corruption. The evil was yet greater 
in prospect than at the time; for the separation of the 
Last and West, politically ami ecclesiastically, was grow- 
ing imminent, and the fear of the perpetuation of false 
and conflicting Latin copies proportionately greater. 
Hut in the crisis of danger the great scholar was raised 
up who, probably alone for fifteen hundred years, pos- 
sessed the qualifications necessary for producing an 
original version of the Scriptures for the use of the 
Latin churches. Jerome — Eusebius Hieronymus — was 
horn in A.D. 329 at Stridon, in Dalmatia, and died at 
Bethlehem in A.D. 420. From his early youth he was 
a vigorous student, and age removed nothing from his 
zeal, lie has been well called the Western Origen 
(Hody. p. 350) ; and if he wanted the largeness of heart 
and generous sympathies of the great Alexandrian, he 
had more chastened critical skill and closer concentra- 
tion of power. After long and self-denying studies in 
the East and West, Jerome went to Home (A.D. 382), 
probably at the request of Damasus the pope, to assist 
in an important synod (£);. cviii. 6), where he seems to 
have been at once attached to t lie service of the pope 
(ibid, cxxiii, 10). His active Biblical labors date from 
this epoch, and in examining them it will be convenient 
to follow the order of time. 

2. Revision of the Old Latin Version o f the N. T. — 
Jerome had not been long at Home (A.D. 383) when 
Damasus consulted him on points of scriptural criticism 
(Ep. xix, “Dilectionis tuae est ut ardenti i Ho strenui- 
tatis ingenio . . . vivo sensu scribas”). Tbe answers 
which he received (Ep. xx, xxi) may well have en- 
couraged him to sock for greater services; and. appar- 
ently, in the same year he applied to Jerome for a re- 
vision of the current Latin version of the New Test, by 
the help of the Greek original. Jerome was fully sen- 
sible of the prejudices which such a work would excite 
among those “who thought that ignorance was holi- 
ness” (Ep. ad Marc, xxvii) ; but the need of it was ur- 
gent. “There were,” he says, “almost as many forms 
of text as copies” (“tot sunt exemplaria panie quot co- 
dices” [Pro*/, in £Vr.]). Mistakes had been introduced 
“by false transcription, by clumsy corrections, and by 
careless interpolations” (ibid.); and in the confusion 
which had ensued the one remedy was to go back to 
the original source (“Graeca veritas, Graeca origo” ). 
The gospels had naturally suffered most. Thoughtless 
scribes inserted additional details in the narrative from 
the parallels, and changed the forms of expression to 
those with which they had originally been familiarized 
(ibid.). Jerome therefore applied himself to these first 
(“luce praesens priefatiuncula pollicetur quatuor tantum 
Evangelia”). But his aim was to revise the Old Latin, 
and not to make a new version. When Augustine ex- 
pressed to him his gratitude for “his translation of the 
Gospel” (Ep. civ. fi, “ Non parvas Deo gratias agimus de 
opere tuo quo Evangel in m ex Grtrco interpretatus es" ), 
he tacitly corrected him by substituting for this phrase 
“ the correction of the New Test.” (ibid, cxii, 20, “ Si me, 
ut dicis. in N. T. emendutione snscipis . . .”). For this 
purpose he collated early Greek MSS., and preserved 
the current rendering wherever the sense was not 
injured by it (“ Evangelia . . . codicum Graecorum 
emendata collatione sed veterum. Quae ne mnltum a 
lectionis Latimc consuetudine discreparent, ita calamo 


VULGATE 


827 


VULGATE 


tcmperavimus [tilt, impcravimus] ut his tantura quae j think that he would shrink from the completion of it. 
sensum videbantur mutare, correct is, reliqna manure pa- In accordance with this view he enumerates (A.D.398) 
teremur ut fuerant” [Prtef. ad Z)ow.]). Yet although among his works “the restoration of the (Latin version 
he proposed to himself this limited object, the various of the) New Test, to harmony with the original Greek.” 
forms of corruption which had been introduced were, as (Ep, ad Luein. lxxi, 5: “N. T. Gnecae reddidi aucto- 
hc describes, so numerous that the difference of the Old ritati, ut enim Veterum Librorum tides de Uebneis vo- 
and Revised ( Hieronymian ) text is throughout clear luminibus examinanda est, ita novorum Graca? [V] ser- 
and striking. Thus, in Matt, v we have the following ^ monis normam desiderat.” De Yir. III. cxxxv. : “ N. 


variations : 

Old Latin. 

7 ipsis miner ebitur Dcus. 

11 dixeriut . . . 

— propter j ustitiam. 

12 ante vos pat-res corum 

{Luke vi, 26). 

17 non veni solvere legem 
aut pro] thetas. 

IS fiaut: copltim ct terra 
transibunt , verba au- 
tem mea non ]>rceteri - 
bunt. 

22 fratri stio sine causa. 

25 es cum illo in ira. 

29 eat in gehennam. 

37 quod a ute m amplius. 

41 adhuc alia duo. 

43 odies. 

44 vestros, et benedieite qui 

maledicent vobis et be- 
nefacite. 


Vulgate. 

7 ipsi miser ieordiam con- 
sequent ur. 

11 dixeriut . . . mentientes. 
— propter me. 

12 ante vos. 

17 non veni solvere. 

IS fiaut. 


22 fratri sno. 

25 es in via cum co (and of- 
ten). 

29 mittatur in gehennam. 

37 quod antem his abun- 
dantius. 

41 et alia duo. 

43 odio habebis. 

44 vestros beuefacite. 


Of these variations, those in ver. 17, 44 are only partial- 
ly supported by the old copies, but they illustrate the 
character of the interpolations from which the text suf- 
fered. In John, as might be expected, the variations 
are less frequent. The 6th chapter contains only the 
following: 


2 sequebatur antem. 

21 (volebam). 

23 quern benedixerat Domi- 
nus [alii aliter]). 

39 hsec est enim. 

— (Pa iris mei). 

53 (manducare). 

66 (a patre). 

67 ex hoc ergo. 


2 et sequebatur. 

21 (volnerunt). 

23 (grati as ageute Domino). 

39 haec est antem. 

— (Patris mei qui misit me). 
53 (ad mandneandum). 

66 (a patre meo). 

67 ex hoc. 


Some of the changes which Jerome introduced were, 
as will he seen, made purely on linguistic grounds, but 
it is impossible to ascertain on what principle he pro- 
ceeded in this respect. Others involved questions of 
interpretation (Matt, vi, 11, supersubstantialis for h riov- 
<tio £). But the greater number consisted in the re- 
moval of the interpolations by which the synoptic gos- 
pels especially were disfigured. These interpolations, 
unless his description is very much exaggerated, must 
have been far more numerous than are found in exist- 


T. G ra*ca3 fidei reddidi. Vetus juxta llcbraicam trans- 
tuli.”) It is yet more directly conclusive as to the fact 
of this revision that in writing to Marcella (cir. A.I). 
385) on the charges which had been brought against 
him for “introducing changes in the gospels,” he quotes 
three passages from the epistles in which lie asserts the 
superiority of the present Vulgate reading to that of the 
Old Latin (Rom. xii, 11 Domino servientes,” for “ tern - 
port servientes;” 1 Tim. v, 19, add. “ nisi sub duobus aut 
tribus testibus;” i, 15, “ jidelis sermo,” for “ humanus 
sermo”). An examination of the Vulgate text, with the 
quotations of ante-1 lieronymian fathers and the imper- 
fect evidence of MSS., is itself sufficient to establish the 
reality and character of the revision. This will be ap- 
parent from a collation of a few chapters taken from sev- 
eral of the later books of the New Test.; but it will also 
be obvious that the revision was hasty and imperfect ; 
and in later times the line between the Old Latin and 
the Hieronymian texts became very indistinct. Old 
readings appear in MSS. of the Vulgate, and, on the 
other hand, no MS. represents a pure African text of the 
Acts and epistles. 

Acts i, 4-25. 

Old Latin. Vulgate. 


4 eum conversaretur eum 

illis . . . quod audistis 
a me. 

5 tingemini. 

6 at illi convenientes. 

7 at ille respondents dixit. 

S superveniente 8. S. 

10 iuteuderent. Comp, iii 
(iv), 12; VI, 15; x, 4; 
(xiii, 9). 

13 ascenderunt in sv peri- 

ora. 

— erant habit aides. 

14 perse verantes unanimes 

orationi. 

15 Ilicdgitur adquisivit. 

21 qui convenerunt nobis- 
cum vfris. 

25 ire. Comp, xvii, 30. 


4 eonvesccns . . . quam au- 

disiis per os meum. 

5 baptizabimini. 

6 Igitur qui conveneraut. 

7 Dixit avtem. 

S supervenientis S. S. 

10 imuerentur. 


13 in eoenaeulum ascende- 

rnnt. 

— manebant. 

14 persev. unanimiter in 

oratione. 

15 Et hie quidem possedit. 

21 viris qui nobiscum sunt 

eongregati. 

25 ut abiret. 


Acts 

16 eirea simulacrum. 

17 Judteis. 

IS seminntor. 

22 superstitiosos. 

23 perambulans. 

— cultural* vestras. 

26 ex uuo sanguine. 


xvii, 16-34. 

16 idololatrire deditam. 

17 cum Jndseis. 

18 seminiverbins. 

22 sn perstitiosio res. 

23 prcr.teriens. 

— simulacra vestra. 

26 ex uuo. 


ing copies; but examples still occur which show the 
important service which he rendered to the Church by 
checking the perpetuation of apocryphal glosses: Matt, 
iii, 3, 15 (v, 12) ; (ix, 21); xx, 28; (xxiv, 36); Mark i, 
3, 7, 8 ; iv, 19 ; xvi, 4 ; Luke (v, 10) ; viii, 48 ; ix, 43, 50 ; 
xi,36 ; xii, 38 : xxiii, 48 : John vi. 56. As a check upon 
further interpolation, he inserted in his text the nota- 
tion of the Eusebian Canons [see New Testament]; 
but it is worthy of notice that he included in his re- 
vision the famous pericope, John vii, 53; viii, 11, which 
is not included in that analysis. 

The preface to Damasus speaks only of a revision 
of the gospels, and a question has been raised whether 
Jerome really revised the remaining books of the New 
Test. Augustine (A.D. 403) speaks only of “the Gos- 
pel” {Ep. civ, 6, quoted above), and there is no preface 
to any other books, such as is elsewhere found before 
all Jerome’s versions or editions. But the omission is 
probably due to the comparatively pure state in which 
the text of the rest of the New Test, was preserved. 
Damasus had requested (Prof, ad Dam.) a revision of 
the whole; and when Jerome had faced the more invid- 
ious and difficult part of his work, there is no reason to 


Rom. i, 

13 Xon antem arbitror. 

15 quod in me est promptus 
sum. 

1 Cor. 

4 sequenti ee (sequent!, q) 
{Cod. Aug. f). 

6 in fignram. 

7 idolbrum cultures (g 

coi r.) efficiaraur, 

12 putat (g. coi r.). 

15 sicut prudeutes, vobis 

dico. 

16 quern (f, g). 

— communicatio(alt.) (f,g). 
21 participare (f, g). 

29 iufideli (g). 


13-15. 

13 nolo antem. 

15 quod in me promptum 
est. 

z, 4-29. 

4 conscquente eos. 

6 in figura (f), (g). 

7 idololatrae (idolatres, f) 

efficianiini (f). 

12 existimat (f). 

15 ut (sicut, f, g) prndenti- 

bus loqnor (dico, f, g). 

16 cui. 

— participate. 

21 participes esse. 

29 (alieua) ; alia (f). 


2 Cor. iii, 11-1S. 

14 dum ( quod g coit.) non 14 non rcvclatum (Q. 

revelatur (g corr.). 

15 de (a g) gtoria in gloriam 18 a elaritatc in claritatcm. 

(g). 

Gal. iii, 14-25. 

14 benedietionem (g). 14 pollicitationem (f). 

15 irritum faeit ( irritat , g). 15 spernit (f). 

25 veniente autem fide (g). 25 At ubi vend fidcs (0. 


VULGATE 


828 


VULGATE 


Tim., ii, 2-30. 

2 unum (g). *2 idipsum (f)- 

(i cam . . . eomtitutus (g). 6 cum . . . esset (f). 

12 liilectissinii (g). 12 carissimi (f). 

26 soUh itn; s- (bcdehatur, g). *26 vurstus (f). 

2s soil ici tits i tuque. 2b fcstinantius ergo (feat. 

ego, f : /caY. uutem , g). 

30 imrubolatiuideanimasua 30 trudens univiam suani 

(.4). co. 

1 Tim. iii, 1-12. 

1 Unmannx (g corr.). 1 fidelis (0. 

2 dncibilem (g). 2 \loctorem (f). 

4 haheiitem iuobsequio. 4 habentem mbditos (f, g). 
s tiupilueroH. 8 £«r?>e lucrum sectantes 

(f) (turpil. s. g). 

1*2 Jtlios bene regentes (g 12 qui Jitiis suis bene pra>- 
corr.). nint (0. 

o. Derision of the Old Test, from the Sept. — About the 
same time (cir. A.L). 383) at which he was engaged on 
the revision of the New Test.. Jerome undertook also a 
first revision of the Psalter. This he made by the help 
of the Greek, but the work was not very complete or 
careful, and the words in which he describes it may, 
perhaps, be extended without injustice to the revision 
of the later books of the New Test. : “ Psalterinm Roma* 
. . . eineiidaram et juxta LXX interpretes, licet cursim 
imtr/uu illud ex parte eorrexeram” (Prcef. in Lib. Psa.). 
This revision obtained the name of the Homan Psalter, 
probably because it was made for the use of the Poman 
Church at the request of Damasus, where it was re- 
tained till the pontificate of Pius V (A.D. 15GG), who in- 
troduced the Gatlican Psalter generally, though the 1 Io- 
nian Psalter was still retained in three Italian churches 


and Eustochius, Jerome commenced a new and more 
thorough revision ( Galilean Psalter). The exact date 
at which this was made is not known, blit it may be 
lixed with great probability very shortly after A.D.8S7, 
when he retired to llethlehem. and certainly before ill) l. 
when be bad begun bis new translations from t lie He- 
brew. In the new revision Jerome attempted to repre- 
sent, as far as possible, by the help of the Greek ver- 
sions, the real reading of the Hebrew. With this view- 
lie adopted the notation of < Jrigen [see Skptuagist; 
comp. Prof in Gen., etc.], and thus indicated all the ad- 
ditions and omissions of the Sept, text reproduced in 
the Latin. The additions were marked by an obi us 
(f ); the omissions, which lie supplied, by an asterisk 
( * ). The omitted passages he supplied by a version 
of the Greek of Thoodotion, and not directly from the 
Hebrew- (“ umisqtiisqne . . . tibicunque viderit virgu- 
lam pra*cedcntera [f] ab ea usque ad duo puncta f "] 
qua? impressiinus, sciat in LXX iuterpretibus plus ha- 
beri. Cbi au tem stelke [ *] similitudinem perspexerit, 
de flebncis volutniuibus addituin noverit, ;eque usque 
ad duo puncta, juxta Tfieodotionis dnmtaxat editionem , 
qui simplicitate sennonis u LXX iuterpretibus non dis- 
cord at" \_Praf. utl Psa. ; comp. Prief. in Job , Paralip ., 
Libr. Solotn., juxta LXX Iutt., Kp. evi, ad Sun. et Fret.]). 
This new edition soon obtained a wide popularity. 
Gregory of Tours is said to have introduced it from 
Pome into the public services in France, and from this 
it obtained the name of the Galliean Psalter. The com- 
parison of one or two passages will show the extent and 
nature of the corrections which Jerome introduced into 
this second work, as compared with the Poman Psalter: 


Old Latin. 


(Xisi quod.) 

Xisi quia (quod). 
Minor asti. 


resqiexit me. 
depreeationem. 

hymnnm. 

(Domino.) 

jocundatum. 

apud inferos. 


Psa. viii, 4-G. 
Roman Pbaltke. 

Quoniam videbo ccelos, opera digitormn tuo- 
rum : 

lnnam et stellas quas til fundasti. 

Quid est homo, quod memor es ejus? 
ant tilins bominis, quoniam visitas earn ? 

M bluish eiiin piiulo minus ab angelis; 
gloria et honore coronasti eum: 
et constituisti eum super opera maununi tua- 
rum. 

Psa. xxxix, 1-4. 

Exspectaus exspectavi Doniiuum: 
et rexpexit me; 

et exandivit depreeationem meam ; 
eteduxit. me de lacu miseriaj, 
et de lu to fiecis. 

Et statnit siq>er petram pedes meos; 
et direxit gressus meos. 

Et immisit in os meum cauticum novum: 
hgmnum Deo nostro. 


GALLICAN PSALTl.U. 

Quoniam videbo ccelos * tuos " opera digi to- 
rn m tuorum ; 

lnnam et Stellas qiue t tu " fundasti. 

Quid est homo, quod memor es ejus? 
aut tilius bominis, quoniam visitas eum ? 
Minvisti eum paulo minus ab angelis; 
gloria et honore coronasti eum, 
t et " constituisti eum super opera mauunm 
tuarum. 

Exspectaus exspectavi Domiuum : 

et intendit mi hi ; 
et t ex " audivit jircces mens; 
et eduxit me de lacu miseriie, 
t et " de Into fiecis. 

Et statnit super petram pedes meos; 
t et " direxit gressus meos. 

Et immisit in os meum cauticum novum: 
carmen Deo uostro. 


Psa. xvi (xv), 8-11 (Aots ii, 25-2S). 


Providebam Dominum in conspectu meo sem- 
per, 

quoniam a dextris est mihi, ne commovear. 
Propter hoc delectaticm est cor meum, 
et exsnltavit lingua men : 
insuper et caro mea requiescet in spe. 
Quoniam non deieliuques nnimam meam in 
inferno (-inn) ; 

nec dabis Sauctum tuum videre corrnptionem. 
Not as mihi fecisti vias vita 3 : 
adimplebis me hetiria cum vtiltu tno: 
delectatioues in dextra lua, usque in tinera. 


rrovidebani Dominum in conspectu meo sem- 
per, 

quoniam a dextris est mihi, ne commovear. 
Propter hoc Icetuhnn est cor meum, 
et exsnltavit lingua mea: 
t insuper ' et caro men requiescet. in spe. 
Quoniam non derelinques aninuim ineam in 
inferno ; 

nec dabis Sanctum tuum videre corrnptionem. 
Not as mihi fecGti vias vita?; 
adimplebis me hetitia cum vnltu tno: 
delectatioues iu dextera tua t usque " iu finem. 


(Ilody, p. 383, “in una Romm Vuticana eeelesia, et ex- | How far be thought change really necessary will ap- 
tra urbein in Mediolauensi et in eeelesia S. J/ft/vqVene- pear from a comparison of a few- verses of his transla- 
tiis”). In a short time “the old error prevailed over tion from the Hebrew with the earlier revised Scptua- 
the new correction,” and, at the urgent request of Paula [ gintal translations: 


Psa. xxxiii (xxxiv), 12-10 (1 Pet. iii, 10-12). 

Vn LOATH. 


Old Latin. 

Quit* est homo qui vult vitam, 
et enpit videre dies bonus? 

Coin be linguam tuam a malo: 
et labia uia ne loqnantur dolnm. 
Deverte a malo et fac bo mini : 
inquire paeem et sequere earn, 
ocnli Domini super justos 
et a u res ejns ad pieces eortim. 
Vultus Domini super facientes mala. 


Quis est homo qui vult vitam, 
ditigit dies videre bonos? 

Drohihe linguam tuam a malo: 
et labia tua ne loquaniur doimn. 
Diverte a malo et fac honum : 
inquire paeem, et )>er*equere earn. 
Ocnli Domini super justos 
er. mires ejns in pieces eornm. 

Vultus uutem Doraiui super facientes 
mala. 


Ji-romk’s Tuansl. (from the JJeb.). 
Quis est vir qui velit vitam 
diligens dies videre bonos? 

Custodi linguam tuam a malo, 
et labia tua ne loquantur dohnn. 
Recede a nialo et fac bomini : 
q>ue re paeem et persequere earn. 

Ocnli Domini ad justos 
et mires ejns ad claw ores eorum. 
Vultus Domini super facientes ma- 
lum. 


VULGATE 


820 


VULGATE 


Sacrificinm et oblationem noluisti : 
:mres autem perfecisti mihi. 
llolocansta etiam pro delicto non pos- 
tulasti. 

Tuuc dixi : Ecce venio. 

In capite libri scriptum est de me 
vnfaciam voluntatein tuam. 


In omnem terra m exiit sonns eornm : 
et in finibm orbis terra verba eornm. 


Psa. xxxix (xl), 6-S (IIeij, x, 5-10). 
Sacrilicium et oblationem noluisti: 
ames autem perfecisti mihi. 

Holocaust urn et pro peccato non pos- 
tnlasti : 

Tune clixi : Ecce venio. 

In capite libri scriptnin est de me, 
nt facerem voluntatein tuam. 

P6A. xviii (xix), 5 (Rom. x, IS). 

In omnem terram exivit sonns eo- 
rum : 

et in fines orbis terra verba eornm. 


Victimn et oblatione non indigcs : 
mires f odist i mihi. 

llolocaiistum et pro peecato non pc- 
tisti. 

Time dixi: Ecce venio. 

In volmuine libri scriptnin est de me, 
nt facerem placitam tibi. 


In universam terram exivit sonns eo- 
runi: 

et in fincm orbis verba eornm. 


Numerous manuscripts remain whieh contain tlie Latin 
Psalter in two or more forms. Thus Bibl. Bodl. Laud. 
35 (10th century?) contains a triple Psalter — Galilean, 
Roman, and Hebrew ; Coll. C. C. Oxon. xii (15th cen- 
tury), Galliean. Roman, Hebrew; ibid, x (14th century), 
Galliean, Hebrew, Hebrew text with interlinear Latin; 
Brit. Mas. Ilarl.043, a double Psalter, Galliean and 1 le- 
brew; ibid. Annul. 155 (11th century), a Roman Psalter 
with Galliean corrections; Coll. SS. Trin. Cambr. R. 17, 
La triple Psalter, Hebrew, Galliean, Roman (12th cen- 
tury) ; ibid. R. 8, G, a triple Psalter, the Hebrew text 
with a peeuliar interlinear Latin version, Jerome’s He- 
brew, Galliean. An example of the unrevised Latin, 
whieh, indeed, is not very satisfactorily distinguished 
from the Roman, is found with an Anglo-Saxon inter- 
linear version, Unir. Libr. Cambr. Ff. i, 23 (11th cen- 
tury). II. Stephens published a Quinn f piece Psalterinm , 
Gallicum, Rhomaicum , llebraiciim , Vetus, Conciliation 
(Paris, 1513), but he does not mention the manuscripts 
from which he derived his texts. 

From the second (Galliean) revision of the. Psalms 
Jerome appears to have proceeded to a revision of the 
other books of the Old Test., restoring all, by the help 
of the Greek, to a general conformity with the Hebrew. 
In the preface to the revision of Job, he notices the op- 
position which he had met with, and contrasts indig- 
nantly his own labors with the more mechanical occu- 
pations of monks whieh excited no reproaches (“Si aut 
tiseellam jimeo texerem aut palmarum folia eomplica- 
rem , . . millus morderet, nemo reprehenderet. Nune 
autem . . . corrector vitiorum falsarius vocor”). Simi- 
lar complaints, but less strongly expressed, occur in the 
preface to the books of Chronicles, in which he had re- 
course to the Hebrew as well as to the Greek, in order 
to correct the innumerable errors in the names by which 
both texts were deformed. In the preface to the three 
books of Solomon (Proverbs, Eeelesiastes, Cantieles) he 
notices no attacks, but excuses himself for neglecting 
to revise Ecelesiastieus and Wisdom on the ground that 
“he wished only to amend the canonical Scriptures” 
(“tantummodo canonicas Scripturas vobis ememlare 
desiderans”). No other prefaces remain, and the re- 
vised texts of the Psalter and Job have alone been pre- 
served ; but there is no reason to doubt that Jerome 
carried out his design of revising all the “canonical 
Scriptures” (eomp. Ep. cxii, ad August, [cir. A. I). 404], 
“Quod autem in aliis qureris epistolis: cur prior mea 
in libris canonicis interpret.atio asteriscos habeat et 
virgulas pranotatas”). lie speaks of this work as a 
whole in several places (e. g. A dr. Ruf. ii, 24, “ Egone 
contra LXX interpretes aliquid sum loeutus, quos ante 
annos plurimos diligentissime emendatos mea? lingua? 
stndiosis dedi?” eomp. ibid, iii, 25; Ep. Ixxi, ad Lu- 
cia., “ Septnaginta interpretnm editionem et te habere 
non du hi to, et ante annos plurimos [he is writing A.I). 
398] diligentissime emendatam studiosis tradidi”), and 
distinctly represents it as a Latin version of Origen’s 
Ilexaplar text (Ep. evi, ad Sun. et Fret.. “ Ea autem 
qua? habetur in 'E£«7r\o7£ et quam non vertimus”), if, 
indeed, the reference is not to be confined to the Psalter, 
which was the immediate subject of discussion. But 
though it seems certain that the revision was made, 
there is very great difficulty in tracing its history, anil 
it is remarkable that no allusion to the revision occurs 
in the preface to the new translation of the Pentateuch, 


Joshua (Judges, Ruth), Kings, the Prophets, in which 
Jerome touches more or less plainly on the difficulties 
of his task, while he does refer to his former labors on 
Job, the Psalter, and the books of Solomon in the par- 
allel prefaces to those hooks, and also in his Apology 
against Rujinus (ii, 27, 29-31). It has. indeed, been 
supposed (Vallarsi, Prcef. in llier. x) that these six 
books only were published by Jerome himself. The 
remainder may have been put into circulation surrep- 
titiously. But this supposition is not without difficul- 
ties. Augustine, writing to Jerome ( cir. A.I). 405 ), 
earnestly begs for a copy of the revision from the Sept., 
of the publication of which he was then only lately 
aware {Ep. xevi, 34, “ Deinde nobis mittas, obseero, in- 
terpretationem tuam de Septnaginta, quam te edidisse 
neseiebam eomp. § 34). It does not appear whether 
the request was granted or not, but at a much later pe- 
riod (cir. A.D. 416) Jerome says that he cannot furnish 
him with “a eopy of the Sept. [i. e. the Latin version 
of it] furnished with asterisks and obeli, as he had lost 
the chief part of his former labor by some person’s 
treaehery” (ibid. cxxxiv,“ Pleraque prioris laboris fraude 
cujusdam amisimus”). However this may have been, 
Jerome could not have spent more than four (or five) 
years on the work, and that too in the midst of other 
labors, for in 491 he was already engaged on the ver- 
sions from the Hebrew which constitute his great claim 
on the lasting gratitude of the Church. 

4. Translation of the Old Test, from the Ifebreir . — • 
Jerome commenced the study of Hebrew when he was 
already advanced in middle life (cir. A.D. 374), think- 
ing that the difficulties of the language, as he quaintly 
paints them, would serve to subdue the temptations of 
passion to whieh he was exposed (Ep. exxv, 12; eomp. 

I Prof in Dan.). From this time he continued the 
! study with unabated zeal, and availed himself of every 
help to perfect his knowledge of the language. II is 
first teacher had been a Jewish convert, but afterwards 
he did not scruple to seek the instruction of Jews, whose 
services he secured with great difficulty and expense. 
This excessive zeal (as it. seemed) exposed him to the 
1 misrepresentations of his enemies, and Rufinus indulges 
in a silly pun on the name of one of his teachers, with 
the intention of showing that his work was not “sup- 
ported by the authority of the Church, but only of a 
second Barabbas” (Ruf. A pol. ii, 12 ; Hieron. A pol. i, 13 ; 
eomp. Ep. lxxxiv, 3; Prcef. in Paral . ). Jerome, how- 
ever, was not deterred by opposition from pursuing his 
object, and it were only to be wished that he had sur- 
passed his critics as much in generous courtesy as he 
; did in honest labor. He soon turned his knowledge of 
Hebrew to use. In some of his earliest critical letters 
he examines the force of Hebrew words (Epp. xviii, xx, 
A.I). 381, 383); and in 384 he had been engaged for 
some time in comparing the version of Aquila with He- 
brew MSS. (ibid, xxxii, l), whieh a Jew had succeeded 
in obtaining for him from the synagogue (ibid, xxxvi, 
1). After retiring to Bethlehem, he appears to have 
devoted himself with renewed ardor to the study of lle- 
! brew, and he published several works on the subject, 
eir. A.D. 389 (Qwest, flebr.in Gen. etc.). These essays 
| served as a prelude to his New version, whieh he now 
I commenced. This version was not undertaken with 
any ecclesiastical sanction, as the revision of the gospels 
| was, but at the urgent request of private friends, or 


VULGATE 


S30 


VULGATE 


from liis own sense of the imperious necessity of the 
work. Its history is told in the main in the prefaces 
to the several instalments which were successively pub- 
lished. The hooks of Samuel and Kings were issued 
first, and to these he prefixed the famous Prologus 
(latent u.*, addressed to 1’auhi and Eustochius, in which 
he gives an account of the Hebrew canon. It is impos- 
sible to determine why he selected these books for his 
experiment, for it does not. appear that he was request- 
ed by any one to do so. The work itself was executed 
with the greatest care. Jerome speaks of the transla- 
tion as the result of constant revision {Prol. Gal., “Lege 
ergo pri mum Samuel et Malachim meum : memn, in- 
quam, meum. Quidquid enim crebrius vertendo et 
cmeudando sollicitius et didicimus et tenemus nostrum 
cst”). At the time when this was published (cir. A.L). 
391, 392) other books seem to have been already trans- 
lated ( ibid., “ omnibus libris quos de ITebneo verti- 
inus”) ; and in 393 the sixteen prophets were in circula- 
tion, and Job had lately been put into the hands of his 
most intimate friends ( Kp. xlix, ad Pammach .). In- 
deed, it would appear that already in 392 he had in 
some sense completed a version of the Old Test. {De 17/*. 
111. cxxxv, “Yetus juxta llebraicum transmit :” this 
treatise was written in that year); but many books 
were not completed and published till some years after- 
wards. The next books which he put into circulation, 
yet with the provision that they should he con tilled to 
friends ( Pro. f in Ezr.), were Ezra and Nehemiah, which 
he translated at the request of Dominica and Tloga- 
tianus, who had urged him to the task for three years. 
This was probably in the year 394 (17/. I Ikron. xxi, 4), 
for in the preface he alludes to his intention of discuss- 
ing a question which he treats in Ep. lvii, written in 
395 ( L)e Optimo Gen. Interpret.). In the preface to the 
Chronicles (addressed to Chromatins), he alludes to the 
same epistle as “lately written.” and these books may 
therefore be set down to that year. The three books 
of Solomon followed in 398. having been “the work of 
three days” when he had just recovered from a severe 
illness, which he suffered in that year (Preef, “ ltaque 
longa a i grotatione Tract us . . . tridui opus nomini vestro 
[Chromatio ct lleliodoro] consecravi;” comp. Ep. lxxiii, 
10). The Oetateueh now alone remained {ibid, lxxi, 
5), i. e. Pentateuch, Joshua, Judges. Ruth, and Esther 
( Preef in Jos.). Of this the Pentateuch (inscribed to 
Desiderius) was published first, but it is uncertain in 
what year. The preface, however, is not quoted in the 
Apology against Iiujinus (A.I). 400), as those of all the 
other books which were then published, and it may 
therefore be set down to a later date (Hody, p. 357). 
The remaining books were completed at the request of 
Eustochius, shortly after the death of Paula, in 404 
( PreeJ'. in Jos.). Thus the whole translation was spread 
over a period of about fourteen years, from the sixtieth 
to the seventy-sixth year of Jerome's life. But still 
parts of it were finished in great haste (e. g. the books 
of Solomon). A single day was sufficient for the trans- 
lation of Tobit {Prof, in Tab.), and “one short effort” 
( una lucubratiimcula) for the translation of Judith. 
Thus there are errors in the work which a more careful 
revision might have removed; and Jerome himself in 
many places gives renderings which he prefers to those 
which he had adopted, and admits from time to time 
that he had fallen into error (Body, p. 302). Yet such 
defects are trifling when compared with what he ac- 
complished successfully. The work remained for eight 
centuries the bulwark of Western Christianity, and, as a 
monument of ancient linguistic power, the translation 
of the Old Test, stands unrivalled and unique. It was 
at least a direct rendering of the original, and not the 
version of a version. 

IV. History of Jerome's Translation to the Invention 
of Printing . — 1. Early Acceptance. — The critical labors 
of Jerome were received, as such labors always are re- 
ceived by the multitude, with a loud outcry of reproach. 
He was accused of disturbing the repose of the Church 


and shaking the foundations of faith. Acknowledged 
errors, as he complains, were looked upon as hallowed 
by ancient usage ( Prof, in Job. ii), and few had the 
wisdom or candor to acknowledge the importance of 
seeking lor the purest possible text of Holy Scripture. 
Even Augustine was carried away by the popular preju- 
dice, and endeavored to discourage Jerome from the 
task of a new translation {Ep. civ), which seemed to 
him to he dangerous and almost profane. Jerome, in- 
deed, did little to smooth (lie way for the reception of 
his work. The violence and bitterness of his language 
is more like that of the rival scholars of the IGth cen- 
tury than of a Christian father, and there are few more 
touching instances of humility than that of the young 
Augustine bending himself in entire submission before 
the contemptuous and impatient reproof of the veteran 
scholar (Ep. cxii, s. f.). But even Augustine could not 
overcome the force of early habit. To the last be re- 
mained faithful to the Italic text which he had first 
used; and while he notices in his Petractationes several 
faulty readings which he had formerly embraced, he 
shows no tendency to substitute generally the New ver- 
sion for the Old. In such cases Time is the great reformer. 
Clamor based upon ignorance soon dies away, and the 
New translation gradually came into use equally with 
the Old, and at length supplanted it. In the oth cen- 
tury, it was adopted in Gaul by Eucherius of Lyons. 
Vincent of Lerins, Sedulius, and Claudianns Mamertns 
(llody, p.398), but the Old Latin was still retained in 
Africa and Britain (ibid.). In the Gth century, the use 
of Jerome’s version was universal among scholars ex- 
cept in Africa, where the other still lingered (Junilius); 
and at the close of it, Gregory the Great, while com- 
menting on Jerome’s version, acknowledged that it was 
admitted equally with the Old by the apostolic see 
{Prof, in Job. ad Le and rum , “Novam translationem 
dissero, sed ut comprobationis causa exigit, nunc No- 
vam, nunc Veterem, per testimonia assumo ; ut quia 
sedes apostolica [cui auctore Deo pnesideo] utraque 
utitur moi quoque labor studii ex utraque fulciatnr”). 
But the Old version was not authoritatively displaced, 
though the custom of the Roman Church prevailed also 
iu the other churches of the West. Thus Isidore of 
Seville {De Ojjic. Eccles. i, 12), after affirming the in- 
spiration of the Sept., goes on to recommend the ver- 
sion of Jerome, “ which,” he says, “is used universally 
as being more truthful in substance and more perspicu- 
ous in language” (Body, p. 402). In the 7th century 
the traces of the Old version grow rare. Julian of 
Toledo (A.D. G7G) affirms with a special polemical pur- 
pose the authority of the Sept., and so of the Old Latin; 
but still he himself follows Jerome when not influenced 
by the requirements of controversy (ibid. p. 405, 40G). 
In the Sth century, Bede speaks of Jerome's version as 
l, our edition” (ibid. p. 408) ; and from this time it is 
needless to trace its history, though the Old Latin was 
not wholly forgotten. Yet, throughout, the New version 
made its way without any direct ecclesiastical authori- 
ty. It was adopted in the different churches gradually, 
or at least without any formal command (see ibid. p. 411 
sq. for detailed quotations'). 

But the Latin Bible which thus passed gradually 
into use under the name of Jerome was a strangely 
composite work. The books of the Old Test., with one 
exception, were certainly taken from his version from 
the Hebrew; but this had not only been variously cor- 
rupted, but was itself in many particulars (especially in 
the Pentateuch) at variance with his later judgment. 
Long use, however, made it impossible to substitute his 
Psalter from the Hebrew for the Gallican Psalter; and 
thus this book was retained from the Old version, as Je- 
rome had corrected it from the Sept. Of the Apocry- 
phal books, Jerome hastily revised or translated two only, 
Judith and Titbit. The remainder were retained from 
the Old version against his judgment; and the Apocry- 
phal additions to Daniel and Esther, which he had care- 
fully marked as apocryphal in his own version, were 


VULGATE 


831 


VULGATE 


treated as integral parts of the books. A few MSS. of 
the Bible faithfully preserved the “ Hebrew canon,” but 
the great, mass, according to the general custom of copy- 
ists to omit nothing, included everything which had 
held a place in the Old Latin. In the New Test, the 
only important addition which was frequently interpo- 
lated was the Apocryphal epistle to the Laodiceans. 
The text of the gospels was in the main Jerome’s re- 
vised edition ; that of the remaining books his very in- 
complete revision of the Old Latin. Thus the present 
Vulgate contains elements which belong to every period 
and form of the Latin version — (1.) Unrevisecl Old Lat- 
in: Wisdom, Eeclus., 1 and 2 Macc., Baruch. (2.) Old 
Latin revised from the Sept. : 1 ’sal ter. (3.) Jerome's free 
translation from the original text: Judith, Tobit. (4.) 
Jerome's translation from the original: Old Test, ex- 
cept l ’sal ter. (5.) Old Latin revised from Greek MSS. : 
Gospels, (6.) Old Latin cursorily revised: the remain- 
der of the New Test. 

2. Revision of A leu in. — Meanwhile the text of the 
different parts of the Latin Bible was rapidly deterio- 
rating. The simultaneous use of the Old and New ver- 
sions necessarily led to great corruptions of both texts. 
Mixed texts were formed according to the taste or judg- 
ment of scribes, and the confusion was further increased 
by the changes which were sometimes introduced by 
those who had some knowledge of Greek. From this 
cause scarcely any Anglo-Saxon Vulgate MS. of the 
8th or 9th century, in all probability, is wholly free 
from an admixture of old readings. Several remark- 
able examples are noticed below; and in rare instances 
it is difficult to decide whether the text is not rather 
a revised Veins than a corrupted Vulgata nova (e. g. 
Brit. Mus. Reg. i, E. vi ; Add.it. 5463). As early as the 
6th century, Cassiodorus attempted a partial revision 
of the text (Psalter, Prophets, Epistles) by a collation 
of old MSS. But private labor was unable to check 
the growing corruption, and in the 8th century this 
had arrived at such a height that it attracted the at- 
tention of Charlemagne. Charlemagne at once sought 
a remedy, and intrusted to Aleuin (cir. A.D. 802) the 
task of revising the Latin text for public use. This' 
Alenin appears to have done simply bv the use of MSS. 
of the Vulgate, and not by reference to the original 
texts (Porson, Letter vi to Travis , p. 145). The pas- 
sages which are adduced by Hody to prove his famil- 
iarity with Hebrew are, in fact, only quotations from 
Jerome, and he certainly left the text unaltered — at 
least in one place where Jerome points out its inaccu- 
racy (Gen. xxv, 8). The patronage of Charlemagne 
gave a wide currency to the revision of Aleuin, and 
several MSS. remain which claim to date immediately 
from his time. According to a very remarkable state- 
ment. Charlemagne was more than a patron of sacred 
criticism, and himself devoted the last year of his life 
to the correction of the gospels “ with t he help of Greeks 
and Syrians” (Van Ess, p. 159, quoting Theganus, Script. 
Hist. Franc, ii, 277). 

However this may be, it is probable that Alenin’s re- 
vision contributed much towards preserving a good Vul- 
gate text. The best MSS. of his recension do not differ 
widely from the pure Hieronymian text, and his author- 
ity must have done much to check the spread of the 
interpolations which reappear afterwards, and which 
were derived from the intermixture of the Old and New 
versions. Examples of readings which seem to be due 
to him occur: Deut. i, 9, add. solitudinem ; venissemus , 
for -etis ; ver. 4, ascendimus, for ascendemns ; ii. 24, in 
manu tua , for in manus tuas; iv, 33, ridisii, for rixisti; 
vi, 13, ipsi , add. soli ; xv, 9, oculos , om. tuos ; xvii, 20, 
f lius, for fil'd ; xxi, 6, add. venient ; xxvi, 16, at, for et. 
But the new revision was gradually deformed, though 
later attempts at correct ion were made by Lanfrauc of 
Canterbury (A.D. 1089, llody, p. 416), Card. Nicolaus 
(A.D. 1 150), and the Cistercian abbot Stephanus (cir. A.D. 
1150). In the loth century Correctoria were drawn up, 
especially in France, in which varieties of reading were 


discussed ; and Roger Bacon complains loudly of the 
confusion which was introduced into the“ common, that 
is, the Parisian, copy and quotes a false reading from 
Mark viii, 38, where the correctors had substituted con- 
f ess us for confusus (Hody, p. 419 sq.). Little more was 
done for the text of the Vulgate till the invention of 
printing; and the name of Laurentius Valla (cir. 1450) 
alone deserves mention, as of one who devoted the high- 
est powers to the criticism of Holy Scripture, at a time 
when such studies were little esteemed. 

V. History of the Printed Text. — I. Early Editions . — 
It was a noble omen for the future progress of printing 
that the first book which issued from the press was the 
Bible; and the splendid pages of the Mazarin Vulgate 
(Mainz — Gutenburgand Fust) stand vet unsurpassed by 
the latest efforts of typography. This work is referred 
to about the year 1455, ami presents the common text 
of the 15th century. Other editions followed in rapid 
succession (the first with a date, Mainz, 1462, Fust and 
Schoiffer), but they offer nothing of critical interest. 
The first collection of various readings appears in a Paris 
edition of 1501, and others followed at Venice and Lyons 
in 1511, 1513; but cardinal Ximenes (1502-1517) was 
the first who seriously revised the Latin text (“contuli- 
mns cum quamplurimis exemplaribus veneramhe ve- 
tustatis; sed his maxime, quae in publica Compluteusis 
nostne universitatis bibliotheca reconduntur, qiue supra 
octingentesimum abhinc annum litteris Gothicis cou- 
scripta, ea sunt sinceritate ut nec apicis lapsus possit in 
eis deprehendi” \_Prcef.]), to which he assigned the mid- 
dle place of honor in his Polyglot between the Hebrew 
and Greek texts. The Complutensian text is said to 
be more correct than those which preceded it, but still 
it is very far from being pure. This was followed in 
1528 (2d ed. 1532) by an edition of R. Stephens, who had 
bestowed great pain$ upon the work, consulting three 
MSS. of high character and the earlier editions; but as 
yet the best materials were not open for use. About 
the same time various attempts were made to correct 
the Latin from the original texts (Erasmus, 1516; Png- 
ninus, 1518-28; Card. Cajetan : Steuchius, 1529; Cla- 
rius, 1542), or even to make a new Latin version (Jo. 
Campensis, 1533). A more important edition of R. Ste- 
phens followed in 1540, in which he made use of twenty 
MSS. and introduced considerable alterations into his 
former text. In 1541 another edition was published by 
Jo. Benedictus at Paris, which u’as based on the colla- 
tion of MSS. and editions, and was often reprinted af- 
terwards. Vercellone speaks much more highly of the 
Biblia Ordinaria, with glosses, etc., published at Lyons, 

1545, as giving readings in accordance with the oldest 
MSS., though the sources from which they are derived 
are not given (Varies Led. xeix). The course of con- 
troversy in the 16th century exaggerated the impor- 
tance of the differences in the text and interpretation 
of the Vulgate, and the confusion called for some rem- 
edy. An authorized edition became a necessity for the 
Romish Church, and, however gravely later theologians 
may have erred in explaining the policy or intentions 
of the Tridentine fathers on this point, there can be no 
doubt that (setting aside all reference to the original 
texts) the principle of their decision — the preference, 
that is, of tlie oldest Latin text to any later Latin ver- 
sion — was substantially right. 

2. The Sir tine and Clementine Vulgates. — The first ses- 
sion of the Council of Trent was held on Dec. 13, 1545. 
After some preliminary arrangements, the Nicene Creed 
was formally promulgated as the foundation of the Chris- 
tian faith on Feb. 4, 1546, and then the council proceed- 
ed to the question of the authority, text, and interpre- 
tation of Holy Scripture. A committee was appointed 
to report upon the subject, w hich held private meetings 
from I eb. 20 to March 17. Considerable varieties of 
opinion existed as to the relative value of the original 
and Latin texts, and the final decree w r as intended to 
serve as a compromise. This v'as made on April 8, 

1546, and consisted of two parts — the first of which con- 


VULGATE 


832 


VULGATE 


tains the list of the canonical books, with the usual ! 
anathema on those who refuse to receive it; while the I 
second. “ Oil the Edition and ITse of the Sacred Hooks.” 
contains no anathema, so that its contents are not arti- 
cles of faith. The wording of the decree itself contains 
several marks of the controversy from which it arose, 
and admits of a far more liberal construction than later 
glosses have affixed to it. In affirming the authority 
of the ‘‘Old Vulgate” it contains no estimate of tiie 
value of the original texts. The question decided is 
simply the relative merits of the current Latin versions 
(“si ex omnibus Latinis versionibus quae circumferun- 
tur”), and this only in reference to public exercises. 
'Fhe object contemplated is the advantage (jut Hit ax') 
of the Church, and not anything essential to its con- 
stitution. It was further enacted, as a check to the 
license of printers, that “ Holy Scripture, but especially 
the old and common [Vulgate] edition [evidently with- 
out excluding the original texts], should be printed as 
correctly as possible.” In spite, however, of the com- 
parative caution of the decree, and the interpretation 
which was affixed to it by the highest authorities, it 
was received with little favor, and the want of a stand- 
ard text of the Vulgate practically left the question as 
unsettled as before. The decree itself was made l>v 
men little fitted to anticipate the difficulties of textual 
criticism, but afterwards these were found to be so great 
that for some time it seemed that no authorized edition 
would appear. The theologians of Belgium did some- 
thing to meet the want. In 1547 the first edition of 
llentenius appeared at Louvain, which had very consid- 
erable influence upon later copies. It was based upon 
the collation of Latin MSS. and the Stephanie edition 
of 1540. In the Antwerp Polyglot of 1508-72 the Vul- 
gate was borrowed from the Complutensian (Vercellone, 
Var. Led. ci) ; but in the Antwerp edition of the Vul- 
gate of 1573-74 the text of llentenius was adopted, with 
copious additions of readings by Lucas Brugensis. This 
last was designed as the preparation and temporary sub- 
stitute for the papal edition: itideed.it may be ques- 
tioned whether it was not put forth as the ‘‘correct edi- 
tion required hv the Tridentiue decree” (comp. Lucas 
Drug. ap. Vercellone, cii). But a papal board was al- 
ready engaged, however desultorily, upon t he work of 
revision. The earliest trace of an attempt to realize 
the recommendations of the council is found fifteen 
years after it was made. In 15(11 Pauhis Manutius 
(sou of Aldus Manutius) was invited to Borne to super- 
intend the printing of Latin and Greek Bibles (Vercel- 
lone, Var. Led. etc., i, prol. xix, note). During that 
year and the next several scholars (with Sirletus at 
their head) were engaged in the revision of the text. 
In the pontificate of Pius V the work was continued, 
and Sirletus still took a chief part in it (1509-70) (ibid. 
loc. cit. prol. xx, note), but it was currently reported 
that the difficulties of publishing an authoritative edi- 
tion were insuperable. Nothing further was done to- 
wards the revision of the Vulgate under Gregory XI II, 
but preparations were made for an edition of the Sept. 
This appeared in 15*7, in the second year of the pon- 
titicate of Sixtus V, who had been one of the chief 
promoters of the work. After the publication of the 
Sept., Sixtus immediately devoted himself to the pro- 
duction of an edition of the Vulgate, lie was himself 
a scholar, and his imperious genius led him to face a 
task from which others had shrunk, “lie had felt,” 
he says, “from his first accession to the papal throne 
(15X54. great grief, or even indignation ( indigne fe- 
rentts). that the Tridentiue decree was still unsatisfied;” 
and a board was appointed, under the presidency of car- 
dinal Carafa. to arrange the materials and offer sugges- 
tions for an edition. Sixtus himself revised the text, 
rejecting or confirming the suggestions of the board by 
his absolute judgment ; and when the work was print- 
ed, lie examined t lie sheets with the utmost care, and 
corrected the errors with his own hand. The edition 
appeared in 1590, with the famous constitution ^Eternus 


ille (dated March 1, 1589) prefixed, in which Sixtus 
affirmed with characteristic decision the plenary author- 
ity of the edition for all future time. “ By the fulness 
of apostolical power” (such are his words), “we decree 
and declare that this edition . . . approved bv the au- 
thority delivered to us by the Lord, is to be received 
and held as true, lawful, authentic, and unquestionable, 
in all public and private discussion, reading, preaching, 
and explanation.” He further forbade expressly the 
publication of various readings in copies of the Vulgate, 
and pronounced that, all readings in other editions and 
MSS. which vary from those of the revised text “ are to 
have no credit or authority for the future” (“ea in iis 
qiifti huic nostroe editioni non consenserint, nullam in 
posterum (idem, nullamque auctoritatem habitura esse 
decern i nuts”). It was also enacted that the new revision 
should he introduced into all missals and service-books, 
and the greater excommunication was threatened against, 
all who in any way contravened the constitution. Had 
the life of Sixtus been prolonged, there is no doubt 
that his iron will would have enforced t he changes 
which he thus peremptorily proclaimed; but he died in 
August, 1590, and those whom he had alarmed or of- 
fended took immediate measures to hinder the execu- 
tion of his designs. Nor was this without good reason. 
He had changed the readings of those whom he had 
employed to report upon the text with the most arbi- 
trary and unskilful hand; and it was scarcely an ex- 
aggeration to say that his precipitate “self-reliance 
had brought the Church into the most serious peril.” 
During the brief pontificate of I T rban VII nothing could 
be done, but the reaction was not long delayed. On the 
accession of Gregory XIV, some went so far as to pro- 
pose that the edition of Sixtus should be absolutely 
prohibited, but Bellarmine suggested a middle course. 
He proposed that the erroneous alterations of the text 
which had been made in it. (“qua? male niutata erant”) 
“should he corrected with all possible speed, and the 
Bible reprinted under the name of Sixtus, with a prefa- 
tory note to the effect that errors {align a errata ) had 
crept into the former edition by the carelessness of the 
printers.” This pious fraud, or rather daring falsehood 
— for it can be called by no other name — found favor 
with those in power. A commission was appointed to 
revise the Sixtine text, under the presidency of the car- 
dinal Colonna (Columna). At first the commissioners 
made but slow progress, and it seemed likely that a year 
would elapse before the revision was completed (l T nga- 
relli, in Vercellone, Proleg. Iviii). The mode of pro- 
ceedings was therefore changed, and the commission 
moved to Zagarolo, the country-seat of Colonna; and, 
if we may believe the inscription which still commem- 
orates the event, and the current report of the time, 
the work was completed in nineteen days. But even 
if it can be shown that t lie work extended over six 
months, it is obvious that there was no time for the 
examination of new authorities, but only for making 
a rapid revision with the help of the materials al- 
ready collected. The task was hardly finished when 
Gregory died (October, 1591), and the publication of 
i the. revised text was again delayed. His successor, 
Innocent IX. died within the same year, and at the be- 
ginning of 1592 Clement VI II was raised to the pope- 
dom. Clement intrusted the final revision of the text 
to Toletus, and the whole was printed by Aldus Manu- 
tius (the grandson) before the end of 1592. The pref- 
ace, which is moulded upon that of Sixtus, was written 
by Bellarmine, and is favorably distinguished from that 
of Sixtus by its temperance and even modesty. The 
text, it. is said, had been prepared with the greatest 
care, and though not absolutely perfect, was at least 
(what is no idle boast), more correct than that of any 
former edition. Some readings, indeed, it is allowed, 
had, though wrong, been left unchanged to avoid pop- 
ular offence; but yet even here Bellarmine did not 
scruple to repeat the fiction of the intention of Sixtus 
to recall his edition, which still disgraces the front of 


'VULGATE 


833 


VULGATE 


the Homan Vulgate by an apology no less needless than 
untrue. Another edition followed in 1593, and a third 
in 1598, with a triple list of errata, one for each of the 
three editions. Other editions were afterwards pub- 
lished at Home (comp. Vercellone, civ), but with these 
corrections the history of the authorized text properly 
concludes. 

The respective merits of the Six tine and Clementine 
editions have often been debated. In point of mechan- 
ical accuracy, the Sixtinc seems to be clearly superior 
(Van Ess, Gesch. 365 sq.); but Van Ess has allowed 
himself to be misled in the estimate which he gives of 
the critical value of the Sixtine readings. The collec- 
tions lately published by Vercellone place in the clear- 
est light the strange and uncritical mode in which Six- 
tus dealt with the evidence and residts submitted to 
him. The recommendations of the Sixtine correctors 
are marked by singular wisdom and critical tact; and 
in almost every case where Sixtus departs from them 
he is in error. This will be evident from a collation of 
the readings, in a few chapters, as given by Vercellone. 
Thus in the 'first four chapters of Genesis the Sixtine 
correctors are right against Sixtus: i, 2, 27,31; ii, 18, 
20; iii, 1, 11, 12, 17, 21, 22; iv, 1, 5, 7, 8, 9, 15, 16, 19; 
and, on the other hand, Sixtus is right against the cor- 
rectors in i, 15. The Gregorian correctors, therefore 
(whose results are given in the Clementine edition), in 
the main simply restored readings adopted by the Six- 
tine board and rejected by Sixtus. In the book of 
Deuteronomy the Clementine edition follows the Six- 
tine correctors where it differs from the Sixtine edition: 


i, 4, 19, 31 ; ii, 21 ; iv, 6, 22, 28, 30, 33, 39; v, 24; vi, 4; 
viii, 1 ; ix, 9; x, 3 ; xi, 3; xii, 11, 12, 15, etc.; and eve- 
ry change (except, probably, vi,4; xii, 11, 12) is right ; 
while, on the other hand, in the same chapters there 
are apparently only two instances of variation with- 
out the authority of the Sixtine correctors (xi, 10, 
32). But in point of fact the Clementine edition errs 
by excess of caution. Within the same limits it fol- 
lows Sixtus against the correctors wrongly in ii, 33; 
iii, 10, 12, 13, 10, 19,20: iv, 10, 11, 28,42; vi, 3; xi, 28; 
and in the whole book admits in the following passages 
arbitrary changes of Sixtus: iv, 10; v, 24; vi, 13; xii, 
15, 32; xviii, 10, 11 ; xxix, 23. In the New Test., as 
the report of the Sixtine correctors has not yet been 
published, it is impossible to say how far the same law 
holds good; but the following comparison of the varia- 
tions of the two editions in continuous passages of the 
gospels and epistles will show that the Clementine, 
though not a pure text, is yet very far purer than the 
Sixtine, which often gives Old Latin readings, and some- 
times appears to depend simply on patristic authority 
(i. e. pp. 11.) : 

Sixtine. Clementine. 


Matt. i, 23, vocabitur (pp. 11.). 

ii, 5, Juda (gat. mm. etc.). 
13, surge, aeeipe (?). 

iii, 2, appropinqnnbit (iv, 

17), (MSS. Gallic, pp. 

lb). 

3, de quo dictum est (tol. 

it.). 

10, arboris (Tert.). 

iv, 6, ut . . . tollant (it.). 

7, Jesus rnrsnm. 

15, Galilaere (it. am. etc.), 
lti, ambulabat (?). 
v, 11, vobis homilies (gat. 
mm. etc.). 

30, absciiule (?). 

40, in j ml icio (it.). 

vi, 7, eth. faciunt (it.). 

30, eiiim (it.). 

vii, 1 , et non judicabimini, 

nolite condemn.-ire 
et non condeniimbi- 
mini (?). 

4, sine, frill er (it. pp. 11.). 
23, a me orrmes (ii. pp. II.). 
25, supra (pp. 11. tol. etc.). 
2!>, scribas (it.). 

viii, i>, alio (it. am. etc.). 

12, ubi (pp. 11.). 

IS, jussit diseipulos (it.). 

X.— G G G 


voca bunt. 

J tithe. 

surge et aeeipe. 
nppropinquavit. 


qni d ictus est. 

arborum. 
et . . . tollent. 
JeMis: Ii urs u m. 
Galilaea. 
sedebat. 
vobis. 

abscide. 
jiulieio. 
ethniei. 
an tern. 

ut nou judicemini. 


sine, 
a me. 
super. 

scribae eoruni. 

alii, 

ibi. 

jussit. 


Matt, viii, 20, caput smim (it. tol.). 
28, venisset Jesus (it.). 

32, magno impetu (it.). 

33, hiec omnia (?). 

34, rogabaut etun lit Je- 

sus <*?). 

Eph. i, 15, in Christo J. (pp. II. 
Bod!.). 

21, dominntioneni (?). 

ii, 1, vos convivificavit (pp. 

11, voserntis (pp. 11. Bodl. 

etc.). 

— , dicebaniini (pp. 11.). 

12, qni (pp. II. Bodl. etc.). 

22, Spiritu Sancto (pp. 11. 

Sang. etc.). 

iii, 8, mihi enini (pp. II.). 

10, virtntem (it.). 

— , iu interiore li online 
(pp. II. Bodl.). 

iv, 22, deponite (it.). 

30, iu die (pp. 11. Bodl. 
etc.). 

v, 20, niundaiis earn (pp. 11.). 

27, in gloriosam (?). 
vi, 15, inpraepnratiouem(it.). 
20, in catena ista (it. ?). 


caput, 
venisset. 
impetu. 
omnia, 
rogabaut ut. 

in Domino J. 

et dominationem. 
vos. 


VOS. 

dici mini, 
quod. 

Spiritu. 

mihi. 
virtu te. 

iu interiorem Immi- 
nent. 

depone re. 
in diem. 

mnmlans. 
gloriosam. 
m prjeparatione. 
in catena ita. 


3. Later Editions. — While the Clementine edition 
was still recent, some thoughts seem to have been en- 
tertained of revising it. Lucas Brugensis made impor- 
tant collections for this purpose; but the practical clitli- 
culties were found to be too great, and the study of va- 
rious readings was reserved for scholars (Bellarmin. ad 
Lu cam Brug. 1606). In the next generation use and 
controversy gave a sanctity to the authorized text. 
Many, especially in Spain, pronounced it to have a value 
superior to the originals, and to be inspired in every 
detail (comp. Van Ess. Gesch. p. 401,402; Hodv, III, ii, 
15) ; but it is useless to dwell on the history of such ex- 
travagancies, from which the Jesuits, at least, following 
their great champion Bellarmine, wisely kept aloof. It 
was a more serious matter that the universal acceptance 
of the papal text checked the critical study of the mate- 
rials on which it was professedly based. At length, 
however, in 1706, Martianay published a new, and, in 
the main, better, text, ehieiiy from original MSS., in his 
edition of Jerome. Yallarsi added fresh collations in 
his revised issue' of Mart ianay’s work; but in both cases 
the collations are imperfect, and it is impossible to de- 
termine with accuracy on what MS. authority the text 
which is given depends. Sabatier, though professing 
only to deal with the Old Latin, published important 
materials for the criticism of Jerome’s version, and gave 
at length the readings of Lucas Brugensis (1743). More 
than a century elapsed before anything more of impor- 
tance was done for the text of the Latin version of the 
Old Test., when at length the fortunate discovery of the 
original revision of the Sixtine correctors again directed 
the attention of Homan scholars to their authorized 
text. The first-fruits of their labors are given in the 
volume of Vercellone, already often quoted, which has 
thrown more light upon the history and criticism of the 
Vulg. than any previous work. There are some defects 
in t lie arrangement of the materials, and it is unfortu- 
nate that the editor has not added either the authorize d 
or corrected text; but still the work is such that every 
student of the Latin text must be deeply interested 
in it. 

The neglect of the Latin text of the Old Test, is blit 
a consequence of the general neglect of the criticism of 
the Hebrew text. In the New Test, far more has been 
done for the correction of the Vulg., though even here 
no critical edition has yet been published. Numerous 
collations of MSS., more or less perfect, have been made. 
In this, as in many other points, Bentley pointed out 
the true path which others have followed, llis own 
collation of Latin MSS. was extensive and important 
(comp. Ellis, Bentleii Critica Sacra, xxxv sip). Gries- 
bach added new collations, and arranged those which 
others had made. Lachmann printed the Latin text in 
his larger edition, having collated the Codex Fuldensis 
for the purpose. Tischendorf has labored among Latin 


VULGATE 


834 


VULGATE 


MSS., only with loss zeal than among Greek. Tregelles 
has given in his edition of the New Test, the text of 
< W. .1 miatinus from his own collation with the varia- 
tions of the Clementine edition. lint in all these cases 
the study of the Latin was merely ancillary to that of 
the Greek text. Probably, from the great antiquity 
and purity of the <\uld. A miatinna and Fnldensis, there 
is comparatively little scope for criticism in the revision 
of Jerome’s version ; but it could not bean unprofitable 
work to examine more in detail than has yet been done 
the several phases through which it lias passed, and the 
causes which led to its gradual corruption. 

A full account of the editions of the Vulg is given 
by Mascli (Le Long), bibliotheca Sacra (1778-90). The 
variations between the Sixtine and Clementine editions 
were collated by 'I', .lames, helium Papule, s. Concordia 
JHscors (Lond. ItiOO), and more completely, with a col- 
lation of the Clementine editions, by Il.de Uukentop, 
Iju' de Luce , iii, 315 sip Vercellone, correcting earlier 
critics, reckons that the whole number of variations be- 
tween the two revisions is about three thousand ( Pro - 
leyy. xlviii, nota). 

VI. Principal MSS. of the Yulyate. — These may brief- 
ly be enumerated as follows: 1. Cod. A miatimm, of the 
middle of the 0th century, the oldest and best extant; 
in the Laurent ian Library at Florence; it contains the 


xrx , eoDne 

gxnontjbtt 

cjliis erotic® >yecjTcio 

UlKTXATGCopXTRJ S 

ojccr/vT, Mcxxjssroous 

non bxzecnas 'Reqeno 
kusi cAesxRem 

f«wceR<;o TKAdidrreis illuor* 
ur CRacipiqeRe tur 
Cjus ce r Xureno lhro 

ST 

eT s SI 31 CRtloecO 

'Onzehftimijt X0iwr 4m ora>tioB^,-pupi| 


Old Test., except Baruch, and the New Test. ; the latter 
has been edited from it by Tischendorf (Leips. I860, 4to). 
j Sec Amiatink Manusciui»t. 

2. liihlia Cothica Tulefunce Ecclesia », of the 8th cen- 
tury, containing all the books except Baruch (Vercel- 
lone, Frir. Led, i, 84). 

3. Cod. Carensis , of the 8th century, if not earlier; 
contains the Old and New Test.; belongs t<> the monas- 
tery of La Cava, near Salerno; examined by Tischen- 
dorf. 

4. Cod. Panllinus, of the 9th century, wants Baruch; 
at Borne (Vercellone, he. cit.). 

5. Cod. Statianus hod. Valliccllanus, of the 9th cen- 
tury; at Bome (Vercellone, /. c.). 

3. Cod. Ottohonhums. of the 8th century, contains the 
Octatench ; in the Vatican (Vercellone, /. c.). 

7. Ilihlia Carolina, of the 9th century; wants Baruch, 
and the two last leaves are by a later hand ; in the can- 
tonal library at Zurich. 

8. Ilihlia Bambnryensia , of the 9th century, wants 
the Apocalypse; it has Jerome’s Epistle to Paulimis 
prelixed in large uncials, the rest of the 5lS. is minus- 
eular; in this MS. 1 John v. 7 appears (Kopp, llil- 
der n. Schriften dev Yorzeit, i, 184). 

9. Cod. A leuini, of the 9th century, containing the 
Old and New Test, (except Baruch) ; supposed to he 

that ottered to Charlemagne 
at his coronation ; formerly 
in the possession of the re- 
cluses at Moutier do Grand- 
val, now in the British Mu- 
seum (Addit., 10,543). 

10. A MS. on very clean 
parchment, probably of the 
13th century; formerly at 
Altdorf, now at Erlangen 
(Niederer, Xachrichfen zur 
Kit chen-, Gelehrten- and Pil- 
ch er- G esch ic-hfe, x, 125). 

1 1. A MS. of the 13th cen- 
tury, described in Eich- 
horn’s Pepertorium , xvii, 
183 sq. 

12. Cod. Fuldensis, of the 
6th century, contains the 
New Test., with t lie gospels 
in the form of a harmony; 
used by Each maun in his 
edition of the Latin subjoin- 
ed to his Greek New Test. ; 
a specimen was published 
by Ban Ice (Marl). 1830, 4to). 

13. Cod. Foroj aliens is ; 
contains the four gospels; 
edited along with fragments 
of Mark’s gospel from the 
Prague MS. (previously ed- 
ited by Dobrowski, Fray - 
mentnni Prayense Fr. S. 
Marti, etc. [Prag. 1778, 
4to]),aml other remains of 
the same gospel from MSS. 
preserved at Venice, by Bi- 
aiiehini. Append, ad Evan - 
yel. Quadrupl. 

1 4. Cod. Sanyelletms ; a 
Gr:t»co-Latin MS. of the 9th 
cent u rv ; contains the four 


quob^axcum Sr' inipYo urccueffer 6rtnxcx/ 
Opjxclju^c hominum dcluic trrcenebfz^'ClucB^ 
6c un non con jo Ygeh CndCfzn rr& 

Specimens of MSS. of the Vulgate: 1. Brit. >f ns. (Addif. f»4GB), Unrinl ; 2. Stonyhnrst (St. CnthbertV), Semi-uncial ; 
3. llar.eian (Brit. Mas. 1 ><•-’), Cursive ; 4. Hereford Gospels, Cursive. 


VULGATE 


835 


VULGATE 


gospels in Greek, with an interlineary translation; ed- 
ited. in fac-simile by llettig (Turin, 1886, Tt< ►) . There 
is another Cod. Sanyallensis containing fragments of the 
gospels, of the Oth century, described bv Tischcndorf in 
the Deutsche Zeitscrift fur Christ l. Wissenschaft , 1857, 
No. 7, and esteemed by him of great value for the text 
of the Vulgate (Tischendorf, Proley. p. '249 sip). See 
Gall (St.) Manusiiui’T. 

Besides these, many codices exist both in Ilritisli and 
Continental libraries. See Manuscripts, Busucal. 

Vll. Critical Value of the Latin Versions.- — 1. In the 
Old Test. — 'rhe Latin Version, in its various forms, con- 
tributes. as has already been seen, more or less impor- 
tant materials for the criticism of the original texts of 
the Old and New Tests., and of the Common and llexa- 
plaric texts of the Sept. The bearing of the Vulg. on 
the Sept, will not he noticed here, as the points involved 
in the inquiry more properly belong to the history of 
the Sept. Little, again, need be said on the value of 
the translation of Jerome for the textual criticism of 
the Old Test. As a whole, his work is a remarkable 
monument of the substantial identity of the Hebrew 
text of the 4th century with the present Masoretic 
text; and the want of trustworthy materials for the 
exact determination of the Latin text itself has made 
all detailed investigation of his readings impossible or 
unsatisfactory. The passages which were quoted in 
the premature controversies of the 16th and 17th cen- 
turies, to prove the corruption of the Hebrew or Latin 
text, are commonly of little importance so far as the 
text is concerned. It will be enough to notice those 
only which are quoted by Whitaker, the worthy antag- 
onist of Bellarmine (. Disputation on Scripture [ed. Park. 
Soe.], p. 163 sq.). 

Gen. i, BO, om. all green herbs (in Vet. L.) : iii. 15, ipsa 
coiiteret caput tunm. There seems good reason to be- 
lieve that the original reading was ipse. Comp. Ve reel - 
lone, ad loc. See also Gen. iv, 16. 

iii, 17, iu opere tno. “TO 2 3 for 

iv, 16, om. Nod, which is specially noticed iu Jerome’s 
Qitcest. Ilebr. 

vi, 6, add. et praecavens in futnnim. The words are a 
gloss, and not. a part of the Vulgate text. 

viii, 4, vicesimo sept.imo/or septimo decimo. So Sept. 

viii, 7, egrediebatur et non revertehntur. The non is 
wanting in the best manuscripts of the Vulgate, and has 
been introduced from the Sept. 

xi, 13, trecentis tribus for qnadriugentis tribus. So 
Sept. 

ix, 1, fundetur sanguis illins. Om. “by man.” 

xxxvii, 2, sedecim /<>/• septemdecim. Probably a trau- 

scriptunil error. 

xxxix, 6, om. “ Wherefore he left— Joseph.” 

xl,5, om. “the butler— prison.” 

xlix, 10. Comp. Vercellone, ad loc. 

xlix, 33, om. 

In xxiv, 6; xxvii, 5 ; xxxiv, 29, the variation is proba- 
bly in the rendering only. The remaining passages, ii, 
S; iii, 6; iv, 6, 13, 26; vi, 3; xiv, 3; xvii, 16; xix, IS; xxi, 
9; xxiv, 22; xxv, 34; xxvii, 33; xxxi, 32; xxxviii, 5, 23; 
xlix, 22, contain differences of interpretation; and in 
xxxvi, 24, xli, 45, the Vulgate appears to have preserved 
important traditional renderings. 

2. In the Neio Test. — The examples which have been 
given show the comparatively narrow limits within 
which the Vulgate can be used for the criticism of the 
Hebrew text. The version was made at a time when 
the present revision was already established; and the 
freedom which Jerome allowed himself in rendering 
the sense of the original often leaves it doubtful wheth- 
er in reality a various reading is represented by the pe- 
culiar form which he gives to a particular passage. In 
the New Test, the case is far different. In this the crit- 
ical evidence of the Latin is separable into two distinct 
elements, the evidence of the Old Latin and that of the 
Ilieronvmian revision. The latter, where it differs from 
the former, represents the received Greek text of the 
4th century, and so far claims a respect (speaking rough- 
ly) equal to that due to a first-class Greek AIS. ; and it 
may be fairly concluded that any reading opposed to I 
the combined testimony of the oldest Greek MSS. and 
the true Vulgate text either arose later than the 4th 


century, or was previously confined within a very nar- 
row range. The corrections of Jerome do not carry us 
hack beyond the age of existing Greek MSS., but, at 
the same time, they supplement the original testimony 
of MSS. by an independent witness. The substance of 
the Vulgate, and the copies of the Old Latin, have a 
more venerable authority. The origin of the Latin 
version dales, as has been seen, from tbe earliest age 
of the Christian Church. The translation, as a whole, 
was practically fixed and current more than a century 
before the transcription of the oldest Greek MS. 'rims 
it is a witness to a text more ancient, and, therefore, 
aeter is paribus , more valuable, than is represented by 
any other authority, unless the Peshito in its present 
form he excepted. This primitive text was not, as far 
as can be ascertained, free from serious corruptions (at 
least in the synoptic gospels) from the first, and was 
variously corrupted afterwards. But the .corruptions 
proceeded in a different direction and by a different law 
from those of Greek MSS., and, consequently, the two 
authorities mutually correct each other. What is the 
nature of these corruptions, and what the character and 
value of Jerome’s revision and of the Old Latin, will be 
seen from some examples to be given iu detail. 

Before giving these, however, one preliminary re- 
mark must be made. In estimating the critical value 
of Jerome’s labors, it is necessary to draw a distinction 
between his different works. His mode of proceeding 
was by no means uniform; and the importance of his 
judgment varies with the object at which he aimed. 
The three versions of the Psalter represent completely 
the three different methods which he followed. At first 
he was contented with a popular revision of the current 
text (the Homan Psalter): then he instituted an accu- 
rate comparison between the current text and the orig- 
inal (tbe Gallican Psalter); and in the next place he 
translated independently, giving a direct version of the 
original (the Hebrew Psalter). These three methods 
follow one another in chronological order, and answer 
to the wider views which Jerome gradually gained of 
the functions of a Biblical scholar. The revision of the 
New Test, belongs, unfortunately, to the first period. 
When it was made, Jerome was as vet unused to the 
task, and he was anxious not to arouse popular preju- 
dice. Ilis aim was little more than to remove obvious 
interpolations and blunders; and in doing this lie like- 
wise introduced some changes of expression which soft- 
ened the roughness of the old version, and some which 
seemed to be retpiired for the true expression of the 
sense (e. g. Matt. vi. 11 , snpersubstantialem for quotidia - 
man). But while he accomplished much, he failed to 
carry out even this limited purpose with thorough com- 
pleteness. A rendering which he commonly altered 
was still suffered to remain in some places without any 
obvious reason (o. g. pvffrqpiov, Co%d£uj, d<pavi£w); and 
the textual emendations which he introduced (apart 
from the removal of glosses) seem to have been made 
after only a partial examination of Greek copies, and 
those probably few in number. The result was such as 
might have been expected. The greater corruptions 
of the Old Latin, whether by addition or omission, are 
generally corrected in the Vulgate. Sometimes, also, 
Jerome gives the true reading in details which had 
been lost in the Old Latin: Matt, i, 25, coynoscebat ; ii, 
23, prophetas ; v, 22, om. eltctj ; ix, 15, In ye re ; John iii. 
8; Luke ii,83, o Trarpp ; iv, 12. But not rarely he leaves 
a false reading uncorrected (Matt, ix, 28, rob is ; x, 42), 
or adopts a false reading where the true one was also 
current: xvi.6; xviii,29; xix, 4; John i,3, 16; vi, 64. 
Lven in graver variations he is not exempt from error. 
The famous perieope, John vii, 53; viii, 11, which had 
gained only a partial entrance into the Old Latin, is cer- 
tainly established in the Vulgate. The additions in 
Matt, xxvii, 35; Luke iv, 19; John v, 4; 1 Pet. iii, 22, 
were already generally or widely received in the Latin 
copies, and Jerome left them undisturbed. The same 
may be said of Mark xvi, 9-20; but the “heavenly tes- 


S3G 


VULGATE 


VULGATE 


timonv” (I John v, 7), whieh is found in the editions 
of the Vulgate, is, beyond all doubt, a later interpola- 
tion. due to an African gloss; and there is reason to be- 
lieve that the interpolations in Acts viii, 37 ; ix, 5, were 
really erased by Jerome, though they maintained their 
place in the mass of Latin copies. 

Jerome’s revision of the gospels was far more com- 
plete than that of the remaining parts of the New Test. 

It is, indeed, impossible, except in the gospels, to de- 
termine any substantial difference in the Greek texts 
which are represented l>v the Old and llieronvmian ver- 
sions. Elsewhere the differences. as far as they can be 
satisfactorily established, are differences of expression, 
and not of text; and there is no sufficient reason to be- 
lieve that the readings which exist in the best A ulgate 
MSS., when they arc at variance with other Latin au- 
thorities, rest upon the deliberate judgment of Jerome. 
On the contrary, bis commentaries show that be used 
copies differing widely from the recension which passes 
under bis name, and even expressly condemned as faulty 
in text or rendering many passages which are undoubt- 
edly part of the Vulgate. Tims in bis commentary on 
the Galatians he condemns the additions, iii, 1, veritati 
non obedire ; v,2\,homicidia ; and the translations, i, 1G, 
non ucquievi carni et saw/uini (for non contuli cum came 
<t s anguine) ; v, 1), modicum ferment uni totam mussam 
corrumpit (for modicum fennentum totam conspersionem 
fermented ); v, 11, evacuation est (for cessavit) ; vi, 3, 
seipsum (seipse) seduc'd (for mentem snam decipit). In 
the text of the epistle which he gives there are up- 
wards of fifty readings that differ from the best A”ulgate 
text, of which about ten are improvements (iv, 21; v, 
13, ’23; vi. 13, 15. 1G, etc.), as many more inferior read- 
ings (iv, 17, 2G, 30, etc.), and the remainder differences of 
expression : malo for nequam. recto pede incedunt for 
recte ambulant, rursum for iterum. The same differ- 
ences are found in his commentaries on the other epis- 
tles : ad If lies, i, G ; iii, 14 ; iv, 19; v, 22, 31 ; ad Tit. iii, 
15. From this it will he evident that t he ATilgate text 
of the Acts and the epistles does not represent the critical 
opinion of Jerome, even in t lie restricted sense in which 
this is true of the text of t he gospels. But still there 
are some readings which may with probability be re- 
ferred to his revision: Acts xiii, 1 8, mores eorum susti - 
unit for nntriit ( aluit ) eos : Bom. xii, 11, Domino for 
tempori ; Epli. iv, 19, illuminabit te Christ us for con - 
tinges Christum; Gal. ii. 5, neque ad horam cessimns for 
ad horam cessimns ; 1 Tim. v, 19, add. nisi sub duobus 
ant tribus testibus. 

3. The Veins Latina. — The ebief corruptions of the 
Old Latin consist in the introduction of glosses. These, 
like the corresponding additions in the Codex Jiezee (B l ), 
are sometimes indications of the venerable antiquity of 
the source from which it was derived, and seem to carry 
us back to the time when the evangelic tradition had 
not yet been wholly superseded by the written gospels. 
Such are the interpolations at Matt, iii, 15; xx, 28; 
Luke iii, 22 (comp, also i, 1G; xii, 38); but more fre- 
quently they are derived from parallel passages, either 
by direct transference of the words of another evange- 
list or by the reproduction of the substance of them. 
These interpolations are frequent in the synoptic gos- 
pels: Alatt. iii, 3; Mark xvi, 1 ; Luke i, 29; vi, 10; ix, 
43. 50, 51; xi. 2; and occur also in John vi, 5G, etc. 
But in John the Old Latin more commonly errs hv de- 
fect than by excess, 'finis it omits clauses certainly or 
probably genuine: iii. 31 ; iv. 9; v.SG; vi, 23; viii, 58, 
etc. Sometimes, again, the renderings of the Greek 
text are free: Luke i, 29; ii, 15; vi, 21.- Such varia- 
tions. however, are rarely likely to mislead. Otherwise 
the Old Latin text of the gospels is of the highest value. 
There are eases where some Latin MSS. combine with 
one or two other of the most ancient witnesses to sup- 
port a reading which has been obliterated in the mass 
of authorities: Luke vi, 1; Mark v, 3; xvi, 9 sq.; and 
not unfrequently it preserves the true text which is lost 
in theATdgate: Luke xiii, 19; xiv, 5: xv. 28. 


But the places where the Old Latin and the ATilgate 
have separately preserved the true reading are rare, 
when compared with those in which they combine 
with other ancient witnesses against the great mass of 
authorities. Every chapter of the gospels will furnish 
instances of this agreement, which is often the more 
striking because it exists only in t lie original text of 
the Vulgate, while the later copies have been corrupted 
in the same way as the later Greek MSS. : A lark ii, 1G; 
iii, 25 (?); viii, 13, etc.; Horn, vi, 8; xvi, 24, etc. In 
the first few chapters of Matthew, the following may he 
noticed : i, 18 (bis ) ; ii. 18; iii. 10; v, 4. 5, II, 30, 44. 47 ; 
vi, 5, 13: vii, 10, 14, 29; viii, 32 (x, 8), etc. It is use- 
less to multiply examples which occur equally in every 
part of the New Test.; Luke ii. 14,40; iv, 2, etc.; John 
i, 52; iv, 42, 51 ; v, 1G; viii. 59; xiv, 17, etc.; Acts ii, 
30, 31, 37, etc.; I Cor. i, 1, 15,22, 27, etc. ( hi the oth- 
er hand, there are passages in which the Latin au- 
thorities combine in giving a false reading: Matt, vi, 
15; vii. 10; viii, 28 (?), etc.; Luke iv, 17; xiii, 23, 
27, 31, etc.; Acts ii, 20, etc.; 1 Tim. iii. 1G, etc. But 
these are comparatively few, and commonly marked 
bv the absence of all Eastern corroborative evidence. 
It may be impossible to lay down definite laws for the 
separation of readings which are due to free rendering, 
or carelessness, or glosses; but in practice there is little 
difficulty in distinguishing the variations which are due 
to the idiosyncrasy (so to speak) of the version from 
those which contain real traces of the original text. 
When every allowance has been made for the rudeness 
of the original Latin and the haste of Jerome’s revision, 
it can scarcely be denied that the A' ulgate is not only 
the most venerable, but also the most precious, monu- 
ment of Latin Christianity. For ten centuries it pre- 
served in Western Europe a text of llolv Scripture far 
purer than that which was current in the Byzantine 
Church, and at the revival of Greek learning guided the 
way towards a revision of the late Greek text, in which 
the best Biblical critics have followed the steps of Bent- 
ley, with ever-deepening conviction of the supreme im- 
portance of the coincidence of the earliest Greek and 
Latin authorities. 

4. Of the interpretative value of the Ah ilgate little 
need be said. There can be no doubt that in dealing 
with the New Test., at. least, we are now in possession 
of means infinitely more varied and better suited to the 
right elucidation of t he text than could have been en- 
joyed by the original African translators. It is a false 
humility to rate as nothing the inheritance of ages. If 
the investigation of the laws of language, the clear per- 
ception of principles of grammar, the accurate investi- 
gation of words, t he minute comparison of ancient texts, 
the wide study of antiquity, the long lessons of expe- 
rience, have contributed nothing towards a fuller under- 
standing of Holy Scripture, all trust in Divine Provi- 
dence is gone. If we are not in this respeet far in ad- 
vance of the simple peasant or half-trained scholar of 
North Africa, or even of the laborious student of Beth- 
lehem, we have proved false to their example, niul dis- 
honor them by our indolence. It would be a thankless 
task to quote instances where the Latin version renders 
the Greek incorrectly. Such faults arise most common- 
ly from a servile adherence to the exact words of the 
original, and thus that which is an error in rendering 
proves a fresh evidence of the scrupulous care with 
which the translator generally followed the text before 
him. But while the interpreter of the New Test, will 
be fully justified in setting aside without scruple the 
authority of early versions, rhere are sometimes ambig- 
uous passages in which a version may preserve the tra- 
ditional sense (John i, 3, 9; viii, 25, etc.) or indicate an 
early difference of translation, and then its evidence 
may be of the highest value. But even here the judg- 
ment must be free. Aversions supply authority for the 
text and opinion only for the rendering. 

A’1 1 1. Linguistic Character and Influence of the Latin 
Versions . — 1. The characteristics of Christian Latiniiy 


VULGATE 


837 


VULGATE 


have been most unaccountably neglected by lexicog- 
raphers and grammarians. It is, indeed, only lately 
that the full importance of provincial dialects in the 
history of languages has been fully recognised, and it 
may be hoped that the writings of Tertullian, Arnobius, 
and the African fathers generally will now at length re- 
ceive the attention which they justly claim. But it is 
necessary to go back one step further, and to seek in the 
remains of the Old Latin Bible the earliest and the purest 
traces of the popular idioms of African Latin. It is easy 
to trace in the patristic writings the powerful influence 
of this venerable version; and, on the other hand, the 
version itself exhibits numerous peculiarities which were 
evidently borrowed from the current dialect. General- 
ly it is necessary to distinguish two distinct elements 
both in the Latin version and in subsequent writings — 
(1) provincialisms and (2) Grrecisms. The former are 
chiefly of interest as illustrating the history of the 
Latin language; the latter as marking, in some degree, 
its power of expansion. Only a few remarks on each 
of these heads, which may help to guide inquiry, can be 
offered here; but the careful reading of some chapters 
of the Old version (c. g. Psa., Ecclus., Wisd.. in the mod- 
ern Vulgate) will supply numerous illustrations. 

(1.) Provincialisms. — One of the most interesting 
facts in regard to the language of the Latin version is 
the reappearance in it of early forms which are found 
in Plautus or noted as archaisms by grammarians. 
These establish in a signal manner the vitality of the 
popular as distinguished from the literary idiom, and, 
from the great scarcity of memorials of the Italian dia- 
lects, possess a peculiar value. Examples of words, 
forms, and constructions will show the extent to which 
this phenomenon prevails. 

(a.) IFords. — Stultiloqnium , multiloquinm , vaniloqnus 
(Plautus); stabilimentmn (id.); datns ( snbst. id. ); con- 
dignus (id.) ; aratiuncnla (id.); versipellis (id.); snturitas 
(id.); stacte (id.); cordatus (Ennius); cnstoditio (Fe*tus); 
decipula , dejero (Plautus); exentero (id.); scius (Pae.); 
mi no (to drive, Festus). 

(b.) Forms. — Deponents as passive; eonsolor, hortor, 
promereor ( Heb. xiii, 1C); mi Hint r or. Irregular inflec- 
tions: partibor absconsus ; conversely: exies, etc. ; tapetia 
(Plautus), hcec ( tern. plur. ). Uniisnal forms: pascua 
(fem.) ; murmur (masc.) ; ml (neut.) ; retia (sing.) ; certor, 
odio, comum, pfacor (snbst.), dnlc.or. 

(c.) Construction #. — Emigro with aec. (Psa. Ixi, 7, “emi- 
grabit te de tabernacnlo”) ; dominor with gen. ; noceo with 
acc. ; sui, suns for ejus, etc. ; non for nc prohibitive ; capit 
im pers. • 

In addition to these, there are many other peculiarities 
which evidently belong to the African (or common) di- 
alect, and not merely to the Christian form of it. 

Such are the words minorure, mi noratio , impt operinm, 
framca (a sword), ablactatio, annuulis, alleviate, pcctuscu- 
lum, antemurale, panijica, paratnra , torturu, tribulure , 
(met.), tribulatio, vale facere, veredan'us, viare, vietualia, 
virectum (viretum), ritulamen, volatilia (snbst.), quaternio, 
reclinat avium, scrutinivw, sjtonsare, stratoria (snbst.), 
sujferentia , suffieientia, super ubundantia, snstinentia, car- 
t alius , cassidile, collactnncns, condulcare, genimen , grossi- 
tudo, refectio (KaraXupn), exterminium, defunctio (decease), 
substantia (abs.), ineolatux. 

New verbs are formed from adjectives : pessimare, proxi- 
mare, approximate, assidnare, pigritari, salvare ( salvutor , 
satvatio), obviate, jncumlare, and especially a large class 
in -fico: viortifico , vinifico , sanctijico , glorifico, clarijico, be- 
atific a, castifico, gratifico, fructifico. 

Other verbs worthy of notice are: appropriate, appre- 
tiare, tencbrescere, indu leave , implanare (planus), manicure. 

In thjs class may be reckoned also many— 

(1.) New su bst.au tives derived from adjectives: possibi- 
l das, prceclaritas, pate* nitas, prcescientia, religiositas, na- 
ti vitas, supermen itas , maunatia. 

New verbs formed in like manner: requietio, respectio, 
creatura, subitatio, exlollentia. 

(2.) New verbals: accensibilis , acceplabilis, docibilis, pro- 
duct ilix, passiltilis, receptibilis , reprehensibilis , snadibilis, 
subject ibilis, arreptitius; and participial forms: pudora- 
tns, anaustiatus, timoratus , sensatus, disci] tlinat us, mag- 
natus, lingvatns, 

(3.) New adjectives: animecquus. temporaneus, vnigeni- 
t ns, qnerulosus; and adverbs : terribiliter, nnanimitcr, spi- 
ritualiter, cognoscibilitcr, fid ucialiter. 

The series of negative compounds is peculiarly worthy 
of notice: immnnoratio, increditio, inconsummatio ; inhd- 
norare; inauxilialus , indeficiens , inconfmibilis , importa- 
bilis . 


| Among the characteristics of the late stage of a language 
; must be reckoned the excessive frequency of compounds, 
especially those formed with the prepositions. These are 
peculiarly abundant in the Latin version; but in many 
cases it is difficult to determine whether they are not di- 
rect translations of the late Sept, forms, and not indepen- 
dent forms: e. g. addecimare, adinvenire -iitio, adincresce- 
re, perefiinere, pennundare, jnopurgare, supeiexaltare, su- 
t lerinvalescere , supererogare, reinvitare, rewemoratio, re- 
propitinri, subinferre. Of these many are the direct rep- 
resentatives of Greek words: superadultu (1 Cor. vii, 36), 
sitpersemitiare (Matt, xiii, 25), compurticipes, concaptivus, 
complantatus, etc. (siipersubstantialis, vi, 11 ) ; and others 
are formed to express distiuct ideas: subcinericius, sub- 
nervare, etc. 

(2.) Grwcisms . — The “simplicity” of the Old version 
necessarily led to the introduction of very numerous 
Scptuagintal or New-Test, forms, many of which have 
now passed into common use. In this respect it would 
be easy to point out the difference which exists between 
Jerome’s own work and the original translation, or his 
revision of it. 

Examples of Greek words are: zelare, perizoma, python , 
pgthonissa, proselgtns, prophets# -tissa - tizare - tare , pode- 
ris, pompatice , thesaurizare, anathematizare, agonizare, 
agonia, aromatizare , angelus -tens, jteribolus, pistiens, pro- 
batica , pttpyrio , jtastophona, telonium , cue harts, adiaris , 
rompluva, bravivm, dithalassus, doma ( thromis ), thgmia- 
torium, tristega. sea ndohtui, sitarc ia , blasphemare, etc., be- 
sides the purely technical terms patriarcha , Para&ceve , 
J'ascha, Paraclctus. Other words based on the Greek are : 
aporior, angario , apostatare, aposialatns, acedior (unt)dta). 

Some close renderings are interesting: amodo (utto t oi>- 
tov), propitiatorium (tXao-Tijptov), inidipsum (eni r 6 ai>-o), 
rationale ( Ac^eloi', Exod. xxviii, 15, etc.), seevofactonu# 
(Acts xviii, 3), seminiverbitts (xvii, IS), subintrod actus (Gal. 
ii, 4), supercertari (Jude 3), civilitas (Acts xxii, 2 S), intenta- 
tnr malonnn (James i, 13). To this head must also be re- 
ferred such constructions as zelare with accns. tu •«) ; 

facere with inf. (noteiv . . . 7 evecrSat); potest as with inf. 
(eSovaia Inpitvat) ; t he use of the inf. to express an end 
(Acts vii, 43, InottjrrnTf npoaKuveiv) or a result (Lnke i, 25, 
tneidev u(f*e\etv y respexit anferre ) ; the introduction of quia 
for or t iii the sense of that (ver. 58, andierunt . . . quia), 
or for ot t recitativum (Matt, vii, 23, Confitebor illis quia); 
the dat. with assequi (Lnke i, 3, napiim>\ov$e7v Vet. L.); 
the use of the gen. with the comparative (John i, 50. ma- 
jora horum ) ; and such Hebraisms as vir mortis (1 Kings 

ii, 26). 

Generally it may be observed that the Vnlg. Latin 
bears traces of a threefold influence derived from the 
original text; and the modifications of form which are 
capable of being carried back to this source occur yet 
more largely in modern languages, whether in this case 
they are to be referred to the plastic power of the Vulg. 
on the popular dialect, or, as is more likely, we must sup- 
pose that the Vulg. has preserved a distinct record of 
powers which were widely working in the times of the 
Empire on the common Latin. These are (1) an exten- 
sion of the use of prepositions for simple cases; e. g. in 
the renderings of tv (Col. iii, 17), facere in verbo, etc.; 
(2) an assimilation of pronouns to the meaning of the 
Greek article; e. g. 1 John i, 2, ipsa vita; Luke xxiv, 0, 
il Us undeeim, etc,; and (3) a constant employment of 
the definitive and epithetic genitive, where classical 
usage would have required an adjective; e. g. Col. i, 13, 
films caritatis sua> ; iii. 12, viscera misericordice. 

The peculiarities which have been enumerated are 
found in greater or less frequency throughout the Vulg. 
It is natural that they should be most abundant and 
striking in the parts which have been preserved least 
changed from the Old Latin— the Apocrypha, the Acts, 
Epistles, and Apocalypse. Jerome, who, as he often 
says, had spent many years in the schools of grammari- 
ans and rhetoricians, could not fail to soften down many 
of the asperities of the earlier version, either by adopting 
variations already in partial use, or by correcting faulty 
expressions himself as he revised the text. An exam- 
ination of a few chapters in the Old and New versions 
of the gospels will show the character and extent of 
the changes which he ventured to introduce: 

Luke i, 60, ovx’h non. Vet. L., nequaquam, Vnlur. ; ver. 65, 
ti- o\tj Ttj open ij, in ovini montana , Vet. L., sitper omnia 
montdtm, Vulg, : ii. 1 , profiteretvr, prof-ssio, Vet. L.. descri- 
bevetur, descriptio, Vnlg. ; ver. 13. exercitns crelestis, Vet. L., 
mililice ccelcstis, Vulg. ; ver. 34, quod contradicelur, Vet. L., 


VULGATE 


838 


VULGATE 


cui contr. Vulg. : ver. 40. in propria Fat r is viei, Vet. L., in 
his ova' pat r is mei sunt. Vulg. Some wordy lie seems to 
have changed constantly though not universally: e. g. 
obamlitio, obamtio (obedientia, obedio) ; viensurare 
tiri); t tilevtio (cnritas) ; sacramentum (niysterimu), etc. 
Many of the most remarkable forms are confined to books 
which he did not revise: elucidare, inaltare (jiicundari); 
/urn igabu ndus , ilUanentatus, imiisciplinat its, insuspicabi- 
lis; exserra men turn (externa mum), gandimonium ; cxlol- 
lentia , honovijiccntia ; hvrripilatio , inhononitio. 

2. Generally it may he said that the scriptural idi- 
oms of our common language have come to us mainly 
through the Latin; and in a wider view the Vulg. is 
the connecting-link between classical and modern lan- 
guages. It contains elements which belong to the ear- 
liest stage of Latin, and exhibits (if often in a rude form) 
the flexibility of the popular dialect. On the other 
hand, it lias furnished the source and the model for a 
large portion of current Latin derivatives. Even a 
cursory examination of the characteristic words which 
have been given will show how many of them, and how 
manv corresponding forms, have passed into living lan- 
guages. To follow out this (piestion in detail would he 
out of place here; but it would furnish a chapter in (lie 
history of language, fruitful in results and hitherto un- 
written. Within a more limited range the authority 
of the Latin versions is undeniable, though its extent is 
rarely realized. The vast power which they have had 
in determining the theological terms of Western Chris- 
tendom can hardly be overrated. Bv far the greater 
part, of the current doctrinal terminology is based on the 
Vulg., and, as far as can be ascertained, was originated 
in the Latin version. Predestination, justification* su- 
pererogation ( snpererogo ), sanctification , salvation , me- 
diator, regeneration , revelation, visitation (met.), propi- 
tiation, tirst appear in the Old Vulg. Grace, redemption, 
election, reconciliation, satisfaction , inspiration, scripture, 
were devoted there to a new and holy use. Sacrament 
(f.iv(TTi)piov') and communion are from the same source; 
and though baptism is Greek, it comes to us from the 
Latin. It would be easy to extend the list by the addi- 
tion of orders, penance, congregation, priest. But it can 
be seen from the forms already brought forward that the 
Latin versions have left their mark both upon onr lan- 
guage and upon our thoughts; and if the right method 
of controversy is based upon a clear historical perception 
of the force of words, it is evident that the study of the 
Vulg.. however much neglected, can never be neglected 
with impunity. It was the version which alone they 
knew who handed down to the Reformers the rich 
stores of mediaeval wisdom; the version with which 
the greatest of the Reformers were most familiar, and 
from which they had drawn their earliest knowledge 
of divine truth. 

In more important respects, likewise, the influence 
which the Latin versions of the Bible have exercised 
upon Western Christianity is scarcely less than that of 
the Sept, upon the Greek churches. But both the Greek 
and the Latin Vulgates have long been neglected. The 
revival of letters, bringing with it the study of the orig- 
inal texts of llolv Scripture, checked for a time the 
study of these two great bulwarks of the Greek and 
Latin churches — for the Sept., in fact, belongs rather to 
flic history of Christianity than to the history of Juda- 
ism — ami, in spite of recent labors, their importance is 
even now hardly recognised. In the case of the Vul- 
gate, ecclesiastical controversies have still further im- 
peded all efforts of liberal criticism. The Romanist 
(till lately) regarded the Clementine text as fixed be- 
yond appeal; the Protestant shrank from examining a 
subject which seemed to belong peculiarly to the Ro- 
manist. Vet, apart from all polemical questions, the 
Vulgate should have a very deep interest for all the 
Western churches. For many centuries it was the 
only Bible generally used; and, directly or indirect- 
ly, it is the real parent of all the vernacular ver- 
sions of Western Europe. The Gothic version of 
Ulphilas alone is independent of it, for the Slavonic 
and modern Russian versions are necessarily not taken 


into account. With England it has a peculiarly close 
connection. The earliest translations made from it were 
the (lost) hooks of Bede, and the glosses on the Psalms 
and gospels of the 8th and 9th centuries (ed. Thorpe, 
Loud. 1 835. 1842). In the 10th century ^Elfric trans- 
lated considerable portions of the Old Test. (Uepta- 
teuchus, etc., ed. Thwaites, Oxford, 1698). But the most 
important monument of its influence is the great Eng- 
lish version of Wvclifle (1324-84, ed. Forshall and Mad- 
den, Oxford, I860), which is a literal rendering of the 
current Vulgate text. In the age of the Reformation 
the Vulgate was rather the guide than the source of 
the popular versions. The Romanist translations into 
German (Michaclis, ed. Marsh, ii, 107), French, Italian, 
j and Spanish were naturally derived from the Vulgate 
(Simon, Hist. Crit. X. T. e. 28, 29, 40, 41). Of others, 
that of Luther (New Test, in 1523) was the most im- 
I portant, and in this the Vulgate had great weight, 
though it was made with such use of the originals as 
j was possible. From Luther t he influence of the Latin 
passed to our own A. V. Tyndale had spent some 
time abroad, and was acquainted with Luther before 
be published his version of the New Test, in 1526. 
I Ty ml ale’s version of the Old Test., which was unfin- 
ished at the time of his martyrdom (1536), was com- 
pleted by Coverdale, and in this the influence of the 
Latin and German translations was predominant. A 
1 proof of this remains in the Psalter of the Prayer-book, 
| which was taken from the “Great English Bible” (1539, 
1540). and this was merely a new edition of that called 
Matthew's, which was itself taken from Tyndale and 
i Coverdale. This version of the Psalms follows the 


Gallican Psalter, a revision of the Old Latin made by 
Jerome and afterwards introduced into his new trans- 
lation, and differs in many respects from the Hebrew 
text (e. g. Psa. xiv). It would he out of place to fol- 
low this (piestion into detail here. It is enough to 
remember that the first, translators of our Bible bad 
been familiarized with the Vulgate from their youth, 
and could not have cast off the influence of early 
association. But the claims of the Vulgate to the at- 
tention of scholars rest on wider grounds. It is not 
only the source of our current theological terminology, 
but it is, in one shape or other, the most important early 
witness to the text and interpretation of the whole Bi- 
ble. The materials available lor the accurate study of 
it are unfortunately at present as scanty a* those yet 
unexamined are rich and varied. 

IX. Modern Versions of the Vulgate. — The versions 
used in the Church of Rome have all been made from 
the Vulgate, of which the first German translation was 
printed in 1466, the Spanish in 1478, and the Italian in 
1471. Our limits will allow us only to refer to that in 
use in English, of which the Old Test, was printed at 
Douai in 1609, and the New at Rheims in 1582. This 
is greatly inferior in strength and elegance of ex- 
pression to the A. V. of 1611, but is highly commenda- 
ble for its scrupulous accuracy and fidelity, which can- 
not be predicated of all translations from the Vulgate 
into other languages. It was altered and modernized by 
bishop Challoner in 1749, when the text was conformed 
to that of the Clementine edition. It lias since under- 
gone various alterations under the care of the Irish Ro- 
man Catholic hierarchy, and has been in some respects 
conformed to the A. V., even in passages which con- 
troversialists of a bygone age bad stigmatized as heret- 
ical. But this has been done without any departure 
from the text. The original translators, however, ad- 
hered so servilely to this as to employ such barbarous 
words and phrases as sindom (Mark xv, 46), zealators 
(Acts xx, 20), pradiniiion (Eph. iii. 11), eoniristate (iv, 
30), agniriou (Philem.16), repropitiate (Ik-b. ii, 17), with 
such hosts God is promerited (xiii, 16), etc. “Yet, in 
justice, it must be observed that no case of wilful per- 
version of Scripture has ever been brought home to the 
Rhemish translators” (Scrivener, Supplement to the Au- 
thorized Version). Mr. Scrivener adds that “the Rhe- 


VULGATE 


S39 


VULTURE 


raish divines [who were evidently men of learning and 
ability] may occasionally do us good service by fur- 
nishing some happy phrase or form of expression which 
had eluded the diligence of their more reputable prede- 
cessors” (ibid). 

The translators observe in their preface that they 
religiously keep the phrases word lor word, “for fear of 
missing or restraining the sense of the Holy Ghost to 
the fantasie;” in proof of which they refer to such 
phrases as ri i-poi Kai <roi, yvvai (John ii, 4) which 
they render “What to me and thee, woman V” explain- 
ing it in the note by the phrase “ What hast thou to 
do with me?” But in some of the modern editions of 
the Khernish version this rule has been departed from 
ami the text altered into *• What is that to me or thee?” 
(Dublin ed. 171)1, 1824), or “ What is it to me and thee?” 
(ibid. 1820); a reading inconsistent with the transla- 
tion of the same words in Luke viii, 28. The inter- 
polation has been removed in Dr. Murray’s edition of 
1825. In the Xeto Version of the Four Gospels, by a 
Catholic (Dr. Lingard). the words are rendered. “What 
hast thou to do with me?” The whole passage is thus 
rendered and commented on bv Tittmanu (J7 eletemata 
Eacra) : “ J/issum me far, o mea, 1 Leave that to my 
care, good mother.’ It is not the language of reproof 
or refusal, but rather of consolation and promise. This 
appears from the words which follow, * mine hour is 
not yet come.’ For in these words he promises his 
mother that at the proper time he will gratify her wish. 

. . . But our Lord purposely delayed his assistance, that 
the greatness of the miracle might be the better known 
to all. The appellation yvvai, which was employed by 
our Lord on other occasions also (John xix, 20; xx, 15), 
was very honorable among the Greeks, who were accus- 
tomed to call their queens by this title, and may be ren- 
dered 4 mv beloved.’ ” 

I'rof. Moses Stuart ( Commentary on the Apocalypse, 
i, 119) conceives that “in the translation of /{ era vo- 
(7 re by agile pmdtentiam (Matt, iii, 2), the same spir- 
it was operating which led one part of the Church in 
modem times to translate ptravoeire by do penance .” 
But the Latin phrase “ngere pcenitentiam,” which is 
also found in the old Italic, is evidently synonymous 
with peravodv, “ to repent.” “Agile poenitentiam,” 
says Campbell, “ was not originally a mistranslation of 
the Greek peravoGre.” Dr. Lingard ( ut sup.') renders 
it “ repent.” 

We refer to one passage more, often objected to as 
proving that the Vulgate was altered to serve a pur- 
pose. In Ileb. xi, 21, the Vulgate reads, as the trans- 
lation of TTpoaeKviaiaev kiri to ciKpov rpg pdfidov cwtov : 
adoravit fastigium virgae ejus, “worshipped the top of 
his [Joseph’s] rod.” If the present pointing of the He- 
brew (Gen. xlvii,31) be correct, the Seventy, who 
read it n^:*3, “a staff” or “sceptre,” must have been 
in error, wherein they were followed by the Syriac. 
Tholuek ((Commentary on Heb.) is of opinion that the 
Latin translators did not (as some suppose) overlook 
ini, “ upon,” and he considers that this preposition with 
the accusative might easily lead to the acceptation iu 
which it is taken by the Vulgate, which is also that 
adopted by Chrysostom and Theodoret, who explain 
the passage as if Jacob had foreseen Joseph’s sovereign- 
ty, and gave a proof of his belief in it by the act of 
adoration in the direction of his sceptre. This is, in 
Tholuck’s opinion, further confirmed by the generally 
spread reading ai>rov (his), not avrov (his own); and 
he doubts if the inspired writer of the epistle did not 
himself so understand the passage in the Sept, as being 
the more significant. But should it be admitted, with 
Tholuek, that “the Protestant controversialists have 
very unjustly designated this passage of the Vulgate as 
one of the most palpable of its errors,” it must be borne 
in mind that Onkelos, Jonathan, Symmaehus, and 
Aquila follow the present reading; to which Jerome 
also gives a decided preference, observing (on Gen. 


xlvii, 31), “In this passage some vainly assert that Ja- 
cob adored the top of Joseph’s sceptre; . . . for in the 
Hebrew the reading is quite different. Israel adored at 
the head of the bed (adoravit Israel ad caput lectuli).” 
See English Versions. 

X. Literature. — The chief original works bearing on 
the Vulgate generally are, Simon, /listoire Critique dn 
I . T. 1(578 -85 ; id. A. 7'. 1089-93 ; Hotly, J)e liibliorum 
Text thus Orir/inalibns (Oxon.1705): M art ianav, Uierov. 
Opp. (Paris, 1093), with the prefaces and additions of 
Vallarsi (Verona, 1734) and Mallei (Venice, 1707); Bian- 
chini ( Blanchiuus , not Blanch ini), I "indicias Canon. SS. 
Vuly. Lat. Edit. (Borne, 1740); Bukentop, Lux de Luce 
( Bruxellis, 1710); Sabatier, Bibl. SB. Lat. !>?•.<?. Ant. 
(Re mis, 1743); Van Ess. Fraymatisch-knitische Gesch.d. 
Vuly. (Tub. 1824); Vercellone, Variie Lectiones Vulg. 
Lat. Bibliorum (tom. i, Roma*, 1800; tom. ii, pars prior, 
1802). In addition to these, there are the controversial 
works of Mariana, Bellarmine, Whitaker, Fulke, etc., and 
numerous essays by Cal met, 1). Schulz, Fleck, Riegler, 
etc.; and in the New Test, the labors of Bentley. Sanftl, 
Griesbach, Schulz, Laehmann, Tregelles, and Tischen- 
dorf have collected a great amount of critical materials. 
But it is not too much to say that the noble work of 
Vercellone has made an epoch in the study of the Vul- 
gate, and the chief results which follow from the first 
instalment of his collations are here for the first time 
incorporated in its history. See also Riegler, Gesch. 
der Vnlyata (Sulzb. 1820); Brnnati, J)e Vnlgata (Vien. 
1825); Kanlen, Gesch. der Vuh/ata ( Mentz, 18(59); 
Rousch. It ala und Yulgata (Marb. 18G9). See Latin 
Versions. 

Vulgivaga, in Roman mythology, is a surname of 
as the lowly, in contrast with Crania, the heav- 
enly. She favored the longings and desires of men 
which were wrongfully designated by the name of love. 

Vulture is the rendering, in the A. V., of two lleb. 
words: 1. HNH, dadh (only in Lev. xi, 14; Sept. yv\p ; 
Vulg. milrus; the parallel passage, Dent, xiv, 13, lias 
iu the corresponding position •“IN'I, radh, which may 
be an erroneous transcription; Sept, yvip ; Vulg. ixion ; 
A. V. “glede”), or daydh (only Dent, xiv, 13, iktip ; 
milrus; Isa. xxxiv, 34, i\a<poc ; m ileus) ; and 2. fPX, 
ayah (only in Job xxviii, 7, yexp ; vultur ; Lev. xi, 14, 
iktiv ; vultur ; A. V. “ kite ;” Dent. xiv, 13, Sept, omits ; 
Vulg. milrus ; A. V. “ kite”). 

1. There seems to be no doubt that the A. V. transla- 
tion is incorrect, and that the original words refer to 
some of the smaller species of raptorial birds, as kites or 
buzzards, (daydh) is evidently synonymous with 

Arab . lidayah, the vernacular for the “kite” in North 
Africa, and without the epithet “red” for the black kite 
especially. Boehart ( Ilieroz . ii, 195) explains it JW- 
tur niejer. The Samaritan and all other Eastern ver- 
sions agree in rendering it “kite.” rVX (aydh) is yet 
more certainly referable to this bird, which, in other 
passages, it is taken to represent. Boehart, (ibid, ii, 
193) says it. is the same bird which the Arabs call 
yaya. from its erv; but does not state what species 
this is, supposing it, apparently, to be the magpie, the 
Arab name for which, however, is el-ayaag. 

There are two very different species of bird comprised 
under the English term vulture: the griffon ( Gypsful - 
vus, Saw), Arab, nesr; Ileb. T£2, nesher ; invariably 
rendered “eagle” in the A. V.; and the perenopter. or 
Egyptian vulture (A T eophron perenopterus. Saw), Arab. 
rakhma ; Heb. OHH, rachdm ; rendered “ gier-eagle” in 
the A. V. The identity of the Hebrew and Arabic terms 
in these cases can scarcely be questioned. However de- 
grading the substitution of the ignoble vulture for the 
royal eagle may at first sight appear in many passages, 
it must be borne in mind that the griffon is in all its 
movements and characteristics a majestic and royal bird, 


VULTURE 


840 


VULTURE 




Egyptian Vulture (Xcophron percnopterus ). 

the largest and most powerful which is seen on the wing 
in Palestine, and far surpassing the eagle in size and 
power. Its only rival in these respects is the bearded 
vulture, or Lammergeyer, a more uncommon bird every- 
where, and which, since it is not, like the griffon, bald 
on the head and neck, cannot be referred to as nether 
(see Mic. i, 1C). Very different is the slovenly and cow- 
ardly Egyptian vulture ( Xeophron percnopterus), the 
familiar scavenger of all Oriental towns and villages, 
protected for its useful habits, but loathed and despised, 
till its name has become a term of reproach, like that 
of the dog or the swine. The species of vulture, prop- 
erly so called, have the head naked or downy, the crop 
external, and very long wings; they all have an offen- 
sive smell, and we know of none that even the scaven- 
ger-ants will eat. When dead they lie on the ground 
untouched till the sun has dried them into mummies. 
Late Western commentators, anxious to distinguish ea- 
gles from vultures, have assumed that the first-mention- 
ed never feed on carcasses; and, judging the whole fam- 
ily of vultures by the group of carrion-eaters alone, have 
insinuated that the latter do not attack a living prey. 
In both cases they are in error; with some exceptions, 
eagles follow' armies, though not so abundantly as vult- 
ures; and vultures attack living prey provided with 
small means of defence or of little weight; but their 
talons having no means of grasping with energy, or of 
seriously wounding with the claws, they devour their 
prey on the spot, while the eagle carries it aloft, and 
thence is more liable to be stung by a serpent not en- 
tirely disabled than the vulture, who crushes the head 
of all reptiles it preys upon. See Eagle. 

If we take the Ileb. ayah to refer to the red kite (.1/7/- 
v us regal is, Temm. ). and ihnjah to the black kite (.l/<7- 
vns atet\ Temm. ), we shall find the piercing sight of the 
former referred to by .lob (xxviii, 7), and the gregarious 
habits of the latter by Isaiah (xxxiv. 15). Both species 
are inhabitants of Palestine, the red kite being found 
all over the country, as formerly in England, but no- 
where in great numbers, generally soaring at a great 
height over the plains, according to Dr. Both, and ap- 
parently leaving the country in winter. The black 
kite, which is so numerous everywhere as to be gregari- 
ous, may be seen at all times of the year hovering over 
the villages and the outskirts of towns, on the lookout for 
offal and garbage, which are its favorite food. Vulture- 
like, it seldom, unless pressed by hunger, attacks living 


animals. It is therefore never molested by the natives, 
and builds its nest on trees in their neighborhood, fan- 
tastically decorating it with as many rags of colored 
cloth as it can collect. See Glei>e. 

II. There are three species of so-called vulture known 
to inhabit Palestine : 

1. The Lammergeyer ( Gypcetos burbatus, Cnv.). which 
is rare everywhere, and only found in desolate moun- 
tain regions, where it rears its young in the depth of 
winter among inaccessible precipices. It is looked upon 
by the Arabs as an eagle rather than a vulture; lor, 
though properly neither a vulture nor an eagle.it is the 
largest bird of prey of the old continent, and is armed, 
like the eagle, with formidable claws. The head is 
wholly feathered; its courage is equal to its powers; 
and it lias a strength of wing probably superior to all 
raptorians, excepting the condor. It is consequently 
found, with little or no difference, from Norway to the 
Cape of Good Dope, and from the Pyrenees to Japan. 
This is perhaps the black species, which is often figured 
on Egyptian monuments as the bird of victory, hover- 
ing over the head of a national hero in battle, and some- 
times with a banner in each talon. Sec Ossikhage. 

2, The Griffon (Gyps Jit/rvs, Saw), mentioned above, 
remarkable for its power of vision and the great height 
at which it soars. Aristotle (A trim. Hist, vi, 5) notices 
the manner in which the griffon scents its prey from 
afar, and congregates in the wake of an army. The 
same singular instinct was remarked in the Russian 
war. when vast numbers of this vulture were collected 
in the Crimea, and remained till the end of the cam- 
paign in the neighborhood of the camp, although pre- 
viously they had been scarcely known in the country. 
“Wheresoever the earease is, there will the eagles be 
gathered together” (Matt, xxiv, 28) ; *' Where the slain 
are, there is she” (Job xxxix, 80). Travellers have ob- 

' served this bird universally distributed in all the moun- 
tainous and rocky districts of Palestine, and especially 
abundant in the south-east. Its favorite breeding- 
places are between Jerusalem and Jericho, and all 
round the Dead Sea. 


Griffon Vulture (Gi/psfulvns). 

8. The third species is the above Egyptian vulture 
(Xi op hr on percnopterus , Sav.\ often called Pharaoh’s 
hen, observed in Palestine by llasselquist and all subse- 
quent travellers, and very numerous everywhere. 

Two other species of very large size, the eared and ci- 
nereous vultures ( Vultur nnbicus . Smith, and Vultur cine - 
reus, L.) although inhabitants of the neighboring coun- 
tries, and probably also of the south-east of Palestine, 
have not yet been noted in collections from that country. 

Most of the above-named species are occasionally 
seen in the north of Europe. The voice varies in 


VULTURE 


841 


WACK 


different species; but those of Egypt, frequenting 
t he Pyramids, are known to bark in the night like 
dogs. Excepting the percnop ferine (or carrion) vul- 
tures, all the other species are of large size; some 
superior in bulk to the swan, and others a little less. — 
Kitto; Smith. The Nubian species has been figured 
in Kitto’s Palestine; the f ulcus in Harris’s Diet, of the 


Xat. Hist, of the Bible. See also Tristram, Xat. Hist, 
of the Bible , p. 173 sq. ; Wood, Bible Animals, p. 310 
sq. See Kite. 

Vulturius (dr. rWaTot;), in Greek mythology, 
is a surname under which a temple was built for 
Apollo , by a shepherd, because the god had saved him, 
by vultures, from death in a large deep cave. 


w. 


Waajen (or Waasen, or Waeyen), Hans 
van deu (1), a Dutch theologian, was born at Amster- 
dam, July 1*2. 1 (13 0. lie began his studies at Utrecht, 
whence he proceeded successively to Heidelberg, Gene- 
va, and lkisle, and returned in 1002 to his native coun- 
try, as doctor of divinity, to preach in Sparendam. In 
1065 he was called to Leeuwarden, and in 1072 to Mid- 
delburg, but in 1077 he was forced by the intrigues of 
William Momma to retire from the latter place. The 
same year he was made professor ofllebrew in Franeker, 
to which office he added (in 1680) that of univer- 
sity preacher and state historian, lie resided with the 
prince of Orange as councillor until his death, Nov. 4, 
1701, lie enjoyed the reputation of being one of the 
first controversialists of Holland, and wrote, Summa 
Theologies Christiana 1 : — Enchiridion Theologies Chris- 
tiana : — De Antiquitate Litterarum Jndaicarum: — 
Bilibra Veritutis et Bat tones de Verba Dei. Librce Rit- 
tangelii Obrersa : — De \dyig Dissertatio contra Clericum, 
etc. See Vriemoet, Series Professorum Francquera- 
norum ; Jdcher, AUgemeines Gelehrten - Lexikon. s. v. ; 
F first, Bibl. Jud. iii, 430; Biographic Universelle , s. v. 
(B. P.) 

Waajen. Hans van der (2), son of the preceding, 
was born Oct. 20, 1G77, at Middelburg, and succeeded 
bis father in his literary and clerical positions, lie 
died Dee. 0, 1716, leaving no original works. See Bio- 
graphic Universelle , s. v. 

Waast (or Wast, Lat. Vedastus), St., a French 
ecclesiastic, was born, according to some, on the borders 
of Perigord and Limousin, and, according to others, at 
Toul. After living a hermit life near the latter place, 
he was ordained as priest by its bishop and made cate- 
chist of Clovis, who had just embraced Christianity 
(406). That prince took him to Kheims and recom- 
mended him to Remi. who nominated him as bishop of 
Arras (about 409), and afterwards of Cambrai (about 
510). He abolished the idolatrous customs of both sees, 
and built chapels, etc. lie Hied at Arras, Feb. 6, 540. 
See Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Wabst, Citrtstlieb Gottyvalp, a Lutheran theo- 
logian of Germany, was born Oct. 14, 1604, at Dresden. 
He studied at Wittenberg, was appointed deacon at 
Oederan in 1726, pastor at Dobeln in 1733, superin- 
tendent at Rocblitz in 1735, where he died, June 25, 
1743, having in 1737 been honored with the doctorate 
of divinity by the Wittenberg University, lie wrote, 
Tdglicher Deukzettel in geistlichen Bet racht ungen : — 
Disputatio de Divina Essentia num Masculinum et 
Famininum Admittat: — De DiteUectu. Hnmano contra 
Jo. Lockium . See Xeue Zeitungen von gelehrten Snchen ; 
Jocher, AUgemeines Gelehrten- Lexikon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Wachler, Lupwig, a Protestant theologian of Ger- 
many, was born April 15, 1767, at Gotha. In 1700 he 
was rector at llerford. in 1704 professor of theology at 
Rinteln, in 1802 professor of history at Marburg, and 
died April 4. 1838. at Breslau, as member of consistory 
and professor of history. He wrote. Die Pa riser Blnt- 
hochzeit (Leips. 1826 ) : — MiinscheFs Lehen v. nach- 
gelassene Schriften (Frankfort, 1817): — Dissertatio Tn- 
auguralis de Pseudo- Phoct/lide (Rinteln, 1788). See 
Ffirst, Bibl. Jud. iii. 488; Winer. Jlandb. der theol. Lit. 
i, 10, 161,537,821,865. (B. P.) ' 

Wachsmuth, Ernst Wiliielm Gottlieb, a Ger- 


man historian, was born Dec. 28, 1784, at TTildesheim. 
In 1825 he was appointed professor of history at Leipsie, 
and died elan. 23, 1866. lie wrote, Hellenische Alter - 
thumskunde (2d ed. Halle, 1843, 4 vols.) : — KuropUische 
Sittengeschichte (Leips. 1831-30, 5 vols.): — Der deutsche 
Bauernkrieg znr Zeit der P formation (ibid. 1834) : — 
Geschichte Frankreichs ini Revohitionszeit alter (Ham- 
burg, 1840-44, 4 vols.) : — Geschichte des Zeitalters der 
Revolution (Leips. 1846-48, 4 vols. ) : — AUgemeine Cul - 
turgeschiclite (ibid. 1850-52,3 vols.). See Zucliold, 
Bibl. Theol. ii, 1407. (B. P.) 

Wachter, Johann, a Protestant theologian of Ger- 
many, was born in 1768. In 1807 be was appointed 
evangelical member of consistory and superintendent at 
Vienna; in 1810 be became director of the Protestant 
Theological Lutheran Seminary ; and died April 26, 
1827. In connection with K, Cleynmaun, he published 
Allgem. prakt. Bibliothek fur Prediger u. Schiilmanner 
(Vienna, 1801-3, 2 vols.). Ilis own Sermons were pub- 
lished after his death by some friends (ibid. 1828, 2 
vols.). See Winer, Jlandb. der theol. lPiieratur , ii, 37, 
143. (B. P.) 

Wachtler, Jakob, a Lutheran theologian of Ger- 
many, was born at Grimtna. Sept. 17, 1638. He studied 
at, Wittenberg, where, in 1665, be became adjunct to 
the philosophical faculty. In 1666 he was made arch- 
deacon at Oschatz, and in 1670 superintendent at Gom- 
mern. For the same position he was called in 1687 to 
Beltzig, was in 1608 created doctor of divinity, and died 
Nov. 4, 1702. He wrote, Chiliastiar 1 \mitatis Demon - 
st ratio contra J. Spenerum: — De Cathedra Confessional i 
contra Spenerum: — Uarmonia Sacra Paracletica , etc. 
See Pipping, Memoriie Theologornm ; Ranft, Leben der 
chursdchsischen Gottesgeiehrten ; J ocher. AUgemeines Ge- 
lehrten-I^exikon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Wack, Casper, a German Reformed minister, was 
born at Philadelphia in 1752. lie began the study of 
theology under Dr. Weyberg in his eleventh year, and 
received calls at the age of eighteen; but his licensure 
and ordination were deferred until the Classis in Hol- 
land could be consulted, which occurred soon after. lie 
labored extensively among the Germans who had tied 
from Rhenish Prussia to Holland in 1705 and in 1707 
sailed to Philadelphia, afterwards settling in New Jer- 
sey and Pennsylvania. He was pastor at Tohicken, 
Indian Field, and Great Swamp, Pa., from 1771 to 1773; 
the same, with the addition of Nacomixen, from 1773 to 
1782; German Valley, Fox Hill, and Rockaway, N. J., 
from 1782 to 1800, including services at Stillwater, 
Hardwick, and Knowlton; pastor at Germantown and 
Whitemarsli, Pa., from 1800 to 1821 ; Wliitemarsh, from 
1X21 to 1X23. During the Revolution he was a warm 
patriot. He died July 10. 1830. See llarbaugh, Fa- 
thers o f the German Ref. Church, ii, 173 sq. 

Wack, Charles P., a (Dutch) Reformed minis- 
ter, grandson of Casper Wack, graduated at the New 
Brunswick Theological Seminary in 1820. He was 
pastor at Caroline, N. Y.. in 1831 ; Bellona from 1831 to 
1835; Lebanon, N. J., from 1835 to 1840; Trenton (First 
Church) from 1841 to 1844; German Reformed Church, 
at the same place, from 1845 to 1852. lie died iu 1866, 
He left a large amount of MS. containing sketches of 
prominent ministers of the Reformed (Dutch) Church, 
which was used by Mr. Sprague in the preparation of 


WACK 


842 


W ADDINGTON 


his A finals of the Amer. Pulpit. See Corwin, Manual 
of the Ref. Church in A mcrica. s. v. 

Wack, George, a minister <>f t lie German Rc- 
fnrmed Clmreh, was born in Bucks County, Pa., March 
], 177(5. After having pursued n course of classical 
studies, he was taught theology by his father, then pas- 
tor in Rockaway, N. .1. lie was licensed and ordained 
in 1801. In 1802 he became pastor of churches in 
Montgomery and Hocks counties. In this charge be. 
spent a long life. In 184(5, in t lie seventieth year of 
his age. he was compelled l»v increasing infirmities to ( 
quit the active duties of the ministry. He died l'eb. 
17, 185(5, after a ministry of fifty-nine years. He was a 
man of great simplicity of heart, which with age made 
him a patriarch in the Church, lie was able to preach 
in German and English. 

Wack, John J., an American minister of the Ger- 
man Reformed Church whose churches finally joined 
the Dutch communion, was horn in Philadelphia. June 
14. 1774, and studied theology with his brother, Casper j 
Wack. He was pastor at Amwell, N. J., from 1798 to 
1803; supplied Knowltou and Hardwick from 1798 to 
1805; pastor at Canajohnrie and Stone Arabia, N. Y., 
from 1803 to 1811; suspended on account of intem- 
perance in 181(5; preached as an independent at Can- 
ajoharie and Stone Arabia from 1810 to 1827; also' 
preached in the Independent Church of Tiilaborotigh 
for several years, lie died at Kphratah, N. Y., May 
2(5, 1851. See Corwin, M anual of the lief. Church in 
A m erica, s. v. 

Wackernagel, Kaisi, EnuAiin Piiii.ipp, a Ger- 
man Protestant hymnologist of great note, was horn at 
Berlin. June 28, 1800, where also lie studied natural 
sciences and philology. In 1820 he was promoted at 
Erlangen as doctor of philosophy, and in 18(51 the Uni- 
versity of Breslau conferred on him the degree of doctor 
of divinity. 1 le died June 20, 1877,at Dresden, where he 
had resided from 18(50. Wackernagel was a member of 
different learned societies of Germany and Holland. 
Besides a number of works on mathematics and natural 
sciences, he published very important contributions to 
German hymnology, which made him an authority in 
that department. We name, Das deutsche Kirclienlied 
(Stuttgart, 1841): — Bibliograjthie zur Gesch.d. deutschen ' 
Kirchenliedes im 10. Juhrhnndert ( Frnnkfort-on-the- 
Main, 1855) : — Lieder der niederlandischen Reform irten 
aus der Zeit der Verfolgung im 1(5, Jahrhumlert (1867): 
— Das deutsche Kirchmlied ron den dltesten Zeiten 
( Leips. 18(54-73, 4 vols. ). Besides these, he published 
the hymns of Paul Gerhard, Martin Luther, and Johann 
Hermann. See Zuchold, Jiibl. Theol. ii, 1408; Theolo - 
gisches Universal- Lex. s. v. ; Koch, Gesch. d. deutschen 
Kirchenliedes, vii, 47 sq. (B. P.) 

Waddel, James, D.D., a Presbyterian divine, 
celebrated for his eloquence, and immortalized by the 
pen of William Wirt as “ The Blind Preacher,” was horn 
at Newry, in the North of Ireland, in July, 1739. He 
came with his parents at an early age to America, was 
educated at Dr. Finlay’s Nottingham Academy, studied 
theology with the Rev. John Todd, was licensed to 
preach by (lie Presbytery of Hanover April 2, 17(51, and 
was ordained and installed pastor of t lie churches of 
Lancaster and Northumberland, Va.. Oet. 7, 17(52. In 
U7S he took charge of the Tinkling Spring congrega- 
tion, \ a.; in 1783 he organized a congregation at Staun- 
ton, to whom he preached on alternate Sabbaths; in 
1<K5 he removed to Louisa County, Ya.. to an estate 
which he had purchased, and while there he lost his 
sight from cataract, hut still continued to preach. It. 
was during this period that Mr. Wirt was thrilled by 
his eloquence in the secluded little clmreh in Orange 
County. In 1792 the degree of D.D. was conferred 
upon him by Dickinson College. Pa. lie died in great 
triumph. Sept. 17. 1805. The testimonies to Dr. Wad- 
del’s surpassing eloquence are numerous and unques- 
tionable. His oratory was simple, majestic, and impas- 


sioned. It glowed with the peculiar fire of the South. 
Patrick Henry himself pronounced Davies and Waddel 
the greatest orators of the age. In him were blended 
“lint poet’s hand and prophet's fire.” Dr. Waddel pub- 
lished nothing during his life, ami gave orders that all 
his MSS. should he burned after his death. Several of 
his ten children occupied important positions in socie- 
ty. See Sprague, .1 muds of the Amer. Pulpit, iii, 235; 
Thomas, Pronouncwg Ring. Diet.; Foote. Sketches of 
Virginia, xo\. \ m , Life of llev. J)r. Alexander ; Watch- 
man of the South, and Prot. and Her. Oct. 24, 184-1; 
Davidson, llist. of the Presb. Church in Kentucky, p. 20 ; 
Letters oj a British Spy, let. vii. (J. L. S.) 

“Waddel, Moses, D.D. .a Presbyterian divine, was 
horn in Iredell County, N. C., July 29, 1770. He re- 
ceived a good academic education, graduated at Hamp- 
den Sidney College in 1791, and was licensed by Han- 
over Presbytery of Virginia in May. 1792. He taught 
school in Columbia County, Ga. ( 1793-1801) ; then in 
Vienna, Abbeville District, S. C. (1802-1804). lie re- 
moved to Willington, S. C., in 1804, where he remained 
until May, 1819, when, having in the previous year been 
elected president of the University of Georgia, he en- 
tered upon the duties of that office. “The effect of his 
coming to this institution was almost magical; it very 
soon attained a measure of prosperity altogether un- 
equalled in its previous history.” He resigned this po- 
sition in August, 1829, and then returned to Willington. 
His labors in the ministry he continued six or seven 
years longer. In September, 1836, he was visited with 
a stroke of the palsy, which incapacitated him for all 
active duties, lie died July 21, 1840. Dr. Waddel 
was distinguished as an instructor. “ He may he justly 
considered as the father of classical education in the 
upper country of South Carolina and Georgia.” As a 
Christian, his character was unexceptionable. He was 
active and constant in the discharge of his ministerial 
duties, and he shrank from no labor which his ecclesi- 
astical relations imposed upon him. His style of 
preaching was plain, simple, ami earnest, lie publish- 
ed Memoirs of Miss Catharine Elizabeth Smelt (N. V. 
1810, 12mo). It was a highly interesting and popular 
work, as was indicated by the fact that it passed to a 
third edition in the United States, and was published 
twice in Great Britain. See Sprague, A muds of the 
. I mer. Pulpit, iv, 63 ; Allihone. Diet, o f Brit, and A mer. 

1 uthors, s. v. ; Memoirs, etc., of S. Grellet (Phila. 1860), 
ii, 187. (J. L. S.) 

Waddheam (or Goddam us), Adam, D.D., an Eng- 
lish Franciscan of Norwich, was professor at Oxford. 
He died in 1358. 1 1 is Commentary on the Sentences was 

published at Paris in 1512. See jMosheim, Hist, of the 
Church, bk. iii, cent, xiv, pt. ii, ch. ii. 

Wadding, Luke, a Roman Catholic ecclesiastic, 
was horn at Waterford, Ireland, Oct. 16, 1588. lie stud- 
ied theology in Portugal; joined the Franciscan Order 
in 1605; became professor of divinity at the University 
of Salamanca; removed to Rome in 1618, where he 
founded in 1625 the College of St. Isidore for Irish Fran- 
ciscans; took part with the Jansenists in t lie famous 
controversy of that name, hut retracted his views upon 
the publication of the papal hull of condemnation ; and 
was procurator of the Franciscans at Rome from 1630 
to 1634; and vice-commissary from 1645 to 1(548. He 
died at Rome Nov. 18, 1657. Among his works are, 
The History and Bibliography of the Franciscans, in the 
.1 nn ales Ordinis M inarum: — an edition of the Works of 
Duns Scotus : — and Scriptures Ordinis Minorum. 

Waddington, Edward, I >.!>.. an English prel- 
ate, was bishop of Chichester from 1724 until his death, 
in 1731. He published some Sermons in 1718, J 721, 
and 1729. 

Waddington, George, D.D., an English divine, 
traveller, and historian, was horn Sept. 7, 1793. lie was 
educated at the Charter-house, London, and Trinity Col- 
lege, Cambridge, where he graduated in 1815; and lie 


WADDLE 


S43 


WADE 


was subsequently elected fellow of Trinity College. lie 
devoted himself for a considerable period to Oriental 
travel, and was for some years vicar of Masham, York- 
shire. In 1840 he was installed dean of Durham, and 
in 1841 became tirst warden of the University of Dur- 
ham. lie was generous in his charities, and a strong 
supporter of liberal opinions. He died at Durham, July 
20, 1800. His principal works are, Journal of a Visit 
to Some Ports of Ethiopia (1822): — . 1 Visit to Greece 
in 1823 and 1824 (1825): — The Present Condition oml 
Prospects of the G reek or Oriental Church, etc. (1820): 
— History of the Church from the Earliest Apes to the 
Reformation (1835): — History of the Reformation on 
the Continent (1841): — and Three Lectures on Xationul 
Education (1845). See English Cyclopaedia, s. v. 

Waddle, Bkxjamix, D.D., a minister of the United 
Presbyterian Church, was born in Ohio County, Va., June 
2, 1802. At twenty-one years of age he commenced 
making preparation for the ministry. He received his 
classical education at Wheeling Academy. At the so- 
licitation of Bev. Dr. Samuel Findley, he went to Wash- 
ington. <)., to assist him in a grammar-school. In No- 
vember, 1820, he entered the theological seminary at 
Pittsburgh, from whence he graduated. He was licensed 
to preach at Washington April 28, 1828, and accepted 
a call to Jonathan Creek, Kush Creek, Thornville, and 
Zanesville, and the following May was ordained, lie 
remained over this charge seven years, when he accept- 
ed a call to Crooked Creek, where his labors were great- 
ly blessed, lie remained there six years, during which 
time he was instrumental in founding Muskingum Col- 
lege. He was sent with Dr. Findley as missionary to 
Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, and Missouri. In 1858 he labor- 
ed as a missionary at Chicago. In 1859 he took charge 
of a Church in Kenton, O., where he remained until 1871, 
when he was elected by the friends of the Bible in com- 
mon-schools to represent Hardin County in the Legisla- 
ture of Ohio. He rendered satisfaction to his constitu- 
ents, and maintained his character as a minister in his 
somewhat doubtful position. His name was a synonym 
of goodness. He died at Kenton in 1879. (W. P. S.) 

W'addy, Samitisl Douslaxd, D.D., an English Wes- 
leyan Methodist minister, son of Ilev. Bichard Waddy, 
was born at Bnrton-on-Trent, Aug. 5, 1804. He was 
educated at the Wesleyan Academy, Woodliouse Grove, 
Yorkshire (1813 to 1819). In 1820 he was apprenticed 
to a linen-draper in London — in an occupation uncongen- 
ial, and to a master unscrupulous. He and his fellow- 
apprentice — the late Samuel Warren, M.D., LL.l)., au- 
thor of Ten Thousand a Year, etc., and son of Dr. Sam- 
uel Warren, famous in Methodist history — had to sleep 
on the tloor under the shop counter; and on account of 
bis refusal to be implicated in the dishonesty of his 
master, young Waddy was soon banished to sell goods 
in a damp, cold, underground department, where, no cus- 
tomers appearing, he commenced, by the aid of a flick- 
ering lamp, the study of medicine. His indomitable 
spirit was leading the way to eminence as a medical 
man, when bis conversion (1822) gave him to the min- 
istry ( 1825). His charges were Cambridge, Lynn (1826), 
Birmingham (1827), Gateshead (1829), Northampton 
(1831), Sheffield (1836), Hull (1840), Bath (1841), gov- 
ernorship of Wesley College, Sheffield— an institution 
which he had founded, and now saved — (1844-G2), 
Chelsea (1862), Lambeth (1865), and Clifton, Bristol 
(1867). In 1842 he publicly opposed Sir James Gra- 
ham's Factories Education Bill, and received the thanks 
of lord Duncan. In 1843 he had a remarkable escape 
from the shipwreck of the “Queen,” on her way to Dub- 
lin. a thrilling account of which he published in London, 
and reprinted in his Life . The following spring he was 
again sent to Ireland on a missionary deputation. In 
1859 he was elected president of conference, and re- 
ceived his doctorate from Wesleyan University, Conn. 
For many years he was treasurer of the Childrens Fund. 
In 1870 Dr. Waddy became supernumerary, and retired 


to Bedlam!, Bristol. Like dean Swift, he “died at the 
top.” The intellect, too active in life, lost its cunning, 
the memory its power. Finally, the great spirit passed 
away, Nov. 7, 1876. 

“Seldom lias a man been intrusted with an intellect 
at once so strong and so sprightly; seldom have the 
earnest student, the powerful preacher, and the effective 
administrator been so happily united in the same per- 
son. Waddy was a great and noble man, of strongly 
marked individuality, strict integrity, and high-toned 
honor, admirable alike in public and private life” ( Min- 
utes, 1877, p. 18). hi a beautiful and masterly memori- 
al, an inimitable piece of characterization, Bev. William 
Arthur tints speaks of Dr. Waddy as a preacher: “Those 
who best knew these private qualities also best knew 
that the gravity, depth, and elevation, which took up 
the whole man when lie appeared in the pulpit, were as 
spontaneous as the rest. He was not now the friend 
among friends, but the servant in the presence of his 
Master, whose greatness and whose goodness put him 
and all his fellow-servants to shame, and, at the same 
time, gave them cause for adoration, of which t lie deep- 
est tone can never fully note the depth, lie was now 
a messenger fraught with words of import, and bound 
to make their sense understood and their weight and 
urgency felt. Then did thought sit supreme in every 
chamber of the spirit, and look out with a most manly 
earnestness from every window of the countenance. 
Calm, strong, reverent, and original; acute, lofty, rich, 
and often deep, he unfolded his Master’s message, and 
laid his Master’s will upon the soul” (see Life , p. 342 
sq.). “ Dr. Waddy was the brightest and most vivid 

of men in society. No one that ever passed a free hour 
in social intercourse with him could believe that even 
Sydney Smith was a wittier man or uttered more, or 
more pungent or more brilliant, mots. Every sentence 
sparkled ; every repartee flashed. Now graceful, now 
caustic, now irresistibly comic and grotesque, the play 
of his wit was incessant and inexhaustible” (Dr. J. II. 
Bigg). “Like the flashing of steel, it never gave an 
impression of less than the strength of steel” (Arthur). 
“ His humor was always brilliant, never cruel; like the 
flame of a diamond, bright but not burning” (Simpson, 
in X. Y. Christian Advocate, Nov. 18, 1880). 

Of Dr. Waddy ’s writings there were published, Ere - 
ter Hall Lecture on Sincerity (Loud. 1853): — Er-presi- 
dential Charges (ibid. I860) : — a volume of Sermons , is- 
sued by his family : — and several A ddresses , Letters , etc., 
preserved in his Life. See particularly a Letter to the 
London. Times (Sept. 8, 1849) in defence of the action of 
the Conference in re Everett, Griffith, and Dunn {Life, 
p. 209-219); and a Lecture on Popery (p. 364-405, Ap- 
pendix). Waddy, like most of the British Wesleyan 
divines, could see no good in the Homan Catholic 
j Church. He closes this able lecture with a highly 
rhetorical and unlimited denunciation of the hated 
Church, a denunciation repugnant alike to fact and 
charity. Dr. Waddy was the brother of Bev. Benjamin 
B. Waddy, and father of Samuel D. Waddy, Q.C., a 
prominent Liberal member of Parliament, and of Bev. 
John T. Waddy, of the British Conference. See Min- 
utes of Conference (Loud. 1877), p. 17; Life of S. !). 
Waddy, J).D. , bv his youngest (laughter (ibid. 1878, 
12mo), a beautiful and admirably written biography; 
Stevenson, Hist, of City Hoad Chapel, p. 226. 

Wade, Alpheus, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born at Pawlet, Vt., June 14, 1801. lie was con- 
verted when about nineteen, and licensed as a local 
preacher in 1821. In 1838 he joined the Troy Confer- 
ence, and was appointed to the Luzerne Circuit. Subse- 
quently he served at Ticonderoga and Jay, N. Y. ; Al- 
burgh, Sheldon, and Monkton, Vt.; Northampton, N. Y. 
In 1817 he was supernumerated, and in 1852 was super- 
annuated. He died at Amsterdam, N. Y., July 26, 1868. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1869, p. 117. 

Wade, Deborah B. Lapham, an eminent Bap- 


WADE 


844 


WADSWORTH 


tist missionary, wife of Bev. Dr. Jonathan Wade, was I 
born in Nelson, N. June 10. 1801, She sailed for 
Burmah, the field of Christian labor to which she and 
her husband had been designated by t he Baptist Trien- ! 
liial Convention, June 22, is*23, and arrived at Calcutta 
Oct. 1!», and Bangoon Dec. 5, of the same year. Soon 
after they reached their station, the first Burmese war 
broke out, and A1 r. and Airs. Wade took up their resi- 
dence in Doorgapoore. about live miles from Calcutta. 
Here they gave themselves to the work of studying the 
Burmese language and fitting themselves for the mis- 
sionary labors upon which they proposed to enter when- 
ever t tie providence of God should prepare the way. In 
1826, the war having ended, they returned to Burmah. 
and took up their residence at Amherst, in t lie month 
of November, Mrs. Wade devoted herself for a time to 
the care of the infant left by the tirst Mrs. Judson. and 
on its decease she established and superintended a school 
for Burnian girls, and performed missionary labor among 
the Burmau women. Amherst not proving to be so 
hopeful a place for missionary work, .Air. and Airs. Wade 
removed to Alaulmain, and in 1830 to Bangoon. Sub- 
sequently they went to Afergin. In all these different 
stations Airs. Wade devoted herself with great fidelity 
and perseverance to the work which she had undertak- 
en. We have read of but few persons who were more 
thoroughly consecrated to the service of their Alaster, 
and lived as if immediately in his divine presence. She 
returned to the United States in 1833 on account of the 
ill-health of her husband. Wherever she went, her 
presence was an inspiration, and she was the means of 
arousing the deepest interest in the cause of foreign 
missions. She spent a year and a half in her native 
land, and then returned to the sphere of her labor, once 
more to devote herself to the service of her Lord. What 
she accomplished during the next fourteen years cannot 
be told in a sketch so brief as this. The records of the 
final day, alone, will disclose it. The health of her hus- 
band again broke down, and she once more went back 
to her native land, reaching Boston July 31, 1848, and 
remaining in her own country two years; as useful, per- 
haps, at home as she had been on foreign shores in the 
great work to which she had consecrated all her faculties. 
On July 25, 1850, she again set sail for the East, and in 
due time stood once more on the soil of Burmah. Iler 
missionary labors were carried on in Alaulmain and Ta- 
vov. and continued up to within a few months of the close 
of her life. Some time before the end of her toils was 
reached, she wrote to a friend, “ We are old. very old, for 
India; ami we live daily looking for the bright messenger 
to call us home. The dear and more and more lamented 
Judson once exclaimed, when near the heavenly shore, 

‘ ( )h, the love of Christ ! What a beautiful study for eter- 
nity 1* And for some time past 1 have had views, as never 
before, of the length and breadth. and height and depth, 
of the riches of the grace of God through Christ our Sav- 
iour; and often does my heart exclaim, ‘ What a beauti- 
ful, what a sublime study for eternity !’ ” The anticipated 
close of life came, and she entered the better world Oct. 5, 
1868. She occupies a conspicuous place among the ablest 
and most devout female missionaries of modern times. 
See Baptist M issionary Magazine, xlix, 9394. (J. C. S.) 

Wade, John, a Congregational minister, was born 
at Ipswich, Alass. He graduated from Harvard Col- 
lege in 1693; was ordained pastor of the church in 
Berwick, Ale., in November, 1702; and died in 1703. 
See Sprague, Annul* of the Amer. Pulpit , i, 189. 

W"ade, Jonathan, D.D.. a distinguished Baptist 
missionary, was born in Otsego. N. Y., Dec. 10, 1798, 
lie pursued his studies at Hamilton; was ordained 
at Broadal'bin, N. Y., Fi b. 13, 1823: set apart as a 
missionary to Burmah the following Alay, and arrived 
at Bangoon in December of the same year. The war 
between Burmah ami the EnglGh seriously deranged 
missionary operations. In 1827 the mission was re- 
moved to Alaulmain, where Air. Wade labored until, in 


1831, he began missionary work in Arracan. His mis- 
sionary life, which was crowned with abundant success, 
covered a period of fifty years. Twice he visited his 
native land, in 1832 and 1847. Just before leaving the 
last time for the scene of his labors in the East, he said, 
“I have lived to see the baptism of fifteen thousand.” 
He died at Bangoon, Burmah, June 10, 1872. See the 
X. Y. Examiner and Chronicle. (J. C. S.) 

Wade, Joshua, an English Wesleyan minister, 
was born near Leeds in 1792. lie was converted when 
fourteen years old; was sent in 1815 to Liskcard, his 
first charge; became a supernumerary at Banwell in 
1811; removed to Kilhampton in 1845; anil died at 
Tamerton, near Plymouth, Uet. 24, 1859. Distinguish- 
ed success marked his labors in some circuits. See 
Minutes of Wesleyan Conference , 1800. 

Wadrakali ( Putragali , Bhatrayali , Pagodon ), in 
Hindu mythology, is a powerful goddess, a daughter of 
Siva, horn in his middle eye by the power of Vishnu. 
She conquered the giant Darida, who could not be slain 
by any man ; and she even became dangerous to her 
own father, who hid himself in the sea when she re- 
turned from her combat with the great deemon. 

Wadsworth. Benjamin (l),D.D., an American 
Congregational minister, uncle of John AV. (below), was 
born at Milton, Alass., in 1GG9. lie graduated at 
Harvard College in 1G90; was ordained in 1G9G, and 
preached at the First Church, Boston, until 1725; was 
president of Harvard College from 1725 until his death, 
which occurred Alarch 1G, 1737. He published numer- 
ous Sermons and theological works. See Sprague, Aw- 
nals of the A mer. Pulpit, i, 220. 

Wads wot til, Benjamin (2), D.D., a Congrega- 
tional minister, was born at Alilton, Aiass., July 18, 1750; 
graduated at Harvard College in 17G9, and was ordained 
Dec. 23, 1772, as pastor in Danvers, where he remained 
until his death, Jan. 18, 1826. lie published. Eulogy on 
Washington (1800): — and several occasional Sinuous. 
See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , ii, 31. 

Wadsworth, George, an English Wesleyan 
preacher, was sent out by the conference in 1770. He 
was a plain, pious man, and fur twenty-five years labor- 
ed in the vineyard. In 1797, being afflicted with the 
palsy, he retired from the active work. Some of his 
faculties were taken from him before his dissolution. 
He died June 12, 1797, See Atmore, Meth. Memorial, 
s. v. 

Wadsworth, John W., a Congregational minis- 
ter, was born in Milton, Alass., Aug. G, 1703. lie was 
the grandson of captain Samuel Wadsworth, who fell at 
! Bloody Brook, lie graduated at Harvard College in 
I 1723; was ordained at Canterbury, Conn., in 1729; and 
! resigned in 1741 on account of a charge of immoral con- 
duct brought against him. He retired to his native 
home, preached occasionally, and died there June 15, 
17GG. Tradition says that his death took place in the 
pulpit immediately after he had read a liyinn contain- 
ing this verse : 

“Ilosanua, with a cheerful sound, 

To God's upholding hand ; 

Ten thousand snares beset ns romid, 

And yet secure we stand.” 

See Cong. Qnar. 1859. p.353. 

Wadsworth, Lemuel, a Congregational minis- 
ter, was bom at Stoughton, Alass., in 17G9. He gradu- 
ated from Brown University in 1793; was ordained 
pastor in Baby, now Brookline, N. 1L, Oet. 11, 1797; 
and died Nov. 25, 1817. See Sprague, Annuls of the 
A mer. Pulpit , ii, 417. 

Wadsworth, Samuel, a Congregational minis- 
ter, brother of John W. (above), was born at Alilton, 
A1 ass., July 23, 1720. In 1747 he was ordained over 
the Separate Church in Killinglv (South), Conn., where 
he preached until his death, in 17G2. He was “a man 
of an excellent gilt in prayer, his conduct extraordina- 


WADSWOItTII 


845 


WAGENSEIL 


rily religious, ami his conversation very heavenly.” See 
Con r. Quur. 1861, p. 184. 

Wadsworth, Thomas, an eminent Nonconform- 
ist divine, was born at St. Saviours, Southwark, Eng- 
land, in 1030, and educated in Christ’s College, Cam- 
bridge. In 1652 he was appointed minister of Newing- 
ton Butts, where he spent his time and a great part of 
his fortune. He lectured occasionally in various city 
churches, and was finally chosen to the living of St. 
Lawrence Pountney, whence he was ejected at the Res- 
toration. He afterwards preached privately at Newing- 
ton, Theobalds, and Southwark, for which he received 
no compensation. He died Oct. 29, I (>7(1. lie publish- 
ed various pious treatises, most of which have been lost. 
See Chalmers, Blog. Diet. s. v. 

Wadsworth, William A., a Methodist Episco- 
pal minister, was born at New Hartford, N. Y. lie de- 
clined a flattering business offer when he entered the 
ministry; officiated some time as local preacher; studied 
theology in Boston University; and in 1855 joined the 
( hiekla, now Wyoming, Conference ; serving as pastor at 
Vernon Centre, Mount Upton, Norwich, Unadilla, and 
Cooperstown. lie died March 9, 1875. Although AT r. 
Wadsworth was not a showy or brilliant speaker, yet 
his sound, instructive, practical sermons made him a 
great power in the Church, lu his daily life he was 
peculiarly affectionate, faithful, and exemplary. See 
J H notes of Annual Conferences , 1875, p. GO. 

Waehrwolf, in Scandinavian mythology, is a 
spiritual being who still creates fear in many people’s 
minds. Superstition teaches that Waehrwolf is a hu- 
man being (man or woman) that is capable of changing 
itself into a wolf. This wolf is unusually large and 
savage, and is known mainly by his riding-belt, an in- 
dispensable article, as it serves him in changing from one 
form to another, and which he seeks to hide, as well as 
he may, under his hair. As soon as he looses the belt he 
becomes a human being again. If the wolf is shot at 
and the belt is hit, there lies, instead of the animal, a 
naked man or woman. In this manner witches are 
said to have been caught who went out hunting for 
prey, and especially children. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. 
Mythol. s. v. 

Waemaemoeiiien, in the mythology of the 
Finns, is one of the supreme gods, who is said to be seen 
in the seven principal stars of the Great Bear constella- 
tion. lie takes the souls of the departed up with him, 
and if it is possible for such a soul to strike the Great 
Bear, it becomes partaker of eternal happiness. He is 
related to Ilmarainen, god of air and water. The name 
of t he father of both is Kawe, and he is the. only being 
sprung from himself. The sons discovered and made 
the arts and sciences — Ilmarainen, the art of working 
iron; Waeinaemoeinen invented the kandele (a fiddle- 
like instrument), and with it poetry and song, hunting, 
fishing, and war, of which he was worshipped as the 
god generally. He was the spirit whence all life pro- 
ceeded, the master of favorable spells, the adversary and 
the conqueror of all personifications of evil, and the 
sovereign possessor of all science. He sent the celestial 
fire to man, and invented incantations. Persons of all 
classes needed to invoke his protection. The sweat 
which dropped from his body was a halm for all dis- 
eases. He alone furnished efficacious assistance against 
the charms of the sorcerers, and an appeal to him was an 
effectual resource against the encroachments of daemons. 
— Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol, s. v, ; Lenormant, Chal- 
deean Magic, p. 24G sq. 

Waeipaes is a ghost of the earth among the 
Finns, who at one time made a long journey with 
his playfellow, and afterwards rested himself upon 
rocks. From their sweat snakes are said to have 
sprung. 

Wael (or Waal), John Baptist de, a Flemish 
engraver of the 17th century, of whom little is known, 
is said to have executed some etchings, among which are | 


a set of prints representing the History of the Prodigal 
Son. See Spooner, Blog. Hist, of the Fine .4 rts, s. v. 

Waeyen, Jan van der. See Waajen. 

Wafer is the rendering, in the A. V., of nrPSIS, 
tsephichith (from HEU, to fatten ), a pancake (Exod. xvi, 
31), and of rakik (from pp"% to make thin), a cake 

(xxix, 2, 23; Lev. ii, 4; vii, 12; viii, 26; Numb, vi, 15, 
19; 1 Chron. xxiii, 29). See Bake. We learn from 
the above passages that such thin cakes made of fine 
flour, usually without leaven, and anointed with oil, were 
used by the Hebrews in connection with their offerings. 
See Sacrifice. The custom, to some extent, is still 
maintained by the Jews. See Passover. 

WAFER, in ecclesiastical terminology, is the bread 
used in the encliarist by the Romanists and Lutherans. 
In the ancient Church, so long as the people continued to 
make oblations of bread and wine, the elements for the 
use of the encliarist were taken out of them ; and, conse- 
quently, so long was the common leavened bread in or- 
dinary use employed for that purpose. The use of wa- 
fers and unleavened bread was not known in the Church 
until the 11th century. It has been conjectured that 
the change crept in from the people’s leaving off’ their 
oblations, and the clergy being compelled to provide 
the bread themselves. Under pretence of decency and 
respect, they changed it from leaven to unleaven. ami 
from a loaf that might be broken, to a nice and delicate 
wafer, which was formed in the figure of a denarius , or 
penny, either to represent the pence for which our 
Saviour was betrayed, or because the people, instead 
of offering a loaf of bread as formerly, were ordered to 
offer a penny, which was to be expended upon some- 
thing pertaining to the sacrifice of the altar. This 
alteration in the encharistical bread occasioned great 
disputes between the Eastern and Western churches, 
which separated about it; the Western Church going 
so far to the extreme as almost to lose the nature of the 
sacramental clement by introducing a thing that could 
hardly be called bread, instead of that which onr Lord 
had appointed to be the representative of his body in 
the encharist. The wafer now in use in the Roman 
Church is a small thin portion of unleavened bread, 
bearing upon it either the figure of Christ or the ini- 
tials I. H. S. In the Church of England wafers have 
been used from the earliest times of Christianity, and 
are still not uncommonly used; but the rubric of the 
present Prayer-book maintains that the best and purest 
wheaten bread that may be conveniently obtained will 
suffice. 

Wafthrudner, in Norse mythology, is a giant, an 
inhabitant of the country of the Jotes. Odin had a 
combat with him. 

Wagenaar, Hans, a Dutch historian, who was 
born at Amsterdam, Oct. 31, 1709, was chiefly occupied 
in commerce and literature, and died March 1, 1773, de- 
serves notice here for several ecclesiastical monographs, 
for which see Blog. Unirerselle, s. v. 

Wagenseil, Christian Jakob, a German writer, 
who was horn Nov. 23, 1756, at Kaufbeuren, and died 
Jan. 8, 1839, at. Augsburg, is the author of, Beitrag znr 
Geschichte der Information, des dreissigjdh rigen Fringes, 
des westphulischen Friedens v. der Jesniten , vom Jahre 
1524 bis zu Fade des Jahres 1699 (Leipsic, 1830): — Ul- 
rich v. Fatten , vach seinem Leben , seinem Charakter v. 
semen Sch r if fen geschildert (Nuremberg, 1832 ; new ed. 
1858) : — Priilat J. Cp. v. Schmid zu Ulm.nach seinem Le- 
ben, Wirken a. Charakter (Augsburg, 1828). See Winer, 
Handbuch der theol , Lit . i, 747,867 ; Zucliold, Bibl. Theol. 
ii, 1408. (B. P.) 

Wagenseil, Johann Christoph, a Protestant 
theologian of Germany, was born Nov. 26, 1633, at Nu- 
remberg. In 1667 he was appointed professor of his- 
tory at Altdorf; in 1674 he occupied the chair of Ori- 
ental languages, and from 1697 that of ecclesiastical 
law, and died Oct. 9, 1705. lie is known as the author 


WAGES 


S46 


WAGXEI 


of Tela Tgnea Sat ana", sire A mini et IJorribiles Judceo- 
rum adrtrsus Christum Deum et Christiana in Iieligionem 
i.ibri (Altdorf, 1G81), a work containing t lie anti-Chris- 
tian literature of the Jews in a Latin translation and 
refutation, lie also translated into Latin the Talmudic 
treatise Sot ah, rt-'O C - Chid. 1674), with very valu- 
able notes. Besides, he wrote, Jhuuneiutio Christiana 
ail O mites J m per antes t/ui Jutheos habent sub Jnrisdic- 
tione sna (ibid. 1703-4 ; reprinted in Schudt’s Jiidische 
Jfeii he ii rd if/kei ten, ii, 330): — Disputatio Ciradaris de 
J ndais (ibid. 1705): — ICxercitntiones Se.r Yani Argu- 
ment i (ibid. It >08). See Burst, /HU, dud, iii, 489 ; \\ iuer, 
Ilandbuck tier theol. Lit. i, 30, 3S0, 524. (B. 1\) 

Wages (usually some form of sukdr , “ to hire” 

[especially in the Hithpael, llag. i, (5, to “ earn wages"], 
chiefly “CT, sukdr [Hen. xxxi, 8; Exod. ii, 9: Ezek. 
xxix. 18, 19; elsewhere ‘•hire,” “ reward,” etc,], and 
miskdreth [Hen. xxxix, 15,31, 41 ; •• reward,” 
L'utli ii, 12]; also HZZZ, peiilidh [Lev, xix, 13; “re- 
ward,” Psa. eix. 20], irurk [as elsewhere mostly ren- 
dered]; piGjog [John iv, 30. elsewhere “reward” or 
“hire”] ,pay; o^wvtoi’ [Luke iii, 14; vi, 23; 2 Cor. xi, 
8; “charges,” 1 Cor. ix, 7], strictly rations), according 
to the earliest usages of mankind, are a return made 
by a purchaser for something of value — specifically for 
work performed. Thus labor is recognised as property, 
and wages as the price paid or obtained in exchange 
lor such property. In this relation there is obviously 
nothing improper or humiliating on the side either of 
the buyer or the seller. They have each a certain 
thing which the other wants, and, in the exchange 
which they in consequence make, both parties are alike 
served. In these few words lies the theory, and also 
the justification, of all service. The entire commerce 
of life is barter. In hire, then, there is nothing improp- 
er or discreditable. It is only a hireling — that is, a mer- 
cenary, a mean, sordid spirit — that is wrong. So long as 
a human being has anything to give which another 
human being wants, so long has he something of value 
in the great market of life; and whatever that some- 
thing may be. provided it does not contribute to evil 
pasrdous or evil deeds, he is a truly respectable capital- 
ist, and a useful member of the social community. The 
scriptural usage in applying the term translated “wages” 
to sacred subjects — thus the Almighty himself says to 
Abraham (Hen. xv, 1), “I am thy exceeding great re- 
ward” — tends to confirm these views, and to suggest 
the observance of caution in the employment of the 
words “hire” and “hireling,” which have acquired an 
offensive meaning by no means originally inherent in 
themselves, or in the Hebrew words for which they 
stand (xxx, 18,32,33). — Kit to. See Hireling. 

The earliest mention of wages is of a recompense, not 
in money, but in kind, to Jacob from Laban (Gen. xxix, 
15.20; xxx, 28; xxxi, 7, 8, 4 1). This usage was only 
natural among a pastoral and changing population like 
that of the tent-dwellers of Syria. Burckhardt men- 
tions a case it) Syria resembling closely that of Jacob 
with Laban — a man who served eight years for his food, 
on condition of obtaining his master's daughter in mar- 
riage, and was afterwards compelled by his father-in- 
law to perform acts of service for him (Syria, p.297). 
In Egypt, money payments by way of wages were in 
use, but the terms cannot now be ascertained (Exod. ii, 
9). Among the Jews wages in general, whether of sol- 
diers or laborers, are mentioned (Hag. i, ti: Ezek. xxix, 
18. 19; John iv, 3G). The only mention of the rate of 
wages in Scripture is found in the parable of the house- 
holder and vineyard (Matt. xx. 2), where the laborer’s 
wages are set at one denarius per day, probably — fifteen 
cents, a rate which agrees with Tobit v, 14. where a 
drachma is mentioned as the rate per day. a sum which 
may be fairly taken as equivalent to the denarius, and 
to the usual pay of a soldier (ten asses per diem) in the 
later days of the Homan republic (Tacitus, .1 mi, i, 17; 


Polybius, vi,39). It was perhaps the traditional remem- 
brance of this sum as a day’s wages that suggested the 
mention of “drachmas wrung from the hard hands of 
peasants” (Shakspeare, Jid. Ctes. iv, 3). In earlier times 
it is probable that the rate was lower, as until lately it 
was throughout India. In Scotland we know that in 
the last century a laborer’s daily wages did not exceed 
sixpence (Smiles, Lines of Engineers, ii, 9G). But it is 
likely that laborers, and also soldiers, were supplied with 
provisions (Miehaelis, Laics of Moses [ed. Smith], § 13th 
ii, 190), as is intimated hv the word d^torta, used in 
Luke iii, 14. and 1 Cor. ix. 7, and also by Polybius, vi. 
39. The Mislma (Baba Metsia , vi, 1, 5) speaks of vict- 
uals being allowed, or not, according to t lie custom of 
the place, up to the value of a denarius, i. e. inclusive of 
the pay. 

The law was very strict in requiring daily payment 
of wages (Lev. xix, 13; Dent, xxiv, 14, 15); and the 
Mishna applies the same rule to the use of animals 
{Baba Metsia, ix, 12). The employer who refused to 
give his laborers sufficient victuals is censured (Job xxiv, 
11), and the iniquity of withholding wages is denounced 
(Jer. xxii, 13 ; Mai. iii, 5; James v, 4). — Smith. See 
Servant. 

Wagg, John D., a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, South, was born in Jefferson, N. C., July 
8, 1835. He embraced religion in early life, and united 
with the Holstou (E, Tenn.) Conference in 1858. In 
18G5 he was granted a superannuated relation, and died 
June 13. 18GG. Mr. Wagg possessed more than ordina- 
ry preaching abilities, and for meekness and piety was 
worthy of imitation. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences of the M. J:\ Church , South, 18GG, p. G3. 

Waggoner, Samuel, a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in Stokes County, X. C.. Oct. 24, 1788. He 
was converted in 1808, joined t he Virginia Conference 
in 181 1, and was appointed to Salisbury Circuit. lie 
was ordained deacon in 1813, elder in 1815, and died 
April 13, 181G. Mr. Waggoner was laborious, intellect- 
ual, and faithful. See Minutes of Annual Conferences . 
1817, p. 291. 

Wagl, Friedrich, a Homan Catholic theologian of 
Austria, was born in 1807 at Horn, In 1831 he was 
made a priest; in 1835, doctor of theology; in 1838, 
professor of exegesis at Griitz; and died Sept. 10, 1871. 
at Pbtzleinsdorf, near Vienna. He published, lhr 
P riest er uml die Xeuzeit (Griitz, 1850) : — Dev Jielk/ions- 
nnterricht an der Volksschule (ibid. eod.). See Literar - 
ischer Jlundiceiser , 18G6, p. 153 ; 1871, p. 525. (B. I’.) 

Wagner, Daniel, a German Reformed minister, 
was born in the duchy of Nassau in 1750, and brought 
to this country by his parents when only two years of 
age. He studied the classics under Hev. John I). Gross, 
of New York city, and theology under Hev. William 
Mendel, of Lancaster, Pa. lie was licensed by the Ger- 
man C(i*tus in 1771 ; preached at Kreutz Creek, Pa., 
1771-74; York and other places, 1774-8G; Tulpehocken. 
Heidelberg, Bern, Berg, Summerberg, 1786-93; York, 
1793-1802; and Frederick, Aid., 1802-10, where he died, 
in 1810. See Harbaugh, Lices of Fathers of the Germ, 
lief. Church , ii, 229 sq. <* 

Wagner, Friedrich, a Protestant minister of 
Germany, was born Jan. 21, 1093, at Caro, not far froth 
Magdeburg. He studied theology and philosophy at 
llalle from 1712 to 1710. In the latter year he was ap- 
pointed teacher there, and entertained the hope of being 
sent as a missionary to East India; but in 1719 he was 
called to Berlin, where he remained two years, when he 
went to Nauen as pastor primarius. A few years later 
he wont to Stargard as provost and pastor of St. Mary’s, 
at the same time occupying the chair of theology and 
Hebrew literature at the gymnasium there. In the 
year 1730 he was called to Hamburg, where he died, 
July 6, 1700, having received two years previously t lie 
degree of doctor of divinity from the Jena University, 


WAGNER 


847 


WAGON 


Ilis writings are given in During, Die gelehrteri Theolo- 
gen Deutscli lands , iv, 012 sq. (B. P.) 

Wagner, Henry, a German Deformed minister, 
was born in Perks County, Pa., April 3, 1802. fie 
united with the Church at Aaronsburg, Pa., when about 
nineteen years of age; entered the Theological Seminary 
at Carlisle, l’a., in the spring of 1825, and remained 
about three years; began preaching in the Paradise 
charge in 1828, and was ordained bv the synod in the 
autumn of the same year; labored extensively in this 
charge for several years, preaching to eight of more 
congregations; became pastor of the Lebanon charge, 
composed of Lebanon, Hill Church, Jonestown, Ann- 
ville, and Campbellstown, in 1835; accepted a call from 
McConnellsburg charge, Fulton County, Pa., in 1851; 
preached at Merccrsburg from 1853 to 185(5; began his 
pastorate at Onvigsburg, Schuylkill Co., in the spring 
of 1856; resigned his pastoral charge, and relinquished 
the active duties of the ministry in 18(55; and died at 
Lebanon, Pa., May 25, 1861). “As a theologian and as 
a preacher he stood high among his brethren. His 
sermons were always well prepared, and replete with 
sound doctrine and evangelical truth. As a pastor he 
was faithful and active; as a catechist he was thorough 
and earnest; as a father in the ministry he possessed 
the all'ections and regard of all. Ilis labors in building 
up the Church were arduous and successful. Ilis min- 
istry has left a sweet savor, ami will long be held in 
gratefid remembrance.” See IIarbaugli,/'«//ie?vf of the 
Germ. Ref. Church , iv, 224 sq. 

Wagner, Johann Jakob, a German philosopher, 
was born at. Ulm in 1775, and became professor at Wurz- 
burg. He died Nov. 23, 1841. His principal works are, 
Philosophie tier Erzieh u ngsku nst (1802 ): — Von tier Xa- 
tur tier Dinge (1803): — System tier Idealph ilosoph ie 
(1804 ) : — G ruwlriss tier Stuutswissenschaft und Politik 
(1805): — Religion , Wissenschaft , Kunst u. Stunt in ihren 
gegenseitigen Verhiiltnissen ( Leips. 1819 ): — Theodicee 
(Pam berg and Wurzburg, 1809 ): — Ideen zu einer allge- 
meinen J Igthol. tier ulfen Welt (Prankf. 1808): — Mtith. 
Philosophie (1811): — Organon der menschlichen Er- 
l' e tint niss (1830): — and Xuchgelussene Schrifteu (1853). 
See Kahns, J . ./. 1 Vagner's Lehen , Lehre , und Bedeutung , 
etc. ( Nureinburg, 1862); Adam and Kdlle, J. J. Wag- 
ner's Lebensnavhrichten und Bricfe (1848). 

Wagner, Joseph, a Swiss engraver, was born at 
Thalendorf, on Lake Constance, in 1706. lie first stud- 
ied painting, at Venice, under Jacopo Amiconi, who ad- 
vised him to devote himself to engraving. He then 
went to Paris, where he studied under Lawrence Cars. 
He also visited London in 1733, where he resided some 
time, and engraved several plates. He after wards re- 
turned to Venice, where he established himself as an 
engraver, and carried on a trade in prints. He died at 
Venice in 1780. Among his best works are the follow- 
ing: The Education of the Virgin, after Amiconi : — The 
Infant Christ Sleeping, after the same '.— The Jloly Fam- 
ily, after Paul Veronese : — The Interview between .Jacob 
and Rachel , after L. Giordano : — Rebecca Receiving the 
Presents from Eleazar, after the same : — The Death of 
Abel , after Benedetto Luti : — Mary Magdalene in the 
House of the Phttrisee , after the same : — The Virgin and 
Infant Christ, after Solimena : — The Assumption of the 
Virgin , after Piazzetta: — and St. John in the Desert. 
after C. Vanloo. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine 
A rts, s. v. 

Wagner, Tobias, a noted German theologian, was 
born at lleidenheim, in Wiirtemberg, Fob. 21, 1598. 
He pursued his studies at the convent of Maiilbronn, 
and afterwards at the University of Tubingen, taking 
the degree of master of arts in 1618. lie was made 
deacon in 1624, and eight years later pastor at Essling- 
en. His profound learning caused him to be invited 
to Tubingen, in charge of the magistracy; and in 1(553 
he was made professor of theology, in 1656 vice-chan- 
cellor, and chancellor in 1662. lie died Aug. 12, 1680, 


leaving a large number of theological works, important 
in their day, for which see Biog. Unicerselle, s. v. 

Wagnitz, lliiixmcii Balthasar, a Protestant the- 
ologian of Germany, was born Sept. 8, 1755. In 1777 
be was appointed fourth preacher at St. Mary’s, in Halle : 
in 1786 he was made deacon there; and in 1809, pro- 
fessor of theology and superintendent and pastor, lie 
died Feb. 28, 1838, lie wrote, Memorabilien den Predi- 
gern ties 19. Jahrhunderts gewidmet (Halle, 1802-6, 2 
vols.) : — Homiletische Abhandlungen und Kritiken (ibid. 
1783-85, 2 vols.) : — Liturgisches Journal (ibid. 1801-9, 
1812, 8 vols.): — Religionslehren in Beispielen (ibid. 1799, 
1800, and often, 2 vols.) : — Ueber die Phduomena vor tier 
Zerstorung Jerusalems (ibid. 17.S0). See Burst, Bib/. 
Jud. iii. 490; Xnchold, Bibl. Theol. ii, 1410; Winer, 
Htiudbuch der theol. Lit. i, 6; ii, 35, 36, 37, 58, 63, 161. 
282, 362, 389, 398. (B. P.) 

WagnofF, ill Norse mythology, was the god of war 
among the Danes, who often was mistaken for Fro or 
Odin, and was represented as similar to these, armed 
with helmet, shield, and sword. 

Wagon (Slbjr. agaldh [Gen. xlv, 19, 21, 27; xlvi, 
5; Numb, vii, 3, 6, 7, 8; elsewhere “cart”], from blV, 
to roll ; or 22H, rekeb [ Ezek. xxiii, 24; elsewhere 
“ chariot”], from 22*1, to ride). Among the Israelites 
in Palestine, we find in use from the time of the judges 
transport-wagons (1 Sam. vi, 7 sq.; 2 Sam. vi, 3; Amos 
ii, 13), as well as vehicles for persons, especially princely 
carriages (1 Sam. viii, 11; 2 Sam. xv, 1 ; comp. Isa. 
xxii. 18), for journeys (1 Kings xii, 18; xxii, 35; 2 
Kings ix, 27). The former, or carts, were called PlbriP 
(used for family transportation in the case of masses, 
Gen. xlv, 19, like the Greek upaZa and the Latin 
plaustrum), while those with seats (2 Kings x, 15) were 
designated as P12D“iE, chariots ; and both eventually 
22*1 simply. The 212 P"P55* of Numb, vii, 3 were 
probably (so Onkelos, Aqnila, the Vulg., etc.), as in the 
A. V., ‘‘ covered wagons,” in which the sacred utensils 
were carried (Sept, itpa^ai \ap7rrjriKai, rehiculti tecta: 
see Schleusner, Thesuur. Philol. iii. 432). See Littisr. 
A travelling carriage is also mentioned in the New Test. 
(«//«$«, Acts viii, 28 sq. ). All these vehicles, whose 
construction we cannot particularly make out. (see the 
Mishna [Chelim, xiv, 4], which mentions three kinds of 
wagon [ibid, xxiv, 2]) — except that the wheels gener- 
ally were called or D^^ba, the hubs 

the felloes C" , 2S or Pisa, and the axle *U, while the 
gearing-up of the horses was denoted by “EX (to bind), 
once (Mie. i, 13) by CPI (of the like signification) — and 
which were sometimes drawn by oxen (1 Sam. vi, 7; 2 
Sam. vi, 6), especially those for transport, and some- 
times by horses (as equipage) or perhaps asses, appear 
nevertheless to have been customarily employed not so 
much in the mountain districts (which were ill adapted 
through lack of carriage roads) as in the southern and 
maritime regions ; whereas in modern times the inhabi- 
tants are in the habit of riding (on the backs of horses, 
donkeys, or mules), leaving burdens to be borne by 
camels; and carriages (with the exception of a few for- 
eign coaches) are rarely seen in the East (Kortc, Reisen, 
p.434), even in Egypt (Mayr, S chicks ale, ii, 40), where 
they were anciently very numerous (Herod, ii, 108). 
The Canaanites had war-chariots before the arrival of 
the Hebrews (Josh. xi. 4; xvii, 16; Jmlg. iv, 3), like 
the Philistines (i, 19; 1 Sam. xi ii, 5; comp. Jer. xlvii, 
3) and later the Syrians (2 Sam. x, 18; 1 Kings xx, 1 ; 
xxii, 31 ; 2 Kings vi. 14 sq.); and the immense num- 
bers of these (900 in jmlg. iv,3; 1000 in 1 Chron. xviii, 
4; 30,000 in 1 Sam. xiii, 5; comp, the 1200 Egyptian 
chariots in 2 Chron. xii, 3) are continued by other an- 
cient accounts (Xenoph. .1 nab. i, 7, 11; Diod. .sic. i, 54 ; 
comp. 2 Macc. xiii, 2). This gave the natives a great 
advantage at first (Josh, xvii, 16; but comp. Yeget. 


WAGSTAFFE 


WAGON S4S 



Milit. iii, 24). which David at once effectually overcame 
iu a pitched battle (2 Sam. viii,4); and Solomon estab- 
lished cavalry stations 1 Kings ix, 19; x, 

‘2ti ; comp, v, 0) as a deieiice ( Ewald, Isr. Gesch. iii, 
7'2 sip ). These foreign war vehicles are sometimes 
called chariots of iron (PT~2 Josh, xvii, 10, IS; 

Judg. i, 19; iv, 3). meaning either constructed wholly 
out of or simply strengthened by iron, or rather per- 
haps scythe-armed (“currus falcati,” Curtins, iv, 12, G; 
xv, 3, 4; comp. iv. 9, 5; Livv, xxxvii,41 ; Veget. Milit. 
iii. 21: up/iam f ot7rma]<po()(i, Xenoph. .4 nab. i, 7, 10; 
Diod. Sic. xvii, 53; Appian, Syr. xxxii; see Schicke- 
danz, Dc Cnrrihus l'alcatis [Serv. 1754]; comp, the 
~ Z“n of Xah. ii, 4). See Jahn, A rchciol. II, ii, 

439 sip ; Lvdius, ])c Re Milit. (ed. Van Til. Dordr. 1098), 
p. 131 sq. ; Wichmannshausen, De Cnrrihus Belli (Viteb. 
1722); Scheffer, J)e Re Vehiculari ( Francof. 1071); 
Fabricv, Recherches sur V Epoque de V Equitation ( Par. 
1704); Ginzrot, Die Wayen der Gr.und Rom. (Munich, 
1813). — Winer. See Chariot. 

With some small exceptions, it may be said that 
wheel carriages are not now employed iu Africa or 
Western Asia; but that they were anciently used in 
Egypt, and in what is now Asiatic Turkey, is attested 
not only by history, but bv existing sculptures and 
paintings. It would seem that they were not in early 


times used in Palestine, as, when Jacob saw them, he 
knew they must have come from Egypt. Perhaps, 
however, he knew this by their peculiar shape. The 
covered wagons for conveying the materials of the tab- 
ernacle were probably constructed on Egyptian models. 
They were each drawn by two oxen (Numb, vii, 3, 8). 
Herodotus mentions a four-wheeled Egyptian vehicle 
(aftaZa) used for sacred purposes (Herod, ii. 03). Two- 
wheeled wagons, or rather carts, are frequently repre- 
sented on the Assyrian sculptures, especially for the 
conveyance of (female and infantile) prisoners away 
from a sacked city (Layard. A ’inevch, ii, 301). The 
only wheel carriages in Western Asia with which we 
are acquainted are, first, a very rude cart, usually drawn 
by oxen, and employed in conveying agricultural prod- 
uce iu Armenia and Georgia; and then a vehicle call- 
ed an arabah, used at Constantinople and some other 
towns towards the Mediterranean. It is a light cov- 
ered cart without springs; and, being exclusively used 
by women, children, and aged or sick persons, would 
seem, both in its use, and, as nearly as we can discover, 
in its make, to be no bad representative of the “wagons” 
in the Pible. No wheel carriage is, however, now used 
in a journey. The Oriental wagon, or arabah , is a ve- 
hicle composed of two or three planks fixed on two 
(sometimes four) solid circular blocks of wood, from two 
to five feet in diameter, which serve as wheels. To the 
door are sometimes attached wings, which splay out- 
wards like the sides of a wheelbarrow. For the convey- 
ance of passengers, mattresses or clothes are laid in the 
bottom, and the vehicle is drawn by buffaloes or oxen 
(Arundell, A siu Minor, ii, 191,235,238; Olearius, Trav , 
p. 309; Ker Porter, Trav. ii, 533). See Cart. 

Wagstaffe, John, an English author of the 17th 
century, >vas educated in Oriel College, Oxford, where 
he remained, and died in 1077. lie published. Histori- 
cal Refections on the Bishop of Rome (1000): — and 
Questions of Witchcraft Debated (1071). See Bliss’s 
Wood, A then. Oxon. iii, 1113. 

Wagstaffe, Thomas, a learned Nonjuring divine, 
was born in Warwickshire, England, Feb. 15, 1045. lie 
was educated at the Charterhouse School under Mr. 
Wood; took the degree of bachelor of arts in 1004, and 
that of master in 1007 ; was ordained deacon JuneO. 1009, 
and priest Nov. 19, same year; rector of Martinsthorpe, 
in the county of Put land, from 1009 to 1070; curate of 
Stow, in the county of Bucks, from 1070 to 1084; chan- 



Tuvkbh Arabah. 





WAHABEES 


849 


WAIL 


cellor of the cathedral church, Lichfield, in 1G84; and 
rector of St. Margaret Pattens, London, in the same year. 
Deprived of his preferments at the Devolution for not 
taking the new oaths, he practiced physic for several 
years in London with good success. In 1003 he was 
consecrated bishop, and afterwards became suffragan of 
Ipswich. He died Oct. 17, 1712. Besides his Sei'nwns, 
he published several tracts in defence of Charles 1. See 
Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Wahabees, a modern Mohammedan sect found- 
ed by sheik Mohammed, the son of Abd-el - Wahab, 
for whom they were named. They preach no new 
doctrine, but have for their distinctive principle a de- 
sire to abolish the idolatrous practices which have con- 
nected themselves with the religion of Islam. They 
reject the worship of Mohammed as gross idolatry, and 
adhere strictly to the Koran; otherwise they observe 
all the rites and ceremonies of the Mohammedans — the 
number of the prayers, the genuflections, the fast of the 
Bam ad an (q. v.), and abstinence from wine and all 
spirituous liquors. Abd-el-Wahab, during his whole 
life, sought to gain converts by peaceable means, but 
his successors followed the example of Mohammed in 
disseminating their principles by the sword, and politi- 
cal interests were united with religious reform. They 
originated in the small tribe of Nedshi, in Yemen; but 
their founder undertook an expedition into Syria and the 
regions bordering on the Euphrates, and having collected 
a number of tribes from the Arabian desert, who became 
converts to his views, he formed them into a distinct 
nation, under the control of Eben Send as their civil 
governor, and himself as their imam, or spiritual ruler. 
This appears to have taken place soon after the middle 
of the last century; but no measures were taken against 
the Wahabees by the Porte until the year 1798, when 
they were attacked hv the pasha of Bagdad, but with- 
out effect, which emboldened them to leave the desert; 
and in 1801-2 they met with signal success, took great 
booty from the neighboring Mohammedans, and capt- 
ured Mecca itself, where they established their power 
in lieu of that of the grand sultan, in virtue of which 
he had hitherto been regarded as the head and pro- 
tector of the faithful. The residence of Send was now 
fixed at Dreich, where he had a palace, and lived in all 
the pomp and splendor of an Eastern prince. In 1803-4 
he made unsuccessful attacks on Bagdad and Bussorah, 
but took Medina in 1804, and in 1805 Jidda, which had 
formerly bathed all his attempts to subdue it. The 
Porte was now obliged to pay a heavy tribute for per- 
mission to send an escort from Damascus with the 
caravans of pilgrims that annually proceeded to Mecca; 
and these caravans were no longer allowed to have 
weapons, flags, or music, or to enter the holy city on 
carpets, as formerly. In 1807 the Wahabees stood in 
the zenith of their power, since which time they have 
been repeatedly repulsed, especially in 1818, when their 
sheik Abdallah, the great-grandson of Sand, the friend 
and protector of Abd-el-Wahab, was compelled to sur- 
render to Ibrahim Pasha, the son of Mehemet Ali, and 
was taken to Constantinople and executed. The sect 
still exists, and is paramount in Central Arabia, where 
the dominions of the sultan of the Wahabees embrace 
not only Nedjcd proper, but the adjacent provinces, and 
include 310 towns or villages, with a population (in 
1863) of 1,219,000. They are a great annoyance to the 
Turkish government, and a terror to the pilgrims who 
proceed from all parts of the East to visit the tomb of 
the prophet. See Palgrave, Central and Eastern A rabia 
(Loud. 1 8G9) ; II istoire des 1 Vahabites depuis leur Origine 
jusqu'a VAn 1809 (Paris, 1810); Burckhardt, Notes on 
the Bedouins and Wahabys (Lond. 1830). See Mo- 
hammedanism. 

Wahl, Christian Abraham, a Protestant theo- 
logian of Germany, was born at Dresden, Nov. 1, 1773. 
In 1808 be was called as pastor to Sch nee berg, lie was 
appointed in 1823 superintendent at Oschatz; in 1835, 
X.— H ii u 


member of consistory in his native place; and died 
Nov. 30, 1855, at Kotschenbroda. lie wrote, llistorische 
Finleituug in die sammtlichen Hitcher tier Bibel (Leips. 
1802): — II istoriseh - praktische Finleituug in die bibl. 
Schriften (ibid. 1820) Qmcstiones Theologico-dogmati - 
cce Candidatis Theol . sese S abject uris Propositus (ibid. 
1806) : — Bibl. 1 1 andworterbuch (ibid. 1825): — Commenta- 
tio de Particuhe d et Pncpos. tig apud X. T. Script ores 
Usn et Potestate (ibid. 1827) : — Claris Novi Testament i 
Philologica (ibid. 1822; 3d ed. 1843), which is the basis 
of Dr. E. Robinson's Greek Lexicon of the X. 7’., the best 
extant : — Claris Librarian, Vet. Test. Apocrypha rum Phi - 
lolog. (ibid. 1853). See Burst. BibLJud. iii, 490 ; Zuch- 
old, Bibl. Theol. ii, 1410 sq.; id. Theol. Universal- Lexikon , 
s. v. ; Wilier, Ilandbuch der theol. Lit. i, 128 ; ii, 301, 304. 
(B. P.) 

Wahl, Samuel Friedrich Gunther, a Protes- 
tant linguist of Germany, was born Feb. 2, 1760, at Alacli, 
near Erfurt. In 1784 he was appointed rector at Biicke- 
burg; in 1788, professor of Oriental languages at Halle; 
and died June 29, 1834. He published, Allgemeine Ge- 
schichte der orientulischen Sprachen u. Literatur (Leips. 
1784) : — Obserrationes Philulog.-eritiece super Psalterii 
Odario 133 (ibid. 1784): — Magazin fur alte, besonders 
morgenlandische nnd bibl. Literatur (Cassel, 1787-90) : — 
Orientalische Bibliothek (Lemgo, 1788-92, 3 vols.) : — 
Elementurbueh fur die arab. Sprache u. Literatur (Halle, 
1789): — Beit rag zur Geschichte u. Statistik der A raber 
(ibiil. 1789): — Uebersetzung , Einleitung u. A nmerk. zn 
Ilabukuk (Ilanov. 1790) : — A I'abische Anthologie (Leips. 
1791) : — A lies vnd neues Yorderasien (ibid. 1795) : — 
Uebersetzung des Koraus (Halle, 1828. and often). Sec 
Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 490; Winer, Ilandbuch der theol. 
Lit. i, 210, 229, 277, 527; id. Theol. Universal- Lexikon, 
s. v. (B. P.) 

Wahlers, F. H., a German Reformed minister, was 
born at Fiihr, kingdom of Hanover, Sept. 10, 1844; emi- 
grated to America; was licensed by the Indiana Classis 
at Lafayette in the spring of 1867 ; began preaching at 
Crothersville, Ind., where he died, March 18, 1868, from 
suffocation, having fallen in an epileptic fit with his face 
in the water. See Ilarbaugh, Fathers of the Germ. Ref. 
Church , iv, 502. 

Wahner, Andreas Georg, a Protestant theolo- 
gian of Germany, was born Feb. 24, 1693, at Khida. He 
studied at Ilelmstadt, especially Oriental languages, 
from 1710 to 1716; and, as the result of his studies, he 
published during that time three dissertations: De Mare 
Aspludtite : — De Regione Ophir: — and De Festo Enaeni- 
orvm. In 1718 he was called, as professor of the Gym- 
nasium, to Gottingen. When, in 1733. that institution 
was changed into a university, he was permitted to lect- 
ure there, and in 1735 he published his Hebrew Gram- 
mar, which is the more remarkable because being the 
first book which was published by that university. In 
the same city he studied the Talmud and the Rabbinical 
writings, his instructor being a learned Jew by the name 
of Ginzburger. In 1738 he was advanced to he ordinary 
professor of Oriental languages. He died Feb. 21, 1762. 
His most important work, which he published in two vol- 
umes, is his Antiquitates Ebnvorum de Isridilicas Gentis 
Origine, Factis, Rebus Sacris, etc. (Gott. 1743), a very 
learned and instructive work, which may still be used 
with great advantage by t lie student. For bis other 
writings, see Fiirst, Bibl. Jnd. iii, 488 sq. ; During, Die 
gelehrten Theologcn Deutschlands, iv, 609 sq. (B. P.) 

Waidshayanta (or Vaidshayanta), in Hindu 
mythology, is the palace of Indra, god of the sun, in India. 

Wail (some form of H!l2 or ^£0, a\a\d%w. It is 
singular to observe the onomatopoetic forms of words 
used in most languages to express the sounds of grief, 
such as bb* 1 , ululare, howl, yell, etc.; all consisting essen- 
tially of the l sound). The Oriental forms of lamenta- 
tion are much more expressive and vehement than with 
us. See Mourning. 


WAIN I SIGHT 


850 


Wainiight, David, an English Congregational 
minister, was horn at Leeds, Jan. 28, 1JS35. lie was ed- 
ucated at Airedale College, and became the minister of 
the Wesleyan Free Church, Great Horton, lie was 
ordained, April (>, 18tJ0, pastor of the Congregational 
Church at. Chorlev, Lancashire, and died Sept. 2 8, I 8(>2. 
Mr. Waiuright was a truth-seeker, and to lint! and com- 
municate what he believed to he truth seemed to be the 
jov of his ministration, See yLond.) Cony, Year-bool', 
isU3, p. 271. 

Waiuright, William, an English Congregational 
minister, was born in London, September, 18Ul>. lie was 
educated at Uhrist’s Hospital, and while there became 
deeply impressed with religious things. He early en- 
gaged in Sabbath-school work and lay preaching, and 
in 1849 was ordained at Tarrant, Hampshire. Mr. 
Waiuright labored successively at Wlieathampstead and 
Cordicote, and was recognised by the Church as an 
earnest and zealous advocate of the religion of Jesus 
Ciirist. He died May 8, 1805. See (Loud.) Cony. Year- 
book ' , 1800, p. 280. 

Wainscot. This term originally seems to have 
implied rough planks of oak timber, and subsequently 
to have been given to wooden panelling, to which they 
were converted for lining the inner walls of houses 
and churches. It was very extensively employed dur- 
ing the reigns of Queen Elizabeth and James I. and for 
a long period afterwards. The name lias long ceased 
to be con titled to oak • panelling. It is also called seel- 
iny-ieork. — Parker, Gloss, of A rehitect. s. v. 

Wain wright, Jonathan Mayiiew, I).D., a bish- 
op of the Protestant Episcopal Church, was born in Liv- 
erpool. England, Feb. 24, 17! >2. His parents were on a 
visit to England when he was born, and they remain- 
ed there until he was eleven years old. During this 
period he spent several years at a school at Ruthin, in 
North Wales. When his parents returned to the United 
States, he was placed in Sandwich Academy, M ass., and 
in due time entered Harvard College, from which lie grad- 
uated in 1812. For some time after his graduation lie 
was proctor and teacher of rhetoric there, and meanwhile 
had resolved to enter upon the ministry. In 1 8 1 G he 
became a deacon, and not long after assumed charge of 
Christ Church, Hartford, Conn., where he was admitted 
to priest’s orders; May 29, 1819, he was made rector of 
the parish; Nov. 25 he was called to he an assistant 
minister of Trinity Church, New York city, where he 
continued to serve until lie was elected rector of Grace 
Church, in the same city, early in 1821. With this 
Church lie spent thirteen years of his ministry. In 
1834 lie accepted the rectorship of Trinity Church, Bos- 
ton, but remained only three years, when he returned 
to New York as assistant minister of Trinity Church, 
the congregation of St. John’s Chapel becoming bis 
more immediate charge, and in this relation he contin- 
ued until the close of his life, lie became involved in 
a controversy with the Lev. I)r. Potts, of New York, in 
1844, which grew out of an assertion which he had 
made, that “there is no Church without a bishop.” It 
was conducted in the form of letters in the AY w York' 
Commercial . I dv^rtiser. and was afterwards published 
in pamphlet form. 1 1 is health having become impair- 
ed, be travelled extensively in Europe and the East in 
1848-49 Ibr recreation: and after bis return be pub- 
lished two large volumes on Egypt and the Holy Land. 
June 15, 18; >2. he was a representative of the Episeopal 
Church in America at the celebration in Westminster 
Abbey, at llic close of (be third jubilee year of the Soci- 
ety for t lie Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts. 
On this occasion Oxford bestowed upon him the degree 
of D.C.L. Oct. 1, 1852. lie was chosen provisional bishop 
of the diocese of New York, and was consecrated Nov. 
9 following. Among the various olliees which he had 
previously filled, it may be mentioned that he was a 
deputy from the diocese of New York to t lie General 
Convention of 1832; was a member of tbe Diocesan 


WAIT, LYING IN 

Standing Committee from 1829 to 1833; was replaced 
on that committee in 1844, and was continued there by 
four successive conventions; from 1828 to 1834 was 
secretary of tbe Board of Trustees of the General Theo- 
logical Seminary; for many years a trustee of Trinity 
School; a trustee of the Society for the Promotion of 
Religion and Learning in t lie State of New York; a 
vice-president of the New York Bible and Prayer-book 
Society; a trustee of the Tract Society; and, from t lie 
beginning, one of the executive committee and a mem- 
ber of the Board of the General Sunday-school Union. 
Dr. Wainwright died in New York city. Sept. 21. 1854. 
Among his literary productions are numerous published 
discourses and several books, viz. : l\ith trays and Abid- 
ing Places of Our Saviour (1850): — Two Orders of 
Family Prayer (1845, 1850 ): — The Land of Pondage 
(1851). He also edited two volumes of Memoirs, one 
of bishop Bavenscroft, of North Carolina, and one of 
bishop Ileber. Dr. Wainwright was a lover of the fine 
arts, and his taste in these matters was excellent. 1 1 is 
sermonic style was perspicuous, but there was little or- 
nament and apparently little elaboration. Ilis elocu- 
tion evinced careful culture, lie bad a strong relish 
for social life, and attracted the refined by bis urbane 
manners. See Sprague, A muds of the A mer. Pulpit, v, 
CIO. 

Wairewert (or Vairevert), in Hindu mythol- 
ogy, is tbe son of Siva, born from bis breath to humble 
Brahma. 

Waishwanara (or Vaishvanara ), in Hindu 
mythology, is a surname of Agni (god of fire), and 
means the all-permeatiny fire, 

'Wait, Daniel GriLFOHn,LL.D., an English divine, 
was born in 1789, and educated at St.John’s College, 
Cambridge. He was for some time curate of Buckle 
Church, near Bristol, and in 1819 became rector of Blag- 
don, Somerset. He died in 1850. lie published several 
works, in which he gives the results of bis researches 
in the Hebrew and other Oriental languages and an- 
tiquities. 

Wait, Lying in Zvtepa'). The natives of 

Western and Central Asia have in all ages been infa- 
mous lor their plundering propensities. Their daring 
in watching caravans can only be equalled by their 
patient watchings in ambuscade: they will remain 
sometimes for days and even weeks, with a very scanty 
supply of provisions, waiting to surprise the unguarded 
caravan or the unwary traveller. Homer aptly de- 
scribes such characters (Iliad, xviii) : 

“A phice for ambush fit they found, and stood 
Cover'd with shields beside a silver flood. 

Two spies at distance lurk, and watchful seem, 

If sheep or oxen seek the winding stream. 

Soon the white flocks proceeded o’er the plains, 

And steers slow moving, and two shepherd swains 
Behind them, piping on their reeds, they go, 

Nor fear an ambush, nor suspect a foe; 

In arms the glittering squadron rising round, 

Rush Midden ; hills of slaughter heap the ground; 
Whole flocks and herds lie bleeding on I lie plains, 
And all amidst them, dead, the shepherd swains!” 

It appears from various parts of Scripture that Pal- 
estine and the adjoining regions were much infested 
by persons who lived by violence, and took refuge in 
tbe many large caves and mountain fastnesses which 
the country afforded them. In t lie civil wars which 
arose out of the usurpation of Abi moloch, we find that 
the men of Shechem adopted the Canaanitish, or, as we 
I should call it in modern times, the Oriental custom of 
employing “liers in wait.” The sacred historian re- 
lates, “The men of Shechem set liers in wait for him 
in the top of the mountains, and they robbed all that 
came along that way by them : and it was told Abime- 
■ lech” (Jmlg. ix, 25). The chapter from which we 
have quoted then proceeds to describe how Abimelech, 
by planting an ambush of “liers in wait,” succeeded in 
j surprising the city of Shechem, which be levelled to 


WAIT, LYING IN 


851 


WAITE 


the ground. See Ambush. During the Roman sway, 
the unsettled state of affairs, the frequent wars, and in- 
testine divisions were very favorable to such banditti, 
who continued to increase, so that at last the road to 
Jericho from Jerusalem was so overrun by them that 
it was called “the bloody way.” In the time of Antig- 
onus, Herod, son of Antipater, was obliged to have re- 
course to the Roman soldiers to extirpate them. The 
robbers lived with their families in caves, on the steep 
faces of the mountain precipices, guarded with sharp 
rocks, and apparently inaccessible to invaders. Herod 
caused large wooden chests to be made, and let down 
by an iron chain from an engine on the top of the 
mountains, till they came on a level with the mouth of 
each cave. The chests contained soldiers, well armed, 
and provided with long hooks. They slew with their 
darts and spears as many of the robbers as they could 
reach at the entrance of the caves, and pulled out others 
with their hooks, and cast them down headlong; and 
they set tire to the bushes, etc., about the caves, and 
smothered many more; so by these means the moun- 
tain robbers were extirpated (Josephus, A nt. xxiv, 15). 
Dr. Thomson well describes such scenes {Land and Book , 
i. 487) : 

“The Arab robber lurks like a wolf among these sand- 
heaps, and often springs ont suddenly upon the solitary 
traveller, robs him in a trice, and then plunges again into 
the wilderness of sand-hills and reedy downs, where pur- 
suit is fruitless. Our friends are careful not to allow us 
to straggle about or lag behind, and yet it seems absurd 
to fear a surprise here — Khaifa before, Acre in the rear, 
and travellers in sight on both sides. Robberies, how- 
ever, do often occur, just where we now are. Strange 
country ! and it has always been so. There are a hundred 
allusions to just such things in the history, the Psalms, 
and the prophets of Israel. A whole class of imagery is 
based upon them. Thus, in Psn. x, ^—10 : ‘He sits in the 
lurking-places of the villages, in the secret places doth 
lie murder the innoc ent. He lieth in wait secretly as a 
lion in his den ; he lieth in wait to catch the poor; he 
doth catch the poor when he draweth him into his net; 
he croucheth and hmnbleth himself, that the poor may 
fall by his strong ones.’ And a thousand rascals, the liv- 
ing originals of this picture, are this day crouching and 
lying in wait all over the conn try to catch poor helpless 
travellers. Yon observe that all these people we meet or 
pass are armed ; nor would they venture to go from Acre 
to Khaifa without their musket, although the cannon of 
the castles seem to command every foot of the way. 
St ran ire, most strange landl'but it tallies most wonder- 
fully with its ancient story.” 

In modem times, the Kurds are the most, distin- 
guished among Asiatic nations for their inordinate and 
determined spirit of plunder, and they faithfully pre- 
serve all the habits which the Old Test, ascribes to the 
“liers in wait” of ancient times. A writer in the Sat- 
urday Magazine thus describes them: 

“With them plundering is a natural occupation; and 
every unhappy stranger whom chance or curiosity throws 



Kurdish Liers in Wait. 


in their way they regard as their lawful prey. Should 
the unfortunate being happen to he poor and ragged, he 
is severely beaten for not having brought sufficient prop- 
erty to make him worth robbing. They are not only dar- 
ing robbers, but. skilful thieves; and their boldness is 
solely equalled by their address. Sir John Malcolm, on 
his mission to the court of Persia, in 1810, had scarcely 
set his foot in their territory when he was attacked, in 
spite of his imposing appearance and his numerous at- 
tendants. Captain Keppel was closely watched for sev- 
eral miles, and narrowly escaped a similar visitation. 
Mr. Buckingham was less fortunate; a contribution of 
‘2500 piastres (about $125) was levied on the caravan 
bv which he journeyed, before it was allowed to pro- 
ceed.” 

These marauders not only beset mountain passes and 
detiles, but frequently come into the neighborhood of 
cities for the purpose of kidnapping the unprotected and 
driving them off to be sold as slaves, or murdering and 
robbing those whom they suspect of carrying wealth 
about their persons. The Kurds usually place them- 
selves in ambush near a well, in order to gain posses- 
sion of the persons of young women who come to draw 
water; or near the groves planted round ponds, which 
are sometimes found in the vicinity of Oriental cities, 
and are favorite haunts of the merchants who come to 
enjoy the refreshment of pure air, coolness, and shade. 
See Robber. 

Waitana (or Vaitana), in Hinduism, is a cere- 
mony by which water is made holy. 

Waite, Clarendon, a Congregational minister, was 
born in Hubbardston, Mass., Dec. 12, 1830. Alter gradu- 
ating from Brown University in 1852, he devoted one year 
to business, and then spent three years in the Andover 
Theological Seminary. For six months he was a student 
at the University of Halle, Prussia, when he was sud- 
denly called home by the death of his father. His 
first pastorate was that of the Church in Rutland, Mass., 
where he was installed Feb. 25, 1858, and remained 
eight years. He was very much interested in 
the freedmen in the South, and for six months 
was superintendent of them at Newbern. N. C. 
In that same year he was installed pastor of 
Crombie Street Church, Salem. Mass., where, in 
the midst of his work, he was stricken down. 
He visited Cuba in the winter of 18GG-G7, and 
returned strengthened. In the fall of 18G7 he 
was asked to temporarily fill the chair of Eng- 
lish literature and belles-lettres in Beloit Col- 
lege, and consented, but before arriving there 
was attacked with typhoid fever, of which, 
soon after his arrival, he died, Dee. 10, 18G7. 
His sermons were carefully prepared, and were 
earnestly directed towards the salvation of the 
people. See Cong. ( luar . 18G8, p. 28G. 

Waite, John Janies, an English Con- 
gregational minister, was born at Gloucester, 
Feb. 23, 1808. Air. Waite’s thirst, for knowl- 
edge in all departments led him to pursue his 
studies with such avidity as ultimately to im- 
pair his eyesight, of which faculty he was en- 



Robbers’ Cave. 


WAITE 


852 


WAKEFIELD 


tirelv deprived at the age of eighteen. This severe 
affliction served, under the blessing of Clod, to develop 
tbe more rapidlv his intellect iml and moral character. 
For ten years he was engaged entirely in ministerial 
labor, and at the end of this period Mr. Waite com- 
menced his important life-work, the reformation of the 
Psalmody. For several years he had the oversight of 
the Church at Ilminster; but so great was the growing 
appreciation of the value of his labors, and of the sim- 
plicity and general application of his system of teaching, 
that ft became necessary lor him to accede to the request 
,,f his ministerial brethren in London, and devote him- 
self exclusively to his great work. M r. Waite recognised 
the necessity for a purer taste and for a higher standard 
of music in the services of the sanctuary, and with the 
co-operation of the larger churches he was able to do 
much towards laying the foundation for a more extend- 
ed knowledge of musical science. lie died Oct. 25, 
1808. See (Lond.) Cong . Year-book, 1869, p. 291. 

Waite, Thomas, LL.l)., an English clergyman, 
was born in 1770. lie became curate of Wellington ; 
was principal of the grammar-school at Lewisham Hill 
from 1815 to 1833; rector of High Ilalden in 1833; of 
( * real Chart in 1835; and died in 1841. lie published 
several Sermons, Explanatory and Critical, on the Thirty- 
nine Articles (1820). 

Waite, William, a minister of the Congrega- 
tional Church, was born at Idle, England, Jan. 0, 1825. 

1 1 is first religious impressions were received under tbe 
ministry of Lev. J. Stringer, of Idle, whose Church he 
joined/and by whom, with the concurrence of the en- 
tire Church, he was sent to Airedale College, in Jan- 
uary, 1847. He spent five years there in the acquisi- 
tion of knowledge and in preparation for the work of 
the ministry, lie left college at Christmas in 1851; 
settled at Bacnp, Jan. 1 ; was ordained in May; and 
died in September, 1852. During a ministry of a lit- 
tle over one year the Church grew rapidly. His death 
was greatly regretted. “A most pious, devoted, la- 
borious, intelligent, faithful man; he was a truly seri- 
ous, earnest, and energetic preacher of the Gospel.” 
See (Lond.) Cong. Year-book, 1853, p.232. 

Waith, William, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in the parish of Preston-on-Wye, Herefordshire, 
England, April 17, 1700. He received his education in 
the country schools; became an attorney in the Mayor’s 
Court; emigrated to the United States in 1832; was 
licensed to preach by the Buffalo Presbytery in 1835; 
and ordained as an evangelist in 1830. lie preached 
as follows: in Burton, Napoli, Ellington, Silver Creek, 
and Ripley, N. Y., and died at the last-mentioned place, 
June 4, 1800. lie was a good preacher, a laborious and 
faithful pastor, and a true Christian. See Wilson, Presb. 
llist . Almanac , 1801, p. 165. 

Waits were anciently minstrels or musical watch- 
men who sounded the watch at night. They have now 
degenerated into itinerant musicians, who give notice 
of the approach of Christmas. The term is also applied 
to angelic musicians with horns, represented on corbels 
and ceilings. 

Waiwassaden ( or Vaivassaden), in Hindu 
mythology, is the father of Nirkumlen and grandfather 
of Budalshedi, a powerful monarch of India born in the 
dynasty of the Children of the Sun. 

Waiwaswata (or Vaivasvata), in Hindi! my- 
thology, is the son of the god of the sun. lie was saved 
by Vishnu as a fish, prior and subsequent to the great 
Flood. He, a son of the sun, gave his daughter to 
Buddha, a son of the moon, in marriage. Thus he is 
the progenitor of the mighty dynasties the Children of 
the Sun and the Children of the Moon. 

Waizganthos, in Slavonic mythology, is the god 
of fruitfulness and land-tillage, worshipped mainly by 
the Lithuanians. 

Wake (Anglo-Saxon, waican, li to watch”), a holv- 


day festival once universally held in England. In 
early times the day was considered as beginning and 
ending at sunset ; and on t lie eve of the holyday wor- 
shippers repaired to the churches for worship, while the 
following day was spent in amusement. Each church, 
when consecrated, was dedicated to a saint, and on the 
anniversary of that day the parish wake was kept. In 
many places there was a second wake on the birthday 
of the saint, sometimes called Patron or Saint's J Jag. On 
these occasions the tloor was strewed with rushes and 
fiowers, and the altar and pulpit were decked with 
boughs and leaves. Crowds resorted to the wakes from 
neighboring parishes; hawkers or merchants were at- 
tracted by the crowds; and ultimately the wakes be- 
came mere fairs or markets little under the influence of 
the Church, and disgraced by scenes of indulgence and 
riot. The scandal of these scenes became so great that 
in 1285 Edward I passed a statute forbidding fairs 
and markets to be held in country churchyards. In 
1448 Henry VI ordained that all showing of goods and 
merchandise except necessary victuals should be dis- 
continued on the great festivals of the Church. In 
1536, Henry VIII, by an act of convocation, ordered the 
festival of the Saint’s Day to he discontinued, and 
that of the dedication of the church in all parishes 
to be the first Sunday in October. This gradually fell 
into desuetude, the Saint’s Day being the more popu- 
lar festival, and it still subsists in the form of a village 
wake. 

A hyke-wake is a watching all night of a dead body by 
the friends and neighbors of the deceased. In Ireland, 
upon the death of one in humble circumstances, the body, 
laid out and covered with a sheet except the face, and 
surrounded with lighted tapers, is leaked by the friends 
and neighbors. After vociferous lamentations, food and 
whiskey are indulged in, commonly leading to noisy 
and even riotous demonstrations. The custom, no doubt, 
originated in superstitions fear either of passing the 
night, alone with a dead body or of its being interfered 
with by evil spirits. 

Wake, William, D.D., a distinguished English 
prelate, was born at Blandford,in Dorsetshire, in 1057. 
He was educated at Christ Church, Oxford, where he 
received the degree of master of arts in 1071*, when he 
decided to take orders in the Church, although his fa- 
ther designed him for a commercial Hie. In 1082 he 
went to Paris as chaplain with viscount Preston, envov- 
extraordinarv to the court of France. On his return 
to England, in 1085, he was elected preacher to Gray’s 
Inn. Immediately after the Revolution he was ap- 
pointed deputy-clerk of the closet to king William, and 
in June, 1689, was made canon of Christ Church, Oxford. 
In 1693 he obtained the rectory of St. James’s, West- 
minster. In 1701 he was made dean of Exeter, and in 
1705 bishop of London. In the earlier years of his 
episcopacy he adhered to the Low-Church party, hut 
afterwards became alienated from it, though not becom- 
ing a High -Churchman. In January, 1710, he was 
made archbishop of Canterbury, which office he held 
until his death, which occurred at Lambeth, Jan. 24, 
1737. Among his most important works are the fol- 
lowing: Exposition of the Doctrine oj the Church of 
England (1086) : — A De fence of the Doctrine of the 
Church of England (eod.) : — A Second Defence of the 
Doctrine of the Church of England (1088): — An English 
Version of the Genuine Epistles of the Apostolic Fathers, 
with a Preliminary Discourse concerning the Cse of 
those Fathers ( 1693 ) :— The Authority of Christian 
Princes over their Ecclesiastical Synods Asserted (1097): 
— and other tracts to the same effect. A collection ol 
his Sermons and Charges was published after his death. 
See English Cyclop, s. v. 

Wakefield, Gilbert, first a minister of the 
Church of England, then a Unitarian, was born at 
Nottingham, England, Feb. 22, 1750. He was edu- 
cated at Jesus College, Cambridge, where he graduated 


WAKEFIELD 


853 


WALCII 


in 1776, and was elected to a fellowship the same year, 
lie was ordained in the Church of England in 1778, 
and appointed curate of Stockport, in Cheshire. In 
August of the same year he left Stockport and became 
curate of St. Peter’s at Liverpool, and in 1779 was 
chosen classical tutor of the Dissenting Academy at 
Warrington, in Lancashire, where he remained until 
1783. In the latter year he removed to Brameote, near 
Nottingham, anil in 1790 went to Hackney as tutor 
in a Dissenting academy, where he remained one year. 
The remainder of his life was spent in literary pursuits, 
lie died Sept. 9, 1801. Among his most important 
works are, An Inquiry into the Opinions of the Christian 
Writers of the Three First Centuries concerning the Per- 
son of Christ : — Four Marks of Antichrist, etc. (1778): 
— Internal Marks of the Evidence of the Christian Re- 
liyion (1779): — Translation of the New Testament, with 
Notes (1791): — The /Spirit of Christianity Compared 
with the Spirit of the Times in Great Britain (1796) : — 
and An Answer to the Aye of Reason , by Thomas Paine 
(eod.). 

Wakefield, Robert, a learned English divine in 
the reign of llenrv VI H, was born in the north of Eng- 
land. He was educated at the university and on the 
Continent ; taught Greek, Hebrew. Chaldee, and Syriac 
in France and Germany; in 1519 left his Hebrew pro- 
fessorship at Louvain, returned to England, and became 
chaplain to Dr. Pace; opened a public lecture in Greek 
at Cambridge in 1524, being made B.D. by Henry VIII, 
whom he favored after opposing in the affair of his di- 
vorce from Catherine; was professor of Hebrew at Ox- 
ford in 1530; canon of Wolsej T ’s College in 1532; saved 
Hebrew and Greek MSS. at the dissolution of the lesser 
monasteries in 1536; and died in London, Oct. 8, 1537. 
He left some learned works in language and controversy. 
See Chalmers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. 

Wake -ikatsu-tsino-kami, in Japanese my- 
thology, is the god of flashes of lightning ; a sublime god, 
resident in the main sanctuary at Kamo, near Mijako. 
and who guards the fate of the Mikado. In this sanct- 
uary are yearly held several festivals, of which one,Obi- 
matsuri, is especially remarkable, because the priests 
then appear in the most costly apparel, superseding 
even the splendor of the apparel of the choir of music. 
Resides festive processions, horse-races are a main feat- 
ure of the occasion, in which only kami priests and 
court servants are permitted to participate. — Vollmer, 
Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Wakeley, Joseph B., D.D., a Methodist Episco- 
pal minister, was born at Danbury, Conn., in 1809. 
He was converted when about sixteen, and in 1833 
joined the New York Conference, which he served suc- 
cessively at Salisbury, Conn.; Lee and Lenox, Canaan, 
Stockport, Claverack, and Bloomville, N. Y. ; Seventh 
Street, New York city; and in 1843 at Birmingham and 
Milford, Conn. In 1844 he was transferred to New Jersey, 
in 1852 to New York East Conference, and two years later 
returned to the New York Conference. From 1866 to 
1868 Dr. Wakeley was presiding elder of Poughkeepsie 
District, and for the next four years held the same office 
on the Newburgh District. lie died in New York city, 
April 27, 1875. Dr. Wakeley was a remarkable man in 
many respects. His east of mind was practical. He 
was a model pastor and a prudent counsellor. As an 
ecclesiastical antiquarian he had no equal in the Church. 
His writings were mainly historical and biographical 
memoirs of early Methodism, and embrace Lost Chap- 
ters Recovered from the Early History of Methodism : — 
Anecdotes of the Wesleys: — Anecdotes of Whitefeld : — 
Heroes of Methodism : — Life and Sermons of Beaumont : 
— and Boehm's Reminiscences . See M unites of Annual 
Conferences, 1876, p. 55; Sprague, A nnals of the Amer . 
Pulpit , vol. vii ; Simpson, Cyclop . of Methodism , s. v. 

Wakemanites, a small party of fanatics existing 
at New Haven, Conn., in 1855, who regarded Rhoda 
Wakeman as a divinely commissioned prophetess that 


had been raised from the dead, according to her own 
prediction. Their credulity was carried to an unusual 
extreme. The so-called prophetess claimed that a farm- 
er named Justus Matthews was possessed by an evil 
spirit, and that it was necessary to put him to death in 
order to remove it. Her followers were ready to per- 
form the deed, and even the man himself was willing 
to submit to be murdered as the only means of being 
rid of the evil spirit. Upon the. commission of the 
crime the fanatical sect was soon extinguished. 

Waku-nawo-sonajo, in Japanese mythology, is 
a festival in Dairi, held on the flrst rat-day of the sec- 
ond month, by the eating of fresh vegetables. 

Wala, n Norse mythology, was a wise woman, an 
enchantress, endowed not with imaginary, but with 
real, supernatural powers, and able to fix the fate of 
men. 

Wala, abbot of Corbie, was the son of Bernard 
(natural brother of Charlemagne) by a Saxon woman, 
and seems to have been born about 765. He studied 
at the palatine school, and received the name of .4 rsene 
(male) from his teacher, Alenin, on account of his ener- 
gy. Tudesque was his native tongue, but he well un- 
derstood Latin and Greek. He was employed bv his 
imperial brother in several distant embassies and home 
duties, but was neglected on the accession of Louis the 
Pious (814) ; and two years after he assumed the clerical 
habit at Corbie, where his brother Adalhard was abbot. 
He was banished by the royal disfavor, but was recalled 
in 822, and in 826 became abbot. He died in October, 
835, of grief, at the civil commotions of the times. See 
Iloefer, Naur. Bioy. Generale, s. v. 

Walaeus, Anthony, an eminent Dutch Protestant 
divine, was born at Ghent, Oct. 3, 1573. He officiated 
as pastor at several different places; declared in favor 
of the Counter-remonstrants, and was one of those who 
drew up the canons of the Synod of Dort. He after- 
wards became professor of divinity at Leyden, and died 
July 9, 1639. He wrote, Compendiinn Ethicie Aristote- 
licfe (1636), and the greater part of the translation of 
the Flemish Bible. See Chalmers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. ; 
Bioy. Universelle, s. v. “ Wale.” 

Walafrid Strabo. See Strabo. 

Walaskialf, in Norse mythology, was one of the 
palaces which Odin had in Asgard. It was covered en- 
tirely with silver, and in the main hall were thrones for 
all the higher deities, one, however, especially for Odin. 
It was also called Hlidskialf, and from it Odin could 
view the whole earth. 

Walburga, S r. See Walpurgis. 

Walch, Christian Wilhelm Franz, a theolo- 
gian of Gottingen, was born Dec. 25, 1726, at Jena, where 
his father was professor of theology. He travelled with 
his elder brother, Johann, after completing his studies, 
and made the acquaintance of many of the foremost celeb- 
rities in the literary world of his time. On his return he 
was made extraordinary professor of philosophy at Jena, 
in 1750; and three years afterwards professor of the 
same branch in ordinary at Gottingen. In 1754 he be- 
gan to teach theology as extraordinary professor, and in 
1757 received the theological chair in* the Gottingen 
faculty. His lectures covered the entire field of theol- 
ogy; and, when supplemented with the numerous learn- 
ed works he wrote and the administrative duties he per- 
formed in the government of the university and other, 
institutions, demonstrated his great industry and capac- 
ity for work. He was made a member of various learn- 
ed societies, and an honorary eonsistorial councillor of 
Great Britain. He was married in 1763, and died of 
apoplexy in 1784. 

Walch was rather an industrious compiler than a cre- 
ative genius. His importance lies in the department 
of Church history; his theology being deficient in or- 
thodox life, but pervaded by the historical spirit. II is 


TTALCII 


S54 


WALD 


earliest work, written at the age of twenty-seven, was a 
History of the Lutheran Reliyion, intended to prove the 
correctness of that faith, and also to demonstrate that 
the existence and perfections of God may be seen in 
history as well as in physics and other tields of study, 
lie displayed a constant disposition to make thorough 
and critical examination of all available sources; hut in 
all his works evinced an titter inability to attain to that 
philosophical comprehension of his theme by which he 
could combine his materials into a homogeneous whole. 
In perspicuity and taste he was not the equal of Mos- 
lieint, and in power to excite and stimulate he was very 
much inferior to Sender. II is chid merit lay in ex- 
haustless patience and great conscientiousness, as dis- 
placed in the examination of sources and helps. Many 
of his works are consequently still indispensable as aids 
in their special fields. 

Walclfs most important works are, Antiqnitates Palii 
Philos. Vet. Christ. (Jena, 1 T IG) ; — Hist. Patriarch. J ml. 
(1751): — Wahrhafte Gesch. d. Cat It. v. Horn (Halle, 
1751-54,2 vols.): — Gesch. d. er.-luth. Pel. etc. (Jena, 

1 7 53) : — Hist. Adopt ittnontm (1755, given in revised 
form in vol. ix of the Ketzeryesck .): — Gedunken v. d. 
Gesch. d. Glanbenslehre (175ti; 2d ed. 1764 ): — EntwnrJ 
einer vollst. hist. d. rom. Pdpsfe (Gbtt. 1756; 2d ed. 
1758): — Fntir. einer vollst. Hist. d. Kirchenversammlun - 
yen ( Lei ps. 1759) : — Hist. Protopaschitarum (1760): — 
Grundsdtze d. natiirl. Gottesyeluhrt licit (1760, etc.): — 
Grundsdtzed. Kirchenhist. d. Xenon Testaments (1761 ; in 
a 3d enlarged ed. by .Schulz, 1702): — Entwurf einer 
vollst. Hist. d. Ketzereien , Spa It unyen u. Reliyionsstreitiy- 
keiten , etc. (Leips. 1762 sq., 11 pts., the concluding part, 
reaching down to the Otli cent., bv Spittler), his princi- 
pal work: — Hreviar. Symbol. Eccf. Luth. (Gbtt. 1765, 
etc.): — Biblioth. Symbol. I \dns (Lemgo, 1770): — Kri- 
fische Enters, v. Gebranch. d. heil. Schrift . . . in den ersten 
drei Jahrh. (Leips. 1770). Complete lists of Walch’s 
works are given in Putter, Vers, einer akadem. Gelehr - 
tenyesch. r. (/.... Universitdt zn Gbtt inyen, i, 121 sq. ; ii, 
28 sq. ; Meusel, Lex. rerstorbener deutsch. Schriftsteller , 
xiv, 345 sq. : During. Theoloyen Deutsch lands ini 18. u. 
10. Jahrh. iv. 615 sq. For biographical notices of 
Walch, see lleumann and Less, Memorial of the Gott. 
Faculty in Honor of C. IT. F. Walch (Gbtt. 1784); 
ITeyne, Euloy. lVw. Walch ii (1784, fol.): Winckler, 
Xuchr. v. niedersdchsischen Lenten , ii, 101. For a char- 
acterization, see Banr, Epochal d. kirchl. Geschichfs- 
schreibuuy (Tub. 1852), p. 145 sq. See Herzog, Real- 
Encyktop. s. v. 

Walch, Johann Ernst Immanuel, brother of 
Christian, and the lirst-born son of Johann Georg (q.v.), 
was born in 1725. In 1750 he became professor of phi- 
losophy, and later of oratory and poetry. He was a 
man of wide philological and antiquarian learning, and 
also versed in physics, lie published, Diss. in A eta 
A postal. (1756 sip) in which his archeological knowl- 
edge was applied to the exposition of the New Test. 
After his death appeared Observatt. in Matt, ex Gripe. 
Inscnptt. (Jena, 1779): — Avtiq. Symbol, quibns Symbol. 
A post. Hist. Iffnstr. (ibid. 1772),: — Prnqr. de Peccato in 
Sjiir. Sancf. (ibid. 1751-60 ) : — M armor I/isp. A ntiq. 1 >.r. 
Christ. Xernn. insiyne Docum. (ibid. 1750, 4 to): — and 
Persecnt. Christ Xeron.in l/isp. etc. (ibid. 1753): — Chris- 
tian, sub Dincletiano in /lisp. Persecnt. etc. (1751). See 
During. Theoloyen Dentsrhfands im 18. v. 19, Jahrhun- 
dert , iv, 615 sip ; 1 lerzog, Peul-Encykfop. s. v. 

Walch, Johann Georg, a Jena theologian, the 
father of Johann Ernst Immanuel and Christian Wil- 
helm Franz Walch (q.v.), was horn in 1693. lie 
entered the University of Leipsic in 1710, and became 
master in 1713. His earliest literary endeavors were 
philological. He edited the academical discourses of 
Cellarius, and a series of ancient Latin authors, includ- 
ing Ovid and Lactantius. In 1716 lie wrote the valued 
H istoria Critica Lat. Liny nee. In the same year he es- 
tablished himself at Jena, where lie became professor of 


oratory in 1719, and afterwards of poetry also, and where 
he was associated with Buddeus, who bestowed on him 
his only daughter in marriage. In 1723 he entered the 
1 arena of philosophical discussion with his Gedunken rom 
philosophischen Xaturefl ; and again, in 1724 and 1725, 
with rejoinders to Wolf’s review of Buddeus’s Pedatkai 
iib. d. Wolf 'sch e Philosophic. In 1726 he published a 
Philosophisches Lex ikon, which attained a fourth edition 
in 1775; and in 1727 an Einl. in d. Philosophic, and Ob- 
servatt. in Xor. Test. Libras , quorum 1 Pars ea Conti- 
net Loca quie ex Hist. Philos. Illustr. He united with 
Buddeus in holding fast to the old Lutheran orthodoxy, 
though his reception of natural theology had destroyed 
the old theoretical basis of that, orthodoxy; and. at the 
same time, his views had received an infusion of Pietism, 
which prevented him from sustaining a hostile attitude 
towards that movement. In 1724 he was made theo- 
logical professor extraordinary, doctor of theology in 
1726, professor in ordinary in 1728, and professor pri - 
marins in 1750. Four years later he attained the rank 
of ecclesiastical councillor to the court of Saxe-Weimar. 
He wrote a number of eompends for use in his lecture- 
rooms, which are distinguished by a comprehensive sur- 
vey of the literature bearing upon bis subjects; e. g. 
an introduction in Christian ethics; and others into 
systematic theology, polemical theology, and the theo- 
logical sciences (the latter, 1737, 4to; 2d ed. much en- 
larged, 1753, Svo). The history of theological literature 
is his debtor for valuable service, beginning with the 
publication of Bosii Introd. in Notit. Scriptorum Eccf. 
(Jena, 1733). His Biblioth. Theol. Selecta Litferar. Ad- 
i of. (ibid. 1757-65, 4 vols.) is still valuable, as is also 
the Biblioth. Patrist. Litter. A limit. Instr. (ibid. 1770; 
revised by Danz, 1834). The publication of Luther’s 
I complete works (1740-52, 24 vols.), and of the Book of 
Christian Concord (1750, Germ, and Lat. with historical 
notes), to which he added an Introd. in Libr. Sywb. Eccl. 
Luther. (1752, 4to), is also worthy of note. The re- 
maining more important works of Walch are two intro- 
ductions to polemical theology, Theol. End. in d. vor- 
nehmsten Reliyionsstreitiykeiten, etc. (1724), intended to 
supplement the oral lectures of Buddeus. and Hist. n. 
theol. Einl. in d. Reliyionsstreitiykeiten welch e sonderlich 
ausser d. er.-luth. Kirche entstamlen (1733-36, 5 vols.). 
An Einleituny to the religious controversies within the 
pale of the Lutheran Church (1730-39, 5 vols.) formed 
the complement to the last-named work. Other works 
deserving of mention are his Miscell. Sacra s. Comm, 
ad Hist. Eccl. Sanctioresque Discipl. Pert. (Amst. 1744) : 
— his comprehensive Hist. Eccl. X. T. Variis Obscrratt. 
111. (1744) to the end of the 4th century : — and his Hist. 

' Cont roverss. Gnec. et Lat. de Process. Spirit. Saudi 
(Jena, 1751). Walch was a preacher as well as a schol- 
; ar, and his interest in preaching is attested by a Samm- 
Inny kleiner Schriften v. d. yottyefalliyen A rt zu prediyen 
(1746). Despite his growing decrepitude, he was able 
to complete his Biblioth. Putr. He died in 1775. See 
’ Walch [ C. W. F. ], 1j ben u. Karakter von I)r. J. G. 

' Walch (Jena, 1777, 4 to); Meusel, Lexikon verstorbener 
' deutscher Schriftsteller, xiv, 360; During, Theoloyen 
1 Deutsch lands im 18. u. 19. Jahrhundcrt, iv, 615. — ller- 
! zog, Reul-Encyklop. s. v. 

Wald, Samuel Gottlieb, a Protestant theolo- 
’ gian of Germany, was born at Breslau, Oct. 17, 1762. 
He studied at Halle and Leipsic. In the latter place he 
received the degree of master on presenting a disser- 
tation Cura rum in Historiam Textus Vaticinorum Dani- 
1 elis Specimen Primum, and was thus entitled to lecture 

- publicly. Being a pupil of Sender, Wald followed his 
1 master in the grammatieo-historieal interpretation of 

the Scriptures. Ih 1786 he was called as professor of 
Greek to Kbnigsberg, and in 1793 the University of 
Erlangen made him doctor of theology on presenting a 

- dissertation De Vita, Script is et Sysfemate Mystico Se- 
1 bastiani Frunci. For more than twenty years, Wald 

- labored as teacher and preacher in Kbnigsberg, and 
died Feb. 22, 1828. He published, Proyr. Spicileyium 


WALD 


855 


WALDEXSES 


Variant m Lectionum Codd. IV Veteris Testamend Ifebr. 
Vratislai'iensium (Lips. 1784): — M . A . Flanunii in Li- 
brunt Psalniorum Brevis Lx plana do . . . Curarit et 
Bra fa tus est ( 1 1 ala?, 1785): — Progr. Controversia de 
Bonorum Operant Xecessitate inter Mnscuhnn et Prieto - 
riant Agitata (Lips. 178G): — Tkeologiie Sgmbolicie La- 
the rame Descriptio (Hake, eod.) : — De Vituperio Xeolo- 
gorutn (Regiom. 1787): — Diss. de Vera Vi Vocabulorum 
v:\poq et TTorriij in Epistola Pauli ad Romanos (ibid. 
1788), etc. See During, Die gelehrten Theologen Deutsck- 
lands , iv, 647 sq. ; F first, Bibt. Jud. iii, 491. (B. P.) 

Wald, Wilhelm, a Protestant theologian of Ger- 
manv, was born March 8, 1795, at Kbnigsberg, where 
he also died, Nov. G, 1879, as superintendent and doctor 
of theology. In 1820 he was appointed pastor of the 
llaberberger Church in his native place, where he 
labored for fifty-two years. His literary productions 
are some Sermons , which were printed by request. See 
Xene evangel. Kirchenzeitang, 1879, p.739 sq. (B. P.) 

Waldau, Georg Ernst, a Protestant theologian 
of Germany, was born March 25, 1745, at Nuremberg, 
lie studied from 1763 to 17G7 at Altdorf and Leipsic. 
After completing Ids studies, he returned to his native 
place, where he was appointed vicar of St. Clara’s. In 
1789 he was made professor of Church history, and oc- 
cupied that position until his death, April 27, 1817. He 
wrote, Dissertado Lxegetica adApoc. Hi, 7 (Lips. 1767) . 
l r sus Versionis Alexandrine in Interpret at torn Xovi 
Testamend (Altdorf, 1770): — besides, he published ser- 
mons, aseetical works, etc. See During, Die gelehrten 
Theologen Deutschland s, iv, 650 sq. ; Winer, llandbuch 
der theol. Lit. (Index in vol. ii); Koch, Gesch. des 
deutschen Kirchenliedes . vi, 224 sq. (B. P.) 

Waldegrave, Samuel, an Anglican prelate, son 
of the eighth earl of Waldegrave, was born in 1817. lie 
received a careful religions training; graduated at Ba- 
liol College, Oxford, in 1839, taking double first-class 
honors; and was admitted into holy orders in 1842 at 
Oxford, and ordained to the curacy of St. Ebbe’s in that 
city. In 1849 he was elected fellow of All-Souls’, and 
in 1853 was appointed Hampton lecturer. In 1857 he 
was appointed canon of Salisbury Cathedral, and in 
1860 was called to preside over the diocese of Carlisle, 
which office he held until his death, Oct. 1, 18G9. Bish- 
op Waldegrave was humble and devoted, an excellent 
pastor, and an indefatigable worker, lie published, 
among other works, The Wag of Peace, or Teaching of 
Scripture concerning Justification (Loud. 1848), in four 
sermons at Oxford : — Xew Testament Millenarianism 
(1866) : — and Words of Eternal Life (1864), eighteen 
sermons. 

Walden, Charles, proceeded as a Wesleyan Meth- 
odist missionary to Western Africa in December, 1840. 
It was only for a brief season that the infant Church at 
Cape Coast enjoyed the advantage of his earnest minis- 
try of the Word, his pastoral affection, and his pious 
example. He died July 29, 1841. See Wesleyan Con- 
ference Minutes, 1842. 

Waldenses, The, known also in ecclesiastical his- 
tory as Valdenses, and sometimes as Vaudois. Two 
theories have been broached to account for the origin 
of the name — the one that it is derived from Peter 
Waldo, the Lyonnese refurmer; and the other that it is 
derived from “ vail is,” a valley, the Valdenses or Wal- 
denses being inhabitants of the valleys of Piedmont. 
\V Addington, in his History of the Church, has given 
the authorities for both these theories. 

I. Doctrines. — The doctrinal views of the Waldenses 
agree essentially with those of the Beformers of the 
16th century. W. Carlos Martvn, in his History of 
the Huguenots, thus states their doctrinal tenets: 

1. The Waldenses, or Vaudois, hold the Holy Script- 
ures to be the sources of faith and religion, without re- 
gard to the authority of the fathers or to tradition ; and 
though they principally use the New Test., yet, as 
Usher proves from Keinier and others, they regard the 


Old also as canonical Scripture. From their greater 
use of the New Test., their adversaries charged them, 
however, with despising the Old Test. 

2. They hold the entire faith according to all the ar- 
ticles of the Apostles’ Creed. 

3. They reject all the external rites of the domi- 
nant Church excepting baptism and the sacrament of 
the Lord’s supper; as, for instance, temples, vestments, 
images, crosses, pilgrimages, the religious worship of 
the holy relics, and the rest of the Homan sacraments; 
these they consider as inventions of Satan and of the 
flesh, full of superstition. 

4. They reject the papal doctrine of purgatory, with 
masses or prayers for the dead, acknowledging only 
two terminations of the earthly state — heaven and 
hell. 

5. They admit no indulgences nor confessions of 
sin, with any of their consequences, excepting mutual 
confessions of the faithful for instruction and consola- 
tion. 

6. They hold the sacraments of baptism and of the 
eucharist to be only symbols, denying the real presence 
of Christ in the bread and wine, as we find in the au- 
thoritative book of the sect concerning antichrist, and 
as Ebrardus de Bethuuia accuses them in his book 

t Hue re sis. 

7. They hold only three ecclesiastical orders— bish- 
ops, priests, and deacons; other systems they esteem 
mere human figments; that monasticism, now in great 
vogue, is a putrid carcass, and vows the invention of 
men ; and that the marriage of the clergy is lawful 
and necessary. 

8. Finally, they denounce Pome as “the whore of 
Babylon,” deny obedience to the papal domination, 
and vehemently repudiate the notions that the pope 
has any authority over other churches, and that lie 
has the power either of the civil or the ecclesiastical 
sword. 

II. History of their Persecutions . — That Peter Waldo 
(q.v.) became intimately associated with the already 
existing Waldenses there is no doubt. Among the 
simple inhabitants of the Piedmont valleys, he found 
those who sympathized with him in his religious senti- 
ments and practices. So general and wide-spread be- 
came the so-called heresy that Innocent III, one of t lie 
proudest and most bigoted of the Roman pontiffs, de- 
termined to crush it out — “exterminate the whole pesti- 
lential race” was the language of which he made use. 
The commission he gave to the authorities, who knew 
no law above that which went forth from St. Peter’s, 
was to burn the chiefs of the Vaudois. to scatter the 
heretics themselves, confiscating their property, and 
consigning to perdition every soul who dared to oppose 
the haughty mandate of the pope. Flow these com- 
mands of his holiness were carried out history is a faith- 
ful witness. Joined with him in his relentless persecu- 
tion of the Waldenses was Dominic, the father of the 
Inquisition, the prime article in whose creed came to be 
that it was a crime against God and the Church to keep 
faith with heretics. For many years, however, the in- 
habitants of the more secluded valleys and fastnesses 
escaped the storms of persecution, and it was not until 
towards the close of the 14th century that the ven- 
geance of their relentless foes reached this class of the 
Waldenses, and multitudes perished, victims of the 
fierce storm of wrath which was poured out on their 
once peaceful homes. With but few intervals, all 
through the 16th and 17th centuries, Pome did not. 
cease in her cruel endeavors to exterminate the hated 
rebels against her authority. Vast numbers of the suf- 
ferers from the papal policy of extirpating the Reformed 
faith, in France and other countries, fled to these se- 
cluded valleys of Piedmont, hoping, in places inaccessi- 
ble to their enemies, to escape from their pitiless wrath. 
But the seasons of tranquillity were short; and when 
the tempest broke forth again, it seemed to be with ten- 
fold fury. It was in vain that Protestant nations ap- 


WALDENSES 


85 G 


WALDENSES 


pealed to the dukes of Savoy to put a stop to the perse- 
cutions of the emissaries of the pope. They were 
appeals made to men who dared not face the ire of 
Rome. 

In 1500 commenced one of those dreadful outbursts 
of the Church’s rage against these humble, earnest 
Waldenses. We are told that, “the population of the 
valleys still remaining faithful to the religion of their 
forefathers, the sword was openly unsheathed and the 
scabbard thrown away. An armed force, commanded 
by a chief whose name was in terrible contrast with his 
character— the count de Trinite— poured into the pro- 
scribed territory. Hut a Spirit stronger than the sword 
upheld the Waldenses, and an arm more powerful than 
that which assailed them fought on their side. The 
villages near the plains were deserted; the women, the 
children, the feeble and the aged, wore sent fur refuge 
to the heights of the mountains, to the rocks, and to 
the forests. Every man and hoy who could handle a 
weapon planted himself against the invaders, and a suc- 
cessful guerilla warfare was carried on by small brigades 
of peasants against the veteran troops that were let 
loose upon them, (i renter exploits and instances of 
more enduring fortitude were never recounted than 
those which have immortalized the resistance offered 
by the Waldenses to their oppressors.” 

In 1655 the persecution raged again, and if all the 
Protestant powers of Europe had not interposed, a com- 
plete annihilation of the Waldenses would have been 
the result. The blood of John Milton was stirred by 
the story of the barbarous treatment to which they were 
subjected, and through his influence Cromwell issued 
one of those mandates which foreign powers had been 
compelled to respect. A few years of comparative rest 
were succeeded by another storm of persecution, which 
burst upon them under the administration of Victor 
Amadeus, the duke of Savoy, stirred up hv France and 
Rome to make one more effort to exterminate the hated 
heretics; and the effort was well-nigh successful, for it 
is said that “during three years and a half the exercise 
of the ancient religion of the Waklenses had to all ap- 
pearance ceased in Piedmont.” Hut after the lapse of 
two or three years, in 1689 several hundreds of them, 
who had been driven into exile, returned, and the fort- 
unes of the duke of Savoy having undergone a change, 
he now craved the help of those who had been such se- 
vere sufferers at his hands. The account of this cam- 
paign by their devoted pastor and leader, Henri Ar- 
naud (q. v.), is one of the most thrilling passages of his- 
tory in any age. 

Such has been the history of the Waldenses all 
through the ages — subject to untold suffering from 
persecution; then enjoying, in the quiet valleys of 
Piedmont, comparative' tranquillity for a time; then 
assailed by their ever-relcutless foe, the Roman Cath- 
olic Church, which has spared no pains, by fire and 
slaughter, and the horrors of the Inquisition, to put an 
end to the unfortunate victims of their violence. While 
Napoleon was emperor, in common with all his subjects, 
they were tolerated in the exercise of their religious 
rights; hut when the house of Savov was again in pos- 
session of their ancestral domains, the old persecuting 
spirit was revived, for, however just and inclined they 
might he to be tolerant, there was a power behind the 
throne whose authority was supreme — the power of the 
ancient foe of the dwellers in the valleys of Piedmont, 
the pope of Rome. 

111. Present Condition. — At. last came what, to the 
down-trodden Waldenses, must have been their “year 
of jubilee”— the year 1848— when, for the first time in 
all their long and sadly eventful history, full liberty to 
worship God according to the dictates of their own 
conscience was accorded to them by Charles Albert. 
Everywhere they could settle in Italy, and not be mo- 
lested in the enjoyment of their religious faith. From 
Turin, which had been the seat of their operations, thev 
wished to remove to Florence. Ten years, however, 


must elapse before they could take this step, but they 
were years of preparation to enter upon t lie evangelistic 
work which the Waldensian Church was to undertake 
in Italy. In 1859 the dominions of king Victor Em- 
manuel embraced nearly all Southern Italy, except Hie 
Papal States, and now toleration of religion was allowed 
everywhere, and the time had come when the Walden- 
sian Church could establish its headquarters in Flor- 
ence. Thither, in May, I860, the Vaudois Synod de- 
cided to remove its theological school; and the next 
autumn the two professors, 1 level (so well known in 
America) and Geymonet, with eight pupils, took up 
their residence in the Palazzo Salviati, once the man- 
sion of an archbishop of Florence, and so utilized every 
part of the spacious building that they secured for their 
work not only a college with convenient class-rooms, but 
also a chapel capable of holding three or four hundred 
hearers, rooms for their families, rooms for preparatory 
school-work, and a suitable place to set up the printing- 
press which they had brought from Turin. From the 
Salviati Palace, as a centre of operation, the Waldensian 
Church has sent forth the missionaries of the Cross in 
all directions. The college and preparatory schools are 
still among the valleys of Piedmont. .Students who 
propose to engage in missionary labors as fast as they 
are educated at La Tour, the seat of the Waldensian 
college, are transferred to the theological school at Flor- 
ence, there to receive their special training for their 
future work. The press also has proved a most efficient 
helper in giving the pure Gospel to Italy. First of all, 
there was issued from it a stereotyped edition of Dioda- 
ti\s translation of the Hible in Italian in the 16th cen- 
tury. In 1862 there were sent out, under the direction 
of the Religious Tract Society, 53.9C7 copies of religious 
works, large and small. Among these were II Pvimato 
del Papa, 3000; Differ enza fra il Protestimtismo e Po- 
nutnismo, 2000; II Corpo di Grazia, 10,000; and Fischi 
ma non Bussi , 7000, The next year the number was 
considerably more than doubled, being not far from 

120.000 copies, including Dialoyhetti di De Sanctis, 
78.000; Ya a Gesh, 3000; and De Sanctis, Leftere id 
Cardinal Patrizi, 3000. Among the books sent out in 
1864 were Sermoni del Rev. C. If. S pur f /eon (8 vols.), 
3000 each. The total for the three years was nearly 

224.000 copies. Standard English books translated into 
the Italian have a large circulation. In one year 10,000 
copies of The Pilyrim's Progress were circulated in Italy. 
From the last available statistics, it appears that all the 
higher Waldensian seats of learning were in a prosper- 
ous condition. Four journals were published at Flor- 
ence, one in French. There were 10 mission stations, 
with 50 out-stations which receive more or less atten- 
tion. In the different churches are over 2000 converts. 
They have also their hospitals and schools. In Rome 
itself they have a place of worship and schools of va- 
rious kinds. With the progress of religious freedom in 
all parts of Italy, and the toleration which is every- 
where pledged to Christians of all names, it cannot be 
doubted that, with the blessing of Heaven, a prosperous 
future is before the Waldensian Church. 

IV. Literature. — References to the Waldenses are 
very numerous. All writers of ecclesiastical history 
dwell more or less upon the record of their sufferings. 
See 1 laird, The Waldenses , Albir/enses , and ) \tudois 
(Phi la. 1848); V Israel des Alpes (Paris, 1851, 4 vols.) ; 
[Anonymous], Sketches of the Erani/eUcal Christians of 
the Valleys of Piedmont (Phi la. 1853); Wylie, The J wak- 
ening of Italy and the Crisis of Rome (a publication by 
the American Tract Society); Adam, The Glorious Re- 
covery by the Vaudois of their Own Valleys (Loud. 1827, 
8vo\ from the original of Henri Arnaud : Ileattie, 77/e 
Waldensian or Protestant Valleys of Piedmont (illusfr. 
hv Harriett and Brock don, ibid. 1838, 4to) ; Ilistoire des 
Vaudois, ou des I Inbitans des Vallees Occidentales du 
Pienumt , etc. (Paris, 1796, 2 vols. 8vo); Charvas, Ori- 
yine dei Valdesi e Carattere delle Primitive Dottrine, 
versione di G. F. Muratori (Torino, 1858, 8 vo); Faber, 


WALDENSIS 


WALEXBFRG 


857 


An Inquiry into the History and Theology of the Ancient 
Valle uses and Albigenses (Loud. 1838, Svo); Gilly, 
Walden si< in Researches , being a Second 1 Is it to the 
Vaudois of Piedmont (ibid. 1831, 8 vo); Lowther, Brief 
Observations on the Present State of the W aide uses (ibid. 
1821, 8vo); Martin, Ilistoire des Vaudois des Vallees 
du Piemont et de leui's Colonies , depiris leur Origine 
jusqu'a nos Jours (Paris, 1834, 8vo); Goll, Verkehr der 
bohmischen Brihler mil den Waldensern (Prague, 1877). 
(J. C. S.) 

Waldensis, Thomas, D.D.,a learned English Car- 
melite, was born at Walden, in Essex, about 1337. II is 
father’s name was John Net ter, but he chose to be called 
from the place of his nativity, lie became the cham- 
pion of the Church against the Reformers of the reign 
of Henry IV; and in that of Henry V, whose favorite 
he was, he rose to be provincial of his order and a privy- 
councillor. Henry Y died in his arms; and he himself 
died while attending the youthful monarch, Henry VI, 
in France, in 1430. 

Waldhausen, Konrad vox, an Augnstinian monk 
of the 14th century, who ranks as one of the precursors 
of John lluss (q. v.). He was a native of Austria, and 
labored from 1345 to 13G0 in Vienna as a preacher. His 
fame and influence as a powerful preacher of repentance 
led to his being called to Leitmeritz, in Bohemia, by 
the emperor Charles IV, acting in his capacity as king 
of that country. He soon afterwards began to hold ser- 
vices in the Church of St. Gall at Prague, and subse- 
quently in the public market-place of the city. 11 is 
efforts were directed towards a moral and religious im- 
provement of the people, but did not assail either the 
doctrines or the fundamental rules of discipline of the 
Church. But as his influence increased, and multitudes 
thronged to his meetings to listen to his bold denuncia- 
tions of all forms of sin, some opposition began to mani- 
fest itself; and when he attacked the orders of mendi- 
cant friars and uncovered the hypocrisy and depraved 
character of the monks, he drew down upon himself the 
vengeance of those powerful enemies. Twenty -nine 
charges were laid against him before the archbishop of 
Prague, by Dominican and Franciscan monks, in 13G4; 
but no complainant appeared at the trial consequently 
ordered, and Waldhausen succeeded in establishing a 
satisfactory defence. Effort was made in the same year, 
by the archbishop of Austria, to recall Waldhausen to 
Vienna, but ineffectually. He died in Prague in 1369. 
See Palacky. Gesch. d. Bohmen , iii, 1, 1G1 sq. ; 225, note; 
Jordan, Vorldnfer d. Uussitenthums in Bohmen ; Nean- 
der, Kirchengesch. vol. vi ; 1 lerzog, Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Waldo, Daniel, a Congregational minister, was 
born in Windham, Conn., Sept. 10, 17G2, and was a grad- 
uate of Yale College in the class of 1788. For a time 
he served as a soldier in the Revolutionary army ; he was 
taken prisoner, and imprisoned by the British in the 
Sugar House, New York, barely escaping with his life. 
He was ordained pastor of the Church in West Suffolk, 
Conn., May 24, 1792, remaining there seventeen years 
(1792-1809), acting also, a part of the time, as a mis- 
sionary in Pennsylvania and New York. After preach- 
ing in Cambridgeport, Mass., for about a year (1810-1 1), 
he performed missionary service in the destitute sections 
of Rhode Island until 1820, organizing a Congregation- 
al Church in East Greenwich and another at Slaters- 
ville. He preached for a time at Harvard, Mass., and 
for twelve years at Exeter, R. I. Afterwards he re- 
sided in Syracuse. At the advanced age of ninety- 
three he was elected chaplain to Congress, and died in 
18G4, having reached the great age of a hundred and 
two years. See Memorials of R. I, Congregational Min- 
isters . (J. C. S.) 

Waldo, Horatio, a Presbyterian minister, was a 
native of Coventry, Conn. lie graduated at Williams 
College in 1804; was a tutor in the college in 180G-7; 
settled as pastor of the Church in Griswold, Conn., in 
1810; resigned his pastoral charge in 1830; and re- 


moved to Portage, N. Y., where he died in 184G, aged 
sixty-nine. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer . Pulpit , 
iv, G30. 

Waldo, Nathan, a Congregational minister, re- 
ceived the honorary degree of A. M. from Dartmouth 
College in 1803; was ordained pastor of the church in 
Williamstown, Vt., in 1800; and died in 1832. See 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , ii, 2G9. 

Waldo (or Valdo), Peter, the founder or ally of 
the Vaudois or Waldenses (q. v.), a body of Christians who 
separated themselves from the Church of Rome in the 
12th century, was born at Vaux, in Dauphiny, on the 
banks of the Rhone. He acquired a large fortune by 
commercial pursuits in Lyons, France; and when he re- 
solved to retire from business, not only devoted himself 
to the spiritual instruction of the poor, but distributed 
bis goods among them, and in all respects treated them 
as his children or brothers. The only translation of 
the Bible then in use was that made by Jerome, 
called the Latin Vulgate; but Waldo, who was a learn- 
ed as well as a benevolent man, translated the four 
gospels into French, this being the first appearance of 
the Scriptures in any modern language. The posses- 
sion of these books soon discovered to Waldo and his 
people that the Church was never designed to be de- 
pendent on a priesthood, even for the administration of 
the sacraments; and his instruction, boldly followed by 
practice, became so obnoxious to the Church that he 
was first persecuted by the archbishop of Lyons, and at 
length anathematized by the pope. No longer safe at 
Lyons, Waldo and his friends took refuge in the moun- 
tains of Dauphiny and Piedmont, and there formed those 
communities which grew in peace and flourished in rus- 
tic simplicity 11 pure as a flower amid the Alpine snows.” 
From these mountains and valleys the simple doctrines 
of Christianity flowed out in multiplied rivulets all over 
Europe. Provence, Languedoc, Flanders, Germany, one 
alter another tasted of the refreshing waters, until, 
in the course of ages, they swelled into a flood which 
swept over all lauds. Waldo is understood to have 
travelled in Picardy, teaching his Reformation doctrines 
hundreds of years before Luther was born. He finally 
settled in Bohemia, where he died in 1179, the same 
year in which his tenets were denounced by an oecu- 
menical council. The Waldensian Church was a light 
on the mountains during the Dark Ages, and, amid all 
the corruptions of the Church, it held its open Bible and 
pure doctrines; and that same Church still survives, the 
basis of all reformatory movements in Italy. (W. P. S.) 

Waldron, Isaac, an English Wesleyan minister, 
began his itinerant labors among the Methodists of 
England in 17G0, and died (according to Hill) in 1782. 
He was not eminent either for piety, gifts, or usefulness. 
His natural disposition was crooked. He died in ob- 
scurity. See Atmore, Meth. Memorial , s. v. 

Waldron, William, a Congregational minister, 
was the son of captain Richard Waldron, of Portsmouth, 
N. IL, and grandson of major Richard Waldron, of Dover, 
who was murdered by the Indians in 1G89, at the age of 
eighty years. William was born in Portsmouth, N. IL, 
Nov. 4, 1697, and graduated from Harvard College in 
1717. When the New Brick Church in Boston was 
founded, he became its minister, being ordained May 
22, 1722. lie died Sept. 1 1, 1727. See Sprague, Annals 
of the Amer. Pulpit , i, 31G. 

Waldschmidt, John, a German Reformed minis- 
ter, was born in Nassau, Germany, in 1724, and came to 
America in 1752. lie was pastor of the churches at 
Cocalico, Weiseichenland, Mode Creek, and Zeltenreich, 
Pa., from 1752 to 178G. He also supplied Tulpehocken 
(175G-58) and Heidelberg (176--70). He died in 178G. 
See Corwin. Manual of the Ref. Church in J merica,s. v. 
Wale. See Walrus. 

Walenburg, Peter and Adrian, two brothers, 
born at Rotterdam in the 17th century, who abandoned 


WALES 


85S 


WALK 


their country and their religion and lived at Cologne. ] 
The first was a titular bishop in .Mvsia, and suffragan to 
Cologne ; the other was the titular bishop to Adriano* 
pic. and suffragan to May once. Their works consist 
chiefly of controversial pieces against the Protestants, 
and were printed together under the. title of Eratrum 
I Valenburyicorum Opt ra (1670,2 vols. Ini.). — Mosheim, 
Hist, of the Church , bk. iv, cent, xvii, § ii, pt. i. ch. i. 

Wales, Christianity in. The ancient British 
Church having been founded at a very early period and 
entirely independent of the Church ot Home, the Roman 1 
and Anglo-Saxon churches were hostile towards the ; 
Christian Britons, who were obliged to take refuge in 
the mountainous districts of Wales, where they gradu- 
ally diminished in numbers and finally became extinct. 
For centuries following ignorance and superstition over- | 
spread the entire principality, until the Reformation in 
tlie Kith century reached Wales through England. 
Gospel truth spread rapidly among the mountaineers, 
and its benefits were noticeable among all classes. But 
iu the time of the Stuarts the Welsh peasantry, who 
had once been characterized by a simple scriptural pie- 
ty, began to degenerate both in religion and morals, j 
Ignorance and vice prevailed to a melancholy extent. 
Hardly any of the peasantry could read. Both clergy 
ami laity were at once ignorant and immoral. When 
John Wesley visited Wales, he declared the people to 
he “as little versed in the principles of Christianity as > 
a Creek or Cherokee Indian.” But he also declared I 
them to be “ripe lor the Gospel. and most enthusiasti- 
cally anxious to avail themselves of every opportunity 
of instruction.” The Church of England was fully or- 
ganized, hut seemed utterly incapable of accomplishing 
the work of elevating the masses above the low condi- 
tion into which they had fallen. Rev. Griffith Jones, 
however, by establishing a system of education — now 
known as tlie Welsh circulating schools — began a mor- 
al revolution, which has accomplished great good, lie 
was instrumental in establishing 3495 schools, in which 
158,237 scholars were educated. For the further prog- 
ress of the work, see Skeats, Hist, of the Free Churches 
of England, j>. 392 sq. See Wklsh Calvinistic 31 ktii- 
o I) i sts. 

Wales, Eleazer, a Presbyterian minister, was 
horn in Massachusetts, and graduated at Yale College 
in the class of 1727. lie was ordained and settled at 
Allentown, X. J., in 1730. He remained here but a 
short time, and accepted a call from the Presbyterian 
Church at Crosswicks. In consequence of inadequate 
support, he asked leave of the Philadelphia Presbytery 
to resign, which, on due consideration, was granted. He 
was called to Millstone, X. J., Sept. 19. 1735, and joined 
the East Jersey Presbytery, in the bounds of which it 
lay. lie was one of the first members of the Xew 
Brunswick Presbytery, and the only New -Englander 
besides Treat who was excluded by the Protest. White- 
field and Brainerd both speak of him in their journals 
in favorable terms. He died in 1749. 

Wales, Elkanah, an English clergyman of the 
Established Church, was born in 1588; was for fifty 
years minister of Pudsey, Yorkshire, whence he was 
ejected in 1662: and died in 1669. lie published a ser- 
mon entitled Mount Eball Levelled , or Redemption from 
the Curse , with a Life of the A vthor. 

Wales, John, a Congregational minister, was horn 
at Braintree, graduated from Harvard College in 1728. 
He was ordained pastor of the Church in Baynham, 
Bristol Co., Mass., in 1731 ; and died in 1755, at the age 
of sixty* six years. See Sprague, .1 finals of the Amer. 
Pulpit , 5,710. 

Wales, Samuel, D.D., a Congregational minister, 
son of Rev. John Wales, of Raynham, Mass., was born 
in March, 1748. lie graduated from Yale College in 
1707 ; for a short time was a teacher in Dr. Wheeloek’s 
Indian School in Lebanon, Conn.: in 1769 was elected 
a tutor iu Yale College, and remained in that position 


for one year; was ordained pastor, Dec. 19, 1770, of the 
Church in Milford. Conn. For a short time, in 1776, 
he served as chaplain in the Continental arinv. In 
September. 1781, he was appointed professor of divinity 
in Yale College, hut was not inducted into office until 
June 12, 1782. Soon after this he became the subject 
of an alarming malady — an affection of the nervous sys- 
tem. In May, 1786, lie went to Europe for the benefit 
of his health, but returned after an absence of six 
months, without any marked improvement. 1 1 is pro- 
fessorship ceased in 1793. His pulpit eloquence was 
of a high order, and he was esteemed as one of the 
ablest preachers of his day. lie died in Xew Haven, 
Conn., Feb. 18, 1794. See Sprague, Annals of the A mer. 
Pulpit , i, 710. 

Walfadur, in Norse mythology, was a surname of 
Odin , who was tlie father (master) of all the slain in 
battle, because the surviving in battle tarried with him. 

Walford, William, an English Dissenting minis- 
ter, was born at Bath, Jan. 9. 1773, and was some time 
tutor in Homerton College. He published, The Hook of 
Psalms, a Xew Translation, with Xotes Explanatory and 
Critical (Loud. 1837): — Curee Romance: — Xotes on the 
Epistle to the Romans , with a Revised Translation (ibid. 
1846). lie died at Uxbridge, Jan. 22, 1850. 

Walgino, in Slavonic mythology, is a god, pro- 
tector of domestic animals, worshipped by the Poles. 

Walhalla, in Norse mythology, is the golden pal- 
ace in the kingdom of Odin where all heroes slain in 
battle assembled. Everything known by Northern he- 
roes as luck and blessedness was to be found in Wal- 
halla. Hermode and Braga received them in the Gla- 
sor forest, bearing gold leaves, which led the way to 
the palace reaching up to heaven. In this palace were 
waiting the most ravishing, blooming maidens — the 
Walkiiren — where also was spread for them a table of 
bacchanalian abundance. But there are also in store for 
them war, victory, and death; because Odin will em- 
ploy the heroes in order to resist Surtur’s army and the 
inhabitants of Muspcltheim on the da} 7 of the destruc- 
tion of the world. — Vollmer, Worierb. d. Mythol. s. v. 
8ee Norsk Mythology. 

Wali, in Norse mythology, is the son of the evil 
Loke. After Loke had caused the death of Baldur, he 
was caught in the Faranger-trap as a lynx. Then Wali 
was changed into a wolf, and he tore to pieces his 
brother Xarwi, with whose intestines Loke was bound. 
Another Wali is also called AH. 

"Walk (prop. or q;?* The He- 

brew verb not only signifies to advance with a steady 
step, but also to augment a moderate pace until it ac- 
quires rapidity. It is used in this sense by the evan- 
gelical prophet with the greatest propriety in the fol- 
lowing passage Even the youths shall faint and he 
weary, and the young men shall utterly fall: but they 
that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; 
they shall mount up with wings as eagles: they shall 
run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not 
faint” (ha. xl.30,31)/ 

Walking for the sake of exercise is rarely practiced 
in the East; indeed, the indolent Orientals are quite 
unable to comprehend the conduct of Europeans in walk- 
ing for mere recreation, without any immediate purpose 
of business. They attribute this to a spirit of restless- 
ness which they believe, to be a kind of curse inflicted 
upon Christian nations ; and, in a dispute between Turks, 
it is not uncommon for one of the parties, as his worst 
execration, to wish that his opponent should be con- 
demned “to walk like a Frank.” Among the females, 
this dislike of locomotion is carried to a still greater 
extent, and there is scarcely any epithet which would 
he more offensive to a Turkish or Persian lady than to 
he called “a walker.” This appears also to have been 
the ease with the Egyptian ladies, for there are but few 
instances of their being represented on the monuments 


WALK 


859 


WALKEI 



Walking-sticks found at Thebes. 2 is of cherry-wood, iu Mr. Salt’s collection ; 
3 shows the peg at the side. 


Wilkinson observes (.1 nc. Egypt. 


in walking attitudes, 
ii, 347, 348) : 

“When walking from home, Egyptian gentlemen fre- 
quently carried sticks, varying from three or tour to about, 
six feet in length, occasionally surmounted with a knob 
imitating a flower, or with the more usual peg projecting 
from one side, some of which have been found at Thebes. 
Many were of cherry-wood, only three feet three inches 
long; and those l have seen with the lotus head were 
generally about the same length. Others appear to have 
been much longer; the sculptuies represent them at least 
six feet; and one brought to England hy Mr. Madox was 
about flve feet in length. Some were ornamented with 
color and gilding. On entering a house, they left their 
stick in the hall or at the door: and poor men were some- 
times employed to hold the sticks of the guests who had 
come to a party on foot, being rewarded by the master of 
the house tor their trouble with a trifling compensation 
in money, with their dinner, or a piece of meat to carry 
to their family. The name of each person was frequent- 
ly written on his stick iu hieroglyphics, for which reason 
a hard wood was preferred, as the acacia, which seems 
to have been more generally u-erl than any other; and 
on one found at Athribis the owner had written, ‘O my 
stick, the support of my legs,’ ” etc. 



Priests and other Persons of Rank Walking with Sticks. (From Thebes.) 


the wind, and the heart of man 
to walk after detestable things. 

Walker, Aldace, D.D., a 
Congregational minister, was 
born in Strafford, Yt., duly 20, 
1812. He was prepared for col- 
lege at Kimball Union Acad- 
emy, and graduated at Dart- 
mouth College in 1837. From 
here he went to Hrattlebor- 
! ough, and remained as principal of its High - school 
for one year, until 1838, at which time he entered Vale 
Theological Seminary, where he remained until 1830. 
lie then entered Andover Theological Seminary, and, 
after remaining one year in study, graduated in 1840. 
lie was ordained at West Rutland, Yt., Dec. 30, 1840, 
where he preached for twenty-two years, and was dis- 
missed Aug. 26, 1862. He then became acting pastor 
at Wallingford, Vt., in 1862, until installed there, March 
10, 1860, in which office he remained until his death. 
He was disabled from service and resigned in January, 
1877, but bis Church did not accept. He was a trustee 
of Middlebury College from 1853 ; corporate member 
of the American Hoard of Commissioners lor Foreign 
Missions from 1873. lie was register of the (General 
Convention of Vermont from 1856 to 1870, and a mem- 
ber of Fairbanks Hoard of Education from its first ap- 
pointment in 1856. lie died of general debilitv, Julv 
24, 1878. (W. P. S.) 

Walker, Alexander Waddell, a minister in 
the Methodist Episcopal Church, 
South, was born in Charleston, 
S. C., Ja n . 22, 1 8 1 5. lie recei ved a 
good grammar-school education ; 
spent much of his early man- 
hood in marble -working, dis- 
playing both skill and taste; was 
converted in 1830, and was ad- 
mitted into the South Carolina 
Conference in 1834, and for twen- 
ty-three years did efficient work 
on circuit, mission, and station, 
in the up-country and in the 
lowlands, in the miasma of the 
swamps and rice -fields, and in 
the bracing air of the moun- 
tains, to the white man and to 
the black, to the polite and re- 
fined, and to the rude and un- 



Walk is often used in Scripture for conduct in life, or cultivated. In 1857 Mr. Walker settled at Spartanburg 


a mail’s general demeanor and deportment. Thus we 
are told that Enoch and Noah “walked with (rod;” that 


as supernumerary, and in 1861 enlisted in the Confeder- 
ate armv and served two rears. He died in 1870. Air. 


is, they maintained a course of action conformed to the 
will of their Creator, and acceptable in his sight; draw- 
ing near to him bv public and private devotions; mani- 
festing, by their piety, a constant sense of his presence, 
and by their purity of life a reverence for the moral 
laws which he had established for the guidance of his 
creatures. In many parts both of the Old and New 
Test, we find God promising to walk with his people; 
and his people, on the other hand, desiring the influence 
of God’s Holy Spirit, that they may walk in his stat- 
utes. “To walk in darkness” (1 John i, 6,7) is to be 
involved in unbelief, and misled by error; “to walk in 
the light” is to be well informed, holy, and happy; “to 
walk by faith” is to expect the things promised or 
threatened, and to maintain a course of conduct perfect- 
ly consistent with such a belief; -‘to walk after the 
flesh” is to gratify the carnal desires, to yield to the 
fleshly appetites, and be obedient to the lusts of the 
flesh; “to walk after the Spirit” is to pursue spiritual 
objects, to cultivate spiritual affections, to be spiritually 
minded, which is life and peace. 

Ily a somewhat different figure, the pestilence is said 
to walk in darkness, spreading its ravages by night as 
well as by day. God is said to walk on the wings of 


Walker was distinguished for purity and honesty of 
character, for sincerity, kindness, and generosity of 
heart, for modesty, constancy, courage, and conscien- 
tiousness. See Minutes of Annual Conferences of the 
M. E. Church , South , 1870, p. 410. 

Walker, Augustus, a Congregational mission- 
ary, was born in Medway, Mass., Oct. 30, 1822. He was 
converted at the age of twelve ; followed mercantile 
pursuits in Charleston, S. C., and Baltimore, Aid. ; pre- 
pared for college at Leicester Academy, and graduated 
at Vale in 1846. In 1852 he graduated at Andover 
Theological Seminary, was married and ordained, and 
in the following year sailed for Smyrna, Turkey — Diar- 
bekir, on the Tigris, being the field designated for him. 
Here he labored hard and successfully the remainder of 
his life, except from 1864 to 1865, when he visited his 
native land, lie was welcomed with much joy by his 
friends and the natives upon his return to Diarbekir. 
Hut his work was nearly done. His exhausted and 
overworked body was stricken with the cholera, and. in 
spite of all that could be done, be died, Sept. 13, 1866. 
Air. Walker did a noble and enduring work on the banks 
of the Tigris, and his death was felt severely both in 


WALKER 


SGO 


WALKER 


Turkey and America. “He fell where the standard- 
bearer wishes to fall, at his post, doing manfully, ear- 
nestlv. even hevond his strength, the work given him to 
do.*’ See Cong. (pair. 18(57, p. 202 sq. 

Walker Benjamin M., a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was born at Springfield, Yt., April 20,180'.); 
was converted in 1830; licensed to preach in 1831; and 
joined the New England Conference in 1834. On the 
division of the conference he became a member of the 
Providence Conference. II is appointments were as fol- 
lows: Barnstable. Mansfield, Franklin, Scitico, Tolland, 
Glastonbury, Wapping, North-west Bridgewater, Wood- 
stock. Square Pond, Norwich Falls, Eastford, Smith 
Coventry, West Thompson, South Glastenburv, Wap- 
ping, Moosnp, Stallbrdville, Tolland, Windsorville, and 
(Quarry ville, where he died. March 28, 1871. Mr. 
Walker was a man of great devotedness, faith, and zeal. | 
See Minute* of Annual Conference* , 1872, ]). 37. 

Walker, Charles, D.I)., a Congregational min- 
ister, was born in Woodstock, Conn., Feb. 1, 1791, and 
died in Binghamton, N. V., Nov. 28, 1870. At about 
the age of seventeen years he attended one term at the 
Academy at Thetford, his education being largely ob- 
tained bv his own efforts. Subsequently he became a 
teacher. In 1815 lie was converted and united with 
the Church, and in the year following turned his atten- 
tion towards the ministry. In September lie began to 
teach at Cherry Valley, N. Y., remaining one year, and 
then entering the Academy at Plainfield, N. H. In 1818 
he entered the Theological Seminary at Andover, and, 
graduating in 1821, went immediately to New York 
city, to preach under the direction of the Seaman’s and 
the Evangelical Missionary societies of that city. Go- 
ing to Central New York, in the year after, he received 
ordination from the Otsego Presbytery, Feb. 27, at Nor- 
wich. After this he preached three months in Leba- 
non. N. II. ; and then, Jan. 2, 1823, after having served 
there temporarily, was installed pastor of the Church 
in Iiutland, Vt., and served there until 1833, He was 
trustee of Burr Seminary, Manchester. Vt. ; a director 
of Vermont Domestic Missionary Society, and a warm 
temperance advocate. In consequence of bronchial 
trouble he was forced to abandon the pulpit fora time, 
and took charge of a seminary in Castleton, Vt., for one 
year (1831). During part of 1831 he supplied the Pine 
Street Church in Boston, and .Ian. 1, 1835. was installed 
pastor of the Church in Brattleborough, Vt., in which 
position he remained until Feb. 11, 1846. In 1846 he 
accepted a call to Pittsford, Vt., and was installed Dec. 2, 
and resigned in 1864. Though not a brilliant preacher, 
his style was singularly clear and chaste, lie received 
the honorary degree of A.M. from t he University of 
Vermont in 1823, and from Middlelniry and Dartmouth 
colleges in 1825. The degree of D.I). was bestowed by 
the University of Vermont in 1847. He was elected 
one of the corporation of Middlelniry College in 1837, 
and of the American Board of Foreign Missions in 1838. 
lie died while on a visit to his daughter at Bingham- 
ton. N. Y. See Cong. Quar. 1871, p. 357. 

Walker, Charles S., a minister in the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Charleston, S. C., 
•Ian. 22, 1815; experienced religion in 1830; and en- 
tered the South Carolina Conference in 1831. In 1855 
he was made supernumerary; in 1856 was appointed 
agent for Wofford College; and died Jan. 18, 1857. Mr. 
Walker was a man of stern integrity, sound judgment, 
and high moral courage. See Minute* of Annual Con- 
ference* of the M. E. Church , South , 1857, p. 776. 

Walker, Edward P., a Presbyterian minister, 
was horn in Ainesville, ()., in 1834. lie entered 
Marietta College, ( )., in 1852, where he graduated in 
1856. He studied theology in Andover Seminary, and 
was licensed by Athens Presbytery in 1859. lie died 
Doe. 27, 1861. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1863, 
p. 310. 

Walker, Elkanab, a Congregational minister, 


1 was born in Yarmouth, Me., Aug. 7, 1805. He received 
his preparatory education at Kimball Union Acad- 
emy. lie graduated at the Bangor Theological Sem- 
inary in 1837, and was ordained at Brewer, Me., Feb. 14, 
1838. In March be set out for the Oregon mission of 
the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Mis- 
sions, and was four months in traversing the wilderness 
from Missouri, lie was stationed at Tshimakain until 
1848, when the Indian massacre and troubles necessi- 
tated his removal to Fort Colville. After 1849 he re- 
sided at Forest Grove, often acting as pastor there, and 
at Hillsborough and other neighboring villages. lie 
was trustee of the Tualatin Academy and Pacific Univer- 
sity, and from 1847 was President of the Oregon Bible 
Society. lie died at Forest Grove, Nov. 21, 1877. 

OV. p. s.) 

Walker, Elnathan, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born at Taunton, Mass., Feb. 18, 1780. He was fitted 
for college at the Academy in his native town, and was 
a graduate of Brown University in the class of 1803. 
After leaving college, he made a public profession of his 
faith in Christ, and united with the Congregational 
Church in Dighton, Mass. He commenced soon after 
this the study of theology with Rev. Dr. Emmons, of 
Franklin, and was ordained Oct. 25, 1809, and, at the 
same time, was installed pastor of the Presbyterian Con- 
gregation in Ilomer, N. Y ., where he remained until his 
death. At one time there was a little restiveness on 
the part of a few persons in his Church, and the ques- 
tion of his dismissal was agitated, lie interposed no 
objection, and consented to the calling of a council to 
consider the matter. It was said that “the moderator 
opened the session with a prayer of peculiar fervor and 
earnestness, especially praying for the movers of so re- 
1 sponsible a step as severing the pastoral relation. The 
spirit of the prayer awakened new thoughts and feel- 
ings in the assembly. At its close one of the chief agi- 
tators requested a delay of the proceedings, and moved, 
before the Church, a dismission of the matter to be pre- 
sented to the council, which motion was unanimously 
; carried.” At once a remarkable revival commenced, 
and many persons were hopefully converted. During 
his ten and a half years’ ministry in Ilomer the Church 
enjoyed three general revivals. At the time of his set- 
, tlement the number of communicants was 99. lie re- 
ceived into the membership of the Church 468. At the 
I time of his death, after all losses by removals, deaths, 
etc., the number of members was 427. And yet, al- 
though he had been so laborious and successful a min- 
ister, he renounced all righteousness of his own as the 
ground of salvation, and trusted alone in the efficacious 
work of the Lord Jesus. He died June 4, 1820. See 
Walker Memorial, p. 55. (J. C. S.) 

Walker, Francis, one of Wesley’s helpers, was 
I born at Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire. He was at the 
I conference of 1753; labored in Wales and Cornwall. 
One of the great revivals in Cornwall was under his 
ministry (in 1744). lie had his share in suffering per- 
secution. Mr. Walker eventually married and settled 
in the city of Gloucester, where he died. See Atmore, 
Meth. Memorial , s. v. ; Smith, Hist, of Wesl. Methodism , 
i, 237, 262 ; Wesley, Journal, 1744. 

Walker, George (l),an eminent Puritan divine, 
was born at Hawkshead, Lancashire, England, in 1581. 
lie was educated at St.John’s College, Cambridge; and 
went to London, where, in 1614, he became rector of St. 
John the Evangelist’s, in Watling Street. Here he con- 
tinued for nearly forty years, refusing every other prefer- 
ment. lie also became, at tbe same time, chaplain to Dr. 
Felton, bishop of Ely. lie was distinguished for his con- 
troversial powers and their exercise in several instances. 
In 1635 he preached a sermon in favor of the sacred ob- 
servance of the Sabbath, for which he was prosecuted 
by archbishop Laud, fined, and imprisoned; but was re- 
leased by order of the Parliament. He was chosen in 
1643 one of the Assembly of Divines, and was a witness 


WALKER 


S61 


WALKEL 


against Laud, in which he testified that lie had endeav- 
ored to introduce popery, lie died in 1G51. See Chal- 
mers, Biog. Did. s. v. 

Walker, George (2), D.D., an Irish clergyman 
of the Church of England, was born of English parents 
in the County Tyrone, Ireland, about 1650. lie was 
educated at the University of Glasgow, and took orders 
in the Church of England, after which he became rec- 
tor of Donoughmore. near Londonderry, Ireland. When 
James II laid siege to that city in 1689, Walker raised 
a regiment, with which he gallantly defended Lon- 
donderry, after it had been abandoned by its govern- 
or, and succeeded in holding the city until James was 
obliged to raise the siege, July 80, 1 089. lie received 
the thanks of the House of Commons, and was nomi- 
nated bishop of Derry bv William III ; but desiring to 
pass through another military campaign before enter- 
ing upon the duties of the episcopal office, he was killed 
at the battle of the Boyne, July 1, 1690. He published A 
True Account of the Siege of Londonderry (1689), which 
was attacked and criticised, and the attack brought out 
a Vindication. A statue, mounted on a lofty pillar, has 
been erected to his memory in Londonderry. 

Walker, George (8), a Dissenting minister, was 
born at Newcastle-upon-Tyne, England, in 1734. He 
became pastor of a body of Dissenters at Durham in 
1757 ; of another, at Great Yarmouth, in 1701 ; and of 
another, at Nottingham, in 1774; was tutor in mathe- 
matics at Warrington from 1772 to 179G; and tutor in 
various branches at Manchester in 179G. lie died in 
London in 1N07. Among his published works are, Doc- 
trine of the Sphere , etc. (1775) : — Dissenter's Plea against 
the Test Laws (1790 ): — Sermons on Various Subjects 
(eod.) : — Essays on Various Subjects, with a Life of the 
Author (1809, 2 vols.). 

Walker, George (4), an English clergyman, was 
born in 179G. He became minister of Trinity Church, 
Leeds; head master of the Leeds Grammar-school in 
1818; and rector of Papworth St. Everard in 1820. He 
died at Leeds in 1830. Among other works, he publish- 
ed, Sermons on the Humiliation and Exaltation of the 
Son of God (Lond. 1824) : — Specimens of English Poetry 
(1827). See Gentleman's Magazine (Lond. 1830), i, 649. 

Walker, George W„ a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was born in Frederic County, Md., Nov. 
2G, 1804, of Homan Catholic parents. When he was 
(piite young his father, through curiosity, brought into 
his family a Bible, which was soon the means of con- 
verting them all. But George was led astray by gay 
company, and was soon far from the fold of Christ. 
Through the instrumentality of his pious sister he was 
brought back; and, after much struggling, he yielded 
to the ministerial call, and in 182G entered the Ohio 
Conference. Soon after entering the ministry, he was 
sent to Michigan, than which there was then open no 
harder field for the itinerant. But no swollen river, 
dismal swamp, or dangerous fen could daunt the lion- 
hearted George Walker. In 1839 he took charge of 
the Lebanon District, O., where he remained four years. 
Thence he went to Cincinnati, where he spent three 
years. He next served a full term upon the Dayton 
District. His last appointment was to the 1 lillsborough 
District, where he died, July 31, 185G. Mr. Walker was 
remarkable for bis manliness, intelligence, and devoted- 
ness. As a preacher he was powerful, both in argument 
and declamation. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 
1856, p. 155. 

Walker, James (1), D.D., the venerable primus 
of the Scottish Church, bishop of Edinburgh, and Pan- 
tonian professor of divinity. No record remains of his 
birth or early life. He took a regular Scottish college 
course, graduated at the University of Cambridge, and 
in 1793, returning to bis native country, devoted him- 
self to literature as sub-editor of the third edition of the 
Encyclopaedia Britannica . In 1830 he was elected bishop 
of Edinburgh ; also president, or primus, of the ministeri- 


al body to which be belonged. He died in 1841. Bishop 
Walker was highly instructive, amiable, and revered by 
all who knew him. See Christian Remembrancer, 1841, 
p. 319. 

Walker, James (2),D.D., an American Unitarian 
clergyman, was born at Burlington, Mass., then a part 
of Woburn, Aug. 16, 1794. lie graduated at Harvard 
College in 1814, and studied theology at Cambridge; 
was pastor of the Unitarian Church in Charlestown 
from 1818 to 1839; editor of the Christian Examiner 
from 1831 to 1839; was Alford professor of intellectual 
and moral philosophy from 1839 to 1853; and president 
of Harvard College from 1853 to 1860. lie died at 
Cambridge. Dec. 23, 1874. Among his published works 
are, Sermons Preached in the Chapel of llarcard Col- 
lege (1861) : — Memoir of Josiah Quincy (1867). He was 
also editor of Stewart’s A dive and Moral Powers (1849), 
and Heid’s Intellectual Powers (1850). 

Walker, James McCulloch, a Presbyterian 
minister, was born near Charlotte, N. C., Nov. 1, 1829. 
He graduated with honor at Davidson College, N. C., 
in 1847 ; studied theology at the Erskine Associate 
Reformed Presbyterian Seminary, Due West, S. C. ; was 
licensed by the First Presbytery of the Associate Re- 
formed Synod of the South in September, 1849 ; spent 
two years as a missionary in Kentucky; was ordained 
pastor of Sardis Church, N. C., May 9, 1851 ; and sub- 
sequently preached in Laneasterville and Waxhaw 
churches, S. C., and Philadelphia Church, N. C. He 
died April 15, 1860. Mr. Walker possessed a vigorous 
intellect; was well versed in theology, science, and gen- 
eral literature; an excellent preacher; a ready writer, 
contributing largely to the religious press of the day. 
A Sermon on Temperance, and a tract entitled Grieve 
not the lfoly Spirit, have been published. See Wilson, 
Presb. Hist. A Imanac, 186 1 , p. 1 10. (J. L. S.) 

Walker, Jason, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in Ashby, Mass., Feb. 17, 1793. lie was con- 
verted when about seventeen years of age; successfully 
tilled the offices of class -leader, exhorter, and local 
preacher, till in June, 1.S13, when he was received on 
trial in the travelling connection. He labored as fol- 
lows: Wethersfield, 1813; Barre, 1814; Bristol, Somer- 
set, and Rhode Island, 1815; Mansfield. 1816; Warwick 
Circuit, 1818. lie died at Smitlifield, R. I., April 10, 
1819. Humility, zeal, and patience were his character- 
istics. See Minutes of A nnual Conferences, 1859, p. 328. 

Walker, Jeremiah, a Baptist minister, was born 
in Bute County, N. C., about the year 1747. He is said 
to have been a lad of remarkable precocity, and was dis- 
tinguished for bis love of books and his desire for men- 
tal improvement. When comparatively young, he be- 
came a hopeful Christian, ami in due time began to 
preach, llis associations with his brethren, who, how- 
ever, were good men, and in many respects well fitted to 
the spheres in which they were called to labor, did not 
help him much in his mental development. But, as. his 
biographer tells us, “the invincible energies of bis gen- 
ius towered above every obstruction.” For some time 
he preached in the neighborhood of his native place 
and in Pittsylvania County, Ya. In 1769 he became the 
pastor of a newly formed Church in Amelia County. 
Here he entered upon a career of great usefulness. In 
a few years, with the assistance which he had from oth- 
ers, especially a number of young preachers who had 
been trained by him, be established between thirty and 
forty churches south of James River. In these churches 
there were not a few persons of character and influence, 
who afterwards became distinguished as ministers of 
the Gospel. As a preacher, Mr. Walker was equalled by 
few of any denomination. He suffered persecution, as 
did so many of the Virginia Baptist ministers, and was 
thrown into prison. When released, be continued to 
preaeh with great success for some time. But he came 
under a cloud, overtaken by temptation; and although, 
after having passed through discipline, he was restored, 


AVALKEK 


S02 


WALKEE 


ho never resumed the place he once occupied among the 
minivers of his denomination. Ills last illness was at- 
tended with great physical suffering. lledied.as was be- 
lieved, an humble Christian. accepted by his Lord in spite 
of all his frailties. 11 is death occurred Sept. ‘20, 171)2. 
bee Benedict, History of the Baptists , ii, 300. (J. 0. S.) 

Walker, Jesse, a noted pioneer of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, whose name was identified for years 

i 1 1 1 the westward progress of Methodism, was a native 
of North Carolina. The date of his birth is not ascer- 
tained, and there is no record of his early life. He was 
admitted as a travelling preacher in the Western Con- 
lerence in 1802, travelled circuits in Tennessee and 
Kentucky for about four years, and in 1800 was ap- 
pointed to pioneer the Church through Illinois. Ilis 
appointment was a mission to the whole territory. The 
country between Kentucky and the interior of Illinois 
was then a wilderness, and ditlieult to travel. M‘Ken- 
dree, afterwards bishop, but then presiding elder of the 
Cumberland District, set out with bis pioneer itinerant 
to assist him on the way. They journeyed on horse- 
back. sleeping in the. woods on their saddle-blankets, 
and cooking their meals under the trees. “It was a 
time.’* says bishop Morris, who knew both of them, “of 
much rain; the channels were full to overflowing, and 
no less than seven times their horses swam the rapid 
streams with their riders and baggage; but the travel- 
lers. by carrying their saddle-hags on their shoulders, 
kept their Bibles and part of their clothes above the 
water. This was truly a perilous business. In due 
time they reached their destination safely. M‘Kendree 
remained a lew weeks, visited the principal neighbor- 
hoods, aided in forming a plan of appointments for the 
mission, and the new settlers received them with much 
favor.” Walker, though left alone in t lie territory, was 
not discouraged, and, as the result of his first year’s ex- 
periment in Illinois, two hundred and eighteen Church 
members were reported in the printed Minnies, His 
next field of labor was Missouri, and he continued to 
operate thenceforward alternately in the two territories 
until 1812, when, as presiding elder, he took charge of 
all the Methodist interests of both. The old Western 
Conference having been divided, in 1812, into the Ohio 
and Tennessee conferences, the Illinois and Missouri 
work pertained to the latter. He had charge of dis- 
tricts in the two territories until 1811), when he was ap- 
pointed conference missionary, that he might range 
about and form new fields of labor among the destitute 
— “a work to w hich he was peculiarly adapted, both by 
nature and grace, and in which he continued to he em- 
ployed for many years.” In 1820 this veteran pioneer 
formed the purpose of planting Methodism in St. Louis, 
where previously Methodist, preachers “had found no 
rest for the soles of their feet, the early inhabitants 
from Spain and France being utterly opposed to our 
Protestant principles, and especially to Methodism.” 
Some idea of his success in this hold undertaking may 
he obtained from the fact that, as the result of the first 
year’s experiment, he reported to the conference a 
chapel erected and paid for, a nourishing school, and 
seventy Church members in St. Louis. The next year 
(Oct. 21, 1822), the Missouri Conlercnce held its session 
in that city, when “ail excellent and venerated broth- 
er. William Beauchamp, was appointed” his successor. 
Walker was continued conference missionary, ami in 
1823 began to turn his special attention to the Indian 
tribes up the Mississippi. In this self-denying work 
he continued, “breaking up the fallow ground and es- 
tablishing new missions, until 1831, when his health had 
become so infirm that he was obliged to take a super- 
annuated relation.” lie retired to his farm in Cook 
County, HI., where he died in great peace. Oct. 5, 1835. 
See Minutes of Annual Conference's, ii. 487 ; Sprague, 
Annuls of the Anter. Pulpit, v ii, 380; Stevens, J/ist. of 
tht M. E. Church, iv, 354. (J. L. S.) 

Walker, Jolm (1), D.D., a minister of Exeter, 


England, is said to have been born in Devonshire 
near the close of the 17th century. lie is best known 
by his work entitled An Attempt towards Recovering an 
Account of the Numbers and Bufferings of the Clergy 
who ice re Sequestered in the llebellion . He died in 1730. 
See English Cyclop, s. v. 

Walker, John (2), a Church of England divine, 
was born in Cheshire in 1710. He was brought up to 
business; and after marrying and settling as a draper, lie 
experienced religious convictions by the preaching of 
the Methodists, among which body he first exercised 
his gifts as a preacher. lie next went through a regu- 
lar academical course at Northampton in preparation 
for the ministry, after which he settled as minister at 
Long Buckley, Northamptonshire. About 1700 lie re- 
moved to Framlingham, and a lew years later to Wal- 
pole, Suffolk, where he continued until his decease, Aug. 
31, 1805. Mr. Walker was a man of eminent piety, hu- 
mility, candor, and benevolence. He possessed a clear 
understanding, a sound judgment, and was well versed 
in theology. See Theological Magazine , 1805, p. 437. 

Walker, John (3), an Irish clergyman, was born 
in 1707, and was educated at Trinity College, Dublin, 
of which he was for some time a fellow, blit was ex- 
pelled about 1800, and originated a sect called the 
Church of God. He died Oct. 25, 1833. He edited 
several mathematical and classical works. See (Loud.) 
Gentleman's Magazine, 1833. ii, 540. 

Walker, John (4), an English clergyman, was 
born in 1770. lie was educated at Oxford, where he 
became fellow of New College ; and was vicar of Home- 
church, Essex, from 1819 until his death, which occur- 
red April 5, 1831. Among his published works are, 
Curia Oxouiensis : — Selection of Curious Articles from 
the Gentleman's Magazine (1809, 3 vols.j. He was also 
one of the original proprietors of the Oxford Herald , 
ami for several years an assistant editor. 

Walker, John (5), a minister of the Associate 
Church, was born in Washington County, Fa., in 1787. 
He was educated at Jefferson College, in his native 
county, studied theology with Dr. Anderson, and was 
licensed in 1809. He first settled in Mercer County. 
Pa„ where he remained three years preaching to va- 
rious congregations, and then removed to Harrison 
County, ()., where he continued to labor until his death, 
in 1845. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit (As- 
sociate), p. 95 s(j. 

Walker, John (6), a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in Hampshire County, Va., Feb. 28, 1797. 
He removed with his parents to Ohio in 1814; was 
converted soon after; joined the Ohio Conference in 
1821 ; and served with great zeal and usefulness on the 
following circuits: Knox and Huron in 1822, West 
Wheeling in 1823, Burlington in 1824, and in 1825 
Salt Creek Circuit, where he died of pulmonary con- 
sumption. See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1827, 
p. 540. 

Walker, John (7), a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in Burlington County, N, J. He was con- 
verted at Mount llollv in his nineteenth year, received 
on trial in the Philadelphia Conference in 1802. and ap- 
pointed to the Trenton Circuit, and subsequently to 
the following places: Flanders, Salem, Chester, Bristol, 
Philadelphia, Lancaster, Smyrna, Dauphin, Gloucester, 
Burlington, New Mills, Freehold, Bargaintown, Cam- 
den, and Swedesborough. In 1835 lie took a super- 
numerary relation, and spent the remainder of his life 
in Clarksborongh, where he died April 5. 1849, in t lie 
eighty-fifth year of his age. He was a most successful 
preacher in winning souls. As a man. he was univer- 
sally beloved; as a Christian, his piety was deep and 
genuine. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , iv,320. 

Walker, Joseph (1), an English Congregational 
minister, was born in 1802. 51 r. Walker was for many 

years a teacher in the public schools, lie graduated 


WALKER 


863 


WALK El 


with high honors at Airedale College, and became pas- 
tor of Northallerton Independent Church. Alter years 
of patient labor, he removed to Hexham, and in 1855 
settled at Derby. Mr. Walker was well versed in the 
Hebrew and Creek Scriptures, and possessed special 
faculties of imparting his knowledge to others. He 
died Dec. 2, 1807. See (Lond.) Cong. Year-book , 18G9, 
p. 293. 

"Walker, Joseph (2), an English Wesleyan min- 
ister, was converted at the age of fourteen under the 
ministry of John Crosby. In 1811 he was accepted as 
a candidate for the ministry. Owing to an affection of 
the brain, he was temporarily laid aside at Dover from 
1834 to 183G. lie became a supernumerary at Luton, 
Bedfordshire, in 1845, and died April 14, 1857, in the 
sixty-ninth year of his age. His entire course was one 
of great usefulness. See Wesleyan Minutes, 1857. 

Walker, Joseph E., a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born at Wilton, Me., in 1847. lie was con- 
verted at the age of twenty; began preaching in I8G9; 
supplied the Lisbon charge in 1870; and in 1871 joined 
the Maine Conference, and was appointed to Maple Cir- 
cuit, where he labored two years, and then returned to 
Wilton, where he died of consumption, Aug. 20, 1875. 
Mr. Walker was studious, earnest, and very promising. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1870, p. 87. 

Walker, Josiah H., an English Wesleyan min- 
ister, was born in London in 1770. He was piously 
trained and early united with the Church. In 1804 he 
entered the sacred office, and for thirty-five years dis- 
charged its duties with unwavering fidelity and zeal. 
In 1835, his health failing, he settled in Manchester, 
lie died July 20, 1843. 

Walker, Levi (l), a prominent layman of the 
Baptist denomination, was born in Rutland, Vt., May 
22. 1777, and is said to have been the first white male 
born in that town. He removed to Whiting. Vt., with 
his father’s family in 1784, and was one of six brothers, 
all farmers in that town, their farms adjoining and form- 
ing one of the best tracts of land in Addison County, em- 
bracing about twelve hundred acres on the Otter Creek. 
He was appointed, under president Madison’s adminis- 
tration, assessor for the towns of Whiting and Leicester, 
and for several years was the first constable of Whiting, 
and for a time, also, a selectman of the town. Like his 
brother, James Otis, he was proverbial for his generos- 
ity and his public spirit. “ If there was a house of wor- 
ship to be built, a minister of religion to be obtained 
and supported, any benevolent object to be aided, or 
public improvement to be accomplished, his purse and 
influence were generously offered, and to these was ow- 
ing the success of many a benevolent and useful enter- 
prise.” In his will he bequeathed to the town of Whit- 
ing twenty acres of land at Whiting Centre, one acre 
to be used for a cemetery, and the yearly income of ten 
acres to be appropriated to the support of common- 
schools. and the income of the remaining nine acres to 
maintain the preaching of the Gospel. He died July 
27, 1822. Upon his grave-stone is this inscription, “ The 
memory of his public spirit will outlast this monument, 
which marks the humble spot where he lies.” See the 
Walker Memorial. (J. C. S.) 

Walker, Levi (2), M.D., a Baptist minister, was 
born in 1781. He spent the early part of his life in 
Livermore. Ale. Not far from the year 1804 he became 
a hopeful Christian. For some twelve years he was an 
earnest, zealous preacher in the Methodist denomina- 
tion. A change of sentiment on the subject of baptism 
led him to sever his connection with his Methodist 
brethren, and to unite with the Baptists. He joined 
the Baptist Church in Fall River, Mass., then under the 
charge of Rev. Mr. Borden. Having fora time preach- 
ed in Fall River, New Bedford, and Edgartown, Mass., 
he accepted a call to the pastorate of the Warwick and 
Coventry Church, R. L, where he remained until 1819, 
when he removed to Preston, Conn. Subsequently lie 


removed to North Stonington, Conn., where be contin- 
ued to preach and practice bis profession nearly to the 
close of his life. II is death occurred at Winstead, Conn., 
in 1871. lie is referred to as a preacher, clear, logical, 
and convincing, rising at times to points of highest ex- 
cellence, both in matter and manner.” II is professional 
skill as a physician was everywhere recognised, and had 
he given his exclusive attention to the practice of med- 
icine, he would have acquired distinction. Three of his 
sons entered the Christian ministry: Rev. W. C. Walk- 
er, for some time the Baptist state missionary of Con- 
necticut; Rev. Levi Walker, Jr., deceased ; and Rev. (). 
T. Walker, now (1879) pastor <>f the Harvard Street 
Church, Boston. See F tiller, Hist, of Warwick, p. 327. 
(J. C, S.) 

Walker, Nathan, a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in Montgomery County, Md., Oct. 20, 1795; 
joined the Ohio Conference in 1820; was admitted to 
deacon’s orders in 1822, and to elder’s in 1824; and died 
of typhus fever, Aug. 2G, 1825. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences, 1 82G, p. 504. 

Walker, Obadiah, a learned divine, first of the 
Church of England, and then of the Roman Catholic 
Church, was born at Worsborough, Yorkshire, England, 
about IG1G. lie was educated at University College, 
Oxford, where he graduated in 1G35; took holy orders 
in 1638, and became a noted tutor; he was for a time 
one of the preachers before the court of Charles 1 at 
Oxford. In M ay, 1048, he was ejected from his fellow- 
ship, and travelled on the Continent, residing mostly at 
Rome. After t lie Restoration he was reinstated in his 
fellowship, and made another visit to Rome as travel- 
ling tutor to some young gentlemen. In 1670 he w’as 
chosen master of his college, and was also assistant to 
Abraham Woodhead, who kept a popish seminary. lie 
soon began to give indications of a decided leaning to- 
wards the Roman Catholic religion. He went to London 
in 1G85, and on his return to college he announced him- 
self a Roman Catholic. He had mass in his private 
lodgings, and in IG87. under letters patent from King 
James, began the publication of books against the Re- 
formed religion, lie had some apartments in the col- 
lege arranged for his use as a chapel, and the income 
of a fellowship set apart for the maintenance of a priest. 
For these acts, which were violations of law, he was im- 
prisoned in the Tower, but afterwards released in 1G90. 
He died Jan. 21, 1699. Among his published works are, 
a Greek and Homan History, Illustrated by Coins and 
Medals (1692): — A Brief Account of Ancient Church 
Government (1GG2): — .4 n Historical Narration of the 
Life and Death of Christ (1685) : — and many others. See 
Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Walker, Peter J., a minister in the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Williamson Coun- 
ty, Tenn., 1808; professed religion in 1841; was licensed 
to preacli in 1851, and joined the Alabama Conference 
in 1858. lie died in 1860. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences of the M. E. Church, South, 1860, p. 263. 

Walker, Robert (1) (commonly called the Won- 
derful Robert Walker), a minister of the English Church, 
was born at Seat h waite, England, in 1709. By his own 
industry he qtialitied himself for holy orders, was or- 
dained, and appointed curate of Seathwaite with a sal- 
ary of jive, pounds per annum. This, however, was af- 
terwards increased, so that bv rigid economy he was 
able to maintain his family, and at his death in 1802 
leave two thousand pounds. See his Life by Words- 
worth. 

Walker, Robert (2), a talented minister of the 
Church of Scotland, was born in the Canongate, Edin- 
burgh, in 1716. He was educated at the University of 
Edinburgh, and was licensed in 1737, He was ordained 
minister to Straiton in 1738, and remained there nine 
years, when he was transferred to the second charge of 
South Leith. Tu 1754 he was again removed to one of 
the collegiate charges of the High Church, Edinburgh. 


WALKER 


864 


WALKINSHAW 


where he continued until his death, April 4, 1783. lie 
published two volumes of Sermons. See Memoir pre- 
fixed to his Sermons. 

Walker, Robert (3), an English Methodist preach- 
er, was born in Gateshead-on-Tyne in 1838; was con- 
verted in his youth and joined the New Connection. 
11 is work as a local preacher gave promise of a life of 
usefulness in the Church, and he entered the ministry 
in 18li3. lie travelled in Barnslev, Stockton, Liverpool, 
Birmingham, and Alnwick; and at the end of ten years’ 
service his health failed him, and in 1874 he became a 
supernumerary. Hoping for recovery, he took a voyage, 
but his useful life was cut short ; he died at sea, Dec. *21, 
1871. See Baggalv, Digest of the Methodist New Con- 
nection. 

Walker, Samuel, a Church of England divine, 
was born at Exeter, Dec. It), 1714: entered Exeter Col- 
lege, Oxford, in 173*2, and took his A. 1>. degree in 173G; 
and in 1737 was ordained to the curacy of Doddis- 
combpJeigh. In the following year lie travelled in 
France, and added mnsic to bis acquisitions; and in 
1831) returned and resumed his ministry as curate oi'Lan- 
liverv in Cornwall. Subsequently he removed to t lie 
curacy of Truro, where his spiritual life underwent a 
radical change for the better, lie died July 10, 1701. 
Mr. Walker was attractive and commanding in person, 
expressive in features, frank and courteous in conver- 
sation. Hi* tra cts are considered of great value, espe- 
cially The Christian ; a Course of Practical Sermons 
(17.55), thought to lie the best in the English language. 
His posthumous works are. Fifty-two Sermons on the 
Catechism (1703): — Practical Christianity : — The Cov- 
enant of Grace: — The Christian Mirror: — The Hefner , 
or God's Method of Purifying his People: — The Chris- 
tian Armor: — Distrust Removed. See Christian Ob- 
server , Feb. 1877, p. 150; Christian Remembrancer. 1838, 
p. 700; Church of England Magazine , i. 408; Sidney, 
Life , Ministry, and Remains of Samuel Walker (1835). 

Walker, Saunders, a Baptist minister, was bom 
March 17, 1740, in Prince William County, Va. lie 
was a brother of Rev. Jeremiah Walker. Although he 
had not the intellectual ability of this brother, unlike 
him he passed through life with no stain left upon his 
character. He is spoken of as a remarkable instance of 
the transforming infiuetiee of the grace of Cod. “ Before 
his conversion he was of a turbulent, unmanageable 
temper, and was much addicted to the vices naturally 
attendant on such a disposition. But the Divine Spirit 
not only changed his heart, but bis nature too; so that 
he was ever after distinguished for the meekness and 
gravity of his deportment. The meek Saunders Walker 
was a proverbial expression among all who knew him.” 
In the twenty-seventh year of his age he began to preach 
the Gospel, and continued in the office of the ministry 
for thirty-eight years. For some time he had charge 
of a Church in Bute County, N. C. In 1782 he removed 
to Georgia, where he remained during the rest of his 
life. For a time he and Rev. Daniel Marshall were the 
only ordained ministers in the upper part of the state. 
It was a period of great political excitement, and party 
spirit ran very high. Mr. Walker was often called to 
mediate in eases of political animosities, and to reconcile 
those who had become alienated. The gentleness of 
his character, and his freedom from the bitterness which 
turns triends into enemies, eminently lit ted him to be a 
peacemaker, and be bad the blessing which our Lord 
pronounces on those who are peacemakers. After a life 
of great usefulness in the cause of his Master, nearly 
forty years of which were spent in the active duties of 
the ministry, he died in 1805. See Benedict, JPistory 
of the Baptists, ii, 320. (J. C. S.) 

Walker, Simeon R., a minister in the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, wast horn in MacXairv Coun- 
ty, Tenn., Jan. 3, 1834. He professed religion at the 
age of tifteen, and was received into the Memphis 
Conference in 1854. In 1858 he was transferred to 


the Waehita Conference and appointed to the Hamp- 
ton Circuit, where he. died, June 23, 1859. Air. Walker 
was a pious man, full of zeal and love for the Church. 
He died of hemorrhage of the lungs. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences of the M. E. Church , South, 1859, 

p. 182. 

Walker, Thomas (1), a minister of the Society 
of Friends, was born in Leeds, England, in 1794, lie 
did not enjoy many educational advantages, yet he was 
instrumental in doing much good. His life was char- 
acterized by much simplicity, and by a cheerful, humble 
willingness to do what he could in the service of t lie 
Saviour. He died at Leeds, June 24, 1851. SeeA«- 
nual Monitor , 1852, p. 91. 

Walker, Thomas (2), an English Wesleyan min- 
ister, was received into the Church in early life, into 
the ministry in 1824, and died April 3, 1829. He was 
zealous in his labors. See Wesleyan Minutes, 1830, 
p. 550. 

Walker, Thomas (3), an English Wesleyan min- 
ister, was converted in his fifteenth year, entered the 
ministry in 1824, retired in 1847, and settled in York, 
where he died, July 7, 1848, in the fiftieth year of his 
age. “ His qualifications for the work of the ministry, 
and the uprightness, integrity, and kindness manifested 
in his deportment, made his labors to be esteemed in 
proportion as they were known.” See Wesleyan Min- 
utes, 1818. 

W"alker, W. S. C., a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in Warren County, Tenn., June 27. 1830, 
and received the best training in early life. He was 
converted at the age of twenty-four; joined the South- 
ern Illinois Conference in 1805; and served successively 
at New llaven, Carmi, Gray ville. Marion, and MacLeans- 
borough, where be died, Jan. 12, 1873. Mr. Walker was 
a man of remarkable energy and faithfulness. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences, 1873, p. 130. 

Walker, William, (1), a learned English divine, 
was born in Lincolnshire in 1023. Among other works, 
he published a Treatise on English Particles, and Idi- 
omatologia Anglo- Latina. lie died in 1084. 

Walker, William (2), a Baptist minister, was 
born in Dighton, Mass., Sept. 19, 1817. When a young 
man lie resided in New Bedford, where he learned the 
trade of a shipwright. While thus engaged, he became 
a hopeful Christian, and his attention was soon turned 
to the Christian ministry, lie was prepared for college 
at the Academy in Middlebo rough, and was a graduate 
of Brown University in the class of 1843. He pursued 
theological studies at the Newton Institution for six 
months, and then went to the West, where he found 
everywhere an open field for ministerial labor. For a 
year and a half he preached at Dixon, 111. While at- 
tending a meeting of a Baptist association at Peoria, 
111., he was attacked by a fatal disease, and lived only 
nine days, dying Oct. 20, 1840. See the Walker Memo- 
rial. p. 91. (J. C. S.) 

Walker, William H , a preacher of the United 
Methodist Free Church, was born at Liverpool, May 21, 
1810. 11 is pious parents gave him a good education, and 

as a boy be joined a Methodist class meeting. In 1835 
he separated from the Weslevans and joined the Asso- 
ciation. After careful preparation, he entered the min- 
istry in 1840, and began a mission at Hamburg, where 
he labored for seven years, both English and Americans 
joining his Church, lie returned to England in 1847, 
In 1850 his health gave way, and for twenty-one years 
he acted as chaplain to the Salford Cemetery, lie 
served his generation faithfully, and died of apoplexy, 
Aug. 25, 1878, See Minutes of the 23 d Annual *4$- 
sembly. 

Walkinshaw, Ht/ott, a minister of the Reformed 
Presbyterian Church, was born in the County of An- 
trim. Ireland. June 15, 1803, lie removed with his fa- 
ther’s family, in 1819, to Belmont County, 0., and was 


WALKYRIES 


S 65 


WALL 


afterwards educated in Franklin College, where he grad- 
uated in 1827. lie studied theology under Dr. Black, 
of Pittsburgh, and Dr. Wylie, of Philadelphia, lie was 
licensed to preach in 1832, and in the spring of 1835 
was settled as pastor of the congregations of llrookland, 
North Washington, Union, Pine Creek, etc., Pa. In 
1841 t he charge was divided, and he remained as pastor 
at llrookland and North Washington, where he contin- 
ued to labor until his death, which occurred April 19, 
1843. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer . Pulpit , ix, 
83 sq. 

Walkyries (Anglo-Saxon, Valcyrigear , from val, 
the battle-tield, and kjora , to choose), in Norse mythol- 
ogy, are two beautiful young maidens in the service of 
Odin, as his cup-bearers, called I hist and Mist — the for- 
mer name signifying a black cloud, the latter a watery, 
floating vapor. In general, they are imagined as hover- 
ing over battles, or even participating in the conflict, 
marking with the point of the lance the heroes who 
shall fall, and whom they shall conduct to Walhalla. 
They somewhat resemble the Hours or Destinies, but 
never attain that lofty and unapproachable dignity 
which characterizes those deities. The Walkyries, 
though superhuman, are not goddesses. They fall in 
love with men, and then confer their favors in battle as 
they are prompted by their own passions. For this 
Odin expels them from Walhalla, dooms them to mar- 
riage, or drives them into a trance, where they lie sleep- 
ing until the warrior comes who understands how to 
break the spell. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Wall (prop. “PjT>, as a defence, or tTSin, as a bar- 
rier; sometimes "W—? perhaps from its rocky character; 
also various forms from the. root “Ha, to enclose; occa- 
sionally 3^n, from its strength ; from its exterior 

position; from being dorp etc. ; Or. r«7\o<;). The 

walls of ancient cities and of houses were generally 
built of earth, or of bricks of clay mixed with reeds or 
straw and hardened in the sun. When any breach 
took place in such a mass of earth, either by heavy 
rains or by some defect in the foundation, the conse- 
quences were serious (den. xlix. 6; Psa. lxii, 3; Isa. 
xxx, 13). It is not surprising that walls which were 
often made in such a rude and perishable manner could 
be easily destroyed by tire (Amos i, 7, 10, 14). The ex- 
tensive mounds on the plains of Mesopotamia and As- 
syria, marking the sites of ancient cities, show that the 
walls were principally constructed of earth or clay. 
The thickness of the wall surrounding the palace of 
Khorsabad is fixed by Botta at 48 feet 9 inches; a very 
close approximation to the width of the wall of Nine- 
veh, upon which three chariots could be driven abreast. 
The wall of Babylon was 87 feet broad, and six chariots 
could be driven together upon it. Not unfrequently 
stone walls, with towers and a fosse, surrounded forti- 
fied cities (Isa. ii, 15; ix, 10, xxvi, I; Neh. iv, 3 ; Zeph. 

i, 10). See Fortification. 

Houses abutting on the city wall frequently had 
windows which communicated with the exterior (Josh. 

ii, 15; 1 Sam. xix, 12; Acts ix, 24, 25; 2 Cor. xi, 33: 
see Ilackett, Illust. of Script, p. 67 sq.). See Window. 

In Scripture language a wall is the symbol of resist- 
ance or separation. See Fence. The Lord tells the 
prophet Jeremiah (i, 18; xv, 20) that he will make 
him as a wall of brass, to withstand the house of Israel. 
Paul says (Eph. ii, 14) that. Christ, by his death, broke 
down the partition-wall that separated us from God. or 
rather the wall that separated Jew and Gentile; so that 
these two people, when converted, may make but one. 
See Partition. 

Only a few other points need here be noticed (from 
Smith’s Diet, of the Bible ) in addition to what lias been 
said elsewhere on wall construction, whether in brick, 
stone, or wood. See Brick: Handicraft; Mortar. 

1. The practice was common, in Palestine, of carrying 
foundations down to the solid rock (Luke vi, 48), as in 
X.-l i i 


the ease of the Temple, and in the present day with 
structures intended to be permanent (Josephus, A nt. xv, 
11,3; Bobinson, ii, 338 : Col. Ch. Chron. [1857]. p. 459). 
The pains taken by the ancient builders to make good 
the foundations of their work may still be seen, both in 
the existing substructions and in the number of old 
stones used in more modern constructions. Some of 
these stones— ancient, hut of uncertain date — are from 
20 feet to 30 feet 10 inches long, 3 feet to 0 feet 0 inches 
broad, and 5 feet to 7 feet 0 inches deep (Robinson, i, 
233, 282, 280; iii, 228). As is the case in numberless 
instances of Syrian buildings, either old or built of old 
materials, the edges and sometimes the faces of these 
stones are “ bevelled” in flat grooves. This is commou- 





Specimens of Ancient Walls. 


8G6 


WALLACE 


WALL ARC A DING 


lv supposed to indicate work at least as old as the Ro- | lished numerous works, among which are, Infant Bap- 
mau period (ibid, i, 201,280; ii, 75, 76, 278, 353 ; iii, 52, tism A sserted and Vindicated (1074): — History of Infant 
58, Ml. 22b, 461, 41)3, 51 1 ; Fergusson. Handb. of A rchaol. Baptism , in Two Bails (1705): — and Critical Motes on 


p. 288). Uu the contrary side, see Col. Ch . Chron. (1858), , 
p. 350. 

Rut the great, size of these stones is far exceeded by 1 
some of those at Baalbek, three of which are each about 
03 feet long; and one. still lying in the quarry, meas- 
ures 08 leei 4 inches in length, 17 feet 2 inches broad, 
and 14 feet 7 inches thick. Its weight can scarcely be 
less than 000 tons (Robinson, iii, 505, 512 ; Volney, Trav. 
ii, 241). See Stunk. 

2. A feature of some parts of Solomon’s buildings, as 
described bv Josephus, corresponds remarkably to the 
method adopted at Nineveh of encrusting or veneering 
a wall of brick or stone with slabs of a more costly ma- 
terial, as marble or ababaster (Josephus, A nt. viii, 5, 2; 
Fergusson, llandb. of A rchaol. p. 202, 203). 

3. Another use of the walls in Palestine is to support 
mountain roads, or terraces formed on the sides of hills 
for purposes of cultivation (Robinson, ii, 493 ; iii, 14,45). 
Hence the. “path of the vineyards” (Numb, xxii, 24) is 
illustrated by Robinson as a pathway through vine- 
yards, with walls on each side {Bibl. Res. ii. 80 ; Stanley, 
Sin. and Pal. p. 102, 420 ; Lindsay. True. p. 239 ; 31aun- 
drell. Early Trav. p. 437). See Vink. 

Wall Arcading, a series of niches added as an 
ornament in the interior walls of aisles. At Leuehars, 
Scotland, and at All-Saints’. Stamford, it adorns the ex- 
terior of the church. At Rattle, Morton, Rochester, and 
Rreeon there is a very lofty series of areading. — Walcott, 
Sacred A rchaol. s. v. 

Wall, Andrew J., a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was a native of Indiana; joined the Missouri Con- 
ference in 1850, and served on the Uniouville, Lancaster, 
and Ashley circuits. After being located for some time, 
he was again admitted in 1859, and appointed to Lin- 
neus Circuit. In 1800 he was superannuated; after 
which he resided in Laporte, 31 o., and finally settled 
near Fairfield, la., where he died in 1805. Mr. Wall 
was a man of clear intellect, average ability, and pos- 
sessed an exemplary spirit of humility. See Minutes 
of Annual Conferences, 1805, p. 7. 

Wall, George, an English Methodist preacher, 
and one of the original promoters of the New Connec- 
tion, was born in the Peak of Derbyshire in 1774, and 
was converted among the Methodists at the age of 
twenty. Removing to the village of Arnold, Notting- 
ham, he joined the New Connection, and was accepted 
in this ministry in 1799, and his seventeen appoint- 
ments embraced the leading circuits in the Connection, 
in which his integrity, piety, and devotion secured for 
him acceptance and great usefulness. lie was three 
times president of conference — in 1809, 1815, and 1832. 
In 1838 declining health obliged him to become a super- 
numerary, but bis forty years’ labors comforted him in 
bis retirement. He enjoyed unclouded peace in his last, 
hours, and died at Ligliteliffe, near Halifax, March 4, 
1852. See Minutes of the Xew Connection Conference. 

Wall, John, 1 ).!)., an English divine, was born in 
1588; became prebendary of Oxford in 1032; and died 
1000. lie published a number of Sermons and other 
productions. 

Wall, Thomas, an English Wesleyan missionary, 
was sent out to St. Mary’s, Western Africa, in 1837, ar- 
riving there Nov. 20. lie was studious, diligent, affec- 
tionate, and faithful to all his duties. His promising 
life was cut short by a paroxysm of fever, and he died 
Aug. 21, 1838, exactly a year after the death of the la- 
mented young Henry Wilkinson, who preceded him 
on the station. See Minutes of the British Conference , 
1839. 

Wall, W'illiam, D.D., an English divine, was horn 
in 1040. He was for fifty-two years (1070-1728) vicar 
of Sliorcliam, Kent, where he died in 1728, He pub- 


the Old Testament (1734). 

Wallace, Benjamin John, D.D., an eminent 
Presbyterian divine, was born at Erie, Pa., June 10, 
1810. lie made a profession of religion when in his 
twelfth year; received an appointment of a cadetship 
to the West Point Military Aeademv, N. Y., in 1827; 
graduated at the Princeton (N. J.) Theological Semi- 
nary in 1832; was licensed by the Donegal Presbytery 
the same year; ordained by the Muhlenburg Presbytery 
as pastor of the Church at Russellville, Ky., in 1834; be- 
came pastor of the Church at York, Pa., in 1837 ; was 
elected professor of languages in Newark College, Del., 
in 1840, where he was faithful as an instructor; chosen 
editor of the Presbyterian Quarterly Review in 1852, 
and for ten years he sustained it with great ability. 
This was the most important labor of his life. Mueh 
of the interest of the Review was created by bis own ar- 
ticles. In all his reviews of books and editorials there 
were an earnestness, a vivacity, and a freshness that made 
them readable, and some were marked by great elo- 
quence and power. He wrote all the book-notices dur- 
ing the ten years of his editorial charge, and forty-one 
articles on various subjects. He published two single 
Sermons, and was a contributor to the Bibliotheca Sacra , 
etc. He died July 25, 1802. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. 
A Imanac, 1803, p. 31 1 ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. 
A uthors , s. v. ; Presb . Quar. Rev. Oct. 1862, p. 281-305. 
(J.L.S.) 

Wallace, Cranmore, a clergyman of the Protes- 
tant Episcopal Church, was burn in Ackworth, N. IL, 
Feb. 27, 1802. Mr. W. was educated at Dartmouth 
College, graduating in 1824, and engaged for a short 
time in teaching at Roston and other towns in Massa- 
chusetts. As early as 1830 he removed to South Caro- 
lina, where for the first ten years of his residence he 
was the principal of the Cheraw Academy. Here he 
began the study of theology; became principal of the 
South Carolina Male School, Charleston ; was ordained 
deaeon in 1830, and priest a year thereafter. His early 
clerical labors were spent as a missionary in the npper 
part of the state, after which he became rector of St. 
David’s Church, Cheraw. Subsequently he was in 
charge of the parishes of St. James, James’s Island; 
St.John’s, Rerkelev; and in 1848 he accepted an in- 
vitation to St. Stephen’s Chapel, in Charleston. He was 
also rector of the Church Home, and was for many years 
secretary of the Diocesan Convention and a member of 
the standing committee of the diocese. lie died in 
Charleston, Feb. 3, 1800. See A mer. Quar. Church Rev. 

1800, p. 181. 

Wallace, George W., a minister of the Baptist 
denomination, was born at Berkeley, 31 ass., Feb. 19, 
1814. At the age of sixteen he professed his faith in 
Christ, and united with the Free Baptist Church in 
Pawtueket, R. I. In 1836 he was licensed to preach by 
the Rhode Island Quarterly 3Ieeting. For several years, 
sueh was the state of his health that he was able to 
preaeh only occasionally. During this time be im- 
proved bis mind by study, and thus prepared himself 
for more extensive usefulness. He was ordained at 
Rehoboth, 31ass., Aug. 23, 1848. The churches of which 
he was pastor were at Hebronville, Rehoboth, and Far- 
numville, 3Iass. ; Heorgiaville and Apponaug, R. I. ; East 
Killingly, Conn.; and in one or two other places. 1 1 is 
ministry in Apponaug, from 1870 to 1877, was one of 
marked success. When his age and failing health com- 
pelled him to retire from his pastoral work, lie returned 
to his native village, where he spent the remainder of 
his life, with the exception of the last few months. He 
died in Providence, R. I., Sept. II, 1880. See obituary 
notice in the Providence Journal. (J. C. S.) 

Wallace, Henry C., a 3Iethodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was bom in Winchester, III., Nov, 5, 1832. He 


WALLACE 


867 


WALLAUEIi 


was converted in his nineteenth year, and in 1858 join- 
ed the Illinois Conference and was appointed to Butler- 
ville. The next year he was discontinued. In 1863 
he was again received and tilled the following charges: 
Petersburgh and Athens, Sangamon, Springfield Cir- 
cuit, Potersburgh, Pawnee, Girard, Whitehall, White- 
hall Circuit, Topeka, and Sangamon Circuit, where he 
died, Sept. 29, 1870. Mr. Wallace was a man of great 
faith, earnest consecration, and exemplary life. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1876, p. 144. 

Wallace, James, embarked in November, 1845, 
as a Wesleyan missionary for the island of Ceylon, 
which he reached in safety. In June, 1840, he was 
driven out to sea while on his way from Jaffna to Bat- 
ticaloa, and for six days suffered great privations and 
dangers in a small craft in the Bay of Bengal. From 
the effects of this exposure he never appears to have 
recovered. He died at Colombo, April 21, 1847, deeply 
regretted by those who had witnessed his zeal for the 
conversion of India. See Minutes of Wesleyan Confer- 
ences , 1847. 

Wallace, John (l),a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in North Carolina in 1766. lie spent the 
early part of his life in ignorance and wickedness; was 
converted at the age of twenty-six ; received license 
as a local preacher two years later; labored with ac- 
ceptance in that capacity about twenty-four years; 
and in 1818 joined the Missouri Conference, and work- 
ed with success Vincennes and Patoka circuits. In 
1821 he united with the Ohio Conference and served 
on Blue River Circuit until his death, Aug. 27, 1822. 
Mr. Wallace was not a brilliant speaker, yet substan- 
tial and powerful. The law and the promises were 
his great themes. See Minutes of Ammal Conferences , 
1824. p. 424. 

Wallace, John (2). a Presbyterian minister, was 
born near Gap, Lancaster Co., Pa., Oct. 1, 1791. He 
was self-educated, but out of regard to his classical and 
theological attainments was licensed by New Castle 
Presbytery, and ordained by the same in 1832 as pas- 
tor of the Pequa Church in Lancaster County, which 
was his only charge. Here he labored faithfully and 
successfully for nearly thirty years. He died Oct. 29, 
1866. lie was an eminently good and faithful man. 
See Wilson, Presb. Bist. Almanac, 1867, p. 214. 

Wallace, Jonathan, M.L>., a Universalist minis- 
ter, was of Scotch descent, born at Peterborough, N. H., 
March 20, 1784. He removed with his father to Berlin, 
Vt., in 1795, where he received a good common-school 
education, and taught school for several years ; studied 
medicine in his young manhood, and for some time fol- 
lowed the medical profession ; and dually embraced 
Univcrsalism, and in 1815 began preaching. His first 
fields of labor were Richmond, Wil listen, and Jericho, 
Vt. lie was married in 1820. In the winter of 1822-23 
he moved to Potsdam, N. Y., where for several years 
he stood almost alone as a preacher of Universal- 
ism, his circuit embracing Canton, Madrid, Pierre- 
pont, Hopkinton, Malone, Bangor, and Potsdam, in 
which latter place he was pastor over twenty years. 
In 1837 he began in Potsdam the publication of a semi- 
monthly Universalist paper, which, not paying ex- 
penses, was soon dropped. He was afterwards associ- 
ate editor of The Evangelical Magazine and Gospel Ad- 
vocate at Utica, N. Y. He went to Boston in 1828 to 
be treated for epilepsy; preached there about a year; 
spent his latter years in Potsdam, and died April 6, 
1873. Mr. Wallace was a close, original thinker, and 
very tenacious of his opinions. He left many manu- 
scripts, including a volume of original hymns for public 
worship. He devoted much of his time preparing 
young men for the ministry. See Universalist Regis- 
ter, 1874, p. 125. 

Wallace, Marcus Jediah, a Presbyterian min- 
ister, was born June 19, 1819, in Cabarrus County, 
N. C. He received his preparatory education at Mount 


Carmel Academy, Tipton County, Tenn., under the tu- 
ition of the Rev. James Holmes, D.D., and graduated 
at the College of New Jersey in 1849. He made a 
profession of religion in the sixteenth year of his age, 
and united with the Church of his parents, the Poplar 
Tent Church. Immediately after his college gradua- 
tion, he entered Princeton Theological Seminary, where 
he spent three years, regularly graduating in 1852. lie 
was licensed bv the New Brunswick Presbytery April 
28, 1852. He began his ministry in Texas, where he 
preached two years — 1853 and 1854 — as supply to the 
churches of Jefferson and Hickory Hill, having been 
ordained as an evangelist by the Presbytery of East- 
ern Texas April 4, 1853, at Church Hill, Rusk Co., 
Texas. Next he supplied Hickory Hill and Smyrna 
churches from 1855 to 1860, when be moved to his 
last and longest field of labor, and became supply of 
Marlbrook and Greenwood (now Hope) churches, in 
Ouachita Presbytery, Ark. Here he labored assidu- 
ously and faithfully for more than eighteen years, 
until his death, June 21, 1878. lie had no fear of 
death, but during his sickness often expressed a wish 
to live longer so that he might do something more 
for the Master. But his work was done, and well 
done. He was an honest, earnest, and faithful preacher 
of the Gospel, a firm and devoted friend, true in all 
the relations of life. (W. P. S.) 

Wallace, Robert (I), D.D., a Scotch divine, was 
born in Perthshire in 1697; was educated at the Uni- 
versity of Edinburgh; became minister of Moffat in 
1723; also of Greyfriars’ Church, Edinburgh, in 1733; 
and died in 1771. He published, A Dissertation on the 
Numbers of Mankind in Ancient and Modern Times 
(1753): — Characteristics of the Present Political State 
of Great Britain (1758): — and Various Prospects of 
Mankind, Nature, and Providence (1761). 

Wallace, Robert (2), a minister of the Reform- 
ed Presbyterian Church, was born in the parish of 
Lougbgilly, County of Armagh, Ireland, in December, 
1772. He was educated at the University of Glasgow, 
from which he graduated in 1810. The next spring he 
removed to America with his family, consisting of a 
wife and four children. He studied theology under Dr. 
Wylie, of Philadelphia, and was licensed in 1814. In 
the autumn of the same year he received a call from 
two societies, one in Kentucky and the other near Chil- 
licothe, O., and was ordained and installed in the pas- 
torate. He continued in this relation until 1820, when 
he resigned the charge in Kentucky and retained the 
one near Chillicothc. He was instrumental in organ- 
izing several societies within convenient distance of 
his home. In 1822 he received a call from the three 
societies which he had established at Salt Creek. Here 
he continued to labor as pastor of these societies and as 
missionary to the adjoining neighborhoods during the 
remainder of his life. He died July 19, 1849. See 
Sprague, Annals of the A mer. Pulpit , ix. p. 66 sq. 

Wallace, William, a Presbyterian minister, w r as 
born in Chester County, Pa., March 17, 1787. He grad- 
uated at Jefferson College, Pa.; studied theology pri- 
vately; was licensed by Steubenville Presbytery in 1821, 
and immediately entered upon the work of a domestic 
missionary, going through the new settlements of East- 
ern Ohio, and gathering up and forming nuclei from 
which have arisen some prominent congregations. In 
1822 he became pastor of the two newly organized con- 
gregations of Nottingham and Freeport, O., in which 
relation he continued for eighteen years. He died Dec. 
18, 1841. Mr. Wallace had the reputation of being a man 
of ardent piety and practical worth. He was faithful 
and successful as a pastor, and plain and instructive as 
a preacher. See Wilson, Pres. Hist. Almanac, 1867, p. 
214. 

Wallachian Version. See Roumanian Ver- 
sion. 

Wallauer, George, a German Reformed minis- 


WALL BRIDGE 


80S 


WALLIN 


ter, arrived in America, from Europe, in the winter of 
1771. He was pastor of the congregation at Baltimore 
from 1772 until near May, 177th when it is said that lie 
left Baltimore. Some one has related that during the 
American devolution he left his congregation and join- 
ed the British army. See llarbaugh, Fathers of the 
(J e nn . ReJ \ ( 'h u rch . i i , 30 9. 

Wallbvidge, E jnviN Angki.. an English Congre- 
gational missionary, was horn April 10, 1813, and died 
April 27, 1870. Mr. Walibridge was for a time con- 
nected with the British and Foreign School Society, 
and. in connection with Mr. Trew, engaged in school 
work at Jamaica. In 184! lie was invited by the Lon- 
don Missionary Society to commence t heir mission sta- 
tion at Georgetown, Demerara, and here he labored 
without interruption till 1871. He was deeply inter- 
ested in the mission work, and was wonderfully blessed 
in heralding the Gospel of Christ. See (Loud.) Cony. 
Year-book , 1877, p. 420. 

Waller, Alvin F., a Methodist itinerant minister 
and early missionary to Oregon, was horn at. Abingdon, 
Luzerne Co., Pa., May 8, 1808. He was the young- 
est of seven children, his mother dying when he was 
but live months old. Keeeiving early religions instruc- 
tion from his lather, a man of earnest piety, he was 
converted and joined the Methodist Episcopal Church 
in 1829, from which time to the end of his busy life 
be was a devoted Christian. In 1832 lie was employed 
as junior preacher on the Lewiston Circuit, Genesee 
Conference. In 1833 he was married to Miss Elephe 
White, and t he same year entered the Lyma Seminary 
under the presidency of Kev. Dr. Luckev, where bv dil- 
igent application and steady piety be made more perma- 
nent the faith which governed his life. lie connect- 
ed himself with the Genesee Conference in 1833, re- 
maining until 1839, when he joined the Oregon Mis- 
sion, under the superintendency of Lev. Jason Lee. Af- 
ter a tedious journey around Cape Horn, he reached 
Oregon with his family in 1840, and, with scarcely a 
day’s relaxation, worked for his Master up to the time 
of his death, which occurred in Salem, Oregon, Dec. 20, 
1872. Mr. Waller helped to found the Oregon Insti- 
tute, from which has grown the Willamette University. 
To his efforts above all others the latter institution 
owes its existence. He was also the principal agent 
in establishing the Pacific Christian Advocate. In fact, 
lie was thoroughly identified with all the best interests 
of Oregon. At his death flags were placed at half-mast 
over the state buildings, and the whole commonwealth 
was shrouded in mourning. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences , 1873, p. 132; Simpson, Cyclop, of Method- 
ism, s. v. 

Waller, Edmund, a Baptist minister, was born in 
Spottsvl vania County, Va., Jan. 1, 1775. 1 1 is father 

and uncle were Baptist ministers, and distinguished f<x 
their zeal for the truth during the times of persecution 
in Virginia. His hopeful conversion occurred when he 
was but thirteen years of age. He delayed making 
a profession of ins faith in Christ until he was twenty- 
three years of age, uniting, in 1798, with the Baptist 
Church at Bryan’s Station, Fayette Co., Ky. In 1802 he 
was licensed to preach, and ordained May 11. 1805. 
Following the practice of Baptist ministers in the sec- 
tion of the country in which he lived, he had the pas- 
toral care of two or three churches at the same time. 
He preached during the last years of his life for two 
churches — oncat Mount Pleasant, and theotherat ( Bonn's 
Creek — dividing his time between them. His ministry 
was a successful one. He is believed to have baptized fif- 
teen hundred persons, most, if not all. of whom connected 
themselves with churches under his pastoral care. He 
died in 1843. See Baptist Memorial, ii, 207. (J.C. S.) 

Waller, John Lightfoot, LL.D., a Baptist min- 
ister, was born in Woodford County, Kv., Nov. 23, 1809. 
His early education was limited, yet he studied pri- 
vately so diligently as to qualify himself fur teaching | 


school for several years, until, in 1835, he accepted the 
editorship of t he Baptist Banner , a small semi-monthly 
sheet published at Shelby viile, Ky., in which occupa- 
tion he continued to be engaged with great success un- 
til 1841. In 1840 be was ordained to the Christian 
ministry, and, after relinquishing his editorial position, 
became general agent of the General Association of 
Kentucky Baptists, preaching in the meantime when- 
ever he found an opportunity, sometimes as often as six 
times a week. In 1843 he succeeded his father, Kev. 
Edmund Waller, as pastor of Glenn’s Creek Church. In 
1849 he was elected a member of the convention called 
‘•to readopt, amend, or abolish the Constitution of the 
State.” In 1850 he resumed the editorial management 
of the Banner and Pioneer (now styled the Western lie 
carder), and in April, 1852, the Bible Kevision Associa- 
tion having been organized at Memphis, Tenn., he was 
elected president of the association, and held that office 
until his death. He died Oct. 10, 1854. See Sprague, 
A nnals of the A mer. Pulpit, vi, 837. 

Waller, Ralph, an English Methodist preacher, 
was born in 1811, and was converted in his youth in 
the Methodist Society. During the division of 1835 
he joined the New Connection, while at New Mills, 
near Stockport, and in 1830 entered r heir ministry. 
During twelve years he travelled in nine circuits with 
marked success. In 1844 he obtained entire sanctifica- 
tion by faith, and his ministry was ever after more 
earnest, llis voice failed him in 1846, and lie became 
a supernumerary at Sheffield, where he died in triumph, 
Nov. 17, 184S. See Minutes of the Conference. 

Wallet, a bag for carrying the necessaries for a 
journey, which anciently always formed a part of the 
dress of the Christian pilgrim. See Scrip. 

Wallin, Benjamin, an English Baptist minister, 
was born in London in 1711. He received a good edu- 
cation; and although it was the earnest wish of his 
friends that he should enter the ministry, he felt so dis- 
trustful of his qualifications for the work that, for a long 
lime, he resisted their importunities. ‘‘When I con- 
sider,” said he, “the design of such a care to be em- 
ployed more or less in preaching the Gospel, the very 
thought strikes me with terror. It is a work of an 
awful nature.” His scruples were, however, in time 
overcome, and he consented to he set apart to the 
Christian ministry, and was ordained as the successor 
of his father, Kev. Edward Wallin, as pastor of the Bap- 
tist Church, Maze Pond, London. This position he 
tilled for more than forty years, his death occurring in 
February, 1782. Mr. Wallin was the author of the 
hymn, “Hail, mighty Jesus, how divine is thy victori- 
ous sword !” See Belcher, Historical sketches of Hiimns , 
p. 252. (J. C. S.) 

Wallin, Johan Olof, a Swedish theologian, was 
born Oct. 15, 1779, at Stora Tuna, in Dalecarlia. lie 
studied at Upsala, and on first coming before the pub- 
lic, in 1805, as a poet, he received t lie great prize of the 
Swedish Academy, which was also awarded to him in 
the following years by the same academy, of which lie 
became a member in 1809. He now betook himsilf 
to spiritual poetry, and became the most prominent rep- 
resentative of this kind of poetry in Sweden. In the 
same year he was appointed pastor at Solna, and in 
1812 was called to Stockholm, and advanced, in 1816, 
as pastor primarius, thus becoming entitled to a seat 
and vote in the national diet. In 1837 he was made 
archbishop of Upsala, and died June 30, 1839. lie pub- 
lished sermons under the title Religions- Tal vid atskil- 
lia TWfiillen (Stockholm, 1827-31, 3 vols.) : — Predik - 
ninyar (2d ed. 1842, 3 vols. ; most of his sermons are 
translated into German). His poetry he published un- 
der the title Wifterhets - arbeten (1848,2 vols.). The 
Swedish hvmn-hook. which he completed in 1819, is 
mostly his work. See Zuehold, Bibl. Theof. ii, 1412; 
Theoloy. Unirersnl- Lex ikon , s. v. ; Winer, Uaudbuch UCT 
theoloy. Lit. ii, 1 67, 825. (B, P.) 


WALLIS 


809 


WALMSLEY 


Wallis, George, an English Congregational min- 
ister, was born at Andover, in May, 1816, and died Sept. 
5, 1874. He was educated at the University of Edin- 
burgh, and preached successively at Levtonston^, Bam- 
bury, Hungerford, Stonehouse, and Bradford. Mr. Wal- 
lis was endowed with talents of no ordinary character, 
which he cultivated diligently, and became a great 
power for good to the Church. See (Lond.) Com/. Year- 
book 1875, p. 372. 

Wallis, Hugh, a Congregational minister, was a 
graduate of Dartmouth College in 1791. lie was or- 
dained pastor of the Church in Bath, Me., Dec. 9, 1795; 
was dismissed July 15, 1800; and died in 1848. See 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, ii, 379. 

Wallis, John (1), D.D., F.R.S., an eminent English 
divine and mathematician, was born at Ashford, Kent, 
Nov. 23, 1016, and was educated at Emmanuel College, 
Cambridge, where he graduated about 
1 G3G. 1 le took orders in the Church of 
England in 1040, and was chaplain to 
sir Richard Darley and to lady Yere. 

Being an expert in discovering the keys 
to MSS. written in cipher, he was em- 
ployed in this capacity by the Long 
Parliament. He afterwards obtained 
the living of St. Gabriel, London, but 
exchanged it for St. Martin’s in 1 643 ; 
became Savilian professor of geometry 
at Oxford in 1048; keeper of the ar- 
chives there in 1058; and was con- 
firmed in these offices at the Restora- 
tion in 1GG0. lie was a member of the 
Roval Society in 1662. He had a con- 
troversy with Hobbes, who pretended 
to have discovered the quadrature of 
the circle, which lasted from 1655 till 
16G3. lie died at Oxford, Oct. 28, 1703. 

Besides publishing numerous scientific 
and mathematical works, he was one 
of the revisers of the Book of Common Prayer (1661); 
edited the posthumous works of Jeremiah Horrox (1673); 
maintained theological controversies with the Arians, 
Baptists, and Sabbatarians; published Theological Dis- 
courses (1692); and left the MSS. of a number of ser- 
mons, which were published for the first time in 1791. 
See his Memoir, by Rev. C. E. de Coetlogon, printed 
with the Sermons. 

Wallis, John (2), an English clergyman, was 
born in Cumberland in 1714. He wrote, Letters to a 
Pupil on Entering into Holy Orders: — Miscellany in 
Prose and Verse (1748): — and Natural History and 
Antiquities of Northumberland ( 1769). He died at 
Norton in 1793. 

Wallis, William James, an English Methodist 
preacher, was born in London in 1840. 1 1 is father was 

an exciseman, his mother a Quakeress, who brought him 
up religiously. At fourteen lie had more friends than 
companions; at fifteen he gave his heart to God, and 
devoted himself to his service. At nineteen he removed 
to Bronsgrove, and joined the Primitive Methodists, 
who wished to secure him for their ministry; but his 
New- Connection friends had the first claim on him, 
and he entered their ministry in 18G4, but after travel- 
ling in five circuits his voice failed him, and the rupt- 
ure of a blood-vessel suddenly closed his useful life, at 
Stockton, April 30, 1870. See Minutes of the Confer- 
ence. 

Walloon Church, a branch of the French Re- 
formed Church, which still exists in the Netherlands. 
It differs from the Dutch Reformed Church chiefly in 
retaining the use of the French language in divine ser- 
vice, and of the Geneva Catechism instead of the Heidel- 
berg. The congregations of this body, though once nu- 
merous, are now reduced to a very few ; and the minis- 
ters are in most eases Dutchmen bv birth. The Wal- 


loons were largely represented among the early Dutch 
settlers in North America, particularly in New York 
and New Jersey. 

Wall-painting. The large spaces which are some- 
times left without any ornamentation in our churches, 
and which, when whitewashed, appear so cold and un- 
sightly, were originally covered with color, either in the 
shape of floral or geometrical patterns, or of figures or 
emblems. The painted glass when treated in conjunc- 
tion with the wall, as may be seen at St. Cbapelle, has 
a beautiful effect. The bands of color on the wall were, 
no doubt, in continuation of the transom, or the sill, or 
a continuation of a band carried round the arches, and 
taking the place of a drip-stone and string. There are 
fresh examples discovered every day, but they are sel- 
dom in such a state as to admit of preservation. — Parker, 
Gloss, of A rchitect. s. v. 



Wall-plate, a piece of timber laid horizontally on 
the top of a wall, on which joists rest. 

Wallroth, August Friedrich Christian, a Prot- 
estant theologian of Germany, was born May 3, 1803, at 
Eutin. He studied at Kiel, Berlin, and Bonn; was ap- 
pointed pastor at Eutin in 1832; in 1838 he was made 
court and garrison preacher in Oldenburg, and member 
of consistory ; until in 1849 he was obliged to retire 
from the Church government on account of the new 
constitution of the Church. In 1853 he was again ap- 
pointed for Eutin as superintendent and court preacher, 
with the title of superior counsellor of the Church. 
Here he died, April 4, 187G. He published a number 
of sermons, which are enumerated in Zuchold, Biblioth. 
Theolog. ii, 1413. (B. P.) 

Walls, F. II., a Methodist Episcopal minister, who 
served the Church many years as class-leader, steward, 
exhorter, and local preacher; joined the Southern Illi- 
nois Conference in 1848. when somewhat advanced in 
years; travelled some years; took the superannuated 
relation ; and a few years later died, Aug. 13, 18G2. Mr. 
Walls was a pious, earnest, successful minister. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1862, p. 21 1. 

Walmesley, Charles, D.D., F.R.S., an English 
Benedictine monk and Roman Catholic bishop, was 
born in 1721. He was senior bishop and vicar-apostolic 
of the Western district, and doctor of theology of the 
Sorbonne. He was the last survivor of those eminent 
mathematicians who were active in bringing about a 
change in the chronological style, or calendar, of Eng- 
land, which was accomplished in 1752. He wrote a 
number of mathematical and theological works, which 
are at present unimportant. He died at Bath in 1797. 
See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Walmsley, John, an English Wesleyan minister, 
was converted in early life, called into the ministry in 


WALN 


S70 


WALSII 


1797, and died April 22, 1842. His sermons evinced an | 
affectionate spirit, a fulness of love to God, compassion 
for sinners, and sympathy with atllicted saints, lie en- 
joyed the confidence and esteem of his brethren. See 
Minutes of 1 1 \sleyan Conferences. 18 12. 

Wain, Nicholas, a member of the Society of 
Friends, was born Oct. 19, 1742, at Fair Hill, near Phila- 
delphia, Fa. He acquired a good elementary education 
at a Friends’ school in l’hiladelphia, and on leaving the 
institution commenced the study of law; and before at- 
taining to his majority was admitted to practice in the 
courts. In order to extend his knowledge of the law, 
he went to England in the. fall of 1763, and was a stu- 
dent for some time in the Temple. Having secured the 
object which carried him abroad, he returned to Phila- 
delphia and resumed the practice of his profession. For 
seven years lie devoted himself with untiring industry 
and success to Ins work as a lawyer, at the end of which 
time, having had a remarkable religious experience, he 
felt it to be bis duty to abandon his profession and de- 
vote himself to religious work, as a member of the So- 
ciety of Friends, He was a frequent visitor to quarter- 
ly and yearly meetings of Friends in different parts of 
the country; and his gifts made him an acceptable 
preacher wherever and whenever he felt moved to ad- 
dress the assembled people. Some of these public dis- 
courses were remarkable for their power and their unc- 
tion, and produced a profound impression on those who 
listened to them. He visited most of the Friends’ meet- 
ings in England in the years 1783 to 1785, and toil years 
after made a similar tour through Ireland. Everywhere 
he was welcomed, and made a good impression. His 
death occurred Sept. 29, 1813. See Biographical Sketch- 
es of Friends (Phila. 1871), p. 381. (J. C. S.) 

Walpurgis, or Walpurga, St., was the sister 
of Willibald, the first bishop of the diocese of Eichstiidt 
after it had been founded by Honiface. She was of Eng- 
lish birth, and went as a missionary to Germany at the 
solicitation of lloniface. After a period of labor in Thu- 
ringia, she became abbess of the convent at Ileidenheim, 
in Eichstiidt, where Wunnebald, another brother, exer- 
cised supervision. Tradition states that Walpurgis ex- 
ercised control over monasteries also, after Wunnebald’s 
death. She herself died in 77G or 778, and several days 
are still observed in her honor; e. g. Aug. 4, in memory 
of her departure from England ; Feb. 25, in commemo- 
ration of her death; May 1, in honor of her canoniza- 
tion. It is customary in certain sections of Germany to 
adorn the doors of houses with birch twigs on the last- 
named of these days, as a protection against witches; 
and, in explanation of this custom, tradition relates that 
Walpurgis was in t lie habit of accompanying the apos- 
tles James and Philip in their missionary journeys, 
thereby incurring the suspicion of maintaining unchaste 
relations with them. To remove that suspicion, she 
planted a dry twig in the ground, which immediately 
produced leaves. The night of Walpurgis, May 1, has 
long been regarded as the chosen time when witches 
begin their infernal practices. To banish them, it was 
customary to bind wisps of straw to long poles and burn 
them — a custom which became known under the name 
of Walpurgis-firc. The bones of this saint, especially 
of the breast, are said to exude an oil which is a specific 
against the diseases of domestic animals, and which is 
distributed in the Convent of St. Walpurgis at Eieh- 
stadt. See Bollandus et Godefr. Henschcnius, Acta 
SS. Februarius 25 (Antw. 1058), iii, 511-572; Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop . s. v, 

Walsh, Henry, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
near Dublin, Ireland. Aug. 5, 1824. He came to the 
United States in 1840; was educated at Oglethorpe 
University, Ga. ; taught for several years; studied the- 
ology in the Princeton Theological Seminary; was li- 
censed by Raritan Presbytery in 1852; was pastor of 
the churches of Carmel and Macedonia, X. C., one year; 
and then of Edmiston Church (North Mississippi Pres- 


bytery), Miss., until his death, Feb. 14, 1861. See Wil- 
son, Fresh. 1 list. Almanac, 1862, p. 121. 

Walsh, John, an English Wesleyan minister, was 
born at Ormskirk, Lancashire, in 1795. It was intend- 
ed by his parents that he should become a Roman Cath- 
olic priest, and his education was in reference thereto. 
Removing to Liverpool, he was led to Christ under the 
ministry of Joseph Entwisle. He was received into the 
ministry in 1814; labored two years on the Lancaster 
Circuit; was sent to Newfoundland; preached at Car- 
bonear, Rlnekhead, St. John's, and Harbor-Grace; re- 
turned to England in 1825; was appointed to several 
important circuits; became a supernumerary in 1851; 
and died Dec. 19, 1857. Although somewhat stiff in 
manner, he was a powerful preacher and a laborious 
minister. See Minutes of Wesleyan Conferences , 1858; 
Wilson, Xeicfo midland and its Missionaries, p. 238. 

Walsh, Peter, a learned and liberal Irish Catholic, 
was born at Moortown, County Kildare, in the early 
part of the 17th century. He was probably educated 
at Louvain, where he became professor of divinity. He 
was also a Franciscan friar. On his return to Ireland, 
he became procurator of the Romish clergy; and, at the 
restoration of Charles II, persuaded many of them to 
sign a remonstrance against the temporal supremacy of 
the pope and in favor of the king. For this course he 
was so persecuted by the opposition that he had to take 
refuge in England (in 1670). He went to London, 
where he received an annuity of one hundred pounds 
for life, and remained true to his earlv faith, notwith- 
standing the persecutions he suffered. lie died in Sep- 
tember, 1687. Mr. Walsh wrote several pamphlets of a 
controversial character, and a History, which was not 
important. See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Walsh, Thomas, one of the remarkable men in 
early Methodism, was born at Ballylin, near Limerick, 
Ireland, in 1730. He went to school until he was nine- 
teen years of age, when he commenced teaching on his 
own account. II is parents were Romanists, and he was 
educated in the faith of their Church, llis temper was 
constitutionally serious, bordering on melancholy, and 
he had deep religious solicitudes from his childhood. 
Devotion to the requirements of his Church brought 
him no relief. In his eighteenth year he became con- 
vinced of the errors of the Church, formally abjured its 
creed, and united with the Established Church. His 
religions anxiety was now deepened. He heard Swin- 
dells and other Methodist itinerants; and in one of 
their assemblies “ be was divinely assured,” to use his 
own words, “that God, for Christ’s sake, had forgiven 
all his sins.” He joined the Methodist Society in New 
Market, and in 1750 he commenced to preach. Perse- 
cutions awaited him, not only from Romanists and 
Churchmen, but even more severely from the Presby- 
terians of the North (see Morgan, Life,c\\. iii). No man 
contributed more than Walsh to the spread of Method- 
ism in Ireland. “ He went like a flame of fire through 
Leinster and Connaught, preaching twice or thrice a 
day, usually in the open air. The guileless peasants 
flocked to hear their own rude but touching language. 
They wept, smote their breasts, invoked the Virgin with 
sobbing voices, and declared themselves ready to follow 
him as a saint over the world” (Stevens). 11 is name 
became famous throughout the country. The priests 
became alarmed; they instigated mobs, circulated slan- 
ders; but in vain. The people still ran after him anti 
wept aloud under his word, as he proclaimed it in moun- 
tains, meadows, highways, market-places, prisons, and 
ships. In 1753 Wesley called him to London, where he 
had frequent discussions with the Jews, and preached 
to the Irish in Moorfields and Short’s Gardens. “Such 
a sluice of divine oratory ran through the whole of his 
language as is rarely to be met with” (Morgan). “ I 
do not remember ever to have known a preacher,” says 
Wesley, "who, in so few years as he remained upon 
earth, was the instrument of converting so many peo- 


WALSII 


S71 


WALTEI 


pie.” It was while in London he commenced the study 
of Greek and Hebrew. In these studies he progressed 
with incredible swiftness. “No Catholic saint ever 
pored more assiduously and devoutly over his breviary 
than did this remarkable man over the original Script- 
ures during the rest of his life” (Stevens, ut infra, i, 
291). His memory was a concordance. “The best 
Ilebnean I ever knew,” exclaims the enthusiastic and 
generous-hearted Wesley over this “blessed man,” as 
he was wont to call him (Short History of the Method- 
ists, par. 71 ). “I knew a young man who was so thor- 
oughly acquainted with the Bible that if he was ques- 
tioned concerning any Hebrew word in the Old, or any 
Greek word in the New, Test., he would tell, after a lit- 
tle pause, not only how often the one or the other oc- 
curred in the Bible, but also what it meant in every 
place. His name was Thomas Walsh. Such a master 
of Biblic knowledge I never saw before, and never ex- 
pect to see again” (Wesley, Sermons , ser. xci). Young 
men from the University of Cambridge, when in Lon- 
don. chose Walsh to initiate them into the Hebrew 
tongue. But young Walsh was burning the candle at 
both ends. The manner of his preaching, intense study, 
habitual self-absorption, and excessive labor and fatigue 
broke him down, and his nervous sensibilities, at last, 
suffered great tortures. Wesley, a sagacious man, and 
who wrote excellent sanitary rules for his ministers, 
never seems to have admonished Walsh, for whom, in- 
deed, he seems to have had a sentiment of reverence, if 
not of awe. Walsh was seized with sickness at Bristol, 
in February, 1758, sailed for Cork as soon as his strength 
would permit, and was removed by his friends to Dub- 
lin, where, after suffering extreme mental anguish on 
account of a temporary eclipse of faith — occasioned, no 
doubt, by nervous disorganization — he died with words 
of rapture on his lips, April 8, 1759. 

The Church has produced few such men as Thomas 
Walsh. With the devotion of a Kcmpis — strongly 
tinged, too, with his asceticism — and the saintliness of 
Fletcher, he had the memory of Pascal and the studi- 
ousness of Origen. “His life,” says Southey, “might, 
indeed, almost convict a Catholic that saints are to be 
found in other communions as well as the Church of 
Rome.” Socrates was not more lost in contemplation 
on a Potidiean battle-field than was Walsh in introspec- 
tion and prayer as he walked through the streets of 
great cities. In his devotions he was sometimes so 
rapt and absorbed in the visions of God that in these 
profound and solemn frames of mind he remained for 
hours still and motionless as a statue. Such were his 
learning, his talents in the pulpit (where he often seem- 
ed clothed with the ardor and majesty of a seraph), the 
saintly dignity and moral grandeur of his character, 
that contemporary allusions to him are touched with 
reverence and wonder (see Stevens, i, 338). “His por- 
traits might almost be taken as fac-similes of the cur- 
rent pictures of Jonathan Edwards, whom he resembled 
much in other respects” (ibid, i, 339, note). Charles 
Wesley wrote several hymns in memory of Thomas 
Walsh, commencing “God of unfathomable grace;” 
“Glory, and thanks, and love;” and “’Tis finished, 
’tis past.” Nine Sermons by Walsh were published, 
with a preface by Morgan (1764, 12mo). See Morgan, 
Life of Walsh (Loud. 1762, 12mo; N. Y., 1843; repub- 
lished in Jackson’s Early Methodist Preachers , 3d ed. 
vol. iii); Horne, Appendix to Walsh’s Life (in Jackson’s 
Preachers , iii, 278 sq.) ; Jackson, Life of Charles Wesley 
(N. Y. 1842, 8vo), xxi, 551 sq. ; Tyerman, Life of John 
Wesley, ii, 200, 239, G61 ; Smith, Hist, of West. Method- 
ism, i, 253, 522 ; Stevens, Hist, of Methodism , i, 287 sq., 
337 sq. : Myles, Chron. Hist, o f Methodism, ann. 1750, p. 
69; Crow t her, Portraiture of Methodism (Lend. 1814), 
p. 356 sq. ; Atmore, Meth. Memorials (ibid. 1801), p. 
438-443; Southey, Life of Wesley, ch. xxiii; Wesley, 
Works (3d ed. ibid. 14 vols.), vii, 54; xii, 448 (see Index); 
Tefft, Methodism Successful (N. Y. I860, 12mo), p. 138. 

Walsh, Tracy R., a minister of the Methodist 


Episcopal Church, South, was licensed to preach in 
1827, and admitted into the South Carolina Conference 
in 1830. Several years later he located and assumed 
charge of the Marion Academy. For thirteen years 
the impress of his sterling character was stamped upon 
the youth committed to his training. During these 
years he did an amount of pulpit and parochial work 
seldom exceeded by a regular pastor. In 1849 he re- 
entered the Conference and continued to travel until 
elected president of Carolina Female College in 1852. 
In I860 he again entered the itinerancy, and on Oct. 
20, 1867, died. See Minutes of Annual Conferences of 
the M. E. Church, South, 1867, p. 111. 

Walsh, William M'Kendree, a Methodist 
Episcopal minister, was born in Hanover County, Va., 
Feb. 19, 1814; was converted in 1829; and in 1835 en- 
tered the ministry in the Virginia Conference. During 
the following year he was transferred to the North Car- 
olina Conference, within which he labored for thirty 
years. In 1867 lie was admitted into the Baltimore 
Conference; was supernumerated in 1870; became effec- 
tive again in 1871, and was appointed to Green Ridge 
Circuit, and two years later to lledgesvillc Circuit, 
where he died, Dec. 10, 1875. Few men have shown 
equal fortitude and devotedness. See Minutes of An- 
nual Conferences , 187G, p. 20. 

Walsingham, Sir Francis, an eminent English 
statesman, was born at Chiselhurst, in Kent, in 153G. 
He was ambassador to the court of France from 1570 
to 1577, during which time the Massacre of St. Bar- 
tholomew occurred. Here he learned much of the part 
which Mary Stuart took in the intrigues of that dread- 
ful plot, and acquired a deep and abiding hatred to- 
wards her. He went as ambassador to Scotland in 1583, 
and in 158G became one of the commission for the trial 
of Mary Queen of Scots. He afterwards became chan- 
cellor of the duchv of Lancaster, and remained such 
until his death, in 1590. 

Walsingham, Thomas, an English Benedictine 
monk of St. Albans, was precentor at that place in 1440, 
and historiographer royal to Henry IV about the same 
time, lie wrote two histories of England, and contin- 
ued the Polychronicon of Ranulph Higden, from 1342 
to 1417. 

Walter of Galloway, originally clerk to Roland, 
the high-constable of Scotland, was made bishop of Gal- 
loway in 1209. He gave the church of Sembry to the 
abbey of Drvburgh, and died in 1235. See Keith, Scot- 
tish Bishops, p. 272. 

Walter of Glasgow, originally chaplain of king 
William, was elected bishop of Glasgow in 1207, and 
consecrated Nov. 2, 1208. lie was sent to treat about 
peace with king John of England, and went to a general 
council at Rome in 1215. lie died in 1232. See Keith, 
Scottish Bishops , p. 237. 

Walter of St. Victor was a pupil of Hugo of St. 
Victor, suhprior of that monastery to the death of Rich- 
ard, in 1173, and thenceforward prior. He died in 1 180. 
He is known to posterity through a yet unpublished 
work, lengthy extracts from which are found in Bulce- 
us, Hist. Universit. Paris, ii, 200 sq., 402 sq., 562 sq., 
629 sq. It bears the title Libri IV contra Manifestos et 
Damnatas eticim in Conciliis J Pereses, quas Sophistce 
Abelardus, Lombardus, Petrus Pictavinus et Gilbertus 
Porretanus Libris Sententiarum suarum A cuunt, Li - 
inant, Roborant, and is usually known by the title Con- 
tra quatuor Labyrinthos. Walter was a stranger to 
the profound mysticism of Hugo and Richard of St. 
Victor, but he shared their aversion to the trifling 
subtleties of scholasticism. To scholasticism he op- 
poses the principle that dialectics can bring into view 
only formal, but not material, truth. The truthfulness 
of premises assumed lies altogether beyond its field of 
research. lie was nevertheless so much the slave of 
authority that he violently opposed every attempt at a 


WALTER 


872 


WALTERS 


philosophical investigation of doctrine as a dangerous 
heresy. His work is tilled with abusive epithets and 
denunciations, lie accused I’eter Lombard of Nihil- 
ism, and Abelard of errors with respect to the Trinity. 

Various historians, among them Ncandcr, have erro- 
neously identified Walter of St. Victor with Walter of 
Mauritania (i. e. of Mortagne in Flanders). The latter 
taught rhetoric at Paris, was the tutor of John of Salis- 
bury (q. v.), became bishop of Laon in 1155. and died in 
1174. He left few writings, among which is a polem- 
ical letter on the subject of the Trinity addressed to 
Abelard. See Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Walter, Ann, a Bible Christian minister, was con- 
verted in 1820. In 1 she entered the itinerant 
work. She hore a long and painful affliction with ex- 
emplary patience, and died triumphantly in the faith 
in 1835. 

Walter, Ernst Johann Konrad, a German di- 
vine who died as doctor of philosophy and pastor at 
Nenkloster, near Wismar, Sept. 25, 1800, was born Aug. 
0, 17-11, at Clabcr. lie wrote, Yersuch eines sch rift mas- 
si yen Beireises, t lass Joseph tier wahre Voter Christ i sey 
(Berlin, 1791) : — Neue Vorstellungen von den Strafen der 
I 'erdammten in der Eu'igkeit vach Griiuden der S eh rift 
(Rostock and Leipsic, 1773). See Winer, Handbook der 
theolog. Lit. i, 478, 555. (B. P.) 

Walter, Ferdinand, a Roman Catholic canonist 
of Germany, was born Nov. 30, 1794. at Wetzlar; and 
studied law at Heidelberg, where he was promoted in 
1818 as doctor utriusqne juris. Here he also commenced 
his lectures, when in 1819 he was called to Bonn as 
professor of Roman and canon law, where he died, Dec. 
12, 1879. lie published Lehrbueh des Kirc.henrechts 
(Bonn, 1822; 14th ed. 1871, cd. Gcrlach). This is his 
main work, which was translated into French, Spanish, 
and Italian. Besides, he published, Corpus Juris Ger- 
manici (1824, 3 vols.) i—Geschichte des romischen Rechts 
(1834-40, 2 vols.; 2d ed. 1845; 3d ed. 1800; also 
translated into French and Italian): — Deutsche Rechts - 
geschichte (1853,2 vols.; 2d ed. 1857) : — Das alte ]Vales 
(1859) : — Fontes Juris Ecclesiastici (1862): — Xaturrecht 
und Dol'd ik (1863; 2d ed. 1871) : — Dus alte Erzstift mul 
die Reichsstadt Kbln (1866) : — Erinner ungen aus meinem 
Leben (1865). See Theolog . Universal- Lexicon, s. v. ; 
Zuchold, Bibl. Theolog. ii, 1414; Literarischer Hand- 
weiser Jar das kathol. Deutschland , 1880, p. 3 sq. ( B. P.) 

Walter, Henry, a Church of England divine, 
was born at Louth, Lincolnshire, Jan. 28, 1785. lie 
received a careful religious training, and was edu- 
cated at St.John’s College, Cambridge, taking his de- 
gree of A.B. in 1806. In 1858, being left without 
a curate, he preached in his schoolroom and still kept 
up his pastoral work. He died in January, 1859. Mr. 
Walter attained great proficiency as a chemist, astron- 
omer, and naturalist. His intimacy was sought and 
cherished by the clergy for miles around, llis publi- 
cations were all stamped by his characteristic accuracy 
of research. They are his History of England , finished 
in 1839 (7 vols.): — his collated edition of the Primer 
of Edward VI : — Biographical Notice of Tyndal the 
Martyr: — and his Letters to Bishop Marsh , of Peterbor- 
ough , on the Independence of the Authorized Version of 
the Bible , as well as many of lesser note. See Christian 
Observer , March, 1859, p. 209. 

Walter, Hubert, archbishop of Canterbury, was 
born at West Dereham, in Norfolk, where he afterwards 
founded a Premonstratcnsian monaster)'. He was edu- 
cated in the house of his uncle, Kanulph de Glanville, 
to whom, on his ordination, be became chaplain. In 
1 186 he was dean of York. Oct. 22, 1 189. he was conse- 
crated lord bishop of Salisbury, and in 1190 sailed for the 
Holy Land, lie was enthroned archbishop of Canter- 
bury May 30, 1 193. Towards the close of 1 198, Hubert 
was summoned to Normandy. The two sovereigns — 
the king of France and the king of England— had se- 
lected him to mediate between them, and to effect, if 


possible, a reconciliation. lie did not succeed, but this 
instance shows the high estimation in which he was 
held as an honest ami skilful diplomatist. Hubert died 
April 6, 1199. See Hook, Lives oj' the Archbishops oj' 
Canterbury , ii, 584 sq. 

Walter, Johann Gottlob, a Protestant theolo- 
gian of Germany, was born April 5, 1704, and died Nov. 
16, 1782, as superintendent at Neustadt -an -dor-Orla. 
lie is the author of Primn Gloria Clerogamiie Restitute 
Luthero Yindicata (Neustadt, 1767). See Winer, Haml- 
bitch der theol. Lit. i, 751. (B. P.) 

Walter, Michael. See Walt her, Mioiel. 

W'alter, Nathaniel, a Congregational minister, 
son of Rev. Nchemiah Walter, of Roxbury, Mass., grad- 
uated from Harvard College in 1729. He was ordained 
pastor of the Second Church in Roxbury, July 10, 1734; 
and died March 11, 1776. See Sprague, Annals of the 
A mer. Pulpit , i, 220. 

Walter, Nehemiah, a Congregational minister, 
was born in Ireland, in December, 1663, of English par- 
ents. As early as 1679, his father, Thomas Walter, set- 
tled in Boston, Mass. Nehemiah’s preliminary educa- 
tion was received in his native country. In 1684 he 
graduated from Harvard College, and shortly after went 
to Nova Scotia, and resided with a French family to 
learn the language. Returning to Massachusetts, he 
resumed his studies at Cambridge, and was appointed a 
fellow of that college. Oct. 17, 1688, he was ordained as 
colleague with the famous Apostle of the Indians, John 
Eliot, who was then settled in Roxbury, Mass. Eliot 
died two years after. About 1717, in consequence of 
excessive application to study, health failed, and he was 
incapable of performing the duties of his office. He 
gradually recovered his health, and resumed his minis- 
try. For twenty-eight years he was without a col- 
league ; but Oct. 19, 1718, his son, Rev. Thomas Walter, 
was chosen to that position. After five years the son 
died, and the father again assumed the entire pastoral 
charge. He died Sept. 17, 1750. A volume of his 
Sermons was published after his death, in 1775. See 
Sprague, Annals of the A mer. Pulpit , i, 217. 

Walter, Thomas, a Congregational minister, son 
of Rev. Nehemiah Walter, w r as born Dec. 13, 1696. lie 
graduated from Harvard College in 1713; was ordained 
as colleague to his father in Roxbury, Mass., Oct. 19, 
1718. Among his publications were, Grounds and Rules 
of Music Explained (1721) : — an Essay upon In fallibil- 
ity , etc. (1724). He died Jan. 10, 1724. See Sprague, 
Annals of the A mer. Pulpit , i, 219. 

Walter, William, D.D., a Protestant Episcopal 
clergyman, was born in Roxbury, Mass., Oct. 7, 1737. 
He graduated at Harvard College in 1756; went to 
England for holy orders in 1764; and July 22 of the 
same year was installed rector of Trinity Church, Bos- 
ton, the third Episcopal Church of that city. lie re- 
signed this charge March 17, 1776, and went to Nova 
Scotia, w'hcre he remained several years, and preached 
during a considerable portion of the time at Shelburne. 
In 1791 be returned to Boston, and purchased an old 
mansion in Charter Street, which formed his home dur- 
ing the remainder of his life. In 1792 he was installed 
rector of Christ Church, Boston. He died Dec. 5, 1800. 
See Sprague, A nnals of the A mer. Pulpit, v, 226 sq. 

Walter, William Bicker, a poet and Unitarian 
preacher, a descendant of Nehemiah Walter, was born 
in Boston, Mass, in 1796. He graduated at Bowdoin Col- 
lege in 1818; studied theology at Harvard, and some- 
times preached, but did not obtain a license. He died 
at Charleston, S. (\, in 1822. He was the author of 
Sukey; a Poem (Boston, 1821): — and Poems (ibid. 1821). 
See Allibone, Diet, oj' Brit, and A mer. A ut hors, s. v. 

Walters, Christian, a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born in Dauphin County, Pa., March 16, 1827. 
He was converted in 1842; licensed to preach in 1852; 
labored several years as colporteur for the Bible Society ; 


WALTERS 


873 


WALTJIEr 


ami in 1856 entered the Philadelphia Conference. Af- 
ter serving Safe Harbor Circuit two years; St. Paul’s, 
Lancaster, two years; Tamaqua two years; Port Car- 
bon two years; and Second Street, Philadelphia, one 
year, he took the supernumerary relation, travelled some 
time for the improvement of his health, and finally set- 
tled in Harrisburg, where he died, July 12, 1869. Mr. 
Walters was remarkable for his gentlemanliness, zeal, 
and perseverance. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 
1870, p. 47. 

Walters, John, a Wesleyan Methodist mission- 
ary, was a native of South Wales, lie was converted 
in his youth, was sent to the West Indies in 1830, and 
appointed to the island of Jamaica. On the death of 
William Wood (q. v.), May 24, 1835, he was sent from 
Spanish Town to St. Ann’s Bay, to supply the place of 
the deceased, although he stated to the committee he 
had an invincible aversion to the place, owing to an 
impression he could not get rid of, that in a few weeks 
he himself would die there. With thin and pallid feat- 
ures the slender and delicate Walters startles the mourn- 
ing people with the words, “ Dear Christian friends, I 
am come this morning to preach Mr. Wood’s funeral 
sermon, and I shall at the same time preach my own 
also.” On that very day the yellow fever smites him, 
and in one week he passes away. Kegartl for the poor 
and sick, and fervent zeal for God, were traits in the 
character of the young and holy Walters. See Min- 
utes of Wesleyan Conferences (1836); Blebv, Romance 
without Fiction, or Sketches from the Portfolio of an 
Old Missionary (Loud, and N. Y. 16mo), sk. xxiii, p. 459 
sq. 

Walters, Thomas, a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born at Hanley, England, July 18, 1824, of de- 
voted Wesleyan parents, who gave him a careful train- 
ing, and brought him to Christ at the age of fifteen. 
He received license to preach at the age of nineteen, 
and continued on circuit work until 1848, when he sailed 
to the United States, and settled in Belleville, N. J., 
where his preaching soon attracted attention, and he 
received a call to supply Sandystone Circuit. In 1849 
he united with the New Jersey Conference, and was ap- 
pointed to Vernon Circuit. Subsequently lie labored 
at Newton, Roekawav, Barry vi lie, Milford, Rome and 
Greenville, Asbury, Flemington ; Second Church, Rah- 
way: Bclvidere ; St. Paul’s, Staten Island; Belleville, 
Boon ton, Dover; Eighth Avenue, Newark ; Prospect 
Street, Paterson ; and First Church, Hackensack, lie 
died July 7, 1879. Mr. Walters was intensely practical, 
a diligent reader, and a thorough student, eminently 
scriptural; had a very tenacious memory, a clear, full, 
rich voice; was cultured in music, and in oratory. See 
Minutes of Annual Spring Conferences , 1880, p. 36. 

Walther (Waltukrus or Gualterits), a German 
Lutheran divine, was born at Allcndorf, in Thuringia, 
in the latter part of the 16th century. He studied di- 
vinity at Jena, and gave special attention to classical 
and Oriental languages. He became professor of Greek 
and Hebrew at Jena, and afterwards was appointed su- 
perintendent of the Lutheran Church in the duchv of 
Saxe-Gotha and in the duchv of Brunswick- Wolfen- 
biittel. He died Nov. 15, 1640. lie was the author 
of several theological and linguistic works. See Zeu- 
merus, Vitee Professorum Jenensium . 

Walther, Christian (l), a German theologian, 
was born about the beginning of the 16th century. He 
studied divinity, took orders, and lived for some time in 
a convent. Afterwards he joined the Protestants and 
settled at Wittenberg, where he was much esteemed by 
the theologians for his learning. He was employed by 
the celebrated printer Hans Lufft as proof-reader for 
thirty-four years ; was also sub-editor of the Wittenberg 
edition of Luther’s works; and was the author also of 
some pamphlets and other works. He died about 1572. 
See Zeltner, Theatrum Virorum Fruditorum, p. 542. 
Walther, Christian (2), D.D., a German divine, 


was born at Norkitten, near Kdnigsberg, in 1655. lie 
was educated at Kdnigsberg, Leipsie, and Jena, receiving 
the degree of A.M. at the latter place in 1677. lie then 
returned to his native country, where he held several 
ecclesiastical offices. In 1701 he became a member of 
the Academy of Science at Berlin; in 1703 was ap- 
pointed professor of divinity in the University of 
Kdnigsberg; in 1704 was made inspector of the syna- 
gogue of the Jews in the same city. During some time 
he was rector magni ficus of the University of Kouigs- 
berg, and died there in 1717. Among his works are, 
Tractatus de Cultu Divino Sanctnarii Veteris Testa- 
ment}, quern Stando Fieri Oportebat : — De Duabus Tubn- 
lis Lapuleis: — De Quatuor Popnnrum Generibus a pud 
Uebnvos : — Disputationes VI 1 1 de Pluralitate Persona- 
rum in Dir in is, ex Genesi i, 26. 

Walther, Christoph Theodosius, a German 
missionary, was born at Schiklberg, in Brandenburg, in 
1699, and studied divinity at Dalle. On the invitation 
of Frederic IV, king of Denmark, he arranged to go as 
a missionary to the Danish possessions in East India. 
He went to Copenhagen in company with Henry 
Pltitschow and Bartholomew Ziegenbalg in 1705, and 
they arrived at Tranquebar, India, July 9. 1706. Wal- 
ther then learned Portuguese and several Indian dia- 
lects, and visited the whole coast of Coromandel, preach- 
ing to the inhabitants with great success. He founded 
the missionary establishment of Majubaram. On ac- 
count of failing health, he returned to Phirope in 1740; 
but, before reaching Denmark, he died at Dresden, April 
27, 1741. He was the author of several works pertain- 
ing to his missionary labors, and for the benefit of the 
heathen nation to which he preached. See Schdttgcn, 
Commentarii de Vita et Agone Christian i Theodosii 
Walther i (Halle, 1743). 

Walther, Heinrich Andreas, a German Prot- 
estant clergyman, was born at Kdnigsberg, in Hesse, in 
1696. He became minister at Worms in 1729, and of 
St. Catherine’s, Frankfort-on-the-Main. In 1741 he was 
honored with the rank of senior of the Protestant clergy 
at Frankfort, and with the degree of doctor of theology 
by the faculty of Giessen, lie died in 1748. Among 
his principal works are the following: Disputatio ex 
Antiquit ate Oriental i de Zabiis: — Finsterniss beg dem 
vermeinten lAchte der romisch-kntholischen Lehre, gegen 
ein von einem Jesuiten herausgegebenes Buchlein, genannt 
Licht in der Finsterniss : — Exegesis Fpistolm Jndee : — 
Erste Griinde der Weisheit mid Tugend: — and Frlauter- 
ter Kateehismus. 

Walther, Johann, a German divine, was one of 
Luther’s intimate friends. As a composer of tunes, he 
was able to assist the great Reformer in improving 
Church psalmody. In 1524 he published, with Luther’s 
assistance, the first Lutheran Choral Book, containing 
some of his own tunes, lie filled the office of precentor 
at Torgau, and was afterwards director of the choir to 
prince John Frederick, and to prince Maurice of Sax- 
ony. In 1530 he removed to Wittenberg, received the 
degree of A.M., and was appointed a lecturer in the 
university. In 1547 he removed to Dresden, where he 
probably died, in 1564. He is the author of a fine Ger- 
man hvmn, Ilerzlieh that mich erfreuen (Eng. trails], in 
Lyra Genii, ii, 288: “Now fain my joyous heart would 
sing”). See Koch, Gesch. des deutsch. Kirchenliedes, i, 
247, 285 sq. ; 455 sq.; ii, 471 ; viii, 655. (B. P.) 

Walther, John L., a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in Kulmbach, Bavaria, Sept. 10, 1818. 
He emigrated to America in 1840; was powerfully con- 
verted at watch-night services in St. Louis, Mo., at the 
close of 1848; served the Church grandly as exhorter 
and local preacher; joined the Illinois Conference in 
1851, which he served faithfully and successfully until 
1861, when he was appointed chaplain of the Forty- 
third Regiment of Illinois Volunteers. As chaplain he 
was persistent in all his duties, and highly honored by 
officers and soldiers. He was shot in the chest April 6, 


WALTHER 


S74 


WALTOX 


1 862, on the battle-field of Shiloh, while caring for the 
wounded, and expired almost without a struggle. Mr. 
Walther was the third chaplain of the Union army dy- 
ing in the service of his nation; and was tirst in excel- 
lency among German preachers in the Illinois Confer- 
ence. See Minutes of' Annual Conferences, 1862, p. 221. 

Walther, Michel (1), a Lutheran theologian of 
Germany, was born at Nuremberg, April (5, 1593. lie 
studied, at first. medicine at Wittenberg; but afterwards 
he betook himself to the study of theology at Giessen 
and Jena. In the latter place he was appointed adjunct 
to the philosophical faculty. For a time he acted as 
court-preacher to the duchess of Brunswick and Lime- 
burg, occupying at the same time a professorship at 
Helmstadt. After the death of the duchess, in 1020, 
he was appointed court-preacher and general superin- 
tendent at Fast Friesland ; in 1642 he was called to Zelle, 
where he died, Feb. 9, 1662. lie wrote, Ifarmonia Bi- 
blica : — Postilla Mosaiea, Prophet ica , Iliero-psultica, 
Evangelist ica : — Comm, in Epist.ad Ebneos: — intro it us 
ad Psaltevii Sacmrium: — Spicilegiinn Cont rover siarvm 
de Xominibus Jehovah , Elohim: — A gnus est Phase : — 
Tract at us de Unctione Christ i , etc. See Freher, Thea- 
trum Eruditormn ; Hoffmann, Lexicon Universale; Acta 
Eruditorum Latina; Jbcher, Allgemeines Gelehvten-Lex- 
ikon, s. v. (13. 1\) 

Walther, Michel (2), a Lutheran theologian of 
Germany, son of the preceding, was born March 3, 1638, 
at Aurich, in Friesland. When sixteen years of age he 
entered the University of Wittenberg, where he was 
appointed, in 1687, professor of theology. He died Jan. 
21, 1G92. He wrote, J)e Fide Xiceena: — De Fide In- 
fantum Baptizatoi’im : — De Catechizatione Veterum : — 
De Xovo Legislatore Christo contra Socinianos et Armi- 
nianos: — De Sutifactionc Christi : — De Dissimilihidine 
Ortus Xostri et Christi Ilominis: — De Duabus Tabulis 
Lapideis ex Exod. xxx, 18, et xxxii, 15, 1G : — De Ingrcssu 
Sacerdotis Svmmi in Sanctum Sanctorum ex Levit.xvi: 
— De Chiromantia ex Job. xxxvii, 7, non Probabili : — 
De Deo A bscondito ex. Jes. xlv, 15 : — De Vivo Xomine Ze- 
mach,sive Gerinen ex Zach. vi, 12 : — De Sensti ) T erborum 
eTTifiaXov ticXais Marc, xiv, 72 : — De Konnovia (pianos 
ex 2 Petr, i, 4: — De A rticuli SS. Trinitatis Antiquitate , 
Yeritate et A Necessitate, etc. See Bunemann, De TJoctis 
Westphcdis ; Xova Literaria derma nice ; Pipping, Me- 
morial Theologornm ; Jbcher , Allgemeines Gelehrten- Lex- 
ikon, s. v. (13. P.) 

Walther, Rudolph, a Be formed theologian of 
Germany, was born at Zurich, Nov. 9, 1519. He stud- 
ied at different places, visited England, and, after his re- 
turn, he continued his studies at Marburg. Here he at- 
tracted the attention of the landgrave, Philip of Hesse, 
who took him in 1541 to Katisbon, where he acted as 
clerical secretary. Here he made the acquaintance of 
Melancthon, Bueer, Sturm, Cruciger, and others. After 
his return, he was appointed pastor at Sehwammendin- 
gen. and in 1542 pastor of St. Peter’s at Zurich. lie 
died Nov. 25. 158G. He wrote, Apologia Zicinglii : — 
Commenturii in Libros I/istoricos Xuri Testament i : — 
Eptstolee Pauli. Petri , Jacobi , Johannis, et Judtv: — Ilo- 
miliie in Evangelia Dominicaliu: — Ilomilhe in Totum 
A 'ovum Testamentum: — I/omit ite in Prophetas XII Ml - 
nores: — Ilomilm XXXII de Incarnatione, Xativitate, 
et Vita Filii Dei, etc. See Verheiden, Elogia Pnestan- 
t inrum aliquot Theologornm; Adam, Vitee Eruditorum; 
Teissier, Eloges des Sarans ; J ocher, Allgemeines Gt- 
leh ilen- Lexikon , s. v. ( B. 1 \) 

Walton, Brian, D.D., a learned English prelate, 
was horn at Seamer, in the district of Cleaveland, in 
Yorkshire, in 1G00. He was educated at Cambridge, 
where lie took the degree of A.M. in 1G23. He first 
went to Suffolk as master of a school, and for some time 
served as curate; he then went to London, where he 
acted as curate of All-hallows’, Bread Street. In 1G2G he 
became rector of St. Martin’s Orgar, in London, and of 
Sandon, in Essex. Some time afterwards he became a 


prebendary of St. Paul’s, London, and chaplain to the 
king. In 1G39 he commenced as doctor of divinity at 
Cambridge. About this time he became involved in 
the troubles between the king and Parliament, in which 
lie made himself obnoxious to the Puritans, and was de- 
prived of his preferments and compelled to fly from Lon- 
don. lie took refuge in Oxford. and in 1645 was incor- 
porated doctor of divinity. There he formed the plan 
of his famous Pohjglot Bible, and commenced the collec- 
tion of materials; but it was not completed till some 
years after his return to London, which occurred after the 
death of the king. The work appeared in six volumes, 
large folio. It was published by subscription, and is 
thought to be the first book printed in England on that 
plan. The tirst volume appeared in September, 1G54; 
the second in July, 1G55; the third in July, 1G5G; and 
the last three in 1G57. It is accompanied by the Lexi- 
con Heptaglotton of Ur. Edmund Castell (published in 
1GG9, in 2 vols. fol.). This is a lexicon of the seven Ori- 
ental languages used in Walton’s Polyglot , and has gram- 
mars of those languages prefixed. The Polyglot can- 
not be considered complete without it. The Prolegome- 
na to the Polyglot , whieh are highly valued, and have 
several times been reprinted separately (Zurich, 1573; 
Leips. 1777, etc.), are a monument to the author’s learn- 
ing, and contain sixteen dissertations on the languages, 
editions, and translations of the Bible, the various read- 
ings, critical condition, Jewish and other revisions of 
the text, the cognate Shemitic tongues and versions, 
etc. Some copies of the Polyglot are ruled with red 
lines by hand, and are therefore more valuable. Walton 
published, besides his London Polyglot. The Considerator 
Considered (1659), a reply to the Considerations of Ur. 
Owen: — and an Introductio ad Lectionem Lingvamm 
Orientalium (1G55). In 1GG0, after the Restoration, he 
was appointed chaplain to the king; and in 1GG1 bishop 
of Chester, lie enjoyed the honor of the office but a 
short time, for he died Nov. 29, 1G61. See Todd, Life 
and Writings of the Right Rev. Brian Walton, I).I ). , 
Lord Bishop of Chester (Lond. 1821). See Polyglot 
Bibles. 

Walton, J ames, a minister in the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church. South, was born near Chester, S. C., Aug. 
1G, 1799. He removed to Knox County, Tenn.. in early 
life, where he received a careful religious culture, and 
was trained in the art of agriculture ; embraced religion 
at the early age of eight years; removed to Missis- 
sippi in 1832; for two years represented Oktibbeha 
County in the State Senate; was licensed to preach 
in 1838; and in 1842 was admitted into the Missis- 
sippi Conference, where he labored with great zeal and 
devotedness until his death, Jan. 18, 1861. Mr. Walton 
was deeply pious, had a strong, well-balanced mind, 
and was an example of prudence and fidelity. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences of the M. E. Church, South, 
18G1, p. 318. 

Walton, Jonathan, D.D., an English clergyman 
of the Episcopal Church, was born in 1774 ; became rec- 
tor of Bird brook, in Essex, and rural dean; and died in 
184G. He was the author of Lectures on Repentance : — 
The Prodigal Son, etc. (1833) : — The Glory of the Latter 
House (1842): — and several single Sermons . See Alli- 
bone. Diet, of Brit, and J mer. A uthors , s. v. 

Walton, Robert Hall, a Presbyterian divine, 
was born in Hartford, Conn., in 1833. He entered Del- 
aware College, and graduated in 1854. and commenced 
his theological studies in Union Seminar}' in 1857. He 
was ordained in I860, and labored in the Broadway 
Church, Va., as a stated supply. From this he went to 
Georgia, and supplied the Church at Cassville until his 
death, April 2, 1876. (W. P. S.) 

Walton, William, U.D., a professor and clergy- 
man of the Protestant Episcopal Church, died in New 
York, Sept. 21, 1869, aged fifty-nine years. He was the 
eldest son of rear-admiral Walton of the British navy; 
and at the time of his death he was professor of He- 


WALTON 


875 


WANDELBERT 


brew in the General Theological Seminary, New York 
city. See Amer. Quiir. Church Rev. Jan. 1X70, p. 630. 

"Walton, William C., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Hanover County, Va., Nov. 4, 1793. He was 
educated at Hampden Sidney College; licensed to preach 
Oct. 22, 1814 ; ordained April 25, 1818 ; and on May 6 fol- 
lowing was installed pastor of the Presbyterian Church 
in Hopewell. In 1823 he accepted a call to the Third 
Presbyterian Church in Haiti more ; in 1825 returned to 
Virginia ; in July, 1827, was installed pastor of the Sec- 
ond Presbyterian Church in Alexandria, Va. ; in Octo- 
ber, 1832, of the Free Church in Hartford, Conn., where 
he continued to labor until his death, Feb. 18, 1834. 
He was a most zealous and devoted minister, full of 
love for souls and the glory of God. See Danforth, Life 
of IP. C. Walton (1837, 12mo); Christ. Quar . Spectator, 
x, 193 ; Sprague, Annals of the A mer. Pulpit , iii, 565. 

Waltz, Henry C., a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in Wayne' County, Ind., June 5, 1843. He 
spent his boyhood on a farm; entered Indiana Asbury 
University in 1860; was converted in 1862; graduated 
in 1866; spent twenty-two mouths in travelling over 
Europe and the Orient; lectured the following year on 
the sights, scenes, customs, and habits of the people of 
the Old World ; joined the North Indiana Conference 
in 1869; and served the Church at Wabash and Fort 
Wayne. In 1871 he joined the Colorado Conference, 
which he served faithfully until 1875, when his failing 
health obliged him to take a supernumerary relation. 
He next removed to Quincy, 111., where he died, May 
11, 1877. As a writer, Mr. Waltz was clear, lucid, in- 
structive, and interesting; as a preacher, above the av- 
erage, faithful, practical, logical; as a pastor, devoted; 
as a father, affectionate. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences, 1877, p. 82. 

Wama (or Vama), in Hindi! mythology, was the 
wife of king Aswarena, who sprang from the holy fam- 
ily of Ikswaka. She gave birth, by her husband, to 
Parswa, who became so renowned for his piety that he 
was made one of the twenty-three elders of Buddha. 

Wamack, Drury, a minister in the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Rutherford Coun- 
ty, N. C., Oct. 12, 1806. He professed religion after 
reaching his majority, and entered the Tennessee Con- 
ference. In 1854 he went to Texas, and entered the 
North -west Texas Conference. He died in 1878 or 
1879. See M mutes of Annual Conferences of the M. E. 
Church , South , 1879, p. 77. 

Wambaugh, Abraham B., a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was born in Hunterdon County, N. J., Oct. 26, 
1815. He was converted at the age of thirteen ; joined 
the Ohio Conference in 1838, and served at Jamestown, 
Bellefontaine, East Liberty, Jamestown a second term, 
Columbus, and Circleville. In 1844, because of failing 
health, he located, studied law, ami for six years pur- 
sued that profession, though all the time punished by 
a guilty conscience. In 1862 he was readmitted into 
the Conference, in which he labored earnestly until his 
death, Aug. 14, 1873. Mr. Wambaugh was a minister 
of large ability, reserved among strangers, amiable 
among acquaintances, always very dignified. See Min- 
utes of A nnual Conferences, 1873, p. 146. 

Wamen. See Manama, 

Wan, in Norse mythology, is one of the infernal 
streams in the kingdom of Hell. 

Waiiadis, in Norse mythology, is a surname of 
Freia . the goddess of the Wanes, she having sprung 
from that nation. 

W anagaren (or V anagaren or Banafsheren), 
in Hindi! mythology, is the son of the giant-king Bali, 
and reigned in Maralipuram. Because Krishna’s son 
Anuredh enticed his daughter and was captured, Krish- 
na carried on a war with him, and captured his king- 
dom, notwithstanding Siva’s defence, and cut off the 


giant’s thousand hands, all but two, with which he is 
obliged to pay homage. It would seem as if this myth 
were designed to express the removal of the Siva-wor- 
ship by Vishnu. 

Wanalieim, in Norse mythology, is the country 
of the Wanes, and is thought to be in the extreme 
north of Europe, but is difficult to locate exactly either 
its history or its geography. 

Wandalin, Johan (1), a Protestant theologian 
of Denmark, was born Jan. 26, 1624. at Viborg, in 
Jutland. At the age of fourteen he was acquainted 
with the Hebrew, Chaldee, Syriac, Arabic, and Rabbin- 
ical languages. He studied at Copenhagen, Leyden, 
Utrecht, ami other universities. In 1651 he returned 
to Copenhagen; was appointed in 1652 professor of lan- 
guages, and in 1655 professor of theology. He died as 
bishop of Seelaud in 1675. He wrote, Comment, in Ifag- 
geeum : — Comment, in Librum Ezrce : — Exercitatt. in 
Historiam Sacram Antedilnv.: — I)e Statu Animarum 
Post Mortem, etc. See Witte, Manor he Theologorum ; 
Vindingi, A cademia Hufniensis ; Barthelini, De Scrip - 
toribus Danis; J ocher , AUgemeines Gelehrten - Lexikon, 
s.v. (P,P.) 

Wandalin, Johan (2), son of the preceding, was 
born at Copenhagen, Jan. 14, 1656, wdiere he also be- 
came professor of Oriental languages in 1683. He died 
March 20, 1710. He wrote, Dissertatio Philologico-thc - 
ologica de Prophctis et Prophetiis (Ilafniie, 1676) : — Dis- 
citssio Spei Specioste. de Conrersione Judceorum (ibid. 
1702). See Raupach, De Utilitate Pe re grin a tion is Da- 
niece ; Jocher, A llgemeines Gelehrten- Lexikon, s. v. ; Ftirst, 
Bill. Jud. iii, 493. (II. P.) 

Wandalin, Peter, a Protestant theologian and 
linguist of Germany who died in 1659, is the author of 
Catalogus 300 Vocabnlorum Danicorum Cognationem ex 
Lingua llebr. Dncentinm (llafnia?, 1651). lie also wrote 
Paraphrasis Germ, in 7 Psalmos Pcenitentiales, in Epist. 
ad Galatas, Philippenses, Ilebneos , et Tres Johannis 
Epist olas. He wrote likewise in the Danish language. 
See Moller, Cimbria Litterata; Jocher, Allgemeines Ge- 
lehrten- Lexikon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Wandelbert, a saint of German extraction, was 
born A.D. 813, and became a monk in the monasterv of 
Priim. lie was a learned theologian and Latin scholar, 
whose attainments not only won for him the position of 
master in the school of his convent, but also gave him 
literary celebrity and earned for him the notice of the 
emperor Louis the Pious. Wandelbert was a devoted 
educator and scholar, and also a busy writer. He left 
numerous works at his death, both in prose and verse, 
only two of which are still extant. The first, entitled 
Vita et Miracula S. Goaris Presbyteri, was published at 
Mayence in 1489, and afterwards incorporated by Surins 
and Mabillon in their respective Acta. It originated in 
the desire to perpetuate the fame of St. Goar, whose cell 
on the Rhine was given to the monastery of Priim by 
kings Pepin and Charlemagne, and is valuable for a 
correct apprehension of the conditions of Carlovingian 
times. The second work, a Martyrologium, is more im- 
portant. It was written in verse, and completed about 
A.D. 850. A preface in prose was prefixed, which de- 
scribes the different meters employed by him, but other- 
wise not in general use in his age; and upon this follow 
six lyrics whose burden is the invocation of God, an ad- 
dress to the reader, a dedication to the emperor Lothaire, 
a statement of the plan of the work, and a survey of the 
different parts of the year. The martvrologv itself be- 
gins with Jan. 1, and describes in brief the life, charac- 
ter, and death of one or more saints for each day in the 
year. The conclusion of the work is made by a Ilymnns 
in Onines Sanctos in Sapphic verse ; and two other hymns 
on the seasons and pastoral occupations, etc., in heroic 
verse. These poems cannot be regarded as successful 
essays in poetry so much as they must be considered 
noteworthy productions of the learned culture of that 
time. The martvrologv, unaccompanied by the minor 


876 


WA1 


WANDERING BEGGARS 

poems above described, was first published in 1536 by 
Bede, and afterwards by Molamis, in I suard, and com- 
pletely by D’Aeherv, in the Sjticileyinm, v. 305 sq. \\ an- 
delbert (lied probably in the year *70. See Trithemius, 
]>e Scriptoribus Keel. p. 281 sq.: OmUmis, Comment, t/e 
Scriptoribus, ii, 1 10 sq.: Fabric! ns, Kill. Med. et Inf. 
Latin, vi, 314 sq.; /list. Lit. de la France, v, 377 sq. ; 
lliihr. ticsch. d. rom. Lit. im karol. Zeit alter , 114 sq., 
220 sq. ; Fchrockh. Kirchenyesch. xxiii, 215 sq.; Rett- 
berg, Kirchenyesh. Deutschland# , i, 465. 4*2. — Herzog, 
Rial- Encychp. s. v. 

Wandering Beggars, Clergy, and Monks. See 
V.XCANT1V1. 

Wandering in tiik Wilderness. See \\ ildeu- 

N ESS OK THE WANDERING. 

Wandering Jew. See Jew, The Wandering. 
Wandsworth, a large village of England, county 
of Surrey, on the Wandle, near its month in the Thames, 
live miles south-west of St. Paul's, and now included in 
the city of London; noted as being the seat of the first. 
Presbyterian Church and the first presbytery. In 1572 
the tirst presbytery was organized secretly. The mem- 
bers were Mr. Field, lecturer of Wandsworth : Mr. Smith, 
of Mitcham; Mr. Crane, of Roehanipton ; Messrs. Wil- 
cox. Standen, Jackson. Bonham, Saintloe, and Edmonds ; 
and afterwards Messrs. Travers, Clarke, Barber, Gardi- 
ner. Crook, Egerton, and a number of very influential 
laymen. Eleven elders were chosen, and their duties 
described in a register entitled The Orders of Wands- 
icorth. See Presbyterian Churches. 

Wanes, in Norse mythology, is a people the loca- 
tion of whose country, Wanaheim, is not definitely 
given; sometimes being thought to be on the Don (Ta- 
nais), sometimes on Cape North. This people is remark- 
able only as being implicated in a long and frightful war 
with the Asas, which seemed to lead to the destruction 
of both, until finally peace was made and hostages ex- 
changed. whereby the Asas received Niord and Freia, 
and t lie Wanes lliiner and Mimer. Both parties also 
spit into a cask, from whose contents the Asas then cre- 
ated the white man Quaser. The Wanes appear to 
have been an experienced people, because their hostages 
introduced the worship of deities among the Asas. They 
seem, however, to have been inexperienced in state 
management, as the Asas made Hauer their king, while 
the wise Mimer was made his adviser; from this is ex- 
plained the fact of the partial submission of the Wanes 
to the conquering Asas. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. 
s. v. 

Wangnereck, Heinrich, a German Jesuit, was 
born in 1595, and died Nov. 11, 1664. lie wrote, Xotte 
in Confssionem S. .1 nyustini: — De Creatione A ninm Ra- 
tionalis : — .4 ntitheses Catholics de Fide et Louis Operibus , 
A rficulis / F, 1 7, XX. Confessionis Augustumc Opposite e : 
-Judicium Theoloyicum super Queestione : an I 'ax, qua - 
lem Desiderant f'rotest antes, sit secundum se Jllicita ? etc. 
Fee Witte, Diurium Dioyraphicnm ; Alegambe, Biblio- 
theca Script or um Societutis Jesu ; Jocher, Allyemeines 
Celehrten-Lcxikon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Wanker, Ferdinand Geminian, a Catholic divine 
of Germany, was horn Oct. 1, 1758, at Freiburg, in the 
Breisgau, where he also studied, and where, on account 
of his excellent examination, he was promoted as doctor 
of divinity. In 1782 he received holy orders at Con- 
stance, in 1783 was made subregens at the seminary in 
Freiburg, and in 1788 was appointed professor of ethics. 
For a great many years he occupied this chair, and was 
about to be confirmed as archbishop of Freiburg, when 
he died. Jan. 19, 1824. He is the author of Christliche 
Sittenlehrc (Him, 1794; 3d ed. Vienna, 1810). He also 
wrote, Fiber Yernnnft and Ojfenburuny in Ilinsicht auf 
die moralischen Bediirfnisse dvr Menschheit (ibid. 1804; 
new ed. Freiburg, 1819 ) : — Yorlesnnyen iiber Religion 
7 iach Yernnnft mid Ofenbartmy (Mayence, 1828), etc. 
His works were edited by Friedrich Weick (Sulzbach. 


1830 sq. 4 vols.). See Werner, Gesch. der katholischen 
Theoloyie, p. 264 ; Hug. Rede auf Fet'd. Wanker, Dr. v. 
Prof, der Theoloyie ; Theoloyisches Universal - Lexikon, 
s. v. ; Winer, llandbuch der fheoloy. Lit. i, 286,313; ii, 
324, 826. (B. 1\) 

Wanley, Nathaniel, an English clergyman and 
author, was born at Leicester in 1633. and educated at 
Trinity College, Oxford, lie became minister at Beeby, 
Leicestershire, and subsequently vicar of Trinity Church, 
Coventry. lie died in 1680. Mr. Wanley was the au- 
thor of Too: Dei; or, The Great Duty of Refection upon 
a Man's Oini \Yays (London. 1658) : — The Wonders of 
the Little World; or. A General History of Man (1678): 
— The History of Man ; or, The Wonders of Human 
Xature in Relation to the Virtues, Vices, and Defects of 
Both Sexes (1704). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
A mer. A u t hors , s. v. 

Wansleben, Johann Michael, an Oriental schol- 
ar and traveller in Abyssinia and' Egypt, was born in 
Thuringia in 1635. lie was living at Erfurth in 1663, 
when he was sent by Ernest, duke of Saxe-Gotha, with 
instructions to conciliate, if possible, the good-will of the 
Abvssinians, and open up the way for teachers of the 
Deformed religion. He lingered in Egypt, and, on his 
return, not being able to account for the money intrust- 
ed to him, revolted to the Human Catholic Church in 
1667. He then went to Paris, whence he was sent by 
Colbert, in 1672, to Egypt, to purchase rare manuscripts 
for the king’s library. In 1678 he became vicar of a 
church near Fontainebleau, and subsequently vicar of 
Bou ron, where he died in 1679. He was the author of 
llistoria Ecclesice Alexandrine : — Relazione dello Stato 
Presente dell ’ Egitto: — X our die Relation en Forme de 
Journal de son Voyage Fait en Egypt e (1677). See 
Mosheim, Hist, of the Church, bk. iv, cent, xvii, § ii, pt. 
i, ch. ii. 

Waple, Edward, an English clergyman of the 
17th century, became prebendary of Bath and Wells in 
1677; archdeacon of Taunton in 1682; prebendary of 
Winchester in 1690; and died in 1712. lie was the 
author of Book of the Revelation Paraphrased (1693): — 
and Seventy Sermons (1714-20, 3 vols.; a second edi- 
tion with Life, 1729). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
A met'. A uthoi'S , s. v. 

Wappers, Gustave, a Flemish painter, w r as born 
at Antwerp in 1803. He studied there, and afterwards 
at Paris, where he adopted the style of the Romantic 
school. In 1830 he produced the Devotions of the Bur- 
gomasters of Leyden, which established his reputation as 
an original historical painter. He was secretary of 
Leopold I, who made him a baron; and was director of 
the Academy of Antwerp until about 1855, when he 
removed to Paris, and died there Dec. 6, 1874. Among 
his best, works are, Christ at the Sepulchre: — Charles I 
Taking Leave of his Children: — Charles IX on the Xiyht 
of St. Bartholomew : — and Execution of A nne Boleyn. 

War (prop. Cnb, TrbXe/ioc, but represented in the 
lleb. by many subsidiary terms), Hebrew. We may 
define war as “an attempt to decide a contest between 
princes, states, or large bodies of people, by resorting to 
excessive acts of violence, and compelling claims to be 
conceded by force.” 

1. Early History of Warfare. — This we treat, how- 
ever, only in its relation to the Hebrews. 

1. Patriarchal. — It is probable that the first wars 
originated in nomad life, and were occasioned by the 
disputes which arose between wandering tribes for the 
exclusive possession of pasturage favorable to their 
flocks and herds. Tribes which lived by hunting were 
naturally more warlike than those which led a pastoral 
life; and the latter, again, were more devoted to war 
than agricultural races. There was almost, a natural 
source of hostility between these races; the hunters 
were enraged against the shepherds because they ap- 
propriated animals by domestication, and the shepherds 


WAR 


877 


WAR 


equally hated the agriculturists because they appropri- 
ated land by tillage, and thus limited the range of pas- 
turage. Hunting also indisposed those who lived by 
the chase to pursue more toilsome and less exciting oc- 
cupations; those who thus supported themselves sought 
to throw all the burden of manual labor on their wives, 
their children, and afterwards on persons whom they 
reduced to slavery. There is a universal tradition in 
Western Asia, that Nimrod, mentioned in Scripture as 
“a mighty hunter before the Lord,” was the first who 
engaged in extensive wars for the purpose of obtaining 
slaves, and that he was also the tirst who introduced 
the practice of compelling conquered nations to rescue 
themselves by the payment of tribute as a ransom. So 
early as the days of Abraham, we find that wars were 
undertaken for the express purpose of obtaining slaves 
and tribute. Chedorlaomer forced several neighboring 
princes, including the king of Sodom, to pay him trib- 
ute for twelve years; and when they ceased to submit 
to this exaction, he invaded their territories for the pur- 
pose of reducing the inhabitants to slavery, lie suc- 
ceeded, and carried away a host of captives, among 
whom were Lot and his family; but the prisoners were 
rescued by Abraham. 

2. Among the Early Xations, Xeighbars to the Israel- 
ites. — From the existing monuments of Egypt and As- 
syria, we learn that war was, among the ancient na- 
tions, the main business of life. The Egyptians early 
possessed a considerable standing army, which was prob- 
ably kept up by conscription. “ Wherever,” savs lio- 
selliiii, “ the armies are represented on the great monu- 
ments of Egypt, they are composed of troops of infantry, 
armed with the bow or lance, and of ranks of war-char- 
iots, drawn by two horses. The few figures upon horses 
almost all belong to foreigners.” Chariots also appear 
in Homer, as the principal strength of the Egyptian 
army (Iliad, ix, 383). Champollion also says of the 
war-chariots: “This was the cavalry of the age; cav- 
alry. properly speaking, did not exist, then in Egypt.” 
Hence, when Fharaoh pursued the fugitive Hebrews, 
be “took six hundred chosen chariots,” evidently the 
royal guard ; and also .all the chariots of Egypt, i. e. the 
remainder of his disposable mounted forees; as the in- 
fantry could not well take part in the pursuit. “And 
the Egyptians followed them and overtook them, where 
they were encamped by the sea, all the ehariot-horses 
of Fharaoh and his riders and his host” (Exod. xiv, G, 7, 
9, 23, 25, 2G, 28). The Assyrian monuments exhumed 
by Botta and Layard exhibit the military force of the 
Assyrians as composed of infantry, armed with the bow 
and the lance ; also of war-chariots and regular cavalry 
(Isa. xxxvi, 8, 9; Ezek. xxiii, 12). The war-chariots 
which are depicted on the walls of Khorsabad are low, 
with two small wheels, with one or two persons stand- 
ing in eaeh, besides the driver; the horses are full of 
mettle, some of them splendidly caparisoned (Nah. iii, 
2, 8). See Chariot. 

II. Military Tactics among the Hebrews, — (In this 
section we follow Kitto’s Cyclopaedia.) The Hebrew 
nation, so long as it continued in Egyptian bondage, 
might be regarded as unacquainted with military af- 
fairs, since a jealous government would scarcely permit 
so numerous and dense a population as the pastoral 
families of Israel which retained their seat in Goshen 
certainly were to be iu possession of the means of re- 
sistance to authority; but, placed as this portion of the 
people was, with the wanderers of the wilderness to the 
south and the mountain robbers of Edom to the cast, 
some kind of defence must have been provided to pro- 
tect its cattle and. in a measure, to cover Lower Egypt 
itself from foreign inroads. Probably the laboring pop- 
ulation, scattered as bondmen through the Delta, were 
alone destitute of weapons; while the shepherds had 
the same kind of defensive arms which are still in use 
and allowed to all classes in Eastern countries, whatever 
be their condition. This mixed state of their social 
position appears to be countenanced by the fact that, 


when suddenly permitted to depart, the whole organi- 
zation required lor the movement of such a multitude 
was clearly in force; yet not a word is said about phys- 
ical means to resist the pursuing Egyptians, although 
at a subsequent period it does not appear that they were 
wanting to invade Palestine, but that special causes pre- 
vented them from being immediately resorted to. The 
Israelites were, therefore, partly armed ; they, doubtless, 
bad their bows and arrows, clubs, and darts, wicker or 
ox-hide shields, and helmets (caps) of skins or of woven 
rushes. 

From their familiar knowledge of the Egyptian insti- 
tutions, the Israelites, doubtless, copied their military 
organization, as soon as they were free from bondage, 
and became inured to a warlike life during their forty 
years’ wandering in the desert ; but with t his remarka- 
ble difference, that while Egypt reckoned her hundred 
thousands of regulars, either drawn from the provinces 
or nomes bv a kind of conscription, such as is to be seen 
on the monuments, or from a military caste of hereditary 
soldiers, the Hebrew people, having preserved the patri- 
archal institution of nomads, were embodied by fami- 
lies and tribes, as is plainly proved by the order of march 
which was preserved during their pilgrimage to the 
Laud of Promise. That order likewise reveals a mili- 
tary circumstance which seems to attest that the dis- 
tribution of the greatest and most warlike masses was 
not on the left of the order of movement — that is, to- 
wards their immediate enemies — but always to the front 
and right, as if even then the most serious opposition 
might be expected from the east and north-east — possi- 
bly from a reminiscence of past invasions of the giant 
races and of the first conquerors, furnished with cavalry 
and chariots, having come from those directions. 

At the time of the departure of Israel, horses were 
not yet abundant in Egypt, for the pursuing army had 
only six hundred chariots; and the shepherd people 
were even prohibited from breeding or possessing them. 
The Hebrews were enjoined to trust, under divine pro- 
tection, to the energies of infantry alone, their future 
country being chiefly within the basin of high moun- 
tains, and the march thither over a district of Arabia 
where, to this day, horses are not in use. \\ r e may in- 
fer that the inspired lawgiver rejected horses because 
they were already known to be less fit for defence at 
home than for distant expeditions of conquest, in which 
it was not intended that the chosen people should en- 
gage. 

Where such exact order and instruction existed, it 
may not be doubted that in military affairs, upon which, 
in the first years of emancipation, so much of future 
power and success was to depend, measures no less 
appropriate were taken, and that, with the Egyptian 
model universally known, similar institutions or others 
equally efficient were adopted by the Israelites. Great 
tribal ensigns they had, and thence we may infer the 
existence of others for subordinate divisions. Like the 
Egyptians, they could move in columns and form well- 
ordered ranks in deep fronts of battle; and they acted 
upon the best suggestions of human ingenuity united 
with physical daring, except when expressly ordered to 
trust to divine interposition. The force of circumstances 
caused in time modifications of importance to be made, 
where doctrine had interfered with what was lelt to 
hinge on political necessities; but even then they were 
long and urgently wanted before they took place, al- 
though the people in religion were constantly disregard- 
ing the most important points, and forsaking that God 
who, they all knew and believed, had taken them out 
of bondage to make them a great nation. Thus, al- 
though, from the time the tribes of Reuben and Manas- 
seh received their allotment east of the Jordan, the pos- 
session of horses became in some measure necessary to 
defend their frontier, still the people persisted for ages 
in abstaining from them, and even in the time of David 
would not use them when they were actually captured; 
but when the policy of Solomon had made extensive 


WAR 


878 


WAI 


conquests, tlio injunction was set aside, because horses 
became all-important. From the Captivity till after 
the destruction of Jerusalem, the remnant of the East- 
ern tribes were in part warlike equestrian nomads, who 
struck terror into the heart of t lie formidable Persian 
cavalry, won great battles, and even captured Parthian 
kings. When both the kingdoms of Judah and Israel 
were again contined to the mountains, they reduced 
their cavalry to a small body; because, it may be, the 
nature of the soil within the basin of the Libanus was. 
as it still is, unfavorable to breeding horses. Another 
instance of unwillingness to violate ancient institutions 
is found in the Hebrews abstaining from active war on 
the Sabbath until the time of the Maccabees. 

There are, however, indicat ions in their military trans- 
actions, from the time Assyrian and Persian conquerors j 
pressed upon the Israel itish states, and still more after 
the Captivity, which show the intluence of Asiatic mili- 
tary ideas, according to which the masses do not act with 
ordered unity, but trust to the more adventurous in the 
van to decide the fate of battle. Later still, under the 
Maccabees, the systematic discipline of Macedonian im- 
portation can be observed, even though in Asia the 
Creek method of training, founded on mathematical 
principles, had never been fully complied with, or had 
been modified by the existence of new circumstances 
and new elements of destruction : such, for example, as 
the use of great bodies of light cavalry, showering mill- 
ions of arrows upon their enemies, and righting elephants 
introduced by the Ptolemies. 

Put all these practices became again modified in 
Western Asia when Human dominion had superseded 
the Creek kingdoms. Even the Jews, as is evident 
from Josephus, modelled their military force on the Im- 
perial plan; their infantry became armed and was ma- 
noeuvred in accordance with that system which every- 
where gave victory by means of the firmness and mo- 
bility which it imparted. The masses were composed 
of cohorts, or their equivalents, consisting of centurhe 
and decurise, or subdivisions into hundreds, fifties, and 
tens — similar to modern battalions, companies, and 
squads; and the commanders were of like grades and 
numbers. Thus the people of Israel ami the nations 
around them cannot be accurately considered, in a mili- 
tary view, without taking into account the successive 
changes here noticed; for they had the same intluence 
which military innovations had in Europe between the 
mras of Charlemagne and the emperor Charles V, in- 
cluding the use of cannon — that invention for a long 
time making no greater alteration in the constitution 
of armies than the perfection of war machines produced 
upon the military institutions of antiquity. 

The army of Israel was chiefly composed of infantry, 
as before remarked, formed into a trained body of spear- 
men, and, in greater numbers, of slingers and archers, 
with horses and chariots in small proportion, excepting 
during the periods when the kingdom extended over 
the desert to the Ped Sea. The irregulars were drawn 
from the families and tribes, particularly Ephraim and 
Benjamin; but the heavy- armed derived their chief 
strength from Judah, and were, it appears, collected by 
a kind of conscription — by tribes, like the earlier Homan 
armies — not through the instrumentality of selected 
otlieers, but by genealogists of each tribe under the su- 
perintendence of the princes. Of those returned on the 
rolls, a proportion greater or less was selected, according 
to the exigency of the time; and the whole male popu- 
lation might be called out on extraordinary occasions. 
Wlmn kings bad rendered the system of government 
better organized, there was an ollicer denominated 
shoter, a sort of muster- master, who had re- 
turns of the ellective force or number of soldiers ready 
for service, but who was subordinate to the ~2"0, so- 
pher , or scribe, a kind of secretary of state. These of- 
ficers, or the shoterim , struck out or excused from ser- 
vice; (I) those who had built a house without having 


yet inhabited it ; (2) those who had planted an olive or 
vineyard and had not tasted the fruit, which gave leave 
of absence for five years; (3) those who were betrothed, 
or had been married less than one year; (4) the faint- 
hearted, which may mean the constitutionally delicate, 
rather than the cowardly, as that quality is seldom own- 
ed without personal inconvenience, and where it is no 
longer a shame the rule would destroy every levy. 

The levies were drilled to march in ranks (1 Cliron. 
xii, 38), and in column by fives chammhim) 

abreast (Exod. xiii, 18); hence it may be inferred that 
they borrowed from the Egyptian system a decimal for- 
mation — two fifties in each division making a solid 
square, equal in rank and file; for twice ten in rank and 
live in file being told olf by right-band and left-hand 
files, a command to the left-hand files to face about and 
march six or eight paces to the rear, then to front and 
take one step to the right, would make the hundred a 
solid square, with only the additional distance between 
the right-hand or unmoved files necessary to use the 
shield and spear without hindrance; while the depth 
being again reduced to five files, they could face to the 
right or left ami march firmly in column, passing every 
kind of ground without breaking or lengthening their 
order. The pentastichous system, or arrangement of 
live men in depth, was effected bv the simple evolution 
just mentioned, to its own condensation to double num- 
ber, and at the same time afforded the necessary space 
between the standing files of spearmen, or light infantry, 
for handling their weapons without obstacle — always 
a primary object in every ancient system of training. 
Between the fifth and sixth rank there was thus space 
made for the ensign-bearer, who, as lie then stood pre- 
cisely between the companies of fifty each, had probably 
some additional width to handle his ensign, being sta- 
tioned between the four middlemost men in the square — 
having five men in file and five in rank before, behind, 
and on each side. There he was the regulator of their 
order, coming to the front in advancing, and to the rear 
in retreating; and this may explain why crWyoc, a tile, 
and the Hebrew dei/el and ties, an ensign, are in many 
cases regarded as synonymous. Although neither the 
Egyptian depth of formation, if we may judge from 
their pictured monuments, nor the Greek phalanx, nor 
the Homan legion, was constructed upon decimal princi- 
ples, yet the former was no doubt so in its origin, since 
it was the model of the Israelites; and the tetrastichal 
system, which afterwards succeeded, shows that it was 
not the original, since even in the phalanx, where the 
files formed, broke, and doubled by fours, eights, six- 
teens, and thirty-twos, there remained names of sections 
which indicated the first -mentioned division. Such 
was the pentacontareliv, denoting some arrangement 
of fifty, while in reality it consisted of sixty-four; and 
the decanv and decurio, though derived from a decimal 
order, signified an entire tile or a compact line in the 
phalanx, without reference to number. 

With centuries thus arranged in masses, both mova- 
ble and solid, a front of battle could be formed in simple 
decimal progression to a thousand, ten thousand, and to 
an army at all times formidable by its depth, and by 
the facility it afforded for the light troops, chariots of 
war, and cavalry to rally behind and to issue from 
t lienee to the front. Archers and slingers could ply 
their missiles from the rear, which would be more cer- 
tain to reach an enemy in close conflict than was to be 
found the case with the Greek phalanx, because from 
the great depth of that body missiles from behind were 
liable to fall among its own front ranks. These divi- 
sions were commanded, it seems, by ketsimm , 

officers in charge of one thousand, who. in the first 
ages, may have been the heads of houses, but in the 
time of the kings were appointed by the crown, and bad 
a seat in the councils of war; but the commander of the 
host, bv nr, sar nl ha-tsaba — such as Joab, 

Abtier, Benaiah, etc. — was either the judge, or, tinder the 


WAR 


879 


WAR 


judge or king, the supreme head of the army, and one 
of the highest officers in the State. He as well as the 
king had an armor-bearer, whose duty was not only to 
bear his shield, spear, or bow, and to carry orders, but, 
above all, to be at the chief’s side in the hour of battle 
(Judg. ix, 54; 1 Sam. xiv, 0; xxxi, 4, 5). Besides the 
royal guards there was, as early, at least, as the time of 
David, a select troop of heroes, who appear to have had 
an institution very similar in principle to our modern 
orders of knighthood, and may have originated the dis- 
tinctive marks already pointed out as used by the Ho- 
mans; for it seems they strewed their hair with gold- 
dust. See Armor. 

In military operations, such as marches in quest of, 
or in the presence of, an enemy, and in order of battle, 
the forces were formed into three divisions, each com- 
manded bv a chief captain or commander of a corps, or 
third part shaltsh ), as was also the case with 

other armies of the East; these constituted the centre 
and right and left wing, and during a march formed the 
van, centre, and rear. The great camp in the wilder- 
ness was composed of four of these triple bodies disposed 
in a quadrangle, each front having a great central stand- 
ard for its leading tribe, and another tribal one in each 
wing. 

The war-cry of the Hebrews was not intonated by 
the ensign-bearers, as in the West, but by a Levite; for 
priests had likewise charge of the trumpets and the 
sounding of signals ; and one of them, called “the anoint- 
ed for war,” who is said to have had the charge of ani- 
mating the army to action by an oration, may have 
been appointed to utter the cry of battle (Dent. xx,2). It 
was a mere shout (1 Sam. xvii, 20), or, as in later ages, 
Hallelujah ! while the so-called mottoes of the central 
banners of the four great sides of the square of Judah, 
Reuben, Ephraim, and Dan were more likely the battle- 
songs which each of the fronts of the mighty" army had 
sung on commencing the march or advancing to do bat- 
tle (Numb, x, 34, 35, 36; Dent, vi, 4). These verses may 
have been sung even before the two books wherein they 
are now found were written, and indeed the sense of the 
text indicates a past tense. It was to these, we think, 
Jehoshaphat addressed himself when about to engage 
the Moabites : he ordered “ the singers before the Lord” 
to chant the response (2 Chron. xx, 21),“ Praise the Lord, 
for his mercy endureth forever.” With regard to the 
pass-word, the sign of mutual recognition occurs in Judg. 
vi i, 18, when, after the men had blown their trumpets 
and shown light, they cried, “The sword of the Lord 
and of Gideon” — a repetition of the very words over- 
heard by that chief while watching the hostile army. 

Before an engagement the Hebrew soldiers were 
spared fatigue as much as possible, and food was dis- 
tributed to them ; their arms were enjoined to be in the 
best order, and they formed a line, as before described, 
of solid squares of hundreds, each square being ten deep, 
and as many in breadth, with sufficient intervals be- 
tween the tiles to allow of facility in the movements, 
the management of the arms, and the passage to the 
front or rear of slingers and archers. These last occu- 
pied posts according to circumstances, on the tianks or 
in advance, but in the heat of battle were sheltered be- 
hind the squares of spearmen ; the slingers were always 
stationed in the rear, until they were ordered forward 
to cover the front, impede a hostile approach, or com- 
mence an engagement, somewhat in the manner of mod- 
ern skirmishers. Meantime the king, or his represent- 
ative, appeared clad in the saered ornaments 

hadrey kodesh , in our version rendered “the beauty 
of holiness,” Psa. cx, 3 ; 2 Chron. xx, 21), and proceeded 
to make the final dispositions for battle, in the middle 
of his chosen braves, and attended by priests, who, bv 
their exhortations, animated the ranks within hearing, 
while the trumpets waited to sound the signal. It was 
now, with the euemy at hand, we may suppose, that the 


slingers would be ordered to pass forward between the 
intervals of the line, and, opening their order, would let 
fly their stone or leaden missiles, until, by the gradual 
approach of the opposing fronts, they would be hemmed 
in and recalled to the rear, or ordered to take an appro- 
priate position. Then was the time when the trumpet- 
bearing priests received command to sound the charge, 
and when the shout of battle burst forth from the ranks. 
The signal being given, the heavy infantry would press 
forward under cover of their shields, with t lie TTS^i, rd- 
mach , protruded directly upon the front of the enemy; 
the rear ranks might then, when so armed, cast their 
darts, and the archers, behind them all, shoot high, so 
as to pitch their arrows over the lines before them into 
the dense masses of the enemy beyond. If the opposing 
forces broke through the line, we may imagine a body of 
charioteers in reserve rushing from their post and charg- 
ing in among the disjointed ranks of the enemy before 
they could reconstruct their order; or, wheeling round 
a flank, fall upon the rear; or being encountered by a 
similar manceuvre, and perhaps repulsed, or rescued by 
Hebrew cavalry. The king, meanwhile, surrounded by 
his princes, posted close to the rear of his line of battle, 
and, in the middle of showered missiles, would watch the 
enemy and strive to remedy every disorder. Thus it 
was that several of the sovereigns of Judah were slain 
(2 Chron. xviii, 33; xxxv, 23), and that such an enor- 
mous waste of human life took place; for two hostile 
lines of masses, at least ten in depth, advancing under 
the confidence of breastplate and shield, when once en- 
gaged hand to hand, had difficulties of no ordinary nat- 
ure to retreat; because the hiiulermost ranks, not being 
exposed personally to the first slaughter, would not, and 
the foremost could not, fall back; neither could the 
commanders disengage the line without a certainty of 
being routed. The fate of the day was therefore no 
longer within the control of the chief, and nothing but 
obstinate valor was left to decide the victory. Hence, 
with the stubborn character of the Jews, battles fought 
among themselves were particularly sanguinary; such, 
for example, as that in which Jeroboam, king of Israel, 
was defeated by Abijah of Judah (xiii, 3-17), wherein, 
if there be no error of copyists, there was a greater 
slaughter than in ten such battles as that of Leipsie, al- 
though on that occasion three hundred and fifty thou- 
sand combatants were engaged for three successive days, 
provided with all the implements of modern destruction 
in full activity. Under such circumstances defeat led 
to irretrievable confusion, and, where either party pos- 
sessed superiority in cavalry and chariots of w r ar, it 
would be materially increased; but where the infantry 
alone had principally to pursue a broken enemy, that 
force, loaded with shields and preserving order, could 
overtake very few’ w’ho chose to abandon their defensive 
armor, unless they w'ere hemmed in by the locality. 
Sometimes a part of the army w r as posted in ambush, 
but this manoeuvre w r as most commonly practiced against 
the garrisons of cities (Josh, viii, 12; Judg. xx,88). In 
the case of Abraham (Gen. xiv, 15), when he led a small 
body of his own people, suddenly collected, and, falling 
upon the guard of the captives, released them, and re- 
covered the booty, it was a surprise, not an ambush ; 
nor is it necessary to suppose that he fell in with the 
main army of the enemy. At a later period there is no 
doubt the Hebrews formed their armies, in imitation of 
the Romans, into more than one line of masses, and 
modelled their military institutions as near as possible 
upoh the same system. 

Such wmre the instruments and the institutions ofw r ar 
which the Hebrew people, as w^ell as the nations which 
surrounded them, appear to have adopted; but in the 
conquest of the Promised Land, as regarded their ene- 
mies, the laws of war prescribed to them w'ere, for pur- 
poses which w r e cannot now fully appreciate, more se- 
vere than in other cases. All the nations of antiquity 
were cruel to the vanquished, perhaps the Komaus most 


WAR 


880 


WAT 


----- 


Saal- 


of all: even the Egyptians, in the sculptures of their J fine oue or more “mounts” or “banks” ( 
monuments, attest the same disposition the males be- gchfitz [Archdol. ii, 504] understands this term of the 
ing very generally slaughtered, and the women and cliil- j scaling-ladder, comparing the cognate sulldm [Gen. 

11 -»i- ' ♦ - 1 xxviii, 12], and giving the verb shaphuh, which aeeom- 


dren sold for slaves. With regard to the spoil, except 
in the special case just referred to, the Hebrews divided 
it in part with those who remained at home, and with 
the Invites, and a portion was set apart as an oblation 
to the Lord (Numb. xxxi. 50). This right of spoil and 
prev was a necessary couseipieuce ot military institu- 
tions where the army received no pay. skald!, 

that is, the armor, clothes, money, and furniture, and 
malkdach, prey, consisting of the captives and 
live-stock, were collected into one general mass, and 
then distributed as stated above; or, in the time of the tiou with the expression round about” the city. Ileuce 
kings, were shared in great part by the crown, which the sense of “ eireumvallatioii” has been assigned to it 
* then, no doubt, took care to subsist the array and grant by Miehnelis, Keil [J rch&ol. ii, 303], and others. It is 


panies suleldh , the sense of a “ hurried advancing” of 
the ladder) in the direction of the city (2 Sam. xx, 15; 
2 Kings xix, 32; Isa. xxxvii, 33), which was gradually 
increased in height until it was about half as high as 
the city wall. On this mound or bank towers (p*1. 
Some doubt exists as to the meaning of this term. The 
sense of “ turrets” assigned to it by Gesenius [ Thesavr . p. 
330] has been objected to on the ground that the word 
always appears in the singular number, and in connec- 


military rewards. See Au.mv. 

111. Military Preparations, Operations , and Results. 
— (In this section we follow Smith’s Diet, of the Jiiblei) 
Before entering on a war of aggression, the Hebrews 
sought for the divine sanction by consulting either the 
Urim and Thummim (Judg. i, 1 : xx, 27, 28; 1 Sam. 
xiv, 37; xxiii, 2; xxviii, (>: xxx, 8) or some acknowl- 
edged prophet (1 Kings xxii, 0 ; 2 Citron, xviii, 5). The 
heathens betook themselves to various kinds of divina- 
tion for the same purpose (Ezek. xxi,21). Divine aid 
was further sought in actual warfare bv bringing into 
tbe field the ark of the covenant, which was the sym- 
bol of Jehovah himself (l Sam. iv, 4-18; xiv, 18); a 
custom which prevailed certainly down to David’s time 
(2 Sam. xi, 11 ; comp. I'sa. lxviii, 1, 24). During the 
wanderings in the wilderness the signal for warlike prep- 
arations was sounded by priests with the silver trump- 
ets of the sanctuary (Numb, x, 9; xxxi, 6). Formal 
proclamations of war were not interchanged between 
the belligerents; but occasionally messages either dep- 


difficult, however, in this case, to see any distinction 
between the terms dayek and matszdr. The expression 
“round about” may refer to tbe custom of casting up 
banks at different points: the use of the singular in a 
collective sense forms a greater difficulty) were erected 
(2 Kings xxv, 1 ; Jer. lii, 4; Ezek. iv, 2; xvii, 17 ; xxi, 
22; xx vi, 8), whence the slingers and archers might 
attack with effect. Battering-rams (E*H3. Ezek. iv, 2; 
xxi, 22) were brought up to the walls hv means of the 
bank, and scaling-ladders might also be placed on it. 
Undermining t he walls, though practiced by the Assyr- 
ians (Lavard, Nineveh. ii, 371), is not noticed in the Bi- 
ble : tbe reference to it in the Sept, and Vulg., in Jer. Ii, 
58, is not warranted by the original text. Sometimes, 
however, the walls were attacked near the foundation, 
either by individual warriors who protected themselves 
from above by their shields (Ezek. xxvi, 8), or by tbe 
further use of such a machine as the kelepolis . referred 
to in 1 Mace. xiii. 43. This is described by Ammianus 
Mareellimis (xxiii, 4, 10) as a combination of the testndo 


rwaiorv or defiant, were sent, as in the eases of Jcph- am) tilc |, at tering-ram, hv means of which the besietcers 
t halt anti the Ammonites (dudg. xi, I2-2i), Iien-hadad ,, r()ke tllrongh lhe i m ,er 


and Ahab (1 Kings xx, 2), and again Amaziah and Je- 
lioash (2 Kings xiv, 8). Before entering the enemy’s 
district, spies were sent to ascertain the character of the 
country and the preparations of its inhabitants for re- 
sistance (Xumb. xiii, 17; Josh, ii, 1; Judg. vi i, 10; 1 
Sam. xxvi, 4). When an engagement was imminent, 
a sacrifice was offered (1 Sam. vi i, 9; xiii, 9), and an in- 
spiriting address delivered either by tbe commander (2 
Oh run. xx, 20) or by a priest (Dent, xx, 2). Then fol- 
lowed the battle-signal, sounded forth from the silver 
t rumpets as already described, to which the host respond- 
ed by shouting the war-cry (1 Sam. xvii, 52; Isa. xiii, 
13; Jer. 1, 42; Ezek. xxi, 22; Amos i, 14). The com- 
bat often assumed the form of a number of liand-t.o-haiul 
contests, depending on the qualities of the individual 


part of the wall, and thus 
leaped into the city;” not from above, as the words 
prim a facie imply, but from below. Burning the gates 
was another mode of obtaining ingress (Judg. ix, 52). 
Tbe water-supply would naturally be cut off. if it 
were possible (Judith vii, 7). The besieged, meanwhile, 
strengthened and repaired their fortifications (Isa. xxii, 
10), and repelled the enemy from the wall by missiles 
(2 Sam. xi, 24), by throwing over beams and heavy 
stones (Judg. ix, 53; 2 Sam. xi, 21 ; Josephus, l)7/r, v, 
3, 3; G, 3), by pouring down boiling oil (ibid, iii, 7, 
28), or. lastly, by erecting fixed engines for tbe propul- 
sion of stones and arrows (2 Cliron. xxvi, 15). See En- 
gine. Sallies were also made for the purpose of burn- 
ing tbe besiegers’ works (1 Macc. vi, 31 ; lUor, v, 1 1. 4), 
and driving them away from the neighborhood. The 


soldier rather than on the disposition of masses. Hence | forego ; ug operations receive a large amount of illustra 


the high value attached to ficetness of foot and strength 
of arm (2 Sam. i, 23; ii, 18; 1 Cliron. xii, 8). At. the 
same time, various strategic devices were practiced, such 
as the ambuscade (Josh, viii, 2, 12; Judg. xx, 3G), sur- 
prise (vii, 1G), or circumvention (2 Sam. v, 23). An- 


tion from tbe representations of such scenes on tbe As- 
syrian slabs. We there see the “bank” thrown up in 
the form of an inclined plane, with the battering-ram 
hauled up on it assaulting the walls; movable tow- 
ers of considerable elevation brought up, whence the. 


other mode of settling the dispute was by the selee- warri()rs discharge their arrows into tbe citv; tbe walls 
non of champions (l Sam. xvii; 2 Sam. it, 14), who um i ermine d, or attempts made to destrov them hv pick- 
were spurred on to exertion by tbe offer of high reward • to pieees the ]mver courses; the defenders actively 
(1 Sam. xvii, 25; xviii, 25; 2 Sam. xviii, 11:1 Cliron. ejlf?a e(1 in arc berv, and averting the force of the bat- 
xi, 6). Tbe contest having been decided, the conquer- tt , ring _ ram bv chains and ropes; the scaling-ladders at 
ors were recalled from the pursuit by the sound of a Xen „ {h brought, and the conflict become hand-to-hand 


trumpet (2 Sam. ii, 28; xviii, 1G; xx, 22) 

The siege of a town or fortress was conducted in the 
following manner: A line of eireumvallatioii (’“'UE, lit. 
an ‘* enclosing” or “ besieging,” and hence applied to the 
wall by which the siege was effected) was drawn round 
the place (Ezek. iv, 2; Mic. v, 1), constructed out of the 
tree* found in the neighborhood (Dent, xx, 20), togeth- 
er with earth and any other materials at hand. This 
line not only cut off the besieged from the surrounding 
country, but also served as a base of operations for the 


(Lavard, Nineveh, ii, 366-374). See Batteuing-ram; 
Lever. 

The treatment of the conquered was extremely severe 
in ancient times. The leaders of the host were put to 
death (Josh, x, 26; Judg. vii, 25), with the occasional 
indignity of decapitation after death (I Sam. xvii. 51 ; 
2 Maec. xv, 30; Josephus, lUar, i, 17, 2). The bodies 
of the soldiers killed in action were plundered (1 Sam. 
xxxi, 8; 2 Mace, viii, 27); the survivors were either 
killed in some savage manner (Judg. ix, 45; 2 Sam. xii, 


besiegers. The next step was to throw out from this , 31 ; 2 Cliron. xxv, 12), mutilated (Judg. i, 6; 1 Sam. xi, 


WAK 


8S1 


WAP 


2), or carried into captivity (Numb. xxxi, 26; Deut. xx, 
14). Women and children were occasionally put to 
death with the greatest barbarity (2 Kings viii, 12; xv, 
16; Isa. xiii, 16, 18; IIos. x, 14; xiii, 16; Amos i, 13; 
Nah. iii, 10; 2 Macc. v, 13); but it was more usual to 
retain the maidens as concubines or servants (Judg. v, 
30; 2 Kings v, 2). Sometimes the bulk of the popula- 
tion of the conquered country was removed to a distant 
locality, as in the case of the Israelites when subdued 
by the Assyrians (xvii, 6), and of the Jews by the Baby- 
lonians (xxiv, 14; xxv, 11). In addition to these meas- 
ures, the towns were destroyed (Judg. ix, 45; 2 Kings 

iii, 25; 1 Macc. v, 28, 51 ; x, 84), the idols and shrines 
were carried off (Isa. xlvi, 1,2), or destroyed (1 Macc. v, 
68; x, 84); the fruit-trees were cut down, and the fields 
spoiled by overspreading them with stones (2 Kings iii, 
19, 25); and the horses were lamed (2 Sam. viii, 4; 
Josh, xi, 6, 9). If the war was carried on simply for 
the purpose of plunder or supremacy, these extreme 
measures would hardly be carried into execution; the 
conqueror would restrict himself to rifling the treasuries 
(1 Kings xiv, 26; 2 Kings xiv, 14; xxiv, 13), or levy- 
ing contributions (xviii, 14). See Captive. 

The Mosaic law, however, mitigated to a certain ex- 
tent the severity of the ancient usages towards the van- 
quished. With the exception of the Canaaiiites, who 
were delivered over to the ban of extermination by the 
express command of God, it was forbidden to the Is- 
raelites to put to deatli any others than males bearing 
arms; the women and children were to be kept alive 
(Deut. xx, 13, 14). In a similar spirit of humanity the 
Jews were prohibited from felling fruit-trees for the 
purpose of making siege-works (ver. 19). The law fur- 
ther restricted the power of the conqueror over females, 
and secured to them humane treatment (xxi, 10-14). 
The majority of the savage acts recorded as having 
been practiced by the Jews were either in retaliation 
for some gross provocation, as instanced in the cases of 
Adoni-bezek (Judg. i, 6, 7), and of David’s treatment 
of the Ammonites (2 Sam. x, 2-4; xii, 31; 1 Chron. 
xx, 3) ; or else they were done by lawless usurpers, 
as in Menahem’s treatment of the women of Tiphsah 
(2 Kings xv, 16 ; comp. Judg. ix, 45). The Jewish 
kings generally appear to have obtained credit for 
clemency (1 Kings xx, 31; comp. 2 Kings vi, 20-23; 
Isa. xvi, 5). 

The conquerors celebrated their success by the erec- 
tion of monumental stones (1 Sam. vii, 12; 2 Sam. viii, 
13, where, instead of “gat him a name,” we should read 
“set up a memorial”), by hanging up trophies in their 
public buildings (1 Sam. xxi, 9; xxxi, 10; 2 Kings xi, 
10), and by triumphal songs and dances, in which the 
whole population took part (Exod. xv, 1-21 ; Judg. v; 1 
Sam. xviii, 6-8 ; 2 Sam.xxii; Judith xvi, 2-17; 1 Macc. 

iv, 24). The death of a hero was commemorated by a 
dirge (2 Sam. i, 17-27 ; 2 Chron. xxxv, 25), or by a na- 
tional mourning (2 Sam. iii, 31). The fallen warriors 
were duly buried (1 Kings xi, 15), their arms being de- 
posited in the grave beside them (Ezek. xxxii, 27), while 
the enemies’ corpses were exposed to the beasts of prey 
(1 Sam. xvii, 44; Jer. xxv, 33). The Israelites were 
directed to undergo the purification imposed on those 
who had touched a corpse, before they entered the pre- 
cincts of the camp or the sanctuary (Numb, xxxi, 19). 
See Fight. 

IV. Moral Principles Involved . — We may distinguish 
two kinds of wars among the Hebrews. Some were of 
obligation, being expressly commanded by the Lord ; 
others were free and voluntary. The first were such as 
those against the Amalekites, and the intrusive and 
wicked Canaanites, nations devoted to an anathema. 
The others were to avenge injuries, insults, or offences 
against the nation. Such was that against the city of 
Gibeali, and against the tribe of Benjamin; and such 
was that of David against the Ammonites, whose king 
had insulted his ambassadors. Or they were to main- 
tain and defend their allies, as that of Joshua against 
X. — K K K 


the kings of the Canaanites, to protect Gibeon. In fact, 
the laws of Moses suppose that Israel might make war, 
and oppose enemies. 

As to details, the laws of war among the Hebrews, 
as we have seen, permitted severities in the treatment 
of the conquered such as wc should not now approve. 
Probably in practice limitations were put upon the ab- 
stract rights of conquerors among the Jews just as 
among Christian nations. This is not invalidated by 
severities such as those of Gideon towards the kings 
who had enslaved Israel (Judg. vii, 25; viii, 18-21); or 
of David cutting off and carrying away the head of the 
Philistine champion (1 Sam. xvii, 54) ; nor by such ex- 
ceptional dealings as those with the Midianites, who 
had made themselves almost as obnoxious to punish- 
ment as the devoted Canaanites (Numb. xxxi). The 
same may be said of the fearful threatening in Psa. 
cxxxvii, 8, 9 ; but, as a matter of practice, contrast the 
cruelty of putting out eyes bv the Philistines, the Am- 
monites, and the Chaldteans (Judg. xvi, 21 ; 1 Sam. xi, 
2; 2 Kings xxv, 7). The treatment of the men of Suc- 
coth and Penned by Gideon, of the Ephraimites by 
Jephthali, and of the men of Jabesh-gilead by the as- 
sembled Israelites (Judg. viii, 4-7 ; xii, 1-6; xxi, 8-12), 
are unmistakably punishments of extraordinary sever- 
ity on account of aggravated acts of treason against 
Jehovah. The treatment of ten thousand Edomites by 
Amaziah is a parallel on the part of one whose princi- 
ples and practice ought to have been better (2 Chron. 
xxv, 12). Oil the other hand, it should be borne in 
mind that these were not usages of Judaism as such, 
nor peculiar to the Hebrews; but manifestations of the 
common spirit of the age and region, which the Mosaic 
law did all it could, as we have seen, to soften and les- 
sen. Nor should we try a distant sera by the rules of 
modern humanity which is the offshoot of Christianity. 
See Mosaism. 

It has been questioned whether wars are, under any 
circumstances, justifiable from Jewish example. While 
it is certain that the practice of offensive wars cannot 
be defended by reference to sacred history, it is equally 
clear, if wars must be, that they can only be consistent 
with the light of that dispensation which breathes for- 
giveness and forbearance on the clear and obvious 
ground of necessity and self-defence. When the prin- 
ciples of the Bible shall have illuminated the minds of 
all nations, wars shall cease from the ends of the earth, 
and all men will give glory to God in the highest, and 
on earth peace and good-will will universally prevail 
(Psa. xlvi, 9 ; lxxvi, 3 ; Isa. ii, 4 ; Ezek. xxxix, 9 ; Luke 
ii, 14). See Peace. 

WAR, Christian Views of. I. History of Opinion « 
—The question whether war is allowable to Christians 
divides itself into two, which are intimately related to 
each other: («) Is it right for a Christian government 
to carry on war? and (b) is a Christian subject obliged 
to serve as a soldier? Christianity always breathes the 
spirit of peace among individuals and nations, and like- 
wise the spirit of freedom and personal respect, yet nev- 
er by command does it do away with either slavery or 
war, nor does it forbid civil government using the sword. 
The objections of early Christians to serve in war were 
based principally upon the text “Whosoever sheddeth 
blood,” etc. But there were also other reasons. The 
early Christians did not feel obligated to serve a gov- 
ernment that constantly persecuted them, and they also 
dreaded the idolatry connected with the service of war. 
Tertullian forbids serving as a common soldier, although 
such were not so imperatively required to engage in 
idolatry as were those of higher rank ; yet it was suffi- 
cient for Tertullian to know that the Roman ensigns 
bore images and pictures of idols (see Tertull. Be 
Idololatria, c. xix ; Be Corona Militis, c. xi ; Apol. 
c. xiii; Ad Scapulam , c. iv). Notwithstanding these 
objections, a great many Christians served as soldiers. 
The conversion of Constantine and the exchange of the 
idol standards for the banner of the Cross laid every 


WA1 


882 


WA1 


Christian under obligations to serve as a soldier; the 
interests of the Church and State having now become 
common. 

Augustine speaks of himself as holding no conscien- 
tious scruples concerning Christians serving as soldiers 
(J’p. 138, ad Marcellinitm, xii). The opinions of the 
early Christians do not entirely disapprove military 
service except in reference to the clergy. The opinion 
of Origen is now limited to the clergy {Cont. Celsum , vii, 
73,74). In the Romish Church the clergy assume the 
same attitude that the earlier Christians held, namely, 
that the services of the sanctuary forbid the shedding 
of blood; yet they hold that, the more closely Church 
and State are united, the more justifiable is war. de- 
ferring, also, to the Old Test, and to the Church la- 
thers. they make, the following distinctions: (1) prose- 
cution of war in itself is no sin; (’2) the clergy are not 
personally to handle the sword, although they may in- 
cite others to do so. This was the doctrine of the Mid- 
dle Ages, and has continued, to a great extent, the doc- 
trine of the Romish Church to-day (Richter, iv, § 94, 
note 12). 

Ygt the oft-repeated threatenings and rebukes in early 
Christian documents ( A post . Can. Ixxxii, c. 4, 23, qu. 
S ; Cone. Tolet. iv, c. 45, aim. G33 ; Cone. Meldense, c. 
37. aim. 845 ; c. 2, x; c. 25, x, 5, 39) indicate that the 
warlike inclinations of many of the clergy transgressed 
one of the above rules. Athanasius already lamented 
that bishops engaged in war. There were three causes 
that produced this spirit : (A zealotism. which was anx- 
ious to exterminate heretics; (5) self-defence in case of 
necessity; (e). the feudal system (see Ziegler, 
pn!£v\ov Pedes last hum [Wittenberg, 1G72]). In the 
time of Chrysostom the monks travelled in large com- 
panies from place to place with imperial authority to 
exterminate heathenism; and that which had a rough 
unsystematic commencement became very effectually 
systematized in after-ages. During the crusades bish- 
ops became renowned as military men (Raumer, Holten - 
stuufen , ch. i) ; and these holy wars were carried on by 
the Church to such an extent that it became part, so to 
speak, of the Church itself, in the form of the different 
orders of knights. This warlike spirit, became so com- 
mon among tiie clergy that whenever anything was to 
be gained, they were ever ready for war. 

The question as to whether individuals are obligated 
to serve as soldiers depends largely upon the govern- 
ment of the country in which they live. So far as the 
Evangelical Church is concerned in the question wheth- 
er war is allowable to Christians, we have sufficient 
proof that the Reformers believed it to be right for 
Christians to use the sword. The Augsburg Confession 
refers to this subject in art. 1G (-Docent quod Chris- 
tianis liceat jure bellare”). Only a few small sects are 
opposed to Christians engaging in war. The evangel- 
ical doctrine has generally been on the affirmative side 
of the question (see Reinhard, Moral. § 244, 302; Au- 
mon, IJandb. cl. christf. Sittenlehre , $ 1 81 , Harless, Christl. 
Kthik , p. 250). Sehleierinacher ( Die christl. Sitte , p. 273) 
contends that every individual is bound to obedience 
when a call to war is made ; so also llegel, “ The agita- 
tion of war purifies a nation” ( Rechtsphilos . p. 324). The 
Evangelical Church at large has no ban against clergy 
serving in war. — Herzog, Reul-Pncyklop.x iii, 81 sq. 

II. Dogmatic View. — These modern opinions in de- 
fence of warfare, however, have evidently grown out of 
a desire to conciliate the civil power, and are clearly 
opposed to the ancient Christian doctrine and to the 
whole spirit of the Gospel, as well as to specific precepts 
in the New Test. (Matt, v, 39; Rom. xii, 17-21. etc.). 
The appeal to a few passages is futile against this (e. g. 
Luke xxii, 2G; comp. Matt, xxvi, 52. Rom. xiii, 4 re- 
fers only to magisterial or municipal justice). The lame 
effort to avoid the force especially of Christ’s command 
mav be strikingly seen in St ior’s inconclusive argument 
( Words of the Lord Jesus [Amer. ed.], i, 74). who con- 
tends that because they live Lu an. evil world Christians 


are justified in resorting to arms; as if two wrongs 
made one right ! Doubtless all men have a natural and 
even a political right to take up arms in. a just cause; 
hut as Christians they are required to hold these rights 
in abeyance, and trust to the divine protection. Wheth- 
er in absolute self-defence they may not exert physical 
force, even to the extent of homicide, may, indeed, he 
left an open question; but warfare, as usually carried on 
by nations, scarcely ever comes under this extreme cat- 
egory. On the other hand, no humane, much less god- 
ly man, can look abroad at the diabolism of war, as sys- 
tematically practiced in ancient or modern times, with- 
out the most intense horror and deprecation. That lie 
should deliberately enter upon such a course of action, 
involving, as it must, not only the immense destruction 
of human life and property, but also the ruin and mis- 
ery of helpless and innocent families, cannot for a mo- 
ment be reconciled with the impulses of philanthropy, 
much less with the principles of Christianity, which 
teach universal love and beneficence. To justify such 
conduct from considerations of personal, local, or tem- 
porary advantage, or even of national gain and ad- 
vancement, is clearly to adopt the damnable doctrine 
that “we may do evil in order that good may come” 
(Rom. iii, 8). Least of all can a Christian consistently 
adopt warfare as a profession, and hold himself subject 
to even his country’s call in any cause, without the priv- 
lege of deciding for himself the justice of the quarrel. 

Casuists have usually relieved the Christian con- 
science in such cases by throwing the responsibility of 
war upon “the powers that be,” i. e. the civil or mili- 
tary authorities; in other words, the government itself. 
l»ut such a course of reasoning would excuse the Chris- 
tian in committing any enormity, even idolatry, at the 
dictation of secular or political rulers. The will of a 
majority under democratic or republican government 
makes no essential difference in this responsibility. 
Each man must act fur himself in the fear of God in 
moral cases. 

III. Schemes for the Abolition of War. — The inven- 
tion of gunpowder and recent improvements in artil- 
lery, while they have greatly shortened the periods of 
warfare, have immensely increased its destructiveness. 
Hence victory now usually depends rather upon num- 
bers, equipment, and strategic skill than upon personal 
bravery. At the same time, arbitration has more fre- 
quently been resorted to, in settlement of national dis- 
putes, instead of the sword. Still the history of the 
present century, and the “ armed neutrality” of the na- 
tions, especially of Europe at the present time, do not 
favor the hope that war will soon be abandoned in 
such cases. On this continent likewise, and within the 
existing generation, we have had fearful evidence of 
the liability to this dernier ressort. The methods by 
which philanthropists and statesmen have proposed to 
supersede the necessity of a recourse to arms in modern 
times are chiefly two, aside from the usual efforts of 
diplomatic correspondence and the intervention of ar- 
bitrament. 

1. Peace Congresses. — These are conventions of rep- 
resentatives from allied or interested nations, to which 
have been referred, or which have voluntarily assumed, 
the discussion and adjustment of difficulties between 
particular states. An account of them may be found 
at length in a recent work (Amos, Political and Legal 
Remedies for I Ear [N. Y. 1880]), from which it does not 
appear that this method has been particularly success- 
ful in preventing the occurrence of war. It is to be 
hoped, however, that, as the principles of international 
law extend and are more generally recognised, this 
means of averting collisions between contiguous as well 
as remote nations may become more efficacious. 

2. Peace Societies. — These arc purely voluntary asso- 
ciations, which labor in moral and social lines to pro- 
mote harmony and fraternity among the peoples of the 
earth, especially in civilized lands, and thus aim pri- 
vately and gradually to extinguish the spirit of aui- 


WA1 


883 


WARDLAW 


mosity and contest. The exciting scenes of “ the East- 
ern question,” the Franco- German struggle in Eu- 
rope, and the rebellion in this country have greatly 
retarded the success of this movement. Nevertheless, 
organizations of this kind have been in operation for 
many years in Great Britain, and others in the United 
States, which are securely but slowly laying the foun- 
dation for a future reform on this subject. As in the 
case of the temperance movement, the passions and hab- 
its of mankind are in the opposite direction, and hence 
the effort must be protracted and even precarious. 
But the enlarged views of modern statesmanship, to- 
gether with the increasing ties that bind nations to- 
gether, must continue to supplement the moral argu- 
ments advanced in favor of the abolition of war, so that 
we may anticipate an eventual millennium in this as 
well as in the general diffusion of the Gospel. 

War (or Woer), in Norse mythology, is the god- 
dess of connubial love and fidelity, and the avenger of 
conjugal unfaithfulness. 

Wara. See Vara. 

Waranda, in Norse mythology, is one of the three 
Destinies, who sit at the well of Urdar and control the 
fate and destiny of the world. 

Warburton, William, D.D., an eminent English 
prelate, was born at Newark-upon-Trenl, Dec. 24, 1(398. 
His father was attorney and town-clerk at Newark, and 
young William was designed for the law. lie received 
the usual grammar-school education at Oakham and 
his own native village, and in 1715 was placed in the 
office of an attorney at East Markham, in Nottingham- 
shire, where he remained until April. 1719. He then 
commenced the practice of law; but his literary tastes 
prevented his success in that profession, and he aban- 
doned it for the ministry. He was ordained deacon by 
Dawes, archbishop of York, in 17*23; ordained priest by 
Gibson, bishop of London, in 1726, and appointed vicar 
of Grveslev, Nottinghamshire; became rector of Brant- 
Broughton, Lincolnshire, in 1728; preacher to the society 
of Lincoln’s Inn in 1746; prebendary of Gloucester in 
1753; king’s chaplain in ordinary in 1754; prebendary of 
Durham in 1755; dean of Bristol in 1757; bishop of 
Gloucester in 1760; and died there June 7, 1779. In 1739- 
40 he published a series of letters, in The Works of the 
Learned, in defence of the orthodoxy of Pope’s Essay 
on Man, which gained him the life-long friendship of 
the poet; and on the death of Pope, in 1844, it was 
found that he had bequeathed to Warburton half of his 
library, and the profits arising from the publication of all 
his works not otherwise disposed of. But the most im- 
portant service rendered him by Pope was his intro- 
duction to the house of Ralph Allen, Esq., of Prior Park, 
near Bath. This led to his marriage, in 1745, with 
Allen’s niece, Miss Gertrude Tucker, in whose right, on 
the death of Allen, in 1764, he became proprietor of 
Prior Park. Among his other literary writings are, 
Miscellaneous Translations in Prose and Verse (1723): 
— An Inquiry into the Causes of Prodigies and Miracles 
(1727): — Alliance between Church and State (1736): — 
Divine Legation of Moses (1738-41) ; this is his greatest 
work: — an edition of Shakespeare ( 1747 ) : — Julian 
(1750): — an edition of Pope’s Works (1751): — and The 
Doctrine of Grace (1762). Warburton’s Works were pub- 
lished by his friend bishop Hurd, in 7 vols. 4 to, in 1788, 
and a subsequent edition with a Memoir in 1794. In 
1809 appeared a volume of Letter's, and in 1841 another 
volume, entitled Literary Remains of Bishop Warbur- 
ton, See Watson, Life of Warburton (1863). 

Warburtonian Lecture, a lecture founded by 
bishop Warburton (q. v.), to prove the truth of revealed 
religion in general, and the Christian in particular, from 
the completion of the prophecies in the Old and New 
Tests, which relate to the Christian Church, especially 
the apostasy of papal Rome. Courses of lectures on 
this foundation have been delivered by Halifax, Hurd, | 
Bagot, Apthorp, and many others. 


Wardlaw, John Smith, D.D., an English Con- 
gregational missionary, was born at Glasgow, July 25, 
1813. He early dedicated himself to the Lord, and com- 
menced preparation for his great work. Mr. Wardlaw 
had every advantage for mental and spiritual culture, 
lie graduated with honor at Glasgow University and 
Theological Academy, and at once decided to give his 
life to missionary work. He was ordained as a mission- 
ary .July 14, 1841, and sailed for India under the auspices 
of the London Missionary Society, arriving at Madras 
in September, 1841. lie at once took an efficient part 
in carrying out the objects of the mission — teaching, 
preaching, itinerating, and superintending the printing- 
press. He translated the Scriptures into the Telugu 
language, and was able to send thousands of copies of 
the New Test, into the mission fields. In 1855 Dr. 
Wardlaw visited Yizagapatam, and in 1859 also visited 
Calcutta and the missions on the coast. He died Oct. 
13, 1872. “Dr. Wardlaw was a laborious and faithful 
student, exact, thorough, with great analytical power,” 
and the ability to express with clearness his conclusions. 
He was a man of broad sympathies, unselfish in friend- 
ship, with a character transparent and spotless, and 
with an “exhaustless patience and charity.” See 
(Lond.) Cong. Year-book, 1873, p.365. 

Wardlaw, Ralph, D.D., an eminent Scotch Con- 
gregational divine, was born in Dalkeith, Dec. 22, 1779. 
Though bred in the principles of the Secession Church, 
he resolved to join himself to the Congregational party; 
and was in 1803 ordained and installed pastor of the 
chapel in Albion Street, Glasgow, but subsequently re- 
moved to a larger church in George Street. In isi l he 
was appointed professor of theology in the Seminary of 
the Congregational Church of Scotland, which position 
he occupied, in connection with his pastorate, until his 
death, Dec. 17, 1853. lie acquired a high reputation as 
a theologian. His life was a very laborious and ear- 
nest one. Besides discharging faithfully and ably the 
duties of the pulpit and the professor’s chair, he was a 
voluminous author; often involved in theological con- 
troversy, and a prominent actor in the public, religious, 
and philanthropic movements of the day. His intellect 
was acute, his understanding sound, and his style re- 
markable for its perspicacity, vigor, and grace." The 
most important of Dr. Wardlaw’s works are, Discourses 
on the Socinian Controversy : — Lectures on Ecclesiastes 
(2 vols.): — Essays on Assurance of Faith, and on the 
Extent of the Atonement and Universal Pardon: — Dis- 
courses on the Sabbath: — Christian Ethics : —Discourses 

on the Nature and Extent of the Atonement of Christ : 

The Life of Joseph and the Last Years of Jacob: — Con- 
gregational Independency : — On Miracles : — and Lectures 
against Religious Establishments. 1 1 islife and correspond- 
ence were published by Dr. Alexander in 1856. See Al- 
ii bone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. (W. P. S.) 

Wardlaw. Thomas Delacey, D.D., a Presby- 
terian minister, was born at Warrenpoint. County Down, 
Ireland, Nov. 1, 1826, where he received his preparatory 
education. He graduated from Belfast College in 1844; 
and soon after went to Quebec, Canada, and from thence 
to the United States in 184(3, when he entered Prince- 
ton Theological Seminary, from which he graduated in 
1849. Immediately on leaving the seminary, he began 
to preach as a stated supply at Port Carbon, Pa. ; but 
subsequently, having accepted a call, was ordained and 
installed pastor. After two years’ service, he was re- 
leased to take charge of the Church at Paris, Kv., where 
he was installed; after a service of six years he was 
called to Clarksville, Tenn., where he continued nine 
years. After this he removed to Shelbyville, where 
he continued to reside until his death, Aug. 29, 1879. 
He became principal of a Young Ladies’ Seminary in 
that place, at the same time supplying the neighboring 
churches of Petersburg and Bethlehem. He was a man of 
superior scholarship and extensive literary culture. See 
Necrological Rep. Princeton Sem, .4 lumni , 1 880. (\V. P. S.) 


WARE 


884 


WATER 


Ware, Henry, Sr., D.D.. a Unitarian clergyman, 
was born at Sherburne, Mass., April 1, 1764. He grad- 
uated at Harvard College in 178.3. and studied theology 
under Rev. Timothy Hilliard for a year and a half fol- 
lowing. He became pastor of the First Congregational 
Church at llingham in 1787. and labored there until 
180.3. when he was chosen Hollis professor of divinity at 
Harvard College. This election was the occasion of a 
sharp controversy between the Unitarians and the Trio- 
itarian Congregatioualists, which resulted in the separa- 
tion of the two parties as distinct bodies of Christians. 
He held his chair in t he college until 1816, when, on the 
organization of the Harvard Divinity School, he became 
professor of systematic theology and tin* evidences of 
Christianity, which oflice he held until 1840, when he 
was compelled to resign on account, of the loss of his 
evesight. lie died at Cambridge, dune 1*2, 1845. Dr. 
Ware published. Letters to Trinitarians and Calvinists 
(Camh. 1820), in reply to Dr. Wood’s fitters to Unitari- 
ans: —Answer to hr. Wood's Reply (1822):— Postscript 
to the A nswer to Dr. Wood's Reply (1823) .4 n Inquiry 
into the Foundation , Evidences, and Truths oj Reliyion 
(1842. 2 vols.) : — and numerous Sermons. See Sprague, 
Annals of the A mer. Pulpit, viii, 100. 

Ware, Henry, Jr.. D.D., a Unitarian clergyman, 
eldest son of the preceding, was born at llingham, Mass., 
April 21, 1704. He was educated at Phillips Academy, 
Andover, and at Harvard College, from which lie gradu- 
ated in 1812. During the next two years he taught in 
the academy at Exeter, X. SI., spending much of his 
leisure time in the study of theology; and during the 
latter part of this period he conducted the public services 
of a Unitarian society in Exeter by performing the de- 
votional part of the service and reading a printed ser- 
mon. In 1814 he returned to Cambridge to study the- 
ology as a resident graduate of the university, and was 
appointed sub-librarian of the college, which office he 
belt! one year, lie was called to the pastorate of the 
Second Church in IJoston, and was ordained and install- 
ed .Ian. 1, 1817. In this relation lie remained until the 
autumn of 1830. In 1810 he became editor of the Chris- 
tian Disciple, and remained in that office until 1822. 
On account of declining health Air. Ware desired to re- 
sign his charge in 1829; but his Church and congrega- 
tion, not willing to lose his services, chose as colleague 
pastor 31 r. Ralph Waldo Emerson, upon whom should 
devolve the burden of the active pastoral labor. In ( )c- 
tober, 1830. Mr. Ware removed to Cambridge to enter 
upon the duties of professor of pulpit eloquence and the 
pastoral care, to which he had lately been elected. In 
1842, on account of feeble health, lie resigned his pro- 
fessorship and removed to Framingham, where he died, 
Sept. 22, 1843. Among his published works are the fol- 
lowing: Discourses on the Offices and Character o f Jesus 
Christ (1825) : — Sermons on Small, Sins (1827): — On the 
Formation of the Christian Character (1831) : — The Life 
of the Saviour (1832) : — several single Sermons, Essays, 
and Poems: — and Memoirs of Oherlin, Noah Worcester, 
Dr. Joseph Priestley , Nathan Parker, and others. .See 
his Select Writings, by Rev. (’handler Robbins (Rost. 
1816 17. 4 vols.); Ware [John], Memoir of Rev. Henry 
I15//-C, Jr., I). I). (ibid. 1846, 2 vols.) ; Sprague, Annals 
of the A mer. Pulpit, viii, 472 sq. 

Warliam, William, D.D., LL.I)., an eminent Eng- 
lish prelate, was horn at Okeley, in Hampshire, about 
1150. He was educated at Winchester School and at 
New College, Oxford, of which lie became a lellow in 
1475. He remained at Oxford until 1488. having in 
the meantime taken holy orders, and then, it is believed, 
was collated to some living in the Church. Shortly af- 
ter this, he is found practicing as an advocate in the 
Court of Arches, and acting as principal or moderator 
of the Civil Law School of the parish of St. Edward’s, 
Oxford. In 1493 he was sent by Henrv VII as a joint 
envoy to the duchess of Burgundy, to complain of her 
countenance to the pretender Perkin 3Yarbeck. He was 


master of the rolls from 1494 to 1502; joint envoy to 
Maximilian of Burgundy in 1501-2; became keeper of 
thcgrcatsealAug.il, 1502; lord chancellor, elan. 1, 1503; 
bishop of London in 1503; archbishop of Canterbury, 
31 arch 9, 1504; and chancellor of Oxford University 
soon after, lie was an intimate friend of Erasmus; a 
rival of Fox, bishop of Winchester; and, later, a rival 
of cardinal Wolsey, with whom he had many conten- 
tious concerning jurisdiction. He opposed the marriage 
of Catharine of Aragon with Ilenrv VIII, but. officiated 
at the ceremony in dune, 1509; and resigned the great 
seal to Wolsey, Dec. 22, 1515. During his latter years 
lie drew some discredit upon himself bv his connection 
with the affair of the Maid of Kent, to whose preten- 
sions he lent some support. He died at St. Stephen’s, 
near Canterbury, Aug. 23, 1532. 

Warner, Aaron, D.D., a Congregational minister, 
was born at Northampton, 31ass., Oct. 20, 1794. Alter 
graduating from Williams College in 1815, he entered 
Andover Theological Seminary, from which he gradu- 
ated four years afterwards, lie was city missionary in 
Charleston, S. C., from 1819 to 1822, and part of the 
time was acting pastor of the Circular Church in that 
city. At Salem, 3Iass., lie was ordained as an evangel- 
ist, Sept. 25, 1823; and a year after he was installed 
pastor of the Second Church in 3Iedford, which he served 
until 1832. From February, 1835, to November, 1843, 
he was professor of sacred rhetoric in the Gilmanton 
Theological Seminary. In January of the following 
year he was made professor of rhetoric and oratory and 
English literature in Amherst College, retaining this 
position until 1853; after which, and until his death, 
May 14, 1876, he resided in Amherst without charge. 
Dr. Warner was a corporate member of the American 
Board of Commissioners for Foreign 3Iissions from 1838. 
See Cong. Quarterly, 1877, p. 427. 

Warner, Ferdinando, LL.D., an English clergy- 
man and voluminous writer, was horn in 1703. lie 
studied some time at Jesus College, Cambridge, but is 
not recorded among its graduates ; became vicar of 
Bonde, Wiltshire, in 1730; rector of St. 3Iichael Queen- 
hithe. London, in 1746; and, in addition, rector of Barnes, 
in Surrey, in 1758. He died of gout about 1767. Among 
his published works are the following: System of Divin- 
ity and Morality (Loud. 1750 ) : — Rational Defence of the 
English Reformation (1752 ): — An Illustration of the 
Book of Common Prayer and Administration of the Sac- 
raments (1754 ) : — Ecclesiastical History of England from 
the Earliest Accounts to the eighteenth Century (1756- 
57 ): — Memoirs o f the Life of Sir Thomas More (1758) : 
— The History of Ireland (1763): — and History of the 
Rebellion and Civil B'ar in Ireland from 1641 to 1660 
(1767). See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Water (D?£, vdwp), universally one of the chief 
necessaries of life. No one can read far in the Sacred 
Scriptures without being reminded of the vast impor- 
tance of water to the Hebrews in Palestine, and, indeed, 
in every country to which their history introduces us; 
but more particularly in the deserts in which they wan- 
dered on leaving Egypt, as well as those into which 
they before Or afterwards sent their flocks for pasture. 

1. Supply . — In our temperate climate, surrounded as 
we are with perpetual verdure and never-failing streams, 
we can scarcely conceive the value of water in Palestine 
and other regions of the East. During summer and 
autumn, when the small streams are dried up through 
want of rain, the inhabitants are entirely dependent 
upon the water derived from wells, or preserved in cis- 
terns or reservoirs, which sometimes becomes unpleasant. 
See Cistekn. Hence the water of running streams and 
fountains, as opposed to that, of stagnant cisterns, pools, 
or marshes, is called living water (Gen. xxvi, 19; Zech. 
xiv, 8; John iv, 10, 1 1 ; vii, 38 ; Rev. vii, 17). See Pool. 
Water is commonly drawn out of the wells or cisterns by 
females, and carried, upon the shoulder or head, in large 
leathern or earthen vessels (Gen. xxiv, 45). See Well. 


WATER 


885 


WATER OF JEALOUSY 


In the hot countries of the East, the assuaging of 
thirst is one of the most delightful sensations that can 
be felt (Psa. cxliii,0; Prow xxv, 25) ; ami every atten- 
tion which humanity ami hospitality can suggest is 
paid to furnish travellers with water; and public reser- 
voirs or pools are opened iu several parts of Egypt 
and Arabia (Matt, x, 42). See Fountain. Water was 
sometimes paid for, and is now occasionally in the East 
(Nuinb.xx, 17,19; Lam.v,4). See Draw er of Water. 

II. Peculiar Usages. — Among the optical illusions 
which the deserts of the East have furnished is the mi- 
rage. This phenomenon of “ waters that fail,” or “are 
not sure,” was called by the Hebrews shardb , i. e, heat, 
and is rendered “the parched ground” (Isa. xxxv, 7); 
properly, “And the mirage shall become a pool,” i. e. 
the desert which presents the appearance of a lake shall 
be changed into real water. See Mirage. 

Throughout the East it is customary to irrigate their 
fields and gardens by means of small canals or rivulets, 
which distribute the water in every direction (Psa, i,3). 
Allusion is probably made to this custom in Ezek. xxxi, 

3, 4. Sometimes the channels are bordered with stone, 
and accompanied with troughs; at other times they are 
mere ridges of earth, to regulate the tlow (Prov. xxi, 1). 
Thus, in l)eut. xi, 10, it is said the land of Canaan is 
not like Egypt, “where thou sowest thy seed, and wa- ' 
terest it with thy foot.” Palestine is a country which 
has rains, plentiful dews, springs, rivulets, and brooks, i 
which supply the earth with the moisture neeessarv to 
its fruitfulness; whereas Egypt has no river but the 
Nile; and, as it seldom rains, the lands which are not 
within reach of the inundation continue parched and 
barren (see Hackett, Jllustr. of Script, p. 151 sq.). See 
Irrigation. 

III. Metaphorical and Symbolical Phrases. — Water 
sometimes signifies literally the element of water (Gen. 
i, 10), and occasionally its parallel in tears (Jer. ix, 1, 
7); hence, figuratively, trouble (Psa. lvi, 1) and mis- 
fortune (Lam. iii, 54; Psa. lxix, 1; cxvii, 16; cxxiv, 

4, 5). Water is put for children or posterity (Numb, 
xxiv, 7 ; Isa. xlviii, 1); for the clouds (Psa. civ, 3) ; for 
the ordinances of the Gospel (Isa. xii, 3; xxxv, 6, 7; 
lv, 1 ; John vii, 37, 38). “ Stolen waters” denote unlaw- 
ful pleasures with strange women (Prov. ix, 17). The 
Israelites are reproached with having forsaken the 
fountain of living water to quench their thirst at broken 
cisterns (Jer. ii, 13); that is, with having quitted the 
worship of the all-sufficient God for the worship of vain 
and senseless idols. 

Water is used in the sense of purification, as the 


“washing away of sin.” See Baptism. When clear, 
cool, and pleasant, it is the symbol of great good; and, 
when muddy and thick, it denotes disease and affliction 
(as above), lienee, the torments of wicked men after 
this life were b} r the ancients represented under the 
symbol of a lake whose waters were full of mud and 
filth (Isa. lvii, 20). 

Many waters, on account of their noise, number, dis- 
order, and the confusion of the waves, are the symbols 
of peoples, multitudes, nations, and tongues (Kev. xvii, 
15; Jer. xlvii, 2); waters signifying an army or multi- 
tude (Isa. xvii, 12, 13). 

As in Scripture bread is put for all sorts of food or 
solid nourishment, so water is used for all sorts of drink. 
The Moabites and Ammonites are reproached for not 
meeting the Israelites with bread and water; that is, 
with proper refreshments (I)eut. xxiii,4). Nabal says, 
insulting David’s messengers, “Shall l then take my 
bread and my water, and my flesh that 1 have killed for 
my shearers, and give it unto men whom I know not 
whence they be?” (1 Sam. xxv, 1 1). 

WATER of Baptism. The scholastics adopted the 
mystical interpretation of the water, but earried their 
discussions and inquiries concerning the fluids to be 
used at the performance of the rite of baptism to a 
ridiculous extreme. Various opinions obtained as to 
the question whether beer, broth, fish-sauce, mead or 
honev-water, lyc or rose-water, might be used instead 
of pure water. They carried their absurdities so far as 
to start the question “Quid faciendum, si puer urinaret 
(stereorizaret) in fontem ?” A distinction was also made 
between “aqua artificialis, naturalis, and usualis.” See 
Hagenbach, Ilist. of Doctrines, ii, 84. See Baptism; 
Holy Water. 

WATER, Holy. See Baptism; Holy Water. 

WATER of Jealousy (Numb, v, 11-31, 

“waters of bitterness,” sometimes with add- 

ed, as causing a curse ; Sept, vdojp tov tXiypov ; Philo, 
ii, 310, ttotoq fXfyyon). This was probably not the 
“water of separation” for purification, mixed with the 
ashes of the red heifer, for, as its ceremonial property 
was to defile the pure and to purify the unclean (Numb, 
xix, 21) who touched it, it could hardly be used in a 
rite the object of which was to establish the innocence 
of the upright or discover the guilt of the sinner with- 
out the symbolism jarring. Perhaps water from the 
laver of the sanctuary is intended. The ritual pre- 
scribed consisted in the husband’s bringing the woman 
before the priest, and the essential part of 
it is unquestionably the oath, to which the 
“ water” was subsidiary, symbolical, and 
ministerial. With her he was to bring 
the tenth part of an ephah of barley-meal 
as an offering. Perhaps the whole is to 
be regarded from a judicial point of view, 
and this “offering” in the light of a court- 
fee. Yet being an offering to “ bring iniqui- 
ty to remembrance” (v, 15), it is ceremo- 
nially rated as a “sin-offering;” hence no 
oil is to be mixed with the meal before 
burning it, nor any frankincense to be 
placed upon it when burned, which same 
rule was applied to “sin-offerings” gener- 
ally (Lev. v, 11). With meat-offerings, on 
the contrary, the mixture of oil and the 
imposition of frankincense were prescribed 
(ii, 1, 2, 7, 14, 15), God himself was sud- 
denly invoked to judge, and his presence 
reeognised by throwing a handful of the 
barley -meal on the blazing altar in the 
course of the rite. In the first instance, how- 
ever, the priest “ set her before the Lord” 
with the offering in her hand. The Mishna 
(, Sotah ) prescribes that she be elothed 



A Watered Garden. 


WATER OF JEALOUSY 


88G 


WATER BURY 


in black with a rope girdle around her waist ; and from 
the direction that the priest “shall uncover her head” 
(Numb, v, 18) it would seem she came in veiled, prob- 
ablvalso in black. As she stood holding the offering, 
so the priest stood holding an earthen vessel of holy 
water mixed with the dust from the lloor of the sanc- 
tuary, and, declaring her free from all evil consequences 
if innocent, solemnly devoted her in the name of Jeho- 
vah to be “a curse and an oath among her people,” if 
guilty, further describing the exact consequences as- 
cribed to the operation of the water in the “members” 
which she had “yielded as servants to uncleanness” 
(ver. 21, 22, 27; comj>. Korn, vi, 10; and Thcodoret, 
Qtuest. x in Xumh.'). The words 

rendered in the A. V. bv the word “rot,” rather indi- 
cate, according to Gesenius, s. v. to “become or 
make lean.” Al icliaelis thought ovarian dropsy was 
intended by the symptoms. Josephus says, roc re vice- 
Aoiq; tK7rt(Uh'TOQ CtVT/J, KCK TlfV KOl\((U’ I’CtfJOV Kara - 

\af.if5avovroc (.1 n(. iii, 1 1, (>). The priest then “ wrote 
these curses in a book, and blotted them out with the 
bitter water,” and. having thrown, probably at this 
stage of the proceedings, the handful of meal on the 
altar, “caused the woman to drink” the potion thus 
drugged, she, moreover, answering to the words of his 
imprecation, “Amen, Amen.” Josephus adds, if the sus- 
picion was unfounded, she obtained conception ; if true, 
she died infamously. This accords with the sacred 
text, if she “be clean, then shall she be free and shall 
conceive seed" (Numb, v, 28), words which seem to 
mean that when restored to her husband’s affection she 
should be blessed with fruitfulness; or that, if concep- 
tion had taken place before her appearance, it would 
have, its proper issue in child-bearing, which, if she had 
been unfaithful, would he intercepted by the operation 
of the curse. It may be supposed that a husband would 
not be forward to publish Ids suspicions of his own in- 
jury, unless there were symptoms of apparent eoncep- 
liou and a risk of a child by another being presented 
to him as his own. This is somewhat supported by 
the rendering in the A. V. of the words N5 X*ni 
rvrsr? (ver. 13) by “neither she be taken icilh the 
manner the italicized words being added as explana- 
tory, without any to correspond in the original, and 
pointing to the sudden cessation of “ the manner” or 
“ custom of women ” (Gen. xviii, 1 1 ; xxxi, 35), i. e. the 
menstrual flux, suggesting, in the case of a woman not 
past the age of child-bearing, that conception had taken 
place. If this be the sense of the original, the suspi- 
cions of the husband would be so far based upon a fact. 
It seems, however, also possible that the words may be 
ail extension of the sense of those immediately preced- 
ing, 1^1, when the connected tenor would be, 

“and there be no witness against her, and she be not 
taken,” i. e. taken in the fact; comp. John viii, 4, avrtj 
t) yvvij Karei\if<f>$tj t7rctvT0<pd>p<ij /ioiycoogm/. In the 
case of pregnancy the woman’s natural apprehensions 
regarding her own gestation would operate very strong- 
ly to make her shrink from the potion if guilty. For 
plainly the effect of such a ceremonial on the nervous 
system of one so circumstanced might easily go far to 
imperil her life even without the precise symptoms as- 
cribed to the water. Meanwhile the rule would oper- 
ate beneficially for the woman if innocent, who would 
be, (hiring this interval, under the protection of the 
court to which the husband had himself appealed, and 
so far secure against any violent consequence of his 
jealousy, which had thus found a vent recognised by 
law. Further, by thus interposing a period of proba- 
tion the fierceness of the conjugal jealousy might cool. 
On comparing this argument with the further restric- 
tions laid down in the treatise JSotah tending to limit 
the application of this rite, there seems grave reason to 
doubt whether recourse was ever had to it in fact. See 
Adultery. The custom of writing on a parchment 


words cabalistic or medical relating to a particular case, 
and then washing them off, and giving the patient the 
water of this ablution to drink, has descended among 
Oriental superstitions to the present day, and a sick 
Arab would probably think this the most natural way 
of “taking” a prescription. See, on the general sub- 
ject, Groddeck, l)e Yett. Uebr. Pur gat. Cast it at is, in 
l T golino, Thesuur. The custom of such an ordeal was 
probably traditional in Moses’ time, and by fencing it 
round with the wholesome awe inspired by the solem- 
nity of the prescribed ritual, the lawgiver would de- 
prive it to a great extent of its barbarous tendency, 
and would probably restrain the husband from some 
of the ferocious extremities to which he might other- 
wise be driven by a sudden lit of jealousy, so powerful 
in the Oriental mind. On the whole, it is to be taken, 
like the permission to divorce by a written instrument, 
rather as the mitigation of a custom ordinarily harsh, 
and as a barrier placed in the way of uncalculating vin- 
dictiveness. Viewing the regulations concerning mat- 
rimony as a whole, we shall lind l he same principle an- 
imating them in all their parts— that of providing a 
legal channel for the course of natural feelings where 
irrepressible, but at the same time of surrounding their 
outlet with institutions apt to mitigate their intensity, 
and so assisting the gradual formation of a gentler tem- 
per in the bosom of the nation. The precept was given 
“because of the hardness of their hearts,” but with the 
design and the tendency of softening them. (See some 
remarks in Spencer, De Leg. Heir.) — Smith. See Jeal- 
ousy; Ordeal. 

WATER of Separation. See Purification. 

Waterbury, Jared Bell, D.D., a Presbyterian 
minister, w r as born in the city of New York, Aug. 11, 
1790. lie was converted at the age of seventeen, and 
united with the Rutgers Street Presbyterian Church, 
becoming at once an earnest Christian worker. He en- 
tered Yale College and graduated with high honors in 
1822, and in the autumn of the same year lie entered 
upon his theological studies in Princeton Seminary, 
where he remained two years. On April 15, 1823, he 
was taken under the care of the New York Presbytery 
as a candidate for the ministry, and that body licensed 
him to preach in 1825 and ordained him sinetitulo Nov. 
13 of the same year. Shortly after completing his the- 
ological studies, he accepted an agency for the Ameri- 
can Bible Society, and made a highly successful and 
useful tour in its interests through t he Southern States. 
In the year 182(1 he commenced preaching at Hatfield, 
Mass. : and having been dismissed by the Presbytery of 
New' York, April 18, 1827, to the Association of North- 
ampton, Mass., was shortly after installed pastor of the 
Hatfield Church. While residing there, he published a 
small volume entitled Advice to a Young Christian, by 
a Village Pastor, with a very interesting introduction 
by I)r. Archibald Alexander. This little book was wide- 
ly read and very useful. In 1829 be was called to Ports- 
mouth, N. II., where he was installed shortly after, and 
remained for tw r o years in a happy and useful ministry, 
which he was compelled to resign on account of his 
health. For a short time he resided in Brooklyn, at 
the house of his father-in-law, the late Zachariah Lewis. 
In the fall of 1832, he began to supply the Presbyterian 
Church at Hudson, N.Y., and in the spring accepted a 
call from and was installed its pastor. Here he labored 
fourteen years, and his earnest and fervent pulpit efforts, 
his genial and social manners, glowing zeal and godly 
life, secured for him the unbounded affection of the 
entire community. During his ministry, a large and 
beautiful church was erected, and a great number of 
persons, many of them of high social position and intel- 
ligence, were gathered into the church. In 184G he ac- 
cepted a call to the Bowdoin Street Church, Boston, 
where he was installed pastor, and where he continued 
to labor until 1857, when he resigned Tiis charge and re- 
moved to Stamford, Conn., where he lived over two 


WATERLAND 


887 


WATSON 


years in retirement, but preaching occasionally, as op- 
portunity offered. In 1859 he supplied the pulpit of 
the Central Presbyterian Church, Brooklyn, N.Y., dur- 
ing the absence of its pastor (Dr. Rockwell) in Europe, 
and thenceforward to the end of his life he made that 
city his home. During the late war of the Rebellion, 
Dr. Waterburv was made secretary of the Brooklyn 
branch of the Christian Commission, in which position 
he rendered valuable and effective service, collecting 
books and pamphlets to be sent to the Union army, and 
superintending the sending-out of ministers to supple- 
ment the work of the regular chaplains in the army, 
lie was afterwards appointed city missionary in Brook- 
lvn. lie had a large tent erected on Fort Greene and 
in Lefferts Park, where on Sundays the outside multi- 
tude were congregated to hear the Gospel. Misfortune 
clouded his last days. His ample property was swept 
away at a stroke, and his health was gone; yet in the 
midst of all he never lost his cheerfulness or trnst in 
God, but rested calmly on the never-failing promises. 
I)r. Waterbary was a man of warm piety, and always 
watchful for opportunities of winning souls to Christ. 
As a pastor, he was faithful, sympathetic, and earnest. 
In his prime he was a preacher of unusual excellence 
and power. lie wrote much for the religious press, 
published quite a number of sermons and tracts, besides 
six or eight volumes of works on various religious sub- 
jects. Among his last utterances was this — “Jesus is 
with me.” lie died on Sabbath morning, Dee. 31, 1876. 
(W. P. S.) 

Waterland, Daniel, D.D., an eminent English 
theologian and controversialist, was born at Wasely, in 
Lincolnshire, Feb. 14, 1683. lie was educated at the 
free-sehooi of Lincoln, and Magdalene College, Cam- 
bridge, where he graduated about 1703, and became a 
fellow of the college in 1704. lie continued to reside 
at the university, and after taking holy orders lie acted 
as tutor for many years, lie became master of his col- 
lege in 1713, and during the same year was rector of 
EUingham, in Norfolk. He was appointed one of the 
chaplains in ordinary to king George I in 1714; preach- 
ed the Lady Moyer Lectures at St. Paul’s, London, in 
1 720 ; became rector of St. Austin’s and St. Faith’s, Lon- 
don, in 1721: chancellor of the Church of York ill 1723; 
canon of Windsor in 1727; and vicar of Twickenham 
and archdeacon of Middlesex in 1730. He died in Lon- 
don, Dec. 23, 1740. Dr. Waterland was greatly distin- 
guished as a Trinitarian controversialist, having been 
especially noted lor his treatises on the Divinity of 
Christ in reply to the positions of Drs. Whitby and 
Samuel Clarke, in vindication of the authority of the 
Scriptures against the positions of Middleton and Tin- 
dal, and on the doctrines of the eueharist and baptismal 
regeneration. His most important works arc t lie fol- 
lowing: Vindication of Christ's Divinity (1719): — Sec- 
ond 1 ’indication (1723 ): — Further Vindication (1724) : — 
Eight Sermons in Defence of the Divinity of our Lord 
Jesus Christ (1720), preached at the Moyer Lectures: — 
Case of Arian Subscription Considered (1721 ): — Five 
Letters to William Staunton concerning the Trinity 
(1722 ): — Critical History of the Athanasian Creed 
( 1 724 ) : — Scripture Vindicated ( 1730-34 ) : — Future, 
Obligation, and Efficacy of the Christian Sacraments 
Considered, (1730 ) : — Importance of the Doctrine of the 
Holy Trinity Asserted (1734) : — Review of the Doctrine 
of the Eucharist as Laid Down in the Scriptures and 
Antiquity (1737 ): — Regeneration Stilted and Explained 
(1740) : — Sermons on Several Important Subjects (1742), 
published after His death by Joseph Clarke. In 1823 
appeared a complete edition of his works in eleven vol- 
• limes, with a Review of the A uthor's Life and Writings;, 
by William Van Mildert, D.D., lord bishop of Llandaff. 

Waterman, John A., D.D., a Methodist Episco- 
pal divine, was born in New Hampshire, June 29, 1790. 
He was converted in his eighteenth year; admitted into 
the Oltio Conference in 1814; and travelled successively 
the Miami, Mahoning, aud Zanesville circuits. When 


the Pittsburgh Conference was formed, he fell within 
its bounds, and successively tilled Pittsburgh, Wheeling, 
Washington, Steubenville, and other prominent appoint- 
ments. In 1832 he was transferred to the Ohio Confer- 
ence, as a superannuate; in 1837 he was made effective, 
and appointed to Oxford, where he died, Aug. 6, 1837. 
Mr. Waterman was a self-made man. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences, ii, 570. 

Watson, James V., D.D., a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was born in London, England, in 1814. lie 
emigrated to the United States while young; became 
a local preacher in early manhood in Indiana; and in 
1832 joined th? Missouri Conference. Two years later 
he returned to Indiana, and joined the Indiana Confer- 
ence. In 1840 he became a member of the Michi- 
gan Conference, and later of the Detroit Conference, in 
which he tilled some of the most prominent appoint- 
ments; then he labored two years as agent of the Amer- 
ican Bible Society; and finally superannuated and es- 
tablished a Christian newspaper, which he edited with 
success until the organization of the Forth - western 
Christian Advocate, in 1852, when he became its editor. 
This position he held till his death, Oct. 17, 1856. Mr. 
Watson was tall and slender in person, amiable and 
charming in social life, marvellous in his preaching 
abilities, and profound as an editor. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences, 1857, p. 431. 

Watson, Richard (1), D.D., F.R.S., an eminent 
English prelate, was horn at llaversham, near Kendal, 
Westmoreland, in August, 1737, where he received his 
early education from his father. lie graduated at Trin- 
ity College, Cambridge, in 1759, and was eleeted to a 
fellowship in 1760. lie then took orders in the Church 
of England, and became assistant tutor in November of 
the same year. He became moderator in 1762; pro- 
fessor of chemistry in 1764; one of the head tutors in 
1767; and regius professor of divinity in 1771, aud 
at the same time rector of Somershatn, Huntingdon- 
shire. In 1774 he exchanged his rectory for the preb- 
end of Ely. aud in 1780 became archdeacon of Ely and 
rector of North wold, Norfolk. In 1782 he became 
rector of Knaptoft, Leicestershire, and bishop of Llan- 
daff. In 1786 lie received a bequest of property from 
his friend 31 r. Luther, of Ougar, Essex, from which he 
realized £20,500. This, together with his bishopric, 
his professorship, his archdeaconry, and his reetorv, en- 
abled him to live in opulence, despite his complaints of 
poverty and neglect, lie died at Calgarth Park, West- 
moreland, July 4, 1816. lie was the author of An A ju>l- 
ogy for Christianity (1776) : — An Apology for the Bible 
(1796): — Chemical Essays (1781-87, 5 vols.) : — Sermons 
on Public Occasions (1788): — Miscellaneous Tracts on 
Religious, Political, and Agricultural Subjects (1815): — 
and several other works on kindred subjects. He also 
edited a Collection of Theological Tracts, selected from 
Various Authors ( 1785, 6 vols. ). 1 1 is autobiography 

was published by bis son, Richard Watson, LL.B., in 
1817. 

Watson, Richard (2), a Wesleyan theologian, 
was born at Barton-upon-1 lumber, Lincolnshire, Feb. 22, 
1781. Physically feeble, lie had a precocious mind, and 
against poverty and great difficulties he bent his ener- 
gies to the acquisition of knowledge, lie enjoyed no 
school advantages after he was fourteen, having at 
that age left, the grammar-school in Lincoln. Wild and 
impious in youth, he was converted when about thir- 
teen; commenced to preach when fifteen; was received 
into the Wesleyan Methodist ministry in 1796 ; resigned 
under false imputation of heresy in 1801 ; entered the 
ministry of the Methodist New Connection in 1803; 
and was received again into the Wesleyan body, chiefly 
through the instrumentality of Jabez Bunting, in 1812. 
He was active in the formation of the Wesleyan Mis- 
sionary Society in 1813 (not formally inaugurated until 
1817), and was made one of its secretaries in 1816, re- 
taining the office for fourteen years. Besides attending 
to the duties of this office, he devoted himself to the the- 


WATSON 


888 


WATSON 


domical training of candidates for the mission work. In 
1826 lie was elevated to the presidency of the Confer- 
ence, and in 1827 he resumed the itinerancy in Man- 
chester. In 1830 he declined an invitation to the chair 
of belles-lettres and moral philosophy in Wesleyan Uni- 
versity, Conn. About this time Watson, who was strong- 
ly opposed to slavery and intimate with Buxton, Lush- 
ington, and other leaders in the antislavery movement, 
made some eloquent speeches in favor of negro-emanci- 
pation. In l<Sd 2 lie was again appointed to the secreta- 
riate of missions. But his comrades were falling. Clarke 
had died on Aug. 25 of that year; Stanley sank to rest 
Oct.lt; and Watson’s devoted colleague, James, passed 
away Nov. 6. 11 is own dissolution was not far oil*. 

Disease had been gnawing at his vitals all his life; but 
with devotion indomitable he still wrote, lie died, af- 
ter intense suffering, Jan. 8. 1833. 

Watson’s character was one of great beauty. His 
humility and piety never shone brighter than at the 
time of his greatest popularity; and sympathy, tender- 
ness, and strength blended in a spirit purified by fire. 

11 ow many felt the power of Ids presence 1 “A figure 
so tall and thin is seldom to be seen, yet there was 
something majestic in his gait and maimer, and, when 
his head was hared, the out beamings of intelligence be- 
spoke the genius which was concealed there, and a kind 
of awe was felt which indicated the presence of a supe- 
rior being” (Stevenson, Hist, of City Road Chapel, 
p. 564). 

He was a man of elegant taste, of a remarkably tena- 
cious memory, great vigor of intellect, and unconquer- 
able application. 1 1 is mind was versatile; his sympa- 
thies universal. lie was at home in theology, metaphys- 
ics, politics, and domestic economy. As a preacher, great 
things are spoken of him. Xihil tetiyit quod non vrna- 
vit. “He soars,” says Hubert Hall, “into regions of 
thought where no genius but his own can penetrate.” 
“He led his hearers into realms of thought of which 
they had previously no conception; and his tall and 
graceful form, his pallid countenance bearing marks of 
deep thought and of severe pain, and at the same time 
beaming with benignity and holy delight, served to 
deepen the impression of his incomparable discourses. 
The greatest charm of his preaching was its richness in 
evangelical truth and devotional feeling; and in those 
qualities it increased to the last” (BW. Meth. Magazine. 
1833, p. 151). “Watson had not the earnestness and 
force of Chalmers,” says an elaborate and able article in 
the London Quarterly Revieu\ 1854, ii, 192; “ but be pos- 
sessed much more thought, philosophy, calm ratiocina- 
tion, and harmonious fulness. He had not, perhaps, the 
metaphysical subtlety and rapid combination, the burn- 
ing affections and elegant diction of Hall; but he pos- 
sessed as keen a reason, a more lofty imagination, an 
equal or superior power of painting, and, as we think, 
a much more vivid perception of the spiritual world, 
and a richer leaven of evangelical sentiment. Owen's 
oratory seemed to be more flowing, spontaneous, and 
impassioned than that of Watson; but the latter ex- 
ceeded Owen in stretch of thought, sublimity, beautiful 
imagery, and deep and touching pathos.” 

Watson gave the first systematic treatment of Wes- 
leyan theology. His Institutes , though not the legal, 
have been the moral and scientific, standard of Meth- 
odist doctrine. Although the works of Profs. Pope 
and Raymond fill a niche in the temple of more recent 
literature, which, of course, the institutes cannot till, the 
latter work can never be superseded. The elder Hodge I 
speaks of it as “excellent, and well worthy of its high 
repute among Methodists” ( Systematic Theology, iii. 
190). In 1852 Dr. John Brown, of Edinburgh, charac- 
terized Watson as “a prince in theology, and the Insti- 
tutes as the noblest work in Methodism, and truly valu- 
able.” The late Dr. J. W. Alexander says, “ Turrctinc 
is in theology instar omnium — that is, so far as Black- 
stone is in law. Making due allowance for difference 
in age, Watson, the Methodist, is the only systematizer, 


within my knowledge, who approaches the same emi- 
nence; of whom I use Addison’s words, ‘ He reasons like 
Palcy, and descants like Ilall’” ( Forty Years of Famil- 
iar Letters [letter of Dec. 2G, 1831]). The Institutes 
have defects, however (see Stevens, Hist, of Methodism , 
iii, 479). Watson’s Exposition was written in sickness, 
left unfinished, and published posthumously. In the 
opinion of sonic, it is one of the finest specimens of such 
work in the English language. Although of ample yet 
modest learning, and eminently theological, it is beau- 
tiful and tender, and brings the heart nearer to God 
(see Jackson, Life of Watson, p. 4G1). 

Watson’s influence has been great and enduring. Ilis 
premature death was greatly lamented; but, “with an 
intellect so intense, mental labor so abundant and untir- 
ing, activity so incessant, and feelings so deep, we are 
not surprised that Watson fell a martyr to his exertions 
in the midst of his years” {Loud. Quar. Review , 1854, 
p. 237). 

Besides missionary reports, essays, pastoral addresses, 
and other Conference documents, Watson wrote the fol- 
lowing: An Apology for the Methodists (1799), in a let- 
ter to Kcv. J. Hotham. A.B., rector of St.Werburg’s, Der- 
by, in answer to a pamphlet entitled An Address to the * 
People called Methodists : — Memoirs, in the Meth. New 
Connection Magazine. 1805, etc. : — Popular History and 
Description of the City of J Acer pool (1807) : — Brief II is - 
tory of the Reign of George III (1807, 12mo) : — Editori- 
al Articles, in the Liverpool Courier, 1807 sq. : — A Let- 
ter to William Roscoe (1808), containing strictures on 
his late publication on the present war with France: 
— Defence of Wesleyan Methodist Missions in the H>.s7, 
Indies (Loud. 1817, Svo): — Remarks on the Eternal 
Sonship of Christ ; and The Pse of Reason in Matters 
of Revelation (ibid. 1818), suggested by passages in 
j Clarke’s Commentary on the N. T.: — Observations on 
Southeys Life of Wesley (ibid. 1821, Svo; bound with 
Watson’s Life of Wesley, ibid. 1835, Svo) : — The Lab- 
; yrinth, or Popish Circle (trails), from the Latin of Simon 
Hpiseopius, 1650; Loud. 1826), being a confutation of 
the supposed infallibility of the Church of Home: — 
Theological Institutes (ibid. 1824, 3 vols. Svo; Sth ed. 
1850,4 vols. 12mo; reprinted in N. Y., Nashville, etc.): 
— Life of John Wesley (Lend. 1831, 12mo, often reprint- 
ed ; Amer. ed. N. Y. 1831 ; Cooperstown, 1845) : — Affec- 
tionate Address to the Leaders of the London South Cir- 
cuit (Loiul. 1830), in opposition to certain tendencies to- 
wards Independency: — Conversations for the Young 
(Loml. and X. Y„ 1830, J2mo), designed to promote the 
profitable reading of the Holy Scriptures: — Biblical and 
Theological Dictionary (Loml. 1832. royal Svo; 10th ed. 
1850; N. Y., Nashville. 1857, Svo. revised with additions 
by T. O. Summers) : — Sermons, and Sketches of Sermons 
(Loud. 1834,3 vols. 12mo ; 1854,3 vols. Svo; N. Y. 1845) : 
— Expositions of the Gospels of Matthew and Mark and 
other Portions of the Holy Scriptures (Loml. 1833, royal 
Svo; 5th ed. 1848, 12mo; N. Y, 1837, Svo). Watson 
projected sermons on the Epistle to the Romans, ami a 
complete exposition of the New Test. His lUorA’s were 
published in London in 1S34-37, with Life, by Jackson 
(13 vols. Svo; 2d ed. 1838, 12 vols. 12mo). Aw Analysis 
of the Institutes was prepared by Dr. McClintock in 1842, 
bound with a new edition of the work (X. Y. 1850, 2 
vols. Svo), and revised by James A. Bastow (published 
separately, Loud. 1876, 12mo). 

Besides the authorities cited in the article, sec Jack- 
son, Life of Watson (Loud, and N. Y. 1834, Svo); Ste- 
vens, Hist, of Methodism (sec Index, vol. iii); Smith, 
Hist, of 11 T esl. Methodism (see Index, vol. iii); Meth. 
Quar . Review, 1861, p. 15 sq. ; Gorrie, Lives of Eminent 
Methodists (Auburn, 1852, 12mo); Scott, Obituary, in 
Minutes of the Conference, 1833; Lowndes, Bibliog. Man- 
ual, s. v. ; Jacob y, Geschichte des Methodismus. i, 335. 
For able reviews of the apologetics of the Institutes , 
see Bangs, in the Meth. Quar. Review, July, 1837; Jan. 
1838; and of their metaphysics, see Cocker, ibid. April, 
1S62. For a reply to both Bangs and Cocker, sec Lev- 


WATTS 


889 


WATTS 


ington, Watsoti's Theological Institutes Defended (Detroit 
and N. Y. 1863, 12mo). Against Levington, see Whedon, 
Meth. Qnar, Review, 1864, p. 155. For a review of the 
moral philosophy of the Institutes , see Cocker, in the 
Meth. Quar. Review , Jan. and April, 1864. See also 
Bunting, Memorials of the Late Rev. Richard Watson 
(Bond. 1833, 8vo) ; id. Sermons and Outlines hy Rev . 
Richard Watson ; Dixon, II is Character and Writings, 
edited, with Biographical Sketches, by Rev. William 
Willan (ibid. 1865, 8vo). 

"Watts, Isaac, D.D., a celebrated divine and poet, 
was born at Southampton, England, July 17. 1674. His 
father was the master of a boarding-school in that town, 
a man of strong devotional feeling, and a rigid Noncon- 
formist. lie was imprisoned, on account of his Noncon- 
formity, in the time of Charles II ; and, during his con- 
finement, his wife sat on a stone at the prison door with 
Isaac, then an infant, at her breast. Young Watts ear- 
ly displayed a love for books, and imbibed, under the 
training of his parents, that turn of mind which prompt- 
ed him to become a Dissenting minister, lie entered 
upon the study of Latin at four years of age, and very 
soon after began the study of Greek and Hebrew un- 
der the Rev. John Pinhorne, master of the free gram- 
mar-school at Southampton. He was very studious, 
spending for books the little money given him in pres- 
ents, and devoting his leisure hours to study and read- 
ing instead of joining the other boys in play. The 
progress he made here induced some friends to raise a 
sum of money sulfieient to maintain him at one of the 
universities; but he decided to remain among the Dis- 
senters, to whom his ancestors had belonged for several 
generations. Accordingly, in 1690 he was sent to an 
academy in London kept by Rev. Thomas Rowe, then 
minister of the Independent meeting-house in Haber- 
dasher’s Hall. Here he remained three years, studying 
with such zeal and application as permanently to injure 
his health. He allowed himself no time for exercise, 
and very little for sleep. He used to mark all the books 
he read, to abridge some, and annotate others of them. 
Of his classical acquirements at this period. Dr. John- 
son says, “ Some Latin essays, supposed to have been 
written as exercises at his academy, show a degree of 
knowledge both philosophical and theological, such as 
very few attain even by a much longer course of study.” 
His leisure hours seem to have been early occupied in 
poetical efforts. He intimates in his miscellanies that 
he was a maker of verses from fifteen to fifty. Ilis Lat- 
in verses, “ written to his brother, in the glyconie meas- 
ure. at the age of seventeen, are remarkably easy and 
elegant.” He made considerable proficiency in the 
study of Hebrew, logic, and scholastic divinity; but 
his acquirements in mathematics and the physical 
sciences were inconsiderable. In 1693 he joined in 
communion with the congregation of Mr. Rowe; and 
in 1694 returned to his father’s house, where he spent 
two years in private study and devotion. It was dur- 
ing this period that the greater part of his hymns, 
and probably most of his juvenile productions, were 
composed. 

At the end of this time he was invited by Sir John 
Hartopp to reside in his family, at Stoke Newington, 
near London, as tutor to his son. Here he remained 
until 1702; but on the completion of his twenty-fourth 
year (in 1698), he preached his first sermon, and was 
chosen soon after assistant to Dr. Chauncv, pastor of 
the Independent Church then meeting at Mark Lane. 
In 1702 he was persuaded to succeed Dr. Chauney in 
the pastoral office; but soon after his entrance upon 
this charge he was seized with a dangerous illness, 
which left him with a constitution so greatly im- 
paired that the congregation decided to procure him 
an assistant. Ilis health returned gradually, and he 
continued to labor in this field until 1712, when he 
was seized by a fever so violent and of such contin- 
uance that he never fully recovered. While in this 
affiicting situation he was invited to the house of Sir 


Thomas Abney, at Theobalds, whither he went expect- 
ing to remain a week, but he continued there for thirty- 
six years — the remainder of his life. Here he contin- 
ued preaching in his Church, overlooking his congrega- 
tion, or engaging in literary work, as health and incli- 
nation prompted him. During the last years of his 
life, the conduct of some of his near relatives caused him 
much bitterness of soul, and seemed to so stupefy him 
that he took but little notice of anything about him. 
But the worst part of this misconduct was kept from 
him. Says a correspondent of Doddridge, “Lady Ab- 
ney keeps him in peaceful ignorance, and his enemies 
at a becoming distance ; so that in the midst of this 
cruel persecution he lives comfortably. And when a 
friend asks how he does, says, ‘Waiting God’s leave to 
die.’ ” In this peaceful state he died, Nov. 25, 1748, and 
was buried in Bunhill Fields. 

Dr. Watts wrote largely for almost all classes of read- 
ers, students of all ages, in science, literature, poetry, 
and divinity. His principal published works are the 
following: Ilorce Lyriccv (Loud. 1706); poems chiefly 
of the lyric kind: — Hymns (ibid. 1707): — Orthodoxy 
and Charity United (1707): — Guide to Prayer (1715): 
— The Psalms of David (1719): — Divine and Moral 
Songs for Children (1720) : — Sermons on Various Sub- 
jects, Divine and Moral (1721-23): — Logic; or, The 
Right Use of Reason in the Inquiry after Truth (1725): 
— The Knowledge of the Heavens and the Earth Made 
Easy ; or, The First Principles of Geography and As- 
tronomy Explained (1726): — Dissertations Relating to 
the Christian Doctrine of the Trinity (eod . ): — Essay 
on the Freedom of the Will in God and in Creatures 
( 1732 ) : — Philosophical Essays ( 1733 ) : — The World 
to Come (1738) : — Essay on the Ruin and Recovery of 
Mankind (1740 ):— Improvement of the Mind (1741): — 
Glory of Christ as God-man Unveiled (1746): — Evan- 
gelical Discourses (1747): — and many others. His 
complete works have been published in various editions 
of from six to nine volumes. Of his literary merits Dr. 
Johnson, in his Lives of the English Poets , says, “ Few 
men have left behind such purity of character or such 
monuments of laborious piety. He has provided in- 
struction for all ages — from those who are lisping their 
first lessons to the enlightened readers of Malebranche 
and Locke; he has left neither corporal nor spiritual 
nature unexamined; he has taught the art of reasoning 
and the science of the stars. His character, therefore, 
must be formed from the multiplicity and diversity of 
his attainments rather than from any single perform- 
ance, for it would not be safe to claim for him the high- 
est rank in any single denomination of literary dignity ; 
yet, perhaps, there was nothing in which he would not 
have excelled if he had not divided his powers to dif- 
ferent pursuits. As a poet, had he been only a poet, he 
would probably have stood high among the authors 
with whom he is now associated. ... He is, at least, one 
of the few poets with whom youth and ignorance may 
be safely pleased; and happy will be that reader whose 
mind is disposed, by his verse or prose, to imitate him 
in all but his Nonconformity; to copy his benevolence 
to man and his reverence to God.” Of his Hymns Air. 
James Montgomery ( Introductory Essay to the Christian 
Psalmist) says, “Every Sabbath, in every region of the 
earth where his native tongue is spoken, thousands and 
tens of thousands of voices are sending the sacrifices of 
prayer and praise to God in the strains which he pre- 
pared for them a century ago; yea, every day 4 he be- 
ing dead yet speaketh’ by the lips of posterity in these 
sacred lavs.” His works on logic and philosophy are 
of no great value at the present time, having been su- 
perseded by later and more discriminating treatises. 

Dr. Watts was small in stature, being little more than 
five feet high; and was never married, although, it is 
claimed, not bv his own fault. Monuments have been 
erected to his memory in Abnev Park and Westminster 
Abbey; a statue by Chantrey was dedicated at South- 
ampton in 1861 ; and the foundation of a memorial hall 


WATTS 


890 


WAYLAND 


was lai<l there May G, 1875. See Southey, Memoir of 
Isaac Watts, I) Jh; Johnson, Life of Watts ; Jennings, 
Sermon on the Death of the Late Rev. Isaac Watts. 
J).I). ; Gibbons, Memoirs of the Rev. Isaac I To/ /.?, D.D. 
See Hymnology. 

Watts, William, D.D., an English ecclesiastic, 
was born near Lynn, in Norfolk, about the close of the 
Kith century, and was educated at Cains College, Cam- 
bridge, where he graduated in 1G10. lie afterwards 
travelled abroad, and became familiar with several for- 
eign languages. On his return, he became chaplain to 
king Charles I, and had the living of St. Alban’s, Wood 
Street, Loudon. Some time after t his he became chap- 
lain under the earl of Arundel, general of the forces in 
the Scotch expedition in 1039, and prebendary of Wells. 
About IG-J2 his living in London was sequestered, on 
account of his adherence to the crown, and his family 
made homeless. lie was compelled to fly, and was 
made chaplain to prince Rupert. lie died at Kinsale, 
Ireland, in 1G19. Among his published works are, a 
Translation, with Notes, etc., of A ngusiine's Confessions 
(1630: — .1 drive concerning the Philosophy of Foreign 
Discovery, lie also had a principal hand in Spelmau’s 
Glossary, and published aline edition of Matthew Paris 
(Loud. 1640). See Chalmers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. 

Waugh, Alexander, D.D., a Scotch Presbyterian 
divine, was born at East Gordon, in Berwickshire, Aug. 
1G, 1754. lie was educated in the grammar-school at 
Enrlston and the universities of Edinburgh and Aber- 
deen, besides having studied theology two years (1774- 
7G) under the Rev. John Brown, at Haddington. He 
was licensed to preach June 28, 1779, and supplied the 
pulpit at Well Street. London, fora short time. In 1780 
lie was settled as pastor at Newtown, in the parish of 
Melrose, Roxburghshire, and remained two years. In 
1782 lie became pastor in Oxford Street, London, where 
he continued to the time of his death, Dee. 14, 1827. 
He was one of the fathers of the London Missionary 
Society, and was very active in its support. See Jones, 
Christian Bioy. s. v. 

Waugh, Beverly, D.D., a bishop of the Method- 
ist Episcopal Church, was born in Fairfax County, Va., 
Get. 25, 1789. 1 1 is father, Capt. James Waugh, was a 

substantial farmer, and beaded a company of militia 
at the time lord Cornwallis invaded Virginia. 31 r. 
Waugh’s youthful days were guarded by pious parents, 
who screened him from the common follies of early life, 
and gave him the best education the country could af- 
f*rd. At the age of fifteen he embraced religion, and 
maintained Ids reputation as a consistent Christian 
through life. 1 1 is Christian zeal attracted the atten- 
tion of a pious merchant, who, finding Mr. Waugh well 
qualified in figures and penmanship, engaged him as 
clerk, and after a thorough trial gave him full manage- 
ment of a store in Middlebnrgh, forty miles from Alex- 
andria. the home of his employer. Thus was laid the 
foundation of liis well-developed business habits in after- 
life. While in his mercantile life, he began exercising 
bis gift as an exhortor, under t he conviction that to de- 
cline. laboring for the salvation of souls would bring a 
great peril upon his soul and frustrate his religious en- 
joyment. Prompted by such a motive, he quit ted busi- 
ness in 1809, and, entering the Baltimore Conference, 
was appointed helper on the Stafford and Fredericks- 
burg Circuit, Va. In 1810 he travelled the Greenbrier 
Circuit ; and in 1811 was admitted into full connection, 
and stationed at Ebenezer, Washington city, the only 
Methodist Church then in the national metropolis. On 
April 12, 1812, he was married to Miss Catherine B. 
Busby, of Washington city. The following eighteen 
years of his itinerant career were marked with all the 
peculiar lights and shades, joys and sorrows, of a Meth- 
odist preacher’s life. In 1828 Mr. Waugh was elected 
assistant book-agent, and in 1832 principal book-agent, 
in the Methodist Book Concern in New York city. In 
183G he was constituted bishop. Ilis views respecting 


the new office, as recorded in his private journal at the 
time, exhibit his characteristic strong sense of duty 
and his habitual diffidence and self-distrust. He says, 
“Much ns I felt mv utter inadequacy to the important 
work, I feared to take myself out of the hands of mv 
brethren. I could not, therefore, see my way clear to 
do anything else than to throw myself and my all into 
the arms of Christ, and by his grace attempt the per- 
formance of the work to which God, by his Church, ap- 
peared plainly to call me.” To follow bishop Waugh 
on his regular episcopal tours for twenty-two consecu- 
tive years, and review his travels and labors, would not 
be suitable in this brief sketch. Suffice it to say, in 
whatever locality his office demanded his presence dur- 
ing those twenty-two years he was never absent, and 
was so tenacious of performing his whole duty that, 
sick or well, he seldom called for a moment’s relief, hi 
considering bishop Waugh’s character, there is much 
to impress and interest. 1 1 is personal appearance was 
very striking. He was sedate and grave, but not sad; 
cheerful, but not trifling; proverbially neat; and his 
strength and meekness were happily blended. Chris- 
tianity pervaded and ennobled him. About two weeks 
before his death, the bishop went to Carlisle, I’a., to as- 
sist a brother minister in an interesting revival, where 
he labored with his usual zeal and success. He died 
suddenly at his home in Baltimore, of erysipelas, fol- 
lowed by an affection of the heart, Feb. 9, J858. See 
M 'unites of A nnnal Conferences, 1 858, p. i-i v, 6-8 ; Si mp- 
son, Cyclop, of Methodism, s. v. ; Sprague, Annals of the 
Amer. Pulpit, vol. vii. 

Wayland, Francis, D.D., LL.I>., an eminent 
Baptist divine anti educator, was born in the city of 
New York, March II, 179G. 1 1 is parents came to the 

United States from England in 1793. Soon after his 
settlement in New York, his father left his secular 
business and was licensed to preach the Gospel, and 
spent the remainder of his days in the ministerial office. 
The early educational advantages of the son were not 
of the highest order, apart from those which he enjoyed 
in his own home, where he felt the influence, in mould- 
ing his intellectual character, of a mother of rare quali- 
ties of mind and heart. He always gratefully referred, 
in after-lile, to the ability of the instructor who seems 
first to have taught him to study for the love of it. 31 r. 
Daniel 11. Barnes. lie was admitted into the sopho- 
more class of Union College, Schenectady, in 31 ay, 181 1, 
and was graduated July 28, 1813. On leaving college 
lie began at once the study of medicine, and proceeded 
so far in his professional career that he had begun to 
practice, when a sudden turn was given to all his life 
plans by bis conversion. He now resolved to study for 
the ministry. To make the necessary preparation tor 
entering upon his work, he went to Andover in the au- 
tumn of 181G, where he remained one year, deriving 
great benefit from the instructions of Moses Stuart, one 
of the most earnest, inspiring teachers any institution 
in this country has ever had. lie left Andover at the 
close of the session of 1816-17, expecting to resume His 
studies in the fall. He did not return, however, hav- 
ing accepted an appointment as tutor in Union College, 
where he remained the next four years. The First 
Baptist Church in Boston being destitute of a pastor, at 
t lie suggestion of Dr. Wisner, then the minister of the 
Old South Church, the name of 3Ir. Wayland was men- 
tioned to the Church, as a most suitable person to fill 
the vacant place. In due time a call was extended to 
him, and he was ordained Aug. 21. 1821 , being then a 
few months over twenty- five years of age. In some re- 
spects it was far from being an inviting field of labor to 
which he had been called. The house of worship was 
old and unattractive. The Church had been greatly 
weakened in its numbers and in its resources. The 
personal appearance of the new minister was not partic- 
ularly graceful or winning. It was a severe discipline 
through which he was called to pass, but lie took up his 
burdens with meekness, and demeaned himself as a good 


WAYLAND 


S91 


WAYLAND 


minister of Jesus Christ, ami at length his reward came, 
and it came deservedly as the result of hard, untiring 
work, and unflinching devotion to his duties as a Chris- 
tian minister. Not that he became what is called a 
‘‘popular” preacher, a thing which he never aspired to 
be, and could not have been under any circumstances, 
but he grew every month in the esteem and respect, of 
those who knew him intimately and could appreciate 
his worth. A little more than two years after his set- 
tlement he preached his celebrated sermon on The Moi’- 
a l Dignity of the Missionary Enterprise. It was on 
Sunday evening, Oct. 20, 1823, that he delivered it, it 
being his turn to preach the lecture to the three church- 
es of his denomination in Boston, which were wont oc- 
casionally to hold a union service. “The house was 
uncomfortable,” we are told (the preacher wearing his 
great-coat throughout the service), “and there was but 
little enthusiasm on the occasion.” What the preach- 
er’s estimate of the performance was, we infer from the 
statement that “on Monday morning he went to Dr. 
Wisner’s, and threw himself on a sofa, in one of his 
most depressed moods, saying, * It was a complete fail- 
ure. It fell perfectly dead.’” It is needless to say that 
he was mistaken. Probably no sermon ever preached 
in America, at least up to that time, has had a wider 
circulation, or been perused by a larger number of read- 
ers. Dr. Wayland was pastor of the Church in Boston 
which he served so faithfully five years, when he was 
invited to accept the professorship of moral philosophy 
in Union College, made vacant by the resignation of 
Rev. Dr. Alonzo Potter. In this position he remained 
only a few months, having been called to the presidency 
of Brown University, upon the duties of which office he 
entered in February, 1827, being at the time not quite 
thirty-one years of age. 

Dr. Wayland now entered upon what was to he the 
work of nearly the whole of the remainder of his life. 
What*he accomplished as president of Brown Univer- 
sity has passed long since into the records of the liter- 
ary history of our country. But it was no bed of 
roses on which he was called to recline. From the 
outset of his administration he had a well-defined “pol- 
icy.” It was not popular, but he believed it to be right, 
and he firmly and persistently pursued it against oppo- 
sition which at times was very bitter and unrelenting. 
“I was not responsible,” he remarks, in the review of 
his administration, “for the continuance of a college in 
Providence, but 1 considered myself responsible for the 
conduct of the college on correct principles so long as it 
continued. What income I derived from my position 
was a secondary matter. I could live on the poorest 
fare and wear the cheapest clothing, but I must and 
would do what seemed my duty.” He was so pleased 
with a remark of Dr. Arnold’s that he made a special 
note of it in his copy of the Life of that great teacher. 
“ It is not necessary that this (Rugby School) should 
be a school of three hundred, or one hundred, or of fifty 
hoys; but it is necessary that it should be a school of 
Christian gentlemen.” It is not to be wondered at that 
shirks, and idle men, and doting parents should look 
with disfavor upon a man so earnest, and so determined 
to raise the standard of education to the highest point 
possible. Such persons had but slight appreciation of 
the moral courage which led him to sav, “The vessel 
might sink; but if so, it should sink with all its colors 
living. We would strive to make it a place of thorough 
education, and for the cultivation of elevated and noble 
character.” In a sketch like tins we cannot present 
minute details. It must suffice to say that the policy 
which the new president marked out for himself com- 
mended itself to thoughtful men and the lovers of good 
learning. Those who had long loved the university, 
and contributed to its prosperity, felt new hope. The 
men of wealth in the city where it had its home gave 
liberally to supply its wants. While he was in office, 
and chiefly through his personal efforts, Manning Hall 
was erected, a twenty-five-thousand-dollar fund raised 


for the library, and the library itself greatly enlarged 
and enriched by some of its most valuable treasures; 
Rhode Island Hall erected, a new president’s house built, 
the college campus greatly improved and extended, and 
the endowment and scholarship and aid funds enlarged. 
For twenty-eight years and a few months Dr. Wayland 
was president of Brown University. Weary with tins 
long service, and convinced that the prolongation of his 
life depended on his relaxation from his arduous duties, 
he resigned his office, Aug. 20, 1855. It was a touching 
remark which he made to his associate, Prof. Goddard, 
when the hell rang for the opening exercises of the new 
term : “No one can conceive the unspeakable relief and 
freedom which I feel at this moment to hear that bell 
ring, and to know, for the first time in nearly twenty- 
nine years, that it calls me to no duty.” For less than 
two years he remained in the comparative quiet of his 
pleasant home, within an easy walk of the college 
grounds, lie was invited to act as pastor of the First 
Baptist Church in Providence for such time as he 
might find his strength adequate to perform the duties 
of the office. With his wonted zeal and earnestness, he 
entered upon the work early in the spring of 1857, and 
continued in it a little more than a year, exhibiting, in 
the course which he pursued both as preacher and pas- 
tor, an illustration of what was his conception of the 
duties of an office than which none more honored could 
a Christian man take upon himself. After retiring from 
public life, Dr. Wavland passed the few remaining years 
of his life in Providence, where he died, Sept. 30, 1805. 

We find in the list of the publications of Dr. Way- 
land, in the form of books, sermons, addresses, etc., the 
number of seventy-two. exclusive of many articles which 
he wrote for the periodicals, daily, weekly, and quarter- 
ly. From this number we select the following as among 
those best known: Discourse on the Moral Dignity of 
the Missionary Enterprise (1823): — Discourse on the. 
Duties of an American Citizen (1825 ): — Murray Street 
Discourse: — Certain Triumphs of the Redeemer (1830): 
— Moral Efficacy of the Atonement (1831 ) : — Philosophy 
of Analogy (eod.) : — Sermon at the Installation of Will- 
iam R. Williams (1832 ): — Dependence of Science upon 
1 Revealed Religion (1835 ): — Elements of Moral Science 
(eod .): — Elements of Political Economy (1837): — Lim- 
itations of Unman Responsibility (1838 ) : — Thoughts on 
the Present Collegiate System in the United States (1842) : 
— Domestic Slavery Considered as a Scriptural Institu- 
tion: — Discussion with Rev. R. Fuller , D.D. (1845): — 
Memoir of Miss Harriet Ware (1848): — Univei'sity 
Sermons (1850 ): — Memoir of the Life and Labors of 
Rev. A . Judson , D.D. (1853 ): — Sermon at Rochester on 
the A postolic Ministry (eod .) : — Elements of Intellectual 
Philosophy (1854 ) : — Notes on the Principles and P? ac- 
tices of the Baptist Churches (1850 ): — Sermons to the 
Churches (1858): — Introduction to Muller's Life of 
Trust (1801): — Memoir of the Christian Labors of 
Thomas Chalmers , D.D., LL.I). (1804 ): — Revised Edi- 
tion of Elements of Moral Science (1805). See A Me- 
moir of the Life and Labors of Francis Wayland, D.D., 
LL.I). (N. Y., 1807), bv his sons Francis Wayland and 
H. L. Wayland. (J. C. S.) 

Wayland, John, D.D., a clergyman of the Prot- 
estant Episcopal Church, was born in New York city. 
His father was pastor of a Baptist Church in Troy, N. Y. 
John graduated from Union College with honor.; be- 
came professor of mathematics and rhetoric in Brown 
University, Providence, R. I., of which institution Dr. 
Francis Wayland, his brother, was president. F or many 
years he was pastor of a Baptist congregation in Salem, 
Mass.; but afterwards entered the Protestant Episcopal 
Church, and became rector of St. John’s parish, Canan- 
daigua, N. Y. In 1848 he assumed the rectorship of St. 
James’s parish, Roxbury, Mass., where he remained 
twelve years. The last two years of his life were spent 
in Saratoga, without parochial charge. He died at Sar- 
atoga Springs, N. Y., Oct. 16, 1863. See A mer. Quar. 
Church Review , Jan. 1864, p. 668. 


WAYTE 


•892 


WEAPON 


Wayte, James II., an English Wesleyan mission- 
ary, was born at Ncwcastlc-umler-Lyne, Staffordshire, 
in*Mav, 1822. llis parents feared the Lord, and lie him- 
self early united with the Church. lie believed that 
he was destined for the mission field. In 1811 he was 
appointed to the Richmond branch of the theological 
institution for training for the foreign field. Here he 
was very diligent in his studies, and very exemplary in 
liis piety and zeal. In October, 1845, Wayte embarked 
lor Sierra Leone, in company with T. Raston. David 
Griffiths, and others. But the horrid yellow-fever, the 
missionary-slayer, would not pass him by. Symptoms 
appeared on dan. 5. J84G, ami on the 16th he died at 
Free Town. II is death-bed scene was one of the most 
beautiful and triumphant on record. See 1 Vest. Math . 
Magazine, Feb. 18 It), p. 113; Minutes of Conferences , 
18 IB. 

Wayu (or Vayu [q. v.]), in Hindu mythology, is 
one of the three deities whom Kunti, wife of Ramin, 
called from heaven, so as through him to become mother 
of Ramins. By him she became mother of Bhirwa. 

Wayusaccha (or Vayusacca), in Hindu my- 
thology, is a surname of the god Agni (fire); it signi- 
fies /WWu/ of the air. 

Wazo, bishop of Liege, was born probably in the 
eighth decade of the IOtli century. His name was 
originally Walter or Warner. He came under the no- 
tice of bishop Xotger, and was admitted into the semi- 
nary for the clergy at Liege, in time becoming its chap- 
lain. canon of the cathedral, and magister scholarum. 
In 1017 he was made dean, and authorized to share in 
the administration of the secular property uf the chap- 
ter. In this position lie displayed so much strictness 
towards inferiors and so much self-assertion towards su- 
periors as to make many enemies. The bishop, Wol- 
podo, took active part against him by exciting the pas- 
sions of the peasants and disturbing the peace of the 
school to such a degree as involved the life of Wazo in 
danger and induced him to resign the leadership of the 
school. In A.D. 1030 the emperor Conrad chose Wazo 
to be one of his chaplains. Two years later he was 
made provost, and archdeacon of Liege. In 1037 his in- 
tlucnee secured the election of bishop to the youthful 
Nithard; but when the latter died, in 1041, Wazo was 
compelled by the unanimous voice to assume episcopal 
functions himself. In his new position he displayed in- 
dependence in administering the Church, and unequalled 
force and skill in the conduct of civil affairs, such as 
were then under the control of the bishops of the Church. 
He refused to obey the emperor’s behest and pronounce 
sentence upon archbishop Wiggcr of Ravenna, who had 
been convicted of deviating from the customs of the 
Church in a certain matter, on the ground that Wigger ' 
was an Italian, and subject therefore to the pope rather 
than the emperor, lie also braved the emperor’s anger 
with the declaration that a pope could be judged of 
God only, and that therefore Henry 111 had no author- 
ity to fill the pontifical chair vacated by the Synod of 
Sutri in 10 1G. Wazo further angered the emperor by 
collecting forces and participating in the wars against 
the Lorraine rebels, who had threatened the peace and 
property of his diocese, and carried on a campaign of 
murder and pillage. The court held that Wazo had 
taken up arms from motives of personal aggrandizement 
and love of war; and when he refused to take advan- 
tage of the conduct of lady I)o. Mods, who wished to de- 
liver up her husband as guilty ol high-treason, his loy- 
alty came under suspicion. In the meantime Wazo 
wrote repeated letters to the king of France, dissuading 
him from prosecuting an alleged claim upon the posses- 
sion of Lorraine, for which attempt troops were already 
collected. Nothing, however, could regain for him the i 
emperor’s favor, and he was eventually brought to un- 
dergo a public humiliation, ami pay a tine for an act of I 
alleged disobedience. As bishop, Wazo was a zealous 
patron of schools; a liberal benefactor of the poor and | 


needy; a tolerant critic of heretical opinions, lie de- 
nied the power of bishops to pronounce sentence of 
death upon heretics, lie was also deeply pious. It is 
stated, indeed, that he avoided in his clothing tot ins su- 
perstitionis tgpus, i. c. wore no cilicium ; but he never- 
theless mortified the flesh. He died July 8, 1047. The 
material for a life of Wazo is furnished by Anselm, can- 
on of Liege (died about 105G), in his Gesta Kpisc. Leo- 
t Uansinm , c. 30-73. Sec Rertz, Monnm. Ilist . Script . 
v ii, 210-233; Fisen, S a net a Legia , i, 158 sq. ; Stenzel, 
Gaseh. Deutschlunds u. d. frank. Kaisem , vol. i; Giese- 
breeht, Gaseh. d. dautsch. Kaiserzait , vol. ii. — Herzog, 
Real- Kncyklop. s. v. 

Wealth. See Riches. 

Wean (b*£y, from the completion of the infant at 
that time). Most Oriental mothers suckle their chil- 
dren much longer than is usual in Europe, and the same 
custom seems to have prevailed among the ancient He- 
brews. When Samuel was weaned, he was old enough 
to be left with Eli for the service of the tabernacle (1 
Sam. i, 24). As no public provision was made for the 
children of priests and Levitcs until they were three 
years of age, it is probable that they were not weaned 
sooner (2 Chron. xxxi, 16; 2 Mace, vii, 27). In India 
a boy is not taken from the breast until he is three 
years of age; but throughout the East a girl is gener- 
ally weaned within the first or second year. ‘‘Abra- 
ham made a great feast when Isaac was weaned” (Gen. 
xxi, 8), and the same custom prevails among the Hin- 
dus and Persians. See Child. 

Weapon (usually “*^3, o7r\or, which denote an 
instrument of any kind). Among the Hebrew's we find, in 
general, the same kinds of military weapons mentioned 
(1 Sam. xvii, 5 sq.; 2 Chron. xxvi, 14; Neh. iv, 13, 1G; 
Ezek. xxxix, 0; comp. Rhilo, Opp. ii, 530) as among 
other w arlike nations of antiquity (see Herod, vii, 61 sq.). 
We can therefore determine little about their precise 
form or material, except so far as monuments or modern 
usage enables ns to draw a comparison. We note the 
follow ing kinds (comp. 2 Cor. vi, 7, 07rXa ; Ct%u) icai 
dpiartpci, Diod. Sic. iii. 54; ffKtTraaTtipia, dpvrn'jpia, 
Lat. anna et tala; see Bremi on Nepos, xiv, 11) : 

I. Protective Weapons. — To this class belong the fol- 
lowing: 

1. The Shield (q. v.). 

2. The Helmet (^113 or 331p, 2 Chron. xxvi, 14; 
Jer. xlvi, 4; ?/ 7 TEpiK£<pa\aia. Eph. vi, 17) of brass (1 
Sam. xvii, 5, 38; 1 Maec. vi, 35; comp. Diod. Sic. v, 30; 
Xenoph. Anah. i, 2, 16). Whether the Israelites also 
wore them of leather (neats’ hide, Homer, II. x, 257 sq. ; 
Strabo, vii, 306, etc. ; see Passow, s. v. kwO)') is uncer- 
tain, although such certainly belonged to rude ages (for 
the ancient Egyptian form, see Wilkinson, i, 331). See 
Helmet. 

3. The Breastplate fj'T’VJ, Siopa £), which covered 
the centre of the person (1 Sam. xvii, 5; Neh. iv, 1G; 2 
Chron. xxvi, 14 ; 1 Maec. iii, 3), usually of brass (1 Sam. 
xvii, 5; Rev. ix, 9; comp. Iliad, xiii. 371 sq., 397 sq.), 
and sometimes composed of plates (D v v!i|?’3p, l Sam. 
xvii, 5), by which, however, w’e must not understand 
the Roman lorica squameata, consisting of a leather 
corselet covered with brass scales. In order to wound a 
fully equipped soldier, it was necessary to strike some 
spot where the brazen pieces failed to join each other 
fully, or w here ordinary clothing intervened (1 Kings xx, 
34). Among the Svro-Seleucid generals we find chain- 
armor (panoply) in use (1 Maec. vi, 35; comp, the Sept, 
at l Sam. xvii, 5; Diod. Sic. v, 30); but of linen corselets 
(see Kopke, Kriegsiv. d. Grieeh. p. 97 sq.) there ap- 
pears no trace in the Bible. See Breastplate. 

4. Greaves for protecting the knees and legs (nn^*2, 
KVJjp7C££. ocrere ; l Sam. xvii, G), commonly of brass 
(Iliad, vii, 42), were universal in classical antiquity 
(Xenoph. A nab. i, 2, 16; iv, 7, 16; Virgil, M2n. xi, 177; 


WEAPON 


893 


WEASEL 


Pliny, xxxiv, 18, etc.), and are regarded as an inven- 
tion of the Carians (Pliny, vii, 57). We must distin- 
guish from these the military shoe fpIKO, Isa. ix, 4), 
probably like the Roman caliga (see By meus, De Calceis 
Jlebr. p. 83 sq.), a sort of half-boot of leather shod with 
strong nails (Juvenal, xvi, 24; Josephus, War, vi, 1, 8; 
clavi caligeres , Pliny, ix, 33 ; xxii, 40 ; xxxiv, 41). See 
Greaves; Shoe. 

II. A ggressive Weapons . — 1. The Sword (-^n), which 
was carried in a special belt at the hips (1 Sam. xvii, 
37 ; xxv, 13; 2 Sam. xx, 8), but certainly not (as Jahn 
\_Archdol. II, ii, 40] falsely argues from Judg. iii, 10, 21 ; 
Josephus, } Var, iii, 5, 5) on the right, side (see the fig- 
ures of Ninevites in the Journal Asiatique , 1840, vii, 
pi. 3, 0, 7, 10 ; x, 17, 19, 22, 53, etc.). It was enclosed in 
a sheath ("C'H, I Sam. xvii, 51; 2 Sam. loe. cit.; "p3, 
l Chron. xxi, 27; 37//c?/, John xviii, 11), hence the 
phrase “to draw the sword” (3^in p^il, or or 

OHS), and was double-edged (Pl^S “OIT, Judg. iii, 10; 
Prov. v, 4; dtorofiog, lleb. iv, 12; Rev. i, 01; ii, 12; 
dfnp!]K?]g, Iliad , xxi, 118). It was used both for strik- 
ing and stabbing (1 Sam. xxxi, 4 ; 2 Sam. ii, 16 ; xx, 10, 
etc.). The Sept, usually translates the lleb. D jll by 
fi&xaipa, which latter occurs in the New Test., and 
originally denoted the short dagger (comp. Iliad , iii, 
271 sq.), but later any (curved) sabre in distinction 
from <pog, the proper (military) sword; but that 
also signifies the straight sword there can be no doubt. 
The Roman sic a, a somewhat curved poniard, was intro- 
duced later among the Jews, and became, shortly before 
the destruction of Jerusalem, the deadly weapon of the 
bold robbers, who hence were called 'Sicarii (Josephus, 
Ant. xx, 8, 10; )P«r, vii, 10, 1 ; Life, § 50). See Sword. 

2. The Spear, lance, or dart, was used as a weapon 

both for thrusting (close at hand) and for throwing (at 
a short distance), like the dopv of the Greeks (Strabo, x, 
448) ; but chiefly for the former (see 1 Sam. xviii, 1 ; 
xix, 10; xx, 33). The usual lleb. designations are 
ITC" 1 and r^n, which can hardly be distinguished, ex- 
cept that the latter is generally used in connection with 
the sword (or bow), while both appear in connection 
with the shield (Judg. v, 8; 1 Sam. xvii, 15). Instead 
of either word, we sometimes find T|'JD (2 Sam. xxi, 16) 
and (Josh, viii, 18, 26; 1 Sam. xvii, 6; Job xli, 

21); also in some cases (2 Sam. xviii, 14, accord- 
ing to some). They are also thought to have been 
used as standards for colors (Gesen. Thesaur. p. 683). 
The spears (see the Persepolitan specimens in Porter, 
Travels , i, pi. 36, 40, 46, 49) had a wooden shaft Q*n, 1 
Sam. xvii, 7 ; or 2 Sam. xxi, 19; xxiii, 7) and an 
iron point (1 Sam. xvii, 7). Ash or fir was preferred 
(Virgil, uEn. xi, G67 ; Homer, II. xix, 390 sq. ; xxii, 293 ; 
Odgs. xiv, 281; Ovid, Met am. x. 93; Statius. Theh. vi, 
102; comp. Pliny, xvi, 24), and hence many (so Iiosen- 
miiller) explain Nah. ii, 4; but is probably cy- 

press (q. v.). The hasta of the Romans, a weapon for 
throwing, is called Xoyyjj in the New Test. (John xix, 
34 ; comp. 2 Mace. v, 2 ; xv, 11 ; see Alstorph. De Ilasiis 
Veter. [Amst. 1757]). See Speak. 

3. The/>ow (q.v.) in connection with Arrows (q.v.). 

4. The Sling (q.v.). 

5. A Battle-axe (see Wilkinson, i, 323, 325 sq.) is 

named (Tup, Psa. xxxv. 3; comp, the odyapig of the 
Scythians, Massageta?, and Persians, Herod, i, 215; iv, 
70; vii, 64; Xenoph. Cyrop, i, 2, 9; ii, 1, 9; Strabo, xv, 
734; the Armenian sacr) as a special weapon of attack 
(comp, the of the Chaldaeans, Jer. xlvi, 2). A 

sledge-hammer may perhaps be meant in one passage 
(yap, Prov. xxv, 18; Sept. j6o7raXov; comp. Odys.x i, 
575); but it is probably only the ordinary mallet 


(| r Sp). See generally Bosvelt [Rau], De Armis Vett, 
Hebr. (Tr. ad Rh. 1781); Jahn, Archaol. II, ii, 400 sq. ; 
Seume, .4 rma 1 T ett. cum Xostris Compurata (Lips. 1792). 
See Armor. 

Of the custom of many nations of burying arms with 
a warrior in the grave, there is no trace in the Bible 
(see Ezek. xxii, 27; 1 Macc. xiii, 29; comp. Tacitus, 
Germ, xx vii ; Rosenmuller, Morgenl. iv. 343 sq.). Capt- 
ured weapons were suspended in temples or burned in 
heaps (Isa. ix, 4 sq. ; Ezek. xxxix, 9 ; comp. Virgil, xEn. 
viii, 562 sq.). Arsenals (E n ?D ■’PS, 2 Kings xx, 13; 
Isa. xxxix, 2 ; o7rXoS/)K7/, Josephus, War, ii, 17, 9) were 
erected in cities for the deposit of weapons. — Winer. 
See Armory. 

Weasel (iVn, choled, so called from its gliding 
[Gesen.] or burrowing [Fiirst]) occurs only in Lev. xi, 
29, in the list of unclean animals. According to the old 
versions and the Talmud, the lleb. eluded, denotes “a 
weasel” (see' Lewysohn, Zool. des Talm. p. 91, and Bux- 
torf, Lex. Chald. et Talm. p. 756); but if the word is 
identical with the Arabic chuld and the Syriac chuldo, 
as Bochart ( llieroz . ii, 435) and others have endeavored 
to show, there is no doubt that “ a mole” is the animal 
indicated. Gesenius ( Thesaur. p. 474), however, has 
the following very true observation : “Satis constat ani- 
malium nomina persa?pe in hac lingua hoc. in alia cog- 
nata aliud, id vero simile, animal significare.” lie pre- 
fers to render the term by “weasel,” as in the Sept. 
(yaX/j), Vulg. ( mustela ), and the English version. See 
Mole. 

Moles are common enough in Palestine. Hasselquist 
( Travels , p. 120), speaking of the country between J alia 
and Ramah, savs he had never seen in any place the 
ground so cast up by moles as in these plains. There 
was scarcely a yard’s length between the mole-hills. It 
is not improbable that both the Tal pa Europaa and the 
T.cceca, the blind mole of which Aristotle speaks {Ilist. 
A mm. i, 8, 3), occur in Palestine, though we have no 
definite information on this point. The ancients repre- 
sented.the mole as having no eyes, which assertion later 
scientific writers believed they had disproved by show- 
ing our species to be possessed of these organs, though 
exceedingly small. Nevertheless, recent observations 
have proved that a species, in other respects scarcely, 
if at all, to be distinguished from the common, is total- 
ly destitute of eyes, and consequently has received the 
name of Talpa cceca. It is to be found in Italy, and 
probably extends to t lie East, instead of the Europiea. 
Moles must not, however, be considered as forming a 
part of the rodent order, whereof all the families ami 
genera are provided with strong incisor teeth, like rats 
and squirrels, and therefore intended for subsisting chief- 
ly on grain and nuts; they are, on the contrary, supplied 
with a great number of small teeth, to the extent of 
twenty-two in each jaw — indicating a partial regimen; 
for they feed on worms, larva’, and underground in- 
sects, as well as on roots, and thus belong to the in- 
sectivorous order, which brings the application of the 
name somewhat nearer to carnivora and its received in- 
terpretation “ weasel.” 

Bochart, inclined to recognise the word l.tsiyhn 
(A. V. “wild beast of the desert,” etc.), as a general term 
denoting cats, or any kind of wild beasts that frequent 
dry places, discovered an incongruity when it is opposed 
to a single species, C’fN, iyim (A.V. “ wild beast of the 
islands”), which he translates thoes (Isa. xxxiv, 14 ; Jer. 
1, 39). Both words are meant, it seems, to imitate the 
cry of animals; and if he be right in regarding the first 
as expressive of the mewing or screaming of wild-cats, 
with such other animals as the ancients included in the 
feline tribe, and we now class among Viverridce and Mus- 
telidce, each including several genera, more or less rep- 
resented by species residing in and around Palestine, we 
then find the opposition of the two words strikingly 
just, provided that, instead of the single thoes of Bo- 


WEASEL 


894 


WEATHERFORD 


chart, we make iyim include also the various wild ca- 
liidx* (dogs) ol sa,11L> region, amounting to at least 
twelve species, without including two hyenas. 

Such is the vagueness of ( )riental denominations, and 
the necessity of noticing certain species which, from 
their importance, cannot well be supposed to have been 
altogether disregarded in the Bible, that in this place a 
few words descriptive of t he species of Yirerruhe and 
MusUdidae known to reside in and near Palestine, and 
supposed to be collectively designated by the term 
tsiyhn, mav not be irrelevant. They appear, both an- 
ciently and among ourselves, collected into a kind of 
group, under an impression that they belong to the 
feline family; lienee we. like the ancients, still use the 
words civet-cat, tree-cat, polecat, etc.; and, in reality, 
a considerable number of the species have partially re- 
tractile claws, the pupils of the eyes being contractile 
like those of cats, of which they even bear the spotted 
and streaked liveries. All such naturally have arboreal 
habits, and from their low lengthy forms are no less dis- 
posed to burrow; but many of them, chiefly in other 
hemispheres, are excellent swimmers. One of these 
species, allied to, if not the same as, Genetta barbara , is 
the Thela . Elan, described by Bochart as having ‘‘va- 
rious colors, and as being spotted like a pard.” In 
Syria it is called sephht, in Arabia zebzeb , and lives by 
hunting birds and shaphans. There are, besides, in the 
same region, the nimse , ferret or polecat ( Putorius vul- 
garis), for these two are not specifically distinct; fert- 
el-hdle , the weasel (Mu stela vulgaris Af vicuna'), differ- 
ing from onrs chiefly in its superior size and darker 
colors. A paradoxurns, identical with, or nearly allied 
to, P. typus, occurs in Arabia; for it seems these ani- 
mals are found wherever there are palmiferce . the date- 
palm in particular being a favorite residence of the spe- 
cies. Two or three varieties, or perhaps species, of 
nems occur in Egypt solely; for the name is again ge- 
nerical in the Arabian dialects, and denotes the ich- 
neumon. Arabia proper has several other animals not 
clearly distinguished, though belonging to the families 
here noticed; but which of these are the sungiab and 
the simur , or the alpha nex of Ibn Omar ben-Abfl ulbar, 
quoted by llochart, is undetermined; albeit they evi- 
dently belong to the tribes of vermin mammals of that 



region, excepting as regards the last mentioned, now 
known to be a kind of miniature fox (.1 fegalotis zerda, 
Ham. Smith), or J'vmec of Bruce, who nevertheless con- 
founded it with Pamdoxurus typus, or an allied species 
which equally frequents palm-trees; but thc/ewaec does 
not climb. It is equally impossible to point out the 
eats, tree-cats, and civet-cats noticed by the poet Neme- 
sianus, who was of African birth, or liv the Arabian Da- 
mir, who makes no further distinctive mention of them. 

The choled is described in Lev. xi, 20 as one of the 
small animals which are thrown together under the 
general designation of “creeping things,” and which 
appear to include the smaller carnivorous and insec- 
tivorous mammalia, as well as the four-footed reptilia . 
The whole category is prohibited as unclean. The 


original word, as above seen, is referred by many to the 
Arabic and Syriac, in which it is said to imply a creep- 
ing, insidious motion; and hence peculiarly appropriate 
to the Musteluhe, which, from their remarkably long, 
slender, and vermiform bodies and short legs, seem to 
glide along the earth more like reptiles titan quadru- 
peds, and insinuate themselves into the smallest crevices. 
Kitto mentions the fitchet or polecat (Mu stela pulo- 
rius ) as found in Palestine in the neighborhood of the 
villages, but says that it is rarely seen in towns. The 
skin is of no value in Syria, as the people have not, as 
in Europe, any means of divesting it of its unpleasant 
smell ( Phys. Hist, of Palest, p. 355 ). The common 
weasel is doubtless found there also, as it is spread over 
Europe; but not the stoat or ermine, the climate being 



Polecat (J Iustela putorius). 


too warm for it. All these animals, but particularly the 
first-named, are most destructive to other small ani- 
mals; and from their depredations in the poultry-yard 
are held in detestation by the farmer, -who, however, 
does not consider the benefit they do him in the de- 
struction of myriads of field-mice, house-mice, and rats. 
Their appetite for blood seems insatiable; their ferocity 
and courage prompt them to fly at animals larger than 
themselves; while their carnivorous organization is de- 
veloped perhaps even more highly than in the typical 
eats, and they use their powers with the utmost skill 
and judgment. They prefer the brain and blood of 
their prey to the flesh. — Kitto; Smith; Fairbairn. 

Weather (C.^, yarn, day, as usually rendered; 
“ fair weather,” l!"!?, zahdb, Job xxxvii. 22, lit. gold, 
i.e. “ brightness;” tvCta, Matt, xvi, 2; “foul weather,” 
XHfubi>,vcr.o, storm, as elsewhere) ix Palestine is, in 
consequence of the region being greatly diversified by 
hills, valleys, and plains, quite various in different parts, 
being hot during the summer, especially along the sea- 
shore (comp. Josephus, War, iii, 9, 1) and in the Jordan 
gorge (ibid, iv, 8, 3), and eooler on the mountain ridges, 
especially in winter, but, on the whole, more equable 
than in Northern and Occidental countries. The length 
of the day also varies less in different seasons than in 
higher latitudes, and thus tends to equalize the temper- 
ature. See Calendar; Palestine; Season. 

Weathercock is a weather vane, on which is the 
metal or wooden representation of a cock, placed on the 
top of a spire, which vane turns by the force and direc- 
tion of the wind. 

Weatherford, John, a Baptist minister, was born 
in Charlotte County, Va., about 1740. His parents were 
members of the Presbyterian Church, his father being 
an elder in the ehurch of which the distinguished Dr. 
Bice was the minister. Soon after his conversion, his 
mind began to be troubled on the subjeet of baptism. 
Having conversed on the matter with his pastor, and 
his doubts not having been removed. Dr. Iiice had the 
magnanimity to say to him, “ I perceive, John, that you 
will be a Baptist. Go, and tbe Lord be with von.” 
lie became a member of the Baptist Church when he 
was about twenty years of age. lie commenced to 
preach about the year 1761, and his ministry was so 
popular that crowds were drawn to hear him. Perse- 
cution now’ began to follow him. After preaching on 
a certain occasion in Chesterfield, Va., he was arrested 
and thrown into prison, where he was held in confine- 
ment five months. It is said of him that “his courage 



WEATHERFORD 


895 


WEAVING 


forsook him not. The love of Christ constrained him. 
He preached at the door of the prison as long as allowed 
that privilege. When refused that, he preached through 
the gratings of the window ; hut such determined oppo- 
sition did he meet that an ellbrt was made bv his ene- 
mies to put a stop to that also. For this purpose they 
built an outer wall alcove the grating, but Weatherford 
devised means to overcome the obstacle. A handker- 
chief by the congregation was to be raised on a pole 
above the wall, as a signal that the people were ready 
to hear. 1 1 is voice being very strong, he could throw 
it beyond these impediments, and convey the words of 
life and salvation to the listening crowds.” At last, 
through the kind interference of Patrick Ilenrv, he was 
liberated from his bondage, and again, with greater zeal 
than ever, entered anew on the work of preaching the 
Gospel. Most of his life-work was that of an evange- 
list. 'Inwards the close of the century, however, he 
sustained the relation of pastor to two churches, which 
are said to have flourished under his ministry, lie 
took up his residence in Halifax County, Ya., in IS13, 
where he lived about ten years, and then removed to 
Pittsylvania, where he died, Jan. 23, 1833, having been 
a preacher of the Gospel over seventy years. lie be- 
longed to an order of ministers who accomplished a 
vast amount of good in a state the people of which had 
too generally settled down into a condition of formal- 
ism, and needed to be roused to thoughtfulness by such 
instrumentalities as were represented by the subject of 
this sketch. However despised they may have been 
by some, they certainly reaped the honor which comes 
from God only. See Lives of Virginia Baptist Minis- 
ters, p. 55-61 . (J. C. S.) 

Weatherford, Thomas, a Methodist. Episcopal 
minister, was born in Europe about 173G. He labored 
four years in the ministry in the United States, lie 
was slender in frame, remarkable for his piety, and died 
triumphantly in 1792. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences, , 1792, p. 45. 

Weaver, John M., a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in Washington County, N. Y., July 5, 1792. 
He embraced religion when about twenty-one; was li- 
censed to preach in 1816; and joined the New York Con- 
ference in 1829, in which he served faithfully until 1855, 
when he was granted a superannuated relation. In 1859 
lie resumed his Conference work, labored earnestly two 
years, and then retired from stated work. He died at 
Ganges, Mich., May 12, 1872. Mr. Weaver was very de- 
voted to Methodism, deeply pious, and an excellent 
preacher. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1873, 

p. 66. 

Weaver, Lindsey Carr, a Methodist Episcopal 
(South) minister, was born in Spartanburg District, 
S. C., Nov. 16, 1837. He joined the Church in 1858, 
while a student at Wofford College; graduated in 1859; 
and in 1860 entered the South Carolina Conference, and 
labored zealously until failing health obliged him to re- 
tire from active service. He died at Bishopsville, S. C., 
Feb. 28, 1863. Mr. Weaver was a young man of great 
promise, amiable in spirit, uncompromising in integrity, 
unflinching in zeal, and abundant in good deeds. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences of the M. E. Church , 
South, 1863, p. 449. 

Weaver, Richard, an English Congregational 
minister, was born at Tewkesbury, Sept. 9, 1804. In 
early life his mind was impressed with the importance 
of personal piety. He was educated at Wymondley Col- 
lege for ministerial work, and in 1830 was ordained over 
the Independent Church at Foulmire, where he labored 
usefully for some years. In 1838 he was stationed at 
Balsham, and continued for several years in charge of 
that church, lie died Dec. 16, 1862. See (Lond.) 
Cong. Year-book , 1864, p. 24S. 

Weavers, Brother, is a name given to the Beg- 
hards, or Lollards, in France on account of the occupa- 
tion of most of them. See Lollards. 


Weaving (V?X, ardg) is an art which appears to 
be coeval with the first dawning of civilization. In 
what country or by whom it was invented, we know 
not; but we And it practiced with great skill by the 
Egyptians at a very early period, and hence the inven- 
tion was not unnaturally attributed to them (Pliny, vii, 
57). The “ vestures of fine linen” such as Joseph wore 
(Gen. xli, 42) were the product of Egyptian looms, and 
their quality, as attested hv existing specimens, is pro- 
nounced to he not inferior to the finest cambric of mod- 
ern times (Wilkinson, ii, 75). The Israelites were prob- 
ably acquainted with the process before their sojourn in 
Egypt; but it was undoubtedly there that they attained 
the proficiency which enabled them to execute the hang- 
ings of the Tabernacle (Exod. xxxv, 35; 1 Chron. iv, 
21) and other artistic textures. At a later period the 
Egyptians were still famed for their manufactures of 
“fine” (i. c. hackled) flax and of chori, rendered in 
the A. Y. “ networks,” but more probably a white mate- 
rial either of linen or cotton (Isa. xix, 9; comp. Prov. 
vii, 16). From them the Tyrians procured the “fine 
linen with broidered work” for the sails of their vessels 
(Ezek. xxvii, 7), the handsome character of which may 
be inferred from the representations of similar sails 
in the Egyptian paintings ( Wilkinson, ii. 13J, 167 ). 
Weaving was carried on in Egypt generally, but not 
universally, by men (Herod, ii, 35; comp. Wilkinson, 
ii, 84). This was the case also among the Jews about 
the time of the Exode (I Chron. iv, 21); but in later 
times it usually fell to the lot of the females to supply 



Ancient Egyptian Women Weaving. 


the household with clothing (1 Sam. ii, 19; 2 Kings 
xxiii, 7), and an industrious housewife would produce a 
surplus for sale to others (Prov. xxxi, 13, 19, 24). 

The character of the loom and the process of weav- 
ing can only be inferred from incidental notices. The 
Egyptian loom was usually upright, and the weaver 
stood at his work. The cloth was fixed sometimes at 
the top, sometimes at the bottom, so that the remark 
of Herodotus (ii, 85) that the Egyptians, contrary to 
the usual practice, pressed the woof downwards, must 
be received with reservation (Wilkinson, ii, 85). That 
a similar variety of usage prevailed among the Jews 
may be inferred from the remark of John (xix, 23) that 
the seamless coat was woven “from the top” (Ik rii v 
avmStv'). Tunics of this kind were designated by the 
Romans reefer , implying that they were made at an 
upright loom at which the weaver stood to his work, 
thrusting the woof upwards (Pliny, viii, 74). The 
modern Arabs use a procumbent loom, raised above the 
ground by short legs (Burckhardt, Notes, i, 67). The 
Bible docs not notice the loom itself, but speaks of the 
beam (*1*1372, so called from its resemblance to a plough- 
man’s yoke) to which the warp was attached (1 Sam. 
xvii, 7 ; 2 Sam. xxi, 19) ; and of the pin (r^S'a, a term 
otherwise understood of the warp, as in the Sept, and 
the Vulg. [ Gesenius, Thesaur . p. 890 ]) to which the 
cloth was fixed, and on which it was rolled (Judg. xvi, 
14). We have also notice of the shuttle (3^N, de- 
noting both the web and the shuttle), which is de- 
scribed by a term significant of the act of weaving (Job 


WEAVING 


89 G 


WEBB 



An Egyptian Loom, (k is a shuttle, not thrown, but put in with 
the hand. It had a hook at each end.) 


simply of a variegated stuff without a pattern. 
We may further notice the terms (l) shabats 
and tashbets Cj’2 wTi), applied to the 
robes of the priest (Kxod. xxviii, 4, 39), and 
signifying tesselated (A. V. “ broidered”), i. e. 
with depressions probably of a square shape 
worked in it, similar to the texture described 
by the Ifomans under the term scutulatus 
(Hilly, viii, 73; .Juvenal, ii, 97); this was 
produced in the loom, as it is expressly said to 
be the work of the weaver (Exod. xxxix, 27); 
(2) moshzdr (“T w'G) (A. V. “twined”), ap- 
plied to the fine linen out of which the curtains 
of the tabernacle and the sacerdotal vestments 
were made (xxvi, 1 ; xxviii, C, etc.); in this 
texture each thread consisted of several finer 
threads twisted together, as is described to 
have been the case with the famed corselet of 
Amasis (Herod, iii, 47); (3) mishbetsoth zahdb 
pni (A. v. “of wrought gold”), 

textures in which gold-thread was interwoven 
(Psa. xlv, 13). The Babylonians were partic- 


vii, f>); the thrum (rtS'n)or threads which attached ! ularlv skilful in this branch of weaving, and embroidered 
the web to the beam (Isa! xxxviii, 12, marg.); and the 1 S rou P s of mcn or animals on the robes (Pliny, viii, 74; 
web itself (Judg. xvi, 14; A. V. “ beam” ). Whether La . var d, Nineveh, n, 413). The “goodly Babylonish 

, t ... garment” secreted bv Achan was probably of this char- 

the two terms m Lev. xm, 48, rendered “warp ("r'i) & /T . .. .„ t , r , * , J t 

acter ( Josh. vn. 21 ). 1 he sacerdotal vestments are 

ami “woof (=■£). really mean these adm.ts of doubt, saU , t0 have been woven one ])iece witbollt the 

inasmuch as it is not easy to see how the one could be tervention of any needlework to join the seams (Jose- 
affected with leprosy without the other: perhaps the p hus ,Ant. iii, 7,4). The “coat without seam” {\itCov 
terms refer to certain kinds of texture (Knobel, ad loc.). dppaepot;), worn bv Jesus at the time of his crucifixion 
The shuttle is occasionally dispensed with, the woof be- (John xix, 23), was probably of a sacerdotal character 
ing passed through with the hand (Hobinson, Bibl. Res. * n this respect, but made of a less costly material (Carp- 

i, 139). The speed with which the weaver used his ZO y, Appar. p. 72). Smith. Sec Web. 

shuttle, and the decisive manner in which he separated ___ , . . . , - _ , , . . , . ... , , 

the web from the thrum when his work was done, sup- Web : U T,,e s P ulcr s ba «‘ lk ’ Job v,,1 > 14 ’ a 


plied vivid images — the former of the rapid passage 
of life (Job vii, 6), the latter of sudden death (Isa. 
xxxviii, 12). 

The textures produced by the Jewish weavers were 
very various. The coarser kinds, such as tent-cloth, 
sackcloth, and the “hairy garments” of the poor, were 
made of goat’s or camel’s hair (Exod. xxvi, 7 ; Matt, iii, 
4). Wool was extensively used for ordinary clothing 
(Lev. xiii, 47 ; Prov. xxvii, 2G ; xxxi, 13; Ezek. xxvii, 
18); while for finer work flax was used, varying in 


house, as elsewhere; Isa. lix,5, G, threads ') ; 

2. Of the loom (r'Z'3'2, masselceth, Judg. xvi, 13, 14, 
warp, as woven). See Weaving. 

Webb, Benjamin C., a clergyman of the Protes- 
tant Episcopal Church. 11 is ministry was devoted to 
one object, the salvation of the Southern slaves, having 
had charge of several large plantations in Prince Will- 
iam County, Ya. In 1834 lie removed from the low 
country to Abbeville, S. C., to take charge of a white 


.pialitv. and producing the ditrerent textures described congregation hoping to improve Ins health by the 
ill tl.c'llible as “linen” and “tine linen.” The mixture chal, S e ° f climate; but he resigned the Church, and 
of wool and flax in cloth intended for a garment was ill- " as seckm S ^hef at W lison s Springs, X C., in 1*55, 
terdicted (Lev. xix, 1 9 ; Dent, xxii, II). With regard wben a “ c 'l fort >'-, five - vears ' See A mer - Ql,ar - 

to the ornamental kinds of work, the “ needlework” and C" urc h P*^— 

“the work of the cunning workman” have already been Webb, Daniel, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
discussed under the head of Needlework to the effect was born at Canterbury, Conn., April 13, 1778. lie cra- 
iliat both kinds were produced in the loom, and that braced religion in 1797, and immediately began his life- 
the distinction between them lay in the addition of a work of preaching. He entered the New England Con- 
devicc or pattern in the latter, the rihnah consisting fercnce in his twentieth year, and labored on its many 

and vast circuits, with marvellous 
endurance and experience, until 
1814, when the wide-spread distress 
occasioned by the war with Great 
Britain compelled him to locate, 
which he did at Newport. Here he 
opened a school, and for nine years 
performed the responsible duties of 
both schoolmaster and preacher in 
charge. In 1823 he rejoined the 
New England Conference, and dur- 
ing the following eighteen years 
filled the most important charges in 
the Conference ; published the Zion’s 
Herald one year (1827); and was 
presiding elder for several years. In 
1841 he superannuated; in 1843 he 
was transferred to the Providence 
Conference, and was stationed first 
at Little Compton, and then at 



Modern Egyptian Shawl-weaver. 



AV EBB 


897 


WEBI 


Barnstable, where by various arrangements by his 
highly cultured and appreciative audience he was con- 
tinued six years consecutively. Here he died, March 
19, 1867, one of the most noted Methodists of his time, 
having spent more years in the active work than any 
other preacher in the annals of Methodism. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences, 1867, p. 101. 

Webb, Francis, an English Baptist minister, was 
born at Taunton in 1735. lie became minister of a con- 
gregation at Barbican, London; also at lloniton ; and 
died in 1815. lie was the author of some volumes of 
Sermons: — Somerset: a Poem (1811): — and Panhar- 
monicon (1815). See (Lond.) Gentleman's Magazine, 1815, 
ii, 278, 563. 

Webb, James, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in Pennsylvania in 1829. He embraced relig- 
ion in early life; years later was licensed as an exhort- 
er ; and began his ministerial life in 1858 on Zion Circuit, 
Cecil Co., Md. Meeting with discouragements, he be- 
gan to doubt the genuineness of his call, and soon re- 
turned to his former vocation. After much prayer and 
counsel he again began the active work; joined the 
Philadelphia Conference in 1860, and in it labored four 
years so persistently that his health gave way and 
caused his superannuation. He died, greatly lamented, 
in Chester County, Pa., Oct. 8, 1864. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences , 1865, p. 34. 

Webb, Johij (1), an American divine, was born in 
1687. lie graduated at Harvard College in 1708; was 
ordained minister of the New North Church, Boston, in 
1714; and died in 1750. He published twenty single 
Sermons. See Allibone, Diet . of Brit, and Amer . A u- 
thors, s. v. 

Webb, John (*2), an English clergyman and emi- 
nent antiquary, was born in 1776, and died in 1S69. He 
was the author of, Translation of a French Metrical 
History of the Deposition of King Richard II (Lond. 
1823) : — Household Expenses of Richard de Sirin field 
(1855). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A met'. A uthors , 
s. v. 

Webb, John (3), an English Congregational min- 
ister, was born at Dulcot in 1827. Early in life he ex- 
perienced a thorough consecration to God, and was dili- 
gent in preparation for the ministry. Mr. Webb grad- 
uated at the Western College, and settled at Castle Cary 
in 1851. He removed to Shepton-Mallet in 1858, and 
settled at Lewis in 1864. The Church and congrega- 
tion greatly increased under his administration. Mr. 
Webb’s reading was extensive among the best writers 
and thinkers of the day; and his preaching, though 
simple, was combined with such intelligence that he at- 
tracted the thoughtful Christians, and always attached 
them to his ministry. He died Nov. 7, 1867. See 
(Lond.) Cony. Year-book, 186S, p. 301. 

Webb, John (4), an English minister of the Bible 
Christians, was born Jan. 31, 1836. After laboring for 
some time as a local preacher, he gave himself wholly 
to the work of the ministry. He entered the Confer- 
ence in 1860. At the Conference of 1873, feeble health 
obliged him to take a supernumerary relation. He died 
June 7, 1874. See Minutes of Conferences, 1874. 

Webb, Joseph, a Presbyterian minister, was a 
graduate of Yale College in the class of 1715. He was 
ordained and installed pastor of the Church at Newark. 
N. J., and became a member of the Synod in 1720. He 
proposed to the Synod a case of conscience, but in such 
general and doubtful terms that it was remitted to the 
Presbytery. In 1726 a committee of Synod, at his re- 
quest, went to Newark to settle a difficulty which had 
arisen; and the Synod approved of its action in the 
premises. In 1732 difficulties in his congregation led 
the Church missionaries to commence their services in 
the town. Dickinson preached on “the vanity of hu- 
man institutions in matters of religion.” Colonel Josiah 
Ogden had been suspended from Church privileges be- 

X.— L L L 


cause, for fear of losing his hay, he had gathered it in 
on the Lord’s day. lie wrote to the Synod in 1734, and 
Cross and Pemberton replied; but the letter did not 
satisfy him. Dickinson and Pemberton wrote the next 
year. The result was that Ogden joined the Episco- 
palians, and a Church missionary was stationed in New- 
ark. Webb continued his relation to the Synod till 
1740. He and his son, a student of Yale College, we re 
drowned while crossing the ferry at Savbrook, Conn., 
Oct. 21, 1741. (W. P. S.) 

Webb, Loren, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born at Ridgefield, Huron Co., O., Aug. 9, 1837. 
He removed with his parents to La Porte, Ind., when 
thirteen years of age; there received a common-school 
education; experienced conversion in 1855; removed 
to Roscoe, Minn., in 1857 ; spent two winters in a print- 
ing-office; received license to preach in 1858; studied 
two years at McKendree College; was one of the first to 
respond to president Lincoln’s call for volunteers to put 
down the Rebellion, and served the first three months as 
first lieutenant, and the next three years as captain of 
Company F, Ninth Illinois Infantry; then, being dis- 
abled for the infantry, returned home. Soon after 
he joined in the effort to suppress the Sioux Indian 
outbreak; afterwards labored zealously as a recruit- 
ing-officer; and finally, re-entering the university at 
Red Wing, resumed his studies. In 1867 he entered 
the New York East Conference, and was stationed at 
Collinsville, Conn. His subsequent charges were: Es- 
sex, in 1868-69; and in 1870 Forestville, where his 
close application and over-exertions undermined his 
constitution, and hemorrhage of the lungs set in. He 
removed South, and employed himself at various man- 
ual occupations until his demise at Nashville, Tenn., 
Feb. 20, 1880. The last six years of his life were full 
of poverty, bereavement, and deep sorrow. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences , 1880, p. 50. 

Webb, Nathan, a Congregational minister, was 
born in Braintree, INI ass. He graduated from Harvard 
College in 1725; was ordained pastor of the Church in 
Uxbridge, Feb. 3, 1731 ; and died March 14, 1772, in the 
sixty-seventh year of his age. See Sprague, Annals of 
the A mer. Pulpit, ii, 85. 

Webb, Samuel, an English Wesleyan minister, 
was born at Ilanham, near Bristol, in 1783. He feared 
the Lord from his youth, and joined the Methodist 
Church at the age of twenty-two. He was called into 
the ministry in 1808, in which he continued with an un- 
sullied reputation until his death, June 25, 1847. Meek, 
humble, and modest, he was firm in principle and tal- 
ented in preaching. See Minutes of Wesleyan Confer- 
ences, 1847. 

Webb, Thomas, prominent in the early history 
of Methodism, was an English soldier — for several years 
lieutenant of the Forty-eighth Regiment of Foot — and 
a man of wealth and education. He lost an eye and 
was nearly killed in the storming and capture of the 
French fort of Louisbnrg, Acadia (Nova Scotia), in 1758; 
and was, with Washington, one of the few officers who 
survived the terrible slaughter at the battle known as 
“Braddock’s Defeat” — the unsuccessful attack in 1755 
on the French fort Duqnesne, where Pittsburgh, Pa., 
now stands. Four years afterwards he scaled the Heights 
of Abraham with Gen. Wolf, and saw Canada pass for- 
ever from the hands of France. He was converted un- 
der a sermon preached by Wesley, in Bristol, in 1765; 
united with the Methodist society, and commenced 
preaching. We next hear of him as barrack-master 
at Albany, N. Y. The report that the Methodists had 
commenced meetings in New York reached the ears of 
the zealous captain, and he at once repaired thither 
(spring of 1767). Webb was the providential man. 
“The little society needed a leader — Webb was born to 
command. They needed another preacher of more ex- 
perience, learning, and power — Webb was one of the 
best preachers then on the continent of America. They 


WEGSCHEIDER 


898 


WEIDNEI 


needed money wherewith to house their young society 

Webb was rich and generous. ... It would have been 

a hard matter for them to have suited themselves bv a 
choice, out of all the Methodist preachers, better than 
God had suited them” (Daniels, Hist, of Methodism, p. 
:>SS). The congregations became too large, and in 1768 
John Street Church was dedicated, Webb being one of 
the principal contributors in meeting the expenses of 
the new building. The military authorities now placed 
the captain on the retired list, but with full pay. lie 
at once commenced itinerating, lie introduced Meth- 
odism into Long Island at Jamaica: founded societies 
at Pemberton, Burlington, and Trenton, N. J. ; traversed 
Delaware and Maryland; became the pioneer of Meth- 
odism in Philadelphia, where he preached in a sail-loft 
and formed a class in 1 70S. and two years after gave I 
liberally for the purchase of St. George’s Church. The j 
work was now spreading rapidly. Help was needed. 
"Webb sailed for England in 1772; preached in Dublin, 
London, etc.; made a stirring appeal before the Leeds 
Conference; and in 1773 returned with Shadford, Lan- 
kin, and Yearbrv. lie continued his evangelistic la- 
bors till after the breaking -out of the Revolutionary 
War, being one of the last of the English preachers to 
leave; but finally the country became too hot for him, 
and he bade a reluctant good-bye to America, the scene 
of so many struggles and victories in his eventful and 
varied life. On his return to England, he secured a 
home for his family in Portland, on the heights of Bris- 
tol : but still travelled and preached extensively in chap- 
els, in market-places, and in the open air, listened to by 
immense congregations. The French prisoners at Win- 
chester (1770-82) and the soldiers and sailors at Ports- 
mouth were benefited by his labors. In 1702 he was 
liberal and active in the erection of Portland Chapel, at 
that time one of the most elegant meeting-houses in the 
Methodist connection. The old soldier and evangelist 
died Dec. 20, 1700, aged seventy-two years, and was laid 
to rest under the chancel of Portland Chapel. 

Wesley writing to a friend in Limerick, said, “ Captain 
Webb is a man of fire, and the power of God constantly 
attends his word” (. Jour . Feb. 2, 1773; IKo/'fo [3d. ed. 
Loud.], xii, 378). Charles Wesley speaks of him as an 
“ inexperienced, honest, zealous, loving enthusiast.” In 
1774 John Adams says, “Mr. Webb is one of the most 
fluent, eloquent men 1 ever heard. lie reaches the im- 
agination, and touches the passions very well, and ex- 
presses himself with great propriety.” See Atmore, Meth. 
Mem. s. v.; Stevens, Hist . of Meth. i, 427 ; iii, 00 ; id. /list, 
of M. E. Ch. (Index), vol. iv; Porter, Hist, of Meth . 
p. 247-50, 201 ; Simpson, Cyclop, of Meth. s. v. 

Wegscheider, Julius August Ludwig, the fore- 
most systematic theologian of rationalism, was born in 
1771 at Kubbelingen, in Brunswick. In 1701 he was 
in the University of Ilelmstndt, where Henke then oc- 
cupied the theological chair, and in 1705 he became 
tutor in the family of a prominent merchant of Ham- 
burg. He gave ten years to this service. His leisure 
time was devoted to the study of Kant’s philosophy, 
the fruit of which appeared in 1707 in Ethices Eioi- 
corum . . . cum Principiis Ethicis a Kantio Propositis 
Comparata, and in a Versnch d. Ilanptsiitze d. philo- 
soph. Religionslehre in Predigten darzustellen. In 1804 
he added to these a treatise Ueber die Trennnng dev 
Moral von der Religion. In 1805 he obtained a tutor- 
ship in the University of Gottingen, and in the follow- 
ing work came more prominently before the public by 
the issue of his Einleitung in das Evangelitim Johannis. 
He was thereupon eallcd to a professorship in the Hes- 
sian University of Rinteln, and afterwards on the ab- ! 
sorption of Rinteln was transferred to Halle. Here he 
became exceedingly popular with students, who throng- 
ed his lecture-rooms, aiul lie added to his fame by the 
publication of his Institutions Theologies Dogmatics. 
ilis popularity continued until the Renunciation of tke\ 
Evangelical Kirchenzeitnng, as it was called, in 1830, 
when he was, together with his colleague Geseuius, 


cited before a committee of examination to defend him- 
self against complaints respecting his teachings in the 
lecture-room. The intervention of political events de- 
prived the examination of such importance as it might 
have possessed for him, but bis influence was neverthe- 
less irrevocably broken. Ullmann came to reinforce 
Tholuck in 1829, Julius Mtiller ten years afterwards; 
and the orthodox tendency grew in every direction. 
Many of the polemical blows aimed by llase against 
Rohr in 1834 took effect on Wegscheider also. As his 
reputation declined, students no longer found it possi- 
| ble to endure the tediousness and monotonous delivery 
of his lectures, and but few of them continued to sit at 
his feet after 1840. lie died in February, 1849. The 
scientific value of his Institutions, the great systematic 
theology of rationalism, owes but little of its character 
to Wegscheider. Its thoughts are borrowed, usually 
from Henke’s Lineamenta and Ammon’s Summa , and, 
in many instances, in the exact words of those books. 
It abounds in half-completed ideas and unreconciled 
differences, as does scarcely any other theological work. 
Its true character was shown up for the first time by 
llase in his Antirbhr (1837). See also Steiger, Kritik 
des Rationalismus in Wegscheider s Dogmatik (1830) and 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

W'egswin, in Norse mythology, is one of the 
streams of I lei, flowing through Niflheim. 

Weichselzopf, in German mythology, is a name 
given to a certain disease which was' thought to be de- 
rived from the river Weichsel, because this sickness was 
supposed to be common in Poland. It is, however, 
now quite certain that the name really is I Yichtelzopf 
taken from the superstitious idea of Wichtel — small, do- 
mestic, elf-like spirits that, doubtless, in many cases are 
beneficial to men, yet, when teased or tantalized, are 
angry and evil-minded; and, besides doing other mis- 
chief, they are said to interlace the hairs of the head 
into inextricable plats and knots. — Vollmer, Worterb.d. 
Mythol. s. v. 

Weickhmann, Joachim Samuel, a Lutheran 
theologian of Germany, was born May 1, 1714, at Dant- 
zie. From 1735 to 1739 he studied at Leipsic, and his 
dissertation, published in 1739, De Eontibus Yeritatis 
Sacrce in Rivulis Profanis Sparsce ad Lactant. Lib. 
VII , Cap. 7, gave him the privilege of lecturing on phi- 
losophy. In 1740, having presented another disserta- 
tion, De Phitoniea Animonnn Immortal! fate, he was 
appointed adjunct to the philosophical faculty. Three 
years later he was made professor extraordinary, and in 
1744 professor in ordinary of theology, his dissertation 
for this occasion having been De Theologis Tridentinis , 
alia Loquentibus , alia Sentientibus. Shortly afterwards 
he was made doctor of theology, and died Oct. 18, 1774. 
Besides t he writings already mentioned, he published, 
De Christo in Morte Gloriosissimo (Viteberga?, 1755): — 
De Discrimiue Oratice Divince sine Merito contra fieri- 
turn (ibid. 1757): — Jobus, Resit rrectionis non Typus, sed 
Professor (ibid. 1759). Ilis other writings are enumer- 
ated in Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 497 ; During, Die gelelirten 
Theologen Dciitschlands , iv, 072 sq. (B. P.) 

Weidelbot is a priest of the Wends in Pomera- 
nia and RUgen, the next to Griwe. 

Weidman, Paul, a Reformed (Dutch) minister, 
was born in 1788. He graduated at Union College in 
1818, at New Brunswick Theological Seminary in 1820, 
and was licensed by the Classis of New Brunswick the 
same year; was pastor at Schoharie, N. Y„ 1820-30; at 
Manheim, 1837-41, and again, 1841-50. He died in 
1852. See Corwin, Manual of the Ref. Church in 
A m erica, p. 543. 

Weidner, Johann Joachim, a Lutheran theo- 
logian of Germany, was born Aug. 11, 1072, at Rostock. 
He studied at different universities, and in 1699 he was 
appointed deacon at St. Mary’s in his native place. In 
1700 he received the degree of D.D., in 1716 was ap- 


WE I DN Eli 


S99 


WEIGEL 


pointed professor of theology', and in 1721 senior of the 
theological faculty, and died Oct. 17, 1732. lie was a 
voluminous writer. Of his works we mention Dis- 
pirit. IX contra Reformatos , quod non Conveniant cum 
Luthe ranis in Plurimis Articulis Fidei : — Dissertations 
Tres tie Gratia Dei Fnicersali non Porticulari: — Chris- 
tos ex Bibliis bpoovoiog : — De Forma S. Coemv in Con- . 
secratione et cum eadem Conjuncta Sacramentali Man - 
ducatione et Bibitione: — Miracidum Murorum Ilieri- 
chuntis Ca dentin m : — Christus Resurgens 1 'id or, etc. 
See Seelcn, .4 t hence Lube censes ; Jocher, A llgemeines 
Gelehrten-Lexikon , s. v. (B. 1\) 

Weidner, Paul, a Jewish convert of Carinthia 
who joined the Christian Church in 1588, was professor 
of Hebrew at the Vienna University, and was appointed 
by imperial permission to preach occasionally to the 
Jews. He wrote Loca Pnecipua Fidei Christiance Col- 
lecta et Explicata (Vienna, 1559; 2d ed. 1562, with 
Epistola Ilebr. ad R. Jehudam , Yenet. Ilabitantem, cum 
Versione Latina). See Ivalkar, Israel and die Kirche , p. 
90; Delitzsch, Udssenschajt, Knnst, Judenthum, p. 139, 
290; Wolf, Bibl. Ilebr. i, 964; J ocher, Allgemeines Ge- 
lehrten-Lexikon , s. v. ; F first, Bibl, Jud. iii, 498; Bayle, 
Dictionnaire Historique et Critique. (B. P.) 

Weigel. Christopher, a German engraver, was 
born at Iiedwitz, in Bohemia, in 1G54. After visiting 
various German cities, he settled in Nuremberg, where 
he died in 1725. His principal work was a set of Bible 
plates engraved from his own designs, entitled Sacra 
Scriptura Loquens in Imagiuibus, etc., published in 1690. 
They were executed with the graver, lie is also said 
to have engraved in mezzotinto. and to have carried on 
an extensive commerce in prints. See Spooner, Biog. 
Hist, of the Fine A rts , s. v. 

Weigel, Valentine, a mystic of the lGth cen- 
tury, was born in 1538 at llayn, in Misnia, where his fa- 
ther was then pastor. He studied at Leipsic and Wit- 
tenberg from 1554 to 1567, and was ordained pastor of 
Zschoppau, in the diocese of Chemnitz, Nov. 16, 1567, by 
Paul Eber (q. v.). He remained in that position till he 
died, June 10, 1588. lie was married, but remained 
childless, lie was beloved by his parishioners, who 
were not capable of discovering his heterodox views, 
more especially as he did not publish them to the world, 
and contented himself with privately elaborating them. 
He was not wholly successful, however, in preventing 
reports of his unsound opinions from being circulated, 
according to which he was tainted with Osiandrian and 
Schwenkfeldian errors. His cantor, Weikert, collected 
a band of mystical adepts, who undertook the multipli- 
cation, and subsequently the publication, of Weigel’s 
works; and who issued them at Halle, Magdeburg, and 
elsewhere, in 1612, and afterwards in repeated editions. 
It is possible that interpolations of foreign matter into 
these writings took place, as the editors assumed pseu- 
donymous names. 

The sum and substance of Weigel’s theorizing may 
be comprehended in the words of his epitaph at Zschop- 
pau (see Arnold, Kirchen - n. Ketzerhistorie. ii, 17, 17), 
“0 man, learn to know thyself and God; this is suf- 
ficient for thee!” His argumentation proceeds within 
the range of the subjective consciousness, objective proofs 
being regarded by him as the demonstration of a bond- 
age to the letter which is opposed to all true spiritual 
wisdom. lie teaches that man is a microcosm which 
embodies within itself the potentiality of salvation equal- 
ly with other elements. Nature and grace are not in 
contrast with each other, even in an ethical sense, but 
are simply different degrees of the same state. Man is 
furthermore a threefold principle— his body being taken 
from the limits terree , his soul from the stellar spirit or 
firmament, and his spirit from the spiraculum ritce in 
God. This spirit is also the Holy Divine Spirit; or, 
more strongly expressed, man comprehends in himself 
by nature not only the world, but also God and Christ. 
Man is consequently both a microtheos and a microeos- 


mos, and constitutes the point at which the world, which 
emanated from God, returns to God. Weigel’s panthe- 
ism is undeniable. The idea of emanation appears in 
his cosmology, and the thoughts of eternity and time, 
the invisible and the visible, are everywhere regarded 
by him as correlated, so that none of them can exist 
without its counterpart. The creature is considered es- 
sential to the unfolding of the divine nature. The per- 
sonality of the Son and the Holy Spirit is not necessary 
to the immanent being of God, but originates in con- 
nection with the emanation of the world from God. 
The Son is the centre in which God and the creature 
come together. Through him God becomes corporeal 
and temporal. It will be noticed that this does not ef- 
fect the emanation of the creature from God, but is a 
mere impossible reduction of the divine and the eternal 
to the measure of time and sense; nor does Weigel any- 
where succeed in achieving the completeness essential 
to the consistency of his system which the establishing 
of a distinct creature -nature would involve. Angels 
were created by the word of God, and in them the in- 
visible world; but when Lucifer fell, God desired to 
have man, and therefore created the earth. Yet man 
is called the eye, ear, foot, hand, instrument of God, 
through which everything must be recognised and 
wrought; and it is said that this could not have come 
to pass had Adam remained in Paradise. In brief, all 
externality is hut a reflex of the internal, and an ideal- 
ism exists in which the distinction between the world 
and God is altogether subjective, and whose result is 
that man lacks personality. All effect is the result of 
the divine action, and yet the human will is said to be 
unnecessitated in the fall into sin — a contradiction which 
Weigel nowhere explains. Sin is not a substance, but 
an aceident assumed by the will, though it. may be con- 
sidered a substance ill view of its effect on human nat- 
ure, which involves the loss to man of his whole body — 
body being equivalent to all that is objective. Origi- 
nal sin is a necessary condition of the creature nature, 
which involves the departure of man from Eden, that 
he may till the soil and learn to know himself. Re- 
demption consequently has no objective signification. 
Christ and the new life exist naturally in man. The 
kingdom of God is so in man that all the potencies of 
salvation exist in him, and it is actualized by the at- 
tainment of the soul to a knowledge of itself, and there- 
by to a knowledge of the Eternal and of God. The key 
to the whole of Weigel’s system is his postulated oppo- 
sition between the internal, which is the divine in man, 
and the external, which is the product of the internal. 
The Scriptures, as the outward letter, are depreciated 
and accounted incapable of revealing eternal life, which, 
according to Weigel, is made known by the subjective 
spirit alone; and yet they are said to be necessary in 
another direction, because of our blindness and weak- 
ness. The duty of man is fulfilled in a simple surren- 
der to the operations of the immanent Christ. 

It remains to be observed that while, in his opposi- 
tion to the literalism of the Church, Weigel was at one 
with the sects of the time of the Reformation, he was 
utterly at variance with them in his advocacy of a fully 
developed quietism, and in his denunciation of war, 
lawsuits, etc., as he was also with the gross materialism 
which characterized the early Anabaptists in the un- 
qualified intellect ualism of his views. His mysticism 
afforded no aid whatever towards the thorough regen- 
eration of theology. His significance probably extends 
no further than his influence contributed to the renew- 
al of philosophical methods in theological inquiry, and 
as he antagonized the suprauaturalism then current 
with his principle that nothing ean be true which does 
not impress itself immediately upon the consciousness 
as being true. 

See Arnold, Kirchen- u. Ketzerhistorie , ii, 17, 17, 
where a complete list of Weigel’s works is given ; Un- 
schuldige Xachrichten , 1715; Hilliger, a dissertation en- 
titled Fata et Script a M. V. Weigel , etc. (Wittenberg, 


900 


WEIGHT 


WEIGH 1 XG OF SOULS 

17*21) : .comp, also Both. Xdthiger Unterricht von d. pro- 
phet. 11 'eissagungen ( 1 G94) , § 24. Arnold has stated Wei- 
gel’s peculiar tenets in an apologctical way. while Ililli- 
ger has furnished a somewhat extended list of his here- 
sies. His importance to philosophy is set forth in Hit- 
ter, Gesch. d. Philosophic , x, 77-100; Standenmayer, 
Philos, d. Christenthums, i, 723 sip; Carrie re, Philosoph. 
Weltanschauung d. Refonnatiouszeit , p. 203-209 ; further, 
Walcli, Einl. in d. Rel.-Streitigkeiten, iv, 1024-1006; 
Planck, Gesch. d. prot. Theologie, p. 72 sip; Hagenbaeh, 
Varies, iib. d. lief. -Gesch. iii, 337 sq. ; 1 )orner, Christologie , 
ii, 853; Ilnur. Trinitdtslehre, iii, 255-260; id. I crsoh- 
nungslehre , p. 463.— Herzog, Real- Encgklop. s. v. 

Weighing of Souls is a practice accredited to the 
Egyptian gods to determine their place in the future 
world. The heart of the deceased was placed on one 
side of the scales held by Homs and Anubis, and tbe 
god Tlioth registered the result of the weighing. Upon 
this judgment (which was rendered by Osiris and his 
forty-two deputies) the irrevocable fate of the soul de- 
pended. If the deceased was convicted of unpardon- 
able faults, lie became the prey of an infernal monster, 
with the head of a hippopotamus, and was beheaded 
by Horns and by Smu, one of the forms of Set, upon the 
nemma , or infernal sea Hold. The most wicked were pun- 
ished with final annihilation. See Lenormant, Chahlcean 
Magic , p. 86. See Weight. 

"Weight eben, Deut. xxii, 24; xxv, 15; 2 Sara, 
xiv, 26; Prov. xi, 1 ; xvi, 11 ; xx, 10; Mic. vi, 11 ; a 
stone, as elsewhere rendered; usually mishkdl 

[once Vi* 23 12, mishkdl , Ezek. iv, 10], from to 

weigh; C2S. petes, Prov. xvi, 11 ; “ scales,” Isa. xl, 12, a 
balance; oyicoc, Heb. xii, 1, a mass; fidpog, 2 Cor. iv, 
17, elsewhere ‘‘burden”). It is evident from one of 
these names ( eben ) that stones were used in the most 
ancient times among the Hebrews for weights, as they 
w*ere also among many other nations; and from another 
(mishkdl), that of their money weights and terms, the 
shekel was that in most common use, and the standard 
by which others were regulated. In later times weights 
were made of lead (Zech. v, 6). These weights were 
carried in a bag (Deut. xxv, 13; Prov. xvi, 1 1) suspend- 
ed from the girdle (Chardin, Yog. iii, 422), and were 
very early made the vehicles of fraud. The habit of 
carrying two sets of weights is denounced in Dent, xxv, 
13 and Prov. xx, 10, and the necessity of observing 
strict honesty in the matter is insisted upon in several 
precepts of the law (Lev. xix, 36; Deut. xxv, 13). But 
the custom lived on, and remained in full force to the 
days of Micah (vi, 11), and even to those of Zechariah, 
who appears (ch. v) to pronounce a judgment against 
fraud of a similar kind. See Bag. 

Between ancient weights and money there was a 
very intimate connection. All Greek money was orig- 
inally a certain weight of silver, and a similar rule prob- 
ably held with the money of other nations. Hence, 
perhaps, the best mode of ascertaining an ancient weight 
is by weighing a good coin of the same denomination. 
When this is ascertained, we can form a just opinion of 
the other weights in the scale from their relative pro- 
portions. Gold, even as late as the time of David, was 
not used as a standard of value, but was considered 
merely as a very precious article of commerce, and was 
weighed like other articles. In Oriental countries, as 
far back as the time of Abraham, the value of goods 
was estimated at a certain quantity of silver, the purity 
of which was taken into account by the merchant (Gen. 
xxiii, 16). But there is no trace of stamped silver or coin 
previous to the Captivity. Nor, indeed, was it at that 
early period divided into pieces of a certain size. It 
was commonly weighed out in balances, though its 
weight was sometimes ascertained by means of an 
instrument of weighing answering to our steelyards. 
See Scale. By means of the balance the Hebrews ap- 
pear to have been able to weigh with considerable del- 


icacy, and for this purpose 
they had weights of extreme 
minuteness, which are called 
metaphorically “ the small 
dust of the balance” (Isa. 
xl, 15). The “little grain” 

(poTci'i) of the balance in 
Wisd. xi, 22 is the small 
weight which causes the 
scale to turn. In this pas- 
sage, as in 2 Macc. ix, 8, the 
Greek word TrXdonyZ, ren- 
dered “balance,” was origi- 
nally applied to the scale-pan 
alone. See Balance. The 
balance in this form was 
known at a very early period. 

It is found on the Egyptian 
monuments as early as the 
time of Joseph, and we find 
allusions to its use in the sto- 
ry of the purchase of the cave 
of Machpelah (Gen. xxiii, 16) 
by Abraham. Before coin- 
age was introduced, it was of necessity employed in all 
transactions in which the valuable metals were the me- 
diums of exchange (xliii, 21 ; Exod. xxii, 17 ; 1 Kings 
xx, 39; Esth. iii, 9; Isa. xlvi, 6; Jcr. xxxii, 10, etc.). 



Ancient Egyptian Scales. 


See Money. 

The shekel, the half-shekel, the talent, are not only 
denominations of moneys, of certain values, in gold and 
silver, but also of certain weights. The earliest weight 
to which reference is made is the kesitdh (Gen. 

xxxiii, 19; Josh, xxiv, 32; Job xlii, 11), which in the 
margin of our version is in two passages rendered 
“lambs,” while in the text it is “piece of money.” It 
may have derived its name from being in the shape of 
a lamb. See Sheep. A number of small statues, of a 
crouching lion in bronze, forming a series of various di- 
mensions, from one inch to twelve in length, found at 
Nimrud, and now in the British Museum, appear to 
have been Assyrian weights. On the tombs at Thebes 




Assyrian Weights. (From specimens iu British Museum.) 

L Bronze — 15 mnnehs ; 2. Bronze — 3 shekels; 3. Bronze — 1 man eh ; 4, 5, 
6. Stone weights in form of ducks with heads thrown back. 


are representations of weights having the form of stags, 
sheep, gazelles, etc. There are also among the Egyp- 
tian antiquities some Coptic weights of great antiquity, 
but not antecedent to the Christian tera. They are cir- 
cular, and have grooves or channels cut in them. See 
Mine. 

Theire^f of the Sanctuary, or Weight of the Tem- 
ple (Exod. xxx, 13,24; Lev. v, 15; Numb, iii, 50; vii, 
19; xviii, 16, etc.) was probably the standard weight, 


WEIGHT 


901 


WEIKEL 


preserved in some apartment of the Temple, and not a 
different weight from the common shekel (l Chron. 
xxiii, 29); for though Moses appoints that all things 
valued by their price in silver should be rated by the 
weight of the sanctuary (Lev. xxvii, 25), he makes no 
difference between this shekel of twenty oboli, or twenty 
geralis, and the common shekel. Ezekiel (xlv, 12). 
speaking of the ordinary weights and measures used in 
traffic among the Jews, says that the shekel weighed 
twenty oboli, or gerahs ; it was therefore equal to the 
weight of the sanctuary. Neither Josephus nor Philo 
nor Jerome, nor any ancient author, speaks of a distinc- 
tion between the weights of the Temple and those in 
common use. Besides, the custom of preserving the 
standards of weights and measures in temples is not 
peculiar to the Hebrews. The Egyptians, as Clemens 
Alexandrinus informs us, had an officer in the college 
of priests whose business it was to examine all sorts of 
measures and to take care of the originals; the Romans 
had the same custom (Fannius, De Amphora ) ; and the 
emperor Justinian decreed that standards of weights 
anil measures should be kept in Christian churches. 
The Jews do not seem to have had any officers whose 
especial duty it was to superintend weighing transac- 
tions like the kabbaneh, or public weighers of Egypt, 
the Greek ZvyufTTarai (Artcmid. ii, 37), or Latin libri- 
pendes (Pliny, xxxiii,3); but care was always taken 
that the money used should be of full weight (Gen. 
xliii, 21). For the estimation of Hebrew weights, see 
M etrology. 



Ancient Egyptian Kabbaneh, or Public Weigher and Notary. 


of his body; of which they speak flatteringly, however 
they think it to be.” It appears, however, from a con- 
sideration of the other metaphorical expressions in the 
same passage of Daniel that the weighing in balances 
is simply a figure, and may or may not have reference 
to such a custom as that above described. Many ex- 
amples of the use of the same figure of speech among 
Orientals are given in Roberts’s Oriental Illustrations , 
p. 502. The allusion, however, may be of a far more 
solemn character. The Egyptians entertained the be- 
lief that the actions of the dead were solemnly weighed 
in balances before Osiris, and that the condition of the 
departed was determined according to the preponder- 
ance of good or evil. Such judgment scenes are very fre- 
quently represented in the paintings and papyri of ancient 
Egypt, and one of them (given on the following page) we 
have copied as a suitable illustration of the present sub- 
ject. One of these scenes, as represented on the wails of 
a small temple at Deir-el-Medineh, has been so well ex- 
plained by Mr. Wilkinson that we shall avail ourselves 
of his description ; for although that to which it refers is 
somewhat different from the one which we have engraved, 
his account affords an adequate elucidation of all that 
ours contains: “Osiris, seated on his throne, awaits the 
arrival of those souls that are ushered into Amenti. The 
four genii stand before him on a lotus-blossom [ours has 
the lotus without the genii], the female Cerberus sits 
behind them, and Harpocrates on the crook of Osiris. 
Thotli, the god of letters, arrives in the presence of Osi- 
ris, bearing in his hand a tablet, on frhich the actions of 
the deceased are noted 
down, while Horus and 
Aroeris are employed in 
weighing the good deeds 
of the judged against the 
ostrich feather, the sym- 
bol of truth and justice. 
A cynocephalns, the em- 
blem of truth, is seated 
on the top of the balance. 
At length arrives the de- 
ceased, who appears be- 
tween two figures of the 
goddess, and bears in his 
hand the symbol of truth, 
indicating his meritorious 
actions, and his fitness for 
admission to the presence 
of Osiris” (Kitto, Piet. Bi- 
ble. note ad loc.). 

A weight of glory , of 
which Paul speaks (2 Cor. 
iv, 17), is opposed to the 
lightness of the evils of 
this life. The troubles we 


1. The weigher; 2. The notary making an official record; a. The bag of money to be weighed; b. The frame or nii/Jurfi <irp rpnllv of no 
box containing e , a pile of coins in the form of rings; c. A stand supporting k, a weight in the form of a 1Cdl V 1 ,,u 

lamb; d. One scale containing a number of coin9 ; f. An apparatus for steadying^ g, the arm of the balance; : - f — tl ' 

h. An ape, the emblem of Thoth, the god of justice, presiding over the operation ; i. The other scale containing 
the weight. 


The expression in Dan. v, 27, “ thou art weighed in 
the balances, and art found wanting,” has been supposed 
to be illustrated by the custom of weighing the Great 
Mogul on his birthday in the presence of his chief gran- 
dees. The ceremony is described in a passage from Sir 
Thomas Roe’s Voyage in India, quoted in Taylor’s Cal- 
met, Frag. 186: “The scales in which he was thus 
weighed were plated with gold, and so the beam on 
which the) r hung by great chains, made likewise of that 
most precious metal. The king, sitting in one of them, 
was weighed first against silver coin, which immediate- 
ly after was distributed among the poor; then was he 
weighed against gold; after that against jewels (as they 
say); but I observed (being there present with my lord 
ambassador) that he was weighed against three several 
things, laid in silken bags, on the contrary scale. . . . By 
his weight (of which his physicians yearly keep an ex- 
act account) they presume to guess of the present state 


more weight than a feath- 
er, or of no weight at all, 
if compared to the weight 
or iutenseness of that glory which shall be hereafter a 
compensation for them. In addition to this, it is prob- 
able the apostle had in view the double meaning of the 
Hebrew word Y135, kabod , which signifies not only 
weight, but glory ; that is. splendor is in this world the 
lightest thing in nature: but in the other world it may 
be real, at once substantial and radiant. 

Weihenmayer, Johann Heinrich, a Lutheran 
theologian of Germany, was born at Ulm, Aug. 4, 1637. 
He studied at Jena, was appointed deacon in 1662 at 
Leipheim, and pastor at Altheim in 1681. In 1687 he 
was called to Ulm, where he died, May 29, 1706. lie 
left a great many writings, mostly of an ascetical nat- 
ure, which are given in Pipping , Memories Theologorum ; 
Serpilius, Epitaphia Theologorum ; Jocher, Allgemeines 
Gelehrten-Lex . s. v. (B. P.) 

Weikel, John H., a German Reformed minister. 


WELCH 


WEIL 902 



was pastor of Boehm’s and some other churches in 
Montgomery County, l*n., from 1776 to 1781, but his 
loyalty to the American cause during the Revolution 
finally led to his resignation on account of dissatisfac- 
tion among his parishioners. Nothing seems to be 
known of him after the war. See llarbaugh, Fathers 
of the Germ . Ref Church , ii, 100. 

Weil, Ja icon, a dewish teacher of Germany, was 
born in 1792 at Frankfort, where he died, Nov. 19, 1804. 
He wrote and spoke for the emancipation of his corelig- 
ionists. lie published, Fragments aus item Talmud and 
den Rabhinen (Frank!'. 1811-12): — Dus junye Deutsch- 
land und die Juden (ibid. 1830 ): — Die erste sdchsische 
Rammer und die Juden (llanau, 1837) : — Wagener, Stahl, 
die Juden und die protestantischen Dissidenten (Frank f. 
1857) : — Die alien Rropheten und das Leben Jesu (ibid. 
1804). See Winer, JIandb . der theol. Lit. i, 526; F first, 
Dibl. Jud. iii, 499 ; Kayserling, liibliothek jiidischer Kan- 
zelredner , i, 400 sq. (B. 1\) 

Weiller, Kajktan von, a Roman Catholic theolo- 
gian of Germany, was born at Munich, Aug. 2, 1762. lie 
studied theology and philosophy in his native place. In 
1785 he received holy orders, and in 1799 he was placed 
in the chair of philosophy and pedagogics. The Uni- 
versity of Landshut conferred on him the degree of 
doctor of philosophy in 1802, while learned societies 
admitted him to membership. In 1812 he was enno- 


bled by his king, and died June 24, 1826. Ilis writ- 
ings are, Ueber die religiose Aufyube wise re r Zeit (Mu- 
nich, 1819): — Das Christenthum in seinem Verhdltnisse 
zur Wissenschaft (ibid. 1821): — Der Geist des iiltesten 
Katholicismus, als Grundlaye fur jeden spdteru (ibid. 
1821) : — Grundriss der Philosophic (ibid. 1818) : — Grund- 
leynny der Psycholoyie (ibid. 1818). Ilis orations and 
minor treatises are collected in his Kleine Bchriften , 
Schulredeii, etc. (3 vols. 1822-26). See During, Die ye- 
lehrten Theulogen Deutschland iv, 679 sq. ; Winer, 
llundbueh der theoloyischen Liter atur, i, 406, 509,865; 
ii, 145. (B. P.) 

Weimar, David, a Jewish philologist of Ger- 
many who lived in the 1 7 tli century, is the author of 
r.lin, Doctrina Accentuatlonis Ilebr. 
(Ciza?, 1681 ; studio Matthesii, Lips. 1687 a. o.) : — M ys- 
terium in Infallibili Acccntuum Bibl. JJinisterio Jhtectum 
(ibid. 1681): — Solida Demoustratio de Vera Decaloyi 
Divisione et Infallibili Duplicis A ccent. Principio (ibid, 
eod.) : — LJsus A ccent it at ionis Bibl. per 25 Locos Yet . Test. 
Prcemissa ejus $E07n'evGTictQ Demonstratione ( Jena 1 , 
1693 a. o.). See Furst, Bibliotheca Judaica, iii, 501 
sq. ; Steinschneider, Bibliographisches JJandbuch, s. v. 
(B. P.) 

Welch, Bartholomew T., D.D., an eminent 
Baptist minister, was born in Boston, Sept. 24, 1794. 
There was something in the history of his ancestry 
that inspired and kept alive those feelings of patriotism 
which were so marked a feature in his subsequent life. 
Ilis father was a midshipman in the navy, and his 
grandfather a lieutenant. His grandfather on his 
mother’s side was Bartholomew Trow, one of the fa- 
mous party who threw over the tea in Boston Harbor. 
He was present at the battle of Lexington, and served 
his country in the Revolutionary war. His father 
died when he was but a child. The pastor of his 
early days was the excellent Dr. Thomas Baldwin, 
and he received a good religious education in his early 
home. With a restlessness which is often characteristic 
of youth, he aspired after mo*re freedom than he found 
in his home, and at the age of seventeen he started for 
Philadelphia, making the journey on foot, with the hope 
of finding business. But the war had put a check to 
strictly mercantile pursuits, in which he had been reared, 
and he became an apprentice to learn the engraver’s art. 
For some time he seems to have lived a thoughtless, 
careless life, so far as religion was concerned, and it is said 
that through a whole year he never entered a house of 
worship. At length, the Spirit of God took strong hold 
on his conscience. He saw the wickedness and folly 
of the course he had been pursuing, and his heart was 
bowed in submission to Christ. He was baptized, the 
first Sunday in September, 1815, by Rev. Dr. Staughton, 
and became a member of the Sansom Street Baptist 
Church in Philadelphia. In 1816 he removed to Balti- 
more, with the hope of meeting with better success in 
the practice of his art as an engraver. At once he 
identified himself with the cause of Christ and became 
an earnest worker in the vineyard of bis Lord. It was 
not long before he felt an impulse, which he struggled 
hard to resist, to preach the Gospel. After many con- 
flicts growing out of the consideration that he was ut- 
terly unprepared by the want of intellectual training 
for the sacred ollice, lie yielded at length his own will 
and acquiesced in what seemed to him to be the call of 
God that he should be an ambassador for Christ. In 
August, 1824, lie abandoned his profession as an en- 
graver, and entered upon what was to be the work of 
his life. Ilis early labors as a preacher were as a mis- 
sionary among the destitute churches within the limits 
of the Baltimore Baptist Association. He crossed the 
mountains of Maryland and visited the villages and 
hamlets scattered along the banks of the Juniata, pro- 
claiming as he went the news of salvation through a 
crucified Redeemer. One year was spent in such work 
as this. In the summer of 1825, he was on a visit to 


WELCH 


903 


WELCHMAN 


some friends in New York, and was requested to do the 
kind of work which lie had performed so successfully in 
Maryland among the feeble churches of the Baptist de- 
nomination along the line of the Hudson River. In 
October of this year he was ordained as pastor of the 
Church in Catskill, and remained here a little less than 
two years, when he was called to take charge of what 
is now the Emanuel Church in Albany, N. Y. lie en- 
tered upon his duties here in September, 1827. It was 
a dark day in the history of the Church when Dr. 
Weleh commenced his ministry with them. “The 
Church,” says Dr. Bridgman, “ was feeble and staggering 
with their debt. The old theatre in Green Street had 
been turned into their sanctuary, but the house was 
thought to be too large, and a partition had been built to 
save fuel, ‘and to make neighbors of the worshippers.’” 
At onee a change took place, and as a preacher Dr. Weleh 
soon stood in the foremost rank among the most gifted 
and eloquent ministers in the city of Albany. A few 
years of such work as he put into his ministry told 
wonderfully upon the prosperity of the enterprise. The 
feeble band grew to be a Church of three hundred and 
twenty-seven members, “ united in their counsels, free 
from all embarrassment, and in a condition of great ma- 
terial and spiritual prosperity.” The question of colo- 
nizing began to be discussed, and after the usual delays 
which arose from the reluctance of Church members to 
break away from their religious homes, it was decided 
that the time had come to engage in a new enterprise. 
An appeal was made to the friends of religion, and those 
who had become warmly attached to Dr. Welch, al- 
though not belonging to the Baptist denomination, for 
the necessary funds to carry out the projected plan. 
Among the contributors to these funds we notice the 
names of William L. Marev, Martin Van Buren, Erastus 
Corning, and P. S. Van Rensselaer. The corner-stone 
of the new church was laid in July, 1833, and the build- 
ing was ready for occupancy in the month of October 
following. A colony of about one hundred and twenty, 
with Dr. Welch as the pastor of the new church, took 
possession of what was then regarded as one of the most 
elegant houses of worship in Albany. 'Hie record of the 
results of a ministry of fourteen years in the Pearl Street 
Church is summed up in very general terms by saying 
that during these fourteen years five hundred and seven 
persons were received bv baptism, and two hundred and 
sixty-two by letters from other churches. During all 
this time Dr. Welch took a prominent position in all the 
great religious enterprises in which the Baptist churches 
were interested, especially in the American and Foreign 
Bible Society, of which, for many years, he was the pres- 
ident. On resigning his pastorate of the Pearl Street 
Church, Dr. Welch took charge of the Pierrepont Street 
Chureh in Brooklyn, where he remained eight years, 
and then removed to Newtonville, near Albany, and was 
pastor for ten years. Worn down by the labors of his 
long ministry. Dr. Weleh went into retirement. His 
great powers gradually grew weaker and weaker, until 
the lamp of life went out, to be rekindled amid the 
glories of a better world. lie died Dee. 9, 1870. See 
Minutes of the Hudson River Baptist A ssoe. for 1871; 
Dr. Bridgman’s Sermon. (J. C. S.) 

Welch, Moses Cook, D.D., a Congregational 
minister, son of Rev. Daniel Weleh, was born in Mans- 
field, Conn., Feb. 22, 175-1. Although he graduated from 
Yale College in 1772, he remained for several years un- 
decided as to his profession. For a while he was teach- 
er of a grammar-school in Windham, Conn., and then 
entered the office of lion. Eliphalet Dyer to study law. 
His father’s aversion to this profession induced him to 
abandon it in about a year. Then he taught school and 
studied medicine a short time. As the Revolution was 
fairly begun, he engaged with Mr. Samuel Nott in the 
manufacture of saltpetre, to be used in making powder 
to supply the Continental Army. Having been drafted, 
he cheerfully entered the army, but, contracting a dis- 
ease in camp, was obliged to return home. About this 


time he was converted. Turning his attention to the 
ministry, he studied theology under Rev. Dr. Salter, 
of Mansfield, and Rev. Stephen White, of Windham. 
When his father died, in 1782, he was called to succeed 
him as pastor of the Church in North Mansfield, to 
which office he was ordained June 2, 1784. In 1812 he 
was detailed as chaplain in the American army, a ser- 
vice which he promptly performed. For two years, 
from 1822. he belonged to the Corporation of Yale Col- 
lege. He died at North Mansfield, April 21, 1824. In 
consequence, probably, of his legal training, he was a 
great ecclesiastical lawyer. With a vigorous mind, an 
ardent temperament, and clear perceptions, he became a 
popular preacher. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer . 
Pulpit , ii, 234. 

Welchman, Edward, D.D., an eminent English 
divine, was born about 1635. lie became a commoner 
of Magdalen Hall, Oxford, in 1G79; graduated in 1083; 
was admitted probationer fellow of Merton College in 
1084; became rector of Lapworth and of Solihull, War- 
wickshire; archdeacon of Cardigan in 1727; and died in 
1739. He was the author of, Defence of the Chureh of 
England (1092): — Husbandman's Manual (1095) : — A r- 
ticali XXXIX Ecclesiie Aiujlicame Textibus e Scripture, 
Depromptis Conjirmati, etc. (1713); translated into Eng- 
lish (1740) ; his most famous work : — Doctrine of Bap- 
tism (1700): — Dr. Clarkes Scripture Doctrine of the 
Trinity Examined , etc. (1714): — Conference with an 
Arian (1721): — and other works. See Chalmers, Biog. 
Diet. s. v. 

Weld, I jUIXdviclts, a Congregational minister, was 
born at Braintree. Mass., Sept. 12, 1700, being a son of 
the Rev. Ezra Weld. He graduated at Harvard College 
in 1789; taught school in Cambridge; studied theology 
with his father; and was ordained at Hampton, Conn., 
in 1799, where he remained until infirmities induced 
him to seek a dismission (1824). He removed to Fabi- 
us, N. Y., where he ministered to vacant churches for 
several years. In 1842 he purchased a residence near 
his son Theodore, in Belleville, N. J., where he died, Oct. 

9, 1844. Mr. Weld’s character from early life was manly 
and upright; his mental abilities were superior, so that 
he was considered one of the ablest men of his day in 
that region. Three of his sermons were published. See 
Cong. Qnar. 1800, p. 181. 

Well (prop, beer , (ppiap , a dug source of living, 

though not running, water; but “well” is an occasional 
rendering in the A. V. likewise of “113, bar , 2 Sam. iii, 
2G; xxiii, ! 5, 10; 1 Chron. xi, 17, 18; 2 Chron. xxvi, 

10, a “pit,” i. e. cistern; also of mayau , Josh, 

xviii, 15; 2 Kings iii, 19, 25; I’sa. lxxxiv, 0, a “foun- 
tain;” of “Ip^, niako?’, Prov. x, 11, a “fountain;” and 
even of ‘pi?, ayin, Gen. xxiv, 13, 10, 29, 30, 42, 43, 45; 
xlix, 22, a living spring ; and so of 7n]yrj, John iv, 0, 
14). The difference between a well ( beer ) and a cistern 
(bor) consists chiefly in the use of the former word to 
denote a receptacle for water springing up freshly from 
the ground, while the latter usually denotes a reservoir 
for rain-water (Gen. xxvi, 19, 32; Prov. v, 15; John iv, 
14). See Cistern. Both these 11 eb. words come from 
a root (“1*13 or “1J83) significant of digging , and are thus 
distinguished from a natural fountain. The former 
(beer) is still represented by the Arabic bir, used in the 
same sense; but the latter (Mr) has in modern times 
given place to birket ( = Heb. nr^a), which signifies 
an open pool of surface water. See Topoguafhicae 
Terms. 

The first well mentioned in Scripture is in “the wil- 
derness,” in the way to Sliur, where llagar sat down 
when fleeing from Sarai, which was afterwards called 
Beer-la hai-roi, “the well of him that liveth and seeth 
me” (Gen. xvi, 14), between Kadesh and Bered. It is 
called both a “fountain” and a “well.” The second 
well mentioned is also in connection with Hagar’s his- 


WELL 


904 


WELL 



tory (xxi, 19) in the wilder- 
ness of Beersheba. After this 
a good many wells are men- 
tioned: the wells of Becrshe- 

ba. which remain to this day 
(xxvi, 25) ; tlie Mesopotami- 
an well (xxiv, 11), at the city 
of Nall or ; the wells in Gernr 
(xxvi, 15, 18); the well Esck 
(ver. 20); the well Sitnah 
(ver. 21); the well Rchoboth 
(ver. 22); the well in llaran 
(xxix, 2); the wells of Klim 
(Exod. xv, 27) ; the well dug 
by the princes (Numb. xxi. 

61); the well of Nephtoah 
(Josh, xviii, 15); the great 
well in Sechu (1 Sam. xix. 

22); the well of Bethlehem 
by the gate (2 Sam. xxiii, 

1G) ; the well of llarod (Jtulg. 
vii, 1); Jacob’s well, on the 
low slope of Gerizim (John 
iv, 6). See Fountain. 

The importance of wells is 
very great, especially in the 
desert, where the means of 
forming them are deficient, as 
well as the supply of labor 
necessary for such undertakings, which, after all, are not 
always rewarded by the discovery of a supply of water. 
Hence in such situations, and indeed in the settled coun- 
tries also, the wells are of the utmost value, and the water 
in most eases is very frugally used (Numb, xx, 17-19; 
Dent, ii, t>, 28 ; Job xxii, 7). It is, however, not merely 
the value of the well itself, but certain other considera- 
tions that explain the contests about wells which we 
find in the histories of Abraham and Isaac (Gen. xxi, 25- 
31 ; xxvi, 15-22). The special necessity of a supply of 
water (Jmlg.i, 15) in a hot climate has always involved 
among Eastern nations questions of property of the 
highest importance, and sometimes given rise to serious 
contention. To give a name to a well denoted a right 
of property, and to stop or destroy one once dug was a 
railitarj' expedient, a mark of conquest, or an encroach- 
ment on territorial right claimed or existing in its 
neighborhood. Thus, the well Beersheba was opened, 
and its possession attested with special formality by 
Abraham (Gen. xxi, 30, 31). In the hope of expelling 
Isaac from their neighborhood, the Philistines stopped 
up the wells which had been dug in Abraham’s time 
and called by his name, an encroachment which was 
Stoutly resisted by the followers of Isaac (xxvi, 15-33; 
see also 2 Kings iii, 19; 2 Chron. xxvi, 10; comp. 
Burckhardt, Xotes on the Bed. ii, 185, 194, 204, 276). The 
Koran notices abandoned wells assigns of desertion (sur. 
xxii). To acquire wells which they had not themselves 
dug was one of the marks of favor foretold to the He- 
brews on their entrance into Canaan (Dent, vi, 11). To 
possess one is noticed as a mark of independence (Prov. 

v, 15), and to abstain from the use of wells belonging to 
others, a disclaimer of interference with their property 
^Numb. xx, 17, 19; xxi, 22). Similar rights of posses- 
sion, actual and hereditary, exist among the Arabs of 
the present day. Wells. Burckhardt says, in the inte- 
rior of t he desert, are exclusive property, either of a 
whole tribe, or of individuals whose ancestors dug the 
wells. If a well be the property of a tribe, the tents 
are pitched near it, whenever rain-water becomes scarce 
in the desert; and no other Arabs are then permitted 
to water their camels. But if the well belongs to 
an individual, he receives presents from all strange 
tribes who pass or encamp at the well, and refresh 
their camels with the water of it. The property of 
such a well is never alienated; and the Arabs say 
that the possessor is sure to be fortunate, as all who 
drink of the water bestow on him their benedictions 


Well at Beersheba. 

(Xotes on the Bed. i, 228,229; comp. Numb, xxi, 17, 18, 
and Judg. i, 15). 

It is thus easy to understand how wells have become 
in many cases links in the history and landmarks in 
the topography both of Palestine and of the Arabian 
Peninsula. The well once dug in the rocky soil of Pal- 
estine might be tilled with earth or stones, but was with 
difficulty destroyed, and thus the wells of Beersheba, and 
the well near Nablus, called Jacob’s Well, are among 
the most undoubted witnesses of those transactions of 
sacred history in which they have borne, so to speak, a 
prominent part. On tbe other hand, the wells dug in 
the sandy soil of the Arabian valleys, easily destroyed, 
but easily renewed, often mark, by their ready supply, 
the stations at which the Hebrew pilgrims slaked their 
thirst, or, as at Marah, were disappointed by the bitter- 
ness of the water. In like manner the stations of the 
Mohammedan pilgrims from Cairo and Damascus to 
Mecca (the Haj route) are marked by the wells (Robin- 
son, i, GO, G9, 204, 205 ; ii, 283 ; Burckhardt, Syria, p. 
318, 472, 474; App. iii, G56, GG0; Shaw, Trar. p. 314 ; 
Niebuhr, Descrip, de V Arabic , p. 347, 348; Wellsted, 
Trar. ii, 40. 43. G4, 457, App.). 

Wells in Palestine are usually excavated from the 
solid limestone rock, sometimes with steps to descend 
into them (Gen. xxiv, 1G ; see Burckhardt, Syria, p. 232; 
Col. Ch. Chron. 1858, p. 470). The brims are furnished 
with a curb or low wall of stone, bearing marks of high 
antiquity in the furrows worn by the ropes used in draw- 
ing water (Robinson, i, 204). This curb, as well as the 
stone cover, which is also very usual, agrees with the 
directions of the law, as explained by Philo and Jose- 
phus, viz. as a protection against accident (Exod. xxi, 
33 ; comp. Josephus, A fit. iv, 8, 37 ; Philo, De Spec. Ley. 
iii, 27 ; ii, 324, ed. Mangey; see Mauiulrcll, in Early 
Trav . p. 435). It was on a curb of this sort that our 
Lord sat when he conversed with the woman of Sama- 
ria (John iv, 6); and it was this, the usual stone cover, 
which the woman placed on the mouth of the well at 
Bahurim (2 Sam. xvii, 19), where the A. V. weakens the 
sense by omitting the article Sept.ro h raca- 

\vppa ; Vulg. relamen). Sometimes the wells are cov- 
ered with cupolas raised on pillars (Burckhardt, App. 
v, p. GG5). 

A well was often covered with a great stone, which 
being removed, the person descended some steps to the 
surface of the water, and on his return poured into a 


WELL 


905 


WELLES 


trough that which he had brought, lip (Gen. xxiv, 11- 
15; xxix, 3—10 ; Exod. ii, 10; Judg. v, 11). There is, 
in fact, no intimation of any other way of drawing wa- 
ter from wells in Scripture. But as this could only be 
applicable in cases where the well was not deep, we 
must assume that they had the use of those contriv- 
ances which are still employed in the East, amt some 
of which are known from the Egyptian monuments to 
have been very ancient. This conclusion is the more 
probable as the wells in Palestine are mostly deep (Prov. 
xx, 5 ; John i v, 1 1). Jacob’s Well near Shcchem is said 
to be 120 feet deep, with only fifteen feet of water in it 
(Maundrell, Journey, March 24); and the labor of draw- 
ing from so deep a well probably originated the first re- 
luctance of the woman of Samaria to draw water for 
Jesus: “Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, ami the 
well is deep.” See Jacob’s Well. From this deeper 
kind of well the usual methods for raising water are 
the following: 1. The rope and bucket, or water-skin 
(Gen. xxiv, 14-20; John iv, 1 1). When the well is deep, 
the rope is either drawn over the curb by the man or 
woman, who pulls it out to the distance of its full length, 
or by an ass or ox employed in the same way for the 
same purpose. Sometimes a pulley or wheel is fixed 
over the well to .assist the work (Robinson, i, 204; ii, 
248 ; Niebuhr, Descr. tie V A ruble , p. 137, pi. 15 : Col. Ch. 
Chron. 1850, p. 350; Chardin, Voy. iv, 98; Wellsted. 
Trav. i. 280). 2. The sakiyeh, or Persian wheel. This 

consists of a vertical wheel furnished with a set of buck- 
ets or earthen jars attached to a cord passing over the 
wheel, which descend empty ami return full as the 
wheel revolves. On the axis of the wheel revolves a 
second wheel parallel to it, w ith cogs wdiich turn a third 
wheel set horizontally at a sufficient height from the 
ground to allow the animal used in turning it to pass 
under. One or tw r o cows or bulls are yoked to a pole 
which passes through the axis of this wheel, and as they 
travel round it turn the whole machine (Numb, xxiv, 
7 ; see Lane, Mod. Egypt, ii, 163 ; Niebuhr, Voy. i, 120 ; 
Co!. Ch. Chron. 1859, p. 352; Shaw, p. 291,408). 3. A 

modification of the last method, by which a man, sitting 
opposite to a wheel furnished with buckets, turns it by 
drawing with his hands one set of spokes prolonged 
beyond its circumference, and pushing another set from 
him with his feet (Niebuhr, Joy. i, 120, pi. 15; Robin- 
son, ii, 22 ; iii, 89). 4. A method very common, both in 
ancient and modern Egypt, is the shaduf a simple con- 
trivance consisting of a lever moving on a pivot, w hich 
is loaded at one end with a lump of clay or some other 
weight., and has at the other a ‘bowl or bucket. This 
is let down into the water, and, when raised, emptied 
into a receptacle above (Niebuhr, Voy. i, 120; Lane, 
Mod. Egypt, ii, 163 ; Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt, i, 35, 72 ; ii, 
4). See Irrigation. 

Wells are usually furnished with troughs of wood or 



stone (r£'J'; Sept. voTurrriptov ; Vulg. canalis ), into 
which the water is emptied for the use of persons or 
animals coming to the wells. In modern times an old 
stone sarcophagus is often used for this purpose. The 
bucket is verv commonly of skill (Burckhardt, Syria, p. 
63; Robinson, i, 204; ii‘, 21, 315: iii, 35, 89, 109, 134; 
Lord Lindsay, Trav. p. 235, 237 ; Wilkinson, A nc. Egypt. 
loc. cit. ; comp. Gen. xxiv, 20 ; Exod. ii, 16). 

Unless machinery is used, which is commonly worked 
by men, women are usually the water-carriers. They 
carry home their w'ater-jars oil their heads (Lindsay, p. 
236). See Drawer of Water. Great contentions 
often occur at the wells, and they are often, among Be- 
dawin, favorite places for attack by enemies (Exod. ii, 
16, 17; Judg. v, 1 1 ; 2 Sam. xxiii, 15, 16). See Burck- 
hardt, Syria, p. 63; Notes on the Bed. i. 228; Col. Ch. 
Chron. 1859, p. 473; Lane, Mod. Egypt, i, 252; Robin- 
son, iii, 153; Ilackett, Illnstr. of Script, p. 88-93. — 
Smith; Kitto; Fairbairn. See Water. 

Wellbeloved, Charles, D.D., an English Uni- 
tarian minister, w as born at York about 1770. lie be- 
came a clergyman at bis native place; was noted for 
bis philological and archaeological attainments; and 
died at York in 1858. lie was the author of, Eboracum ; 
or, York under the Homans (1842) : — The Holy Script- 
ures of the Old Covenant (1859-62), in a revised trans- 
lation, in which he was assisted by Rev. George Vance 
Smith and Rev. John Scott Porter; and other works. A 
Memoir, by Rev. John Ivenrick, appeared in 1860. 

Weller, George, I ).!)., a Protestant Episcopal cler- 
gyman, was born in Boston, Mass., Nov. 15, 1790. He 
was educated in the public schools of Boston; learned 
the trade of a bookbinder; opened a small bookstore in 
Newark, N. J.; and afterwards removed it to Danbury. 
Conn. About the year 1813 he entered the family of 
the Rev. Bethel Judd, D.D., of Nonvalk, to study theol- 
ogy. He began to officiate as lay reader at Bedford, 
N. Y., in June, 1814; was admitted to deacon’s orders 
by bishop Hobart June 16, 1816; missionary in the 
counties of Putnam and Westchester in 1816-17 ; or- 
dained priest April 2, 1817; instituted rector of Great 
Coptank parish at Cambridge, Md., Nov. 15, 1817 ; rec- 
tor of St. Stephen’s Church, Cecil County, Md., in No- 
vember, 1822; became editor of The Church Register 
Jan. 7, 1826, in which office he continued three years; 
was secretary and agent of the Domestic and Foreign 
Missionary Society in 1828 ; removed to Nashville, 
Tenn., about 1829, where he built a new church, the 
first Episcopal Church in Tennessee; retired for a time 
on account of feeble health about 1835; became rector 
of Calvary Church. Memphis, in 1838; rector of Christ 
Church, Vicksburg, Miss., in 1839. This was his last 
field of labor. During the prevalence of the yellow 
fever in Vicksburg, he was overburdened with the 
claims of the sick and friends of the dead, and fell a 
victim of the epidemic, Nov. 9, 1841. lie was the au- 
thor of Vindication of the Church (1824): — and editor 
of the Poems of Bishop Ileber (about 1826) : — and the 
Weller Tracts. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pul- 
pit, v, 601. 

Welles, Noah, D.D., a Congregational minister, 
w r as born at Colchester, Conn., Jan. 23, 1718. lie grad- 
uated at Yale College in 1741; engaged in teaching 
school at Hartford for some time; and became tutor of 
Yale College in 1745. He was licensed to preach soon 
after, and ordained pastor of the Church at Stamford. 
Conn., Dec. 31, 1746, w here he remained in the quiet 
and faithful discharge of his duties until his death, 
Dec. 31, 1776. lie w'as chosen fellow of Yale College 
in 1774, and also delivered the condo ad clerum in the 
chapel of that institution, Sept. 13, 1770, before one hun- 
dred and twenty ministers. He took an active part in 
the dispute concerning the validity of non-episcopal or- 
dination in 1763, publishing three pamphlets on the sub- 
ject. He also published other single Sermons and A d- 
( dresses. See Sprague, Annals of the A mer. Pulpit, i, 461. 


WELLS 


006 


WESEL 


Wells, Edward, D.D., a learned English divine, 
was born about 1665. lie was admitted to Westmin- 
ster School in 1680, and in 1GJSG to Christ Church Col- 
lege, ( txford, where he proceeded as A.M. in 1693, and 
as D.D. in 1704; became a tutor in his college; took 
orders in the Church of England; and became rector of 
Bletehlcv, in Buckinghamshire, and of Cottesbacli, in 
Leicestershire, in 1717, where he died, in August, 1727. 
lie was the author of, A Treatise of Ancient and Pres - 
ent Geography (1701) : — Historical Geography of the 
Xeir Testament (1708) Historical Geography of the 
Old Testament (1711 12) : — A Help to the More Easy 
and Clear Understanding of the Holy Scriptures (1709- 
28,8 vols. 1 to), being a revised translation of the Bible, 
with a paraphrase and annotations : — The BookoJ Dan- 
iel Explained, etc. (1710) : — and other works, especially 
on mathematics. See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. ; AUi- 
bone, Diet. of Hr it. and .4 mer. A uthors , s. v. 

Welsh, David, D.D., an eminent Scotch clergy- 
man, was born at Braefoot, Dumfriesshire, in 1793. He 
was educated at the University of Edinburgh ; was pastor 
of the parish of Crossmichael, Presbytery of Kirkcud- 
bright, for several years, beginning in 1821 ; became 
minister of St. David’s in Glasgow, in 1820; was ap- 
pointed professor of Church history in the University of 
Edinburgh in 1831 ; travelled on the Continent in 1834, 
studying the German language and literature; was ap- 
pointed inspector of Bibles in Scotland; was moderator 
of the General Assembly in 1842; left the Established 
Church in 1813; became professor of Church history in 
the Free Church College, and was first editor of The 
Xorth British Review . lie died April 24, 1845. He 
was the author of, .lw A c count of the Life and Writings 
of Thomas Brown , M.D. , etc. (1825) : — Sermons on Prac- 
tical Subjects ( 1 834) : — Elements of Church History (1844, 
vol. i): — and Sermons, with a Memoir by A. Dunlop, Ad- 
vocate (1846). 

Wesel, Joiiann von, whose name really was Jo- 
hann Ruchrath, of Oberwesel, was one of the most prom- 
inent forerunners of the Reformation in Germany, lie 
was born early in the 15th century. The first authen- 
tic record we have of his life brings him into view as 
a master in philosophy at Erfurt, about 1445. Soon 
afterwards he was professor and doctor of theology. 
In philosophy he was a nominalist, and sufficiently able 
to project his iulluenee over many years, so that Luther 
is yet constrained to acknowledge his power (see De 
Conciliis , in Opp. ed. Waleh, xvi, 2743). The age in 
which he lived was too greatly under the rule of tradi- 
tional authority to be strongly impressed by his Bib- 
lical tendency in theology, as may be seen in the fact 
that a scholarly essay from his pen aimed against in- 
dulgences excited so little attention that he was chosen, 
subsequent to its appearance, to be viee-reetor of the 
university, and preacher at Mavence, about 1460: it 
does not seem certain that he accepted the latter posi- 
tion. A statement is extant to the effect that Wesel 
was driven from Mavence in 1461 or 1462 by pesti- 
lence, and afterwards became preacher at Worms, giv- 
ing the next seventeen years to the preaching of the 
Gospel. Ilis utterances were exceedingly frank and 
bold, and were supported by the labors of his pen until 
the rulers of the Church came to regard him as a mis- 
chievous personage, upon whom they might justly bring 
vexatious tribulations, and whom, eventually, they must 
silence. An article directed against the hierarchy as 
the central abuse in the administration of the Church 
finally induced the archbishop of M aye nee, Diether of 
Isenburg, to take, definite measures for compelling the 
bold agitator to end bis work. It is not known why 
the archbishop, whose jurisdiction did not extend over 
Wesel, took action rather than the bishop of Worms, 
Reinhard ofSickingen, who was Wesel’s immediate su- 
perior; but Argentre, who reported the trial of Wesel, 
asserts that the persecution of Wesel had for its inspi- 
ration the hatred which the Thomists who stood op- 


posed to him in philosophy bore against him. Wesel 
was summoned before a tribunal composed of theolo- 
gians from the universities of Cologne and Heidelberg, 
who were, with a single exception, realists. The Do- 
minicans M. Gerhard Elten, M. Jacob Sprenger, and a 
third unknown person were inquisitors at the trial. The 
preliminary proceedings began on the Friday after Can- 
dlemas, probably February 4, 1479, at Mavence. Elten, 
a fanatic, presided. The accused was required to ex- 
plain certain suspicious facts in his personal history, 
such as his intercourse with the Bohemians, and espe- 
cially with a certain Nicholas of Bohemia. He was 
examined with regard to any possible adherents he 
might have gained, and respecting a communion ser- 
vice lie had held. Bayle (Diet ionna ire, s. v. “ Wesalia”) 
and Erhardt ( Gesch . des Wiederaufbl iihens, etc., i, 291) 
state that he was also questioned with regard to his 
relations with the Jews; but as Argentre does not 
mention this point, a confounding ofWesel with Wessel 
would seem to have been made by those authorities. A 
second part of his trial was concerned with doctrinal 
errors alleged against. Wesel, e. g. that he denied the 
procession of the Iloly Spirit from the Son, which he 
admitted, but defended his view by an appeal to the 
Scriptures; that be rejected the authority of tradition, 
with respect to which he was obliged to acknowledge 
bis opinion that the holy fathers and doctors were not 
guided in their interpretations of Scripture by the same 
infallible Spirit by which it was originally revealed, 
and that the immediate direction of the llolv Spirit 
could not be certainly assumed of every council which 
might be convened by the proper authority. Other er- 
rors charged against him had reference to indulgences, 
the sacraments, sin in general, and original sin in par- 
ticular. Under the dogma of the Church, he stated his 
belief in one holy Church ; but was charged with omit- 
ting the attribute of universality, lie eotieeded the 
rule of the Holy Ghost over the Church, and also her 
freedom from error. He also conceded the necessity of 
a papacy to the Church of Rome, though not without 
equivocation. It is evident that he did not hold the 
views respecting the authority of the Church which 
were current in his time, lie denied any distinction 
between bishop and presbyter, and endeavored to over- 
turn the right of civil jurisdiction and legislation as 
claimed by the Church, lie did not consider celibacy, 
monasticism, and fasting as of binding obligation, anil 
was able to reply in a satisfactory manner to the charges 
against him upon these points, only because they were 
conceived and expressed in a form in which be bad 
actually never held the views to which they referred. 
It appears that Wesel endeavored to give way to bis 
persecutors as far as he could without doing too great 
violence to his conscience, and that he sought to take 
advantage of every ambiguity in the charges against 
him, or which he could weave into his own explana- 
tions. lie even went so far as to repeatedly ask for 
mercy. He needed all the encouragement he could 
get. He was old and broken down, threatened with 
death bv fire, and obliged to undergo usage which he 
declared would have turned Christ himself into a here- 
tic. He finally consented to retract, with the proviso 
that the retraction should be charged upon the con- 
science of his judges. The formula adopted was of a 
general nature, and set forth that erroneous matter 
might be found in bis writings, which he now recalled; 
that lie submitted to the authority of the Church and 
the teachings of her doctors; that he was ready to per- 
form whatever penance might be imposed ; and that he 
asked for forgiveness. This retraction took place be- 
fore the assembled tribunal, and was followed by a simi- 
lar act in the cathedral. Ilis writings were burned, 
and he was himself condemned to life-long imprison- 
ment in the Augustinian convent, where he died in 
1481. 

Wesel stated the doctrine of the sufficiency of Script- 
ure, the formal principle of Brotestantism, with greater 


WESI-IIIISI 


907 


WESLEY 


clearness than was possible to the Reformers in the 
beginning of their work. He joined its perspicuity 
with its sufficiency as a necessary consequence, lie 
also laid down the foundations of the doctrine of the 
witness of the Spirit, though he did not develop it. 
With reference to the material principles of the Refor- 
mation Wesel was less clear. lie assailed indulgences, 
as not authorized by Scripture, and denied that God 
could confer jurisdiction in divine things upon the 
Church. His argument, however, was altogether that 
of a clear-headed, well-meaning theologian, who saw in 
the doctrine of indulgences a scientific error involving 
practical consequences, but it was not at all the retort 
of a conscience whose most sacred convictions arc out- 
raged. Indulgences were in his view an ecclesiastical 
abuse, but not a peril which threatened the soul. Ilis 
idea of sin is that it is a debt and a deficiency, lie 
does not appreciate its power over the inner man. Grace 
is exalted by him, but rather as demonstrating the cau- 
sality of God than as benefiting the soul of man ; and he 
accordingly gives a foremost place to the doctrine of 
election. He regarded the Church as being above all 
a communion, and held that the true Church is the holy 
Church, within the universal Church, lie denied em- 
phatically that the apostles had received power from 
Christ to enact canons and laws, and refused to recog- 
nise the pope as the vicar of Christ in any sense which 
would involve the concession of legislative functions. 
He was even disposed to question the authority of sec- 
ular princes to enact laws; but as he was compelled to 
see the necessity of order in the world, he found him- 
self involved in uncertainty, which led him to concede 
much on his trial which he had previously denied. 
Ministers were conceived of by him as ambassadors for 
Christ, and both pope and priests as deriving their au- 
thorization from him. Every Christian possessed the 
right in his view of refusing obedience to an ecclesias- 
tical commandment which antagonizes the Word of 
God, and the humblest Christian has authority to re- 
buke an erring pope. He required obedience to the 
clergy, however, in things indifferent. 

Wesel was probably a fertile writer. Jakob Wim- 
pfeli ng says, in Flacius, that Wesel bad adorned the 
Erfurt school by bis teaching and writings; and Fla- 
cius adds that the writings were still preserved at Er- 
furt. Only the two tracts A deersus Indulgentias and 
I)e Potestate Ecclesiastica are now extant. See Ar- 
gentre, Collectio Judiciornm, I, ii, 291 sq. ; Walch, Mo~ 
num. Medii sEvi, 1, i, 114 sq. ; Ulmann, Johann 1 1 'esel, 
der Vorldnfer Luther's ; id. Reformatoren vor dtr Refor- 
mation. — Herzog, Real-Encgklop. s. v. 

Wesi-Hiisi, in Finnish mythology, was a servant 
of the wicked giant Hiisi (the personification of the 
wicked principle), who rules over the waters, as others 
ruled over the mountains, the air, etc. See Leuormant, 
Chaldcean Magic, p. 257. 

Wesley (originally Wellesley), a name memor- 
able in English ecclesiastical history, as will be seen 
from the biographies following. The pedigree on the 
following page supplies the link connecting all the 
chief branches of the Wesley family, and extends back- 
ward for more than five hundred years. It indicates 
the branches from which descended the late Arthur, 
Duke of Wellington, and the two sisters Ann and Jane 
Porter. It also includes the names of nearly twenty 
members of the family living at the present time, 
some of which are now affixed for the first time to 
add as much completeness as possible to the record. It 
was prepared by Mr. George J. Stevenson, A.M., of 
London. 

Wesley, Bartholomew, an Episcopal clergy- 
man, great-grandfather of John and Charles Wesley, 
was born in England about 1595. He received a uni- 
versity education (probably at Oxford), and took orders 
in the Church of England. He was rector of Cathers- 
ton aud Charmouth, two villages in Dorset, in 1650, and 


was ejected from both by the Act of Uniformity in 16G2. 
After his ejectment lie followed the profession of a phy- 
sician, for which he had prepared while in the univer- 
sity, and preached among the Nonconformists as oppor- 
tunity served, lie died about 1680. 

Wesley, Charles (1), A.M., the hymnist of Meth- 
odism, and one of “ the sw r eet singers in Israel,” was 
celebrated also as a preacher and a coadjutor of his 
brother John in the great evangelical and ecclesiastical 
movement of their lives and times. 

I. Life. — Charles Wesley was born at the parsonage, 
Epworth, Lincolnshire, Dec. 18, 1707, being the eigh- 
teenth child and the youngest son of Rev. .Samuel Wes- 
ley. (All the biographers except one give the date as 
Dec. 18, 1708; the latest, INI r. Geo. J. Stevenson, says 
that the information now at hand places the date a year 
earlier. See Memorials of the )Vesleg Family [Loud. 
1876], p. 385). When five years of age he entered his 
mother’s school, vdiere began that systematic course of 
mental discipline which laid the groundwork of his after- 
success in academic pursuits. At eight he was enrolled 
at Westminster School, where his brother Samuel was 
usher — an elegant scholar, and who imbued his little 
charge with his own Iligh-Church notions. Here he 
became a friend of a Scotch lad, James Murray, after- 
wards the celebrated lord Mansfield. Young Charles 
made such progress in his studies that in 1721 he was 
admitted one of the king’s scholars, his expenses being 
thus henceforth borne by the Foundation. The biog- 
raphers think it doubtful whether religion would ever 
have had the services of the great hymnist, or the State 
those of the administrator of India and the hero of 
Waterloo, if the student at Westminster had accepted 
an heirship to the estates of Garrett Wesley, Esq., mem- 
ber of Parliament for the County of Meath, at this time 
(about 1726) pressed upon him by his landed relative. In 
1726 he was elected to Christ Church College, Oxford, an 
institution which his brother John had left a little be- 
fore. Here he and a few friends became so diligent in 
study, serious in manner, and observed with such strict- 
ness the method of study and practice laid down in the 
statutes of the university, that they won for themselves 
an epithet first applied to a college of physicians in 
Rome in the time of Nero, and soon the little band w’as 
know'll by a word that lias now in a large measure lost 
its opprobrious note — Methodist. At the age of twenty- 
one Charles took bis A.B. degree, and became tutor in 
the college. In November, 1729, the “Methodists” were 
joined by John Wesley, and through insult and ridicule 
pursued their devotional and self-denying labors. The 
brothers remaiued at the university until the death of 
their father, in April, 1735. Having been persuaded to 
accompany John on the mission to Georgia, primarily 
as secretary to the managing committee of the colony 
and private secretary to general Oglethorpe, its founder, 
Charles, at the instance of Dr. Burton, was ordained dea- 
con in Oxford by Dr. John Potter, bishop of that city, 
and on the following Sunday he was ordained priest in 
the metropolis by Dr. Gibson, bishop of London (autumn 
of 1735). The ship Sgmmonds sailed up the Savannah 
Feb. 5, 173G. It is needless to treat the reader with an . 
account of the mishaps, privations, trials, aud persecu- i 
tions which befell our subject in this country. lie can 
read it in Charles Wesley’s Journal and Life . Suffice 
it to say that diligently and conscientiously he endured 
hardship as a good soldier wdiile stationed at Frederica. 
On the 11th of August, 1736, Charles Wesley, sick and 
disappointed, embarked for England. The vessel was 
compelled to put into Boston, where, under kind and 
hospitable treatment, lie quite fully recovered, so as to 
be able to preach frequently in King’s Chapel. On Dec. 

3, 1736, he arrived at Deal. England. By the desire of 
the University of Oxford, Charles Wesley was requested 
to present their address to the king, which he did at 
Hampton Court, Aug. 29, 1737. He was graciously re- 
ceived, and dined with the roval household. 

In February, 1738, the brothers Wesley were iutro- 


WESLEY 


908 


WESLEY 


1343 

William de Wellesley, - 
1st Baron of Wellesley, 
Co. Somerset. 


PEDIGREE OF THE WESLEY FAMILY. 
Married Alice, 

-daughter of Sir John 
Trevelyan. 


Walrond, — j — Lady Geraldine 
2d Baron Fitzgerald. 


X 


Gerald, — 
3d Baron, 
deprived of 
hi> title by 
Henry IV. 

Artleuse— 


Sir llugh- 


— Auue Pigot. . 


John, 
a clergyman. 


Sir Richard 
de Wellesley — 1 — Married to Joan 

of Kildare, de Cnstlemartin, 

from whom the and had issue. — 

Duke of Wellington 
descends. 


1 


— Daughter of Sir 
Thomas Ogilvy. 


-Arthur Wesley, 
whose descend- 
ants took the 
name of Porter, 
from whom the 
celebrated writ- 
ers Ann and Jane 
Porter descended. 


Married to 
Jane Westley 
of Westley 
llall, County 
Salop. 


John, Rector of Laugton Maltravers. 


—Lady Grizelle de Talbot. 


Richard 
D. S. P. 


William — 
de Wellesley. 


Walter 
Wesley. — 


— Gwendaliue 
de Courtenay. 


—Daughter of Sir Paul 
Tracy. 


Gwiu, Sir W. Echlin. 


Frauces, married to Robert Wellesley, 
of Daugau. 


Sir Herbert Wesley,— 
or Wellesley, of 
Westleigh, Co. Devon. 


— Elizabeth de Wellesley 
of Daugau. 


William 

Wesley, or— — D. of John Eden 
Wellesley. of West Ducklaud. 

Arthur 
D. S. P. 


Harphan 
D. S. P. 


William 


Rev. Bartholomew 
Wesley of — 
Charmouth. 


Ann, daughter 
of Sir Thomas 
Pigott. 


—Daughter of Sir neury 
Colley of Kildare. 


Thomas B. A. 


George 


Francis Wesley, 
died 1S54, 
aged 90 years. 


1st, Miss Pelham, 
no issue. 

2d, his kiuswoman, 
daughter of Rev. S. 
Wesley of Epworth. 



John Wesley — 
of Whitet horn 
Whitechurch. 


—Miss White. 


Timothy. I 


•• S3 co 
p a* p 

I* 2 - gfl 

— r/j -) js 

q:- 


Matthew. 


—Miss Bamfylde. 


Ilenry 
D. S. P. 


Alfred - 


William 
D. S. P. 


-Anne Lillie. 



[All living.] 


I I I I I I I I 

vmw 


IS Rev. Chnrles- 
Weslev, born 
1707, died 17S8. 


Charles 

Wesley 


If 


P 


1 Samuel, 
married 

Miss Berry. Founder 
Died 1739. or 
„ , Methodism. 

—Sarah 
Gwvime of 

Garth, d. 1S22, aged 90. 


Sarah, died at 
Bristol, 1S2S, aged 76. 


Rev. Chas. Wesley, 
D.D., of the Chapel 
Royal St. James. 
Died 1S59. 


| Maria 
Eliza, 

still unmarried. 



* i r. iHiirun, 

~ | 2 Sarah Suter. 

gw 

John 

^ K 

Frederic Newcu- 

is 

William 

5 3 

ham, and leaves 

c p 

I). S. P. 

o 

O *■' 

issue 


1S62. 

HO 



William Deuuis, Esq. 


^ ^ a 

IMM 




ducetl to Peter Bohler, the Moravian. On the 20th, 
Charles began to instruct his friend in English, and Pe- 
ter in return taught him the plan of salvation by faith. 
It was on Whitsunday, May 21, 1738, his heart having 
been prepared by sickness, that this devout and labori- 
ous priest of the Church of England obtained the sense 
of pardon and adoption. It was just a week before his 
brother received the same blessing. Henceforth, what 
had been a labor of conscience and dutv was to be one 


—1 S. Sabastian, Mus. Doe., m. 
— 2 Rosalind, married to Glenn. 
— 3 Eliza, unmarried. 

— 4 Mathias Erasmus, m. to 
—5 John, m. [Jeffreys. 

—6 Thomasine, m. to Martin. 
—7 Robert, m. 

[All liviug, 1S70.], 

also of joy and love. He at once commenced addressing 
small audiences in the houses of friends, having some- 
times as a devout hearer Robert Ainsworth, author of 
the Latin Dictionary. He was soon appointed curate 
of St. Mary’s, Islington, London, which was the only 
preferment Charles Wesley ever had in the Church of 
England, although to the end of his long life one of her 
firmest adherents. His faithful ministry speedily pro- 
cured his dismissal. “He was literallv,” savs Dr. Ad- 


WESLEY 


909 


WESLEY 


aras, “expelled by violence, ami that violence received 
the sanction of the diocesan” ( [The Poet Preacher , p. 67). 
In June, 1739, he was summoned to appear before the 
archbishop of Canterbury to answer the charge of preach- 
ing in churches to which lie had no canonical appoint- 
ment. The learned prelate angrily dismissed the youth- 
ful preacher, and forbade the clergy to permit the Wes- 
leys to preach in their churches. On the Sunday after 
Dr. Potter’s interdiction, Charles Wesley preached to ten 
thousand people in Moorfields from the words “Come 
unto me, all ye that travail,” etc. Henceforth this ar- 
dent Churchman, contrary to all the traditions of his 
training and life, baptized with the spirit of consecra- 
tion, entered upon that work which, under Wesley and 
Whitefield,and Cownley and Hopper, was to stir through 
and through the rotten society and dead churches of 
England from Land’s End to the Tweed. From this 
time until 1756, Charles Wesley itinerated throughout 
England and Wales, in delicate health, and amid bodily 
infirmities, but with a zeal which hardships never abated, 
and with a courage which opposition never quelled. 
Charles Wesley was no muscular, iron-hearted Cromwell ; 
his spirit was gentle, his sensibilities tender; yet, near 
to martyrdom, he over and over again faced mobs and 
held his ground “until his clothes were torn to tatters 
and the blood ran down his face in streams” (Daniels, 
III. / list . of Meih . p. 326). For the thrilling but sicken- 
ing details of these adventures, see his biographers and 
the history of the early Methodist movement. 

After 1756, it appears, according to Jackson, that 
Charles Wesley ceased the active itinerant life. 1 1 is 
labors now became chiefly confined to London and Bris- 
tol, with visits to intermediate and surrounding places. 
The reasons for this change were, his marriage, the cares 
and attractions of domestic life, and the fact that, differ- 
ing so widely from his brother in points of Church or- 
der, he could not regulate the affairs of the societies sat- 
isfactorily to all concerned. (The preachers and mem- 
bers almost invariably agreed with John.) He therefore 
thought it best to leave the oversight with John, whose 
unrivalled administrative ability he could not fail to 
£ee, in fact acknowledged. (See Jackson, Life of C. 
Wesley, N. Y. ed., p. 543). “ The effect of his retirement 
from the itinerancy was the reverse of favorable, so far 
as he was personally concerned. His mind was natu- 
rally inclined to view things in a gloomy aspect, but 
amid the excitement, the change, the toil of an itine- 
rant ministry, he had no time to be melancholy. . . . 
The manifest success which attended his preaching filled 
him with unutterable gratitude; and while all his pow- 
ers were engaged in this work, he enjoyed a heaven upon 
earth. When he ceased to travel, he was at leisure to 
cherish his painful forebodings; croakers and busy- 
bodies tormented him with letters complaining of the 
ambition of the preachers, and of the alienation of the 
people from the Church ; and the pernicious leaven of 
mysticism which he had imbibed at Oxford, and from 
which his mind had never been thoroughly purged, re- 
gained its ascendency over him so as often to interfere 
with his spiritual enjoyments: yet his piety and integ- 
rity of purpose were unimpeachable. Often was he in 
agonies of fear lest the Methodists should leaVe the 
Church when he and his brother were dead, while John 
was as happy as ail angel, flying through the three king- 
doms, sounding the trumpet of the world’s jubilee and 
joyfully witnessing every successive year the steady ad- 
vancement of the work of God” (Jackson, vt sup., p. 549). 
He still remained with the Methodists, and still threw 
off his matchless hymns. In 1771-72 he finally removed 
to London. In 1777 he frequently visited the unfortu- 
nate Dr. Dodd, condemned to die for forgery, and from 
his pen came A Prayer for Dr. Dodd under Condemna- 
tion. In 1780, in age and feebleness, he attended at 
Bristol his last Conference. Gradually he weakened un- 
til he quietly passed away, at No. 1 Chesterfield Street, 
London, March 29, 1788, His body rests in the old 
Marylebone church-yard. • 


II. A few special topics remain to be treated before 
we can get a satisfactory view of the career, influence, 
and genius of Charles Wesley. 

1. Ills Family. — On April 8, 1749, Charles Wesley was 
married to Sarah Gwvnne, a Welsh lady of piety, refine- 
ment, and fortune. Of this happy marriage were born 
four sons and four daughters. Three only survived their 
father — Charles, Sarah, and Samuel. The two sons 
were musical prodigies. They gave concerts before the 
elite of London with great applause, and were shown 
marked favor by the royal family. The last days of 
their father’s life were embittered by the perversion of 
his third son, Samuel, to the Church of Home in 1785. 
This called forth from the old man one of the most touch- 
ing poems in the language, commencing “ Farewell, my 
all of earthly hope.” If the father had lived long enough, 
he would have seen his son leave the Homan Catholic 
Church in contempt and become her public antagonist. 
Mrs. Wesley survived her husband thirty-five years, and 
died Dec. 28, 1822, aged ninety- six years. Numerous 
descendants are living (see Stevenson, l J edigree of the 
Wesley Family from A.D. 938 to 1875, in Memorials of 
the Family). 

2. II is Character . — Although abrupt and singular in 
his manners, and with the utmost simplicity and frank- 
ness of mind, he had much warmth of affection and ten- 
derness of sympathy ; so that his friendship was felt to 
be of inestimable value. 1 1 is views were ascetic. In 
him appeared “ the true Reformer’s fire, the fearless zeal, 
the utter self-renunciation, the contempt for what other 
men prize, the unworldly aspirations, the miracle-work- 
ing faith” (Bird, ut infra, p. 146). “The most remark- 
able feature of the poet’s mind,” continues the same 
writer, “was its subjectiveness. His vision was per- 
petually introverted ; he had no eyes for external objects, 
no interest in the things that other men care most for; 
he was all soul; spiritual ideas and facts were the world 
to him” (p. 151). He was powerful in his antipathies 
and tenacious of his peculiarities of opinion. 

3. I I is Preaching and Scholarship. — His discourses 
were effusions of the heart rather than the offspring of 
the intellect or of the imagination. Of the Bible he 
was a diligent and enraptured student, and he imbued 
his sermons with its doctrines and language. To turn 
men from sin to Christ was the object of his preaching, 
and in those less artificial, slower, and perhaps more ig- 
norant days he did not hesitate to preach long — some- 
times two hours — if he thought good could be accom- 
plished thereby. With the Latin, Greek, Hebrew, and 
French languages he was well acquainted, and he had 
studied Arabic. Horace and Virgil he loved, and often 
repeated from memory large portions of the JEneid. 
Jackson thinks that had he devoted himself to sacred 
literature, he would have taken high rank among the 
poets of Great Britain. 

4. II is Differences of Opinion with his Brother, and 
his Relation to Methodism. — Charles Wesley was an ar- 
dent Churchman (see his Postscript in John Wesley’s 
Reasons against a Separation from the Church of Eng- 
land). He loved the Church as his own life; yet he 
thought he was not for that reason less a Methodist. 
Against the administration of the sacraments by the 
preachers he resolutely contended (sec his letters quoted 
in his biographies). He also differed with his brother 
concerning the qualifications necessary for an itinerant 
preacher, and sometimes silenced those whom John had 
admitted. From the first he opposed his brother’s or- 
daining the preachers; he made no exceptions for Scot- 
land and America, although Dr. Rigg says he admitted 
his brother’s right to ordain his preachers to administer. 
(Dr. Rigg gives no authority for that statement; there 
are facts which look, to say the least, the other way.) 
“ He lived in hope, sometimes sanguine, more often des- 
perate and scarce surviving, that a bishop would be 
raised up to ordain the best of the preachers in the succes- 
sion, as they became ripe for ordination, to cures in the 

I Church of England. He would thus have made Meth- 


WESLEY 


910 


WESLEY 


odism a nursery fur evangelical pastors and preachers 
in the Church of England, and an outwork of the Es- 
tablishment. lie was, however, himself practically even 
less of a Churchman than his brother, and his hopes of a 
bishop were continually disappointed. ‘The bishops 
might, if they pleased,’ he wrote to Latrobe, the Mora- 
vian minister, in 1785. ‘save the largest and soundest 
part of them back into the Church; perhaps to leaven 
the whole lump, as archbishop Cotter said to me. But 
1 fear, however, betwixt you and me, their lordships care 
for none of these things. Still, I should hope, if God 
raised up but one primitive bishop, and commanded the 
porter to open the door"' (John 11. Bigg, London Qua?', 
/lev. [ Wesleyan], Xo. LX, July, 1868. p. 302). Yet this 
same Churchman approved of la}' preaching, separate 
meetings, and almost everything else that belonged to 
the earliest Methodism, lie himself was the first to 
administer the Lord’s supper to the separate societies. 
In fact, as Jackson well says, “ there was a singular dis- 
crepancy between bis theory of chnrcbmanship and his 
conduct. For thirty years he made more noise on the 
subject of the continued union of the Methodists with 
the Church than any man of the age; and all this time 
he was beyond comparison the greatest practical sepa- 
ratist in the whole connection. John Wesley spent 
most of his time travelling through Great Britain and 
Ireland, often preaching twice every day, and two or 
three times on the Sabbath. Barely, however, did he 
preach in Church hours except when he officiated for a 
brother clergyman. ... lie attended the Church where 
he happened to be, and pressed the people to accompany 
him thither. Many of the itinerant preachers pursued 
the same eourse. . . . This was the recognised plan of 
Methodist practice. . . . But this was not the state of 
things in London under the administration of Charles 
Wesley, lie preached twice during Church hours eve- 
ry Sabbath, and indulged the society with a weekly 
sacrament at their own places of worship, lie conduct- 
ed divine worship, indeed, according to the order of the 
Church of England, except that he used extemporary 
prayer and sang his own beautiful hymns; but be and 
the society had otherwise no more connection with the 
Established Cliureh than any Dissenting minister and 
congregation had. lie was under no episcopal control, 
the chapels were licensed by no bishop. . . . The country 
societies wished in this respect to be on an equality with 
their metropolitan brethren, and they were never satis- 
fied until this was conceded to them” (Life of Charles 
Wesley, Loud, ed., ii, 404, 405). “ Though Charles Wes- 
ley hardly ever went to Church, and was no more under 
the jurisdiction of a bishop than I am, yet he was so at- 
tached to the name of a Churchman that 1 heard him 
say he should be afraid to meet his father’s spirit in 
Paradise if he left the Church” (Bradburn, Are the 
Methodists Dissenters? [Bristol, 1792]). 

Charles lacked the breadth of view, the practical cast 
of mind, the wisdom, of his brother ; and in measures of 
Church administration bis inllueuce over the latter was 
slight. Perhaps the remark of I)r. Stevens is justified : 
“ Had the leadership of Methodism early devolved upon 
him by the death of bis brother, as was at one time like- 
ly, it would probably have been either extinct to-day, or 
hardly distinguishable as a special religious agency in 
the world” (Hist, of Methodism, ii, 275). It w'as as a 
hymnist his influence over Methodism was so great and 
so blessed. 

5. His Hymns. — Charles Wesley’s fame rests, and will 
forever rest, upon his hymns. Upon these it is secure 
for all time. Critics, however, have found certain faults 
in these hymns. These alleged defects we will first give. 
They call attention to “the prosaic, literal, doctrinal 
character of many of the lines: their occasional harsh- 
ness, and the preponderance of the subjective element 
of personal experience” {Amer. Presb. Her. April, 18G7, 
p.343). “The paucity of his topics produces frequent 
repetition. He has little variety of manner, and less 
variety of matter. . . . Many of his pieces wear the ex- 


clusive aspect of the sectarian he easts his mite into 
the treasury of a party; he writes as a poet of Method- 
ism, not as the servant of the universal Church” (Milner, 
Life of }r<t/te). Certain extravagant expressions and 
violations of correct judgment and taste are pointed 
out : as, e. g., the remarkable hymn, “ Ah, lovely appear- 
ance in death,” the lines of which, the objector allows, 
“arc invested with all his own grace and tenderness” 
(Bird, Biblioth. Sac. Jan. 1GG4, p. Id3). [Dr. Whedon 
stoutly defends this hymn, taking issue with Dr. Floy 
and critics generally. lie says it is rarely excelled for 
originality, solemnity, and pathos; compares it with 
Byron’s celebrated passage in the Giaour , and awards 
the palm to the poem of Wesley, “describing an inex- 
pressible moral and divine beauty connected with repose 
from the toils, sorrows, and sins of life, and the hush of 
t lie spirit to its eternal and ineffable repose” ( Meth . 
Quar. Her. April, 1867, p. 307).] Finally, George Mac- 
donald — an undoubted authority — denies them “ much 
literary merit” (England's Antiphon, 18G9. See also ad- 
versely, J. D. Burns, in the Encyclop. Brit., 8th ed., xii. 
189). * 

On the other side, we give the judgment of a Luther- 
an critic, Bev. Frederic M. Bird, a most thorough and 
ardent student of Wesleyan hymnology. We quote 
from an able, elaborate, and interesting review in the 
Bibliotheca Sacra , Jan. and April, 18G4: “The more 
extensively and closely his writings are examined, the 
more will be found in them worthy to be admired and 
used” (p. 129). “Dr. Watts has been commonly con- 
sidered the most powerful of hymnists. The published 
Wesleyan hymns are five times as numerous as his; and 
of this immense mass the literary standard is far higher 
than that of the lesser bulk of the more celebrated writ- 
er. Set aside one hundred of Watts’s and five hundred 
of Wesley’s best hymns, there will be no comparison 
between the remainder in style and poetic merit. Dr. 
Watts was a poet at certain times, and under special 
inspiration; Charles Wesley was a poet by nature and 
habit, and almost always wrote as such. Of course his 
effusions are not equal among themselves; but he es- 
tablished and observed, through all bis multiplicity of* 
verses, a standard which no other hvmn-writer, lip to 
his time, was able to approach, and which none has 
since surpassed” (ibid.). “ Xo other saered poet has at- 
tempted such a ‘variety of matter;’ and his versatile 
muse handles all these multifarious topics w’ith unequal- 
led, almost with unvarying, ease and grace. . . . There 
are no hymns in the world of such ‘spontaneous devo- 
tion;’ none so loftily spiritual; none so unmistakably 
genuine and intensely earnest, as the best-known and 
most largely used of Wesley’s. It is the highest praise 
of the few noblest hymns of Watts and Cowper that 
they reach an elevation on which the Methodist poet 
generally sat, and express a mental state which was 
habitual with him” (p. 140). “No hymn- writer is 
more intellectual; none puts more doctrine, thought, 
solid mental pabulum into bis poems. And certainly 
none is more awakening and edifying; few others, in 
fact, approach him in native moral earnestness, force, 
fire; and none possesses a higher, purer, more consistent, 
uniforrft, and positive spirituality” (p. 311). “As a po- 
lemic poet Charles Wesley has never been equalled. * . . 
The most powerful, combative, and controversial poems 
we have ever seen appeared in Hymns on God's Ever- 
lasting Love, published in 1741, and greatly enlarged in 
1756” (p.288-289). Mr. Bird gives a fine resume of 
these rhyming polemics. “The Funeral Hymns of 
Charles Wesley are, perhaps, the noblest specimens of 
his genius” (see further, p. 298 sq.). “Doddridge and 
Steele are diluted reproductions of Dr. Watts. Mont- 
gomery, a professed and life-long poet, is inferior to Wes- 
ley in all the qualities mentioned above, and in no re- 
spect above him in propriety, harmony, and grace of 
style. Heber, the most elegant and mellifluous of sa- 
cred poets, is not more polished and fluent than his 
Methodist predecessor; nor lias he anything of his so- 


WESLEY 


911 


WESLEY 


liditv, strength, and tire. Cowper is the greatest name 
in the hymn-books; but Cowper’s best poems, which 
are very lew, are but equal, not superior, to Wesley’s 
best, which are very many. Topladv approaches most 
nearly the Methodist poet, but Topladv borrowed his in- 
spiration from Wesley and reproduced his style; and it 
is the Calvinist’s highest praise that his finest pieces 
are undistinguishable from those of his Anninian neigh- 
bor. No other names in British sacred lyric poetry can 
be mentioned with that of Charles Wesley. And when 
it is remembered that all these counted their poems by 
dozens or hundreds, while he by thousands; and that 
his thousands were in power, in elegance, in devotional 
and literary value, above their few, we call him yet more 
confidently great among poets and prince of English 
hvnmists” (p. 318). This, high praise comes from one 
who — not a Methodist — has by long and patient study 
earned for himself a place among the very few authori- 
ties in the hymnologv of Wesley. 

It is needless to mention single hymns of surpassing 
excellence. Several have been already referred to in 
the art. Hymnology. Suffice it here to call attention 
to three only : 

(</.) The poem on “ Wrestling Jacob” has enraptured 
all readers. Who has not felt the power of that master- 
piece ? “ With consummate art he carries on the action 
of a lyric drama; every turn in the conflict with the Mys- 
terious Being, against whom he wrestles all night, being 
marked with precision by the varying language of the 
speaker, accompanied by intense increasing interest, till 
the rapturous moment of the discovery, when he pre- 
vails and exclaims, ‘I know thee. Saviour, who thou 
art’” (Montgomery, Christian Psalmist [1828]). 

(6.) “Jesus, lover of my soul” is the essence of a thou- 
sand hymns and prayers.* Tributes innumerable might 
be laid down here. But what are these? The heart 
of the world is brought near to God. 

(r.) “Stand the omnipotent deeree,” “the finest lyrie 
in the English language,” says Southey. 

III. Literature . — We classify this for convenience’ 
sake, under separate heads. 

1. Charles Wesley’s own poetical works (published 
during his life) may be enumerated, as follows, in tabu- 
lar form (we include a few prose writings): 


Dale No. of 

of Publ. Title . Hymns. 

1 739, Hymns and Sacred Poems .. 139 

1740, Hymns and Sacred Poems 96 

1741, Ilymns of God’s Everlasting Love 3S 

1742, Hymns and Sacred Poems 155 

1743, Collection of Psalms and Hymns (enlarged).... 13S 

1744, Hymns for Times of Trouble and Persecution.. 33 

1744, Hymns for the Nativity of out* Lord IS 

1744, Ilymns for Watch-night 11 

1744, Funeral Hymns 16 

1745, Hymns for Times of Trouble for the Year 1745. . 15 

1745, A Short View of the Differences between the Mo- 
ravian Brethren. 

1745, Hymns for the Lord’s Supper 166 

1746, Hymns for Times of Trouble 6 

1746, Gloria Patri, etc. : Hymns to the Trinity 9 

1746, Ilymns on Great Festivals (with music by Lampe) 24 
1746, Hymns of Petition and Thauksgiving for the 

Promise of the Father (Whitsunday) 32 

1746, Hymns for Ascension-day 7 

1746, Hymns for our Lord’s Resurrection 16 

1746, Graces before and after Meat 26 

1746, Ilymns for Public Thanksgiving (Oct. 9, 1746). . . 7 

1747, Hymns for those that Seek and those that Have 

Redemption in the Blood of Jesus Christ 52 

174S, Hymns on his Marriage 17 

1749, Ilymns and Sacred Poems 455 

1750, Hymns for New-year’s-day (1751) 7 

1750, Ilymns Occasioned by the Earthquake (Mar. 8). 19 

1753, Ilymns and Spiritual Si>ngs 116 


1755, An Epistle to Rev. John Wesley (churehly and 
brotherly [see Jackson, Life of Charles Wesley. 

N. Y. ed., p. 50]). 

1755, An Epistle to Rev. George Whitefield (brotherly 

[ibid. p. 51 S]). 

1756, Hymns Occasioned by the Earthquake (2d ed.). 22 
1756, Ilymns for the Year 1756 (particularly for the 

TA />v ^ ^ 


’Fast Day, Feb. 6) 17 

175S, Hymns of Intercession for all Mankind 40 

1758, Hymns for the Use of Methodist Preachers 10 

1759, Funeral Hymus (enlarged) 43 


Date No. of 

of DM Title. IJymm. 

1759, Hymns on the Expected Invasion S 

1759, Ilymns for Thanksgiving-day (Nov. 29) 15 

1761, Hymns for those to whom Christ is All in All. .. 134 

1761, Select Hymns, with Tunes Annexed 132 

1762, Short Hymus on Select Passages of lloly Script- 

ure (2 vols.) 2030 

1763, Hymns for Children 100 

1765, Ilymns on the Gospels (left in MS.) — 

1767, Ilymns for the Use of Families on Various Occa- 
sions lss 

1767, Hymns on the Trinity. 1S2 

1772, Preparation for Death 40 

1780, Hymns Written in the Time of Tumults (June, 

1730) 13 

1782, Ilymns for the Nation and for the Fast Day, 

Feb. 8, 17S2 32 

1785, Prayers for Condemned Malefactors (in verse). . 10 

See Stevenson, Memorials of the Wesley Family , p. 412. 

2. Collective Poems. — A Collection of the Poems of 
John and Charles Wesley (Wesl. Conf. Office, Loud. 1808 r 
72, 13 vols. 8vo), reprinted from the originals with the 
last corrections of the authors, collected and arranged 
by G. Osborne, D.D. ; Charles Wesley Seen in his Finer 
and Less Familiar Poems (N, Y. 1867, 24mo), edited with 
notes by Frederic M. Bird; Wesley [Chas.], A Poetical 
Version of the Psalms (Lond. 1854, 8vo), edited, with an 
introduction, by Henry Fish, A.M. 

3. For authorities on Charles Wesley’s life, see White- 
head, Lives of John and Charles Wesley (Lond. 1793 ; Bos- 
ton, Mass., 1844, 8vo; Auburn and Rochester, N.Y., 1854) ; 
Moore, Lives of John and Charles Wesley (Lond. 1824); 
Jackson, Life of Charles Wesley (Lond. 1841, 2 vols. 8vo ; 
N, Y. 1844, 8 vo, slightly retrenched [an abridgment of 
this excellent work was subsequently publ. in Lond.]), 
with a review of his poetry, sketches of the rise and 
progress of Methodism, and notices of contemporary 
events and characters; Dove, Biog. Notices of the II Vs- 
ley Family; Stevenson, Memorials of the Wesley Fam- 
ily (Lond., N. Y., and Cincinnati, 1876. 8vo [invaluable]), 
p. 384-413; Adams, The Poet Preacher (N.Y. 1859, lOmo); 
Wakelev, Anecdotes of the Wesleys (ibid. 1869, lGmo), 
p. 323-386; Jackson, Journal of Charles Wesley (Lond. 
1849, 2 vols. 8vo), selections from his correspondence 
and poetry, with introduction and notes; Smith, Ste- 
vens, and Porter, Histories of Methodism (N. Y. 1875. 
l2mo); Daniels, History of Methodism (ibid. 1879, 8vo 
[see Indices]); Crowther, Portraiture of Methodism , 
p. 15-19; Myles, Chron. Hist, of the Methodists, anil. 
1729, 1788; Atmore, Meth. Memorial, s. v.; Minutes of 
the Conferences (Lond. 1788, 8vo), p. 201 ; Meth. Quar. 
Review, Jan. 1842, art. viii ; Tyerman, Life of John lUes- 
ley (see Index), vol. iii; Wesley, Works (see Index): 
Stevenson, Hist, of City Road Chapel, p. 148, 348; and 
articles in the cyclopaedias. 

4. On his poetry, see, in addition to the above and to 
the authorities cited in the text, Christophers, The Ep- 
worth Singers and other Poets of Methodism (Lond. and 
N. Y. 1874, 12mo); Creamer, Meth. I/ymnology (N. Y. 
1848, 12mo); Burgess, Wesleyan Hymnology (Lond. 1845); 
Holland, Psalmists of Britain; Symons, Notes on Meth- 
odist Hymn - writers and their Hymns; Kirk, Charles 
Wesley, the Poet of Methodism (1860, 12mo); Belcher, 
Hist. Sketches of Hymns; Stevenson, The Methodist 
Hymn-book and Its Associations (Lond. 1870, 12mo); 
Lond. Quar. Review [Wesl.], Jan. 1869, p. 500; Bill. 
Sacra, July, 1867, p. 591; McMullen, Sacred Poetry; 
Schaff, Christ in Sony (N. Y. 1868); Miller, Our Hymns, 
Their Authors and Origin (Lond. 1867 [see Lond. Quar. 
Review , April, 1867, p. 258]); Ladies' Repository, May. 
1874, p. 355; The Christian Advocate (N. Y.), Oet. 7, 
1880, p. 1. See works mentioned in articles Hymnol- 
ogy; Psalmody, Christian. 

5. The great musicians Lampe, Giardini, and Han- 
del composed tunes for Charles Wesley’s hymns. 

Wesley, Charles (2), an eminent musician, son 
of the Rev. Charles Wesley, was born at Bristol, Eng- 
land, in 1757 ; was for many years organist at St. 
Marylebone, and died in 1834. lie was the author 
of A Set of Eight Songs (1784): — and, among other 


WESLEY 


912 


WESLEY 


pieces, an anthem entitled My Soul Hath Patiently 
Tarried. 

Wesley, Charles (3), D.D., a clergyman of the 
Church of England, son of Samuel Wesley, the musician, 
and grandson of Charles Wesley, A.M., was born at 
Hidgo, a village near St. Albans, Sept. *25, 1793. lie was 
instructed by his father until he was about twelve years 
old ; sent to a school at Wateringbury, near Maidstone; 
remained some years at St. Pauls School, London ; en- 
tered Christ College, Cambridge, in 1818, where he dis- 
tinguished himself as a logician; was ordained priest in 
Salisbury Cathedral in 1821 ; appointed curate of Eburv 
Chapel, Pimlico, the same year; became alternate min- 
ister of St. Mary’s Chapel, Fulham, in 1822; was for 
some years minister at St. Paul’s, C-ovent Carden; be- 
came chaplain to the king’s household at St. James’s in 
1833; subsequently became subdeacon of her majesty’s 
Chapels Loyal, confessor of the household, and in 1847 
chaplain to the queen, lie died at St. James’s Palace. 
Sept. 14, 1859. He published .1 Guide to Syllogism \ 
(1832), and A Short Commentary on the Church Cate- 
chism. See Stevenson, Memorials of the Wesley Family, I 
p. 539 sip 

Wesley (or Westley), John (1), an English 
clergyman of the Established Church, grandfather of the 
founder of Methodism, was born about 1G3G; and edu- 
cated at New Inn Hall, Oxford, where he was distin- 
guished for piety, diligence, and special attainments in 
the Oriental languages. After graduation lie was con- 
nected with the Church at Melcombe, Dorsetshire, by 
which lie was sent as a lay preacher to labor among the 
seamen and others at Ladipole, near Weymouth. In 1G58 
lie became the minister of Winterbourn Whitchurch, 
Dorsetshire, under the authority of Cromwell. After the 
Restoration he was summoned before Gilbert Ironside, 
bishop of Bristol, who dismissed him without interfer- 
ence. But he was afterwards twice imprisoned, and in 
1GG1 ejected from his living. He was then persecuted 
from place to place, and finally took refuge in Preston. 
He was then called to preach to a society in Poole, but 
on account of the Five-mile Act performed the duties 
of pastor still residing at Preston. lie was several 
times arrested and four times imprisoned; and died about 
1G70. Application was made to bury him in the Church 
at Preston, but permission was refused by the vicar. 

Wesley, John (2), the founder of Methodism, was 
born at Epworth, Lincolnshire, England, June 17, 1703 
(O. S.). His father, Samuel Wesley, rector of Epworth, 
belonged to an ancient family of high respectability. 
Ilis mother was the daughter of Dr. Antieslev, a man 
nobly connected, and the possessor of a very exalted 
character. To this remarkably endowed lady Wesley 
was chiefly indebted for his admirable early training 
and his elementary education. Ilis uncommonly fine 
traits of character, and his narrow, not to say marvel- 
lous, escape from the burning rectory when he was six 
years old, gave birth in her mind to an impression that 
this child was destined to an extraordinary career. She 
therefore consecrated him to God with special solemnity, 
resolving “ to be more particularly careful ... to instil 
into his mind the principles of religion and virtue.” 
The fruit of her fidelity to this high purpose was the 
grand and beautiful life of her consecrated boy. 

1. School and College Life. — When Wesley was in bis 
eleventh year, the patronage of the duke of Bucking- 
ham secured his admission to the Charterhouse School, 
London, of which Dr. Thomas Walker was then master, 
and the Lev. Andrew Tooke, author of the Pantheon . 
usher. To such a grave and gentle-mannered boy as 
was this poor son of a village rector, his removal from 
the peaceful rectory and the companionship of his firm 
but loving mother to the cloisters of a large “founda- 
tion” school, and to forced association with numerous 
rude boys, whose cruelty to their juniors was equal to 
their thoughtlessness, must have been a very sore trial; 
but he stood it bravely, and soon wou a very high rep- 


utation for good behavior, devotion to study, and supe- 
rior scholarship. When sixteen years old he was elect- 
ed to Christ Church College, Oxford. Here lie pursued 
his studies with the same exemplary diligence as at the 
Charterhouse. So highly were bis classical attain- 
ments esteemed by the heads of the university that he 
was elected fellow of Lincoln College, March 17, 172G. 
He was then but twenty-three years of age, yet such 
was his reputation as a classical scholar, a thoughtful 
and polished writer, and a skilful logician that he was 
chosen Greek lecturer and moderator of the classes only 
eight months after his election to a fellowship, and be- 
fore he had proceeded master of arts, to which academic 
honor he was admitted in February, 1727. 

II. Ordination and Work in America. — After much 
hesitation, caused by grave doubts as to whether the 
ministry of the Gospel was his proper vocation, Wesley 
had sought and obtained ordination as a deacon by the 
bands of bishop Potter in September, 1725. The same 
prelate ordained him priest in 1728. From 1725 to 1729 
his time was spent partly at Epworth, as his father’s 
curate, and partly at Oxford; but in the latter year his 
college authorities insisting on his residence at Oxford, 
he returned thither and devoted himself to the duties 
of his fellowship. In 1735, on the death of his father, 
he was strongly urged by his relatives to take the nec- 
essary steps for securing the vacant Epworth rectorship. 
Believing that he could be more useful at Oxford than 
at Epworth, he only yielded to the wishes of his friends 
so far as to make an indirect application for the living 
(Tverman. Wesley, i, 102, 103). I le was probably pleased 
to learn that it was given to another. Yet in October 
of the same year his convictions respecting his duty to 
remain at Oxford were so modified that he was per- 
suaded to go with general (Oglethorpe as a missionary 
to Georgia. 

Wesley spent two years and almost four months in 
Georgia, faithfully preaching to the colonists; but find- 
ing no opportunity to reach the Indians, as he had 
hoped to do, and seeing but scant fruit from his labors 
in Savannah and adjacent settlements, he returned to 
England in 1738. Ilis ascetic habits, bis extreme rit- 
ualistic practices, bis rigid administration of Church dis- 
cipline, bis vigorous method of dealing with prevailing 
vices in the pulpit, and his highly cultivated and re- 
fined nature were not suited to win the sympathy of 
those rude, self-seeking colonists. Had his character 
and preaching been softened by that evangelical expe- 
rience which lie subsequently obtained, bis missionary 
work in America would probably have been more pro- 
ductive. Nevertheless, it was eminently beneficial to 
himself; and after his departure the people of Savan- 
nah, reflecting on what he had said and done among 
them, generally admitted his great worth, and lamented 
his absence as a serious loss to the colony. 

Wesley was now nearly thirty-five years of age, and, 
except in academic circles at Oxford, was almost an 
unknown man. No signs of the great celebrity to which 
he was destined had yet appeared ; but his hour was at 
hand, lie was about to receive that spiritual baptism 
which was the pivotal fact in his career, hut for which 
it is quite probable he would have spent his life in the 
gratification of his scholastic tastes, quietly performing 
the duties of his fellowship within the walls of Lincoln 
College, at Oxford. Wesley’s special work was the fruit 
of his religions experience, to which wc will now* direct 
the reader’s attention. 

III. His Religious Experience. — From his earliest 
childhood Wesley was uncommonly susceptible to re- 
ligious impressions. He was reverential, conscientious, 
reflective, and grave, far beyond bis years. These qual- 
ities were developed by the religious atmosphere which 
pervaded the Epworth rectory, by the methodical in- 
struction and judicious training of bis affectionate and 
highly gifted mother, and by the influence of his learn- 
ed and devout father. Reared in this home, consecrated 
to the domestic affections, to intellectual culture, and to 


WESLEY 


913 


WESLEY 


spiritual pursuits, his mind and heart drank in the 
sweet influences of the spirit of truth so precociously that 
his father, impressed by the consistency of his child- 
life, admitted him to the communion when he was only 
eight years old. And he himself declared that “ until I 
was about ten years old 1 had not sinned awav that 
washing of the Iloly Ghost which was given me in 
baptism.” 

When he was sent to the Charterhouse School, he 
was like a plant suddenly removed from the genial 
warmth of a greenhouse to the cold air of an unshel- 
tered garden. The form of religion was maintained in 
its halls, but the spiritual atmosphere and the personal 
guidance to which he had been accustomed were not 
there. Hence the piety of His childhood wilted. He 
still adhered to the outward duties of religion, but his 
heart lost the consolations of the Spirit; and though he 
avoided scandalous sins, he fell into practices which his 
conscience condemned. 

In this state he entered the university, where, for five 
years, while treating his religious duties with outward 
respect, he continued to sin against his convictions in 
spite of the castigations of his conscience. These were 
so severe at times as to induce transient fits of unfruit- 
ful repentance. His love of learning was too strong to 
sutler his pleasures to interfere with his studies; his 
poverty held him back from the costly vices which en- 
slaved many of his college companions, but did not pre- 
vent him from becoming a lively and witty, though not 
an immoral, sinner. When twenty -two years of age 
his thoughts were drawn to more serious views of life 
by his father’s pressing letters, urging him to enter into 
holy orders, and bv the light which broke upon his con- 
science while reading the Christian's Pattern, by Thom- 
as a, Kempis. The conversation of a religious friend, 
and, after his removal to Lincoln College, the perusal of 
Law’s Christian Perfection and Serious Call , deepened 
these convictions, and led him to devote himself, soul, 
body, and substance, to the service of God. The com- 
pleteness of this self-devotion, combined with his rare 
moral courage and superior strength of character, caused 
him to be recognised as the leader of a group of under- 
graduates which was nicknamed the “ Holy Club” by the 
ungodly students and dons of the university, who also 
derided its members for their rigid adhesion to ritual- 
istic rules and charitable practices by calling them 
“ Methodists.” 

From this unreserved dedication of himself to God 
Wesley never receded. Henceforth he sought to do 
the divine will with all the force of his energetic nat- 
ure. But, owing to his failure to comprehend the script- 
ural doctrine of salvation by faith only, he groped in the" 
dark through thirteen years of ascetic self-denial, ritu- 
alistic observances, unceasing prayer, and works of char- 
ity, before be gained an assurance that God, for Christ’s 
sake, had pardoned his sins. No stronger proof of sin- 
cerity and earnestness can be found in human history 
than is contained in Wesley’s absolute and complete de- 
votion to religion through those long, wearisome, com- 
fortless years of seeking God without finding him. 
Perhaps there is no fact more surprising in his marvel- 
lous career than that, with his singularly large per- 
ceptive powers and his familiarity with Scripture and 
with the writings of the English divines, he lived so 
long without gaining a right conception of the doctrine 
of justification by faith alone. And when, on his voy- 
age to Savannah, he saw some pious Moravians rejoic- 
ing, while he was shaken with fears of death, amid 
the fury of a storm which apparently was driving them 
into the jaws of destruction, he did not suspect that his 
fear was the fruit of his erroneous views. Nevertheless, 
his attention was thereby directed to the unsatisfactory 
features of his experience. He talked much with some 
of the Moravian brethren after his arrival in Savannah ; 
but it was not until after his return to England, in 1738, 
that Peter Bolder, a Moravian preacher in London, after 
much conversation, aided by the testimonies of several 
X.— M M 31 


living witnesses, convinced him that to gain peace of 
mind he must renounce that dependence upon his own 
works which had hitherto been the bane of his experi- 
ence, and replace it with a full reliance on the blood of 
Christ shed for him. To gain this faith he strove with 
all possible earnestness. And at a Moravian society 
meeting in Aldersgate Street, 'while one was reading 
Luther’s statement of the change which God works in 
the heart through faith, Wesley says, “ l felt my heart 
strangely warmed, f felt l did trust in Christ, Christ 
alone, for salvation; and an assurance was given me 
that he had taken away my sins, even mine, and saved 
me from the law of sin and death.” 

Wesley was now the possessor of “constant peace;” 
but, his faith being yet weak, was subject to many fluc- 
tuations through manifold temptations, lie therefore 
devoted all the forces of his mind to the culture of his 
faith. He sought association with the spiritually mind- 
ed Moravians; journeyed to Germany; visited count 
Zinzendorf; made himself familiar with the religious 
life of the Moravians at llerrnhut; conversed freely 
with many of their most distinguished men; and, in 
September, 1738, returned to London, strong in faith and 
prepared to enter with unbounded zeal upon the duty 
of calling men to repentance as Providence might give 
him opportunities. “ I look,” he said to a friend, shortly 
after his return to England, “ upon all the world as my 
parish ; thus far, I mean, that, in whatever part of it I 
am, I judge it meet, right, and my bounden duty to de- 
clare unto all that are willing to hear the glad tidings 
of salvation.” 

IV. Beginning of his Evangelistic WorTc. — This con- 
viction, the offspring of his faith and love, was the ger- 
minal principle oforganic Methodism, though Wesley did 
not then recognise it in that light. At this time he had 
not the feeblest conception that he was about to become 
the builder of a vast ecclesiastical structure. Never, 
perhaps, was a learned clergyman at thirty-five years 
of age so utterly without a plan of life as was John 
Wesley in 1738. He knew that his heart was ablaze 
with love for Christ and for human souls, and that he 
was possessed by a passionate desire to proclaim t He 
doctrine of present salvation by faith alone, and that he 
was determined, cost what it might, to be guided by that 
desire. Beyond this his intentions did not reach. He 
was a stanch, even a High, Churchman, and very natu- 
rally supposed that the fruit of his labors would con- 
tribute to the spirituality of the Established Church. 
Hence Methodism must be regarded as an accident 
rather than the result of a purpose deliberately formed 
in the mind of its great founder. It was the outgrowth 
of a sublime principle wrought into organic form by cir- 
cumstances which could not be controlled, except by 
the surrender of the principle itself. The facts in Wes- 
ley's career subsequent to 1738 scarcely admit of any 
other satisfactory interpretation. Let us briefly review 
them. 

There were several “societies” in London, chiefly com- 
posed of persons who were desirous of spiritual fellow- 
ship and instruction. Some of them were under Mo- 
ravian teachers, others were made up of Churchmen. 
Wesley very naturally associated with these societies, 
and preached to them and to such Episcopal congrega- 
tions as were open to his ministrations. But his exceed- 
ing earnestness, his theory of instantaneous conversion 
through faith, and, above all, the remarkable spiritual 
results of his preaching gave such offence to the vicars 
and rectors of the churches that, after a few months, he 
found his further access to church pulpits very general- 
\y refused, and his sphere of operations limited, in the 
main, to the rooms of the societies, to prison chapels, 
and to hospital wards. Neither was there any proba- 
bility that he would be presented to any church living. 
At this critical moment his friend Whitefield sent him 
a very pressing invitation to visit Bristol. After some 
hesitation he went thither; and his Iligh-Church sensi- 
bilities were shocked by seeing that eloquent evangelist 


WESLEY 


914 


WESLEY 


preach to an immense congregation in the open air. 
*’ I could scarcely reconcile myself at first,” he observes, 
to tliis strange way of preaching in the fields . . . hav- 
ing been all mv life (till very lately) so tenacious of 
every point relating to decency and order that I should 
have thought the saving of souls almost a sin if it had 
not been in a church.” Hut seeing AYhitefield’s field 
preaching divinely blessed, he conquered his life-long 
prejudices, and, standing on an eminence near the city 
of Bristol, preached for the first time in the open air to 
about three thousand souls, finis the problem of his 
evangelistic career was solved. The great purpose of 
his life could be accomplished in spite of closed church 
doors, lie did not know it then, but he really made 
organic Methodism, with its itinerant ministry, possible 
on that memorable Monday. April 2, 1739, when, with a 
courage which in his circumstances was truly sublime, 
he crossed the Rubicon by becoming a field preacher. 

The success of his out-door ministrations soon made 
it necessary to erect a chapel for the accommodation of 
his converts at Bristol. Lack of ability on the part of 
the people compelled him to assume the financial re- 
sponsibilities of this enterprise. To protect his pecuni- 
ary interests thus acquired, and to secure the use of its 
pulpit to himself or his representatives, he felt obliged 
to vest the title to the chapel in himself. All this, to 
his mind, bore the aspect of an undesirable burden forced 
upon his shoulders by unsought circumstances. But it 
proved to be the inception of that system of vesting his 
chapel titles in himself but for which the organic unity 
and growth of the Wesleyan societies could not have 
been secured. In adopting it, Wesley was unconscious- 
ly working on the foundations of a Church the ideal of 
which had not as yet arisen even in his imagination. 

A'. His First Societies . — A still more important step 
in the same direction was taken in London, July 20, 1740. 
This was nothing less than the formation of a society, 
under his exclusive direction, at his chapel in London, 
then recently acquired, and known as the Fonndery. 
Six months before he had organized a “ United Society” 
in connection with the Moravians at Fetter Lane. But, 
owing to errors in theory and wrongs in practice which 
had appeared among its members, Wesley thought prop- 
er to invite all who adhered to him to separate from 
the Moravians. Some eighteen or nineteen accepted 
his invitation. These persons he organized into a so- 
ciety, as stated above, which, though not intended to be 
a separation, either on his part or theirs, from the Church 
of England, must be regarded historically as a germ of 
the Wesleyan Church. It was the nucleus around 
which the societies that recognised Mr. Wesley as their 
ecclesiastical head subsequently clustered. 

The rapid increase of his United Societies, and his en- 
forced absences from them while on his evangelical 
tours, soon made it apparent that some means pf watch- 
ing over their spiritual growth was needed. No plan 
presented itself to his mind until, in February, 1742, 
while his followers in Bristol were discussing ways and 
means of paying their chapel debt, one of them proposed 
that the society should be divided into bodies of twelve, 
one of whom should be a sort of leader to collect from 
each a penny per week. Wesley approved. The plan 
worked well. In reporting their receipts some of these 
leaders spoke of having disorderly members on their list. 
“ It struck me immediately,” wrote Wesley, “ this is the 
thing, the very thing, we have wanted so long.” Act- 
ing promptly and with characteristic energy on this 
suggestion, he requested all the collectors to make par- 
ticular inquiry into the lives of the members on their 
respective lists. Six weeks later he divided his London 
society into similar classes, under the leadership of 
“ earnest and sensible men,” who were instructed to gain 
“a sure, thorough knowledge of each member on his 
list.” At first they did t his duty hv personal visita- 
tions; hut this method being found inconvenient, the 
members were required to meet their leaders once a 
week for prayer and religious conversation. Thus the 


class -meeting originated. It immediately became a 
means of ‘‘unspeakable usefulness;” indispensable, in- 
deed, to spiritual instruction and discipline in a system 
of itineracy which made it impossible for its ministers 
to perform thorough pastoral work. Wesley illustrated 
his sagacity, if not his genius, in incorporating it into 
his scheme of Christian work. It is, perhaps, theoret- 
ically open to objections, which some think to be not 
entirely groundless; vet it is historically certain that 
it contributed greatly to the purity and spread of Meth- 
odism ; and it is assuredly susceptible of such improve- 
ments, both on its intellectual and spiritual sides, as to 
justify its retention in the great churches which have 
grown out of Wesley’s United Society. 

AT. Originates the We shy an Itineracy . — Obeying the 
unsought calls ofProvidence,AVes]ey visited other towns 
in the vicinity of London and Bristol. Wherever lie 
preached, powerful awakenings and surprising conver- 
sions took place. This success begot new and weightier 
responsibilities. As the father of these spiritual chil- 
dren, he felt it to be his duty to see that they were 
properly nurtured. And when he saw many of his con- 
verts repelled from the sacramental table in national 
churches only because they were his hearers, he felt 
compelled to provide for their spiritual culture and over- 
sight. II is choice lay between making such provision 
or permitting the fruits of his labors to become a “rope 
of sand.” Being as yet a strong Churchman, he could 
not fully approve of lay preaching; but, following nu- 
merous Church precedents, he did appoint Mr. Cennick 
at Bristol, and Mr. Maxfield at London, to take local su- 
pervision of the societies in their respective neighbor- 
hoods, to hold prayer -meetings, and to expound the 
Scriptures, but not to preach. 

But circumstances soon arrayed themselves once more 
against his slowly declining ecclesiasticism. During 
his absence young Maxfield began to preach in London 
with such power and spiritual fruitage as demonstrated 
his divine call. AA'esley hastened back to London, in- 
tent on putting a stop to this irregularity. Ilis moth- 
er, then living in his house, said to him, “John, you 
know what my sentiments have been; you cannot sus- 
pect me of favoring readily any theory of this kind. 
But take care what you do with respect to that young 
man, for he is as surely called of God to preach as you 
are.” Thus cautioned, Wesley heard Maxfield preach, 
carefully observed the fruits of his preaching, was con- 
vinced that he was called of God to the work of the 
ministry, and then authorized him to preach to Metho- 
dist congregations as his “lay helper.” A'et he would 
not permit him to administer the sacraments, because 
he was not episcopally ordained. 

This unpremeditated step, so reluctantly taken, con- 
tributed immensely to the structure which AYesley was 
still undesigned])” rearing. In taking Maxfield as his 
helper, he in fact inaugurated the ministry of Method- 
ism on the basis of a divine call. And as other men 
equally qualified and conscious of that call speedily ap- 
peared among his converts in numerous places, lie could 
not consistently refuse to accept their aid, since the rap- 
idly increasing number of his societies and congrega- 
tions demanded the employment of more laborers. Hav- 
ing once admitted the principle, AYesley did not hesitate 
to apply it. Hence, in 1742, he had twenty-three Help- 
ers preaching under his direction ; and in 1744, five years 
after his first sermon in the field at Bristol, we find him 
holding his first “conference” in London. It was com- 
posed of John and Charles AYesley, John Hodges, Henry 
Piers, Samuel Taylor, and John Meriton, clergymen in 
sympathy with AYesley ; and Thomas Richards, Thomas 
Maxfield, John Bennett, and John Downes, lay helpers — 
in all. ten persons. They remained in session five days, 
conversing freely on questions of doctrine, discipline, 
and ministerial duty. Among the rules adopted for as- 
sistants or lay helpers was one requiring them “to act 
in all things not according to your own will, but as a 
son in the Gospel to do that part of the work which 


WESLEY 


915 


WESLEY 


we direct, at those times and places which we judge 
most for his glory.” This rule recognised Wesley’s au- 
thority to appoint his lay helpers to such fields of labor 
as lie'' judged best; it made unqualified submission to 
this authority the duty of every lay assistant; it put 
into the rising structure of Methodism the principle of 
authority which made an organized itinerant ministry 
possible, and without which, in some form, it is difficult 
to see how it could be maintained. As exercised by 
Wesley, this authority was autocratic and practically 
irresponsible, and his acceptance and use of it cannot be 
justified except on the ground that he believed it was 
necessary, as it probably was at first, to the growth of 
the great work which Providence had thrust upon him. 
He saw no time when he deemed its surrender consist- 
ent with the peace and progress of his societies; but, 
whether one agrees with him or not on this point, one 
cannot fairly charge him with its improper use. From 
first to last he sought the highest good of his societies, 
the best fields of usefulness for his preachers, and the 
promotion of the glory of God in all his appointments. 
No doubt he made many mistakes, for he was human; 
but, if ever mortal man possessed of great power was 
unselfish and pure in its exercise, that man was John 
Weslej r . 

VII. Formulation of a Doctrinal Platform. — The doc- 
trinal platform of the Wesleyan societies was formulated, 
at least in its essential outlines, at this first conference. 
Wesley himself had, after diligent study while at Ox- 
ford, conclusively accepted the Arminian theory of gen- 
eral redemption, and learned to regard the doctrines of 
election and reprobation, as held by Calvin, with very 
deep abhorrence. Ilis adhesion to what he believed to 
be the teaching of Holy Writ had brought him into an 
unpleasant conflict with Cennick,his lay helper at Bris- 
tol, and with his friend and fellow-evangelist White- 
field. The latter, having while in New England become 
enamoured with its then prevailing Calvinism, took 
grave offence at a sermon preached by Wesley in 1740 
on “free grace,” and protested against it very severely 
in a letter to Wesley, which Whitcfield’s friends pub- 
lished in England. Cenniek espoused the opinions of 
the letter, and, though in Wesley’s employ, sowed the 
seeds of dissension in the Bristol society. The conse- 
quence was Cennick’s separation from Wesle} r , White- 
field’s temporary estrangement from his old friend, and 
the division of Methodism into two branches, the Calvin- 
istic and the Wesleyan. Subsequently the two friends 
“ agreed to differ,” though they henceforth wrought in 
separate paths. But during this controversy the creed 
of the coming Wesleyan Church was practically settled ; 
and when Wesle\ T assembled his first conference, and 
its members conversed two days on “what to teach,” 
they found themselves in substantial agreement on the 
atonement, election, justification by faith, the witness 
of the Spirit, entire sanctification, and other leading 
doctrines. Thus Wesley’s theological views became 
the accepted platform of the great ecclesiastical system 
which he was unconsciously organizing. 

VIII. Development of Wesley's Work. — During the five 
years preceding this first conference great things had 
been accomplished. Starting from London and Bristol 
as the centres of his movement, Wesley had traversed 
the country from the Land’s End to Newcastle, and had 
formed societies in numerous towns and cities. In Lon- 
don alone those societies numbered not less than two 
thousaud souls. Their number elsewhere is not known, 
but it must have been several thousands. Forty-five 
preachers, including two ordained clergymen, were la- 
boring under his direction. Unnumbered thousands 
were accustomed to listen to the quickening words 
which fell with unwonted power from his lips, and from 
those of his devoted and laborious helpers. They had 
much bitter opposition and harsh persecution to con- 
tend with, and very little public sympathy to encourage 
them. The lower orders were steeped in brutality, the 
upper classes were hardened by scepticism and devoted 


to pleasure. The clergy were frozen amid the formali- 
ties of the Establishment. The Dissenting churches, 
with their ministers, were too lukewarm to breast the 
swelling tide of immorality which overflowed the land. 
They were, as Isaac Taylor remarks, “rapidly in course 
to be found nowhere but in books.” And the peculiar 
characteristic of the English nation was, to use the 
words of Wesley, “universal, constant ungodliness.” 
Against this triumphant wickedness Wesley, with his 
brother Charles, a handful of spiritual clergymen, and 
his little band of lay helpers, inspired by heroic faith, 
had entered the lists, determined to overthrow it and to 
establish the reign of scriptural holiness in its stead. 
It looked like an unequal and hopeless strife. But he 
threw himself with more than a hero’s daring into the 
midst of the fray, and led the van of a host which, if it 
did not wholly purify England, wrought a great refor- 
mation in public morals, poured fresh tides of spiritual 
life into both the Established and Dissenting churches, 
raised up that great body of spiritual men and women 
who finally constituted the Wesleyan Church, and ef- 
fected a reformation which broke the sceptre of ungod- 
liness and made England a com paratively godly nation. 

IX. Wesley's Extensive Labors. — In leading this great 
reformation, Wesley did herculean work. His evange- 
listic tours, annually enlarging, soon extended into all 
parts of England, to Wales, to Scotland, and to Ireland. 
Ever on the wing, travelling some four thousand five 
hundred miles every year, he preached from twice to 
four times nearly every day. His audiences were gen- 
erally large, sometimes vast, and in many places were 
disturbed by riotous mobs which, like hungry beasts, 
thirsted for his blood. He also met the societies, the 
classes, and the official boards whenever opportunity 
offered or necessity required. The erection of thousands 
of chapels, the collection of funds to pay their cost, and 
the choice of suitable trustees constantly required his 
attention. The care of all his preachers was upon him. 
His correspondence was immense. He had a heavy pub- 
lishing business to manage. Ilis journeys, mostly on 
horseback until the feebleness of advanced age compelled 
him to use a carriage, were long, tedious, tiresome, often 
perilons, and were pursued in sunshine and in storm, 
through the heat and rain of summer, and the frosts, 
winds, and snows of winter. Not unfrequently, espe- 
cially during the beginning of his career, they involved 
many privations, severe hardships, and much physical 
suffering. He usually read while travelling, even when 
on horseback, and thus kept himself thoroughly ac- 
quainted with the current literature of his times. He 
also wrote several original books and numerous pam- 
phlets on passing events. He edited, wrote, translated, 
or abridged not less than two hundred miscellaneous 
publications, which he published and sold through his 
preachers for the benefit of his societies. Every public 
movement for the improvement of society, such as the 
Sunday-school, the abolition of slavery, the circulation 
of tracts, charitable associations, popular education, and 
the like, occupied his thoughts, moved his sympathies, 
called forth his co-operation, and exhausted his purse. 
His eyes were open to every detail, no matter how mi- 
nute, that concerned the growth of his societies or the 
increase of the kingdom of God. He was always at 
work when awake, yet was never in a hurry. Ilis in- 
dustry and activity never were, never can be, exceeded. 
It is estimated that during the fifty years of his itiner- 
ant ministry he travelled over a quarter of a million 
miles, and preached more than forty-two thousand ser- 
mons. 

Under this unexampled leadership, continued through 
half a century, the organization which was begun with 
the feeble society at Fetter Lane, London, in 1739, had 
developed in 1790 into a powerful body consisting of 
five hundred and eleven preachers, laboring on two hun- 
dred and sixteen circuits, which covered vast territories 
in Great Britain and Ireland, in the West Indies, and in 
America; and numbering in its fellowship over one hun- 


WESLEY 


916 


WESLEY 


dred and twenty thousand souls. Besides this enrolled 
membership, there were at least four times as many per- 
sons worshipping in Methodist congregations. These 
swelled the number of his adherents, at the time of his 
death, to at least half a million of souls. But outside 
of this army of avowed adherents there was “a multi- 
tude which* no man could number,” who had been spir- 
itually and morally benefited by the movement which 
this truly marvellous man had inaugurated, and which, 
for half a century, he guided with almost unexampled 
wisdom and energy. 

X. //is Death .— Age could not chill the zeal of this 
apostolic man. Despite of its burdens and infirmities, 
he would not slacken his labors until the approach of 
death benumbed his powers. Eight days before his 
death he preached his last sermon at Leatherhead, near 
London. II is physical nature then gave way. A grad- 
ual sinking of his physical forces followed, during which 
his mind was generally clear, his faith strong, his peace 
perfect, his hope triumphant. On March 2, 1791, he 
passed, “ without a lingering groan,” into the felicities 
of the blessed life, in the eighty-eighth year of his age. 
His remains were interred in the burial-ground of City 
Load Chapel. 

Wesley left no children. In February, 1751, he had 
married the widow of a deceased London merchant 
named Vazeille. It was an unfortunate marriage. The 
lady could not, or at least did not, enter into sympathy 
with her husbands great life-work. She shrank from 
the toil which his incessant journeying involved, and, 
after a short time, refused to accompany him to his ap- 
pointments. Neither would she cheerfully consent to 
his almost constant absence from home. Hence, after a 
few years, they lived apart. She died Oct. 8, 1781. 

XI. Personal Appearance and Character . — When he 
was forty-one years of age Wesley was described by Dr. 
Ivennicott as being “neither tall nor fat. . . . His black 
hair, quite smooth and parted very exactly, added to a 
peculiar composure in his countenance, showed him to 
be an uncommon man.” Tverman says, “In person 
Wesley was rather below the middle size, but beauti- 
fully proportioned, without an atom of superfluous flesh ; 
yet muscular and strong, with a forehead clear and 
smooth, a bright penetrating eye, and a lovely face, 
which retained the freshness of its complexion to the 
latest period of his life.” 

As a preacher Wesley was calm, graceful, natural, 
and attractive. “ Ilis voice was not loud, but clear and 
manly.” lie was not an orator like Wbitefield, but his 
preaching was remarkable for unction, compactness and 
transparency of style, clear ami sharply defined ideas, 
power over the conscience, impressiveness and author- 
ity. 

In social life Weslej' never trifled, but he was always 
cheerful. He was an admirable conversationalist, full 
of anecdote, witty, courteous, gentle, serious, and at ease 
with both rich and poor. Though naturally irritable, 
he was master of himself, and was, in all respects, “a 
Christian gentleman.” A more charitable man proba- 
bly never existed. Ilis benevolence was only limited 
by his resources. After reducing his personal expenses 
to the lowest point consistent with the maintenance of 
his health and respectable appearance, he spent the rest 
of his income in works of charity. 

If a man’s work is the measure of his mind, Wesley 
must be ranked among men of the highest intellectual 
order. A nature that could impress itself as his did on 
his generation, that could create and govern almost ab- 
solutely an organization such as he called into existence, 
must have been truly regal — born to rule. Had he pos- 
sessed a more philosophical imagination, and had he 
given himself to speculative thought, the world might 
have rated him higher among its profound thinkers 
than it does. There is, however, no valid reason for 
doubting his capacity to pursue successfully almost any 
department of human knowledge. His journals and 
other writings show that he had a rare aptitude and 


appetite for both reading and thinking; but the practi- 
cal cast of his mind led him to avoid speculation, and 
to turn his knowledge to account in a multitude of 
channels running in the direction of the one chosen aim 
of his life. Yet the clearness of his thoughts, while it 
led men to underestimate their depth, showed the far- 
reaching penetrativeness of his mind. Ilis perception 
of things and their relations was rather intuitive than 
the resultant of a slow and tedious process of reasoning. 
Ilis mind was therefore less a workshop than a window 
through which he viewed the facts of nature, the course 
of human history, and the revelations of Holy Writ, 
with such clear vision as enabled him to present them 
to men with a mental force so logical and authoritative, 
and in a style so terse and direct, that their judgments 
were convinced, their affections won, and their wills 
subdued by the truths he uttered. 

Wesley’s mind was constructive in all its tendencies. 
Had it been destructive, he would have spent much of 
his force in efforts to pull down the National Church, 
which was nearly “ dead in trespasses and sins” when 
he began his itinerant career. He did not do this, be- 
cause his genius moved him to build, not to destroy. 
So strong was this tendency that it restrained his nat- 
ural combativeness, which was large, limiting it to such 
vigorous defences of what he believed to be vital truth 
as he deemed absolutely needful to prevent his work 
from being hindered by the attacks of his many adver- 
saries. This constructive instinct moved him to give 
organic form to a novel system of itinerant preaching; 
it led him to organize the fruits of his labor into soci- 
eties, by which he hoped not to supersede or rival the 
Episcopal Church, but to fan its expiring spiritual life 
back to healthful action. But circumstances were 
stronger than his hopes, and the structure he erected 
became the Wesleyan Church. 

Wesley’s character was remarkable for its perfect 
unity and coherence. He was governed in all he 
thought, felt, and did by that single purpose which he 
avowed at the beginning of his evangelical career, when 
he affirmed his belief that God had called him “to de- 
clare unto all that are willing to hear the glad tidings 
of salvation.” This conviction shaped his life. It dwelt 
in his conscience; it absorbed his affections; it govern- 
ed his will; it flowed into all the activities of his life; 
it sustained him under hardships and trials: it accounts 
for the peculiarities of his career. The most scrutiniz- 
ing search finds nothing contrary to it, either in his pri- 
vate, social, or public life. Such absolute coherence is 
rarely found in human character. In Wesley it is so 
obvious that it goes far towards accounting for that 
marvellous degree of personal power by which he ruled 
so absolutely and j r et so peacefully over his societies. 
Men submitted to his rule because they saw that he 
ruled not for himself, but for the triumph of a great 
principle; that he held on to his great power, not be- 
cause he was ambitious or loved power for its own sake, 
but because he believed the spiritual welfare of thou- 
sands required him to keep the reins in his own hands. 
That this belief amounted to a sincere conviction is evi- 
dent from the fact that in 1773 he wrote to the saintly 
Fletcher begging him to prepare to succeed him, be- 
cause he was sure that, after his death, his societies 
could be held together only by placing supreme power 
in the hands of one leader. But Fletcher’s death led 
him, at a later period, to change his mind. Seeing no 
other man whom he could safely trust with his supreme 
power, he began to train the “Yearly Conference” to 
govern both itself and the connection. This he did, 
not by surrendering his power while living, but by per- 
mitting the conference to direct affairs under his su- 
pervision. When satisfied by this experiment that it 
would be safe to convey his power to that body, he ex- 
ecuted a “Deed of Declaration,” to take effect after his 
death, by which the government of his societies, the 
appointing power, and the use of his chapels and their 
properties, were placed in perpetuity in the hands of 


WESLEY 


917 


WESLEY 


one hundred preachers, and their successors in office to 
be chosen from the body of Wesleyan preachers. Had 
Wesley deemed it safe to make this legal transfer of his 
power during his lifetime, he would, no doubt, have 
done so. The fact that he permitted bis conference 
to exercise both legislative and executive powers for 
several years before his death is proof enough that he 
did not cling to power for its own sake. Ilis aim was 
not his own honor, but the good of his beloved societies. 

XII. 1 Vesley's Writings. — Wesley’s writings and 
compilations were important factors in his evangelistic 
work. Knowing ignorance to be a sturdy foe to godli- 
ness, he used the press as an auxiliary of the pulpit 
from the very beginning of his itinerant career to the 
day of his death. He consecrated his pen to the great 
purpose of his life. He had the ability to win a high 
reputation as an elegant writer; but, despising the mere 
praise of men, he wrote, as he preached, in the style and 
manner he believed best adapted to win men to Christ. 
His most important productions were his Sermons , num- 
bering one hundred and forty-one. They are remark- 
able for the terseness and purity of their style, in which 
not a word is wasted ; the transparency and compact- 
ness of their thoughts; and a logical force which is not 
subtle, but the fruit of a “ keen, clear insight.” A first 
series of his Sennons was published in 1771 : — his 
Translation of the Neio Testament , with Notes (Lond. 
1755), which won approval from many eminent schol- 
ars; the text for “many happy corrections of the Au- 
thorized Version;” the notes for conciseness, spirituali- 
ty, acuteness, and soundness of opinion: — his Journals , 
which portray, as in a mirror, the course of his remark- 
able life, and are exceedingly curious and entertaining. 
The first part was issued in 1739; nineteen more parts 
at irregular intervals : — his appeals, entitled A n Earnest 
Appeal to Men of Reason and Religion (written in 1741), 
and A Further Appeal to Men of Reason and Religion 
(published 1744-45, 3 pts.). These masterly appeals are 
acute, searching, and powerful in thought, forcible in 
style, and singularly tender in spirit: — his Treatise on 
Original Sin , in reply to Dr. Taylor, of Norwich, which 
was so conclusive that the doctor never attempted to an- 
swer it, though he promptly replied to every other wri- 
ter who controverted his opinions. Besides these works, 
Wesley wrote many controversial articles, which were 
published separately. In 1778 he began a monthly 
magazine (The Arminian Magazine ), which he contin- 
ued to the end of his life. He also wrote a Church His- 
tory (in 4 vols.): — a History of England (in 4 vols.): — 
a Compendium of Natural Philosophy : — a Dictionary 
of the English Language: — separate Grammars of the 
English, French, Latin, Greek, and Hebrew languages: 
— a Compendium of Logic , etc. His original prose works 
filled fourteen closely printed volumes; his commenta- 
ries, compilations, and abridgments form a list of one 
hundred and nineteen publications in prose, one of which, 
entitled A Christian Library, contained fifty volumes. 
Besides these prose works, he published fifty-two sepa- 
rate works in poetry, the joint productions of himself 
and his brother Charles; and, lastly, five publications on 
music, and collections of tunes. That all this literary 
work should have been accomplished by a man whose 
life, for half a century, was a series of journeys, is an as- 
tonishing fact. “Looking at his travelling,” remarks 
Tyerman, “the marvel is how he found time to write; 
and, looking at his books, the marvel is how he found 
time to preach.” An edition of his principal prose 
works is published by the Methodist Book Concern 
(N. Y.) in seven octavo volumes. 

XIII. Literature. — See The Journal of the Rev. John 
Wesley ; Southey, Life of John Wesley , and the Rise 
and Progress of Methodism ; Clarke, Memoirs of the 
Wesley Family; Whitehead, Life of John Wesley; 
Crowther, Portraiture of Methodism; Watson, Life of 
Rev. John Wesley ; Smith, History of Wesleyan Method- 
ism; Moore, Life of Wesley ; Taylor, Wesley and Meth- 
odism; Stevens, The History of the Religious Movement 


of the Eighteenth Century called Methodism ; Tyerman, 
Life and Times of the Rev. John Wesley , Founder of 
the Methodists; Jackson, Life of Rev. Charles Wesley; 
Myles, Chronological History of the Methodists; Drew, 
Life of Thomas Coke, LL.D. ; Hampson, Life of Wes- 
ley. (D.W.) 

Wesley, John Thomas, an English Congrega- 
tional minister and missionary, was born at Burton in 
1844, and dieel Dec. 19. 1875. Mr. Wesley from earlv 
youth was a devoted follower of Christ; graduated at 
Hackney College in 1870, and was ordained at York 
Street, Dublin, where lie secured the warm affection and 
esteem of the Church. In 1874, under the auspices of 
the London Missionary Society, he sailed for Madagascar ; 
readily actpiired the language ; and, during his few years 
of labor, became a great power in the mission field, and 
an honor to the Church. See (Lond.) Cong. Year-book , 
1877. p. 421. 

Wesley, Samuel (l), A.M., an English Episcopal 
clergyman, son of John and grandson of Bartholomew 
Wesley, and father of John Wesley, the founder of 
Methodism, was born at Winterbourn Whitchurch, Dor- 
setshire, in 1GG2. He began his studies in the free-school 
in Dorchester, and at the age of fifteen went to an 
academy in London, where he remained about three 
years. He was then transferred to the Stepney Acad- 
emy, conducted by the learned Nonconformist Edward 
Veal. This academy being broken up at the end of two 
.years, he was sent to the academy of Charles Morton at 
Newington Green, where he remained until the summer 
of 1683. During the entire period of his academical 
studies he was expected to enter the ministry of the 
Dissenters. He even wrote letters and satires against 
the Episcopal clergy under the advice of the Noncon- 
formist ministers. His change to the Episcopal Church 
is thus accounted for in the words of his son, John Wes- 
ley : “ Some severe invectives being written against the 
Dissenters, Mr. S. Wesley, being a young man of consider- 
able talents, was pitched upon to answer them. This 
set him on a course of reading, which produced an effect 
very different from what had been intended. Instead 
of writing the wished-for answer, he himself conceived 
he saw reason to change his opinions, and actually 
formed a resolution to renounce the Dissenters and at- 
tach himself to the Established Church. He lived at 
that time with his mother and an old aunt, both of 
whom were too strongly attached to the Dissenting doc- 
trines to have borne with any patience the disclosure 
of his design. He therefore got up one morning at a 
very early hour, and, without acquainting any one of 
his purpose, set out on foot to Oxford, and entered him- 
self at Exeter College.” He entered as a servitor and 
pauper scholans , and helped to support himself with his 
pen during the next five years, graduating June 19, 
1G88. Seven weeks after this time he was ordained 
deacon at Bromley bv Dr. Sprat, bishop of Rochester. 
During the year immediately following his ordination 
he served a curacy at a salary of £28. He was then 
appointed chaplain on board a man-of-war at a salary 
of £70, and held the office one year, during which he 
began his Life of Christ. He was during the next two 
years incumbent of a curacy in London on a salary of 
£30, to which he added during the second year £30 by 
his pen. He then married Susannah, daughter of Dr. 
Samuel Annesley, an eminent Nonconformist divine. 
This occurred (probably) in the spring of 1G89. In 1G91 
he was appointed to the living of South Ormsbv in 
Lincolnshire, where he also acted as domestic chaplain 
to the marquis of Normanby. This nobleman desired 
Mr. Wesley to be raised to an Irish episcopate, but the 
plan was not favored either by the crown or archbishop 
Tillotson. Mr. Wesley remained at South Ormsby five 
years. About 1G94 or 1G95 the mansion which had 
been occupied by the marquis of Normanb}' was rented 
to the earl of Castleton, who was a dissolute man ; and, 
greatly to the disgust of the rector, kept mistresses who 


WESLEY 


918 WESLEYAN CONE., AUSTRAL. 


wore thrown in contact with his family. The marquis 
was a man of similar habits, and an event occurred in 
the summer of 1G96 which occasioned the removal of 
the rector to another place. It is thus related by John 
Wesley: “The marquis of Normanby had a house in 
the parish of South Ormsby, where a woman who lived 
with him usually resided. This lady would be intimate 
with my mother, whether she would or not. To such 
an intercourse my father would not submit. Coming 
in one day, and finding this intrusive visitant sitting 
with my mother, he went up to her, took her by the 
hand, and very fairly handed her out. The nobleman 
resented the aifront so outrageously as to make it neces- 
sary for my father to resign the living.” In 1G9G, hav- 
ing dedicated bis Life of Christ to queen Mary, he was 
presented by her with the living of Kpworth, Lincoln- 
shire, where he died, April 22, 1735. For four or five 
years he also had the rectory of Wroote, a little village 
near Kpworth, which hardly paid his curate. In 1734 
be resigned it to his son-in-law, John Whitelamb. TNI r. 
Wesley was always poor in this world’s goods, lie 
had nineteen children, had to assist poor relations, in- 
cluding his widowed mother, met with many reverses, 
and never had more than £200 a year. lie was a man 
of great learning, of large benevolence, loyal, devout, and 
conscientious in the exercise of the duties of his office, 
lie is frequently mentioned as a Tory and a High- 
Churchman, but he was no bigot. lie rejoiced in the 
work done at Oxford by bis sons John and Charles, 
which gained for them the name of Methodists and 
The Holy Club. He penned the following words Dec. 
1, 1730: “ I hear my son John has the honor of being 
styled the ‘father of the Holy Club.’ Ifitbeso, I must 
be the grandfather of it; and I need not say that I had 
rather any of my sons should be so dignified and dis- 
tinguished than to have the title of His Holiness.” He 
was a prolific writer. Among his works may be men- 
tioned, a volume of poems called Maggots (1685): — The 
Life of Christ, an Heroic Poem (1G93) : — The Pious 
Communicant Rightly Prepared , etc. (1700) : — History 
of the Old and New Testament (1701) : — Dissertations on 
the Jiook of Job , in Latin : — and several excellent Hymns. 
He was one of the editors and chief contributor to the 
Athenian Gazette. See Tverman, Life and Times of 
the Rev. Samuel Wesley ; Clarke, The Wesley Family; 
Stevenson , Memorials of the Wesley Family ; and the 
numerous Lives of John and Charles Wesley. 

Wesley, Samuel (2), A.M., an English clergy- 
man, son of the Rev. Samuel and Susannah Wesley, was 
born in London, Feb. 10, 1G90. His mother taught him 
to read at the age of five years, and laid the foundation 
of the scholarship which he afterwards acquired, lie 
was sent to Westminster School in 1704, and was admit- 
ted king’s scholar there in 1707. He was employed for a 
time in the house of Dr. Sprat, bishop of Rochester, to 
read to him at night, and in 1711 was elected to Christ 
Church, Oxford, lie remained there a little more than 
one year, when he received the degree of A.M., and en- 
tered into holy orders. He officiated as usher in West- 
minster School for the next twenty years. Here he 
became familiar with lord Oxford. Rope, Swift, Prior, and 
other Tory poets and statesmen, though he associated 
with Addison and others of his class. In 1732 he became 
head-master of Blundell’s free Grammar-school at Tiver- 
ton, where he remained till his death, Nov. G, 1739. lie 
was one of the founders of the first infirmary set up at 
Westminster, now St. George's Hospital, lie belonged 
to the High-Church party, and did not co-operate with 
John and Charles in their “Methodist” labors; but be 
often encouraged them in their zeal for good works, 
only cautioning them against such excess as would in- 
jure their health. He is represented as an excellent 
preacher, and often exercised his talents in that direc- 
tion. Like other members of the family, he was highly 
gifted in poetry. The first edition of his poems was 
published in 173G; a second, with additions, appeared 
in 1743. A new edition was published, with a life of 


the author, by William Nichols, in 18G2. lie is best 
known, however, by his hymns. See Stevenson, Me- 
mortals of the Wesley Family. 

Wesley, Samuel (3), an eminent musical genius 
of England, third son of the Rev. Charles Wesley, was 
born Eeb. 24, 17GG. He composed the oratorio of Ruth 
before he was eight years of age, and in his later years 
he was considered the most remarkable extemporane- 
ous player in Europe. Among his compositions were, a 
Grand Mass for the chapel of pope Pius VI : — a Complete 
Service for the Cathedrals of the Church of England : — 
anthems, sonatas, and duets for the pianoforte, and vol- 
untaries for the organ, lie died (Jet. 11, 1837. See 
(Lond.) Gentleman' s Magazine , 1837, ii, 514. 

Wesley, Susannah, a remarkable Christian wom- 
an, wife of Samuel Wesley, Sr., and mother of John and 
Charles Wesley, was the youngest daughter of the learn- 
ed Nonconformist divine Samuel Anncsley, LL.D., and 
was born in London, Jan. 20, 16G9. About the year 
1G81, before she was yet thirteen years of age, she re- 
nounced Nonconformity and gave her adherence to the 
Church of England. In 1G89 she became the wife of 
Samuel Wesley, to whom she bore nineteen children. 
The great service she did for the world was accomplish- 
ed largely through her thorough training of her chil- 
dren. Her method* of teaching and governing them 
was peculiar to herself, and is fully described in a letter 
to her son John, dated Epworth, July 24, 1732. They 
were not taught to read until they were five years old, 
when they learned the alphabet in a few days, and be- 
gan to spell and read, first a line, and then a short para- 
graph, mastering it perfectly. She was a woman of 
strong intellect, and employed her best powers in the 
performance of her maternal duties. She was a model 
mother, and her sons owed a great deal of their success 
to her prudent counsels. Many incidents remain on 
record which illustrate her singular independence of 
character, as well as her womanly deference to legiti- 
mate authority. For a prolonged period she shared the 
fortunes of her husband in a country parish with a stint- 
ed income; but throughout she maintained an active, 
cheerful, and consistent piety. The family of which 
they were the joint head was a remarkable one in many 
respects, and to its peculiarities she contributed her 
full share. After her husband’s death, she remained a 
short time with her daughter Emilia, and then resided 
with her son John in London, and became his judicious 
adviser in carrying out his great work. Previous to 
her death, her experience was very clear, much more 
so than formerly, though she seems to have been a true 
Christian all her days. She died in London, July 23, 
1742, and was buried in Bunhill Fields, where her son 
John delivered the funeral discourse. See Stevenson, 
Memorials of the Wesley Family. 

Wesleyan Conference, Australian, is the 
general designation of the regular Methodist body in 
that province of the British empire. 

1. Origin and History. — Methodism in Australia and 
New Zealand has had the marks of Divine Providence 
stamped upon it from the beginning. Colonization has 
been both a source of relief and of impoverishment to 
the mother-country of England. Early in the second 
decade of the 19th century, the master and mistress of 
Mr. Wesley’s charity-school at Great Queen Street, Lon- 
don, were sent out as teachers to Australia. An Eng- 
lish penal colony had existed there some years, and, in 
order to raise the character of the people, many of them 
released convicts, teachers were first wanted. A few 
agricultural emigrants had settled in New South Wales, 
and among them Messrs. Bowden and Iloskins, two 
schoolmasters, who had gone out in 1811, recommended 
by Joseph Butterworth, M. P., to take charge of the 
charity-school in Sydney. They were Methodists, and, 
desiring to have the advantages of the 3Iethodist class- 
meeting in their new home, commenced the first on the 
evening of March G, 1812. Twelve persons met at the 


WESLEYAN CONF., AUSTRAL. 910 WESLEYAN CONE., AUSTRAL. 


commencement, anil they resolved to apply to the Meth- 
odists in England for a missionary. Mr. Samuel Leigh, 
who had conversed with Dr. Coke, had offered his ser- 
vices as a missionary, and the application from New 
South Wales having reached Dr. Adam Clarke, he se- 
cured the services of Mr. Leigh, ordained him for the 
work, procured for him a license to preach from the lord 
mayor of London, and he sailed from England in Febru- 
ary, 1815, landing at Port Jackson Aug. 10 of the same 
year. The progress of the mission of Methodism in 
Australia from that day forward cannot be contemplated 
without a feeling of astonishment and delight. In 1820 
Methodism was introduced into Van Diemen’s Land; in 
1822 it reached the Friendly Islands and the neighboring 
groups; in 1823, New Zealand ; in 1835, the Fiji Islands 
welcomed their first Methodist missionary; in 1838 a 
mission was commenced in South Australia; and in 
1839, Western Australia. Thus, within a quarter of a 
century, the whole country was visited by Methodist 
missionaries where there was population to whom they 
could minister. The pioneers who early united their 
efforts to those of Samuel Leigh were John Waterhouse. 
Walter Lowry, Benjamin Carvosso, and John II. Bum- 
bv, followed by others who are still laboring there, 
and their valuable and useful services will preserve 
their memories fresh in the country for many genera- 
tions. 

The marvellous triumphs of Christianity in nearly 
all the localities named were equalled only by the he- 
roic devotion of the missionaries and their wives. It 
would not be possible to describe the scenes of degrada- 
tion and ferocity which they had for many years to 
confront. The Life of Samuel Levjh (an octavo vol- 
ume of 590 pages) and the Lev. James Buller’s Forty 
Years in New Zealand are two works which supply 
such a variety of valuable and interesting facts de- 
scriptive of the trials and triumphs of Methodism in 
Australia and New Zealand that any abridgment of 
their contents would be impossible in the compass of 
these pages. 

It is due to the convict class of the inhabitants to 
record that many of them, after their conversion, be- 
came the most active, energetic, and useful helpers of 
the good cause. Among them have been class-lead- 
ers, stewards, local preachers, and some have become 
wealthy, and devoted much of their substance to the 
erection of Methodist churches, parsonages, and schools. 
Mr. Leigh records of one of the earliest of the convicts, 

Mr. E . who was an educated Irishman designed for 

the bar, but who, for forgery, had been sentenced to 
death, that he was converted while in his Irish prison, 
and had his sentence commuted to transportation for 
life. His Methodist friends gave him a Bible to be his 
companion in his banishment, lie read the Bible and 
liturgy to his fellow-convicts; and his intelligent, con- 
sistent Christian life soon secured him his liberty, lie 
taught a school, preached in the villages on the Sabbath, 
and commenced the first Methodist class -meeting at 
Windsor in 1812. In his humble way, he was probably 
the first Methodist preacher in the southern world. The 
members gathered by this young Irishman held the 
first Methodist love-feast in that country on April 3, 
1812. The missionaries sought out many of the ban- 
ished ones, and in many instances they had repented 
and found mercy at the hands of God. The morning 
of eternity alone will tell how many of those children 
of crime and punishment will be welcomed in heaven 
by parents and friends who seldom mentioned their 
names on earth. 

Mr. Leigh was a most faithful and heroic man, and 
he soon witnessed the erection of three small chapels, 
one each at Sydney, Windsor, and Castlereagb. Four 
Sunday-schools were opened, and a Methodist Circuit 
was formed which included fifteen preaching- places, 
extending 150 miles. After three years of hard toil, 
Mr. Leigh welcomed Walter Lowry, on May 1, 1818, as 
his first colleague, and so rejoiced was he on meeting 


that he fell on his neck and kissed him. The aborigines 
as well as the criminals were accessible to the mission- 
aries; but the preachers were exposed to insults and 
hardships which cannot be realized in the present im- 
proved condition of the country. They performed long 
rugged journeys, and often slept on boards or on the 
bare earth, w ith their saddle-bags as pillow's and over- 
coats for covering; but they witnessed such triumphs 
as more than compensated them for all their sufferings. 
The foundations of Australian Methodism w r ere thus 
laid broad and deep, and possibly that form of religion 
may ultimately dominate in that vast country. 

Cheered by the prospect which w r as opening before 
him, Mr. Leigh returned to England in 1820 to plead 
for more men to extend the w'orlc, and he took out with 
him William Horton and Thomas Walker. The latter 
intended to open a station among the natives, among 
whom he commenced to labor ; but owing to their no- 
madic character the success did not justify the continu- 
ance of that station after 1828. Another and more sat- 
isfactory effort w r as made in 1836, w'hen a new station 
w’as opened at Port Philip, South Australia, with two 
missionaries, and one at Perth, Western Australia. In 
1838 Methodism was introduced into Geelong by two 
missionaries. These men endured immense hardships. 
They acquired the native languages, translated portions 
of the Scriptures, commenced schools, established print- 
ing, wrote and published school-books, and founded a 
training institution for native preachers and teachers. 
At each station the missionaries conducted a farm on 
which the people were taught agriculture, the farms 
supplying the preachers with a large portion of their 
income in those early days. 

Mr. Horton commenced his labors in Tasmania, or 
Van Diemen’s Land, in 1820. The population there 
w r as utterly demoralized, both convicts and natives. 
Among the former w’ere found a few w’ho had been 
Methodists, who had repented of their evil doings, and 
had commenced a society class, and were erecting a 
chapel. The mission prospered there, under the foster- 
ing smile of the governor, who, seeing the good results 
of the labors of the missionaries, in 1827 applied for ad- 
ditional preachers, offering to pay their passage out and 
partial support on arrival. , In 1832 William Butters 
commenced a new station at Port Arthur, another con- 
vict settlement. Successive governors testified to the 
value of these missionaries’ labors among the convicts, 
and in 1837 the work was extended by the arrival of 
four more preachers. 

A survey was made of the progress of the mission on 
that continent in 1839, when they were reported to 
be nine missionaries, 570 members of society, and 922 
scholars. To extend and consolidate the work, the Kev. 
John Waterhouse was appointed general superintendent 
of all the Australian and Polynesian missions; but his 
exhaustive and earnest labors ended his earthly career 
in three years, though the work was extended. Will- 
iam Binnington Boyce succeeded him, and he became 
the president of the first Australian Conference in 1855. 
Samuel Leigh, on his return from England in 1821, 
made an inroad on New Zealand. His first experiment 
was not encouraging. On entering one of the native 
villages, he passed twelve human heads, tattooed, placed 
on the pathway. That sight helped to determine him 
to endeavor to dispel the darkness and misery which 
prevailed. He secured the help of Messrs. Turner and 
White, and commenced a mission at Wagarea, on the 
north-east coast. They were surrounded by ferocious 
and savage men. One day Mr. Turner saw several 
chiefs seated at a fire, roasting one of their slaves be- 
tween two logs of wood, to make them a meal. These 
natives became more enlightened, the work prospered, 
natives were converted, chapels were erected, and much 
good ivas done; but in 1827 war broke out, the mission 
was stopped, and the missionaries tied to Sydney. In 
1828 they returned, at the invitation of one of the chiefs, 
and commenced a new mission at Maugungu, which for 


WESLEYAN CONE., AUSTRAL. 020 WESLEYAN CONE., AUSTRAL. 


two years made but little progress. After 1830 the 
work revived, conversions increased rapidly, more mis- 
sionaries were sent, and so satisfactory was the conduct 
of the people that one of the missionaries in 1834 wrote, 
‘*In reverential behavior in the house of Clod, the 
awakened aborigines were a pattern even to Europeans, 
and tokens of many kinds were given that a glorious work 
was beginning in New Zealand.” Those signs proved 
true. Deputations were sent from the Southern Island to 
the missionaries for preachers and teachers; more mis- 
sionaries were sent out, who soon mastered the language 
of the natives; books were written and translated; a 
printing-press was established ; chapels and schools were 
erected; and an institution for the training of native 
preachers was established. The blessings of civilized 
life followed the diffusion of Christian principles; and 
in 1851, when it was determined to unite the mission 
stations in New Zealand with those in Australia, to 
form one Conference, the Report of the condition of the 
Methodist missions in New Zealand exhibited the fol- 
lowing figures: Chapels, 105; other preaching-places, 
148; local preachers, 322 ; catechists, 5; members of so- 
ciety, 4500; attendants at public worship, 11,000; mis- 
sionaries, 20. So ably had the missionaries conducted 
their financial enterprises that in 1854 the entire debts 
on their chapel property in New Zealand were only 
£360. After such a satisfactory report, there was no 
opposition to the union of the latter mission with Aus- 
tralia. There were also: Sunday-schools, 188; day- 
schools, 88; pupils, 5846. Such were the results a 
quarter of a century since. 

The South Sea Islands form an important part of the 
Australian Methodist Church. Walter Lowry com- 
menced a mission in Tonga in 1822, but it was given 
up in 1823. In 1826 John Thomas and John Hutchin- 
son resumed the work, and in 1827 they were joined 
by William Cross, Nathaniel Turner, and another, and 
that gracious work was commenced which has resulted 
in bringing the whole population of those islands- un- 
der the influence of Christianity. There are no records 
in history which can compare with those of the history 
of Christianity in the various islands of the South Seas 
for the completeness of the overthrow of heathenism, 
idolatry, infanticide, cannibalism, with all their attend- 
ant horrors; and the establishment, in their place, of 
churches, chapels, schools, parsonages; the whole popu- 
lation within the space of a quarter of a century em- 
bracing Christianity and learning to read and write; and 
the introduction and practice of all the customs of civ- 
ilized life. When John Thomas, who still lives, visited 
the Hawaii Islands in 1830, he was startled to find the 
king and the people had abandoned paganism and were 
worshipping the true God, and their idol temples were 
either burned or converted into dwelling-houses. Dur- 
ing a visit to Tonga, where the mission had appeared to 
fail, the king of the Hawaii Islands had been converted, 
and on his return brought with him a Christian native 
and his wife. The king, leading his people by exam- 
ple, was baptized, and he had a chapel erected in which 
fifteen hundred people could worship. In but a short 
time young and old, rich and poor, masters and servants, 
embraced the new loiu, or religion. The king, a man 
of fine presence and intelligence, took the name of 
George, and his wife that of Charlotte. King George 
carried ^.he intelligence of their conversion to the king 
of Yavau, who, on hearing and seeing the changes 
which Christianity had wrought, with a thousand of 
his people at once renounced paganism, and the visitors 
remained a long time teaching the people the elements 
of Christianity. A press was established, and books 
printed by thousands and scattered broadcast on the nu- 
merous islands. The press was to the people one of the 
greatest marvels they had known. Hymn-books, cate- 
chisms, and portions of Scripture were distributed by 
thousands, the natives being the voluntary agents em- 
ployed; and very soon hundreds of these natives, male 
and female, including chiefs and their wives, were em- 


ployed as teachers, class - leaders, exhorters, and local 
preachers, the people learning to read with avidity, and 
the missionaries’ wives teaching the art of cutting out 
clothes ami sewing, as well as other domestic and use- 
ful arts. The news of these conversions spread far and 
wide, and canoes laden with inquirers came a distance of 
three hundred miles to see what Christianity had done, 
and these returned themselves to spread the tidings of 
the new religion. So the work went on till July, 1834, 
when there broke out on several islands a great spirit- 
ual revival. Men, women, and children, chiefs and peo- 
ple, all shared in the outpouring of the Spirit, and on 
one (lay (July 27) Mr. Turner records that “not fewer 
than one thousand souls were converted, not only from 
dumb idols, but from Satan to God.” A little later he 
records, “ Within the past six weeks the number of 
converts is 2262.” For a week they held prayer-meet- 
ings six times daily, and as many as a thousand persons 
were on their knees at t he same time, seeking, some 
crying earnestly, for deliverance from the bondage of 
sin. Such earnest crying for mercy was, perhaps, never 
before witnessed on earth. 

King George became first a class-leader, then a local 
preacher, and his whole life was now devoted to the 
elevation of his people. lie released all his slaves, and 
had a mission church erected in the Friendly Islands, a 
thousand of his people being employed in its erection. 
The king had the spears of his ancestors fixed as the 
rails for the communion-table, and two clubs formerly 
adored as deities were placed as pillars to the pulpit- 
stairs. The king himself preached the opening sermon, 
and thousands of people attended the opening. Such 
were some of the results of one of the greatest revivals 
ever known. In no other portion of the mission field 
have so man}'- native laborers been raised up, and 
schools, chapels, and parsonages adorn most of the isl- 
ands. The whole population has embraced Christian- 
ity. 

The Rev. Robert Young in 1853 visited those islands, 
New Zealand, and Australia as a deputation from the 
English Conference to make the arrangements for the 
union of all the churches in the Eastern Archipelago. 
That union was satisfactorily arranged, and has worked 
admirably for over a quarter of a century. At the time 
the Australian Conference was founded it included near- 
ly 200 preachers and some 40,000 communicants; the 
societies were nearly all self-supporting, and <£10,000 
was annually given for missions alone. Since that pe- 
riod every department has advanced. In 1880 there 
were reported in that conference 433 ministers and 
GO, 297 church members. The Methodist membership 
of the Australian churches is now just equal to the total 
membership in Great Britain at the time of Mr. Wes- 
ley’s death. In another half-century the Australian 
churches will probably sum up as many members as 
the parent society. 

When the Jubilee of the Wesleyan Missionary Soci- 
ety was celebrated in 1864, a large meeting was held 
in Australia in that connection, and a fund was then 
opened which soon reached £12,000, the money being 
spent in the erection of a Wesleyan college. About the 
same time another institution came into existence at 
Melbourne, the erection of the Wesleyan Emigrants’ 
Home at the cost of <£3500, towards which the colonial 
government voted <£1000, from a conviction of its phil- 
anthropic character. That temporary home has been 
a blessing to multitudes on their arrival in the colony 
without friends to greet them. 

II. Church Organization and Polity . — In these re- 
spects the Australian Conference is in accordance with 
the parent society. Ministers and laymen unite in con- 
ducting the annual conferences; and occasionally min- 
isterial deputations are sent to the outlying churches 
to report upon and encourage them. The Rev. Messrs. 
Uathbone and Watkins went over the missions in the 
South Seas in 1869, and reported most encouragingly 
of their advancement. 


WESLEYAN CONE., AUSTRAL. 921 WESLEYAN CONE., FRENCH 


III. Australian Methodist Statistics. — The following 
table will exhibit these: 


Y ear. 

Ministers. 

Members. 

Year. 

| Ministers. 

1 

Members. 

1S1G. . . 

1 

20 

' 1S49... 

64 

16,469 

1S17... 

1 

30 

1850... 

67 

17,453 

ISIS... 

2 

70 

1851... 

70 

18,137 

1S19... 

3 

70 

1852... 

S3 

IS, 938 

1820... 

5 

S3 

1853... 

91 

19,135 

1821... 

8 

90 

1854... 

102 

IS, 956 

182*2. . . 

9 

141 

1855... 

116 

19,897 

1823. .. 

9 

178 

1S5G... 

131 

2l,10S 

1S24. .. 

12 

1GS 

1857... 

142 

21,247 

1 S25 , . . 

12 

112 

IS58... 

154 

24,46t 

1S26. . . 

It 

1G0 

1S59. . . 

174 

28,138 

IS‘27. . . 

12 

102 

1S60. . . 

153 

32,180 

1S28... 

12 

102 

1861... 

159 

33,964 

1S29. . . 

10 

104 

1S62. . . 

204 

36,307 

1S30... 

13 

341 

1 S63 . . . 

213 

38,075 

1831... 

14 

736 

1S64. . . 

215 

39,695 

1S32. . . 

1G 

S92 

1865. ... 

243 

42,642 

1S33... 

15 

2,70*2 

isoo... 

2SI 

47,695 

1S34... 

19 

4,311 

1S07... 

303 

49,433 

1S35. . . 

24 

7,929 

1868... 

302 

50,674 

1S3G... 

27 

S,579 

1869... 

319 

52,222 

1S37... 

32 

9,313 

1870.. . 

328 

55,556 

1S3S. . . 

40 

9,188 

1S71 . . . 

347 

59,38 1 

1S39. . . 

53 

10,980 

1S72. . . 

352 

59,649 

1S40. . . 

51 

10,921 

, 1873... 

383 

59,S19 

1841 . . . 

52 

11,656 

1874... 

383 

00,571 

1842... 

52 

12,136 

; 1875. .. 

3SS 

60,165 

1S43 . . . 

53 

13,140 

1876. . . 

391 

52,692 

1S44. . . 

54 

12,607 

! 1S77. .. 

392 

54,200 

1S45. .. 

54 

13,236 

1S7S. . . 

394 

62,GS3 

1846. . . 

‘ 50 

14,040 

1879... 

423 

C6, 905 

1S47. . . 

GO 

15,353 

1880... 

426 

66,832 

1S4S... 

Cl 

15,933 





IV. Literature . — The literature which belongs to this 
seetion of the Methodist Church relates chiefly to the 
published biographies of the ministers who have died in 
the work : The Life of the Rev. Samuel Leigh , by Alex- 
ander Strahan, a small octavo volume of 592 pages, with 
portrait, is the basis of our historical knowledge of Meth- 
odism in Australia. Wm. B. Bovee published in 1850 
a Brief Grammar of Ancient History , for the use of 
sehools in Sydney (a 12mo of 108 pp.). He has pub- 
lished other works not relating to Australia. James 
Buller, Forty Years in New Zealand, including a Person- 
al Narrative, an A ccount of Maoridom, and of the Chris- 
tianization and Colonization of the Country (1878, 8vo, 
503 pp.), a work of much and permanent value. Life 
of J. II. Bumby , with a Brief History of the New Zea- 
land Mission, by Alfred Barrett (1852, 12mo, 374 pp., with 
portrait, three editions). James Calvert, Fiji and the 
Fijians, the Mission history, edited by George Stringer 
Bowe (1858, post Svo, 435 pp.), valuable for facts of his- 
tory. Air. Calvert has also printed a Letter, on the Life 
of John Hunt. David Cargill, A.M., A Refutation of 
Chevalier Dillon's Attach on the Wesleyan Missionaries 
in the Friendly Islands (1842, Svo, 40 pp.) ; also Memoirs 
of Mi's. Margaret Cargill, including Notices of the Prog- 
ress of Christianity in Tonga and Fiji (1855, 18mo, 348 
pp.). Daniel J. Draper, the Shipwrecked Mariner and 
his Drowning Charge, a sermon by Rev. Dr. Jobson (18GG, 
crown 8vo,G7 pp.). John Hunt, Memoir of the Rev. W. 
Cross, Missionary to the Friendly and Fiji Islands (18G8, 
18mo, 248 pp.). Life of the Rev. John Hunt, Missionary 
to the Cannibals (1859, 12mo, 278 pp.). James J. Jobson, 
D.D., Australia , with Notes by the Way (18G2, 8vo, 281 
pp.), an interesting review of the work. Walter Lowry, 
Journal of a Missionary Visit to the Stations in the South 
Seas in 1847 (12mo, 303 pp.). A Second Journal of a 
Missionary Visit to the Friendly and Fiji Islands in 1850, 
edited by the Rev. Elijah Iloole (12mo, 217 pp.). Letter 
from the Rev. Jos. II. Fletcher (Auckland, 1851, Svo, 100 
pp.). William Moister, .4 History of Wesleyan Missions 
from their Commencement to 1870 (small 8vo, 547 pp.). 
Robert Young, The Southern I Vorld, journal of a deputa- 
tion from the Wesleyan Conference to New Zealand — 
Polynesia, Australia, and Tasmania (1854, 12mo, 444 pp. ; 
the same work in 2 pts.). (G. J. S.) 

WESLEYAN CONFERENCE, British. See Wes- 

LEYANS. 


WESLEYAN CONFERENCE, French. Under 
this head we propose to give a statement of the spread 
of Wesleyanism aeross the English Channel. 

I. Origin and History. — Methodism had to struggle 
hard and long to obtain a home in France ; but the ef- 
forts of many years were at length crowned with sue- 
eess. As early as 1779 Methodism found its way from 
Newfoundland to Jersey, one of the Channel Islands op- 
posite France. Some soldiers in a regiment from Eng- 
land to Jersey, being Methodists, earried their religion 
with them, and a small society was formed. They ap- 
plied to Air. Wesley for a preacher, and Robert Carr 
Brackenbury, Esq., a wealthy layman who could speak 
Freneh, was sent by Mr. Wesley to help the eause there. 
In 1785 Dr. Coke visited the island, and in 1786 Adam 
Clarke was appointed to the Norman Islands to assist 
Mr. Brackenbury. In 1787 Mr. Wesley spent a fortnight 
on the islands, preaching and exhorting from house to 
house. The people assembled in the evenings by hun- 
dreds to hear him. Air, Wesley foresaw that Method- 
ists from those islands, having such frequent intercourse 
with France, would soon take their religion there also. 
In 1790 the Rev. John de Quetteville and Mr. John An- 
gel visited some of the villages in Normandy; and find- 
ing small congregations of French Protestants, joined 
them, and began by giving personal experiences of con- 
version. This awakened sympathy, and the people de- 
sired information. 

William Mahv, a lay preacher in Guernsey, was sent, 
and was ordained in 1791 by Dr. Coke to preach. lie 
commenced his labors at Courcelle. Dr. Coke then went 
on to Paris, taking with him Air. De Quetteville and Mr. 
Gibson; and there hired a room for a month near the 
Seine. Dr. Coke was then offered a suppressed church 
in Paris for ,£150, which would hold two thousand per- 
sons. This will show the low state to which religion 
had then fallen. Infidelity was rampant, the priests had 
all been killed or banished, and any pastors remaining 
did not favor the new religion. The opposition to Mr. 
Mahy broke down his health, and ended in his prema- 
ture death. Dr. Coke soon found that Paris was not 
favorable to Methodism, and retired. Seed was sown in 
several villages in Normandy, which was not allowed 
to die ; but the Revolution following so quieklv on these 
efforts arrested further progress then. 

In the history of Methodism in many places, when 
one door is closed, Divine Providence opens another. 
So it was in France. For years religion in every form 
had been nearly extinguished. The war with Napoleon 
Bonaparte had resulted in the capture, by England, of 
thousands of French prisoners; and eleven large ships 
of war formed the prison-homes of those men in the 
river Medway. In 1810 the Rev. William Toase be- 
gan to visit the ships and speak to the soldiers. lie 
was heard gladly; and began to preach and distribute 
French Bibles, and converts were the result. In 1811 
Conference appointed Air. Toase a missionary to the 
French ships in the Medway. These soldiers were ul- 
timately, after 1815, returned to their homes, and they 
took their religion and Bibles with them ; and so the 
way was prepared for the renewed introduction of Meth- 
odism. This time it was to be permanent ; and although 
it has had a slow and struggling existence, yet the sta- 
tistics will show that it has survived, if it has not ex- 
tended largely. 

After the peace of 1814, some evangelists again com- 
menced to labor in Normandy; but the return of Bona- 
parte from Elba caused them to flee for safety, leaving 
a small society of fourteen members, which was increased 
to twenty- five during the year. After the battle of 
Waterloo, and the return home of prisoners, the Rev, 
William Toase went to France, and had Richard Ro- 
barts and Benjamin Frankland as his colleagues. In 
1818 Charles Cook followed them. He studied the lan- 
guage, and so thoroughly interested himself in the peo- 
ple that for forty years he devoted all his time, strength, 
and energy to promoting Methodism among them. 


WESLEYAN CONE., FRENCH 

ITc is considered the chief founder of Methodism 
in that country, giving not only his own life, but the 
lives of his two sons, to the same work, both of whom 
are as well known in America as in France. Mr. Cook 
became a doctor of divinity; and when lie died, in July, 
1858, Merle d’Aubigne wrote concerning him, “The 
work which John Wesley did in Croat Britain Charles 
Cook has done, though on a smaller scale, on the Conti- 
nent.” The English Conference of 18’2-i appointed Mr. 
Cook to commence a Methodist mission in Palestine; 
but the difficulties being so great, and funds not avail- 
able, Mr. Cook did not leave France. lie preached his 
tirst sermon in that country in December, 1818. The 
first district meeting was held in April, 1820, when there 
were present live preachers — brethren Toasc, Ollivicr, 
JIawtrey, Cook, and Henry de Jersey. The first love- 
feast was held the week after the district meeting, and 
it proved to be an occasion of much good, and was long 
remembered. 

Up to the year 1832 the progress was slow and dis- 
couraging ; but the surrounding circumstances sufficient- 
ly accounted for that state of things. The Conference 
of 1833 sent the Rev. Robert Newstcad to give the mis- 
sion a new start, and the members were nearly doubled 
the first year. In 1834 James Hoc-art joined the mis- 
sion, and lie lias since devoted bis whole life to the 
work. lie still survives; and at the English Confer- 
ence of 1880 he made a powerful and impressive appeal 
on behalf of the extension of Methodism in France. In 
1835 Matthew Galliennc joined the mission; lie devot- 
ed many years of valuable service to the cause, and bis 
son is at the present time tutor in theology of the young 
men preparing for the ministry. The reinvigorated 
mission soon showed signs of the new power infused 
into it. Robert Newstead found in 1833 a total mem- 
bership of one hundred and eleven; in eight years just 
one thousand were added. Eight years after came an- 
other Revolution and the overthrow of the monarchy, 
which, followed by increased difficulties in conducting 
religious worship, soon resulted in the loss of nearly 
three hundred members. Peaceful times followed, and 
Dr. Cook lived to see the number of ministers raised 
from 4 to 30, and the members from 29 to 1440 — prog- 
ress which would have been thought small in any 
country excepting Catholic France. 

In 1852 France was organized into a separate con- 
ference, and affiliated with England. It had then 17 
preachers and 770 members. France was divided into 
two districts; and in 1853 Jean Paul Cook joined the 
mission as a catechist. lie has since been one of the 
mo^t devoted and successful of its pastors. There were 
then only nine circuits in all France. It had long been 
under consideration to make the older missions of Meth- 
odism self-sustaining, while at the same time the Mis- 
sionary Society in London desired to he relieved of the 
management of its operations, and thereby give the 
French people greater facilities for useful and extended 
operations. The Rev. Dr. Bcecham, one of the general 
secretaries, assisted in completing the arrangements; 
and with the presence and sanction of the Rev. Dr. Chas. 
Cook, the Conference of 1852 adopted the recommenda- 
tion of the Missionary Committee, and France has ever 
since managed her own agencies, care having been tak- 
en for the maintenance and security of Methodist doc- 
trine and discipline, while the operations may take a 
wider scope. Two years after the change, eight more 
preachers were at work and three hundred members 
added to the society. The largest number of members 
ever recorded in one year was in 1870, when they were 
reported at 2049. Then came the Franco-German war 
and the Commune, which caused a loss of over two hun- 
dred members throughout the country. In 1880, owing 
mainly to the want of financial support — all the societies 
being poor— the total membership is only 1789, being 
about one hundred less than at the end of the last war. 

Many special efforts have been made during the pe- 
riod of the present republic to encourage and advance 


WESLEYAN CONF., FRENCH 

Methodism in France. Ten thousand dollars a year 
more would give the cause an impulse such as it lias 
never had before. There is more eagerness shown, by 
both men and women, to hear the Gospel and read relig- 
ious books than ever before. The Rev. William Gibson, 
A. 15., has for some years been using his utmost efforts, 
chiefly in evangelistic labors; hut what is one in so 
great a city as Paris? There is a bright day dawning 
for Methodism in France if only the small sum named 
could for a few years he guaranteed to aid the work. 
The Rev. Dr. Jobson, Rev. William Arthur, A.M., and 
other leading Methodists from England have rendered 
some help; but such help guaranteed for three or five 
years would work wonders at the present time. Doors 
arc open everywhere for preaching the Gospel; and for 
some years the preachers have continued their labors for 
only a hare pittance for food and clothing. The French 
Conference owns a newspaper and a book-room ; but both 
are languishing for want of patronage. In no country 
in the world, not even Ireland, have there been greater 
obstacles in the way of making progress than have existed 
in France; but now financial help is all that is required 
to make Methodism in France a great power for good. 

II. Statistics . — The following table will exhibit the 
numerical progress of French Methodism : 


Year. 

Ministers. 

Members. 

V.., 

Ministers. 


1S14... 


14 

1S4S... 

19 

896 

1S15. . . 


25 

1849... 

1G 

775 

1816... 

3 

35 

1S50. . . 

18 

755 

1S17. . . 

4 

30 

1851... 

17 

813 

ISIS... 

4 

29 

1852... 

17 

776 

1S19. . . 

5 

31 

1S53... 

19 

898 

1S20... 

5 

54 

1 S54 . . . 

25 

109S 

1821... 

4 

39 

1S55... 

25 

1090 

1S22... 

5 

63 

1856. . . 

23 

1178 

1S23. . . 

5 

6S 

1S57... 

23 

1130 

1824... 

4 

119 

1S5S. . . 

30 

1446 

1S25. . . 

5 

120 

1S59. . . 

26 

143G 

1S26... 

G 

135 

1S60. . . 

27 

14S0 

1S27. . . 

5 

113 

1801... 

30 

1509 

1S2S. . . 

6 

126 

18G2. . . 

28 

1586 

1820... 

4 

123 

1S63... 

24 

1522 

1S3U... 

5 

97 

1864... 

28 

1G06 

1831... 

C 

91 

1S65. . . 

31 

1G5S 

1S32. . . 

7 

111 

1S66. . . 

30 

1699 

1S33. . . 

9 

134 

1867... 

29 

1890 

1S34. . . 

11 

233 

ISOS... 

30 

1979 

1835... 

14 

464 

1SG9. . . 

35 

1985 

1836... 

14 

505 

1S70. . . 

3G 

2049 

1S37... 

14 

533 

1S71... 

36 

2049 

183S... 

16 

605 

1872. . . 

28 

191 C 

1S39. . . 

IS 

731 

1S73... 

32 

1SG7 

1840... 

20 

946 

1S74... 

27 

1S57 

1841... 

20 

1111 

1S75... 

34 

191S 

1S42... 

21 

1118 

1870... 

36 

1SS3 

1843... 

22 

1157 

1S77. . . 

37 

1905 

1S44. . . 

21 

1211 

187S. . . 

29 

1SSS 

1845... 

21 

1185 

1S79. . . 

2S 

1S53 

1846... 

22 

1002 

1SS0... 

29 

17S9 

1847... 

23 

972 





III. Literature . — The French people arc, on the whole, 
much more educated than many nations to whom the 
Gospel has been sent. Infidelity and popery in their 
worst forms have been the chief sources of opposition to 
the spread of vital godliness in France. From an ear- 
nest desire to instruct the people, when preaching has 
been forbidden, about a dozen preachers belonging to the 
French Conference have made free use of the press to 
enable them to spread divine truth; and although the 
sales of some of the books have been hut small, yet their 
very existence — copies having found their way into pub- 
lic libraries — has often proved a source of defence, and 
in other ways have been helpful when the living voice 
might not be appealed to. 

Dr. Charles Cook issued seven publications. A vol- 
ume of Christian Songs, of nearly 400 pages, ran through 
eight editions in his lifetime: — a Letter to the Editor of 
the Evangelical Gazette of Genera (8vo, 24 pp.) : — The 
Life of Mrs. Mary Fletcher: — Journal of Hester Ann 
Rogers A phorisms on Justif cation : — The Love of God 
to a Lost World, a reply to a brochure by Dr. Malau ; — 
and Wesley and Wesley anism Justified. 


922 


WESLEYAN CONE., FRENCH 023 WESLEYAN CONF., IRISH 


Jean Paul Cook, besides writing most interesting Let- 
ters for many years past in the New York and the West- 
ern Christian Advocate, has issued separately, Organiza- 
tion of Sunday-schools (1847) : — Life of Charles Cook 
(1862, 264 pp.):— Letters on Peter (a pamphlet* of 30 pp.) : 
— and The Days of a Young Child who Loved the Saviour 
(12mo, 30 pp.). 

Henry de Jersey, who began to travel in 1819, and 
who toiled long in the vineyard, published in 1837, The 
Life of John Nelson: — Letters on Sanctification (12mo, 
150 pp.) : — and the Life of the Rev. John de Quetteville 
(1847, 304 pp.). His son, the Rev. Henry T. de Jersey, 
has also issued two small publications. 

The venerable John de Quetteville may be considered 
the father of the French Methodist press. He was ac- 
cepted by Mr. Wesley as a preacher to the French in 
the Channel Islands as early as 1786, and he devoted 
nearly sixty years of his life in promoting Methodism 
among the French people. He published the first hymn- 
book for them ; but the date of the first edition is uncer- 
tain. A Collection of Methodist Hymns, in French, was 
first published in London in 1786, the first year of Air. 
de Quetteville’s labors as a preacher, but it is attributed 
to Mr. R. C. Brackenbnry; so, also, is another and larger 
collection issued in 1799. Air. de Quetteville prepared 
and issued a new edition of the hymn-book in 1818, in 
various sizes. In the same year he translated and pub- 
lished in French John Wesley’s Sermon on the Truth of 
Christianity. He afterwards issued French translations 
of other sermons by John Wesley. He translated the 
Life of William Bramwell into French, and published 
it 5 besides which he was for thirty-four years the editor 
of the Methodist Magazine, in French. The Rev. Mat- 
thew Gallienne became the editor after Mr. de Quette- 
vilie. 

Francis Farjat, who served the ministry from 1842 to 
1856, published a volume of 150 pages, 18mo, on the 
Spirit and Tendencies of the Christians called Method- 
ists: — also a small volume, Notice sur Louis Jaulmes: 
— and a Biography of Mademoiselle Marie Temple 
(18mo, 60 pp.). 

L. F. Galland, who began to itinerate in 1861, issued 
a pamphlet appeal of 90 pages: Know You the Truth 
of Christianity. 

Matthew Gallienne, who began to itinerate in the 
French Conference in 1835, published in 1868 a Collec- 
tim of Hymns for Sunday-schools, e dited conjointly by 
himself and Mr. Handcock. He also issued, for four 
years, a monthly periodical called Le M issionnaire, 
which would have done much good had it been patron- 
ized. As the editor of the French Methodist Magazine, 
Mr. Gallienne rendered great and permanent service up 
to the time of his death. 

Philip Guiton, who has now been forty years in the 
ministry, published, in 1846, Histoire du Methodisme 
Wesleyan dans les lies de la J [anche: — in 1864 he pub- 
lished a French translation of Rev. William Arthur’s 
Tongue of Fire. 

William J. Handcock, who travelled many years in 
the French Conference from 1838, published in French a 
Summary of the Laws , Organization, and Discipline of 
the English Methodists, in 1858, a pamphlet of 50 pages: 
— also An Exposition of the First Epistle of St. John, in 
1861. 

James Hocart has devoted forty-six years to the itin- 
erant ministry in France. lie has published five ser- 
mons on special occasions— namely, Faith the Indispen- 
sable Condition to Success in the Ministry : — The Good 
Fight, preached at the ordination of Henry T. de Jersey 
in 1863 : — The Christian Pastor: — Purity of Heart : — 
and The Young Servant of Christ Encouraged. He has 
also revised a new edition of Mr. Wesley 1 s Sermons. 

John Wesley Lelievre has translated and published 
in French Mrs. Phoebe Palmer’s Way of Holiness .-—and 
Faith and Its Effects:— also a small book, The Death 
of the Just. 

Matthew Lelievre published in 1865 the Life of John 


Louis Rostan, the French Missionary, which has recent- 
ly been translated into English by Rev. A. J. French, 
A.B., and published at the Wesleyan Conference Office, 
under the title of the A Ipine Missionary. He has also 
published, in F reneh, The Life of John Hunt, Missionary 
to the Cannibals : — The Life and Work of John Wesley , 
a valuable biography, which has been published in Eng- 
lish, also, at the Conference Office : — also a Life of Paul 
Lelievre (1868, 133 pp.). 

Luke Pulsford, who has now completed forty years 
of itinerant work in France — commencing his labors in 
1841 — has published a Harmonized Collection of Tunes 
and Chants for Three and Four Voices: — also a Collec- 
tion of the Proper Names in the New Testament, dedicat- 
ed to the fathers, mothers, and children. 

John Louis Rostan, the Alpine missionary from 1834 
to 1860, published Christian Perfection Explained f rom 
Scripture . This was translated into English by a lady, 
with the title The Path Made Plain, lie also publish- 
ed an essay on Class-meetings and Christian Experience . 

William Toase, one of the apostles of French Method- 
ism, published several Sermons in French: — Memoirs 
of Mrs. Elizabeth Arrive: — and Rev, Richard Itobarts, 
one of the first missionaries to France : — also An A ccount 
of the Wesleyan Mission in France: — and Among the 
French Soldiers. He was sixty years a preacher. 

IV. Presidents of the French Conference. — Charles 
Cook, D.D., six years; Matthew Gallienne, twice; Pierre 
Lucas, twice; James Hocart, twelve years; Luke Puls- 
ford, twice ; Emile F. Cook, A.B., twice ; Jean Paul Cook, 
A.B., twice; William Cornforth, twice — the first in 1852, 
the last in 1881. (G. J.S.) 

WESLEYAN CONFERENCE, Irish. This is a 
convenient, if not exact, designation of the body of 
Methodists in Ireland. 

1. Origin and History. — It is a curious and interest- 
ing fact that the Palatines, a body of German emi- 
grants, were the cause of introducing Methodism into 
Ireland ; and it is equally interesting to know that some 
of those very Palatines were the originators of Meth- 
odism in America. About the year 1709, these emi- 
grants, a set of sturdy Protestants, were ruthlessly per- 
secuted by the Romish bigots under Louis XIV, and 
compelled to leave their paternal home in Germany. 
Some thousands settled in England, others went to 
America; but about a thousand found a welcome on 
Lord Southwell’s estate in the County of Limerick, Ire- 
land. Each family was allowed eight acres of ground 
on lease, at five shillings per acre ; and the government, 
in order to encourage the Protestant interest in the 
country, engaged to pay their rent for twenty years. 
The leases were for three lives ; at the end of which ex- 
orbitant rents were demanded, and the tide of emigra- 
tion set in about 1760, which led some of the best fam- 
ilies to find a home in America; and soon afterwards 
Methodism was commenced in New York by some of 
those emigrants. 

Methodism was introduced into Ireland in 1747 by a 
lay preacher named Thomas Williams. He formed a 
society in Dublin ; and during the §ame year John 
Wesley made his first visit to Ireland, examined per- 
sonally the members gathered into fellowship, and found 
them strong in faith ; and wrote respecting those who 
gathered to his ministry, “ What a nation is this ! every 
man, woman, and child, except a few of the great vul- 
gar, gladly and patiently suffers the word of exhorta- 
tion.” Crowds gathered to hear him, including many 
wealthy citizens. He wrote in his Journal in August, 
1747, “ If my brother or I could have been here for a 
few months, I question if there might not have been a 
larger society in Dublin than even in London itself.” 
After spending two weeks among them, he returned to 
London, and immediately afterwards sent his brother 
Charles, and Charles Perronet, of Shorcham, who re- 
mained more than half a year in the country reaping 
much fruit. 

At Christmas following, John Cennick preached a scr- 


WESLEYAN COXF., IRISH 924 WESLEYAN CONF., IRISH 


rnon in Dublin on “the babe wrapped in swaddling 
clothes.” A popish hearer, ignorant of the Bible, 
deemed the text a pure Protestant invention, and called 
the Methodists “ Swaddlers”— a title which clung to 
them lor several generations. During Charles Wesley’s 
visit many riotous proceedings were witnessed from the 
papists opposing the Methodists; people were killed, and 
mock trials were held, and the rioters escaped, the pa- 
pists being so much in the ascendant. God owned the 
words of the preacher. Charles Wesley was firm, so 
were his followers; that lirmness gave courage to the 
infant society. On the public Green, out of doors, Mr. 
Wesley often had as respectable a society as at the 
Foundry; and the power of the Holy Spirit was so 
manifest that the prayers and cries of the penitents 
often drowned the preacher’s voice. Additions were 
made to the society almost daily, and the bulk of the 
communicants at St. Patrick’s were usually Methodists 
led there by Mr. Wesley himself. During that visit 
Charles Wesley often preached live times in one day; 
he collected subscriptions, and had a better chapel 
erected. The Gospel reclaimed the people from error 
and sin, and persecution bound them together in bonds 
of affection. 

During that visit Charles Wesley travelled abroad 
into the country. The singing of the Methodists had a 
most winning effect on the Irish people. A good work 
was begun in many places, and in some a spirit of trans- 
formation was the effect. This was especially the case 
at Tyrrell's Cross. The people there had been wicked 
to a proverb ; they became entirely changed. In some 
places the dragoons had to be called for their protec- 
tion; the soldiers became converts, and were the cause 
of spreading Methodism. When John Wesley returned 
to Dublin in March, 1748, Charles left for England, with 
the blessings of hundreds of converts. 

Iiobert Swindells, a lay preacher, accompanied John 
Wesley, and, being especially adapted for both the work 
and the people, was made a great blessing. Mr. Wes- 
ley began his work by preaching every morning at five 
o’clock — a plan not congenial to the dilatory Irish ; but 
they crowded to hear him in most places. During this 
second visit he found out more of the real Irish charac- 
ter, and formed no sanguine hopes of the suceess of 
Methodism among the Irish. He tried both persua- 
sion and threatening in his sermons; but the people, 
while eating up every word, did not appear to digest 
any portion. What was Mr. Wesley’s discovery in 
1748 was the experience of Ilenry Moore in 1788, and 
also of Gideon Ouselev in 1828. The same may also 
be said of the Irish people to-day. Traversing Ireland 
for three months, numerous societies were formed, and 
half a dozen excellent preachers from England were la- 
boring among them. 

Charles Wesley returned to Ireland soon after John 
left, and he revisited the places into which he had intro- 
duced Methodism a year previously. In Cork he ob- 
served a great moral change had come over the people. 
Swearing was now seldom heard in the streets, and the 
altars and churches were crowded with devout worship- 
pers. lie preached to ten thousand people out of doors; 
even the clergy came to hear him. Returning to Eng- 
land, a tierce storm of opposition was raised against the 
Methodists in Cork, led by a ballad-singer named But- 
ler. 1 he mayor of the city favored the persecutors ; 
and when the Methodists applied for protection, the 
mayor said in reply that “ the law protected the priests, 
but not the Methodists after which declaration, pub- 
licly, the rioters became furious. The whole city was 
excited. Charles Wesley and all the preachers who 
had been in Cork were charged before the assizes as 
persons of ill-fame and vagabonds. The judge soon 
discovered the nature of the case and the character of 
the witnesses, and the case assumed a better aspect in 
court ; but the mischief done at Cork that year was not 
remedied for many years afterwards. The preachers 
were vindicated; yet two years afterwards, when John 


Wesley was again in Cork, he was assailed with ter- 
rible violence; but God has his own way of defending 
those who do his w'ork. When the mayor encouraged 
the rioters, some of the soldiers were converted, and 
they became stanch Methodists, coming in a body to 
the preaching services; protection was thereby secured, 
and the work prospered. Methodism took permanent 
root in that city; and in 1755 Mr. Wesley was received 
by the mayor at the Mansion-house; and his visit to 
the place was then considered an honor to the city. 

The first Methodist sermon preached in Limerick 
was by Robert Swindells, in March, 1749. He bad been 
in Ireland just one year, and had accompanied John 
Wesley in his tour, and had learned much of the char- 
acter of the people, lie also accompanied Charles Wes- 
ley in his Irish journeys. Swindells had not a gracious 
reception at Limerick ; but, though he had a rabble 
audience, he preached daily on the Barade, whieh was 
at that time a courageous act. In his congregation one 
day was a young man, educated for the liomisli priest- 
hood, who w'as convinced of sin so deeply that be could 
not rest away from the Methodist services, and who a 
few weeks after was converted, and joined the society 
at Newmarket in 1749. That young man was Thomas 
Walsh, the first-fruit of street-preaching in Ireland, one 
of the most pious, useful, and accomplished preachers 
Methodism ever had in her ranks. 

Philip Guier, one of the Palatines, was another con- 
vert to Methodism at that early period. He carried his 
religion to the little colony among whom he resided. 
Mr. Wesley’s preachers were invited to preach among 
them. The colonists greeted them and welcomed them 
with joy, and soon a society was formed with Guier as 
the leader of the infant church. 

In 1752 Mr. Wesley was again at Limerick, on which 
occasion he convened the first Irish Conference. There 
were present John Wesley, S. Larwood, J. Haugliton, 
Joseph Cownley, J. Fisher, Thomas Walsh, Jacob Row- 
ell, T. Read, Robert Swindells, J. Whitgood, and J. 
Morris. These, excepting J. Morris, formed Mr. Wes- 
ley’s stalf of preachers in Ireland in the middle of the 
18th century. In 1756 Mr. Wesley again visited Lim- 
erick, and now for the first, time preached in Ballin- 
garrv, the home of Philip Embury and Barbara Heck, 
both of whom were members of Wesley’s congregation. 
Much of the future of Methodism in the world of Amer- 
ica depended upon that visit and those sermons, with 
Embury and Heck as part of bis audience. Wesley 
says of that service, in his Journal , “ I found much life 
among this plain, artless, serious people. The whole 
town came together in the evening, and praised God 
for the consolation. Many of those who are not out- 
wardly joined with us walk in the light of God’s coun- 
tenance; yea, and have divided themselves into classes 
in imitation of our brethren, with whom they live in 
perfect harmony.” Here are the germs of that Meth- 
odism whieh ten years later originated the first Meth- 
odist society in New York, and in America. At the 
first Irish Conference Mr. Weslej r suspected one of the 
preachers of a Calvinistic leading, of which, be ob- 
served, he had as great a dread as he had of the plague. 

In 1758 Mr. Wesley again held a conference in Ire- 
land, at which fourteen preachers were present; and 
though the record of its proceedings is compressed 
within a few lines, yet it is most satisfactory. In 1760 
Mr. Wesley was again among the Palatines, when he 
“ observed the ravages of emigration.” IIow little did 
he then foresee what immense advantages would follow 
that emigration! else he would have used other words 
to describe the events be then witnessed. 

Popish influence was unsparingly exercised to oppose 
the progress of Methodism in Ireland. Mobs continued 
to be gathered, assuming often frightful and perilous 
severity; while at other times Providence, in a re- 
markable manner, delivered the worshippers. Once at 
Clones, a popish rabble violently assaulted the Method- 
ists in the market-place, when suddenly a veteran 


WESLEYAN CONF., IRISH 925 WESLEYAN CONF., IRISH 


Scotch military pensioner took his post by a tree in the 
market-place, musket in hand, declaring he would shoot 
the first man who disturbed the meeting. The terrible 
earnestness of the mail awed the people into submis- 
sion ; and he kept guard there regularly lor seYeral 
weeks. 

Ireland was helpful to America in more ways than 
historians record. Soon after the first society was formed 
in New York, Charles White and Richard Sause, two 
Dublin Methodists, arrived in New Y'ork; and they 
were liberal contributors to John Street Chapel. Some 
years afterwards Richard Sause recrossed the Atlantic, 
settled in London, and became one of the trustees of 
Mr. Wesley’s chapel in the City Road, where he was in- 
terred. 

Methodism won many converts from popery, as well 
as from the peasantry of Ireland. Mr. Wesley sent to 
that country some of the best preachers he had; and 
with untiring zeal they labored year by year, witness- 
ing alternately vicissitudes and progress; but the root 
of Methodism was fixed in the soil, and there can be no 
doubt that it saved Protestantism in that country. In 
1773 the two families of Embury and Heck, with an- 
other Irish family named Lawrence, removed to Canada, 
and they introduced Methodism into that country. In 
1775 Lawrence Coughlan, another Irish Methodist, with 
two others, founded Methodism in the Norman isles; 
while Remington, another Irish Methodist, established 
Methodism in Newfoundland. Emigration has impov- 
erished Methodism in every part of Ireland ; but that 
emigration has resulted in an amount of extension 
which never could have been realized by other means. 
Methodism was often carried to and planted in the 
new homes of emigrants years before it would have 
reached them by invitation. Ireland has peculiar 
claims on those countries to which its emigrants have 
carried their religion. During Dr. McClintock’s visit 
to his family homestead, in the County of Tyrone, 
Ireland, he went into a humble cabin inhabited by a 
poor widow. A friend introduced the doctor as from 
America. Instantly the aged widow’s fading eye 
brightened as in her early days, and she said, instant- 
ly, “America? Ah, then, sir, do you know our Eliza?” 
That may be thought to be a simple question ; but re- 
membering that there is scarcely a homestead but has 
its representative in America, such sympathy is easily 
accounted for. 

In 1789 Mr. Wesley presided for the last time at the 
Irish Conference, then composed mainly of Irishmen, 
those English preachers who had done such good 
service having been returned to their own Conference. 
JVI r. Wesley’s record is worthy to be transcribed. He 
says, “ I never had between forty and fifty such preach- 
ers together in Ireland before, all of whom we have rea- 
son to hope are alive to God, and earnestly devoted to 
his service, men of sound experience, deep piety, and 
strong understanding.” As if foreseeing his own death, 
Mr. Wesley sent Dr. Coke, in 1790, to hold the first Con- 
ference formally. Dr. Coke took that nomination as the 
yearly president of the Irish Conference, and he contin- 
ued to occupy that position, in conjunction with John 
Crook and Dr. Adam Clarke, to the end of his life. In 
1790 there were in Ireland 15 circuits, 67 preachers, and 
14,000 members. No minutes were published of the 
early Irish conferences, apart from those of the English 
Methodists. 

Historical accuracy makes it necessary to name an 
unpleasant dispute which arose in an informal confer- 
ence held by Mr. Wesley in 1778, to consider and deter- 
mine a dispute which had arisen among his societies in 
reference to the separation of the Methodists from the 
Church. The Rev. Edward Smvtlie had been driven 
from the Irish Church for his Methodist preaching. 
He had joined the Methodist ministry and had indis- 
creetly urged the need for separation from the Church. 
Mr. Wesley heard the arguments, but ruled that sepa- 
ration was not desirable. He visited Ireland more than 


twenty times, and nothing gave the Methodists there 
greater pleasure than to see him and to hear his voice. 
His last visit was attended by circumstances which 
were not of an encouraging nature. Dr. Coke had been 
using his utmost efforts to introduce Methodist services 
in church hours. This innovation was stoutly resisted 
by the leading laymen, of whom Mr. Arthur Keene and 
Mr. Richard D’Olier were the chief. They presented 
a memorial to Mr. Wesley against the action of Dr. 
Coke. Letters and memorials followed in quick succes- 
sion, and Mr. Wesley determined against the proposed 
change, while Dr. Coke had a considerable following 
among the people of his way of thinking. The result 
was, before Mr. Wesley’s death, a divided society in Dub- 
lin. After Mr. Wesley’s death, Dr. Coke was able to urge 
his opinions with more determination, and they served 
to alienate from the doctor some of his dearest and best 
friends in Dublin, and the progress of the work of God 
was proportionably hindered. In 1790 Mr. Wesley was 
pleased to know that in Dublin he had one of the largest 
societies in his Connection, very few being larger. 

Dr. Coke became the apostle of Ireland after the 
death of Wesley. He visited the country twenty-five 
times at his own cost ; gave freely of his own mone}*- to 
the preachers and the new erections of chapels; trav- 
elled and preached all over the country ; and the society 
advanced rapidly under his superintendence. In 1782, 
when he first presided at their Conference, they had only 
15 circuits and G000 members. In 1813, after a lapse 
of thirty-one years, there were 56 circuits and 28,770 
members. All this was in spite of difficulties, persecu- 
tions, and resistance almost insurmountable. From 1795 
to 1798, during the prevalence of the Rebellion, the suf- 
ferings and even tortures of the Methodists, perhaps the 
most loyal people in the country, were too horrible to 
relate. Their very loyalty caused the malignity of the 
rebels; but God was on their side, and had raised up 
among them two or three ministers whose labors saved 
the societies. Especially were the untiring labors of 
the Rev. Adam Averell made a great blessing to the 
whole country. Educated for the Church, after a few 
years’ service in that body, he became a Methodist, and, 
having abundant means of his own, began to itinerate 
all over Ireland, much in the same way as Mr. Wesley 
had done, encouraging the members, administering the 
sacraments, attending and presiding over quarterly 
meetings, opening new chapels, and introducing Meth- 
odism into new localities. During half a century that 
devoted servant of God ceased not to exert all his en- 
ergies and influence on behalf of Methodism, while he 
himself, like Wesley, as an ordained clergyman, was 
permitted occasionally to preach in churches, and with- 
out permission preached continuously, often daily, in the 
open air to listening multitudes. In those excursions 
which he made he witnessed many extraordinary man- 
ifestations of the divine power, both during his sermons 
and in prayer-meetings afterwards. During the twenty 
years of Dr. Coke’s superintendence of Methodism in 
Ireland, Mr. Averell was generally appointed their rep- 
resentative to the English Conference, and for many 
years accompanied Dr. Coke from Ireland to England 
for that purpose, the two taking turns in preaching in 
the towns through which they passed on their journeys. 
When, in 1818, the Irish societies were divided on the 
sacrament and Church question, Mr. Averell took sides 
with those who formed “ The Primitive Wesleyan Meth- 
odists,” thought by some to be the seceders. He was 
appointed their president, organized their societies, es- 
tablished for them a magazine and book-room, and re- 
mained true to their society and interests till his death, 
Jan. 16, 1847, at the ripe age of ninety-two years. 

Methodism, while struggling with poverty, opposi- 
tion, and cruelty, yet was often favored in a remarkable 
manner by Divine Providence. At the time of the great 
Rebellion Methodism saved Dublin from being sacked 
by the rebels, whose intention to march on that city 
was secretly made known to a Methodist citizen. He 


WESLEY AX CONE., IRISH 92G WESLEYAN CONE., IRISH 


at once communicated with the lord-lieutenant, who sent 
out the soldiers to meet the rebels, and they were de- 
feated and the city saved. Dr. Coke catno to Dublin, 
interceded with the authorities, found that Alexander 
Knox, Mr. Wesley’s great friend, was private secretary 
to lord Castlereagh, then lord-lieutenant of Ireland, and 
through him obtained permission for the Conference to 
meet in Dublin, when by law more than five persons were 
forbidden to meet for any purpose, and secured safe-con- 
voys for the preachers to travel. At that Conference it 
was resolved to establish home missions, in order to pro- 
vide preaching for the people in their native language. 
The two missionaries first appointed were James M‘Quigg 
and Charles Graham. The former was both a scholar 
and an able preacher, lie toiled as a missionary till his 
health broke down, then devoted his energies to the 
preparation and editing of the Bible in the Irish tongue, 
which the British and Foreign Bible Society published, 
lie brought out a second edition, and, while preparing 
a third edition for press, closed a career of toil and suf- 
fering, leaving behind, in that Irish Bible, a work which 
was a blessing to thousands after his death. Charles 
Graham was a man of dauntless Irish courage. At 
twenty-live his eyes were opened to see his lost con- 
dition. lie had been both Churchman and papist, but, 
finding no soul-rest till he found Methodism, his char- 
acter was soon discovered by Mr. Wesley, who sent him 
out as a missionary in Kerry County. Few of the Irish 
evangelists had more trials than Graham, and few knew 
better how to meet and conquer them. Bartley Camp- 
bell was another who had been an ardent papist, and 
became an eccentric but enthusiastic missionary. More 
extensively useful than any who had preceded him in 
mission work was Gideon Ouseley, who devoted a long 
life to spreading divine truth in the form of Methodism 
among the Irish people. The Life and Labors of that 
eminent preacher and defender of truth, by the Eev. 
William Arthur, has perpetuated his character and 
work, tie and Graham often travelled together and 
assisted each other; but Ouseley will always be consid- 
ered the chief Methodist Irish missionary, which posi- 
tion he occupied for forty years, lie labored as hard 
with his pen as his tongue, and his writings, when pub- 
lished, were at times more helpful to the cause of God 
than his verbal utterances. The improved religious 
character of Ireland now is largely due to Gideon 
Ouselev’s labors. 

Ireland, however, was not to be so much benefited 
by these labors as other countries. Methodism would 
have been mighty in that country had not emigration, 
continuing year by year for half a century, deprived 
it of thousands of its Methodist converts. In fifteen 
years fully ten thousand members were reported at 
successive conferences as having emigrated to America. 
Xor was this the only drawback to the progress of the 
work. In 1801 the English Conference, unable to meet 
the claims of its own societies, and having to borrow 
money to sustain its own agencies, was obliged to dis- 
continue the pecuniary assistance it had cheerfully ren- 
dered the Irish Conference. Dr. Coke immediately vis- 
ited Ireland. To provide for that emergency a fund of 
XT 200 was raised by special effort, out of which the 
debts were paid, and a book-room established as a means 
to raise money. The institution was of great utility to 
the cause; but instead of being financially helpful, mon- 
ey had to be borrowed to keep it going, and soon the 
debts were £8000, the interest on which absorbed all 
the public collection on behalf of the book-room. The 
preachers taxed themselves yearly for many years to 
reduce the debt. Their difficulties from limited re- 
sources continued nearly twenty years, and after the di- 
vision in the society in 1818, the burden on the Irish 
preachers became so oppressive that the English Confer- 
ence generously granted them £G00 a year from the con- 
tingent fund. Still the debt was not cancelled, and in 
1828 the Irish preachers again taxed themselves, and 
by a special effort raised £1850 towards clearing off the 


£8000 still remaining of debt. During the year follow- 
ing the people raised £7200, so the debt was cancelled. 
But who can tell the sacrifices the preachers had to 
make to raise that sum in maintenance of their several 
agencies? During sixteen years they almost staggered 
under heavy financial burdens, but they slackened not 
in their devotion for the salvation of their benighted 
countrymen. 

The great trouble of the Methodists in Ireland was 
the sacramental question. Unlike their English breth- 
ren, they were barely content with their position as a 
society without full church privileges. When the Eng- 
lish Methodists agitated for and obtained permission in 
1797 for their ministers to administer the sacraments, 
the Irish, having Dr. Coke and INI r. Avercll so frequent- 
ly with them to administer the sacraments, did not 
claim for their preachers generally their full pastoral 
rights. After the death of Dr. Coke the members in 
society had so often to be taken either to Church or to 
the Presbyterians for the sacraments, according to the 
leaning of the preacher, that they became greatly dissat- 
isfied, and in 181G there arose a strong determination in 
the minds of many of the people to have the sacraments 
from their own ministers. There was also another par- 
ty equally determined to abide by the old rule and go 
to Church for the ordinances. For more than two years 
the contention continued, both parties being equally de- 
termined to have their own way. The Eev. Adam 
Averell had long been the apostle of the Irish Method- 
ists, travelling constantly among them, giving his mon- 
ey, relieving their sufferings, directing their official meet- 
ings, and administering the sacraments. Several thou- 
sands resolved to adhere to the old plan, and at the Con- 
ference of 18 1G, Dr. Adam Clarke presiding, the Eev. 
Adam Averell and Mr. Tobias were the chief speakers — 
the former for, the latter against, continuing the old plan. 
Throughout the societies the people were divided, and 
in the autumn of I8IG a Conference was held at Clones of 
those representatives who favored the old plan. Through 
hope of avoiding a separation, there was too much hesi- 
tation and deliberation. In 1817 two conferences were 
held, the second one at Clones, presided over by Mr. Av- 
erell, who was unanimously chosen their president. The 
main body of the preachers voted for the sacraments; 
the party led by Mr. Averell maintained the original 
plan. In January, 1818, a meeting of representatives 
of circuits was held at Clones, when those who adhered 
to Mr. Averell and primitive custom resolved on a form 
of general principles, and formed the Primitive Wesley- 
an Methodist Society. They were not a Church; their 
preachers claimed no ministerial rank, assumed no min- 
isterial titles, and performed no proper ministerial func- 
tions. They preached to the people, and led them to 
other churches for the ordinances. In that uncertain 
condition they certainly prospered for a time, and dur- 
ing 3818 over two thousand members were added to 
them, and in 1819 over four thousand additions were 
made. This section of the original society was led by 
Mr. Averell during the rest of his protracted life. In 
years following they maintained their separate condi- 
tion amid various vicissitudes, and for just sixty years 
they endured hardships and privations greater than 
they need have done. Happily they came to an end 
at the Conference of 1878. In the address from the 
Irish to the English Conference of that year is this 
record, “This Conference has been notable for the con- 
summation of the union with the Primitive Wesleyan 
Society, so long under consideration. The final discus- 
sion of the subject was marked by great thoroughness 
and good feeling, and the decision arrived at with a 
hearty unanimity. When the two conferences came to- 
gether it was a time long to be remembered, and it was 
evident to all that the spirit of God was eminently in 
their midst. The only breach which has occurred in 
Irish Methodism was thus healed.” 

The parent society was known for some time as the 
Sacr ament ai'ians , because the preachers had voted them- 


WESLEYAN CONE., IRISH 927 WESLEYAN CONI'., IRISH 


selves to the privilege of administering the ordinances 
of baptism and the Lord’s supper — a privilege they 
ought to have had from the lirst. The vote carried 
with it an immense amount of pecuniary loss and hard- 
ship. During the four years of the struggle (1814-18), 
an annual decrease of members was reported, and in 
1817 no less than 7500 retired; but in 1819 they had an 
increase of over 3500, and the Separatists had an in- 
crease of over 4000, so that neither party could com- 
plain of apparent want of success. The greatest hinder- 
anee to prosperity was the continued emigration from 
Ireland to America, by which for many years the so- 
ciety lost not less than a thousand members annually. 
The yearly visits as presidents of their Conference of 
such preachers as Dr. Adam Clarke, Richard Reece, 
Iliehard Watson, Dr. limiting, Robert Newton, and oth- 
er leading ministers from England, greatly encouraged 
the patient toilers. Their financial privations were very 
great; but they labored most energetically, though it 
was up-hill work all the way; yet in 1839, the centena- 
ry year, they numbered over 150 preachers and more 
than 26.000 members. During the same year they con- 
tributed £14,500 to the Centenary Fund. That liberal- 
ity in their poverty was marvellous, and shows the spir- 
it of self-denial which animated them all. In addition 
to all this effort, they established schools in Dublin, 
Cork, and Belfast, and, aided by the munificent contri- 
butions of American Methodists, they built and estab- 
lished a Methodist College at Belfast. The Wesleyan 
Connectional School in Dublin, opened in 1845, was to 
secure to Methodists in the South a high-class educa- 
tion. The college in Belfast, opened in August, 18G8, 
combines both a public-school and college. In the for- 
mer, boys are prepared for a collegiate course of train- 
ing; and in the college two classes of students are re- 
ceived — one consisting of candidates for the ministry 
the other those intended for commercial pursuits. Un- 
dergraduates of the Queen’s University also attend its 
classes of instruction. 

There have been heroic men in their ranks, who have 
fought and labored with marvellous zeal and energy. 
Charles Graham was a grav-headed veteran of seventy- 
four years, who died in triumph in April, 1824. Will- 
iam Hamilton broke down in 1816, but he ceased not to 
labor until October, 1843, when he closed a ministerial 
career of fifty -six years, aged eighty -two. Gideon 
Ouseley was abroad preaching out-of-doors at seventy- 
four, aetive as ever, and delivering twenty sermons in 
the week. He died a victor’s death, in Dublin, May 
14, 1839, aged seventy-eight. To these may be added 
Riehard Boardman, James Morgan, Andrew Blair, James 
M‘Mullen, John M‘Adam, Thomas Barber (who sent 
Adam Clarke into the ministry), Lanktree, Tobias, 
Stewart, Waugh, and others. Besides these, how many 
Methodists from Ireland have entered the ministry both 
in England and America — such men as Henry Moore, 
Adam Clarke, "William Thompson, Walter Griffith, and 
William xVrthur, all of whom were presidents of both 
the English and the Irish Conference, and the transplant- 
ing of whom impoverished the Church which reared 
them! Think also of the ministers from Ireland now 
in America! But these we have not space to name. 
Irish Methodists have helped to found their denomina- 
tion in America, Canada, Australia, Africa, and India; 


land, with but little help from any but themselves. 
1 rish Methodists have a roll of honor which will never 
be surpassed in the Church militant; and in the Chureh 
triumphant none will receive greater commendation than 
those whose names have just been given, and hundreds 
of others who were their colaborers and joint sufferers. 
Rev. William Crook, D.D., has a copious history of Irish 
Methodism nearly ready for publication. 

In 1877, as a preparation for the union with the Irish 
Primitive Weslevans, the Irish Methodist Conference 
first admitted laymen to participate with the ministers 


in the Annual Conference. This act of grace was done 
in Ireland one year before it was adopted by the Eng- 
lish Conference. In 1878 the Primitive Wesleyan Con- 
ference came in a body to the Conference of the parent 
soeiety, and both united to form one community, after 
having had a separate existence for just sixty years. 
The highest number of members the Irish Conference 
ever had at one time was in the year 1814, when the 
agitation commenced for the sacraments. That year 
the membership was 29,388. The year 1818, when the 
separation took place, they were reduced to 19,052. 
The soeiety never fully rallied from the shock that di- 
vision caused. In 1844, when in their divided state, the 
parent society numbered 28,409; but having to struggle 
against the continued drain arising from emigration, 
when the two societies were united in 1878, they only 
reached a total of 25,487 members, and at the present 
time they are below that number. A careful examina- 
tion of the statistics of the body will enable the reader 
to understand the difficulty of the preachers in laboring 
against such varied discouraging forces. The disrup- 
tion which took place in England in 1849 reaehed Ire- 
land in its paralyzing influence, and the Irish Confer- 
ence, which in 1849 had*a membership of 22,000, in 1855 
had been reduced to a little over 18,000. The highest 
number of members reported by the Irish Conference 
during the thirty years following 1849 was only 23,500 
in the year 1861. 

11. Statistics.— 


Ye., 

Ministers. 

Members. 

Yenr. 

I Ministers. 

Members- 

1765. . . 

15 


1823... 

126 

22,039 

1766... 

17 


1824. . . 

128 

22,047 

1767... 

19 


1825... 

130 

22,077 

176S... 

20 

2', 700 

1826... 

134 

22,514 

1769... 

20 

3,180 

1827. .. 

139 

22,599 

1770... 

23 

3,024 

1 S2S . . . 

142 

22,760 

1771. .. 

23 

2,632 

1829... 

146 

22,846 

1772... 

23 

3,790 

1830. . . 

14S 

22,S96 

1773... 

23 

4,013 

1S31... 

146 

22,470 

1774... 

24 

4,341 

1832. .. 

14S 

22,899 

1775... 

26 

4,237 

1833. . 

148 

24,403 

1776... 

2S 

4,79S 

1834... 

14S 

25,614 

1777... 

30 ‘ 

5,311 

1835. .. 

149 

26,037 

1773. . . 

30 

5,336 

1S3C... 

151 

26,434 

1779... 

32 

5,920 

1837... 

153 

20,023 

1730... 

34 

6,106 

1S3S. . . 

154 

26,244 

17S1 . . . 

30 

6,165 

1839. . . 

157 

26,3S3 

1732... 

34 

6,612 

1S40. . . 

160 

27,047 

1733... 

33 

6,053 

1841... 

161 

27, 20S 

1784... 

39 

6,429 

1842... 

160 

27,030 

17S5. . . 

40 

7,717 

1S43. . . 

161 

28,004 

1736. .. 

47 

10,345 

1844... 

160 

28,409 

1787. .. 

51 

11,313 

1845... 

158 

27,926 

17SS... 

5S 

12,213 

1S46. . . 

160 

27,546 

1739... 

65 

13,010 

1847... 

160 

24,633 

1790... 

67 

14,106 

1S48... 

162 

23,142 

1791... 

68 

14,158 

1849... 

163 

22,221 

1792... 

72 

14,758 

1850. .. 

157 

21,107 

1793... 

70 

14,144 

18,51 . . . 

156 

20,815 

1794... 

76 

13,877 

1852... 

156 

20,040 

1795... 

75 

14,256 

1S53... 

160 

19, 60S 

1796. .. 

SO 

16,742 

1854... 

160 

19,233 

1797... 

SI 

17,004 

1S55. . . 

164 

18,749 

1793... 

77 

16,657 

1S56... 

159 

18,952 

1799... 

S3 

16,217 

1 S57 . . . 

157 

19,287 

1300... 

88 

19,292 

1S58... 

159 

19,406 

1801... 

89 

24,224 

1859. .. 

159 

19,731 

1302... 

101 

25,618 

1S60. . . 

165 

22,S00 

1S03... 

101 

24,505 

1S61 . . . 

103 

23,551 

1304... 

101 

21,966 

1862... 

1C5 

22,741 

1805... 

102 

23,321 

1 S63 . . . 

162 

21,953 

1806... 

103 

23,773 

1864... 

168 

20,906 

1807... 

105 

24,560 

1S65. . . 

175 

20,03 L 

ISOS... 

110 

24,. 550 

1S66. . . 

165 

19,835 

1309... 

114 

25,835 

1867... 

172 

19,657 

1S10... 

118 

27,810 

1S68... 

175 

19,591 

1811... 

125 

28,149 

1869... 

174 

19,659 

1S12... 

125 

27,823 

1S70. . . 

ISO 

19,963 

1S13. .. 

127 

2S,770 

1871... 

182 

20,005 

1814... 

127 

29,388 

1S72. . . 

183 

19,886 

1S15. . . 

127 

29,357 

1873... 

186 

19,977 

1S16... 

130 

28,542 

, 1S74. . . 

183 

20.040 

1817... 

131 

21,031 

1875... 

185 

20,249 

ISIS... 

130 

19,052 

1 1S76... 

1S7 

20,405 

1S19. . . 

120 

22,580 

1 1877... 

190 

20,148 

1820... 

115 

23,800 

1878... 

263 

19,450 

1821 . . . 

120 

23,53S 

1879... 

249 

25,487 

| 1822.... 

120 

22,718 

1SS0... 

244 

24,463 


(WESL.) M. NEW CONNECTION 928 (WESL.) M. NEW CONNECTION 


111. Literature. — But few of the Irish Methodist 
preachers, as such, have had either leisure or disposi- 
tion to make free use of the press. Some preachers 
who left Ireland and joined the English Conference 
have written and published extensively. Dr. Adam 
Clarke, 1 lenrv Moore, William Arthur, A.M., William 
Myles, and James Creighton have each left their names 
permanently in the annals of English literature. \Y itli 
two or three exceptions, the literature of Ireland has 
not been much enriched by the preachers; not from 
want of ability, but owing to more pressing duties. 

Lev. W. P. Appclbce, LL.D., has published three pam- 
phlets: one on The Genuineness and Authenticity of Holy 
Scripture: — one Calvinism Xot the Theology of the Bi- 
ble:— and A Vindication of (he Wesleyan Catechism. 

Kev. George Alley has published Our Class Meetings, 
Their Script u ral « \ uthority and Practical 1 Forking (1SG8, 
130 pp.). 

Rev. J. C. Pass has published a poem, Life's True Be- 
atitude; or , is Wise?— also, Glimpses in America . 

1 lev. Robert G. Cather, LL.D., made very free use of 
his pen in newspapers, as secretary of the Systematic 
Ecneficence Society. 

Rev. G. W. Campbell, A.M.,lias become widely known 
by his Life of the Rev. Charles Graham, published in 
1808 as The Apostle of Kerry (8vo, 324 pp.). 

Rev. William Crook, 1). IX, is the most prominent au- 
thor now in connection with the Conference. lie has 
published, Funeral Services, on the death of his father; 
— Christian Consolation in Relation to the Dead in Christ , 
a sermon for W. II. Parkin : — The Memory of our Fa- 
thers, sermon on the death of John Nelson : — Our Heaven- 
ly Home , sermon for John Carey : — Paradise ; or, The 
Present State of the Holy Dead , a sermon : — Lay Preach- 
ing in Ireland , and the New Gospel: — Ireland, and the 
Centenary of American Methodism, an octavo volume of 
203 pages, lie has in press a History of Methodism in 
Ireland { in 2 vols.). lie has also been the editor of the 
Irish Evangelist for many years. 

Rev. John Dwyer has published Christian Thoi-ough- 
ness, a memorial of T. A. Shillington, Esq., of Portadown. 

Rev. Thomas Pearson is the author of, The Irish of the 
Irish Ch u rch, published anonymously, and a work of deep 
research: — The Bible and Temperance ; or, The True 
Scriptural Basis of the Temperance Movement . This is 
one of the most exhaustive works on the wines of the 
Pible, an octavo volume of 290 pages issued in 1881. 

Rev. William Reilly has published A Memoj'ial of the 
Ministerial Life of the Rev. Gideon Ouseley, Irish Mis- 
sionary. The Rev. William Arthur has also published 
a Life of Gideon Ouseley. 

Mr. Ouseley himself was the author of thirty-four 
separate publications, with his name attached. They 
were cliietly letters of a controversial character, which 
were clear, powerful, and convincing; and were of im- 
mense service, when published, in opposing the spread 
of poperv, and in defending Methodist agency in Ire- 
land. The two principal works published by Mr. Ouse- 
ley were, Old Christianity against Papal Novelties, an 
octavo volume of 140 pages : — and Calvinism- A rminian- 
ism (£831, 18mo, 220 pp.). 

Rev. George Vance has published a pamphlet, Calvin- 
ism Not the. Theology of the Bible. 

Rev. Samuel Weir, in £807, published a small volume, 
1 8 mo, Onward to Cod. 

Rev. G. E. Wedgwood has published a lecture entitled 
Liberty. (G. J. S.) 

(Wesleyan) Methodist New Connection, 
a body of English Independents which separated from the 
regular Wesley an s on questions of ecclesiastical polity. 

I. Origin. — The opinion has been held, and is still 
prevalent in some localities, that the Methodist New 
Connection had its origin in personal sympathy with 
Alexander Kilham. Such is not the fact. Most of 
those who joined t lie body at its origin were influenced 
by the publications and public addresses of Mr. Kilham, 
but the Connection as such originated in principle, not 


in sympathy. The Methodist New Connection was 
originated by a contest for the establishment of the fol- 
lowing important and scriptural principles: 

1. The right of the people to hold their public religions 
worship at such hours ns were most convenient, without 
their being restricted to the mere intervals of the hours 
appointed for service in the Established Church. 

2. The right of the people to receive the ordinances of 
baptism and the Lord’s snpper from the hands of their 
own ministers and in their own places of worship. 

3. The right of the people to a representation in the 
district meetings and in the animal conference, and there- 
by to participate in the government of the community 
and in the appropriation of its funds. 

4. The right of the Church to have a voice, through its 
local business meetings, in the reception and expulsion 
of members, the choice of local officers, and iu the calling- 
out of candidates for the ministry. 

Not any of these privileges were originally enjoyed in 
the parent body; they were for years zealously con- 
tended for by the fathers and founders of the New Con- 
nection; and when they could not be fully obtained, 
conscience compelled those men to secede from the par- 
ent community and originate a distinct denomination 
in which such scriptural privileges could be freely en- 
joyed. 

The power of Mr. Wesley was absolute, but it fell 
into his hands unsought and undesired. It was exer- 
cised by him with affection, and solely for the best in- 
terests of his societies; and retained from the same mo- 
tive. lie was the father of the community, and was 
necessitated for a time to be its sole director and govern- 
or; but, however proper it was for him to exercise that 
power during the infancy of the Connection, yet, when 
surrounded by churches which had grown to maturity, 
and assisted by ministers and laymen of acknowledged 
wisdom, integrity, and piety, whose existence and hap- 
piness, like his own, were bound np with the prosperity 
of Methodism, it would have been more conformable to 
the example of the apostles and the dictates of sound 
reason to have gradually relaxed his hold of the reins 
and admitted others to a participation of the same, and 
finally to have framed a liberal constitution defining 
the prerogatives of the ministry and the privileges of 
the people, securing both by suitable regulations and 
wholesome laws. Mr. Wesley’s mind was well qualified 
for this, but he did it not. He retained absolute power 
until death; and, instead of framing for the communi- 
ty a liberal constitution, lie transferred by legal settle- 
ment his own power to the preachers, and made that 
law which before was only custom, and custom arising 
from the peculiar relation in which he stood, lie made 
those his successors in absolute power who could not 
possibly be his successors in paternal relation and influ- 
ence. That exercise of power was the subject of many 
remarks and adverse criticism. Just fifty years after 
the origin of Methodism Mr. Wesley had to defend his 
conduct in this matter, which he did in these words: 

“Some of our helpers say, ‘ This is shackling free-bora 
Englishmen and they demand a free conference, that 
is, a meeting of all the preachers, wherein all things shall 
be determined by most votes. I answer, It is possible af- 
ter my death something of this kind may take place, but 
not while I live. To me the preachers have engaged 
themselves to submit, to serve me ns sons in the Gospel ; 
but they are not thus engaged to any man or number of 
men besides. To me the people in general will submit, 
but they will not thus submit to any other.” 

When Air. Wesley died, in 1791, only two years after he 
had written and published the above observations, 
there were 380 preachers in his society, some with ac- 
tive, others passive, dispositions. Among the former 
were some who were of opinion that, being the regu- 
larly appointed ministers of their congregations, they 
ought to exercise all the functions which belong to the 
pastoral office; but to be deprived of the privilege of 
administering the sacraments was felt by some of the 
preachers to be a great hardship, while the laymen, 
many of them, considered they had a just right to rep- 
resentation in the properly constituted Church courts. 

Mr. Alexander Kilham, one of the preachers who had 


(WESL.) M. NEW CONNECTION 029 (WESL.) M. NEW CONNECTION 


been specially privileged in liis ministerial career, was 
one of the most able and courageous advocates of what 
was considered the full rights and liberties of both 
preachers and people. In 1702 he published an address 
to the Newcastle Society, to whom he was then minis- 
tering, advocating liberal views. Ilis address met with 
favor from Dr. Coke, Messrs. Bradburn, Pawson, Moore, 
Taylor, Crowther, Bramwell, and others. The Church 
party among the preachers resisted strongly, and the 
controversy spread and intensified. Mr. Kilkam, im- 
pressed with the conviction that permanent peace would 
never be established in the body until such a constitu- 
tion was adopted as secured to the people New-Test, 
rights and privileges, felt it a duty to make another ef- 
fort for the attainment of this important object. Un- 
der this impression he wrote a pamphlet entitled The 
Progress of Liberty. In this work he adverted to the 
course of Mr. Wesley in the progress of Methodism, 
showing that he had acted from time to time as altered 
circumstances required; he glanced at the alterations 
which had been effected since Mr. Wesley’s death, and 
analyzed “the Articles of Pacification,” pointing out 
their defects, etc. In the second part of this work he 
lays down the “Outlines of a Constitution,” which he 
humbly proposes to the consideration of “The People 
called Methodists.” This outline embraces the follow- 
ing particulars : 

First, That instead of the preachers having the sole 
power to admit and expel members, these acts should be 
done with cousent of the people. 

Second, That the members should have a voice in 
choosing their own leaders. 

Third, That local preacher?, instead of being appointed 
by the circuit preacher, should be examined and approved 
by the leaders’ and quarterly meetings; with which meet- 
ings also should rest the power of receiving and dismiss- 
ing them. 

Fourth, That as it was impossible to allow the people 
to choose their own ministers on account of the itinerant 
plan, yet the quarterly meetings should have a voice in 
recommending preachers to travel. 

Fifth, That lay delegates appointed by the quarterly 
meetings should attend the district meetings. 

And, lastly, he proposes, ‘‘with submission to the 
preachers and the Connection at large, to appoint one 
or two lay delegates from every district meeting to at- 
tend the Conference.” 

Snch were the propositions of Mr. Kilham, and such 
were the principles adopted as elements of the consti- 
tution of the New Connection at its origin, and such 
remain its essential and distinguishing features at the 
present day. Many of them have sinee been substan- 
tially adopted in the other Methodist bodies. Never- 
theless, for publishing the pamphlet advocating these 
principles of freedom, Mr. Kilham was tried and ex- 
pelled from the ministry at the ensuing conference 
(1796). Being left without a circuit, Mr. Kilham pub- 
lished a detailed account of his trial and expulsion, 
which sold extensively and was read eagerly. It cre- 
ated a strong feeling of sympathy towards the expelled, 
who was welcomed in many circuits to preach to and 
address the people. Several large societies expressed 
their adhesion to the principles Mr. Kilham advocated, 
and in May, 1797, a chapel was purchased in Leeds, 
where he gathered large congregations and preached to 
them. 

The Methodist Conference of 1797 was occupied dur- 
ing its session with the altered circumstances arising 
from their refusal of the liberties which had been asked 
by deputations from the people. A Plan of Pacifica- 
tion was drawn up and published by the Conference, 
which was one of the most important proceedings con- 
nected with the history of Methodism. As, however, 
that plan did not concede all that the people desired, 
three of the preaehers resigned — William Thom, Ste- 
phen Eversfield, and Alexander Cummins — and united 
with Mr. Kilham. These brethren, with a number of 
delegates from the people, met together in Ebenezer 
Chapel, Leeds, on Aug. 9, 1797, when Mr. Thom was 
elected president and Mr. Kilham secretary, and the 
basis of a constitution was adopted in conformity with 
X.— N x n 


the principles which had been publicly advocated. 
The full development and formal statement of these 
principles were reserved until the ensuing conference. 
The most important places in which friends declared 
for the New Itinerancy were Alnwick, Ashton, Bolton, 
Chester, Hanley, Leeds, Liverpool, Maeelesfield, Man- 
chester, Nottingham, Newcastle, and Stockport, which 
bedame the nuclei of distinct circuits, consisting alto- 
gether of over 5000 members. 

IT. Doctrines . — The Methodist New Connection has 
a creed; the doctrines it teaches are Arminian, purely 
Methodistic, No written creed was considered ncees- 
sary at the time the Connection was commenced, its 
founders being all Methodists who held by Mr. Wesley’s 
writings; they retained his hymn-book, and avowed 
their unabated attachment to the doctrines he taught. 
False reports on this head having been circulated in 
the early years, the Conference of 1800 made a spe- 
cific declaration of their doctrines, which were briefly 
summed up under the following heads: namely, first, 
the fall of man; second, redemption by the death of 
Christ; third, justification by faith; fourth, the com- 
plete sanctification of believers; fifth, perseverance in 
the divine life, or the necessity of continuing in faith 
and good works to the end, in order to final salvation. 

The Conference of 1816 reviewed the whole question 
of doctrines, and embodied them in twelve articles or 
propositions, with Scripture references to each. These 
are the same as those held by the parent society. 

II T. Church Organization and Polity. — The founders 
of the Methodist New Connection renounced all connec- 
tion with the Established Church, and as avowed Dis- 
senters added the administration of the ordinances of 
baptism and the Lord’s supper to the regular duties of 
the ministry, and laid down as fundamental this prin- 
ciple: “That the Church itself is entitled, either col- 
lectively, in the persons of its members, or representa- 
tively, by persons chosen out of and by itself, to a voice 
and influence in all the acts of legislation and govern- 
ment.” That principle is embodied in the entire sys- 
tem of government of the Connection. This will be 
seen from the following statement of the constitution 
and functions of the official meetings, briefly summed 
up under five heads. 

1. Conference. — This is held annually, and is com- 
posed of an eqnal number of preachers and laymen, each 
circuit sendiug one of its preaehers and one of its lay 
members. When only one representative is sent, the 
circuit selects a preacher and layman in alternate years. 
Should any circuit be unable to send a representative, a 
letter accompanied by the required documents, details, 
and collections is sufficient. The treasurer of the Con- 
nection, the corresponding member of the annual com- 
mittee, the steward and treasurer of the book-room, the 
general secretary of the missions, the superintendent of 
the Irish mission, a deputed minister or layman, alter- 
nately, from the Irish Conference, and the guardians of 
the Connection, under the deed executed in 1846, are, 
by virtue of office, members of Conference, without inter- 
fering in any way with the privilege of the circuits in 
which such individuals may reside. The business of 
Conference is to make laws for the government of the 
Connection; to deeide impartially on charges affecting 
the character of preachers or other officers, and on ap- 
peals referred to it by the quarterly meetings; to dis- 
burse the various funds of the Connection; to station 
the preachers for the year ensuing; to investigate the 
condition of each circuit; to adjust differences, and to 
promote, by friendly eo-operation and advice, harmony 
and love throughout the community; and to devise ami 
put into operation means for the more extensive spread 
of the Gospel both at home and abroad. Its sittings arc 
open to members of the Connection, subject to the judg- 
ment of the president. 

In addition to the above, a committee of seven per- 
sons is chosen at each Conference, by ballot, to transact 
the business of the Connection between one Conference 


(WESL.) M. NEW CONNECTION 030 (WESL.) 31. NEW CONNECTION 


and another; four of the members arc preachers and 
three are laymen, one year, and vice t'ersa the following 
year. It is the duty of this committee to sec that the 
resolutions of Conference are carried into effect; to give 
advice in all matters of dispute and difficulty, and to 
make provision for such circuits as may through death, 
new openings, or other causes, need supplies during the 
ecclesiastical year. A report of its proceedings is pre- 
pared bv the corresponding member, and annually pre- 
sented to Conference. 

2. District Meetings. — These meetings are composed 
of all the circuit preachers in the district, with an equal 
number of laymen (including the representatives to the 
last Conference), who are elected by the respective quar- 
terly meetings. These meetings are designed to form 
and carry out plans for the revival of the work of God 
in the district; to investigate the condition of the soci- 
eties, chapels, and Sabbath-schools, and to prepare cor- 
rect returns of the number of members, probationers, 
Sabbath-school teachers and scholars, etc., lor the use of 
Conference; to ascertain the amount raised in each cir- 
cuit for the different Connectional funds; to investigate 
all claims on the yearly collection and chapel fund; to 
receive applications for the division of circuits; to ex- 
amine candidates for the ministry; to lay before the 
district any resolution of the Conference affecting the 
circuits, and to ascertain whether they have been car- 
ried into full effect. These meetings arc designed and 
calculated to shorten the duration of Conference, to 
strengthen the executive, to secure more correct infor- 
mation on points of local interest than can be done at 
a greater distance, and to afford a legitimate channel 
through which main’ evils may be altogether prevented 
or speedily rectified. 

3. Quarterly Meetings. — These arc held in each cir- 
cuit, and are composed of the circuit preachers, the cir- 
cuit stewards, the secretar} 7 of the local preachers, and 
representatives of the people chosen from the local 
preachers, leaders, trustees (being members), and other 
experienced persons from the different societies. Each 
society sends one or more representatives according to 
the number of its members. Any member of society 
has free admission to the quarterly meetings, with lib- 
erty to give his opinion, but without the power to vote. 
It is the business of the quarterly meeting to pay the 
preachers’ salaries; to determine the amount that each 
society is to contribute for the support of the ministry; 
to make by-laws for its own regulation and for tlie 
management of the circuit, providing they do not con- 
travene the rules of the Connection ; to appoint persons 
to make the preachers’ plans for the cireuit; to recom- 
mend loeal preachers to be taken into the regular min- 
istry ; to determine respecting the qualifications of can- 
didates for the local ministry, and to examine and de- 
cide upon the affairs, both temporal and spiritual, of the 
circuit generally. 

*1. Leaders' Meetings. — These consist of leaders, soci- 
ety stewards, one or more of the circuit preachers, a 
male representative for each of the female and circuit 
preachers’ classes, and a representative from the trustees 
of the chapel, provided finch representative be a member 
of society. Leaders’ meetings are held weekly, or once 
a fortnight, and regulate the affairs of each society and 
place of worship. It is the province of these meetings 
to inspect the class-books, and to receive the weekly or 
other payments; to inquire after the sick or absent 
members, that they may be visited; to determine on 
notices for the pulpit; to fix the hours for public wor- 
ship, and appoint the times for making the collections 
for its support; to recommend persons to act as exhort- 
rrs or local preachers; to judge and decide upon the 
fitness of candidates for Church membership; to ascer- 
tain whether any members are walking disorderly; and 
prayerfully to devise plans for the advancement of the 
work of (Joel, and for the general improvement of the 
society. 

5. Local Preachers' Meetings. — These arc held previ- 


ously to the circuit quarterly meetings, and are composed 
of the circuit and local preachers. Their business is, in 
addition to mutual counsel and encouragement, to con- 
sider the recommendations given by the leaders’ meet- 
ings of persons to be employed as loeal preachers or ex- 
horters; make suitable inquiries respecting probationers, 
and any alleged irregularities in the conduct or preach- 
ing of any of the brethren ; ascertain if any alterations 
are required in the places or times of preaching, and re- 
port thereon to the quarterly meeting through the medi- 
um of their secretary. 

The religious, social, and society meetings of the New 
Connection are conducted in the same manner as the 
like meetings of the Wesleyan body, the parent society. 

IV. History. — The incidents of history in the Meth- 
odist New Connection are comparatively few, and they 
relate chiefly to the personal history of the preachers 
and the steady spread ol the movement. At the first 
Conference the number of adherents was five thousand 
and thirty-seven. Surrounded by difficulties of more 
than ordinary urgency and gravity, the society made 
very slow progress, not so much from want of sympathy 
on the part of the people as from want of funds and 
agents to commence new circuits. The new itinerancy 
commenced with seven circuits and seven preachers. 
In 1708 seven other preachers entered the ministry — 
Messrs. W. Ilaslam, W. Stvan, John Kevil, Charles Don- 
ald, W. Driver. G. Wall, and .lolm McClure. That fact 
inspired cheerful hopes of progress, but in five years 
only two hundred and forty-three additions were made 
to the membership. A monthly magazine was com- 
menced in 1798, which has been continued ever since. 
The first and second conferences were presided over by 
Mr. William Thom, the secretary being Mr. Kilham. 
The Conference of 1700 was presided over by John Grnn- 
dell, the secretary being Mr. Bobcrt Hall, of Nottingham, 
a holy man, and a generous supporter of the cause. In 
December of the previous year the first heavy blow and 
discouragement came by the unexpected death of Mr. 
Kilham ; many were disheartened, and some among Mr. 
Wesley’s followers were glad, they viewing the occurrence 
as a judgment upon him personally. All the surround- 
ing circumstances, calmly considered apart from preju- 
dice, show 7 that Mr. Kilham’s death was more the re- 
sult of earnest overwork and exposure in bad weather. 
Viewed from any human standpoint, the premature 
death of that able minister was much to be regretted, 
and the good work for which he lived and labored was 
considerably retarded by the occurrence. Exactly two 
months after Mr. Kilham’s death, the Connection suffered 
another serious loss by the death of their very liberal 
and zealous layman, Mr. William Smith, of Hanley, who 
expired peacefully Feb. 20, 1700. He had been brought 
up in Air. Wesley’s society, but his sympathies were 
with Mr. Kilham, whom he visited at Nottingham, Dee. 
10, 1708. lie was born at Walsall, Staffordshire, in De- 
cember. 17G3; was religiously brought tip: frequently 
preached as occasion offered; attended the first Confer- 
ence of the New Connection ; opened his house at Han- 
ley for preaching, and soon afterwards had a chapel 
erected there, which became the central home of one 
of the largest and most prosperous societies in the Con- 
nection. 

The Conference of 1700 recognised a society in Ireland, 
and the Ilev. John McClure commenced a cause at Lis- 
burn. The same year the few preachers then associated 
agreed to contribute ten shillings and sixpence yearly to 
found a fund for the support of aged ministers. 

The Conference of 1803 commenced what is known as 
the Paternal Fund. It is sustained by public collections 
in the chapels and private subscriptions. Allowances 
are made from it towards the support of the children of 
the preachers in their early years. The Beneficent Fund 
was originated at the same Conference by Mr. Samuel 
lligginbottom, of Manchester, who gave fifty pounds as 
a benefaction, and became the first treasurer of the fund. 
The resources are obtained from public collections and 


(WESL.) M. NEW CONNECTION 931 (WESL.) M. NEW CONNECTION 


subscriptions, ancl its objects arc the relief of aged and 
infirm ministers and their widows. In 1880 the Pater- 
nal Fund produced £2698; the Beneficent Fund, £5303. 

The year 1804 was made memorable by the celebrated 
Rev. Richard Watson joining the ranks of the New Con- 
nection. lie travelled for eight years in that body, and 
they claim the honor of bringing that extraordinary 
man out of obscurity. Two of the sermons in his pub- 
lished works w'erc first preached in New Connection 
chapels. During his itinerancy with them he was a 
member of the Annual Committee, and three times sec- 
retary of the Conference. Dr. Punting reintroduced 
him into the Wesleyan body, but he ever held in very 
high esteem his brethren in the New Connection. 

In 1808 the law was made which requires preachers, 
at the end of their probation, to answer in public ques- 
tions relating to their religious experience, call to the 
ministry, their doctrinal views, etc. 

It will be instructive to the present race of Methodists 
to read the financial conditions on which Methodist 
preachers consented in 1812 to devote themselves whol- 
ly to the ministry. Serious complaints had been made 
respecting the inadequacy of the income of the preachers 
to meet their necessities. A committee was appointed 
by the Conference of 1812 to examine and report there- 
on. After a candid consideration of the subject, it was 
resolved that, in addition to the use of a house and furni- 
ture at the expense of the circuit, every married preach- 
er in full connection should receive, for himself and wife, 
£12 per quarter; less than £2 per quarter for a 
servant;” and, in addition to these items, “ not less than 
1 4s. per week for board.” The allowance from the Pa- 
ternal Fund for boys under eight years of age, and for 
girls under twelve, to be £6 per annum ; then they retire 
from the fund. Charge for medical attendance and trav- 
elling expenses are to be paid by the quarterly meeting. 
Considerable uneasiness and anxiety was felt in many 
parts of the Connection in the years 1814-16 with re- 
gard to the legal safety of some of the chapels which 
had belonged to the parent society before the year 1797. 
Those anxieties were not favorable to the spread of the 
word of God. 

In 1818 a Home Mission was established to introduce 
Methodism into new localities. The sum of £124 was 
given by the circuits to aid that mission. In 1824 the 
mission was relinquished, and Ireland was selected as 
the place on which to concentrate their efforts, and one 
of the English preachers was appointed to superintend 
the work. It has continued with varying success to the 
present time. In 1880 there were seven stations in Ire- 
land, with a total membership of 715, being only an av- 
erage of 102 members per station. The home missionary 
operations were resumed some years afterwards, and in 
1880 they occupied eleven stations in England, with a 
membership of 1249, and for their support the circuits 
contributed £1158 during the year 1879-80. 

In 1823 the general rules of the Connection were con- 
sidered, amended, and published, with the sanction of 
the Conference. 

The same Conference ordered the publication of a 
monthly magazine for Sunday scholars at the price of 
2d. The Conference of 1827 ordered the publication of 
a Catechism for the use of children, which was prepared 
by the Rev. Abraham Scott. A larger Catechism for the 
use of elder children was written by the Rev. William 
Cooke, D.D., and published about the year 1818. The 
same minister is preparing a new and enlarged edition 
of that Catechism to be published in 1881. 

A Connectioual magazine was commenced in Janu- 
ary, 1798, at the price of 6tZ. monthly. It has been con- 
tinued to the present time. To promote the circulation 
of these several publications, a book-room and an editor 
were indispensable. The former was located at Hanley 
from 1798 to 1832, when it was removed to Manchester. 
In 1827 the Rev. W. Shuttleworth was appointed editor 
and steward, and the business rapidly advanced. In 
1827 the capital stock amounted to £1305, and the I 


j annual profits to £113. Five years afterwards the cap- 
ital was £2500, and the yearly profits over £500, while 
the magazine was greatly improved; the third series 
was commenced in 1833. In 1844 it was found expe- 
dient to remove the book-room to London, where it has 
since remained, and the Rev. John Ilakewell was ap- 
pointed editor. In 1848 the Rev. William Cooke, the 
eminent theologian and divine, was the editor of the 
magazine, and in that capacity and as book-steward 
he has rendered more valuable service to the Connec- 
tion than any other minister. The Rev. Charles De- 
wick Ward, D.D., was appointed editor and book-stew- 
ard in 1880; the capital stock that year was £2980, and 
the profits £243. 

The Methodist hymn-book had been used in the New 
Connection from 1797. In the year 1834 a new hymn- 
book was prepared and published, which was intended 
more as a source of profit to the Connection than as a 
superior book to the one .which it supplanted. This 
also was displaced by another and very much improved 
collection, including 1024 hymns, compiled chiefly by 
the Rev. Henry Piggin, and published in May, 1863. It 
was at that time the best collection in use in any branch 
of the great Methodist family. Its marked superiority 
soon led to the preparation of other improved and en- 
larged collections for the use of “the People called 
Methodists.” 

The years 1836 and 1837 were periods of unrest in 
many Methodist societies, owing to the trial and expul- 
sion of the Rev. Dr. Warren from the Wesleyan body. 
At Dudley and Stourbridge large numbers left the Wes- 
lcvans and joined the New Connection, adding greatly 
to their influence and usefulness in those towns. An 
effort was made to bring all those who had left the par- 
ent society into union with the New Connection; but 
some of the Separatists made such radical changes in 
the constitution a condition of joining that the New 
Connection decided not to make such concessions, 
though many changes were made. Those who did not 
unite with this body formed themselves into a new 
branch of the Methodist family, known for some years 
as the Wesleyan Association. They afterwards relin- 
quished most of those extreme views which prevented 
their proposed union. 

The year 1841 was a painfully memorable one to the 
New Connection, owing to the necessary expulsion of 
two of the ministers, J. Barker and W. Trotter. Joseph 
Barker had used his position to advocate low socialist 
and infidel opinions. Much mischief was done, for twen- 
ty-nine societies, including 4348 members, were lost to 
the Connection. After trying his new doctrines for 
some years, he found out the delusion into which he had 
fallen, returned to the Christian faith, and endeavored 
to the uttermost to undo the mischief he had done, lie 
is said to have joined the Primitive Methodists; wrote 
and published his autobiography in 1869, in which he 
recanted all his errors; was reconciled to most of his 
former brethren in the New Connection; and died in 
1879 (or 1880) a penitent Christian. It was not until 
1855, fourteen years afterwards, that the number of 
members in society reached the total at which they 
stood at the date of Mr. Barker’s expulsion. A small 
work was published in 1841 entitled The Beacon , and 
also some tracts by the Rev. W. Cooke, D.D., which pre- 
vented the breach becoming wider than it otherwise 
would have been. The Connection suffered greater 
losses through Mr. Barker’s unfaithfulness and treach- 
ery than from any other cause in its whole history of 
over eighty years. The financial difficulties of the Con- 
nection became so great and oppressive that in 1842 
nearly £900 were collected to lessen them, £840 more 
in 1843, and the Conference of that year ordered a spe- 
cial collection to be made through the circuit, which 
secured £5000 more towards the. same object. 

The Conference of 1837 originated a mission in Cana- 
da, which became a great blessing to that country. Mr. 
William Ridgway, one of the leading New Connection 


(WESL.) 31. NEW CONNECTION 932 (WESL.) 31. NEW CONNECTION 


laymen, having visited that locality, made such repre- 
sentations of the claims of Canada for the Gospel that 
the Rev. John Addv man became the pioneer missionary 
there. lie was joined two years afterwards by the Uev. 
Henry Only Crofts, D.i). Mr. Addyman still survives, 
having been in the ministry forty-eight years. Dr. 
Crofts entered into rest in the year 1880. The Cana- 
dian mission was a success; but a few years ago, in 
1875, it was united to the other branches of Methodism 
in Canada, in order to make one large undivided Meth- 
odist Church in that dominion. 

The jubilee of the New Connection was a time of 
great rejoicing. The Jubilee Conference was held at 
Manchester, the Rev. Thomas Allin presiding. The 
sittings commenced June 1, 184C. The first important 
special business done was the final consideration and 
adoption of a deed-poll, which provides for the security 
of the property of the Connection, the preservation of 
its doctrines, and the continuance of its principles and 
discipline. By the deed-poll a legal identity is given 
to the Connection in the persons of twenty-four guardian 
representatives — twelve ministers and twelve laymen — 
whose names are inserted in the deed, with provisions 
for filling up the vacancies that will necessarily oecnr. 
The attendance of six of the guardian representatives is 
requisite to legalize the Conference. After its adoption, 
the deed-poll was executed by every member of the 
Conference; and it has since been duly enrolled in the 
High Court of Chaneerv. A model trust-deed, and a 
form of conveyance of freehold land for Connect ional 
chapels, schools, and parsonages, were also decided upon ; 
and a book -room deed also agreed to, each of them 
adapted to the deed-poll. 

At the end of fifty years, the number of members in 
the Connection was only 20,002, namely — in England, 
15,010; Ireland, 932; Canada, 34G0. 

It was resolved to raise a Jubilee Fund of not less 
than £20,000, but the result was only £7721. To- 
wards that fund there was raised in 1847 £2829; in 
1848, £1507 : in 1849, £3402. About £5100 was voted 
to remove chapel debts, £1300 to promote missions; and 
various sums were given or loaned to the Paternal Fund, 
the Beneficent Fund for a theological college, for aged 
ministers, and to lessen other financial burdens which 
fettered the agencies of the Church. On June 5 a jubi- 
lee tea-meeting was held in the Free-Trade Ilall, Man- 
chester, which was attended by more than four thou- 
sand persons. Several important schemes for the ex- 
tension of the work, which it was hoped the fund would 
enable t he Connection to undertake, could not be com- 
menced for want of finances. One result, however, was 
attained, which will be a permanent memorial. The 
I levs. Thomas Allin. William Cooke, Samuel llulme, and 
Philip James Wright conjointly wrote a jubilee volume, 
which bad a reasonable sale, and which chronicles much 
important and valuable information, both historical and 
biographical, relating to the Connection during the pre- 
vious fifty years. From that work many facts in the no- 
tices preceding are obtained. Baggaly’s Digest and the 
Minutes of Conferences supply the details which follow. 

At the Conference of 1848 arrangements were made 
for the establishment of home missions in England ; but 
the work grew slowly, and ten years afterwards, in 1857, 
a plan was adopted for the management of home mis- 
sion chapels. In 1865 the present Home Missionary 
Society was inaugurated. In 1880 there were thirteen 
mission stations, with 1249 members. 

Although the Jubilee Fund had been of much use in 
relieving the Connection of some financial burdens, yet 
great embarrassment was felt in many places from in- 
adequate funds in 1849, and at the following Conference 
a plan was adopted which entirely extinguished the 
debts of the Connection at that time. 

In 1851 the Methodist societies in England were in a 
very painful state of unrest, owing to the expulsion in 
1849 from the Wesleyan Conference of several promi- 
nent preachers— the Revs. James Everett, Samuel Dunn, 


William Griffith, James Bromley, Thomas Howland, and 
others. Although in three years more than one hun- 
dred thousand members were separated from the parent 
society, very few of them were attracted to the New 
Connection. In 1851, 1853, and 1854 this body had to 
report to each Conference a decrease, which was a 
source of much anxiety and solicitude, and a special 
service of humiliation before God was held at the Con- 
ference of 1853. In 1851 overtures were made from the 
Wesleyan delegates — the scceders from the parent so- 
ciety — towards union with the New Connection, but no 
union took place. In 1854 an effort was made to change 
the name of New Connection, as it was not then new, 
and many thought the name was a hinderance to oth- 
ers uniting with them. It was, however, resolved by 
the Conference of that year not to change the name, as 
the new deed-poll had only been adopted a few years. 
The rules of the Connection were revised in 1854. 

The Manchester Conference of 1859 was memorable 
for the establishment of a mission to China. From a 
conviction that the encouragement of foreign missions 
would not hinder home work, that step was taken. The 
Rev. William Cooke was the president, and by his ge- 
nial advocacy a successful work was commenced in that 
country, which in 1880 reported 43 chapels, 27 societies, 
and 902 members, under the superintendence of the Rev. 
John Innocent, who is the principal of a training insti- 
tution in China. In 1802 a mission was established in 
Australia, which has but two societies at present — one 
at Adelaide and one at Melbourne — with two mission- 
aries and 115 members. 

At the Conference of 1860 a Trustees’ Mutual Guaran- 
tee Fund was established against losses by fire, to in- 
clude all Conneetional property. 

A training institution for the preparation of young 
men for the ministry was for some years under con- 
sideration. The Conference of 1801 resolved upon hav- 
ing one; and owing to the noble generosity of Thomas 
Firth, of Sheffield, such an institution was erected at 
Ranmoor, near that town. Its trustees were appointed 
in 18G2, and the college was opened and a tutor selected 
in 1804. In 1880 there were nine students in residence, 
who paid £10 per annum. The president of the Con- 
ference was the principal and only tutor at that period. 
The college building cost £8710. 

The Conference of 1805 resolved that a copy of Bag- 
ster’s Bible, the Conference Journal , the deed-poll, and 
the general rules of the society should in future be the 
insignia of office of the president, to be banded down in 
succession. The same Conference resolved that all fut- 
ure conferences of their body should meet on the second 
Monday in June, instead of Whit-Monday as previous- 
ly, the latter being a movable date, which was often 
attended with much inconvenience to both ministers 
and laymen. Mr. Alderman Blackburn, of Leeds, a 
wealthy layman, presented to each of the ex-presidents 
of Conference for fourteen years previously to the year 
1863 a copy of Bagster’s Bible and the new hymn-book, 
then first published. A new tune-book, adapted to the 
hymn-book, was prepared by the Rev. J. Ogden, and 
published in 18G6. 

The Conference of J808 resolved on a new departure 
from existing usage, and consented to ministerial ap- 
pointments being continued for five successive years 
ill circuits where two thirds of the quarterly meeting 
request it. The limit bad previously been three 
years. 

A further attempt at union was made at the Confer- 
ence of 1870, when the terms for a federal union with 
the Bible Christians were considered, and resolutions 
recorded thereon. The same Conference resolved that 
home missionaries of fourteen years’ standing be allow- 
ed to attend the Conference, but not to vote. 

The Conference of 1871 approved of the raising of a 
fund to extinguish the Chapel Fund debt. The sum 
of £4072 was raised, which accomplished the object de- 
sired. 


(WESL.) M. NEW CONNECTION 933 WESLEYAN liEFOKM UNION 


V. Statistics . — We exhibit these in a tabular form : 


Year. 

Cir- 

cuits. 

Min- 

isters. 

Local 

Preach- 

ers. 

Chap- 

els. 

Socie- 

Members. 

| 

Deaths. 

Sunday- 

Teachers. 

Scholars. 

1797 

s 

7 




5,037 





1 79S 

9 

20 




5,094 





1799 

15 

26 




5.152 





1S(I0 

17 

2S 




5,070 





1801 

16 

27 




5,280 





1SU2 

16 

29 




5,277 





1803 

IS 

31 




5,267 

No re- 




1804 

IS 

31 




5,91S 

turns. 




1805 

18 

31 




5,920 

SS 




180(1 

IS 

33 

No 

retur 

US. 

5,91 S 

82 




1807 

20 

36 




6,428 

S5 




ISOS 

21 

3S 

174 

S4 

190 

7,202 

96 




1S09 

22 

40 

190 

SS 

197 

7,610 

126 




1810 

23 

40 

189 

S4 

199 

7,989 

103 




1811 

26 

42 

205 

S9 

201 

S,143 

156 




IS 12 

25 

42 

210 

101 

205 

S.677 

142 




1813 

24 

42 

210 

100 

207 

8,067 

130 




1814 

25 

42 

229 

98 

195 

8,292 

135 




1815 

24 

43 

240 

101 

199 

8,365 

142 




1816 

24 

43 

248 

109 

212 

S.967 

151 




1817 

24 

44 

279 

111 

226 

9,252 

143 




ISIS 

26 

4S 

279 

120 

232 

9,5S5 

134 




1819 

28 

50 

324 

125 

234 

10,159 

152 




1S20 

28 

49 

320 

127 

236 

0,847 

177 




1821 

24 

47 

321 

133 

240 

10,907 

172 




1 S22 

25 

47 

328 

135 

241 

10,S5G 

151 




1S23 

27 

51 

343 

147 

244 

10.749 

162 




1824 

29 

53 

357 

151 

240 

10,S25 

174 




1S25 

29 

55 

409 

155 

244 

10,837 

197 




1826 

31 

53 

415 

15S 

243 

10,723 

228 




1827 

32 

Cl 

453 

163 

253 

11,023 

195 




1S2S 

32 

GO 

487 

170 

256 

12,139 

21S 




1S29 

33 

66 

503 

177 

256 

12,424 

266 




1830 

34 

66 

504 

179 

261 

12,359 

235 




1831 

35 

6S 

495 

1S1 

261 

12,266 

225 




1S32 

35 

GS 

511 

1S4 

256 

12,621 

286 




1S33 

36 

71 

534 

180 

259 

14,784 

317 




1S34 

38 

79 

G23 

190 

25S 

15,2S4 

232 




1S35 

41 

93 

629 

226 

296 

17,746 

272 




1S36 

43 

96 

667 

255 

319 

19,219 

298 




1837 

49 

105 

837 

276 

350 

20,6S3 

34S 




1S38 

51 

10S 

SSI 

2S7 

367 

21,946 

403 




1839 

50 

11S 

S74 

302 

368 

21,917 

353 

No 

returns 


1840 

59 

120 

862 

304 

357 

21,S3G 

356 

pre 

viously. 


1S41* 

5S 

120 

873 

307 

361 

22,00S 

379 


4,493 

2S,S90 

IS 42 

71 

130 

755 

311 

428 

19,SS4 

356 


4,949 

28,394 

1S43 

77 

130 

S07 

318 

50S 

20,911 

305 


6,610 

3S,372 

1844 

73 

130 

795 

322 

502 

20,123 

371 


6,057 

32,633 

1845 

74 

136 

804 

323 

326 

19,826 

325 


G,975 

39,761 

1846 

78 

141 

775 

334 

321 

19,743 

307 


6,635 

38,037 

1S47 

SI 

140 

776 

331 

317 

19,462 

405 

219 

6,491 

35,907 

1S4S 

S2 

141 

791 

332 

286 

19,552 

393 

2S5 

7,130 

39,041 

1S49 

S5 

143 

773 

346 

2S7 

20,334 

314 

306 

7,197 

42,190 

1850 

SS 

154 

S56 

347 

300 

21,092 

440 

32S 

7,452 

44,S50 

1S51 

96 

156 

SS2 

357 

299 

21,002 

362 

329 

7,51S 

46,123 

1852 

101 

15S 

SS4 

373 

300 

21,505 

337 

33S 

7,SS3 

4G,S51 

1853 

103 

157 

909 

382 

29S 

21,281 

414 

359 

7,922 

4S,177 

1854 

106 

166 

921 

376 

298 

21,237 

453 

381 

7,932 

4S,545 

1855 

109 

169 

1007 

406 

319 

21,747 

334 

3S7 

S,075 

4S,S52 

1S56 

109 

ISO 

1017 

418 

330 

23,402 

379 

3S6 

S,2S3 

51,273 

1857 

115 

1S8 

1036 

433 

342 

24,363 

399 

401 

8,703 

54,375 

185S 

117 

203 

: 10S3 

445 

344 

26,003 

437 

430 

9,052 

56,367 

1S59 

129 

212 

1105 

464 

34S 

28,306 

462 

457 

9,439 

5S,304 

1S60 

132 

222 

1127 

4SS 

386 

29,710 

530 

464 

9,636 

GO, 550 

1S61 

143 

239 

1211 

511 

37S 

30,955 

551 

493 

10,272 

67,114 

1SC2 

147 

242 

1215 

551 

3S3 

32,557 

527 

503 

10,727 

G7,399 

1S63 

152 

256 

1250 

574 

39S 

33,226 

544 

511 

11,070 

G9,959 

1S64 

152 

266 

1268 

593 

403 

32,968 

547 

516 

10,732 

OS, 600 

1S65 

154 

271 

1289 

620 

410 

32,947 

564 

518 

10,937 

70,156 

1S66 

157 

272 

1246 

G32 

421 

32,602 

574 

53S 

11,03S 

70,624 

1S67 

157 

275 

1260 

643 

431 

32,929 

557 

545 

1 1,389 

72,358 

1S6S 

15S 

276 

1271 

C62 

433 

33,750 

5S3 

564 

11,336 

74,932 

1SG9 

ICO 

276 

12S2 

G6S 

434 

33,25G 

COG 

5S7 

11,7S9 

77,073 

1S70 


247 

1266 

669 

432 

32,GS3 

601 

5S5 

11,660 

76,553 

1S71 

'd 

0) 

247 

1261 

669 

431 

31,896 

57C 

5S4 

11,473 

79,098 

1S72 

s 

234 

1302 

C75 

423 

30,973 

COO 

5S4 

11,500 

79,500 

1S73 

.9 

238 

1303 

681 

412 

31,165 

604 

5S4 

11,531 

79,700 

1874 

a 

244 

1270 

677 

427 

31,016 

522 

590 

11,566 

S0,4S3 


o 

u 



Cana 

da se 

para ted 

from 

Engl 

and. 


1875 

-2 

161 

1149 

439 

429 

23,220 

494 

41S 

10,358 

72,77S 

1S76 


159 

1134 

447 

425 

24,163 

460 

420 

10,490 

73,263 

1877 

a 

166 

1156 

458 

435 

25,324 

449 

437 

10,770 

74,521 

1S78 

a 

170 

11C2 

461 

441 

26,196 

432 

437 

10,S21 

75,374 

1879 

3 

ISO 

113S 

478 

451 

2G,6SS 

520 

449 

10,951 

77,250 

1SS0 

Ph 

177 

1175 

482 

457 

26,973 

472 

449 

10,961 

77,601 


* Expulsion of Joseph Barker 'which caused a loss of 29 societies and 434S 
members. ^ j g ^ 


The Conference held at Manchester 
in 1872 was presided over by the Rev. 

Joseph H. Robinson, the secretary be- 
ing the liev. J. C. Watts. Both these 
ministers had spent many years in the 
Canada mission. Methodist union in 
Canada was fully considered in 1873, 
and the union was consummated in 
1874. 

It was resolved in 1875 to establish 
a training institution in China for na- 
tive teachers. The principal is the 
Rev. John Innocent. 

The Conference of 187G was made 
memorable by acts of fraternization 
of considerable interest. The Meth- 
odist Church of Canada sent as a dep- 
utation to the Conference the venera- 
ble and Rev. Egerton Ryerson, D.D., 
and Mr. David Savage, who presented 
an address of brotherly fraternization. 

They were most cordially 'welcomed. 

Dr. Ryerson remained some time in 
England as the guest of various friends 
of the Connection. II is portrait was 
ordered to be engraved and published 
in the magazine as a pleasant memo- 
rial of his visit. At the same Confer- 
ence, the Rev. Alexander Clarke, D.D., 
presented a fraternal message from the 
General Conference of the Methodist 
Protestant Church in the United States 
of America. F raternal messages were 
returned to both documents. The same 
Conference sent its first fraternal mes- 
sage to the Primitive Methodists of 
England, which greetings were con- 
tinued and reciprocated for three years, 
when, in 1879, the New Connection 
Conference, seeing how kindly their 
written messages had been received, 
appointed two of the members of the 
Conference to visit the ensuing Primi- 
tive Methodist Conference, two others 
to visit the Methodist Free Church 
Conference, and two others to visit 
the Wesleyan Conference. Each of 
the conferences appointed representa- 
tives to return these visits of fraternal 
good-will, and the good work has since 
been continued with very happy re- 
sults; and the feeling of surprise now 
is that such pleasant reunions by rep- 
resentation should have been so long 
delayed. They serve to facilitate the 
arrangements for holding the (Ecu- 
menical Congress in 1881. At the 
Conference of 1876, Mr. Mark Firth 
presented ,£1000 to the endowment 
fund of the college, and the home 
and foreign missionary societies were 
united under one committee of man- 
agement. 

In 1877 a loan fund was commenced 
for the purpose of aiding chapel trusts 
and of encouraging the erection of new 
chapels. 

The Conference of 1880 was remark- 
able for its record of deaths among the 
ministers, no less than six of whom, 
all men of distinction, had died during 
the year. Their names were Par- 
kinson Thomas Gilton, William Baggaly, Henry Only 
Crofts, D.D., John Taylor, Charles Mann, and Benjamin 
B. Turnock, A.B. The four first named had been 
presidents of the Conference. As many as six minis- 
ters had never before died in one year. 


Wesleyan Methodists. See Wesleyaks. 
Wesleyan Reform Union. This organization 
had its origin in the expulsion of the Revs. James Ev- 
erett, Samuel Dnnn, and William Griffith from the 
Wesleyan Conference, in August, 1849. These expul- 


WESLEYAX liEFOKM UXIOX 934 WESLEYAX KEFORM UXIOX 


sions took the people of England, and the Methodist 
people in particular, so entirely by surprise that the 
whole press of the country, excepting only two or three 
papers, took the part ol the expelled ministers. Meetings 
of Methodists were held in many of the great centres 
in England, and the popular feeling, fanned by the voice 
of the press, was in a few months manifested by tens 
of thousands of members and office-bearers signing me- 
morials to the Conference against the expulsions. In 
response thereto, the Conference ordered the preachers 
to withhold society tickets from all who signed such 
memorials, whether officers or members, and that policy 
was continued for about two years, until the funds of 
the Connection became so embarrassed that the expul- 
sion policy had to be abandoned. 

Seeing the desolation which prevailed in so many 
societies, all the efforts made by members for redress 
being repulsed by the Conference, another effort was 
made in December, 1851, by a large number of influen- 
tial lay officers in the Connection who had not been ex- 
pelled, who drew up a memorial to the Conference under 
twelve heads, asking for the cessation of the severe dis- 
ciplinary action of the preachers, and also for some form 
of lay representation in the chief courts of Methodism. 
This was known as the Mediation Movement, and their 
memorial was in a short time signed by over two thou- 
sand Methodists, chiefly official persons. 

The Conference of 1852 declined to receive or negoti- 
ate with any deputation with regard to the said memo- 
rial, and in reply thereto “indulged in rancorous invec- 
tive against many of the memorialists.” Every effort 
at reconciliation with the Conference having been made 
by the people, and resistance being the only reply, it 
became necessary to take care of the thousands of 
members who, by the withholding of their society tick- 
ets, had been cut off from membership. 

Not wishing to establish a separate body, early in 
the year 1850 a large meeting was held in Finsbury, 
London, of delegates from all parts of England, about 
four hundred in number, all of whom less than a year 
before held office in Methodist societies. After several 
days’ deliberation a form of constitution was agreed 
upon, and the best arrangements made for keeping the 
members united, till all negotiations were found to be 
of no avail, when it was resolved, first, that they should 
exist as the Keform Union, and afterwards as the United 
Methodist Keformers. 

The details of the various steps taken for several 
years to reform the constitution of the Wesleyan Con- 
ference so as to admit laymen into the higher Church 
courts, and so open the way for the return of thousands 
into fellowship, having all failed, to avoid, if possible, 
making another separate body, the Conference of the 
New Connection was applied to, but that body did not 
feel disposed to make the concessions asked, so as to 
open the door for union. Had they done so, their mem- 
bership might have been doubled immediately. Some 
local societies did unite with them. Ultimately, in 
1850, a meeting was held in Exeter llall of appointed 
representatives from the Wesleyan Methodist Associa- 
tion (of 1835) and the Wesleyan Keformers (of 1849), 
when terms of union were agreed upon which resulted 
in the amalgamation of the two bodies under the name 
of “ United Methodist Free Churches.” 

At the eighth meeting of the delegates of the Ke- 
formers, held at llristol in August, I860, the statistics 
of their society were ns follows: 


Chapels 

Lav preachers 

Ministers 


Class-lenders 

Members. 


Members on trial 


Sunday-schools 

Teachers 



Scholars 



Although most of the leading societies belonging to 
the Keformers resolved on amalgamation, yet during 


the first year only 19,1 13 took action ; and as there was 
a strong feeling of independence existing in many 
places, so long as they were able to maintain the minis- 
ter of their choice, these societies kept a separate exist- 
ence, in consequence of which action some members of 
the Keform Union determined not to amalgamate. In 
1857 more than 20,800 members adhered to their orig- 
inal principles. That number was, however, soon con- 
siderably reduced. In 1858 nearly 2000 united with 
the Free Churches; and in 1859 over 5500 acted in the 
same way, and so the process went on, year by year 
several separate societies uniting in a body with the 
Free Churches, still leaving a few who maintained a 
separate existence as the Keform Union. 

This body has had its headquarters at Exeter llall 
from its origin. It established a book-room there, and 
commenced the publication of a monthly magazine in 
1851, as The Wesleyan Reformer , the first editor being 
Air. Kobert Bulman, its second Mr. N. T. Langridge, its 
third Mr. Nichols. In 1853 its title was changed to the 
Wesleyan Methodist Penny Magazine . The committee 
also established a monthly magazine for the scholars in 
the Sunday-schools. Owing to its gradually dimin- 
ished numbers, chiefly by amalgamation, it has for more 
than ten years past been the smallest section of the 
Methodist family, and its continued existence as a sep- 
arate body has been a source of regret for some years, 
seeing that decadence has marked its course almost 
continuously from the time its members declined to 
amalgamate. The statistics of the past four years will 
be sufficient to indicate its position and influence. 


Y ear. 

Preachers. 

Members. 

1S77 

19 

7703 

1S7S 

20 


1S79 

19 

7023 

1SS0 


772S 


Their doctrines are identical in all respects with those 
of the Wesleyan Methodists. The points of polity or 
discipline in which they differ are, that their ministers 
may remain as many years in a circuit as the people 
may desire; and they permit lay preachers to baptize 
their children, and to administer the Lord’s supper, thus 
placing ministers and laymen on an equality in minis- 
terial functions. 

In addition to the serial publications previously 
named, the committee of the Keform Union resolved 
to take advantage of the book-room to secure funds for 
carrying on their work; and as large profits had been 
made by the sale of the hymn-books used by their so- 
cieties, the hook committee was the first to try the ex- 
periment of enlarging the hymn-book which had so 
long been in use bv English Methodists. The Kev. 
James Everett, who had himself once been employed 
in the book-room of the parent society, learning that 
there were only about eight hymns in the Wesleyan col- 
lection which were copyrighted, supplied their places by 
others of Charles Wesley’s, and added to them as many 
more new and popular hymns as made a book of a thou- 
sand hymns. To these were added for the first time 
the authors’ names, not in all instances correctly, but as 
nearly so as was then possible. The book was a suc- 
cess, and as the usual discount was allowed on it to 
booksellers, which at that time the Weslevans did not 
allow, many thousands soon found their way even into 
the congregations of the parent society. That im- 
proved edition in due time led the way to a still better 
collection being issued by the book-room of the Meth- 
odist Free Churches, and since, a still more modern one 
by the Wesleyan Conference itself. The Keform book- 
room has for some years published the Local Preach- 
ers' Magazine, at twopence monthly, a serial which has 
for many years, unofficially, been very helpful to many 
industrious lay preachers. It lias also published other 
Methodist works, chiefly remainders of editions of good 
books which authors wished to dispose of, but which 
the rigid rules of the Wesleyan book-room prevented 
from admission into their sales. (G. J. S.) 


WESLEYANISM 


935 


WESLEYANISM 


Wesleyanism, or Methodist Arminianism, is 
a reproduction of the original doctrine of James Arinin- 
ius (q. v.), the Dutch Remonstrant, an epithet gained 
by his followers for their opposition to the Calvinistie 
views eventually embodied in the action of the Synod 
of Dort. The soundest and most prudent of the early 
Arminian theologians were Episcopius and Limborch, 
who developed the views of their great leader substan- 
tially as held by the Wesleyan Methodists both in 
America and Great Britain ; but a few of the Remon- 
strants, especially Grotius, and, to some extent, Cureel- 
lasus, exhibited signs of a free thin king tendency, espe- 
cially on the doctrine of the atonement. The interme- 
diate English Arminians carried these erratic elements 
to the verge of Socinianism, and thus gave a color to 
the charge of Pelagianism with which Calvinistie writ- 
ers— at least until very recent times — have been too 
frequently in the habit of branding Arminianism in 
general. Sec Arminianism. 

John Wesley, the founder of Methodism, came of Ar- 
minian stock. Ilis father, Samuel, like many of the 
evangelical Anglican divines of that period, was op- 
posed to the tenets of Calvinism (see Tycrman, Life of 
Samuel Wesley, p. 144), and the sons of the latter nat- 
urally grew up in the same sentiments. Whitefield, on 
the contrary, who was likewise a member of “the Holy 
Club,” as the first Methodists were called at Oxford, 
was of Calvinistie persuasion, and on this ground alone 
a separation ultimately took place from the Wesleys, 
Whitefield eventually becoming the founder of the 
Welsh, or Calvinistie, Methodists of Lady Huntingdon’s 
Connection. The views of Wesley arc thus historically 
of a remonstrant or polemical cast on this subject, the 
main point of controversy always being the dogma 
of predestination, which is central in the Calvinistie 
scheme. We propose here, however, to develop the 
principal features of Wesleyanism positively in a logical 
order out of the more radical idea of the divine nature. 
See Wesley, John. 

1. Weslcyans hold that God’s foreknowledge is intui- 
tive and absolute, not being a deduction or inference 
from his purposes or power. They ground this doc- 
trine upon Scripture: “ Whom he did foreknow, he also 
did predestinate” (Rom. viii, 20). Dr. Charles Hodge, 
in his note on this passage ( Commentary , p.447), after 
frankly admitting that the “knowledge” here spoken 
of is not merely a cognition of the existence of the indi- 
viduals (for then it would apply equally to the elect 
and the reprobate), still ingeniously perverts the whole 
force of the argument by averring that “ the foreknowl- 
edge . . . involves the idea of selection,” which is tan- 
tamount to saying that there already was a secret bias 
or preference in the divine mind. Methodist Armini- 
ans, on the other hand, believe that this divine fore- 
knowledge has reference to the character of the persons 
contemplated as about to accept the offer of salvation. 
They thus truly place the divine prescience as the basis 
of the divine plan or purposes, and maintain that such 
a view only is real foreknowledge. In this way they 
escape the cansational force of the divine pre-contem- 
plation, precisely as in the case of knowledge of any 
present or past facts which has no influence or power in 
producing them. See Omniscience. God foresees not 
only the future event, but also all its circumstances or 
conditions, and therefore knows that it is contingent, 
i. e. that although it certainly will take place, it yet 
might be otherwise. See Prescience. 

2. Intimately connected with the foregoing position 
is that of the divine foreordination. Wesleyans hold 
that while God absolutely and of his own inscrutable 
purposes determines beforehand (whether from all eter- 
nity or not is of small moment) the events in the nat- 
ural or physical world, he has not done so with regard 
to occurrences relating to the moral sphere; especially 
that he has left the everlasting state of human beings 
contingent upon the results of their own action. They 
reject the doctrine of unconditional election and repro- 


bation as incompatible with the justice and impartial- 
ity of the divine character, and with the freedom and 
responsibility of the human soul. They especially ob- 
ject to the doctrine that God has absolutely predeter- 
mined the final destiny of individuals in the other 
world irrespective of their conduct; but they have lit- 
tle controversy wdth that class of moderate Calvinists 
who restrict the divine foreordination to the general 
purposes of God’s moral government, without predicat- 
ing it of any and every particular act of intelligent 
creatures. A strict construction of the statement of 
the Westminster Confession, that “ God decrees what- 
ever comes to pass,” would involve the divine will as 
the efficient clement in all causality, and so be tanta- 
mount to the heterodoxy that “whatever is, is right.” 
Or, if the language be interpreted as signifying that 
God has so arranged the universe (both of matter and 
of mind) that events must inevitably transpire just as 
they do, this is equivalent to a declaration of necessity 
or fate. But if it be merely meant that God has insti- 
tuted laws, forces, or causes (whether primary or sec- 
ondary, physical or spiritual) which he permits (or, if 
any prefer so to say, enables) to act freely yet certainly 
(within given limits) in bringing about whatever oc- 
curs, then we have but the expression of what is matter 
of fact undeniable by any. This is no proper foreordi- 
nation at all, for it ranks the human agent as a leading 
factor among these freely moving powers, and hangs 
the larger part of events upon the contingencies of his 
conduct. See Predestination. 

3. Weslevan Methodists further maintain that al- 
though man is universally born with corrupt moral af- 
fections and a depraved will, yet by virtue of the gen- 
eral atonement of Christ and the free bestowment of 
the Holy Spirit every person is graciously enabled so 
to resist the tendencies to evil as to lay hold upon 
the proffered means of salvation. They believe, indeed, 
that in response to the intercessions of the Divine Medi- 
ator, and in answer to the prayers of Christians, special 
conviction is often sent into the souls of sinners, but 
that this may still be resisted by the subject, and thus 
prove abortive. They also believe that the general 
convictions resulting from the ordinary influences of the 
Spirit arc sufficient, if encouraged and fostered, to lead 
the sinner to Christ. They admit that none will or 
can come to God without such divine drawings; but 
they believe that these are never withheld from the 
sincere and compliant soul. The ultimate force, there- 
fore, which determines any person in turning away 
from sin and towards God is the human will itself, act- 
ing freely in view of motives made clear and cogent by 
God’s Spirit, but never coerced thereby. The self-de- 
terminative power of the human will is consequently a 
fundamental axiom in Wesleyan theology. See Will. 

4. Weslcyans hold that saving faith is a conscious 
surrender of the soul to God and a positive trust in the 
merits of Christ. This faith is indeed potentially the 
gift of God, but its exercise is the voluntary personal 
act of the believer. Conversion, in Wesleyan theology, 
is the entire process of change from a state of condem- 
nation and sin to one of pardon and holiness. Regen- 
eration is a change in the moral affections resulting by 
divine power immediately upon this act of faith, which 
presupposes the penitence and consecration required. 
See Regeneration. 

Wesleyanism accordingly teaches that justification 
and adoption* are simultaneous, the former being the 
act of pardon, and the latter the relation of filial ac- 
ceptance. A degree of sanctification is also held to be 
experienced at the same time, being a state of com- 
parative holiness, consisting in a fixed purpose and dis- 
position to love and serve God, the fruit of which im- 
mediately begins to appear in the life. The first of 
these elements takes place in the divine mind, and a 
knowledge of it as a fact is derived by the converted 
person from a consideration of the conscious exercise 
of faith to that end; the second is a mutual change, 


WESLEYAN S 


930 


WESLEYANS 


testified to the soul by a special “witness of the Spirit” 
(q. v.), which is distinct from all other evidence, al- 
though concomitant and corroborative; and the third 
element takes place exclusively in the human subject, 
and is evidenced by the alteration felt in the heart and 
shown in the life; but they all three are equally and 
wholly the effect of the operation of the Holy Spirit. 
The man does not save himself, but simply consents to 
be saved, depends upon Christ to be saved, and co-op- 
erates with God for his salvation. It follows from the 
above showing that the converted person knows for the 
time being bis gracious condition by this threefold tes- 
timony, one or the other part of which, however, may 
for the moment preponderate. 

5. Weslevanisin, moreover, maintains that this salva- 
tion is not only free and present, but also full, i. e. that 
it is the privilege of every believer to be entirely sanc- 
tilied in this life, and to live without actually feeling or 
committing any known sin. They admit, of course, 
the continual peccability of human nature, and do not 
claim Adamic or angelic perfection for any human be- 
ing since the Fall; but they nevertheless insist upon 
the privilege and duty of complete holiness in heart 
and life as not only necessary for heaven, but possible 
indefinitely before death. They differ to some degree 
among themselves as to the instantaneous or progres- 
sive character of this experience, and also as to its date 
with reference to conversion, but they all agree in look- 
ing for it during life and health, on precisely the same 
terms of consecration, faith, and co-operation as required 
by regeneration. See Sanctification. 

C. Finally, holding the above views of the power and 
coaction of the human will at every stage of the re- 
demption process, Weslevans universally believe that 
it is possible for any, even the highest Christian, to 
fall from grace and ultimately perish, and they think 
they find actual instances of such lapse in the Script- 
ures and in common life. As none are absolutely elect- 
ed to eternal life, so none are fully secure of it until 
probation is entirely ended. See Perseverance. 

Literature . — The most exhaustive as well as oldest 
polemic on these distinctive features of Wesleyan Ar- 
minianism is Fletcher’s Checks to A ntinomianism (bond. 
1771 sq., and often since) ; but the subject is discursive- 
ly treated likewise in Wesley’s Sermons (in Works'). 
A topical discussion is given in Watson’s Institutes 
(Loud. 1822, and since), in Pope’s Christian Theology 
(ibid. 1875-77,3 vols. 8vo), and in Raymond’s System- 
atic Theology (Cincin. 1877 sq., 3 vols. 8vo). For other 
works, see Arminianism; Methodism. 

Wesley ans is a general name for all adherents or 
followers of John Wesley, the founder of Arminian Meth- 
odism; but by usage it is commonly limited to the reg- 
ular Methodists of the Britisli Conference, in distinction 
from those of the other kindred bodies in America, 
Great Britain, Ireland, and elsewhere, which in this CV/- 
clopcedia are treated under separate heads. 

1. History . — As much of this is the common property 
of all Methodist bodies throughout the world, we give 
it here somewhat in exienso. 

Methodism in its origin was the child of Providence. 
Its founder, John Wesley, was also a child of Providence ; 
and nearly the whole of his career on earth was marked 
by indications of the special and peculiar, sometimes 
marvellous, interposition of God in his behalf. In the 
origin, growth, and wide diffusion of Methodism, we can 
trace the evidence of the divine hand opening its way 
and directing its course. In all its past history, now 
covering a period of one hundred and forty years, when 
its movements were in accordance with the indications 
of Providence, it prospered; on the other hand, many 
of the changes in its operations, which were of human 
origin, and the outcome of expediency only, have been 
the cause of obstruction aud often of painful disappoint- 
ment and loss, 

I. Inception of the Wesleyan Body . — The embodiment 
of Methodism is John Wesley; and during the fifty-one 


years of his life which elapsed between its actual for- 
mation and the death of its founder, Mr. Wesley was 
its source and life. Born at Epworth in 1703, he en- 
tered the Charterhouse School, London, in 1714; in 1719 
he was continuing his studies, under his brother Sam- 
uel, at the Westminster School; and in 1720 he entered 
Christ Church College, Oxford. In 1725 he was ordain- 
ed deacon by Dr. John Potter, bishop of Oxford, who, 
in the advice he gave the young deacon, said, “If he 
wishes to be extensively useful, he must not spend his 
time in contending for or against things of a disputable 
nature, but in testifying against notorious vice, and in 
promoting real, essential holiness.” Here were the 
germs of that life-work which produced Methodism. 
In 1729 John Wesley began to take pupils at Oxford, 
and some of the more serious of these united with their 
teacher in visiting the prisoners in the Castle and the 
sick poor in the city; and they commenced a systemat- 
ic course of living which soon led to their being called 
Methodists. That was the first origin of the Society so 
designated. 

Ten years elapsed. Both John and Charles Wesley 
had been out to America as missionaries in the mean- 
time. Returning to England in 1738, they were both 
introduced to Peter Bolder and other Moravian breth- 
ren, from whom they learned the way of salvation by 
faith; and themselves entering into the liberty of the 
children of God. in the month of June, 1738, were made 
so happy in their new experience that they began in 
great earnestness to preach that doctrine everywhere. 

In a remarkable manner the Spirit of God gave most 
convincing evidence of the completeness of the change 
which had been wrought by faith in both the brothers. 
This was more distinctly and emphatically shown by 
the spiritual awakening which accompanied and follow- 
ed the preaching of John Wesley. lie had to preach in 
St. Mary’s Church, Oxford, before the University. II is 
text was, “By grace are ye saved through faith;” and 
he explained the new doctrine with a clearness, fulness, 
and force which had not been known before in that fa- 
mous seat of learning. That sermon was printed and 
widely circfdated. It was followed by another on “ God’s 
free grace,” in which, with equal lucidity and power, he 
set forth the doctrine “ that the grace or love of God is 
free in all, and free for all.” This sermon was printed 
in a cheap form ; and those sermons, repeated in vari- 
ous forms ami places, “gave birth to the greatest revi- 
val of religion” the world has ever known. 

He desired, in bis own mind, to retire to Oxford to 
his beloved obscurity, but Divine Providence ordered 
otherwise; and John Wesley was detained in London 
and importuned to preach these new doctrines, in vari- 
ous churches, thrice every Sunday, and on week-days 
also. One source of attraction was that he had recent- 
ly returned from America, which was considered a far 
country; and he related some of his experience in the 
course of his discourses. Multitudes flocked to hear 
him, and soon the churches were unable to hold the 
crowds which assembled. In a short time, partly be- 
cause of the large assemblies and partly owing to the 
new doctrines, he was excluded from one church, then 
from another, till at length he was shut out of all the 
churches. Not daring to be silent, after a short struggle 
between honor and conscience, he made a virtue of ne- 
cessity, and preached in the open air — first in Moorfields, 
London, then at Kennington, and in many other parts 
of England. 

Thousands upon thousands of persons— in some in- 
stances ten thousand, in others twenty thousand, and 
even more as computed by Mr. Wesley himself, and re- 
corded by him in his Journals — attended his out-door 
services. This step was not taken in any spirit of an- 
tagonism to the Church ; quite the contrary. During 
one month in 1739, both John and Charles Wesley had 
interviews with the bishop of Gloucester, Gibson, bishop 
of London, and Potter, archbishop of Canterbury, to talk 
over their conduct; and with kindly results in each 


WESLEYAN'S 


937 


WESLEYANS 


case. Mr. Whitefield, also, had similar interviews with 
bishops respecting his preaching in the open air. It is 
plain, therefore, that the resistance these three clergy- 
men met with did not proceed from the heads of the 
Established Church, but from those of the clergy who 
were at ease in their comfortable livings, and who saw 
that their quiet enjoyment would be broken if the pro- 
ceedings of these evangelists were not stopped. Hence 
it was that many newspapers and magazines were used 
by those clergymen to slander and misrepresent the 
work of the Wesleys and Whitefield. 

During the summer and autumn of 1739, there were 
■witnessed by thousands of persons most remarkable man- 
ifestations of divine power at many of the open-air ser- 
vices conducted by John Wesley. The preaching of 
George Whitefield and Charles Wesley, at the same pe- 
riod and to the same congregations, was quite as faith- 
ful and even more impassioned, at times, than was John 
Wesley’s; but it was to the preaching of John Wesley 
only that those special manifestations were given. At 
London and at Bristol, on various occasions and at di- 
vers places, during the six months preceding the forma- 
tion of the United Societies, scores of persons were smit- 
ten down under his preaching, in the open air and in 
small meetings in rooms; such signs had never been 
before witnessed since apostolic times. Mr. Wesley 
himself wrote: “More and more of the people were cut 
to the heart, and came to me all in tears, inquiring with 
the utmost eagerness what they must do to be saved.” 
These penitents were counted by scores and hundreds 
during the autumn of 1739; and it was the witnessing 
of the deep agony of spirit and anguish of heart that 
awakened the sympathy of two gentlemen, who attend- 
ed the preaching at Moorfields, to provide a place of 
shelter for those poor stricken ones. 

Northward of the preaching ground at Moorfields — 
only a few hundred yards, but surrounded by fields — the 
Old Gunnery, or foundry for cannon, had stood in ruins 
for more than twenty years. Mr. Wesley was pressed 
to take the premises into his own hands; but he had to 
decline them, having no funds. Mr. Ball and Mr. Wat- 
kins, two kindly disposed friends, finding that the ten- 
ancy could be secured for £115, loaned that sum to Air. 
Wesley ; but, as the place was a vast heap of ruinous 
buildings, a large additional sum had to be spent to fit 
it up as a place for religious worship. The roofless 
building, with tottering walls, was first used by Air. Wes- 
ley on Sunday evening, Nov. 11, 1739. The cost of fit- 
ting up the Foundry for worship was about £800, which 
sum was paid in three years by small subscriptions from 
many friends who had shared in the blessings which 
came with the preached word. 

The exact date of the origin of Methodism is not 
known ; but it was within the three weeks embraced 
within the last week in November and the first fourteen 
days of December in 1739. A large number of persons 
had been converted within six months, who had been 
joined to the Moravians. In Mr. Wesley’s works are 
found several allusions made by him to that period. 
The two following passages convey the clearest account 
we have: “In the latter end of the year 1739, eight or 
ten persons came to me in London, who appeared to be 
deeply convinced of sin and earnestly groaning for re- 
demption. They desired I would spend some time with 
them in prayer and advise them how to flee from the 
wrath to come. That we might have more time for 
this great work, I appointed a day when they might all 
come together, which, from thenceforward, they did ev- 
ery Thursday, in the evening. To these, and as many 
more as desired to join with them, I gave those advices 
which I judged most needful for them; and we always 
concluded our meetings with prayer suited to their sev- 
eral necessities. This was the rise of the United Soci- 
ety; first in London, then in other places.” The first 
meetings were class-meetings, and John Wesley was* the 
leader. In another extract we find the following addi- 
tional details: “The first evening about twelve persons 


came ; the next week thirty or forty. When they were 
increased to about a hundred, I took down their names 
and places of abode, intending, as often as it was con- 
venient, to call upon them at their homes. Thus, with- 
out any previous plan, began the Methodist Society in 
England — a company of people associated together to 
help each other to work out their own salvation.” 

Such is the account of the origin of Methodism from 
the pen of its founder, who, in a small tract which be is- 
sued shortly before their organization, thus describes the 
character of a Methodist : 

“A Methodist is one who has the love of God shed 
abroad in his heart by the Holy Ghost given unto him; 
one who loves the Lord his God with all his heart, and 
sonl, and mind, and strength, lie rejoices evermore, 
prays without ceasing, and in everything gives thanks. 
His heart is full of love to all mankind, and is purified 
from envy, malice, wrath, and every unkind affection, 
llis own desire, and the one design of his life, is not to 
do his own will, but the will of llim that sent him. He 
keeps all God’s commandments, from the least to the 
greatest. He follows not the customs of the world; for 
vice does not lose its nature through its becoming fash- 
ionable. He fares not sumptuously every day. He can- 
not lay up treasure upon the earth; nor can he adorn 
himself with gold or costly apparel, lie cannot join in 
any diversion that has the least tendency to vice. He 
cannot speak evil of his neighbor any more than he can 
tell a lie. He cannot utter unkind or evil words. No 
corrupt communication ever comes out of his mouth. He 
does good nnto all men ; unto neighbors, strangers, friends, 
and enemies. These are the principles and "practices of 
our sect. These are the marks of a true Methodist. By 
these alone do Methodists desire to be distinguished from 
other men.” 

2. Progi'ess of the Wesley ans during Mr. Wesley's 
Lifetime . — For the first century of its existence the his- 
tory of Methodism was a series of providences. In a 
condensed record, which this is required to be, these 
providential openings can be very little more than in- 
dicated. 

From the time the Wesley brothers returned from 
America they were both closely connected with the 
Moravians, whose meeting-house was, and is still, in 
Fetter Lane. It is probably true that most of the ac- 
cessions made to their society during the years 1738 and 
1739 were the fruits of the labors of the two Wesleys and 
Whitefield. Even after Mr. Wesley began his own so- 
ciety, in December, 1739, he himself continued to meet 
with the Moravians ; and he took with him many of 
those who adhered to him as the results of his ministry. 

As early as June, 1738, John Wesley visited the Mo- 
ravian settlement at Herrnhut, Germany, where he re- 
mained three months, conversing freely with the Breth- 
ren on their doctrines and discipline. In December of 
the same year Air. Wesley drew up for the society in 
Fetter Lane the rules of the Band Societies — companies 
of not less than five nor more than ten — who met to- 
gether once a week for religious conversation and prayer. 
A series of nine questions were prepared and used on 
each occasion as helps and instructions; and the design 
of those meetings was embodied in a series of ten propo- 
sitions and inquiries. These were the basis of the Unit- 
ed Societies which began to meet under Air. Wesley in 
December, 1739. 

In April, 1739, John Wesley was excluded from the 
churches in Bristol, and a few months later he was also 
excluded from the London churches. Mr. Whitefield 
and Charles Wesley were also included in the prohibi- 
tion. Air. Whitefield commenced open-air preaching 
near Bristol, with such happy results that John Wesley 
soon saw a wide door of usefulness opened to him in 
that plan; and he readily adopted it, with such marks 
of divine approbation as had not been before witnessed. 
This led to the commencement of the system of the itin- 
erancy, and necessitated the employment of lay helpers; 
hence lay preachers had to be engaged to watch over 
the new converts, gathered out of the world by the la- 
bors of those apostolic men. 

The earliest of these lay helpers were Joseph Hum- 
phreys, Thomas Maxfield, and John Cennick. The first- 
named is thus introduced to us by Mr. Wesley himself: 


WESLEYAXS 


93S 


WESLEYAXS 


“Joseph Humphreys, the first lay preacher that assist- 
ed me in England in 173S. He was perfected in love, 
and so continued for at least twelve months. After- 
wards he turned Calvinist, joined Mr. Whitefield, and 
published an invective against me and my brother 
Charles. In a while he renounced 31 r. Whitefield, 
turned Presbyterian minister, then received Episcopal 
ordination, and, finally, scoffed at inward religion” — a 
catalogue of delinquencies long enough to cause his name 
to be excluded from the true friends of Methodism. 

Thomas Maxfield was converted under Air. Wesley’s 
preaching, at Bristol, in May, 1739. lie had an excel- 
lent gift for preaching, and was very useful in keeping 
together and instructing the young converts in London 
during Mr. Wesley’s absence. Some Churchmen raised 
a cry against Maxfield’s preaching at the Foundry, and 
they sent their complaints to Mr. Wesley in the coun- 
try, who hastened to London to silence him; but, on 
meeting his aged mother, who had heard Maxfield. she 
desired her son to hear him and judge for himself if he 
was not qualified to preach as certainly as Air. Wesley 
was. That wise admonition of Mrs. Wesley led to the 
regular appointment of Thomas Maxfield early in 1740 
to preach as a lay helper at the Foundry. He contin- 
ued in office at the Foundry some twentv-three years, 
and after Air. Wesley’s marriage joined Mrs. Wesley in 
her prejudices; and in 1703 he separated from Mr. Wes- 
ley, taking with him one hundred and seventy members, 
lie gathered an independent congregation in London, 
to whom he ministered for many years; but was recon- 
ciled to Air. Wesley before his death, and Mr. Wesley 
preached in his chapel in 1783. 

John Cennick joined Air. Wesley at Bristol, and was 
very useful in that city and at Kingswood; but, not 
agreeing with 31 r. Wesley’s views on general redemp- 
tion, he joined 3Ir. Whitefield, and became a useful min- 
ister in many parts of the United Kingdom. 

In 1740 3Ir. Wesley preached against predestination, 
and 3Ir. Whitefield published a reply to it in 1741, in 
which he advocated unconditional election, irresistible 
grace, and final perseverance. Charles Wesley’s Hymns 
and John Wesley’s Sermons being directly opposed to 
Mr. Whitefield’s doctrinal views, a separation took 
place, which continued for many years; but Providence 
brought good out of what appeared to many, at the time, 
a serious evil. 

July 23, 1740, Mr. Wesley separated from the 3Iora- 
vians. 

In December, 1741, several disturbances having tak- 
en place at the services held by 3Ir. Wesley, one of the 
leading London magistrates voluntarily waited on the 
king, George II. In a few days, Sir John Ganson called 
on 3Tr. Wesley on behalf of the city magistrates, and re- 
ported “that the Middlesex magistrates had received 
orders from above to do you justice whenever you ap- 
ply to us.” That spontaneous kindness checked the 
disturbances, and the London societies had peace ever 
afterwards. 

In 1742, the societies having greatly increased, and 
numbering several thousand members, they were formed 
into classes of twelve or more persons, with a properly 
qualified person to lead them. In February, at Bristol, 
the same year, the debts on buildings were mentioned, 
and offers were made to contribute a small sum weekly 
as the best way of paying the debts. Leaders were 
desired to collect what each member would give week- 
ly. and a steward was then appointed to receive these 
amounts from the leaders weekly. Class-leaders and 
stewards were thus early chosen and appointed. The 
Select Society, or Band Society, consisting of justified 
persons only, was established in 1742. 3Iembers meet- 
ing in band had on their quarterly ticket, besides the 
usual distinguishing marks, a large B. Band tickets 
have been provided in England regularly each quarter 
ever since, but they are usually given now as ordinary 
tickets. Indeed, some of the preachers do not know 
what the letter B on the ticket represents. 


Watch-night services began as early as April, 1742. 
The converted colliers at Kingswood tirst began them 
as a substitute for their midnight meetings held at the 
ale-house. They began at eight or nine o’clock, and 
continued until midnight. Mr. Wesley at once ap- 
proved, and fixed them, first monthly, at the full of the 
moon, then quarterly, and recommended them to all his 
societies. They are now held only on the last night of 
the year. 

Quarterly society tickets were first given in 1742. 
For over twenty years these were issued in three or 
four localities, each having a different design. Incon- 
venience having arisen from these varieties, the ticket 
of one district not being known or recognised in anoth- 
er, the Conference in 1705 ordered a uniform ticket to 
be issued from London, the first of which is dated Feb- 
ruary, 1700. For fifty years these tickets were only 
about an inch square — a very simple record — contain- 
ing the date, a text of Scripture, and a large capital Ro- 
man letter enclosed in a simple border, with the mem- 
ber’s name written by the preacher who gave it on the 
margin. In 1810, at the suggestion of the Rev. Jabez 
Bunting, the ticket was a little enlarged to give space 
within the border for the member’s name. In 1822, 
when 3Ir. Bunting was Connectional editor, he again 
altered the ticket, making it twice as large as before, 
and adding the name and origin of the society at the 
head. The design was thought by the Conference too 
fanciful, and three tickets only of that kind having been 
issued, it next was printed with a ray border around it 
in 1823, and in that form it has appeared ever since. 
The tickets were used to admit the members to love- 
feasts, society meetings, and the Lord’s supper. The 
addition of a few lines by the preacher at the back of 
the ticket made it a passport for a member to any so- 
ciety of Methodists either in England or the colonies. 
Recently a proper form for the removal of members lias 
been provided. 

In 1742 3D. Wesley and John Nelson itinerated 
through parts of Yorkshire and Cornwall, establishing 
Methodism in many places. During that year the or- 
ganization of Methodism was nearly completed. 

On 3Iav 1, 1743, the rules of the society were first 
published in a small tract of eight pages, with the title 
The Nature , Design, and General Rules of the United 
Societies in London , Bristol , N etc castle - on - 'Tyne, etc. 
They recite briefly the origin of the societies, and then 
describe the objects and characteristics of Methodism. 
Twenty editions of that tract were issued during 3Ir. 
Wesley’s lifetime. 

In 1743 sick-visitors were appointed, the leaders of 
classes furnishing the names of persons to be visited, 
anil the stewards supplying pecuniary aid when needed. 

In June, 1744, the tirst Conference was held. 31 r. 
Wesley invited six clergymen and five lay preachers 
to meet him in London, at the Foundry, and five days 
were occupied with its deliberations. The first included 
preliminary plans and a discussion on justification; the 
second, a discussion on sanctification; the third, on the 
Church; the fourth, on discipline; and the fifth was de- 
voted to the appointment of officers and defining their 
duties. A full record of their deliberations was pre- 
served, and it shows how completely the whole scheme 
of 3Iethodist discipline was outlined in their earliest de- 
liberations. It came almost perfect from the tirst de- 
liberative assembly. 

The year 1745 was memorable for the inquiry made 
in the Conference, Is Episcopal, Presbyterian, or Inde- 
pendent Church government most reasonable? The 
unrest of 30. Wesley’s mind was deepened by corre- 
spondence with the Rev. Westley Hall, who had urged 
him to renounce the Church of England. At that time, 
Mr. Wesley believed in apostolical succession and the 
offering of an outward sacrifice by the priest. These 
dogmas were soon afterwards given up by him. On his 
journey to Bristol, in January, 1746, Mr. Wesley read 
lord King’s Inquiry into the Constitution, Discipline, 


WESLEYANS 


939 


WESLEYANS 


Unity, and Worship of the Primitive Church. As the 
result of the discussion held in the Conference of 1745, 
Mr. Wesley considered his lay helpers as deacons and 
presbyters, and himself as a scriptural bishop. Lord 
King’s book continued those opinions. He took time 
to consider the whole question; and at the Conference 
of 1747, in a series of nine questions and answers, he 
states plainly his acceptance and adoption of a Presby- 
terian form of Church government, lie renounced all 
his High-Church notions, and his legislation in Confer- 
ence after that date was based upon the convictions 
wrought in his mind by lord King’s work. Even apos- 
tolical succession had to go. Of that, some years after- 
wards, he wrote, “ I never could see it proved, and I am 
persuaded I never shall.” 1 1 is preference for the Church 
of England remained, but his practice was in accordance 
with the Dissenters in Church polity. Although Mr. 
Wesley did not for forty years after that period resort 
to the imposition of hands in ordination, yet the preach- 
ers he employed were solemnly set apart to the pastoral 
office; and the fact of his laving-on of hands shortly be- 
fore his death was more a matter of form than the con- 
ferring of any special grace or qualification. lie found- 
ed societies or churches all over the land, and he sol- 
emnly set apart godly men as their pastors, if there 
was some inconsistency in Mr. Wesley’s adhesion to the 
Church of England, and his establishing a separate 
Church in the land, it was more the. result of necessity 
than design. 

In 1746 England was divided into seven circuits, for 
the better carrying-on of the itinerancy and the sys- 
tematic government of the societies. Circuit stewards 
were that year first appointed and quarterly meetings 
first held. At that meeting all the finances of the cir- 
cuit were reported, receipts and expenses, and those re- 
ports were carried up to the yearly Conference. 

In 1747 a tract society was commenced in Method- 
ism. Mr. Wesley had himself written and published a 
dozen tracts, the wide distribution of which was made a 
blessing to many people. 

The wisdom and forethought of Mr. Wesley were clear- 
ly shown in June, 1748, when he opened a large school 
on the top of Kingswood Hill, Bristol, for the education 
of the children of his preachers. That school still ex- 
ists; but nearly a quarter of a century since it was 
changed in its character to a Reformatory School, and 
a much larger and more convenient establishment was 
erected near Bath as the School for Methodist Preach- 
ers’ Children, which is known as Xew Kingswood. In 
1813 a second school for the same purpose was pur- 
chased and opened at Woodhouse Grove, near Leeds, 
Yorkshire. For some years, the latter has been the 
juvenile school and Xew Kingswood the finishing 
school, and it has taken high rank among the first-class 
classical and mathematical schools in England. There 
is a scheme under consideration for the union of these 
schools, or for some enlargement which will admit of 
the larger number of preachers’ sous, owing to the 
greatly increased number of Methodist preachers. These 
schools have each a history full of interest, at least to 
Methodists; but no friendly hand has yet undertaken to 
be the chronicler of their instructive records. From 
those schools have gone forth youths who have risen to 
the highest positions in law, theology, and medicine; 
while in commercial life Methodist preachers’ sons take 
rank with the best in the land. In the present years 
(1880-81), the son of an Irish Methodist preacher is the 
lord mayor of London, he having been also sheriff of 
London and Middlesex. Among the senators in the 
House of Commons are sons of Methodist preachers, 
who are distinguished as accomplished speakers and 
able legislators. Xo less than ten sons of Methodist 
preachers have been presidents of the Methodist Con- 
ference. While much of this distinction is doubtless 
due to natural genius and persevering effort, yet these 
owe their inception, growth, and success largely to the 
excellent training obtained in the schools for preachers’ 


children. A public collection is made through all the 
societies once in the year for these schools. It was 
appointed by Mr. Wesley when the first school was 
opened, and it has been continued ever since. The col- 
lection was instituted when the salary of a preacher was 
not more than £12 a year. 

In January, 1750, a union took place between Mr. 
Whitetield and Mr. Wesley. Doctrinal differences sep- 
arated them ten years previously; but they began this 
year by preaching in each other’s chapels, and so, re- 
cords Mr. Wesley, “one more stumbling-block is re- 
moved.” 

In 1751 the first disruption in Methodism took place. 
John Bennett, who had been a preacher for eight years, 
separated from Mr. Wesley, charging him with being a 
pope and preaching popery. During the same year, 
James Wheatley, another preacher, was expelled by the 
united voice of both John and Charles Wesley. Both 
these men for a time created prejudice against the Wes- 
leys, but the societies soon recovered their lost ground. 

The Conference of 1752 agreed that the preachers 
should receive a stipend of £12 per annum to provide 
themselves with necessaries. Previously no money sal- 
ary was given, the stewards supplying the preachers 
with what they wanted. In the year 1800 the finances 
had improved sufficiently to allow the preachers £4 each 
quarter. Ten years later that amount was doubled in 
some circuits, and by the end of the first hundred years 
(1839) most of the preachers received £1 per week or 
more, besides a residence rent-free. In 1880 single 
young preachers receive as a minimum salary £80 a 
year, while some of the leading ministers receive a total 
annual salary which ranges from £250 to £350 from 
their circuits. Many excellent preachers left Mr. Wes- 
ley during his lifetime because no provision could be 
made for their wives and children, or for men worn out 
in the service. 

In August, 1755, Mr. Wesley held the first covenant 
service in London. The form of service used is that 
written by that eminently holy Puritan Richard Al- 
leine. The sacrament of the Lord’s supper formed the 
closing part of the service. It has for many years been 
the custom to hold the covenant service in the after- 
noon, or during some part, of the first Sunday in each 
year, in all societies belonging to English Methodism. 
It has usually been a solemn but very interesting and 
profitable service. 

The Conference of 1756 ordered a collection to be 
made yearly in all the societies, which for a century 
was known as the yearly collection, to assist in paying 
chapel debts, to help poor circuits, to pay the preachers’ 
small salary, to encourage the opening of new preach- 
ing stations, and to pay legal costs when Methodists 
had to defend their rights against men who interfered 
with them. The debts on chapels in 1756 were £4000, 
and in 1812 they reached £100,000. Regulations made 
during the last quarter of a century provide against 
any such accumulations of debt. The yearly collection 
is made in the society classes among members only, and 
in 1880 it realized more than £8000. The General 
Fund, as first originated, has changed its name into 
Contingent Fund, or Home Mission and Contingent 
Fund. The several objects at lirst to be assisted by the 
fund have now each a separate collection for their sup- 
port. 

On several occasions evil-disposed persons had spoken 
against the moral character of some of the preachers. 
Mr. Wesley, hearing of these complaints, caused each 
preacher to be examined at the Conference of 1759, and 
such examination has been continued at each successive 
Conference. The punishments for offenders are a re- 
buke from the president before the whole Conference, 
being put back on trial, suspension for a year, or expul- 
sion. One result of the first examination of character 
was a great revival of religion, which spread over most 
parts of England and into Ireland. 

In 1762 Thomas Maxfield and George Bell separated 


WESLEYAN S 


9-10 


from Mr. Wesley, and took with them a large number 
of members in the London society. This led Mr. Wes- 
ley, in 1763, to devise a plan for the union of all the so- 
cieties in England, and to establish a Connectional prin- 
ciple which should be a bond of union and mutual help. 
The duties of assistants and helpers were defined, and 
the twelve rules of a helper written and published. The 
same year the preachers received instructions to sell the 
books issued from the book-room, and the first preach- 
er in each circuit has acted as Connectional bookseller 
ever since. 

The Conference of 1763 observing that some of the 
preachers were almost worn out and unable to itinerate, 
it was recommended that a fund be established to re- 
lieve the urgent needs of such as were obliged to rest. 
Each travelling preacher was desired to contribute ten 
shillings yearly to that fund. For forty years the pro- 
vision thus made was utterly inadequate for the pur- 
pose designed. In 1807 the Conference reported that 
the fund was not sufficient to provide the superannu- 
ated preachers and their widows with even the neces- 
saries of life. Dr. Adam Clarke drew up a plan that 
year for increasing the fund. Subsequent conferences 
improved upon that plan, and for a time it was known 
as the Supernumerary Preachers and Preachers’ Wid- 
ows’ Fund, then it was named the Auxiliary Fund, and 
in 1838 it was further improved and called the New 
Auxiliary Fund. The preachers contribute liberally to 
it, and a collection is made once a year in all the classes, 
so that the fund now yields a sum which enables each 
preacher and widow to receive from it a yearly sum 
that fully meets all the necessaries of life and places 
each above want. The l!ev. John Lattenburv devoted 
the last years of his valuable life to perfecting the re- 
sources and administration of that fund. In 1793 the 
Conference resolved that a preacher unable longer to 
itinerate should become a supernumerary, and at the 
end of four years he should be superannuated. Rules 
were afterwards made for permitting some supernumer- 
aries to enter into business, in which case their names 
were removed from the list of preachers belonging to 
the Conference. In this way the Lev. Thomas ltankin, 
who presided over the first Methodist Conference held 
in America, having entered into business, had to suffer 
the removal of his name from the Conference roll, and 
his death was not recorded in the Minutes when he 
died. 

At the Conference of 1765 it was resolved to issue 
from London one uniform society ticket of membership 
for all the societies. The first ticket so issued is dated 
February, 1766. The tickets have been printed and 
sent out by the book-room ever since. At the same 
Conference it was recommended that in speaking to 
and of the members of society the words ‘‘brother” and 
“sister” should be uniformly used as far as practicable. 
Those terms are still used by the older preachers and 
members. 

The Conference of 1767 made a regulation that the 
same preacher shall not be sent above one year, never 
above two years, to the same circuit. The time has 
since been extended to three years. Once, by special 
request of the Bible Society, Dr. Adam Clarke was ap- 
pointed a fourth year to the same circuit. Preachers 
who have ceased to itinerate, that they may occupy 
official positions in the Connection, are appointed by 
the Conference to the duties for a period of six years, 
which may be renewed at the discretion of the Confer- 
ence. There are about eighty preachers located in of- 
fice. 

The question was agitated in 1768, Are the Meth- 
odists Churchmen or Dissenters? To this Mr. Wes- 
ley replied, “ We are neither the one nor the other, but 
irregulars.” A century later the same question was 
often asked, and answered in the same way. The po- 
sition Methodism is now taking in the religions world 
is one which is securing for it the character of a Church, 
independent of all others, complete in its organization, 


WESLEYAN S 

and fast assuming a dominant place among the churches 
of Christendom. 

In 1769 the Conference expressed its joy at hearing 
of the establishment of Methodism in America, and sent 
two of its preachers, Lichard Boardman and Joseph 
Pilmoor, to adjust the new society, and to convey to 
them a substantial proof of its sympathy. 

The Conference of 1770 was a very memorable one 
in Methodism. To raise a defence against Antinomi- 
anism, Air. Wesley published a series of eight proposi- 
tions respecting doctrine. These aroused a fierce con- 
troversy, Lady Huntingdon, Lev. Walter Shirley, and 
others using their most vigorous efforts against Mr. 
Wesley. Convinced that Mr. Wesley was right, all his 
preachers defended the propositions, and the Lev. John 
Fletcher wrote and published his Checks to A ntinomian- 
ism , a masterly work, in defence of the Arminian doc- 
trines of the Methodists. 

The Lev. George Whitefield died in America in the 
September of 1770, and Mr. Wesley preached his funeral 
sermon in both Mr. Whitefield’s tabernacles in London. 

The year 1777 was memorable in Methodism as that 
in which the foundation of City Load Chapel was laid 
in London. 

On Jan. 1, 1778, Mr. Wesley issued the first number 
of the Arminian Magazine , a work in defence of gen- 
eral redemption. It has appeared monthly without any 
interruption for one hundred and three years, and is 
nearly the oldest serial magazine in England. Its price 
for thirty-two years was sixpence each issue; in Janu- 
ary, 1811, the price was raised to one shilling monthly, 
and so continued till it had completed a century of 
years, when the price was again reduced to sixpence. 
Soon after Air. Wesley’s death the title was changed to 
Methodist Magazine , and in 1822 the Lev. Jabez Bun- 
ting, as editor, changed it again to Wesleyan Methodist 
Magazine , which it still retains. When there were but 
few magazines in England, its highest circulation was 
about twenty-six thousand monthly; in 1880 the circu- 
lation was only eleven thousand, but it has many rivals. 
It has been a source of much revenue to Methodism, 
and an able and powerful defender of its doctrines, 
agencies, and experience. Its pages are richly stored 
with valuable history, and instructive and precious bi- 
ography. 

The Lev. Dr. Thomas Coke, an ordained clergyman 
who had joined Mr. Wesley in 1777, was sent by him to 
preside at the Irish Conference in 1782, and for nearly 
thirty years continued to preside over their delibera- 
tions, his visits to that country being, on the whole, a 
great blessing to the people. In 1784 Dr. Coke trav- 
elled over England to examine the trust-deeds of the 
chapels, and to get them settled on the Conference plan. 

The last day of February, 1784, was a memorable one 
in the history of Methodism. To perpetuate the sys- 
tem of Methodism as it had been formulated by the ex- 
perience of forty-three years, Mr. Wesley had drawn up 
a deed of declaration, which was enrolled in the Court 
of Chancen^, by which one hundred ministers are to 
form the Annual Conference of Methodism, and the sur- 
vivors are to fill up all vacancies once a year. The 
deed limits the sittings of the Conference to not less 
than five, nor more than twenty-one, days, and by that 
deed Methodism may be perpetuated till the end of 
time. Several preachers whose names were not includ- 
ed in the first selected hundred took offence and left the 
Connection, among whom were John Hampson, senior 
and junior, and Joseph l’ilmoor, who went to America 
and did useful work in the Church. 

The Conference of 1784 fixed the time for a preacher 
to remain on trial at four years; it had been less. Soon 
after the Conference Mr. Wesley ordained Dr. Coke, and 
sent him out to America to be joint superintendent over 
the Methodist brethren in that country with Francis 
Asburv. lie also wrote and sent an important letter to 
the American societies, dated Bristol, Sept. 10, 1784, in 
which he embodied what to him seemed sufficient in- 


WESLEY ANS 


941 WESLEYANS 


struct ions for the establishment ami perpetuation of a 
Methodist Church, and lie sent them also an abridged 
liturgy for their use. 

Sunday-schools were systematically commenced by 
the Methodists about the year 1784. Mr. Wesley him- 
self had conducted a Sunday-school in Georgia, America, 
as early as 1736. In 1769 Hannah Ball, a young Meth- 
odist lady, conducted a Sunday-school ten years before 
Mr. Bailees began the work in Gloucester. Mr. Wesley 
early approved of the system, and one of the earliest 
letters written by Robert Raikes was published in the 
Arminiati Magazine for January, 1785. That led the 
way to their general adoption by the Methodists. In 
1812 the number of scholars in Methodist Sunday- 
schools was about 60,000 ; in 1880 the number was 
787,143, with 119,911 teachers, in England, and a union 
was established for the Connection. 

The action taken by Mr. Wesley in 1784 in ordaining 
Dr. Coke as superintendent or bishop to officiate in 
America, and ordaining Richard Whatcoat and Thom- 
as Vascy to act as elders or deacons, was repeated in 
the following year, 1785, when he ordained John Paw- 
son, Thomas Han by, and Joseph Taylor to administer 
the sacraments in Scotland. In 1786 he ordained Joshua 
Keighley, Charles At more, William Warrener, and Will- 
iam Hammett; the two latter were for mission stations 
abroad. In 1787 Duncan McAllum, Alexander Suter, 
and Jonathan Crowther were ordained by him; and in 

1788 John Barber and Joseph Cownley were ordained 
elders, and Alexander Mather a superintendent. In 

1789 llenry Moore and Thomas Rankin were ordained 
to have special charge of the London, Bath, and Bristol 
societies, and to administer the sacraments. Mr. Moore’s 
parchment of orders was long in the possession of the 
writer. Mr. Rankin, five years previously, had con- 
vened and presided over the first Conference of Meth- 
odist preachers in America. These acts of ordination 
were strongly opposed by Charles Wesley, but such a 
proceeding on the part of John Wesley was justified by 
the surrounding circumstances of the time. It was one 
of those pacilicatory measures which prevented what 
threatened to be a separation and loss of members. 
The conferences after Mr. Wesley’s death did not recog- 
nise the “orders” thus given as conferring any superi- 
ority of position to the preachers thus ordained, except- 
ing that some of them were permitted to administer the 
Lord’s supper before other preachers could do so. Mr. 
Moore maintained his supposed rights to the end of bis 
days, but the Conference did not regard them. The 
Conference began to ordain preachers by the imposition 
of hands in 1836, but Mr. Moore was not invited to take 
part in the ceremonial. The three ministers who first 
laid hands on the heads of young men received into full 
connection in 1836 were Jabez Bunting, president of 
the Conference; Richard Reece, ex-president ; and Rob- 
ert Newton, secretary of the Conference. Ordination 
in this way has been continued at every subsequent 
Conference, the officiating ministers being the president 
and secretary of Conference, the ex -presidents, some 
chairmen of districts, and occasionally the father, if a 
minister, who has a son to be ordained. The president, 
in giving a copy of the Bible to each, says, in substance, 
“Take thou authority to preach the word and adminis- 
ter the sacraments.” This takes place not till after four 
years’ satisfactory probation, and a thorough examina- 
tion. 

During the life of Mr. Wesley, preaching by the 
Methodists was held at five and nine in the morning, 
five in the afternoon, and eight in the evening, so as 
not to prevent any from attending service at Church. 
The Conference of 1786 gave consent to hold Methodist 
services in church hours when the minister was a 
wicked man or preached Arian doctrines, or when the 
churches could not contain half the people, or when 
the church was three miles distant. In such cases the 
preacher was directed to read the Psalms, Lessons, and 
part of the Church Prayers. All this was changed soon 


after AT r. Wesley’s death, and more liberty was given to 
the preachers. 

March 29, 1788, was a memorable day in the history 
of Methodism; Charles Wesley, the poet, entered into 
rest. He had no disease; “the weary wheels of life 
stood still.” lie was born in December, 1707, conse- 
quently was aged eighty years and three months. lie 
wrote fully six thousand five hundred hymns and poet- 
ical pieces, but left his widow in such moderate circum- 
stances with her three children that William Wilber- 
force, the Christian philanthropist, sent her yearly the 
sum of £60 as a gratitude-offering for the soul-com- 
fort he had derived from her husband’s hvmns and 
sermons, and this was continued till her death, in De- 
cember, 1822, at the age of ninety-six years. The death 
of Charles Wesley was more deeply felt by the founder 
of Methodism than any other event in the history of 
the Connection. 

At the Conference following the death of his brother, 
Mr. Wesley took a review of the fifty years that had 
passed since his conversion, which event he considered 
to be the real beginning of Methodism. The sum of a 
long conversation was that the Methodists, in the course 
of fifty years, had neither prcmeditatedly nor willingly 
varied from the Church in one article, either of doctrine 
or discipline. That out of necessity, not choice, they 
had slowly varied in some points of discipline, hv 
preaching out-of-doors, using extemporary prayer, em- 
ploying lay preachers, forming societies, and holding 
annual conferences. These were all commenced as 
Providence opened the way. 

The Conference of 1790 was the last presided over 
by Mr. Wesley. As if premonitory of his death, two 
committees were appointed, one to manage the mission 
newly established in the West Indies, and one to super- 
intend the erection of chapels both in England and Ire- 
land A plan of the order of business in conducting the 
Conference was drawn up and published in the Minutes, 

3. History of the Wesleyan Body since Mr, Wesley's 
Decease , — The death of John Wesley, in March, 1791, 
was a blow so heavy when it occurred that it produced 
a feeling of awe and submission among the preachers, 
which prevented the introduction of various reforms for 
several years which had been contemplated and were 
required. During the whole year the Arminian May - 
azine scarcely named Mr. Wesley; more important du- 
ties devolving on both preachers and officers of the Con- 
nection. It was resolved to elect a president from the 
senior preachers at each Conference, and in other re- 
spects to carry on the Connection on the plan previous- 
ly observed. England was divided into districts, and 
chairmen appointed to superintend them. The num- 
ber of districts were, England, nineteen ; Scotland, two ; 
Ireland, six. By this plan the best possible arrange- 
ment was made for giving to the societies that careful 
oversight which they had previously received from Mr. 
Wesley himself. Each district was required to meet 
its own expenses. 

A spirit of restlessness soon appeared among some of 
the societies after Mr. Wesley’s death. William Ham- 
rneth, whom Mr. Wesley had ordained to labor in the 
West Indies, went to America in 1792 in search of 
health. He made a division in the society at Charles- 
town, appealed to the English Conference, and the re- 
sult was his exclusion from the ministry. In England, 
one at least of Mr. Wesley’s ordained preachers assumed 
the title of reverend, wore a gown in the pulpit, and ad- 
ministered the Lord’s supper without the consent of the 
Conference. During the three years following, much 
unrest was manifested in many parts of England by the 
people asking to have the Lord’s supper administered 
by their own preachers instead of having to go to 
Church for the purpose. 

In 1794 the trustees of some Methodist chapels, es- 
pecially in Bristol, refused to allow any preacher to 
officiate in their chapel who had not previously been 
approved by them for that purpose. The dispute at 


WESLEYANS 


942 


WESLEYANS 


Bristol ran so high as to threaten a division of the ] 
whole Connection. 

In 171)5 the dispute with the Bristol trustees, and the 
question of the preachers administering the Lord’s sup- 
per to the societies, had created so much painful un- 
rest that, to save a disruption, a plan of pacification was 
drawn up by nine preachers, which, when approved by 
the Conference, was submitted to the discontented trus- 
tees, and when accepted by them was sent to the socie- 
ties, and was the means of averting for that year any 
division. The plan included nine points concerning 
public worship, and nine points concerning discipline. 
The concessions consisted mainly of authorizing the 
continuance of sacramental services by the preachers 
where they had been practiced without the consent of 
the Conference. Preachers and olheers who spoke for 
or against the introduction of the Lord’s supper were to 
be subject to trial and penalties. That clause was re- 
sisted so determinedly by a few preachers and by very 
many members, both in public addresses and by the 
wide distribution of pamphlets, chiefly written by Mr. 
Alexander Kilham, one of the preachers, that at the 
Conference of 1790 the first business done was the trial, 
and finally the expulsion from the ministry, of Mr. Kil- 
ham. Those who had the direction of the affairs of the 
Connection acted with determination in this matter, 
but many of the junior preachers and several thousand 
members considered that decision unjust, unwise, and 
impolitic. 

The year between the expulsion of Mr. Kilham and 
the Conference of 1797 was passed by him in visiting 
the societies in various parts of England, to ascertain 
their views respecting the action of the Conference in 
bis case. The result was the formation, in the summer 
of 1797, of a new Methodist Connection, which included 
at least three preachers from the old body and about 
five thousand members. That was the first division of 
the Methodist people after Mr. Wesley’s death, and in 
thirty years it was followed by three others, all which 
might have been averted by the exercise of more Chris- 
tian forbearance and the concession of points of disci- 
pline deemed “non-essentials,” which have in later years 
been nearly all conceded by the Methodist Conference. 
The New Connection Methodists ought to be now 
united with the parent society, from which they should 
not have been separated. The three preachers who sep- 
arated themselves from the Conference on that occasion 
were William Thom, Stephen Eversfield, and Alexander 
Cummin, all of whom assisted in forming the New Con- 
nection. The Conference of 1797 issued a pastoral ad- 
dress to the societies, to allay as much as possible the 
spirit of unrest which so widely prevailed. For over 
sixty years a pastoral address has been annually issued 
by the Conference, commencing with the year 1819. 

The foreign missions of Methodism were considered 
and recognised by the Conference of 1798. Those 
missions were commenced by I)r. Coke in 1780, and 
were entirely under his direction and management till 
1791, when the Conference appointed a committee of 
nine of the brethren to assist him in examining candi- 
dates for foreign service, and also the accounts and let- 
ters relating to the missions. The Conference of 1793 
appointed the first general collection to be made through- 
out the Connection in support of the missions. The 
second collection was made in 1790, and it has been con- 
tinued yearly ever since. These missions were under 
the control and management of Dr. Coke, witli the aid, 
though little more than nominal, of a committee, un- 
til the year 1813, when he arranged with the Confer- 
ence for his journey to India. The doctor closed his 
earthly pilgrimage while crossing the Indian Ocean, 
and in the following year the Foreign Missionary Soci- 
ety was originated at Leeds, since which time it has be- 
come one of the most useful and important missionary 
organizations in the world, with nearly five hundred 
ministers and one hundred thousand members in society 
at the Conference of 1880; the voluntary contributions 


reported at the annual meeting that year in support of 
the foreign missions being £105,498, while the expen- 
diture of the year was £190,080. 

A Committee of Privileges was appointed by the 
Conference of 1803, which then consisted of ten of the 
principal preachers and laymen in Methodism. Its ori- 
gin dates from the threatened invasion of England by 
Bonaparte in 1802, when an act was passed in Parlia- 
ment to raise a regular corps of militia. Tins included 
some Methodists; and a clause was introduced to ex- 
empt the Methodists from drill on the Sabbath. The 
Committee of Privileges was at first intended to net in 
defence of those rights. Its scope and numbers were 
enlarged in 1811, when the committee was appointed to 
have the direction of any lawsuit which in anv way re- 
lated to the Methodist Connection. Circuit collections 
were ordered to be made to meet the outlay which 
might occur in consequence of such legal proceedings. 
In 1853 the committee was established on a broader 
and more permanent basis, so as to include any legal 
contingency which might arise. It is now divided into 
two parts, one for guarding our privileges, the other for 
cases of exigency. 

The Conference of 1804 resolved that any itinerant 
preacher who carried on any trade should, on proof 
thereof, be excluded from the “ Itinerant Plan,” and for- 
feit his connection with the ministry. This regulation 
excluded from the ministry the Rev. Thomas Rankin, 
one of the most respected and most prominent of Mr. 
Wesley’s preachers, who, seeing that the allowance made 
to supernumerary preachers was wholly inadequate to 
their support, preferred to enter into business and be- 
come a coal-merchant rather than impoverish a fund 
already overtaxed. That act excluded him from the 
ministry, and at his death he had no record in the Min- 
utes of Conference. An interesting memoir of him was 
printed in the Methodist Magazine. 

A series of nine new minutes were agreed to by the 
Conference of 1807, the fifth of which was to the effect 
that camp-meetings may be allowable in America, but 
they are highly improper in England; and the Con- 
ference disclaimed all connection with them. Some of 
the earnest Methodists in Staffordshire were of opinion 
that if camp -meetings were good for America, they 
were equally good for England; accordingly, at Mow 
Coss, in that comity, camp-meetings were held ; and 
for taking part in them William Clowes, Hugh Bourne, 
and other Methodists were deemed unworthy of mem- 
bership; and on being excluded, several of them united 
in forming the Primitive Methodist Connection in 1810, 
which has since become the most prosperous and most 
numerous offshoot from the parent society. Its mem- 
bers in 1880 numbered 190,800. 

The first Methodist missionary was sent to Africa in 
the year 1811. Some Methodists had settled in the 
colony of Sierra Leone about the year 1792. Early in 
this century a colored man, named Mingo Jordan, 
preached to the people, gathered a society, and wrote to 
Dr. Coke and Dr. Adam Clarke, asking for help. The 
Conference of 1811 sent out George Warren as the first 
missionary to that colony. 

Some Methodists, having made their way to the col- 
ony of Australia, formed a class, and found in one of 
the penal convicts who had become converted the first 
Methodist preacher in that vast country. The Con- 
ference of 1812 sent out Samuel Leigh, who laid in Aus- 
tralia, broad and deep, the foundations of a great Meth- 
odist Church, which numbered in 1880 fully 09.000 
members. 

In 1813 Dr. Coke started with a small band of mis- 
sionaries to found the Methodist Church in India; and 
although it has been of slow growth, its branches .arc 
rapidly stretching over the continent of India. The 
work assumed wider proportions, and found many new 
fields after the Missionary Society was fully organized 
in 1813-14; since which time the agents of the society 
have found their way to nearly every country under 


WESLEYANS 


943 


WESLEYANS 


heaven; anil, aided by the American Episcopal Church 
and the Church South. Methodism is establishing itself 
in every land. 

In October, 1815, what is now known as the Bible 
Christian Society was founded at Lake, near Shebbear, 
Devonshire, by William O’Bryan, lie had been a very 
zealous Methodist local preacher; had visited many 
places in that country where the Gospel was not preach- 
ed, and gathered the people together for religious wor- 
ship. For doing just what Sir. Wesley had done sev- 
enty years before, an injudicious Methodist preacher 
expelled Mr. O'Bryan from their community; and he, 
not feeling at liberty to discontinue his evangelistic 
work, gathered some of his converts into a small society 
in Devonshire; and in one year their members num- 
bered mdre than 500. In the year 1880 their member- 
ship in England was 21,292; in addition to those in 
Canada, 7254 ; and Australia, 3G05. Mr. O’Bryan died 
in America a few years ago at an advanced age. Their 
membership is largely confined to the west of England, 
where the society originated. 

In 1818, what is known as the Children’s Fund was 
instituted. Previously to that date, each preacher hav- 
ing a family was allowed £6 per annum for each child, 
which sum was found to be inadequate. New arrange- 
ments were made in 1818 for raising more money, 
and for the better management of the fund. The al- 
lowance has been £7 for each child for half a century; 
but some circuits, by a special effort, make up the sum 
to £10. 

In 1819 important improvements were made in the 
system of finance, and the Conference resolved that in 
future a financial district meeting should be held in the 
early part of the month of September in every district, 
at which all the preachers and stewards who could were 
to be present, to make whatever financial arrangements 
were required for each circuit in the district, for one 
year prospectively. 

One of the most important acts done at any Meth- 
odist Conference was the passing of what have since 
been known as the Liverpool Mi mites of 1820 — a series 
of thirty-one resolutions, the design and purpose of 
which was “ the increase of spiritual religion among 
our societies and congregations, and the extension of 
the work of God.” The reading of those resolutions to 
the society at any time since has usually been followed 
by renewed spiritual activity and success. 

The year 1820 was memorable also for the resolution 
then passed to secure every four years an exchange 
of delegates between the English and the American 
Methodist Churches. The first delegate from America 
was John Emory, who was presented to the Conference 
at Liverpool in July, 1820; and who, in his address 
sketching the progress of Methodism in his own coun- 
try, said, “ The two bodies would yet compass the 
world, and shake hands at the Pacific.” That proph- 
ecy has been realized. Emory was a thin spare man 
of about thirty-five, but his presence and words made 
a deep impression on the Conference, lie was the guest 
of Dr. Adam Clarke at Millbrook, who was then work- 
ing hard at his Commentary. The first delegates from 
the British Conference to America were Bichard l’eece 
and John Hannah, who attended the General Confer- 
ence held at Baltimore in 1824, where they met bish- 
ops McKendree, George, and Iloberts, and one hundred 
and twenty-nine delegates. 

The missions to the Shetland Islands were com- 
menced by Dr. Adam Clarke in 1822, who found the 
chief means for their support for ten years, when he 
ceased from his labors. They now (1880) number more 
than twelve hundred members. 

What is known as the Leeds organ dispute arose from 
the introduction of an organ into Brunswick Wesleyan 
Chapel in 1828 against the wishes of a large majorit} 7 
of the leaders and other officers of the society. The re- 
sult was that more than one thousand members leftMeth- 
odism, anti formed the Society of Wesleyan Protestant 


Methodists. They existed as a useful, laborious Church 
for about eight years, when they united with a much 
larger secession from the old body. 

In the Conference of 1834, the question of commenc- 
ing an institution for the education and training of 
young ministers was considered and decided upon. 
Among the advocates for the measure were Messrs. 
Beece, Bunting, Newton, Subclifte, Gaulter, Scott, Les- 
sey, and one hundred and fifty other preachers. Against 
the proposal were James Wood, Dr. Samuel Warren, 
James Bromley, Henry Moore, and about thirty old 
preachers; one hundred other preachers remained neu- 
tral. Dr. Warren took the lead in the opposition ; wrote 
and published a pamphlet against the proposal, which 
was considered by those friendly to the project to be such 
a misrepresentation of the facts as to bring the doctor to 
trial before a special district meeting. Dr. Warren was 
the superintendent preacher of the Manchester first cir- 
cuit. The circuit defended their minister; the special 
district meeting tried, and suspended him from office as 
a preacher. An appeal was made to the Court of Chan- 
cery, when the vice-chancellor, Shadwell, declared 
against Dr. Warren; in consequence of which, at the 
Sheffield Conference of 1835, Dr. Warren was expelled 
from the Conference and the Connection. Having many 
friends and followers who sympathized with him, they 
left the Connection, and formed the Wesleyan Method- 
ist Association, which, ten years afterwards, numbered 
21,176 members. In 1857 they were united with the 
Beform Methodists of 1849-50. 

The resolution of the Conference of 1834 to found a 
theological institution was carried into effect by the 
Conference of 1835-36. A committee was formed to 
complete the proposed scheme. An old Congregational 
building, known as the Iloxton Academy, was rented, 
and used with advantage for several years. In 1839, 
Abney House, in Stoke Newington, long the residence 
of Sir Thomas Abne} 7 and of Dr. Isaac Watts, was taken 
as a branch establishment; and both were used to their 
fullest capacity until the year 1841-42, when the hand- 
some college at Bichmond was completed; and about 
the same time the commodious institution of Didsbury, 
near Manchester, was also ready for occupation, when 
both were tenanted by the removal of the students from 
the two London buildings. Since then another college 
for the same purpose has been built at Headingly, near 
Leeds, and occupied fully; and a fourth college is now 
in course of erection at Handsworth, near Birmingham, 
which is to be opened in 1881. 

The centenary of Methodism was celebrated in all 
parts of the world during the year 1839. The Confer- 
ence of 1837 appointed a committee of ministers and 
laymen to prepare a report of the best way of observing 
the occasion. The report was presented to and accept- 
ed by the Conference of 1838, and a great Connectional 
representative meeting was gathered in Oldham Street 
Chapel, Manchester, Nov. 7, 1838, comprising two hun- 
dred and fifty 7 " preachers and laymen, and was the most 
imposing assembly of Methodists which had ever been 
held. Its deliberations were continued for three days. 
To commemorate its proceedings a large picture was 
painted, engraved, and published ln r Mr. Agnew, in 
which were included one hundred and four portraits. 
It is generally known as “ The Centenary Picture.” 
Thomas Jackson presided. It surpassed all previous 
meetings for Christian feeling and pious beneficence. 
A Thanksgiving Fund was recommended as an ac- 
knowledgment for the great mercies of the past, and 
£80,000 was at first fixed upon as the limit expected 
from it. No less than £10.000 was promised at the 
meeting held in the City Road Chapel, London. Ire- 
land generously promised £14,500 ; and by the opening of 
the centenary year the promises had reached £102,000; 
by March they were £150,000; and by the time the 
celebration was to be observed throughout the Connec- 
tion — namely, Friday, Oct. 25 — the promises had reached 
£200,000. Before the fund was closed, it amounted to 


WESLEY AN S 


944 


WESLEYANS 


,£216,000. The objects to be benefited by the fund were : 
the erection of two Theological Institutions; the pur- 
chase of a Centenary llall and Mission-house in Lon- 
don; the relief of distressed chapels; the better sup- 
port of worn-out preachers and their widows; the build- 
ing of a Centenary Chapel in Dublin ; and to make pro- 
vision for promoting day-school education. The Cen- 
tenary Conference, 1839. reported an increase of mem- 
bership of over 16,000, and 118 candidates for the min- 
istry. The year after the death of Mr. Wesley, i. e. in 
1792, the Methodist family numbered 550 itinerant 
preachers and 1 10,000 members in Great Britain and 
America: in 1839 these figures were raised to 5200 itin- 
erant preachers and 1,171,000 members in society. In 
18S0 the total number of itinerant ministers through- 
out the Methodist world was 31,407 ; the total of min- 
isters and members, 4,707,472. This record may be 
very appropriately closed with the memorable words 
of the dying Wesley — “What hath God wrought !"’ 

In 1811 the Centenary grant of £2500 for educational 
purposes was made available for the founding of a train- 
ing institution for elementary teachers and the estab- 
lishment of primary schools throughout the Connec- 
tion. The necessary funds for developing the work 
came in slowly. The Normal Training Institution and 
practicing schools in Westminster were opened in 1848. 
In 1857 there were 434 day-schools connected with Meth- 
odism, in which 52,630 scholars were taught. Ten years 
later there were 640 schools and 100,000 scholars. In 
1S80 there existed 851 schools and no less than 179,900 
scholars. An additional training institution has also 
been established at Shortlands, Battersea, for females. 
The first principal of the Westminster institution was 
the Bev. John Scott, and the present principal is the 
Bev. Dr. Bigg. The principal at Shortlands is the Bev. 
G. W. Giver, A.B. 

The disruption which took place at the Manchester 
Conference of 1849 was the most sad and painful event 
that ever occurred in Methodism. A growing feeling 
of discontent had for some years been manifested by 



more especially by Dr. Bunting; and certain Hy-sheets 
were printed and circulated throughout the Connection, 
in which the causes of complaint and dissatisfaction 
were embodied. The fly-sheets were anonymous. 
About the same time there was published a volume 
entitled Centenary Sketches of One Jlunclred of the 
Prominent Ministers of the Connection. That also was 
anonymous. The Conference of 1849 resolved to ascer- 
tain, by a system of rigid questioning, who among the 
preachers were the authors of the said publications. 
Several of the preachers refused to answer the question, 
Are you the author of the fly-sheets? Suspicion was 
mainly fixed on the Bev. James Everett, one of the 
senior preachers, lie most resolutely declined to an- 
swer to the question of authorship of the delinquent 
publications, and he was excluded from the Connection 
for contumacy. The Bev. Samuel Dunn, another min- 
ister of about thirty years’ standing, had commenced in 
1849 a new monthly magazine, with the title of The 
Wesley Banner, lie had not complied with an obsolete 
Methodist Conference rule which requires every preach- 
er to publish works only through the book-room. The 
question of the authorship of the fly-sheets was put to 
him, and also the question whether he would discon- 
tinue The Wesley Jianner. For refusing to answer those 
questions, he also was excluded from the Connection. 
The Bev. William Griffith, Jr., also refused to answer 
the question of authorship of the fly-sheets, and he also 
declined to promise that he would not report the pro- 
ceedings of the Conference to a Wesleyan newspaper. 
For those offences he also was excluded. To those three 
ministers were afterwards added the Bev. James Burn- 
ley, the Bev. Thomas Bowlnnd, and others. One result 
of those proceedings was that within two or three years 
more than 120,000 members of society had left the Con- 


nection, and had formed a new one under the designa- 
tion of Wesleyan Beformers. During the same time 
the funds of the Connection had suffered so severely 
that the arrears three or four years afterwards amount- 
ed to about £100,000. The total membership of Eng- 
lish Methodism in 1850 was reported at 358,277. It 
was not until twenty-five years afterwards that the 
membership again reached those figures, so that it re- 
quired the labors of over one thousand paid ministers to 
recover the ground lost by those expulsions. Such a 
painful and costly experiment as was that of the Con- 
ference of 1849 is not likely to be ever again repeated. 
The Wesleyan Beformers had a separate existence until 
the year 1857, when they united with those who sepa- 
rated in the Warrenite division of 1835, and formed to- 
gether the United Methodist Free Churches, having a 
membership in 1880 of 79,477. A few societies, which 
refused to amalgamate, form the Wesleyan Beform 
Union, with a membership of 7728. Two of the origi- 
nally expelled ministers in 1849 — Mr. Dunn and Mr. 
Griffith — still survive, enjoying a contented and happy 
old age. Thousands of members were altogether lost 
to Methodism and to the Christian Church in conse- 
quence of that disruption. The Beformers have uni- 
formly laid the chief blame of the expulsions to the 
Bev. Dr. Bunting, but other prominent preachers were 
equally concerned in the business. One of the difficul- 
ties arising from the disruption was owing to so many 
trustees of chapels being severed from the society, and, 
further, the withdrawal of so large a sum of money from 
Connectional objects. To meet that emergency, the 
Conference of 1854 inaugurated what is now known as 
the Connectional Belief and Extension Fund. One 
hundred thousand pounds was promised to that fund in 
1854, and the money was to be appropriated as loans to 
trustees of such chapels as were in difficulties, as gifts 
and loans to improve Church property, and to aid in 
the erection of new Methodist churches. The fund is 
now known by the title of Extension of Methodism in 
Great Britain, and at the Conference of 1880 the com- 
mittee reported having assisted ninety-one chapels either 
in their erection or enlargement. 

At the Conference of 1854 the Wesleyan Chapel Fund 
was established on a new and separate basis. The com- 
mittee has to consider and determine all matters relat- 
ing to the trust property of Methodism, and it carries 
out as far as possible the recommendations of the Ex- 
tension Fund committee. 

An important change in the management of the great 
sectional departments of Methodism was inaugurated 
when affiliated conferences were introduced. The first 
action was taken in 1847, when the two sections of the 
Methodist family in Canada were united and made into 
an independent Conference, but affiliated with the. Brit- 
ish Conference. The New Connection Methodists of 
Canada have since joined with them so as to make one 
united family in Canada. The French Methodist Church 
was made into an independent ecclesiastical organiza- 
tion in 1852, but affiliated to the British Conference. 
Australia, including New Zealand, Polynesia, and the 
islands of the Pacific, was in 1854 created an indepen- 
dent Conference, but affiliated to the British Confer- 
ence. The provinces of Eastern British North America 
were created into a separate Conference in 1854, but 
affiliated to the British Conference. 

In 1861 the Metropolitan Chapel Building Fund was 
inaugurated for the purpose of securing the erection of 
liftv new Methodist churches in and near Loudon with- 
in the period of twenty years. Sir Francis Lycett 
(then Mr. Lycett) gave the princely sum of £50,000 to 
commence the fund, with the proviso that a similar 
amount should be contributed throughout the Connection 
for the same object. The full number of fifty were not 
erected within the period specified, but the good work 
was so far advanced that Sir Francis generously gave a 
further £5000, shortly before his sudden death, Oct. 29, 
1880, for securing the erection of live more chapels. One 


WESLEYANS 


945 


WESLEYANS 


condition was that at least one thousand sittings were 
to be provided in. each chapel. 

The Conference of 1873 received under its fostering 
eare an institution called the Children’s Home, which 
was originated in Lambeth in 1809 by the Ilev. Thomas 
Bowman Stephenson, A.B., and which had steadily de- 
veloped into a large establishment for the education 
and training of destitute children. Its origin and his- 
tory abound in interesting incidents. Having been 
originated by a Wesleyan minister, and supported main- 
ly by the benevolence of the Methodist people,, it began 
to be considered as a great Methodist orphanage, or 
home for the destitute. As an independent organiza- 
tion, it had expanded into four separate establishments 
— the Central Home, in Bethnal Green, London; a train- 
ing institution at Gravesend; a farm school in Lanca- 
shire; and a Home in Canada, to which the children, 
when trained, are sent to be placed in service, and to 
get a good start in life. The Conference of 187,3 recog- 
nised the institution as belonging to Methodism. Its 
Report is yearly presented to the Conference, and the 
same body appoints its oflicers. There wore 489 chil- 
dren in the Homes at the Conference of 1880, and a new 
branch was to be opened at Birmingham. Its proper 
designation now is the Children’s Home and Orphanage. 

At the Conference of 1873 the Committee for the Pro- 
motion of Higher Education in Methodism was instruct- 
ed to take the requisite steps for founding a college for 
Methodist children in the university city of Cambridge. 
The institution has been successfully founded, under the 
management of the Rev. W. F. Moulton, D.D., with the 
modest designation at present of the Leys School. It 
reported 100 pupils at the school in 1880, and its pros- 
perity was most satisfactory. 

Arrangements were made by the Conference of 1875 
for the founding of a Wesleyan Methodist Sunday- 
school Union. The varied advantages of snch an in- 
stitution were recognised by the Conference, and during 
the year following the Union was formed, which estab- 
lished itself in 1876 in new premises in Lndgate Circus, 
London. At the Conference of 1880, the committee re- 
ported 6376 Methodist Sunday-schools in the Union — 
an increase of fifteen per cent, in ten years; 119,911 
officers and teachers — twelve per cent, increase ; and 
787,143 scholars — an increase of twenty-four per cent, 
in ten years. It is in contemplation to erect larger and 
more convenient premises for the Union at an early 
date. The Rev. Charles K. Kelley is the clerical secre- 
tary of the Union, and its chief advocate and represent- 
ative. 

The most important historical event of the present 
generation of Methodists is the introduction of lay rep- 
resentation into the Conference. That was first deter- 
mined upon by the Conference of 1877, and the whole 
scheme of the new arrangement occupies nineteen pages 
of the Minutes of that year. The Conference cannot 
legally extend beyond twenty -one days yearly. The 
first fourteen days are to be devoted to the Ministerial 
Conference, and, the six week-days following, the Con- 
ference is to consist of 240 ministers and 240 laymen. 
All the members of the legal hundred are entitled to 
be present, and also secretaries of departments in Meth- 
odism, some chairmen of districts, and others. The lay 
representatives are to be all members of society and 
members of a circuit quarterly meeting. The condi- 
tions are specified with great care and minuteness. 
Fifteen subjects are reserved for the consideration of 
the ministerial conference only, and sixteen other sub- 
jects, chiefly of a financial character, are reserved for 
the consideration and determination of the Mixed Con- 
ference. The order and form of business are agreed 
upon, which embraces all the subjects likely to come 
under their consideration. The Conference of 1878 was 
the first at which the new plan was adopted. The har- 
mony was complete. The experiment of ministers and 
laymen working together was a success of the highest 
character. As a mark of gratitude to God for the sue- 
X.— O o o 


cess of the first Representative Conference, four months 
after its close the Thanksgiving Fund was inaugurated, 
which has now reached in promises £292,000, hut it is 
hoped the fund will reach £300,000. The conferences 
of all the offshoots of Methodism have from their origin 
consisted of ministers and laymen. The parent society 
was the last to try the experiment, and some persons 
were surprised that it was not a failure. This action 
on the part of the Wesleyan Conference was the first 
really aggressive step towards the union of universal 
Methodism. The (Ecumenical Methodist Congress of 
1881, to be held in London, will be the next important 
step towards the accomplishment of that object. 

There are many minor points of Methodist history, 
which the limited scope of this article cannot include. 

II. Doctrines. — The following brief outline contains 
a summary of the principal doctrines believed and 
taught by the people known as Wesleyan Methodists. 

1. That there is one God, who is infinitely perfect, 
the Creator, Preserver, and Governor of all things. 

2. That the Scriptures of the Old and New Tests, are 
given by divine inspiration, and form a complete rule 
of faith and practice. 

3. That three Persons exist in the Godhead — the Fa- 
ther, the Son, and the Holy Ghost — undivided in essence 
and coequal in power and glory. 

4. 1’h. at in the person of Jesus Christ the divine and 
human natures are united, so that he is truly and prop- 
erly God, and truly and properly man. 

5. That Jesus Christ has become the propitiation for 
the sins of the whole world ; that he rose from the dead ; 
and that he ever liveth to make intercession for us. 

6. That man was created in righteousness and true 
holiness, but that by his disobedience Adam lost the 
purity and happiness of his nature, and in consequence 
all his posterity are involved in depravity and guilt. 

7. That repentance towards God and faith in our 
Lord Jesus Christ are necessary to salvation. 

8. That justification is by grace through faith; and 
that he that believeth hath the witness in himself, and 
that it is our privilege to be fully sanctified, in the 
name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our 
God. 

9. That man’s salvation is of God, and that if he is 
cast into hell it is of himself; that men are treated by 
God as rational, accountable creatures; that it is God 
that worketh in us to will and to do of his own good 
pleasure; and that we are to work out our own salva- 
tion with fear and trembling; that it is possible for 
man to fall finally from grace. 

10. That the soul is immortal, and that after death 
it immediately enters into a state of happiness or mis- 
ery. 

1 1. That the observance of the Christian Sabbath is 
of perpetual obligation. 

12. That the two saeraments, baptism and the Lord’s 
supper, are institutions of perpetual obligation. 

The doctrines of Methodism are explained in Mr. 
Wesley’s Sermons, and in his Notes on the New Test., 
which, with the small volume known as the Large Min- 
utes, form the authorized standards of both doctrine and 
discipline. The doctrines preached by Mr. Wesley were 
those of the Church of England. When it became 
necessary for him to make a selection of them for the 
use of his followers, he printed them in a tract with the 
title Appeals to Men of Reason and Religion. The most 
complete summary of them, with Scripture proofs, will 
be found in the eatechism used by the Methodists. 

III. Constitution and Polity. — The Members of Socie- 
ty are the basis of Methodism. From among them are 
selected the preachers and all the officers of the Church. 
The preachers may be classed under the following heads: 
the president and secretary of the Conference, chair- 
men of districts, financial secretaries, official or located 
ministers, superintendents of circuits, ministers in full 
connection, ministers on trial, supernumeraries and su- 
perannuated ministers, local preachers and exhorters. 


WESLEYANS 


04G 


WESLEYANS 


Official lay members are classified under the following 
heads: trustees, local preachers, class-leaders; circuit, 
society, chapel, and poor stewards; treasurers, secreta- 
ries, and members of committee of various institutions, 
superintendents and teachers of Sunday-schools, mis- 
sionary collectors, and others. 

The various meetings or assemblies recognised by 
the Methodists are: the Conference, which is Conncc- 
tioiial ; district and minor district meetings; and the fol- 
lowing local or circuit meetings: namely, quarterly, 
leaders’, local preachers’, band, class, society, and prayer 
meetings, and love- feasts. These in addition to the 
usual public worship. 

(I.) Officers . — 1. Ministerial. — (1.) The president of 
the Conferetice is chosen annually. The names of three 
or more preachers who are members of the legal hun- 
dred are placed before the Conference, a ballot is taken, 
and the preacher having the highest number of votes 
is named to the legal hundred, by whom the choice is 
confirmed. The secretary is elected in the same man- 
ner. Both retain office till the next Conference, when 
the secretary may be re-elected. The president can- 
not be re-elected until after the lapse of eight years. 
The Ilev. John Farrar is the only president re-elected 
during the past thirty years. The president is invest- 
ed with the power of two members; he presides at all 
ollicial meetings, supplies vacancies in the ministry, 
sanctions changes in appointments, and exercises a 
similar authority when the Conference is not sitting to 
that of a bishop in the Methodist Episcopal Church of 
America, lie is the chairman of the district where he 
is located, a member of the Stationing Committee, and 
has an assistant appointed by the Conference to aid him 
in any possible duty. 

(2.) The chairman of the district exercises the au- 
thority of a bishop, or overseer, in the locality to which 
he is appointed. He convenes and presides over the 
annual district meeting held in May, and the financial 
one held in September, at both which all the preachers 
residing in the district are expected to attend. He is re- 
sponsible for the carrying-out of all the rules and usages 
of the Connection, the proper conduct of religious wor- 
ship, the care of all the Methodist Trust property in the 
district, the payment of the preachers’ salaries, the mak- 
ing of public collections and their proper distribution. 
He has to examine candidates for the ministry, and to 
direct what ministers are to attend the Conference. He 
has authority to visit any part of his district. lie is 
chosen annually. 

(3.) The financial secretary has to assist the general 
treasurers of the various funds to transact all the finan- 
cial business of the district to which he belongs. 

(4.) Official or Located Ministers. — These are princi- 
pals or professors and tutors in colleges and seminaries, 
book stewards, missionary secretaries, secretaries of oth- 
er Connectional agencies, editors, and house governors 
of theological colleges. 

(5.) Superintendents are those ministers whose names 
stand first in the list of appointments to a circuit. The 
office constitutes such a minister chairman of all the 
circuit official meetings. He is responsible to the dis- 
trict meeting for the maintenance of order and disci- 
pline, and the administration of all its affairs. He ad- 
mits and excludes members with the consent of the 
leaders, directs all the public services, meets the classes 
quarterly and gives each member a ticket, keeps a list 
of all the officers and members in society, registers deaths 
of members, collects statistical information, makes cir- 
cuit plans, examines his colleagues in the ministry as 
to their religious experience, examines and instructs 
candidates for the ministry, has to distribute the books 
published at the book-room and to pay for the same 
quarterly, to appoint the collections, and see all moneys 
collected transmitted to the treasurers; and is responsi- 
ble for every breach of discipline in the circuit. 

(C>.) Ministers in full connection are appointed annu- 
ally to a circuit, but may be reappointed a second or a 


third time to the same circuit. They must not return 
to a circuit till they have been absent six years. They 
have to preach twice or thrice on the Sabbath, and on 
such week evenings as may be fixed by' the superin- 
tendent on the circuit plan. They administer the sac- 
raments, visit the members at their homes, especially' 
those who are sick or infirm, and assist the superintend- 
ent in the general work of the circuit. They are en- 
titled to be present at all society* and district meetings. 
All such ministers were designated as Helpers during 
the lifetime of Mr. Wesley*. 

(7.) Ministers on Trial. — When a young man has 
been examined by* the quarterly* meeting and recom- 
mended therefrom as a minister on probation, he is sent 
usually* to the district meeting, thence to the Confer- 
ence, and, if accepted there, he may* be sent for training 
to one of the four theological colleges, where he may* 
remain one, tw*o, or three y*ears. A course of study* is 
marked out for each year. He must pass a yearly* ex- 
amination and be well reported of by* his examiners. 
The Conference has made satisfactory* provision for his 
having a supply* of suitable books and proper instruc- 
tion in pursuing his studies. Probationers may* attend 
quarterly and district meetings, but they* may* not vote. 
They may* not administer the sacraments, excepting 
baptism in a case of great emergency*. They* may* not 
marry* while on trial. They* are specially* under the 
care of the superintendent until received into full con- 
nection, which is not till they have completed four years 
of probation. The act of being received into full con- 
nection is one of the most important iq the career of 
a minister. Having passed several examinations with 
a good report, he is presented to the Conference. Two 
evenings during each Conference are set apart for this 
work. On the first the young men give an account of 
their conversion and call to the ministry*, experience 
which is often attended with the manifest outpouring 
of the Divine Spirit on the audience, and they* answ*er 
a few questions asked by the president. The young 
men are then formally* and publicly* received by the 
imposition of hands of the president, secretary*, and sev- 
eral senior ministers in the legal hundred, the president 
saying, “Mayest thou receive the Holy* Ghost for the 
office and work of a Christian minister, now committed 
unto thee by* the imposition of our hands. And be thou 
a faithful dispenser of the Word of God and of the holy 
sacraments, in the name of the Father, and of the Son, 
and of the Holy* Ghost.” After each young man has 
received the gift of a small Bible, the president says, 
“Take thou authority to preach the Word of God, and 
to administer the holy* sacraments in our congregations.’' 
Shortly* after that service, each preacher receives, as a 
certificate of his admission into full connection, a copy* 
of the Large Minutes, in which are inscribed the follow* - 
ing words, signed by* the president and secretary of the 
Conference: “As long as you freely consent to, and ear- 
nestly* endeavor to w*alk bv, these rules, we shall rejoice 
to acknowledge you as a fellow-laborer.” On the sec- 
ond evening, the ex-president delivers to the newly* or- 
dained a ministerial charge, which is usually* printed. 
Most of the young ministers enter the married state a 
few days afterwards. 

(8.) Supernumeraries . — Ministers who either from 
age or iufirmity are unable to perform their circuit 
work are placed in this class. Many ministers are 
obliged to retire from the full work for one or more 
years to rest, and after recovery* of strength resume cir- 
cuit work. At the Conference of 1793 it was resolved 
that “every* preacher shall be considered as a super- 
numerary for four y*ears after he has desisted from trav- 
elling, and shall afterwards be deemed superannuated.” 
All supernumerary or superannuated ministers are re- 
quired to meet in class to retain their membership in 
the Methodist society*. A superannuated minister ceases 
to be a member of the legal hundred ; but this ride has 
been set aside by* special vote of the Conference in rec- 
ognition of some important Connectional service. A su- 


WESLEYANS 


947 


WESLEYANS 


pernumerary who eaters into business is not entitled to 
have his name retained on the journal of the Conference 
as a minister, and his death, if occurring while he is in 
business, is not recorded in the Minutes. The provision 
now made lor supernumerary ministers and their wid- 
ows is one of moderate competence. 

(9.) Local Preachers , or Lay Preachers. — This class 
of workers is as old as Methodism itself. As early as 
the year 1738, Mr. Wesley had a lay helper named 
Humphreys, who left in 1739. In May, 1739, Thom- 
as Maxfield was converted; he became Mr. Wesley’s 
first lay helper in London, and John Cenniek was the 
lirst lay helper in Bristol. From this body of men 
nearly all the ministers have been selected. Local 
preachers must be accredited members of society, men 
of piety, of consistent life, of good understanding, and 
fair ability as speakers. They generally begin by ex- 
horting in cottage meetings or mission rooms, and 
when considered capable of addressing an audience they 
are, after preaching a trial sermon before a competent 
judge, admitted on trial and have appointments on the 
plan. They are examined as to their knowledge of 
doctrine and Church government and their call to the 
work. After a year’s probation, and having passed sat- 
isfactory examinations at the local preachers’ meeting, 
and been passed by the quarterly meeting of Church 
officers, they are received as accredited local preachers. 
Many, by the exercise of their gifts, soon qualify them- 
selves for a wider sphere of ministerial work; others 
remain at home, following their daily occupations, and 
preach every Sabbath, often to large congregations, 
without any financial consideration. Lay preachers 
have always been held in much esteem in Methodism, 
and were thought so highly of when Mr. Wesley died 
that they had special notice in the inscription on the 
monument erected to the memory of the founder of 
Methodism, where he was described as “ the patron and 
friend of lay preachers.” Methodism for a full century 
was greatly indebted to the lay preachers for their ser- 
vices, valuable as teachers of divine truth, but especial- 
ly so because rendered gratuitously. They have hith- 
erto looked alone to God for their reward, and through 
their labors thousands of sinners have learned the way 
to God and heaven who would otherwise have lived 
and died destitute of the knowledge of both. 

2. Official Lay Members . — (1.) Trustees. — The office 
of trustees in Methodism is one of great responsibility. 
They hold the property, mostly freehold, belonging to 
the Connection, in trust for the Conference, and are 
themselves responsible for the discharge of the debts 
connected with their respective trusts. During the life- 
time of Air. Wesley, there was diversity in the drawing 
of the trust-deeds, and, consequently, in the powers con- 
ferred thereby. All the property of the Connection is 
now vested in trustees according to the form of a model 
deed, which has been prepared with great care, and cor- 
rected from time to time so as to meet all emergencies 
which are likely to arise. Some trustees have had pow- 
er to refuse the admission of any preacher to their pul- 
pits whom they did not appoint or approve. The ec- 
clesiastical powers of trustees are defined in the Plan of 
Pacification drawn up and published in the Minutes of 
Conference for 1794-95. The superintendent-minister is 
ex officio the chairman at all meetings of trustees, and 
has a casting vote. Trustees appoint their own stew- 
ards; they disburse seat-rents and collections taken in 
behalf of the trust, and keep the property in satisfactory 
repair. 

(2.) Class-leaders. — These are persons of piety, intel- 
ligence, and ability, who are appointed to take charge 
of classes. The classes consist of the members of soci- 
ety divided into small companies, varying in number, 
according to circumstances, from six to sixty persons, 
either male or female, or sometimes mixed. The simple 
condition of membership is “a desire to fiee from the 
wrath to come.” Mr. Wesley himself was the first class- 
leader. The office of leader was not instituted until 


February". 1742, when the necessity for it was shown 
during a providential conversation at Bristol. During 
that year, leaders were appointed in London and else- 
where. The business of a leader is thus defined by Mr. 
Wesley, and published by him in the Buies of the Soci- 
ety : 

I. To see each person in his class, once a week, at least, 
in order— 

To inquire how their souls prosper. 

To advise, reprove, comfort, or exhort, as occasion may 
require. 

To receive what they are willing to give towards the 
support of the Gospel. 

II. To meet the ministers and the stewards of the soci- 
ety once a week, in order — 

To inform the miuister of any that are sick, or of any 
that walk disorderly, and will not he reproved. 

To pay to the stewards what they have received of their 
several classes in the week preceding, and 

To show their accouut of what each person has con- 
tributed. 

The original rule of Methodism was that each mem- 
ber contribute one penny weekly-, and one shilling quar- 
terly 7 when the tickets of membership were given. Even 
at the beginning of Methodism, and throughout its 
whole history, there have been members who gave six- 
pence, or even one shilling, weekly, and five or ten shil- 
lings quarterly 7 , some twenty shillings. Among the pour 
the original rule is the standing order. As early as 
1748, leaders were recommended to meet in other classes 
to promote growth in grace. Leaders are really resident 
local pastors, and, as such, have in thousands of instances 
witnessed many most glorious and triumphant deaths. 
Leaders are chosen by the superintendent-preacher, and 
nominated by 7 him at a leaders’ meeting, the vote of the 
meeting fixing the appointment. Some good and useful 
leaders have been appointed at as early an age as six- 
teen years in times of special revival. Leaders are 
members of the quarterly meeting of society officers. 

(3.) Circuit Stewards. — The most important of the 
circuit officers is the circuit steward, who manages all 
the finances. There are generally two in each circuit. 
They- receive and pay all accounts, and report the items 
to each quarterly meeting. They" are expected to at- 
tend the district meetings held in May and September. 
When ministers are invited to travel in a circuit, the 
steward makes the necessary arrangements. lie is the 
official channel through which communications from a 
circuit are transmitted to the Conference. According 
to rule, the office of steward ceases at the end of the 
year, and no steward is to remain in office above three 
years in succession, except in some extraordinary 7 cases. 
They' are appointed to office by the quarterly- meeting, 
on the nomination of the superintendent-minister. 

(4.) Chapel stewards are appointed by 7 the trustees to 
let and relet the sittings in a chapel, to receive the mon- 
ey for the same, and pay it into the hands of the treas- 
urer for the trustees. They are expected to see that the 
chapel is kept in proper repair, to have it made ready 
for public worship, and to transact any business connect- 
ed with the chapel which can be done without calling 
the trustees together. 

(5.) Society stewards are intrusted with the financial 
affairs of a particular society". Where the members are 
few, only- one is appointed, but two is the usual number. 
Their business is — 

1. To attend the leaders’ meetings; to examine the 
books of the leaders, and to receive the moneys which 
their members have contributed since the last leaders’ 
meeting. 

2. To prepare proper notices for the pulpit of all that is 
advertised upon the circuit plan, and to take care that 
other pulpit notices are duly signed. 

3. To receive the preacher in the vestry before public 
worship, and to make such arrangements for the service 
as may be necessary, providing for the due celebration of 
the sacrament of baptism when it is appointed to be ad- 
ministered. 

4. To see that the collections are made at the time 
specified upon the circuit plan, and to take charge of 
them until they can he delivered into the right hands. 

5. To provide suitable homes, where needed, for preach- 
ers who officiate in their respective chapels, aud to see 
that their expenses, if auy, are paid. 


WESLEYANS 


048 


WESLEYANS 


They are chosen yearly on the nomination of the super- 
intendent-minister, the leaders’ meeting approving or re- 
jecting as they see best. It is recommended that each so- 
ciety steward may l>e either changed annually, or one each 
year alternately, so as to retain one who knows the duties. 

(15.) Poor-stewards receive and disburse the moneys 
given for the poor. The collections taken at the Lord’s 
supper, and at love-feasts of the society, arc thus dis- 
tributed. They attend the lenders’ meeting, and pay to 
the leaders any sums which are voted for needy or sick 
members, monthly or quarterly. A special collection is 
often taken on the first Sunday of the new year, which 
yields from live to ten shillings for each poor member. 
The poor-stewards provide the bread and wine for the 
Lord’s supper, and the bread and water lor the love-feasts. 
Preachers who have wine after preaching arc supplied 
by the same stewards. 

(7.) Treasurers, secretaries, and members of commit- 
tee of the various institutions connected with Method- 
ism are, to some extent, offices held by intelligent and 
respectable members of the congregations, who are not 
always mcml>crs of society, but persons of integrity, 
whose consistent Christian conduct entitles them to the 
confidence thereby reposed in them. Many persons and 
families are by these means retained in Methodism who 
would be likely to drift into other communities of Chris- 
tians, but for their being thus employed in t lie work. 
Persons so occupied generally find their way into soci- 
ety classes, and so become recognised members. 

The teachers and elder scholars in our Sunday-schools 
render important services as collectors for the Foreign 
Missionary Society. Forty years ago a special effort 
was made to secure the services of the Sunday-school 
children as collectors, first of Christmas offerings. In 
this wav, £4000 and £5000 was soon raised as free-will 
offerings at Christmas and at New-year’s. Afterwards, 
those young persons wore organized into a Juvenile 
Missionary Society, and by their aid a considerable sum 
is brought into the funds of the society. No less a sum 
than £16,507 was collected by the juvenile associations 
for 18<S0, which was one sixth of the entire ordinary in- 
come for foreign missions in that year. 

(II.) Official Meetings. — 1. The Conference is the high- 
est court, and the only legislative body in Methodism. 
During forty years, all the power of the Conference was 
vested in Mr. Wesley. By the Deed of Declaration 
enrolled in chancery in 1784. the Conference was made 
to consist of one hundred preachers in connection with 
Mr. Wesley’s society. In 1791 was held the first Confer- 
ence after Mr. Wesley’s death, and was the first organized 
according to the deed. By the provisions of that deed 
Methodism is made perpetual. The resolution of the 
Conference of J 791 was u to follow strictly the plan which 
M r. Wesley left.” This was done until the year 1811, 
when the Conference resolved upon two changes: first, 
to till up one vacancy in four in the legal hundred, not 
by seniority, as previously, but by nominations from t lie 
whole body of preachers who have travelled fourteen 
years or upwards. Second, to give preachers of fully 
fourteen years’ standing authority to nominate a preach- 
er for election into the hundred, and also to vote in the 
election of Couneetional officers. The legal hundred 
alone lias to confirm such elections. From the time of 
Mr. \\ eslcv’s death to the year 1878, only preachers were 
permitted to lx? present at the Conference. Following 
the example so successfully set them by the General 
Conference of t he M. E. Church in America, the English 
Conference of 1X77 resolved to admit laymen to partici- 
pate in their proceedings in such matters only as did 
not strictly belong to the ministerial office. The time 
for continuing the deliberations of the Conference is 
limited to twenty -one days. Two weeks are now de- 
voted to the Ministerial Conference, and the third week 
to the Mixed Conference. This is composed of an equal 
number (240) of ministers and laymen. In this brief 
summary only an outline of the business of each Con- 
ference can be given. 


The Ministerial Conference embraces the following 
items of business, namely : 

1. Filling lip vacancies in the legal hundred. 

2. Election of president acd secretary. 

3. Appointment of Conference officers. 

, 4. Public prayer-meeting for one hour. 

5. Reports on probationers and candidates for the 
ministry. 

G. Reception of representatives from other confer- 
ences. 

7. Consideration of cases of character and discipline. 

8. Appointment of committees. 

9. Appeals, memorials, notices of motion. 

10. Ordination of young ministers. 

11. Supernumeraries. 

12. Obituaries of ministers, with reminiscences. 

13. Alterations and divisions of circuits. 

14. Stations of ministers. 

15. Statistics: reading pastoral address. 

1G. Conversation on the work of God. 

17. Pastoral reports of colleges, schools, etc. 

IS. Book affairs, and review of literature. 

19. Addresses to the Conference and replies. 

20. Official appointments and deputations. 

21. Reports and miscellaneous business. 

The business of the Mixed Conference may be thus 
summarized : 

1. Calling the roll, and address of the president. 

2. Reception of memorials, and notices of motion. 

3. Consideration of home and foreign missions. 

4. Schools for ministers’ children. 

5. Extension of Methodism. 

6. Funds relating to chapels. 

7. The Children’s Fund. 

8. Home missions and Contingent Fund. 

9. District snstentation funds. 

10. Worn-out Ministers and Widows’ Fund. 

11. Theological Institution. 

12. Education : General Committee, Sunday - school 
Union, and Children’s Home. 

13. Higher education. 

14. Committee of Privileges and Exigency. 

15. Conversation on the work of God. 

16. Religions observance of the Sabbath. 

17. Temperance. 

IS. Reports on memorials. 

19. Miscellaneous business. 

20. Reading and signing the Conference Journal. 

2. District meetings originated at the first Conference 
after Mr. Wesley’s death in 1791. They correspond very 
much to the annual conferences in the M. E. Church. 
Their deliberations occupy from two to five days. The 
business transacted may be thus briefly stated. At the 
session in May, when ministers only are present, inqui- 
ries are made regarding each minister and probationer 
as to moral and religious character, adherence to doc- 
trine, attention to discipline, ability to preach, marriages, 
deaths, resignations, and whether fully employed ; num- 
ber of members in society; reports from Home Mission 
stations; conversation on the work of God; reports of 
examination of preachers on trial; examination of can- 
didates for the ministry; who shall attend Conference. 
When the circuit stewards join the ministers, the funds 
are separately brought under consideration, much in the 
same manner as at the Mixed Conference, each circuit 
being brought under consideration. The district meet- 
ing is usually closed by a sermon from one of the leading 
preachers, and by the administration of the Lord’s sup- 
per. The financial district meeting, held in September 
yearly, was originated at the Conference of 1819, when 
important changes were introduced into the system of 
finance. The finances of each circuit are arranged and 
determined for a year at that meeting. 

3. Quarterly meetings, as their name indicates, are 
held in each circuit once in three months, about the 
time of the usual quarter days. All the stewards, class- 
leaders, and local preachers of at least one year’s stand- 
ing may attend. The superintendent-minister presides. 
A secretary records the names of those present, and the 
resolutions adopted, and any other business transacted. 
The statistics of membership are read; the stewards 
report the amount of moneys received from the classes, 
the salaries paid to the preachers, house rent, and other 
expenses, and the accounts are balanced each quarter. 
Conversations are held upon the progress of the work 
in each society, and reports of pioneer work detailed. 


WESLEYANS 


949 


WESLEYANS 


The quarterly meeting may be called a circuit Confer- 
ence. The origin of these meetings dates from the first 
ten years of the history of Methodism ; but the first 
time they were introduced by Mr. Wesley was at the 
Conference of 1749, though stewards were appointed and 
changed several years previously. After 1749 they be- 
came part of the economy of the Connection. 

4. Leaders' meetings were originally, ami for half a 
century, held weekly. Their purpose was to pay to the 
steward what money they had received from the mem- 
bers. For many years that money was distributed by 
the stewards among the poor. It now goes towards 
the support of the ministry. The meetings were used 
for receiving reports of sick and poor members, and 
also for giving such counsel and directions to the lead- 
ers as would be likely to promote the spiritual welfare 
of their classes, and the spread of the work of God. 
The superintendent-preacher presides, and no meeting 
of the leaders is legal without a preacher is present to 
preside. Since the death of Mr. Wesley the powers of 
the leaders have been increased considerably; they can 
veto the admission of members; leaders and stewards 
can be appointed or removed only with their consent; 
they also give consent for the administration of the 
Lord’s supper, and for making special collections on 
the Sabbath for any benevolent purpose. In some 
circuits the leaders meet only once a quarter; where 
that is the case, they know but little of spiritual pros- 
perity. The poor fund is distributed here. 

5. Local jweachers' meetings are usually held seven 
days before the quarterly meeting of the circuit. They 
are occasions of pleasant and profitable intercourse. 
After an hour spent in taking tea together, the super- 
intendent-preacher presides, a secretary records the 
names of those present, and a summary of the proceed- 
ings. The names are called over, and inquiries made 
as to their appointments, especially when neglected. 
Probationers receive every kind of help and encour- 
agement; any revivals, or evidences of either prosperi- 
ty or adversity, are reported and considered. Occa- 
sionally new preaching stations are accepted, and young 
men are examined before them before being received 
on trial, and again before they are received on full plan. 
The services of local preachers are all gratuitous. A 
Yorkshire country local preacher, when asked what re- 
ward he received, said,“ I preach for nothing a Sunday 
and keep myself.” Local preachers are expected to 
confine their labors to their own circuits; they are all 
to meet in class, and are allowed to have from the 
book- room publications at the trade discount. Ac- 
cording to rule, they may not hold love-feasts, but the 
rule is often broken. 

6. Band meetings are the oldest society meetings 
connected with Methodism ; but they have quite 
changed their original design. Band societies were 
established before Methodism had a separate existence. 
In December, 1738, Mr. Wesley drew up the Band Buies, 
which were printed and circulated. All who were jus- 
tified by faith, who knew their sins forgiven, were urged : 
to meet in band, and “ to confess their faults one to 
another, and to pray for each other.” It was a more 
strict or searching form of class meeting. For more 
than sixty years they were kept up in England; but in 
I80G the Conference complained that fellowship meet- 
ings were taking the place of band meetings, and grad- 
ually they have done so: band meetings for personal 
examination and confession are almost unknown now; 
the meetings now held under that name are generally 
on the evenings of Saturday, as a preparation for the 
Sabbath, and they consist of singing, prayer, and the 
relation of personal religious experience. They are led 
by one of the ministers, and usually continue one hour, 
from eight to nine o’clock. 

7. Class meetings may be said to be the origin as 
well as the life of Methodism. The first little company 
of persons who came to ask advice about their souls 
were met weekly by Mr. Wesley himself. This kind 


of meeting of persons who were desirous to “flee from 
the wrath to come, and to be saved from their sins,” were 
continued through the years 1740-41, and till Febru- 
ary, 1742, when classes were organized, first at Bristol, 
then at London, and soon after throughout England. 
Their original purpose was to raise funds to discharge 
a chapel debt; then to help the poor; but their weekly 
meetings were productive of so many spiritual bless- 
ings that Mr. Wesley introduced them wherever a so- 
ciety could be formed. In May, 1743, he published the 
first edition of the Rules of the society. Class meet- 
ings are under the direction of a leader, who has under 
his or her care from six to twenty, or even as many as 
sixty persons, who meet once a week for mutual edifi- 
cation and encouragement. The members relate their 
religious experience, hear each other’s progress in the 
divine life, and receive from the leader suitable counsel 
and direction. These meetings have no resemblance 
to the confessional of secret orders. The meetings are 
of a purely social character, and, to render them profita- 
ble, candor and simplicity are blended with faithfulness 
and affection. The members contribute each at least 
one penny weekly towards the support of the ministry. 

8. Society meetings are convened by the preacher, 
and consist of members of the society usually. After 
singing and prayer, the preacher delivers an address 
respecting their religious duties, Christian experience, 
and general conduct. The rules of the society are oc- 
casionally read and expounded, and their principles en- 
forced. Seriously disposed persons are permitted to be 
present, and they are invited to become members of so- 
ciety. These meetings are frequently held on Sunday 
evening after the usual public worship. They are held 
to stimulate members to meet in class when there have 
been neglect and indifference manifested. 

9. Love-feasts are a revival of a custom practiced by 
the early Christian Church. They are conducted by 
a minister, who, after singing and prayer, desires the 
stewards to give to each person a small piece of bread 
or cake and a drink of water, after which a collection 
is made for the poor. The minister then relates his 
Christian experience, and those present follow him in 
giving their own experience. About two hours are oc- 
cupied for these meetings; they are usually held quar- 
terly, soon after the visitation of the classes, when the 
tickets of membership are given. Those tickets en- 
title their owners to attend class and society meetings, 
band meetings and love-feasts. 

10. Prayer meetings are appointed by the superin- 
tendent of each circuit. They are open to the public, 
and are held at such times as best suit the convenience 
of each locality. One should be held in each society 
at seven o’clock on Sunday morning; in some places 
one is held for half an hour before the evening service, 
and again after the evening service. One week-day 
evening is devoted for one hour for public prayer, and 
once a month, generally the first week of the month, 
home and foreign missions are specially prayed for. 
Much good has been done by holding such meetings 
in cottages, with the permission of their occupants. A 
monthly prayer meeting held by Sunday-school teach- 
ers and the older scholars has been a great blessing in 
many schools; and in other ways the union of officers 
and members with the public in such meetings has 
been the cause of many revivals. The first meeting in 
the month of society classes is generally a prayer meet- 
ing instead of an experience meeting; by this means 
many gain that confidence which they need to encourage 
them to pray in the larger gatherings. In some places 
members are employed as prayer -leaders, to conduct 
such meetings in cottages, halls, warehouses, and facto- 
ries. Cases are on record of very poor persons, .who 
had a remarkable gift in prayer, acquired by close and 
frequent communion with God in private, having been 
made a special blessing in the locality where they re- 
sided, and often revivals of religion have resulted from 
their persistent devotion to prayer. Any church which 


WESLEYAXS 


950 


WESLEYAXS 


has well attended prayer-meetings, and earnest short 
prayers from many members, is sure to be in great 
prosperity. Prayer is power, and gives courage and 
strength. 

These notices on the rules and ordinances of Meth- 
odism are an original compilation from William Peirce’s 
Principles and Polity of the Wesleyan Methodists ; Min- 
utes of Conference; and the personal experience of a 
lift y years’ membership in the society. 

iv. Statistics (numbers of members, etc.). — 1. Sta- 
tistics of English Methodism .— -During twenty-five years 
from the origin of Methodism no records or “Minutes” 
of Conference were published; and if any statistics were 
taken of the societies generally, they have not been 
printed, excepting part of those relating to the society 
in London. The year 17(U>, which witnessed the com- 
mencement of Methodism in America, was memorable 
also as that in which the first record was printed of the 
number of Methodists meeting in class in England. 
Prom that year we have a continuous record to the 
present time. 


V- 

Circuits. 

Preachers. 

Members. 

Increase 
or Decrease. 

17 GO 

40 

92 

21,000 


1707 

41 

104 

25,911 


17GS 

40 

113 

27,341 


17011 

40 

117 

28,263 


1770 

50 

12S 

29,406 


1771 

48 

143 

31,33S 


1772 

4S 

145 

31,9S4 


1773 

48 

150 

32,274 


1774 

50 

151 

33,000 


1775 

51 

152 

35,145 


1776 

55 

152 

34,S2G 


1777 

58 

153 

38,274 


177S 

56 

157 

41,057 


1779 

02 

102 

42,4SG 


17S0 

04 

106 

43,830 


17S1 

G3 

171 

44.101 


1782 

06 

178 

45,723 


1783 

G9 

ISO 

45,995 


17S4 

74 

181 

49,137 


1785 

130 

210 

52,400 


1780 

142 

207 

58,146 


17S7 

103 

327 

62,088 


17sS 

105 

345 

60,375 


17S9 

109 

302 

70,305 


1790 

119 

382 

61,463 



Death 

of Mr. 

Wesley. 


1791 

131 

380 

72,470 


1792 

135 

405 

75,273 


1793 

145 

419 

75,24S 


1794 

158 

435 

83,36S 


1795 

150 

443 

90,347 


1790 

104 

458 

95,900 


1797 

154 

474 

99,519 


179S 

103 

494 

101,712 


1799 

170 

514 

107, S02 


1800 

177 

515 

109,901 


1801 

182 

517 

113,702 

3, SOI 

; 1802 

187 

541 

119,054 

7,892 

1803 

197 

553 

120,304 

1,150 

1804 

212 

570 

120,222 

D. [5S2] 

1805 

213 

5SS 

125,270 

5,054 

1800 

222 

003 

134,010 

9,341 

1807 

237 

01 s 

143,115 

9,499 

ISOS 

256 

620 

141,185 

D. [1,930] 

1809 

, 280 

031 

157,921 

10,730 



Ireland 

excluded. 

1810 

234 

019 

137,997 

5,911 

1811 

209 

020 

145,014 

7,017 

lsl2 

277 

040 

155,124 

9,510 

1M3 

289 

001 

102,003 

7,876 

1814 

292 

685 

173,885 

11,882 

1815 

i 306 

730 

181,709 

7,324 

181G 

309 

727 

191,080 

9,971 

ls\7 

31*2 

671 

193, G70 

2,003 

1818 

315 

055 

195,105 

1,431 

1819 

319 

700 

190,005 

1,504 

1 1820 

31S 

707 

191,217 

D. [4,06S] 

182J 

319 

709 

200,354 

9,137 

l s 22 

321 

725 

211,392 

11,318 

1S23 

322 

745 

219,39S 

8,000 

| 1824 

333 

777 

220,939 

7,541 

1825 . 

338 

SI 1 

228, 02S 

1,707 

1820 

340 

814 

231,041 

2,399 

1827 

34G 

820 

237,239 

0,194 

1828 

351 

829 

245,194 

7,955 

1S29 

353 

842 

247,529 

2,335 

1830 

356 

S4S 

248,592 

1,003 

183] 

303 

84G 

249,119 

027 

1832 

304 

883 

250,272 

0,553 


Year. 

| Circuits. 

Preachers. 


Increase 
or Decrease. 

1833 

305 

900 

279,170 

22, SOS 

1834 

309 

922 

291,939 

12,009 

1835 

379 

952 

290,988 

D. [951] 
2144 

1S30 

380 

998 

293,132 

1S37 

3S4 

1001 

292,093 

D. [439] 

1838 

387 

1019 

290,801 

4,108 

1839 

404 

1053 

307,008 

10,207 

1S40 

411 

1078 

323,178 

10,110 

1841 

412 

1110 

328,792 

5,014 
D. [205] 

1842 

419 

1093 

326,727 

1843 

422 

1105 

331,024 

4,297 

1S44 

420 

1129 

337, 59S 

6,574 

1845 

429 

1148 

340,778 

3, ISO 

1S40 

431 

1171 

341,408 

090 

1847 

435 

1185 

339,379 

D. [2,0.89] 

1S4S 

43S 

1195 

33S,S01 

D. [51 S] 

1849 

443 

1207 

348,274 

9,413 

1850 

440 

1217 

358,277 

10,003 

1851 

450 

1225 

302,209 

D. [5G,06S] 

1852 

450 

1210 

2S1,2G3 

D. [20,940] 

1853 

450 

11S4 

270,905 

D. [10,298] 

1854 

1S55 

450 

452 

1186 

91 S 

204,1 6S 
260.858 

D. [0,797] 
D. [3,310] 

185 G 

453 

931 

203,835 

2,977 

1S57 

400 

994 

270,295 

6,200 

1S58 

404 

904 

277,091 

0,790 

1859 

4G8 

S9S 

392,795 

15,704 

1S00 

476 

905 

310,311 

17,51 G 

1801 

484 

918 

319, 7N0 

9,409 

1S02 

490 

940 

325,250 

5,470 

1SG3 

510 

973 

329,704 

5,44S 

1S04 

526 

1007 

329,608 

D. [30] 

1S05 

535 

1030 

330, S27 

1,159 

1SCG 

549 

1070 

331,183 

350 

1807 

500 

1100 

337,070 

5,517 

isos 

5S0 

1138 

342,380 

5,310 

1S09 

597 

1170 

345,502 

5,180 

1870 

003 

1232 

34S.471 

2,925 

1S71 

619 

1251 

347,090 

D. [1,3S1] 

1872 

62S 

1 2S2 

34G,850 

D. [119] 

1S73 

041 

1292 

348,571 

1,721 

1874 

049 

1315 

351,465 

3,085 

1S75 

059 

1353 

358,002 

0,417 

1S70 

673 

1384 

372, 92S 

14,S7G 

1877 

GS4 

1400 

382,289 

9,351 

1S7S 

704 

1412 

380,876 

D. [1,413] 

1879 

712 

1407 

377,012 

D. [3,204] 

1SS0 

721 

147S 

376,078 

D. [934] 


2. Statistics of Methodist Sunday-schools in Great 
Britain . 


Year. 

Schools. 

Teachers 
and Officers. 

Scholars. 

Scholars 
Members of 
Society. 

1S00 

4403 

85,531 

474,904 

‘20,279 

1801 

4017 

89,418 

494,489 

23,804 

1SG2 

4731 

S9,909 

500,829 

27,63S 

1SG3 

4S23 

91,922 

527,313 

29,254 

1864 

4S95 

91,278 

532,519 

20,790 

1865 

49S0 

98,401 

537,311 

29,350 

1S06 

5057 

98,147 

543,007 

31,242 

1807 

5137 

100,101 

550,502 

32,898 

1808 

5240 

102, 71S 

582,020 

30,944 

1S09 

5328 

103,441 

Gi >1,801 

30,372 

1870 

5443 

105,592 

022,589 

3S,144 

1871 

5541 

100,509 

038,000 

37,711 

1872 

5612 

107,727 

054,577 

40,218 

1873 

5089 

1 0S, 440 

600,706 

42,056 

1874 

57S7 

110,123 

OSS, 988 

45,709 

1S75 

5893 

111,003 

700,210 

50,390 

1870 

5990 

113,503 

725,312 

60,500 

1877 

0095 

115,6GG 

742,419 

02,360 

1878 

6159 

117, 51G 

700,199 

01,004 

1S79 

0255 

11S,7G0 

706,757 

02,339 

1SS0 

0370 

119,911 

787,143 

70,133 


3. Order of Public Collections in English Methodism. 


Name of Collection, When Made. 

Worn-out Ministers and their Widows' Fund. 

Contributions in classes May. 

Public collections July. 

Home Missions , etc. 

Contributions in classes March. 

Public collections October. 

Preachers' Children's Schools. 

Subscriptions and collections November. 

Theological Institutions. 

Subscriptions January. 

Collections December. 

General Chapel Fund February. 

Education Fund March. 

Foreign Missions May. 

Collections Various. 


WESLEY ANS 


951 


WESLEY ANS 


V. Institutions and Funds . — (I.) Schools. — There are 
four theological institutions in England for the training 
of young men for the ministry. In official documents 
they are described as institutions, but they are common- 
ly called colleges. Their names are as follows : 

1. Richmond Branch was erected in 1840-41 largely 
out of the Centenary Fund, and opened in 1842. It is 
a very handsome range of buildings, situate on the top 
of Richmond Hill, about twelve miles from London. Its 
present staff of officers is as follows: George Osborn, 
D.D., theological tutor; Daniel Sanderson, house gov- 
ernor; Frederick P. Napier, A.B., and George G. Fried- 
lav, A.B., classical tutors ; William H. Findlay, A.B., as- 
sistant tutor. 

2. Didsbury Branch , erected in 1842-43, partly out of 
the Centenary Fund, is situated a short distance from 
Manchester, and was opened in 1843. The following 
are its staff of officers : William Burt Pope, D.I)., theolo- 
gy; William Jackson, house governor; John Durv Ge- 
den, Hebrew and classics; Alfred J. French, A.B., math- 
ematics and philosophy; George Armstrong Bennetts, 
A.B., assistant tutor. 

3. Ileadingly Branch was erected in 1866-67 (and 
opened 1868) partly by a grant of £12,000 from the Ju- 
bilee Fund of the Wesleyan Missionary Society. It is 
situated a short distance from Leeds, Yorkshire, and was 
at first intended for the training of young men for the 
foreign missionary work. That design has since been 
changed, and the Richmond Branch is now used for 
missionary students, as being nearest to the Mission 
House in London. Its present staff is as follows: John 
Shaw Banks, theology; Benjamin Ilillier, house gov- 
ernor; Robert Newton Young, classical tutor; Edward 
H. Sugdeti, A,B., and William Foster, A.B., assistant tu- 
tors. 

4. Birmingham Branch , erected partly out of a hand- 
some gift of £10,000 by a gentleman residing in that 
locality, Solomon Jevons, is now (1880) in course of erec- 
tion. The site of the new college is a fine estate of sev- 
enteen and a half acres, adjoining the suburb of Hauds- 
worth, in the midst of an undulating and well-wooded 
tract of country, about three miles from Birmingham. 
The college, of which the memorial stones were laid in 
Jnne, 1880, by the president of the Conference, Sir Fran- 
cis Lvcett, William Mewbnrn, Isaac Jenks, and James 
Wood, is to be completed and opened for the recep- 
tion of students in September, 1881, at a cost of about 
£24,000. The buildings include studies and bedrooms 
for seventy students, a library, large lecture-hall and 
five smaller lecture-rooms, dining-hall, all necessary 
offices and servants’ apartments, and a residence for the 
governor. Detached houses for the theological and 
classical tutors are also in process of erection on the 
site. The style of architecture is founded upon the 
Gothic of the 15th century. 

5. The Leys School (Cambridge). — This school has 
recently been established in the belief that a school in 
the immediate neighborhood of one of our great uni- 
versities would enjoy special educational advantages. 
While the general teaching and discipline are in the 
hands of resident Wesleyan masters, classes in various 
subjects are committed to the care of able visiting mas- 
ters. The Rev. Dr. Moulton, Ane of the New-Test, re- 
visers, is the head-master and principal. 

6. Primary Education. — It was not until about the 
year 1846 that the Wesleyan Conference would take ac- 
tion in promoting the establishment of elementary day- 
schools. In 1851 the first Normal College and Prac- 
ticing School was opened in the city of Westminster. 
It has been a great success, and is now divided into two 
branches for male and female teachers. 

7. Westminster Training College was opened Oct. 7, 
1851, and adapted for male students only in January, 
1872. During the year 1879 120 students were in train- 
ing, all of whom passed the certificate examinations at 
Christmas, 1879. The college accommodates 131 stu- 
dents, and 117 are now (1880) in training. The expen- 


diture of the college for the year ending Dec. 31, 1879, 
was £7984 0s. 3(7., and of the practicing schools £2233 
5s. 2d. 

8. Southlands Training College (Battersea, near Lon- 
don), for female students, was opened Feb. 26, 1872. 
During the year 1879 106 students were in training, all 
of whom passed the certificate examinations at Christ- 
mas, 1879. The college will accommodate 109 students, 
and 109 students are now in training. The cost of the 
college for the year ending Dec. 31, 1879, was £4271 
18s. 10f/., and of the practicing schools £654 bs. Gd. 
The number of Wesleyan day-schools in England in 
1880 was 851 ; the number of day scholars, 179,966. 

9. Wesley College (Sheffield) was opened in 1838. In 
1844 it was constituted, by her majesty’s warrant, a col- 
lege of the University of London, and empowered to is- 
sue certificates to candidates for examination for the de- 
grees of bachelor of arts, master of arts, bachelor of 
laws, and doctor of laws. The directors award a schol- 
arship of the annual value of £40 (tenable for one year) 
to the youth who shall be certified as the best pupil of 
his year at Woodhonse Grove School. The Holden 
scholarship, also of £40 per annum, is usually given to 
Kingswood School. Two others of £20 a year each, 
given by the late P. Spooner, are open to boys resident 
in Sheffield. The late Sir Francis Lycett also estab- 
lished two scholarships (tenable for two years) of the 
annual value respectively of £50 and £30. These are 
held by the two students from Wesley College who 
stand highest in the honors’ list of the London Univer- 
sity at the matriculation examinations coinciding with 
the time when the scholarships fall due. The college is 
examined and reported on biennially by the syndicate 
of Cambridge, which is appointed by the University for 
the examination of schools. 

10. Wesleyan Collegiate Institution (Taunton). — This 
institution was founded thirty-eight years ago, in 1842, 
the object of its founders being to secure a sound litera- 
ry and commercial education, combined with religious 
instruction in harmony with the principles of the late. 
Rev. John Wesley. In 1846 it was also made, by royal 
charter, one of the colleges of the University of Loudon, 
and degrees in arts and laws are open to all its students. 

11. Schools for Ministers' Children. — The Schools’ 
Fund was instituted by Mr. Wesley, in order to provide 
for the education of the children of Wesleyan ministers, 
and lie commended it to the liberal support of his peo- 
ple in the most forcible terms. The collections and 
subscriptions for the Schools’ Fund are made in the 
early part of November. Out of it the four schools for 
the education of ministers’ children are supported, and 
an allowance is made for the education of those for 
whom there may not be room in the schools. These 
allowances are only made for children between the ages 
of nine and fifteen. 

The general committee consists of the governing 
body of the New Kingswood and Woodhonse Grove 
School, the governing body of the School for Girls, and 
seventeen other ministers and laj’men. 

(1.) For Boys. — The governing body of the New 
Kingswood and Woodhouse Grove School consists of 
the president and secretary of the Conference, the ex- 
presidents, the general treasurers and secretaries of the 
Schools’ Fund, the chairman of the Bristol, Bath, Hali- 
fax and Bradford, and Leeds Districts; the governors 
and the head-master of the school; and ten ministers 
and thirteen laymen named by the Conference. 

New Kingswood School is situated at Landsdown, 
Bath, and was opened in 1851. Old Kingswood School, 
near Bristol, was founded by the Rev. John Wesley, 
A.M., in 1748. It is now a Reformatory School for 
young criminals in connection with the nation. 

Woodhouse Grove School was established in 1811. 

(2.) For Girls. — The governing body of the Schools 
for Girls consists of the president and secretary of the 
Conference, the ex-president, the general treasurers and 
secretaries of the Schools’ Fund, the general treasurers 


WESLEYAXS 


952 


WESLEYAXS 


and secretary of the Children’s Fund, the chairman of 
the Second London and Liverpool districts, the local 
treasurers and secretaries, and fifteen other ministers 
and laymen. 

Quetnsicood School (Clapham Park) is near London. 
The executive committee consists often members. 

Trinity Hall School (Southport) is near Liverpool. 
The executive committee consists of ten members. 

(II.) Other Institutions, — 1. The Wesleyan Chapel 
Committee was instituted in 1818, and reconstituted in 
1851. The committee, consisting of an equal number 
of ministers and laymen, usually meets on the first 
Wednesday of each month to dispose of loans and 
grants; to determine on erections, alterations, purchases, 
and sales of Wesleyan trust property, including organs; 
and to afford advice on difficult cases. The income 
from all sources in 1879 was £9148 9s. Id, The total 
number of applications for permission to erect or 
enlarge chapels, schools, and organs, which have re- 
ceived the conditional sanction of the committee in 
1879-80, including 97 modifications of cases previously 
sanctioned, is 341. The estimated outlay is £‘253,055. 
Two hundred and ninety-seven erections and enlarge- 
ments have been completed during the year at a cost 
of £318,175. The entire temporary debt left on this 
large outlay is £75,807, most of which will be paid off 
in a few years. The entire amount of debts which 
have been discharged or provided for during the last 
twenty-six years is £1,482,359. 

2. Metropolitan Chapel Building Fund (instituted in 
1802). — This fund originated from the generous gift of 
the late Sir Francis Lycett of £50,000 towards the erec- 
tion of fifty Methodist churches in London during twenty 
years. Sir Francis in 1880 gave £5000 more towards the 
erection of ten additional chapels. Shortly afterwards 
lie died, after only ten days’ illness. The secretary of the 
fund is the Rev. Gervase Smith, D.D. 

3. Itinerant Methodist Preachers’ Annuitant Society. 
— This institution was formed at Bristol in 1798, re- 
vised in Leeds in 1837, and revised again in London in 
I860, and is the same which is often called among the 
Methodists “The Preachers’ Fund.” It was formed by 
some of the preachers for the relief of supernumerary 
and superannuated preachers among themselves and of 
their widows, and is supported by donations and lega- 
cies, but chiefly by the payments of the members them- 
selves. The annual payment is now by preachers on 
trial. £5 5s.; by ministers in the home work, £6; and 
by ministers on foreign stations, £10 4 s. 

4. Besides these agencies, there exists also a separate 
mission to seamen in London, chaplains to portions of 
the army and navy, and a lay mission, each under dis- 
tiuct management, for London, Manchester, and Liver- 
pool. Since 1875 the temperance movement has been 
recognised by the Conference, and circuit societies and 
bands of hope are rapidly forming throughout England. 
There are also committees of privilege and exigency, 
and those for the promotion of the religious observance 
of the Sabbath. 

5. A Sunday-school Union was established in 1874, 
and the total number of schools in union in 1880 was 
2029 out of 0370 belonging to the Connection. The 
secretary is the Kev. Charles 11. Kelly. The office and 
depository for the present is situated at Ludgate Circus, 
iu the city of London. 

0. The Childrens Home — Orphanage , Refuge, and 
Training Institute — originated at Lambeth in 1809, has 
now four branches, and a fifth is in preparation. 

London Branch.— Bonner Road, Victoria Park, E. 

Lancashire Branch.— NVheatsheaf Farm, Edgworth, near 
Bolton. 

Canadian Branch — Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. 

Certified Industrial Branch. — Milton, Kent. 

Orphanage Branch.— Birmingham. Preparing. 

This institution exists for the nurture and education of 
orphans and destitute children. It has been sanctioned 
and commended to the Christian public by several res- 


olutions of the Conference, to which body the commit- 
tee of management is annually submitted for approval. 
At present five hundred children are in the Home, and 
nearly as many have been sent forth into the world, and 
the reports received concerning the great majority of 
them are highly satisfactory. The Home is also a 
training institute for Christian workers, especially with 
the view of preparing godly men and women for work 
in orphanages, industrial schools, children’s hospitals, 
and similar institutions. 

7. Conference Office and Book-room (2 Castle Street. 
City Road, London) was instituted by the Rev. John 
Wesley. It was formed by him for the publication 
and sale of his works. On his death he vested his 
property in the book-room, consisting of books, copy- 
rights, etc., in trustees “for carrying on the work of 
God in connection with the Conference.” The whole 
of the proceeds of this institution is devoted to the sup- 
port and extension of Wesleyan Methodism in Great 
Britain and Ireland. 

8. Wesleyan Methodist Missionary Society (Centenary 
Hall, Bishopsgate Street Within, London). — Missions 
were commenced in 1780, and the society organized in 
1810. The committee of management consists of the 
president and the secretary of the Conference, the gen- 
eral treasurers, the general secretaries, the honorary 
secretary, the governor and tutors of Richmond College, 
the Connectional editor, the lay treasurers of the Rich- 
mond institution, the London district treasurer, and of 
fifty-two other members, viz., sixteen from the country 
circuits and thirty-six resident in London : four of the 
latter go out annually by rotation, and four of the for- 
mer are also changed each year. Every person sub- 
scribing annually one guinea or upwards, and every 
benefactor of £10 and upwards, is deemed a member. 
The Wesleyan missions were commenced in 1780, and 
were, until 1813, confined chiefly to British North Amer- 
ica and the West Indies. In the December of that year, 
however, Dr. Coke, accompanied by a band of young 
missionaries, embarked for India. Up to this period. 
Dr. Coke had mainly raised the funds needed to carry 
on the Methodist missionary operations. The addi- 
tional evangelistic enterprise now entered upon made 
new arrangements and exertions necessary. Various 
plans were suggested; but that which originated with 
the late Rev. George Morley and the late Rev. Dr. Bun- 
ting, then stationed at Leeds, and sanctioned by several 
of the ministers in that town and neighborhood, was 
adopted by the ensuing Conference. That scheme has 
been greatly owned of God. In 1814 the income of the 
Missionary Fund was below £7000; there were 70 mis- 
sionaries, and the number of members under their care 
was 18,747. Now there are, according to the last re- 
turns in 1880, 92,527 accredited Church members, be- 
sides 10,885 on trial for membership, under the care of 
519 missionaries; and the income is £165,498 12$. 8c/., 
inclusive of £37,022 4 s. 11(7. received from the 'Thanks- 
giving Fund. The expenditure in 1879 was £148,107 
6$. 10t/. The legacies for 1879-80 amounted to £4906 
1 5s. od. The Ladies’ Committee for Female Education 
in Heathen Countries expended £2290 Is. 0(7., besides 
supplying clothes, etc., for charitable purposes. 

9. The Home Mission and Contingent Fund was insti- 
tuted in 1756 and remodelled in 1850. The committee 
consists of the president and the secretary of the Confer- 
ence, the ex-presidents, the treasurers, the general sec- 
retary and the financial secretary of the fund, the treas- 
urers and secretary of the Fund for the Extension of 
Methodism in Great Britain, with fifteen ministers and 
fifteen laymen for London, and thirty-five ministers and 
thirty-five laymen for the country. The secretary is 
the Rev. Alexander Me Aid ay. This fund is to assist the 
dependent circuits in maintaining the ministration of 
the Gospel, to provide means for employing additional 
ministers, and to meet various contingencies. It is 
mainly supported by the yearly collection, by the 
Home Missionary collections made after sermons and 


WESNA 


953 


WESSEL 


meetings, and by subscriptions, legacies, and juvenile 
associations. The total income of the fund in 1879 
was £33,314 8s. del., and the total expenditure £33,318 

12 s. 10 d. 

VI. Literature. This is copiously exhibited in Os- 
born’s Wesleyan Bibliography (Loud. 18G9, 8vo). See 
also Morgan, Bibliotheca Canadensis (Ottawa, 1S157, 
8vo ) ) and compare Methodism. (G. J. S.) 

Wesna, in Slavonic mythology, is a sister of Mora- 
na: they represent spring and winter, or life and death, 
under whose protection human life stands. Wesna guards 
the beginning of life, Morana its end. She rocks men 
to sleep with beautiful hymns aud suitable pictures. 

Wessel, Johann (1), was unquestionably the 
most important among the men of German extraction 
who helped to prepare the way for the Reformation. 
The circumstances connected with his private life are 
involved in great uncertainty, insomuch that even his 
names have been made the subject of inquiry (John, 
Hermanni ; Gansevort, Basilius). He was born in 1400 
or 1420, probably the latter year. 1 1 is birthplace was 
Groningen, where the very house in which he was born 
is yet shown. He was orphaned at an early age, but 
received into the house of a kinswoman named Oda or 
Odilla Claules, and sent to a school at Zwoll, which was 
conducted by the Brot hers of the Common Life, and had 
a good reputation. He there not only devoted himself 
to scientific pursuits, but also to the promotion of the 
religions life, being aided in the latter respect by Thom- 
as a Kempis, who sojourned in the neighborhood of 
Zwoll. In time he came to fill the place of an under- 
teacher, but unpleasant surroundings and a thirst for 
greater knowledge drove him away from Zwoll to Co- 
logne, where he studied Greek and Hebrew, chiefly un- 
der the direction of private tutors, and also examined 
the libraries. His habit was to note the results of his 
readings and impressions in memoranda, which he con- 
tinued to keep to the end of his life. The independence 
of thought which such a method of study displayed was 
yet further cultivated by the study of Plato, the great 
antagonist of scholasticism and agent in the restoration 
of theology, and the simple and unadorned mystic Ru- 
pert of Deutz (q. v.). It was not possible, however, 
that he should find in bigoted Cologne a soil suitable 
for the propagation of his views. A call to Heidelberg 
was extended to him, but he was not yet ready to de- 
vote himself exclusively to the work of teaching, and 
felt himself attracted to Paris, where the controversy 
between nominalists and realists had broken out afresh. 
He paused for a little while at Louvain, and then has- 
tened to Paris, actuated by the desire to gain his coun- 
trymen Henry of Zomeren and Nicholas of Utrecht, 
both famous professors, over to realism ; but the end 
was that he became a nominalist himself, and continued 
to be such while he lived. He remained in Paris about 
sixteen years, not sustaining an altogether receptive at- 
titude, but doing his part to shape the mind of the com- 
ing generation. He was most powerfully stimulated by 
association with cardinal Bessarion, Rovere, then gen- 
eral of the Franciscans, but afterwards pope Sixtus IV, 
and with younger men like Iieuchlin and R. Agricola. 
He visited other French cities also, e. g. Angers, in or- 
der to take part in disputations, and two years before 
the close of the pontificate of Paul II came to Rome. 
Here he found the most advanced culture of the time, 
but also the most evident and shocking corruption in 
the Church. On his return to Paris he witnessed the 
attempt of Louis XI to put down nominalism by force. 
In 1475 he was at Basle with Iieuchlin, and later at 
Heidelberg as a member of the philosophical faculty. 
His combativeness as a debater had in the meantime 
earned for him the title of M agister Contradictionum, 
He soon afterwards retired to privacy in his native town 
of Groningen, and spent his remaining days in arrang- 
ing his views into a defensible form, and in the cultiva- 
tion of a profound piety. All the works from his pen 


whieh we possess were probably written in this period, 
when the mystical trait in his nature was becoming 
prominent. He is said to have been the physician of 
the bishop David of Burgundy, and in a former period 
of Rovere (see above), which circumstance probably de- 
terred the inquisitors of Cologne from proceeding against 
him, as they did against J. von Wesel (q. v.), and as 
Wessel thought they would, lie maintained a large 
correspondence and received many visitors. He also 
contributed much towards the formation of the charac- 
ters of R. Agricola, Alexander llegius, Hermann Busch, 
etc., with reference to whose influence in the future he 
predicted that his young friend Oestendorp would live 
to see the time when scholasticism, i. e. the teachings 
of Aquinas, Bonaventure, etc., should be rejected by all 
truly Christian divines. Before he died he was assailed 
by doubts respecting all the verities of the Christian 
faith, with which he struggled almost despairingly, but 
which he conquered with the cry, “I know nothing but 
Jesus, the crucified one.” lie died in peace, but with- 
out having received the papal absolution, Oct. 4, 1489, 
and was buried in the Church of the Nunnery at Gro- 
ningen. After his death the mendicant monks subject- 
ed his writings to their rage, and probably destroyed a 
portion of them, though a sufficient quantity of them 
was preserved by the devotion of his pupils to enable 
us to estimate the character of the man. The first col- 
lection was published by Luther, omitting an essay on 
the Lord’s supper, which was added for the first time in 
the Groningen edition of 1G14. 

Wessel’s career was largely determined by the fact 
that he was never bound by any vow, official station, 
or other similar obligation ; so that while he was great- 
ly interested in the conditions of the Church and the 
school, it was yet possible for him to be to some extent 
an independent observer. He was thus able to com- 
mand the leisure required for a thorough examination of 
the matters he discussed, and the calmness essential to 
scholarly polemics. It must be added that he was natu- 
rally endowed with an independent spirit and sound judg- 
ment. Neither the superstitions of the Church nor the 
mysticism of the Brothers of the Common Life could 
overturn his balanced mind. 

The writings of Wessel do not constitute a system. 
His method was somewhat aphoristical, involving the 
discussion of separate theses, and not affording any one 
central, fundamental principle from which the whole of 
his position might be understood. They hold a ground 
intermediate between scientific discussion, ascetical ap- 
plication. and reformatory polemical exhortation. His 
theology, like that of Zwingli, is largely determined by 
Platonism. The principal work he has furnished in 
this department is the Be Procidentia Dei , which con- 
ceives of God as the absolute cause, or, in other words, 
as independent Being. The pantheistic tendency of 
this idea of God is not sufficiently guarded against, but 
finds its rectification in the emphasis which Wessel else- 
where lays upon the idea that God is pure Being, dis- 
tinct from and above the world. In the doctrine of the 
Trinity the Father is the divine wisdom, the Son the 
divine reason, the Spirit the divine love. The Deity is 
the creative life, the original idea, which is necessarily 
active and compelled to glorify itself. This glorifying 
of the divine nature constitutes the Son, the Adyo^ 
7rpd>T0Q; and in order that both may not be unem- 
ployed, the self-conscious and self- glorifying Being 
must also eternally love himself. In anthropology 
man is conceived of as being in the likeness of God, as 
respects his inner nature. The parts of the divine im- 
age are mens, intelligentia , and voluntas ( Be Purgatoria, 
80 b); and each of these parts is, it would appear, held 
to be incessantly subject to the divine influence. He 
locates the divine image even more particularly in 
the human will, which is free, and which is sharply 
distinguished from the intellect and the desires. In 
discussing the Ego, Wessel defines personality as being 
the fruitful source from which spring the will, the judg- 


WESSEL 


954 


WESSEL 


ment, self-consciousness, etc., and remarks that man has 
in his personality the ability to transform the naturally 
existing relation between the Divine Spirit and the 
human into an ethical relation, an immediate conscious- 
ness of God being implanted in him; and that he is 
under obligation to effect this change. In soteriology 
he places the origin of sin in the angel-world, but does 
not account for its transfer into the world of men. It 
would even seem that he regards it as an inherent fac- 
tor in the constitution of man, since it is to him merely 
debit um. Adam and Eve were far from being perfect 
while in Eden, and needed, even if temptation had been 
resisted, development in every side of their nature. It 
is difficult to see how this undeveloped state could be 
other than a sinful state under his definition. He rec- 
ognises a moral depravation as having been added in 
the fall, but makes it amount to a mere infirmity, which 
does not extend so far as to destroy the freedom of the 
will, though it unfits man from attaining to his rightful 
goal. Grace is necessary and the only means of salva- 
tion, because it was required for human well-being from 
the beginning. 

Redemption is a process which required that Jesus 
should be the “express image” of God. Christ, as the 
source of life, was mediator from the beginning. lie 
was from all eternity appointed to be the king and head 
of an empire, which is in no sense a merely social or- 
ganization, but in which he is the life of all its mem- 
bers and is himself the end for which it exists. In the 
atonement Jesus died for us and made satisfaction to 
God. The process of redemption is, however, constant- 
ly described bv Wessel as a conflict in which the Lamb 
is not regarded as taking upon himself the wrath of 
God, but as resisting the assaults of the devil, who is 
empowered to wage war and is assisted therein by God. 
The death of Jesus is then conceived as the completion 
of the life-long struggle. Ilis victory consists, on the 
one hand, in the subjugation of the devil, who is unques- 
tionably regarded as the personification of the power of 
evil, and, on the other, in the demonstration afforded by 
this triumph that he is the testator of the New Test, 
in his death and in his evident drawing of all men to 
himself in his righteousness and love. His merits 
as redeemer are superabundant, for lie is the consum- 
mation of the race, and in his capacity as head and 
redeemer lias more to offer than man possessed before 
the fall. 

The condition of salvation is faith in God, based on 
the word of Christ. Justification is distinguished from 
the remission of sins, and conceived of as the positive 
act of renewing in righteousness through a union with 
Christ and the Trinity by faith. God regards man as 
being positively righteous in Christ, though not for 
Christ’s sake. This is stated in a different light when 
Wessel teaches that faith does not lay hold upon the 
work of Christ, hut upon his life-giving person. This 
union having been formed, faith melts into love, and 
good works may appropriately be said to flow from 
either quality. Remission of sins is nowhere allowed 
ail independent place in Weasel’s theological system. 
Repentance is not with him sorrow for the sins of the 
past, but is, in substance, conversion or freedom from 
sin. It is a matter of the will rather than of the feel- 
ings. 

Fpon the doctrine of the Church Wessel differed from 
Wycliffe and Huss in that he did not define the Church 
to be a communio pradestinorum , but a communio sanc- 
torum. The circumstances of his age obliged him to 
look for the visible Church within the papacy, and lie 
accordingly conceded a jnrisdictio papalis ; but be re- 
stricted its operations altogether to externalities, and 
denied that a papal excommunication has power to con- 
trol Clod. He even asserted that a pope is entitled to 
be the director of the faith of the Church only when 
his own faith is correct ; and he rated the authority of 
the universities higher than the authority of the clergy. 
But he esteemed the Scriptures even above the uni- 


versities, and addressed to them the final appeal. The 
Scriptures, lie held, are simply the Holy Ghost speak- 
ing to man. They are clear and self-explanatory and 
also sufficient. Tradition, however, was not rejected, 
and the repula jidei was apparently placed on an equal- 
ity with Scripture by him. 

With respect to the sacraments, Wessel denied that 
they arc of themselves effectual means of grace. The 
infusion of love into the heart constitutes true baptism, 
and God is himself the administrator, according to bis 
view; the priest, of whatever degree he may be, is sim- 
ply a minister, and not able to contribute anything 
whatever to the gracious power of the sacrament. 
The sacrament of penance was not allowed by him to 
possess any vital connection with ihwartl purification, 
and the priest’s agency in connection with it was lim- 
ited to the calling-forth of proper dispositions through 
the employment of instruction, exhortation, etc. This 
view carried with it the rejection of indulgences as a 
matter of course, for they were the fruitage of the sac- 
rament of penance as held by the Church. Wessel 
does not hesitate to term them swindles, and plenary 
indulgences abominations. In connection with the 
Lord’s supper, lie contended against the opus operation, 
or bringing of masses in behalf of particular individu- 
als. lie held that the mass has value for him who hun- 
gers and thirsts for the bread oflife. the eating of which 
constitutes the sole value of the sacrament. The idea 
of sacrifice has no place whatever in his view. 

In eschatology Wessel held firmly to the existence 
of purgatory, but as a place of purgation rather than 
satisfaction. The fire which burns there is the tire of 
piety, and. more particularly, of love. Christ himself is 
there to preach his Gospel among the dead, and to 
make of purgatory a place of delights. Wessel did not 
paint the state of the lost, and therein left his descrip- 
tion incomplete. 

The fanatical hostility of the mendicant monks pre- 
vented the immediate publication of Wessel’s writings. 
Luther’s collection of these writings, entitled Farrago 
Rerum Theologicarum Uberrima , appeared in 1521, and 
was followed by repeated editions in 1522 and 1523. 
The last edition was that of St.rack (Giessen, 1617), fol- 
lowing a complete edition of Wessel in 1614. The Far- 
rago contains the following books: De Benignissima 
Dei Procidentia; De Causis, Mysteriis et Effectibus Do- 
minica Dicarnationis et Passionis ; De Dignitate et Potes- 
tate Ecclesiastica ; De Sacramento Pcenitentice ; Quce sit 
Vera Communio Sanctorum ; I)e Purgatorio ; and a 
number of letters, among which one, De Indulgeniiis , ad- 
dressed to Hoeck, deserves special mention. The com- 
plete edition contains, in addition, the tract Eucha - 

7'istia, which Luther had omitted for dogmatic reasons, 
and also an extended essay, De Causis Incarnationis 
et de M agmtvdine Dominica Passionis, in two books; 
and three ascetical works entitled, respectively, De Ora- 
tione, Scala Med it ationis, and Exempla Scala Medita- 
tionis . The impression made by a reading of the Far- 
rago is that Wessel was a man who lived with pen in 
hand, and who for that very reason seldom undertook 
the composition of an extended work. 1 1 is, accordingly, 
not remarkable that statements with respect to lost writ- 
ings from his pen do not harmonize. For information 
respecting such writings and also concerning Wessel’s 
life, see Hardenberg; Suftridus Petri De Scriptoribvs 
Frisia: Ubbo Emmius, ilistoria Rerum Frisicarum ; 
the Effigies et Vita Professorum Academia Groninga 
(1654); and especially Muurling, Commentatio Hist. 
Theol.de Wesseli, etc. (Traj. ad Rhen. 1831); id. De 
I Vesseli Gansfortii, etc. (Amstelod. 1840): and Ullmann, 
Reformatoren vor der Reformation (Hamb. 1841). See 
also Schmidt, A ugustin’s Lclirevon der K'trehe, in Jahr - 
bitch, fir deutsche Theologie , vi, 210 sq. ; Benthem, Hol- 
land. Kirchen - und Schul-Staat . ii, 178; Herzog, Real- 
Enryl'lop. s. v. 

Wessel, Johann (2), a Dutch theologian, was 
born at Emden, Oct. 20, 1671. For some time he was 


WESSELING 


955 


WEST 


preacher and professor at Rotterdam. In 1712 he was 
called as professor of theology to Leyden, where he 
died, Jan. 10, 1745. He is the author of, Dissertatioues 
jSacrce Leu/, ad Select a qncedam V. et N. T. Loca (Ley- 
den, 1721): — Nestor iauismus et A dopt iauismus Redi vi- 
rus Con fut at us, s. de Christo Unieo et Propria Dei Filio , 
non Metuphorico, Liber Sing, in quo Nestorii Pelagiuui- 
zautis ) ter unique A doptianor. Sententia ex Veter. Monu- 
ment Is Eruitur, etc. ( Rotterdam, 1727). See Winer, 
/fandbueh der theol. Lit . i, 30, 191, 572, 045; Fiirst, Bibl. 
Jud. iii, 500. (15. P.) 

Wesseling, Peter, a German philologist, was 
born at Steiufurth, Jan. 7, 1092, of an old and wealthy 
Westphalian family celebrated in literary circles. lie 
was educated at the University of Leyden, and after- 
wards at Francker, where in 1718 he was received as 
a candidate for the ministry. In 1719 he was made 
pro-rector of the school at Middelburg, ill 1721 rector 
of the gymnasium at Deventer, in 1723 professor of elo- 
quence and history at Franeker, and in 1735 tilled the 
same chair (with the addition of canon law in 1746, 
and the librarianship in 1749) at Utrecht, where he 
died, Nov. 9, 1704. lie wrote, Epistola ad II. Venemam 
de Aquilce in /Script is Philonis Jud. Fragmentis et Pla- 
tonis Epistola XI 1 1 ( Utrech t, 1748):— Observationum 
Variarum Libri (Amst. 1727) : — Diatribe de Judieorum 
A r chant thus ad Inscriptionem Berenicensem , et Dissert a- 
tio de Ecangeliis Jussn Imperatoris A nastasii non Emen- 
datis, etc. (Utrecht, 1738): — Dissertatioues de Origine 
atque Usu Nummornm apud Ilebrceos (ibid. 1750): — 
Dissertatioues in Epistolam Jeremice (ibid. 1752). See 
Winer, Handbuch der theol . Liter atur, i, 52, 500; Fiirst, 
Bibl. Jud. iii, 500; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog . Generale, s. v. 
(B.P.) 

Wessely, Hartwig (or, according to his Jewish 
name, Hertz Wesel), a noted Jewish writer, was born in 
1725 at Hamburg. Like his friend Moses Mendelssohn, 
he was originally a Rabbinic Jew, and observed the tra- 
ditional law to the last. His thirst for knowledge led 
him to acquire the German, French, Danish, and Dutch 
languages, and to study mathematics, natural philoso- 
phy, geography, and history. An extraordinary power 
of writing Hebrew, both prose and poetry, secured him 
the esteem of his nation, and gave him an opportunity 
of communicating his acquirements in a national, and 
therefore an unsuspected, form. The edict of the em- 
peror Joseph II to establish elementary schools among 
the Jews first exhibited Wessely as a Reformer. He 
wrote a letter to the congregation at Trieste upon the 
subject, in which he related the importance of elementa- 
ry instruction, recommended the study of Hebrew gram- 
mar, and advised the postponing of the Talmudic studies 
to a riper age. This brought down upon him all the 
weight of Rabbinic indignation, especially that of the 
Polish rabbins, who attacked and anathematized him 
with vehemence, while those of Trieste, Venice, Ferra- 
ra, and Reggio supported him. Wessely, who died at 
Hamburg in 1805, mav be considered the founder of 
modern Hebrew literature, in the same way as Mendels- 
sohn was of German literature among the Jews of his 
age and country. For though in destitute circumstances, 
he found time and strength to write a series of works 
which form a new jera in Hebrew composition, and have 
united his name with that of Mendelssohn in the hon- 
orable appellation of the “ two restorers of science among 
the Jews.” Jost’s description of the effects of their labors 
is very striking. He says, “ They found the Jews with- 
out any language; they gave them two at once — the 
German and the Hebrew.” He wrote, 'jn ITH. The 
Spirit of Grace (Berlin, 1780, a. o.), a commentary to 
the Book of Wisdom, translated into Hebrew by him- 
self: — “iBOb "PN3, a commentary on Levit- 

icus, which forms part of the commentary of Mendels- 
sohn’s Pentateuch: — “p-Tib 'p*', The Wine, of Lebanon 
(ibid. 1775), a commentary on the treatise Aboth ; — 


■paa^n, Lebanon , a gigantic work on the synonyms 
of the Hebrew language. The first volume (rPIin 
“j 1U3S "in) consists of 10 sections (□"mPl), subdivided 
into 120 chapters (nsibn), and contains a most elabo- 
rate philological and psychological disquisition on the 
signification and development of the root Q2n, as well 
as a treatise on a portion of the Mosaic law. It is pre- 
ceded by an extentive introduction entitled The En- 
trance into the Garden (pn i03*2), in which the plan 
of the work is set forth, and specimens of Hebrew syn- 
onyms are given. This first volume he edited when a 
book-keeper at Amsterdam in 1765. The second volume 
( n 2~!“I rH3!“t) consists of 13 sections, subdivided into 
180 chapters, and gives in a most learned manner a phil- 
osophico-traditional explanation of all the passages of 
the O. T. in which either the word C3H or its deriv- 
atives occur. It is likewise preceded by an elaborate 
introduction, wherein those words are explained which 
constitute mixed forms. A second edition of it was pub- 
lished at Vienna in 1829, and a third at Warsaw in 1838 : 
— OlVj ^"0% Letters to the Jews of Austria 
concerning the reforms of the emperor Joseph 11 (Berlin, 
1782) pi "llpn Defence of the Rabbinic 

Tradition (Konigsb. 1837, new ed.) : — rl"P3Pt D, Jew- 
ish Ethics (Berlin, 1784; latest ed. Konigsb. 1851) : — 
rnXSn ‘’"PIT, Songs of Glory , an epic on the life of 
Moses. Though the language of this poem is purely 
Biblical, and the style enriched with the finest embel- 
lishments of the inspired poetic writings, yet the cast 
of thought is not national, but European and secular. 
“ The Songs of Glory f says Dr. Marjoliouth, “ embodies 
the history of the exodus of the Children of Israel from 
Egypt until the giving of the law at Sinai. It is, in- 
deed, a most unique production. An English Christian, 
who justly esteems Milton as the most successful epic 
poet, may, perhaps, not like to hear Wessely compared 
to their venerable bard. I have read them both, and 
have no hesitation in saying that they are equal to each 
other, with the only difference that Wessely is not so 
profuse in mythological terms as Milton. Wessely, like 
Milton, did not think rhyme a necessary adjunct or 
true ornament of a poem or good verse, and, there- 
fore, rejected it, which makes the poetry of the Shirey 
Tiphereth exceedingly sublime. Wessely also left in 
MS. a commentary on Genesis, which was edited by 
Isaac Reggio, with the title Commentarium in Genesin 
ex ejus Autographo Excudi Curavit ( Gorki®, 1854). 
See Fiirst, Bibliotheca Judaica , iii, 507 sq. ; De’ Rossi, 
DizionaHo Storico (Germ, transl.), p. 331 sq. ; Ethe- 
ridge, Introduction to Hebrew Literature , p. 393 sq. ; 
Kit to, Cyclopaedia , s. v. ; Da Costa, Israel and the Gen- 
tiles, p. 554 sq. ; McCaul, Sketches of Judaism and the 
Jews, ]>. 51 sq. ; Sch mucker, Hist, of the Jews , p. 244 sq. ; 
Marjoliouth, The Fundamental Principles of Modem Ju- 
daism, p. 247 sq. ; Griitz, Gesch. d. Juclen, xi, 91 sq. ; 
Jost, Gesch. d. Judenthums nnd seiner Sekten, iii, 307 sq. ; 
Meisel, Leben u. 1 Virkmi Wessely' s (Breslau, 1841); Gei- 
ger, in the Zeitschrift der D. M. G. xvii, 321 sq. ; De- 
li tzscli, Gesch. der jiidischen Poesie, p. 85, 95, 100, 114, 
174 sq. ; Stern, Gesch. d. Judenthums von Mendelssohn , 
etc., p. 104 sq.; Dessauer, Gesch. d. Isrcieliten , p. 504 
sq. ; Gudemann, in Frankel-Gratz Monatsschrift, 1870, 
p. 478 sq. ; Cassel, Lehrbuch der Geschichte und Literatur 
(Leips. 1879), p. 499 sq. ; Morais, Eminent Israelites of 
the Nineteenth Century (Philadelphia, 1880), p. 344 sq. 
(B. P.) 

West (expressed in Hob. by ‘"‘ifiX, behind ; tP, the 
sea ; JC3, the going down of the sun [and so in 

Greek dverf-u), sunset ] ; 2 "!!.*£, evening). The Shemite, 
in speaking of the quarters of the heavens, etc., sup- 
poses his face turned towards the east; so that the east 


WEST 


95G 


WEST 


is before him. 2“tp, strictly what is before or in front; 
the south on his right hand, strictly what lies to 

the right; the north on his left hand, >5<3 w, the left 
side ; and the west behind him, "linx, literally the hind- 
er side. The last Hebrew word, though never trans- 
lated “west” in our version, means so: as in Isa. ix, 12, 
“ the Philistines behind,” opposed to the Syrians, E'lp: 
Sept. a<p‘ i)\iov (W^wn; Vulg. ab occidente ; and in 
Job xxiii, 8. The words (Dent, xi, 24) “ the uttermost 
sea,” “jlinxrt C’H, are rendered in the Sept, hoc t>)Q 
$a\a<jai)c n/c *** tivfffiiov; Vulg. ad mare occidental 
(comp, xxxiv, 2; Joel ii, 20). The more general use 
of the word "VI HX for the west was doubtless super- 
seded among the inhabitants of Palestine by liter- 
ally “the sea,” that is, the Mediterranean Sea, which 
lay to the west, and which, as a more palpable object, 
became to them the representative of the west general- 
ly, and chiefly associated with their ideas of it. Ac- 
cordingly this word C" 1 and its derivatives, iT3^, etc., 
are thirty-two times rendered by SutAavaa, in the Sept., 
and only onee by rW/wrn ; in the Vulg. by o cculens and 
mare. It is used to signify a quarter of the heavens, 
or of the earth ((Jen. xxviii, 14; Dent, xxxiii, 23; 1 
Kings vii, 25; 1 Chron. ix, 24; 2 Chron. iv, 4; Isa. xi, 
14; xlix. 12; Ezek. xlviii. 1 ; IIos. xi, 10; Zech. xiv, 4). 
It is used adjectively in the same sense; as, west border 
(Numb, xxxiv, G ; Josh, xv, 12; Ezek. xlv, 7); western 
(Numb, xxxiv, 6) ; west quarter (Josh, xviii, 14); west 
side (Exod. xxvii, 12; xxxviii, 12: Numb, ii, 18; xxxv, 
5; Ezek. xlviii, 3-8, 23, 24); westward (Gen. xiii, 14; 
Numb, iii, 23; Dent, iii, 27 ; Ezek. xlviii, 18; Dan. viii, 
4) ; west wind (Exod. x, 19). Those words of Moses, 
“Naphtali, possess thou the west and the south” (Dent, 
xxxiii, 23), seem to contradict the statement of Josephus, 
that this tribe possessed the east and the north in Up- 
per Galilee {Ant. v, 1,22) ; but Boehart interprets “the 
south,” not with regard to the whole land of Canaan, 
but to the Danites, mentioned in ver. 22; and by “the 
west” he understands the lake of Tiberias, otherwise 
called the sea of Tiberias, or Galilee, or Gennesaret; for 
the portion of Naphtali extended from the south of the 
city called Dan or Laish to the sea of Tiberias, which 
was in this tribe. So all the Chaldee paraphrasts ex- 
pound the word Z"', here translated icest ; Sept. SdAao- 
ctav kt«i At (3a : Vulg. mare et meridiem {Ilieroz. pt. i, 
lib. iii, c. 18). In some passages the word signifies the 
coasts of the Mediterranean Sea, and “ the islands of the 
sea” denotes the western part of the world, or European 
nations. Thus, in regard to the future restoration of 
the Jews to their own land, it is said ( Hos. xi, 10), 
“ when the Lord shall roar, then the children shall trem- 
ble (that is, hasten; an allusion to the motion of a 
bird’s wings in flying) from the west” (see ver. II, and 
comp. Isa. xxiv, 14, 15, with xi, 11 ; xxiv, 14). In the 
account given of the removal of the plague of locusts 
from Egypt, we are told (Exod. x, 19), “ the Lord turned 
a mighty strong west wind,” G n “lTP. dvtfiov arro Sa- 
\daa)j q. Supposing that these were the very words of 
Moses, or a literal rendering of his words, it follows that 
the Egyptians made a similar reference to the Mediter- 
ranean, since Moses, an Egyptian, would no doubt use 
the language of his country in describing an event 
which occurred in it. If his words do not refer to the 
Mediterranean, they must refer to the far-distant At- 
lantic, which, however, according to Herodotus, was 
not known to the Egyptians till many ages afterwards. 
Moses also represents God as saying to Abram, in the 
land , “ Lift up thine eyes and look northward, and south- 
ward, and eastward, and westward, (Gen. xiii, 14). 
The allusion to the sea in the latter passage may be ac- 
counted for upon the supposition that the very words 
of God to Abram had been preserved, and were inserted 
by Moses in his history. In two passages (Psa. evii, 3 ; 


Isa. xlix, 12) stands opposed to *("221*3, but ought 
still to be rendered “the west:” comp. Amos viii, 12; 
Deut. xxxiii, 23. The west is also indicated by the 
phrase lliG'i’il 503*0 Sept. «7ro yqc tW/nur; 

Vulg. de terra occasus soils. These words are trans- 
lated “the west country” in Zech. viii, 7, literally, the 
country of the going-down of the sun, and are fully 
translated in Psa. 1, 1 ; cxiii, 3 * Mai. i, 1 1 ; comp. Deut. 
xi, 30; Josh, i, 4; xxiii, 4. Another word by which 
the west is denoted is 3“0**0, from 2j2, to remove, 
pass away, disappear as the sun does; hence the quar- 
ter of the heavens, etc., where the sun sets, the west. 
The same idea is conveyed in the Greek word cv<Tf.tai, 
from Cvio. It occurs in 1 Chron. xii, 15; Psa. Ixxv, G; 
ciii, 12; cvii,3; Isa. xliii, 5; xlv, G; lix, 19; Sept. (W- 
f.tai ; Vulg. occidens : in Dan. viii, 5, Sept. A tip ; Vulg. 
occidens . It is used to denote the west quarter of the 
heavens or earth. In the Apocrypha and New Test, 
the word translated “west” invariably corresponds to 
dvafiai (Jud. ii, 19; Matt, viii, 1 1 ; xxiv, 27; Luke xii, 
54 ; xiii, 29 ; Rev. xxi, 13) ; Vulg. occidens , occasus. Our 
Lord’s memorable words, “They shall come from the 
east and the west,” etc. (Matt, viii, 11), to which Luke 
adds “and from the north and the south” (xiii, 29), sig- 
nify all the regions of the world; as in classical writers 
also (Xenoph. Cyr, i, 1,3). Grotius thinks that this 
passage refers to the promise to Jacob (Gen. xxviii, 14). 
In our Lord’s prediction of the destruction of Jerusalem 
by the Romans (Matt. xxiv, 27), “For as the lightning 
cometh out of the east and shineth even unto the west, 
so also shall the coming of the son of man be,” he is 
supposed to have intimated the precise direction in 
which the Roman army conducted the invasion. II is 
reference to the cloud, n) v vt(pt\i) v, rising out of the 
west, as the precursor of a shower (comp. 1 Kings xviii, 
43-4G), still corresponds to the weather in Palestine. 
Volney says, “ The west and south-west winds, which 
in Syria and Palestine prevail from November to Feb- 
ruary, are, to borrow an expression of the Arabs, l the 
fathers of showers’ ” ( Voyage eu Syrie, i, 297 ; comp. 
Shaw, Travels, p. 329). — Kitto. Notable instances of 
such showers are those at the battle of Bethhoron (Josh, 
x, 11), and Elijah’s sacrifice on Mt. Carmel (1 Kings 
xviii, 44). 

WEST in Exorcism. A person to be exorcised 
stood with his face towards or his hands stretched in 
the direction of the west, the region or symbol of dark- 
ness. See Bowing towards the East. 

West, Benjamin, an eminent American painter, 
was born at Springfield, Fa., Oct. 10, 1738. He early 
discovered the artistic genius, sketching a rude likeness 
of his baby sister at seven years of age, and at the age 
of eight combining parts of two pictures into an origi- 
nal design, which he produced in colors on canvas to 
the infinite delight of his friends. At nine years of 
age he was introduced into the studio of an artist in 
Philadelphia named Williams, who gave him encour- 
agement and furnished him with hooks on painting, 
and young West returned home fully resolved to be a 
painter. His parents, although Friends (and that body 
of believers were not favorable to the art), encouraged 
him in his determination, believing that he was predes- 
tinated to be an artist. His first painting that attract- 
ed any considerable notice was the portrait of Mrs. Ross, 
a very beautiful lady, the wife of a lawyer of Lancaster. 
This effort gained him so many orders for portraits that 
he could scarcely meet them. About the same time a 
gunsmith named Henry commissioned him to paint a 
picture of the Death of Socrates. Being at a loss for 
a model for the slave who was to hand the cup of poi- 
son to the philosopher, the gunsmith brought him a 
half-naked negro, and the picture was finished. About 
this time l)r. Smith, provost of the college at Philadel- 
phia, induced young West to enter upon a course of 
study in that institution which should fit him for the 


WEST 


957 


high station he was destined to fill. He remained here 
until he was eighteen, with the exception of a short 
time when he accompanied Major Sir Peter Halkert as 
a volunteer to search for the remains and bury the 
bones of the army which had been lost under General 
Braddock. On his return from this expedition, he was 
called to witness the death of his mother, after which 
he returned to Philadelphia and set up as a portrait- 
painter. When he had exhausted his patronage in 
Philadelphia, he removed to New York, where he met 
with still better success, lu 17G0 he was assisted by 
some wealthy merchant to go abroad for the improve- 
ment of his talents. At Home he was patronized by 
Lord Grantham, whose portrait he painted, became the 
friend of Mengs, and, as the first American artist ever 
seen in Italy, attracted much attention. He pursued 
his studies in Italy for three years, during which he 
was greatly assisted by wealthy Americans, He paint- 
ed his Cimon and Jphigenia , and Angelica and Medora, 
and was elected member of the academies of Florence. 
Bologna, and Parma. In 1763, visiting England on his 
way to America, he was induced to remain in London, 
and in 17G5 married Eliza Shewed, an American lady, 
to whom he had been engaged before going to Europe. 
He painted for the archbishop of York a picture of 
Agrippina Landing with the Ashes of Germanicus , which 
attracted the attention of George III, who became his 
steady friend and patron for forty years, during which 
time he sketched or painted over four hundred pictures. 
Ilis first painting for the king was the Departure of 
Regulns from Rome , and it was so entirely satisfactory 
that the artist was received by the king on terms of 
intimacy from that time onward. West was one of 
the founders of the Royal Academy in 1768, and suc- 
ceeded Sir Joshua Reynolds as its president in 179*2, but 
declined the honor of knighthood. His Death of Gen- 
eral Wolfe, painted in the costume of the period against 
the advice of all the most distinguished painters, effect- 
ed a revolution in historic art. For the king he paint- 
ed a series of twenty-eight religious pictures for Wind- 
sor Castle. Ilis best-known works are, Christ Dealing 
the Sick: — Death on the Pale Dorse: — and the Battle 
of La Dogue. He attempted many wonderful, and to 
most artists dangerous, subjects, such as, Moses Receiv- 
ing the Law on Sinai: — Descent of the Duly Ghost on 
the Saviour in the Jordan: — Opening of the Seventh 
Seal: — St. Michael and his Angels Casting Out the 
Great Dragon: — The Mighty Angel with One Foot on 
the Sea and the Other on the Earth : — the Resurrection : 
— and others of like character. He died in London, 
March 11, 1820, and was buried with great pomp in St. 
Paul’s Cathedral. See Spooner, Biog. Dist. of the Fine 
Arts, s. v. ; Galt, The Life and Studies of Benjamin West 
(Loud. 1816-20); Cunningham, Lives of Eminent Brit- 
ish Painters . 

West, Elizabeth, a pious lady, the wife of a 
Scotch clergyman, was born in Edinburgh in 1672, mar- 
ried Mr. Brie, minister of Salim, Fifeshire, and died in 
1735. She wrote Memoirs, or Spiritual Exercises Writ- 
ten with her own Hand (Edinb. 1807). See Allibone, 
Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

West, Enoch G-., a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in Clermont County, O., Nov. 25, 1825. 
He was the special object of the prayers of his pious 
parents from infancy, and the subject of deep religious 
impressions from childhood; experienced religion in 
his fourteenth year, was appointed class-leader at the 
age of eighteen, joined the Ohio Conference in 1848, 
and continued energetic and devoted until his death, 
which occurred at Urbana, O., May 8, 1865. Mr. West 
possessed a well-stored mind, was a man of deep and 
uniform piety, bold and firm in principle. See Minutes 
of Annual Conferences, 1865, p. 1G3. 

West, Francis, an English Wesleyan minister, 
began his work in 1793, labored twenty-seven years, 
and died July 3, 1820. The Minutes characterize him 


WEST 

as “ a plain, useful man.” See Minutes of the Confer- 
ence, 1820. 

West, Francis L., a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born at Rush, N. Y., March 7, 1840. He removed 
with his parents to Michigan when quite young, expe- 
rienced religion in his youth, was licensed to preach in 
1859, and in 1861 joined the Detroit Conference, and in 
it served the Church until the fall of 1864, when he 
was drafted into United States service, and sent in the 
Twenty-third Michigan Infantry to Tennessee, where 
he was shot, while on duty, by guerillas, and died in 
Hospital No. 1 at Chattanooga the next morning, Jan. 
5, 1865, Mr. West’s qualities of mind and heart made 
him a young man of great promise. He was firm in 
purpose, of intense earnestness, conscientious, affable, de- 
vout. See Minutes of A nnual Conferences, 1865, p. 168. 

West, John (1), a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in Charles City County, Ya., April 20, 1768. 
He joined the Methodist Episcopal Church in 1784, was 
licensed to preach in 1787, entered the travelling con- 
nection in 1790, and was appointed to Greene Circuit, in 
Tennessee. In 1802 he was transferred from the Vir- 
ginia to the Baltimore Conference, his connection with 
that body lasting until 1825, when, at its organization, 
he became a member of the Pittsburgh Conference. For 
fifty-seven years (forty-four of which he was effective) 
“Father West” labored in the itinerant ministry of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, “and in even’- station his 
onerous and important duties were discharged with a 
fidelity but seldom equalled and perhaps never surpass- 
ed.” He died July 22, 1847. “Modesty, innocence, 
and punctuality were prominent traits in the character 
of Father West.” His death was as triumphant as his 
life was serene. See Minutes of A nnual Conferences, 
iv, 238. 

West, John (2), a Welsh Congregational minis- 
ter, was born in 1808. He studied privately for the 
ministry, was ordained, and for some years preached in 
several English counties with acceptance and success. 
In 1839 he was received by the Colonial Missionary So- 
ciety, and was sent to Tasmania under its auspices. 
He not only did good work as a minister, but as a po- 
litical leader he did much for Tasmania, and his stir- 
ring appeals were a strong element in the resistance 
that finally triumphed over the imperial government. 
In 1854 lie became chief editor of the Sydney Morning 
Herald, and labored in this capacity until his death, 
Dec. II, 1873. See (Lond.) Cong. Year-book, 1875, p. 373. 

West, Jonathan Renshaw, a Methodist Epis- 
copal minister, was born in Jackson County, Ala., Aug. 
31, 1806. lie experienced religion in 1825, was licensed 
to exhort in 1827, and to preach in 1832, and in 1846 
or 1847 joined the Missouri and Arkansas Conference. 
During the war, he was compelled to leave the South 
for personal safety. In 1864 he went to Kansas, where 
he preached until his death, June 15, 1874. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences, 1875, p. 23. 

West, Nathaniel, D.D., a Presbyterian divine, was 
born in Ulster, Ireland, in 1794. He was educated under 
Drs. Chalmers and Turner; entered the ministry in the 
Independent Connection in Hull, England, in 1821 ; came 
to the United States in 1834, and was pastor of Presby- 
terian churches successively at Meadville, Pa,; Monroe, 
Mich.; North East, Pittsburgh, MacKeesport, Belmont, 
Hestonville, and Philadelphia, Pa., besides being en- 
gaged in various benevolent agencies. He was senior 
chaplain in the Satterlee United States Military Hos- 
pital, West Philadelphia, from May, 1862, until his 
death, Sept. 2, 1864. lie published, The Ark of God 
the Safety of the Nation (1850): — Popery the Prop of 
European Despotisms (1852) : — Babylon the Great (ibid.) : 
— Right- and Left-hand Blessings of God, or a Cure for 
Covetousness (Phila. 1852, 18mo) : — Complete A nalysis of 
the Holy Bible, Containing the Whole of the New and 
Old Testaments, Collected and Arranged Systematically 


WEST 


953 


WESTBROOK 


into Thirty Books; Based on the J-Uorfc of the Learned 
Talbot (X. V. 1853, royal 8vo; 7 tli ed. 1855. royal 8vo, 
1035 pp.): — The Overturning of Tyrannical Governments 
(preached before and published at the request of Louis 
Kossuth when in the United States, and by his order 
and at his cost translated into Magyar): — Lecture on the 
Causes of the Ruin of Republican Liberty in the Ancient 
Roman Republic , etc. (Phila. 1861, 8vo) : — History of the 
Satterlee U. S . Army Gen. Hospital (West Philn., Hos- 
pital press, 1863, 12mo, 30 pp.). “ Dr. West was a man 

ot marked peculiarities and abundant labors.” See Al- 
libone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. ; Wilson, 
Presb. Hist. A Imanac , 1865, p. 134. (J. L. S.) 

West, Richard, D.D., an English clergyman, was 
born in 1671. lie became a commoner in Merton Col- 
lege, Oxford, in 1688; was afterwards elected fellow of 
Magdalen College ; became prebendary of Winchester in 
1706; archdeacon of Perks in 1710; and died Dee. 2, 
1716. lie published some essays, sermons, and other 
works. See All i bone, Did. of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, 
s. v. 

West, Robert Athow, an American writer, was 
born at Thetford, England, in 1809. lie emigrated to the 
United States in 1843; was the official reporter of the 
General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church 
in 1844, and published the debates; was editor of the 
Columbia Magazine (N. Y.) from 1846 to 1849; eo- 
editor of the A". V. Commercial Advertiser in 1845, 
and editor-in-chief in 1850. lie was the author of, 
Sketches of Wesleyan Preachers (X. Y. 1848). — .4 Fa- 
ther's Letter to his Daughter (1865). He was also one 
of the compilers of the Hymn-book of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church , and contributed to its pages, besides 
writing poetry and prose lor periodicals. 

West, Samuel (1), D.D., an American Unitarian 
minister, was born at Yarmouth, 31 ass., March 3, 1730 
(O. S.). He labored on the farm until he was twenty 
years of age; graduated at Harvard College in 1754; was 
ordained minister of a part of Dartmouth (now New 
Bedford and Fair Haven) June 3, 1761 ; was a zealous 
patriot during the American Revolution, encouraging 
the people in public addresses, entering the army as 
chaplain, and adding all the weight of his great learn- 
ing to the American cause; withdrew from his minis- 
terial labors in June, 1803; and died at the house of his 
son in Tiverton, R. I., Sept. 24, 1807. He was a man of 
extraordinary physical and mental powers, and was es- 
teemed the most learned man of his time in New Eng- 
land. lie was a vigorous preacher, and was noted for 
the complete mastery of his subject. He was the au- 
thor of Essays on Liberty and Xecessity (1793 and 1795, 
2 pts.), and several single Sermons preached on vari- 
ous occasions. See Sprague, .4 nnuls of the A mer. Pul- 
pit t viii, 37 sq. 

West, Samuel (2), D.D.. an American Unitarian 
minister, was born at Martha’s Vineyard. Nov. 19, 1738 
(O. S.). He spent his early years at hard labor; entered 
Harvard College in his twentieth year, and graduated 
in 1761 ; became chaplain to the garrison of Fort Pow- 
nal at Penobscot, 31 e., November, 1761 ; returned home 
in 1762; spent some time in the study of divinity at 
Cambridge; was settled as pastor at Needham in 1764; 
became pastor at the Hollis Street Church, Boston, 
3Iarch 12, 1789; withdrew entirely from public labor in 
1805; and died April 10, 1808. He was the author of 
a series of articles in the Boston Sentinel , over the sig- 
nature of “ The Old 3Ian — and several single Sermons. 
A Biographical Sketch has been published bv the Rev. 
Thomas Thacher. See Sprague, A finals of the Amer. 
Pulpit , viii, 50 sq. 

West, Stephen, D.I)., an eminent Congregational 
minister, was born in Tolland, Conn., Nov. 13, 1735. He 
graduated at Yale College in 1755; taught at Hatfield, 
3Iass. ; studied theology with Timothy Woodbridge; 
became chaplain at lloosack Fort; and was ordained as 


successor of Jonathan Edwards in the Indian 3Iission 
at Stockbridge in 1759. In a few years he gave up 
the Indian portion of his charge, and confined himself 
to the increasing body of English. lie was dismissed 
in August, 1818, and died 3Iay 15. 1819. Dr. West in 
appearance resembled a Puritan of the old school. He 
was most exact and uniform in his habits and work. 
His Christian character was one of strength, purity, sim- 
plicity and tenderness; his preaching was able, earnest, 
and eminently didactic — five hundred and four persons 
united with the Church during his pastorate. In the- 
ology. Dr. West was a llopkinsian ; in metaphysics, a 
Berkeleyan. He was a contributor to theological pe- 
riodicals, and, besides several Sermons, the following are 
his publications: — An Essay on Moral Agency (1772; 
enlarged ed. 1794). Dr. Woodbridge calls this “one of 
the most extraordinary specimens of subtle metaphysical 
reasoning :” — Duty and Obligation of Christians to Marry 
only in the Lord (1779): — An Essay on the Scripture 
Doctrine of the Atonement (1785): “less metaphysical 
and more popular than that on 3Ioral Agency. It en- 
joys a high measure of favor with profound theolo- 
gians:” — Jn Inquiry into the Ground and Import of In- 
fant Baptism (1794) : — Dissertation on Infant Baptism ; 
Reply to Rev. Cyprian Strong (I79S) : — Life of Rev. 
Samuel Hopkins , D.D. (1806) : — Three Sermons on the 
Mosaic Account of the Creation (1S09): — Evidence of 
the Divinity of Ch rist , collected from the Scriptures (1816). 
See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , i, 548-556 ; 
Cong. Quar. 1859, p. 41. 

West, William (I), D.D. , an American Episcopal 
clergyman, was born in Fairfax County, Va., near 31ount 
Vernon, about 1739. He was ordained and licensed for Vir- 
ginia by the bishop of London, Nov. 24, 1761; became 
rector of St. 3Iargaret’s, Westminster parish, Ann Arundel 
County. Aid. ; rector of St. Andrew’s parish, St. 3Iarv’s 
County, Nov. 17, 1767 ; ineumbent of St. George’s parish, 
Harford County, in 1772; incumbent of St. Paul’s par- 
ish, Baltimore County, June 7, 1779; was five years 
(1780-85) employed to officiate every third Sunday in 
St. Thomas’s Parish Church ; took a prominent part in 
the organization of the Protestant Episcopal Church in 
America after the Revolution; was chosen president of 
the Diocesan Convention in 3Iay, 1790; and died 3iarch 
30, 1791. He was a Whig during the Revolution, and 
left no published works. He ordered his sermons to be 
burned, stating that they were not worthy of preser- 
vation. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , v, 
208 sq. 

West, William (2), an English Wesleyan minis- 
ter, was born in Ireland. He was converted in early 
life; entered the itinerancy in 1779; was totally blind 
for many years; became a supernumerary in 1817 ; and 
died in Aberdeen, Scotland, Sept. 2, 1822, in the eightieth 
year of his age. West was a man of strict integrity, 
piety, and of no mean gifts. See Minutes of the Con- 
ference, 1823 ; 11 T esl. Meth. Magazine , Oct. 1822, p. 686. 

Westall, Thomas, an early 3Iethodist preacher, 
labored forty years in England, from 1740 until worn 
out. He retired to Bristol about 1780. lie had some 
exciting experiences, one of which Atmore records. It 
was connected with Gwenap, famed in the history of 
early 3Iethodism. He was at the Third Conference in 
1746. He died in Bristol, April 20, 1794. He was a 
pattern of Christian simplicity and humble love. See 
Atmore, Meth. Memorial, s. v. ; Minutes of the Cotfer- 
ence, 1794 ; Stevens, Hist, of Meth. i. 174, 315 ; i ii, 89. 

Westbrook, Cornelius D., D.D.. an early and 
distinguished minister of the Reformed (Dutch) Church, 
was a descendant of both Puritan and Huguenot stock. 
II is father was a Revolutionary soldier; his mother 
died in his infancy. He was horn at Rochester, Ulster 
Co., N. Y., in 1782; graduated at Union College in 
1801; studied theology with Dr. Theodoric Romeyn, 
and was licensed in 1804 by the Chassis of Albany. He 
was settled at Fishkill, X. Y., twenty-four years (1806- 


WESTBROOKS 


959 


WESTEN 


30). Then for three years he was the first editor of the 
Christian Intelligencer, which had just been established 
as a weekly paper in place of the old Monthly , the 
“ Magazine of the Reformed Dutch Church.” Alter 
this he became rector of the grammar-school of Rutgers 
College in 1833 ; but returned to the pastorate in 1836 
at Cortlandtown, N. Y., where he remained fourteen 
years (1836-50), and then retired from active service 
to Kingston, N. Y., where he died in 1858. Dr. West- 
brook was in every respect a man sui generis, lie was 
original in thought, speech, writing, and action. lie 
stereotyped nothing — for he could never be anything 
but himself, lie was learned and scholarly in his 
tastes, but could never endure rigid system, nor follow 
in the tracks of others. 1 1 is mind was quick, intuitive- 
ly springing to conclusions which others reached only 
by slow reasonings. His intellect and heart and will 
all acted impulsively, and often at a white heat. He 
studied topics, not treatises and systems. His preaching 
was moulded in the same way, by generous and noble 
impulses, by large views of truth, by intense and fervid 
conceptions, and by the genius which often shone in his 
illustrations and peculiar modes of expression, as well 
as by the piety which warmed his childlike heart. In 
prayer also he was himself, natural, trustful in God, 
reverential, and devout. At the grave of Washington 
among the veterans of the War of 1812, whose chaplain 
he was, he prayed so that no eve was dry in that as- 
sembly of gray-haired heroes. His social qualities were 
unique and attractive. He, was a Nathanael in whom 
there was no guile, but he was also as cheerful and 
happy and exuberant as a boy. His heart never grew 
old. “ He was always a boy.” His pupils, parishioners, 
and friends loved him just because he was Dr. West- 
brook, unlike any one else, and always genial, gentle, 
great-hearted, honest, simple-minded, single-eyed, and 
unselfish, full of sympathy for the weak and suffering, 
full of generosity and labors for the cause of Christ. 
His very frailties grew out of the simplicity of his large 
nature, and doubtless they added much to his experi- 
ences of the grace of God. See Corwin, Manual of the 
Ref Church , p. 264, 265. (W. J. R. T.) 

Westbrooks, James M., a Southern Methodist 
Episcopal minister, was born March 10, 1827. He pro- 
fessed conversion in his twentieth year ; began preach- 
ing in 1852; and in 1853 was received into the North 
Carolina Conference, wherein he labored faithfully until 
compelled to retire from active service by severe ill- 
ness a short time previous to his death, which occurred 
Jan. 28, 1856. Mr. Westbrooks possessed a fervent but 
unobtrusive piety, and, though smitten down in the 
morning of life, he left abundant evidence of his ability 
as a preacher, his diligence as a pastor, and his consis- 
tency as a Christian. See Minutes of Annual Confer - 
ernes of the M. E. Church , South , 1856, p. 694. 

Westcott, Lorenzo, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Southern New Jersey, and belonged to a large 
connection known in that part of the state. He was a 
graduate of Princeton College and entered the Theolog- 
ical Seminary in 1852, where he remained three years and 
graduated. He was ordained in Green Avenue Presby- 
terian Church, Brooklyn, L. I., and was installed pastor of 
the Church at Warrior Run, Pa., in 1859. He was called 
to a professorship in Lincoln University in 1865, and 
remained at that post until transferred to a professor- 
ship in Howard University. He was deeply interested 
in the education and elevation of the colored race in 
this country, and* gave to this important matter his 
stores of learning and unceasing labors. He died at 
Germantown, June. 1879. See Presbuterian. June 14, 
1879. (W- R- SO 

Westcott, William Augustus, a Presbyteri- 
an minister, was born in Orange County, N. Y., in 1814. 
After receiving an academical education, including the 
languages, he became a clerk in a mercantile house in 
New York city. While thus employed he united with 


the Chureh, and soon after turned his attention to the 
ministry ;#but not being able to bear the expense of an 
education, he studied medicine, lie was, however, dis- 
satisfied, feeling it liis duty to preach. 1 1 is way was 
opened to enter Princeton Seminary, which he did in 
1841, and spent there two years in study. On April 17, 
1845, he was licensed to preach, and for some time sup- 
plied the pulpit of the F Street Church, Washington, 
D. C., and afterwards that of the Church of Ramapo, 
N. Y. He was ordained an evangelist by the Hudson 
Presbytery, and was called to the Church at Florida, 
where he was installed pastor in 1849. Here he labored 
eleven years with marked success. At the dissolution 
of the pastorate he was called to the Church at Bloom- 
ingburg, where he was installed in 1868. After laboring 
here three years, he was called to t he Centreville Church, 
and he remained here until he died, Feb. 23, 1876, be- 
loved and regretted by all. (W. P. S.) 

Westen, Thomas of, a missionary among the 
Lapps or Finns down to the year 1727. This man was 
one of the most noteworthy characters in the history of 
Protestant missions. The people among whom he la- 
bored dwelt from latitude 64° northward, chiefly in 
the marshes of Finland and in the North country, but 
to some extent also among the Norwegians. Their 
number is now reduced to from 4000 to 7000 souls. 
They speak a language resembling that of the inhab- 
itants of Finland, proving that they belong to the 
same stoek. As they have not made any considerable 
advancement in civilization, they are greatly despised 
by Norwegians and Swedes. In the period of the Chris- 
tianizing of those regions, they heard the Gospel and 
were forced to receive baptism. The preachers were 
not able to traverse all the country and reach all the 
people, and hireling adventurers, intent only upon the 
securing of gain, came to occupy many of the parishes. 
In many instances persons were denied the privileges 
of religion because too poor to pay the amounts demand- 
ed by their ministers as a yearly contribution. The 
Norwegians, too, were guilty of overbearing and unjust 
conduct in their intercourse with these people. The 
result was what might have been expected; the Finns 
returned to their former heathenism, though outwardly 
observant of the forms of Christian worship. Baptized 
children were washed on their return from Church in 
order that their baptism might not take effect on them, 
and a sort of counter-baptism was administered, etc. A 
Finnish name was given the child, which was carefully 
concealed from the preachers, etc. The forgiveness of 
the heathen gods was invoked whenever participation 
in the sacrament of the Lord’s supper became necessary. 

In morals, the use of alcoholic liquors had done great 
harm. Drinking-shops stood in chureh -yards and at 
church-doors, and even ministers of the Church carried 
on a profitable traffic in the business of providing for 
the general thirst for fiery potions, and used persuasion 
to induce unwilling persons to drink. In time, no cere- 
mony could be conducted without the use of alcoholic 
drink. Marriages were sealed with it, and it was sprin- 
kled over the graves of the dead as a sort of holy water. 
After a time, the Norwegians came into the possession 
of the Finnish lands and property, and even children. 

The Danish - Norwegian Chureh was not, however, 
altogether unconcerned about the needs of this people. 
Bishop Eric Bredahl visited it repeatedly, and won a 
few individuals over to Christianity. Isaac Olsen, a 
schoolmaster, spent fourteen years at Varangcr, on the 
Russian frontier, and under the 70th degree of latitude, 
engaged in apostolic toils, enduring apostolic sufferings 
for the cause of Christ, and succeeding so far as to see 
some of his pupils excel their Norwegian competitors in 
a knowledge of Christian doctrines in the annual visita- 
tion of churches and schools. In 1707, king Frederick 
IV of Denmark ordered an investigation of the condi- 
tion of schools and churches in Nordland and Finmark, 
and in 1714 he ordered the newly founded Collegium de 
Promovciulo Cursu Evangelii to make preparation for a 


WESTEN 


9G0 


WESTERLO 


mission among the Finns. The result of the measures 
taken in consequence of these orders was the •selection 
of Thomas of Westen to be the superintendent of the 
proposed mission. 

Westen was born at Trondhjem, in 1682, and was 
obliged in early life to contend with want and diffi- 
culties of every sort, llis father refused to permit him 
to study, and, when benevolent eflbrt made a university 
career possible, induced him to study medicine instead 
of theology. Just as he was about to take the degree 
of M.D.. his father died and left him penniless; but pov- 
erty ditl not deter him from entering on the study of 
theology, and particularly of Oriental languages, lie 
was able to get food of very inferior quality, and only 
on alternate days; and he shared with his room-mate 
in the ownership of an old and poor black coat, which 
compelled him to remain indoors when the garment 
was away. A call to Moscow as professor of languages 
and rhetoric, which was extended to him at this time 
by Peter the Great, was withdrawn without result, and 
he accepted instead the post of librarian at Trondhjem 
without salary, but with a prospect of ecclesiastical pre- 
ferment. In 1710 he became pastor of the parish of 
Wedoeu, and after six years of successful labor was 
made lector and notary of the Trondhjem chapter, and 
soon afterwards vicar and manager of missions among 
the Finns. In the capacity of lector he was called on 
to preach several sermons in each week, to deliver dai- 
ly lectures on moral and positive theology, and also to 
guide the school, which was designed to become a nur- 
sery for the Finnish mission. 

Westen’s first missionary tour among the Finns was 
undertaken May 29, 1716, and was protracted through 
West Finmark. East Finmark, and Nordlaml until au- 
tumn, when he returned in open boats, often at the risk 
of being drowned in the stormy inland waters, to Trond- 
hjem. lie brought the worn-out Olsen with him. and 
afterwards recommended him for the post of Finnish 
teacher and interpreter in the missionary college, lie 
had left a chaplain as missionary in East Finmark, and 
had appointed a number of itinerant teachers, besides 
encouraging the building of churches by all the natives 
whom he could persuade to that work. lie also brought 
to Trondhjem a number of Finnish children to be train- 
ed for missionary work, and in time sustained a semina- 
ry for such children in his own house. The bishop, 
Krog, endeavored to prevent the success of Westen’s 
plans, but was defeated through the favor of the king. 
In 1717 the seminary was securely established, and royal 
edicts were issued providing for the erection of churches 
and chapels within the field of the mission, and settling 
the relations ami duties of catechists and teachers and 
similar matters. A second missionary tour was begun 
by Westen, in company with several assistants whom 
he had gained, in June, 1718. He was already permit- 
ted to note progress in the work he had so recently be- 
gun. Several churches were in course of erection, and 
a number of children were secured for instruction in the 
principles of Christianity. The volunteers who accom- 
panied him were left as pastors in dilferent places, and 
not only became useful laborers in the preaching of the 
Word, but also valuable contributors to the literature 
of the country. Erasmus Raehlow translated Luther’s 
Catechism, and wrote a Crmnmatica Lapponica, and a 
Specimen \ T ocabnlarii Lapponici. Martin Lund ren- 
dered similar service with his pen. Westen was unable 
to return to Trondhjem in the autumn of this year, and 
contented himself with rendering a written report, which 
led to his being summoned to Copenhagen in the follow- 
ing spring that he might give fuller information. lie 
was presented to the king, and was permitted to submit 
for examination a list of whatever things he might con- 
sider necessary to the promotion of success in his work. 
Corresponding arrangements were then made and new 
missionaries enlisted. 

On Weston's return for a third missionary tour, begun 
June 29, 1722, he found a great awakening among the 


young people of his charge. They clamored for educa- 
tion and read the llible. The population of certain 
places which he had not previously visited were, how- 
ever, bitterly hostile. At Siuraen the people had threat- 
ened to take his life; but when he preached to them, 
they were subdued and won. On the rock Overhaldcu 
lived a population of 283 souls who never came into the 
valleys, and who had never been visited by a preacher 
of the Gospel. When they heard that Westen intended 
to visit them, they were seized with mortal terror, and 
held a magical mass to deter him ; but he came and 
gained their good-will and submission to the Gospel. 
Similar experiences awaited him in Snaasen, where he 
remained two months, and, after his return to Trond- 
hjem, in Slay, 1723, in Stordalen and Merager, in the 
immediate vicinity of that centre. He purposed visit- 
ing the Finns, also, who dwelt within the bounds of the 
diocese of Christiania, but was hindered by its bishop. 
In 1725 the district of Salten contained 1020 newly con- 
verted Christians, and that of Finmark 1725. 

During these years Westen wrote many works in the 
interest of his mission, chiefly of a practical nature. A 
history of the Finnish-Lapp mission was completed, but 
has never been published, and is now probably lost, 
llis last days were troubled with poverty. He died 
April 9, 1727, leaving behind him a widow who had 
been a helpmeet for him indeed, and continuing to live 
in the recollection of the people whom he had served as 
“the lector who loved the Finnish man.” See Acta 
Hist, Eccles, iii, 1111 ; v, 922; x, 867 ; Ildgstrbm, De- 
scription of Lapland (German ed. 1748); also Rudelbach, 
in Knapp’s Christoterpe (1833), p. 299-380; and Ham- 
mond, Xord. Missionsgesch. (Copenh. 1787). — Herzog, 
Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Westerns (or Vesteras),a town of Sweden, cap- 
ital of the laen of Westmanlaml, sixty miles west-north- 
west of Stockholm. An imperial diet was held here in 
1527, in which the Protestant controversy was brought 
to a crisis. Liberty was granted for the “ preachers to 
proclaim the pure Word of God,” a Protestant definition 
being coupled with this phrase. The property of the 
Church, with the authority to regulate ecclesiastical af- 
fairs, was delivered into the hands of the king. The 
Protestant churches retained their revenues, and the ec- 
clesiastical property fell, for the most part, to the posses- 
sion of the nobles. See Fisher, Hist, of the Reformation, 
p. 176. 

Westergaard, Niels Ludwig, a Danish Oriental- 
ist, was born Oct. 27, 18 15, at Copenhagen, where he also 
commenced his linguistic studies, which he continued 
from 1838 to 1839 at Bonn, Paris, London, and Oxford. 
From 1841 to 1844 he travelled through India and Per- 
sia, and after his return was appointed in the latter year 
professor of Indian philology at Copenhagen, where he 
died, Sept. 9. 1878. Of his writings we mention, Radices 
Linguae Sanscrihe (Bonn, 1841) : — Sanskrit Formlaere, 
together with Sanskrit Laesebog (Copenh. 1846). He 
also published the critical edition of the Zendavesta 
(ibid. 1854) : — and the Rundehesh (ibid. 1851). His two 
treatises De (ddste Tidsrvm i den ind'iske llistorie and 
Buddhas Dodsciar (ibid. 1860) have been translated into 
German (Breslau, 1862). (B. P.) 

Westerlo, Eilardus, D.D., the successor ofTheod- 
orus Frelinghuysen in the Reformed Church of Albany, 
was born in Groningen, Holland, in 1738, his father, Rev. 
Isaac Westerlo, being pastor of the Church at that place. 
Consecrated by his parents from his early boyhood to the 
ministry, after spending six years at’the Latin school 
of Oldenzaal he entered the University of Groningen at 
the age of sixteen; spent six full years in preparation 
for his holy office ; and at twenty-two was admitted to 
its vows in 1760. Just at that time he unexpectedly 
received and accepted the call to Albany; was installed 
as pastor of the Church in March, and arrived in the 
autumn of that year in the city where he spent his min- 
isterial life. About eight years after coming to Albany 


WESTERMEIER 


9G1 


WESTERVELT 


he fell into a state of religious despondency, which 
proved to be an eventful period of his spiritual life. , 
Relief came only with much prayer and struggle of 
soul, but it seemed like “life from the dead.” In 1775 | 
he married the widow of Stephen Van Rensselaer, pa- ! 
troon of the manor of Kenssolacrwyck, and resided with 
her at the manor-house, until 1784, when they removed 
to the parsonage on Broadway. Dr. John II. Living- 
ston’s wife was the sister of Mrs. Westcrlo. The rela- 
tionship between these two eminent clergymen grew in 
strength and usefulness with their years and services : 
for Christ’s kingdom. Both of them were ardent sup- 
porters of the independence of the American Church 
from that of Holland, and were known as peace-makers 
and leaders during all the strifes which ended in the 
triumph of their principles. Both of them were equally 
bold and influential patriots during the Revolutionary 
War. ’When Burgoyne was moving towards Albany in 
1777, Dr. Westcrlo took his family to a place of safety, 
but came back to his home, directed his church to be 
opened, and held daily religious services for, a week, 
with fervent prayers for the army and animating ex- 
hortations to those who remained in the city. Dr. Liv- 
ingston aided him in these patriotic services, which con- 
tinued until the surrender of Burgoyne and his army. 
When Washington visited Albany in 1782, Dr. Westerlo 
delivered the address of public welcome. Until 1782 he 
preached only in the Dutch language, and at his death 
stated services in that tongue ceased in his church. But 
at the period named he began to preach on a part of 
each Sunday in English, and continued to do so with 
acceptance until Dr. Bassett became his colleague, jn 
June, 1787, about three years before his own decease. 
He was a man of fine personal presence, mild and per- 
suasive in manner, yet dignified and commanding, lie 
was beloved by his own people, and a favorite in the 
community among all denominations of Christians. An 
excellent classical and theological scholar, he was fa- 
miliar with the best learning of his times, lie wrote 
well in Hebrew and Greek, and president Stiles of Yale 
College, with whom he corresponded, said that he wrote 
Latin with greater purity than any man he ever knew, 
lie left a Hebrew and Greek lexicon, prepared apparent- 
ly for publication, in his own neat manuscript. Among 
his papers was found an interesting autobiography, writ- 
ten in Dutch, up to May, 1782, and in English up to Dec. 
4, 1790. This work, he says, was written “for his own 
edification and the remembrance of God’s mercies.” 
During his last illness, a brief period of despondency 
was followed by the most cheerful and happy serenity 
of soul. “ His people came from all parts of the city to 
see him when he was near his end, and he left them 
with his blessing in such a solemn manner that it was 
thought he did as much good in his death as in his life.” 
He will always be remembered among the great and 
good ministers of the Church of his fathers, lie died 
Dec. 20, 1790. “So omnipresent was his religion, so 
engrossing his piety, that his habitual state of mind 
seemed to be ‘one continued prayer,’ and his life ‘one 
unbroken offering of praise.’” See Rogers, Historical 
Discourse, p. 31 , 32 ; Corwin, Manual of the Ref. Church , 
p. 205, 200 ; Sprague, A nnals of the A mtr. Pulpit , ix, 29- 
31. (W.J. R.T.) 

Westermeier, Franz Bogislaus, a Protestant 
theologian of Germany, was born Aug. 22, 1773, at 
Flechtorf, near Brunswick. He studied at Helmstadt, 
and in 1799 he w’as called as pastor to Magdeburg. In 
1810 he w r as made superintendent, and in' 1812 member 
of consistory. In 1817 the Ilalle University conferred 
on him the degree of doctor of divinity, and in 1825 
the king of Prussia appointed him evangelical bishop. 
Three years later he was made general superintendent 
of the province of Saxony. He died March 1, 1831. 
He w T as one of the most excellent pulpit orators of the 
evangelical Church, and his OejfentHche Religionsror- 
trage (Magdeburg. 1800) will always be regarded as line 
specimens of pulpit eloquence. For his writings, sec 
X.— P t* p 


During, Die gelehrten Theologen Deutsch lands, iv, 703 
sq. ; Zuchold, Bill. Theol. ii, 1439; Winer, // andbuch 
der theol. Lit. ii, 150, 172, 173, 174, 175, 338. (B. P.) 

Western Church. See Roman Catholic 
Church. 

Westervelt, Alfred L., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born about 1820, of pious 
parents, lie received a careful religious training; ex- 
perienced conversion in his nineteenth year; began 
preaching soon after, and subsequently joined the Ohio 
Conference; served three years as junior preacher and 
three as senior; and died of cholera, July 31, 1849. Mr. 
Westervelt was a man of deep piety and respectable 
talents. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1849, 
p. 388. 

Westervelt, John P., a Reformed (Dutch) schol- 
ar, was born at Paramus, N. J., Nov. 7, 1810. He was a 
teacher in Lafayette Academy, Hackensack, in 1838, 
and aftenvards in private seminaries in New' York and 
vicinity until 1844. He then studied theology for one 
year under the Rev. Albert Amerman. After engaging 
in various pursuits, he joined the Presbytery of Albany 
in 1855, and removed to Princeton, N. J., where he gave 
much time to the study oflanguages and Biblical criti- 
cism. He was familiar with the ancient languages. 
Hebrew', Greek, and Latin, and spoke fluently the Ger- 
man, French, and Dutch. Especially was he skilled 
in the last, and held familiar intercourse with the theo- 
logians and poets of the Low' Countries. lie preached as 
fluently in. the Dutch language as in his own. Bilder- 
dyk, his favorite poet, he esteemed equal to any of our 
English poets. When Dr. Cohen Stuart came from 
Holland to attend the Evangelical Alliance, so great 
had the fame of Mr. Westervelt become as a Dutch 
scholar that Dr. Stuart, visited Paterson, to which place 
Mr. Westervelt had moved in I860, in order that he 
might see the renowmed scholar. Dr. Stuart afterwards 
spoke of Ids “eminent attainments being equalled only 
by his modesty.” By request of the doctor, Mr. Wes- 
tervelt was made a member of the Leyden Society of 
Netherlandish Literature, June 10, 1870. Although Mr. 
Westervelt was in doctrine a Calvinist, yet he was one 
of the most catholic of men. Among his brethren . his 
opinion of difficult passages of Scripture w r as considered 
sufficient authority. II is piety w'as fervent and deep, 
his character pure and spotless, his faith trustful ami 
strong; and in his last hours, w hen utterance was diffi- 
cult, he declared Christ to be his satisfaction. He died 
Jan. 15, 1879. He published a Translation from the 
Dutch of Van der Palm's Life and Sermons (1805). He 
contributed to the Princeton Review articles on Van 
der Palm (1801), Bilderdvk (1802), Strauss, and Schleier- 
macher (18G0); also articles to this Cyclopedia i. See 
Corwin, Manual of the Ref Church in America, p. 550. 

Westervelt, Ralph, a (Dutch) Reformed minis- 
ter, studied under his father-in-law, the Rev. S. Froeligh. 
He was licensed by the Classis and served at Paramus 
in 1801, at Rochester and Wawarsing from 1802 to 
1807, at Clove in 1808. at Bethlehem and Coeymans 
until 1810, and at Wynantskill from 1810 to 1822, in 
which latter year he died. See Corwin, Manual of the 
Ref. Church in America, s. v. 

Westervelt, Samuel D., a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, w'as born in Schralenburg, N. J., April 21, 1813. He 
was converted in his eighteenth year; educated in the 
New York University; studied theology privately ; was 
licensed by the New r York Classis; and ordained, Octo- 
ber, 1839, as pastor of a church in King Street, N. Y., 
known as the True Reformed Dutch Church. In 1852 
he transferred his ecclesiastical relation to the Second 
Presbytery of New' York, and in 1853 was installed pas- 
tor of the Presbyterian Church at Yorktown, where he 
continued to labor almost until the close of his life. He 
died Nov. 15, 1805. He was a good scholar, a clear and 
instructive preacher, and an acceptable writer. He 


WESTFALL 


962 


WESTMINSTER ABBEY 


published one of the best articles on dancing as a fash- j 
tollable amusement that have ever appeared in print. It 
was quoted in all the religious journals, republished in 
London, and highly spoken of by the London press. 
See Wilson, J'resb. J list. Almanac, l JSG7. p. ‘215. 

Westfall, Benjamin B., a minister of the He- ; 
formed (Dutch) Church, was born at Claveraek, Colum- 
bia Co., X. V., in 1 798. His early life was spent on a 
farm. Religious convictions seized his mind when 
quite young. lie graduated at Cnion College, X. V., 
in 1823, and at the New Lrunswiek (X. .1.) Theological 
Seminary in 1826. lie was licensed by the Chassis of 
New Brunswick in 1826. lie was missionary at Sand 
Beach, X. V., in 1.S27 28. Then lle "’as made pastor of 
Rochester, part ofwhich time Glove was connected with 
it. In this lield he labored from 1*28 until 1838, during 
which time he saw. as the fruits ofhis labor, about three 
hundred souls brought into theChnreh. 1 1 is last, charge 
was Stone Arabia and Ephratah, where he toiled from ' 
1838 until his death, in 1844. lie was a man of fervent ! 
piety and deep and strong convictions. 1 lis sermons, 
breathing his own high convictions of truth, were ad- | 
dressed both to the eonseienees and understandings of 
his people, lie lived only to save men. His death 
was caused by excessive labor in revival and other 
meetings for the benefit of the people. See Corwin, 
Manual of the Ref. Church in America, s. v. 

Westfall, Simon V. E., a minister of the Re- 
formed (Dutch) Church, was born at Rhinebeck, Dutch- 
ess Co., X. V., in 1802. He graduated at Rutgers Col- 
lege in 1831. and at the New Brunswick Seminary in 
1834. lie was licensed by the Classis of Rensselaer in 
1834. 1 le was pastor of the Ilvde Bark Church. Dutch- 

ess Co., X. V., from 1834 to 1837, and Union and Salem 
from 1837 to 1817. At this time he went, as missionary 
to Illinois, and in that capacity he labored for about two 
years, from 1817 to 1848. In 1849 he undertook the try- 
ing task of building up an “eminent Dutch Church” in 
the young city of Pekin, Tazewell Co., 111., where, with 
the exception of one year (1853). in which he labored at 
Va nd erveer, 31 organ Co., he ministered until 185G. His 
task was long and arduous, but fruitless, lie left Pekin 
in 1856, and returned to his native East to spend his de- 
clining days. lie had scarcely got settled in his new 
house and engaged to supply the Second Church of Rot- 
terdam, when he was taken sick, and died, in 1856. Dur- 
ing the short time, he was sick, he repeatedly uttered 
the word “ Ecstasy 1” while visions of glory passed be- 
fore Ills mind, lie was a man of settled purpose, in- 
flexible integrity, and of a modest and diffident spirit. 
See Corwin. Manual of the Ref. Church in J merica , s. v. 

Westfield, Thomas, an English prelate, was a na- 
tive of Ely. He was educated at Jesus College, Cam- 
bridge. and afterwards became a fellow ; was assistant 
to Dr. Nicholas Felton, at St. Marv-le-Bow, Loudon, and 
then presented to the same Church ; afterwards present- 
ed to St. Bartholomew’s, made archdeacon of St. Al- 
ban’s, and finally made bishop of Bristol, on aeeount of 
his piety and wisdom, lie suffered under the Revolu- 
tion, was ejected from his bishopric, and died June 25, 
1644. lie left no published works, but two volumes of 
his Sermons appeared after his death. See Chalmers, 
Jiiorj. Diet. s. v. 

Westhoff, Elrekt Wilhelm, a Roman Catholic 
theologian of Germany, was born in 1801 at Dolberg. 
He studied at Munster and in ihe Collegium Germani- 
cum at Rome, where he received holy orders in 1828, 
and where he was promoted as doctor of theology. In 
1829 he was called to the Church at Suuninghausen, 
and in 1833 to Diestedde. In 1851 he was called to 
Cologne as regent of the clerical seminary, which posi- 
tion he occupied until 1868. when he retired on account 
of feeble health. lie died May 6, 1871, in the Alexian 
Monastery at Neuss. lie is the editor of the aseetical 
writingsof Avaneinns, Augustine, Bellecius, Gregory the 
Great, etc. lie also published new editions of Ballerini’s 


writings on the position of the popes to the general 
councils, on the primacy of the popes, and their inf alii - 
bilitas in dejiniendis contra ce rsiis Jidei. (B. P.) 

Westlake, Burrows, a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, of whose birth and early history nothing def- 
inite can be learned, joined the Ohio Conference hi 
1814. The last nine years of his life and labors were 
in connection with the Indiana Conference, He died 
of epidemic erysipelas. April 17, 1845. Mr. Westlake 
possessed a strong, well-stored mind, and a tender, de- 
vout heart. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1845, 
p. 658. 

Westlake, Charles, an English Wesleyan min- 
ister, was born at Launceston, Cornwall. He was con- 
verted under the ministry of Henry Cheveston, entered 
the sacred work in 1831, and died suddenly of apoplexy, 
Nov. 18, 1858, aged fifty-three years. See Minutes of 
ihe Conference , 1859. 

Westley. See Wesley. 

Westley, James R.,an English Wesleyan mission- 
ary, was converted under a sermon preaehed at Kings- 
huid Road, London, by Holloway. He was received by 
the Conference in 1846, and died at Kingston, Jamaica, 
Nov. 29, 1847, aged thirty years. He was diligent, stu- 
dious, and unremitting in his pastoral duties. See Min- 
utes of the Conference , 1848. 

Westminster Abbey, the venerable pile around 
which the city itself (now included in London) origi- 
nally sprang. (The following account is taken from the 
Globe Encyclopeedia, s. v.) The foundation of the first 
Abbey on a spot formerly surrounded by the waters of 
the Thames and called Thorney Island is involved in 
mystery, but here Mas certainly one of the earliest 
Christian churches in England. Sebert, king of the 
East Saxons, m t 1io died in 616, is believed to have com- 
pleted a sacred edifice dedicated to Peter, which u’as 
destroyed by the Danes. Ed ward the Confessor in its 
place built a structure of great splendor for his time, 
and endowed it with a charter of ample pOM*ers and 
privileges. Ilenrv III pulled down a portion and en- 
larged the plan of this ancient Abbey, adding a chapel 
dedicated to the Virgin, and the incomparable Chapter- 
house. Ilenrv VII built the magnificent chapel to t he 
east of the Abbey which bears his name. After his 
reign the building fell into decay until renovated by 
Sir Christopher Wren, Mho designed the upper part 
of the two western towers. The restoration of the 
Chapter-house was undertaken by Sir Gilbert Seott in 
1863. The Abbey is in the form of a Latin cross, its 
exterior length being 416 feet, or, including Henry VIPs 
Chapel, 530 feet. Its interior length is 375 feet, and its 
greatest interior breadth 200 feet. The breadth of t he 
nave and aisles is 75 feet, and their interior height, to 
which the. Abbey owes much of its stately appearance, 
is 101 feet. The best view of the Abbey is from the 
M r est door between the towers. In the interior is a 
noble range of pillars terminating towards the east by 
a sort of semicircle enclosing the Chapel of Edward the 
Confessor. The fabrie is lighted by a range of windows 
supported by galleries of double columns on the arches 
of t he pillars, by an upper and under range of windows, 
and four capital M'indows, the whole of the lights being 
admirably arranged. Twenty-two M'indows are enriehed 
M'ilh stained glass. The new choir, 155 feet by 35 feet, 
M-as executed in 1848. The fifty-two stalls exhibit a 
great variety of carving and tracery. The reredos, 
completed under the direction of Sir Gilbert Scott, is 
an elaborate and splendid Mork. The names of the 
various chapels, beginning from the south cross and 
passing round to the north cross, are in order as fol- 
ioMs: (1) St. Benedict’s; (2) St. Edmund’s; (3) St. 
Nicholas’s; (4) Henry VIPs; (5) St. Paul’s; (6) St. Ed- 
ward the Confessor’s; (7) St.John’s; (8) I si ip’s Chapel, 
dedicated to John the Baptist; (9) St.John, St. Michael, 
and St. Andrew’s. The Chapel of Henry VII is adorned 



WESTMINSTER ANNOTATIONS 963 WESTMINSTER ASSEMBLY 


without with sixteen Gothic towers, beautifully orna- f 
inented and jutting front the Abbey at different angles. 
Here is the magnificent tomb of that monarch and his 
queen. In the south transept is the well-known Poet’s 
Corner. Every English sovereign since the Conquest 
has been crowned in Westminster Abbey, and t he corona- 
tion-chairs and the coronation-stone of Scotland are in 
the Chapel of Edward the Confessor. Thirteen kings | 
(George II being the 


last) and fourteen queens 
are buried in its pre- 
cincts. Here also are 
the remains of Chaucer, 
Spenser, lien Jonson, 
Drvden, Cowley, Addi- 
son, Congreve, Prior, 
Gay, Or. Johnson, Gar- 
rick, Sheridan, Camp- 
bell, and Macaulay; 
of Handel, Blow, ami 


1 no respect the product of the Westminster Assembly, 
except as it is executed in the spirit of their publica- 
tions, and by persons some of whom had been members 
of it. The notes on the Pentateuch and on the four 
gospels are by Ley. subdean of Chester; those on Kings, 
Chronicles, Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther by l)r. Gouge; 
those on the Psalms by Meric Casaubon ; on Proverbs by 
Francis Taylor; on Ecclesiastes by Or. Reynolds; and 
on Solomon’s Song bv Smallwood. 
The Larger Prophets fell to the lot of 
the learned Gataker; the Smaller, in 
the first edition to Pemberton, in the 
second to bishop Richardson. The 
eccentric Or. Featley undertook the 
Pauline ejiistles, but did not complete 
liis work; and Downham and Reading 
were both employed on the work, 
though what they did lias not been 
specified. The work is more than 
respectable; some parts, especially 
those intrusted to Gataker, are done 
with superior learning and ability; 
and the whole, though of various 
merit, does credit to the piety, schol- 
arship, and judgment of the authors. 
— Kit to. 

Westminster Assembly of 

Divines, a name given to the synod 
of divines called by Parliament in the 
reign of Charles l, for the purpose of 
settling the government, liturgy, and 
doctrine of the Church of England. 
The Westminster Synod or Assembly 
of Divines derived its name from the 
locality in London where it held its 
sessions, and owed its origin to the 
eeelesiastieo-political conflict between 
the “Long Parliament” and king 
Charles 1, which resulted in the decap- 
itation of Charles, the protectorate of 
Purcell; of Pitt, Fox, Wilberforee, Grattan, Canning, Cromwell, and the events consequent on those, changes, 
and Peel — a multitude of the illustrious departed. This conflict was, in its religious aspects, a struggle of 


Westminster Abbey. 


Palmerston, Charles Dickens, Lytton, and Livingstone 
are among the latest of the glorious company. There 
are also memorials to Shakespeare, Milton, Goldsmith, 
Thackeray, John and Charles Wesley, and many others 
whose remains lie elsewhere. Some of the monuments, 
such as that to John, Duke of Argyll, are very impos- 
ing. The Abbey dlls a great place in the political and 
religious history of England. The Chapter-house was 
used for three centuries as the meeting -place of the 
House of Commons, and was thus the cradle of repre- 
sentative government, and the scene of the chief acts 
which laid the foundation of the civil and religious lib- 
erty of England. The Westminster Assembly of Di- 
vines sanctioned in the Abbey the Confession of Faith 
which is the recognised creed of the Presbyterian 
Church (1643-52), and the final alterations in the Book 
of Common Prayer were made by the bishops in the 
Jerusalem Chamber in 1662. Roman, Anglican, and 
Puritan theologians have in turn preached in these 
walls. In recent times, under the enlightened rule of 
Dean Stanley, the national character of the Abbey has 
been well maintained. Officially called the Collegiate 
Church of St. Peter, it is governed hv the dean, a 
chapter and eight prebendaries, and other officers. See 
Neale and Bray ley, History uml Antiquities of Abbey 
Church of St. Peter , Westminster (Loud. 1818, 2 voN.) ; 
Stanley, Historical Memorials of Westminster Abbey 
(ibid. 1876, 4to) ; Historical inscription of Westminster 
Abbey (1878), printed for the Vergers. 

Westminster (Assembly’s) Annotations. 
By this name is commonly designated a work bearing 
the title of Annotations upon all the Books of the Old 
and Xetc Testaments , by the Assembly of Divines (Loud. 
1651, 2 vols. fol.; 3d and best ed. 1657). ft was the 
conjoint work of several eminent ministers, but was in 


Puritanism or radical Protestantism against a semi- 
Romish Episcopal hierarchy and liturgy; in its political 
bearings, a contest for parliamentary privilege and pop- 
ular freedom against the monarchical absolutism of the 
Stuarts. The final result of the struggle was a consti- 
tutional monarchy and a moderate episcopacy, with an 
Edict of Toleration in favor of Protestant. Dissenters. 

After some unsuccessful attempts to obtain the sanc- 
tion of the king, a joint resolution of the houses of Par- 
liament was passed, June 12, 1643, which convoked a 
synod “for settling the government and liturgy of the 
Church of England, and for vindicating and clearing of 
the doctrine of said Church from false aspersions and 
interpretations,” and, furthermore, for bringing about a 
more perfect reformation in tbe Church than was ob- 
tained under Edward VI aucl Elizabeth, by which a 
closer union of sentiment with the Church of Scotland 
and the Reformed churches of the Continent might be 
secured. It was intended that it should include among 
its members adherents of all the chief parties among 
English-speaking Protestants, exeept the party of arch- 
bishop Laud, whose innovations ami despotic tendencies 
had been one main cause of the troubles in Church and 
State. Parliament appointed to membership in this 
synod 121 clergymen taken from the various shires of 
England, ten members of the House of Lords, and twen- 
ty of the Commons. The General Synod of Scotland, 
Aug. 19, 1643, elected five clergymen and three lay elders 
as commissioners to the Westminster Synod. These, it 
will he seen, were simply a committee raised by Parlia- 
ment and amenable to its authority. About twenty of 
the members originally summoned were clergymen of 
the Church of England, and several of them afterwards 
bishops; but few of the Episcopal members took their 
seats. The bishops of the English Church never ae- 


WESTMINSTER ASSEMBLY 90+ WESTMINSTER ASSEMBLY 


knowledged its claims, and the king forbade its sessions I 
under extreme penalties, June 22, It>13; but it neverthe- 
less became, if measured by the far-reaching conse- 
quences of its work, the most important synod held in 
the history of the Ko formed faith. The synod con- 
vened July l, 11)13, in Westminster Abbey, in the pres- 
ence of both houses of Parliament. < >n the opening of 
the Assembly sixtv-nine of the clerical members were 
in attendance, and at different times ninety -six of them 
were present, though the usual attendance ranged be- 
tween sixty and eighty. The great body of the mem- 
bers, both clerical and lay, were Presbyterians; ten or 
twelve were Independents or Congregationalists; and 
live or six styled themselves Krastians. Nearly or quite 
all were Calvinists. The purposes for which, according 
to the ordinance, the Assembly was convoked were, as 
above stated, to vindicate the doctrine of the Church 
of England, and to recommend such further reformation 
of her discipline, liturgy, and government as might “ be 
agreeable to God's holy word, and most apt to procure 
and preserve the peace of the Church at home, and 
nearer agreement with the Church of Scotland and oth- 
er Reformed churches abroad.” But when the Parlia- 
ment, feeling their need of Scottish aid, acceded to the 
Solemn League and Covenant, and urged the Scotch to 
send their deputies to the Assembly, its objects were ex- 
tended; and, in order to carry out the covenanted uni- 
formity. it was empowered to prepare a new confession 
of faith and catechism, as well as directories for public 
worship and Church government, which might be adopt- 
ed by all the churches represented. It retained to the 
last, however, its advisory character. The Church of 
Scotland threw all its influence in favor of strict Cal- 
vinism and Presbyterianism. Before electing delegates 
to the Westminster Assembly, in compliance with the 
request of Parliament, it adopted, Aug. 17, 1(U3, the so- 
called Solemn League and Covenant [see Covenant, 
Solemn League and], which bound the Scottish na- 
tion to the defence of the Reformed religion in Scotland, 
the furtherance of the Reformation in England and Ire- 
land in doctrine, worship. Church organization, and dis- 
cipline; the establishing of ecclesiastical and religious 
uniformity in the three realms; the extirpation of papa- 
cy and prelacy, of heresy and all ungodliness; and the 
support of all the rights of Parliament and of the right- 
ful authority of the king. This document was imme- 
diately transmitted to Parliament, and thence to the 
Westminster Assembly, and was formally endorsed by 
each of those bodies, but was condemned by the king. 
The Assembly sought to gain the fraternal sympathies 
of the Reformed churches on the Continent also, and to 
that end addressed to them circular letters which drew 
forth more or less favorable responses, and which the 
king endeavored to neutralize by issuing a manifesto in 
Latin and English, in which be denied the intention 
charged upon him of re-establishing the papacy in his 
realm. 

The opening sermon was preached by Dr. William 
Twisse, who had been chosen prolocutor, and immedi- 
ately thereafter the Assembly was constituted in the 
Chapel of Henry VII. The meetings continued to be 
held in this chapel till after the arrival of the Scottish 
commissioners, and were chiefly occupied with the re- 
vision of the first fifteen of the “Articles.” On Sept. 
15 four Scottish ministers and two lay assessors were, 
by a warrant from the Parliament, admitted to seats in 
the Assembly, but without votes, as commissioners from 
the Church of Scotland. The Solemn League and Cov- 
enant, binding the ecclesiastical bodies of the two na- 
tions into a union, had been passed in Scotland, Aug. 17, 
was subsequently accepted by the Westminster Assem- 
bly, and ordered by the English Parliament to be print- 
ed, Sept. 21, and subscribed Sept. 25, when the House 
of Commons, with the Scottish commissioners and the 
Westminster Assembly, met in the Church of St. Mar- 
garet, Westminster. The House of Lords took the 
“Covenant” Oct. 15. 


The manner of proceeding is thus described by Bail- 
lie, one of the Scotch commissioners: “ We meet every 
day of the week but Saturday. . . . Ordinarily there will 
be present about threescore of their divines. These are 
divided into three committees; in one whereof every 
man is a member. No man is excluded who pleases to 
come to anv of the three. Every committee, as the 
Parliament gives order in writing to take any purpose 
into consideration, takes a portion, and in their after- 
noon meeting prepares matters for the Assembly, sets 
down their mind in distinct propositions with texts of 
Scripture. After the prayer, Mr. Byfield, the scribe, 
reads the propositions and Scriptures, whereupon the 
Assembly debates in a most grave and orderly way. 
No man is called up to speak; but who stands up of his 
own accord, be speaks, so long as he will, without inter- 
ruption. . . . They harangue long and learnedly. They 
study the questions well beforehand, and prepare their 
speeches, but withal the men are exceedingly prompt 
and well-spoken. 1 do marvel at the very accurate and 
extemporal replies that rryinv of them usually make.” 

The. question of Church government occasioned the 
most difficulty, and seemed for a time impossible to be 
settled. Many of the most learned divines who were 
entirely on the side of Parliament were yet in favor of 
what, they termed primitive episcopacy, or the system 
in which the presbyters and their president governed 
the churches in common. Then there were the Scutch 
commissioners and the more radical Puritans who were 
at the opposite extreme; and. in order to reach a con- 
clusion, these differences must be reconciled. It was 
accomplished after much discussion and long delay by 
t lie adoption of the Presbyterian form of government. 

The subjects relating to the form of public worship 
and the statement of doctrines occasioned less difficulty. 
Early in I(>44 each of these was assigned to a small 
committee for the preparation of materials, after which 
they were to be brought first before the larger com- 
mittees and then before t he Assembly. The Directory 
for Public Worship was prepared in 1044. The ques- 
tion of Church tiocernment, so far as it referred to or- 
dination, was submitted to Parliament April 20, 1044, 
and ratilied by that body Oct. 2. the same year. This 
Directory was completed during the following year, but 
the printing of it was delayed till 1047. In 1045 to 
1040 the Confession of Faith was elaborated, and finally 
put into the shape in which it is still printed in Scot- 
land. The La refer Catechism was sent to the House of 
Commons Oct. 22, 1047; the Shorter Catechism , Nov. 
25, the same year. In the autumn of 1048 both houses 
of Parliament ordered the printing and publishing of 
the Shorter Catechism, but. the House of Lords was dis- 
continued before it bad acted on the Lnnjer Catechism. 

The other papers issued by the Assembly consisted 
only of admonitions to Parliament and the nation, con- 
troversial tracts, letters of foreign churches, etc. The 
last of the Scotch commissioners left the Assembly Nov. 
9, lf>47. On Feb. 22, 1049, after it bad held li(>3 sit- 
tings, lasting each from 9 o’clock A.M. to 2 P:M.. the 
Parliament, by an ordinance, changed what remained 
of the Assembly into a committee for trying and exam- 
ining ministers, and in this form it continued to hold 
weekly sittings until the dissolution of the “Long Par- 
liament," April 20, ll>53. 

A monthly day of fasting and prayer was regularly 
held in union with the houses of Parliament. In this 
time it. had framed and adopted a complete standard of 
doctrine, government, and worship for the Reformed 
churches of the three kingdoms. Its labors were ap- 
proved by Parliament, and their results elevated into 
laws of the State, though with certain modifications in 
the disciplinary arrangements, A perfeet execution of 
these decrees was, however, impossible, because a large 
number of the English people adhered to the Episcopal 
establishment and liturgy, and the great majority of 
Irishmen were of the Roman Oatholie faith. Scotland 
I alone gave them an unqualified obedience, which has 


WESTMINSTER CATECHISM 9G5 WESTMINSTER CONFESSION 


been continued almost intact down to the present day. 
From Scotland the Westminster standards were trans- 
mitted, with unimportant modifications of statement, 
to the different Presbyterian bodies of North America. 
After completing its labors, the synod was perpetuated 
in the character of a board of examination and ordina- 
tion until March 25. LG52, when the dissolution of Par- 
liament by Cromwell ended its existence, without any 
formal adjournment having been had. 

The official records of the Assembly arc supposed to 
have been lost in the great tire of London in 1666, 
though it is said that Dr. MeCrie, the younger, recov- 
ered a portion of them. Extensive private reports by 
members of the synod are yet extant, however, e. g. 
Li gilt foot’s Journal of the Proceedings of the Assembly 
of Divines (Lond. 1824), Robert Baillie’s Letters, and 
three manuscript volumes of Goodwin’s Notes. Claren- 
don’s History of the Puritan Rebellion is biassed and in- 
sufficient : but Neal’s History of the Puritans, pt. iii, ch. 
ii-x, has a very full and, upon the whole, trustworthy 
report. See also Ilethcrington, History of the West- 
minster Assembly of Divines (Edinb. 1843; N. Y. 1856) ; 
History of the Westminster Assembly of Divines (Presb. 
Board of Publ., Phila. 1841) ; Minutes of the Sessions of 
the Westminster Assembly of Divines (Edinb. 1874); 
Gillespie (IPorfo, vol. ii ), Notes of the Proceedings of 
the Assembly of Divines (ibid. 1844); Fuller, ChurcJi 
History, and Worthies of England ; Palmer, Noncon- 
formists' Memorial ; Price, History of Protestant Non- 
conformity ; Hetherington, History of the Church of 
Scotland; Reid, History of the Presbyterian Church in 
Ireland ; Stoughton, Ecclesiastical History of England; 
Rutherford, Letters ; Ilanbury, Historical Memorials of 
the Independents ; Brook, Lives of the Puritans ; Reed, 
Lives of the Westminster Divines ; Smith, Lives of Eng- 
lish and Scottish Divines ; Wood, A theme Oxonienses ; 
Marsden, Early and Later Puritans; MeCrie, Annals 
of English Presbytery ; Stanley, Memorials of Westmin- 
ster Abbey ; and Skeats, History of the Eree Churches 
of England. 

Westminster Catechism. These are two in 
number, the. Larger Catechism being designed for use 
in public worship, the Shorter for the instruction of the 
young. They are probably, next to the Heidelberg Cate- 
chism , the most widely circulated of Reformed catechisms, 
and differ from it in being more decidedly Calvinistic, and 
more logical in arrangement and intelligible in state- 
ment. The substance of the questions is steadily re- 
peated in the answers, and the use of the third person 
is maintained throughout. The Shorter Catechism is 
simply an abridgment of the Larger. 

Westminster Confession of Faith, that body 
of doctrines proposed by the Westminster Assembly, and 
adopted by Parliament in 1646 as the creed of the Eng- 
lish Church, and now the doctrinal basis of almost ail 
Presbyterian churches. A committee, consisting of 
about twentv-fivfe members, was appointed by the As- 
sembly “to prepare matter for a joint Confession of 
Faith” about Aug. 20, 1644. The matter was prepared, 
in part at least, by this committee, and the digesting of 
it into a formal draught was intrusted to a smaller com- 
mittee on May 12, 1645. The debating of the separate 
articles began July 7, 1645, and on the following day a 
committee of three (afterwards increased to live) was 
appointed to “take care of the wording of the Confes- 
sion” as the articles should be adopted in the Assembly. 
On July 16 the committee reported the heads of the 
Confession, and these were distributed to the three large 
committees to be elaborated and prepared for discussion. 
All were repeatedly read and debated in the most thor- 
ough manner possible in the Assembly. On Sept. 25, 
1646, a part of the Confession was finally passed, and on 
Dec. 4 the remainder received the sanction of the As- 
sembly, when the whole was presented to the Parlia- 
ment. That body ordered the printing of six hundred 
copies for the nse of members of Parliament and of the 


Assembly, and that Scripture proofs should be added to 
the Confession, which was accordingly done. In 1647 
the Confession was approved by the Church of Scotland 
in the form in which it had passed the Assembly, and 
it was ratified afterwards by the Scotch Parliament. 
It was passed bv the English Parliament in 1618, under 
the title of Articles of Christian Religion, but with cer- 
tain changes. The basis of the Confession is doubtless 
those Calvinistic articles which are supposed to have 
been prepared by Usher, and in 1615 were adopted by 
the convocation of the Irish Church. 

In the formation of this symbol the Assembly at first 
undertook to revise the Thirty-nine Articles of the An- 
glican Church, and proceeded with that work until fif- 
teen articles had been revamped with elements of a 
more pronounced Calvinistic character and provided 
with Scripture proofs. The only important change 
made in this process was the omission of Article VI II, 
concerning the authority of the three oecumenical sym- 
bols. The intention of the synod was to ground every 
statement directly on Scripture as the only rule of faith, 
while the Church of England, under Edward VI and 
Elizabeth, conceded to Catholic tradition, if not in con- 
flict with Scripture, a regulative authority. The Scot- 
tish commissioners, however, induced the Assembly to 
undertake the formation of an entirely new symbol. 

In the order and titles of many of its chapters, as well 
as in the language of whole sections or subdivisions of 
chapters, and in many single phrases occurring through- 
out the Confession, the Westminster divines seem to 
have followed the articles adopted by the Irish convo- 
cation. They very seldom determined points which 
that body had left open. Their purpose was to express 
their views in such a way as to obviate objections and 
secure union rather than division, lienee they intro- 
duced nothing into the Confession which had not been 
taught in England, Ireland, and Scotland before. 

The Confession, under the title of The Humble Advice 
of the Assembly of Divines, now by Authority of Parlia- 
, menf sitting at Westminster, concerning a Confession of 
Faith, etc., was printed in London in December, 1646, 
without proofs, and in May, 1647, with proofs, for the 
use of the houses of Parliament and the Assembly. A 
copy of this last edition was taken to Scotland by the 
commissioners, and from it three hundred copies were 
printed for the use of the General Assembly there. Af- 
ter being approved by that body, it was published in 
Scotland with the title of The Confession of Faith 
Agreed upon by the Assembly of Divines, etc., and while 
the Mouse of Commons were still considering it, a Lon- 
don bookseller brought it out under the same title in 
1648, In the same year it was, with the omission of 
parts of ch. xx and xxiv, and the whole of ch. xxx and 
xxxi, and with some minute verbal alterations, ap- 
proved by the two houses, and published under the title 
Articles of Christian Religion, Approved and Passed .by 
both Houses of Parliament after Advice had with the 
Assembly of Divines , etc. But, notwithstanding this 
legal sanction, the latter form is not common; and the 
Confession continues to be printed in Great Britain in 
the form in which it was drawn by the Assembly and 
approved by tbe Church of Scotland. 

The Confession ranks as one of the best Calvinistic 
symbols. It is clear, incisive, compressed, and provided 
throughout with Scripture proofs. It treats in thirty- 
three chapters of all the important doctrines of Chris- 
tianity, beginning with the Scriptures as the only rule 
of faith, and ending with the Last Judgment. It has 
almost entirely superseded the Confessio Scotica of 1560, 
and is in nse among the Presbyterian churches of Great 
Britain and its colonies, as ■well as of orthodox Congre- 
gationalists and Independents. In America the Confes- 
sion is received by all similar bodies, with the exception 
of Article III of ch.xxiii, which treats of the civil power, 
and is altered to conform to American conditions. 

For the doctrines of the Confession and their expo- 
sition, see Cunningham, Historical Theology (1862); 


WESTMINSTER DIRECTORY 906 


WESTON 


Hodge, Commentary on the Confession of Faith (18G9) ; 
Sliaw, Exposition of the Westminster Confession of Faith 
(1817); Stark, Westminster Confession (‘2d cd.Lond. 18(54). 

Westminster Directory for Tin: Pfblic Wor- 
ship of Gm> contains no formulas, but merely general 
directions for the guidance of the worship of the Church. 
Parliament substituted this Directory for the Anglican 
liturgy, but the latter was restored on the accession of 
Charles 11, and Scotland alone retained the Westminster. 

Westminster Form of Presbyterian Clinton 
Government axi> of Ordination of Ministers. 
The members of the synod were at lirst inclined, as 
a general thing, to content themselves with restoring 
apostolical or primitive simplicity in the Episcopal 
Church; but, after the arrival of the Scottish commis- 
sioners and the adoption of the Solemn League and Cov- 
enant , the synod became predominantly Presbyterian 
in its views. The Preshy terial constitution was recog- 
nised as originating with Christ and being the only 
scriptural form of Church organization. Toleration was 
opposed, and uniformity was strenuously insisted on. 
Liberty of conscience was stigmatized as the outgrowth 
of blameworthy indifference and betrayal of the truth. 
In these tenets the majority was zealously opposed, 
however, by the Independents led by I )r. Thomas Good- 
win, who insisted upon the divine right of each congre- 
gation to govern itself under the Word of God ; and by 
the Erastians, who wished to relegate the power to 
punish ecclesiastical as well as civil offences altogether 
to the secular authorities, and, in general, advocated the 
subordination of the Church to the State as the only 
trustworthy means for doing away with spiritual tyran- 
ny and also of obviating all conflict between Church 
and State. The leaders of the Erast ian party were the 
celebrated Orientalists and antiquarians Lightfoot and 
Selden, etc. When the Presbyterian party prevailed, 
the Independents and Erastians withdrew from the 
synod ; but Parliament adopted the Seotch-Presbyteri- 
an constitution with an Erast ian proviso, and with the 
declaration that it should be set aside if, after trial, its 
provisions should be found impracticable. The event 
proved that England was not ripe for such a Church 
organization. Independency and other forms of dis- 
sent conquered the Westminster Assembly and made 
an end of all its endeavors towards conformity. 

Weston, David, D.I)., a Baptist minister, was 
born in North Middleborough, Mass., Jan. 26, 1836. and 
was a graduate of Brown University in the class of 
1859, and of the Newton Theological Institution in the 
class of 1862. Soon after graduating he was ordained 
pastor of the Pleasant Street Baptist Church, Worces- 
ter, Mass., where lie remained nearly eight years, lie 
resigned on account of his health, and for two years 
was the principal of the Worcester Academy. For a 
short time he was pastor of the Central Baptist Church 
in Salem. Mass., from which place he removed to Ham- 
ilton, N. Y., having accepted an appointment as profess- 
or in Madison University. II is instruction was in ec- 
clesiastical history in the theological department, and 
civil history in the collegiate department. After a ser- 
vice of two years and a half, he died, Eel). 21, 1875. 
Dr. Weston published a revised and valuable edition 
of Backus’s History of the Baptists in New England '. 
(J. C. S.) 

Weston, Edward, D.D., an eminent Homan 
Catholic divine, was horn in London about the middle of 
the 16th century. He spent about five years at Oxford, 
studying in Lincoln College and in the private school 
of Dr, John Chase; studied subsequently six years at 
Home and some time at Hhcims: taught divinity at the 
latter place and at Douay from 1592 until about 1602; 
afterwards went on a mission to England, where he re- 
mained some time: returned to Douay in 1612; became 
canon of the collegiate Church of St. Mary at Bruges, 
in Flanders, in which capacity he continued until his 
death, in 1634. lie was the author of several works, 


among which are, Institutions de Triplici Hominis Of- 
Jicio,ex Xotione ipsius Xaturali, Morali.ac Theological 
(1602 ): — Triall of Christian Truth hy the Rules of the 
Yertues (Douay. 1614): — and Theatrum Yitve Civilis ac 
Sacr<r. etc, (1626). 

Weston, Hugo, an English divine of the 16th 
century, was a native of Lincolnshire, lie was educated 
at Baliol College, Oxford; became proctor of Oxford in 
1537, was rector of Lincoln College in 1537-38, elected 
Margaret professor of divinity in 1510, became rector 
of St. Botolpli’s in 1543, archdeacon of Cornwall in 1547, 
dean of Westminster in 1553, archdeacon of Colchester 
in the same year, dean of Windsor in 1550, was de- 
prived of his preferments by cardinal Pole for alleged 
immorality in 1557, and died in 1558. He was the au- 
thor of, O ratio coram Patrihus et Clero , .1 uno Primo 
Maria? (1553 ) : — Disputations with Cranmer, Ridley , and 
Latimer in the Divinity School , Oxford (1554). See Al- 
ii bone, Diet . of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. 

Weston, John Equality, a Baptist minister, 
was horn in Amherst, N. II., Oct. 13, 1796. He was 
licensed to preach in 1822, and in 1827 was ordained 
pastor of the Baptist Church in East Cambridge, a re- 
lation which continued until his death, July 2, 1831. 
In 1*19, in connection with Mr. True, he started the 
first Baptist newspaper in America, the Christian Watch- 
man. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , vi, 
713. 

Weston, John W., a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born near Easton, Mil., Jan. 1, 1839. He was 
converted in 1856; soon began preaching, and in 1862 
was received into the Philadelphia Conference, and in it 
worked with great zeal and fidelity. lie died in Wil- 
mington, Del., April 23, 1877. Mr. Weston was a good 
preacher, a skilful workman, and an upright man. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1878, p. 22. 

Weston, Stephen (1). an English prelate, was 
born at Farnborough, Berkshire, in 1(565. He was edu- 
cated at Eton and at King's College, Cambridge, where he 
graduated in 1086; became a fellow of both colleges; was 
for some time assistant and then umler-master of Eton 
School; became vicar of Maple-Durham, Oxfordshire; 
was collated to a stall in Ely in 1715; became arch- 
deacon of Cornwall; was consecrated bishop of Exeter 
Dec. 28. 1724; and died Jan. 16, 1741 or 1742. In 1749 
two volumes of his Sermons appeared, published by 
bishop Sherlock. See Chalmers, Blog. Diet . s. v. 

Weston, Stephen (2). an English clergyman 
and Oriental scholar, was born at Exeter in 1717. He 
was educated at Eton and at Exeter College, Oxford : 
became fellow of bis college, took orders in the Church 
of England, held the living of Mamhead (1777-90), that 
of Hempston, Devonshire (1786-90), and afterwards de- 
voted himself to Continental travel and literature, be- 
coming distinguished as a classical and Oriental schol- 
ar. lie died in London, Jan. 8, 1830. His published 
works include translations from the Chinese and Per- 
sian, Specimen of the Conformity of the European with 
the Oriental Languages (1802 ): — Fragments of Oriental 
Literature (1807 ) : — Sunday Lessons throughout the Year 
(1808-9) : — Specimen of a Chinese Dictionary (1812) : — 
A nnotations on Certain Passages in the Psalms , with 
Hebrew and Creek Titles (1824): — besides several works 
on travel. Sec (Bond.) Gentleman's Magazine , 1830, i, 
370. 

Weston, William, an English clergyman, was 
born about, 1700. lie graduated at St. John’s College, 
Cambridge, of which he became a fellow, and was many 
years rector of Campden, Gloucestershire, where he died 
in 1760. 1 Ie was the author of, Inquiry into the Rejection 

of the Christian Miracles by the Heathen (1746): — Dis- 
sertations on Some of the Most Remarkable Wonders of 
Antiquity (1748 ) : — Safety and Perpetuity of the British 
State (1759 ) : — Xew Dialogues of the Dead (1762) : — and 
other works. 


WESTPHAL 


9G7 WESTPHALIA, PEACE OF 


Westphal, Georg Christian Erhard, a Prot- 
estant theologian of Germany, was born in 1757 at 
Quedlinburg. He studied at delta and llalle. After 
completing his studies, he acted for some, time as pri- 
vate tutor. In 1775 he was appointed teacher at the 
Quedlinburg gymnasium, and in 1779 was called as 
second pastor to llalbcrstadt. In 1785 he went to Hal- 
le, was made member of consistory in 1805, and died 
Dec. 2, 1808. Besides a number of Sermons which he 
published, he translated the histories of Livy and Vale- 
rius Maximus into German. See During, Die deutschen 
Kanzelredner , p. 56G sq. (B. P.) 

Westphal, Joachim, a zealous and uncompro- 
mising Lutheran polemic and Flacianist, was born at 
Hamburg in 1510 or 1511. lie was educated at Wit- 
tenberg under Luther and Melancthon, and elsewhere, 
and after various vicissitudes settled, in 1541. as pastor 
in his native city. When the disputes consequent on 
the Leipsic Interim broke out, he united with Flaeius 
and his party, and published his first work, against 
Melancthon and Wittenberg, under the title llist. 17- 
tuli Aurei A arouis Fxod. xxxii, ad Nostra Tempora et 
Control'. Accommodata (Magdeb. 1549). A second work 
incident to the Adiaphoristic controversy, and discuss- 
ing the advisability of allowing the adiaphora as a less- 
er evil than rejecting them, issued from his pen in the 
following year, entitled Explicatio Generalis Sentential 
quod e duobus Mails Minus Eligendum sit, ex qua Qui - 
vis Eruditus Intelligere Potest quod, in Contror. de A di- 
aph. Sequendum aut Fugiendnm sit. In the Osiandrian 
disputes he was associated with Johann Acpin in the 
judgment returned by Hamburg, etc., theologians to 
duke Albert of Prussia on Osiander’s doctrine of justi- 
fication (Magdeb. 1553). It is also probable that in the 
Majoristic controversy he composed the harsh opinion 
of the Hamburg theologians respecting Major’s doctrine 
of the necessity of good works to salvation. His prin- 
cipal field of battle, however, was the sacramental dis- 
pute, in which he defended extreme Lutheran ortho- 
doxy against Swiss and Philippist latitndinarianism. 
Peter Martyr had denied the bodily presence of Christ 
in the elements of the Lord's supper, at Oxford, 1549, 
and Calvin and Farel avowed similar views in the Con- 
sensus Tigurensis of that year, issued by them in con- 
junction with the clergy of Zurich. An extract from 
Martyr’s lectures was soon aftenvards published (Tiguri, 
1552) by J. Wolphius, in which the editor claimed that 
Luther’s doctrine of the Lord’s supper had been thor- 
oughly destroyed. Westphal at once issued in reply, 
and aiso as an attack upon the Philippists, who agreed 
more nearly with the Sw'iss than the Lutheran view, a 
Farrago . . . Opinionum de Ciena Domini , etc. (Magdeb. 
1552). In 1553 he repeated the effort bv publishing 
Recta Fides de Ceena Domini ex Verbis Apostoli Pauli 
et Evangel, (ibid.). At this juncture Mary of England 
had expelled the congregation of French and Nether- 
landish exiles formed by John a Lasco in London, and 
they were seeking a refuge in North Germany, which 
was everywhere denied them. Westphal held a disputa- 
tion with Micronius, one of their preachers, and was ex- 
ceedingly zealous in opposing them. In 1554 he pub- 
lished a third book against the Iteformed doctrines of 
the sacrament under the title Collectanea Sentent. D. 
A urel. A ngustin. de Ceena Domini , etc., in which he tried 
to show that the Swiss view' has no support in the ut- 
terances of Augustine. This work, reinforced by in- 
dignation growing out of the author’s treatment of 
a Lasco and his Beformed adherents, drew out a reply 
from Calvin, under date of Nov. 28, 1554 ( Defensio Sa- 
uce et Orthodoxm Doctr. de Sacrament, etc.), which was 
written in a style of proud and haughty depreciation 
of the adversary it w r as designed to demolish. A rapid 
interchange of writings followed, in the course of which 
Lasco, Bui linger, and Beza became involved in the 
dispute. As a final effort to defeat his opponents, 
Westphal wrote to various churches in Lower Saxony 
to unite them in a league against the Switzers, and re- 


ceived from many of them statements of their belief, 
which he published under the title Confessio Fidei ck 
Eucharistiai Sacramento , etc. (Magdeb. 1557). The 
leaders of the strict Lutheran party, e. g. Breutius, An- 
dreii, Sehnepf, Paul von Eitzen, etc., also came to his 
support. After 1500 Westphal withdrew from the are- 
na of religious controversy. He acted as superintend- 
ent of Hamburg from 1502 to 1571, and in the latter 
year was appointed to that office. He died Jan. 10, 
1574. See the Corpus Reformatorum (ibid. 1840-42), ed. 
Bretscbneider, vol. vii, viii, ix ; Gieseler, Kircheugesvh. 
(Bonn, 1853), iii, 2, 1 ; Molier, Flensburg. Cimbria lAte- 
rata (Ilanau, 1744), p. 041-049; Herzog, Rtal-Encyklop. 
s. v. 

"Westphalia, Peace of (also known as the Peace 
of Munster). r l'his title designates the treaty which 
brought the Thirty Years’ War (q. v.) to a conclusion 
in 1048, and which was drawn up in the Westphalian 
cities of Minister and Osnaburg. The Peace of Prague, 
May 20 (30), 1035, concluded between the emperor Fer- 
dinand 11 and the elector John George of Saxony, was 
designed to extend amnesty to Protestants over the 
whole empire, excepting Bohemia, the Palatinate, and 
various individual princes and nobles (see the imperial 
patent of June 12, 1035) ; but these exceptions, and the 
successes of the Swedish armies, together with the di- 
rect intervention of France in the war, prevented the 
consummation of the proposed peace, ami constrained 
the emperor to convoke a general diet to meet at Katis- 
bon in 1840. A more important congress of deputies 
from the different contending powers was assembled, 
however, at about the same time in Hamburg, whose 
deliberations resulted in the signing of preliminaries of 
peace, Dec. 15 (25), 1041. The settling of these pre- 
liminaries was rendered difficult by the conflicting views 
of the French and Swedes, and the suspicions they en- 
tertained respecting each other; and the preliminaries 
themselves merely designated the 'places and dates for 
the holding of a definite peace convention, and deter- 
mined rules to be observed with respect to the safe-con- 
duct and powers of deputies. The sanction of the rep- 
resentatives of the empire and of the emperor himself 
to these arrangements was not obtained until 1044, and 
the proposed congress was delayed until April, 1045. 
The representatives of the emperor, the states of the 
empire, and the Swedes met at Osnaburg, and those 
of the emperor, the French, and other foreign powers 
at Minister. Each convention was to become a party 
to whatever decisions might be reached in either place, 
and neither convention was authorized to conclude a 
separate peace. The negotiations, which were protract- 
ed during more than three years, were greatly influenced, 
of course, hv the varying fortunes of the war, which was 
incessantly prosecuted ; but the Osnaburg convention 
succeeded in settling terms of peace, Aug. 8, and the 
Munster convention reached a like conclusion, Sept. 17, 
1048. '1 he treaty was then adopted and signed in a 

general assembly of both conventions, Oct. 14 (24), 1048. 
Spain and the United Netherlands had previously (Jan. 
20 [30], 1048) reached an agreement at Munster by 
which the independence of the latter country was rec- 
ognised and its league with Germany dissolved. 'Die 
independence of the Swiss Confederation, already pro- 
nounced by the Peace of Basle, Sept. 22, 1499, was con- 
firmed by the Treaty of Westphalia. 

The provisions of this peace belong to our field only 
in so far as they involve religious or ecclesiastical in- 
terests. In these respects they 

1. Ordain that the demands of France, Sweden, and 
Hesse-Cassel be satisfied. This confirmed the supremacy 
of France over the cities of Metz, Toni, and Verdun, and 
established it over Alsace and the principality of Ilagenau. 
Sweden obtained jurisdiction over Pomerania and the 
archbishopric of Bremen. These arrangements involved 
a transfer of ecclesiastical power also, though with cer- 
tain exceptions which were particularly specified. 

2. Compensate Brandenburg, Mecklenburg, and Bruns- 
wick-Luiusbnrg for territory lost by the arrangement made 


WETEXHALL 


968 


WETTE 


to satisfy France, etc., and thereby bring about similar 
ecclesiastical changes as are above described. 

3. Declare a general amnesty and restitution of ecclesi- 
astical property. The year 161S was agreed upon as the 
year to whose conditions a return should be made: but 
in the application of this rule important exceptions were 
made, by which the Roman Catholic party was benefited. 
A majority of the electors was secured to this party; a 
portion of the Palatinate was transferred to Bavaria in 
tiie same interest; and a somewhat similar disposition 
was made of Baden- Durlaeh. lu the hereditary states 
of Austria the amnesty was practically deprived of all ef- 
fect by the numerous clauses aud provisos with which it 
was hampered. Wiirteinberg, on the other hand, secured 
the return of all Church property of which it had been de- 
prived as a Protestant, state. Mecklenburg also, and a 
number of estates which had been excepted from the am- 
nesty of Prague, were benefited by the Treaty of West- 
phalia. A special provision ordered that the ecclesiasti- 
cal status of all adherents to the Augsburg Confession 
should be conformed to the conditions of 1024. 

4. Arrange for the removal of occasions for dispute 
between churches. To this end the treaty of Passau 
(1552) and the religions peace of Augsburg were ratified, 
adherents to the Reformed confessions were accorded 
equal recognition with Lutherans and Roman Catholics, 
and the rights of Protestants and Roman Catholics were 
placed upon an equal footing; the right to the posses- 
sion of church property was accorded to the party which 
held such property on Jan. 1, 1624; the traditional right 
of reformation within their own territories claimed by 
rulers was regulated, and also the status of persons who 
belonged to one Church while the government under 
which they lived adhered to another faith; and the lim- 
its of ecclesiastical jurisdiction were particularly defined. 

5. Do away with political abuses growing out of the 
preference previously accorded the Roman Catholic over 
the Protestant Church. The according of territorial sov- 
ereignty to the different rulers impaired the sumrnnni im- 
periam previously ascribed to the emperor, especially as 
similar rights and privileges were bestowed on the cities, 
etc.,t>ftheempire(“communitatihusetpagisimmediat.is”). 

6. Take measures for the execution of the treaty and the 
preservation of the peace. 

The emperor issued edicts designed to give effect to 
the treaty Now 7, 1648, and the parties to the treaty 
exchanged the documents involved in its consumma- 
tion Feb. 8, 1640. The leaders of the respective armies 
also had, since the close of 1648, conducted negotiations 
at Prague looking towards a realization of the peace, 
and this led to a congress at Nuremberg at which the 
three estates of the empire (electors, princes, and cities) 
were represented, and which passed, June 16, 1650, a 
general recess of execution. The papal legate, cardinal 
Fabius Chigi, had protested against the peace, Oct. 14 
and 26, and Innocent X followed with the bull Zelo 
Dorans Dei of Nov. 26, 1648. It is asserted that these 
protests were only designed to perform a duty which 
the pope owed to his position and his conscience, since 
they could under no circumstances exercise authorita- 
tive influence over the execution of the peace. 'Hie 
treaty was confirmed by the diet of 1654 and often af- 
terwards. Its execution was, as respects particulars, 
secured only through many disputes, and its provisions 
have often been violated; but it has preserved its au- 
thority in general down to the present day. 

The very copious literature may be found collected 
in the list of Pittter, in Literatur d. Staatsrechts , ii, 420 
sq., 4i)2 sq. ; iii, 60 sq. ; iv, 128 sq., 140 ; id. Geist d. west - 
phdl. Friedens , p. 77, ’a complement of Senckenberg, 
Durst, d. west phdl, Friedens (Frankfort- on - the- Main, 
1804); Woltmann, Gesch. d. west phdl, Friedens (Lcips. 
]K()x. 2 vols. 8vo). For sources see Meiern, .1 eta Pads 
Pub/ica, oder west phdl. Eriedensverhandlungen u. Ge- 
sch irhte (llano v. and Gbtt. 1734-36); id. Acta Pads 
Fxecut. Pnbfiea , etc. (Nuremb. 1736 sq.), and index to 
both collections; id. Acta Comitalia Ratisbon. A nnn 1654 
(1738 sq. ); id. Inst rumen fa Pads, etc. (Gdtt. 1738 fol.), 
preface; U rkunden d*r Friedensschliisse zn Munster u. 
Osnabriick, etc. (Zurich, 1848 ).— llerzog, Real- Ency- 
klop. s. v. 

Wetenhall (or Wettenhall), Edward, an Eng- 
lish clergyman, was horn at Lichfield in 1636. lie was 
educated at Cambridge and Oxford; became rector of 
Lincoln College, Oxford ; minister of Longeombc; can- 
on residentiary of Exeter in 1667 ; removed to Ireland 


in 1672; became bishop of Cork and Ross in 1678; was 
translated to Kilmore in 1693; and died in London in 
1713. lie published, Method and Order for Private 
Devotion (1666): — Scripture Authentic and Faith Cer- 
tain : — View of Our Lord's Passion (1710): — ami other 
works. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors , 
s. v. 

Wetherell, William, an English clergyman, was 
born in 1600, and became minister at Scituar.e in 1640, 
in which capacity he continued until his death in 1684. 

Wetherill, Samuel, a preacher of the Society of 
Free Quakers, was born at Burlington, N. J., in 1713, 
and removed to Philadelphia in early youth, where he 
spent the remainder of his life, lie was a prominent 
manufacturer of that city as well as a preacher, lie 
wrote, A n Apology for the Religious Society called Free 
Quakers: — a tract on the Divinity of Christ: — aiul other 
works. See Allibone, Diet . of Brit, and A mer. A uthors. 
s. v. 

Wetmore, Izrahiah, an American clergyman, 
was born in 1729. lie graduated at Yale College in 
1748; became minister at Huntington, Conn. ; and died 
in 1798. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. Au- 
thors, s. v. 

Wetmore, James, a Protestant Episcopal clergy- 
man, was graduated from Yale College in 1714. He 
was ordained the first Congregational minister in North 
Haven, Conn., in November, 1718, but in September, 
1722, declared in favor of the Church of England. He 
immediately went to England, obtained orders, and re- 
turned in 1723 as catechist and assistant to the Rev. 
William Vesev of New York. In 1726 he became rec- 
tor of the Church at live. N. Y., where he continued un- 
til his death, May 15, 1760. He published Quakerism 
a Judicial Infatuation, and other controversial works. 
See Sprague, A nnals of the A mer. Pulpit, v, 16. 

Wette, Wilhelm Martin Leiskkecht dk, an em- 
inent Herman theologian and critic, was born Jan. 12, 
1780, at Ulla, near Weimar, where his father, Job. Au- 
gustin, was pastor. He began his pursuit of learning 
at a time when German literature was in its highest 
glory, and in a region where its foremost representatives 
sojourned. In the school at Buttstiidt he was greatly 
embarrassed by lack of money. Thence he went to the 
gymnasium at Weimar, where Bottiger was rector and 
Herder ephorus. Ilis theological course was taken at 
Jena, where Griesbach, and still more Paulus, exercised 
a stimulating influence over him, and developed in him 
a taste for independent study of the Scriptures. 

De We tie’s earliest essay in literature was a critical 
dissertation on the book of Deuteronomy (Jena, 1805), 
and bis next, Contributions to Xew-Test. Introduction 
{Beit rage zur Einleitung in das N. T.). In these works 
De Wette abandoned the attempt to explain the mira- 
cles of Scripture as natural occurrences, and took the 
ground that they are mythical events. To establish 
this position he undertook to show that the historical 
books of the Bible are of much more recent origin than 
ecclesiastical tradition teaches; that especially the Pen- 
tateuch is composed of fragments, the earliest of which 
originated in the time of David, and the latest, the book 
of Deuteronomy itself, in the reign of Josiah; and that 
many persons were engaged in the compilation of these 
books. As J. S. Vater, of Halle, had just published sim- 
ilar opinions, De Wette was obliged to revise his book 
and delay its publication until 1806, when the first vol- 
ume of Beit rage in's Alte Test, appeared. The second 
volume appeared in 1807, and was remarkable for its 
development of the theory that the Chronicles are not 
drawn from the same source in which the books of 
Samuel and Kings originate; but that the writer of the 
Chronicles had made use of Samuel and Kings so far as 
they could serve his purpose, and had arbitrarily al- 
tered and made additions to them in the interests of 
the Levitieal hierarchy; and for Jhe manner in which 


WETTE 


9C9 


WETTE 


these conclusions are made to react upon the credibility 
of the Pentateuch, lie nevertheless persisted in main- 
taining the sacredness of the Scripture histories, even 
in their mythical form, and insisted that no miserable 
pragmatism should be allowed to destroy their saered- 
ness. lie declared truth to be the great law of history, 
and the love of truth to be the historian’s first qualifica- 
tion; but truth was for him an ideal, poetic abstraction, 
which had no place either in the rationalism or the su- 
pranaturalism of those days. II is views upon this sub- 
ject are given in the article Beitrdye zur Char aider istik 
des Ilebraismus , in the Studien which he edited in com- 
mon with Crenzer and Daub (1807). lie places himself 
on the side of those who believe in revealed religion, 
and regards Christ, as the true lledeemer and the cen- 
tral fact in revelation. 

In 1807 De \\ r ette became professor of theology at 
Heidelberg after having served as tutor at Jena, and 
having received the doctorate of philosophy. In 1811 
he published a commentary on the book of Psalms (edi- 
tions in 1823, 1829, and 1836), in which he denied the 
Davidic authorship of a number of psalms previously 
ascribed to David; applied the references made in cer- 
tain psalms, by the current exegesis, to the person of 
Christ to less distant historical events; and assigned a 
later date than was usually assumed to the Psalms gen- 
erally. He was himself constrained to feel that his 
work was not conducive to devotional effects, and sub- 
sequently modified many of its statements, besides writ- 
ing a supplement on the devotional exposition of Psalms 
(Heidelb. 1837). He demands a strictly scientific ex- 
position, and emphatically denounces all “play of pious 
ingenuity.” Christ is, in his view, not foretold as a his- 
torical personage in the Psalms, though many ideal de- 
scriptions are there furnished which may be utilized 
for Christological purposes. In 1811) he was called to 
the then newly founded University of Berlin, where 
Sehleiermacher became his colleague and his colaborer 
in the endeavor to secure a theology which might sat- 
isfy the demands of both faith and science, though they 
differed widely as respects the application of methods. 
Sehleiermacher insisted on a strict separation of philos- 
ophy from theology, yet persistently made use of phi- 
losophy; De Wette, on the other hand, proceeded from 
the theistie standpoint of Kant’s criticism, and also co- 
incided with Jacobi in his theory of the feelings in re- 
ligion. In methodology he wholly followed the philos- 
ophy of Fries. Knowledge and faith are by him sharp- 
ly distinguished from each other — the former being a 
matter of the understanding, and being concerned with 
finite things only. Infinite things are to be apprehend- 
ed by faith acting under the form of feeling (devotion, 
enthusiasm, resignation). The religious consciousness 
is accordingly a?sthetieal in character. The infinite is 
symbolically manifested in the finite, and the historical 
revelation must be conceived of, in consequence, as a 
symbol. This he held to be true of miracles also. 

De Wette’s critical labors, in this period of his life, 
extended beyond the limits of exegesis and reached 
over into systematic theology. In 1817 he published 
the Lehrbach der hist.-krii. Ehdeituny hi die kunon. ?/. 
apokryph. Bucher des Alien Test., which may be re- 
garded as the consummation of his critical progress. It 
passed through seven editions, and was rated by De 
Wette as the most finished of the productions of his 
pen. In 1826 the complementary Ehdeitvny in das Xeue 
Test, appeared (6tli ed. 1860). Earlier than both of these 
Introductions was his Lehrbuch der hebr.-jiid. Arch a- 
oloyie, etc. (Leips. 1 8 J 4, 1830, 1842); and earlier still the 
Commentatio de Morte Jesu Christi Expiaioria (1813). 
In this, his first book in doctrinal theology, he assailed 
the orthodox view of the aronement from a new direc- 
tion. He represented the death of Jesus as the una- 
voidable consequence of his moral action, and as unex- 
pected, but grandly met when it was at hand. The 
philosophical principles on which De Wette’s theolog- j 
ieal system was built are developed best of all in his 


little work Ueber Beliyion u. Theoloyie , etc. (Berlin, 1815 
and 1821). The first part of Ids book on Christian doc- 
trine appeared in 1813, and was devoted to Bible doc- 
trines and pervaded hv the principle of ,k historical de- 
velopment.” In 1816 he published part ii, on ecclesias- 
tical doctrines. In Bible doctrine he distinguished be- 
tween Hebraism and Judaism in the OldTtst., and the 
teaching of Jesus and the teaching of the apostles in 
the New. Church doctrine was not, to his thinking, a 
finished product, which could undergo no alteration and 
be developed no further; he saw in it simply a bond 
of union which binds together those who are members 
of the Church, but which deserves the attention of the 
theologian despite every advance that may be made. 
The presentation of Church doctrine, however, in these 
books, was simply that of the Lutheran Clmrch. The 
author’s own system was not given to the public until 
1846. In 1819 the Lehrbuch der ] foyviatik was followed 
by a Chrisiliclie Sittenhhre ( Christian Ethics) in two 
parts, the former of which contained the system of eth- 
ics, ami the latter the history of ethics. In this book 
De Wette turned aside from the beaten track, in that 
he did not regard Christian ethics as a mere aggrega- 
tion of moral prescriptions, but as a life having its root 
in a Christian disposition of the heart. His v iews in 
this field are still further exhibited in the article Kii- 
tische Vebersicht der A vsbildmiy der theoloy. Sittenhhre 
in der orange l.-luth. Kirch e seit Calixtus . in the Theoloy. 
Zeiischrift of 1819 and 1820 (edited by himself. Sclileier- 
macher, and Liicke). His published views upon this 
subject fairly relleeted his own theological character. 
He combined in himself most intimately the scientific 
and the practical ethical character. His whole being 
was enlisted in the endeavor to work a moral renova- 
tion of the German people, and a restoration, on a large 
scale, of a Christian community in the land. Unable 
to use the pulpit, he drew up a number of pamphlets 
and articles for periodicals (1815-19), which were very 
influential and became quite popular. This constant 
endeavor to introduce his ethical view's into the rela- 
tions of practical life brought upon him the censure of 
the government on the occasion when the Erlangen 
theological student Karl Sand, a member of the Jena 
Burschenschaft as well, startled the German world by 
assassinating the dramatist August von Kotzebue under 
the impulse of an enthusiastic patriotism (March 23, 
1819). Kotzebue had been strongly opposed to the 
sueeess of the liberal movement then being made. De 
Wette addressed to the mother of this misguided youth 
a paper in which he condemned the murder as illegal, 
immoral, and antagonistic to all moral law, but at the 
same time characterized the motives from which the 
action sprang as a most encouraging sign of the times; 
in explication of which idea he afterwards adduced Jean 
Paul’s judgment of Charlotte Cordav. In consequence 
of having written this letter he was, despite the inter- 
vention of the academical senate in his behalf, dismissed 
from his professorship by command of the king, Oct. 2, 
1819. He declined a sum of money offered him in com- 
pensation, and retired to Weimar to undertake an edi- 
tion of Luther’s writings ( Luther's Briefe, Sendschreiben 
mid Bcdenkeii), of which vol. i appeared in 1825, and the 
final volume (v) in 1828. A supplementary volume was 
published by Seidenmann in 3856. This was the first 
comprehensive and complete edition of Luther’s works 
ever published, and was of itself sufficient to earn for its 
author the fame of scholarship. In 1822 he published 
the didactic romance Theodor, oder des Zireiflers Weihe. 
to which Tholuck replied in 1823 with his Wahre Weihe 
des Zireiflers. 

In 1821 measures w r ere taken by St. Catharine’s 
Church in Brunswick to secure De Wette as its pastor: 
but, before the arrangement was completed, a call to 
the theological professorship of Basle was extended, 
which he accepted. Here he not only taught to the 
great satisfaction of students, but also lectured in weekly 
evening assemblies where the cultured people of the 


WETTE 


970 


WETTSTEIN 


place were his constant auditors. In this way he cov- 
ered a course of ethics, and another on the nature, man- 
ifestations, and iutluence of religion; both of which were 
published (Berlin, 1823 sq. and 1827). lie also gave 
himself steadily to pulpit labor, in which he had never 
regularly engaged during his earlier years, and published 
five volumes of sermons (1825-29), which were supple- 
mented by a sixth volume published after his death 
(1849). lie was, however, simply a teacher in the pul- 
pit— never an orator; and yet the pulpit reacted upon 
the lecture-room, and led him into the study of theoret- 
ical homiletics, the fruit of which appears in his val- 
uable work A ndentungen iiber Bildung u. Berufsthdtig- 
keit ( ler Geistlichen, etc. 1 le also attempted catechetical 
works, but without gaining the popular ear. 

During De Wettc’s stay at Basle the practical ele- 
ment in his character was more energetically developed, 
and introduced a noteworthy change in his religions 
life. He learned, in contact with di Herein people, to ap- 
preciate various forms of religious manifestation which 
iiad formerly repelled him, and his polemical tendency 
gave way to an ireuical disposition as his years ad- 
vanced. lie instituted a G riechenrerein in 1825, whose 
object, was the advancement of the moral and religious ! 
welfare of the newly liberated (J reeks, and aided in j 
the founding of a branch Gnstac- Adolf Yerein for; 
Switzerland {Protest ant. -kirchJ. Hiil/srerein). lie was 
charged, in consequence, with being a convert to eccle- 
siastical orthodoxy; but there is abundant evidence 
that he never changed the view's he had adopted in 
earlier life, lie persisted in advocating the utmost in- 
dependence in theological thinking, and in regarding 
religion as a life rather than a creed; but testified that 
he knew “that none other name under heaven is given 
among men whereby we must be saved but that of 
Jesus, the Crucified One.” In addition to his profes- 
sional employments, De Wette took an amateur inter- 
est in art. He did not condemn the drama as immoral, 
and had even published a drama of his own construc- 
tion (Berlin, 1823), though moral considerations pre- 
vented him from visiting the theatre. lie loved music 
and the formative arts, and impressed their importance 
on the thought of his students, lie wrote a second ro- 
mance, and published it in 1829 {Heinrich Melchthal, oder 
Bildung u. Gemeingeist [2 vols.]). A visit to Koine in 
the winter of 1840 was largely devoted to the study of 
ecclesiastical art, and gave birth to the attractive book 
Gednnken iiber Malerei n. Bankunst, besonders in kirchl. 
Beziehung (Berlin, 1840). 

De Wette’s chief occupation, however, was always 
theology, and his years at Basle were fruitful in theo- 
logical publications from his hand, lie thoroughly re- 
vised his version of the Bible, wrote the Einleitung in's 
X. 7’., constructed a mass of text-books and articles for 
periodicals, and crowned his exogetical labors especially 
with the Kurzgefasstes exeget. Uandb.znm X. T. (3 vols. 
in 11 pts. 1830-48). He possessed in an unusual meas- 
ure the power of condensed yet precise statement, and 
evinced it here as in all his works. This commentary 
was contemporary with Strauss’s Leben . lesu , and the 
author did not hesitate to avow, in his preface to Mat- 
thew, his sympathy with Strauss in that writer’s oppo- 
sition to old and new “ harmonisties,” and in his advo- 
cacy of an idealistic and symbolical interpretation of the 
miracles of Scripture, though he believed that Strauss had 
gone too far in giving up the historical Jesus. De Wette 
was twice invited hack to Germany, once to become 
pastor of St. Peter’s in Hamburg, ami again to accept a 
professorship at Jena, but declined to return thither. 
He died, afier a brief illness, June 16, 1849. His like- 
ness in oil by Diotter, and his bust by Schlbth, orna- 
ment the aula at Basle. 

Concerning De Wette’s life and works, see Hagen-, 
bach (for many years his colleague). Leichenrede (Basle, I 
1849), and A kadem. Geddchtnissrede ( Leips. 1850) ; Schen- 
kel (a pupil of De W.), De IT. n. d. Bedentung seiner The- 
ologie, etc. (Schafifhausen, 1849); Liieke, JJe IT., zur j 


f renndschaftl, Er inner ung (Hamb. 1850); Thdllden, in 
Xekrolog der Deutschen , 1849, p. 427 sq. ; Broekhaus, 
Conversutions-Lexikon , s. v. ; Biographic Unirerselle, s. v. 
With reference to his theology, see Baur, Kirchengesch . 
d. YMen Jahrhunderts (Tiib. 1802), p. 212 sq.; Kahnis, 
D. innere Gang d. deutsch . Protestantism ns (Leips. 1800). 
Kespecting De Wette’s merits as a critic and expositor, see 
the various introductions to Script lire, part icularly Bleek’s, 
and the commentaries. — Herzog. Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Wettengel, Fkiei>kuii Tuau(;ott, a Protestant 
theologian of Germany, was born Feb. 9, 1750, at Asch, 
in Bohemia, lie studied at Jena and Erlangen. In 
1775 he was appointed chaplain to the prince of Keuss, 
Heinrich XI ; in 1780 he was made court preacher, and in 
1792 superintendent. He died at Greitz, June 24, 1824. 
Of,, his writings we mention, Predigten iiber die Reden 
Jesn Christi am Kreuz (Erlangen, 1779) : — Bind « lie sym- 
bolischen Biicher ein Joch fur die freie evangelisch-lu - 
therische Kirche? ((Ireitz, 1790). .See During, Die 
gelehrten Theologen Deutschlands , iv, 710 sq. ; Winer, 
Ilandbnch der theol. Lit . i, 334, 494; ii, 388. (B. P.) 

Wettstein (often written Wetstein), Johann 
Rudolf (l), a learned Swiss theologian (sou of the state 
minister of the same name), was born at Basle, Jan. 5, 
1G14. He devoted himself chiefly to the classical lan- 
guages. Alter a short term as preacher at Basle, he 
became professor of rhetoric, and in 1037 of Greek, from 
which he passed in 1044 to the chair of logic, and again 
in 1050 to that, of theology, from which he was Anally 
transferred in 105G to the department of Xew-Test. in- 
terpretation. 1 1 e died Dec. 11, 1684, leaving several theo- 
logical works, for which see Iloefer, Xoui\ Biog . Gene- 
rale. s. v. 

Wettstein, Johann Rudolf (2), a Swiss theo- 
logian, son of the preceding, was born at Basle, Sept. I, 
1047, and died t here, April 24, 1711, as professor of the- 
ology (after 1085), leaving the following writings: 
Origenis Dud. c. Marcionit. Exhortatio ad Mart grin in, 
Responsio ad African! Epist. de Hist. Susanna Gr. et Lat. 
aim Xotis Edidit (Basle, 1074):— his Deputatio de Pro - 
phetis is published in Xor. Lit, l/elmst. (1702),p. 127. 
See Winer, Ilandbnch der theol. Lit. i, 899 ; Fiirst, Bib/. 
Jud. iii, 510 ; Iloefer, Xouc. Biog. Generate, s, v. (B. P.) 

Wettstein, Johann Jakob, a celebrated New- 
Test. critic, was born at Basle, March 5, 1093, the sec- 
ond in a family of thirteen children. His father was 
minister in St. Leonard’s Church, and his teachers were 
the younger Buxtorf, Samuel Werenfels, Iselin, Frey, 
etc. His attention was early turned upon the manu- 
scripts in the public library and t he comparison of cod- 
ices, and his earliest dissertation had for its subject De 
Yards X. T. Lectionibus. Travels to Geneva, Lyons, 
Paris, and England, in connection with which he visited 
all accessible libraries and made himself acquainted with 
all the more important manuscripts of the New Test., 
served to enlarge the range of his views, as did also asso- 
ciation with Montfaucon, La Kne, and Bentley. He 
obtained a chaplaincy in a Dutch regiment of Switzers 
through Bentley’s influence, but in 1717 returned to 
Basle and was made diaconns communis, and in 1720 
deacon of St. Leonard’s and assistant to his father. In 
this station he earned the reputation of an able preach- 
er and faithful pastor; hut study being his favorite oc- 
cupation, he read private lectures on exegesis and sys- 
tematic t heology before a class of young men, and gave 
, bis spare moments to the continued comparison of maim- 
I scripts in the library. He conceived in this period the 
idea of publishing a critical edition of the New Test. 
Iselin and Frey were at the same time studying the 
codices of the Basle Library for the purpose of aiding 
Bengel in the preparation of his Xew Test., and Wett- 
stein came into conflict with them respecting the age 
of the Basle Codex of the Gospels (E), which he be- 
lieved to be much lower than they would concede. 
This dispute soon became personal. Wettstein’s ortho- 
doxy had for some time been suspected. He w r as 


WETZEL 


971 WEXFORD, COUNCIL OF 


charged with holding Arian and Socinian errors, and 
to this fault were now added his alleged critical aberra- 
tions. II is preference of og to in 1 Tim. iii, Hi, on 
the ground that a careful examination of the Cod. Alex- 
andria had convinced him of its genuineness, was cred- 
ited to an alleged desire of depriving the doctrine of 
Christ’s deity of a proof. Complaints respecting his 
heterodoxy were expressed even in the Diet of the Con- 
federation, and ultimately a formal process of inquisition 
was inaugurated against him. Wettsteiu had taken the 
precaution, however, to send the manuscript of his New 
Teat, to Holland, and his assailants were accordingly 
compelled to substantiate their charges from the notes 
of his pupils, and from the memories of those who had 
heard him preach. lie was ultimately dismissed from 
his post, May 13, 1730. He found a new place at Am- 
sterdam, as successor to Clericus in the College of the Re- 
monstrants, and thenceforward made Holland his home. 
The Prolegomena to his New Test, had already been 
issued anonymously in 1730. In 1751-52 appeared the 
New Test, itself, the work of his life; but such was the 
timidity of the age that he was compelled to state the 
readings he preferred in foot-notes, and to give the re- 
ceived text in the body of his work, William Bowyer, 
of London, first published a New Test, with Wettstein’s 
improvements in 1703. It contained a wealth of vari- 
ous readings, numerous antiquarian remarks illustrative 
of the subject-matter, and parallel passages from classi- 
cal, ecclesiastical, and Ilabbinical writers, which made it 
a valuable aid both to exegesis and criticism. Wett- 
stein had appended to his New Test, two Syriac letters 
discovered by him and credited to Clemens Roman us, 
but whose genuineness has since been disproved (the 
letters to virgins] ). lie earned the reputation of having 
excelled all his predecessors in the industry and exact- 
ness with which he prosecuted the comparison of cod- 
ices, having personally examined about forty. To him 
we owe the designation of codices now current in the 
theological world, lie did not long outlive the publi- 
cation of his book, and died March 22, 1754. His col- 
league, Jacob Krighout, delivered a funeral discourse 
over his remains, which led to a dispute between himself 
and Frey, of Basle. Previous to his death. Wettsteiu 
had been made a member of academies of science in 
Berlin and London, and of the British Society for the 
Extension of Christianity. See .1 then. Rovr. p. 373 sq. ; 
Meister, ! I elect. Scenen el. nenern Sehtrarmerei u. Jntol- 
erunz (Zurich, 1785), p. 107 sq. : Ilagenbach, Wettsteiu 
...?/. seine Gegner. in Illgen’s Zeitschrift f. hist. Tkeol. 
1839, No. 1, p. 13; Herzog, Real-Eneyldop. s. v. 

Wetzel, Andreas, a Lutheran minister of Ger- 
many, was born Jan. 17, 1808, at Weil, in Wiirtemberg. 
He studied at Tubingen, and in 1831 he arrived in the 
United States. In Lewis County, N. V., he commenced 
bis ministerial labors with great success, looking at the 
same time after his coreligionists in Oneida Comity. 
In 1832 he also commenced preaching at Utica. In 
1844, the congregation organized there built a church — 
Zion’s Church — and in 1845 Mr. Wetzel left Verona, 
where he had resided, for Utica, where he labored until 
the year 1879, when bodily infirmities obliged him to 
retire from his office. He died Aug. 16, 1880. Mr. Wet- 
zel was highly honored in his ecclesiastical body, in 
which he held for a great many years the office of treas- 
urer. lie also promoted the cause of education within 
his own Church and the community in which he lived, 
and took an active part in all movements which tended 
to elevate the moral standard of the people. (B. 15) 

Wetzel (or Wezel), Johann Kaspar, a learned 
German writer, was born at Meiningen, Feb. 22, 1691, 
as the son of a poor shoemaker. He was educated at 
the expense of Bernard, the duke of Saxe-Meiningen, at 
Halle and Jena. After teaching awhile, he became sec- 
retary to a diplomate, and in that capacity visited Italy 
and Switzerland. He eventually taught again private- 
ly, and finally became preacher of the duchess-dowager 


(1724) and at Riimhild (1728), where he died, Aug. 6, 
1755, leaving several works, of which we mention, llym- 
nopceographia,odcr hist. Lebensbescltreibung eler beriihm- 
testen Liederdichter ( Herrnstadt, 1719-28, 4 pts.) : — 
Hymnologia Sacra (Nuremb. 1728) : — Jlymnologia Pas- 
sionalis (ibid. 1733) : — Hymnologia Polemica (Arnstadt, 
1735) : — A nalecta //ymnica,oder merk wiirdige Nachlcsen 
znr Liederfristorie (Gotha, 1751-55, 2 vols. ). See Du- 
ring, Die gelelu ten Theohgen Deutschlands, iv, 712 sq. ; 
IJoefer. A 'our. Jiiog. Gene rale, s. v. (B. P.) 

Wetzer, Heinrich Joseph, chief editor of the En- 
cyclopeedia of' Roman Catholic Theology, was bom in 
1801 at. Anzefahr, in Electoral Hesse. His early in- 
struction was obtained of pastor Kaiser, at Niederklein; 
thence he went to the Ptedagogium, and subsequently 
(1820) to the University of Marburg. Under Arnold’s 
and Hartmann’s tuition, he devoted himself especially 
to the study of the Hebrew and Arabic languages. In 
1823 be was at Tubingen, engaged in the study of Ori- 
ental languages, and in 1824 he received at Freiburg 
the doctorate of theology and canon law. He then vis- 
ited Paris, and prosecuted the study of Arabic and 
Persian under De Sacv, and of Syriac under Quatremere. 
While in Paris he published from an Arabic manuscript 
The History of the Coptic Christians down to the 14/4 
Century (1828), as written by a learned imaum of Egypt, 
accompanying the Arabic text with a Latin version. 
He had already published .4 Latin Treatise on the A ri- 
an Controversy , A . D. 325-350 (1827). In 1828 he be- 
came tutor and extraordinary professor, and in 1830 or- 
dinary professor, of Oriental philology at Freiburg. In 
1831 he married. He delivered interesting lectures on 
the grammar of the Hebrew and Arabic languages, and 
on t he interpretation of Scripture and introduction to 
the Old Test., etc. In 1840 he published, in connection 
with L. Van Ess, the Sulzbach edition of the Bible. In 
the internal disputes which agitated the University 
of Freiburg, he held strictly Roman Catholic ground. 
When in 1844 a motion was made in the Chambers of 
Baden to discontinue that institution of learning, he 
wrote an essay advocating its preservation. Ilis prin- 
cipal importance, however, grows out of the assent he 
gave to the plan of publishing a cyclopaedia of Roman 
Catholic theology, as conceived by the bookseller Her- 
der. He was given the direction of the work, and in- 
dustriously prosecuted it from 1846 until his death, in 
November. 1853. The work is thorougly Roman Cath- 
olic in tone and spirit, and has doubtless contributed 
greatly towards fixing the. tendency of that theology of 
late years in Germany. Its treatment of Protestantism, 
the institutions growing out of it, and the men connect- 
ed with it is naturally biassed ; but its polemics are never 
bitter or extreme. Significant are the brevity and su- 
perficial treatment accorded to Sailer (q. v.), and curious 
the mildness which Fenelon’s mystical quietism receives 
in the article “ Bossuet.” The immaculate conception 
of the Virgin is not at all approved of. though it was not 
yet a dogma of 1 1 le Church when the Encyclopedia ap- 
peared. The entire work, including Supplement, consists 
of 12 volumes (1847-1856). A complete Index facili- 
tates its use. A new edition is at this writing (1881) in 
course of publication. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s.v. 

Wexford, Council of (Concilium Wexfordiense). 
Wexford is a seaport town of Ireland, capital of Wex- 
ford County, on the right bank of the Slaney, where it 
expands into a harbor, sixty-four miles south-west of 
Dublin. An ecclesiastical council was held here in 1240 
by the bishop of Ferns, in which it was ruled how the 
debts of deceased curates should be paid. Clerks were 
forbidden to follow any kind of secular business. The 
infringers of ecclesiastical liberties, intruders into bene- 
fices, incendiaries, poisoners, false witnesses, etc., were 
excommunicated. Curates were forbidden to excom- 
municate their parishioners without the bishop’s sanc- 
tion. See Wilkins, Cone. i. 681 ; 31 ansi, Concil. (suppl.), 
ii, 1065. — Landon, Manual of Councils, p. 691. 


WEZEL 


972 


WIIALE 


Wezel. See Wktzku 

Whale, the rendering in the A. V. (besides k^toc, 
Matt, xii, 40) of two very closely related II eh. terms: 
•71, tan (or rather tamiim',a s a sing., Ezek. xxxii, 

*J; “ dragon,” xxix, .‘5 ; elsewhere as a plnr. and render- 
ed ‘-dragons" Job xxx, 21); Pda. xliv, 11); Isa. xiii, 22 ; 
xxxiv, 13; xxxv, 7; xiii, 20; Jer. ix, 11; x, 22; xiv, 
0; xlix, 33; li, 37), and “fiFl. tannm ' (Gen. b 21 ; ' ,ol) 
vii, 12; “serpent.” Exod. vii, 9, 10, 12; “ sea-monster,” 
Lam. iv, 3; elsewhere also “dragon,” Dent, xxxii. 33; 
Nell, ii, 13; Psa. lxxiv, 13; xei, 13; exlviii, 7; Isa. 
xxvii. 1 ; li, 9; Jer. li. 34). The texts where these are 
used in general present pictures of ruined cities and of 
desolation in the wilderness, rendering it difficult to de- 
termine what kind of creatures in particular are meant, 
except as may be inferred from other passages (Job 
xxx, 29: Psa. xliv, 19. 20; Isa. xiii, 22; xxxiv, 13; 
xxxv, 7; Jer. ix. 11; x,22; xlix, 33; li, 3d, 37). Where 
the term is associated with beasts or birds of the desert, 
it clearly indicates serpents of various species, both 
small and large (Isa. xliii, 20; Psa. xci, 13; also Exod. 
vi, 9-12), and in one passage a poisonous reptile is dis- 
tinctly referred to (Dent, xxxii, 33). See Sekpext. 
In Jer. xiv, C>, where wild asses snuffing up the wind 
are compared to dragons, the image will appear in its 
full strength, if we understand by dragons great boas 
and />#MoH-serpents, such as arc figured in the Pranies- 
tine mosaics. They were common in ancient times, 
and are still far from rare in the tropics of both conti- 
nents. Several of the species grow to an enormous 
size, and, during their periods of activity, are in the 
habit, of raising a considerable portion of their length 
into a vertical position, like pillars, ten or twelve feet 
high, in order to survey the vicinity above the sur- 
rounding hushes, while with open jaws they drink in a 
quantity of the current air. The same character exists 
in smaller serpents; but it is not obvious, unless when, 
threatening to strike, they stand on end nearly three- 
fourths of their length. Most, if not all, of these spe- 
cies are mute, or can utter only a hissing sound; and. 
although the maUi-pambu , the great rock -snake of 
Southern Asia, is said to wail in the night, no natural- 
ist has ever witnessed such a phenomenon, nor heard 
it asserted that any other boa, python, or erpeton had 
a real voice; but they hiss, and, like crocodiles, may 
utter sounds somewhat akin to howling, a fact that 
will sufficiently explain the passage in Micah (i, 8). 
When used in connection with rivers, the term proba- 
bly signifies the crocodile (Psa. lxxiv, 13; Isa. xxvii, 
1 ; li, 9; Ezek. xxix, 3; xxxii, 2), and when allusion is 
had to larger bodies of water, probably some of the ce- 
taceous mammalia (Gen. i, 21 ; Psa. exlviii, 7 ; Lam. iv, 
3). See Leviathan. The above interpretation is ac- 
cording to that of Bochart ( I/ieroz . ii, 429), who pro- 
poses always to read "piF in the sense of huge ser- 
pents; but others, following I’ah. Tanchum Micros., 
suggest a different etymology for the plur. forms C'SF 
and “pi FI (the isolated case of a sing, form -"‘IF. in 
Ezek. xxix, 3, being taken for a corrupt reading for 
“p2F, as in some MSS.), from the root *j3Fl, in the trop- 
ical sense of stretched out in running, and applied to 
the jackal , a swift animal, which answers well to the 
description where these forms occur, being a creature 
living in deserts (Psa. xliv, 19; Isa. xiii, 22; xxxiv, 
13; xxxv, 7 ; xliii, 20; Jer. ix. 11 ; x, 22; xiv, (i; xlix, 
33 ; li, 37 ), suckling its young (Lam. iv, 3), and uttering 
a wailing cry (Job xx. 29; Alii*, i, *S). The other pas- 
sages in which the forms, sing. “p3Fl. plur. C“’3“ 1 iFi, 
occur are thus left to be explained as before, namely, 
as signifying, (1) a great fish or sea-monster, e. g. a whale, 
shark, etc. (Gen. i. 21 ; Job vii, 12; Isa. xxvii, 1 ; Psa. 
exlviii. 7); (2) a serpent, either in general (Exod. vii, 
9-12; Dent, xxxii, 33; Psa. xei, 13), or specially a 
“dragon” (Jer, li, 34), or the crocodile (Psa. lxxiv, 13), 


put as a symbol of Egypt (Ezek. xxix, 3, according to 
the true reading; also xxxii, 2). Sec Dkauon. 

“In the passages where scales and feet arc mention- 
ed as belonging to tlieto/i, commentators have shown that 
the crocodile is intended, which then is synonymous 
with the leviathan; and they have endeavored also to 
demonstrate, where tannin draw the dugs to suckle 
their young, that seals are meant, although cetacea 
nourish theirs in a similar manner. It may be doubt- 
ed whether in most of the cases the poetical diction 
points absolutely to any specific animal, particularly 
as there is more force and grandeur in a generalized 
and collective image of the huge monsters of the deep, 
not inappropriately so called, than in the restriction to 
any one species, since all are in Gen. i, 20 made collect- 
ively subservient to the supremacy of man. But crit- 
icism is still more inappropriate when, not contented 
with pointing to some assumed species, it attempts to 
rationalize miraculous events by such arguments; as 
in the case of Jonah, where the fact of whales having 
a small gullet and not being found in the Mediterra- 
nean is adduced to prove that the huge fish 3^, dag, 
was not a cetacean, but a shark! Now, if the text be 
literally taken, the transaction is plainly miraculous, 
and no longer within the sphere of zoological discus- 
sion; and if it be allegorical, as some, we think, erro- 
neously assume, then, whether the prophet was saved 
by means of a kind of boat called dag. or it be a mys- 
tical account of initiation where the iieophite was de- 
tained three days in an ark or boat figuratively denom- 
inated a fish, or Celtic avanc , the transaction is equally 
indeterminate; and it assuredly would be derogating 
from the high dignity of the prophet’s mission to con- 
vert the event into a mere escape by boat or into a pa- 
gan legend such as Hercules, Bacchus, Jemshid, and 
other deified heroes of the remotest antiquity are fa- 
bled to have undergone, and which all the ancient mys- 
teries, including the Druidical, symbolized. It may be 
observed, besides, of cetaceous animals that, though less 
frequent in the Mediterranean than in the ocean, they 
are far from being unknown there. Joppa, now Jaffa, 
the very place whence Jonah set sail, displayed for ages 
in one of its pagan temples huge bones of a species of 
whale, which the legends of the place pretended were 
those of the dragon monster slain by Perseus, as rep- 
resented in the Arkite my thus of that hero and An- 
dromeda, and which remained in that spot till the con- 
quering Unmans carried them in triumph to the great 
city. Procopius mentions a huge sea-monster in the 
Propontis, taken during his prefecture of Constantino- 
ple, in the 30th year of Justinian (A. I). 502), after hav- 
ing destroyed vessels at certain intervals for more than 
fifty years. Rondoletius enumerates several whales 
stranded or taken on the coasts of the Mediterranean; 
these were most likely all areas , phgseters. or campe- 
dolios, i. e. toothed whales, as large anil more fierce 
than the mgsticetes, which have balein in the mouth, 
and at present very rarely make their way farther 
south than the Bay of Biscay; though in early times it 
is probable they visited the Mediterranean, since they 
have been seen within the tropics. In the Syrian seas, 
the Belgian pilgrim Lavaers, on his passage from Mal- 
ta to Palestine, incidentally mentions a * Tonynvisch,’ 
which lie further denominates an ‘oil-fish,’ longer than 
the vessel, leisurely swimming along, and which the 
seamen said prognosticated bad weather. Oil the isl- 
and of Zerbi, close to the African coast, the late Com- 
mander Davies, li.N., found the bones of a cachalot on 
the beach. Shaw mentions an orca more than sixty 
feet in length stranded at Algiers; and the late Ad- 
miral Boss Donelly saw one in the Mediterranean near 
the island of Alba ran. There are, besides, numeroiws 
sharks of the largest species in the seas of the Levant, 
and also in the Arabian Gulf and Bed Sea, as well as 
cetacea, of which Balana bitan is the largest in those 
seas, and two species of halicore or dugong , which are 


WIIATCOAT 


WHALE 973 


herbivorous animals, intermediate between whales and 
seals” (Kit to). 

“Much criticism has been expended on the script- 
ural account of Jonah being swallowed by a large fish; 
it lias been variously understood as a literal transaction, 
as an entire fiction or an allegory, as a poetical niythus 
or a parable. With regard to the remarks of those 
writers who ground their objections upon the denial of 
miracle, it is obvious that this is not the place for dis- 
cussion ; the question of Jonah in the fish’s belly will 
share the same fate as any other miracle recorded in 
the Old Test. (See Ilerttenstein, De Pisce qui Jojia/n 
Devoravit [Vitemb. 1705].) The reader will find in 
Rosenm idler’s Prolegomena several attempts by various 
writers to explain the scriptural narrative, none of 
which, however, have anything to recommend them, 
unless it be in some cases the ingenuity of the authors, 
such as, for instance, that of Godfrey Less, who sup- 
posed that the ‘ fish ’ was no animal at all, but a ship 
with the figure of a fish painted on the stern, into 
which Jonah was received after he had been cast out 
of his own vessel ! Equally curious is the explana- 
tion of G. 0. Anton, who endeavored to solve the diffi- 
culty by supposing that just as t he prophet was thrown 
into the water, the dead carcass of some large fish 
floated by, into the belly of which he contrived to 
get, and that thus he was drifted to the shore ! The 
opinion of Iiosenm tiller, that the whole account is found- 
ed on the Phoenician fable of Hercules devoured by a 
sea-monster sent by Neptune (Lvcophron, Cassand. 33), 
although sanctioned by Gesenius, Winer, Ewald, and 
other German writers, is opposed to all sound principles 
of Biblical exegesis. It w ill be our purpose to consider 
what portion of the occurrence partakes of a natural 
and what of a miraculous nature. In the first place, 
then, it is necessary to observe that the Greek word 
k^toq, used by Matthew, is not restricted in its mean- 
ing to ‘a whale.’ or any cetacean; like the Latin cete 
or cetus, it may denote any sea - monster, either *a 
whale,’ or ‘a shark,’ or a ‘seal,’ or * a tunny of enor- 
mous size ’ (see Athen. p. 303 b [ed. Dindorf] ; Odys. xii, 
07; iv, 440, 45*2, Lliad, xx, 147). Although two or 
three species of whale are found in the Mediterranean 
Sea, yet the ‘great, fish’ that swallowed t he prophet 
cannot properly be identified with any cetacean, for, al- 
though the sperm-whale ( Catodon macrocephalus ) has 
a gullet sufficiently large to admit the body of a man, 
yet it can hardly be the fish intended ; as the natural 
food of cetaceans consists of small animals, such as me- 
dusas and Crustacea. Nor, again, can we agree with 
bishop Jebb (> Sacred Literature , p. 178, 170) that the 
Koi\ia of the Greek Test, denotes the back portion of a 
whale’s month, in the cavity of which the prophet was 
concealed ; for the whole passage in Jonah is clearly op- 
posed to such an interpretation. The only fish, then, ca- 
pable of swallowing a man would be a large specimen of 
the white shark ( Carcluirias vulyaris), that dreaded en- 
emy of sailors, and the most voracious of the family of 
Squalhhe. This shark, which sometimes attains the 
length of thirty feet, is quite able to swallow- a man 
whole. Some commentators are sceptical on this point. 
It. would, however, be easy to quote passages from the 
writings of authors and travellers in proof of this as- 
sertion; we confine ourselves to two or three extracts. 
The shark ‘ has a large gullet, and in the belly of it are 
sometimes found the bodies of men half eaten ; some- 
times whole and entire ’ (Nature Displayed, iii, 140). 
But lest t be abbe Fluche should not be considered suf- 
ficient authority, we give a quotation from Mr. Couch’s 
recent publication, A History of the Fishes of the British 
Islands. Speaking of white sharks, this author, who 
has paid much attention to the habits of fish, states that 
‘ they usually cut asunder any object of considerable 
size and thus swallow it; but if they find a difficulty in 
doing this, there is no hesitation in passing into the 
stomach even what is of enormous bulk; and the for- 
mation of the jaws and throat reuder this a matter of 


but little difficulty.’ Ruyseh says that the whole body 
of a man in armor (loricatus) has been found in the 
stomach of a white shark; and Captain King, in his 
Survey of A ustralia, says he had caught one which could 
have swallowed a man with the greatest ease. Blu- 
menbach mentions that a whole horse has been found 
in a shark, and Captain Basil Ilall reports the taking 
of one in* which, besides other things, he found the 
whole skin of a buffalo which a short time before had 
been thrown overboard from his ship (i, 27). Dr. Baird, 
of the British Museum (Cyclop, of Nat. Sciences, p. 514), 
says that in the river llooghiy, below Calcutta, he had 
seen a white shark swallow a bullock’s head and horns 
entire, and he speaks also of a shark’s mouth being ‘suf- 
ficiently wide to receive the body of a man.’ Wherever, 
therefore the Tarshish, to which Jonah’s ship was bound, 
was situated, whether in Spain or in Cilicia or in Cey- 
lon, it is certain that the common white shark might 
have been seen on the voyage. The C. vulyaris is not 
uncommon in the Mediterranean; it occurs, as Forskal 
(. Descript . Animal, p. 20) assures us, in the Arabian Gulf, 
and is common also in the Indian Ocean. So far for the 
natural portion of the subject. But hoiv Jonah could 
have been swallowed whole unhurt, or how he could 
have existed for any time in the shark’s belly, it is im- 
possible to explain by simply natural causes. Certain- 
ly the preservation of Jonah in a fish’s belly is not more 
remarkable than that of the three children in the midst 
of Nebuchadnezzar’s ‘ burning fiery furnace.’ Natural- 
ists have recorded that sharks have the habit of throw- 
ing up again whole and alive the prev they have seized 
(see Couch’s Hist, of Fishes, i, 33). * I have heard,’ says 
Mr. Darwin, ‘ from Dr. Allen of Forres, that he has fre- 
quently found a Diodon floating alive and distended in 
the stomach of a shark; and that on several occasions 
he has known it eat its way out, not only through the 
coats of the stomach, but through the sides of the mon- 
ster, which has been thus killed’” (Smith). 

Whalley, Richard Chappi.e, D.D., a Church of 
England divine, was born in 1743. He received a su- 
perior education; displayed a passionate love for the 
fine arts in his youth ; travelled extensively in Italy; 
and finally returned home, given much to scepticism. 
He became converted, however, soon after, and took or- 
ders. He travelled in Europe in 1786; and on return- 
ing, in 1787, was ordained to the ministerial office at 
Horsington, where he continued to reside and officiate 
for thirteen years. Through the school of affliction, 
in the loss of his wife and child, his religious knowl- 
edge and character were deepened and perfected. lie 
died Nov. 17, 1816. See Christian Guardian, 1847, p. 1,49. 

Wharton, Charles II., D.IX, a Protestant Epis- 
copal clergyman, was born in Maryland, May 25, 1748. 
At the age of twelve he was sent to the English College 
of St. Omer’s, where he was educated a Roman Catholic. 
Little is know’ll from this till his ordination in 1772, 
except that, he was a teacher of mathematics for some 
time at Liege. In 1783 he returned to America; and in 
1785 w'as rector of Immanuel Church, Newcastle, Del. 
Subsequently he was connected with the Swedish Church 
at Wilmington. In 1798 he served St. Mary’s, Burling- 
ton, where he continued for upwards of thirty-five years, 
with great usefulness; and in 1801 he became president 
of Columbia College, N. Y. lie died July 23, 1833. See 
Sprague, A nnals of the A mer. Pulpit, v, 335. 

Whatcoat, Richard, a bishop of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Quinton, Gloucestershire. 
England, Feb. 23, 1736. He enjoyed the influences of 
an early religions education ; ivas converted Sept. 3, 
1758; and was immediately placed in official positions 
bv the society at Wednesbnry, wdiere he resided. In 
1769 he entered as a probationer into the itinerant con- 
nection of Wesleyan Methodist preachers, then under 
the superintendence of Mr. Wesley. He preached ex- 
tensively through England, Ireland, and the principality 
of Wales; and was selected by Mr. Wesley to aid in the 


WIIATCOAT 


974 


WIIATELY 


organization of the Methodist Episcopal Church in Amer- 
ica. lie was ordained in September, 1784, l>v dohn Wes- 
ley, assisted by Dr. Coke and Mr. Creighton, as deacon 
and elder; and, accompanying i)r. Coke, landed in Amer- 
ica Nov. 3, 1784. From the organization of our Church 
at the Christmas Conference until his election to the 
otHee of a bishop, lie discharged, with the exception of 
three years, the duties of presiding elder. “which, in 
those days especially, required labors and privations of 
no ordinary character, as both the districts and circuits 
were large, the people in general poor, and the calls for 
preaching numerous and often far apart.” At the Gen- 
eral Conference in May, 1800, such was the health of 
bishop Asbnry that he thought of resigning; but the 
Conference, in order to relieve him, elected bishop What- 
coat, he having a majority of four votes over Jesse Lee. 
Boehm, in his Reminiscences, says, “ 1 witnessed the ex- 
citement attending the different ballotings. The lirst, 
no election; the second, a tie; the third, Richard What- 
coat was elected.” 'l’lie same authority gives a mo- 
mentary view of the ordination Sabbath. “Sunday, 
the 18th, was a great day in Haiti more among the 
Methodists. The ordination sermon was preached by 
Rev. Thomas Coke, LL.D.. in Light Street Church. 
Crowds at an early hour thronged the temple. The 
doctor preached from Rev. ii, 8: ‘And unto the angel 
of t lie church in Smyrna write, These things saith the 
lirst. and the last, which was dead, and is alive,’ etc. 
After the sermon, which was adapted to the occasion, 
Richard Whatcoat was ordained a bishop in the Church 
of God by the imposition of the hands of Dr. Coke and 
bishop Asbnry, assisted by several elders. Never were 
holier hands laid upon a holier head. In those days 
we went ‘out into the highways and hedges and com- 
pelled them to come in.’ That afternoon Jesse Lee 
preached in the market-house, on Howard’s Hill, from 
John xvii, 3; ‘And this is life eternal, that they might 
know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom 
thou hast sent.’ 'Die Lord was there in a powerful 
manner; several were converted.” From the time of 
his election as bishop until he was disabled by sickness 
and debility, he travelled regularly through li is vast di- 
ocese, which extended over the entire continent, preach- 
ing almost every day to the people, visiting the animal 
conferences, sometimes in company with his venerable 
colleague, bishop Asbnry, and sometimes alone, discharg- 
ing his responsible duties with marked satisfaction to 
all concerned. In 1803 he met the Haiti more Confer- 
ence in company with bishop Asbnry, and at t lie ad- 
journment of Conference travelled through the eastern 
shore of Maryland towards Philadelphia. His last ser- 
mon was preached in Milford. Del.. on April 8. He had 
finished his sixth episcopal tour through the work af- 
ter his consecration,” says Dr. Plnebus, his biographer; 
“or near that ; and, after great suffering, he got an hon- 
orable discharge from t lie Captain of his salvation, and 
by his permission came in from his post which he had 
faithfully kept for fifty years.” lie took refuge at the 
home of senator Hassett, Dover, Del., where he died. “ in 
the full assurance of faith,” July 5, 1803. He was bur- 
ied under the altar of Wesley Chapel, in the outskirts 
of Dover. Bishop Asburv, some time after his death, 
visiting the place of his sepulture, preached his funeral 
sermon I ram 2 l'iin. iii, 10. In the course of his sermon 
he declared that such was his unabated charity, his ar- 
dent love to God and man, his patience and resignation 
amid the unavoidable ills of life, that lie always exem- 
plified the tempers and conduct of a most devoted ser- 
vant of God and of an exemplary Christian minister. 
Bishop Whatcoat was not a man of deep erudition nor 
extensive science; but lie was thoroughly acquainted 
with Wesleyan theology, and well versed in all the va- 
rying systems of divinity. As a preacher his discourses 
were plain, instructive, and highly spiritual. 11 is dis- 
tinguishing trait of diameter was a meekness and mod- 
esty of spirit which, united with a simplicity of inten- 
tion and gravity of deportment, commended him to all 


as a pattern worthy of their imitation. Laban Clark 
said of him, “I think I may safely say, if I ever knew 
one who came up to St. James’s description of a perfect 
man — one who bridled bis tongue and kept in subjec- 
tion his whole body — that man was bishop Whatcoat.” 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences. 1837, p. 145; Ste- 
vens, Hist, of the M. E. Church , ii, 157, 133, 138, 182, 
281, 205. 403; iii, 38, 75; iv. 34, 1 13. 130, 181, 283, 501 ; 
Hangs. Hist, of the M. E. Church, ii, 03, 184, 185; Hochm, 
Reminiscences, p. 35 ; Phoebus, Memoirs of Bishop What- 
coat, etc. (N. V. 1828), p. 101. (J. L. S.) 

Whately, Richard, D.D., an eminent Anglican 
prelate and writer, was born in Cavendish Square, Lou- 
don, in 1787. His father was the Rev. J. Whately, 
D.D., prebendary of Bristol Cathedral, and proprietor of 
Nonsuch Park, Suffolk, whose brother, Thomas Whatc- 
lv, the private secretary to lord Suffolk, was the author 
of Obsecrations on Modern Gardening, and Remarks on 
Some of the Characters of Shukspeure. 1 1 is mother was 
a daughter of W. Plummer. Esq., of Ware Park, in Hert- 
fordshire. lie was carefully educated, chiefly in pri- 
vate, at Nonsuch Park, and early entered Oriel College 
as a commoner, under the tutorship of Dr. 15. Copleston, 
t hen head of the college, and afterwards bishop of 
Llandafif (1773- 1849). From public lectures, private 
conversation, and personal study, Whately acquired a 
reputation as a sound thinker. II is active, ingenious, and 
fertile mind found scope in the university studies; and in 
the stir of ecclesiastical politics, then “sounding on their 
dim and perilous way” towards Tractarianism, he kept 
a heedful and safe course. At the Michaelmas term in 
1808 he graduated as A.B., taking a second-class in Ute- 
ris humnnioribus and in disciplinis mathematical et phy- 
sical, when the late Sir R. Peel went up from Christ 
Church and came but in both the only tirst-class man 
of his year. In 1810 Whately gained the chancellor’s 
(lord William Wyndham Grenville’s) prize of 4*20 for 
the best English essay on What are the arts in the cul- 
tivation of which the moderns hare been less successful 
than the ancients i In 1811 he was chosen one of the 
eighteen fellows of Oriel College, graduated as A.M. in 
1812, and then began to act as tutor in his college, in 
which office, by bis felicitous style of teaching, lie pro- 
duced more first-class graduates than any other tutor 
of his day. 

In 1818 Whately contributed his article on Logic to 
the Encyclopedia MetropoUtuna. To the same work 
lie also contributed the original outline of his Elements 
of Rhetoric. These writings were too important and 
useful to be kept shut up in the huge miscellany of 
learning in which they at first appeared, and were, on 
urgent demand, republished in 1825. The former, in 
which, as the late Prof. Spalding said, lie “has ex- 
pounded the Aristotelian or syllogistic logic with ad- 
mirable clearness and method, and illustrated it with 
characteristic sagacity,” was severely commented upon 
by Sir G. C. Lewis, by George Bent ham. nephew of the 
philosopher of Westminster, and notably by Sir W. 
Hamilton in bis paper (subsequently republished) in 
the Edinburgh Review for April, 1833. Even by these 
opponents it. is admitted that “a new life was suddenly 
communicated to the study” of logic bv the publica- 
tion of this work; and we may safely trust the decision 
of John S. Mill, that in it the student will find stated 
with philosophical precision, and explained with re- 
markable perspicuity, the whole of the common doc- 
trine of tlie “syllogism.” The latter work, that on 
Rhetoric, was immediately accepted as a text -book. 
De Quincey early acknowledged “the acuteness and 
originality which illuminate every part of the book.” 
and asserted that “in any elementary work it has not 
been our fortune to witness a rarer combination of ana- 
lytical acuteness with severity of judgment.” In 1819 
Whately issued anonymously his ingeniously grave log- 
ical satire on scepticism, entitled Historic Doubts Rein- 
tire. to the Existence of Napoleon Bonaparte. In 1822 
appeared his Hampton Lectures , on The Use and Abuse 


v 


WHATELY 


975 


WHEAT 


of Party Feeling in Religion. This subject is treated 
with delicacy, discrimination, and liberality, and the 
series has been frequently reissued. 

Meanwhile Whately became by marriage, in 1821, a 
member “not on the foundation” of Oriel. 1 1 is wife 
was a daughter of IVm. Pope, Esq., of Hillingdon, Mid- 
dlesex, a lady of talent, taste, accomplishments, and lit- 
erary capacity. Shortly after his marriage he accepted 
the rectorship of 1 lalesworth, with the vicarage of Ched- 
iston, deanery of Dunwieh, in the Ely thing Hundred 
of Suffolk. In 1825 Whately succeeded Peter Elmsley 
as principal of St. Alban’s llall. Ilis Logic and Rhet- 
oric were then republished as separate and independent 
works. In 1828 he published his Essays on Some of the 
Difficulties in the Writings of the Apostle Raul, which 
had been preceded by a series on & 'omc of the Peculiar- 
ities of the Christian Religion, and were succeeded by 
The Errors of Romanism having their Origin in Human 
Nature, etc. In 1880 his Thoughts on the Sabbath were 
issued by Mr. Fellowes, of Ludgate Ilill, himself a mis- 
cellaneous writer. This book was made the occasion 
of a prosecution for stamp-duty, to which all publications 
except books of piety and devotion were then liable. 
The publisher was fined <£20, and, on remonstrance that 
the book was within the protection of the statute anent 
‘•piety and devotion,” he was answered that it was 
rather the contrary, because Mr. Whately controverts 
the Mosaic law, and inculcates that wc may do just the 
same on Sabbaths as on other days.” Several series of 
Sermons, Charges, and Tracts were published in 1830, 
1883, and 1336. In 1831 earl Grey, then premier, pro- 
moted the logician, theologian, and politician of St. Al- 
ban’s Hall to the primacy of Ireland. The appointment 
was at first the occasion of much animadversion. Sus- 
picion was sown in the minds of the clergy, and dislike 
was shown in their conduct. But Whately’s honest 
impartiality disarmed hostility, and he soon gained the 
hearts of clergy and people. Bishop Copleston said, 
Whatclv “accepted the arduous station proposed to 
him purely, I believe, from public spirit and a sense 
of duty. Wealth and honor and title and power have 
no charm for him. He has great energy and intrepid- 
ity; a hardihood which sustains him against obloquy 
when he knows he is discharging a duty; and he is 
generous and disinterested almost to a fault. His en- 
larged views, his sincerity, and his freedom from preju- 
dice are more than a compensation for his want of con- 
ciliating manner.” The labors of the episcopate, great 
as they were, could not exhaust His power of work- 
ing. In 1828 he had composed a paper on Trans- 
portation, in which he argued against convict colonics, 
lie followed this up in 1832 with Thoughts on Secondary 
Punishments, and in 1834 with Remarks on Transporta- 
tion . In these he had “the distinguished honor,” says 
Henry lingers, “of being the first who treated the sub- 
ject comprehensively, or who succeeded in exciting any 
considerable degree of attention to it.” In the parlia- 
mentary report on this topic in 1838 nearly all the opin- 
ions of archbishop Whately were adopted, and the car- 
rying-out of his principles was recommended. The 
question of the treatment of criminals did not use up 
all his sympathies. The cause of national education 
was advocated hv him with force and pertinacity, and 
chiefly through his sagacity the national schools of Ire- 
land, under the commissioners of education, were placed 
on a workable and useful foundation. For these schools 
(in particular) he composed several treatises: among 
others, his able little work, Easy Lessons on Reasoning, 
as well as those on Money Matters : Morals ; Mind; 
ami British Constitution. Eor scholastic purposes, too, 
he wrote for the Society for Promoting Christian Knowl- 
edge his candid Lessons on the History of Religious 
Worship, and his simple yet effective Lessons on Chris- 
tian Evidences — the former of which has been trans- 
lated into French and Italian, and the latter not only 
into these two tongues, but also into Spanish, Swedish, 
German, Greek, and Hebrew. Explanations of the Bi- 


ble and Prayer-book and Lectures on Prayer may also 
be regarded as additions to the educational repertoire. 
During the years 1883-41 the Tracts for the Times 
were issued, and for some years after Tractarianism was 
active and infiuential ill the Church and in the univer- 
sity. The movement reached its crisis about 1843- 
45 in the withdrawal from the English communion of 
the author of Tract DU— Dr. J. f 1. Newman — and several 
others. Newman had been a friend of Whately’s, and 
bad “actually composed a considerable portion,” and 
was “the original author of several pages,” of Whately’s 
famous work on Logic “as it now stands.” Yet Wliate- 
. ly did not shrink from duty at the call of friendship, 
but produced, as occasion seemed to demand, his quiet, 
lucid, logical, and pithy Cautions for the Times, and 
with more special reference to the material doctrines 
and theories involved in the hurricane of controversy 
with which the Church was assailed, he issued in 1841 
a truly admirable work, 1'he Kingdom of Christ De- 
lineated. In his Charge in 1843 lie characterizes the 
prevailing opinions on subscription in a non-natural 
sense as “dangerous, disgraceful, and ruinous.” Cog- 
nate topics occupy his charge for 1844, entitled Thoughts 
on Church Government ; for 1846, on The Danger of 
Divisions within the Church ; for 1851, on Protective 
Measures on Behalf of the Established Church. The 
Maynooth question is reviewed in Refections on a, Grant 
to a Roman Catholic Seminary , a charge delivered in 
1845. On the failure of the potato crop in Ireland, he 
issued an Address to the Clergy and Other Members of 
the Established Church on the Use and Abuse of the Pres- 
ent Occasion for the Exercise of Benevolence ; and the 
same topic occupied him in 1848, when he gave a charge 
on The Right Use of National Afflictions. The Tracta- 
rian doctrine of regeneration called from him in 1850 a 
charge on Infant Baptism; and every subsequent year 
found him bolding himself abreast ot the tide of specu- 
lative or practical difficulty, and able to teach his clergy 
to “buffet it aside with hearts of controversy.” After 
the conference on Christian union, held at Liverpool in 
October, 1845, which resulted in the establishment of 
the Evangelical Alliance, Whately, early in 1846, issued 
Thoughts on the Proposed Evangelical Alliance, in which 
he expressed a fear that it would become an organized 
intolerance, or occasion a surrender of truth for the 
mere sake of an outward unity; and “condemned as 
schismatical” the setting-up, by persons engaged in the 
ministry, of “ extraneous combinations independently of 
their own Church authorities,” or the becoming members 
of those combinations when set up. He thus continued 
active in literature and public matters of importance 
until bis death, which occurred at Dublin, Oct. 8, 1863. 

Whately’s works not already noticed arc chietty the 
following: Introductory Lessons on the Studies of St. 
Paul's Epistles (184D): — Scripture Revelatiojis concern- 
ing Good and Evil Angels (1851): — English Synonyms 
( cod. ) : — Bacon's Essays, with A nnotations ( 1856 ) : — 
Lectures on /Some of the Parables (1850): — Lectures on 
Prayer (I860) : — Thoughts on the Proposed Revision of 
the Liturgy (eod.) : — A General 1 Lew of the Rise, Prog- 
ress, and Corruptions of Christianity (eod.) : — and Mis- 
cellaneous Lectures and Reviews (USOl). Since His death 
two volumes of Remains have appeared. His Life and 
Correspondence (1866, 2 vols.) lias been published by his 
daughter, Miss E. Jane Whately. See also Memoirs 
(18(54), by William J. Fitzpatrick. 

Wheat (!"Tjn, chit tali [for chintah] ; Chald. 

plur. chiuthi; airoi;), the well-known valuable 

cereal cultivated from the earliest times, occurs in va- 
rious passages of Scripture (Ileb.Gen. xxx, 14; Exod.ix, 
32; xxix,2; xxxiv,22; Deut.viii,8; xxxii, 14 ; Judg. 
vi, 11; xv, I; Until ii, 23; 1 Sam. vi, 13; xii, 17; 2 
Sam. iv, 6; xvii, 2<S; 1 Kings v, 11; 1 Chron. xxi, 20, 
23; 2 Chron. ii, 10, 15; xxvii, 5; Job xxxi, 40; Psa. 
lxxxi, 16; cxlvii, 14; Cant, vii, 2; Isa. xxviii, 25 ; Jer. 
xii, 13; xli, 8; Ezck. iv, *J; xxvii, 17; xlv, 13; Joel i, 


WHEAT 


WHEAT 


070 


11 ; Ch aid. Ezra vi, 0; vii, 22; Greek Matt, iii, 12; 
xiii, 25, 21), 3U ; Mark iv, 28 [“corn”]; Luke iii, 17; 
xvi, 7 : xxii, 31 ; John xii, 24; Acts vii, 12 [“corn”]; 
xxvii,38 ; 1 Cor. xv, 37 ; liev. vi, 0 ; xviii, 13 ; also Ju- 
dith iii, 3; Ecelus. xxxix, 20). In the A. A . the Ileb. 
words bar (“13 or *2, Jer. xxiii, 28; Joel ii, 24; Amos 
v, 1 1 ; viii, 5, 6), dagdn ('JJ'J, Numb, xviii, 12 ; Jer. xxxi, 
12), rip both Crow xxvii, 22), are occasionally 

translated “ wheat but there is no doubt that the prop- 
er name of this cereal, as distinguished from “ barley,” 
“ spelt,” etc., is chittnh Chald. *pI23n, dilutin'). 

As to the former Hebrew terms, see under Cohn. There 
can be no doubt that diittdh , by some written chittha , 
chetteth. dietch, etc., is correctly translated wheat,” from 
its close resemblance to the Arabic, as well to the names 
of wheat in other languages. Celsius says, “ ni:n, 
chittha , occultato 3 in puncto dagesch, pro HI33n, chintha , 
dieitur ex usu Ebneorum.” This brings it still nearer 
to the Arabic name of wheat, which in lioman charac- 
ters is variously written, hint eh, hinthe, henta, and by 
Pempliiis, in his translation of Avicenna, hhinttha ; and 
under this name it is described by the Arabic authors 
on Materia Medica. As the Arabic ha is in many words 
converted into kha, it is evident that the Hebrew and 
Arabic names of wheat are the same, especially as the 
Hebrew n has the guttural sound. Different deriva- 
tions have been given of the word diittdh: by Celsius 
it is derived from “ 333n, chanat, protulit, produxit,/rwc- 
tum, ex Cant, ii, 13;” or the Arabic “chanat, rubuit, quod 
triticum rubello sit colore” ( Hierobot . ii, 113), The 
translator of the Biblical Botany of Iiosenmuller justly 
observes that “the similarity in sound between the He- 
brew word diittdh and the English wheat is obvious. 
He it remembered that the ch here is identical in sound 
with the Gaelic guttural, or the Spanish X. It is fur- 
ther remarkable that the Hebrew term is etymologically 
cognate with the words for wheat used by every one of 
the Teutonic and Scandinavian nations (thus we have 
in Icelandic, heeiti; Danish, hvede; Swedish, heete; Ma?- 
so-Goth. hwaite ; German, 1 1 r eizen ) ; and that, in this in- 
stance, there is no resemblance between the Scandina- 
vian and Teutonic terms, and the Greek, Latin, and Sla- 
vonic (lor the Greek word is ttuj out;; the Latin, f rumen- 
turn or triticum: the 1 Jussi an, psienitsu; Polish,/;szc/ric«); 
and yet the general resemblance between the Slavonic, 
the Thracian, and the Gothic languages is so strong that 
110 philologist now doubts their identity of origin n {loc. 
cit. p. 75). Kosenmiiller further remarks that in Egypt 
and in Barbary kamidi is the usual name for wheat (quot- 
ing Descrip, de l' Egypt e. xix, 45 ; Host, .1 ecount of Ma r o- 
ko ami Fez. p. 309) ; and also that in Hebrew, fV2p, ke- 
vmch , denotes the flour of wheat (Gen. xviii, G; Numb, 
v, 15). This, it is curious to observe, is not very unlike 
the Indian name of wheat, kimuk. All these names in- 
dicate communication between the nations of antiquity, 
as well as point to a common origin of wheat. Thus 
in his Himalayan Botany, Dr. J. F. Hovle has stated: 
“Wheat, having been one of the earliest -cultivated 
grains, is most probably of Asiatic origin, as no doubt 
Asia was the earliest -civilized as well as the first- 
peopled country. It is known to the Arabs under the 
name of hint eh ; to the Persians as gundy m; Hindu, 
gehun and kumik. The species of barley cultivated in 
the plains of India, and known by the Hindu and Per- 
sian name juo, Arabic diair, is Houmd hexaer. dichum. 
As both wheat and barley are cultivated in the plains 
of India in the winter months, where none of the spe- 
cies of these genera are indigenous, it is probable that 
both have been introduced into India from the north, 
that is. from the Persian, and perhaps from the Tarta- 
rian region, where these and other species of barley are 
most successfully and abundantly cultivated” (p. 4111). 
Different species of wheat were no doubt cultivated bv 


the ancients, as Triticum compositum in Egypt, T. icsti- 
vum , T. hibernum in Syria, etc.; but both barley and 
wheat are too well known to require further illustration 
in this place. — lvitto. 

Much has been written on the subject of the origin 
of wheat, and the question appears to be still undecided. 
It is said that the Triticum rulgare has been found wild 
in some parts of Persia and Siberia, apparently removed 
from the influence of cultivation ( English Cyclop, s. v. 
“Triticum”). Again, from the experiments ofM. Esprit 
Fabre of Agde, it would seem that the numerous varie- 
ties of cultivated wheat are merely improved transfor- 
mations of .Egilops ovata ( Journal of the Royal Ag- 
ricult. Soc. No. 33, p. 167-180). M. Fabre’s experi- 
ments, however, have not been deemed conclusive by 
some botanists (see an interesting paper by the late 
Prof. Ilenfrey in No. 41 of the Journal quoted above). 
Egypt in ancient, times was celebrated for the growth 
of its wheat. The best quality, according to Pliny 
(A T at. Hist, xviii, 7), w T as grown in the Thebaid ; it was 
all bearded; and the same varieties, Wilkinson w'rites 
(Awe. Egypt, [ed. 1854], ii, 30), “ existed in ancient as in 
modern times, among which may be mentioned the sev- 
en-eared quality described in Pharaoh's dream” (Gen. 
xli, 22). This is the so-called mummy-wheat, which, 
it has been said, has germinated after the lapse of thou- 
sands of years; but it is now known that the whole 
thing was a fraud. Babvlouia was also noted for the 
excellence of its wheat and other cereals. “In grain,” 
says Herodotus (i, 103), “it will yield commonly tw T o- 
hundredfold, and at its greatest production as much as 
three-hundredfold. The blades of the wheat and bar- 
ley plants are often four fingers broad.” Hut this is a 
great exaggeration (see also Theophrastus, Hist. Plant. 
viii, 7). Modern writers, as C’hesnev and Kiel), bear tes- 
timony to the great fertility of Mesopotamia. Syria and 
Palestine produced 
wheat of fine quali- 
ty and in large quan- 
tities (Psa. cxlvii, 

14; lxxxi, IG, etc.). 

There appear to be 
two or three kinds 
of wheat at present 
grown in Palestine 
—the Triticum vul- 
ga re ( va r. h ibern u m). 
the T. spelt a [see 
Bye], and another 
variety of bearded 
wheat which ap- 
pears to be t he same 
ns the Egyptian 
kind, the T.eompo- 
sitnm. In the par- 
able of the sower, 
our Lord alludes to 
grains of wheat 
which in good 
ground produce a 
hundredfold (Matt, 
xiii, 8). “The re- 
turn of a hundred for 
one,” says Trench, 

“is not unheard of 
in the East, though 
always mentioned 
ns something ex- 
traordinary.” La- 
horde says, “ There 
is to be found at 
Kerek a species of 
h 11 nd r e d w heat 
which justifies the 
text of the Bible 
against the charges Egyptian Wheat ( Triticum compusi - 
of exaggeration of turn). 



WIIEATON 


977 


WHEEL 


which it has been the object.” The common Triti- 
cum vulgare will sometimes produce one hundred grains 
in the ear. Wheat is reaped towards the end of April, 
in May, and in June, according to the differences of 
soil and position. It was sown either broadcast, and 
then ploughed in or trampled in by cattle (Isa. xxxii, 
20), or in rows, if we rightly understand Isa. xxviii, 
25, which seems to imply that the seeds were plant - 
ed apart in order to insure larger and fuller ears. The 
wheat was put into the ground in the winter, and 
some time after the barley. In the Egyptian plague 
of hail, consequently, the barley suffered, but the wheat 
had not appeared, and so escaped injury. Wheat 
was ground into flour. The finest qualities were ex- 
pressed by the term “fat of kidneys of wheat” (22H 
rrjn rvpbs, Deut. xxxii, 14). Unripe ears are some- 
times cut off from the stalks, roasted in an oven, mashed 
and boiled, and eaten by the modern Egyptians (Sou- 
nini, Travels). Itosenmuller ( Botany of the Bible, p. 80), 
with good reason, conjectures that this dish, which the 
Arabs eall ferik, is the same as the geres carmel 
b^H3) of Lev. ii, 14 and 2 Kings iv, 42. The Heb. 
word kali Lev. ii, 14) denotes, it is probable, 

7'oasted ears of corn, still used as food in the East. An 
“ear of corn” was called shibboleth (rbsd), the word 
which betrayed the Ephraimites (Judg. xii, 1,0), who 
were unable to give the sound of sh. The curious ex- 
pression in Prov. xxvii, 22, “Though thou shouldst bray 
a fool in a mortar among wheat with a pestle, yet will 
not his foolishness depart from him,” appears to point 
to the custom of mixing the grains of inferior eereals 
with wheat; the meaning will then be, “Let a fool be 
ever so much in the company of wise men, yet he will 
continue a fool.” Maurer ( Comment . loe. cit.) simply 
explains the passage thus: “Quomodoeunque traeta- 
veris stultum non patieturse emendari.” — Smith. See 
Cereals. 

Wheat was known to the Israelites in Egypt (Exod. 
ix, 32), and on returning to Canaan they no doubt found 
it still cultivated as in the days of Reu- 
ben (Gen. xxx, 14). Most probably they 
were the same sorts which were used in 
both countries; but there were only a few 
districts of Palestine, such as the plain of 
Jezreel, which could compete with that 
magnificent “carse,” the delta of Egypt, 
the finest corn country of the ancient 
world. At present the wheat crops of 
Palestine “are very poor and light, and 
would disgust an English farmer. One 
may ride and walk through the standing 
corn without the slightest objection made 
or harm done. No wonder it is thin, 
when white crops are raised from the 
same soil year after year, and no sort of 
manure put into the ground” (Tristram, 

Travels , p. 591 ). — Fairbairn. See Agri- 
culture. 

Wheaton, Nathaniel S., D.D., a 
clergyman of the Protestant Episcopal 
Church, was born at Washington, Conn., 

Aug. 20, 1792. His preparatory educa- 
tion was acquired at the Episcopal Acad- 
emy of Cheshire, Conn.; he graduated at 
Yale College in 1814; was ordained dea- 
con and priest in 1817; was pastor in 
Anne Arundel, Prince George, and Mont- 
gomery counties, Md.; in 1818 became 
rector of Christ Church, Hartford, Conn., 
remaining twelve years; in 183L became 
president of Trinity (then Washington) 

College, which office he filled until 1837 ; 
in that year became rector of Christ 
Church, New Orleans, continuing in that 
X.-Q q o 


position for seven years; in 1844 visited Europe, and 
on his return published his travels in two volumes. 
He was a scholar of varied learning. His benefactions 
to various scientific, philanthropic, and religious objects 
were large, and his bequests to Trinity College amounted 
to about twenty thousand dollars. lie died at Marble- 
dale, Conn., March 18, 1802. See A mer. Quar. Church 
Review, 1802, p. 734. 

Wheel (usually and properly [of a carriage] 
ophda , which is invariably so rendered ; sometimes 
[of any circular object] g algal, Psa. lxxxiii, 13 ; 

Eeeles. xii, 0 ; Isa. xvii, 13 ; Jer. xlvii, 3 ; Ezek. x, 2, 
G, 13; xxiii, 24; xxvi, 10; “heaven,” Psa. lxxvii, 18; 
Dan. vii, 9; “rolling thing,” Isa. xvii, 13; or iaia, 
gilgdl, Isa. xxviii, 28; occasionally C^E, pa am, Judg. 
v, 28, a step, as often elsewhere; obndgim , 

Jer. xviii, 3, of a potter’s wheel). We find that the 
wheels under the brazen laver in Solomon’s Temple 
were east; they are thus described by the sacred his- 
torian : “And the work of the wheels was like the work 
of a chariot-wheel: their axlctrees, and their naves, and 
their felloes, and their spokes were all molten” (1 Kings 
vii, 33). This is illustrated by the Egyptian chariots. 
A wheel has been found by Dr. Abbott of a curious con- 
struction, having a wooden tire to the felloe, and an inner 
circle, probably of metal, which passed through and con- 
nected its spokes a short distance from the nave (A, A). 
The diameter of the wheel was about three feet one 
| inch. The felloe was in six pieces, the end of one over- 
lapping the other. The tire was fastened to it by 
bands of raw hide passing through long, narrow holes 
(B, B) made to receive them (Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt, i, 
382). Among the ancient Assyrians the wheels orig- 
inally had six spokes, and the felloes consisted of four 
pieces. They appear to have been thicker and more 
solid than those of the Egyptians (Layard, Nineveh , ii, 
270). Later the wheel had eight and" not six spokes, 
and was apparently strengthened by four pieces of met- 
i al which bound the felloes (ibid. p. 271). See Chariot. 



Ancient Egyptian Chariot-wheel. 


WIIEELEF 


078 


WHELAN 


Wheeler, Daniel, a distinguished member of the 
Society of Friends, was born in London, England, Nov. 
27, 1771. Early in life be served in both the navy and 
the army. Having become a Christian, when not far 
from twenty-live years of age, he joined the Society of 
Friends. Some years after this, he abandoned a very 
lucrative part of the business in which he was engaged, 
that he might devote himself to the work to which, by 
the Spirit of God, he believed himself called. lie be- 
came an accredited minister of the Society of Friends in 
1810. In 1817 the emperor of Russia, in order to carry 
out a cherished plan for draining and cultivating the 
marshes surrounding St. Petersburg, secured the services 
of Mr. Wheeler as manager of the enterprise. While 
faithfully discharging his duties in the secular business 
to which he had been called, he was also faithful to his 
higher Master, and preached the Gospel with all sim- 
plicity and fidelity, not only to the humble and lowly, 
but also to the higher in authority in Russia. lie re- 
mained in St. Petersburg until 1832, when he felt im- 
pressed that it was his duty to go as a missionary among 
the islands of the Pacific, where a rich blessing attend- 
ed his labors. After several years spent in missionary 
work in the Pacific, he returned to England. Here he 
remained until 1838, when he came to the United States, 
where he continued nine months, rendering such service 
as he could to the cause of Christ, and then went back 
once more to his native land. During a second voyage 
to the United States he contracted a disease which 
proved fatal; and he died soon after landing at New 
York, Feb. G, 1840. See Memoir (Phila. 1870). (J. C. S.) 

Wheeler (or Wheler), Sir George, D.D., an 
English clergyman and traveller, was born at Breda, 
Holland, of English parentage, in 1650. He removed to 
Kent, England, in childhood; was educated at Lincoln 
College. Oxford ; travelled on the Continent and in the 
East with Dr. James Spoil, of Lyons, in 1675-7G; pre- 
sented a collection of MSS. to the University of Oxford; 
received the honorary degree of A.M. from Oxford 
University; was knighted and ordained in 1G83; and, 
having taken orders, was collated by bishop Crewe 
to the second prebend in the Cathedral of Durham 
in 1684. In 1G85 he was presented to the vicarage of 
Basingstoke, Hants; in 1702 was created D.D. by di- 
ploma from Oxford, and in the follow ing year received 
the curacy of Whitworth. In 1706 he was collated to 
the rectory of Winston, and in 1700 to that of Iloughton- 
le-Spring, which he retained until his decease, Jan. 15, 
1724. Dr. Wheeler was the author of, A Joumiey to Greece 
(1682): — An Account of the Churches or Places of As- 
sembly of the Primitive Christians (1689): — and The 
Protestant Monastery ; or, Christian (Ecojiomics (1698). 
lie was a man of vast research and ability, and a devoted 
minister and parent. See Church of England Maga- 
zine , viii, 332. 

Wheeler, John, D.D., a Congregational minister, 
was born at Grafton, Yt., March 11, 1798. He gradu- 
ated at Dartmouth College in 1816, and at Andover 
Theological Seminary in 1819. In 1821 he was ordain- 
ed over the Church»at Windsor, Yt., where he took high 
rank as a pulpit orator. At the age of twenty-six he 
declined the presidency of the University of Yermont; 
but nine years after, upon the resignation of president 
Marsh, he accepted the honor. From this time his best 
energies were devoted to the university. He raised up 
friends for it, carried it through seasons of trial, and ele- 
vated the standard of scholarship, lie resigned in 1848, 
and died at Burlington, April 16, 1862. Dr. Wheeler 
published several Sermons and Discourses, especially 
that before the Porter Rhetorical Society of Andover 
Theological Seminary in 1834. See Cong. Quar. 1862, 
p. 307. 

Wheelock, Eleazer, I).D.,a Congregational min- 
ister, was born at Windham. Conn., in May, 1711, and 
graduated from Yale College in 1733. In March, 1735, 
he was ordained minister of the Second Church in Leb- 


anon, called “ Lebanon Crank,” now Columbia. In the 
great Whitefieldian revival Mr. Wheelock engaged with 
great zeal and energy. After the religious excitement 
had subsided, he added to his labors as a minister the 
duties of a teacher. Samson Occum, a Mohegan Indian, 
who afterwards became a distinguished preacher, was a 
pupil in his school in 1743. He soon formed the plan 
of an Indian Missionary School, and several Indian boys 
entered it, chielly maintained by subscriptions from the 
legislatures of Connecticut and Massachusetts. The in- 
stitution received the name of Moor’s Indian Charity 
School, Joshua Moor having made a donation of a house 
and two acres of land about the year 1754. Mr. Occum 
and Rev. Nathaniel Whitaker solicited funds for the 
school in Great Britain in 1766, the amount realized 
being £7000 in England, and more than £2000 in Scot- 
land. After conducting this school in Lebanon over 
fourteen years, he determined to transfer it to New 
Hampshire, and a charter was obtained for a college, 
with about 40,000 acres of land, as an endowment from 
governor Wentworth and others. Thus originated at 
Ilanover, N. II., Dartmouth College; but Moor’s school 
was maintained there for a long time as a separate in- 
stitution. In August, 1770, Dr. Wheelock went to Han- 
over, built a log cabin in what was then a wilderness, 
and put np his school-building, eighty feet long and two 
stories in height. Among the first graduates was his 
son John, who succeeded to the presidency of the col- 
lege. As a teacher Dr. Wheelock was industrious and 
successful. He died April 24, 1779. Dr. Wheelock pub- 
lished, Narrative of the Indian Charity School at Ijcb- 
anon (1762): — Narratives , in several numbers, from 
1763 to 1771 : — Continuation of the Narrative , to which 
is Added an Abstract of a Mission to the Delaware In- 
dians 1 ( T est of the Ohio (1773) : — A Sennon on Liberty of 
Conscience , or No King but Christ in the Church (1775) : 
— and an occasional Sermon. II is Memoirs , by Drs. 
McClure and Parish, were published in 1811. See 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, i, 397. 

Wheelock. John, D.D., LL.D., an American cler- 
gyman, was born at Lebanon, Conn., Jan. 28, 1754. He 
entered Yale College in 1767, but removed with his father 
Dr. Eleazer Wheelock, to Hanover, N. II., in 1770, and 
graduated at Dartmouth College in 1771 ; was tutor 
there from 1772 to 1776; was elected to the Colonial As- 
sembly in 1775 ; appointed major in the New York forces 
in 1777, and soon after lieutenant-colonel in the Conti- 
nental army; commanded an expedition against the 
Indians in 1778, and soon after was placed on general 
Gates’s stalT. At the death of his father in 1779, al- 
though only twenty-five years of age, he was chosen his 
successor as president of Dartmouth College ; was sent 
to England to raise money and supplies for the college 
in 1783, but lost what he had collected by shipwreck 
off Cape Cod; was removed from his office in conse- 
quence of an ecclesiastical controversy in 1815, but re- 
stored in 1817, and died soon after, April 4, 1817. He 
left half of his large estate to Princeton Theological 
Seminary. He published a Eulogy on Prof John Smith, 
D.D . (18*09) : — and Sketches of Dartmouth College (1816). 

Whelan, Richard Yincent, D.D., a Roman Cath- 
olic prelate, was born in Baltimore, Md., Jan. 29, 1809. 
He was educated at Mount St. Mary’s College, Em- 
mettsburg, where he became a teacher and prefect of 
studies; studied theology and philosophy at the Semi- 
nary of St. Sulpice, Paris, graduating in 1831 ; was or- 
dained priest at Yersailles the same year; was professor 
in St. Mary’s College from 1832 to 1835; was a mission- 
ary in several parts ofYirginia and Maryland from 1835 
to 1840; became bishop of Richmond in March, 1850, 
and on the division of the diocese the following year 
took the tide of bishop of Wheeling, where he was ac- 
tive in promoting the interests of Romanism, building 
up a seminary for young ladies, and a convent at Mount 
de Chautal; was a member of the Yatican Council of 
1869-70, in which he opposed the dogma of infallibility. 


WIIELEL 


079 


WHIP 



but gave in his adhesion to it after it was declared. lie 
died at Wheeling, July 7, 1874. 

Wheler, George, D.D. See Wheeler, Sir 
George. 

Whelp (“li gdr, or gur), the cub of a lion 
(Gen. xlix, 9; Dent, xxxiii, 22; Jer. li, 38; Ezek. xix. 
2, 3, 5; Nah. ii, 13), or of a jackal (Lam. iv, 3). See 
Lion. The cubs of a bear (2 Sam.xvii, 8; Prov. xvii, 
12; IIos. xiii, 8) are not designated by the Ileb. word. 
See Lear. 

Whewell, William, D.D., a clergyman aud pro- 
fessor of the Church of England, was born at Lancaster, 
England, in 1795. He graduated from Trinity College 
in 1816, and received the degree of D.D.; was or- 
dained deacon in 1820, and priest in the following 
year; became master of Trinity College, Cambridge, in 
1841, and was vice-chancellor of the university. Pre- 
vious to this he was fellow and tutor of Trinity College, 
and from 1828 to 1832 was professor of mineralogy in 
the university; from 1838 to 1855 he was professor of 
moral theology. Dr. Whewell died at Cambridge, 
March 6, I860. As an author he was prolific ; among 
his works being, An Elementary Treatise on Mechanics 
(1819) — which passed through seven editions: — Analyt- 
ical Statics (1826): — Architectural Notes on German 
Churches (1830): — Principles of University Education 
(1831): — First Principles of Mechanics (1832) : — Doc- 
trine of Limits (cod.) : — Treatise of Dynamics (1832-36) : 
— Astronomy and General Physics (1834): — Mechanical 
Euclid (1837) : — History of the Inductive Sciences (eod. 
3 vols.) : — Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences (1840, 3 
vols.) : — The Mechanics of Engineering (184 1) : — Liberal 
Education (1845): — Verse Translatmis from the Ger- 
man (1847) : — Lectures on the Ilistot'y of Moral Philos- 
ophy (1852) : — Systematic Morality (1846) : — Elements 
of Morality (1848). He was also editor of an edition 
of Newton’s Principia , first three sections (1846); of 
Butler’s Human Nature (1843); of Butler’s Moral Sub- 
jects (1849); and of various other scientific works, lie 
was also the author of various scientific articles in lead- 
ing periodicals, and published many pamphlets and nu- 
merous sermons. See A mer. Quar . Church Review , July, 
1866, p. 325. 

Whichcote, Benjamin, D.D., an eminent English 
divine, was born at Whichcote Hall, in the parish of 
Stoke, in Shropshire, March 11, 1610. lie was educated 
at Emmanuel College, Cambridge, where lie graduated 
in 1629; became a fellow there in 1633; was a distin- 
guished tutor; was ordained in 1636; organized a Sun- 
day -afternoon lectureship at Trinity Church, and be- 
came preacher to the university; was presented to the 
living of North Cadbury, in Somersetshire, in 1643; ap- 
pointed provost of King’s College in 1644; presented to 
the rectory of Milton, in Cambridgeshire, in 1649; was 
removed from his provostship at the Uestoration in 1661, 
but retained his rectory at Milton ; obtained the living 
of St. Anne’s, Blackfriars, London, in 1662; and the 
vicarage of St. Lawrence’s, Jewry, in 1668. He died 
while on a visit at Cambridge, in May, 1683. “Dr. 
'Whichcote is regarded as one of the heads, if not the 
chief founder, of what is ealled the latitudinarian school 
of English divines.” He enjoyed great fame as a 
preacher, and left considerable results of his literary la- 
bors, although he published nothing during his lifetime. 
Ilis Observations and Apothegms (1688), and his Sermons 
(1698), were edited by the earl of Shaftesbury. Dr. 
John Jeffery edited his Moral and Religious Aphorisms 
(1703), and his Discourses (1701-3,3 vols.), to which Dr. 
Samuel Clarke added a fourth in 1707. An edition of his 
Sermons, in 4 vols., accompanied by a Life by Drs. 
Campbell and Gerard, appeared in 1751. 

Whip shot ; occasionally rendered “ scourge,” 

Job v, 21; ix, 23; Isa. x, 26; xxviii, 15). In ancient 
times, whips were used not only for driving animals, 
but also as instruments of torture; and even now, in 



Ancient Egyptiau Whips. 


slaveholding countries, the unfortunate slaves are obliged 
to work with the fear of the whip before their eyes. 
The system of administering personal chastisement lias 
been, and is, universal throughout the East; and, under 
despotic governments, no person can be sure of escap- 
ing, as punishment is inflicted on the mere caprice of 
any tyrant who may happen to be in power. For this 
purpose, however, the rod (q. v.) was oftener used, and 
punishment of the bastinado (q. v.) is now the most 
common in Oriental countries. See CoRroRAL Pun- 
ishment. 

Various materials were used in the manufacture of 
whips. In 1 Kings xii, 11, Iichoboam says, “My father 
chastised you with whips, but 1 will chastise you with 
scorpions.” Here a simple scourge and another more 
painful are mentioned in opposition. The latter is 
called “a scorpion,” and probably means to denote a 
comparison between the pain respectively occasioned 
by the scourge aud the reptile. The rabbins think 
generally that this scorpion was a scourge composed 
of knotted and thorny twigs, by which the flesh was 
severely lacerated. More probably i t consisted of thongs 
set with thorns or sharp iron points. Such scourges 
were known to the Homans as a means of torturing used 
by unrelenting persons, and particularly by masters in 
the punishment of their slaves. Some of the early mar- 
tyrs were thus tortured. See Scourge. 

Few travellers have visited Egj'pt without commis- 
erating the condition of the unhappy Fellahs: every 
public work is executed by their unpaid labor; half 



Whip Suspended from the Wrist of the Archer. 


WHIPPLE 


9S0 


WHITAKER 


naked and half starved, they toil under a burning sun, 
to clear out canals or level roads, under the eyes of task- 
masters ready to punish with their formidable whips, 
made from the hide of the hippopotamus, the least neg- 
lect or relaxation. Such a sight necessarily calls to 
mind the sufferings endured by the Israelites while 
they were subjected to the tyranny of Pharaoh. “ The 
Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with 
rigor; and they made their lives hitter with hard bond- 
age, in mortar’ and in brick, and in all manner of ser- 
vice in the field; all their service wherein they made 
them serve was with rigor” (Exod. i, 13, 14). The mon- 
uments abound with similar scenes. See Erick. 

“ In driving, the ancient Egyptians used a whip, like 
the heroes and charioteers of Homer; and this, or a 
short stick, was generally employed even for beasts of 
burden, and for oxen at the plough, in preference to the 
goad. The whip consisted of a smooth, round wooden 
handle, and a single or double thong; it sometimes had 
a lash of leather, or string, about two feet in length, 
either twisted or plaited; and a loop being attached to 
the lower end, the archer was enabled to use the bow, 
while it hung suspended from his wrist” (Wilkinson, 
Anc. Egypt, i, 372 sq.). See Chariot. 

Whipple, George, D.D., a professor of the Con- 
gregational Church, was born in Albany, N. Y., June 4, 
1805. For a time he was a student in the Oneida In- 
stitute; was one year (1833) in the Lane Theological 
Seminary ; and graduated from the theological depart- 
ment of Oberlin College in 1836, in which year he was 
ordained as an evangelist. From 1836 to 1838 he was 
principal of the Oberlin preparatory department, and 
from 1838 to 1847 was professor of mathematics in that 
institution. From 1846 until his death he was secreta- 
ry of the American Missionary Association, his office 
being in New York city. He died in Brooklyn, N. Y., 
Oct. 6, 1876. See Cong. Quar. 1877, p. 427. 

Whiston, William, a learned English divine and 
mathematician, was born at Norton, in Leicestershire, 
Dec. 9, 1667, where his father was rector of the parish. 
He was educated at Tam worth School and Clare llall, 
Cambridge, where he graduated in 1690; became a fel- 
low of his college, took orders in the Church of England, 
and was appointed mathematical tutor in 1693; was 
chaplain to Dr. Moore, bishop of Norwich, from 1694 to 
1698; vicar of Lowestoft, in Suffolk, from 1698 to 1701 ; 
became deputy to Sir Isaac Newton in the Lucasian 
professorship of mathematics in 1701, and succeeded 
him in that chair on his resignation in 1703; was nom- 
inated by bishop Moore catechetical lecturer at the 
Church of St. Clement. By this time he had gained em- 
inence as a preacher, when lie adopted Arianism, reject- 
ed infant baptism, and began to omit portions of the 
litany. The bishop of Ely requested him not to fulfil 
the duties of the Bovle lectureship, in which he was 
making his views public, but allowed the continuance 
of the salary. Whiston resigned the lectureship, and, 
after several hearings before the heads of the houses, 
was depiived of his lectureship and expelled from the 
university, Oct. 30, 1710. In consequence of certain the- 
ological publications of a controversial character, he was 
pronounced a heretic by the convocation in 1711, and 
the prosecution was continued until 1715, when the pro- 
ceedings were terminated by an “ act of grace.” After 
his expulsion from the university he removed to Lon- 
don, where lie gave lectures on astronomy and other 
mathematical sciences, and continued an active theo- 
logical writer. Me became a Baptist and a Millena- 
rian, and gathered a congregation to his own house, to 
which he. preached what he called primitive Christian- 
ity. A subscription was made for him in 1721 amount- 
ing to £470, and he derived additional income from his 
lectures and publications. lie died in London, Aug. 22, 
1752. Among his numerous publications are, A Neiv 
Theory of the Earth (1696): — The Accomplishment of 
Scripture Prophecies (1708): — Prcelcctioncs Physico- 


mathematicce (1710): — Primitive Christianity Revived 
(171 1-12 ) : — A Erie/ History of the Revival of the A nan 
Heresy in England (1711 ): — Athanasius Convicted of 
Forgery (1712 ) : — Th ree Essays on Trinit arianism (1713): 
— .4 Vindication of the Sibylline Oracles ; to which are 
added the Genuine Oracles Themselves (1715): — Astro- 
nomical Lectures (eod.) : — St. Clement's and St. Irena ns's 
Vindication of the Apostolical Constitutions (1716) :—Sir 
Isaac Xewton's Mathematical Philosophy Demonstrated 
(eod.) : — A stronomical Principles of Religion , Natural 
and Revealed (1717 ): — A Letter to the Earl of Notting- 
ham concerning the Eternity of the Son of God and of 
the Holy Spirit (1719) : — The True Origin of the Sabel- 
lian and A thanasian Doctrines of the Trinity (1720) : — 
-1 u Essay towards Restoring the True Text of the Old 
and New Testaments (1722 ) : — The Literal Accomplish- 
ment of Scripture Prophecies (1724 ): — A Collection of 
Authentic Records belonging to the Old and- New Testa- 
ments, Translated into English (1727-28 ) : — Historical 
Memoirs of the Life and Writings of Dr. Samuel Clarke 
(1730 ) : — The Primitive Eucharist Revived (1736) : — The 
Eternity of Hell Torments Considered (1740 ): — The 
Primitive New Testament (1745 ): — The Sacred History 
of the Old and New Testaments (eod.): — Memoirs of His 
Own Life and Writings (1749-50) : — and a translation 
of the Works of Josephus , which has never been su- 
perseded except in part. See Chalmers, Biog. Diet . s. v. 

Whistonian Controversy. See Wiiiston, 
William. 

Whitaker, Nathaniel, D.D.,a Presbyterian min- 
ister, was born at Huntington, L. I., Feb. 22, 1722, and 
graduated at Princeton College in 1752. He was or- 
dained and installed at Woodbridge, N. J., in 1755; was 
called to Chelsea, near Norwich, Conn., Feb. 25, 1761 ; and 
selected by the Connecticut Board of Correspondents 
for Evangelizing the Indians, to go to Great Britain 
with the Rev. Sampson Occum, an Indian of the Mo- 
hegan tribe, to solicit funds for a mission school. Lady 
Huntingdon, Romaine, Venn, Wesley, and others showed 
them great favor, and a considerable sum was raised. 
After eighteen months’ absence, they returned, having 
prepared the way for founding Dartmouth College. 
While in England he published several sermons on 
Reconciliation to God. Difficulties arising in his con- 
gregation on the subject of Church government, he ac- 
cepted a call to the Second Church in Salem, Mass., and 
was installed July 28, 1769. In 1773, in consequence 
of a disagreement among the people, Dr. Whitaker, with 
fourteen others, withdrew from the Church, formed 
a separate congregation, and united with the Boston 
Presbytery, which declared the new erection the Third 
Church. His friends erected a house of worship, but it 
was soon after burned. Not disheartened, they sought 
outside help, and in 1776 were enabled to complete a 
new church. At the breaking-out of the war lie warm- 
ly espoused the cause of independence, and actually en- 
gaged in the manufacture of saltpetre. In a short time 
he furnished the authorities with two hundred and 
eighty pounds. On the occasion of the Boston massacre 
in 1771, he printed a sermon on The Fatal Tragedy in 
King Street , and on the proclamation of independence 
another, entitled An Antidote to Toryism; and at the 
end of the war still another, On the Reivard of Toryism. 
He was dismissed by a council called for that purpose, 
Feb. 10, 1784, but soon after installed at Norridgewock. 
After vainly attempting to establish a presbytery in 
Maine, he went to Virginia, and died at Woodbridge, near 
Hampton, Jan. 1, 1795, in poverty, notwithstanding all 
he had done for the Church and country. (W. P. S.) 

Whitaker, Thomas Dunham, LL.D.,a clergy- 
man of the Church of England, was born at Kainham, 
in Norfolk, June 8, 1759. lie was educated at St.John’s 
College, Cambridge ; ordained deacon in 1785, and priest 
the following year; became perpetual curate of Holme, 
Lancashire, in 1797 ; vicar of Whallev in 1809; held for 
some time the vicarage of Heysham ; became vicar of 


WHITAKE1 


981 


WHITE 


Blackburn in 1818, and remained there until his death, 
which occurred Dec. 18, 1821. lie published, A His- 
tory of the Original Parish of Whatley and Honor of 
Clitheroe , in the Counties of Lancaster and York (1801) : 
— History of the Deanery of Craven (1805) : — De Alotn 
per Britanniam Civico A unis 1745 et 1740 (1809) : — The 
Life and Original Correspondence of IS ir George Rad- 
cliffe (1810): — an edition of The Vision of Piers Plow- 
man (eod.): — a new edition of Thoresby’s Ducatus Le- 
odinensis ; or, The Topography of Leeds (1810) : — Loidis 
and A l mete ; or, An Attempt to Illustrate the Districts 
Described in these Words by Bede (1810) besides single 
sermons and other works. 

Whitaker, William, D.D., an eminent English 
divine, was born at Holme, Lancashire, in 1518. He 
was educated at St. Paul’s School and Trinity College, 
Cambridge, where he was appointed to a fellowship; 
became regius professor of divinity at Cambridge in 
1579; was appointed chancellor of St. Paul’s in 1580; 
and became master of St. John’s College, Cambridge, in 
1580. He died at Cambridge, Dec. 4, 1595. Mr. Whit- 
aker was an able Calvinistie writer, and a powerful 
champion of Protestantism against the attacks of pop- 
ery. He published, The Liturgy of the Church of Eng- 
land, in Latin and Greek ( 1590 ) : — Catechismus, sire 
Prima Institutio Disciplinaque Pietatis Christianas La- 
tine Fxplicata, etc. (1570) :—A d Rationes Decern Edmundi 
Campiani Jesuit ce . . . Responsio, etc. (1581): — A Dis- 
putation on Holy Scripture against the Papists, especial- 
ly Bellarmine and Stapleton (first published in Latin in 
1588, afterwards in English) and other controversial 
works. A collection of his Opera Theologica was pub- 
lished at Geneva in 1010, 2 vols. ful. See Chalmers, 
Blog. Diet . s. v. 

Whitby, Daniel, D.D., an eminent English 
divine, was born at Kushden, Northamptonshire, in 
1038. He was educated at Trinity College, Oxford, 
where he graduated in 1057, and became a fellow in 
1004; took holy orders, became chaplain to Dr. Seth 
Ward, bishop of Salisbury, and was made prebendary 
of Salisbury in October, 1008; was admitted precentor 
of the same church in 1072, became rector of St. Ed- 
mund’s, Salisbury, about the same time, which was his 
last preferment, and where he died, March 24, 1720. 
Among his published works are, Romish Doctrines not 
from the Beginning (1004): — Endeavor to Evince the 
Certainty of Christian Faith (1071): — Discourse con- 
cerning the Idolatry of the Church of Rome (1074): — 
. 1 bsurdity and Idolatry of Host Worship Proved (1079) : 
— The Protestant Reconciler Humbly Pleading for Con- 
descension to Dissenting Brethren (1083). This work 
was condemned to be burned by the University of Ox- 
ford, and publicly retracted bv Whitby: — A Para- 
phrase and Commentary on the. Xew Testament (1703) : 
— Discourse of the Necessity and Usefulness of the Chris- 
tian Revelation (1705). Late in life be became an Arian, 
and engaged in a dispute with Dr.Waterland. lie was 
a voluminous writer, the above-mentioned works being 
only a small part of what he gave to the public. His 
Paraphrase and Commentary is considered his best 
work. See Chalmers, Bing. Diet . s. v. 

White, Charles, D.D., a Presbyterian divine, was 
born at Randolph, Mass., Dec. 28, 1795. He was a lin- 
eal descendant of Peregrine White of the famous “May- 
flower ;” graduated at Dartmouth College with the first 
honors of his class. in 1821 ; studied theology at Ando- 
ver, Mass.; after licensure to preach, was settled as 
colleague pastor with his stepfather, Rev. Asa Burton, 
D.D., at Thetford, Vt.; subsequently over the Church 
in Cazenovia, N. Y., and again at Owego, N. Y. ; elect- 
ed president of Wabash College, hid., and entered upon 
his duties in October, 1841, and his presidency was of 
twenty years’ continuance. In this last relation he 
met the manifold responsibilities of His office with fi- 
delity and energy. He shrank from no labor that the 
embarrassed condition of the college, when he entered 


on its presidency, demanded at his hands; and lie had 
the satisfaction of seeing, long before his death, as one 
result of his labor, a larger number of students in the 
college classes alone than he found in all the depart- 
ments when he entered upon the presidency. He died 
suddenly, Oct, 29, 1861. Dr. White was a ripe and ac- 
curate scholar, an able teacher, an impressive preacher, 
and a sound theologian. He published Essays in Lit- 
erature and Ethics (Boston, 1853, 12mo). and contributed 
four sermons to the National Preacher, and articles 
(the most of which were republished in his Essays') to 
the Biblical Repository and Bibliotheca Sacra. See 
Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1863, p. 313; AUibone, 
Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors , s. v. (J. L. S.) 

White, Francis, D.D., an English prelate who 
flourished in the early part of the 17th century, was ed- 
ucated at Cambridge; became dean of Carlisle in 1622; 
bishop of Carlisle in 1626 ; bishop of Norwich in 1629; 
bishop of Ely in 1631 ; and died in February, 1637 or 
1638. He was the author of, Orthodox Faith and the 
Way to the Church Explained and Justified against T. 
W. (1617) : — Replie to Jesuit Fisher's A nswer to Certain 
Questions Propounded by James I, ete. (1624) : — Treatise 
of the Sabbath Day against Sabbatarian Novelty (1636) : 
— and other works. See Allibone, Did. of Brit, and 
A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

White, Henry, D.D., a Presbyterian divine, was 
born at Durham, Greene Co., N. Y., June 19, 1800. He 
received his preparatory training in the academy at 
Greeneastle; graduated with high honor at Union Col- 
lege in 1824; studied theology in the Princeton (N. J.) 
Theological Seminary; was licensed to preach by the 
Presbytery of Columbia in 1826, and immediately after 
entered upon an agency for the American Bible Society, 
his field being in the Southern States. In 1828 he was 
ordained and installed as pastor of the Allen Street 
Church, New York city, where he continued until the 
establishment of the Union Theological Seminary in 
1836, when he was elected to the professorship of theol- 
ogy in that institution, which office he continued to hold 
until his death, Aug. 25, 1850. Dr. White had natu- 
rally a strong, discriminating mind, well balanced, and 
abounding in practical wisdom. As a preacher, he was 
eminently thoughtful, clear, convincing, and pungent. 
As a teacher of theology, he had peculiar and almost 
unrivalled excellence. He published a Sermon on the 
Death of John Nitchie (1838), and a Sermon on the 
Abrahamic Covenant (1846). See Sprague, A minis of 
the A mer. Pulpit, iv, 691 ; AUibone, Did. of Brit, and 
Amer. Authors, s, v. (J. L. S.) 

White, Joseph (1), D.D., an English clergyman 
and eminent Oriental scholar, was born at Stroud, in 
Gloucestershire, in 1746. 11c was the son of a weaver, 

and was designed for his father’s calling, but having 
been sent to a charity-school at Gloucester, and hav- 
ing made rapid advancement, he was sent by a gen- 
tleman of fortune to Oxford, where he graduated at 
Wadliam College abont 1770; became a fellow of that 
college in 1774; was appointed to archbishop Laud’s 
professorship of Arabic in 1775; chosen in 1783 to preach 
the Bampton lecture for the following year, in the prep- 
aration of which he was assisted by Dr. Parr and Mr. 
Samuel Badcoek ; became prebendary of Gloucester in 
1788; was appointed rector of Melton in 1790; became 
prebendary of Oxford in 1802; regius professor of He- 
brew at Oxford the same year; and subsequently canon 
of Christ Church. He died at Oxford, May 22, 1814. 
He was the author of De Utilitate Lingua Arabicce in 
Studiis Theologicis Oratio (1776) : — Testamenti Novi Li - 
bri Ilistorici et Epistohe tarn Catholicce quam Paulina , 
Versio Syriaca Philoxeniana , etc. (1779-1803) : — A View 
of Christianity and Mohammedanism (Bampton Lect- 
ures) (Loud. 1784) : — and other works of great merit. 
See Chalmers, Biog. Did. s. v. 

White, Joseph (2) (called in Spain Don Jose Ma • 
rya Blanco i Crespo), a Roman Catholic priest, descend. 


WHITE 


9S2 


WIIITEFIELD 


ed from an Irish Catholic family which had settled in 
Spain, was born at Seville, July 11, 1775. Being dis- 
satisfied with mercantile life, he was educated for the 
Church, and was ordained a priest in 1799 ; soon lost 
confidence in Roman Catholicism, renouncing his ad- 
herence to it in 1810, when he removed to England; 
joined the English Church, but did not take orders in 
it; became a tutor in the family of Lord Holland; set- 
tled in London, where he conducted for some years a 
Spanish paper called El Espanol; received, in 1814, a 
pension for life of £250 per annum, on account of ser- 
vices rendered the government by this paper; lived 
subsequently in London as a man of letters; edited for 
three years ( 1822-25 ) another Spanish journal, Las 
Vi iriedades; was editor of the London Review (1829); 
served as tutor in the family of archbishop Whately at 
Dublin, from 1832 to 1835 ; removed to Liverpool, where 
be joined the Unitarian Society, of which the Rev. 
John Hamilton was then pastor; and died May 20,1841. 
He was the author of a great many works, among which 
are Preparatory Observations on the Study of Reliyion 
(1817) : — Letters from Spain (1822) : — Practical and In- 
ternal Evidence against Catholicism (1825): — Poor Man's 
Preservative against Popery (1825): — Dicdogues con- 
cerning the Church of Rome (1827) : — Letter to Protes- 
tants Converted from Romanism (1827) : — Second Travels 
of an Irish Gentleman in Search of a Religion (1833): — 
and Life of the Rev. Joseph Blanco White, Written by 
Himself with Portions of his Correspondence ; edited by 
John Hamilton Thom (1845, 3 vols.). “This book, at 
the time of its appearance, excited a good deal of inter- 
est, and is still eminently worth referring to. The cu- 
rious picture it presents of a mind at once pious and 
sceptical, longing and sorrowing after a truth which it 
cau nowhere find, or, finding, contrive to rest in, has, in 
the present unsettled state of religious opinion, a very 
particular significance. Poor White’s life-long search 
for a religion seems not to have been a successful one, 
and to have landed him at the last in a condition of 
nearly entire scepticism.” 

White, Robert Meadows, D.D., an English 
clergyman and philologist, was born about 1798. He 
graduated at Magdalen College, Oxford, in 1819; was 
ordained in 1821; became a tutor at Oxford in 1832; 
Rawlinson professor of Anglo-Saxon in 1834; visited 
Denmark in the interests of philology in 1837 ; became 
vice-president of Magdalen College in 1838; gave con- 
siderable attention to local antiquarian research ; was 
the annalist of his college ; and was regarded a leading 
authority in English philology. During the latter por- 
tion of his life he was rector of Slimbridge, Gloucester- 
shire, where he died, Jan. 31, 18G5. He devoted a large 
part of his time, for twenty years, to the editing of The 
Ormnlum , Semi-Saxon Homilies in Verse , now frst ed- 
ited from the Original MSS., with Notes and Glossary 
(Oxford, 1852). 

White, Thomas (1), D.D., an English clergyman, 
was born at Bristol about 1550; was educated at Mag- 
dalen Hall, Oxford, where he graduated about 1570; 
took holy orders, and preached frequently; received the 
living of St. Gregory’s in London ; became vicar of St. 
Dunstau’s, Fleet Street, in 1575; was made prebendary 
of Mora, St. Paul’s, in 1588, treasurer of Salisbury in 
1590; canon of Christ Church in 1591, and canon of 
Windsor in 1593. lie died March 1, 1G24. He was 
noted for his benefactions in founding hospitals and 
almshouses, but especially for the founding of Sion Col- 
lege, London. His published works consist of a few 
sermons. See Chalmers, Blog. Did. s. v. 

White (Lat. Anglus ex A Ibis, Candidas, or Vitus ; 
otherwise called Bianchi, Riehrorth, and Blackloe), 
Thomas (2), an eminent English philosopher and 
Roman Catholic priest, was born at Ilalton, Essex, in 
1582; was educated abroad and became a priest in 
1617; was employed in teaching philosophy and divin- 
ity, residing at Douay, Rome, and Paris with occasional 


interruptions until 1633, when he was elected princi- 
pal of the English College at Lisbon ; served the duty 
of the English mission for some years; resided for a 
considerable time in the house of Sir Kcnelm Digby, 
whose philosophy he supported; became a professor at 
Douav again in 1650, and vice-principal of the English 
College; spent his latter years in England, and died at 
Drury Lane, London, July G, 1G7G. lie was a volumi- 
nous writer, and among his numerous works the follow- 
ing deserve mention : Dialogues concerning the Judg- 
ment of Common Sense in the Choice of Religion (1G40): 
— De Mundo Dialogi Tres (1612): — lnstitutionum Peri- 
pateticarum ad Mentem, etc. (1646) : — Inst itut tones The- 
ological super Fundamentis in Peripatetica Digbania jac- 
tis Exstructce (1652) : — Questiones Theologies, etc. (1653): 
— Contemplation of Heaven, etc. (1654): — The Grounds 
of Obedience and Government (1655) : — Religion and Rea- 
son Mutually Corresponding and Assisting Each Other 
(1659) : — The Middle State of Souls from the Hour of 
Death to the Dag of Judgment, (cod.). Sec Chalmers, 
Biog. Diet. s. v, ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. 
A ut hors, s. v. 

White, William, D.D., a Protestant Episcopal 
bishop, was born in Philadelphia, March 26, 1748. He 
passed A.B. at Philadelphia College in 1765, and was 
soon after ordained in England. On his return to 
America in 1772, he became associate minister of Christ 
Church and St. Peter’s, Philadelphia, where he contin- 
ued till the Revolution. In 1777 he was chaplain to 
Congress and was elected rector of Christ and St. Peter’s 
churches in Philadelphia. He was consecrated bishop 
at London in 1787, and died July 17, 1836. Exclusive 
of periodicals, he published, The Case of the Episcopal 
Churches in the United States (1782) : — Thoughts on the 
Singing of Psalms , etc., signed “ Silas” (1808) : — Lect- 
ures on the Catechism of the P. E. Church, with Supple- 
mentary Lectures, etc. (1813, 2 vols. 8vo) : — Compara- 
tive Views of the Controversy between the Calvinists and 
the A rminians , etc. (1817, 2 vols. 8vo) : — Memoirs of the 
P. E. Church in the United States (1820, 8vo) : — A Com- 
mentary on Ordination, etc. (1833, 8vo) : — An Essay: 
— and several Addresses, Letters , and Sermons. See 
Sprague, Annals of the A met'. Pulpit, v, 280. 

Wliitefield, Geouge, a pre-eminent evangelist and 
founder of the Calvinistic branch of the Methodists, was 
a native of Gloucester, England, in the Bell Inn of which 
town (his father being a tavern-keeper) he was born, 
Dec. 16, 1714. His father having died while George 
was yet young, tlie boy's education devolved solely on 
his mother, whose pious instructions and example had 
a powerful influence in imbuing his infant mind with 
strong religious impressions. Having resolved to culti- 
vate the superior talents with which she saw George was 
endowed, she sent him to a classical school. At the age 
of fifteen he had distinguished himself by the accuracy 
and extent of his knowledge, and by bis taste in Greek 
and Roman literature. But his mother not succeeding 
in the hotel, and becoming reduced to poverty, the 
progress of George’s education was stopped, and, being 
driven to undertake some menial place about the estab- 
lishment, his manners and morals were much injured by 
his association with irreligious servants. Happily his re- 
ligious impressions revived, and, having been confirmed, 
lie received for the first time the sacrament of the Lord’s 
i supper. His mother’s circumstances improving, she 
sent him to Pembroke College, Oxford, and there he 
joined in forming a small select society for mutual im- 
provement in religious knowledge and personal piety, 
along with the Wesleys and a few college contempora- 
ries of kindred spirit. Dr. Benson, bishop of Gloucester, 
who was acquainted with his rare talents and piety, re- 
solved to grant him ordination, and the solemn ceremo- 
ny was performed at Gloucester on June 20, 1736. His 
first sermon, preached on the following Sabbath, pro- 
duced an extraordinary sensation. From Gloucester he 
went to London, where he preached alternately in the 


WHITEFIELD 


983 


WIIITEEIELD 


chapel of the Tower and at Lndgate Prison every Tues- 
day. In 1737 lie joined his friends the Wesleys as a 
missionary at the Georgian settlement; but he had 
only been four months resident there, when he returned 
to England both to obtain priest’s orders and to raise 
subscriptions for erecting an orphan-house in that set- 
tlement. On his arrival in London, he found an outcry 
raised against him on account of Methodism. Bishop 
Benson disregarded it and ordained him a priest. But 
he was denied access to the pulpits of many old friends; 
and hence he commenced the practice of open - air 
preaching in Moorfields. Ivennington, Blackheath, and 
other quarters, where his ministrations were attend- 
ed by vast crowds. Having raised a fund of .£1000 
for his orphanage, Whitefield returned in 1739 to the 
American continent. At Savannah immense crowds re- 
paired to hear him, and extraordinary scenes of excite- 
ment were enacted. On March 25, 1740, he laid the 
first brick of the orphan-asylum; and when the building 
was completed, he gave it the name of Betliesda. Al- 
though his ministry was very successful at Savannah, 
he sighed for his native land; and accordingly, in 1741, 
he returned once more to Britain, where he continued 
with indefatigable diligence to preach the Gospel. In 
prosecution of that object, lie made a tour through Eng- 
land, Wales, and Scotland, preaching in many places, 
and always in the open air, to immense crowds. While 
in Wales, he married Mrs. Jones, a widow to whom he 
had long cherished a warm attachment; and shortly 
after his marriage lie repaired to London, where, it be- 
ing winter, some of bis admirers erected a wooden shed 
in which he preached, and which he called the Taber- 
nacle. lie was under the patronage of the countess- 
dowager of Huntingdon, to whom be was chaplain, and 
whose benevolence lie shared especially in the support 
of the community of which lie was the head. At the 
death of that lady, her place was filled by lady Erskine. 

In the beginning of August, 1744, Mr. Wliitefield, 
though in an infirm state of health, embarked again for 
America. At New York lie was taken exceedingly ill, 
and bis death was apprehended ; but he gradually re- 
covered and resumed his arduous and important duties. 
He was still very much inconvenienced with pains in 
his side, for which he was advised to go to the Bermu- 
das. Landing there on March 15, 1748, he met with 
the kindest reception, and traversed the island from one 
end to the other, preaching twice everyday. His con- 
gregations were large , lie there collected upwards of 
£100 for his orphan-school; but as lie feared a relapse 
in his disorder if he returned to America, he took pas- 
sage in a brig, and arrived in safety at Deal, and the 
next evening set off for London, after an absence of 
four years. 

On the return of Mr. Wliitefield, lie found his congre- 
gation at the Tabernacle very much scattered, and his 
own pecuniary circumstances declining, all bis household 
furniture having been sold to pay the orphan-house debt. 
His congregation now, however, began to contribute, 
and liis debt was slowly liquidating. At this time lady 
Huntingdon sent for him to preach at her house to sev- 
eral of the nobility, who desired to hear him; among 
whom was the earl of Chesterfield, who expressed him- 
self highly gratified; and lord Bolingbroke told him lie 
had done great justice to the divine attributes in his 
discourse. In September be visited Scotland a third 
time and was joyfully received. 11 is thoughts were now 
wholly engaged in a plan for making bis orphan-house 
(which was at first only intended for the fatherless) a 
seminary of literature and academical learning. In 
February, 1749, he made an excursion to Exeter and 
Plymouth, where he was received with enthusiasm, and 
in the same year he returned to London, having trav- 
elled about six hundred miles in the west of England; 
and in May he went to Portsmouth and Portsea, at 
which places he was eminently useful; many at that 
time, by the instrumentality of his preaching, being 
u turned from darkness to light, and from the power of 


Satan unto God.” In September lie went to North- 
ampton and Yorkshire, where he preached to congrega- 
tions of ten thousand people, who were peaceable and 
attentive; and only in one or two places was he treated 
with mi kindness. In 1751 Mr. Wliitefield visited Ire- 
land, and was gladly received at Dublin; liis labors 
there were, as usual, very useful. From Ireland he pro- 
ceeded to Scotland, where he also met with great en- 
couragement to proceed in his indefatigable work. On 
Aug. 6 lie set out from Edinburgh for London, in order 
to embark for America. On Oct. 27 he arrived at Sa- 
vannah, and found the orphan-school in a flourishing 
condition. Having suffered formerly from the climate, 
he determined not to spend the summer in America, 
but re-embarked for London, where he arrived in safety. 

Ilis active mind, ever forming some new plan for the 
extension of the Kedeemer’s kingdom, now turned to- 
wards the erection of a new tabernacle. The foundation 
was laid March 1, 1753, and was opened on Sunday, 
June 10, 1754. After preaching in it a few days, he 
again left England for Scotland, embracing every op- 
portunity of preaching on his road till he arrived at 
Edinburgh ; and after travelling twelve hundred miles, 
he returned home on Nov. 25, and opened the Taberna- 
cle at Bristol, after which he returned to London, and in 
September, 175G, opened his new chapel in Tottenham 
Court Load. His labors were immense. He preached 
fifteen times a week ; hundreds of persons went away 
from the chapel without being able to gain admittance. 
By his unremitting attention to his congregation, at the 
two chapels in London, his strength was much reduced. 
About the end of the year, finding liis health improved, 
he, however, determined on again visiting America. 
Towards the end of November he left England, and ar- 
rived at Boston the beginning of January. After spend- 
ing the winter pleasantly and usefully in America, he 
once more embarked for his native shores and landed 
in England, and on Oct. G, 17G5, opened the countess of 
Huntingdon’s chapel at Bath, Shortly after his arrival 
in London, Mrs. Wliitefield was seized with an inflam- 
matory fever, and became its victim on Aug. 9; and on 
the 14th he delivered her funeral sermon, which was 
distinguished for its pathos, as well as for its manly and 
pious eloquence. 

He now prepared for his seventh and last, voyage to 
America, where he arrived in safety on Nov. 30; but his 
sphere of activity was fast drawing to a close. His 
complaint, which was asthma, made rapid inroads upon 
liis constitution, and, though it had several times 
threatened his dissolution, it was at last sudden and 
unexpected. From Sept. 17 to the 20th this faithful 
laborer in the vineyard of Christ preached daily at 
Boston; and, though much indisposed, proceeded from 
thence on the 21st, and continued his work until the 
29th, when he delivered a discourse at Exeter, N. II., in 
the open air for two hours; notwithstanding which, he 
set off for Newburyport, where he arrived that evening, 
intending to preach the next morning. His rest was 
much disturbed, and he complained of a great op- 
pression at his lungs; and at five o’clock on Sabbath 
morning, Sept. 30, 1770, at the age of only fifty-six, he 
entered into the rest prepared for the people of God. 
According to his own desire, Mr. Wliitefield was interred 
at Newburyport. He and Wesley, though one in heart, 
were divided in their theological opinions, and hence in 
the early part of their career their paths diverged. The 
friendship existing between them was not of an epheme- 
ral character, but remained steadfast to the end. Wes- 
ley preached a funeral discourse commemorative of his 
virtues and usefulness. 

Mr. Whitefield was not a learned man, like his con- 
temporanq Wesley ; but he possessed an unusual share 
of good sense, general information, knowledge of the 
Holy Scriptures, and an accurate acquaintance with the 
human heart. Few ministers have been equally useful 
since the days of the apostles. The sermons of Mr. 
Whitefield were impassioned, and generally addressed to 


WIIITEFIELD 


084 


WIIITOX 


the hearts of his congregations. He was benevolent 
and kind, forgiving and gentle; but he was /ealous and 
tirm, and seldom allowed his feelings to overcome his 
judgment, lie was eminently useful in having ex- 
cited a greater degree of attention to religion; and 
millions have doubtless blessed his name, as tens of 
thousands revere his memory. 

WhitefieM was no common preacher. Parties of the 
most opposite character and principles, such as Frank- 
lin, Hume, and John Newton, have united in bearing 
testimony to the beauty and effectiveness of Whitefield’s 
pnlpit oratory. Hr. James Hamilton, of London, de- 
scribing Whitefield, said, “ lie was the prince of English 
preachers. Many have surpassed him in making ser- 
mons, but none have approached him as a pulpit orator. 
Many have outshone him in the clearness of their logic, 
the grandeur of their conceptions, and the sparkling 
beauty of single sentences; but in the power of darting 
the Gospel direct into t he conscience, he eclipsed them 
all. With a full and beaming countenance, and the 
frank and easy port which the English people love, he 
combined a voice of rich compass, which could equally 
thrill over MoorticKIs in musical thunder or whisper its 
terrible secret in every private ear; and to bis gainlv 
aspect and tuneful voice he added a most expressive 
and eloquent action. None ever used so boldly, nor 
with more success, the higher styles of impersonation. 
His thoughts were possessions and his feelings were 
transformations; and if he spoke because he felt, bis 
hearers understood because they saw. They were not 
only enthusiastic amateurs, like Garrick, who ran to 
weep and tremble at his bursts of passion, but even the 
colder critics of the Walpole school were surprised into 
momentary sympathy and reluctant wonder. Lord Ches- 
terfield was listening in lady Huntingdon’s pew when he 
described the sinner under the character of a blind beg- 
gar led by a little dog. The dog escapes, from some 
cause, and he was left to grope his way guided only by 
his staff. Unconsciously he wanders to the edge of a 
precipice; his staff drops from his hand, down the abyss 
too far to send back an echo; he reaches forward cau- 
tiously to recover it; for a moment he poises on vacan- 
cy, and — ‘Good God!’ shouted Chesterfield, ‘ he is gone,’ 
as he sprang from his seat to prevent the catastrophe. 
But the glory of Whitefield’s preaching was its heart- 
kindled and heart-melting Gospel. Without this all 
his bold strokes and brilliant impersonations would 
have been no better than the rhetorical triumphs of 
many pulpit dramatists. lie was an orator, but lie 
only sought to be an evangelist. Like a volcano where 
gold and gems may be ejected as well as common things, 
but where .gold and molten granite How all alike in fiery 
fusion, bright thoughts and splendid images might be 
.projected from bis pulpit, but all were merged in the 
stream that bore along the Gospel and himself in blend- 
ed fervor. Indeed, so simple was his nature that glory 
to God and good-will to man had filled it, and there was 
room for little more. Having no Church to found, no 
family to enrich, and no memory to immortalize, lie was 
simply the ambassador of God, and inspired with its ge- 
nial, piteous spirit — so full of heaven reconciled and hu- 
manity restored — he soon himself became a living Gos- 
pel. . . . Coming to his work direct from communion 
with his Master, and in the strength of accepted prayer, 
there was an elevation in his mien which often para- 
lyzed hostility, and a self-possession which made him, 
amid uproar and confusion, the more sublime. With 
an electric bolt be would bring the jester in his fool’s- 
cap from bis perch on the tree, or galvanize the brick- 
bat from the skulking miscreant’s grasp, or sweep down 
in crouching submission and shame- faced silence the 
whole of Bartholomew Fair; while a revealing flash of 
sententious doctrine, of vivified Scripture, would disclose 
to awe-struck hundreds the forgotten verities of another 
world or the unsuspected arcana of the inner man. ‘1 
came to break your bead, but through you God has 
broken my heart’ was a sort of confession with which 


he was familiar; and to see the deaf old gentlewoman, 
who used to utter imprecations on him as he passed 
along the street, clambering up the pulpit stairs to catch 
his angelic words, was a sort of spectacle which t ho tri- 
umphant Gospel often witnessed in his clay. When it 
is known that his voice could be beard by twenty thou- 
sand, and that ranging all the empire, as well as Amer- 
ica, be would often preach thrice on a working day, and 
that lie lias received in one week as many as a thousand 
letters from persons awakened by his sermons — if no 
estimate can be formed of the results of his ministry, 
some idea may be suggested of its vast extent and sin- 
gular effectiveness.” 

Whitefield published a number of sermons, journals, 
etc., and bis entire works were printed in London in 
1771-72 (7 vols. 8vo), including a Life by Gillies. For 
other literature, see Allibone, Diet, of Brit . and Amer. 
Authors, s. v. The best biography is by Tyerman, 
Life of George Whitefield (Loud. 1870, 2 vols. 8vo). 

Whitehouse, Henry John, D.D., D.C.L., a Prot- 
estant Episcopal clergyman, was born in New York city 
in August, 1803. He graduated at Columbia College in 
1821, and at the General Theological Seminary (Epis- 
copal) in 1824; was ordained deacon the same year, and 
priest in 1827 : was rector of St. Luke’s Church, Roches- 
tcr, from 1829 to 1844, and of St. Thomas’s, New York, 
from 1844 to 1851; was consecrated assistant bishop of 
Illinois, Nov. 20, 1851 ; was chosen to succeed bishop 
Chase in that diocese at the death of the latter in 1852; 
preached the sermon before the Pan- Anglican Council, 
London, in 1867, and died Aug. 10, 1874. His only pub- 
lications are in the form of Sermons, Addresses, etc. 

Whitgift, John, D.D., an eminent English prelate, 
was born at Great Grimsby, Lincolnshire, in 1530. lie was 
educated at Queen’s College, and Pembroke Hall, Cam- 
bridge, where he graduated in 1554; was chosen fellow 
of Peterhouse in 1555; entered into holy orders in 1560, 
and was appointed chaplain to Cox, bishop of Ely, who 
gave him the rectory of Feversham, in Cambridgeshire; 
was appointed lady Margaret professor of divinity at 
Cambridge in 1653; became chaplain to the queen in 
1565; was president of Peterhouse in 1567; became 
master of Pembroke Hall in April of the same year; 
was appointed regius professor of divinity, and yet the 
same year became master of Trinity College; became 
prebendary of Ely in 1568; vice-chancellor of the Uni- 
versity of Cambridge in 1570; dean of Lincoln in 1571 ; 
prebendary of Lincoln in 1572; bishop of Worcester, and 
vice-president of the Marches of Wales in 1577; was 
chosen the successor of Edmund Grindal as archbishop 
of Canterbury in 1583; was very severe in bis prosecu- 
tion of Nonconformists, both Puritans and Catholics, and 
was noted for bis strenuous advocacy of the constitution 
of the English Church ; obtained a decree against liber- 
ty of printing in 1585; became privy -councillor in 1586; 
founded a hospital and grammar-school at Croydon in 
1595; joined in the deliberations of the conferences at 
Hampton Court in January, 1604; and died at Lambeth 
Palace, Feb. 29, of the same year. The JUarfo of John 
Whitgift , Archbishop of Canterbury (Cambridge, 1851- 
51, 3 vols.), were edited for the Parker Society by the 
Lev. John Avre. Biographies have been written by 
Sir George Paule (1612) and John Strype (1718). See 
Chalmers, Blog. Diet. s. v. 

Whiton, John Milton, D.D., a Presbyterian di- 
vine, was born at Winchendon, Mass., Aug. 1, 1785. He 
graduated at Yale College in 1805; taught an academic 
school in Litchfield, Conn., for one year; studied theol- 
ogy privately; was ordained and installed pastor of the 
Presbyterian Church in Antrim, N. II., Sept. 28, 1808: 
resigned Jan. 1, 1853, and became acting pastor of a 
Congregational Church in Bennington, N. H., where he 
continued till his death, Sept. 28, 1856. lie published 
several single sermons, ami contributed Brief Notices 
of the Town of A ntrim to the New Hampshire Hist. Coll . 
iv, 216-224, and to the Repository an A ccount of the Min - 


WI1ITTAKEI 


9S5 


WILBERFORCE 


isters of Hillsborough , X. If. See Sprague, A nnals of the 
Amer. Pulpit , iv, 413, note; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
A mer. A uthors , s. v. 

Whittaker, John William, D.D., an English di- 
vine, was born at 3Ianchester in 1790. lie was educated 
at St. John’s College, Oxford, of which he became a fel- 
low; was made vicar of St. Mary’s, l>lackburn, and in 1852 
honorary canon of Manchester, lie died Aug. 3, 1854. 
Me published, An Historical and Critical Enqnirg into 
the Interpretation of the Hebrew Scriptures (1819): — 
Supplement to the same (1820) : — Justification bg Faith: 
Five Sermons, etc. (1825) : — The Catholic Church: Five 
Sermons (1835) : — and other sermons and papers. 

Whittemore, Thomas, D.D., an American Uni- 
vcrsalist minister, was born in Boston in 1800. lie was 
apprenticed successively as a morocco -dresser, brass- 
founder, and boot-maker; studied theology, and in April, 
1821, was settled as pastor of the Church at Milford, 
Mass.; removed to a Church at Cambridgeport in 1822; 
resigned this pastorate in 1831, but remained in Cam- 
bridge the rest of his life; was joint editor of the U ni- 
cer salist Magazine; established The Trumpet , a Uni- 
versalist newspaper, in 1828, and was sole editor and 
proprietor of it for thirty years; was a member of the 
Massachusetts Legislature, president of the Cambridge 
bank, and president of the Vermont and Massachusetts 
liailroad, and died in Cambridge, March 21, 18G1. lie 
was the author of, Modern History of Universalism 
(1830) : — .4 Commentary on the Revelation of St. John 
(1838): — Commentary on the Book of Daniel: — Plain 
Guide to Universalism (1840): — Autobiography (1859): 
—and other works. 

Whittingham, William Rollixsox, D.D., LL.D., 
a bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Church, was born 
in New York city, Dec. 2, 1805. lie graduated in 1825 
from the General Theological Seminary in New York 
city, and was ordained two years later. St. Mark’s, Or- 
ange. N. J., was his first pastoral charge, which he held 
from 1828 for a year and a half. In 1831 he became 
rector of St. Luke’s parish, New York city. While there 
his health failed, and he made a trip to Italy, returning 
much benefited. In 1835 he was elected to the chair of 
ecclesiastical history in the General Theological Semi- 
nary. In 1846 he was elected bishop of Maryland, and 
was consecrated in Baltimore, Sept. 17 of that year. lie 
died at West Orange, N. J., Oct. 17, 1879. The Parish 
Library , 13 vols., was edited by him, and he was also 
editor of The Churchman, a well-known Episcopal peri- 
odical. The Family Visitor and Children's Magazine 
were also under his editorial supervision. Bishop Whit- 
tingham’s library was considered one of the finest col- 
lections in America. See Amer. Church Rev. xxxi, 
47G. 

Whittlesey, William, archbishop of Canterbury, 
is supposed to have been a native of Whittlesey, a town 
situated in the County of Cambridge, and received his 
education at the University of Cambridge. In 1349 he 
became master custos of his college, the third in succes- 
sion from the founder. In 1361 William Whittlesey 
was consecrated to the see of Rochester, and on Oct. 11, 
13G8, ho found himself primate of all England and met- 
ropolitan by order of the pope. It seems that he was 
neither physically nor intellectually adequate to the 
exigencies of his position or the requirements of the 
time. II is government was weak. The condition of 
the Church troubled him greatly. lie felt deeply his 
incapacity to take his proper place in the country. 
However, to Whittlesey belongs the merit of having 
put an end to the disputes which frequently arose be- 
tween the University of Oxford and the bishop of Lin- 
coln. He died in June, 1374. See Hook, Lives of the 
Archbishops of Canterbury , iv, 221 sq. 

Wicklif. See Wycliffe. 

Wilberforce, Samuel, D.D.,an English prelate, 


son of William Wilberforce, was born at Clapham, Sept. 
7, 1805. He graduated at Oriel College, Oxford, in 1826; 
became curate of Chickendcn, Oxfordshire, in 1828; rec- 
tor of Brixton (Brightstonc), Isle of Wight, in 1830; 
select preacher before the University of Oxford in 1S37 ; 
rector of Alverstokc, Hants, archdeacon of Surrey, and 
chaplain to prince Albert, all in 1839; canon of Win- 
chester Cathedral in 1810; sub-almoner to the queen 
in 184-1; dean of Westminster and select preacher be- 
fore the University of Oxford in 1845; bishop of Ox- 
ford, to which is attached the office of chancellor of the 
Most Noble Order of the Garter, in November of the 
same year; lord high almoner to the queen in No- 
vember, 1847, and bishop of Winchester in October, 
1869. He was killed by a fall from his horse while 
riding near Dorking, July 19, 1873. He was one of 
the ablest debaters in the House of Lords, and for his 
versatility of opinions was known as “ Slippery Sam.” 
He was very popidar in the highest society, w r as a lead- 
er of the High-Church party, but an opponent of Rit- 
ualism. He was the author of, Note Book of a Country 
Clergyman (1833): — Fucharistica (1839): — History of 
the Protestant Episcopal Church in America (1844); — 
Heroes of Hebrew Histoiy (1870): — and many other 
miscellaneous w'orks, including sermons, charges, sto- 
ries, etc. 

Wilberforce, 'William, an English philanthro- 
pist, was born at Hull, Aug. 24, 1759. His father w r as 
a merchant of that city, descended from the ancient 
Yorshire family of Wilbcrfoss. lie first attended the 
grammar-school at Hull; but on the death of his father, 
in 1768, he w r as transferred to the care of his uncle, who 
placed him in a school at Wimbledon. While at this 
school his aunt, who was an ardent admirer of White- 
field’s preaching, first led him to the contemplation of 
the truths of religion; but, at the same time, impressed 
upon him her peculiar view's. II is mother, fearing lest 
he should become a Methodist, removed him from the 
care of his uncle and placed him in the Pocklington 
Grammar-school, in Yorkshire, where his serious impres- 
sions w T ere soon dissipated in a life of ease and gayety. 
In October, 1776, he entered St.John’s College, Cam- 
bridge, being only seventeen years of age. He grad- 
uated in 1781, and almost immediately thereafter was 
elected member of Parliament from Hull. He now 
came to London, and entered at once into the first socie- 
ty. lie was elected a member of the most fashionable 
clubs, and became intimate with the leading wits and 
politicians of the day. He had formed an intimacy 
with Pitt while at Cambridge which now became still 
closer. In Parliament he took but little part in the de- 
bates, but was generally opposed to Lord North’s ad- 
ministration, and particularly adverse to the American 
War. In 1784, while delivering an address before the 
freeholders of York, they suddenly decided to have him 
for their representative, and he w r as returned to Parlia- 
ment from this the largest county, in England. He 
made a tour on the Continent during 1784-85 with Mr. 
Pitt and the Rev. Isaac Milner, whose influence, coupled 
with the reading of the New Test, and Doddridge’s 
Rise and Progress , awakened in him those serious im- 
pressions which had been implanted by his aunt at 
Wimbledon, and fixed in him the determination to de- 
vote his life to God and humanity. On his return to 
England he began to devote himself to all reforms 
which opportunity permitted. But in 1787 he began a 
scries of efforts for the reformation of manners, the sup- 
pression of vice and immorality, and especially for the 
abolition of the. African slave-trade. lie opened the 
debate against the traffic in May, 1789, and, during all 
the period that followed until the accomplishment of 
this great result, never lost sight of the one object of 
his public career. He continued to represent York un- 
til 1812, from which time until 1825 lie was representa- 
tive from Bramber. From the English Cyclopaedia 
(Biog. Div. vi, 600, 601) we quote the account of his 
| efforts against the slave-traffic: • 


WILBRORD 


9S6 


WILEY 


“Relying more upon the humane ami religious feel- 
ings of'thc country than upon parliamentary support, he 
availed himself of'the agency of a society of which Gran- 
ville Sharp was the president, and Thomas Clarkson the 
agent. Throughout the struggle, which lasted twenty 
years, Mr. Wilberforce was indefatigable. Year after year 
his hopes were deferred. Thwarted at one time by the 
protracted examination of witnesses, outvoted at others, 
now in the Commons, now in the Lords, he never flinched 
from a renewal of the contest. In Parliament he sup- 
ported his cause by many admirable speeches, and bv a 
diligent collection and sifting of evidence. Out of Parlia- 
ment he never lost sight of the same great object. In his 
conversation and his letters he conciliated the support of 
all parties. Cabinet ministers, opposition members, the 
clergy of all shades of opinion, and his own familiar 
friends were alike solicited to advance the cause of aboli- 
tion. . . . 

“Apart from the opposition which lie encountered from 
the West India interest, the fearful excesses of the French 
Revolution and the rebellion of the slaves in St. Domin- 
go led many to associate the abolition of the slave-trade 
with the frantic schemes of the Jacobins. For seven 
years this cause alone retarded the success of his endeav- 
ors. Meanwhile, though well titled morally for the labors 
he had undertaken, it is marvellous how his weakly con- 
stitution enabled him to bear tip against the bodily fa- 
tigues which he was forced to endure. In the spring of 
1TSS, when his labors were yet to come, his health ap- 
peared entirely to fail from an absolute decay of the di- 
gestive organs. The first physicians, after a consultation, 
declared to his family ‘that he had not stamina to last a 
fortnight;’ and, although he happily recovered from his 
illucss, we find him exclaiming on New-year’s-day, 1790, 
‘At thirty and a half I am in constitution sixty.’ From 
his infancy lie had suffered much from weak eyes, and his 
exertions were constantly interrupted or rendered pain- 
ful by this infirmity. Still, rising with new hopes and 
vigor from every clisappoinment, he confidently relied 
upon ultimate success. At length the hour of triumph 
was at hand. In January, 1807, he published a book 
against the slave-trade, at the very moment that question 
was about to be discussed in the House of Lords. The 
Abolition Rill passed the Lords, and its passage through 
the < ominous was one continued triumph to its author. 
Sir Samuel Romilly concluded an affecting speech iu fa- 
vor >'f the bill ‘by contrasting the feelings of Napoleon, in 
all his greatness, with those of that honored individual 
who would this day lay his head upon his pillow and re- 
member that the slave-trade was no more;’ when the 
whole House, we are told, burst forth in acclamations of 
applause, and greeted Mr. Wilberforce with three cheers.” 

During this whole period he had been actively en- 
gaged in all the great questions of the times. He sac-* 
rifieed friendship to the cause of truth and humanity, 
and never suffered an opportunity to escape for doing 
good, llis great task, however, was the agitation of ne- 
gro-emancipation, which he continued until his retire- 
ment in 1825. The emancipation act passed just before 
his death. “ Thank God,” lie exclaimed, •* that I should 
have lived to witness a day in which England is will- 
ing to give twenty millions sterling for the abolition 
of slavery !” He died at Cadogan Place, London, July 
29, 1833, and was buried in Westminster Abbey with all 
the honors of a public funeral. His most important 
literary works are, Speech in the House of Commons on 
4he Abolition of the Slave-trade (1789 ) : — Practical View 
of the Prevailing Religious Systems of Professed Chris- 
tians in the Higher* and Middle Classes in this Country 
Contrasted with Real Christianity (1797 ): — Apology for 
the Christian Sabbath (1799 ): — Letter on the Abolition 
of the Slave-trade , Addressed to the Freeholders and 
other Inhabitants of Yorkshire (1807) : — and others on 
philanthropic and religious subjects. See [by his sons 
Robert Isaac and Samuel] The Life of William Wil- 
berforce (Loud. 1838, 5 vols. 8vo); id. The Correspond- 
ence of William Wilberforce (ibid. 1810, 2 vols.); Gur- 
ney. Familiar Sketch of Wilberforce (cod.); Chipchase, 
Character of William Wilberforce (1844); Collier, 
Memoir of William Wilberforce (1855); and Harford, 
Recollections of William Wilberforce, Esq., M.P., etc. 

Wilbrord (or Willibrod), St., commonly known 
as “The Apostle to the Frisians,” was horn in the Sax- 
on kingdom of Northumbria about A.I). 057. He was 
placed in Wilfred’s monastery at Ripon while still a 
child, and adopted the monastic profession before he 
was twenty years old. lie then visited Ireland, where 
he spent thirteen years under the instruction of St. Eg- 


bert and the monk Wigbert,two members of the Anglo- 
Irish Church, the latter of whom had preached Chris- 
tianity in Friesland for two years in vain. Having 
determined to undertake the work which had bathed 
his preceptor, Wilbrord departed for Friesland in the 
year 090, taking with him eleven or twelve disciples. 
When they arrived at Utrecht, they were warmly re- 
ceived by Pepin the I3ig, who had just gained a victory 
over the Frisians. In 09*2 he visited Rome to gain the 
favor and influence of the pope, and in 095 made a sec- 
ond visit to the papal capital, and was made bishop of 
the Frisians with the ecclesiastical name of Clemens. 
He established his episcopal chair at Utrecht, where lie 
built the Church of St. Saviour, and restored that of 
St. Martin. He visited the Danes and made many con- 
verts; then, proceeding by water, he came to the island 
called Fositisland (probably the present Heligoland), 
from the name of the idol worshipped there. Here his 
disregard of their superstitions and of the objects by 
them held sacred subjected him to great opposition and 
a severe ordeal, in which, however, he was successful in 
escaping punishment. Ilis work was largely undone by 
the death of Pepin in 714, and the consequent restora- 
tion of the heathen monarch Radbod. But Wilbrord 
enjoyed the patronage of Charles Martel, whose suc- 
cesses re-established him in his episcopal authority and 
influence. He founded the monastery of Epternach, 
near Treves, about 098, and there died and was buried 
in 738. Ilis day in the calendar is the 7th of Novem- 
ber. See Bede, Ilistoria Fcclesiastica , V, xi, xii ; Ma- 
billon, A nnales Ordinis S. Benedict i, lib. xviii; Wright, 
Biogrctphia Britanniea Literaria (Anglo-Saxon Pe- 
riod), p. 250-262; Hocfer, Four. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

'Wiley, Allen, D.D., a Methodist Episcopal divine, 
was born in Frederick County, Ya., Jan. 3 5, 1789. He re- 
moved to Indiana with his parents in 1804 ; was brought 
into the Church under the ministry of Rev. Moses Crume 
in 1810; licensed to exhort Sept. 10. 1811, and to preach 
July 10, 1813, and was admitted on trial in the Ohio 
Conference in 1817. “The commencement of his itin- 
erancy was the beginning of a career of great and per- 
manent usefulness.” Eleven years he spent in travel- 
ling extensive circuits; for fourteen years he acted as 
presiding elder, and for five years he was stationed in 
the principal large towns. He was chosen delegate to 
each General Conference from 3832 to 3844. He died 
at Yevay, Inch, July 23, 3848. Dr. Wiley was a man of 
God, mighty in the Scriptures, able and successful as a 
minister. For a number of years he read the Scriptures 
in the Hebrew, Latin, and Greek languages, “lie was 
one of the active founders and patrons of the Indiana 
Asbury University, and held for many years the position 
of trustee. He wrote for the Western Christian Advo- 
cate a number of articles on ‘Ministerial Character and 
Duties,’ which were subsequently collected and pub- 
lished in a separate work, and arc now contained in the 
account of his Life and Times, written by Dr. F. C. Hol- 
liday.” See Minutes of Annual Conferences, iv, 295 ; 
Simpson, Cyclop, of Methodism , s. v. ; Sprague, Annals 
of the A mer. Pulpit, vii, 569. (J. L. S.) 

Wiley, Charles, D.I)., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born at Flatbush, L. I., May 30, 1810. He was 
the second son of Charles Wiley, bookseller and pub- 
lisher in New York city. After the usual school prep- 
aration, he entered Columbia College in 1825, and re- 
mained as a student there until the death of his father, 
in 1826. lie then entered the law-office of Griffon and 
Strong, a well-known law firm in Wall Street, and pur- 
sued the study of the law with ardor and much promise 
of success. During the religious revival of 18*28-29 lie 
joined Dr. Joel Parker’s Church, and resolved to become 
a minister of the Gospel. In 1831 he entered Prince- 
ton College, and in 1832 went to the Theological Sem- 
inary at Auburn, N. Y., graduating in 1835 after a full 
course of three years. He became a resident licen- 
tiate there, and after spending a short time at New JIa- 


WILFRID 


987 


WILKINS 


ven, Conn., was in 1837 ordained and installed as pastor 
of the Congregational Clmrcli at Northampton, Mass., 
where he remained eight years. In 1845 he was in- 
stalled over the llelbrmed Dutch Church at Utica, N. Y., 
where lie remained until 1855. In that year he was 
appointed president of Milwaukee University, and held 
that position for several years ; but the financial crisis of 
1857 made it impossible for that institution to sustain 
competition with others earlier in the field, and the ef- 
fort to build it up was discontinued. In 1858 he sup- 
plied the Presbyterian Church at Lafayette, Ind., and 
was rector of the high-school there. In 1859 he supplied 
the Congregational Church at Birmingham, Conn. In 
1S60 he was settled over the Reformed Dutch Church 
at Geneva, N. Y., where he preached until 1866, when 
he removed to Hackensack, N. J., and engaged in teach- 
ing a private school. In 1871 lie removed to Orange, 
and up to the period of his fatal illness was engaged in 
that region in conducting a private school, and in edit- 
ing some text-books of Virgil and Ciesar for school use. 
Dr. Wiley was a fine classical scholar. His death oc- 
curred Dec. 21, 1878, at East Orange, N. J. (W. P. S.) 

Wilfrid (Wilferdek), Saint, is the name of four 
English bishops. 

1. Bishop of York (which was no longer an archbish- 
opric after the death of Paulinus; see Fuller, Church 
Hist, of Britain , i, 217). This celebrated man was born 
of noble parents in Northumberland, in A.D. 634. Hav- 
ing lost his mother in his fourteenth year, he entered a 
Scottish convent on the island of Lindisfarne, but after- 
wards resolved to study the Church and monasticism at 
Rome. He went thither bv way of Canterbury and 
Lyons, and arrived in 654. From 655 to 658 he was at 
Lyons, and there received the tonsure at the hands of 
his friend, the archbishop Dalfin. He returned to Eng- 
land, and gained the favor of Oswy, king of Northum- 
berland, being made tutor to the prince Alchfrid (664) 
and receiving the abbey of Inrhypum (Ripon). At this 
time a synod was assembled at Streneshale (Whitby, in 
Yorkshire) to discuss the Easter and the tonsure con- 
troversies, and Wilfrid succeeded in determining it to 
approve the usages of Rome, in consequence of which he 
was appointed in 665 to the then vacant see of York, and 
sent to archbishop Agilbert of Paris for consecration. 
During his absence, Ceadda (St. Chad) was ordained 
bishop of York at Canterbury, and Wilfrid therefore re- 
tired to his monastery of Ripon until archbishop Theo- 
dore transferred Ceadda to Mercia (Lichfield) and re- 
stored York to Wilfrid, after which he exercised juris- 
diction over the whole of Northumberland. He lost the 
royal favor, however, in 673, by assisting queen Ethel- 
rida to take the veil, and he was thereupon deposed and 
his diocese divided into three parts. He appealed to 
the pope, and started for Rome to plead his own cause 
in A.D. 678; and being driven out of his course by a 
storm, he carried the Gospel to the Frisians, converted 
many, and baptized their king, AUlegils. On his arri- 
val at Rome, pope Agatho restored him to his bishopric, 
but directed that the more distant parts of his see should 
be erected into separate dioceses. King Egfrid threw 
him into prison, however, on his return to England, re- 
gardless of the justification of his cause pronounced by 
the pope; and he was eventually obliged to seek an asy- 
lum among the heathen people of Sussex. This ban- 
ishment was utilized, however, for successful missionary 
labors. King Edilwalch received baptism, and evangel- 
ists were sent to the Isle of Yicta (Wight), who labored 
with gratifying success. In 686, Alchfrid, Wilfrid’s for- 
mer pupil, having obtained the crown, the exiled bishop 
was recalled, but again deposed in 692 on a charge of 
disobedience to the authority of Canterbury. He once 
more appealed to the pope from his banishment in Mer- 
cia, and at the age of seventy years undertook a journey 
to Rome that he might obtain justice (703 or 704). The 
conclave decided that Wilfrid’s opponents were base ca- 
lumniators, and instructed the king to restore him to 
his see. While returning through Gaul, Wilfrid fell 


siek (705), and had a vision in which the angel Gabriel 
revealed that the prayers of Wilfrid’s pupils hail ob- 
tained for him restoration to health, the recovery of part 
of his diocese, and four years of life. The king refused, 
on his arrival in England, to obey the papal order, but 
died soon afterwards, and his successor, Osred, restored 
the see. Wilfrid died, ‘’after four years,” Oct. 12, 709, 
having held the bishopric during forty-four years. His 
remains were interred at Ripon, but ultimately at Can- 
terbury. llis importance, aside from his missionary 
character, lies in his association with Theodore of Can- 
terbury as principal supporter of the papal authority 
and Romish customs in England. The following writ- 
ings are attributed to him, but without full proof of au- 
thenticity: De Catholico Celebrando Paschali Ititu : — 
T)e Pegulis Monachorum , etc. See lleddius, Vita 1157- 
fricli ; Bede, Hist. Kecks, iii-v, ed. Stevenson ; Roger de 
Wendover, Chronica sire Flores llisturiarum , vol. i, ed. 
Coxe; Lingard, Hist, of England , 5th ed. i, 122 sq.; 
William of Malmesbury, Be Gest. Pont if iii, 152; id. De 
Gest. Peg. i, 3; Godwin, De Prcesul. Angl. p. 654; Her- 
zog, Peal-Encgl'lop. s. v. 

2. Bishop of Beverly and archbishop of York (1157- 
fridus Junior), a contemporary of Bede {IJist. Eccl.es. v, 
5, 23 ; see also Roger de Wendover, ut sup. i, 213, 227 ; and 
S a ch sench ronik) . 

3. Bishop of Worcester at the beginning of the 
8th century. See Anglia Sacra, i, 470 ; Roger de Wen- 
dover, ut sup. i, 205 ; Bede, Hist. Eccles. v, 23. 

4. Archbishop of Canterbury, 806 et sq., died 829 
or 832. See Roger de Wendover. ut sup. i, 270; also 
Sacksenchronik. 

Wilkie, William, D.D., a Scotch clergyman and 
poet, was bom at Echlin, Linlithgowshire, in 1721. He 
was educated at the University of Edinburgh, where he 
had entered at the age of thirteen, but was compelled 
to leave that institution before completing the course on 
account of the death of his father; turned his attention 
to farming, where he continued his studies, and took 
orders in the Church of Scotland ; published The Epi - 
goniad, a Poem in Nine Books, in 1757, which gained 
for him the title of “the Scottish Homer;” printed a 
new edition of this work, accompanied by A Dream in 
the Manner of Spenser , in 1759 ; was chosen professor of 
natural philosophy at St. Andrew’s the same year ; pub- 
lished a volume of Moral Fables in verse in 1768 ; and 
died Oct. 10, 1772. 

Wilkins, David, D.D., a learned English divine, 
was born in 1685. He was appointed keeper of the 
arehiepiscopal library at Lambeth in 1715; spent the 
next three years in drawing up a catalogue of that col- 
lection; became rector of Mongham - Rarva, Kent, in 
1716, and of Great Chart and Hadleigh in 1719; was 
constituted chaplain to the archbishop and collated to 
the rectories of Monks-Elv and Becking; was appointed 
joint commissary of Booking; became prebendary of 
Canterbury in 1720; was collated to the archdeaconry of 
Suffolk in May, 1724; and died Sept. 6, 1745. Ills prin- 
cipal publications are, Novum Testamentum EEgyptiacum, 
vulgo Copticum, etc. (1716): — Leges Anglo-Sax.onicce 
Ecclesiastical et Civiles, etc. (1721): — Qninquc Libri 
Moysis Propheta in Lingua JEgyptiaca, etc. (1731) : — 
and Concilia Magna} Britannice et Uibernice (1736-37). 
See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Wilkins, Isaac, D.D., a clergyman of the Protes- 
tant Episcopal Church, was born at Withywood, in the 
island of .Jamaica, Dee. 17, 1742. His father, Martin 
Wilkins, became a judge in Jamaica, and was an emi- 
nent lawyer. Isaac was an only son, and when about 
six years of age was brought to New York city to ob- 
tain better educational facilities than the West Indies 
afforded. In 1760 he graduated at Columbia College. 
What he saved from his father’s estate in Jamaica 
enabled him to purchase Castle Hill Neck, in West- 
chester County. After his graduation he resided for 
some time upon this farm, and occupied himself in cul- 


WILKINS 


983 WILKINSON 


tivating it. In 1772 lie was sent to the Colonial Legis- 
lature, and until April 18, 1775, he was an active mem- 
ber of that body, ready in debate and honest in the ser- 
vice of his country, lie was the reputed author of sev- 
eral political pamphlets which were obnoxious to the 
Whigs, and eventually it was necessary for him to leave 
America; and published, before sailing for England, an 
address to his countrymen, in which he endeavored to 
vindicate himself as a lover of his country. lie re- 
mained in England about a year, in which time it is 
asserted that he endeavored to accommodate the dispute 
between Great Hri tain and the colonies. Having re- 
turned to his family at Castle Hill, which had been laid 
waste, he was compelled to retreat with them to Long 
Island. At Newtown and Flatbush be made his resi- 
dence until peace was declared. His farm had not been 
confiscated; so be sold it in 1784, took liis family to 
Shelburne, X. S., purchased property there, and again 
became a farmer. Soon after be was a member of the 
Assembly in that province. In 1708 he returned to 
New York and prepared for the ministry, and took 
charge of St. Peter’s Church at Westchester, of which, 
as soon as lie was ordained deacon, he became rector. 
On Jan. 14, 1801. he was ordained priest. The British 
government, in consideration of his services during the 
devolution, bestowed upon him an annuity of £120 for 
life, and for thirty-one years he was rector of St. Peter’s, 
lie died in Westchester, N. Y., Feb. 5, 1830. Ilis ser- 
mons were concise and forcible; his delivery was nat- 
ural and effective. As a rule, his discourses were short 
and impressive. A number of poetic effusions of some 
merit are extant of which he was the author. See 
Sprague, A nnals of the A mer . Pulpit , v, 462. 

Wilkins, John, D.D., an ingenious and learned 
English bishop, was born at Eawsley, near Daventry, 
Northamptonshire, in 1614. He was educated at All- 
Saints’, at New Inn Ilall, and at Magdalen Hall, Ox- 
ford; took holy orders; became chaplain, first to Will- 
iam, lord Say, and then to Charles, count Palatine of 
the Rhine; took sides with the Parliament under Crom- 
well, and took the Solemn League and Covenant; was 
made warden of Wadbam College in 1648; became mas- 
ter of Trinity College, Cambridge, in 1659; ejected at 
the Restoration the following year; became preacher to 
the honorable society of Gray's Inn and rector of St. 
Lawrence Jewry, London ; was chosen a member of the 
Royal Society; was made dean of Ripon; became bish- 
op of Chester in 1668; and died at the house of Dr. Til- 
lotson, in Chancery Lane, London, Nov. 19, 1672. lie 
published several mathematical and philosophical works, 
and the following, viz., Ecclesiastes, or a Discourse con- 
cerning the Gif of Preaching as it Falls under the Pules 
of A rt (1646 ; best ed. 1778) : — Discourse concerning the 
Beauty of Providence in all the Rugged Passages of It 
(1649); — Sermons, etc. (1675): — Of the Principles and 
Duties of Natural Religion (eod.). See Chalmers, Blog. 
Diet. s. v. 

Wilkinson, Henry (1), D.D., an English clergy- 
man, nephew of the preceding, known as “Long Harry,” 
was born at Waddesdon, Buckinghamshire, in 1609. lie 
entered as commoner in Magdalen Ilall, Oxford, in 1G22, 
wiiere he made great proficiency in bis studies, became 
a noted tutor, master of the schools, and divinity reader; 
took orders in the Church of England about 1638, but 
was suspended from preaching because of views ad- 
vanced in a sermon at St. Mary’s in September, 16*10; 
was restored by the Long Parliament; removed to Lon- 
don, where he was made minister of St. Faith’s, under 
St. Paul’s, and appointed one of the Assembly of Di- 
vines; became rector of St. Dunstan’s-in-the-West in 
1G45; was appointed one of the six ministers to go to 
Oxford to establish Presbyterian forms and practices; 
became fellow of Magdalen College, a canon of Christ 
Church, and Margaret professor of divinity in 1652; 
was deprived at the Restoration ; and died at Clapham 
in September, 1675. He published several Sermons 


preached before the Parliament. See Chalmers, Biog. 
Did. s. v. 

Wilkinson, Henry (2), D.D., sometimes called 
Junior, but commonly known as“ Dean Harry,” an Eng- 
lish clergyman, cousin of “ Long Harry,” was born at Ad- 
wick, in the West Riding of Yorkshire, in 1G1G. He 
began bis education at a grammar-school in All-Saints’ 
parish, Oxford; entered a commoner of Magdalen Hall 
in 1G31, where lie graduated, took holy orders, became 
a noted tutor, and moderator or dean of Magdalen Ilall; 
left the university on account of his Puritan principles 
in 1642; removed to London, took the Covenant, and 
preached frequently; under the supremacy of Parlia- 
ment lie returned to Oxford, and became principal of 
Magdalen Hall and moral-philosophy reader; and suf- 
fered for Nonconformity after the Restoration while en- 
deavoring to preach at Buckminster, Leicestershire; 
Gosfield, Essex; Sible-IIeadingham ; and lastly at Con- 
nard, near Sudbury, Suffolk, where he died, May 13, 1690. 
He was the author of, Condones Tres (1654): — Three 
Decades of Sermons (1660): — Catalogus Librorum in 
Bibliotheca Aulee Maydalenie (1661): — Two Treatises 
(1681): — and other works. See Chalmers, Biog. Did. 
s. v. 

Wilkinson, Sir John Gardner, D.C.L., F.R.S., 
a celebrated English traveller and Egyptologist, was 
born at Ilaxendale, Westmoreland, Oct. 5, 1797. He 
was the son of the Rev. John Wilkinson and a daughter 
of the Rev. Richard Gardner. lie received his educa- 
tion at Harrow School and at Exeter College, Oxford, 
lie afterwards went to Egypt, where he remained twelve 
jears, devoting himself to the study of the antiquities 
of the country, and making himself acquainted with the 
languages, manners, and customs of the modern inhab- 
itants. He resided a considerable time in a tomb at 
Thebes, and employed himself in making accurate sur- 
veys of the district and drawings of the superb archi- 
tectural monuments, and in copying the sculptures, 
paintings, hieroglyphics, and other objects of interest 
then existing. In 1828 be published at Malta Materia 
Ilierogbjphica , in four parts, and in 1S35, in London, 
Topography of Thebes and General View of Egypt. In 
1836 he began the publication of his great work, The 
Manners and Customs of the Ancient Egyptians, printing 
the first series in 3 vols. 8vo — the second series, in 2 vols. 
8vo, appearing in 1840. In 1843 be published Modem 
Egypt and Thebes, a new and condensed edition of which 
was published among Murray’s / land-books in 1847. In 
1844 he travelled in Dalmatia and Montenegro, and in 
1848 published Dalmatia and Montenegro, with a Jour- 
ney to Mostar, in Herzegovina , and Remarks on the 
Slavonic Xations, etc. In 1850 he published The Ar- 
chitecture of Ancient Egypt , and in 1851 The Fragments 
of the Hieratic Papyrus at Turin containing the Names 
of the Egyptian Kings, etc. In 1855-5G he revisited 
Egypt, and on his return published Egypt in the Time 
of the Pharaohs. He presented his collections of Egyp- 
tian, Greek, and other antiquities to Harrow' School for 
the purpose of forming a museum, to which he added, 
in 1874, his valuable collection of coins and medals. In 
1858 be published A Treatise on Color and the General 
Diffusion of Taste among all Classes. lie contributed 
many of the notes to Rawdinson’s Hei'odotus, and pub- 
lished papers in the Transactions of the geographical 
and areha?ological societies in Great Britain. He died 
Oct. 29, 1875. A Memoir w r as published by bis widow 
in 187G. Lord Ripon, in an address before the Royal 
Society of Literature, spoke thus of his great work on 
the ancient Egyptians: “Indefatigable in research, full 
of learning, accurate in facts, Sir Gardner Wilkinson 
has at the same time treated his subject with the en- 
thusiasm of genius and the liveliness of poetry. He 
opens to you the temple of their deities, the palace of 
their sovereign, the field of battle, and the repositories 
of the dead. He traces for you their early history, he 
exhibits to you tbeir knowledge of the arts and sciences. 


WILL, ARMINIAN VIEW OF 9S9 WILL, ARMIXIAX VIEW OF 


the course of their husbandry, and the process of their 
manufactures; and he introduces you to their private 
life with a graphic vivacity which makes you at once 
a judge of the virtues and vices of the Egyptian char- 
acter, and a partaker, as it were, of the intimacies of 
their domestic society.” 

Will, Aksiinian View of the.— I. Definitions . — 1. 
Mind is one and indivisible. For convenience in lan- 
guage, the phenomena of mind are generalized, and 
names given to the powers by which phenomena be- 
come possible and to which phenomena are referred. 
Those powers of mind which are immediately concerned 
in the acquisition, retention, and classification of knowl- 
edge are classed together and generalized so that the 
generic name of the intellect is made to include them all, 
or, more briefly, the mind’s power to know is called the 
intellect. In like manner, the susceptibility of feeling is 
called the sensibility , and the power to put forth action 
is called the toill. Not that there are three distinct en- 
tities, for evidently it is the same one and indivisible 
mind that perceives, judges, remembers, imagines, is 
pleased or displeased, loves or hates, chooses, resolves, 
determines, acts. Perhaps it would be quite as scientif- 
ic as is the usual method of statement to say that mind, 
considered as an entit} T , is one, simple, indivisible, and 
ultimate; that the same one mind, considered as a pow- 
er to know, is called the intellect ; considered as a pow- 
er of feeling, is called the sensibility; and considered as 
a power of action, is called the will. 

2. Edwards defines will as “ the power to choose.” 
This is unscientific and inadequate, because there are 
evidently other phenomena of mind as distinctly active, 
and as clearly distinguished from knowledge and from 
feeling, as is choice. 

Tappan’s definition of will is “the mind’s causality.” 
This is not objectionable, unless it be said that it is too 
general and does not enable the thinker to form a defi- 
nite conception. 

Whcdon says the will is “ that power of the mind by 
which it becomes the conscious author of an intentional 
act.” This is more specific, and is correct so far as it 
goes; but it may be asked, Is not will sometimes active 
when there is no intention or purpose cognized in con- 
sciousness? Docs not the mind put forth acts of will 
unconsciously V 

Haven says, “I understand by the will that power 
which the mind has of determining or deciding what it 
will do and of putting forth volitions accordingly.” 

Upham says “ the will may properly enough be de- 
fined the mental power or susceptibility by which we 
put forth volitions.” These are both defective, because 
they require a knowledge of what is meant by the term 
volitions. 

Manifestly mind is so perfectly one, and its phenome- 
na are so thoroughly interpenetrated, each and all be- 
ing mutually conditioned one upon the other, that accu- 
rate and exhaustive definition is extremely difficult, if 
not impossible. In the present state of mental science, 
perhaps we say the best thing possible, and all that is 
requisite for practical purposes, when we say that to 
know, to feel, and to act is an exhaustive category of 
mental phenomena, and the mind’s power to act is what 
is expressed by the term “ the will.” 

3. In general use, all acts of will are called volitions. 
Some writers, however, distinguish them as “choices” 
and “volitions;” but no reason is apparent for varying 
from the general usage, as the distinction sought may 
be easily made when necessary by simply noting one 
class as volitions in choice, and the other as volitions in 
the executive nisus. To make a choice, to form a pur- 
pose, to seek an end, to indulge an intention, to resolve 
to do, with other terms of similar import, express acts 
of mind which are different from the mental nisus that 
moves the mind or body, or both, to do the thing in- 
tended. As between idleness and employment, as be- 
tween one form of occupation and another, and as be- 
tween several books lying before me, I determine to 


take up a particular book and give attention to the 
reading of the same, and the study of the topic on which 
it treats. These selections and the determination formed 
are acts of will — are choices, volitions in choice ; but no 
one of them alone, nor all of them together, have as yet 
stirred a muscle. Another act of will is requisite to 
move the body and do the work intended: this may be 
called volition in the executive nisus. 

The executive power of will is exerted both upon the 
mind and upon the body — upon the mind as in all acts 
whereby attention is confined to any particular topics; 
upon the body as in all cases of intended muscular 
movement. 

The above, in a matter so well understood, may suf- 
fice as a sort of index pointing towards, rather than ac- 
curately defining, what is intended by the terms “will,” 
“ choice,” “ volition,” and their synonyms; and we now 
proceed to the discussion of t lie question which, more 
than all others connected herewith, is of vital impor- 
tance, namely — 

II. The Freedom of the Will. — Fatalism is a denial of 
the existence of free-will in any sense in which the term 
may be used. What is is, because it could not not be ; 
and what is not is not, because it could not be. The act- 
ual is equal to the possible, and the non-existent is 
equal to the impossible. Eternal fate governs all exist- 
ences and events. Of course atheists are universally 
fatalists. Materialism, when it asserts that nothing ex- 
ists but matter, is inseparably associated with fatalism, 
and in any of the forms which it assumes it is logically 
fatalistic. Dualism and pantheism always lead in the 
same direction, though dualists and pantheists arc not 
all professed fatalists. One form of professed theism is 
confessedh r fatalistic, namely, that species of theism 
which affirms that God acts from the necessities of his 
nature, so that he does all he can do, and what he docs 
he cannot avoid doing, the actual being, by the neces- 
sity of God’s nature, the measure of the possible. All 
that it is deemed needful to say of fatalism in this con- 
nection is that it contradicts the universal convictions 
of the human mind. All men, fatalists themselves in- 
cluded. have an ineradicable conviction that manj r 
things might be different from what they are. All men 
irresistibly conceive an essential difference between a 
man and a machine, and conceive that that difference 
is found chiefly in the fact that man chooses his ends 
and the means of their accomplishment, and the ma- 
chine does not. Fatalism, if true, cannot be proved, for 
to admit the possibility of its truth long enough for the 
consideration of an argument is to admit that, human 
thought is a necessary falsehood ; and arguments against 
fatalism are evidently futile, for the fatalist is by his 
own profession compelled to ignore all confidence in his 
own thinkings. Rejecting as he does ultimate princi- 
ples, denying intuitive truths, there is no foundation Ibr 
an argument. 

The antagonism between fatalism and freedom may 
be found in their answer to the question, Is mind sub- 
ject to the law of necessity in every direction, and in 
t he same sense that matter is subject to that law ? The 
fatalist affirms and the freedomist denies. For all that 
is apparent, the antagonists must stand face to face for- 
ever — the one affirming and the other denying — with 
nothing for either to say that will be of any service to 
the other. 

Among antifatalists there is great diversity of opin- 
ion, and here controversy begins. All are agreed in 
affirming the doctrine of human liberty, or technically 
in asserting the doctrine of free-will; but they instant- 
ly begin to differ by giving different and opposite defi- 
nitions of the terms “liberty,” “ freedom,” “certainty,” 
“necessity,” etc. This controversy may be as explicit- 
ly stated, and the arguments pro and con. as perspicu- 
ously presented, with some advantage as to brevity, as 
in any other method, by making the whole discussion 
consist in an answer to the sole question, Is there exist- 
ent such a thing as a “ power to the contrary?” It may 


WILL, APAIINIAX VIEW OF 990 WILL, AILUIXIAN VIEW OF 


be said that this question does not cover the whole 
ground of controversy, since some allow that “ the power 
to the contrary” is essential to a probation, and that 
the first man possessed it; affirming only that the pos- 
terity of the first pair, by reason of their relation to the 
first sin. do not possess it. This is true; but it is also 
true that all, or well-nigh all, arguments adduced to 
prove the non-existence of a power to the contrary in 
the posterity of Adam prove, if they prove anything, not 
the non-existence, but t lie impossibility, of such a power. 
The question may be stated in other terms — Is mind a 
power competent for either of several different results? 
When the mind chooses A, could it at the same time 
and under the same circumstances have chosen B in- 
stead? Is mind, or is it not, an either-eausal power? 
Is it, or is it not, in respeet to any event, a first cause? 
The parties to this controversy have been called Fret- 
do mists and Xecessita r in ns. We adopt these terms not 
only for convenience, but because they explicitly charac- 
terize the opinions held by each. 

1. Freedomists affirm that the power to the contrary 
is not only conceivable, but actual ; that it is involved in 
all intuitive conceptions of infinite power; that at any 
moment in infinite duration God can create or refrain 
from creating; that, creating a world, he can place its 
centre in any one given point in space or in any one of 
an infinite number of other points; that this power in 
God is absolutely free from all constraint, either from 
anything external to himself or from anything pertain- 
ing to his own nature. They further affirm that God 
created man in this feature of his image, so that to de- 
prive man of it entirely would be to dehumanize him — 
would be to reduce him to the character and condition 
of a brute, or perhaps worse, to mere machinery. They 
still further affirm that the possession of this power is 
fundamental and essential in the make-up of a moral 
being. Necessitarians deny the power to the contrary. 
They afiirm — stating it in the mildest terms they choose 
to adopt — an invariable antecedency in all events, psy- 
chical as well as physical. All phenomena are uniform, 
equally so whether pertaining to matter or to mind. 
External objects determine perception, perception de- 
termines emotion, emotion determines desire, desire de- 
termines volition in choice, volition in choice determines 
volition in the executive liisus, and this determines the 
external muscular action. The chain is unbreakable ; 
the connection between choice and desire is as uniform, 
as impossible to be otherwise, as is the connection be- 
tween external object and perception. Every cause is 
potent only for one sole effect ; every antecedent is fol- 
lowed, and must be followed, by one sole consequent. As 
Edwards puts it, the law of necessity governs all events; 
it is absurd to suppose the possibility of the opposite of 
what is. Discussions on this subject among theologians 
have primary and chief respeet to the power for good. 
Pelagians affirm that the power for good is as essential 
to human nature as any other power. Of course it was 
not lost bv the fall, and all men eome into personal con- 
sciousness as fully possessed of power to choose the 
good as they are possessed of power to choose the evil. 
Augustinians and Arminians affirm that power to choose 
the good was lost by the first sin; that man became 
enslaved, and that the race have inherited the enslave- 
ment. Augustinians further afiirm that the lost power 
is never restored ; that if man wills a good, it is by a 
divine efficiency causing him thus to will — in other 
words, the power to the contrary does not exist in the 
human mind, has not since t lie first sin, and never will. 
Arminians agree with Pelagians in affirming that the 
power to the contrary is essential to a moral nature, to 
a being morally responsible, but differ from them when 
they deny that the power to good was lost by sin. Ar- 
minians agree with Augustinians in affirming that the 
posterity of the first pair have inherited an enslaved 
nature, but they differ from them when they assert that 
this enslavement is perpetual. Arminians affirm that 
the race, except the first pair, eome into personal con- 


sciousness under grace; that the unconditioned benefits 
of atonement include not only personal existence, but 
also all the requisites of a fair probation, among which 
the power to refuse t he evil and choose the good is chief, 
is fundamental and essential. These differences among 
theologians deserve mention in this connection; hut it 
is uot needful that they be kept in mind, for the discus- 
sion is the same, whether they be considered or left out 
of the account. 

(1.) Freedomism is sustained by an appeal to univer- 
sal consciousness. It is affirmed that every man does, 
every day of his life, many things with a consciousness 
while doing these things that he has power to do other- 
wise. It is objected to this appeal by opponents that 
consciousness testifies to the acts of mind, and not to its 
poicei'S. This objection is an assumption which all 
psychologists do not admit, and it cannot be denied 
that man is, in some sense, conscious of his powers. 
But allowing the objection to stand for what it is worth, 
it is still averred that the consciousness of*a conviction 
so universal as is the conviction that very many things 
we do, we do with the same ability to do otherwise that 
we have to do as we do, is as determinative as any con- 
viction ever existing in consciousness. If consciousness 
can be relied upon in any testimony that it gives re- 
specting human nature, or if a conviction existing in 
universal consciousness is any evidence that that con- 
viction is true, then man is free in the sense of the free- 
domists ; he possesses power, or, more accurately, lie is 
himself a power for either of several results. 

(2.) Freedomists affirm that the power to the contra- 
ry is essential to moral obligation; that a conviction of 
its existence arises necessarily from a consciousness of 
moral responsibility. It is affirmed that it is impossi- 
ble for any one to feel responsible for any event, unless 
he also feels that that event is under his control. If 
one feels obligated to choose the good, he must also feel 
that he has power to do so; if he feels condemned for 
choosing the evil, he must also feel that he might have 
chosen the good. These convictions are in perfect ac- 
cordance with what, in abstract science, must be judged 
as just, honorable, and right. Wherever obligation and 
responsibility exist, altcrnativity must be coexistent. 
In justice and in honor, punishment cannot be awarded 
for the unavoidable; if but one way be possible, moral 
desert is impossible. Necessitarians attempt to avoid 
these manifest inferences by affirming that not a power 
to contrary, but voluntariness, is the basis of obligation 
and responsibility ; voluntariness, they say, is self-mo- 
tion in the absence of constraint. It is said if a man 
choose evil unconstrained by anything extraneous to 
himself, he is responsible; though being what he is it 
were impossible for him to choose otherwise. More- 
over, it is said that it is no matter how he came to be 
what he is. whether his depravity be eonereated, in- 
fused, or self-imposed, if his acts are his own and not 
another’s, he is responsible. Is this so? If without 
any fault or agency of my own I am a slave to evil de- 
sires, so that I have no power or ability to choose good, 
am 1 responsible for the evil I do? Let the common 
sense of mankind answer. 

(I>.) Freedomists aver that a denial of power to the 
contrary, if not itself identical with fatalism, is logical- 
ly its equivalent, since absence of power to be otherwise 
equals necessity. The term necessity cannot be more 
accurately defined than hv the term absence of power 
to the contrary. In reply, necessitarians make a dis- 
tinction between a physical and a moral necessity; the 
former being found in the connection between a physi- 
cal cause and its effect, and the latter between a men- 
tal state and its consequent. Edwards says the neces- 
sity he contends for is “the full and fixed connection 
between the thing signified by the subject and predicate 
of a proposition which affirms something to be true.” 
The rejoinder of the freedomist is that necessity is al- 
ways the same, whatever be the subject to which it ap- 
plies, and is always impossibility of the opposite. No 


WILL, ARMINIAN VIE\V r OF 091 WILL, ARMINIAN VIEW OF 


distinction founded on an irrelevant matter, nor the ob- 
scurity of Edwards’s definition, avails to avert the force 
of the evident affirmation that absence of power to be 
otherwise is necessity, fate ; and necessitarianism equals 
fatalism. 

(4.) Freedomists affirm that to deny the power to the 
contrary is to deny human liberty fully and totally. 
If man cannot do otherwise than he does, he is not free. 
To avoid this affirmation, vicious definitions are given 
of the terms liberty, freedom, etc. Liberty is power to 
do as yon will, to will as you choose, to do as you are 
pleased, etc. To do as you will defines physical liber- 
ty, the freedom of the body, and has no relation what- 
ever to mental freedom. To will as you choose is with- 
out significance, because choosing is willing, and liber- 
ty', if anywhere, is found in the choice itself, and not in 
the accordance with it of any subsequent act either of 
body or mind. To will as you are pleased admits the 
inseparable connection between choice and antecedent 
pleasure or desire, and may reject the possibility of the 
opposite, and this is precisely that for which the defini- 
tion is constructed. When used for this purpose, the 
outcome is simply a statement of the issue; the defini- 
tion, and all that depends upon it, avails nothing in 
averting the affirmation that the denial of a possible 
opposite is a denial of the possibility" of freedom fully 
and totally. Liberty does not exist, fixed fate governs 
all things. 

(5.) As a corollary of the above, freedomists affirm 
that necessitarianism must, if consistent with itself, 
equally with fatalism, deny all moral distinctions and 
regard the idea of a moral government as chimerical. 

2. The principal arguments adduced in support of 
necessitarianism are as follows: 

(1.) Causality. — Volitions are effects, and must have 
a cause; the cause being what it is, the effect cannot be 
otherwise than it is. This is regarded by opponents as 
a plain begging of the question, for it assumes that all 
causes are potent only for one sole effect, when the ques- 
tion under discussion is whether or not mind is a cause 
equally potent for each of several different effects. If 
it be asked, What causes the mind to cause as it does? 
the answer is, Nothing causes it; it is itself first cause 
of its own volitions, and is by its nature an adequate 
cause of all its volitions, both general and particular. 

(2.) Edwards’s reduclio ad absurdum. If the mind 
be self-determined, it must determine itself in any given 
volition by an antecedent volition; but if this antece- 
dent volition be self-determined, it also must be deter- 
mined by another antecedent volition, and so on ad in - 
Jinitum. But to suppose such an infinite series of voli- 
tions is absurd; therefore mind is not self-determined. 
All the force of this argument comes from the unfort- 
unate use of the term self-determined. Mind is not 
determined, it is itself determiner. The supposed ante- 
cedent volition is useless, and the series is stopped at its 
beginning. 

(3.) Utility. — The question is asked, “ What is the 
use of a power that is never used?” The events that 
do occur are produced each by a power adequate to its 
production ; if there be a power adequate for the produc- 
tion of an opposite event, it is never used, is useless, and 
therefore need not be. The fallacy here consists in the 
assumption that the doctrine of freedom supposes two 
powers — one to do, and another not to do. Whereas the 
assertors of a power to the contrary affirm that the 
same one power is fully adequate to the production of 
either of several different results. Mind is such a cause 
that when it produces effect A, it is fully adequate to 
produce effect B instead. 

(4.) Motivity. — It is said mind cannot act without a 
motive. In a conflict of motives the strongest must pre- 
vail, therefore volitions always are as the strongest mo- 
tive. The fallacy of this argument comes from the ma- 
terialistic idea conveyed by the term “strongest.” There 
is no analogy between mental and material phenomena 
that admits of such argumentation. The strength of a 


motive cannot be represented by the weights of a balance ; 
to infer prevalence from strength in mental the same as 
in physical phenomena is vicious. If, however, the 
term strongest motive must be used, it is indispensable 
that it be distinctly stated in what the strength of a 
motive consists; the term strength must be clearly de- 
fined. “ The so-called strength of a motive,” says Whc- 
don, “ may be defined the degree of probability that the 
will will choose in accordance with it, or on account of 
it.” This definition being admitted, the argument is 
closed, for beyond all controversy it is evident that 
great improbabilities do sometimes occur ; an improba- 
bility, however great, is not the equivalent even of a 
certainty, much less of a necessity. 

But, again, the argument assumes that mind never 
acts but in view of motives, and that it cannot act with- 
out a motive. This is not admitted. Every active 
man, every day of his life, in a thousand indifferent 
and unimportant movements, both of mind and body, 
acts in the total absence from consciousness of any mo- 
tive or reason for doing as lie does ; and, again, in an 
equilibrium of contiieting motives, clearly cognized in 
consciousness, man can make a choice. This is not a 
supposed case, but is of actual and frequent occurrence. 
Men frequently with strong motives for action find 
themselves without any motive whatever for action in 
one way rather than another, and yet in these circum- 
stances they put forth volitions as readily and as easily 
as when a strong preponderance is obvious. The argu- 
ment from the strength of motives is not determinative. 

(5.) Divine Prescience. — Infinite wisdom must include 
a perfect knowledge from eternity of all existences and 
events. A complete history of the universe through 
all time must have always been perfectly cognized by 
the Divine Mind. God’s foreknowledge can never be 
disappointed. All existences and events will be as God 
has from eternity foreknown them; therefore the op- 
posite to what is, and the different from it, could not be; 
the power to the contrary does not exist. Let it be 
distinctly noted that the inference here is not merely 
the non-existence of a power to the contrary, but its 
impossibility; and if the argument proves an impossi- 
bility in human affairs, it also proves the same as to di- 
vine affairs — indeed, as to all events from eternity to 
eternity — and God himself is forever shut up to one sole 
and necessary history; the actual equals the possible; 
eternal fate governs God and all that is not God. 

The premises are unquestionable, but the conclusion 
is a non-seqmtur. A future event may be certain, may be 
known as certain, and its opposite be possible notwith- 
standing ; will be is not the same as must be. The argu- 
ment would be equally forcible if the foreknowledge of 
God were eliminated. Knowledge is not causative; the 
knowledge of an event has nothing to do with its produc- 
tion. All that the divine prescience of future events does 
in this argument is to prove their certainty. But this 
must be admitted without such proof: all things will he 
as they will be, whether God knows them or not. The 
history of the universe will be in one way, and not two; 
objective certainty is self-evident. But certainty is not 
necessity; it docs not exclude the possibility of an oppo- 
site. Prescience neither helps nor hurts this case at all. 
If a man can see no difference between certainty and 
necessity, he cannot admit contingency; lie is logically 
shut up to invincible fate. If one does apprehend a clear 
difference between will be and must be, lie may affirm 
both prescience and contingency. Between these two 
parties thus cognizing these ultimate ideas there must 
be a perpetual difference of opinion on the question un- 
der discussion. Further controversy is useless; they have 
reached the ultimate of the question; they must stand 
face to face, one affirming contingency, and the other 
necessity, without the possibility of an argument from 
either that will be of any service to the other. 

(0.) Divine Sovereignty. — God governs the world in 
accordance with a plan. No existence or event can be 
permitted to contravene his plan; all existences and 


AY ILL, CALVINISTIC DOCTRINE 992 AYILL, CALVINISTIC DOCTRINE 


events must be included in tlie plan, and each must 
form a constituent part thereof. To suppose anything 
contingent upon the human will is to take that tiling 
from the purview of the divine sovereignty, subject it to 
human caprice, to uncertainty, to chance. Therefore 
nothing can be possible which is different from what is. 

All the strength of this argument lies in one or the 
other, or both, of two conceptions. One of these con- 
ceptions is that a perfect government implies an abso- 
lute control, a determining efficiency; the other is that 
contingency is the equivalent of uncertainty, no cause, 
chance. The one conception is that the divine sover- 
eignty cannot be complete and perfect unless all that is 
not Clod be reduced to the condition of machinery. The 
antagonist of this idea is the conception of a govern- 
ment of beings endowed with alternative powers. The 
idea that a contingency is an uncertainty is antagonized 
by the conception that contingency and certainty may 
both be predicated of the same event ; it may be cer- 
tain that a thing will be, and yet, at the same time, be 
possible that it may not be. These antagonizing con- 
ceptions are ultimate; and two parties, the one enter- 
taining one and the other the other, must forever be at 
variance. Controversy closes, the one party affirming 
and the other denying. If God cannot know how his 
creatures will conduct themselves when endowed with 
alternative power, when left to determine their conduct 
by their own free will ; if he cannot govern the world 
when much of its history is within the power of his 
creatures, when much that is, is determined and enacted 
by the free volitions of men, then freedomism must quit 
the held, and, as we see it, fatalism is triumphant. There 
are innumerable possibilities which never become actu- 
al; if the actual be the measure of the possible, then 
fate governs all things. 

111. Literature. — Arminius, TPorA’s (Auburn, N. Y. 
1853, 3 vols. 8vo), i, 252; ii, 472 ; Wesley, Works (N. Y. 
eel.), ii, GO, 401, 400; v. 39: vi, 41, 40, 127, 584; vii, 07; 
Fletcher, IForAs (ibid.), i, 90 sq., 322, 502; ii, 227, etc.; 
Watson, Theological Institutes (ibid.), ii, 435 sq.; Fisk, 
Calvinistic Controversy (ibid. 1835), p. 120 sq. ; Bledsoe, 
Examination of Edwards (Phila. 1845) ; Whedon, Free- 
dom of the Witt (N. Y. 18G4) ; Raymond, Systematic The- 
ology (Cincinnati, 1877), ii, 140 sq.; Rope, Christian The- 
ology (Bond, and X. Y. 1870 sq.), ii, 3G3 sq. A very mod- 
erately Calvinistic, but not strictly Arminian, view of 
the will may be found in the Baptist Review, 1880, p. 527 
sq. See Arminian ism; Theology (New England); 
Wesleyanism. (M. R.) 

WILL, Calvinistic Doctrine ok the. It is obvi- 
ous that consistent Calvinists and Pelagians cannot hold 
the same theory as to the nature, conditions, and ex- 
tent of the freedom of man in willing. It is no less 
certain that Evangelical Calvinists can, in perfect logi- 
cal consistency with their system of faith, hold any the- 
ory of human freedom which is open to evangelical Ar- 
miuians in consistency with the logic of their system. 

J. Freedom of the Will. — It has always been part of 
the religious faith of Calvinists that man is a free re- 
sponsible agent. The various methods of philosophi- 
cally accounting for the fact of freedom, and the relation 
of the will to the other faculties of the soul, and of its 
freedom to the revealed doctrines of sin and grace, are 
elements of philosophy and not of theology. The 
minster Confession of Faith represents all other Calvinis- 
tic standards in asserting as follows : 

Cli. iii, §1. God has “unchangeably ordained whatso- 
ever comes to pass ; yet so as thereby neither is God the 
author of sin, nor is violence offered to the will of the 
creatures, nor is the liberty or contingency of second 
causes taken away, hut rather established.” 

Ch. v, 5 2. “Although, in relation to the foreknowledge 
and decree of God, the first cause, all things come to pass 
immutably, yet, by the same providence, he ordereth them 
to fall out according to the nature of second causes, either 
necessarily, freely, or contingently.” 

Ch. ix, 5 1. “God hath endued the Avill of man with that 
natural liberty, that it is neither forced nor by any abso- 
lute necessity of nature determined to good or evil.” 


This doctrine Calvinists have always maintained, and 
they have never held any other doctrines which, in their 
belief, were inconsistent with this fundamental doctrine 
of human freedom. 

In former times Calvinistic theologians, while main- 
taining the freedom of man as a responsible moral agent, 
have generally felt impelled to set over against the fact 
of freedom the equally certain facts of man’s moral de- 
pravity, and consequent voluntary aversion and moral 
inability to fulfill those obligations which spring out of 
our relation to God. This has been sharply emphasized 
in opposition to Pelagian error. But more recently, in 
consequence of the prevalence of pantheistic and mate- 
rialistic modes of thought, which are alike fatalistic, 
Calvinists generally have been impelled to unite with 
their Wesleyan brethren in emphasizing the rational 
and moral self-determining power of the human soul 
which they had always held. This primary truth is 
the only and the efficient solvent alike of materialism 
and of pantheism in all their forms. It is the citadel 
of faith, the last tenable stronghold in defence of super- 
natural religion. We therefore not only hold to the 
freedom of the human soul in willing sincerely and in 
I good faith, but we regard it as fundamental and essen- 
tial, the truth of all others to be* held aloft and vindi- 
cated at the present day. 

That Calvinistic theologians as a class have always 
maintained the freedom of the human soul as the sole 
cause of its own volitions is so conspicuously true that 
such impartial, learned, and able critics as Sir William 
Hamilton (Discussions, A ppend i x I, A; and note on p. 
402 of collected Works of Dugald Stewart), DugaUl Stew- 
art (Dissertation on the Progress of Philosophg), and Sir 
James Mackintosh (Note O to his Preliminary Disser- 
tation ) have affirmed that the doctrine of the will main- 
tained by Jonathan Edwards is irreconcilably incon- 
sistent with the doctrines of Augustine and Calvin, and 
the system they taught. In direct contradiction to this 
opinion, Edwards and Chalmers have held that the par- 
ticular theory of liberty which they maintained — which 
has been absurdly misrepresented by its title of “philo- 
sophical necessity 5 ’ — is essential to the logical defence of 
the Calvinistic system. Principal William Cunningham, 
in his article “ Calvinism and the Doctrine of Philosoph- 
ical Necessity,” in his Reformers and the Theology of the 
Reformation, has incontrovertibly proved that both these 
opposite opinions, as to the relation of the Calvinistic 
system of theology to special theories of the freedom of 
the will, are false; and that neither the theory taught 
by Edwards, nor the theory of self-determination taught 
by Evangelical Arminians, or any other theory of the 
will which can be consistently held by Weslevans, is 
excluded by the logic of Calvinism. 

11. Opposition to rdagianism. — Pelagians hold that 
the essence of free-Avill involves an absolutely uncondi- 
tioned power of choice between good and evil, and that 
this power is inalienable from human nature and essen- 
tial to responsible agency; that the moral agency of 
a man at any one moment cannot determine nor limit 
his moral agency at any other moment, but that he 
must possess, whatever his conduct, throughout his en- 
tire existence, full ability to will and to do all that God 
has any right to require of him ; that moral character, 
whether good or bad, can be rationally predicated only 
of acts of the will, and not of any permanent states of 
the will or of the affections, lienee Pelagians deny — 1. 
That Adam was created with a holy character ante- 
cedent to his own morally unbiassed action. 2. They 
deny that Adam Avas the representative head of the hu- 
man race, ami that, in consequence of his apostasy, his 
own nature or that of his posterity became morally de- 
praved. 3. They deny that man’s will is ever morally 
impotent, or unable to meet all the obligations resting 
upon him. 4. That the will of sinful man is dependent 
upon supernatural assistance, or that it can be effectual- 
ly influenced hv such grace without prejudice to its 
freedom or responsibility. 5. Socinians, the only coiv 


WILL, CALVIN ISTIC DOCTRINE 993 WILL, CALVIN ISTIC DOCTRINE 


sistent Pelagians, hold that certainty is absolutely in- 
consistent with liberty, and that, consequently, God can- 
not foreknow the future free acts of men, or other con- 
tingent events. 

Calvinists are, of course, prevented by their religious 
faith from agreeing with the above positions of the Pe- 
lagians as to the conditions of free agency. They hold 
that man was created with a positive holy character, 
yet able to obey or disobey. That man’s moral nature 
has been since the fall totally corrupt, indisposed and 
disabled to obey God’s holy law. That the intluenee 
of divine grace, prevenient and co-operative, exercised 
in regeneration and sanctification, instead of limiting 
the liberty of the human will, re-establishes and rein- 
vigorates it. 

III. Ability and Liberty . — lienee Augustinians have 
sharply emphasized the distinction between liberty , the 
inalienable property of the human soul as a free rational 
moral agent, and ability , i. e. the power to will and do 
up to the full measure of our responsibility; or the power 
to will in a manner contrary to the prevailing moral 
state of the soul itself; or the power, by a mere volition, 
to change that prevalent moral state. The same dis- 
tinction is signalized, by German philosophical theolo- 
gians, by the terms Formale Freiheit , or ability, and 
Reale Freiheit , or liberty. The neglect of this distinc- 
tion has led to much confusion. Augustine, Luther, 
and many of the older Augustinian theologians, in terms 
denied libert}*, when they really meant only to deny to 
men moral ability to obey the divine law independently 
of supernatural grace. This has led many honest op- 
ponents of Calvinism, imperfectly acquainted with An- 
gustinian theological literature, and the usage of tech- 
nical language which prevails in it, to misunderstand 
altogether the meaning of many of our classical author- 
ities. Calvinists, as they have understood themselves, 
have always maintained the freedom of the human will, 
and at the same time, and in perfect consistency, have 
denied the moral ability of man since the fall to obe} r 
God’s law without supernatural grace. They have also 
always, and with equal consistency, maintained that all 
events, including the volitions of free agents as well as 
those dependent upon necessary causes, have been from 
eternity certainly future, and that this certain futuri- 
tion has been determined by the sovereign foreordina- 
tion of God. 

But in all these points, except the last, Wesleyan s 
and Calvinists agree. Different explanations and ad- 
justments of these great commonplaces of Evangelical 
Christianity may distinguish them, but, as above gen- 
erally stated, they are at one. God did create man with 
a nature holy, antecedent to all action, yet mutable 
(Watson, Institutes, pt. ii, eh. vi and xviii ; and Wesley, 
as there quoted by Watson). Man, after his fall, con- 
tinues to be a free and responsible moral agent, and yet 
is morally depraved before individual action, and is un- 
able, before regeneration, and without the assistance of 
supernatural grace, to obey the divine law; and the 
.operation of this grace does no violence to his freedom 
of will (Methodist Articles, art. viii; Watson, Institutes, 
pt. ii, ch. xviii; and Wesley on Original Sin). Saints 
in glory will be free, yet confirmed in holiness and not 
liable to fall into sin (Watson, Institutes , pt. ii, ch. xxix). 
The free acts of men and angels have always been cer- 
tainly future to the infinite foreknowledge of God (ibid. 
pt. ii, ch. iv). 

IV. Foreknou'ledge and Predestination. — Obviously, 
therefore, the only point at which the essential elements 
of the Calvinistic system even appear to bear upon the 
nature or conditions of human free agency in a manner 
different from that in which the essential principles 
of evangelical Arminianism bear upon the same is the 
point of the divine decrees. Calvinists hold that God 
has from eternity immutably foreknown and foreoi'dain- 
ed whatsoever comes to pass. Weslevans hold that 
God has from eternity immutably foreknown whatso- 
ever comes to pass. Both equally involve certainty. 

X.— R it it 


and neither involves anything else. Watson says “the 
great fallacy in the argument, that the certain prescience 
of a moral action destroys its contingency, lies in sup- 
posing that contingency and certainty are the opposite 
of each other.” Anti-Calvinists commonly understand 
that divine foreordination necessarily includes the de- 
termination upon the part of God efficiently to bring to 
pass the tilings foreordained. But all events are effects 
either of necessary or of free causes. Foreordination of 
the effects of necessary causes, of course, does involve a 
putting-forth of divine efficiency to bring them to pass 
either immediately or mediately. But the foreordina- 
tion of the effects of free causes, such as the volitions of 
free agents, of course, does not involve upon the part of 
God any purpose of putting forth efficiency to bring the 
foreordained volition to pass, except that involved in 
bringing the free agent into existence whom he foresaw 
would freely execute the volition in question; and in 
giving him power, either natural or gracious, to execute 
it. God eternally saw in idea all possible free agents, 
under all possible conditions, and all the volitions which 
they would freely exercise under all those conditions, 
if they were so created and conditioned. This knowl- 
edge ( scientia simplicis intelligent ice) precedes and con- 
ditions all foreordinatiou. He then sovereignly chose 
out of the possible the entire system of things he de- 
sired to make actually future, and by this choice he 
made the futurition of all things certain. This foreor- 
dination precedes and conditions his foreknowledge of 
things certainly future. In order to execute it, God, in 
creation and providence, brings into existence and con- 
trols in action all necessary agents, including some sides 
of human nature; but as to free volitions, he simply 
brings the agents into existence and conditions them 
according to his plan, and graciously or naturally sup- 
plies them with the power necessary to will and act as 
predetermined, and then leaves them freely and contin- 
gently to will as he had certainly foreseen they would do. 
Or, as an eminent Calvinistic authority prefers to put it, 
“The Calvinistic position is stated with sufficient distinct- 
ness when it is said that the existing system of things Or 
world-plan was present in the divine mind from all eterni- 
ty, and was therefore both foreknown and foreordained.” 
Thus the Calvinistic doctrine of the foreordination of free 
acts, like the Wesleyan doctrine of foreknowledge (which 
really does not differ from it as much as many suppose), 
simply involves the previous immutable certainty of the 
act, and in no way affects the freedom of the agent or 
the contingency of his act (Westminster Confession of 
Faith* iii, I). It is free in its very essential nature. It 
is foreseen that the agent would exercise it if created 
and so conditioned. God makes it certainly future by 
his purpose to so create and so place that man. II is 
creation and providential condition are brought about by 
the efficiency of God. 1 1 is volition, although foreseen to 
be certainly future, is his own free spontaneous self-de- 
termination. Even if this explanation should be proved 
untrue or absurd, surely a thousand other reconciliations 
of these revealed truths may be possible to divine, al- 
though they should all be impossible to human, reason. 

Hence, neither Calvinist nor evangelical Arminian 
can consistently hold a theory of the will involving the 
principles of Pelagianism which both repudiate. And 
hence, also, Weslevans and Calvinists agreeing (I) that 
God’s foreknowledge proves that all events are certainly 
future, and (2) that there can be no foreordination of a 
human volition in any sense or degree inconsistent with 
its perfect freedom, have, each of them, in consistency 
with the logic of their respective systems, precisely the 
same range of choice as to theories of the will as the 
other. Principal William Cunningham i neon t rove rti- 
bly proves this in essay ix, Reformers and Theology of 
the Reformation. That foreknowledge leads to foreor- 
dination is argued by professor L. D. M ; Cabe, D.D., LL.D., 
in his Chautauqua Address for 1880, and in his work on 
The Foreknowledge of God; and hence he proposes to 
revolutionize Weslej T an theology by the introduction of 


WILLARD 


WILL. CALVINISTIC DOCTRINE 994 


the denial of God’s foreknowledge of future contingent 
events. 

V. The Edwardcan Doctrine Edwards wrote against 

the Pelagianizing Anninians represented by Whitby, 
and in a theological interest, as he supposed, lie pro- 
posed to settle forever, by strictly logical process, all the 
questions at issue, lie argued that the act of the will 
is by a rigid law of causation determined by the strong- 
est motive. “ He does not carefully distinguish between 
the different usages of the word ‘cause;’ he seems to 
limit freedom too exclusively to executive volition; at 
times he implies that the whole causal power, producing 
volition, resides in the motives; his conception of cau- 
sation is derived from the sphere of mechanics rather 
than from that of living spontaneous forces; and he is 
so in earnest in arguing against the self-determining 
power of the will as to neglect that element of self-de- 
termination which is undeniably found in every person- 
al act” (Smith [Dr. Henry I?.], in the A mer. Presh. and 
Theol. Review, Jan. 1865). Vet he never intended to deny 
that essential freedom of choice which is witnessed for in 
consciousness, and that he conducted his argument with 
consummate power is witnessed to by his most earnest 
opponents. lie “set up a philosophy of the will which 
is not consonant with the doctrine that had been held 
by the main body of Augustinian theologians. . . . The 
doctrine of Augustine, however, and the more general 
doctrine, even, of Calvinistic theologians, the doctrine 
of Calvin himself, and of the Westminster Assembly’s 
creeds, is that a certain liberty of will (ad utrumvis ), or 
the power of contrary choice, had belonged to the first 
man, but had disappeared in the act of transgression, 
which brought his will into bondage to evil. It was 
the common doctrine, too, that in mankind now', while 
the will is enslaved as regards religious obedience, it re- 
mains free outside of this province in all civil and secular 
concerns. In this wide domain the power of contrary 
choice still remains” (Fisher [Rev. Prof. George I\], in 
the North A merican Renew , INI arch, 1879). Calvin says, 
• in writing against Pighius, “ If force be opposed to free- 
dom, T ackuoudedge and will always affirm that there is 
a free will, a will determining itself, and proclaim ever}' 
man who thinks otherwise a heretic. Let the will be 
called free in this sense, that is, because it is not con- 
strained or impelled irresistibly from without, but deter- 
mines itself by itself” (Henry, Life of Calvin, transl. by 
Stubbing, i, 497). Dr. Thomas Reid, the founder of the 
Scottish philosophy, w r as a Calvinistic minister, and in 
his Active Powers taught the freedom of the wdll. Sir 
William Hamilton, w’ho w r as a member of a Calvinistic 
Church, and a believer in foreknowledge and foreordi- 
nation, taught the same (see his Notes on Reid , and his 
Discussions'). Dr. M‘Cosh ( Divine Government , bk. iii, 
eh. i, § 1 and 2) plainly enters his dissent from Edwards, 
although lie regards the problem as to the consistency 
of the admitted self-determining power of the human 
soul and the universal reign of the law of causation to 
be at present insoluble. Ilenrv P. Tappan has ably 
criticised Edv'ards in the interest of the “doctrine of a 
self-determined will,” while he remains a consistent 
Calvinist. 

There is no doubt that Edwards’s celebrated treatise 
is an amazing monument of genius. In certain special 
directions its argument has never been answered, and, 
as far as can now be seen, never will be. Dr. Whedon’s 
new view of the will is a practical testimony to the con- 
vincing power of Edwards’s logic. II is (Edwards) In- 
finite Series remains a triumphant refutation of the old 
doctrine of the liberty of indifference. The position of 
the treatise before the public in the present age, how- 
ever. is maintained not by its Calvinistic defenders, but 
by its persistent critics, who attack it because they be- 
lieve it to be the citadel of Calvinistic theology. This 
is, and has always been, an entire mistake. Calvinists, 
as such, are independent of, and indifferent to, the psy- 
chological theory it advocates, and the fate of the argu- 
ment on which that theory rests. 


YI. Psychology of the Subject. — The question as to 
the human will and the laws of its action should be in- 
vestigated purely as a psychological, and not as a theo- 
logical, question. In this respect both Edwards and 
Whedon have equally erred. The opinion of most 
modern theologians, founded purely on psychological 
considerations, and independent of all theological bias, 
is, upon the w'hole, as follows. Great confusion has 
been imported into this difficult problem by the usage, 
common to both parties, of considering the will as a sep- 
arate organ or agent, exterior to the reason, affection, 
desires, conscience, and other faculties of the soul. Con- 
sciousness affirms that the human soul is an absolute 
unit, not like the body a system of organs. The w hole 
soul is the one organ of all its functions; the w'hole 
soul (Ego) thinks, desires, judges, fejels; and the w hole 
soul wills. The soul, that is, the person, is an original 
self-prompted cause, and is the sole and sufficient cause 
of all its volitions. In every free volition the soul is 
self-determined only, and had power to the contrary 
choice. The will, however, is not separate from the 
reason, but includes it; includes all the soul includes; 
is self-decided by its own contents and its own charac- 
ter; and hence is rational and moral, free and respon- 
sible. , 

If the problem be pushed further, and w r e are asked 
to affirm the relation wdiich the previous states of the 
soul sustain to its volitions, most theologians believe 
that no satisfactory answer has ever been given. The 
answer of Edwards that the volitions are determined, 
through a rigid law of moral causation, by the preced- 
ing state of the soul, or by the strongest motive, appears 
to involve the reign within the will of the same law of 
cause and effect which prevails in the physical uni- 
verse; and this it is difficult to prevent from degener- 
ating into fatalism. The answer of Whedon that the 
will, independent of the reason, and the affections and 
the conscience can “project volitions” for the origin 
and direction of which no cause or reason w hatever 
exists, except the bare power the man has to will any- 
thing, appears to us to involve pure chance (by exclud- 
ing conscience and reason and personal character and 
content from the will itself). And chance is only an- 
other name for fate. It is better to be satisfied with the 
statement of the points in which all agree — (a) the free 
self-determining power of the soul itself in every free 
choice, ( b ) that in the free acts for which w r e are moral- 
ly responsible w’e act for reasons, in view of moral con- 
siderations, and our personal character is revealed in the 
act — than to insist further upon a rational account of the 
genesis of each volition and its relation to the antecedent 
states of the soul. For hitherto no such account has 
been permanently regarded as satisfactory by either 
party. 

YII. Literature. — Leibnitz, Essais de Theoclicee, etc. ; 
Reid, Active Powers , essay iv; Turretine, Institutio 
Theologies, locus deeimus; Hodge, Systematic Theol- 
ogy. pt. ii, eh. ix; Edw'ards, Inquiry on the Freedom of 
the Will ; Cunningham, Theology of the Reformers, es- 
say ix; Hamilton, Notes on Stewart; id. Discussions; 
Fisher, Discussions on History and Theology , p. 227-252 ; 
Smith, Review of Whedon on the Will , in the Ameri- 
can Presbyterian and Theological Review , Jan. 1865; 
Day, On the Will; Tappan, Review of Edwards's In- 
quiry , and The Doctrine of the Will Applied to Moral 
Agency and Responsibility ; Taylor, Moral Government 
of God; M‘Cosli, Divine Government , bk. iii, ch. i. 
(A. A. 11.) 

Willard, Joseph, D.D.. LL.D., a president of Har- 
vard College, brother of Rev. John Willard, D.D., of 
Strafford, Conn., w'as born in Biddeford, Me., Dec. 29, 
1738. lie was the son of the Rev. Samuel Willard, 
minister of that town, and great-grandson of the Rev. 
Samuel Willard of the Old South Church, Boston, and 
vice-president of Harvard College. Joseph was born 
and reared in poverty, but by the aid of others and by 
his own energy he entered Harvard College, and grad- 


WILLEHAD 


995 


WILLERAM 


uated in 1765. He studied divinity ‘after his gradua- 
tion, was tutor in Greek for six years, and was ordained 
colleague pastor (with Joseph Champney) of the First 
Congregational Church in Beverly, Mass., in 1772. 
Here he preached until 1781, when he was elected pres- 
ident of Harvard University. For more than sixteen 
years he performed his duties without interruption by 
sickness; but in 1798 he was prostrated by a severe ill- 
ness and could never afterwards attend to the work of 
the college with the same constancy. In August, 1804, 
he took a journey to the southern part of the state, and 
on his return from Nantucket to New Bedford he was 
seized at the latter place with sudden illness, and died 
in five days, Sept. 25, 1804. “ President Willard’s whole 
life was modelled on the sound and impregnable princi- 
ples of religion, and presented an admirable specimen 
of the old Puritan character liberalized and improved. 
Generosity, disinterestedness, a lofty integrity, and hon- 
or vvere united with modesty, simplicity, and singleness 
of heart.” In the administration of the college he was 
eminently faithful, and his firmness, dignity, affability , 
and benignity secured the cordial respect, and often the 
affection, of both the students and the faculty. As a 
preacher, he was plain, instructive, and solemn. Presi- 
dent Willard was a thorough and profound scholar; es- 
pecially in his knowledge of the Greek language and 
literature he had few superiors, if any. lie wrote a 
Grammar of the Greek Language (the first, probably, 
that was written in English) which remains in manu- 
script in the library of the university. It shows great 
research. The publication of the Gloucester Greek Gram- 
mar when Ur. Willard’s was nearly completed induced 
him to abandon the design of publication. A few oc- 
casional sermons were published. See Sprague, Annals 
of the Amer . Pulpit, ii, 23-30; Cong . Quarterly , 1859, p. 
40; Willard's Memoirs, » 

Willehad, St., apostle to the Frisians and Saxons, 
was born about A.D. 730 in the kingdom of Northum- 
berland, of an ancient family. Ilis early training was 
largely conducted by Alcuin (q. v.) of York. He reach- 
ed Friesland in or about the year 770, and began his 
labors in the place (Dockum) where Boniface had been 
murdered, with successful results. Ilis zeal drove him, 
however, to seek a region where Christianity had not 
been introduced, and he went, in consequence, to East- 
ern Frisia. Here the idolatrous people were extremely 
fanatical, and he escaped murder at their hands only 
through the narrow chance of a favorable lot being 
thrown when the gods were invoked. At another place, 
Drenthe, he was more successful, until the fanatical 
zeal of his own companions excited the anger of the 
people and compelled his removal. In the meantime 
his labors had been mentioned to Charlemagne, and 
in 781 that monarch intrusted to him the work of con- 
verting the Saxons in the vale of Wigmodi, on the Low- 
er Weser, and also the neighboring Frisians. In this 
work he displa} r ed great tact and zeal, and succeeded in 
a little while to a degree which had not been possible 
to Charlemagne with all his armies. Many families 
were converted and several churches founded during 
the two years which elapsed before the last rising of 
the Saxons under their duke, Widukind, against the 
new authorities. This rising occurred in 782, and was 
especially violent against the Christians who had been 
gathered by Willehad. The missionary saved himself 
by flight to Frisia, but a number of his assistants and 
friends were killed. The interval until the reconquest 
of the country was employed by Willehad in a visit to 
the pope, where he met with a fellow-laborer and suf- 
ferer among the heathen named Liutger, and in a so- 
journ — employed with devotional and literary duties, 
especially the copying of Paul’s epistles — in one of Wil- 
lebrord’s convents at Echternach, near Treves. In 785 
Widukind was baptized, and Willehad returned to his 
work in the region of the Lower Weser and resumed 
his labors. He established a central Church at Brem- 
en and a smaller Church at Blexen. In 787, July 13, 


he was consecrated bishop at Worms, having previous- 
ly been a simple presbyter. On his return, he found 
the Saxons unwilling to recognise a bishop placed over 
them by the conqueror and endowed with the .right 
of exacting tithes: but he labored with persistent zeal 
to effect a firm establishment of the Church among 
them, and succeeded in dedicating the first Church in 
his diocese Nov. 1, 789. Ilis administration, however, 
was but brief. lie undertook a tour of visitation, the 
fatigues of which threw him into a violent fever, from 
which he died Nov. 8, 789. He had earned the repu- 
tation of a devout, eminently trustful, and very zealous 
Christian laborer, as well as of a modest, courageous, 
and abstemious man. He wholly abstained from the 
use of flesh food and intoxicating drink. His body was 
interred at Bremen and was credited with the perform- 
ance of many miracles. Ansgar enumerates thirty- 
four such wonders, which involve not only many note- 
worthy historical and topographical traditions of that 
time, but also several psychological features which de- 
serve examination. He was formally canonized, and 
two days, July 13 and Nov. 8, were set apart in his 
honor. 

Literature . — Anskarius, Vita S. Willekadi , Episc. 
Prem. (earliest edition), the principal source; Csesaris 
[Phil.] Triapostol. Septentrion., sire Vi tee et Gestce SS. 
Willekadi, Ansgarii, et Rimberti (Colon. 1642); Mabil- 
lon, Acta SS. Pened. iii, 2,404 sq., best edition in Pertz, 
Monum. ii, 378-390; Adami Gesta Hammaburg. Eccl. 
Pont if usque ad An. 1072, in Pertz. vii, 267 sq. ; Iiett- 
berg, Kirchengesch. Deutschlands, ii, 450-455, 537 ; Klip- 
pel, Lebensbeschreibung d. Erzbischofs Ansgar (Bremen, 
1845) ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Willeram (or Willi ram, also Walram and 
Waltramus) was a learned German monk, and na- 
tive of Franconia. On his return from Paris, where 
he had been to study philosophy and belles-lettres un- 
der able masters, he was appointed prebendary at Bam- 
berg; but ere long he assumed the garb of a monk and 
retired into the convent at Fulda. The report of his 
piety, his merits, and his learning reached the emper- 
or Henry 111, who gave to him the Abbey of Ebersberg, 
Bavaria, in 1048, where he passed the remainder of his 
days. Willeram died May 7, 1085. He seems to have 
been concerned to improve the material interests of his 
monastery, as a number of exchanges of property made 
by him arc on record, among them the barter of several 
devotional books for a vineyard possessed by bishop 
llenry of Trident. He had the reputation of being a 
scholar and a poet. We are indebted to him for a 
double paraphrase of Solomon’s Song, one in hexame- 
ter verse in Latin, another in prose in the language of 
the ancient Franks. It was arranged in the form of a 
dialogue between bridegroom and bride. Several copies 
of this double work are preserved in manuscript in vari- 
ous libraries of Europe; the original is at the Abbey of 
Ebersberg. The Latin paraphrase had been brought out 
for the first time by Menrad Molther of Augsburg, under 
the title Wilrami Abbatos in Cantica Salomonis Mystica 
Explanatio (llagenau, 1528)'. Paul Merula published 
the two texts, with notes and a Dutch translation, at 
Leyden, in 1598, entitled Willerami Parapki'asis Gemina 
in Canticum Canticorum, prior Rhythms Laf inis, Altera 
Veteri Lingua Francica. But, in spite of all his merit, 
his publication, after one poor manuscript was finished, 
remained incorrect and of little value. That which 
Marquard Freher had given in German from the man- 
uscript at Heidelberg is more highly estimated. It 
was published at Worms in 1631 under the title Uhralte 
Verdolmetschung des hohen Liedes Salomonis. Schiller, 
the author of Thesaurus Antiq. Teuton ., formed a plan 
of reducing the work of Willeram, but he died before 
he had time to realize his project. His work was found 
among his papers, and Scherz took upon himself the 
task of completing it, and published it in Ulm in 1726. 
Through the efforts of M. de Fallersleben, an entire 
edition of the work was published by Hoffmann in Ger- 


WILLIAM 


990 


WILLIAM 


man, at Breslau, in 1827. See Oefele, Rerum Boicar . 
Script, ii, 1— 40 ; Hirscli, Jahrb. d. deutschen Reichs mi- 
ter Heinrich II, i, 150; Wattcnbach, Deutschlands Ge- 
sch icldsq net l en ini M it (Gaiter, p. 217 sq.; Giesebrecht, 
Gesch. d. deutsch. Kaiserzeii (2d cd.), ii, 540; Iloeler, 
Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

William (St.') ok Aquitaine, duke, snrnamed “ the 
Great,” was the son of count Thierry, and is thought 
to have been the brother of Charlemagne, who greatly 
honored him, and rewarded his services in reducing the 
Saracens in Spain. William founded a monastery in 
Gcllone, a little valley on the borders of the diocese 
of Lodeve, which he entered barefooted and in sack- 
cloth in SOU, after having obtained the consent of his 
wife, and made provision for Ids children, lie prac- 
ticed great austerity, and died iVlav 28,812 or 813. 1 1 is 
body was found in 1679 under the great altar of the 
church there. See Uocfcr, Xouv. Biop . Generate, xxii, 
594. 

William of Aria, a goldsmith of Paris, flourished 
about the beginning of the 13th century. He stood 
forth as a preacher of the sect of the Holy Ghost, and 
announced the coming of judgments on a corrupt Church, 
and the inauguration of a new era in which the Holy 
Ghost was to permeate all. See Neander, Hist, of the 
Church, iv, 448. 

William of Auvergne (also called of Paris), a 
French prelate and theologian, was born at Atirillac ! 
about the close of the 12th century. He succeeded 
Barthelemv as bishop of Paris in 1228. He took a 
large part in the civil affairs of Louis X. At the same 
time lie too deeply interested himself in the contro- 
versies of the day respecting benefices, combating the 
abuses with great vigor. lie also erected several 
churches and monastic institutions. He died at Paris 
March 30, 1248. His works, which consist of many 
mystical treatises, were published by Leferon (Orleans, 
1674, 2 vols. fol.). See lloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, 
xxii, 888. 

William of Aitxerre, a French theologian of the 
early pprt of the 13th century, became professor of the- 
ology in Paris, where he acquired a great reputation for 
learning. He died at Borne in 1230, leaving a Summa 
Theologica , written at Paris about 1216, of which Denis 
of Chartreux eventually published an abridgment. See 
lloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xxii, 697. 

William of Ciiampeaux (Lat. Campellensis), a j 
French scholastic, was born in the village of Cham- 
peanx, near Melun, about the close of the 11th century. 
He studied at Paris under Anselm of Laon, became 
archdeacon of Xotre Dame, and taught dialectics in the 
cathedral school for many years. Among his scholars 
was the famous Abelard, who eventually eclipsed him. 
In 1105 Champeaux retired to a suburb of Paris, and 
there founded, in 1113, the Abbey of St. Vietor. lie 
soon opened a school of philosophy, rhetoric, and theol- 
ogy, and was next raised to the episcopacy of Chalons- 
sur-Marne. He became involved in the papal quarrel 
of the investitures (q. v.), and died in 1121. 1 1 is prin- 
cipal published works are two treatises entitled Mora - 
lia Ahhreviatu and J)e Origine Animee, together with a 
fragment on the encharist, contained in Mabillon’s edi- 
tion of St. Bernard’s IForfo. For these philosophic 
speculations, sec lloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, ix, 626. 

William of Corueuie, archbishop of Canterbury, 
is generally supposed to have been a Frenchman. His 
first, appearance in history is as one of the clerks of 
Ralph Flambard, bishop of Durham. William was se- 
lected by the bishop of London to he prior of St. Osyth. 
He was consecrated archbishop of the sec of Canterbury 
in 1 123. In 1128 he officiated at the coronation of king 
Stephen. His conduct in so doing has been severely 
censured. One important event connected with the 
history of archbishop William was the completion and 
consecration of the church commenced by Lanfranc 


and carried on by*Anselm. This occurred May 4, 1130. 
‘‘A dedication so famous,” says Gervas, “was never 
heard of on earth, since the dedication of the Temple 
of Solomon.” The archbishop died in 1136. See Hook, 
Lives of the Archbishops of Canterbury, ii, 302 sq. 

William (St.) of Dijon was born in 961 of a no- 
ble family, near Navarre (Italy), and was early dedi- 
cated to the Church. He became a proficient in sacred 
and profane learning, and retired first to Clugny, but 
was soon made abbe of St. Bcnigne, and superior of a 
large number of monasteries, into which he introduced 
wise reforms and a love of polite literature. He found- 
ed the abbey of Frutaire, contmonly called St. Balain, 
in the diocese of Yvree, and died at Fecamp ( Nor- 
mandy), Jan. 1, 1031. See lloefer, Xouv. Biog. Gene- 
rate, xxii, 595. 

William of Malmesbury. See Malmesbury. 


William of Modena, a Roman Catholic bishop of 
the 13th century, was sent by pope Uonorius HI as a 
legate to Livonia about 1224. He was of great service 
to both the natives and their recent conquerors, the 
Germans, by exhorting the one to bear the yoke in 
submission, and charging the other to lay on the shoul- 
ders of their subjects no intolerable burdens. See Nean- 
dcr, Hist, of the Church, iv, 41. 

William of Newbury (Xewburgh, or Xeivbridge), 
a canon of the monastery of Newbury, Yorkshire, was 
born in 1136, probably at Bridlington, Yorkshire, and 
died in 1208. He left a valuable history of England, 
extending from the Norman Conquest to the year 1197, 
entitled Gulielmi Xeubriycnsis Rerum A nglicarum Libri 
J’ (Antwerp, 1567). 

William of Nogaret. See Nogarf.t. 


William I of Orange (of the house of Nassau), 
the first leader in the Dutch Avar of independence, was 
born of Lutheran parents at Dillenburg, in Nassau, April 
16, 1533. He was educated in the principles of the lie- 
formed religion ; but the emperor Charles Y, Avho early 
became interested in his career, removed him to his 
court, and had him trained in the Roman Catholic faith. 
The emperor soon admitted the bov to great intimacy 
with him, allowing him alone to be present when he 
gave audience to foreign ambassadors, and in other 
ways honoring him with a contidence far above his 
years. The discretion which the young prince mani- 
fested in matters of public concern gained for him the 
surname of The Sitent; and even the emperor avowed 
that he had been indebted to so young a man for im- 
portant suggestions which had not occurred to his own 
mind. In 1554 he put him in command of troops, and 
employed him in diplomacy. On the abdication of 
| Charles in favor of his son Philip II, the relation of 
William to the croAvn Avas materially changed. Philip 
hated him on account ofthe esteem in Avhich he had been 
held bv his father. Yet, under Philip, William paved 
the way for the treaty of Cateau-Cambresis in 1559, and 
Henry II of France detained him and the duke of Alva as 
hostages for its execution. While Charles remained on 
the throne William adhered to the Roman faith ; but on 
the abdication of that monarch he embraced Calvinism 
as readily as he had abandoned Lutheranism in his 
youth. This change Avas unknoAvn to the French mon- 
arch at the time of his residence there, Avho, supposing 
him to enjoy the same confidence with Philip that he 
had enjoyed Avith Charles, incautiously revealed to him 
the secret of a treaty lately concluded bctAveen the 
croAvns of France and Spain to exterminate “that ac- 
cursed vermin the Protestants” in the dominions of 
both. William hastened to communicate this disclos- 
ure to the Protestant leaders at Brussels, and Philip 
discovered that he had revealed the secret. William 
was already a member of the council of state Avhich Avas 
to assist Margaret of Parma in the regency ofthe Neth- 
erlands. Being also stadtholder of Holland, Zealand, 
and Utrecht, he was able to exert a strong influence in 


WILLIAM 


907 


WILLIAMS 


behalf of the Protestants, and largely undermine the 
designs of Philip. In 1564 he brought about, the re- 
moval of Cardinal Granvelle, the principal enemy of 
the Protestants, but could not prevent the introduction 
of the Inquisition, and the increasingly strong hand of 
persecution. At length the approach of the bloody 
duke of Alva, to whom Philip had transferred the re- 
gency of the Netherlands from Margaret of Parma, was 
the signal to William of the coming contest. He 
avoided the tragical fate of Egmont and Horn by retir- 
ing for a few months to his paternal domains in Nas- 
sau. The cruelties of Alva to the Protestants of the 
Netherlands, his own wrongs, and perhaps political 
more than religious motives aroused William, in 1568, 
to an energetic course of opposition to the tyranny of 
Spain, which did not cease until triumph was complete, 
lie published his Justification against the False Blame 
of his Calumniators, and began, in concert with the Prot- 
estant princes of Germany, to raise money and troops. 
Ilis first operations miscarried. lie was driven back 
with his army of 30,000 men into French Flanders; and 
in the spring of 1569 he, and his brothers Louis and 
Henry, with P200 of his soldiers, joined the Huguenots 
under Coligni. Then again in 1572, after various suc- 
cessful engagements, in which lie had had command of 
an army of 24,000 troops, he was compelled to disband 
it on account of the loss of all hope of assistance from 
France. In 1576 William secured the famous Union of 
Utrecht, which formed the basis of the Dutch republic. 
This union included the seven Protestant provinces of 
Holland, Zealand, Utrecht, Friesland, Groningen, Overvs- 
sel, and Guelderland. As soon as this measure became 
known to Philip, he offered a reward of 25,000 crowns 
and a patent of nobility for his assassination. Once he 
was dangerously wounded, but the task was finally un- 
dertaken by Balthazar Gerard, a Burgundian fanatic, 
who obtained audience with the stadtholder on pre- 
tence of business, drew a pistol, and shot him through 
the body, at Delft, July 10, 1584. See Motley, The 
Bise of the Dutch Republic (N. Y. 1856, 3 vols.); Klose, 
Wilhelm I von Oranien (Leips. 1864) ; Herrmann, 117/- 
helm von Oranien (Stuttg. 1873) ; Gachard, Correspon- 
dance de Guillaume le Taciturne (Brussels, 1847-56) ; 
and Juste, Guillaume le Taciturne d'apres sa Correspon - 
dance et les Papiers d'Etat. 

William of Ramsey, a monk of Crovland, of the 
time of Richard I, is known as a biographer of English 
saints, particularly in Chroniques Anglo - Nor mandes. 
See Wright, Biog. Brit. Lit. (Anglo-Norman Period), 
p. 424. 

William of Rubrugius. See Ruysbroek. 

William of St. Alban’s, flourished about 1170, 
and is known chiefly for a Latin prose life of St. Alban, 
said to be a translation from an English life of that 
saint. The work has never been printed, but a copy 
of the MS. is in the Cottonian Library, and another in 
the library of Magdalen College, Oxford. See Wright, 
Biog. Brit. Lit. (Anglo-Norman Period), p. 213. 

William of St. Amour, in Burgundy, doctor of the 
Sorbonne, and a famous defender of the Paris Univer- 
sity in the 13th century against the mendicant orders, 
which claimed the right to occupy regular chairs of 
theology in the university without consenting to be 
governed by its rules. Pope Innocent IV had seen the 
necessity of putting down the monks before his death, 
but under Alexander IV they obtained full control of 
the university. Under these circumstances, St. Amour 
attacked' them, ridiculing their doctrine that manual 
labor is criminal, and that prayer will reap greater 
harvests from the soil than labor, lie was summoned 
before the bishop of Paris, but acquitted because his ac- 
cusers did not appear (1254). Alexander, nevertheless, 
issued three bulls in behalf of the Dominicans in 1255. 
In 1256 William published his book De Periculis Ao- 
vissimorum Temporum , which, without specifying the 
. orders endorsed by the pope, charged monks generally 


with being ignorant intruders into the pulpit and the 
teacher’s chair, and also self-seeking proselvters, as well 
as professional beggars, liars, flatterers, and calumnia- 
tors. It asserted directly that perfection consists in 
labor, in the performing of good works, and not at all 
in begging. St. Amour achieved great popularity in 
consequence, and found many imitators among the com- 
mon people in ridiculing the monks, though the book 
was condemned by the pope, and its author was ban- 
ished despite the ingenious defence lie interposed at 
Rome. A French version of the work had already been 
put into circulation, however, and with such effect that 
men like Thomas Aquinas and Bonaventura felt con- 
strained to write in defence of mendicancy. The victory 
achieved over St. Amour enabled the orders to pursue 
their arbitrary methods without restraint, until the ac- 
cession of popes Urban IV and Clement IV restored the 
rules of the university to some degree of honor. St. 
Amour was thereupon permitted to return, and was not 
again molested by the Dominicans. His death occurred 
probably* in 1272. See Bula?us, Hist. Unirersit. Paris. 
iii, 260; Dupin, None. Bill, des Auteurs Eccl. vol. x; 
Schrdckh, Kirrhengesch. xxvii, 458 sq.; Hist. Lit. de la 
France, vol. xix ; Herzog, Real- Encgklop. s. v. 

William of St. Thierry, a Belgian theologian, 
was born at Liege about the end of the 11th century. 
He studied in the abbey of St. Nicaise at Rheims, of 
which he was made prior in 1112, and eight years after- 
wards he became abbe of St. Thierry in the same vicini- 
ty. In 1134 he retired to the monastery of Ligny, 
and died in 1150. He was a great friend of St. Bernard, 
and an admirer of Abelard. He wrote a number of 
doctrinal, practical, and historical discussions, for which 
see Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generale, xxii, 665. 

William the Trouvkre translated into Anglo- 
Norman verse accounts of miracles of the Virgin and 
legends of the saints. See Wright, Biog. Brit. Lit. 
(Anglo-Norman Period), p. 464. 

William of Waynflete. See Waynflete. 

William of Wycumb, an English clergyman of 
the 12th century, became prior of Lathonv, and chap- 
lain of Robert de Betun, bishop of Hereford. After 
the death of that prelate (1149) he wrote a sketch of 
his life, which is published in Wharton’s Anglia Sacra. 
ii, 293 sq. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, anel A mer. Au- 
thors. s. v. 

William of Wykkiiam. Sec Wykeham. 

Williams, Charles S., D.D., a clergyman of the 
Protestant Episcopal Church, was born June 11,1791. 
in the County of Kent, England (where his father, Rev. 
William Williams, was rector of a parish). He entered 
the army when young, and passed some time in India: 
on his return from India he joined the Dragoons, and 
served with them during a part of the Peninsula War. 
At Toulouse he was severely wounded, and was left all 
night among the dead and dying on the field. He 
graduated at St. John’s College, Cambridge, and was or- 
dained in 1820. In 1823 he came to the United States, 
and became rector of St. John’s Church, York, Pa. 
For about eight years he was president of Baltimore 
College, having charge, at the same time, of the parish 
at Elk Ridge. During the last twentv-two years of his 
life he resided in Philadelphia, devoting himself to the 
cause of education, and officiating almost constantly for 
his brethren of the clergy. He died there, June 12, 
185$. See A mer. Quar. Church Review , 1859, p. 534. 

Williams, Daniel, D.I)., an eminent English 
Presbyterian divine, was born at Wrexham, Denbigh- 
shire, in North Wales, about 1644. His early educa- 
tional advantages seem to have been rather limited, but 
he was admitted a preacher among the Presbyterians 
in 1663. To avoid the penalties of t lie law against Dis- 
senters, he went to Ireland, where he became chaplain 
to the countess of Meath. Some time after, he was 
called to be pastor to a congregation of Dissenters as- 


WILLIAMS 


998 


WILLIAMS 


sembling in Wood Street, Dublin, where he continued 
for nearly twenty years. During the troublous times 
in the latter end of the reign of James II, he found it 
necessary to return to London in 1087, where he con- 
tinued to reside. Here lie was often consulted by Will- 
iam III in reference to Irish affairs, and did great ser- 
vice in behalf of many who tied from Ireland. lie 
became pastor of a numerous congregation at Hand 
Alley, Bishopsgate Street, in 1G8S, and in 1091 suc- 
ceeded Richard Baxter as preacher of the Merchants’ 
Lecture at Dinner’s Hall, Broad Street. On account of 
(slashings in the lectures, he, with others of the incum- 
bents, withdrew, and established another lecture at 
Salter’s Hall, on the same day and hour. This led to a 
sharp controversy between the two parties, and a great 
deal of bitter feeling. He died Jan. 20, 1710. The bulk 
of bis estate lie bequeathed to a great variety of chari- 
ties. The most important of these charities was the 
founding of the Bed Cross Street Library. lie ordered 
a convenient building to be obtained for the reception 
of his own library, and the curious collection of Dr. 
Bates, which he purchased for that purpose. Accord- 
ingly, several years after his death, a commodious 
building was erected (1727) by subscription among the 
wealthy Dissenters in Bed Cross Street, Cripplegate, 
where the books were deposited, and by subsequent ad- 
ditions the collection has become a considerable one, 
containing more than 20,000 volumes. It is also a de- 
pository for paintings of Nonconformist ministers, man- 
uscripts, and other matters of curiosity or utility. It is 
here that the Dissenting ministers meet for the transac- 
tion of all business relating to the general body. Begis- 
ters of births of the children of Dissenters are also kept 
here with accuracy, and have been allowed equal valid- 
ity in courts of law with parish registers. Dr. Williams 
was the author of, The Vanity of Childhood and Youth; 
in Several Sermons (1091 ): — Gospel Truth Stated and 
Vindicated (1692 ): — A Defence of Gospel Truth (1093): 
— Man Made Righteous by Christ’s Obedience; Sermons 
( 1094 ) : — Discourses on Several Important Subjects 
(1738-50): — and Tractatus Selecti, ex A nglicis Latine 
I >>■$?, et Testamenti sui Jussu Editi (1700). See Chal- 
mers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Williams, Eliplialet, D.D., a Congregational 
minister, son of Solomon Williams, D.D., of Lebanon, 
Conn., was born Feb. 21, 1727. He graduated at Yale 
College in 1743; was ordained minister in East Hartford 
in March, 1748; and died June 29, 1803. See Sprague, 
Annals of the A mer. Pulpit , i, 323. 

Williams, Griffith, D.D., an English divine, was 
born at Carnarvon, in North Wales, about 1589. lie 
entered Oxford University in 1003, but two years later 
entered Jesus College, Cambridge, where he graduated 
and entered into holy orders. He became curate of Han- 
well, M iddlesex ; rector of Foscot, Buckinghamshire ; and 
lecturer of St. Peter’s, Cheapside, London ; was suspend- 
ed by the bishop of London in 1615; received the living 
of Llanlleehid, in the diocese of Bangor; became do- 
mestic chaplain to the earl of Montgomery, and tutor 
to his children; was promoted to be chaplain to the 
king, ami prebendary of Westminster ; was instituted 
dean of Bangor, March 28, 1034 ; was consecrated bishop 
of Ossory, Ireland, in 1041, but was obliged to fiv to 
England on the breaking-out of the Irish Bebellion, in 
less than a month after taking possession ; endured great 
hardships for many years on account of his attachment 
to the crown ; regained his bishopric at the Bestoration, 
and died at Kilkenny, March 29, 1072. Among his pub- 
lished works are, The Delights of the Saints (1622) : — 
Seven Golden Candlesticks (1027) : — The Time Church 
(1029) : — The Right I Vay to the Pest Religion (1636) : — 
Vindicice Regum (1043): — The Discovery of Mysteries 
(eod.) : — Discourse on the Only Way to Preserve Life 
(1644) : — Jura Majestatis (eod.) :~—The Great Antichrist 
Revealed (1000): — Description and Practice of the Four 
Most Admirable Leasts (1003): — The Persecution of 


John Dale and of Griffith Williams (1G64) : — Sermons 
and Treatises (1005). See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Williams, John ( 1), D.D., a distinguished Eng- 
lish prelate, was born at Aber-Conwav, Carnarvonshire, 
Wales, March 25, 1582. He was admitted to St. John’s 
College, Cambridge, in 1598; graduated there in 1002, 
and was made fellow; took holv orders in 1009, and was 
appointed to a small living near Bury St. Edmnnd’s, upon 
the borders of Norfolk; was presented to the rectory of 
Grafton -Begis, Northamptonshire, in 1611; appointed 
chaplain to lord Egerton the same year, by whom lit' 
was promoted to the rectory of Grafton - Underwood, 
Northamptonshire; made precentor of Lincoln in 1613; 
rector of Waldgrave, Northamptonshire, in 1014, and 
between that year and 1617 was made prebendary and 
residentiary in the Church of Lincoln, prebendary of 
Peterborough, of Hereford, and of St. David’s, and se- 
cured a sinecure in North Wales. On the accession of 
Francis Bacon as lord-keeper, he was made justice of 
the peace for Northamptonshire, and chaplain to the 
king at the same time; became dean of Salisbury in 
1019, and of Westminster in 1620; was made lord-keep- 
er of the great seal of England July 10, 1621, and in the 
same month bishop of Lincoln; was removed from his 
post as lord-keeper by Charles I in October, 1026; in 
1030 convicted of subornation of perjury when tried for 
betraying the king’s secrets, fined £10,000, suspended 
from his offices and imprisoned in the Tower, where he 
remained three years and six months; was released, 
and resumed his seat in the House of Lords in 1640, 
and by command of the king had all the records of pro- 
ceedings against him cancelled; became archbishop of 
York in 1641 ; retired to his estate at Aber-Conway in 
July, 1642, and fortified Conway Castle for the king. 
After the death of Charles I, he spent the remainder of 
his days in sorrow, study, and devotion, and died March 
25, 1650. He published several Sermons, ami The Holy 
Table, Name and Thing more Anciently, Properly, and 
Literally Used under the New Testament than that of 
Altar (1637). See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Williams, John (2), D.D., an eminent English di- 
vine, was born in Northamptonshire in 1634. He en- 
tered as a commoner of Magdalen Hall, Oxford, in 1651, 
where he completed his degrees in arts, and was ordain- 
ed in 1658; was made rector of St. Mildred-in-the-Poul- 
try, London, in 1673; prebendary of Bevmere, in St. 
Paul’s, in 1683; became chaplain to William and Man” 
after the Devolution ; was preferred to a prebend of Can- 
terbury, and was consecrated bishop of Chichester in De- 
cember, 1696, where he died in 1709. He was the author 
of, Hist, of the Gunpoivder Treason (1679) : — Brief Expo- 
sition of the Church Catechism 1690) : — Twelve Sermons 
Preached at the Boyle Lectures concerning the Possibility, 
Necessity, and Certainty of Divine Revelation (1695-96) : 
—and other works. See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Williams, John (3), LL.D., a Socinian minister, 
was born at Lampeter, Cardiganshire, Wales, in 1726. 
He was pastor of a Church at Sydenham, Kent, from 
1758 until his death, at Islington, in 1798. He publish- 
ed, A Concordance to the Greek Testament, with the Eng- 
lish Version to each Word, etc. (1767): — Thoughts on 
Subscription to the Thirty-nine Articles : — Free Inquiry 
into the A uthenticity of the First and Second Chaptei's of 
St. Matthew's Gospiel (1771): — Clerical Reform (1792): 
— and other works, including Sermons. 

Williams, Joshua, D.D., a Presbyterian divine, 
was born in Chester County, Pa., Aug. 8, 1767. He pur- 
sued his preparatory studies in Gettysburg; graduated 
at Dickinson College in 1795; studied theology private- 
ly; was licensed to preach by the Presbytery of Car- 
lisle Oct. 4, 1797, and was ordained and installed pastor 
of the united congregations of Derry and Paxton, Oct. 
2, 1799. In April, 1802, he became pastor of the Con- 
gregation of Big Spring, where he continued to labor 
for twenty-seven years, during which period, as appears 
from his church register, he admitted to communion 


WILLIAMS 


999 


WILLIAMS 


four hundred and twenty -six persons. In April, 1829, 
on account of bodily infirmities, he resigned his charge, 
but continued to preach as his health permitted and op- 
portunity offered until his death, Aug. 21, 1838. Dr. 
Williams was a man of vigorous and comprehensive 
mind, learned and able in his profession; as a preacher, 
sound, evangelical, and instructive. II is only publica- 
tion, besides occasional contributions to periodicals, was 
a Sermon on the Sinner’s Inability. See Sprague, Annals 
of the J mer. Pulpit , iv, 186 ; Kevin, Churches of the 
Valley ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. Authors, s. v. 
(J.L.S.) 

Williams, Nathan, D.D., a Congregational min- 
ister, son of Stephen Williams, D.D., of Lougnieadow, 
Mass., was born Oct. 28, 1735. He graduated at Yale 
College in 1755; was ordained pastor of the Church in 
Tolland, Conn., April 30, 1760; from 1788 to 1808 was a 
member of the Corporation of Yale College, and died 
April 25, 1829. He published, A Dialogue on Christian 
Baptism and Discipline (2d ed. 1792). See Sprague, 
A finals of the A mer. Pulpit, i, 287. 

Williams, Peter, D.D., an English clergyman, 
was born during the latter part of the 18th century, and 
became archdeacon of Merioneth in 1802. He published, 
A /Short Vindication of the Established Church (1803): — 
First Book of Homer's Iliad, Translated into Blank Verse 
(1806) : — Be marks on Britain Independent of Commerce 
(1808) : — and Remarks on the Recognition of Each Other 
in the Future State (1809). 

Williams, Philip, D.D., an English clergyman of 
the 18th century, became a fellow of St. John’s College, 
Cambridge, in 1730, and was rector of Starston and Bar- 
row. lie published a volume of Observations (1733), 
some controversial works, and a number of Sermons. 

Williams, Robert, was one of the earliest Meth- 
odist ministers in America. Previous to his leaving 
England, Mr. Wesley had given him permission to 
preach under the direction of the regular ministers. He 
first labored for a time in New York city. Under date 
of Nov. 1, 1769, Mr. Pilmoor, then in Philadelphia, writes, 
“Robert Williams called, on his way from New York to 
Maryland. He came over about business, and being a 
local preacher in England, Mr. Wesley gave him a li- 
cense to preach occasionally under the direction of the 
regular preachers.” He afterwards speaks of him as 
“ very sincere and zealous.” Williams spent the great- 
er part of his time in Maryland, where he was instru- , 
mental in commencing a great work. In 1772 he pass- 
ed south into Virginia, where his labors were greatly 
blessed. Early in 1775 he located, and Sept. 26, 1775, 
he died. Bishop Asbury says of him, “ He has been a 
very useful, laborious man, and the Lord gave him many 
souls to his ministry. Perhaps no man in America has 
ministered to awakening so many souls as God has 
awakened by him.” It has been said of him that “ he 
was the first travelling preacher in America that mar- 
ried, located, and died.” See Bangs, Ilist. of the M. E. \ 
Church, i, 73, 76, 89; Simpson, Cyclop, of Methodism, 
s. v.; Sprague, A finals of the Amer. Pulpit, vii, 11. 

Williams, Roger, the founder of the colony of 
Rhode Island, was born at Conwyl Cayo, Wales, in 1599. 
In his youth he went to London, and attracted the at- 
tention of Sir Edward Coke by- his short-hand notes of 
sermons and speeches in the Star-Chamber, and was 
sent by him to Sutton’s Hospital (now the Charter- 
house School) in 1621. On April 30, 1624, he entered 
Jesus College, Oxford, where he obtained an exhibi- 
tion. According to some authorities, he was admit- 
ted to Pembroke College, Cambridge, Jan. 29, 1623, 
and matriculated pensioner July 7, 1625, graduating 
A.B. in January, 1627. He studied Latin, Greek, He- 
brew, French, and Dutch, and took orders in the Church 
of England. He soon, however, became an extreme 
Puritan, with tendencies towards the views of the 
Baptists, who were rapidly rising in England at that 


time. To avoid the persecution then rife in his own 
country, he emigrated to New England, arriving at 
Boston Feb. 5, 1631, accompanied by his wife, Man*. 
He refused to join the congregation at Boston, because 
the people would not make public declaration of their 
repentance for having been in communion with the 
Church of England. He therefore went to Salem, to 
become the assistant to pastor Skelton ; but the gen- 
eral court remonstrated against his settlement there, on 
account of his attitude towards the Boston congrega- 
tion ; and, further, that he “ had declared his opinion 
that the magistrate might not punish” Sabbath-break- 
ing and other religious offences, as belonging to the 
first table of the law. His ministry at Salem was 
brief. Before the close of the summer, persecution drove 
him to Plymouth, where for two years he was assistant 
to the pastor, Ralph Smith. At the close of this pe- 
riod he was invited to return to Salem as assistant to 
Skelton, and, after the latter’s death, became pastor. In 
a short time he had very generally indoctrinated the 
people with his peculiar views. In the autumn of 
1635 the general court banished him from the colony, 
with orders to depart within six weeks, because he 
had called in question the authority of magistrates in 
respect to two things — one relating to the right of the 
king to appropriate and grant the lauds of the Indians 
without purchase, and the other to the right of the 
civil power to impose faith and worship. On the first 
of these questions he had written a paper in which 
he defended the right of the natives to the soil; but 
; on the interference of the court he put in an expla- 
nation, and consented to the burning of the MS. when 
they were somewhat more leniently disposed towards 
him. But on the other question he reiterated and am- 
plified his views; and when oppressed by his opponents, 
frankly declared his opinion that the magistrate ought 
not to interfere “ even to stop a church from apostasy 
and heresy,” and that the office of civil magistrate “ex- 
tends only to the bodies and goods and outward estates 
of man.” He was the first to assert fully the doctrine of 
entire liberty of conscience, the right of every person to 
worship in what manner he pleased, or to refrain from 
public worship altogether without interference on the 
part of the civil magistrate. In reply to the charges 
against him, and in defence of his views, he published 
a pamphlet entitled M r. Cotton's Letter Examined and 
Answered (printed in 1644). Winter being at hand, 
the period for his departure was extended until spring; 
but he persisted in preaching, and the people flocked to 
hear him. It became generally understood that many 
had decided to go with him to found a new colony not 
for distant, and the court decided to send him at once 
to England, regarding him as a dangerous person in 
the colony. A small vessel was despatched to Salem 
to convey him away; but he was forewarned, and fled 
before its arrival. Leaving- family and friends in mid- 
winter, he was “for fourteen weeks sorely tossed in a 
bitter season, not knowing what bread or bed did mean.” 
But he had learned the Indian language while at Plym- 
outh, and was kindly received and sheltered by the sav- 
ages. He selected a site for his new colony on the 
shores of the Narraganset; and, after purchasing lands 
on the eastern shore of the Scekonk River, and plant- 
ing his corn, he learned that he was within the limits 
of the Plymouth colony. He therefore set out, with five 
companions, to make new explorations. They proceed- 
ed in a canoe to the spot which Williams fixed upon as 
his home. He said that he had “made covenant of 
peaceable neighborhood with all the sachems and na- 
tions round about;” “and having, of a sense of God’s 
merciful providence ” to them in their distress, called the 
place Providence, he “desired it might be for a shelter 
for persons distressed for conscience.” Here he was 
joined by others who sympathized with his opinions, 
and even people from England flocked thither in con- 
siderable numbers. Roger Williams was the founder, 
the lawgiver, and the miuister of the infant colony, but 


WILLIAMS 


1000 


WILLIAMS 


he did not aim to be its ruler. His purpose was to found 
a commonwealth in the form of a pure democracy, where 
the will of the majority should govern, but only in civil 
affairs, leaving matters of conscience to be settled be- 
tween the individual and his God. The original con- 
stitution, which all were required to sign, was in these 
words: “ We whose names are hereunder, desirous to in- 
habit the town of Providence, do promise to. subject our- 
selves, in active or passive obedience, to all such orders 
or agreements as shall be made for the public good of the 
body, in an orderly way, by the major consent of the 
present inhabitants, masters of families, incorporated to- 
gether in a town of fellowship, and others whom they 
shall admit into the same, only in civil things.” With 
this foundation for a civil government, Williams went on 
to organize t he Church in accordance with his own 
views. Having adopted the belief in baptism of adults by 
immersion only, he was baptized by Ezekiel Holliman, 
a layman, in March, 1030; and then he baptized Holli- 
man and about ten others. He soon entertained doubts 
as to the validity of the proceeding, and early with- 
drew from the Church thus organized. The colony 
remained for some years a pure democracy, transacting 
its business in town-meetings; but the time was com- 
ing for a more systematic organization. Accordingly, 
in 1043, Williams was sent to England to procure a 
charter. He was treated with marked respect by the 
Parliament, and a charter incorporating the settlers on 
Narraganset Bav, with “full power and authority to 
govern themselves,” was granted. Williams returned 
the following year, ami was received in triumph by the 
inhabitants of Khode Island. On his voyage to Eng- 
land he had prepared a Key to the Languages o f A mer- 
ica, including also observations on the manners, habits, 
laws, and religion of the Indian tribes. This work he 
published in London; and about the same time The 
Blond y Tenent of Persecution for Co use of Conscience 
Discussed in a Conference between Truth and Peace 
(Loud. 1344 ; new ed. Providence, 1867). On his re- 
turn to Khode Island, he refused the office of president 
of the colony; but when the rights granted bv the 
charter were about to be infringed, he was sent to Eng- 
land again in IG51 to secure a confirmation of the rights 
of the colony, and was entirely successful. While in 
England the second time he published The Blond y 
Tenent, yet More Bloudy. by Cottons Endeavor to Wash 
it White in the Blood of the Lambe, etc. (1652) : — The 
Hireling Ministry None of Christ's; or. .1 Discourse 
Touching the Propagating the Gospel of Jesus Christ , 
etc. (cod.): — and Experiments of Spiritual Life and 
Health and their Preservatives (eod.). He also en- 
gaged in teaching languages by the conversational 
method, and thus became acquainted with John Mil- 
ton, t diver Cromwell. Sir Henry Vane, and other per- 
sons of eminence. In 1654 he returned to Khode Island, 
and was elected president of the colony, which post he 
held two years and a half. He refused to persecute the 
Quakers, but met some of their ablest preachers in pub- 
lic debate; and in 1672 published a work in opposition 
to the sect entitled George Fox Digged out of his Bur- 
rows . or an Offer of Disputation on Fourteen Proposalls, 
made this Last Summer, 1G72 {so called), unto G. Fax, 
then Present in Rhode Island in Xew England, etc. 
I»v his constant friendship with the Indians he was 
of great service to the other colonies; hut they refused 
to remove their ban, or to admit Khode Bland into 
their league. He died in 1 683, and was buried in his 
family burying-grouml, near the spot where he landed. 
Memoirs of the life of Roger Williams have been writ- 
ten by James I). Knowles ( Boston, 1833 ), William 
Grammell (ibid. 18-JG). and Romeo Elton (Loud. 
185*2). His works have been reprinted by the Narra- 
gansett Club in G vols. folio (Providence. 18GG-75). 
Among the works not already named is Letters from 
Roger Williams to John Whit lamp, and John Wiuthrop, 
Jr., Governor of Connecticut (Boston, 18G3). A tract 
by Koger Williams, recently discovered, is in the John 


Carter Brown Library at Providence. See also Dex- 
ter, As to Roger Williams and his Banishment from the 
Massachusetts Plantation , with a Lew Further Words 
concerning (he Baptists, Quakers, and Religious Liberty 
(ibid. 1 87 G ) ; and Arnold, History of Rhode Island 
(vol. i, 18G0). 

Williams, Rowland, D.D., an English clergy- 
man, was born at Unikin, Flintshire, Wales, Aug. 16, 
1817. He was educated at Eton and at King’s College, 
Cambridge, where he graduated in 1841; was chosen 
fellow, and in 1842 elected tutor of his college; took or- 
ders, and became identified with the reform movement 
at Cambridge and with the Broad Church movement, 
which was headed by Arnold and Maurice; became 
vice-principal and professor of Hebrew in the Welsh 
Theological College of St. David’s at Lampeter, and 
chaplain to the bishop of LI an da ft', in 1850; was ap- 
pointed select preacher to the University of Cambridge 
in 1854; became vicar of Broad Chalk, Wiltshire, in 
1859; was one of the authors of the famous volume of 
Essays and Reviews (18G0), for which aet he was prose- 
cuted in the Court of Arches, and condemned in Decem- 
ber, 18G2, hut obtained a reversal of the judgment in 
February, 18G4; resigned his professorship in 18G2, and 
thereafter resided at his vicarage in Broad Chalk, near 
Salisbury, where he died Jan. 18, 1870. His principal 
published works are, Lays from the Cimbric Lyre: — Ac- 
count of St. David's College , Lampeter : — Rational God- 
liness ( 1855); — Christianity and Hinduism (185G); — 
Christian Freedom in the Council of Jerusalem (1857) : 
— The Hebrew Prophets Translated Afresh (1868-71, 2 
vols. ) ; — Broad Chalk Sermon- Essays on Nature , Me- 
diation, Atonement , and Absolution (1867): — Owen Glen- 
dower, a Dramatic Biography, and Other Poems (1870) : 
— and Psalms and Litanies (1872), edited by his widow, 
who also published his Life and Letters (1874). 

Williams, Solomon. D.D., a Congregational min- 
ister, son of the Rev. William Williams, of Hatfield, 
Mass., was born June 4, 1700. He graduated at Har- 
vard College in 1719, and was ordained pastor of the 
Church in Lebanon, Conn., Dec. 5, 1722. In 1746 lie 
became involved in a controversy on the nature of justi- 
fying faith with the Kev. Andrew Croswell, and in 1751 
in another with his cousin, the elder Jonathan Ed- 
wards, concerning the Christian sacraments. In the 
extensive revival of 1740 he showed himself a decided 
friend to Whitefield, whom he repeatedly welcomed to 
his pulpit. He died Feb. 29, 1776. He published, Sub- 
stance of Two Discourses on the Occasion of the Deatk 
by Drowning of Mr. John Woodward and of the De- 
liverance of M r. Samuel Gray (1741): — A Vindication 
of the Gospel Doctrine of Justification by Faith (1746), 
being an answer to the Rev. J mlrew Croswell's book, u On 
Justifying Faith:" — The True State of the Question 
concerning the Qualifications Necessary to Lawful Com- 
munion in the Christian Sacraments (1751), being an an- 
swer to the Rev, Jonathan Edwards's “ Humble Inquiry," 
etc.: — and several occasional Sermons. See Sprague, 
A finals of the A mer. Pulpit, i, 321 . 

Williams, Stephen (I), D.D., a Congregational 
minister, son of the Kev. John Williams of Deerfield, 
Mass., was born May 14. 1693. When in his eleventh 
year, he was taken captive by the Indians, with all his 
father’s family exeept one brother, and subjected to 
great suffering on the journey to Canada. Having 
been separated from the rest of the family, he did not 
meet any of them again for fourteen months. He was 
released at Quebec through the intercession of friends 
in New England, and arrived in Boston, M ass., Nov. 21, 
1705, nearly twenty-one months from the beginning of 
his captivity. In 1713 he graduated at Harvard Col- 
lege, and then taught school at Hadley for one year. 
After preaching at Longmeadow for about two years, 
he was ordained there Oct. 17, 1716. During three 
campaigns he served as chaplain in the army: at Cape 
Breton, in 1745, under Sir William Pepperell; went to 


WILLIAMS 


1001 


WILLIBALD 


Lake George, in 1755, under Sir William Johnson ; and j liance and trust, and a lofty experimental faith. It im- 
in the year following was under General Winslow, lie mediately became popular among all denominations of 
was an important agent in establishing the mission in | Christians, holding a place in the affections of the Church 
1734 among the Housatonic Indians in Stoekbridge. 


lie died June 10, 1782. 1 1 is only publication was A 

Sermon at the Ordination of .John Keep ( 1772). See 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , i, 284. 

Williams, Stephen (2), a Congregational minis- 
ter, son of the preceding, and father of the Rev. Stephen 
Williams of Fitzwilliam, N. II., was born at Longmead- 
ow, Mass., Jan. 20. 1722. lie graduated at Yale College 
iu 1741, studied theology with his father, was ordained 
tirst pastor of Woodstock (West) in 1747, and continued 
in charge until his death, April 20, 1795. lie was a 
good classical scholar, a practical preacher, and much 


with Robinson’s “ Come, thou Fount of every blessing.” 
The fourth verse is usually omitted : 

“Musing on my habitation, 

Musing on my heavenly home, 

Fills my heart with holy longing — 

Come, Lord Jesus, quickly come. 

Vanity is all I see, 

Lord, I long to be with thee.” 

See Butterworth, Story of the Hymns , p. 30-34. (J. C. S.) 

Williamson, Isaac Dowd, I).D., a Universal- 
ist clergyman, was born at Pomfret, Vt., April 4,1807. 
lie had no better early educational advantages than a 
district school, and learned the clothier’s trade ; but foree 


esteemed by his people. See Cony. Qnar. 1801, p.355; of character and thirst for knowledge made amends for 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , i, 287. 1 i ac k 0 f external aid, and in 1827 we find him preaching 

Williams, Thomas, D.D., a Methodist Episcopal in Springfield. Subsequently lie labored as supply iu 
minister, was born in the city of Durham, England, July Langdon, N. II. ; as pastor, in 1828, at Jeffrey; in 1829 
0, 1811. lie was converted in 1835, graduated at llox- at Albany, N. Y., where he lived seven years, and pub- 
ton in 1840, joined the British Wesleyan Conference, lislied his first book, An Argument for Christianity; re 


and was appointed to Glasgow. Three years later he 
removed to Edinburgh, where he formed a close friend- 
ship with the famous I)r. Chalmers, and from thence he 
removed to the Stockport North Cireuit, where he pub- 
lished his Defence of the British Wesleyan Conference 
against the Fly-sheets Vindicated. In 1849 he was ap- 
pointed to the Leeds First Circuit, where he published 
his Address to the Methodist societies. In 1852 he was 
appointed to City Road, London (First Circuit); and in 


moved to Poughkeepsie in 1837 : to Baltimore in 1839; 
to New York city in 1841; to Mobile, Ala., three years 
later; to Memphis, Tenn., two years later; to Lowell, 
Mass., in 1850; to Louisville, Ivy., in 1851; to Cincin- 
nati, O., in 1853; and in 1856 to Philadelphia, where lie 
spent three years. lie died in Cincinnati, Nov. 26, 
1876. Dr. Williamson was largely engaged during 
his ministerial career as editor and publisher of the 
Gospel Anchor , in Troy, N. Y., in 1830; the Religions 


1854 emigrated to America, joined the Rock River Con- Inquirer , in Hartford, Conn.: the Herald and Fra , in 
ferenee, and was stationed at Indiana Street Church, Louisville, Ivy., in 1852; and for ten years was eonneet- 
Chicago, where he continued three years. INI r. Will- ed with the Star in the lFe$£ as joint proprietor and 
iams was transferred in 1858 to the Missouri Confer- editor. Besides the above-named J 
enee, and was appointed pastor of Ebenezer Church, St. , tianity, he published An Exposition and Defence of 
Louis. On the death of the president of the University Uniuersalism (1840, 18mo) : — An Examination of the 
of 3Iissouri, at Jefferson City, Mr. Williams was elected Doctrine of Endless Punishment (1847, 18mo) : — Sermons 
to fill the vacancy. Failing health in 1861 caused him for the Times and People (1849, 18mo): — The Phi- 
to travel East for its restoration, lie stopped at Sara- losophy of Universalism , or Reasons for our Faith 
toga, and there died the same year. See Minutes of i (1866, 12mo): — besides other valuable works. He 
Annual Conjh'ences, 1862, p. 5. was essentially a pioneer, emphatically a self-made 

Williams, William, called the “Watts of Wales,” man . a " lmi . oi stro "S ooin-ictkms ami robust intellect, 
was born in 1717, in tlte parish of Llanfair-ar-v-llrvn, ami a prominent member of the Odd-fellows bociety. 
Carmarthenshire, Wales. Ills conversion he traced to IIe was Io S lcal - s,ncerc ’ lHeu >’ ln S en,ous > and m;l °" ct,c - 


the preaching of Ilowel Harris. He left the Establish- 
ed Church at the age of thirty-two, and connected him- 
self with the Methodists, among whom he was recog- 
nised as one of their most popular preachers. Gifted 
with poetical talents of a high order, like Charles Wes- 
ley, he consecrated his genius to the cause of his Mas- 


See Universalist Reyister , 1878, p. 82. 

'Willibald, St., and first bishop of Eiehstiidt, was 
a steadfast supporter of Boniface in the work of Chris- 
tianizing the Germans. He was born about A.D. 700, 
in England, of noble Saxon parents; and in his third 
year, during a severe sickness, was dedicated to the ser- 


ter. lie published the following works : Alleluia (Bris- i vice of the Church. In his fifth year abbot Egbald, of 
tol, 1745-47, 6 pts.): — The Sea of Glass : — Visible Fare- Waltheim, undertook his education. In 720 be under- 
well : — Welcome to Invisible Things: — and An Elegy on took a pilgrimage to Rome, in company with his father 
Whitefeld, dedicated to the countess of Huntingdon, and brother (Wunnebald). From Rome he went, aecom- 
His death occurred in 1791. Mr. Williams was the panied by two friends, on a pilgrimage to the Holy Land, 
author of the hymn “O’er the gloomy hills of dark- which extended over seven years, and exposed him to 
ness,” etc. Ilis best-known hymn — one that is found many dangers and adventurous experiences. On his 
in so many collections of hymns — is that commencing return he spent ten years in monastic retirement at 
with t.he words “Guide me, O thou great Jehovah.” Monte Cassino (729-739). lie then accompanied a 
The history of this hymn is thus given: Lady Hunt- Spanish priest to Rome, and there, as it would seem, 
ingdon having read one of Williams’s books with much made the acquaintance of Boniface, whose kinsman he 
spiritual satisfaction, persuaded him to prepare a eol- was. In 740 he came to Germany, and entered on his 
lection of hymns, to be called the Gloria in Fxcelsis, apostolic work at Eiehstiidt. In the same year he was 
for especial use in Mr. Whitefield’s Orphans’ House in consecrated to the priesthood, and in the following year 
America. In this collection appeared the original stan- (Get. 21 or 22) to the bishopric. In 742 he was present, 
zas of “Guide me, O thou great Jehovah.” In 1774, as bishop of Eiehstiidt, at a council held by Carloman, 
two years after its publication in the Gloria in Fxcelsis, duke of the Eastern Franks. 

it was republished in England in Mr. Whitefiekl’s eol- But little is known as respects the details of Willi- 
lections of hymns. Its rendering from the Welsh into bald’s activity, Descriptions of his career speak in gen- 
English is attributed to W. Evans, who gives a trans- eral terms of the eradication of heathenism, the subdu- 
lation similar to that found in the present collections ing of the soil, the maintenance of worship at stated 
of hymns. The hymn was taken up by the Calvinist times, the regular preaching of the Gospel, and the mul- 
Methodists, embodying, as it did, a metrical prayer for tiplieation of convents, under the rule of St. Benedict, in 
God’s overcoming strength and victorious deliverance his diocese. Ilis brother Wunnebald and his sister 
in life’s hours of discipline and trial, expressed in truly Walpurgis came to his assistance, as did other mission- 
naajestic language, in harmony with a firm religious re- aries, and he was thus able to multiply his labors and 


WILLIBROD 


1002 


WTLLISTON 


extend their area. In 7G5 he attended a synod at At- 
tignv. held by Pepin. He attained to a great age, and 
outlived most of the pupils and companions of Boniface. 
Reports of the 11th century fix the date of his death on 
duly 7, 7*1 ; but a donation to Fulda, from his hand, is 
dated 7*0; and it might accordingly be more nearly 
correct to suppose that he died in 7*0 or 7*7. 

The principal source for Willibald’s life is the Vita 
Willibuldi, also entitled Hodaporicum, written by a nun 
of llcidcnheim, who terms herself his kinswoman, and 
states that she obtained many of the facts she records 
from his own lips. This 1 it a was copied in Canisius, 
Led. A ntiq. HI. i, 105 : Bollandns, A da A-*'. July, ii, 301 ; 
Mabillon, Acta SS. Ben. iii, 2, 1 17 ; and in Falckenstein, 
Cod. Dijtlom. Xordyav. p. 115. A second Life is copied 
in Canisius, ut sup. p. 117; Bollandus, p. 512; and Ma- 
billon, p. 3*3 ; which, however, is merely an abridgment 
of the first. A third Life, which, for no special reason, 
is usually ascribed to bishop Reginald (died 989). is 
given by Canisius alone. Abbot Adelbert, of Ileiden- 
lieim, furnished a brief biography of Willibald, in con- 
nection with a historical sketch of his monastery, in 
the 12th century; and another was drawn up by bish- 
op Philip of Eichstiidt in the 14th century, both of which 
were published in ( Jretser, De Bins Tutelaribus (Ingolst. 
1617). See Rettberg, Kirchenyesch. Deutschl. ii, 348 sq. ; 
Wright, Bioy. Brit. Literuria (Anglo-Saxon Period), 
p 335; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v 

Willibrod (or Willibi oi d). See Wilbrorp, St. 

Willis, Henry, one of the early Methodist preach- 
ers in America, was a native of Virginia. lie entered 
the ministry in 1779, and was one of the most domi- 
nant spirits of the times, energizing, by hisdrrepressible 
ardor, the work of the Church throughout two thirds of 
its territory. He labored mightily for the West, as if 
conscious of its prospective importance in the State and 
the Church. He tilled the following stations; Roanoke, 
1779; Mecklenburg, 1780; Talbot, 1781; Dorchester, 
1782; New Hope, 1783; llolston. 1784. In 1785 he was 
in charge as presiding elder of a district, comprehending 
most of North Carolina; 1786, Charleston, S. C.; 1787, 
New York city; 1788, presiding elder of New York Dis- 
trict; 1789, of a district which extended from Philadel- 
phia to Redstone and Pittsburgh; 1790, located ; 1791- 
95, supernumerary in Philadelphia; 1796, he reappears 
in Baltimore with John Haggerty. Nelson Reed, and 
other worthies. Here he seems to have remained till 
1800, when he became a supernumerary, doing w hat ser- 
vice he could — mostly on the Frederick Circuit, near his 
home — till his death, in 1808, near Straw-bridge’s old 
church on Pipe Creek. Mr. Willis was naturally of a 
strong mind, and this he had diligently improved. Quin, 
who knew’ him in the Redstone country, describes him 
as about “six feet in stature, slender, a good English 
scholar, well read, an eloquent man, mighty in the Script- 
ures. and a most profound and powerful reasoner. lie 
became feeble in the prime of life, retired from the itin- 
erant field, married, and settled on a farm near Freder- 
ick County, Md. The Baltimore Conference sat in his 
parlor in April, 1801.” lie w’as the most endeared to 
Asburv of all the itinerants of that day. See Minutes 
of Conferences , 1808, p. 157; Stevens, Hist, of the At. 
K. Church , ii, 51-53, 134, 298, 347 ; iii, 17, 287 ; iv, 240 ; 
Bangs, Hist, of the M. K. Church , i, 225 ; ii, 254. (J. L. 8.) 

Willis, Michael, D.D., LL.D., a minister of the 
Scotch Presbyterian Free Church, was born in Scotland 
in 1798. He was ordained and installed pastor of Ren- 
field Presbyterian Free Church, Glasgow’, and labored 
with great success and usefulness for twenty-five years. 
In 1847 he received a call from Canada West to the 
presidency and professorship of theology in Knox Col- 
lege, Toronto. He w r as well knowm to English Presby- 
terians, and took a great interest in everything pertain- 
ing to the w’elfare of the Church. In some respects he 
W'as peculiar, was regarded as very eccentric, and w'as 
noted for his pungent remarks on the preachers to 


whom he chanced to listen. Though pointed, his criti- 
cisms were not bitter or intended to wound. Fifty-seven 
years of his life were spent in preaching and teaching. 
He died at Aberlour, Scotland, in September, 1879. Dr. 
Willis published a Funeral Sermon , on his father: — A 
Discourse on ropery (1829): — A Defence of Church Es- 
tablishments (1833) : — A Bioyraphy of Tico Brothers : — 
besides several Pamphlets. See Morgan, Celebrated Ca- 
nadians (Quebec, 1862, 8vo), p. 465. (W. P. S.) 

Willis, Richard, D.D., an English bishop, was 
born in 1663. lie became prebendary of 'Westminster 
in 1695: prebendary and dean of Lincoln in 1701 ; bish- 
op of Gloucester Jan. 16, 1714; bishop of Salisbury in 
1721; bishop of Winchester in 1723; and died in 1734. 
He was the author of, The Occasional Paper , in Eiyht 
Parts (1697): — Speech in the House of Lords on the Bill 
ayainst Francis (lute'). Bishop of Rochester (1723) : — 
and a number of single Sermons. 

Willis, Robert, F.R.S., F.G.S., an English clergy- 
man and scientist, was born in London in 1800. He 
graduated at Caius College, Cambridge, in 1826, and 
gained a fellowship, which he subsequently vacated ; 
took orders in -the Church of England; was early dis- 
tinguished for his researches in physical science, partic- 
ularly acoustics and the physics of oral language, the 
philosophy of mechanism ami machinery, and the math- 
ematical and mechanical philosophy of ancient archi- 
tecture; became a fellow of the Royal Society April 22, 
1830; was appointed Jacksonian professor of natural 
and experimental philosophy at Cambridge in 1*37; 
made a tour of France, Germany, and Italy for the study 
of architecture in 1832-33; and became a profound ar- 
chitectural historian. He was a member of many sci- 
entific associations, before which he delivered many 
addresses; invented several philosophical instruments; 
and died at Cambridge, Feb. 28, 1875. As a lecturer in 
his own department he was unrivalled. He was the 
author of numerous works on scientific subjects, among 
which may be mentioned, Remarks on the Architecture 
of the Middle Ayes, Especially of Italy (1835) : — Report 
of a Survey of the Dilapidated Portions of J/erefoj'd 
Cathedral in the Year 1841: — Principles of Mechanism 
for Students (1841): — Architectural History of Canter- 
bury Cathedral (1845) : — Architectural History of Win- 
chester Cathedral (cod.) : — A f’chitectural History of York 
Cathedral (1846) : — Architectural History of the Church 
of the Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem (1849) : — and A rchi- 
tcctural History of Glastonbury Abbey (1866). 

Willis, Thomas, D.D., an English clergyman of 
the 17th century. He was educated at St.John’s Col- 
lege, Cambridge; became minister of Kingston-upon- 
Thames, in Surrey, about 1667; and died in 1692. He 
published, The Key to Knoicledye: — and several single 
Sermons (1659-76). 

Williston, Si£TH, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born at Suftield, Conn., April 4, 1770. He studied 
at Dartmouth College, where he graduated in 1791. 
Having applied himself to the study of theology, he 
was licensed to preach Oct. 7, 1794, and was aftenvards 
employed for some months in supplying, temporarily, 
several churches in Connecticut. After several years 
spent as a missionary in Vermont and New York, he 
was finally, in 1803, installed pastor of the Church of 
Lisle, N. V., which he had, however, supplied for the 
preceding three or four years. Having in July, 1810, 
become pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Durham, 
he remained there eighteen years, when he received a 
dismission, at his own request, Dec. 22, 1828; and dur- 
ing the rest of his life he preached at various places, 
chiefly in New’ York state. After a life remarka- 
ble for earnestness and activity, he died at Guilford 
Centre, Chenango Co., N. Y.. March 2, 1851. Dr. Wil- 
liston published the following volumes: An A d dr ess 
to Parents (1799): — Sermons on Doctrinal and Experi- 
mental Reliyion (1813): — *4 Vindication of Some of the 
Most Essential Doctrines of the Reformation (1817): — 


WILLOW 


1003 


WILLOW 


Sermons on the Mystery of the Incarnation , etc. 
(1823) : — Sermons A dapted to Revivals (1828) : — 
Harmony of Divine Truth (1836 ) : — Discourses on 
the Temptations of Christ (1837) : — Christ's King- 
dom Not of this World (1843), three discourses: — 
Lectures on the Moral Imperfection of Christians 
(1846): — Millennial Discourses (1848): — and a 
number of Pamphlets. See Sprague, A finals of the 
A mer. Pulpit , iv, 141. 

Willow is the rendering, in the A. V., of the 
two following Heb. words: 

1. 3^2, ereb (only in the plur. Sept, iria, 

ayv oe), is apparently a generic term for the willow, 
like the Arabic gharab. Willows are mentioned in 
Lev. xxiii, 40, among the trees whose branches were 
to be used in the construction of booths at the Feast 
of Tabernacles; in Job xl, 22, as a tree which gave 
shade to Behemoth (“the hippopotamus”); in Isa. 
xliv,4, where it is said that Israel’s offspring should 
spring up “as willows by the watercourses;” in the 
Psalm (cxxxvii, 2) which so beautifully represents 
Israel’s sorrow during the time of the Captivity in 
Babylon — “We hanged our harps upon the willows 
in the midst thereof.” With respect to the tree 
upon which the captive Israelites hung their harps, 
there can be no doubt that the weeping willow 
(Salix Babylonica) is intended. This tree grows 
abundantly on the banks of the Euphrates, in other 
parts of Asia as in Palestine (Strand, Flora Paltest. 

No. 556), and also in North Africa. Bochart has 
endeavored to show (Phaleg, I, viii) that the same 
country is spoken of, in Isa. xv, 7, as “ the Valiev of 
’Willows.” This, however, is very doubtful. Sprengel 
(Hist. Rei Herb, i, 18, 270) seems to restrict the ereb to 
the Salix Babylonica ; but there can scarcely be a doubt 
that the term is generic, and includes other species of 
the large family of Sallees , which is probably well repre- 
sented in Palestine and other Bible lands, such as the Sa- 
lix alba , S. viminalis (osier), S. FEgyptiaca , which latter 
plant, however, Sprengel identifies with the safsdf of 
Abul’fadli, cited by Celsius ( llierob . ii, 108); but this 
latter word is probably the same as — 

2. nS2£BS, tsaphtsaphah , which occurs only in Ezek. 
xvii, 5, “ He took also of the seed of the land, and plant- 
ed it in a fruitful field ; he placed it t>v great waters, and 
set it as a willow-tree Celsius, however, thinks that the 




Weeping Willow ( Salix Babylonica). 


word means locus planus, planities, although he at the 
same time gives all the evidence for the willow. First, 
the rabbins consider it to mean a tree, “et quidera 
salix;" K. Ben Melech says it is “species salicis, Arabi- 
bus tziphtzaph dicta;” while “Avicenna hoc tit. dicit 
tziphtzaph esse child f." Travellers also give us sim- 
ilar information. Thus Paul Lucas: “Les Arabes le 
nomment sofsaf qui signifie en Arabe saide .” Rau- 
wolf ( Travels , i, 9), speaking of the plants he found 
near Aleppo, remarks, “ There is also a peculiar sort of 
willow -trees called sofsaf etc.; the stems and twigs 
are long, thin, weak, and of a pale -yellow color; on 
their twigs here and there are shoots of a span long, 
like unto the Cypriotish wild fig-trees, which put forth 
in the spring tender and woolly flowers like unto the 
blossoms of the poplar-tree, only they are of a more dry- 
ing quality, of a pale color, and a fragrant smell. The 
inhabitants pull of these great quantities, and distil a 
very precious and sweet water out of them.” This 
practice is still continued in Eastern countries as far 
as Northern India, and was, and probably still is, well 
known in Egypt. Ilasselquisfc ( Trav . p. 499), under 
the name of calaf apparently speaks of the same tree; 
and Forskal ( Descript . Plant, p. Ixxvi) identifies it with 
the Salix ^ Eyyptiaca , while he considers the safsdf to 
be the S. Babylonica. 

Various uses were no doubt made of willows by the 
ancient Hebrews, although there does not appear to be 
any definite allusion to them. The Egyptians used 
“fiat baskets of wickerwork, similar to those made in 
Cairo at the present day” (Wilkinson, Awe. Egypt, i, 
43). Herodotus (i. 194) speaks of boats at Babylon 
whose framework was of willow; such coracle-shaped 
boats are represented in the Niueveh sculptures (see 
Rawlinson, Herod, i, 268). 

Of Biblical willows by far the most interesting is the 
weeping willow, or willow of Babylon (S. Babylonica'). 
With its long lanceolate, finely serrated, and pointed 
leaves, with its smooth, slender, purplish, drooping 
branches, it has in all modern times been the symbol 
of sorrow. Before the Babylonian Captivity the wil- 
low was always associated with feelings of joyful pros- 
perity. “It is remarkable,” as Mr. Johns (Forest Trees 
of Britain , ii, 240) truly says, “ for having been in dif- 


WILLS 


1004 


WILLSON 



ferent ages emblematical of two directly opposite feel- 
ings — at one time being associated with the palm, at 
another with the cypress.” After the Captivity, how- 
ever, this tree became the emblem of sorrow, and is fre- 
quently thus alluded to in the poetry of our own coun- 
try; and “there can be no doubt,” as Mr. Johns contin- 
ues, “that the dedication of the tree to sorrow is to be 
traced to the pathetic passage in the Psalms.” “The 
children of Israel,” says lady Callcott (< Scripture Her- 
bal , p. 533), “still present willows annually in their syn- 
agogues, bound up with palm and rm’rtle, and accom- 
panied with a citron.” 

Wills. The subject of testamentary disposition is, 
of course, intimately connected with that of inheritance, 
and little need be added here to what will be found 
there. See 1 1 mn. Under a system of close inherit- 
ance like that of the Jews, the scope for bequest in re- 
spect of land was limited by the right of redemption 
and general re-entry in the Jubilee year. See Jubilee; 
Vow. lint the law does not forbid bequests by will 
of such limited interest in land as was consistent with 
those rights. The ease of houses in walled towns was 
different, and there can be no doubt that they must, in 
fact, have frequently been bequeathed by will (Lev. 
xxv, 30). Two instances are recorded in the Old Test., 
under the law, of testamentary disposition — 1. Effected 
in the case of Ahithophel (2 Sam. xvii, 23) ; 2. liecom- 
mended in the case of llezekiah (2 Kings xx, 1; Isa. 
xxxviii, 1); and it may be remarked in both that the 
word “set in order” (nii!£ ; Sept. ivrkWopai ; Vulg. dis- 
pono. in Ilabbinic is a will. See Gesen. The- 

sattr. p. 1155), marg. “give charge concerning,” agrees 
with the Arabic word “command,” which also means 
“ make a will” (Michaelis, Lairs of A loses, art. 80). Va- 
rious directions concerning wills will be found in the 
Mislina, which imply disposition of land ( Baba Batin'. 
viti, 6, 7). — Smith. See Testament. ► 

Willson, James McLeod, IXD., an eminent 
Presbyterian divine, and son of the distinguished di- 
vine Lev. James lk Willson, D.D., was born at the 
Forks of Tough, near Elizabeth, Allegheny Co., Pa., 
Nov. 17, 1809. From childhood be was apt in the ac- 


quisition of learning, and diligent in bis studies. His 
preparatory education was prosecuted tinder his father’s 
instruction. “ So thorough had been his previous train- 
ing, and so advanced bis scholarship, that on entering 
college he took high rank at once in the senior class.” 
lie graduated at Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., in 
1829; t hen spent some years in teaching, first in an 
academy at Belair, Md., then at the village of Scho- 
dack, N. Y., and lastly as principal of the Uigh-sehool 
in Troy, N. Y. ; studied theology until 1834, when he 
was licensed to preach by the then Southern Presbyter)' ; 
and ordained and installed pastor of a church in Phila- 
delphia, Pa., Nov. 27, 1834. where he labored with great 
success until 1862. In 1859 he was appointed by the 
Synod to a professorship in the Theological Seminary, 
Allegheny City, Pa., a position for which he was emi- 
nently qualified, and which he filled with great industry 
and zeal for three successive sessions, while still retaining 
his pastoral relation to his congregation. In 1862, his 
pastoral relation was dissolved, and he removed to Alle- 
gheny, where lie continued to perform the duties of his 
professorship, until the day of his death, Aug. 31, 1866. 
Coincident with his pastoral and professional duties, he 
performed an amount of other work equal to the whole 
power of a man of ordinary gifts. For more than seven- 
teen years he was sole editor of the Covenanter , an ably 
conducted and efficient monthly, and co-editor with Dr. 
Thomas Sproull for four years more after its union with 
the Reformed Presbyterian. lie was also the author of 
several treatises, viz., The Deacon (1840): — Bible Mag- 
istracy : — Civil Government : — also a little treatise on 
Psalmody. Dr. Willson was a diligent, kind, and faith- 
ful pastor; a plain, logical, and eminently instructive 
preacher; a successful editor and author; a distinguish- 
ed theological professor. His controversial powers were 
of a high order; his knowledge of history was both ex- 
tensive and accurate. In the Theological Seminary he 
was in his element. He was an “Israelite indeed, in 
whom was no guile.” His whole life gave evidence of 
this. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1867, p. 387. 
(J. L. S.) 

Willson, James Renwick, D.D., one of the 
most learned, able, and eloquent divines of the Beform- 
cd Presbyterian Church in his day, was born near Pitts- 
burgh, Pa., April 9, 1780. He early gave indications of 
great mental ability, and, when only twelve years of age, 
was well known as an eager student of theology, lie 
graduated at Jefferson College, Pa., with first honors, in 
1806 ; was licensed to preach in 1807 ; and was principal 
of Bedford, Pa., 1806-1 5, and of a classical school in Phila- 
delphia for two and a half years. II is labors as a teacher 
were highly successful, some of the most prominent gen- 
tlemen of the country having been trained by him. In 
1817 lie became pastor of the congregations of Newburgh 
and Coldenham,N. Y. At that time Newburgh was noto- 
rious for its infidelity; but bis advent was a new aera in 
the village. The town collected to hear him; it. was 
gradually reformed, and the oldest inhabitants still as- 
cribe very much to his sermons. In 1823 the congre- 
gation of Coldenham asked and received all his services 
until 1830, when he removed to Albany, as pastor of a 
church there. As early as 1820 be began educating 
young men for the ministry; in 1822 he began to edit 
the Evangelical lTi/wess, a monthly magazine, the first 
ever published by a Covenanter as a distinctive denom- 
inational magazine: it was discontinued in 1826. lie 
afterwards commenced and continued for two years The 
Christian Statesman , a small paper, 8vo, of eight pages. 
In 1831, about the time when the abolition movement 
began, and also a movement within the Deformed Pres- 
byterian Church respecting certain national privileges, 
be took a leading part in all this conflict, and from its 
earlier appearance had begun the publication of The 
Albany Quarterly . From 1840 until 1845 be was senior 
professor in the Deformed Presbyterian Seminary, Al- 
legheny, Pa. ; froth 1845, when the Seminary was re- 
moved to Cincinnati, O., he was sole professor until 


WILLYMOTT 


1005 


WILSON 


1851, when, owing to ill-health, he retired with the title 
of emeritus professor. He died Sept. 29, 1853. Ur. 
Willson, in intellectual reach, and comprehension and 
acuteness, ranked among the first of men. He had a 
wide-spread reputation as an eloquent preacher. There 
were moments when he was overwhelming in the maj- 
esty of his descriptions and in the awful character of his 
denunciations. He was pre-eminently a man of prayer ; 
faithful to his convictions; a man of unwavering integ- 
rity. lie published, A Historical Sketch of Opinions on 
the A tenement, etc. (1817): — Alphabetical Writing and 
Printing (182G): — Prince Messiah's Claim to Dominion, 
etc. (Albany, 1832, 8 vo) The Written Law (1840): — 
also a number of occasional sermons, addresses, etc. See 
Wilson, Presb. Hist . Almanac , 18GG, p. 293; Allibone, 
Diet . of Brit . and A mer, Authoi's, s. v. ; Sprague, An- 
nals of the A mer . Pulpit , ix, 40. (J. L. S.) 

Willymott, William, LL.D., an English clergy- 
man, was born at Royston about 1G75. He was ad- 
mitted a scholar at King’s College, Cambridge, in 1692; 
became usher at Eton; was tutor in King’s College; 
became rector of Milton in 1735; and died in 1737. lie 
published numerous school-books, and Collection of De- 
votions for the Altar , etc. (1720). See Chalmers, Biog. 
Diet . s. v. 

Wilmer, William H., D.U., a Protestant Epis- 
copal clergyman, was born in Kent County, Md., Oct. 
29, 1782. lie graduated at Washington College, Md., 
and immediately engaged in mercantile pursuits, but 
eventually abandoned them to study theology. In 1808 
he was ordained, and then appointed to Chester Parish, 
Md. The convention of the diocese named him one 
of the standing committee in 1811. The following 
year he received a call to St. Paul’s Church, Alexandria, 
Va., and, after his removal to this charge, became one 
of the standing committee of the diocese of Virginia, 
lie was one of the originators in 1818 of the Education 
Society of the District of Columbia, designed to aid 
theological students at the seminary in Fairfax County. 
Until his removal from Alexandria he was president of 
this association. When St. John’s Church in Washing- 
ton, D. C., was erected in 1810 he was chosen its first 
minister, but did not accept the office, though he sup- 
plied the Church until a rector was secured. Of the 
Washington Theological Repertory, a periodical begun 
in 1819, he was one of the editors until 182G. After re- 
moving to Virginia, until the close of his life, he was a 
delegate of every general convention; and was presi- 
dent of the House of Clerical and Lay Deputies in 1820, 
1821, 1823, and 1826. When the Theological Seminary 
of Virginia opened its sessions in Alexandria in 1823, 
he became professor of systematic theology, ecclesi- 
astical history, and church polity. In the spring of 
1826 he was chosen assistant rector to bishop Moore, in 
the Monumental Church at Richmond, Va., but was in- 
duced by the friends of the seminary to decline the call. 
A few months after, however, lie was elected president 
of William and Marv College, and rector of the Church 
at Williamsburg. Before the expiration of a year from 
the time of his entrance upon these duties he died there 
July 24, 1827. 1 1 is preaching was characterized by 

great simplicity; and although his manner was not con- 
sidered oratorical, it was fervent. See Sprague, A muils 
of the A mer . Pulpit , v, 515. 

Wilna, Elijah, also called the Pious (V'Onn), was 
born in 1720 at Selz, near Brisk, in Poland. His natu- 
ral endowments were so extraordinary that when eleven 
years of age he was not only a thorough Hebraist, but 
unravelled the mysteries of the Cabala, and was master 
of astronomy, geometr}', grammar, etc.; and at the age 
of thirteen (1733) was appealed to as a great authority 
and teacher. In addition to his marvellous native pow- 
ers, he possessed a real love of learning and great assi- 
duity, as well as an independent fortune, and lived till 
1797. Like Mendelssohn and Wesselv, Wilna was labor- 
ing to produce a reformation in Poland with the special 


purpose to check the mischief wrought in the Jewish 
community by the Chasidim, who at liis. time had be- 
come very powerful. Wilna’s writings are very numer- 
ous. Up to the year 1760 he had written the prodigious 
number of sixty volumes, of which fifty-four appeared 
between 1802 and 1854. Wc mention the following: 
Commentary on the Order Zeraim (Lemberg, 1797, ami 
often; last ed. Stettin, I860 ) : — Commentary on the Order 
Toharoth (Brunn, 1802, and often ; last ed. Stettin, I860): 
— Text-critical Glosses on the Mechilta (Wilna, 1814) : — 
Critical Notes on the Babylonian Talmud (Vienna, 1807, 
and often ) : — Critical Notes on the Pi vie de R. Elieser 
(Warsaw, 1854) ‘.—Critical Notes on the Pesikta (Bres- 
lau, 1831 ) : — Scholia to the Greater and Lesser Seder 
Olam (Wilna, 1845 ) : — Glosses on the Thirty-two Her- 
meneutical Rules of R.Jose (Sklow, 1803 ) : — The Mantle 
of Elijah, a commentary on the Pentateuch (first printed 
in the Pentateuch edition published at Dobrowna, 1804, 
and again at Ilalberstadt, 1859-60) : — A Commentary on 
Isari-xii and llabakkuk (Wilna, 1820; 2d ed. ibid. 1843, 
edited and supplemented by his grandson Jacob Moses 
of Slonira ) : — A Commentary on Jonah (ibid. 1800 ) : — A 
Commentary on Proverbs (Sklow, 1798, and often): — A 
Commentary on Job i-vi (Warsaw, 1854) : — A Commenta- 
ry on the Song of Songs (Prague, 1811; Warsaw, 1842) : — 
A Commentary on the Chronicles (Wilna, 1820; 2d ed. 
ibid. 1843 ) : — A Commentary on the Book Jezira (Grodno, 
1806): — .4 Commentary cm the Zohar (Wilna, 1810) : — 
A Hebrew Grammar (ibid. 1833 ): — A Topographical 
Description of Palestine, and a Treatise on the Solomonic 
Temple (Sklow, 1802, and often) : — A Commentary on the 
Third or Ezekiels Temple (Berlin, 1822). See Ftirst, 
Bibl. Jud. iii, 516-521 ; Jost. Gesch. d. Judenth . it. s . Sek- 
ten, iii, 248 sq. ; Kitto, Cyclop . s. v. ; Griitz, Gesch. d. 
Jitdeii, xi, 118 sq. ; Hescbel, imbx SVpbs? 0 (Wilna, 
1856); Finn, !"P“ip (containing a history of the 

congregation of Wilna, biographies of its rabbins, etc. 
[ibid. I860]), p. 133 sq. (B. P.) 

Wilson, Adam, D.D., a Baptist minister, was born 
at Topsham, Me., Feb. 3, 1794. lie was a graduate of 
Bowdoin College in the class of 1819, and during bis 
freshman year lie joined the newly constituted Baptist 
Church in his native town. He studied theology with 
Rev. Dr. Stoughton, of Philadelphia, and was ordained 
in 1820. After preaching some months he was settled as 
pastor at Wiscassett, Me. 11 is special vocation seemed 
to be rather as a stated supply of churches, and in this 
capacity he acted for a number of years. A new de- 
nominational paper having been started in Portland, 
Me., the Zion's Advocate, he became its editor and pro- 
prietor, conducting it with marked ability, and making 
it exceedingly useful in promoting the interests of the 
Baptist denomination in his native state. The last 
years of his life were spent in Waterville, Me., of the 
college in which place he was a trustee for forty years. 
His death occurred at Waterville, Jan. 16, 1871. “A 
man of energy and industry, of decided character and 
marked wisdom and discretion, and of genial disposi- 
tion, he ever had the respect, confidence, and affection 
of the communion whose interests he espoused, and was 
eminently a good man.” Sec Necrology of Bowdoin 
College. " (J. C. S.) 

Wilson, Bird, D.D., LL.D., a Protestant Episcopal 
clergyman, was born at Carlyle, Pa., in 1777. lie 
graduated at Philadelphia College in 1792; studied law, 
and became president -judge of the Court of Common 
Pleas for the seventh Circuit of Pennsylvania in 1802; 
was ordained deacon in the Protestant Episcopal Church 
in 1819; was rector of St.John’s Church, Norristown, 
Pa., from 1819 to 1821; professor of systematic divin- 
ity in the Episcopal General Theological Seminary in 
New York from 1821 to 1850, and emeritus professor 
from 1850 until his death, April 14, 1859. He published 
Memoirs of the. Life of the Right Rev. William White , 
Bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the State 


WILSOX 


1006 


WILSOX 


of Pennsylvania , and edited Abridgment of the Lav. ! 
by Matthew Bacon ( 181 1-13). and the Ilorfo of the 
i Ion. James 117 Ison, LL.IK (1803-4). See a Memorial , 
(18(54) by \V. White Bronson. j 

Wilson, Christopher, D.D., an English clergy- 
man, was born in 1714; became prebendary of London 
in 1745, of Westminster in 1748, and bishop of Bristol 
in 1783. lie died in 1792. II is publications consist of 
a few single sermons. 

Wilson, Daniel, D.D., a colonial bishop of the j 
Church of England, was born in SpitalfieUls, London, 
in 1778. Destined by his parents for trade, he was ap- 
prenticed at fourteen to his uncle, a silk merchant. He 
was then a giddy boy; but in 1797 he was converted, 
and determined to abandon trade. In 1798 he entered 
St. Edward’s llall, Oxford, where he graduated A.B. in 
1802, and A.M. in 1804. He had previously been or- 
dained in 1801. and began his ministry in that year as 
curate to 51 r. Cecil in Chobham. “In 1803 he was ap- 
pointed to a tutorship at Oxford, where he remained 
for about eight years and a half, during which time he 
was first curate of Worton, and then of St. John’s Chap- 
el, London, where he remained until the year 1824. lie 
then became vicar of Islington, discharging the duties 
of that office until 1832, when, on the death of I)r. Tur- 
ner, bishop of Calcutta, he was appointed his successor, 
and from that time to his death, in 1858, he was devoted 
to the arduous and indefatigable labors for the promo- 
tion of Christianity in India, which have made his name 
conspicuous in the history of missions. Bishop Wilson 
was a man of studious habits and solid learning, with 
little respect for forms or ceremonies, compared with 
inward experience; destitute of the elegant culture 
and graceful address of Heber, one of his most distin- 
guished predecessors, he was stern in purpose and ex- 
plicit in speech. II is energy in the discharge of duty 
was almost without a parallel. Social in his disposi- 
tion. fond of conversation, and exercising a generous 
hospitality, he appears to have had few attachments 
and intimacies. Free from worldliness, from every trace 
of self-indulgence, from all duplicity and guile, he found 
his highest glory in the progress of the faith; and in 
his zeal, courage, firmness, and self-devotion, must be 
regarded as a mpdel of the missionary bishop.” In the- 
ology he belonged to the evangelical party of the Church 
of England — the earnest school of Newton, Hill, and 
Cecil. He died at Calcutta, Jan. 2, 1858. A copious 
biograph v is furnished in Bateman’s Life of Bishop 
Wilson (Lond. 1800, 2 vols. 8vo; Boston, 1800, 8vo). 
Besides occasional sermons, charges, etc., he published 
Sermons (5th ed. ibid. 1820, Svo): — Evidences of Chris- 
tianity (4th ed. ibid. 1841, 2 vols. 12mo): — Divine Au- 
thority of the Lord's Day (ibid. 1831, 12mo ; 3d ed. 1840) : 
— Sermons Preached in India (ibid. 1838, Svo) : — Lectures 
on Colossians (ibid. 1845, Svo) : — Tour on the Continent 
(1825.2 vols. Svo). See Life, bv Bateman; London 
Rev. July, 1800, p. 470 ; A mer . Ch. Rev. 1858, ii, 177. 

Wilson, Henry Rowan, D.D., a Presbyterian 
divine, was born near Gettysburg, Adams Co., Pa., 
Aug. 7, 1780. He pursued his preparatory course in a 
classical school in the neighborhood ; graduated at 
Dickinson College in 1798; studied theology privately; 
was licensed to preach by the Presbytery of Carlisle in 
1801 ; and was ordained and installed pastor of the con- 
gregations at Bellofont and at Lick Pun, Centre Co., 
Pa., in 1802. In 1806 he was called to the professor- 
ship of languages in Dickinson College, which position 
he held for ten years, until he became pastor of the 
Church at Silver Spring in 181*5. In 5 lav, 1824, he was 
installed pastor of the Church in Shippensbnrg; in 1838 
he accepted the general agency of the Board of Publica- 
tion in the Presbyterian Church; in 1842 he became 
pastor of the Church at Neshaminy, Hartsville, Bucks 
Co., Pa., where he continued till October, 1848, when, 
at his own request, the pastoral relation was dissolved. 
He died March 22, 1849. Dr. Wilson was a man of 


strong mind; an able, energetic, and popular preacher; 
“his record is on high.” See Sprague, A nnals of the 
A mer. Pulpit, iv, 300; Nevin, Churches of the Valley. 
(J. L. S.) 

Wilson, Hugh Nesbitt, D.D., a Presbyterian 
minister, was born at Elizabeth, N. .1., May 7, 1813. He 
early felt the power of religion and united with the 
Second Presbyterian Church of Elizabeth at about fif- 
teen years of age. He graduated at the College of 
New Jersey in the class of 1830, and, after teaching 
for a short time in Trenton, N. J., entered Princeton 
Theological Seminary, where, after taking a full course 
of study, he graduated in 1834. During the years 
1833-35, he held the place of tutor in the college. As 
an instructor, he was faithful, thorough, and able. 1 1 is 
manners were gentle, winning, and most agreeable, and 
he always commanded the unbounded respect as well 
as the affection of the students. He was licensed by 
the Presbytery of Elizabethtown, April 23, 1835, and 
ordained as an evangelist by the same presbytery Oct. 
7, in the same year. His first field of labor was on 
Long Island, where he began to supply the Church at 
Southampton in September, 1835, but soon after he re- 
ceived and accepted a call to become its pastor, and was 
installed June 29. 1836. Here he had a long, useful, 
and happy pastorate of nearly sixteen years. His labors 
were largely blessed in gathering many souls into the 
Church, and he enjoyed the unbounded love of an at- 
tached people. For reasons connected with his health 
he resigned his charge April 13, 1852, and was immedi- 
ately afterwards settled at Haekettstown, N. J. There 
he was installed June 23, 1852, and labored six years 
with great acceptance: but, having received a call to 
the Second Reformed (Dutch) Church of New Bruns- 
wick, N. J., he resigned his charge at Haekettstown 
May 1, 1858, and was installed at New Brunswick 
May 27, in the same year. After laboring at the latter 
place four years, he resigned this charge in 51 ay, 1862. 
It is not often that a minister is invited back in later 
life to serve the congregation which enjoyed his first 
ministrations. This happened to Dr. Wilson. After 
leaving New Brunswick, he was invited to supply for a 
time the Church at Southampton, which he began to 
do in August, 1863. In the next year he received a 
regular call, and was again installed as pastor on Sept. 
25, 1864. But, after three years, his health, which had 
for a long time been far from strong, hopelessly failed, 
and he resigned May 1, 1867, and in June of the same 
year he removed to Germantown, near Philadelphia. 
Here, in an extremely infirm and disabled condition, 
but patient and trustful, he continued to reside until 
his death, which occurred June 4, 1878. Dr. Wilson 
was a director in Princeton Seminary from 1851 until 
he 1 resigned in 1858, on entering another denomination. 
He was, in the truest sense of the word, a Christian 
gentleman ; was a fine classical scholar and a man of 
extensive reading. As a preacher, he was earnest, af- 
fectionate, instructive, and popular. The blessing of 
God attended his labors in every place where he was 
settled. See Corwin, Manual of the Ref. Church , s. v. 
(W. P. S.) 

Wdlson, James, D.D., a bishop of the Church of 
Ireland, was a native of Dublin, and a student of Trin- 
ity College, from which he received his degree of A.M. 
in 1809. He occupied the post of examining chaplain 
to Dr. Whately, archbishop of Dublin, and was conse- 
crated bishop of Cork in 1848. He died at Cork, Jan. 
5, 1857, aged seventy-five years. His title at the time 
of his death was bishop of Cork, Cloyne, and Ross. See 
A mer. Quar. Church Rev. 1857, p. 149. 

Wilson, James Patriot, D.D., a Presbyterian 
divine, was born at Lewes, Sussex Co., Del., Feb. 21, 
1769. lie graduated with high honor at the Universi- 
ty of Pennsylvania in August, 1788; was admitted to 
the bar in 1790; licensed to preach by the Presbytery 
of Lewes in 1804, and in the same year was ordained 


WILSON 


1007 


WILSON 


and installed as pastor of the united congregations of 
Lewes, Cool Spring, and Indian River. In 1806 he ac- 
cepted the pastoral charge of the First Presbyterian 
Church in Philadelphia, where he remained until lie 
resigned in 1830. He died Dec. 0, 1830. Dr. Wilson 
was a profound thinker and a learned preacher of the 
Gospel. He published, Lectures upon Some of the Par- 
ables and Historical Passages of the New Test. (1810, 
8vo) : — An Easy Introduction to Hebrew (Phila. 1812, 
8 vo ; 1817, 8vo) : — An Essay on Grammar (1817, 8vo; 
Loud. 1840, l8mo) : — Common Objections to Christianity 
(Phila. 1829, l2mo) : — The Hope of Immortality (1829, 
12mo): — A Eree Conversation on the Unpardonable Sin 
(1830): — The Primitive Government of Christian Church- 
es: — Liturgical Considerations (1833) : — also many sin- 
gle sermons and pamphlets. He edited Sermons of the 
Rev. John Ewing , D.D . , with a Life (Easton, 1812, 8vo): 
— Ilidglefs Body of Divinity, with Notes (1814). See 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, iv, 353; Allibone, 
Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. ; Analect. Mag. 
xi, 177. (J.L.S.) 

Wilson, John, D.D., a missionary of the Scotch 
Free Church to Bombay. Though not so widely known 
as Dr. Dull', he was a kindred spirit. Ilis influence 
had become very great in India, where he spent forty- 
eight years of missionary toil. While at home a short 
time, he was made moderator of the General Assembly, 
and men rose up everywhere to do him honor. He re- 
turned to India and assumed his labors, continuing in 
vigorous health until a few months before his death, 
which occurred in Bombav in 1875. See Presbyterian, 
Jan. 1,1876. (W. P. S.) 

Wilson, John Make mi e, D.D., a Presbyterian 
divine, was born in Mecklenburg County, X. C., in 1769. 
He graduated with the highest honor at Hampden Sid- 
ney College in 1791; studied theology privately under 
the direction of the Rev. James Hall, D.D.; was licensed 
to preaeh by the Presbytery of Orange, N. C., in 1793, 
and immediately after was sent by the Commission of 
Synod on a missionary tour through the counties in the 
lower part of the state. He was ordained in 1795, and 
continued in this mission work until 1801, when he ac- 
cepted a call from the congregations of Roekv River 
and Philadelphia. In 1812 he opened a school espe- 
cially for the accommodation of the young men of his 
charge who wished to devote themselves to the minis- 
try; this school he continued for about twelve years, and 
twenty-five of his pupils became ministers of the Gospel. 
He died July 30, 1831. Dr. Wilson possessed a strong, 
penetrating, and well-cultivated mind. As a member of 
the judicatories of the Church, no man of his day was 
held in higher repute. He preached the Gospel with 
great fidelity and fervency, and with strong faith in the 
spirit of God to give it effect. He published, a Sermon 
(1804): — Sermon (1811): — and an Appendix to a work 
on psalmody by the Rev. Dr. Ruffher, of Virginia. See 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, iv, 90: Foote, 
Sketches of Noi'th Carolina ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
A mer. A uthors , s. v. (J. L. S.) 

Wilson, Joshua Lacy, D.D., a Presbyterian di- 
vine, was born in Bedford County, Va., Sept. 22, 1774, 
and in the fall of 1781 removed to the neighborhood 
of Danville, Ky., with his mother and stepfather, John 
Templin, father of Terah Templin. He was brought 
up to the trade of a blacksmith, and had no education 
beyond what his mother gave him till he was twenty- 
two years old. At that period he was converted. He 
soon after commenced the study of law, but abandoned 
it for theology; was licensed to preach in 1802, and in 
1804 was ordained pastor of Bardstown and Big Spring 
churches, Ky. In 1805 he sat as a member of the 
Commission of Synod in the Cumberland difficulties. 
In 1808 he became pastor of the First Presbyterian 
Church in Cincinnati, where he remained for thirty- 
eight years, part of the time teaching a classical school. 
In the great controversy which divided the Presbyte- 


rian Church in 1837 he bore an active and prominent 
part. He died Aug. 14, 1846. Dr. Wilson was a self- 
educated man, of unbending integrity, candor, and con- 
scientiousness. For thirty-eight years he was at the 
head of every social, moral, and intellectual enterprise 
of the day in Cincinnati, and to his personal influence 
Cincinnati College is largely indebted for its existence 
and prosperity. He published, Episcopal Methodism, or 
Dagonism Exhibited (1811), and a number of sermons 
and theological pamphlets. See Sprague, A nnals of the 
A mer. Pulpit, iv, 308 ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. 
A uthors. s. v.: Davidson, Hist, of the Presb. Church in 
Kentucky, p. 364-366. (J. L. S.) 

Wilson, Matthew, D.D., eminent as a Presby- 
terian divine, a physician, and a teacher, was born in 
Chester County, Pa., Jan. 15, 1731. He received his 
education in an academy in New London, Pa., studied 
theology privately, was licensed to preaeh in April, 
1754, ordained in Oetober, 1755, and installed pastor of 
the congregations at Lewes and Cool Spring, Del., in 
April, 1756. lie was regularly bred to the medical 
profession, and few physieians of his day manifested 
more medical skill and learning. lie died Mareh 30, 
1790. Dr. Wilson was ail instructive and persuasive 
preacher; learned, pious, patriotic, and benevolent in 
an eminent degree. He contributed medical papers to 
Aitken's Amer. Mag. 1775, and Carey's Amer. Mus. 
vol. iv, and Observations on the Winter of 1779-80 to 
Trans. Amer. Soc. vol. iii; and left prepared for the 
press (never published) A Therapeutic Alphabet. See 
Thaeher, Amer. Med. Biog. ii, 197; Sprague, A nnals of 
the Amer. Pulpit, iii, 178; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
Amer. A uthors, s. v. (J. L. S.) 

Wilson, Robert G., D.D., a Presbyterian divine, 
was born in Lincoln County, X. C., Dee. 30, 1768. He 
pursued his preparatory studies at an academy in Salis- 
bury, N. C. ; graduated at Dickinson College in 1790; 
studied theology privately; was licensed to preaeh April 
16, 1793, by the Presbytery of South Carolina; and 
was ordained and installed pastor of Upper Long Cane 
Church, in Abbeville District, May 22, 1794. He was 
offered a professorship in South Carolina College, and 
was also invited to become principal of an aeademv in 
Augusta, Ga. ; but he declined these offers, and accepted, 
in 1805, a call to become pastor of a small Church, then 
lately organized, in Chillieothe, O., where he remained 
nineteen years, greatly beloved by his people and signal- 
ly blessed in his labors. In 1824 he resigned his charge 
by advice of the presbytery, and accepted an invitation 
to the presidency of the Ohio University, at Athens, over 
whieh he continued to preside until 1839, when, on ac- 
count of the increasing infirmities of age, he resigned 
the office, returned to Chillieothe, and engaged to preach 
as a stated supply for the Union Chureh. He died April 
17, 1851. Dr. Wilson was an instructive preacher. lie 
excelled as a member of the judicatories of the Church. 
In no situation, however, in whieh he was placed were 
the energies of his mind brought into more vigorous and 
effective exercise than in the presidency of Ohio Uni- 
versity. When he entered upon that ofliee, the insti- 
tution was greatly depressed; but he gave to it the 
whole power of his vigorous mind, and his success was 
indicated within a few years by a very considerable in- 
crease of both funds and students. He published, three 
single sermons (1817, 1828, 1829): — a sermon in the 
Presb. Preacher (1833) : — and an Address to the Gradu- 
ating Class of Ohio University (1836). See Sprague, 
Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, iv, 122; Foote, Sketches of 
North Carolina ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Au- 
thors, s. v. (J. L. S.) 

Wilson, Sir Thomas (1), LL.D., a statesman and 
divine of the reign of queen Elizabeth, was born at Stro- 
bv, in Lincolnshire, about 1524. He was educated at 
Eton and at King’s College, Cambridge, where he grad- 
uated in 1546. He took orders in the Chureh of England; 
became tutor to the two sons of Charles Brandon, duke 


WILSON 


1008 


WIMPLE 


of Suffolk, by Mary, ex-queen of France, but both of his 
pupils soon died; withdrew to the Continent on the ac- 
cession of queen Mary, in 1553; was imprisoned by the 
Inquisition at Koine on account of heresies alleged to 
be contained in his Logic anti Rhetoric , ami was put to 
the torture; obtained his liberty at the death of pope 
Paul IV in 1555, in consequence of a tire which caused 
the populace to break open the doors and allow the 
prisoners to escape; returned to England and became 
private secretary to queen Elizabeth in 1558; was ap- 
pointed one of the masters of requests, and master of 
St. Katherine’s Hospital, near the Tower; went as envoy 
to the Netherlands in 1570; became secretary of state 
and colleague of Sir Thomas Walsingham in 1577 ; was 
made dean of Durham in 1579; and died in London, 
June 1G, 1581. lie published a Latin Biography of his 
tiro pupils, Henry and Charles Brandon (1551 ): — The 
Rule of Reason, Conteinyng the A rte of Logique set forth 
in Knglishe (cod .): — The Arte of Rhetorike, for the Cse 
of all Suche as are Studious of Eloquence (1553 ) : — The 
Three Orations of Demosthenes , etc. (1570) : — and A 
Discourse uppon Usurye by Wage of Dialogue and Ora- 
tions, etc. (1572). See Strype, Annals; and Chalmers, 
Blog. Diet. s. v. 

Wilson, Thomas (2), D.D., LL.D., a Church of 
England divine, was born at Burton, Cheshire, Dec. 20, 
1G63. Little is known of his early life, 
lie was educated at Chester and at Trini- 
ty College, Dublin, quitting the university 
in 1G8G, and receiving an appointment to 
Win wick. Lancashire. In 1G92 he was or- 
dained priest, and became domestic chap- 
lain to the earl of Derby, and tutor to his 
son; and in 179G entered upon his duties 
as bishop of Sudor and Man, in which he 
remained faithful till death, 1755. Bishop 
Wilson was remarkable for his humility, 
his conscientiousness, and his devotedness 
to Christian duty. He was a man of 
prayer and deep piety. See Christian 
Observer, 1820, p. 5G9, 713, 785; Church 
of England Magazine , 1836, p. 245; and 
Christian Remembrancer , 1829, p. 729. 

Wilson, Thomas (3),D.D., an Eng- 
lish divine, son of bishop Thomas, was born 
at Kirk Michael, in the Isle of Man, Aug. 24, 

1703. He was educated at Christ Church, 

Oxford, where he graduated A.M., Dec. 1G, 

1727; became prebendary of Westminster in 1743; was 
forty-six years rector of St. Stephen’s, Walbrook ; and 
died at Alford House, Bath, April 15, 1784. He pub- 
lished, Distilled Liquors the Bane of the Nation: — 
Review of the Project for Building a Neiv Square at 
Westminster (1757 ): — The Ornaments of the Church- 
es Considered, etc. (171G). See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. 
s. v. 

Wimpina, Konrad (really Koeh; for he adopted 
the name Wimpina from the town of Wimpfen, his fa- 
ther’s native place), a scholastic theologian and defend- 
er of Tetzel, the indulgence peddler, was born at Buchen, 
or Buchheim, in the Oden forest, A.D. 1459 or 14G0. 
He was educated at Leipsic, and held a professorship in 
that university. In 1502 he became licentiate, and in 
1503 doctor of theology. Envy charged him with hold- 
ing heterodox views at this time, but lie succeeded in 
repelling the charge before the archbishop of Magde- 
burg. In 1505 he, in his turn, assailed Martin Folichius 
with a charge of heterodoxy, because that writer had 
characterized scholastic speculations as useless, and had 
recommended philological studies as possessing a higher 
value for theology. Wimpina was associated with the 
founding of the University of Wittenberg, and imme- 
diately afterwards was made professor of theology and 
rector in the University of Frankfort-on-the-Oder. On 
Luther’s promulgation of his theses against indulgences, 
Wimpina assumed the defence of Tetzel. Two dispu- 


tations in Tetzel’s favor appeared in 1517, which were 
generally credited to Wimpina, and which were chiefly 
remarkable as postulating a distinction between puni- 
tive and reformatory punishments in connection with 
the theory of indulgences. In 1530 Wimpina attended 
the Diet at Augsburg, in the character of associate au- 
thor of the Confutation of the .4 ugsburg Confession, and 
also as a member of the commission appointed to cftect 
a reconciliation of parties with respect to points in dis- 
pute. lie died, cither May 17 or June 1G, 1531, in the 
monastery of Amorbach. 

Literature. — Gieseler, Kirchengesch. vol. iii; Loscher, 
Reform. Acta und Documenta (Leips. 1720), i, 86 sq. ; 
Unschuldige Nachrichten (ibid. 1716); De Wette, Lu- 
ther's Briefe, etc. (Berlin, 1825), vol. i ; Seckendorff, .4 us - 
fiihrl. Hist . d. Lutherthums (Leips. 1714) ; Sbst and Olpe, 
Tetzel it. Luther, etc. (1853) [Kom. Cath.]; Herzog, Real- 
Encylclop . s. v. 

Wimple is the rendering, in the A. V. at Isa. iii, 22, 
of the lleb. mitpdchach (from HSI3, to spread 

out; Sept, translates undistingnishablv ; Vulg. lintea - 
merit a), which is translated “veil” in Buth iii, 15, but it 
signifies rather a kind of shawl or mantle (Schroder, 
De Yestitu M idler. Hebr. e. 16). The old English and 
now obsolete term means a kind of hood or veil in use 



Oriental Out-door Veils for Ladies. 

at the time the translation was made, and was not a bad 
representative of the original. The word occurs in 
Spenser : 

“For she had laid her mournful stole aside, 

And widow-like sad wimple thrown away.” 

“But (she) the same did hide 
Under a veil that wimpled was full low ; 

And over all a black stole she did throw, 

As one that inly mourned.” 

See Veil. 



Oriental Iu-door Veils for Ladies. 


WIMPLE 


1000 


WINCKLEP 


WIMPLE, in ecclesiastical phrase, is a name for a 
hood or veil, especially the white linen cloth bound 
about the forehead, and covering the necks of nuns 
(q.v.). 

Wimr, in Norse mythology, is the river through 
w^iich Thor waded when he journeyed towards Geir- 
rodsgard. The daughter of the giant made its waters 
so high that they reached to his neck. 

Winchelsey, Robert, archbishop of Canterbury, 
was born at Winchelsea, and educated at Canterbury. 
From Canterbury School he proceeded to Paris, and 
there his success was remarkable. At an early age 
he received his degree of A.M., and soon after was 
appointed rector of the university. On his return to 
England he became a member of Merton College, Ox- 
ford. In 1288 he was appointed chancellor of Oxford. 
He was also appointed archdeacon of Essex. He was 
translated to Canterbury in 1293, and enthroned in 
grand style by Henry, prior of Ids church at Canterbury, 
in 1295. It seems that of all the primates of all Eng- 
land, none was ever so unpopular as archbishop Robert. 
He was so self-willed and haughty that he placed him- 
self, as it were, in opposition to the country just when 
the nation was rising to national independence. lie 
was so unscrupulous in the means he adopted and the 
measures he proposed that he at length involved him- 
self in the guilt of high-treason. Towards the close of 
his life, lie divided his time between Oxford and Canter- 
bury. “ Whatever may have been said of his faults as 
a public character — and they were many and great — all 
his contemporaries bear testimony to his worth in pri- 
vate life.” He exercised boundless charities to the poor, 
and their gratitude invested him with the character of 
a saint. He died at Otford, May 11. 1313. See Hook, 
Lives of the A r'chbishops of Canterbury, iii, 3G8 sq. 

Winchester, Elhanan, a Universalist minister, 
was born at Brookline, Mass., Sept. 30, 1751. He was 
of Welsh descent, the son of a respectable and industri- 
ous mechanic, the eldest of a family of fifteen children ; 
was very precocious, naturally of a feeble constitution, 
and remarkably amiable; received a careful religious 
training and excellent educational privileges; joined 
the Baptists in 1709, united in marriage the same year, 
and soon after began his ministerial career. In 1771 
he preached at Rehoboth, Mass., where his youth, ex- 
traordinary memory, eloquence, apparent zeal, and sin- 
gular dress excited interest and drew multitudes to his 
meetings. His subsequent appointments were: Graf- 
ton, 1772; Hull, 1773-74; Welch Neck, S. C., 1775-79, 
meanwhile travelling and preaching extensively every 
summer in the Middle and Eastern States; Philadelphia, 
Pa., 1780, where and when he accepted the Restoration 
theory. He sailed to England in 1787, and continued his 
journeys in Europe until about 1795, when he returned 
to Philadelphia, lie died of hemorrhage of the lungs in 
Hartford, Conn., April 18,1797. Mr. Winchester was 
gentle and zealous in temperament; diligent and faith- 
ful by habit; exemplary in life; a thoroughly scriptu- 
ral and evangelical and unusually fascinating preacher; 
and a voluminous, clear, captivating writer. His writ- 
ings embrace, A Collection of Hymns (1784): — A Seri- 
ous Address to Youth on the Worth of the Soul (1785) : 
— Dialogues on Universal Restoration (1788) : — Lectures 
on the Pf'ophecies (1790-91, 2 vols. 8vo): — The Process 
and Empire of Christ, a Poem (1793): — Ten Letters to 
Thomas Paine, in Reply to his Aye of Reason (1794) : — 
Political Catechism : — Hymns on the Restoration (1795) : 
— besides many sermons. See Stone, Biography of Rev. 
Elhanan Winchester (Boston, 1836). 

Winchester, Samuel Gover, a Presbyterian 
minister, was born at Rock Run, Hartford Co., Aid., 
Feb. 17, 1805. lie received a good academical train- 
ing; began the study of law, but afterwards studied 
theology in the Theological Seminary at Princeton, 
N. J. ; was licensed to preach by the Presbytery of 
Baltimore in 1829; and was ordained and installed pas- 
X.— S s s 


tor of (he. Sixth Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia, 
Pa., May 4, 1830. In 1837 he resigned his charge and 
was employed as an agent of the General Assembly’s 
Board of Domestic Missions; in the autumn of the same 
year he accepted a call to the Presbyterian Church in 
Natchez, Miss., where he continued in the faithful dis- 
charge of his duties until his death, Aug. 31, 1841. Mr. 
Winchester was the author of Companion for the Sick 
(1833), altered from Willison’s Afflicted Alan's Compan- 
ion, with additions: — Christian Counsel to the Sick 
(1836): — A Discourse at Oakland College (1838): — The 
Theatre (Phila. 12mo): — Importance of Family Religion, 
with Prayers and Hymns (1841, 12mo). See Sprague, 
Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, iv, 754; Allibone, Diet, of 
Brit, and Amer . Authors, s. v. (J. L. S.). 

Winchester, Thomas, D.D., a learned English 
divine, was born in the County of Berks about the be- 
ginning of the 18th century. He was educated at Mag- 
dalen College, Oxford : tvas a tutor there for many years; 
received a fellowship in 1747 ; became rector of Apple- 
ton, Berkshire, in 1761 ; held for some years the curacy 
of Astlev Chapel, near Asbury, in Warwickshire; and 
died May 17, 1780. He published A Dissertation on 
the A' 1 V Ith A rticle of the Church of England, etc. (1773). 
See Chalmers, Blog. Diet. s. v. 

Winckelmann, Joiiann, a Lutheran theologian 
of Germany, was born in 1551 at Homburg, in Hesse, 
lie studied at different universities; received the de- 
gree of doctor of divinity at Basle in 1581, and was ap- 
pointed court preacher at Cassel in 1582. In 1592 he 
was called as professor of theology to Marburg; in 1607 
he received the chair of theology at Giessen, and in 1612 
the superintendency there. He died Aug. 16, 1626. He 
wrote commentaries on the Minor Prophets, the gospels 
of SS. Mark and Luke, the epistles to the Romans and 
Galatians; on St. Peter’s and James’s epistles, and on 
the Apocalypse, lie also wrote dissertations on differ- 
ent passages of Scripture and on theological and other 
subjects. See Freher, Theatrum Eruditorum ; Witte. 
Memoriae Theologorum; Joelier , All geme hies Gelehrten- 
Lexikon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Winckler (or Winkler), Johann, one of the 
most faithful, important, and judicious of the friends of 
Spener (q.v.), was born July 13, 1642, at Gblzern, near 
Grimma, and was educated at Leipsic and Tubingen, 
lie had become acquainted with Spener before he en- 
tered upon his first pastorate at Hamburg in 1671, and 
received ordination at his hands. In 1672 Winckler 
became superintendent at Braubach ; 1676, court preach- 
er at Darmstadt; 1678, pastor at Mannheim ; and 1679, 
superintendent at Wertheim. He had already, at 
Darmstadt, begun to hold private devotional meetings, 
sueh as lie had observed to be a useful means of grace 
in the ministry of Spener at Frankfort. On Aug. 31, 
1684, he was, on the recommendation of Spener, chosen 
chief pastor of St. Michael's at Hamburg, and that city 
continued afterwards to be his home while he lived. 
Soon after his settlement in Hamburg (1686), he came 
into controversy with Dr. Job. Friedr. Mayer, pastor of 
St. Jacobi, respecting the theatre, which Mayer de- 
fended against Winekler’s aspersions; and the dispute 
was renewed with greater acrimony when Dr. Schultz, 
the senior of Hamburg, submitted a formula, made bind- 
ing by an oath, and directed against all fanatics, to the 
ministers of Hamburg for their signature. Winckler 
and his friends Ilorb and Hinckelmann (q. v.) refused 
to sign the paper, and various theologians in other 
places, among them Spener, had written against its 
adoption, while Mayer beeame its impassioned advocate. 
Winckler ultimately felt constrained to discuss the mat- 
ter in dispute in the pulpit, which he did in four ser- 
mons delivered April 25 to May 16, 1693. In the 
course of the dispute Ilorb was expelled from the city, 
but Mayer was thoroughly defeated. An amnesty was 
secured in June, 1694. In 1699 the death of Schultz 
transferred the office of senior to Winckler, and Mayer 


WIXDEI: 


1010 


WINE 


eliosc.in consequence, to remove to Greifswald. "NVinck- 
ler died April 5, 1705. 

Winckler had few equals as a preacher, though his 
sermons are dillicultto read by reason of the extraneous 
matter inserted when they were prepared for the press. 
Some of them extend over one hundred pages, and are 
theological treatises rather than sermons, lie was emi- 
nent as a scholar in exegesis and Biblical theology, and 
had A. II. Francke for his pupil; he rendered meritori- 
ous service to the cause of education in the enlarging 
of a number of schools ami the founding of many oth- 
ers. lie was from an early period of his life a support- 
er of the principles and methods of Spener, writing 
in their defence Bedenken fiber Krieysmann's Symphone- 
sis, etc. (llanan, 1(570): — Antwort anf Dilfeld's yrnmtt. 
Erorteruny tier Fra ye von den Priratznsammenkfinften 
(ibid. 1081): — and Sendschreiben an L)r. JJannekenium 
(Hamburg, 1000); but he was not a blind supporter of 
Spener, and preserved an independent character to the 
end, as is illustrated especially by his judgment in the 
case of the fanatical Friiulein v. d. Assebtirg, expressed 
in iSchriftmussiyes Bedenken (ibid. 1005). Francke pre- 
pared for the founding of the Halle Orphanage at Winek- 
ier’s house in 1088; and in the same year Winckler 
drew up the plan for a Bible Society, and began its work 
bv the issue of several editions of the Bible at the ex- 
pense of himself and a number of friends. lie caused 
a new liturgy and hymn-book to be prepared for the 
Church of Hamburg, and devised a systematic plan for 
examining candidates. See Geffeken, Joh. Winckler it. 
d. Ilamb. Kirche in seiner Zeit , etc. (ibid. 1084- 1705; 
1801).— Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

, Winder, Henry, D.D., a learned English Dissenter, 
was horn at Hutton John, in the parish of Graystock, 
Cumberland, May 15, 1003. lie was educated at Pen- 
ruddock and at Whitehaven; continued his studies pri- 
vately in Dublin for two years; became pastor of a con- 
gregation at Tnnlev, Lancashire, and was ordained in 
1710; was chosen pastor of the meeting at Castle Hey, 
Liverpool, in 1718, where he continued to labor until his 
death, Aug. 9, 1752. He is known to the literary world 
by his “ingenious and elaborate work,” A Critical and 
Chronoloyical JJistory of the Rise , Proyress , Declension, 
and Revival of Knowledye , Chief y Reliyious , in Tiro Pe- 
riods — the Period of Tradition , from A dam to Moses ; 
and the Period of Letters, from Moses to Christ (1745). 
A second edition appeared in 1756, with Memoirs of his 
life, by Rev. George Bronson, D.D. See Chalmers, Bioy. 
Diet. s. 

Window (usually challon; Chald. IS, kar , 

Dan. vi, 10; Gr.Svpic). The window of an Oriental 
house consists generally of an aperture (as the word 
challon implies) closed in with lattice- work, named in 
Hebrew by the terms antbbdh Eccles.xii,3, A.V. 

“window;” Hos. xiii, 3, A.V. “chimney”), charukkim 
C'S jH, Cant, ii, 9), and eshnab (Z2‘Z‘N;, Judg. v, 28; 
Prov. vii, 0, A.V. “casement”), t lie two former signify- 
ing the interlaced work of the lattice, and the third the 
coolness produced by the free current of air through it. 
Other Heb. terms rendered “window” are “HZ, tsdhar 
(Gen. vi, 10; a liyht or opening to admit it, elsewhere 
“noon”), and C shekeph (1 Kings vii, 5) or CjlplZ, 
shakuph (vi, 4; vii, 4), which means timbers or beams. 
See Ark ; Temple. 

Glass has been introduced into Egypt in modern times 
as a protection against the cold of winter; but lattice- 
work is still the usual, and with the poor the only, con- 
trivance for closing the window (Lane, Modern Eyypt . 
i, 29). When the lattice-work was open, there appears 
to have been nothing in early times to prevents person 
from falling through the aperture (Acts xx. 9). The 
windows generally look into the inner court of the house, 
but in every house one or more look into the street, and 
hence it is possible for a person to observe the approach 


of another without being himself observed (Judg. v, 28; 
2 Sam. vi, 16; Prov. vii, 0; Cant, ii, 9). In Egypt these 
outer windows generally project over the doorway (Lane, 
Modern Eyypt. i, 27 ; Came, Letters , i, 94). When houses 
abut on the town-wall, it is not unusual for them to have 
projecting windows surmounting the wall and looking 
into the country, as represented in Convbeare and IIow- 
son’s *87. Paulj i. 124. Through such a window the spies 
escaped from Jericho (Josh, ii, 15), and Paul from Da- 
mascus (2 Cor. xi,33). — Smith. In the Talmud, Tyrian 
windows are mentioned (Baba Bathra, iii, 6). See 
Hartmann, Uehrder. iii, 341 sq. ; Oldermann, De JSpecu- 
luribits Yeterum (Ilelmst. 1719). See House. 

Wine, both natural and artificial, is frequently men- 
tioned in the Bible, and in modern times, especially in 
connection with the temperance cause, its character and 
use have been a subject of no little nor always temper- 
ate controversy. We propose here to treat it in the 
light of Scripture, history, and morals, using for a part 
of the discussion whatever we find appropriate in the 
Bible Dictionaries. 

I. Bible Terms. — The produce of the wine-press was 
described in the Hebrew language by a variety of words 
indicative either of the quality or of the use of the liq- 
uid. It may at once be conceded that the Hebrew 
terms translated “wine” refer occasionally to an unfer- 
mented liquor; but inasmuch as there are frequent al- 
lusions to intoxication in the Bible, it is clear that fer- 
mented liquors were also in common use. It is also 
obvious that the Bible generally speaks in terms of 
strong condemnation of the effects of wine ; but it 
is a fair question whether the condemnation is not 
rather directed against intoxication and excess than 
against the substance which is the occasion of the 
excess. 

The following are the words more or less so rendered 
in the A. V., with a few others of cognate signification 
and application. 

1. Ydyin , p^ (A.V. invariably “wine,” except Judg. 
xiii, 14. “ vine Cant, ii, 4, “ banqueting”). This word, 
the most commonly employed in the Old-Test. Script- 
ures for wine, is also the most comprehensive, including, 
like the corresponding English word, wines of all sorts, 
although used also in a more restricted sense to denote 
red wine. 

(1.) It is etymologically derived, according to Gese- 
nius, from an unused root, having the force of fet'ven - 
di, test n emit; according to Furst, from pi, like the Ara- 
bic pi, Aeth, pi, Gr. Folvoe , “ et sic porro c.Tteris in 
linguis, Arm. yini ; Lat. vinnm ; Eng. wine ; Sept, oivoc, 
cktkoc, yXfiijtof.” It has been the current opinion that 
the Indo-European languages borrowed the term from 
the Hebrews. The reverse, however, is thought by some 
to be the case (Renan, Lany.Sem. i, 207), and the word has 
been referred either to the root we, “to weave,” whence 
come liere, rimen, vitis, vitta (Pott, Etym. Forsch. i, 120, 
230), or to the root iran , “ to love” (Kuhn, Zeitschr.f 
veryl. Sprachf i, 191, 192). However this mav be, the 
etymological connection and substantial identity of the 
above Ileb., Greek, Latin, and English words cannot be 
doubted. 

(2.) In most of the passages in the Bible where ydyin 
is used (83 out of 138), it certainly means fermented 
yr ape-juice, and in the remainder it may fairly be pre- 
sumed to do so. In four only (Isa. xvi, 10; Jer. xi, 10- 
12; Lam. ii, 12) is it really doubtful. In no passage can 
it be positively shown to have any other meaning. The 
corresponding English word “wine” properly means 
“ the fermented juice of the grape.” It always has this 
meaning, except when expressly modified by the imme- 
diate connection in which it is used. The same is true 
of its equivalent congeners — Greek, oivog; Latin, vinum ; 
German, wein; French, rin, etc. 

The intoxicating character of ydyin in general is plain 
from Scripture. To it are attributed the “darkly flash- 


WINE 


1011 


WINE 


iiig eye” (Gen. xlix, 12; A. V. “red,” but see Gesenius, 
Thesaur . Append, p. 89), tlie unbridled tongue (Prov. 
xx, 1; Isa. xxviii, 7), the excitement of the spirit (Prov. 
xxxi, 6 ; Isa. v, 11 ; Zech. ix, 15 ; x, 7), the enchained af- 
fections of its votaries (Hos. iv, 1 1), the perverted judg- 
ment (Prov. xxxi, 5; Isa. xxviii, 7), the indecent ex- 
posure (Hah. ii, 15, 1G), and the sickness resulting from 
the heat (chemdh, A. V. “bottles”) of wine (llos. vii, 5). 
So in actual instances : Noah planted a vineyard, and 
drank of the ydyin and was drunken (Gen. ix, 21) ; Na- 
bal drank ydyin and was very drunken (1 Sam. xxv, 36, 
37); the “drunkards of Ephraim” were “overcome with 
ydyin ” (Isa. xxviii, 1), or rather, knocked down, or, as 
Gill paraphrases it, “ smitten, beaten, knocked down 
with it as with a hammer, and laid prostrate on the 
ground, where they lie fixed to it, not able to rise.” 
Jeremiah says, “ I am like a drunken man, and like a 
man whom ydyin hath overcome” (xxiii, 9). 

The intoxicating quality of ydyin is confirmed by Rab- 
binical testimony. The Mishua, in the treatise on the 
Passover, informs us that four cups of wine were poured 
out and blessed, and drunk by each of the company at 
the eating of the Paschal lamb, and that water was 
also mixed with the wine, because it was considered too 
strong to be drunk alone ( Pesachim , vii, 13; x, 1). In 
Hieros. Shabb. (xi, 1) we read, “It is commanded that 
this rite be performed with red wine;” Babylon. Shabb. 
(lxxvii, 1), “Sharon wine is of famous report, with 
which they mix two parts of water;” Babylon. Bera- 
choth (fol. 1), “ Their wine Cj* 1 ^) was very strong, and 
not fit for drinking without being mixed with water." 
The Gemara adds, “The cup of blessing is not to be 
blessed until it is mixed with water;” the Jerusalem Tal- 
mud says, “ It became a man nobly to entertain his wife 
and children (at the Passover), that at this feast they 
might be merry with wine” (■|" n ). To meet the objec- 
tion How can intoxication he hindered? the rabbins 
replied, “ Because wine between eating does not intoxi- 
cate a man” (Hieros. Talm.\ See Dr. Tattam's Reply 
to a Pamphlet by Rev. IT. Ritchie on the Scripture Testi- 
mony against Intoxicating 117we, p. 8, 9. 

But, although usually intoxicating, yet it was not 
only permitted to be drunk, bm was also used for sacred 
purposes, and is spoken of as a blessing. Thus, in Ja- 
cob’s blessing on Judah, “ His eyes shall be red with yd- 
yin, and his teeth white with milk” (Gen. xlix, 12). So 
in God’s promise to restore his people to their own land, 
“ I will bring again the captivity of my people . . . and 
they shall plant vineyards and drink the ydyin thereof” 
(Amos iv, 19). “ Drink thy ydyin" says the preacher, 

“ with a merry heart, for God now aceepteth thy works” 
(Eccles. ix, 7). The Nazarite, at the expiration of his 
vow, was permitted to drink ydyin (Numb, vi, 13-20); 
the Israelites were permitted to drink ydyin at their 
feasts (Dent, xiv, 24-26) ; ydyin was used in the sacred 
service of Jehovah, being poured out as a drink-offering 
to him (Exod. xix, 40; Lev. xxiii, 13; Numb, xv, 5). 
Hence, it not only “maketh glad the heart of man” 
(Psa. civ, 15), but also “cheereth both God and man” 
(Judg. ix, 13); its cheering effects being symbolically 
transferred to the Divine Being. 

Some, indeed, have argued from these passages that 
ydyin could not always have been alcoholic. But this 
is begging the question, and that in defiance of the facts. 
Although invariably fermented, it was not always prop- 
erly inebriating, and in most instances, doubtless, was 
but slightly alcoholic, like the vin ordinaire of France, 
or our own cider. 

2. Tirdsh, UIT'PI (Gen. xxvii, 28-38; Numb, xviii, 
12; Deut. vii, 13; xi, 14; xii, 17; xiv, 23; xviii, 4; 
xxviii, 5; xxxiii, 28; Judg. ix, 13; 2 Kings xviii, 32; 
2 Chron. xxxi, 5; xxxii, 28; Neh. v, 11 ; x, 37, Psa. 
iv, 7; Isa. xxvi, 17; Ixii, 8; Jer. xxxi, 12; Dos. ii, 8, 9, 
22; vii, 14; Joel ii, 19,24; rendered •“ new wine” in 
Neh. x. 39; xiii, 5, 12; Prov. iii, 10; Isa. xxiv,7; lxv, 
8; Hos. iv, 11 ; ix, 2; Joel i, 10; Hag. i, 11; Zech. 


ix, 17; “sweet wine,” in Mic. vi, 15), properly sig- 
nifies must , the freshly pressed juice of the grape (the 
yXevicog, or sweet wine of the Greeks, rendered “new 
wine” in Acts ii, 13). The word (rendered in the Sept, 
by three distinct terms, oh>o(j, ptb£ y y&vopa) occurs 
sometimes in connection with ydyin, sometimes with oil, 
and sometimes with words denoting the edible produc- 
tions of the earth. 

(I.) Etymologically, tirdsh is usually referred to the 
root yai'dsh, 'O^, " to get possession of,” applied to 
wine on account of its inebriating qualities, whereby 
i t gets possession of the brain. So Gesenius, “Mustum, 
novum vinum ita dictum quia inebriat, cerebrum occu- 
pat” (Thesaur. p. 633) ; and Fiirst, “Mustum uvis ex- 
pressum, A. V, ^ occupare, aequirere, comparare” 
( Concord . p. 525, 2). But according to Bythner, as 
quoted by Lees ( Tirdsh , p. 52), it refers to the vine as 
being a possession ( icar tkoxvO * n the eyes of the He- 
brews. Neither of these explanations is wholly satis- 
factory, but the second is less so than the first, inas- 
much as it would be difficult to prove that the Hebrews 
attached such pre-eminent value to the vine as to place 
it on a par v'ith landed property, which is designated 
by the cognate terms yerushshuh and moi'ashdh. Nor 
do we see that any valuable conclusion could be drawn 
from this latter derivation; for, assuming its correct- 
ness, the question would still arise whether it was on 
account of the natural or the manufactured product that 
such store was set on the vine. 

( 2 .) As to the exclusively liquid character of the 
substance denoted, both ydyin and tirosh are occasion- 
ally connected with expressions that would apply prop- 
erly to a fruit; the former, for instance, with verbs sig- 
nificant of gathering (Jer. xl, 10, 12) and growing (Psa. 
civ, 14, 15) ; the latter with gathering (Isa. Ixii, 9, A. V. 
“brought it together”), treading (Mic. vi, 15), and 
withering (Isa. xxiv. 7 ; Joel i, 10 ). So, again, the for- 
mer is used in Numb. vi,4, to define the particular kind 
of tree whose products were forbidden to the Nazarite, 
viz. the “pendulous shoot of the vine;” and the latter 
in Judg. ix, 13 , to denote the product of the vine. It 
should be observed, however, that in most, if not all, 
the passages where these and similar expressions occur 
there is something to denote that the fruit is regarded 
not simply as fruit, but as the raw material out of which 
wine is manufactured. Thus, for instance, in Psa. civ, 
15, and Judg. ix, 13 , the cheering effects of the product 
are noticed, and that these are more suitable to the idea 
of wine than of fruit seems self-evident; in one passage, 
indeed, the A. V. connects the expression “make cheer- 
ful” with bread (Zech. ix, 17); but this is a mere mis- 
translation, the true sense of the expression there used 
being to nourish or make to gt'ow. So, again, the tread- 
ing of the grape in Mic. vi, 15 is in itself conclusive as 
to the pregnant sense in which the term tirdsh is used, 
even if it were not subsequently implied that the effect 
of the treading was, in the ordinary course of things, to 
produce the ydyin which was to be drunk. In Isa. 
Ixii, 9, the object of the gathering is clearly conveyed 
bv the notice of drinking. In Isa. xxiv, 7, the tirdsh , 
which withers, is paralleled with ydyin in the two fol- 
lowing verses. Lastly, in lxv, 8, the nature of the 
tirdsh , which is said to be found in the cluster of the 
grapes, is not. obscurely indicated by the subsequent 
eulogium, “a blessing is in it.” That the terms “vine” 
and “wine” should be thus interchanged in poetical 
language calls for no explanation. We can no more 
infer from such instances that the Hebrew terms mean 
grapes as fruit than we could infer the same of the 
Latin vinum because in some two or three passages 
(Plautus, Trin. ii, 4, 125 ; Yarro, De Ling. Lat. iv, 17 ; 
Cato, De Re Rustica, c. 147) the term is transferred to 
the grape out of which wine is made. 

Moreover, tirdsh generally follows “corn ” in the trip- 
let “corn, wine, and oil,” and hence the term applied to 
the consumption of corn is carried on, in accordance 


WINE 


1012 


WINE 


with the grammatical figure zeugma, to the other mem- 
bers of the clause, as in Dent, xii, 17. In the only pas- 
sage where the act of consuming tirosh alone is noticed 
(Isa. lxii, 8, 9) the verb is shathuh (nr w), which con- 
stantly indicates the act of drinking (e. g. Gen. ix, 21 ; 
xxiv, 22 ; Exod. vii. 21 ; 1 tilth ii, 9), and is the general 
term combined with akdl in the joint act of 

’•eating and drinking” (e. g. 1 5am. xxx, 1G; Job i, 4; 
Ecelcs. ii, 24). We can find no confirmation for the 
sense of sucking assigned to the term by Or. Lees (77- 
rdsh. p. t>l) : the passage quoted in support of that sense 
(l*sa. Ixxv, 8) implies, at all events, a kind of sucking 
allied to drinking rather than to eating, if indeed the 
sense of drinking be not the more correct rendering of 
the term. An argument has been drawn against the 
usual sense assigned to tirosh , from the circumstance 
that it is generally connected with “corn,” and there- 
fore implies an edible rather than a drinkable substance. 
The very opposite conclusion may, however, be drawn 
from this circumstance; for it may be reasonably urged 
that in any enumeration of the materials needed for 
man’s support, “ meat and drink” would be specified 
rather than several kinds of the former and none of the 
latter. “ Bread and water” occur together very often 
(e. g. Ezek. iv, 17; 1 Sam. xxv, 11, etc.). Is water , 
then, a solid? 

There are, finally, passages which seem to imply the 
actual manufacture of tirosh by the same process by 
which wine was ordinarily made. For, not to insist on 
the probability that the “bringing together,” noticed 
in Isa. l\ii, 9 would not appropriately apply to the col- 
lecting of the fruit in the wine-vat, we have notice of 
the “treading” in connection with tirosh in Mic. vi, 15, 
ami again of the "“overflowing” and the “bursting out” 
of the tirosh in the vessels or lower vat (Ipf , yekeb, 
Sept. v7To\ip’ior ), which received the must from the 
proper press (Prov. ii i, 10; Joel ii, 24). This, accord- 
ing to the author of Tirosh Lo Ydyin, is an “image of 
abundance;” tbe “vats piled up with fruits so full that 
what was put on would roll of to the ground , because 
they could hold no more !” (p. 54). 

(3.) As to the intoxicating character of this drink, 
the allusions to its, effects are confined to a single pas- 
sage, but this a most decisive one, viz. Hos. iv, 11, 
“Whoredom and wine (gagin'), and new wine (tirosh) 
take away the heart.” where tirosh appears as the cli- 
max of engrossing intiuences, in immediate connection 
with ydyin. 

The inevitable impression produced on the mind by a 
general review of tbe above notices is that both ydyin 
and tirosh, in their ordinary and popular acceptation, 
referred to fermented, intoxicating wine. In the con- 
demnatory passages no exception is made in favor of 
any other kind of liquid passing under the same name, 
but not invested with the same dangerous qualities. 
Xur, again, in these passages is there any decisive con- 
demnation of the substance itself, which would enforce 
the conclusion that elsewhere an unfermented liquid 
must be understood. The condemnation must be un- 
derstood of excessive use in any case: for even where 
this is not expressed, it is implied; and therefore the 
instances of wine being drunk without any reproof of 
the act may, with as great a probability, imply the 
moderate use of an intoxicating beverage, as the use 
of an unintoxicating one. 

The notices of fermentation are not very decisive. 
A certain amount of fermentation is implied in the dis- 
tension of the leather bottles when new wine was placed 
in them, and which was liable to burst old bottles. It 
has been suggested that the object of placing the wine 
in bottles was to prevent fermentation, but that in “ the 
case of old bottles fermentation might ensue from their 
being impregnated with the fermenting substance” ( Ti- 
rosh, p. Go). This is not inconsistent with the state- 
ment in Matt, ix, 17, but it detracts from the spirit of 
the comparison which implies the presence of a strong, 


expansive, penetrating principle. It is, however, in- 
consistent with Job xxxii, 19, where the distension is 
described as occurring even in new bottles. It is very 
likely that new wine was preserved in the state of must 
by placing it in jars or bottles, and then burying it in 
the earth. But we should be inclined to understand 
the passages above quoted as referring to wine drawn 
off before the fermentation was complete, either for 
immediate use, or for the purpose of forming it into 
sweet wine after the manner described by the Geoponic 
writers (vii, 19). The presence of the gas-bubble, or, 
as the Hebrews termed it, ^the eye” that sparkled in 
the cup (Prov. xxiii, 31), was one of the tokens of fer- 
mentation having taken place, and the same effect was 
very possibly implied in the name chemer (T£tt). 

The testimony of the rabbins is to the same effect. 
They say, “ Tirosh, TVVr, is new wine; the liquor of 
the grapes first pressed out, which easily takes posses- 
sion of the mind of man” ( Sanhedr . lxxvi, 1). “If 
thou abuse it, thou shalt be poor; if thou rightly use it, 
thou shalt be head” ( Yoma , lxxvi, 2). Again, in the 
Gemara. “Wherefore is it called tirosh? Because all 
who are drawn to it shall be poor.” Such is the tes- 
timony of the rabbins, “who ought to know something 
of their own language.” In accordance with this, the 
Targu mists Onkelos and Jonathan render tirosh, in 
every instance of its occurrence (except in three cases 
where there is no word, or the word for vineyard), by 
the word chamar (see Tattam, Reply, p. 5. 6). 

3. Chemer, (from “i*cn, cestuavit,ferbuit),oT in 

its Chaldee form, chamar, ^I'cn (Sept, otvog, jcaXo^), is 
“vinum a fervent!© et fermentando dictum” (Gesenius, 
Thesuur. p. 403). The word occurs eight times — twice 
(Dent, xxxii, 14; Isa. xxvii, 2) in its Ilebretv and six 
times (Ezra vi, 9; vii, 22; Dan. v, 1, 2, 4, 23) in its 
Clialdee form. In Deut. xxxii, 14 it is (in the A.V., 
after the Ynlg.) treated as an adjective, and rendered 
“pure” — “ the pure blood of the grape,” instead of “the 
blood of the grape — w ine,” chemer. The rabbins call it 
“pure or neat wine” (i. e. no water being mixed w’ith 
the juice of tbe grape), “ because it disturbs the head 
and the brain” (Tattam). They regarded chemer and 
tirosh “ as equivalent terms.” This pure, powerful wine 
was permitted to the Israelites (Deut. xxxii, 14) ; and 
is spoken of with approbation by Isaiah, “In that day 
sing ye unto him, A vineyard of red wine (chemer) ; I, 
the Lord, do keep it” (xxvii, 2, 3). Cyrus and Arta- 
xerxes commanded that chemer should be given to the 
people of Israel “for the service of the God of heaven” 
(Ezra vi, 9). 

4. Shekar, '“i-uj (from “2 l3, inebriavit se; Sept. oi - 
Kepa, oti'oc, ptSvufia, p&rf; Vulg. vinwn), is “ temetum , 
an inebriating drink, whether wine prepared or distilled 
from barley or from honey or from dates (Gesenius, 
Thesaur. p. 1440). So Fiirst, who adds, “or any other 
kind of intoxicating drink comprehended under the 
name tmv crndpiov.” Jerome says, “Sicera (“C'£) Ile- 
bneo serinone omnis potio, qure inebriare potest, sive 
ilia qiue frumento confieitur, sive pomorum succo, aut 
quum favi decoquuntur in dtilcem et barbaram potio- 
nem, aut palmarum fructus exprimuntur in liquorem, 
coctisque frugibus aqua pinguior coloratur (h p. ad Ne- 
potianum ). In the A. V. the word is once rendered 
“strong wine” (Numb, xxviii, 7); and elsewTiere, oc- 
curring along with ydyin , “strong drink” (vi, 3; Deut. 
xxix, G; Judg. xiii, 4,7, 14; Isa. v, 11 ; lvi, 12; Mic. ii, 
11 ; and the passages cited below'). Onkelos, On Numb, 
xxriii, 7, calls it “old wine.” Ilabbi Solomon, rabbi 
Eleasar, A hen - Ezra, and others call it “intoxicating 
wine.” “The w’ord means strong drink, from whatever 
substance made” (Tattam). It was used as a drink-of- 
fering in the service of God (Numb, xxviii, 7), and w r as, 
notwithstanding its highly intoxicating property, per- 


WINE 

mitted to the Israelites (Dent, xiv, 26). See Drink, 
Strong. 

A vain attempt has been made, by connecting the 
word etymologically with sugar, to prove, in the face 
of the clearest evidence to the contrary, that it was a 
sweet, non-intoxicating syrup (see Lees, ITurfa). Tlie 
word is employed in the following passages in such a 
manner as to show decisively that it denotes an intoxi- 
cating drink : Lev. x, 9, where the priests are forbidden 
to drink wine or shekar when they go into t lie taber- 
nacle ; 1 Sam. i, 15, where Hannah, charged with drunk- 
enness by Efi, replies it is not so — “I have drunk nei- 
ther wine nor shekar ,•*’ Psa. Ixix, 12, where the psalmist 
complains, “I was the song of the drinkers of shekar” 
(A. V. “drunkards”) ; Prov. xx, I, “ Wine is a mocker, 
shekar is raging, and whosoever is deceived thereby is 
not wise xxxi, 4, 5, “ It is not for kings to drink wine, 
nor for princes shekar , lest they drink and forget the 
law;” Isa. v, 22, “ Woe unto them that are mighty to 
drink Vine, and men of strength to mingle shekar 
xxviii, 7, “They also have erred through wine, and 
through shekar are out of the way: the priest and the 
prophet have erred through shekar , they are swallowed 
up of wine, they are out of the way through shekar f 
xxix, 9, “They are drunken, but not with wine; they 
stagger, but not with shekar 

5. VI sis, (from OD?, to tread; Sept, vdpa, 

yXwcaapog, olvog vtog, fi'&ij; Targ. r'no “ion. “pure 
wine;” Vulg. “ dulcedo, mustum”), is Jnust, that which 
is expressed from grapes by treading, or from pome- 
granates (Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 1054). Henderson says, 
“ Ily O^O? is meant thefresh wine, or juice of the grape 
or other fruit which has just been pressed out, and is re- 
markable for its sweet flavor and its freedom from in- 
toxicating qualities” ( Comment . on Joel i, 5). Its ex- 
traction from pomegranates is referred to in Cant, viii, 
2 (“juice”). Yet its intoxicating quality seems inti- 
mated in Isa. xlix, 26, “They shall be drunken with 
their own blood as with sweet wine” ( a sis ) ; Joel i, 5, 
“Awake, ye drunkards, and weep . . . because of the 
new wine (lists'), for it is cut off from your month.” It 
is promised by Clod as a blessing (Joel iii, 17, 18; Amos 
ix, 13). 

6. Sobe. X?b (from XOO, potavit , idque intemperan- 
tins, gurgitavit, to drink to excess, to tope [Gesenius, 
Thesaur. p. 932] ; Sept, olvog : Vulg. vinum ), occurs 
only in three places (Isa. i, 22, “wine;” Hos. iv, 18, 
“drink;” Nah. i, 10, “drunken”), but the verb and par- 
ticiple often — the latter to denote drunk, a drunkard, a 
toper. Gesenius renders the noun in Isa. i, 22 vinum, 
but in Hos. iv, 18 compotatio, a drinking-bout, a carouse; 
so Henderson, Dathe, etc. The Sept, must have follow- 
ed a various reading in this place. Sob'e, then, means 
some (or perhaps any) kind of intoxicating drink. 

7. Mesek, qOO (from qDO, to mix. or mingle), is wine 

mixed with water or aromatics (Sept. Kspaapa: Vulg. 
mistum). It occurs only once (Psa. Ixxv, 9) ; but the 
participial noun mitnsdk, is found in Prov. xxiii, 

30; Isa. lxv, II, in a similar sense=:wine highly spiced, 
to improve its flavor and enhance its intoxicating pow- 
er. See below. 

8. tShemarim, CHO'? (from “PS 1 ,?, to keep, preserve, 
lay up; Sept, rpvyeag, <pvXaypa, Co£a; Vulg. faeces, 
vendemm ; A. V. k * lees,” “ dregs,” “ wine on the lees”), 
occurs five times, and always in the plural. It is used 
both of lees and of wine preserved on the lees: of lees, 
Psa. Ixxv, 8; Jer. xlviii, 11 ; Zeph. i, 12, in all which 
passages it is used in a figurative sense: in the second 
and third, the form of expression is proverbial, being 
used of individuals and nations — “de iis qui desides, 
atque otiosi sunt, vel certe vita utuntur quieta, tran- 
quilla, metaphora a vino petita, quod din in cella recon- 
ditum fecibus snperjaciet et intactnm asservatur, quo 
validius fit vinum odorque fragrantior” (Gesenius, The- 


WINE 

setur. p. 1444). It is used of wine, Isa. xxv, 6 (bis), 
where the prophet foretells the rich provision of Gospel 
blessings under the figure of “a feast of fat things, of 
wines on the lees ,shemarim, well refined (D^pJETO, def- 
ecated— e. “ vinum vetus et nobilissimum a 'feci bus 
purgatiim” (Gesenius), or “cum feci bus servatum (He- 
femvein), quod defecatuin et clarification iu conviviis 
opiparis apponitur” (Fiirst, Concord . p. 1177). The 
word is used of lees, according to some, “from their 
preserving the strength and flavor of wine” (Alexan- 
der); according to others as “id quod ad ultimum usque 
reservatur et remanet — feces, ntpote quae in imo vasis 
fundo subsideut” (Fiirst). This “ vetus et nobilissimum 
vinum” is spoken of approvingly in the last-cited pas- 
sage. 

9. Ashislidh, iTw^X (Sept. Xoyapor « 7 ro irpyavov, 
7 Ttppa. dpopiTpc — i. e. a cake from the frving-pan, a 
baked cake, a sweet cake — is a variation of rendering 
truly. The Targ. of Jonathan on Exod. xvi, 31 uses 
“Vrrpx for the Heb. rprPES, a flat cake. The tradi- 
tio Judaica is X^pnp XO“>3, a jar of wine. The A. A T . 
has “ flagons,” “ flagons of wine”). The plural of the 
word occurs both in the masculine and feminine forms. 
Critics are pretty generally agreed that it does not de- 
note wine or any other drink, but a cake, such as was 
“prepared from dried grapes, or raisins pressed or com- 
pacted into a certain form. Cakes of this kind are 
mentioned as delicacies with which the weary and lan- 
guid are refreshed (2 Sam. vi, 19; 1 Chron. xvi, 3; 
Cant, ii, 5), and were offered in sacrifice to idols (Hos. 
iii, 1). They differed from psiEX, i.e. grapes dried but 
not compacted into the form of cakes; and also from 
nSE'H, i. e. figs pressed into cakes.” So Gesenius. who 
derives the word from y?l?X, to press, although Gins- 
burg would derive it from a similar form denoting to 
burn. The evidence seems in favor of a cake, especial- 
ly a grape cake, in which latter sense it certainly occurs 
in Hos. iii, 1, where, however, it is written more fully, 
or rather with the addition of 0*C5?, grapes, which fills 
up its meaning, E^OJ? *V2plljX= cakes of grapes. Dr. 
Tattam, resting on the authority of rabbins whom he 
quotes, seems inclined to abide by the rendering of the 
A. V. (see Reply, p. 13, 14). See Cake. 

10. Three other words may here be noticed. ‘J'pH, 
chomets (Sept. o£og, but. in Prov. x, 26 o/upog, i. e. sour 
grapes; so the Syr.; Vulg. acetum; A. V. “ vinegar,” 
rightly), occurs five times. This, it appears, was ob- 
tained either from ydyin or shekar (Numb, vi, 3), and 
was used by those engaged in the labors of the field to 
soften and render more palatable the dry bread which 
formed the food of the reapers (Ruth ii, 14). It was 
also used as a beverage, probably mixed with water 
(Numb, vi, 3 ), in which case it would resemble the 
posca of the Romans, which was not an intoxicating 
drink, and was used only hy the poorer classes (Plant. 
Mil. Glor. iii, 2, 23). in Matt, xxvii, 34 our Lord is 
said to have had vinegar mingled with gall offered to 
him to drink when on the cross. Mark (xv, 23) says it 
was wine mingled with myrrh ; Luke that it. was vine- 
gar offered by the soldiers in mockery (xxiii, 36); and 
John that it was vinegar (xix, 29). Possibly these ac- 
counts refer to two separate occurrences — the one an act 
of cruel ty on the part of the soldiers, who, iu response to 
our Lord’s exclamation, “I thirst,” offered him some of 
their own posca ; the other an act of intended kindness, 
designed to alleviate his sufferings by an anodyne. See 
Vinegar. 

Anabim, E* 1 ?^? (A. V. “wine” in llos. iii, 1; else- 
where correctly “ grapes”). See Grape. 

Yekeb, EJ?*? (A. V. “wine” in Deut. xvi, 13; else- 
where correctly “press”). See Wine-press. 

11. In the New Test, several words are employed de- 
noting wine. 


1013 


WINE 


1014 


WINE 


(1.) Oti'oc? comprehending every sort of wine. 

(2.) rXfrjcot’. sweet, or “ new wine,” which, as well as 
the former, scorns, from the use made of it (Acts ii, 13), 
to signify wine of an intoxicating quality. “These men 
are full of new wine,” to which charge Peter replies, 
‘‘These men are not drunken as ye suppose” (v, 15), al- 
though Dr. Lees’s interpretation is fairly admissible that 
the language is that of mockery, as if we should say of 
a drunken man. l ie has taken too much water. The 
gfeukos was the fruit of the grape, so kept as to preserve 
its sweetness, “perhaps made of a remarkably sweet, 
small grape, which is understood by the Jewish exposi- 
tors to be meant hv sorCk (7p-. Den. xlix, 1 1), or so- 
rekdh (n Isa. v, 2), and still found in Syria and 
Arabia” (Alford, On Acts ii, 13). So Suidas. to enro- 
OTaXdypa rgQ t jTu<f>v\i]Q 7Tpiv Trarp^g. It could not 
be new wine, in the proper sense of the term, inasmuch 
as about eight months must have elapsed between the 
vintage and the feast of Pentecost. It might have 
been applied, just as mu stum was by the Romans, to 
wine that had been preserved for about a year in an un- 
fermented state (Cato, l)e Re Rustica, c. 120). But the 
explanations of the ancient lexicographers rather lead 
us to infer that its luscious qualities were due, not to its 
being recently made, but to its being produced from the 
very purest juice of the grape; for both in Ilesychius 
and the Etymologicum Magnum the term yXtvKog is ex- 
plained to be the juice that flowed spontaneously from 
the grape before the treading commenced. The name 
itself, therefore, is not conclusive as to its being an un- 
fermeiited liquor, while the context implies the reverse 
— for Peter would hardly have offered a serious defence 
to an accusation that was not seriously made; and yet 
if the sweet wine in question were not intoxicating, the 
accusation could only have been ironical (see Walch, 
I)e Nutura roe yXeeicovc [Jen. 1755]). 

As considerable stress is laid upon the quality of 
sweetness as distinguished from strength, we may ob- 
serve that the usual term for the inspissated juice of the 
grape, which was characterized more especially by sweet- 
ness, was debdsh (IT-^I), rendered in the A. V. “honey” 
(Gen. xliii, 11 ; Ezek. xxvii, 17). This was prepared 
by boiling it down either to a third of its original bulk, 
in which case it was termed sapa by the Latins and 
or oipcnoi' by the Greeks, or else to half its bulk, 
in which case it was termed defrutum (Pliny, xiv, 11). 
Both the substance and the name, under the form of 
dibs, are in common use in Syria at the present day. 

We may further notice a less artificial mode of pro- 
ducing a sweet liquor from the grape, namely, by press- 
ing the juice directly into the cup, as described in Gen. 
xl, 11. 

Lastly, there appears to have been a beverage, also 
of a sweet character, produced by macerating grapes, 
and hence termed the “liquor” ( illw' - ) of grapes 
(Numb, vi, 3). These later preparations are allowed in 
the Koran (xvi, 00) as substitutes for wine. 

(3.) VfrrrguiyOT ytripia, rifg dpTriXov, fruit of the 
vine=wine (Luke xxii, 18). 

(4.) Ou'or; uKpciTOQ, pure wine (Rev. xiv, 10 ) — olvov 
uKpaTov tirai X(yopn>, oj pi) ptgucrai to vdojp, ?/ 
TravTi'nracnv oXiyor peyiKrai (Galen in Wettstein, cited 
by Alford). Here the phrase is used figuratively. See 
below. 

(5.) "0£or, sour wine, or vinegar (Matt, xxvii, 48; 
Mark xv, 36, etc.). 

(6.) StKEpa (A. V. “strong drink;” Ileb. “Cwi), “any 
strong drink made of grapes” (Robinson, Alford, etc.). 

II. Historical Notices of the Use of Wine in the Bible. 
— The first instance we have of wine in the Old Test, is 
in the case of Noah, who “planted a vineyard, and did 
drink of the wine ( ydyin ), and was drunken” (Gen. ix, 
20,21). The culture of the vine no doubt existed be- 
fore, but the patriarch now resumes the occupation 
which had been interrupted by the Flood. “ Nowhere 


does the vine grow spontaneously in such abundance 
and excellence as in the region of Ararat, in Armenia, 
and the Eastern Poutus; but, no doubt, the culture of the 
vine was of remote antiquity, invented by one nation 
and spread to other countries; for thus only can the re- 
markable circumstance be accounted for that wine bears 
the same name in almost all Eastern and Western na- 
tions” (Kalisch, On Gen . ix, 20, 21). “It may be added 
that the Egyptians attributed the manufacture of wine 
to Osiris, the Phoenicians and Greeks to Bacchus, the 
Romans to Saturn” (ibid.). See Vine, 

The second notice of wine is in the history of Lot, 
whose daughters “made their father drink wine” 
(ydyin), so that he became stupidly intoxicated (Gen, 
xix, 32, etc.). It next occurs in Isaac’s blessing pro- 
nounced on Jacob: “The Lord give thee . . . plenty of 
corn and wine” (ydyin) (Gen. xxvii, 28), The next 
notice of t he juice of the grape (although, be it ob- 
served, the product is not called wine) is in connection 
with Egypt (Gen. xl, 11), when the chief butler says, 
“1 took the grapes and pressed them into Pharaoh’s 
cup.” Are we to take these words according fo their 
strict literalitv? Did the kings of Egypt, at the time, 
drink the nufermented juice of the grape only? How- 
ever that may be, and although an affirmative answer 
seems demanded, } T et we know that the vine was culti- 
vated in Egypt from very ancient times, representations 
of the process of the manufacture of wines being found 
on tombs belonging to the 4th dynasty; that wine was 
used almost universally by the rich; that it was freely 
drunk at the banquets of both men and women, and 
even excessively, as the monuments abundantly testily; 
that it was drunk even by the priests, and offered in the 
temples to their gods. All this is now well ascertained, 
notwithstanding the contradictory statements of He- 
rodotus on some points (see Rawlinson, Herod, ii, 103, 
120; Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt, i, 144, etc.). It has been 
inferred from a passage in Plutarch (J)e Isid. 0) that 
no wine was drunk in Egypt before the reign of Psam- 
metichns, and tins passage has been quoted in illustra- 
tion of Gen. xl, 11. The meaning of the author seems 
rather to be that the kings subsequently to Psammeti- 
chus did not restrict themselves to the quantity of wine 
prescribed to them by reason of their sacerdotal office 
(Diod. i, 70). 

In the laws of Moses wine is frequently mentioned 
as forming the usual drink-offering that accompanied 
the daily sacrifice (Exod. xxix. 40), the presentation of 
the first-fruits (Lev. xxiii, 13), and other offerings 
(Numb, xv, 5). It appears from Numb, xxviii, 7 that 
strong drink might be substituted for it on these occa- 
sions. Tithe was to be paid of wine (tirosh) as of oth- 
er products, and this was to be consumed “before the 
Lord,” meaning within the precincts of the Temple, or 
perhaps, as may be inferred from Lev. vii, 10, at the 
place where the Temple was situated (Deut. xii, 17, 18). 
The priest was also to receive first-fruits of wine {tirosh), 
as of other articles (xviii. 4; comp. Exod. xxii, 29); and 
a promise of plenty was attached to the faithful pay- 
ment of these dues (Prov. iii, 9, 10). Wine offered to 
God as a drink-offering (Numb, xv, 5, 7, 10) furnishes 
the key to the peculiar language of Jotham’s parable, 
“wine that cheereth God and man” (Jndg. ix, 13) — an 
exposition much preferable to that which renders the 
words “the gods and men;” for wine was offered to 
God as the drink of the Great King, the symbol of our 
best spiritual things which we offer in his worship. 
Wine was forbidden to the priests during the perform- 
ance of their sacred duties in the tabernacle (Lev. x, 
9), which prohibition seems to have originated in the 
offence of Nadab and Abihu, who, most probably, 
“transgressed through wine.” At other times the 
priests were at liberty to drink wine. To the Naza- 
rites, while under their vow, not only wine, but vinegar, 
and the fruit of the vine generally, in every form, was 
prohibited (Numb, vi, 3, 4). The Israelites were at lib- 
erty to drink wine even at their national sacred fesli- 


WINE 


1015 


WINE 


vals when rejoicing before the Lord (Dent, xiv, 22-26). 
The Rechabites are mentioned as very peculiar in their 
abstinence from wine, as well as their refraining to live 
in houses, and are commended, not for their abstinence, 
but for their obedience to the command of their ances- 
tor (Jer. xxxv). The cultivation of the vine was in- 
compatible with t he conditions of a nomad life, and it 
was probably on this account that Jonadab, wishing to 
perpetuate that kind of life among his posterity, prohib- 
ited the use of wine to them. The case is exactly par- 
allel to that of the Nabathreans, who abstained from 
wine on purely political grounds (Diod. xix, 94). 

The use of wine at the paschal feast was not en- 
joined by the law, but had become an established cus- 
tom, at all events in the post-Babylonian period. The 
cup was handed round four times according to the rit- 
ual prescribed in the Mishna ( Pesach . x, 1), the third 
cup being designated the “cup of blessing” (1 Cor. x, 
16), because grace was then said ( Pesach . x, 7). The 
contents of the cup are specifically described by our 
Lord as “the fruit” (ysvvijpa') of the vine (Matt.xxvi, 
29; Mark xiv, 25; Luke xxii, 18), and in the Mishna 
simply as wine. The wine was mixed with warm wa- 
ter on these occasions, as implied in the notice of the 
warming-kettle ( Pesach . vii, 13). Hence in the early 
Christian Church it was usual to mix the sacramental 
wine with water, a custom as old, at all events, as Jus- 
tin Martyr’s time (Apol. i, 65). See Passover. The 
rabbins have a curious tradition, that at the great feast 
which shall inaugurate the coming of the Messiah he 
shall drink wine made from grapes which grew in Par- 
adise during the six creative days, and preserved in 
Adam’s cave for that great occasion (Othonis Lex. s. v. 
“ Vi nu m Buxtorf, Syn. Jud. p. 460). 

The Pastoral Epistles contain directions as to the 
moderate use of wine on the part of all holding office 
in the Church ; as that they should not be Trapoiroi (1 
Tim. iii, 3; A. V.“ given to wine”), meaning insolent 
and violent under the influence of wine; “not given to 
much wine” (iii, 8); “not enslaved to much wine” (Tit. 
ii, 3). The term vi](pd\eog in 1 Tim. iii, 2 (A. V. “so- 
ber”), expresses general vigilance and circumspection 
(Schleusner, Lex. s. v. ; Alford, ad loc.). Paul ad- 
vises Timothy himself to be no longer an habitual wa- 
ter-drinker, but to take a little wine for his health’s 
sake (L Tim. v, 23). No very satisfactory reason can 
be assigned for the place which this injunction holds 
in the epistle, unless it were intended to correct any 
possible misapprehension as to the preceding words, 
“ Keep thyself pure.” The precepts above quoted, as 
well as others to the same effect addressed to the dis- 
ciples generally (Rom. xiii. 13; Hal. v, 21 ; 1 Pet. iv, 3), 
show the extent to which intemperance prevailed in 
ancient times, and the extreme danger to which the 
Church was subjected from this quarter. 

It appears to have been an ancient custom to give 
medicated or drugged wine to criminals condemned to 
death, to blunt their senses, and so lessen the pains of 
execution. To this custom there is supposed to be an 
allusion, Prov. xxxi, 6, “Give strong drink unto him 
that is ready to perish and an illustration of the cus- 
tom is furnished by the soldiers giving Jesus “ wine 
mingled with myrrh,” or, which is the same, “vinegar” 
i. e. sour wine; “mingled with gall,” i. e. a bitter drug, 
without specifying the kind (Mark xv, 23; Matt, xxvii, 
34). “ Omnes a synedrio ad mortem damnati potarunt 

■’n ■p*\ vino vivo (h.e. optimo, forti) ut diriperetur in- 
tellectus ejus, ad confirmandum id dicitur, Prov. xxxi, 
6, etc. Dc perituro dicetur, id fieri, ut obliviscatur mor- 
tis, quae est infortunium ipsius” (Schbttgen, Hor. Ileb. 
p. 236). To the same custom some suppose there is a 
reference in Amos ii, 8, where the “ wine of the con- 
demned” (A. Y.) is spoken of. The margin reads, in- 
stead of condemned, “fined or mulcted;” so Gesenius; 
Henderson, amerced. The wicked here described, in 
addition to other evil practices, imposed unjust fines 


upon the innocent, and spent the money thus unjustly 
obtained upon wine, which they quaffed in the house 
of their gods; as Dathe renders: “pecunias homiuibus 
innocentibus extortas corapotationibus absurnunt in 
templis deorum suorum.” 

Mixed wine is often spoken of in Scripture. This 
was of different kinds. Sometimes it was mixed with 
water to take it down (Isa. i, 22); sometimes with milk 
(Cant, v, 1) ; and sometimes, by lovers of strong drink, 
with spices of various kinds, to give it a richer flavor 
and greater potency (Isa. v, 22; Psa. Ixxv, 8). Both 
the Greeks and Romans were in the habit of flavoring 
their wines with spices, and such preparations were de- 
scribed by the former as wine dpiopuTMv KaraaKeva- 
Zoptvog (Athen. i, 31 e), and by the latter as aromatites 
(Pliny, xiv, 19,5). The authority of t he Mishna may 
be cited in favor both of water and of spices, the former 
being noticed in Berach. vii, 5; Pesach. vii, 13 ; and the 
latter in Shen. ii, l. 

The “royal wine,” literally wine of the kingdom, 
“j* 1 ^ (Esth. i, 7), denotes most probably the best 
wine, such as the king of Persia himself was accustomed 
to drink. “ Wine of Lebanon” is referred to in such a 
way as to indicate its peculiar excellence — “the scent 
thereof shall be as the wine of Lebanon” (Hos. xiv, 7). 
Hence it is thought to have been distinguished by its 
grateful smell. But “Of means, as th§ margin renders 
it, memorial, and includes odor, flavor, and refreshing in- 
fluence. Modern travellers attest the excellence of the 
wine of Lebanon. The “wine of Helbon, or Chalvbon,” 
is mentioned as one of the importations of Tyre (Ezek. 
xxvii, 18), and was very famous. It was greatly valued 
by the Persian monarchs (Strabo, xv, 735), as it still is 
bv the residents of Damascus (Porter, Damascus , i, 
333). 

The wines of modern Palestine are represented by 
travellers as being of excellent quality. The sweet 
wines are particularly esteemed in the East, because 
they are grateful to the taste, very exhilarating, and 
some of them will keep for a long time. They were 
therefore preferred by those who were addicted to 
drinking, and commonly selected for the tables of 
kings. Their inebriating quality is alluded to by the 
prophet Isaiah: “I will feed them that oppress you 
with their own flesh, and they shall be drunken as 
with sw’eet wine” (Isa. xlix, 26). “The testimony of 
travellers respecting the spirituous nature of the wines 
of Palestine accords with that of the sacred writers. . . . 
It is observed by Thevenot that the people of the Levant 
never mingle water with their wine at meals, but drink 
by itself what water they think proper for abating its 
strength. While the Greeks. ami Romans by mixed 
wine understood wine united and lowered with water, 
the Hebrews, on the contrary, meant by it wine made 
stronger and more inebriating by the addition of pow- 
erful ingredients. . . . The wines of Palestine are gen- 
erally kept in bottles made of leather, or goat -skins, 
sewed or pitched together. In these the process of 
fermentation took place, and the wine acquired its 
proper degree of strength. In absence of anything 
like chemical analysis, these are the data from which 
we must draw our conclusions concerning the nature of 
the wines referred to by the sacred writers. Some of 
them are represented to have been sweet wines, which, 
if not the strongest, are known to have been very strong. 
The grapes from which they were produced were re- 
markable for their richness and excellence; the climate 
of the country being such as to favor the growth and 
development of those principles which, during fermen- 
tation, were converted into alcohol. As the grapes of 
that country are now known to furnish very rich and 
spirituous wines, we may infer that the ancient were 
similar in their character; since there is abundant evi- 
dence that the climate has not suffered any material 
change for three thousand years. We should not omit, 
in confirmation of this view of the spirituous nature of 


WINE 


1016 


WINE 


the wines of Palestine, to advert to the modes in which 
tliev were kept. It is now well known that when mixt- 
ures of alcohol and water are put into bladders, the wa- 
ter evaporates and leaves the alcohol in a more concen- 
trated form. It is asserted that wine which has been 
kept in bottles closed by pieces of bladder firmly tied 
over the mouth, in a few weeks acquire the strength 
and flavor which would be imparted to it only by sev- 
eral vears' preservation in the ordinary way. Now, it 
i«; probable that the leather bags into which these wines 
arc put would produce a similar effect upon the liquor, 
which, after the process of fermentation had ceased, 
would soon attain its complete and appropriate alco- 
holic character” (Prof. Silliman, A mer. Jour, of Science 
and A rts. 1JS34). 

‘‘The wine was generally contained in large ox-skins 
ranged round the. store-room, and quite distended with 
liquor. The larger skins seem to have answered to 
casks; the smaller goat and kid skins, to barrels and 
kegs in the comparison, to be chiefly used in conveying 
to customers the smallest quantities required. Individ- 
uals rarely keep large stores of wine in their houses, but 
get a small supply of a goat-skin or two from the wine- 
store. This seems also to have been the case with the 
ancient Jews, for Xehemiah, although holding the rank 
of governor, had no store of wine, for we read he had a 
supply every ten days (Neh.v, 18). The large skins in 
the wine-store we have mentioned are supported above 
the floor on frames of wood” (Kitto, Piet. Bible, note on 
Job xxxii, 19). Similar methods of storing and keep- 
ing wine were common to the Greeks and Ilomans. See 
Smith. Diet, of Class. A ntiq . s. v. “ Yin um.” 

III. Teaching of the Scriptures in respect to the Use of 
Wine. — 1. As appears from the foregoing examination, 
the Bible makes no distinction between intoxicating 
and non-intoxicating wines — never refers or alludes to 
such a distinction. Yet wine, '\^=oh , oc. is constantly 
spoken of in precisely the same way that corn and oil 
and milk are spoken of— namely, as a blessing sent by 
God for the use of man. It was enjoined to be used in 
the service of God. It is employed as a symbol of 
the highest spiritual blessings (Isa. Iv, 1. 2). The use 
of it was common among the Jews, as it is among the 
people of all wine-producing countries. It was forbid- 
den to the Nazarites alone, and that only while under 
their vow. The use of it is in one case distinctly pre- 
scribed by Paul to Timothy (1 J im. v, 23). Jesus 
Christ came •‘drinking wine” as well as “eating bread” 
(Luke vii,33,34), and in one instance miraculously pro- 
duced a supply of wine when it was needed (John ii). 
We attach great importance, religiously and theologi- 
cally, to these facts. Jesus was no ascetic, lie gave no 
countenance to asceticism. By drinking wine — freely 
UMiig the blessings of God’s providence — be testified 
against the error, afterwards called Gnostic and Mani- 
cha'an, which would attach impurity to that which en- 
ters the mouth, ami vindicated the liberty of his follow- 
ers to use “every creature of God” as good and fit for 
food, and to be received with thanksgiving by them as 
those who “ believe and know the truth” (I Tim. iv, 3, 
4). But this error repelled, and this liberty asserted, 
none are obliged to drink wine or to eat meat if they 
prefer not. There is liberty on this side also. They 
may abstain if they choose. Paul expressed bis readi- 
ness to abstain from “flesh” and “wine” to secure the 
good of a brother, or to avoid occasioning him injury 
(Bom. xiv, 21 ; comp. 1 Cor. viii, 13). The same liberty 
is ours; and if a great practical good may be attained 
by abstinence, Christian benevolence calls us in this 
direction. 

But while liberty to use wine, as well as every other 
earthly blessing, is conceded and maintained in the 
Bible, yet all abuse of it is solemnly and earnestly con- 
demned. In the book of Proverbs the warnings against 
such abuse are frequent and severe (xx, 1 ; xxiii. 29- 
35; xxxi, 4-7 It is the same in the New Test. (1 


Cor. vi, 10; Gal. v, 21). “Be not drunk with wine — 
not given to much wine.” Such are its precepts — pre- 
cepts which would have little or no force, or even mean- 
ing, were wine not intoxicating, and were there not 
some peculiar danger incident to its use. If wine were 
not intoxicating, the apostle might as well have ex- 
horted them against drinking too much milk or too 
much water. lie takes for granted the right to use; 
be recognises the danger incident to the use; but in- 
stead of prohibiting, be cautions and exhorts against 
excess. Moderation in eating and drinking is the 
broad Christian law. Abstinence from some kinds of 
food may become a duty under peculiar circumstances. 
Self-denial, in relation to things lawful, is often imper- 
ative. Wine is good; is a gift of God. It may be 
used with advantage; it may be abused, but not inno- 
cently or with impunity. It may be declined in the 
exercise of Christian liberty; it ought to be declined if 
doing so helps forward the cause of humanity, morality, 
and religion, and promotes the glory of God. In view, 
however, of the almost impossibility of procuring genu- 
ine wine in the United States without extravagant cost, 
and the fact that in order to its preservation it is inva- 
riably more alcoholic than the light wines of Bible 
times usually were, and especially in view of the dan- 
gerous tendency to intoxicating habits involved in the 
use of wine as a beverage, not only to the drinker, but 
to his family and friends, it cannot be doubted that the 
wisest and most Christian course is to abstain wholly 
from it. This is in accordance with the apostolic pre- 
cept of self-restraint (1 Cor. viii, 13). 

2. There is no positive proof that the fluid used by 
our Lord in instituting the sacred communion was al- 
coholic; it is nowhere expressly called wine, but simply 
the “fruit of the vine” (Matt. xxvi, 29). That it was 
wine, properly so called, however, is a fair presumption 
from the fact that this was the customary liquor of the 
Jews in the Passover meal, as we learn from the definite 
prescription of the Talmud (“There shall not be less 
than four cups of wine” [ yayiii], Mishna, Pesach. x, 1). 
Many modern Jews, it is said, use the liquor of steeped 
raisins fur paschal purposes; but there is no trace of 
such a custom in ancient times. 

Therefore the use of any other fluid in the commun- 
ion at the present day must be justified, if at all, from 
pi'udential considerations growing out of the modern 
temperance reform; just as we consider ourselves at 
liberty to vary the kind of bread (originally unleav- 
ened), the posture of the communicant, and other un- 
essential details, to suit the convenience of the occasion 
and the parties. These considerations are undoubtedly 
of the gravest character, especially the danger of relapse 
to reformed inebriates partaking or even approaching 
the communion-table, where the taste or fumes of alco- 
hol are liable to revive their appetite. If, as it is con- 
fidently claimed by many, unfermented grape-juice can 
be procured at a moderate cost and without great in- 
convenience, and can be preserved with ordinary care a 
sufficient length of time, and is not offensive to the 
sense, or otherwise particularly objectionable, there is 
no reason why ceremonious scruples should be allowed 
to stand in the way of its employment. Whether in- 
dividuals not susceptible to such a danger as the above 
are excusable in withholding themselves from the com- 
munion where alcoholic wine is used, is quite another 
question, which it does not lie within the scope of this 
article to discuss. 

IV. lAterature. — This is quite copious. We mention, 
in addition to the works noticed above, only the most 
important and modern. General treatises on the manu- 
facture, etc., of whiles have been written by Henderson 
(Lond. 1831), Bedding (ibid. 1851), Denman (ibid. 18G4), 
Thudichum (ibid. 1872), and others, but they are chiefly 
of a commercial character. The moral aspects of the 
subject have been considered in numberless books and 
periodical articles; among the latter we may especially 
refer to those in the Biblical Repository , Oct. 1836, and 


WINEBRENNER 


1017 


WIN El 


Oct. 1839; and the Bibliotheca Sacra, Jan. I860; Jan., I 
April, and June, 1880. Dr. F. K. Lees in various works, j 
lias strongly asserted that the wines of antiquity were j 
largely non-alcoholic, and this view has incautiously | 
been adopted by several later writers, as Ritchie, Nott, 
Stuart, Burns, etc., and by many temperance advocates; 
but it has been powerfully combated by others, espe- 
cially Tattam, Crosby, and scholars generally. The 
latest and most complete treatise on this question is 
that of Wilson, The Wines of the Bible (Bond. 1877), 
which, after minutely examining all the classical and 
scriptural references, arrives at the conclusion that “so 
far as the wines of the ancients are concerned, unfer- 
mented wine is a myth." The effort of Samson, The 
Divine Law as to Wine (N. Y. 1S80), to meet this tes- 
timony by garbling the ancient statements and con- 
tradicting the modern is feeble and unworthy. Tris- 
tram observes, “ All the terms for wine [in the Bible] 
are used in collocations which clearly show that fer- 
mentation is implied; nor is there the slightest ground 
in criticism for the pretence that the unfermented juice 
of the grape was ordinarily used ” (Xat. I list . of the Bi- 
ble, p. 4 1 1 ). An article by Uev. 11. Bumstcad, in the 
Bibliotheca Sacra for January, 1881, fairly meets the 
scientific, philological, and moral aspects of the “wine 
question” as presented by Rev. A. B. Rich, D.D., in the 
January, April, and July numbers of the same journal. 
It shows, at least, that alcohol when taken in moder- 
ate quantity and in its natural combinations, is not 
properh" a poison, but is assimilated and healthily dis- 
posed of in digestion ; that tirush denotes the produce 
of the vine in general, while ydyin always signifies the , 
fermented juice of the grape ; and that to no one of the 
words translated “wine” does the Bible attach an indis- 
criminate and absolute condemnation. See Temper- 
ance. 

Winebrenner, Christian, a German Reformed 
minister, was born Feb. 7, 1789. lie entered the minis- 
try in 1838 or 1839, taking charge of several congrega- 
tions in Bedford and Huntingdon counties, Pa., where 
he labored until 1846. After this time he was not 
connected with the Synod, but still continued to preach 
until the time of his death, at Woodbury, Pa., Feb. 12, 
1858. See llarbangh, Fathers of the Germ. Ref. Church, 
iv, 491. 

Winebrenner, John, an American clergyman, 
was born in Frederick County, Md., March 25, 1797. 
He began his ministry in the German Reformed 
Church, having charge of four congregations in and 
near Harrisburg, Pa., but, owing to a difference of opin- 
ion in regard to revivals, he withdrew from his former 
affiliations, and established a new denomination which 
he called “The Church of God,” but which is commonly 
known as the Winebrennarians. See Church of God. 
Mr. Winebrenner was for several years editor of The 
Church Advocate. His death occurred Sept. 12, 1860. 
He puolished, in connection with I. B. Rupp, The History 
o ; all the Religious Denominations in the United States 
(’ S44). He also published, Brief View of the Church 
of God:— a. work on Regeneration : — The Reference and 
Pronouncing Testament : — Revival Hymn-book : — Prac- 
tical and Doctrinal Sermons : — and other works. 

Winer, Georg Benedict, a German theologian 
and author, whose work is of permanent value to the 
Church no less for what it accomplished directly than 
for the indirect results obtained through its influence 
over the improvement of Biblical science. He was born 
at Leipsic, April 13, 1789, of parents in the common 
walks of life, was early orphaned, and, by the decease 
of an aunt who was the last of his relatives to assume 
the charge of his childhood years, exposed to such pen- 
ury as deprived him of sufficient and proper food, and 
obliged him to do without books necessary to his course 
in the St. Nicolai School of his native town. He ob- 
tained a Greek grammar by writing it out, and thus 
began the philological labors in which he was in time 


to become a master and win an imperishable reputation, 
lie distinguished himself in the scientific contests of the 
students, and acquired such proficiency in the Hebrew 
language as enabled him to become the instructor of 
persons older than himself. His teachers embodied 
words prophetic of his coming importance as a scholar 
in his certificate of graduation. 

In 1817 Winer began the academical career which 
extended over forty years of industrious and useful la- 
bor. Nine of these years — 1823-32 — were given to the 
University of Erlangen, where he w r as professor of the- 
ology, and all the remaining years to Leipsic. He lect- 
ured on theological methodology, and, besides, on sub- 
jects draw n from every section ofcxegetical, systematic, 
and even practical theology. In historical theology he 
confined his lectures to the history of theological sci- 
ences. The general world knows him only through his 
writings, and acknowledges his influence as a compre- 
hensively and profoundly learned man and a thoroughly 
scientific character; but the students who thronged his 
lecture-room to the very end of his public life bear tes- 
timony to the power of his clear oral statements and to 
his decided sympathy for all that is pure and good, as 
also to his serious and pronounced religious character. 
He was accustomed to precede or follow his lectures 
with addresses in which he surveyed, often w ith truly 
prophetic vision, the movement of events in the world 
or the Church ; and on those occasions he often rose to 
the regions of true impassioned eloquence, and wrought 
impressions which his hearers were not likely to forget. 
It remains to be added that his tendency w'as thoroughly 
orthodox, and that all his impulses grew" out of his per- 
fect devotion to moral goodness. He was, however, too 
earnest a lover of truth to engage in the building of 
original systems which can only be founded in air. since 
their authors will not recognize the soundness of any 
truth that is old and approved, and also too devoted to 
the service of truth to endorse and repeat the old simply 
because it is old. 

Of the written products of his life a small number be- 
long to the department of symbolics — namely, the Com- 
parative Darstellung des Lehrbegrijfs der verschiedenen 
christ lichen Kirchenparteien (1824, 2 ed. 1837), a thor- 
oughly scientific work: — his edition of the Augsburg 
Confession , with notes (1825) : — and tw r o addresses on the 
idea of the Church as contained in the creeds (1852-53). 
In bibliography his Handbnch der theologischen Litera- 
tur (1821,3d ed. 1838-40, 2 vols.; and supplement, 1842) 
is a monument of genuine German industry, and is valua- 
ble for its brief biographies of authors. The central ob- 
ject, however, about wdiich all of Winer’s literary ac- 
tivity turned was the Bible. Not only had most of his 
works reference to the Bible, but his most original, mer- 
itorious, and permanently useful work for theology was 
done in the field of Biblical science. He barely touched 
upon Biblical theology indeed, and gave but passing at- 
tention to either the lower or the higher criticism ; but 
in isagogical science he contributed valuable papers to 
the elucidation of questions respecting versions of the 
Old Test., e. g. the character of the Samaritan Penta- 
teuch, the value of the Chaldee paraphrases, especially 
of Onkelos and Pseudo-Jonathan. The interpretation 
of Scripture engaged his attention more than any other 
study. He expounded all the books of the New Test, 
before his classes. But of the results of his labors he 
gave the world no considerable quantity — a single book, 
the Epistle to the Galatians (1821, 3 ed. 1829), and sec- 
tions from other epistles constituting the whole. As 
the fruit of a whole life given to the study of exege- 
sis this is exceedingly little. But in the discussion of 
matters of fact from Scripture history he w r as, on the 
other hand, very busy with his pen. He wrote disserta- 
tions on the taking of Tyre by Nebuchadnezzar (1848); 
on the question whether the ?tiirvov of Jesus and his 
disciples (John xiii) were a Passover supper or not 
(1847); on whether the feet of crucified persons were 
nailed to the cross or not (1845), etc. His Biblisches 


WINES 


1018 


WINSLOW 


ftealworterbnch, finally, is a comprehensive anti thorough 
dictionary, in alphabetical order, of material objects, 
events, etc., belonging to Biblical science — a positive 
mine of historical, geographical, archaeological, and 
physical information. 

Of sl411 greater value for theological science were his 
contributions to the study of the languages of the Bible 
— whether lexical or grammatical, lie cultivated the 
Old-Test. Chaldee with special fondness. In 1824 lie 
published Grammatik ties biblischen und tcirgumischen 
Chalddismns (2d ed. 1842), and in 1825 a Chaldee Read- 
er. In 1826 lie issued a Specimen Lex id Ilebraici. and 
in 1828 a complete Lexicon of the Hebrew and Chal- 
dee Languages, based on a revision of the Ilandworter- 
btich by .Simon and Eichhorn. The most important 
of all his works is, however, unquestionably the Gram- 
matik des neutestamentlichen Sprachidimm , etc. (1822, 
and often). It was rendered into English by American 
scholars in 1825, and has since appeared in repeated 
editions, which conform to the changes introduced in 
the original from time to time; and it was translated 
into Swedish in 1827. The merit of this work consists 
in its demonstrating that the structure of the Greek 
language is preserved in the forms and idioms of the 
Now -Test, language, and that vague assumptions of the 
Hebraizing character of New-Test. Greek, and unre- 
strained wilfulness in its interpretation, are out of place. 
The work had its inception in a spirit of reverence for 
the Bible and in earnest love of truth, and it has 
achieved gratifying results in the more systematic 
methods of interpretation, the profounder and yet more 
elevated modes of exposition, which it helped to intro- 
duce. A year after the appearance of the Grammatik, 
Winer published a Beitrag zur Verbesserung der neu- 
testamentlichen Lexikographie, and he had made extend- 
ed preparations for a New-Test, lexicon ; but he was not 
permitted to enter on the writing of this work. His 
sight failed during the last five years of his life. 11 is 
last course of lectures, on the doctrinal and ethical princi- 
ples of Protestantism and 1 1onian Catholicism, was deliv- 
ered in the winter term, 1857-58 ; and after a violent ill- 
ness of six days’ duration, he died, May 12, 1858, and was 
buried two days afterwards, amid the lamentations of 
the university and the entire town. — Herzog, Real-En- 
cyklop. s. v. 

Wines, Enoch Cobb, D.D., a Presbyterian min- 
ister, was born at Hanover, N. J., Feb. 17, 1806. lie 
graduated at Middlebury College in 1827, after which 
he entered the navy as chaplain and teacher of mid- 
shipmen in the United States ship “ Constellation,” vis- 
iting many foreign countries, and writing an interesting 
work entitled Tiro Years and a Half in the Navy ; or, 
A Journal of a Cruise in the Mediterranean and Levant 
(Pliila. 1829-31). He afterwards became pastor of the 
Church at Burlington, N. J., and also of Hast Hampton, 
E. 1., which he resigned to become principal of the 
Edgehill Seminary, Princeton, N. J. He was subse- 
quently professor of mental and moral philosophy in 
the Central Uigh-school of Philadelphia, and in 1854 
professor of ancient languages in Washington College, 
Pa., and in 1859 in the University of St. Louis. In 
1802 lie entered upon the work which made him emi- 
nent as a philanthropist and specialist in prison reform. 
He became secretary of the New York Prison lie form 
Association, and afterwards of the National Association. 
He was instrumental in the appointment of congresses 
for prison reform in Europe (visiting that country re- 
peatedly from 1871 to 1875) and America, which ac- 
complished much good in rousing the attention of the 
civilized world to this benevolent object, lie died at 
Cambridge, Mass., Dec. 10. 1879. Dr. Wines made im- 
portant contributions to religious literature, and the last 
work on which he was engaged was in seeing through 
the Riverside Press at Cambridge, Mass., his book en- 
titled The State of Pnsons and of Child-saving Institu- 
tions throughout the World. He had prepared another 
hook which was ready for the press, under the title of 


I Complete in Christ, llis works, in addition to those 
mentioned, are, A Trip to Boston (Bost. 1838, 12mo): — 
Three Hints on a System of Popular Education (Phila. 
cod. 12 mo) : — How Shall 1 Govern my School? (end. 
12mo), addressed to young teachers: — Letters to School 
Children (Bost. lGmo): — Commentaries on the Laws of 
the Ancient Hebreirs, with an Introductory Essay on 
Civil Society and Government (N. Y. 1852, 8vo). This 
work passed through five editions: — Adam and Christ ; 
or, The Doctrine of Representation Stated and Explained 
(1855, 18mo) : — Prelacy and Parity Discussed (N. V. 
12mo) : — The Time Penitent Portrayed, etc. (Phila.): — 
Treatise on Regeneration ( N. Y. 18G3, 12mo): — The 
Promises of God (Phila. 1868, 18mo) : — Essay on Tempta- 
tion (1865, 12mo). He has also published a number of 
A ddresses, and contributed to the A mer. Quar. Rev., North 
A mer. Quar. Rev., Biblical Repository, Bibliotheca Sacra, 
Knickerbocker, etc. See N. E. Observer, Dee. 18, 1879; 
Allibone, Diet. of Brit, and A mer. Authors, s.v. (W.P.S.). 

Wing (prop. T23, wrapcS). By this word the He- 
brews understood not only the wings of birds, but also 
the lappet, skirt, or flap of a garment (Ruth iii, 9; Jor. 
ii, 34), the extremity of a country (Job xxxviii, 13; 
Isa. xxiv, 16); figuratively, the wings of the wind (Psa. 
xviii, 10), sunbeam (Mai. iv, 2); and, metaphorically, 

[ protection or defence (Matt, xxiii, 37). God says that 
he has borne his people on the wings of eagles (Exod. 
i xxi, 4 ; see also Dent, xxxii, 1 1) ; that is, he had brought 
them out of Egypt as an eagle carries its young ones 
upon its wings. The prophet begs of God to protect 
them under his wings (Psa. xvii, 8), and says that the 
children of men put their trust in the protection of his 
wings (xxxvi, 7). Isaiah, speaking of the'army of the 
kings of Israel and Syria who were coming against Ju- 
dah, says, “ The stretching out of his wings shall fill 
the breadth of thy land, O Immanuel” (viii, 8). 

Wing, M. T. C., D.D., a professor of the Protestant 
Episcopal Church, was born in Vermont in 1798, and 
died at Gambier, O., Feb. 26, 1863. Dr. Wing was a 
graduate of Middlebury College, and, after studying at 
the Theological Seminary, Alexandria, Va., became a 
tutor in Kein T on College, O. At the time of his death 
he was professor of ecclesiastical history in the Theo- 
logical Seminary at Gambier. See Amer. Quar. Church 
Rev. April, 1863, p. 152. 

Winifred, the apostle of Germany. See Boni- 
face. 

Winkelmann, Frederick T., D.D., an American 
clergyman and teacher, was professor of Latin, French, 
and German in the Packer Collegiate Institute, Brook- 
lyn, N. Y„ and in a polytechnic school in New York 
city, lie died in 1865. 

Winnowing. See Agriculture. 

Winslow, Gordon, M.D., D.I)., a clergyman of 
the Protestant Episcopal Church, was born at Willis- 
ton, Vt., in 1804. Ilis preliminary education was ac- 
quired at Andover, Mass., and he graduated at Yale 
in both the collegiate and theological departments, be- 
coming a Congregational minister. In 1836 he entered 
the Protestant Episcopal communion, and was ordained 
deacon in that year, llis first parish was St. John’s, 
Troy, N. V.. from which he went, in 1838, to Trinity 
Church. Elmira, N. Y. ; and in 1841 became rector of St. 
Ann’s Parish, Annapolis, Md. In 1845 he assumed the 
pastorate of St. Paul's Parish on Staten Island, and a few 
years after, though still rector of St. Paul’s, was chap- 
lain at the Quarantine. At the beginning of the Civil 
War he was appointed chaplain to the Fifth New York 
Regiment, and served two years. When the Sanitary 
Commission was established, he was its inspector for 
the Army of the Potomac. It- was while accompany- 
ing his wounded son, Col. Cleveland Winslow, that he 
met with the accident which resulted in his death, 
lie acted as aide-de-camp to Maj.-Gen. Warren in many 
battles. He died universally regretted, Jan. 7, 1864, 


WINSLOW 


1019 


WISDOM 


being drowned by falling overboard from a steamer near 
the mouth of the Potomac. See Amer. Quur. Church 
Rev. Oct. 1864, p. 482. 

Winslow, Hubbard, D.D., a Presbyterian di- 
vine, brother of Drs. Gordon and Myron, was born at 
Williston, Yt., Oct. 30, 1799. lie prepared for college 
at Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass. ; graduated at 
Yale College in 1825; studied theology at New Haven; 
preached at Litchfield, Conn., in 1827-28; was pastor 
of the First Congregational Church at Dover, N. II., 
from 1828 to 1831, and of the Buwdoin Street Church, 
Boston, from 1832 to 1844; travelled in Europe; was 
principal of the Mount Vernon Institute for Young La- 
dies, Boston, from 1844 to 1853; visited the educational 
institutions of Europe in 1853; edited for a time the 
Religious Magazine, besides contributing to various oth- 
er periodicals; gained considerable repute as a polemi- 
cal theologian; was much employed as a platform lect- 
urer on various topics; preached to the First Presby- 
terian Church at Geneva, N. Y., from 1857 to 1859 ; be- 
came pastor of the Fiftieth Street Presbyterian Church, 
New York city, in 1861; and died at Williston, Vt., 
Aug. 13, 1864. He published, Controversial Theology 
(1832) : — Discourses on the Nature, Evidence, and Moral 
Value of the Doctrine of the Trinity (1831): — Chris- 
tianity Applied to our Social and Civil Duties (1835): — 
Young Man's Aid to Knowledge (1836): — Are You a 
Christian ? an A id to Self-examination (1836) : — Men- 
tal Cultivation (1839): — Design and Mode of Baptism 
(1842) : — The Christian Doctrines (1844) : — Elements of 
Intellectual Philosophy (1851): — Elements of Moral 
Philosophy, Analytical, Synthetical (1856): — and other 
works. 

Winslow, Myron, D.D., LL.D., an eminent Con- 
gregational missionary, was born at Williston, Vt., Dec. 

1 1, 1789. He was of the same stock as the two govern- 
ors Winslow of Massachusetts, and the lvenelm Winslow 
mentioned in the English history of the 16th century. 
At the age of fourteen he entered a store as a clerk, and 
finally established himself in business in Norwich, Conn. 
Daring this period he was converted, and convictions 
that he ought to preach to the unevangelized nations 
took hold upon him. Abandoning a profitable business, 
he entered college and graduated at Middlebury in 1813, 
and Andover Theological Seminary in 1818. lie was 
ordained as a missionary in Salem, Mass., with Pliny 
Fisk and others. Nov. 4, 1818, and in the following year 
embarked at Boston, arriving at Calcutta in five months. 
He took up his residence in Oodooville, Ceylon, in 1820, 
where he labored seventeen years, founding a seminary 
and otherwise consolidating the mission. In 1836 he 
was transferred to Madras. His biography during his 
residence in India would be no less than the history of 
the missions there. He founded the Madras Mission; 
was general secretary and financial agent of that and 
other missions; was president of Madras College from 
1840, and head of all the native schools; had the care 
of a native church of several hundred members; super- 
vised the printing and editing of various educational 
and religious works in the Tamil language; and was at 
the time of his death the oldest missionary of the Amer- 
ican Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. lie 
died at the Cape of Good Hope, on his wav to America, 
Oct. 22, 1864. 

Dr. Winslow wrote the following: History of Missions 
( Andover, 1819, 12mo, 432 pp.) : — Hints on J fissions to 
India (N. Y. 1856, 8vo) : — A Comprehensive Tamil and 
English Dictionary of High and Low Tamil (Madras, 
1862, 4 to). “This work has received the encomiums 
of native, English, and American scholars, and ranks 
second to no other philological achievement of the age. 
Not merely lor the profound scholarship displayed in its 
pages, but for the vast influence it exerts in civilizing 
and Christianizing India, has it called forth the thanks 
of the religious world. In the preparation and com- : 
pletion of this work, Dr. Winslow spent upwards of I 


twenty years of continuous toil. It has one thousand 
pages, three columns to a page, and contains sixty- 
eight thousand words and definitions. Of these nearly 
half owe their lexicographic birth and position to the 
author. The dictionary contains the mythological, 
astrological, scientific, official, and poetic terms of the 
Tamil; names of heroes, gods, authors, etc., and geo- 
graphical and historical information, thus forming an 
encyclopedia of Tamil learning.” Dr. Winslow is said 
to have devoted more study to the Eastern languages 
than any other American. lie also conducted a con- 
tinuous correspondence for forty years with the Mis- 
sionary Herald, A . Y. Observer, and other publications. 
Several Sermons and Addresses were published in 
pamphlet. Dr. Winslow was five times married. Me- 
moirs of two of li is wives and one of his children were 
published. See Cong. Quarterly, 1865, p. 209 ; A ppletons ’ 
Annual Cyclop. 1864, p. 814; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, 
and Amer. Authors, s. v. 

Winstanley, Thomas, D.D., a Church of Eng- 
land divine, was born in 1749. He studied at Brasenose 
College, and afterwards became fellow of Hertford. He 
took his degree of A.M. in 1774; published an edition 
of the Poetics of Aristotle; was appointed principal of 
St. Alban’s Hall in 1797; took his degrees of B.L). and 
D.D, in 1798, and about this time became Laudian pro- 
fessor of Arabic, Camden professor of ancient history, 
and prebendary of St. Paul's. He died in September, 
1823. See Christian Remembrancer, 1823, p. 628. 

Winter (prop. sethan, Cant, ii, 11 ; but usuallv 
Cjnn, choreph, which is strictly autumn, the season of 
ripeness; Gr. the rainy season). In Palestine, 

part of autumn and the seasons of seed-time and cold, 
extending from the beginning of September to the be- 
ginning of .March, were called winter (Gen. vi ii. 22; Psa. 
lxxiv, 17; Zecli. xiv, 8; Jer. xxxvi, 22). The cold of 
winter is not usually very severe, though the north winds 
from the middle of December to the middle of February 
are exceedingly penetrating. Snow falls more or less, 
but seldom lies upon t lie ground, except in the moun- 
tains (Psa. cxlvii, 17). In shady places the ice will oc- 
casionally bear a man’s weight, but thaws as'soon as the 
sun rises upon it. In the plain of Jericho the winter is 
more genial than the spring of northern countries, while 
in the mountainous country around Jerusalem it is often 
more inclement than might be expected (Matt, xxiv, 
20). In this season the most furious storms of hail are 
experienced all over the land ; the brooks rise, and all 
their streams fill their channels, and thunder and light- 
ning are frequent. Towards the end of January the 
fields become green, and there is every appearance of 
approaching spring. The last rains fall in the early 
part of April; it is still cold, but less so, and the spring 
may be said to have arrived (Cant, ii, 11). See Cal- 
endar; Palestine; Season. 

Winter, Robert, D.D., an English Dissenting min- 
ister, was born in London in 1762, and was pastor at 
New Court, Carey Street, from 1806 until his death, in 
1833. He published Pastoral Letters on Nonconformity, 
and several single Sermons. See (Lond.) Gentleman's 
Magazine, 1833, ii, 277. 

Winter, Samuel, D.D., an English clergyman, 
was born in 1603 ; became provost of Trinity College, 
Dublin, and died Dec. 29, 1666. 

Wisdom (prop. Ircrri, chohmdh, <ro(f>ia), in a gen- 
eral sense, is a comprehensive knowledge of things in 
their proper nature and relations, together with the 
power of combining them in the most useful manner. 
Among the Hebrews, the term “ wisdom” comprehended 
a wide circle of virtues and mental endowments (Exod. 
xxviii, 3; xxxi, 6; 1 Kings iii, 28; iv, 29-34), and its 
precise import in the Scriptures can only be ascertained 
bv a close attention to the context. See Fool. 

1. It is used to express the understanding or knowl- 
edge of things, both human and divine, chiefly in a 


WISDOM OF JESUS 


1020 


WISDOM OF SOLOMON 


practical and moral aspect, especially in tlie Psalms, 
Proverbs, and the book of Job. It was this wisdom 
which Solomon entreated and received of God, espe- 
cially in a governmental sense. 

2. It is put for ingenuity, skill, dexterity, as in the 
case of the artificers Bezaleel and Aholiab (Exod. xxviii, 
3; xxxi. 3). 

3. Wisdom is used for subtlety, craft, stratagem, 
whether good or evil. Pharaoh dealt ivisely with the 
Israelites (Exod. i, 10), Jonadab was very wise, i. e. 
subtle and crafty (2 Sam. xiii,3). In Proverbs (xiv,8) 
it is said, “ The wisdom of the prudent is to understand 
his way.” 

4. It stands for doetrine, learning, experience, sa- 
gacity (Job xii, 2, 12; xxxviii, 37 ; Psa. cv. 22). 

5. It is put sometimes for the skill or arts of magi- 
cians, wizards, fortune-tellers, etc, (Gen. xli, 8; Exod. 
vii, 1 1 ; Eccles. ix, 17 ; Jer. 1, 35). 

G. 'i’he wisdom or learning and philosophy current 
among the Greeks and Homans in the apostolic age, 
which stood in contrast with the simplicity of the Gos- 
pel, and tended to draw away the minds of men from 
divine truth, is called “fleshly wisdom” (2 Cor. i, 12), 
“ wisdom of this world” (1 Cor. i, 20 ; iii, PJ), and “ wis- 
dom of men” (ii, 5). 

7. In respect to divine things, wisdom, i. e. knowledge, 
insight, deep understanding, is represented everywhere 
as a divine gift, including the idea of practical applica- 
tion, and is thus distinguished from theoretical knowl- 
edge (Acts vi, 10; 1 Cor. xii, 8; Eph. i, 17 ; Col. i, 9; 
2 Tim. iii, 15; James i, 5; iii, 13, 15, 17). 

Wisdom OF JESUS (Son of Sirach), Book of. 
See Ecflksiasticus. 

Wisdom (The) OF SOLOMON, P,ook of, one 
of the deutero - canonical portions of the Old Test, 
which have come down to us by tradition as the pro- 
duction of the son of David. In treating this subject, 
we mainly follow Ginsburg’s article in the new edi- 
tion of lvitto’s Cyclopaedia , with additions from other 
sources, especially Smith’s Diet, of the Bible . See 
Apocrypha. 

I. Title and Position. — This book is called So (f>ia So- 
\iof.aov or 1a\ofiutvTog (Alex. Com pi.), i. e. the 1 1 'is- 
dom of Solomon , in the Sept.; and the Great Wisdom 
of Solomon in the Syriac version, because it was an- 
ciently believed to have been written by Solomon, who 
therein propounds the lessons of wisdom. It is denom- 
inated U«i'ujO€ro£ All-virtuous Wisdom, an ap- 

pellation which, though also given to Proverbs and 
Ecclosiasticus, is especially given by Athanasius and 
Epiplmnius to this book, because it treats more exten- 
sively of wisdom than either of the other so-called Solo- 
monic productions. It is called >/ Bern L'o (fa, Sapient-in 
Dei. by Clement of Alexandria (Strom, iv, 16) and Ori- 
gen (On Horn, vii, 14). In the Vulg. it is simply called 
Liber Sapient itr , without the name of Solomon, because 
Jerome, disputed the Solomonic authorship of it. The 
versions of the Reformation are divided between those 
appellations. Thus, in Luther’s version (1536), the 
Genevan version (1560), the Bishops’ Bible (1568), and 
the A. V. (1611) this book is called the Wisdom of 
Solomon, according to the Sept.; while the Zurich ver- 
sion ( 1531 i, Coverdale’s Bible (1535), Matthew’s Bible 
(1537), < Tom well's Bible (1539), and Cranmer’s Bible 
(1540) denominate it The Book of Wisdom, after the 
Vulg. 

The book is placed in the Sept, and in the Vulg. 
after the Song of Songs and before Eeclesiasticus, or 
immediately after the canonical productions of Solomon, 
since it was believed that it, too, proceeded from this 
monarch. Though all the translations of t he Refor- 
mation followed the example of Luther’s version in sep- ! 
arating the deutero-canonical from the canonical books, ! 
yet they have deviated from their prototype in the or- 
der of the Apocn r pha. Thus, while Luther, in his Bible, 1 
places this book between Judith and Tobit, the Zurich 


version — which, as usual, is followed bv Coverdale, and 
he again by Cromwell’s Bible, Matthew’s Bible, the Bish- 
ops’ Bible, and Cranmer’s Bible, as well as the Geneva 
version and the A. V, — places it between the additions 
to Esther and Eeclesiasticus. 

II. Desifjn, Division, and Contents .- — The object of this 
book is both parametieal and apologctieal. It comforts 
and strengthens the faithful who are distracted by the 
inexplicable difficulties in the moral government of the 
world, by showing them that whatever sufferings and 
taunts they have to endure, both from their apostate 
brethren and their heathen oppressors, and however 
much the wicked and the idolaters may prosper here, 
the elect, in following the counsels of divine wisdom, will 
be able to look forward with joy to a future state of 
retribution, where the righteous Judge will render to 
the ungodly according to their deeds, and confer upon 
the godly a blissful immortality. 

This purpose is developed in three sections, the con- 
tents of which are as follows: 

1. The First Section (i, 1 vi, 21), which contains the 
real problem of the book, opens with an admonition to 
the magnates of the eartli to follow the paths of right- 
eousness, since God only reveals himself to and abides 
with those who are of an upright heart (i, 1-6), and 
duly registers the deeds of the wicked, which he will 
most assuredly bring before the bar of a future judg- 
ment (vcr. 7-16). For although the wicked deny the 
immortality of the soul (ii, 1-6), indulge in the pleasures 
of th is world (ver. 7-9), and persecute the righteous, de- 
fying God to defend them (ver. 10-24) ; and though the 
case of the godly seems almost forlorn, yet God exercises 
a special care over his people, whom he allows to be 
chastised in order to purify them (iii, 1-7), and has des- 
tined bis saints to judge the nations of the earth, ami to 
abide forever with their Lord (ver. 8, 9) ; while he has 
laid up condign punishment for the wicked (ver. 10-18). 
The wicked who have large families are therefore not 
to he envied, for their children only perpetuate their 
wickedness (iv, 1-7) ; while the righteous who are sud- 
denly overtaken by death are not to be deplored, since 
honorable age is not to be measured by length of years, 
but by holiness of conduct, and since they are some- 
times suddenly taken away to escape the snares of the 
wicked; thus showing that God’s mercy is with his 
saints even in their untimely death, because they, hav- 
ing been perfected in their youth, though dead, speak 
condemnation to the wicked, who shall at last, in the 
great day of retribution, be constrained to confess it (ver. 
8-20). For then the righteous shall triumph, and the 
wicked who shall witness it will confess with anguish 
of soul that they have acted foolishly and wickedly, and 
that those whom they have derided and persecuted in 
this life are really the children of God, enjoy a glorious 
immortality, and deal out terrible punishments on the 
ungodly (v, 1-23). Having shown that this is the doom 
of the wicked, Solomon reiterates in more earnest tones 
the warning to the magnates of the earth with which 
this section commences, seeing that the righteous Judge 
who invested them with the powers they possess will 
soon call them to the bar of his judgment, where there 
is no respect of persons (vi, 1-8); and tells them that 
the most effectual wav to obey this warning is to learn 
divine wisdom, who is always ready to be found of 
those that seek her (ver. 9-14), who alone is the safest 
guide in this world, and leads to a union with the Cre- 
ator in the world to come (ver. 15-21). 

2. The Second > Section (vi, 22-ix, 18) describes tbc 
nature of this wisdom, the blessings she secures, and the 
manner in which she is to be obtained, by the experi- 
ence of Solomon, who recounts it himself in the first 
person, lie tells ns that, though an exalted monarch, 
lie realized his mortality, and therefore prayed for 
wisdom (vi, 22— vii, 7). With this precious gift, which 
he preferred above thrones, riches, health, and beauty, 
come all other earthly blessings of which she is the 
mother (ver. 8-12). Through her he became the friend 


WISDOM OF SOLOMON 


1021 


WISDOM OF SOLOMON 


of God, whose she is, and who bestows her as a gift (ver. 
13-lb). By her aid lie fathomed the mysteries of the 
changing seasons, of the heavenly bodies, and of the 
animal and vegetable kingdoms, as she herself is the 
maker of all things, and pervades all creation. She 
alone unites us to God with ties of friendship, and no 
vice can prevail against her (ver. 17-30). She, too, con- 
fers all earthly blessings, all intellectual and moral pow- 
ers, as well as the ability to govern nations, and she can 
only be obtained from God in answer to prayer (viii, 

1- 21). Solomon then recites the prayer in answer to 
which he received this divine gift (ix, 1-18). 

3. The Third Section (x, 1-xix, 22) describes the 
blessings which wisdom secured to the people of God, 
and the sore calamities which befell the ungodly who 
rejected her teaching, from the history of mankind, be- 
ginning with Adam and ending with the conquest of 
the Promised Land. Thus it shows how wisdom guided 
and protected the pious from Adam to Moses (x, 1-xi, 
4) ; how the wicked who despised her counsels and af- 
flicted the righteous were punished, as seen in the case 
of the Egyptians (xi,5-xii, l)and the Canaanites (xii, 

2- 27). As the chief sin of the Canaanites was idolatry, 
Solomon takes occasion to describe the origin, folly, and 
abominations of idolatry (xiii, 1-xv, 19), and then re- 
turns to describe the plagues of Egypt, which consti- 
tute an essential part of the history in question, thus 
showing the awful doom of the wicked and the great 
deliverance of the righteous (xvi, 1-xix. 22). 

III. Unity and Integrity. — From the above analysis 
of its contents, it will be seen that the book forms a 
complete and harmonious whole; the grand problem 
discussed in the first section being illustrated in the sec- 
ond section by the experience of Solomon, and in the 
third section by the experience of God’s people, detailed 
in chronological order. Indeed, the unity and integrity 
of the book were never questioned till the middle of the 
last century, when Iloubigant ( Prolegomena in Not. 
Crit.in 0 nines F. T. Libras, i, p. ccxvi, ccxxi) maintain- 
ed that it consists of two parts, the first (eh. i-ix) being 
written by Solomon in Hebrew, and the second (ch. x- 
xix) being most probably an addition of the Greek trans- 
lator of the first part. Eichhorn submits (Einleitung in 
d. A pokryph. p. 143 sq.) that the two parts, which belong 
to different authors, are i-xi, 1 and xi, 2-xix ; or, if pro- 
ceeding from the same author, that he must have writ- 
ten the second part in his younger years, before he di- 
vested himself of his national prejudices, and before his 
notions were enlarged by Greek philosophy. Bret- 
schneider, again (lie Libri Sap. Parte Priore ), will have 
it that it consists of four different documents, the first 
of which (i, 1 vi, 8) is a fragment of a larger work orig- 
inally written in Hebrew by a Palestinian Jew connect- 
ed with the court of Ant inch us Epiphanes; the second 
(vi, 9-x) was written in Greek at the time of Christ, 
by an Alexandrian Jew. who put sentiments of Greek 
philosophy into the mouth of Solomon in order to vin- 
dicate for the Jews the honor of having possessed all 
philosophic systems and sciences prior to every one else. 
The third (ch.xii-xix) was also written, at the time of 
Christ, by a common Jew T , who possessed the crudest 
notions; while the fourth piece (xi, 1-26) was added by 
the compiler of the book to connect the second and 
third parts. These must suffice as specimens of the 
opinions entertained by some respecting the unity of 
this book. They are most ably and elaborately refuted 
by Grimm ( Comment . p. 9-15). 

The integrity of the book is not only impugned by 
those who dispute its unity, but bv some who admit 
that it has a regularly developed plan. Thus Grotius 
will have it that, it is imperfect and unfinished, having 
been mutilated by some accident of time ; while Cal- 
met, who also maintains that the book is unfinished, 
hesitates to decide whether the end was lost by acci- 
dent or through the unfavorable circumstances of the 
times, or whether it was designedly omitted by the au- 
thor himself. But a conclusion more apposite and more 


in harmony with the design of the book can hardly be 
imagined than xix, 22, in which the just reflection and 
moral lesson are enunciated as deduced from the whole 
treatise, that the righteous are under God’s special care, 
and that he “assists them in every time and place.” 
Equally untenable is the assertion that the book con- 
tains interpolations by a Christian hand. This asser- 
tion was first made by Grotius (“Christiana quanta m 
commodis locis addidit,” Pr<vf. in Librum Supientiie), 
who in his Comment, specifies iv, 7, where he remarks, 
“ Scd ha?c, ut dixi, Evangelium magis redolent.” Griitz 
( Geschichte der Juden [2d ed. Leips. 1863], i i i , 443 sq.), 
who advocates the same opinion, adduces ii, 24; iii, 13; 
iv, 1 ; xiv, 7. But all these passages, when fairly in- 
terpreted, are perfectly consistent with Jewish senti- 
ments ; and we are almost sure that if the erudite Griitz 
had consulted Grimm’s masterly commentary on the 
passages in question when preparing the second edition 
of the third volume of his History , he would not have 
reprinted so literally the remarks from the first edition 
on this subject. 

IV. Philosophical and Doctrinal Character. — I. 
Though there are Platonic and Stoical sentiments in 
this book, yet it is not to be supposed that the author 
propounds therein a philosophical view of Judaism. 
The book of Wisdom contains no greater admixture of 
Greek elements than the post-Babylonian canonical 
writings contain of Persian elements. It is essentially 
based upon the truths embodied in the Old Test., whose 
spirit it breathes, and whose doctrines it sets forth as 
paramount, while the Greek sentiments are very sub- 
ordinate, and are such as would almost enter spontane- 
ously into the mind of any educated Jew residing in 
such a place as Alexandria. 

The doctrines of divine and human wisdom (or ob- 
jective and subjective wisdom, as it is termed) propound- 
ed in this book are simply amplifications and bolder 
personifications of what is to be found in Proverbs and 
Ecclestasticus. This may be seen in the conception of 
divine wisdom being an emanation from, or the Spirit of 
God present with, the Deity before and during the crea- 
tion of the world, and brooding over the elements of 
the unformed world (Wisd. vii, 22, 25; ix, 9, 17; comp. 
Prow iii, 19; viii, 22-26; Job xxxiii, 4; Ecclus. xxiv, 
3); in the view that human wisdom proceeds from the 
primordial divine wisdom which permeates all finite 
and pure spirits (Wisd. vii, 25; comp. Job xxxii, 8; Prow 
ii,6; Ecclus. i, 1), for which reason the two not nnfre- 
quently merge into one another (Wisd. vii, 12; viii, 6; 
x; comp. Prow iii, 13-20; viii); that she is “ the uni - 
versitas litterarum ,” she teaches us all arts and sciences 
— cosmology, chronology, meteorology, astronomy, zool- 
ogy, pnemnatology, psychology, botany, pharmacy, pol- 
itics, philosophy of history, parables, and enigmas (Wisd. 
vii, 17-21 ; viii, 8; comp. Exod. xxxi, 3 ; 1 Kings iii, 12; 
iv, 29-34), and the whole range of morals and spiritual 
virtues (Wisd. i, 1-18; x, 1-15; Prov. i, 7; iii). See 
the article preceding. 

Not only does the author of this book derive his lead- 
ing thoughts from the canonical Scriptures of the Old 
1'cst., but, as an orthodox Jew, he even espouses the 
traditions of his fathers. Thus in harmony with these 
traditions, which tell us that models of both the taber- 
nacle and the temple were shown by God to Moses and 
Solomon, he speaks of the temple in Jerusalem as having 
been made after the model of the temple in heaven 
(comp, gifnyta ox;/id/c ayiag i'jv 7rpoi)ToipaaaQ dir’ 
dpXVQ [Wisd. ix, 8] with ",1273 CTpEfl 

U-ip-sn rna [Menachoth,2(q; Itashi, 
On Exod. xxv, 9, 40; I Id), viii , 5). Ch. x, 19 b, which 
has occasioned great difficulty to interpreters, and which 
the Vulgate, Luther, the Zurich Bible, Coverdale’s ver- 
sion, Matthew’s Bible, Cromwell’s Bible, Cranmer’s Bi- 
ble, the Geneva version, t lie Bishops’ Bible, Grotius, 
Calmet,etc., take as antithetical to ver. 19 a, referring 
it to the Israelites whom wisdom brought forth from 


WISDOM OF SOLOMON 1022 WISDOM OF SOLOMON 


tlie depth of the sea — thus violating both its connection 
with tlie following verse, as indicated by Dct rorro and 
the sense of dvaiipa^tn', which is not to bring out , but 
to spit out, to cast out — is based upon a tradition which 
tells us that the sea spit out tlie corpses of the Egyp- 
tians when the dews despoiled them of their weapons. 
This tradition is given in the MechUta , the so-called 
('hahhe paraphrases of Jerusalem, and Jonathan ben- 
Vzziel. On E.rod. xi\ 12. and Pirke de Rabbi Kliezer. sect, 
xlii. and is at the basis of the account in Josephus (Ant. 
ii, ltl. tJ). Our author also follows tradition in his re- 
mark that it was not the turning to tlie brazen serpent, 
a> stated in Numb. xxi,9, but to God, which saved the 
Israelites (Wisd. xvi, 7 ; comp. Rosh hash-iShanah, 20; 
Jerusalem Targum ; and TJashi, On Xumb. xxi, 9); that 
the manna (Numb, xi, 8) had all manner of pleasant 
tastes (Wisd. xvi, 20, 21; comp. Yom<i, 75); that pray- 
ers mud he offered to God before the sun rises (Wisd. 
xvi. 28 ; comp. Mishna, Berakoth, i, 2) ; that Sodom was 
destroyed because its inhabitants were inhospitable to 
strangers (Wisd. xix, 17, 18; comp. Sanhedrin , 109), 
etc. 

With these facts before us, we entirely differ from 
Gfrdrer (Philo, ii, 207 sq.), Diihne ( Jiid.-alexandr . Reli- 
t/ionsphilos. ii, 153 sq.), and others, who maintain that 
the author of this book derived his leading tenets from 
Alexandrian, and more especially from Platonic, philos- 
ophy, and fully concur with Ewald (iv, 549). who re- 
marks “ that no one who is intimately acquainted with 
the Old Test., as well as with our author, will say that 
he derived the doctrine of immortality from the above- 
named source. The specification of the aioeppouian). <ppo- 
vijgic, (iKaiocvrij, and avftpia as the four cardinal vir- 
tues, both here (Wisd. viii, 7) and by Philo (ii, 455 sq. ; 
4 Macc. i, 18 sq. ; v, 22 sq. [where £oo4/3f la is put for 
<ppoi'i}rng] ; xv, 7, where there is a similar change) is 
indeed real Platonic, and is derived entirely from the 
Platonic school. But even these four virtues appear 
in viii. 7 as merely secondary, and in the whole connec- 
tion of the treatment of the book as accidental.” Welte 
(Einleitnng, p. 103 sq.), indeed, who does not dispute the 
agreement of the book of Wisdom with Alexandrian 
philosophy, goes so far as to say that it only refers to 
such tilings as are also more or less clearly expressed 
in the canonical books of the Hebrew Scriptures. 

2. In its religions doctrines the book of Wisdom is 
one of the most important and interesting contributions 
to the literature of the Jewish theology bcTore the ad- 
vent of Christ. It shows how the tenets of the Jews 
were preparing them for the teachings of the New 
Test. Thus it tells us that God is not the author of 
death, but made both man and all creatures in the im- 
age of his own eternity, and delighted in the whole of 
his creation (i, 13, 14; xi, 24), which he made for per- 
petual duration (ii, 14 ; comp. Korn. viii. 20, 21). Death 
entered into the world through the envy of the devil 
(Wisd. ii, 24). We have here the first instance on rec- 
ord where the serpent which tempted the protoplasts in 
Paradise is identified with the devil (ver. 24), thus con- 
firming tlie explanation given of Gen. iii, 1-15 in John 
viii, 44; liev. xii, 9; xx, 2. Griitz (Gesch. iii, 443 sq.), 
who cannot brook so striking a confirmation on the part 
of the Jews before Christ to the correctness of the teach- 
ings of the New 'lest., will have it that this is one of 
the passages interpolated by a Christian hand. But 
there is very little doubt that the Jews believed in the 
identity of the serpent and Satan long before the ad- 
vent of Christ (comp. Ginsburg. The Kabbalah [Bond. 
1805], p. 29), and that this notion has even passed over 
into the Persic religion (comp. Ilengstenberg, Christ olo- 
gg, i, 7 sq., Engl, trail. si.). 

The book of Wisdom, moreover, shows that the doc- 
trine of immortality and a future judgment was most 
emphatically believed and was generally current among 
the Jews (i, 15; iii, 4; vi, 18, 19; viii, 17); that the Is- 
raelites believed that the wicked attract death by their 
sinful deeds (i, 1G); that the saints, who are the chil- 


1 dren of God (ii, 13, 1G, 18), will ultimately judge the 
world and rule over the nations thereof (iii, 8; comp. 
Matt, xix, 28; 1 Cor. vi, 2; Eev„ii. 2G ; iii, 21 ; xx,4-G). 
The author of this book also propounds the doctrine of 
the pre-existence of the soul (viii, 20). This, however, 
he did not derive direct from Platonism, both because 
tlie manner in which he enunciates it is different from 
the mode in which it is represented by Plato and Philo, 
and because this doctrine was held by the Essenes in 
Palestine and is to be found in the Talmud (comp. Jo- 
sephus, War, ii, 8, 11 ; the Talmud, Chagiga , 12 h ; Ye- 
bamoth, G2; Aboda Sara, 5; Ginsburg, The Kabbalah, 

р. 81 sq.). The body is regarded as the seat of sin 
(i, 4; viii, 20) and as a mere hindrance and prison of 
the soul (ix. 15; comp. 2 Cor. v, 1-4; Josephus, 

ii, 8, II). No trace, however, is to be found in this 
book of a resurrection of the body or of a personal Mes- 
siah. 

V. Author and Date. — 1 . As the book itself ascribes 
the words therein contained to Solomon, and represents 
him as narrating his personal experience (eh. vii-xix), 
the book of Wisdom has come down to us by tradition 
as the production of this great monarch. Thus it is not 
only expressly described as the work of this wise king 
in the inscriptions of the most ancient versions (viz. 
Sept., Syriac, Arabic, etc.), but it is quoted as such by 
the most ancient fathers of the Church, such as Clement 
of Alexandria (Strom, vi), Tertullian (De Prcescr. Reeves. 

с. 7 ; A dv. Valent, c. 2), Hippolvtus (p. 06, ed. Lagarde), 
Cyprian (Exhortut. Mart, xii), etc. The Solomonic 
authorship has also been maintained by some very 
learned Jews — viz. De’ Kossi (Meor Enajim [ed. Vien- 
na, 1829], p. 281 b), Wessely (Introduction to his Com- 
ment. on Wisdom), and by some Protestants. With 
the exception of Schmid (Das Buck d. Welsh eit iiber- 
setzt und erkldrt [Vienna, 1858]), and one or two oth- 
ers, critics of the present day have entirely discard- 
ed this view, for the following reasons: (1.) The book 
was written in Greek, and in the later style of this lan- 
guage. (2.) Its author exhibits a Greek culture which 
no Palestinian Jew possessed even at the time of Greek 
ascendency over Judaea, as is evident from the later Pal- 
estinian writings, and from the express declaration of 
Josephus {Ant. xx, 11,2) that his brethren had an aver- 
sion to Greek education. The Greek culture of the au- 
thor of the book of Wisdom i9 seen in his notions of 
what constitutes knowledge (vii, 17-20; viii, 8); in his 
acquaintance with the Epicurean doctrine of fate and 
the philosophieo-materialistic view of nature and the 
future destiny of the soul (ii,2); in the distinction which 
he makes between the nobler and educated features of 
heathenism and its grosser forms (xiii, 1-15); in his 
view of the origin of image-worship (xiv, 14 sip), etc. 
Comp. Grimm, Comment, p. 19, etc. (3.) It contains un- 
questionable quotations from the Sept. This is not only 
evident from ordinary passages, as vi, 7; xi,4; xii, 8; xvi, 
22 ; xix, 21 : but from extraordinary instances where the 
Sept, differs from the Hebrew, and where the words of 
the former are inwrought into the text itself; e. g. Wis- 
dom ii, 12 puts into the mouth of sceptics the words of 
Isa. iii. 10, tvtftptvenopzv rov ditcatov on Srffxpijerroej 
ijftiv tor/, according to tlie Sept., which essentially dif- 
fer from the Hebrew text ; and Wisd. xv, 10, <77r oflof // 
Kapcia avrov, which, again, is an important variation of 
the Sept, on Isa. xliv, 20 from the Hebrew. (4.) It re- 
fers to matters of history (Wisd. ii, 1-G, 8 ; xv, 4), which 
are inapplicable to Solomon’s period (Grimm, Comment. 
P- 17 )- 

Next in point of antiquity is the theory that Philo is 
the author of this book, as is seen from the remark of 
Jerome, “Nonmdli scriptorum voteriim lninc esse Phi- 
lonis Judiei affirmant” (Prof, in Libr. Sal.). This view 
was also adopted by De Lyra, Luther, Kainold, Calovius, 
bishop Cosin, and others. But against it it is to be urged 
that the whole complexion of the book, as well as its 
historical, theological, and philosophical elements, is at 
variance with this hypothesis. Thus — (I.) The forma- 


WISDOM OF SOLOMON 


1023 


WISDOM OF SOLOMON 


tion of the foetus in the mother’s womb is at variance 
with Philo’s notions upon the same subject (Wisd. vii, 
2 ; comp. Philo. De Mundi Opif. in Opp. ii, 15). (2.) The 
two kinds of pre-existent souls — viz. good and bad — are 
described in this book as destined alike to inhabit hu- 
man bodies, whereas Philo only lets the sinfully disposed 
souls occupy human bodies, and says that the good souls 
aid the Deity in the administration of human affairs 
(Wisd. vii i, 19; comp. Philo, De Gif/anti, m Opp. i, 263). 
(3.) In this book it is distinctly declared that the Egyp- 
tians were punished with serpents, which Philo as dis- 
tinctly denies (Wisd. xi, 15 ; xvii, 9; comp. Philo, De Vit. 
Mos. in Opp. ii, 97 sq.). (4.) The darkness with which 

the Egyptians were visited is described in this book as 
having proceeded from the infernal regions, while Philo 
affirms that it was occasioned by an nil usual eclipse of 
the sun (Wisd. xvii, 14 ; comp. Philo, De 1 It. Mos. i, 21). 
(5.) The view that the serpent which tempted our first 
parents is the devil is diametrically opposed to that of 
Philo, who does not recognise such an evil power in the 
world, and regards the serpent as a symbol of pleasure 
(Wisd. ii, 24 ; comp. Philo, De Mundi Opif. in Opp. i, 38). 
(6.) The description of the origin of idolat ry in this book 
is totally different from that of Philo (Wisd. xii, xiii; 
comp. Philo, De Monarch. § 1-3, in Opp. ii, 213 sq.). (7.) 
The idea of divine wisdom, which in the centre of this 
book is different from that of Philo. The author of the 
book of Wisdom manifests no acquaintance whatever 
witli the trichotomy of human knowledge, nor even with 
the doctrine of ideas, which forms a most essential and 
organic part of Philo’s system, as is evident from the 
fact that he makes no allusion thereunto in such pas- 
sages as i, 3; viii, 19 sq.; ix, 15; and especially vii, 22 
sq., where it would have been most appropriate, and 
where it would undoubtedly have been found, had the 
writer known the points in question. 

The force of these arguments against Fhilo Judaeus, 
and yet the unwillingness to relinquish the traditional 
name, have led many Koman Catholics and some Prot- 
estant scholars (viz. Lorinus, Bellarmine, lluetius, Drusi- 
us, Wernsdorf, Buddens, etc.) to resort to the theory that 
it was not ‘the well-known philosopher, but an older 
Philo, who either composed the book of Wisdom or put 
it into its present form. But the fatal objection to this 
is that the elder Philo was, according to the express 
testimony of Josephus ( Contra A pirn, i, 23), a heathen, 
and could not therefore have written this book. 

Still more far-fetched is the theory of Dr. Tregelles, 
that it was written by an unknown Christian of the 
name of Philo, basing it upon the passage “et Sapientia 
ab amicis Salomonis in honorem ipsius scripta” in the 
Muratorian canon, which he imagines to be a mistrans- 
lation of the Greek original, that may have read, Kai 
>) ~o(pia S«Xo pun'TOc iriro duXtorof, instead of otto 
Xwu (Journal of Philol. 1855, p. 37 sq.). 

Being thus compelled to relinquish the name of Philo 
in whatsoever form, Augustine would at first have it 
that Jesus, sou of Sirach, was the author of this book 
(De Doctr. Chr. ii, 8), but afterwards retracted his opin- 
ion ( Retractt . ii, 4; De Cir. Dei , xvii, 20, 1). 

Faber, again, maintained ( Prolusiones de Libro Sap. 
[Anspach, 1776-77], i-vi, pt. v) that it was written bv 
Zerubhabel, who might justly call himself the second 
Solomon, because he restored the Solomonic temple. 
But as all the arguments against the Solomonic author- 
ship are equally to be urged against this theory; and, 
moreover, as ix, 3 can only be applied to Solomon, and 
as the whole tone of the book shows that this monarch 
is meant, Faber’s conjecture has not been espoused by 
any one else. 

Neither can the more plausible theory of Lutterbeck 
(Die neutestamentl. Lehrbegrife [Mavence, 1852], i, 407 
sq.) be sustained, that Aristobulus (flourished B.C. 150) 
wrote it. Because (1.) He was a favorite of Ptolemy VI 
Philometor, and would therefore not have inveighed 
against kings (comp. vi. 1 sq.). (2.) The Jews in Egypt 
enjoyed the greatest distinctions under this monarch, 


and were treated with the highest confidence, so much 
so that Philometor and Cleopatra intrusted the govern- 
ment and the army to Jews (Josephus, Contra Apian. 
ii, 5), whereas the Jews in Egypt suffered under the 
most grinding oppression when this book was written 
(xi, 5 sq. ; xii, 23 sq. ; xvi-xix; Grimm, Comment, p. 
21). For these reasons modern writers have given up 
all attempts to discover the author’s name. 

2. Equally divergent are the opinions of commenta- 
tors and historians respecting the date of the book, as 
will be seeu from the following table: 

Sept., the Syriac and Arabic versions, Clem- 


ent of Alexandria, Tertnlliau, etc B.C. cir. 1000 

Faber “ 500 

Grotius “ 450-300 

Welte, Brack “ 222-217 

Gutman, Lutterbeck, Davidson “ 150-130 

Grimm “ 145-50 

Some ancient fathers, De Lyra, Luther, 
bishop Cosin, Gratz, etc A. D. cir. 30-50 


All, however, that can be deduced from internal evi- 
dence upon this subject is that (1) the author of the book 
was an Alexandrian Jew, or that he resided in Egypt 
ami wrote for his coreligionists in the land of their for- 
mer bondage, as is evident from the details of the Egyp- 
tian animal -worship (xi, 15; xii, 24; xv, 18 sq.); from 
the involuntary adoption of certain Alexandrian notions 
and phrases as shown above; from the allusion to the 
events in the lives of sundry Jewish worthies without 
specifying the names of these patriarchs— viz. to the di- 
recting of the course of the righteous in a piece of wood 
of small value (i. e. Noah and his family in the ark ; 
comp. Wisd. x,4 with Gen. vii, 1 sq.) ; to the preserva- 
tion of the righteous man blameless unto God (i. e. Noah); 
to the saving of the righteous man (i. e. Lot) from the 
burning of the cities (Wisd. x, 5 sq.; comp. Gen. xix, 
15 sq.), which could only be made by a Jew, and only 
be understood by Je\vs; and from the exalted terms in 
which he speaks of the Jewdsh nation, of the permanent 
obligations of the Mosaic law, and of Palestine (Wisd. ii, 
12; iii, 8; xii, 7); and from the Haggadic embellish- 
ments of the Old-Test, narratives, as has been show r n in 
the preceding part of this article. These facts, therefore, 
completely set aside the opinion of Kirschbaum (Der 
jiid.A lexandrinismus [ Leips. 1841 ], p.52), Weisse ( Veber 
die Zukunft d. evangel. Kirche [ibid. 1849], p. 233), Noak 
(Der Ursprung des Christenthums [ibid. 1837], i, 222 sq.), 
etc., that this book is the w’ork of a Christian hand; and 
that (2) be wrote after the Sept. (i. e. Ptolemy II Phila- 
delpluis, B.C. 284-246), for, as we have seen, lie quotes 
the Pentateuch and Isaiah according to this version. 
He, how'ever, composed it some time before Philo (B.C, 
cir. 140-50), since it required a considerable period for 
the degree of development which the religious philoso- 
phy of Alexandria had attained among the Jews in the 
interval between the author of Wisdom and the writ- 
ings of Philo. The sufferings referred to in this book 
(xi, 5 sq. ; xii, 23 sq.; xvi-xix) are most probably those 
which Ptolemy VII Physcon (B.C. 145-117) heaped 
upon the Jew’s in Alexandria (comp. Josephus, Contra. 
Apian . ii, 5; see Gratz, Geschichte der Juden [2d cd.], 
iii, 66). The hypothesis of Dr. Rainold ( Cens . Libr. 
Apocr.), that “it was written in the time of the emper- 
or Cains, who w’ould have his statue set up and adored 
in the temple of Jerusalem (Suetonius Vit. Calig. § 22), 
and that xiv, 16-20 deprecates his blasphemous attempt 
at self-deification,” wdiich is followed by Noak (Der Ui - 
sprung des Christenthums , i, 222 sq.) and Gratz ( Ge- 
schichte der Juden , iii, 442), is based upon precarious in- 
terpretation of this passage. Grimm (Comment, p. 33) 
has conclusively shown that it gives the writer’s opin- 
ion respecting idolatry, which he, in common w ith many 
learned heathen of his day, traces to the deification of 
man, as is evident from the fact that several Seleucide- 
ans adopted the epithet $e<'>q (2 Mace, xi, 25), and that 
Ptolemy Lagi and Berenice, his consort, w’ere apotheo- 
sized by their successors and subjects giving them the 
title Seat oajTijpeg, and erecting to them altars and tem- 


WISDOM OF SOLOMON 


1024 


WISDOM OF SOLOMON 


pies (Pauly, Real-EncyMop. d. class. Alterthumswisscn . 
s. v. “ Ptoleniiius,” VI, i, 190). 

VI. Original Language and Style. — Believing it to be 
the work of Solomon, many of the ancient fathers, ami 
several modern writers, both Jews and Protestants, as a 
matter of course, maintained that the original language 
of Wisdom was Hebrew. Even Grotius, though nor re- 
garding it as the production of Solomon, believed it to 
have been originally written in Hebrew, while Houbi- 
gant advocated a Hebrew original for the first nine 
chapters, and Hretschncider and Engelbrecht restricted 
it to the first five chapters. The erudite Azariah 
de’ Dossi again would have it that Solomon wrote 
it in Aramaic in order to send it to some king in 
the extreme East (Meor Enajim [ed. Vienna, 1829], 
281 b). Hut Jerome had already declared that there was 
no Hebrew original extant of this book, and that it was 
originally written in Greek, as is evident from its style 
(“ Seeundus [qui Sapientia Salomonis inscribitur] apud 
Hebrews nusqnam est, quin et ipse stylus Graecam elo- 
quent iam redolet” [Praf in Libr. Sul.J). This remark 
is fully borne out by (I.) The numerous compound ex- 
pressions, especially adjectives (e. g. Kafcorfyi'oC) i, 4; 

xv, 4; 7rpi*)r67r\a(TTO(;, vii, 1 ; x, 1 ; vnfppa\oc, x, 20; 

xvi. 17 ; comp, also i. 6; ii, 10; iv, 8; v, 22; vii, 1, 3; 

ix, 5, 15; x, 3; xi, 17; xii, 5, 19; and for Xtyd- 

ptva, xi, 7 ; xiii, 3; xiv, 25; xv, 8, 9; xvi, 3,21), which 
have no corresponding terms in the Hebrew. (2.) The 
technical expressions — as 7 rvevpa voepoi', vii, 22; crij- 
Ktut Kitt \topeiv Fiu Travnov, vii, 24; vXtj dpoptyog, xi, 
17; 7rp6vina. xiv, 3; xvii, 2 — which are derived from 
Platonic and Stoical philosophy. (3.) The alliterations, 
paranomasias, and oxymora which pervade the book 
(comp. dy(i7ri)crart — (ftpovgaaTt — Zgrgaars ; iv dyaSo- 
Tijn — d^XdnjTi, i, 1; ovc — 3-poiV, i, 10; napoCfomn — 
avvoetbmo, vi, 22; aCoXotg — dtySomog, vii, 13; dpyd — 
tpya, xiv, 5; abaca — Chet], i, 8; ieiag iciuTgrog, ii, 23; 
arpanov rpu—iog, v, 10; cWnroi ci cvvarwg, vi, 6; 
bernog rd curia aanf)5ii<joi’Tai,v\, 10, ic. r. X. ; see Grimm, 
p. 7), showing beyond doubt that the book was origi- 
nally written in Greek. As to the Hebrew coloring of 
the language, the lexical Hebraisms (e. g. d-xXorgg 
KapCiag , i, 1 ; peptg, tcXqpog, ii, 9; rpij3oi, ii, 15; Xoy<- 
ZtaSrai fig rt, ii, 10; TrXfjpoiV ^povo v, iv, 13; omen rov 
3^ of 1 , iv, 15), the numerous Hebrew parallelisms, etc., 
these are to be expected from so thorough an Israelite 
as the writer of this book manifestly was, especially 
when it is borne in mind that the author breathes 
throughout the whole of his work the spirit of the Old 
Test.; that the book of Wisdom is a Hellenistic ver- 
sion of the same tradition wherein Solomon is represent- 
ed as having philosophically refuted scepticism and tyr- 
anny, of which traces' appear elsewhere in the later 
Jewish literature; and that the author took the ancient 
Hebrew' poetry for his model. 

The style of the hook is very uneven. Some por- 
tions of it are truly sublime, and will bear comparison 
with any passages in the best classics; as, for instance, 
the delineation of the sensualist (ii, 1 sq.), the picture 
of future judgment (v, 15 sq.), and the description of 
wisdom (vii, 22-viii, 1) ; while in other passages the 
author, as bishop Lowth remarks, “is often pompous 
and turgid as well as tedious and diffuse, and abounds 
in epithets, directly contrary to the practice of the He- 
brews” ( Lectures on the Sacred Poetry of the Hebrews , 
Preelect. p. xxiv). 

VI I. Canonicity and Authority. — Though the book of 
Wisdom, like the other deutero-eanonical hooks, was nev- 
er included in the canon of the synagogue, as is evident 
from the list of the Hebrew Scriptures given in the Tal- 
mud (Baba Bathra, § 14) ; and though it is not found in 
the catalogues of Origen, Jerome, Epiphanins, Athana- 
sius, Cyril, etc., yet there can be but little doubt that it 
was held in great respect among the Jews, and that the 
apostle Paul was familiar with its language, as may be 
seen from the striking parallels in Ilom. ix, 21 to Wisd. 
xv, 7 ; ill Horn, ix, 22 to Wisd. xii, 20; in Eph. vi, 13 


17 to Wisd. v, 17-19. The next allusion to it, though 
also not by name, is to be found in the epistle of St. 
Clement to the Corinthians (i; 27 ; comp. Wisd. xi, 22 ; 
xii, 12); and Eusebius tells us (Hist. Eccles. v, 20) that 
Ireweus made use of it in a lost book. Clement of 
Alexandria quotes it as the inspired work of Solomon 
with the introductory phrase 1 ) 3aa <ro (pin Xiyti (Strom. 
iv, 10, p. 009, ed. Potter). It is also quoted as such by 
Origen (Contra Celsum, iii, 72), Tertullian (Adrers. 15/- 
lent . c. ii), Cyprian ( Exhortat . Martyr. 12), Cyril ( Catech . 
ix, 127), etc. Hence it was declared as canonical by 
the third Council of Carthage (A.D. 397), in the coun- 
cils of Sardis (A.D. 347), Constantinople in Trullo (A.D. 
092), Toledo (A.D. 075), Florence (1438), and in the 
fourth session of the Council of Trent (1540). With 
other deutero-eanonical writings, it remained in the 
canon till the time of the Deformation, when Luther 
first separated it and put it together with the rest of 
the Apocrypha at the end of the Old Test. Still Lu- 
ther spoke of it with great respect ( Yorrede avf die 115/5- 
heit Salomonis in his translation of the Bible, ed. 1534). 
In the Anglican Church the book of Wisdom is looked 
npon with still greater favor. Thus chapters xiii, xiv 
are quoted in the Homilies as the writing of Solomon 
(Sermon against Peril of Idolatry, pt. iii); vii, 11, 10; 
ix, 13; xiii, 1 ; xvi, 8, are cited as the work of the same 
wise man (Sermons for Rogation ]I5eX\ pt. i-iii); iii, 1 ; 
xiii-xv, are quoted as Scripture ( Sermon against the 
Fear of Death , pt. iii; Against Idolatries , pt. i and iii); 
and cb. v is referred to as Holy Scripture (Against Wil- 
ful Rebellion, pt. vi). See Deuteko-caxonical. 

VIII. Text. — The book of Wisdom is preserved in 
Greek and Latin texts, and in subsidiary translations 
into Syriac, Arabic, and Armenian. Of these latter, 
the Armenian is said to be the most important ; the 
Syriac and Arabic versions being paraphrastic and inac- 
curate (Grimm, Einleit. § 10). The Greek text, which, 
as appears above, is undoubtedly the original, offers 
no remarkable features. The variations in the MSS. 
are confined within narrow limits, and are not such 
as to suggest the idea of distinct early recensions; 
nor is there any appearance of serious corruptions an- 
terior to existing Greek authorities. The Old Latin 
version, which was left untouched by Jerome (Pnef.in 
Libr. Sal., “ In eo libro qui a plerisque Sapientia Salo- 
monis inscribitur . . . calamo temperavi; tantummodo 
canonicas Scripturas emendare desiderans, et stiulium 
meum certis magis quam dubiis conmiemlare”), is, in 
the main, a close and faithful rendering of the Greek, 
though it contains some additions to the original text, 
such as are characteristic of the old version generally. 
Examples of these additions are found : i, 15, Injnstitia 
autem mortis est ncquisitio ; ii, 8, Xu llum prat am sit quod 
non pertranseat luxuria nostra ; ver. 17, etjciemns qme 
erunt novissima illius ; vi, 1, Melior est sapientia quam 
vires, et rir prmlens quam fortis. And the construction 
of the parallelism in the two first cases suggests the 
belief that there, at least, the Latin reading may be 
correct. Hut other additions point to a different con- 
clusion : vi, 23, diligite lumen sapientice omnes qui pree - 
estis populis ; viii, 11, et facies principnm mirabuntnr 
me ; ix, 19, quicunque placuerunt tibi domine a principio ; 
xi, 5. a defect ione potus sui, et in eis cum abundarent flii 
Israel hetati sunt . 

The chief Greek MSS. in which the book is contain- 
ed are the Codex Sinaiticus (X), the Cod. Alexundrinus 
(A), the Cod. 1 'aticanus (H), and the Cod. Ephraemi 
reset'. (C). The entire text is preserved in the three 
former; in the latter, only considerable fragments: viii, 
5-xi, 10; xiv, 19-xvii, 18 ; xviii, 24-xix, 22. 

Sabatier used four Latin MSS. of the higher class 
for his edition: “Corbeienses duos, unum Sangerma- 
nensem, et alium S. Theodorici ad Demos,” of which he 
professes to give almost a complete (but certainly not 
a literal) collation. The variations are not generally 
important, but patristic quotations show that in early 


WISEMAN 


1025 


WISH ART 


times very considerable differences of text existed. An 
important MS. of the book in the British Museum ( Eg - 
erton , 1046, Sicc. viii) has not yet been examined. 

IX. L iterature . — The earliest commentary which re- 
mains is that of Ii aba nus Maurus (died 856). Homan 
Catholic commentaries are those of Nannius (1552), Jan- 
sen (1557, 1614), Osorius (1580), Lorinus (1607, 1624), I)e 
Castro (1613), Corn, a Lapide (1638), Maldonatus (1613), 
Gorse (1655), Menochius (1678), Du llamel (1703), Cal- 
med 1757), Dereser (Frankf.2d ed. 1825), and J. A. Schmid 
(Wien, 1858). Among Protestants separate commen- 
taries are those of Strigel (Lips. 1560, 1571, 1575), Hay- 
liold (1618), Fabricius (Frcf. et Lips. 1601), Selnecker 
(Lips. 1575), Brochmann ( llafn. 1656), all in Latin; 
Petersen, Erklar. (B tiding. 1727): Schubaud, Anmerk. 
(Magdeb. 1733); Steinmetz, A nmcrk. (Leips. 1747); Ivleu- 
ker, Erldut. (lLga, 1785) ; Ilasse, Anmerk. (Jen. eod.) ; 
Wallenius, Anmdrkningan (Griefsw. 1786, also in Lat- 
in); Kelle, I nmerk. (Freib. 1815); Fngelbroth, Inter- 
pretation [ch. i-iv] (Ilavn. 1816) ; Bauermeister, Com- 
mentarius (Gutting. 1828); and especially W. Grimm, 
Commentar ( Leips. 1837 ; also in the Kurzgef Exeg . 
ITarnlb. ibid. 1868). To these may be added the He- 
brew commentary by Wessely (Berl. 1780, and later). 
See also Ewnld, Geschichte des Volkes Israel (Gottingen, 
1852), iv, 548 si].; Griitz, Geschichte der Juden (2d ed. 
Leips. 1863), iii, 202 sq., 242 sq. ; and the Introductions 
to the Old Test, by Bert hold t (Erlangen, 1815), v, 225 sq. ; 
De Wette, § 312-315: Keil (ibid. 1850), § 244-246; and 
Davidson (Lond. 1863 ), iii, 396 -410. See Commen- 
tary. 

Wiseman, Luke Hoult, M.A.. a Wesleyan Meth- 
odist minister, was born in the city of Norwich, Jan. 10, 
1822. He “was a saint at twelve and a preacher at 
fourteen." He entered the ministry in 1840; was elect- 
ed missionary secretary in 1868, a position which he 
held until the close of life; was raised to the presiden- 
tial chair at the London Conference of 1872 by the 
largest number of votes ever recorded at such an elec- 
tion ; and died in London, in the midst of his work and 
honors, Feb. 3, 1875. “As a Christian, he had deep 
veneration for the spiritual nature of Christianity; as 
a man, a love of freedom that amounted to a passion. 
Hence to contend for the rights of conscience, to enlarge 
the sphere of free action, and to assert liberty of differ- 
ence among Christian churches while promoting frater- 
nal union and co-operation, and independence of the 
commonwealth while maintaining patriotic loyalty and 
an enlightened citizenship, were to him the most sacred 
of all duties, and he ever discharged them with match- 
less courage and fearless independence. As an adminis- 
trator, Wiseman had learned to combine in the happiest 
manner art iter in re with the suariter in viodo. . . . 

Never flurried, never in a hurry — always at ease and at 
home, courteous to all, servile and obsequious to none — 
he succeeded in guiding skilfully the course of discus- 
sion and business, and in uniformly maintaining Chris- 
tian courtesy and urbanity with judicial fairness and 
impartiality. Such was Wiseman — a man of open soul 
and loving heart, massive alike in bod}’- and mind, with 
a splendid physique and a character to match — a uni- 
versal favorite with preachers and people, admired, 
trusted, loved by all. . . . His heart was too high for 
pettiness, too large for selfishness or envy. Faith with- 
out superstition or fear, religion without bigotry or 
cant, the grandeur of intellect covered with the sin- 
cerity of childhood, were found in him as found in few" 

( Loud . Watchman ; see A r . Y. Methodist, March 20, 1875). 
Wiseman passionately loved the missionary cause. He 
eloquently advocated it and unselfishly worked for it. ' 
Like Frankland, Berks, Cole}', and other eminent men 
in the British Conference, he worked too hard, and his 
sudden death was at once a surprise and a warning. 
Besides occasional published Sermons, Wiseman wrote, 
Lectures on Industries Prompted by Conscience, and Not 
by Covetousness (1852 ; -3d ed. 1858 ) : — The Employment 
of Leisure Time (Lond. 1856, 12mo ): — Things Secular 
X.— T T T 


and Things Sacred (ibid, eod.) : — Agents in the Revival 
of the Last Century (ibid. 1855): — Men of Eaith, or 
Sketches from the Book of Judges (ibid. 8vo) : — Thoughts 
on Class Meetings and their Improvement (ibid. 1854, 
12mo) : — Christ in the Wilderness: Practical Views of 
our Lord's Temptation (ibid. 1857. 12mo). See Min- 
utes of Conference, (ibid. 1875), p. 18; Osborne, Mcth, 
Bibliog. s. v. ; West. Meth. Magazine, 1875, p. 288. 

Wiseman, Nicholas Patrick Stephen, Car- 
dinal, and chief of the Homan Catholic Church in Eng- 
land, was born at Seville, Spain, Aug. 2, 1802, of Irish 
and Spanish extraction. At an early age he was brought 
to England, and placed in St. Cuthbert’s College, at 
Ushaw, near Durham, He was thence removed to the 
English College at Home, where he was ordained a 
priest, and made a doctor of divinity, lie was a pro- 
fessor for a time in the Homan University, and was then 
made rector of the English College at Home. In 1828 
he published his Horce Syriacw. Dr. Wiseman returned 
to England in 1835, anil in the winter of that year de- 
livered a series of lectures upon the leading doctrines 
of the Catholic Church at the Sardinian Chapel, in Lin- 
coln’s Inn Fields. About the same time he delivered his 
Lectures on the Connection between Science and Revealed 
Religion, for which he is best known in Protestant lit- 
erature. He subsequently repaired to Home, and is un- 
derstood to have been instrumental in inducing pope 
Gregory XVI to increase the vicars-apostolic in Eng- 
land. The number was doubled, and Dr. Wiseman came 
back as coadjutor bishop to Dr. Walsh, of the Midland 
District, lie was also appointed president of St. Mary’s 
College, Oscott. In 1847 he again repaired to Home on 
the affairs of the English Catholics, and prepared the 
way for the subsequent change resolved on in 1848, 
which was delayed by the troubles that ensued at 
Home. lie was now made pro- vicar -apostolic of the 
London district in place of Dr. Griffiths, deceased. Sub- 
sequently he was appointed coadjutor, cum jure suc- 
cessionis, to Dr. Walsh, who was translated to London; 
and in 1840, on the death of Dr. Walsh, he became vicar- 
apostolic of the London district. In August he went 
again to Home, “not expecting,” as he said, “to re- 
turn to England again.” But in a consistory held on 
Sept. 30, 1850, he was elected to the dignity of car- 
dinal by the title of St. Pudentiana, and was appoint- 
ed archbishop of Westminster, a step which raised an 
angry controversy in the papers, and resulted in the 
Ecclesiastical Titles Bill. lie died in London, Feb. 15, 
1865. Dr. Wiseman was a moderate polemic, a fine 
scholar, an elegant orator, and an accomplished critic. 
He was from the first one of the chief contributors to, 
and joint editor of, the Dublin Quarterly Review, and is 
the author of numerous pamphlets bearing more or less 
directly on the religious controversies of the past quarter 
of a century. His Essays have been reprinted in three 
vols. 8 vo. lie also published, Lectures on the Eucharist : 
— Recollections of the Last Four Popes: — Fabiola; or, 
The Church of the Catacombs, etc. Dr. Wiseman was 
the seventh English cardinal since the Heformation. 
The other six were Pole, Allen, Howard, York (a son of 
the Pretender, who was never in England), Weld, and 
Acton. Archbishop Wiseman’s successor was cardinal 
Manning, the present incumbent. 

Wishart, George (1), called “The Martyr,” a 
champion of the Heformation in Scotland, is supposed 
to have been a son of James Wishart, of Pi Harrow, jus- 
tice-clerk during the reign of James V. The time of 
his birth is not. known. He was master of a grammar- 
school at Montrose at the beginning of the 16th century, 
lie began to preach the doctrines of the Heformation at 
Montrose, but was compelled to fly to England on ac- 
count of the opposition of the enemies of that move- 
ment. lie preached the same doctrines at Bristol in 
1538, but was forced to recant and publicly burn his 
fagot. In 1543 we find him at Cambridge, and during 
the same vear he returned to Scotland. The Heforma- 


102C 


WITHERSPOON 


WISH ART 

tion having gained some power, and having a head for 
the protection of its members, he preached more boldly 
in Dundee, Perth, Montrose, and Ayr, creating popular 
tumults. He was implicated in an attempt to take the 
life of cardinal Beaton, but no positive proof has been 
brought to sustain the charge. While preaching at va- 
rious places in the neighborhood of Edinburgh, he was 
apprehended by the cardinal’s troops, conveyed to St. 
Andrews, tried for heresy, condemned to be burned at 
the stake, and executed March 28, 1546. See Itogers, 
Life of George Wishart, etc. (1876); Mackenzie, Lives 
of Scots Writers, iii, 9-19. 

Wisliart, George (2), D.D., a Scotch divine, was 
born at Tester, East Lothian, in J 609. He was educated at 
the University of Edinburgh; became a parish minister 
at North Leith and St. Andrews, where he refused to take 
the Covenant in 1639, for which refusal he was deprived 
of his living and imprisoned; made his way to New- 
castle, England, where he was captured by the Scottish 
army in October, 1644, and taken to Edinburgh and 
thrown into the common jail, where he remained sev- 
eral months and suffered great hardships ; joined the 
marquis of Montrose, to whom he became chaplain, and 
narrowly escaped execution with him in 1650; became 
chaplain to Elizabeth, the clectress-palatine, and accom- 
panied her to England at the Restoration in 1660; was 
then made rector of Neweastle-upon-Tyne, and conse- 
crated bishop of Edinburgh in 1662. lie died at Edin- 
burgh in 1671. He published an elegant Latin history 
of the JUars of Montrose (1647), which was hung by a 
cord to the neck of the marquis at his execution. lie 
left a seeond part, bringing the history down to the 
death of Montrose, which was never published in its 
original form, but a number of excellent translations of 
the whole work have been published at later dates. Sec 
Keith, Catalogue of the Bishops of Scotland; Lyon, Hist, 
of St. A ndretes, ii, 10-12. 

Wishart, William, D.D.,a Seoteh clergyman, was 
born at Dalkeith in 1657. lie was educated at Utrecht ; 
became one of the ministers at South Leith after the 
Revolution; afterwards principal of the University of 
Edinburgh, and one of the city ministers in 1716. He 
died in 1727. lie published several single Sermons : — 
some collections of Sermons : — and Principles of Liberty 
of Conscience (1739). 

Wisner, Benjamin Blydenburg, D.D., a Con- 
gregational minister, was born at Goshen, N. Y., Sept. 
29, 1794. U nder Rev. Dr. Axtell, of Geneva, N. Y., he ac- 
quired his preparatory training. In 1810 he joined the 
sophomore class in Union College, from which he grad- 
uated in 1813. For one year he was principal of an 
academy at Johnstown, when he returned home and 
began to study law. From 1815 to 1818 he was tutor 
in Union College, and during this time he studied the- 
ology under professor Andrew Yates, D.D. Resigning 
his tutorship, he entered the theological seminary at 
Princeton in 1818. In June, 1820, he was licensed to 
preach, and received a call to the pastorate of the Pres- 
byterian Church at New Brunswick, N. J., which he de- 
clined; was ordained pastor of the Old South Church. 
Boston, Mass., Feb. 21, 1821. where he continued to serve 
during twelve years. From October, 1832, he labored 
as the secretary for the American Board of Commission- 
ers for Foreign 31 issions, travelling extensively through- 
out the Union to establish new missionary organiza- 
tions, etc. He died in Boston, Feb. 9, 1835. He was a 
member of the board of directors of the American Edu- 
cation Society, and was a trustee of the Andover Theo- 
logical Seminary. 1 lis executive talent was undoubted, 
and he did not lack ability as an extemporaneous de- 
bater. His style as a writer was not imaginative nor 
particularly felieitons, but he was a man of commanding 
influence. Dr. Wisner published. Three Discourses on 
the History of the Old South Church : — A Sermon on the 
Benefits of Sunday-schools : — and a Memoir of Mrs. 
Huntington. He also contributed to the Spirit of the 


Pilgrims , and to the Conprekensive Commentary. See 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , ii, 682. 

Wisner, William, D.D., a Presbyterian divine, 
was born at Warwick, N. Y., in 1782. He studied law, 
and practiced in Orange County; abandoned the law, 
and became pastor of a Church in Ithaca; was pastor 
of a Church in Rochester from 1830 to 1862; removed 
to Cedar Rapids, la., in 1870, and died there Jan. 7, 1871. 
He published, Incidents in the Life of a Pastor (1851): 
— Elements of Civil Liberty; or, The Way to Maintain 
Free Institutions (1853) : — besides single Sermons, pam- 
phlets, and contributions to periodicals. 

Wisner, William Carpenter, D.D., a Presby- 
terian minister, was born at Elmira, N. Y., Dec. 7, 180*8. 
He was prepared for college in tlic Homer Aeademv, 
and graduated at Union College in 1830. He did 
not pursue any regular theological course at the sem- 
inary, but prosecuted his studies under his venerable 
father, Rev. Dr. Wisner, of Ithaca. He was licensed 
to preach by the Presbytery of Rochester, and in 1832 
was ordained and installed pastor of the Third Presby- 
terian Cbureh of that city. After remaining there for a 
short time, he removed to Athens, Pa., where he preach- 
ed for a while, and then served the Church in East Avon, 
N. Y., for eighteen months. In 1836 he accepted a eall 
to the Second Presbyterian Church of St. Louis, Mo. 
In 1837 he was called to the Clmreh at Lower Lockport, 
and in 1842 became pastor of the First Presbyterian 
Church of Lockport, and resigned on aceount of failing 
health after a successful pastorate of thirty-four years. 
He was for many years a trustee of Hamilton College 
and Auburn Seminary, lie was moderator of the New 
School General Assembly at St. Louis in 1855. He died 
at Lockport, N. Y., July 14, 1880. llis manner as a 
public speaker was peculiar, and strangers to it would 
at first find it unpleasant; but becoming familiar with 
it, they would eome under his power, and find him a 
teacher of great originality, and would become fasci- 
nated with him. His principal publication was a work 
entitled, Prelacy and Parity. (W. P. S.) 

Witch is the rendering, in the A. A'., at Exod. xxii, 
18, of ( mehishshephdh , Sept, (pappaicot, Vulg. 

malefici), and in Dent, xviii, 10, of the masc. form, of 
the same word mekaskshtph, Sept, (pappeacug , 

Vulg. malefcus), which is elsewhere rendered “sorcer- 
er” (Exod. vii, 1 1 : Dan. ii, 2; Mai. iii, 5). 

WITCH of Endor. See Saul. 

Withers, Philip, D.D., an English clergyman, be- 
came chaplain to lady dowager Hereford in 1783. He 
was sentenced Nov. 21, 1789, to a fine of £50 and a year’s 
imprisonment for a libel on Mrs. Fitzherbert, wife to the 
prince of Wales, in his History of the Rofjal Malady 
(Loud. 1789). He died in Newgate, July 24, 1790. He 
also published a work entitled A ristarckus; or , The Prin- 
ciples of Composition (1791). 

Witherspoon, John, D.D., LL.D., a distinguish- 
ed Presbyterian divine, and one of the signers of the 
Declaration of Independence, was born in the parish of 
Tester, near Edinburgh, Scotland, Feb. 5, 1722. His 
father was a clergyman of the Church of Scotland, 
mneh respected for his piety and learning; on his 
mother’s side, he traced an unbroken line of ministerial 
ancestry, through a period of more than two hundred 
years, to the great Reformer, John Knox. He experi- 
enced religion at a very early period ; pursued his pre- 
paratory studies in the public school at Haddington, 
where He soon evinced remarkable powers; graduated 
at the University of Edinburgh, where he stood “un- 
rivalled for perspicuity of style, logical accuracy of 
thought, taste in sacred criticism, and all those intel- 
lectual qualities and accomplishments which, in after- 
life, conspired to render him one of the great men of 
the age and of the world;” was licensed to preach in 
1743; ordained as minister of the popular parish of 
Beith, in the west of Scotland, in 1745 ; and of the Low 


WITHERSPOON 


1027 


WITSIUS 


Church in Paisley, Jan. 16, 1757 ; here he continued till 
the } r ear 1768, when he was elected president of the 
College of New Jersejq and inaugurated at a meeting 
of the trustees, called specialty for the purpose, Aug. 17, 
1768. The fame of his talents and learning had pre- 
ceded him, and consequently he brought to the college 
a large accession of students, and was the means of 
greatlv increasing its funds, and placing it on a foun- 
dation of permanent usefulness. Indeed, few men could 
combine more important qualifications for the presi- 
dency of a literary institution — “ talents, extensive at- 
tainments, commanding personal appearance, and an 
admirable faculty for governing young men, and ex- 
citing in them a noble emulation to excel in their 
studies.” lie introduced many important improve- 
ments in the system of education — particularly the 
method of teaching by lecture, which seems previously 
to have been unknown to American colleges; and he 
actually delivered lectures on four different subjects — 
viz., Eloquence and Composition , Taste and Criticism; 
Moral Philosophy ; Chronology and History; and Di- 
vinity. He likewise rendered most important service to 
the college by increasing its library and philosophical 
apparatus, and introducing the study of the Hebrew 
and French languages; he was also chiefly instrumen- 
tal in obtaining the first orrery constructed by the cel- 
ebrated Rittenhouse. In connection with his duties 
as president, he was pastor of the Church in Prince- 
ton during the whole period of his presidency. Hut 
he was soon to enter upon a new sphere of duty, lie 
was selected by the citizens of New Jersey, in 1776, as 
a delegate to the Congress that promulgated the Decla- 
ration of Independence. He continued to represent the 
State of New Jersey in the General Congress from 1776 
to 1782, and in practical business talent and devotion 
to public affairs he was second to none in that body. 
Many of the most important state- papers of the day 
were from his pen. During the whole period in which 
he was occupied in civil life he never laid aside his 
ministerial character, but wished it understood that he 
was “a minister of God,” in a sacred as well as in a 
civil sense. When he retired from the national coun- 
cils, he went to his country-place near Princeton, N. J., 
having two years before partially given up his duties as 
president of the college to the vice-president, his son-in- 
law, Dr. Samuel Stanhope Smith. He died Nov. 15, 1794. 
Dr. Witherspoon was undoubtedly one of the ablest, as 
well as one of the most voluminous, writers of his time. 
He published, Ecclesiastical Characteristics ; or, The Ar- 
cana of Church Policy (Glasgow, 1753, 8 vo; 3d ed. 1754, 
8vo ; at least five edits.). This work was aimed at certain 
principles and practices which then prevailed extensive- 
ly in the Church of Scotland, and by its acknowledged 
ability, and particularly by the keenness of its satire, it 
produced a great sensation and acquired immense popu- 
larity : — A Serious Apology for the Characteristics , in 
which he avows himself the author of the preceding 
work : — Essay on the Connection between the Doctrine of 
Justification by the Imputed Righteousness of Christ and 
Holiness of Life, etc. (Edinb. 1756, 12 mo; often repub- 
lished). “ This work has always been regarded as one 
of the ablest Calvinistic expositions of that doctrine in 
any language. I hope you approve Mr. Witherspoon’s 
books. I think his Treatise on Regeneration is the best 
1 have seen upon this important subject” (Rev. John 
Newton to Mr. Cunningham, in Bull’s Life of Newton 
[1868, p. 150 ]): — Serious Inquiry into the Nature and 
Effects of the Stage (Glasgow, 1757 ; with Sermon by 
Samuel Miller, D.D., N. Y. 1812, 12mo). This work 
had its origin in the fact that Mr. John Home, a cler- 
gyman of the Church of Scotland, had published his 
well-known tragedy of Douglas, which was acted re- 
peatedly in the Edinburgh Theatre, where a number of 
the author’s clerical friends attended. The Rev. John 
Newton, speaking of this work, says he “ wishes every ; 
person who makes the least pretence to fear God had an j 
opportunity of perusing” it : — Essays on Important Sub- ; 


jectSyWith Ecclesiastical Characteristics ( Lond. 1764,3 
vols. 12mo; 1765, 3 vols. l2mo). These volumes were 
composed of pieces which had previously been published 
in Scotland, with the exception of his celebrated Trea- 
tise on Regeneration, which appeared now for the first 
time. This Treatise was also published separately in 
1764, 12mo: — Sermons (9) on Practical Subjects (Glas- 
gow, 1768, 1 2 mo ; Edinb. 1804, 12mo): — Practical Dis- 
courses (14) on Leading Truths of the Gospel (1768, 12mo ; 
Lond. 1792, 8vo; 1804, 12mo). The discourses in this 
volume are so arranged as to form a concise system of 
practical divinity: — Considerations on the Nature and 
Extent of the Legislative Authority of the British Par- 
liament (Phi la. 1774, 8vo; Lond. 1775, 8vo). lie also 
published a number of Sermons: — Lectures on moral 
philosophy, on eloquence, on divinity, and on education: 
— Letters on Marriage: — an excellent Assay on Money : 
— philological papers (see The Druid ) various Speech- 
es in Congress, etc. After his death appeared, in one vol- 
ume, Sermons on Various Subjects, a Supplementary Vol -* 
ume, with the Hist, of a Corporation of Servants , and 
other Tracts (Edinb. 1798, 12mo; 1799, 12mo). A col- 
lective edition of his works, with an account of the 
author’s life, with Sermon by John Rodgers, D.D. (also 
published separately [N. Y. 1795, 8vo], and in Prot. 
Dissent. Magazine, vol. ii), was published in New York 
(1800-1, 4 vols. 8vo; 2d ed. 1^802, 4 vols. 8vo), Samuel 
Stanhope Smith, D.D., supplying the Memoir. An- 
other edition, with his Life, appeared at Edinburgh in 
1804 (9 vols. 12mo); again in 1815 (9 vols. l2mo). His 
Miscellaneous Works were published at Philadelphia 
(1803, 8vo); his Select Works, with Life, in London 
(1804, 2 vols. 8vo) ; his Lectures on Moral Philosophy 
in Philadelphia (3d ed. 1810, 12mo); his Essays, Lect- 
ures, etc. in Edinburgh (1822,4 vols. 12mo); and Ser- 
mons on Public Occasions (2 vols. 12mo). “The name 
of Dr. Witherspoon stands high on both continents. 
No man thinks of Witherspoon as a Briton, but as an 
American of the Americans: as the counsellor of Mor- 
ris, the correspondent of Washington, the rival of Frank- 
lin in his sagacity, and of Reed in his resolution; one 
of the boldest in that Declaration of Independence, and 
one of the most revered in the debates of the Congress” 
(Alexander [Rev. J. W. ], Princeton Address'). See 
Chambers and Thomson, Biog. Diet, of Eminent Scots 
(ed. 1855), iv, 487 ; Sprague, A finals of the Amer. Pulpit , 
iii, 288-300; Rich, Bibl.Amer. Nova, i, 226, 270; Bart- 
lett, Americanisms (ed. 1859), xxix, xxxi ; Amer. Quar. 
Reg. ix, 105 ; Edinburgh Christian Instructor, Oct. 1829 ; 
Blackwood's Mag. ii, 433; Dr. Alex. Carlyle's Anto- 
biog. (1861); Headley, Chaplains and Clergy of the 
Revolution (N. Y. 1864, 12mo); Cleveland, Compendium 
of Amer. Lit. p. 45; Thomas, Pronouncing Biog. Diet. 
s. v. ; Lond. Month. Rev. 1754, ii, 288 ; Bickersteth, Chris- 
tian Student (4th ed.), p. 309 ; Bull, Life of John Newton 
(1868), p. 150,226. (J. L. S.) 

Witsius (Wits, or Witsen), Herman, a Dutch 
theologian of the Federal school, with mediating tenden- 
cies, was born at Enkhuysen, in West Frisia, Feb. 12, 1636. 
His father was a magistrate, and later burgomaster of the 
town ; and his uncle, Peter Gerhard, was a scholar, from 
whom he doubtless received the exact classical training 
and the liberal tendencies which distinguished him among 
the men of his time. He entered the University of Gron- 
ingen when sixteen years of age, and subsequently stud- 
ied also at Leyden and Utrecht. The teachers whose 
influence over him was most pronounced were Leusden, 
who initiated him into the study of the Old -Test. 
Scriptures and the Oriental languages with such suc- 
cess that at the age of eighteen years he was able to de- 
liver a learned address in Hebrew; Coeceius; and Jus- 
tus van den Bogaerdt, a preacher, who made him ac- 
quainted with subjective Christianity, and of whom he 
was accustomed to say that the best of all his theologi- 
cal acquirements had been obtained at his hands. 

Witsius passed the examination pro ministerio with 
I honor in 1656, and became pastor at Westwoud. In 


WIZARD 


102S 


WOLF 


1061 he was at Wormeren, in 1G0G at Goesen, and in 
1608 at Leeuwarden. In these several fields of labor 
he earned the reputation of a faithful pastor, a superior 
preacher, and a scholarly thinker, and was, in conse- 
quence, honored in 1075 with a call to a professorship 
and pulpit at Franekcr, and after live years more with 
a similar call to Utrecht. In 1085 he was appointed 
chaplain to the embassy sent by the Netherlands to the 
court of James II of England, and while in England he 
entered into relations of personal intimacy with prince 
William (subsequently king William 111). In 1008 he ac- 
cepted a call to Leyden, which released him from the pul- 
pit, and on Oct. 22, 1708, he closed his busy life in death. 

The principal work of Witsius {De ( Economic. Fade- 
rum Dei cum Hominibns Libri /)’) was published in 
1077, and originated in his desire to meliorate the ac- 
rimonious spirit apparent in the controversies between 
the orthodox and the Federalists, llis plan involved 
no true mediation between the opposing systems, how- 
*cver, but merely the knocking-off of a few of the more 
prominent angles on the Federal hypothesis; and he 
succeeded only in raising a storm among the Federal- 
ists against himself, without conciliating the opposing 
party. He was simply and only a scriptural theologian, 
and incapable of exercising the acuteness of a scholastic 
apprehension — the more, perhaps, because he thought 
and wrote in classical Latin. The plan of the ( Econ . 
Fad. is confused (lib. i, De Fad. Dei in Genere; ii, De 
Fad. Gratia; iii, De. Fad. cum Fleet is ; iv, De Doetr. 
Saint is). The doctrine of Christ’s person and work is 
treated of in the second book, and that of the election 
of grace and the appropriation of salvation in the third. 
The fourth book contains a history of Revelation, be- 
sides the doctrine of the sacraments. The personality 
of Witsius was of greater importance to the Church 
than his theology. 

Other works of Witsius are, in Latin, J mice us Chris - 
tianizans: — Exercit.in Symb. A post, et Orat. Dominicam: 
— sEgyptiaca ( Miscellanea Sacra , M eletemata Leiden- 
sia) : — Praxis Christianismi cum Dnaginibus Spintuali- 
bus: — and minor productions. In Dutch, Lis Domini cum 
Vinea sua,e tc. It is to be added that he was well ac- 
quainted with modern languages also, especially French, 
in which he frequently preached without difficulty. 

See lleringa, Specimen Jlist.-theol. de J/enn. Wifsio 
(Amstel. 1801); Gass, Gesch. d. prot. Dogmaiik , ii, 318. 
— Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Wizard {'iv^, guide oni, a knowing one), a term 
applied both to the sorcerer (Lev. xix, 31; xx, G; 
Deut, xviii, 11 ; 1 Sam. xxviii, 3, 9) and the spirit by 
which he conjures (Lev. xx, 27). See Magic. 

The word means literally a person pretending to be 
wise, but the term is usually employed as the masculine 
corresponding to witch. In the history of witchcraft, the 
accusations against men as compared with those against 
women were as one to one hundred. See Divination. 

Woide, Ciiaki.es Godfkey, D.D., LL.D., F.R.S., a 
Socinian minister, was born in Poland in 1725. lie was 
educated at Frankfort-on-the-Odcr and at Leyden; was 
for some time pastor at Lissa; settled in England as 
preacher at the German Chapel Royal, St. James’s, in 
1770: was subsequently reader and chaplain at the 
Savoy; and became assistant librarian in the British 
Museum in 1782, from which time he studied the less- 
known Oriental languages, lie died in London, May 
7, 1790. lie edited La Croze’s Coptic Lexicon 0775), 
and Scholtz's Egyptian Grammar ( 1778). lie also 
transcribed with his own hand the New-Test, portion 
of the Codex Alexamlrinus (1786), which he afterwards 
published in fac-simile. At the time of his death he 
was engaged in preparing Fragment a Novi Testament i 
a Vers. xEgyptica Dialectic etc., which was completed by 
Dr. Ford and published at Oxford in 1799. 

Wolf (the invariable rendering in the A. V. of 
zeeb, so called either from its fierceness or its yellow 
color, or perhaps the word is primitive; \vicog), a fierce 


carnivorous animal, very nearly allied to the dog, and 
so well known as to require no particular description, 
excepting as regards the identity of the species in 
Palestine, which, although often asserted, is by no 
means established; for no professed zoologist has ob- 
tained the animal in Syria, while other travellers only 
pretend to have seen it. Unquestionably a true wolf, 
or a wild canine with very similar manners, was rot in- 
frequent in that country during the earlier ages o( the 
world, and even down to the commencement of onr 
ivra. At this day the true wolf is still abundant in Asia 
Minor, as well as in the gorges of Cilicia, and, from the 
travelling disposition of t lie species, wolves may be ex- 
pected to reside in the forests of Libanns. Ilemprieh 
and Ehronbcrg, the most explicit of the naturalists who 
have visited that, region, notice the dib, or zib, under 
the denomination of Cams lu paster , and also, it seems, 
of Lupus Syriacus. They describe it as resembling the 
wolf, but smaller, with a white tip on the tail, etc.; and 
give for its synonym Canis uttthus and the wolf of 
Egypt, that is. the XvKog of Aristotle and Thoes anthus 
of Ham. Smith. This species, found in the mummy 
state at Lycopolis, though high in proportion to its 
bulk, measures only eighteen inches at the shoulder, 
and in weight is scarcely more than one third of that 
of a true wolf, whose stature rises to thirty and thirty- 
two inches. It is not gregarious, does not howl, cannot 



Egyptian Wolf. 


carry off a lamb or sheep, nor kill men, nor make the 
shepherd flee ; in short, it is not the true wolf of Europe 
or Asia Minor, and is not. possessed of the qualities as- 
cribed to the species in the Bible. The next in Hemp- 
rich and Eh re n berg's description bears the same Arabic 
name; it is scientifically called Canis sneer, and is the 
piseonch of the Copts. This species is, however, still 
smaller, and thus cannot be the wolf in question. It 
may be, as there are no forests to the south of Libanns, 
that these ravenous beasts, who never willingly range 
at a distance from cover, have forsaken the more open 
country, or else that the derbonn , now only indistinctly 
known as a species of black wolf in Arabia and Southern 
Syria, is the species or variety which anciently repre- 
sented the wolf in Syria — an appellation fully deserved 
if it be the same as the black species of the Pyrenees, 
which, though surmised to be a wild dog, is even more 
fierce than the common wolf, and is equally powerful. 
The Arabs are said to eat the derbonn as game, though 
it must be rare, since no European traveller has de- 
scribed a specimen from personal observation. There- 
fore, either the true wolf or the derbonn was anciently 
more abundant in Palestine, or the ravenous powers of 
those animals, equally belonging to the hyena and to a 
great wild dog, caused several species to be included in 
tbe name. — Kitto. See Dog. “There is also an ani- 
mal of which travellers in Arabia and Syria hear much, 
under the name of the shib, which the natives believe 
to be a breed between a leopard and a wolf. They de- 
scribe it as being scarcely in its shape distinguishable 
from the wolf, but with the power of springing like a 
leopard, and attacking cattle. Its bite is said to be 
mortal, and to occasion raving madness before death. 


WOLF 


1029 WOLFENBUTTEL MANUSCPJPT 


In 1772 Dr. Freer saw and measured the forepart and 
tail of one of these animals, and supplied Dr. Bussell 
with the description which he has inserted in his book. 
The animal was one of several that followed the Basrah 
caravan from Basrah to the neighborhood of Aleppo. 
Many persons in the caravan had been bitten, some of 
whom died in a short time raving mad. It was also re- 
ported that some persons in the neighborhood of Aleppo 
were bitten, and died in like manner; but the doctor 
saw none of them himself. Dr. Bussell imagines that 
the sfiib might be a wolf run mad. But this is a hazard- 
ous assumption, as it is doubtful whether canine madness 
exists in Western Asia; and unless we conclude with 
Col. Hamilton Smith that the shib is probably the same 
as the Thous demon , or the wild wolf-dog of Natolia, it 
is best to await further information on the subject. 
Burckhardt says that little doubt can be entertained of 
the existence of the animal, and explains its fabulous 
origin (between a wolf and leopard) by stating that the 
Arabs, and especially the Bcdawin, are in the common 
practice of assigning to every animal that is rarely met 
with parents of two different species of known animals” 
(Ivitto, Phys . I/ist. of Palest, ii, 304). 

The following are the scriptural allusions to the wolf : 
Its ferocity is mentioned in Gen. xlix, 27; Ezek. xxii, 
27; l lab. i, 8; INTatt. vii, 15; its nocturnal habits in Jer. 
v, 6; Zeph. iii, 3; llab. i, S; its attacking sheep and 
lambs in Ecclus. xiii, 17; John x, 12; Matt, x, IG; 
Luke x, 3. Isaiah (xi, 6; lxv, 25) foretells the peace- 
ful reign of the Messiah under the metaphor of a wolf 
dwelling with a lamb. Cruel persecutors are compared 
with wolves (Matt, x, 10; Acts xx, 29). See Zee n. 

Wolves were doubtless far more common in Biblical 
times than they are now, though they are occasionally 
reported by modern travellers (see Bussell, A 'at. Hist, of 
Aleppo , ii, 184): “The wolf seldom ventures so near 
the city as the fox, but is sometimes seen at a distance 
by the sportsmen among the hilly grounds in the neigh- 
borhood; and the villages, as well as the herds, often 
suffer from them. It is called dib in Arabic, and is 
common all over Syria.” The wolf is now, as of old, 
the dread of the shepherds of Palestine. Not so nu- 
merous, but much more formidable than the jackal, he 
lurks about the fields, hunting not in noisy packs, but 
secreting himself till dark among the rocks; and with- 
out arousing the vigilance of the sheep-dogs, he leaps 
into the fold, and seizes his victim by stealth. Their 
boldness at times, however, is very remarkable, especial- 
ly in the less-frequented regions. “ In every part of the 
country we occasionally saw the wolf. In the open plain 
of Gennesarct my horse one day literally leaped over a 
wolf. In the hill country of Benjamin the wolves still re- 
main. We found them alike in the forests of Bashan and 
Gilead, in the ra- 


vines of Galilee and 
Lebanon, and in the 
maritime plains” 
(Tristram, A r aU Hist, 
of the Bible, p. 154). 

Wolves, like many 
other animals, are 
subject to variation 
in color. The com- 
mon color is gray 
with a tinting of 
fawn and long black 
hairs. The variety 
most frequent in 
Southern Europe 
and the Pyrenees is 
black: the wolf of 
Asia Minor is more 
tawny than those 
of the common col- 
or. The Syrian wolf 
likewise is of a 
lighter color than 


the wolf of Europe, being a pale fawn tint, and seems to 
be a larger and stronger animal. See Fox, 

Wolf, Johann CumsTorii, well known by his works 
in the Geld of Jewish literature, was born at Wernigerode, 
Germany, Feb. 21. 1083. At the gymnasium of his na- 
tive place he received a solid classical education. In 1095 
he went to Hamburg with his father, and here he pros- 
ecuted his preparatory studies under Anckelmann, Ed- 
zard, and Fabrieius. In 1703 we tind Wolf at Witten- 
berg; in 1704 he w r as made a doctor, and in 1700 he was 
received into the academic senate; in 1707 he returned 
to Hamburg, and was appointed co-rector at Flensburg; 
in 1708 he went to Holland and England, and was thus 
brought in contact with the learned men of his age, as 
Vitringa, Ilemsierhuvs, Clericus, Surenhusius, Belaud, 
Perizonius, Basnage, Bentley, Barnes, Cave, and others. 
At Oxford he stayed about six months, and spent most 
of his time in the Bodleian Library. In 1709 he returned 
to Flensburg, where he received a call to Wittenberg as 
professor of philosophy; in 1712 he was appointed pro-* 
lessor of Oriental languages at the Hamburg Gymna- 
sium, and in 1710 he became pastor of St. Catharine’s. 
He died July 25, 1739. 1 1 is main work is his Bibliotheca 
llebrcea (Hamburg, 1715-33,4 vols.); the first vol. con- 
tains a list of Jewish authors; the second treats of the Old 
Test., its MSS., editions, etc.; the third and fourth are 
supplements to the first two. This Bibliotheca is still 
the great storehouse of information on Jewish litera- 
ture; and although Jewish writers of otir day speak of 
its deficiencies and shortcomings (but how could it be 
otherwise?), yet these fault-finders, while abusing the 
author, copy his work. Those, however, who have la- 
bored in the same department will always speak with 
great admiration of Wolf’s Bibliotheca. Steinschneidcr 
says of our author “dass Wolf an Fleiss, Ehrlichkeit, 
Besonnenheit, und Unbefangenheit zugleich noch von 
keinem christlichen und von sehr wenigen judischen 
Autoren auf diesem Gebiete iibertroffen worden” (Bi- 
bliog. Ilandbuch , p. xviii). Besides his great work, he 
wrote, ii 2D m, llistoria Lexicorum Ilebrai- 

corum (Wittenberg, 1705 ): — De Usu Tal mud me Rabbi ni- 
cicque Lectionis Elenchtico (ibid. 1700) x— Notit ia Kane- 
ovum (Hamburg, 1721). See Seelen, De Vita , Script is, 
et Meritis J. C. Wolfii (Stade, 1717); Petersen, Gesch . 
cler Hamburger Stadtbibliothek (Hamburg, 1838); Fiirst, 
Bibl. Jud. iii, 529; Winer, Ilandbuch der theol. Lit. i, G9, 
120, 137, 140, 189, 235, 410, 042, G48, 82G, 899-901 ; Stein- 
schneider, Bibliog. Ilandbuch, p. xviii sq., 150; id. Cata- 
logas Libr . Ilebr. in Bibl. Bodl. p. 2730; De’ Bossi, Di- 
zionario Storico (Germ, transl.), p. xiv sq. (B. P.) 
Wolfenbiittel Fragments. See Lessing. 
Wolfenbuttel Manuscript (Codex Guei/piier- 

/r& 

V.V L ‘ 


f\ , f\ n ^ 

vf'.) ij I- j \ ? 



\ctuiuvl 

Specimeu of the Codex Gudpherbytanus a (coutaiuiug Luke i, C, 7). 


WOLFF 


1030 


WOLFGANG 


bytaxus) is the name given to two palimpsest frag- 
ments (a and n) of the Greek Testament (usually des- 
ignated as 1* and Q of the Gospels), which were discov- 
ered by Knittel in the ducal library at Wolfenbiittel, 
Brunswick, under t he more modern writings of Isidore 
of Seville. lie published the whole in 1702, and Tiseh- 
endorf more accurately in vol. iii of his Monumenta Sa- 
cra In edit a (I860). The volume of which they arc a 
part (called the Codex Carolinus) seems to have been 
once at Bobbio, and has been traced from Mayenec and 
Prague, till it was bought by a duke of Brunswick in 
1G89. Codex P contains, on 43 leaves, 31 fragments of 
480 verses from all four evangelists; Codex Q, on 13 
leaves, 12 fragments of 235 verses from Luke and John. 
A lew portions, once written in vermillion, have quite 
departed. They belong to the 5th or Gth century. 
Both are written in two columns, the uncials being 
bold, those of Q considerably smaller. The capitals in 
P are large and frequent, and both have the Ammonian 
sections without the canons of Eusebius. See Scrivener, 
Introd. p. 113; Tregellcs, in Home’s Introd. iv, 179. 
See Maxusckipts. 

Wolff, Bernard C., D.D., a German Ileformcd 
minister, was born at Martinsburg, W. Ya., Dec. 11, 
1794. When a mere child lie received the impression 
that he ought to be a minister, and this conviction deep- 
ened with his subsequent development, lie was sent 
to the best schools afforded by his native place, where 
he made rapid progress, especially in mathematics; and 
subsequently received instruction under private tutors 
in the family of B. M. Coulston, Esq., who lived near 
Martinsburg. He also pursued the study of the Latin 
and Greek languages for some time under the direction of 
the Bev. Dr. Denny, a Presbyterian clergyman of Cliam- 
bersburg, Pa., with whom he made attainments which 
would have admitted him to the junior class in college. 
He was then called home by his father to engage with 
him in the saddle and harness making business, where 
lie labored four or five years, until, at the age of twenty- 
one, he became the sole owner of the shop. In his thir- 
ty-seventh year he entered the Theological Seminary at 
York, Pa., completed his course in 1832, and was licensed 
at Frederick, Md., in September of the same year. lie 
became associate pastor of the Church at Easton, Pa., 
in 1832; pastor of the Third Church in Baltimore, Md., 
in 1844; entered upon the duties of the office of profess- 
or of didactic and practical theology in the Theological 
Seminary at Mercersburg, Pa., Nov. 29, 1854; resigned 
bis professorship some years previous to his death, and 
devoted the remainder of his days to the interests of the 
educational institutions of his Church. He died at Lan- 
caster, Pa., Nov. 1, 1870. Sec llarbaugli, Fathers of the 
Germ. Ref. Church, iv, 24 G. 

Wolff, Joseph, D.I)., LL.D., not inappropriately 
called a meteor or comet on the missionary heaven, was 
born of Jewish parentage, in 1795, in Bavaria. Endowed 
with almost unprecedented linguistical talent, a quick 
power of perception, lively temperament, and great pru- 
dence, he became acquainted at a very early age with 
the most prominent men in different countries of Eu- 
rope. In 1812 he was baptized at Prague by a Bene- 
dictine monk. While at Vienna he was introduced to the 
highest ecclesiastical dignitaries; lived for some time 
with count Stolberg in his castle of Tatenhauscn, and 
went to Borne to be educated there as a missionary. His 
heart was filled with the desire to proclaim the glad ti- 
dings of the Gospel to both Jew§ and Mohammedans. 
Although he enjoyed the favor of the most prominent 
men in Borne, especially that of pope Pins VI I, and 
formed acquaintances which were of the greatest inter- 
est in his life, vet he could not reconcile himself to 
Bomanism. While at Borne he spent his time in study- 
ing Oriental languages. Some liberal views which he 
had expressed on sundry occasions made him suspected 
in the eyes of the Inquisition, and he had to leave the 
college and the Eternal City. After many adventures, 


he went to London, and here he joined the Church of 
England. Soon he became acquainted with men like 
Ilenry Drummond, Charles Simeon, Lewis Way — the 
founders of the London Society for the Jews. They, 
perceiving Wolff’s special fitness for missionary work, 
effected his entrance to Cambridge University, where 
lie continued his Oriental studies under Prof. Lee. Af- 
ter two years (in 1821) he gave up his studies, and com- 
menced his adventurous life as a traveller. Amid the 
richest and most remarkable experiences, lie travelled 
over Europe, Asia, America, and a part of Africa. In 
these journeys he became acquainted with kings and 
princes, as well as with the most learned men of all ec- 
clesiastical relations; everywhere professing Jesus as the 
Christ; and although he bad often been imprisoned and 
liis life had been endangered several times, yet in the 
greatest perils he showed an undaunted courage and 
great presence of mind. Mesopotamia, Persia, Egypt, 
Bokhara, witnessed his ardent zeal, lie preached ev- 
erywhere — at one time in this language, at another time 
in a different one; distributed the Holy Scriptures in 
the various languages of the East; and wherever he 
went he understood how to interest the most prominent 
men and women in his behalf. In 1837 Wolff arrived 
in America, to be ordained by bishop Doane of New 
Jersey. After spending some time in this country, he 
left New York Jan. 2, 1838, for England. Here he at 
first occupied a small incumbency at Lintlnvaitc, in 
Yorkshire; but as the climate was too cold for the 
health of his wife (lady Georgiana Walpole, daughter 
of the count of Oxford), Wolff exchanged that pastoral 
charge for the curacy of High Hoy land, in the county 
of York, and there he remained for nearly five years. 
At the beginning of the year 1843, Wolff heard of the 
imprisonment of colonel Stoddart and captain Conolly 
in Bokhara, and this induced him to proceed to that 
place in order to ascertain their whereabouts. From 
what he learned on this his most dangerous journey, he 
was convinced that Stoddart and Conolly were dead. 
In 1844 he returned to England and received the parish 
in He Brewers. Here he labored for the remainder of 
his life, and died May 2, 18132. Before his death he fill- 
tilled the promise made by him many years before to 
the Armenian and Greek patriarchs of helping them to 
establish hostels in Cambridge and Oxford: the Bev. 
George Williams, senior fellow of King’s College, Cam- 
bridge, assisted and co-operated with him in this under- 
taking. Wolff published, Researches and Missionary 
Labors among the Jews, etc. (Loud. 1835) : — Missionary 
Journal and Memoir , written by himself (revised and 
edited by J. Bagford, ibid. 1824) : — Missionary Journal , 
vol. iii (ibid. 1829): — Journal giving an Account of his 
Missionary Labors from the Year 1827 to 1831, and 
from 1835 to 1838 (ibid. 1839): — Narrative of a Mis- 
sion to Bokhara in the Years 1843-45 (2 ed. ibid. 1845. 
2 vols.):— but the most interesting are his Travels and 
A d ventures of the Rev. Joseph Wolff (ibid. 18G1). The 
latter forms the basis of Dr. H. Seiigelmann’s Dr. Joseph 
Wolff: ein I Tandet'leben (Hamburg, 18G3). (B. P.) 

'Wolfgang, St., and bishop of Batisbon in the 
10th century, belonged to a noble family of Alcmanni, 
,jand was a pupil of the Convent of Beichenau, which, in 
the early half of that century, possessed the best school 
among the convents of Germany, and of Wurzburg, 
where lie had the misfortune to explain a passage in 
Martian Capella ( De Nuptiis Philulogue et Mercurii) 
more thoroughly than his teacher, a learned Italian 
named Stephen, was able to do, and to be refused further 
instruction in consequence. In 956 he accompanied 
archbishop Henry of Treves to his diocese, and became 
a teacher of youth and clean of the clergy. On the 
death of the archbishop in 964, Wolfgang retired to the 
monastery of Einsiedeln, and became an example of 
faithful asceticism to his brother monks. Bishop Ulric 
of Augsburg ordained him to the priesthood, and he 
thereupon resolved to engage in missionary labors. He 
travelled through Alcmaunia and Noricum to Pannonia; 


WOLLASTON 


1031 


WOLSEY 


but, meeting with less success than he had expected, he 
accepted a call to visit bishop Pilgrim of Passau, and was 
soon afterwards, through that prelate’s influence, chosen 
bishop of Ilatisbon, and invested with the staff, lie 
was consecrated and enthroned in St. Peter’s Church by 
archbishop Frederick of Salzburg and his suffragans in 
973. Soon afterwards he persuaded his chapter to ac- 
cede to the wish of the Bohemians for a separation of 
their country from the diocese of Ratisbon, and its erec- 
tion into an independent see; and he also supplied the 
Monastery of St. Emmerau, over which the bishops of 
Ratisbon had always presided, with a regular abbot, and 
set apart a portion of the cathedral possessions for the 
support of the monks. He furthermore reformed the 
nunneries of Upper and Lower Minister at Ilatisbon, 
whose occupants, being generally of noble family, ar- 
gued that they, as canonesscs rather than regular nuns, 
were not required to practice so strict an asceticism as 
nuns; the end being accomplished through the zeal of 
the nuns of the new convent of Middle Minister which 
he founded. lie was equally zealous and judicious in 
his care over the material and spiritual interests of his 
secular clergy and over the moral and physical needs 
of the common people. He was immovably loyal to the 
emperor, so that duke Henry if of Bavaria was unable 
to persuade him to become a supporter of the rebellion 
against Otho II ; and when Henry submitted, Wolfgang 
built as a thank-offering the crypt at St. Emmerau. He 
accompanied the emperor’s suite in the campaign of 
978. On the return the army was pursued by the 
French, and, on reaching a swollen river, was in danger 
of being cut to pieces because the soldiers feared to at- 
tempt tlie crossing. Wolfgang thereupon plunged into 
the stream, and the army, emboldened by his exam- 
ple, escaped without the loss of a man. His influence 
led to a better cultivation of the East Marches of Bava- 
ria. He built the Castle of Wieselberg as a defence 
against the inroads of the Hungarians, lie also edu- 
cated the children of duke Henry, the oldest of whom 
became at a later day the emperor of Germany. After 
administering the episcopal office during twenty -one 
years, he died at Puppingen, Oct. 31, 994, and was buried 
in a chapel of St. Emmcran’s. See Othlo, Vita Wolf 
kangi, in Pcrtz, Monum . Germ. vol. vi; Calles, Ann. 
Kccles. Germ. vol. iv; Arnold do Vochberg, in Canisius, 
iii, 1; Ilied, Cod. Uiplom. i, 106 sq.; Holland, in Pauli 
Vit. S. Krhardi ad Jan. p. 538; Zirngibl, in Neue Ab- 
handl. d. bairisch. Akademie, iii, 1793, p. C79 sq. ; Ilett- 
berg, Kirchengesch. Deutschlands, ii, 268 sq. ; Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop. s. v, 

"Wollaston, Francis, LL.T)., an English clergy- 
man, a grandson of William Wollaston, was born in 
1731 ; became rector of Chiselhurst, in Kent, and died in 
1815. lie published, Address to the Clergy , etc. (1772) : 
— Queries relating to the Book of Common Prayer 
(1774): — and several astronomical works. 

Wolsey, Thomas, a celebrated English cardinal 
and statesman, was born at Ipswich, in March, 1471. 
He is said to have been the son of a butcher named 
Robert Wolsey, and his wife Joan, who were poor but 
reputable, and possessed sufficient means to give their 
son the best education his native town afforded, and 
then to send him to Magdalen College, Oxford, where 
he graduated at the age of fifteen, and gained by his 
early advancement the sobriquet of “ the boy-bach clor.” 
He was soon after chosen a fellow of his coliege, and on 
taking his master’s degree was appointed teacher of 
Magdalen grammar-school, and was ordained. In 1498 
he was made bursar of the college, and has the credit 
of building Magdalen Tower about this time. While 
at Oxford he became acquainted with Erasmus (q. v.), 
and united his efforts with those of that eminent schol- 
ar for the promotion of letters. But in subsequent 
years, as Wolsey began to advance in position and pre- 
ferment, while Erasmus continued to live the life of a 
mere scholar, the intimacy which existed between them 


began to diminish into a mere courteous formality, 
which circumstance drew from Erasmus the opinion, 
when Wolsey fell, that he was not worthy of the honor 
which he had received. While teaching at Magdalen 
College Wolsey acted as tutor to the three sons of the 
marquis of Dorset. By this means an acquaintance, 
sprang up between Wolsey and the marquis which re- 
sulted in giving the former his first ecclesiastical pre- 
ferment — viz. the rectory of Lymington, in Somerset- 
shire, conferred on him in 1500. While here he fell 
into disgrace. Being at a fair in the neighborhood, lie 
was engaged in some kind of disorderly conduct (possi- 
bly drunk, as has been charged), and was arrested by 
one Sir Amias Poulct, a justice of the peace, and put 
in the stocks. The indignity was remembered by 
Wolsey, and when he became chancellor, Sir Amias 
was imprisoned for six years by his order. lie next 
became domestic chaplain to Ilcnry Dean, archbishop 
of Canterbury, and on his death, in 1503, was appointed 
chaplain to Sir John Nafant, through whose influence 
he became chaplain to King Henry VII. In 1504 he 
received the rectory of Redgrave, in Norfolk, which con- 
stituted his third living. His influence and favor at 
court were rapidly increasing, and in February, 1508, 
the king gave him the deanery of Lincoln and two preb- 
ends in the same church. 

The death of the king in the following year brought 
to the throne a sovereign of a very different character 
from the one who had just left it. Great changes were 
to be made at court by Ilenry VIII; but amid them 
all Wolsej" managed to be not only retained, but pro- 
moted still further. Many circumstances favored his 
promotion, lie was in the prime of life; he was ac- 
customed to the court for which his manners and ad- 
dress peculiarly fitted him; and he also held an impor- 
tant place in the Church. Added to this, there, were an- 
imosities between the Earl of Surrey, the lord-treasurer, 
and Fox, the bishop of Winchester, who was also keeper 
of the privy seal and secretary of state. Fox, desiring 
to strengthen his own influence by placing one of his 
friends and adherents near the king, made Wolsey the 
king’s almoner. The adroit courtier rose so rapidly in 
the king’s estimation that he did almost as he pleased. 
He studied to please the young king by joining in in- 
dulgences which, however suitable to the gave tv of a 
court, were ill becoming the character of an ecclesiastic. 
Yet amid the luxuries which lie promoted in his royal 
master, he did not neglect to inculcate maxims of state, 
and present to him the advantages of a system of favor- 
itism which he secretly hoped would one day result in 
his own advancement. Before the year of the king’s 
accession had closed, he had become lord almoner, and 
had been presented with valuable lands and houses in 
London. In 1510 he became rector of Torrington ; in 
1511, canon of Windsor and registrar of the Order of the 
Garter; in 1512, prebendary of York; in 1513, dean of 
York and bishop of Tournav, in France; in 1514, bishop 
of Lincoln, and in the same year archbishop of York. 
In 1515 he was made a cardinal, and succeeded Warham 
as chancellor. In 1516 the pope made him legate a la- 
tere, , a commission which gave him great wealth and 
almost unlimited power over the English clergy, lie 
also farmed the revenues of certain dioceses which were 
held by foreign bishops, appropriating a good share to 
his own use, and received stipends from the kings of 
France and Spain and the doge of Venice. Thus Wol- 
sey had secured to himself the whole power of the state, 
both civil and ecclesiastical, and derived from various 
sources an amount of revenue hitherto unknown to any 
but the royalty. Yet his ambition was not satisfied, 
lie aspired to the papacy, and had a considerable fol- 
lowing in 1522 as candidate for the place left vacant by 
Leo X, and again in 1523 for that of Adrian AT. 

Wolsey was fond of display, and indulged that fond- 
ness to a degree never before approached by a subject. 
At York Place (now Whitehall) his residence was fur- 
nished with every luxury; and at Hampton Court he 


WOLSEY 


1032 


WOOD 


built for himself a palace which he eventually presented 
to the king. II is dress was gorgeous, his manner of 
living sumptuous, and his household consisted of more 
than live hundred persons, among whom were many 
people of rank — lords, earls, and the like. Vet while 
liis train of servants consisted of these persons, his 
house was a school where their sons were educated and 
initiated into public life. While he was dazzling the 
eyes or insulting the feelings of people by an ostenta- 
tion of gorgeous furniture and equipage, lie was a gen- 
eral and liberal patron of literature and art. lie pro- 
moted learning with a munificent hand. He estab- 
lished lectureships, professorships, and colleges at his 
own expense, lie was the founder of a college, or 
school, at Ipswich which, for a time, rivalled the 
schools of Eton and Winchester, but was discontinued 
at the cardinal’s fall. He also founded Cardinal’s 
College at Oxford, which remains to-day as Christ 
Church. 

lie was an opponent of the Lutheran Reformation, 
and manifested his zeal against it in 1521, by procuring 
the condemnation of Luther’s doctrines in an assembly of 
divines held at his own house, lie also published the 
pope’s bull against Luther, and endeavored to suppress 
his writings in England. But lie was always lenient 
towards English Lutherans, and one article of his im- 
peachment was that he was remiss in punishing here- 
tics. II is ecclesiastical administration was exceedingly 
corrupt, furnishing to all clergymen an example of hold- 
ing many preferments without performing the duties of 
any of them. The effect of this was to sow in England 
many of the seeds of the Reformation which followed. 
In 1528 he resigned the see of Durham for that of 
Winchester; but to the latter place he never went. 
About this time was the beginning of difficulties, the 
end of which he might have foreseen, but had no power 
to avert. Henry VIII desired to employ the cardinal's 
talents in aid of his proposed divorce from queen Cath- 
erine and marriage with Anne Eoleyn. But his tardy 
efforts and rigid adherence to legal forms and technical- 
ities greatly exasperated the king, who was not to be 
trifled with even in the gratification of his baser pas- 
sions. Unfortunately, too, for Wolsey, his conduct had 
been such as to inspire the hatred of both the queen 
and her rival. Catherine knew that he had taken 
steps towards procuring her divorce, and Anne Boleyn 
knew that he was using his influence against her mar- 
riage with the king. Added to this enmity in high 
place were the jealousy and opposition of the numerous 
aspirants for preferment who had been less successful 
than himself. With such a combination against him, 
his fall was speedily and relentlessly accomplished. 

On the first day of the term, Oct. 0, 1520, while he 
was opening the court of chancery at Westminster, the 
attorney-general indicted him in the court of King’s 
Bench for procuring a bull from Rome appointing him 
legate, contrary to the statute, by which he had in- 
curred a pi'wmitmrc, and forfeited all his goods to the 
king and might be imprisoned. The king immediately 
sent and demanded the great seal from him, and or- 
dered him to leave his magnificent palace at York 
Place. Before leaving this place he made an inventory 
of the furniture, plate, and other works of art, which he 
had added, and it is said to have amounted to the im- 
mense sum of five hundred thousand crowns. From 
thence he started to Esher, near Hampton Court, and 
was met on the wav, as lie was riding from Putney on 
his mule, by a messenger who assured him that he still 
retained his place in tire royal favor, and presented him 
with a ring which the king employed as a token to give 
credit to the bearer. The message was received by 
Wolsey with the humblest expressions of gratitude; 
but he seems not to have credited the mockery, as he 
proceeded on his way to Esher. Wolsey might have 
produced in his own defence against the indictment 
the king’s letters-patent authorizing him to accept the 
pope’s bull; but he merely instructed his attorney to I 


plead, in his absence, his entire ignorance of the statute, 
and that he acknowledged other particulars with which 
he was charged, and submitted himself to the king’s 
mercy. The court, however, passed the sentence that 
he was “out of the protection, and his lands, goods, and 
chattels forfeit, and his person might be seized.” His 
enemies continued their prosecutions. Forty-four ar- 
ticles were presented against him to the House of Lords, 
which were to serve as the basis of his utter ruin. But 
lie had already suffered almost as much punishment as 
it was possible to inflict upon him, and Parliament 
could do little more than sanction what had already 
been done. Wolsey also found a friend in Thomas 
Cromwell, formerly his steward, subsequently earl of 
Essex, who defended him with such spirit and elo- 
quence as materially to change the tide of his fortunes. 
1 1 is speech had the effect to cause the Commons to re- 
ject the articles, and this brought the proceedings of 
the lords to a standstill. During his residence at Esh- 
er, the cardinal’s health was found to be declining rap- 
idly, and the king was induced, from the impression 
that it was mental rather than physical trouble that 
was preying upon his vitality, to show him such kind- 
ness as revived his spirits at once. Henry also granted 
him, Feb. 12, 1530, a free pardon for all crimes and mis- 
demeanors, a few days afterwards restored to him a large 
part of his revenues, and allowed him to remove from 
Esher to Richmond. From thence he was removed to 
the archbishop’s seat at Southwell; and then his resi- 
dence was fixed at Cawood Castle, which he began to 
repair, and was beginning to gain favor with the peo- 
ple when the king had him arrested for high-treason, 
and ordered him to be brought to London. He set out 
on Nov. 1, 1530, but on the road he was seized with 
a disorder which ended his life at Leicester Abbey on 
the 28th of the month. During his last hours he gave 
utterance to the expression, “If I had served my God 
as diligently as I have served my king, he would not 
have given me over to my enemies.” 

“ Wolsey attained his elevation by a winning address, 
combined with shrewdness, talent, and learning. His 
ambition was unlimited, his rapacity great ; he was ar- 
rogant and overbearing, and extremely fond of splendor 
and parade. But he was a great minister, enlightened 
beyond the age in which he lived, diligent in business, 
and a good servant to the king; for when his author- 
ity was established, he checked the king’s cruelty, re- 
strained many of his caprices, and kept his passion 
within bounds. The latter part of Henry's reign was 
very far more criminal than that during which the 
cardinal presided over his counsels.” See Henry 
TUI. 

See the Life of Wolsey by Cavendish, his gentleman- 
usher (Loud. 1041), Galt (1812), Howard (1824), and 
Martin (1862) ; Williams, Lives of the English Cardinals 
(Loml. 1808) ; Brewer, Letters and Papers, Foreign and 
Domestic, of llenry VI II (1870-75); and the several 
Histories of England. 

Womb (usually *(122? yaarijp, both meaning belly, 
as often rendered; but the distinctive term is trn). 
The fruit of the womb is children (Gen. xxx, 2), and 
the Psalmist describes them as the blessing of marriage 
(Psa. cxxvii, 3-5). See Child. 

Wood (usually yV, also rendered “tree;” £7'\or). 
The East, especially Egypt (Ilasselquist, p.70; Norden, 
p. SGI), is remarkably destitute of forests, and Palestine is 
nearly as barren of them, except in some of the northern 
and eastern districts. See Tree. Consequently the inhab- 
itants are obliged to use. instead of fire-wood, dried grass 
(Matt, vi, 30; Luke xii, 28), or plants, leaves, straw (Matt, 
iii, 12; Mishna, Sliabb. iii, 1), and, in the absence of these, 
dung (Ezek. iv, 12, 15; sec Prokesch, Er inner, ii. 248), 
and in Babylon mineral pitch (Diod. Sic. ii, 12). Comp. 
Korte, Ileis. p. 577; Taverner, q 280; Arvienx, i, 152; 
I Robinson, i, 342 ; iii, 293 ; Wellsted, ii, GO. See Fuel. 


WOOD 


1033 


WOODBRIDGE 


An unusual supply was required for the sacrificial fire. 
See Buiint-offkiuxg. Charcoal was also used. See 
Coal. That the advantage of forests was a common 
property does not follow from Lam. iv, 4, and is of itself 
very improbable in a land where a strict system of pro- 
prietorship was in vogue. For the various fabrics of 
this material, see Handicraft. The chief trades con- 
cerned were carpenters (Exod. xxxv, 30 sq.), cabinet- 
makers (xxv, 10 sq. ; xxxvii, 1, 10, 15, 25, etc.), wheel- 
wrights (Judg. iv, 13; 1 Sam. vi, 7 ; 1 Kings vii, 33; ix, 
19; II os. x, 11, etc.), basket- weavers (Numb, vi, 15 sq. ; 
Deut. xxvi, 2, 4 ; Judg. vi, 19), and (unlawfully) image- 
carvers. See InoL. On the other hand, we find no 
trace of cooperage (not even in Jer. xlviii, 12, where 
□ denotes not casks, but vessels generally). An- 
ciently, as still, the Orientals used leather bottles, horns, 
and jars, instead of barrels; but pails (wooden buckets) 
were probably unknown (Lev. xv, 12 V). The tools of 
wood-workers were the axe or hatchet (D“^ or 
the saw (^1^*2), the plane (Sirup'S ?), and the auger 
(Talm. rnp -, Mishna, Chel. xiii, 4). See, generally, Bel- 
lerman, Ihindb. i, 232 sq. — Winer. As ships were not 
built by the Hebrews, and stone was the ready material 
for building, architecture had little use for wood. See 
IloUSli. 

Wood, Janies (1), D.D., an eminent Presbyterian 
divine, was born at Greenfield, N. Y., J uly 12, 1799. He 
graduated at Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., in 1822; 
studied theology in the Seminary at Prineeton, N. J. ; 
was licensed by Albany Presbytery, and ordained and 
installed in 182G as pastor of the Church at Amster- 
dam, N. Y., and retained this connection until 1833, 
when he been me agent for the Presbyterian Board 
of Education, laboring in the states of Louisiana, Mis- 
sissippi, and Alabama with marked success; became 
professor of Biblical literature in the Theological Sem- 
inary at New Albany, Ind., in 1839; associate secretary 
of the Board of Education in 1854; president of Han- 
over College, Hanover, Ind., from 1859 to 186G; presi- 
dent of Van liensselaer Institute, Hightstown, N. J., from 
18GG until his death, April 7, 1 867. Dr. Wood was a 
man of mark in his day, and occupied many prominent 
places of usefulness. In the controversies which re- 
sulted in the division of the Presbyterian Church, he 
was a very able and successful writer. His work en- 
titled Old and New Theology is the most comprehensive, 
and the fullest exhibition of the reasons which led to 
the disruption that has ever been published. Its temper, 
tact, and conclusiveness are admirable. Dr. Hodge, late 
professor in the Theological Seminary, Princeton, N. J., 
wrote as follows: “ In common with all his brethren, I 
ever regarded him as one of our best, wisest, and most 
useful ministers. The important positions which he was 
called upon to fill are proofs of the high estimation in 
which he was held. His sound judgment, dignified man- 
ners, amiable temper, combined with his learning and 
energy, secured for him a wide and happy influence in 
the Church.” Dr. Wood was the author of a Treatise 
on Baptism (1850, 12mo): — Call to the Sacred Office : — 
The Best Lesson and Best Time: — The Gospel Fountain 
(18mo): — Old and New Theology (1855, 12mo) : — Grace 
and Glory (18G0, 18mo). He published also four edu- 
cational pamphlets, and contributed a Memoir of the 
A uthor to Itev. James Matthews’s Influence of the Bible , 
cte. (Phila.). See Wilson, Presb. llist. Almanac, 18G8. 
p. 154 ; Alii bone, Diet, of Brit . and Amer . Authors , s. v. 
(J. L. S.) 

Wood, James (2), D.D., an English clergyman, 
was born about 1760; educated at St.John’s College, 
Cambridge; became dean of Ely in 1820; and died at 
Cambridge in April, 1839. He was eo-author of a val- 
uable series of mathematical works known as the Cam- 
bridge Course of Mathematics. 

Wood, Jeremiah, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Greenfield, Saratoga Co., N. Y.,Nov. 11, 1801. 


After graduation at Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., 
in 1824, lie entered Princeton Theological Seminary, and 
remained there over two years, but without completing 
the course. lie was licensed by the Albany Presbytery 
in August, 182G, and began preaching at Mayfield, N.Y., 
within the bounds of the presbytery, in November of 
that year. He was ordained as an* evangelist by t he 
Presbytery of Albany, Jan. 10, 1828, and continued his 
work as a stated supply at Mayfield until Sept. 2, 1840, 
and after twelve years was installed as pastor, lie con- 
tinued in this field through a period of nearly half a 
century. Dr. Wood was a man of clear intellect, and 
possessed unusual power as a debater and pulpit orator. 
He was a wise counsellor, and his opinions always com- 
manded respect among his brethren. His deep piet}', 
consistent life, and faithful labors made him an uncom- 
monly successful pastor, and he was deeply beloved by 
his people. During his long ministry he was permitted 
to witness many powerful and glorious revivals among 
the people of his charge. In one of these in 1873 the 
membership of his Church was almost doubled. He 
died suddenly, June 6, 187G. (W. P. S.) 

Wood, Nathaniel Milton, I).D.,a Baptist min- 
ister, was born at Camden, Me., May 24, 1822, and was 
a graduate of Waterville College in* the class of 1814. 
For a year after leaving college he was private tutor in 
the family of Gen. Browning, of Columbus, Miss, lie 
pursued his theological studies at Covington, Ky., and 
was ordained as pastor of the Baptist Church in Bloom- 
field, Me., May 13, 1848, where he remained four years. 
The following eight years he was pastor of the Baptist 
Church in Waterville, Me. His next pastorates were 
at Lewiston and Thomaston, Me., and Upper Alton, 111., 
until March, 1872, when he was elected professor of 
systematic theology in Slnirtleff College. The state 
of his health compelled him to resign his office in June, 
1874. lie returned east, and lived a little over two 
years, dying at Camden, his native place, Aug. 2, 1876. 
(J. C. S.) 

Wood, Samuel (1), D.D., a Congregational min- 
ister, was born at Mansfield, Conn., May 11, 1752. From 
an early period he determined to enter the ministry, 
but it was not till he was twenty-two years old that he 
began his preparation for it. Under Lev. Isaiah Potter, 
of Lebanon, N. IT., he prepared to enter Dartmouth Col- 
lege, from which he graduated in 1779. Seven weeks 
after his graduation he was licensed to preach. In Oc- 
tober, 1781, he accepted a call to the Church at Bos- 
cawen,and here he continued to preach until May, 1802. 
A new society was formed in the town at that time, 
and of this, although the smaller parish, he became 
the pastor. He never fully recovered from an attack 
of a violent disease in 1828. Ilev. Salmon Bennett 
was installed as colleague pastor with Dr. Wood in 
December, 1832, but after four years Dr. Wood was 
again sole pastor. For twenty years he officiated gra- 
tuitously as superintendent of the schools in the town; 
and was influential in establishing a library and an 
academy. He died in Boscawen, N. II., Dee. 24, 183G. 
lie fitted a large number of young men for college, lie 
was an earnest and impressive preacher. See Sprague, 
Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , ii, 1G9. 

Woodbridge, Benjamin, D.D., a Congrega- 
tional minister, brother of Ilev. John Woodbridge of 
Newbury, Mass., was born in Wiltshire, England, in 
1G22. lie removed to America, and was the first grad- 
uate of Harvard College. Heturni ng to England, he 
succeeded the famous Dr. Twiss at Newbury, where he 
gained a great reputation as a preacher, scholar, and 
casuist. Having been ejected in 1GG2 on account of his 
nonconformity, lie continued to preach privately; and 
in 1671 resumed his publie labors. He had been min- 
ister of Newbury nearly forty years, and died at Iti- 
glefield, Berks, Nov. 1, 1G84. See Sprague, Annals of 
the Ajne?\ Pulpit , i, 131. 

Woodbridge, Timothy, D.D., a Presbyterian 


WOODFORD 


1034 


WOODS 


divine, was born at Stnckbridge, Mass., Nov. 24, 1784. 
His maternal grandfather was the lirst president Ed- 
wards, and his paternal ancestry embraced a long line 
of venerable ministers, reaching back to the very early 
settlement of New England. He was educated at Will- 
iams College, and while there he lost the sight of both 
eyes, and the remainder of his life was passed in total 
blindness. In 1809 he entered the Theological Sem- 
inary at Andover, and in due time was regularly li- 
censed to preach; in 181(5 he was ordained pastor of 
the Church at (ireen River, Columbia Co., N. Y., where 
he continued, laboring with great zeal and diligence, 
twenty -six years; in 1812 he became pastor of the 
Church at Speucertown, N. Y., where he remained till 
187)1, when he resigned his pastoral charge; since that 
time he lived in comparative retirement until his death, 
Dee. 7, 1802. Dr. Woodbridgc had an intellect of much 
more than common vigor, and a memory that held ev- 
erything deposited in it. Ilis preaching was evangel- 
ical, earnest, impressive. “ It may reasonably be doubt- 
ed whether, as a ‘blind preacher,’ he had his equal since 
the days of Waddel.” lie published The Autobiogra- 
phy of a Blind Preacher (Boston, 185G, 12mo), includ- 
ing sketches of the men and events of his time. See 
Barton, Life of Burr , cli. xxxiii ; Sprague, Discourse 
at the Funeral of Rev . Timothy Wooclbridge, D.l). (Al- 
bany, 18G3, Svoj; Wilson, Prcsb . /list. Almanac, 1864, 
p. 325; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. A uthors , s. v. 
(J. L. S.) 

Woodford, Samuel, D.D., an English divine, was 
born in London in 1G3G, and educated at Wadham Col- 
lege, Oxford. lie studied law at the Inner Temple, but 
entered into holy orders in 1GG9. lie became rector 
of Ilartley-Maudit, Hampshire; prebendary of Chiches- 
ter in 1G7G, and of Winchester in 1680. He died in 
1700. He was the author of, A Poem on the Return 
of King Charles II (1GG0): — A Paraphrase upon the 
Psalms of David (1CG7): — and A Paraphrase upon the 
Canticles and Some Select Hymns of the New and Old 
Testaments, with Other Occasional Compositions in Eng- 
lish Verse (IG79). In this last he examines Milton’s 
blank verse and commends his recently published Par- 
adise Lost. See Wood (Bliss’s ed.), A thence Oxoniensis, 
iv, 731. 

Woodhouse, John Ciiappel, D.D., an English 
clergyman, was born in 1748, and educated at Christ 
Church, Oxford, where lie graduated A.M. in 1773. lie 
became rector of Donnington in the same year, preben- 
dary of Bocliester in 1797, prebendary of Lichfield and 
archdeacon of Salop in 1798, dean of Lichfield in 1807, 
and rector of Stoke-upon-Trent in 1814. He died Nov. 
17, 1833. He published The J pocalypse, or Revelation of 
St. John , Translated •; with Notes, Critical, etc. (1805) : — 
Annotations on the Apocalypse , etc. (1828): — and some 
Sermons. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit . and A mer. A u- 
thors, s. v. 

Woodhull, John, D.D., a Presbyterian divine, 
was born in Suffolk County, L. I., Jan. 26, 1744. He 
graduated at the College of New Jersey in 17GG, studied 
theology privately, was licensed to preach by the Pres- 
bytery of Newcastle, Aug. 10, 1768, and was ordained 
and installed pastor of the Leacock congregation, Lan- 
caster Co., Pa., Aug. 1, 1770. In 1779 he became pas- 
tor of a congregation in Freehold, N. J., where he re- 
mained until his death, Nov. 22, 1824. Dr. Woodhull 
was a popular and useful minister, distinguished for 
his skill and tact in ecclesiastical bodies. lie published 
a Sermon in the New Jersey Preacher (1813). See 
Sprague, A muds of the, Amer. Pulpit, iii, 304; Allibone, 
Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. ; Timlow, Hist. 
Scrm. 

Woodhull, Selah Strong, D.D., a (Dutch) lie- 
formed minister, was born in New York city, Aug. 4, 
178G. At the age of twelve, while a freshman in Co- 
lumbia College, he lost both his parents. He then 
went to Yale College, graduated in 1802, studied theol- 


ogy under his uncle, Rev. Dr. Woodhull, of Freehold, 
N. J., and afterwards at Princeton with Dr. Henry Kol- 
lock, and was licensed to preach at the age of nineteen 
by the Presbytery of New Brunswick (1805). After 
one year of service as pastor of the Presbyterian Churcli 
of Boundbrook, N. J., lie removed to Brooklyn, and un- 
til 1825 continued the popular and useful minister of 
the First Deformed Church in that city. lie was then 
(1825) elected by the General Synod of the Church as 
professor of ecclesiastical history and pastoral theology 
in the Theological Seminary, and by the trustees of Rut- 
gers College as their professor of metaphysics and phi- 
losophy. These eminent positions he accepted, and 
entered upon his duties with ardor in November of that 
year. But, after only four months of hard labor, be died 
from an inflammatory fever, Feb. 27, 1826. For five 
years he was secretary for domestic correspondence of 
the American Bible Society (1820-25), an office which 
he discharged until his removal to New Brunswick 
with great assiduity and success. In 1814 he held a 
commission as chaplain in the United States army, and 
officiated during part of the existing war with Great 
Britain. He was stated clerk of the General Synod, 
1818-20, and its president in 1821. His great business 
capacity led to his selection for these and many other 
important positions, in all of which he commanded uni- 
versal confidence. He was the impersonation of activ- 
ity, decision, energy, and persevering industry. He was 
a diligent student, a faithful pastor, an instructive, me- 
thodical, solemn, earnest, practical, graceful, and attrac- 
tive preacher. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pul- 
pit, ix, 161-164; Livingston [Dr. J.H.j, Memoir, p.401- 
402 ; Corwin, Manual of the Reformed Church in A mer - 
ica, p. 271. (W.J.R.T.) 

Woodroffe, Benjamin, I). I)., an English clergy- 
man, was born at Oxford in 1638, and was educated at 
Christ Church, Oxford, where he became a tutor. He 
became chaplain to her Majesty’s ship “Royal Prince,” 
and prebendary of Oxford in 1672, prebendary of Lich- 
field in 1678, principal of Gloucester Hall in 1692. and 
died in 1711. lie published The Fall of Babylon 
(1690) and other works. See Allibone, Diet . of Brit, 
and Amer. A uthors, s. v. 

Woods, James Sterrett, D.D., a Presbyterian 
divine, was born in Cumberland County, Pa.. April 18, 
1793. He pursued his academical studies in Hopewell 
Academy, Pa.; graduated at Dickinson College, Pa.: 
studied theology in the Princeton Theological Semi- 
nary, N. J.; was licensed by the Presbytery of New 
Brunswick in 1817 ; and labored as an evangelist from 
1819 to 1822 in the valley of the Juniata, embracing 
Mac Yey town, Newton, Hamilton, and Shirlevsbnrg, 
where he laid the foundations of the present churches. 
In 1822 he was called to take charge of the Lewistown 
and' Mac Yey town churches; in 1823 he became pas- 
tor of the Church of Lewistown alone, and remained 
there until the time of his death in 1862. “ Dr. Woods,” 
says Rev. G. Elliott, “was remarkable for his candor, 
his modesty, and his magnanimity.” To the work of 
preaehing the Gospel he devoted his life. Textual, 
evangelical, methodical, and earnest, his preaching ev- 
erywhere commanded attention and secured edifica- 
tion, See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1863, p. 216. 
(J. L. S.) 

Woods, Leonard, D.D., an eminent Congrega- 
tional divine, was born at Princeton, Mass., June 19, 
1774. His father had intended him for a farmer; but, as 
he early exhibited a strong desire for knowledge, his 
mother’s wishes at last gained the ascendency, and he 
was sent to school at Leicester under Prof. Ebenezer Ad- 
ams, and graduated at Harvard College in 1796 with the 
highest honor. lie left college with a mind imbued 
with Priestley’s speculations and unsettled by material- 
istic notions. He taught school at Medford for eight 
months, also pursuing a systematic course of reading, 
lie was interested, however, in his spiritual welfare, 


WOODS 


1035 


WORCESTEI 


and, by the advice of his college and life-long friend, 
Dr. John If. Church, he read the Life of Doddridge and 
other spiritual books, and after many hard struggles he 
came out into the light and liberty of the Gospel. He now 
put himself under the theological training of Dr. Charles 
Backus of Somers, and in 1798 was ordained pastor of the 
Church in Newbury, Mass. In 1808 the Andover The- 
ological Seminary was established, Dr. Spring giving up, 
for the sake of unity and harmony, his project of an 
institution to be founded at Newburyport in the inter- 
ests of Hopkinsian theology. Mr. Woods was appoint- 
ed professor of theology, and held that position until 
his retirement in 184G. The remainder of his life was 
spent in preparing for the press his theological lectures 
and miscellaneous writings, and in writing a history of 
Andover Theological Seminary, which he left unfinish- 
ed. He died Aug. 24, 1851. 

In his theological opinions, Dr. Woods was an ortho- 
dox Calvinist, accepting the Assembly’s confession and 
catechism in the simple, historical sense of the lan- 
guage. lie was on terms of intimacy and friendship 
with some Hopkinsian divines, and he considered their 
divergences non-essential, never publicly controverting 
their views lest their differences should give advantage 
to those who were assailing the common faith. He 
had a fondness for metaphysical studies, and qualifica- 
tions for distinguished success in them. Facts, among 
which he gave the highest place to those of revelation, 
were the starting-point in his philosophy. From these, 
by careful induction, he came to general laws, then to a 
lawgiver, then to a universal government. Dr. Woods 
was patient, cautious, and earnest in his investigations, 
and his attainments came, not by genius, but bv steadi- 
ly pressing his inquiries further and further into the 
domain of science. “ He is emphatically the ‘ judicious’ 
divine of later New England theology” (II. B. Smith, 

D. D.). As a theological instructor, Dr. Woods was suc- 
cessful. Ilis pupils, of whom he had over one thou- 
sand, loved and venerated him. As a preacher, he was 
simple, lucid, scriptural, and instructive, yet he was 
often argumentative and taxed reason to her utmost, 
though never submitting the mysteries of godliness to 
her arbitration. As a writer, he was clear, pure, trans- 
parent, rigidly Anglo-Saxon. “ It is for his qualities as 
a man, a neighbor, a friend, and a Christian,” says Dr. 

E. A. Lawrence, one of his pupils, “that he will be 
cherished in most grateful and affectionate remem- 
brance.” lie had an open, manly character, the con- 
stant outflow of kindly feeling towards all, a warmth 
of affection and friendship, an humble piety, which made 
him peculiarly beloved by all who knew him. Dr. Woods 
took an important part in establishing those various 
benevolent societies and reforms which are an impor- 
tant feature of the 19th century. 

Besides many occasional sermons and orations, tracts 
for the Doctrinal Tract Society, and articles in the 
most prominent religious periodicals of his day, the fol- 
lowing are Dr. Woods’s most important works: Letter's 
to Unitarians (Andover, 1820, 8vo): — Reply to Dr. 
Ware's Letters to Trinitarians and Caleinists (ibid. 
1821): — Remarks on Dr. Ware's Answer (ibid. 1822): — 
Lectures on the Inspiration of the Scriptures (ibid. 1829; 
Glasgow, 1838, 12mo): — Letters to Rev . Nathaniel IF. 
Taylor , D.D. (1830): — Memoirs of American Mission- 
aries (1833, 12mo): — Examination of the Doctrine of 
Perfection as Held by Rev. Asa Mahan and Others 
(1811): — Reply to Mr. Mahan (eod.): — Lectures on 
Church Government , containing Objections to the Episco- 
pal Scheme (N. Y. 1843, 12mo): — Lectures on Sweden - 
borgianism (184G): — Theological Lectures and Miscella- 
neous Letters, Essays, and Sermons (Andover, 1849-50, 5 
vols. 8vo), highly recommended by Drs. Hodge, Burder, 
etc. : — Theology of the Puritans (1851). Dr. Woods con- 
tributed to Sprague’s A muds, an Introd. Essay to Ward- 
law’s Christian Ethics (N. Y. 1836), and wrote other mon- 
ographs. See Cong. Qnar. 1859, p. 105-124 (by Prof. E. 
A. Lawrence, D.D.) ; Sprague, A muds of the Amer. Pul- 


pit, ii, 438 sq. ; Allibone, Diet . of Brit, and Amer . Au- 
thors, s. v. See also Bill. Sacra, 1851, p. 25; Christian 
Examiner, li, 1 ; Amer. Theol. Rev. 18G2, p. 48. 

Woodward, Josiaii, D.D., an English clergy- 
man, was minister of Poplar, and afterwards of Maid- 
stone, and preached the Boyle Lecture in 1712. He 
published numerous works, among which may be noted 
Six Sermons to You fig Persons (1G97) :— Fair Warnings 
to a Careless World (eod.) : — Necessary Duty of Fam- 
ily Prayer (1701) -.—Divine, Original, and Incomparable 
Excellence of the Christian Religion as Founded on the 
Holy Scriptures (Boyle Lecture, 1712): — and Young 
Man's Monitor (13th ed. 1802). See Allibone, Diet, 
of Brit, and Amer. A uthors , s. v. 

Woolley, John, D.D., D.C.L., an English clergy- 
man, was educated at University College, London, and 
Exeter College, Oxford, where he graduated in 183G. 
He became successively head-master of Bossall School, 
Lancashire, and of King Edward’s Grammar-school, 
Norwich. Tie resigned the latter position in 1852, on 
becoming professor of logic and the classics in the Uni- 
versity of Sydney, Australia, of which he was elected 
principal. In 18G5 he paid a visit to England, and on his 
return voyage was lost in the “London,” Jan. 11, 18GG. 
lie published, Introduction to Logic (1840 ) -.—Sermon 
at Rossall College (1847): — and Lectures Delivered 
in Australia (18G3). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Woolton, John, D.D., an English prelate, was 
born at Wigan, Lancashire, in 1535. lie entered as stu- 
dent of Brasenosc College, Oxford, in 1553, and fled 
to his uncle. Dean Nowell, and the other exiles in 
Germany, in 1555. He returned to England in Queen 
Elizabeth’s reign, and was made canon residentiary of 
Exeter. lie also had the living of Spaxton, in the 
Diocese of Wells, and in 1575 became warden of Man- 
chester College. In 1579 lie was consecrated bishop 
of Exeter, and continued in that ofllce until his death, 
March 13, 1593 (O. S.). He was the author of, Christian 
Manuell; or, The Life and Maners of True Christians 
(157G) : — An Armour of Pr on fe (eod.): — Of the Con- 
science; a Discourse (eod.) : — A Treutise of the Immor- 
talitie of the Soule (cod.): — Newe Anatomie of Whole 
Man (eod.): — The Cast ell of Christians and Fortresse 
of the Faithfull (1 577) and David's Chain. See Chal- 
mers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Woolworth, Aakon, D.D., a Presbyterian divine, 
was born at Longmeadow, Mass., Oct. 25, 17G3. He 
graduated at Yale College in 1784; studied theology 
privately; was licensed to preach by the Eastern Asso- 
ciation of New London County; and was ordained and 
installed pastor of the Church in Bridgehampton, April 
30, 1787. Several powerful revivals of religion occur- 
red under his ministry, particularly one in 1800, an 
account of which was published in connection with 
Dr. Buell’s Narrative of an Extensive Revival in East 
Hampton. He died April 2, 1821. Dr. Woolworth 
was a man of remarkably sound judgment, deep piety 
and power as a preacher. See Sprague, A minis of the 
Amer. Pulpit, iii, 4G8; Prime, Hist, of Long Island ; 
Phillips, Funeral Sermon . 

Worcester, Noali, D.D., a Unitarian Congrega- 
tional minister, was born at Hollis, N. 1L, Nov. 25, 1758. 
Ilis opportunities for going to school ceased altogether 
in the winter of 1774-75. lie joined the army as a 
fifer in the spring of 1775, and continued in the service 
eleven months. In the campaign of 1777 he was in 
the army again for two months as fife major. In the 
winter of 177G-77 he was engaged in teaching school 
at Plymouth, and followed this occupation for nine 
successive winters. In Feb. 1782, he removed from 
Plymouth to Thornton, where he united with the Con- 
gregational Church. He engaged for some time in the 
study of theological questions in connection with his 
ordinary labors, and was licensed to preach in 178G. 
He was ordained and installed pastor of the Congre- 


WORCESTEI 


103G 


WORCESTEI 


Rational Church at Thornton, on Oct. 18 following, 
lie travelled in the employ of the New Hampshire 
Missionary Society ill 1803-4 in Northern New Hamp- 
shire. In 1810 he removed to Salisbury as assistant 
to his brother Thomas, and remained three years. In 
1813 he removed to Brighton, Mass., and began to 
edit The Christian Disciple , in which relation he con- 
tinued until the close of 1818. In 1819 he became edi- 
tor of The Friend of Peace, a quarterly w hich he con- 
ducted for ten years. lie died at Brighton, Oct. 31, 
1837. Among his publications may be mentioned Sol- 
emn Reasons for J helming to Adopt the Baptist Theory 
and Practice (1809): — Bible Xcics ; or, Sacred Truths 
relating to the Tiring God, his only Son, and lloly Spirit 
(1810): — Impartial Review of the Testimonies in Favor 
of the Divinity of the Son of God (1810): — Respectful 
Address to the Trinitarian Clergy (1812): — Solemn Re- 
view of the Custom of War, by Philo Pacificus (1814): 
and The A toning Sacrifice a Display of Tore, not of 
Wrath (1829). See Sprague, A nnals of the Amer. Pul- 
pit, viii, 191. 

Worcester, Samuel, D.D., an eminent Congre- 
gational minister and author, w'as born at Hollis, N. II., 
Nov. 1, 1770. He was of pious ancestry, being a de- 
scendant in the sixth generation of Rev. William, and 
in the third of Rev. Francis, Worcester. Every oppor- 
tunity for mental improvement was seized at the house 
of his father, who was a fanner, and at the age of twen- 
ty-one Samuel was possessed of an ardent desire for a 
thorough education. lie therefore entered the New 
Ipswich Academy, working his own way, and afterwards 
Dartmouth College, graduating with the highest hon- 
ors in 1793. He studied theology with Dr. Austin, of 
Worcester, taught school at Ilollis, and w r as principal 
of the New Ipswich Academy, 179G. The following 
year he w r as ordained pastor of the Church at Fitch- 
burg, a society w’hich was eursed by all the evils of the 
Half -■way Covenant — including among its members 
Deists, Arians, Universalists, and the openly immoral. 
With decision, inflexible integrity, and solemn faithful- 
ness to truth and duty, Worcester opened the batteries 
of the Gospel upon the errors and sins that called for 
rebuke. As a result, in the ensuing spring, the cove- 
nant w\as revised and an orthodox ereed adopted, and 
in 1799 an extensive revival occurred. A malignant 
spirit of opposition, however, was all the time de- 
veloped, and finally, under the leading of the Uni- 
versalists, was openly manifested. Under this influ- 
ence, the town voted a dissolution of their contract 
with the pastor, but a council of the Church unani- 
mously decided that he should remain, llis opponents 
now T conceived the design of organizing themselves into 
the First Church in Fitchburg, thus enabling them to 
take the place of the church of which Worcester w T as 
pastor, in the legal relations of the town to the minis- 
ter. Several ex parte councils w T ere called for this pur- 
pose, but they failed in accomplishing their designs. 
The point of contention ultimately arrived at w'as 
whether the tow'll should control the Church with ref- 
erence to the selection or dismission of her ministers, 
or whether the Church should do this with the con- 
currence of the tow’n acting as the parish, “according 
to the uniform ecclesiastical usage of New England.” 
This, the biographer of Dr. Worcester remarks, w'as the 
first organized attempt in Massachusetts at such a sub- 
jection of the Church. The fearlessness, ability, pa- 
tience, and skill of the pastor foiled the efforts of the 
disaffected, and the Church was saved from civil bond- 
age. A mutual council was at length chosen accord- 
ing to ecclesiastical usage, the Church and pastor were 
sustained, and— at his own request — he was regularly 
dismissed, Aug. 29, 1802. The following year he was 
installed over the Tabernacle Church, Salem, Mass., 
where he had an eminently happy, useful, and success- 
ful pastorate. In 1804 he declined a professorship of 
theology in Dartmouth College. 

In promoting the cause of missions and the circula- 


tion of the Scriptures, Dr. Worcester w'as very laborious. 
From 1803 to 1808, lie was the editor of the Massachu- 
setts Missiomm/ Magazine, for live years he w’as the sec- 
retary of the Massachusetts Missionary Society, and on 
t lie death of Dr. Spring lie was chosen its president. Ilis 
duties were important and arduous. lie aided in t lie for- 
mation of the Massachusetts Bible Society, its constitu- 
tion and the Address to the. Public having been prepared 
chiefly by him. It was on a ride in a chaise with Dr. 
Spring from Andover to Bradford to attend the General 
Association of Massachusetts that the first idea of the 
American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, 
in its form and administration, was suggested and devel- 
oped. The Association (1810) instituted the Board, Dr. 
Worcester being appointed one of the nine, and at the 
first meeting thereof he was chosen corresponding secre- 
tary. He came into his new’ office w'itli resources of in- 
tellect and of heart which were equal to the great respon- 
sibilities and toils imposed upon him. “ llis plans of be- 
nevolent action were based upon fundamental principles, 
and would bear the most thorough analysis; and for the 
same reason, the measures of the American Board adopt- 
ed in the early years of its existence are marked by 
pre-eminent wisdom ; and the distinguished men who 
have followed him in office have found little occasion 
to alter them.” Dr. Worcester’s constitution at length 
began to give way under the load of his exertions as 
pastor and secretary. A colleague pastor was installed 
in 1819, thus relieving him of three fourths of his min- 
isterial work. In 1821 he took a voyage to New Or- 
leans, with the intention of visiting the Choctaw and 
Cherokee nations for the double purpose of recruiting 
his health and promoting the Indian missions. The 
trip irritated rather than mitigated his disease. The 
weather during his stay in New Orleans and the jour- 
ney northward w r as unpropitious. After much suffer- 
ing, he reached Mayhew, in the Choctaw nation, and 
eighteen days after, Brainerd, Tenn. lie was now so 
w'eak that he had to be carried into the mission-house. 
He lingered resignedly for a few days, and on June 7, 
1821, passed peacefully away. 

As a preacher, Dr. Worcester was doctrinal, faithful, 
and luminous, though his manner was neither easy nor 
graceful; as a pastor, he was diligent, sympathetic, the 
poor and the sick sharing his special care. He had 
considerable musical talent, instructed in sacred music, 
and gave lectures on church psalmody and musie. His 
influence was felt much in ecclesiastical councils, and 
he w'as often called upon to adjudicate disputes and 
settle difficulties. He was a powerful debater, and 
some of his speeches were seldom rivalled even in ju- 
dicial and legislative assemblies. Dr. Worcester ever 
sympathized with his ministerial brethren, and frater- 
nized with those of other denominations. In spite of 
his catholicity of sentiment and peace-loving disposi- 
tion, he was thrice drawn into controversy. The pub- 
lications resulting therefrom are considered to class with 
the ablest ever written in the history of religious dispute. 

Besides numerous Sermons , Orations, and Addresses , 
Dr. Worcester is the author of the following: Six Ser- 
mons on the Doctrine of Eternal Judgment (1800) : — 
Summary View of the Fitchburg Ecclesiastical Affairs 
(1802): — Discourses on the Covenant with Abraham 
(Salem, 1805, 8vo): — Letters on Baptism to the Rev. 
Thomas Baldwin (1807): — Christian Psalmody (1814, 
4 pts.) : — Three Letters to Dr. W. E. Channing (Bos- 
ton, 1815, 8vo). In some respects these Letters are the 
greatest work of his life. They were occasioned by 
Channing’s Reply to Jeremiah Evarts’s Rcvieiv of A mer - 
ican Unitarianism in the Panoplist. The controversy 
eventuated in the doctrinal division of the Congrega- 
tional churches of Massachusetts. The Panoplist and 
Drs. Morse. Spring, and Worcester saved American Con- 
gregationalism from the advancing Unitarian tide: — 
IFutts’s Bgnins and Selections (ibid. 1818). More than 
300,000 have been circulated: — Sermons (posthumous, 
1823, 8vo): — First Ten Reports of the American Board 


WORDSWORTH 


1037 


WORMWOOD 


of Commissioners for Foreign Missions (1810-20; repub. 
1831). His Letters to Dr. Channing in connection with 
the Unitarian controversy, especially the last one, have 
been considered as almost unrivalled specimens of po- 
lemic theological discussion. 11 is published Sermons 
are rich in evangelical thought, and logically and lumi- 
nously presented by It. Anderson, D.D., in the Memorial 
Volume of the American Board of Commissioners for 
Foreign Missions ( 1862), p. 1 1 4. Of his three ministerial 
brothers — Noah, Thomas, and Leonard — the two former 
were able writers on the Unitarian side. II is son, the 
Ilev. Samuel M., D.D., became an author of some re- 
pute. See Cong. Qnar. 18(52, p. 13 1- 100 (by L)r. Clark) ; 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, ii, 398 sq. ; Alli- 
bone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. ; also Mis- 
sionary Herald , Aug. 1821 (by Evarts) ; Life and Labors 
of Dr. Worcester ( Boston, 1852, 2 vols. 12mo), by his 
son ; North A mer. Rev. April, 1862. 

Wordsworth, Ciiristoi’iiku, D.D., an English 
clergyman, youngest brother of William Wordsworth, 
the poet, was born at Cockermouth, Cumberland, June 
9, 1774. lie was educated at Hawkeshead grammar- 
school and at Trinity College, Cambridge, where he 
graduated in 179(5. lie was elected fellow of Trinity 
College Oct. 1, 1798. He became domestic chaplain to 
Dr. Manners Sutton, archbishop of Canterbury; rector 
of Ashby and Obey-with-Thirne, Norfolk, in 1804; and 
dean of Becking, Essex, May 30, 1808. lie was ap- 
pointed rector of St. Mary’s, Lambeth, Surrey, and of 
Sumlridge, Kent, April 10, 181G; and soon after served 
as ehaplain to the House of Commons. On July 2G, 
1820, he was installed master of Trinity College, Cam- 
bridge, and in the same year exchanged the livings of 
Lambeth and Suiulridge for the rectory of Buxted, with 
Uckfield, in Sussex. lie resigned the mastership of 
Trinity College in 1841, and thereafter resided at Bnx- 
ted, where he died, Feb. 2, 184G. lie published, Six 
Letters to Granville Sharp , Esq., respecting his Remarks 
on the Defnitive A rticle in the Greek Text of the New 
Testament (1802): — Ecclesiastical Biography (1810) 
Sermons on Various Subjects (1814): — 1)720 Wrote 
BaoiXua)? and another work on the same sub- 
ject, in both of which he attributes it to king Charles 
I : — Christian Institutes (1836) : — and other works. 

Wormwood (^2"P, laandh , of uncertain etymol- 
ogy; Sept. 7TiKpia, yoX//, ocinp, and dvdyia] ; Yulg. 
amaritudo , absinthium ) is, doubtless, the correct transla- 
tion of the Heb. word, which occurs frequently in the 
Bible, and generally in a metaphorical sense, as in Deut. 
xxix, 18, where of the idolatrous Israelites it is said, 
“Lest there be among von a root that bcareth worm- 
wood” (see also Prov. v, 4). In Jer. ix, 15; xxiii, 13; 
Lam. iii, 15, 19, wormwood is symbolical of bitter calam- 
ity and sorrow. Unrighteous judges arc said to “turn 
judgment to wormwood” (Amos v, 7; so in vi, 12, 
“hemlock”). In like manner the name of the star, 
which, at the sound of the third angel’s trumpet, fell 
upon the rivers, was called Wormwood ("Axpii'Soe; Ilev. 
viii, 11). The Orientals typified sorrows, cruelties, 
and calamities of any kind by plants of a poisonous 
or bitter nature. Some other plants have been ad- 
duced, as the colocynth and the oleander, but without 
anything to support them ; while different kinds of arte- 
misin and of wormwood are proverbial for their bitterness, 
and often used in a figurative sense by ancient authors. 

“Parce, precor, lacerare tnuni, nec ainara pateniis 
Admiscere velis, ceu melli ahsiuthia, verbis” 

(Paulin. Ep. ad Ausoniu.m). 

Celsius has no doubt that a species of artemisin, or 
wormwood, is intended: “Hanc plantam amaram in 
Judaea ct Arabia copiose nascentem, et interpretum 
auctoritate egregie suffultam, ipsam esse Ebneorum 
pro indubitato habemus.” That species of artc- 
misia are common in Syria and Palestine is well known, 
as all travellers mention their abundance in particular 



situations; but as many of them resemble each other 
very closely in properties, it is more difficult to deter- 
mine what particular species is meant. It is probable, 
indeed, that the name is used in a generic rather than a 
specific sense. Artemisia is the botanical name of the 
genus of plants in which the different species of worm- 
woods are found. The plants of this genus are easily 
recognised by the multitude of fine divisions into which 
the leaves are usually separated, and the numerous clus- 
ters of small, round, drooping, greenish-yellow, or brown- 
ish tlower-heads with which the branches are laden. It 
must be understood that our common wormwood (-1 7'te- 
misia absinthium ) does not appear to exist in Palestine, 
and cannot, therefore, be that specially denoted by the 
scriptural term. Indeed, it is more than probable that 
the word is intended to apply to all the plants of this 
class that grew in Palestine, rather than to any one of 
them in particular. The examples of this genus that 
have been found in that country are — 1. Artemisia Ju~ 
daiea , which, if a particular species be intended, is prob- 
ably the absinthium of Scripture. Hauwolf found it 
•about Bethlehem, and Shaw 
in Arabia and the deserts of 
Nu m id ia plentifully. This 
plant is erect and shrubby, 
with a stem about eighteen 
inches high. Its taste is very 
bitter; and both the leaves and 
seeds are much used in East- 
ern medicine, and are reput- 
ed to be tonic, stomachic, and 
anthelmintic. 2. A rtem isia 
Romana, which was found by 
Hasselquist on Mount Tabor 
/Mv ^ (p. 281). This species is her- 

baceous, erect, with a stem one 
or two feet high (higher when 
cultivated in gardens), and 
nearly upright branches. The 
plant has a pleasantlyaromat- 
ic scent, ami the bitterness of 

leaf, blossom, ami cap- lts taslc 13 s0 tera P crc<1 b . v tlic 
sale. aromatic flavor as scarcelv to 



WORTHINGTON 


1038 


WRIGHT 


be disagreeable. 3. A rtonisia ahrotanum , found in the 
south of Europe, as well as in Syria and Palestine, and 
eastward even to China. This is a hoary plant, becom- 
ing a shrub in warm countries, and its branches bear loose 
panicles of nodding yellow flower-heads. It is bitter 
and aromatic, with a very strong scent. It is not much 
used in medicine, but the branches are employed in im- 
parting a yellow dye to wool. The species most cele- 
brated in Arabian works on materia medica is that 
called shih, which is conspicuous for its bitterness and 
for being fatal to worms; hence it has been commonly 
employed as an anthelmintic even to our own times. 
This seems to be the same species which was found by 
Panwolf in Palestine, and which he says the Arabs call 
scheha. It is his “ Absinthium santonicum , scheha Ara- 
bian, unde semen lumbricorum eolligitur,” the A bsinthi - 
um santonicum Judaicum of Caspar Bauhin, in his Pi- 
mix, now Artemisia Judaica , though it is probable two 
or three species yield the Semoni santonicum, or worm- 
wood of commerce, which, instead of seed, consists of 
the tops of the plants, and in which the peduncles, 
calyx dowers, and young seeds are intermixed. Arte- 
misia maritima and Judaica are two of the plants which 
yield it. See Kitto, Phys. llist. of Palest, p. 215; Cel- 
sius, IJierob. i, 480; PosenmUlIer, Bill. Bot . p. JIG; Cal- 
cott [lady], Script. Ilerhal , p. 542. 

Worthington, John, I).D., an English divine, 
was born at Manchester, in February, 1G1S. lie was 
educated at Emanuel College, Cambridge, of which he 
became a fellow, and was created P.D. in 1G4G. He 
was chosen master of Jesus College, but resigned the 
office soon after the Restoration. In the meantime he 
was successively rector of Horton, Buckinghamshire; 
Gravely, and Fen Ditton, in the County of Cambridge; 
Barking, with Needham, Suffolk; and Ingoldsbv, Lin- 
colnshire. In 1GG3 lie was collated to the rectory of 
Moulton -All -saints, Norfolk, and entered upon the 
cure of St. Pene’t-Fink in June, 1G64, under the canon 
of Windsor, and continued to preach there until the 
church was destroyed by fire in February, 16GG. Short- 
ly after this, he was presented to the living of Ingolds- 
by, Lincolnshire, and the prebend of Asgarby in the 
Church of Lincoln. He removed to Ilacknev in 1G70, 
and died there, Nov. 2G, 1G71. lie was the author of, 
Form of Sound IVords ; or, A Scripture Catechism 
(1G71 ): — The Great Duty of Self -resignation to the Di- 
vine Will (1G75 ): — The Doctrines of the Resurrection 
and the Reward to Come (1G90 ): — Miscellanies (1704): 
— and other works. See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Worthington, Thomas, D.D., an English divine, 
was born at Blainscough, Lancashire, about 1552. He 
was educated at Oxford, and entered the English College 
at. Douay in 1573, and the English College at Pheims 
(having in the meantime beeome a priest) in 1578. He 
labored as a missionary in England lor some years; was 
imprisoned in the Tower in 1584, and banished in 1585. 
He was president of the English College at Douay from 
1599 to 1G13. lie spent his latter years in England, 
and died in Staffordshire, six months after he became a 
Jesuit, in 1G2G. lie published, Annotations on the Old 
Testament (1G09 ) : — Catalogue J fartyrum Pontificiorum , 
etc. (1G12 ) : — An Anker of Christian Doctrine, icherein 
the most Principal Pointes of Catholiqne Religion are 
Proved by the only Written Word of God, etc. (1G18- 
22): — and other works. Sec Allibonc, Diet, of Brit, 
and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Worthington, William, D.D., a learned Eng- 
lish divine, was born in Merionethshire in 1703, and 
educated at Oswestry School, whence he went to Jesus 
College, Oxford, lie then returned to Oswestry and 
became usher in that school. lie took the degree of 
A.M. at Cambridge in 1742, and that of 1).D. at Jesus 
College, Oxford, in 1758. lie became vicar of Llany- 
blodwell, in the County of Salop, and afterwards of Llan- 
rbaiadar, Denbighshire, where he died, Oct. G, 1778. He 
became prebendary of York in 17G8, and of St. Asaph 


in 1773. He published numerous works, among which 
arc, Essay on the Scheme, etc., of Man's Redemption 
(1743 ) : — The Evidence of Christianity, etc. (1769): — 
and The Scripture Theory of the Earth (1773). See 
Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Wotton, William, I). I)., an English divine, was 
born at Wrentham, Suffolk, Ang. 13, 166G. He was 
endowed with a remarkable memory, and by the time 
be was five years old bad acquired, under the tuition 
of his father, considerable facility in translating Latin, 
Greek, and Hebrew. In April, 1G7G, when not yet ten 
years old, lie was admitted to Catherine Hall, Cam- 
bridge, where be made rapid progress in the languages 
and other branches of learning. In 1G79 he took the 
degree of A. Ik, and afterwards obtained a fellowship in 
St. John’s. In 1G91 he received the living of Llan- 
drillo, Denbighshire, and was soon after made chap- 
lain to the earl of Nottingham, who, in 1G93, present- 
ed him to the rectory of Middleton Keynes, Bucking- 
hamshire. lie died at Buxted, Essex, Eeb. 13, 1726. 
1 1 is publications are numerous, among which may be 
named, Refections upon Ancient and Modern Learning 
(1G94) : — Hist, of Rome from the Death of Antoninus 
Pius to the Death of Severus Alexander (1701) : — Dis- 
course on the Confusion of Language at Babel (1730). 

Wren, Christopher, D.D., an English clergy- 
man, was fellow of St. John’s College, Oxford, afterwards 
chaplain to Charles I, and rector of Knovle, Wiltshire, 
lie was made dean of Windsor in 1G35, and presented 
to the rectory of Haseley, Oxfordshire, in 1638. He 
died at the house of his sou-in-law. Mr. William Holder, 
at Bleehingdon, in the County of Oxford, in 1638. See 
Chalmers, Biog. Diet, xxxii, 319. 

Wren, Matthew, D.D., an eminent English prel- 
ate, was born in the parish of St. Peter-cheap. London, 
Dec. 23, 1585. lie was educated at Pembroke Hall, 
Cambridge, and elected fellow of bis college, Nov. 9, 
1605. He studied divinity, and was admitted to holy 
orders in 1610. lie was appointed chaplain to bishop 
Andrews, and presented to the rectory of Tevcrsham, 
Cambridgeshire, in 1615. In 1621 he became chaplain 
to prince Charles, whom he attended in that office to 
Spain in 1623. lie became rector of Bingham, Not- 
tinghamshire, and prebendary of Winchester in 1624. 
In July, 1625, be was chosen master of Petcrhouse, Cam- 
bridge, to which he became a great benefactor, building 
a large part of the college, and securing contributions 
for a chapel, which was completed in 1632. In July, 
1628, he became dean of Windsor and Wolverhampton, 
lie was sworn a judge of the Star-chamber for foreign 
causes in 1629; installed as prebendary of Westminster 
in 1634 ; promoted to the bishopric of Hereford the same 
year ; and translated to the see of Norwich in 1635, where 
he remained about two years and a half, lie succeeded 
Juxon as dean of his majesty’s chapel in 1636, and was 
translated to the bishopric of Ely in May, 1638. In De- 
cember, 1640, proceedings were begun in Parliament 
against him, and in July, 1641, lie was impeached of 
high crimes and misdemeanors. The penalty was fixed 
at imprisonment in the Tower during the pleasure of 
the Parliament, which lasted eighteen years. When 
the Restoration drew nigh, lie was released, in March, 
1659, and returned to his palace at Ely in 1GG0. He 
died at Ely House, London, April 24, 1GG7. lie pub- 
lished some Sermons and other works of no present in- 
terest. See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Wright, Edward W., D.D., a Presbyterian di- 
vine, was born at Lancaster, O., in April, 1817. He was 
educated at Miami University; studied divinity at the 
Princeton (N. J.) Theological Seminary, and finished 
in the Western Theological Seminary at Allegheny, Pa., 
in 1838; was licensed and ordained as an evangelist by 
Logansport Presbytery in October, 1839; became pastor 
of the Church at Lafayette, Ind., in 1840; agent in the 
West for the Presbyterian Board of Education in 1845 ; 
pastor of the Church in Delphi in 184G, which relation 


WUIGIIT 


1039 


WYCKIIOF F 


continued for a period of twenty years. II is labors there I 
were greatly blessed. The Church grew and became a 
feeder to new churches beyond, lie was stated clerk 
of the Synod of Northern Indiana from the time of its 
formation in 1S42 until his removal to Allegheny, and 
also of the Presbytery of Logansport for about the same 
length of time. It was generally admitted that, “as a 
presbyter, he had no equal in all the synod.” At length 
lie was elected and served as librarian of the Board of 
Colportage of Pittsburgh and Allegheny synods, and soon 
afterwards he removed his family to Allegheny. lie 
died Sept. 17, 18G5. Dr. Wright was an instructive 
preacher: “lie did not appeal to the sympathies or the 
passions, but rather to the reason and the consciences 
of the people. He took no crude materials into the pul- 
pit; his sermons always afforded proof of patient and 
prayerful study, and they were delivered in a solemn 
and reverential manner.” See Wilson, Prcsb. Ilist. Al- 
tnimac, 1807, p. 219. (J. L. S.) 

Wright, John Flavel, D.D., a Methodist Episco- 
pal minister, was born in North Carolina, July 30, 1795, 
and passed his early years in the northern part of that 
state. lie was converted in 1813, and soon after began 
to feel it his duty to become a preacher of the Gospel. 
He was licensed to exhort in August, 1814, and assisted 
for some months in the work of a large circuit. He was 
admitted on trial in the Virginia Conference at Lynch- 
burg, Feb. 20, 1815, and appointed successively to Han- 
over, Black Hirer, Guilford, Princess Ann, and Newbern 
circuits, and Kaleigh station. In 1821 he was trans- 
ferred to the Ohio Conference, and appointed to Leba- 
non Circuit. He was next appointed to Cincinnati, 
then to Madison, Iud., and in 1824 to Chillieothe, O., 
where three hundred and sixty-five were added to the 
Church, and more than that number converted. In 
1827 he was stationed a second time at Cincinnati, and 
in 1829 became presiding elder of the Lebanon District. 
In 1832 he was elected book-agent at Cincinnati, and 
fulfilled the duties of that office for twelve years in suc- 
cession. In 1844 he lacked but a few votes of an elec- 
tion to the episcopacy. From that time until 1SG1 he 
received various appointments in Ohio. He was chap- 
lain of the First Kentucky Regiment during the Rebell- 
ion, and near the close of the war became chaplain to 
the military hospitals of Cincinnati. He again entered 
the conference work when the hospitals were closed, and 
continued in that field until 1877, when he retired, lie 
died Sept. 13, 1879. See Minutes of Cincinnati Confer- 
ence , 1880, p. 8G. 

Wright, Samuel, D.D., an eminent English Dis- 
senter, was born at Retford, Nottinghamshire, in 1G82. 
lie was pastor at Blackfriars, London, from 1708 to 
1734, when he removed to a meeting-house in Carter 
Lane, Southwark, and died in 174G. lie published, A 
Little Treatise of Being Born Again (1715): — Treatise 
on the Religious Observance of the Lord's Day (3d ed. 
172G): — Human Virtues : or , Rules to Live Soberly 
(1730) : — Deceitfulness of Sin (1731) : — and other works. 
See Aliibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. A uthors , s. v. 

Wulfram (or Wulfrann), St., apostle to the Fri- 
sians and bishop of Sens, was of patrician family, and was 
born about A.D. G50, at Millv. He became monk and 
abbot at Fontenelle, to which monastery he donated 
his family-seat of Milly, and afterwards was chaplain 
to the French court, and bishop of Sens. In G84 or G85 
he devoted himself, with several brother monks, to the 
missionary work among the Frisians, his personal ass6- 
ciate for a time being a Burgundian count named Gan- 
gulf or Gengulf, who was afterwards killed by a clergy- 
man, the paramour of his wife. Wulfram is credited, 
while in the prosecution of his missionary labors, with 
having recovered a lost paten from the sea by prayer; 
with having cured paralytics and other invalids by 
anointing them with oil; with having preserved alive 
a boy who was hanged by the Frisians in honor of their 
divinities, and two other boys who were about to be 


drowned from similar motives. Tradition states that 
Wulfram was on the point of baptizing Radbod, the 
Frisian king, when the latter, standing with one foot in 
the water, inquired whether his unbaptized ancestors 
were to be found in heaven or in hell, and being as- 
sured that they were in hell, withdrew his foot and de- 
clared that he would not be separated from his royal 
ancestors. The devil thereupon appeared to the king 
and incited him to persist in idolatry, until he was 
driven away by the sign of the cross. Radbod, how- 
ever, died unbaptized. Wulfram, about G89, returned 
to Fontenelle, and died in G95 (others say 720 or 7-10). 
The martvrologies assign to him March 20. See Hol- 
land, Acta SS. Martyr. (Antw. 1GG8), iii, p. 143-105: 
Rettberg, Kirchengesck. Deutschlunds (Gbtt. 1848), p. 574 
sq., and the literature there referred to; also llerzog, 
Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Wulstan (Wulfstan, or Wolstan) (L), a monk 
of Winchester, lived in the 9th century. He was the 
author of a work on the Harmony of Tones , a poem in 
Latin hexameters on the Miracles of St. S within, and a 
prose Life of Bishop Ethelwold. See Aliibone, Diet, of 
Brit . and A mer . A uthors, s. v. 

Wulstan (2), an English prelate of the 11th cen- 
tury, became archbishop of York in 1003, holding along 
with that dignity the bislioprie of Worcester, and died 
in 1023. He is supposed to be the author of the Anglo- 
Saxon Homilies, to which is affixed the name of Lupus 
Episcopos. One of these may be found in Hickes, 
Thesaurus, iii, 99-10G. See Wright, Biog. Brit . Lit. 
(Anglo-Saxon Period), p. 505. 

Wulstan (3), the last of the Anglo-Saxon prelates, 
was born at Icentum, Warwickshire, about 1007. He 
was educated at Evesham and Peterborough, and was 
ordained a presbyter at the usual age. He then be- 
came a monk at Worcester, and gradually rose in that 
monastery until at last he became prior, in 10G2 he 
was chosen bishop of Worcester, and succeeded in res- 
cuing that see from the control of the archbishop of 
York. He enjoyed the favor of William the Conquer- 
or, and after him of his son Rufus. He rebuilt the Ca- 
thedral of Worcester; put down an insurrection of .the 
adherents of Duke Robert of Normandy; and defended 
the city against an army of the rebels led by Roger de 
Montgomery. He died in Worcester, either on Nov. 23 
or Jan. 19, 1095. lie is not known to have written any- 
thing either in Saxon or Latin, though an attempt has 
been made to prove that he was the author of the en- 
tries in the Saxon Chronicle from 1034 to 1079. See 
William of Malmesbury, De Gestis Pontificum; Whar- 
ton, Anglia Sacra, vol. ii. 

Wyatt, William E., D.D., a clergyman of the 
Protestant Episcopal Church, a native of New York 
city, was ordained deacon in 1810, and priest shortly 
after. In 1811 he was pastor of St. John’s Parish, New- 
town, L. I.; in 1814 he became associate rector of St. 
Paul’s Parish, Baltimore, subsequently succeeding to the 
rectorship, which he retained until the close of his life. 
He died June 24, 18G4, aged seventy-six years. Through 
all this period he was a member of the Standing Com- 
mittee of his diocese; was delegate to every General 
Convention; and during thirty years was president of 
the Lower House. In 1820 he was professor of theol- 
ogy in the University of Maryland. He published a 
volume of Family Prayers : — a volume of Bishop Kemp's 
Sermons:— the Christian Altar:— and a number of pam- 
phlets, tracts, etc. See American Quar. Church Rev. 
Oct. 18G4, p. 483. 

Wyckhoff, William II., LL.D., a minister of the 
Baptist denomination, was born in the city of New 
York, Sept. 10, 1807, and was a graduate of Union Col- 
lege in the class of 1828. After leaving college, he was 
for several years the principal of the classical depart- 
ment of a collegiate school in New lork. In 1839 he 
became the editor of The Baptist Advocate, now The 


WYCKOFF 


1040 


WYCLIFFE 


Examiner and Chronicle , which was started by him, 
and has exerted a wide influence in the denomination. 
Of this paper he had the editorial charge until 184G, in 
which year lie was ordained as a minister of the Gospel 
by the Laight Street Baptist Church of New York. For 
several years he was the President of the Young Men’s 
City Missionary Society, of the Baptist Domestic Mis- 
sion Society, and was one of the originators of the 
American and Foreign Bible Society, formed in 1835. 
Of this society' he was the corresponding secretary from 
1846 to 1850. In 1850 he aided in the formation of the 
American Bible Union, of which, for a time, he was the 
secretary. He died in Brooklyn, N. Y., Nov. 2, 187G. 
Among his published writings arc The Bible Question; 
or , The American Bible Society and the Baptists: — The 
Bible , its Excellence : — llolTuis A ncient History , Con- 
densed. (J. C. S.) 

Wyckoff, Isaac Newton, D.D., a (Dutch) In- 
formed minister, was born near Millstone, N. J., in 1792. 
lie graduated at Queen’s College in J81o, and at New 
Brunswick Seminary in 1817. lie was settled as pastor 
of the Reformed Church, Catskill,N.Y., from 1817 to 1836, 
and of the Second Reformed Church, Albany, from 183G 
to 18GG. lie retired from active duty after fortv-ninc 
years of arduous clerical labor, about three j’ears before 
his death, which occurred in I860. Four new churches 
were organized by him in his lirst field of labor. At 
Albany more than one thousand persons were added to 
the communion of his Church during his ministry of 
thirty years. lie was fond of books and study, and of 
literary and theological culture. But he was pre-emi- 
nently a jiastor. He seemed to know everybody in 
his flock, anil almost in the whole city. Young men 
found him a genial, sympathizing, and loving helper, 
for he never lost his youthful buoyancy. He was gift- 
ed with a wonderful flow of animal spirits. His pres- 
ence was sunshine. Ilis conversation overflowed with 
wit and humor, with irresistible drollery, and yet with 
a pious fervor which sanctified the whole man. To the 
emigrant Hollanders, who always stopped at Albany on 
their way to the Michigan Colony, he was for years a fa- 
ther and a priest. lie conversed, read, and could preach 
in the Dutch language with great fluency. In every 
benevolent institution, in the boards of the Church, in ail 
kinds of public assemblies where his influence could be 
well used, he was a representative speaker and actor. 
Among the sick, the anxious, the unconverted, the 
young and the aged alike, his personal and pastoral 
tact and power were universally admitted. His home 
was a Bethel, his hospitality unbounded, and his social 
intercourse entertaining and profitable. He was full 
of music, an art which he cultivated delightfully and 
skilfully, with voice and instrument. Ilis piety was a 
flowing stream, sparkling, clear, unceasing, joyous, and 
refreshing to himself and to his people and friends. 
“The spontaneity of his faith precluded the indulgence 
of mere cant. The light of the cross was on his brow ; 
the breath of Olivet animated his speech. To hear him 
pray in his family circle was to be borne up to the Mount 
of Vision.” His religion was a life, never a burden, nev- 
er a mere robe, but a principle in active operation — “a 
well of water in him springing up to everlasting life.” 
Ilis charity was wonderful, in thoughts, feelings, speech, 
gifts and deeds of love for Christ’s sake. In ecclesias- 
tical assemblies he was a peace- maker. Ilis olive 
branch never withered in the heat of controversy. 
With nearly all the great movements of his Church 
for half a century he was prominently identified. He 
was a frequent speaker at the great May anniversaries 
in New York, and a number of his sermons arc printed 
in the National Preacher, etc. Ilis person was of me- 
dium size, slender, wirv, agile, and tough. Ilis face was 
radiant with cheerfulness and goodness. Ilis voice 
was large, full, sonorous, and he used it often with great 
oratorical effect. His mental ingenuity and freshness 
of thought and expression proclaimed him an original 
character. He was perfectly unique, always himself, 


and never much like other folks. lie thought and 
talked, and preached and prayed, in his own peculiar 
way. He used many big words; he often made words 
and combinations of words that gave great point and 
pith to his sentences. Ilis aim was direet; his sermons 
Biblical and expository; his style picturesque, homely, 
imaginative, instructive, tender, and evangelical, in 
mortuary discourses lie excelled. Some of his memo- 
rial and funeral sermons, published in pamphlet form, 
and especially his many contributions to Dr. Sprague’s 
Annals of the American Pulpit, are choice specimens of 
his descriptive and analytical sketches of character. 
Down to his old age he retained his youthful appear- 
ance and manner, with fresh complexion, and hair curl- 
ing and unchanged in color. “His eye was not dim 
nor his natural strength abated” until his last illness 
laid its wasting hand upon him. See Porter [Dr. E. S.J, 
Memorial Sermon. (W. J. Ik T.) 

Wyckoff, Theodore Freliughuyseu,a(Dntch) 
Reformed minister, son of the above, was born at Catskill, 
j N. Y.,in 1820. lie graduated at Rutgers College in 1839, 
and at New Brunswick Theological Seminary in 1812; 
was pastor of the Second Reformed Church of Ghent, 
N. Y., from 1843 to 1844; of the South Reformed Church, 
West Troy, from 1845 to 1854; and ministered at St. 
Thomas, W. I„ in 1854-55. He died of yellow fever, 
Jan. 19 of the latter year, only a few weeks after his ar- 
rival in St. Thomas. lie was a young man of cultivat- 
ed mind and manners, a careful student, scholarly in his 
tastes and refined in accomplishments; he wrote much 
and well for the periodical press. Ilis sermons were or- 
nate in style, evangelical in matter and spirit, and full 
of promise. (W. J. R. T.) 

Wycliffe, John, the first translator of the entire 
Bible into English, and “ the morning-star of the Refor- 
mation,” was also eminent as a scholar, a diplomatist, 
and a preacher. There seem to have been three other 
persons of the same name contemporaneous with him; 
one a seneschal of Merton College iu 135G (probably the 
author of a weak ehiliastie treatise entitled The Last Aye 
of the Church , usually attributed to the Reformer [ed. 
Todd, Dublin, 1840]), another who was master of Balliol 
College in 1340, and still another who was vicar of May- 
field from 13G1 to 1380. 

I. Antecedents. — The career and work of Wycliffe can- 
not well be appreciated without a brief review of some 
of the literary and ecclesiastical, and especially the Bib- 
lical, circumstances of the times. 

1. The midnight of the Dark Ages had been broken by 
the establishment of high-schools, whose light was sen- 
sibly felt along the pathways of scientific and religious 
inquiry. Europe was emerging from the semi-barba- 
rism which the northern hordes had poured over the 
older scats of civilization, and the invaders themselves, 
now Christianized and educated, were sending back 
streams of missionary and literary culture to t Heir fa- 
therlands. England was foremost in realizing these 
ameliorating influences. From the times of the Roman 
sway she had enjoyed pre-eminent advantages through 
contact with Latin Christianity, which then embodied 
all tbc learning and piety of the Western empire; and 
the displacement of the Britons by the Anglo-Saxons, 
and the subjugation of these in turn by the Normans, 
bad added successively elements of refinement to her 
originally wild strength, as the compound English lan- 
guage itself attests to-day. At the period of which we 
write the French tongue was still used in courts of law, 
a vestige of which exists in man}' of the commonest le- 
gal terms to the present day; and side by side was the 
Latin as the medium of literary intercourse, which 
likewise is yet indicated by other legal titles of well- 
known processes. The English universities, established 
about two centuries prior to Wyeliffe’s graduation, and 
a little later than those of Italy and Baris, but some 
three centuries before the oldest of Germany, were orig- 
inally divinity schools, or, at least, were conducted by 


WYCLIFFE 


1041 


WYCLIFFE 


divines and largely for sacred learning. In fact, theology 
was the chief and almost the sole science of that early 
day, and the only other forms of knowledge that took a 
scholastic form were languages and philosophy, both of 
which then had a decidedly theological aim and color- 
ing. Moreover, the students were almost exclusively 
novitiates of some of the various monastic ranks with 
which at that time all parts of Europe particularly 
swarmed. Wycliffe himself, while in college, was a can- 
didate for holy orders, and his own studies of course lay 
in that direction, as doubtless did those of most of his 
pupils. 

2. The Lollards, as all the predecessors of Protestant- 
ism in England were called, had already begun a com- 
parison of the glaring corruptions of Rome with the 
simple truths and practices of early Christianity, as well 
as with the obvious laws of morality and social decen- 
cy ; and in this discussion, which usually was rather in- 
directly than ostensibly carried on, the Bible, and espe- 
cially the New Test., was of course continually appealed 
to as an authority against the papal dogmas, ecclesias- 
tical traditions, and priestly dominations. These latter 
were especially open to the shafts of ridicule, and, as in 
the Reformation afterwards, the wits of Wvclifte’s day, 
including Chaucer and Gower, were not slow in pointing 
out Romish inconsistencies to the public eye. The 
mass of the people were thoroughly awake to the re- 
ligious questions thus raised, and every educated per- 
son who mingled freely with them, as Wycliffe did, had 
constant occasion to ascertain their feelings and appre- 
hend their necessities. 

3. The political condition of the country at the time 
greatly stimulated these debates, which had not yet 
been nationally agitated elsewhere. One century be- 
fore Wycliffe was born, the English barons had extorted 
from the violent and vacillating king John the famous 
Magna Chai'ta, which, although quickly denied by that 
prince, and denounced by the pope, who claimed the 
vassalage of the realm, yet, renewed hv the next and 
confirmed by the subsequent sovereign, has remained 
to this day the substantial basis and bulwark of British 
constitutional liberty. From that document definitely 
dates the great struggle between the Romish and the 
secular arm, on the one side, and the aristocratic and 
the popular rights, on the other, which has characterized 
English as well as Continental history ever since. The 
reign of Henrv III, who followed John upon the throne 
of England, was but a series of contests between the 
king and the newly instituted House of Commons; 
which after a lull during the reign of Edward I, who 
was the next prince, but who was chiefly occupied in 
settling the Scottish succession, broke out afresh under 
Edward II, and culminated in his dethronement and 
horrid death. All these fluctuations of civil power the 
Roman pontiff watched at a safe distance, like a vulture 
snuffing the field of battle, ever ready to pounce upon 
the weak or the wounded of either side. Edward III, 
who came to the throne at the age of fourteen, three 
years after the above-assumed date of Wycliffe’s birth, 
soon engaged in wars with Scotland and France, which 
occupied his entire reign; but he nevertheless resisted 
the claims of Rome, and Parliament supported him by 
statutes declaring the independence of the English cler- 
gy. The effect of all these political turmoils was to 
create and foster a spirit of free inquiry into human 
rights, both civil and ecclesiastical. The seeds of the 
English Reformation of a later age were widely and 
deeply sown by these public measures and private ex- 
periences. 

4. It must be borne in mind, however, that the art 
of printing had not yet been discovered. All books, 
being in MS., had to be laboriously copied by hand, and 
were therefore rare and costly. This was especially 
true of the Bible, from its large size and the dead lan- 
guages in which it was written. The Latin Vulgate 
was the authorized, or rather, as we shall presently see, 
the only accessible form ; and this the common people, 

X.— U v v 


of course, could not understand, nor even read. Hence 
Wycliffe, in his familiar intercourse with the popu- 
lace, for which, as we have seen, his earliest public ap- 
pearance was distinguished, must have orally trans- 
lated for their benefit such passages of Scripture as he 
had occasion to cite in their hearing. The inconven- 
ience and indirectness of this process seem to have in- 
duced in him the determination from his very college 
days to furnish a more adequate text than then exist- 
ed for popular religious instruction. This purpose his 
whole career afterwards confirmed. 

The only professed or real versions of any part of the 
Bible in English proper before Wycliffe’s were those of 
the Psalms, made nearly simultaneously by William of 
Shoreham and Richard Rolle in the early part of Wvc- 
liffe's century. They were both made from the Latin, 
were exceedingly crude, fragmentary, and encumbered 
with notes in most copies, and never had any great celeb- 
rity or circulation. The earlier efforts at translation in 
English were mere poetical paraphrases of portions of 
Scripture, such as the Onunlum , a versification of the 
narrative of the Gospels and Acts, belonging probably to 
the former part of the preceding century; the Biblical 
poem entitled Soulhele , dating about the same period; a 
rhymed rehearsal of the principal events of Genesis and 
Exodus of a somewhat later date; and apparently con- 
temporaneous with the last named, a metrical version 
of the Psalms, which existed with many variations 
in different MSS. The Anglo-Saxon versions that had 
preceded — namely, Caedmon’s historical poem in the 7th 
century, Aldhelni’s and Guthlac’s Psalter of about the 
same date, “ the Venerable” Bede’s Gospel of John in A.D. 
735, Aid red’s “Durham Book,” and Owen and Farmen’s 
“Rushwortli Gloss,” about the middle of the 10th cen- 
tury; iElfric’s abstracts from the historical books and 
Job a little later; besides king Alfred’s attempts and a 
few other imperfect glosses on the Psalms, Proverbs, 
Canticles, etc. — were altogether sporadic; moreover, 
their language was quite unintelligible to Wycliffe’s 
generation. The Anglo-Norman dialect which inter- 
vened was partially represented by a series of versions, 
or rather revisions, of these scattered elements, covering 
probably most of the Bible, and certainly the Gospels, 
the Psalter, the Canticles, and the historical books of 
the Old Test.; but these were of a mongrel character, 
and scarcely attained the authority or currency even of 
the Anglo-Saxon relics. There was an obvious and ur- 
gent need of a new and truly English version adapted 
to the actual condition and vernacular of the people. 

II. Life. — Wycliffe’s name (spelled also J Yidif De 
Wyklef etc.) is thought by Vaughan (John de. 1 Vyclife, 
[1853], p.4) to have been originally Wye-elife , i.e. 115/- 
terclife. referring to a rocky hill on the banks of the 
Tees, about eleven miles north of the city of Richmond, 
in Yorkshire, where the family mansion was located. 
The estate has since passed into the possession of the 
Roman Catholic families of the Tonstallsand Constables ; 
but the parish church adjoining is still known by the old 
name of Wycliffe. Of the Reformer’s immediate parent- 
age and early education nothing is recorded, nor is the 
exact date of his birth known. From the fact that he 
entered while yet a youth as one of the first commoners 
of Queen’s College, Oxford, which was founded in 1340, he 
is generally believed to have been born in 1324. Some- 
what later he became a probationer, and apparently also 
a fellow, of Merton College, and at the period of his first 
introduction to notice he was associated with some of the 
best scholars of the uni versify, Chaucer being said to have 
been at one time his pupil. His hours were doubtless 
chiefly occupied, like those of an English college tutor of 
the present day, with private instruction to the under- 
graduates; and his intervals of recreation appear to have 
been largely spent in social rambles among the peasant- 
ry in the neighborhood. His scholastic culture, warmed 
by a genial temper, gave him great influence as well as 
ready access in thus acting the rare function of a link 
between the literary aristocracy and the sturdy popu- 


WYCLIFFE 


1042 


WYCLIFFE 



Portrait of Wjcfiffe. (From a contemporaneous painting still hanging in 
the rectory at Wycliffe.) 


lace of a collegiate borough. Hence he was enabled to 
sympathize with the wants and sentiments of the lower 
classes, and to meet them with the higher qualifications 
and views of a Christian student. In person consider- 
ably above the medium height, straight, slender, but 
wirv, with features indicating penetration and refine- 
ment, a thin aquiline nose, firm month, smooth fore- 
head, and clear though somewhat deep -set eyes; his 
expression at once frank and cautious, bland but well- 
bred, intellectual and yet sympathetic, Wycliffe was a 
man to rivet attention and secure respect at the first 
glance. 

In 13G0 Wycliffe became known as a public opponent 
of the mendicant friars who infested England, interfer- 
ing with the school discipline as well as with domestic 
relations; and to this date his tracts on that subject 
are accordingly assigned. This was an effort in be- 
half no less of the people, who were weary with the ob- 
trusive sanctimony and beggarly squalor of these church 
fleas , than of the university authorities, who were equal- 
ly sick of their impertinent ignorance and proselyting 
usurpation. It won him such popularity that in 1361 
he was made warden (or master) of Balliol Hall (after- 
wards Balliol College), an office for which he was well 
qualified by his eminent diligence and reputation as a 
student of civil and canon law, and especially by his 
skill in philosophical and theological dialectics. This 
preferment gave both a wider scope to his scholastic 
abilities, and greater prestige to his popular discussions. 
In the same year he was made rector of Fillingham, in 
Lincolnshire, a position which he exchanged in 1368 
for that of Ludgershall in the same diocese. These 
livings did not require his removal from Oxford, yet 
afforded him a clerical function and a pastoral oppor- 
tunity to come still more closely than before into com- 
munion with the common people, and that in a rustic 
neighborhood. 

In 1365 archbishop Islip of Canterbury appointed 
Wycliffe master of his new college of Canterbury llall 
(afterwards merged in that of Christ Church) at Ox- 
ford, but soon after the accession of Langham to the see 
in 1366 the monks, who formed a majority of the mem- 
bers of the college, induced that prelate to eject Wycliffe, 
on the ground of some informality in the appointment, 


and the pope (Urban V) being ap- 
pealed to, sided of course against 
Wycliffe by a special bull issued in 
1370, of which the monks purchased 
the royal confirmation in 1372. How 
little heed Wycliffe, although still 
professing to be a faithful son of the 
Romish Church, paid to the papal 
order of silence accompanying the 
bull — since it was not only gratui- 
tous, but illegal under the Parlia- 
mentary statutes above mentioned 
— we may judge from his tract in de- 
fence of the national policy against 
the pope, published about this time. 
This production doubtless contains 
the substance of his argument be- 
fore the court, in reply to the same 
pontiff’s summons to the king to 
pay the homage due from the time 
of John to the see of Rome — a de- 
mand which, as we have seen, Ed- 
ward had refused to acknowledge, 
and now openly resisted. Thus in- 
troduced to the royal favor, Wyc- 
liffe acted as the king’s chaplain, 
and was presented (Nov. 6, 1375) 
to the prebend of Aust, in the dio- 
cese of Worcester ; and through the 
duke of Lancaster he was compen- 
sated (about 1376) for the loss of his 
college mastership by being made 
rector of Lutterworth where he had 
full scope for the reformatory principles which he now 
began to avow more pointedly. He had already (in 
1372) been created “doctor in theology” by the Uni- 
versity of Oxford, then not a mere honorary title, but 
an official one, authorizing him to lecture publicly be- 
fore the students; and he used the privilege to expose 
the venality and superstitions of the monkish orders 
with a vigor of reasoning and a keenness of satire which 
are conspicuous in his published tracts on the subject. 
These abuses had come to be such a public burden, es- 
pecially the occupancy of benefices by aliens, that in 
1373 the king appointed a commission, and next year 
renewed it, with Wycliffe as a prominent member, to 
confer with the papal authorities for the abrogation of 
the evil. An arrangement was finally made, but the 
pope soon violated the compact, and Parliament again 
took action against the Roman usurpations. These de- 
velopments more fully opened Wycliffe’s eyes to the 
intolerant corruption of the Romish see, and he hence- 
forth began to argue and preach, and teach and write, 
boldly and without reserve. As with Luther in a later 
age, the hierarchy was alarmed and exasperated ; by a 
formal convocation they summoned him to answer, Feb. 
19, 1377 (Lewis erroneously says 1378), to accusations 
of erroneous doctrine. The trial opened regularly in 
St. Paul’s on the day appointed; hut an unfortunate al- 
tercation of a personal nature, arising between the bish- 
op of London and the duke of Lancaster, threw the as- 
sembly into an uproar, and even led to a popular tumult 
outside. In the melee, Wycliffe was carried off in safety 
by bis friends. The pope (Gregory XI) was now in- 
duced to take up the matter. Formal articles were 
prepared against Wycliffe, and in five papal bulls, three 
of them dated simultaneously (May 22, 1377), he was 
cited to answer to the charges of insubordination and 
heresy. Before these summonses arrived, Edward III 
died, and Richard II was crowned; and the new Par- 
liament was slow to surrender Wycliffe for a trial at 
Rome, or even to suffer his imprisonment at home. 
However, in February of the following year (1378), the 
archbishop of Canterbury and the bishop of London, to 
whom one or more of the bulls had been addressed, or- 
dered a second trial, which was accordingly held in 
Lambeth Palace in April. Wycliffe responded by a 



WYCLIFFE 


1043 


WYNNE 


formal paper; but the proceedings were again abruptly, 
although not violently, ended by the interference of the 
populace in mass and the command of the king’s moth- 
er; the prelatical judges retired in confusion with a 
pusillanimous injunction of silence upon Wycliffe, to 
which, of course, he paid no respect. The prosecution 
shortly expired with the death of Gregory, and a schism 
occurred by the election of two popes as his rival suc- 
cessors. This gave Wycliffe fresh opportunity of ex- 
posing the corruption of the papacy, and, at the same 
time, a season of quiet for the prosecution of his cher- 
ished design of translating the Scriptures, somewhat 
like that of Luther at the castle in the heart of the 
Thuringian Forest. 

We rapidly pass over the residue of Wycli fife’s life. 
Early in 1379 he had a severe fit of sickness, during 
which he was visited by the papal emissaries, who 
urged him to recant; but he soon recovered to denounce 
them more vigorously than ever. In 1382 a court con- 
stituted by the pope, with the aid of the new archbish- 
op of Canterbury, controverted certain propositions of 
Wycliffe, who had begun to question the doctrine of 
transubstantiation ; and as his patron, the duke of Lan- 
caster, withheld his support, now that the Reformer 
ventured upon doctrinal ground, Wycliffc’s position was 
eventually condemned, and the king was induced to re- 
move him from the university. It is probable that the 
odium of Wat Tyler’s insurrection in 1381 fell upon 
Wycliffe, as it was supposed by his enemies to have 
been fomented by the “ poor priests,” whom he sent out 
as itinerants to propagate his own views. The Wyc- 
litfites, as his numerous followers were called, were sub- 
jected to much persecution ; but Wycliffe himself con- 
tinued, unmolested, to preach at Lutterworth. On Dec. 
29, 1384, he was seized with a second fit of paralysis, 
while (as some say) in the act of celebrating the Lord’s 
supper, and died on the last day of that year. The 
Council of Constance (May 5, 1415) condemned his doc- 
trines, and in 1428 his remains were dug up and burned ; 
the ashes were cast into the adjoining Swift, which, as 
Fuller prosaically, and Wordsworth poetically, remark, 
conveyed them through the Avon and the Severn into 
the sea, and thus disseminated them over the world. 
His doctrines, carried into Bohemia by the members of 
queen Anne’s retinue, originated the Hussite movement. 
The celibacy of the clergy being then a universal cus- 
tom, Wycliffe died unmarried; his flock was his family, 
and the English Bible his heirloom to posterity. 

IH. Writings. — Wycliffe’s literary productions are very 
numerous (Shirley [List of the Original Works of John 
Wycliffe (Oxf. 1865)] enumerates more than two hun- 
dred, chiefly tracts, many of them still unpublished); 
some of them are in Latin, others in English, and nearly 
all are on the religious questions of the day. Many of 
them still remain in MS. The most important, by far, 
is his New Testament , which appears to have been pub- 
lished about 1378, and again in 1380; the first printed 
edition was by John Lewis (Loud. 1731, fol.), the next 
by Henry H. Baber (ibid. 1810, 4to), and the latest at the 
Clarendon Press (Oxf. 1879, 12mo) ; it is also contained 
in Bagster’s flexapla (ibid. 1841, 4to), and, in part, in Bos- 
worth's Anglo-Saxon Gospels (ibid. 1868, 8vo). It was 
likewise printed from a considerably different MS. by 
Pickering (ibid. 1848, 4to). Wycliffe also translated, 
either in person or by assistants, the entire Old Testa- 
ment, including the Apocrypha, which seems to have 
been completed shortly before his death, llis whole Bi- 
ble has been accurately printed from a collection of 170 
MSS., with valuable dissertations, etc., by Forshall and 
Madden (Oxf. 1850,4 vols.4to). Wycliffe translated di- 
rectly from the Latin Vulgate, not deeming himself com- 
petent to use the Hebrew and Greek originals as a basis. 
His version is quite literal and plain, but stiff and Latin- 
ized; yet less so than many of Wycliffe’s other writings. 
It has, of course, little critical value; but its influence, at 
the time, was immense, and has since been incalculable. 
It can hardly be considered the foundation of our pres- 


ent English Bible, bnt rather its precursor; and, no 
doubt, Tyndale largely used it in his translation from 
the original tongues. Wycliffe’s Bible was revised 
about 1388 by John Purvey, who had been his curate; 
and it is Purvey’s edition, rather than Wycliffe’s own, 
that has generally passed as Wycliffe’s Bible (so in 
Lewis’s, Baber’s, the Clarendon, and Bagster’s text). 
Both are printed in parallel columns by Forshall and 
Madden. See Authorized Version. 

See Lechler’s ed. of Wycliffe’s Trialogns (Oxf. 1869); 
also id. De Officio Pastorali (Leips. 1863), and Wyc- 
liffe’s Wicket (Oxf. 1612); Arnold, Select English Works 
of Wycliffe (Lond. 1869-71, 3 vols.); Vaughan, Tracts 
and Treatises of John Wycliffe (ibid. 1854); Lives of 
Wycliffe, by Lewis (Oxf. 1820), Tytler (Edinb. 1826), 
Murray (Lond. 1829), Vaughan (ibid. 1828, 1831, 1853), 
Le Bas (ibid. 1832), Lechler (Leips. 1873; transl. by 
Lorimer, Lond. 1878). 

Wylie, Andrew, D.D., a Protestant Episcopal 
clergyman and professor, was born at Washington in 
1789. lie was educated in the Presbyterian Church, 
and passed A.B. at Jefferson College, Canonsburgh, Pa., 
in 1810. lie was licensed by the Presbytery of Ohio 
in 1812, and soon after installed pastor of Miller’s Run 
Church. He was subsequently chosen president of Jef- 
ferson and Washington colleges, and extended his ser- 
vices as a preacher to Ten Mile and West Liberty, till 
his removal to Pigeon Creek, where his memory is still 
cherished. In 1828 he was elected president of Indiana 
College, and removed to Bloomington, where he joined 
the Episcopal Church. Twice he represented the dio- 
cese in General Convention, and was president of the 
Standing Committee in 1851. lie died Nov. 11, 1851. 
Dr. Wylie was regarded as one of the ablest teachers in 
the West, He published an English Grammar (1#22) : 
—.4 Eulogy on Lafayette (1834):— a pamphlet entitled 
Sectarianism is Heresy , etc. (1840) : — The Individual : a 
Baccalaureate (1851): — Sermons and A ddresses : —a 
work on rhetoric: — and an Advice to Young Men (left 
ready for publication). See Sprague, A 7mals of the A mer. 
Pulpit, v, 779 ; Amer. Quar. Church Rev, 1852, p. 640. 

Wylie, Samuel Brown, D.D., LL.D., a Re- 
formed Presbyterian divine and author, was born at 
Moylarg, near Ballymena, County of Antrim, Ireland, 
May 21, 1773. He graduated at the University of Glas- 
gow in 1797; emigrated to Philadelphia the same year; 
taught a school at Cheltenham, Pa., until the fall of 
1798, when he was appointed a tutor in the University 
of Pennsylvania; was licensed to preach June 25, 1799; 
ordained June 25, 1800; was pastor of the First Re- 
formed Presbyterian Church, Philadelphia, from 1801 
to 1852; professor in the Theological Seminary of the 
Reformed Presbyterian Church from 1809 to 1851 ; pro- 
fessor of ancient languages in the University ol Penn- 
sylvania from 1828 to 1845, and emeritus professor from 
1845 to 1852 ; vice-provost of the University of Pennsyl- 
vania from 1838 to 1845; and died in Philadelphia, Oct. 
13, 1852. Mr. Wylie was the author of, The Faithful 
Witness for Magistracy and Ministry upon a Scriptural 
Basis (Pliila. 1804 ; Paisley, Scotland, 1806 ; other eds.) : 
— Covenanting (Greeushurgh, Pa., 1803) : — First Annual 
Address before the Religious Historical Society (Pliila. 
1818, 8vo): — Greek Grammar (1838, 8vo): — Life of 
the Rev, Alexander McLeod, D.I). ( N. Y. 1855, 8vo), 
posthumous. He was co- editor of the Presbyterian 
Magazine (1821-22, 2 vols. 8vo), and also contributed to 
periodicals. “Few men have ranked higher than Dr. 
Wylie in classical literature and theological attain- 
ments, as a successful teacher, a good pastor, or a prac- 
tical Christian” (Blake, Biog. Diet. s. v.). See Allibone, 
Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors , s. v. ; Sprague, A muds 
of the Amer. Pulpit, ix, 34 ; McM aster, Disco u rse on his 
Life and Character (Phila. 1852, 8vo); McLeod, Dis- 
course, etc. (N. Y. 1852, 8vo); Wilson, Presb. Hist. Al- 
manac, 1860, p. 177. (J. L. S.) 

Wynne, John, D.D., an English clergyman, was 


WYNNE 


1044 


XAVIER 


sometime fellow of Jesus College, Oxford. lie became 
Margaret professor of divinity at Oxford in 1705; preb- 
endary of Worcester in 1700; principal of Jesus College, 
Oxford, in 1712; bishop of St. Asaph in 1715, and of 
Bath and Wells in 1727; and died in 1743. SeeAlIi- 
bone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A lit hors, s. v. 

Wynne, Robert, D.D., an English clergyman, 
became prebendary of St. Asaph in 1691 (or 1092), and 
afterwards chancellor of St. Asaph. See Allibone, Diet, 
of Brit, and A mer. Authors, s. v. 

Wytembogard. See Uytenbooaert. 

Wyttenbacll, Thomas, chronologically the first 
of Swiss reformers, is supposed to have been born in 
1472 of an ancient family at Biel. lie is known to have 
been a student at Tiibingen, where Gabriel Biel and the 
learned Hebraist Konrad Pellican were the professors. 
About 1505 he habilitated himself at Basle as urtium 
lib. magister and sanctie tkeologiie baccal. biblicus. lie 
expounded the sentences of Peter Lombard and several 
books of Scripture, and taught the dogmas of Pome in 
disputations, as is attested by his pupils Leo Judah and 
Ulrie Zwingli. In 1507 he was appointed to the town 
church of Biel, and confirmed in that charge by the 
bishop of Lausanne on Aug. 26. In the course of his 
early ministry he was employed bv the town authori- 
ties to conduct negotiations with Borne respecting the 
permission to use a milk diet in Lent and the obtaining 
of indulgences for the citizens of Biel. lie was also 
zealous in defending the independence of the town priest 
against the abbot of the neighboring convent of St. 
John, and the rights of the town church against the 
civil authorities. In 1515 he sojourned at Basle, and 
obtained the degree of theological doctor, besides being 
mada canon and eustos of St. Vincent’s, while retaining 
liis previous office at Biel ; but five years later he bad 
resigned all his dignities at Basle and resumed his place 
at Biel altogether. He persistently preached against 
indulgences and the mass, kept a watchful eye upon the 


abbot of St. John and the town council, and ventured 
to attack the celibacy of priests. In 1524 he married, 
and was accordingly dismissed from his charge. He 
thereupon preached in the open air and other available 
places, visited his assailants and discussed the questions 
at issue with them, and by different methods gained 
many friends to his side. 1 1 is life had been a constant 
struggle with poverty from the beginning, and was now 
more than ever wretched from this cause. But appeals 
to the council for support, in recognition of the services 
of eighteen years which he had given to the town, pro- 
duced no effect; and when, in 1525, the temper of the 
community had changed, and resolutions were adopted 
by the citizens asking that Wyttenbacll be allowed to 
preach, and that a suitable support be assured him, the 
council first evaded the demand and then invoked the 
intervention of the bishop of Lausanne. An episcopal 
admonition ivas accordingly addressed to Biel, Nov. II, 
1525. A protracted agitation followed, the result of 
which was that Wyttenbach was thrown aside by all 
parties, and refused employment of anv kind by his 
native town. A pension amounting to twelve fiorins 
annually was after a time granted him as remuneration 
for the losses incurred in the contest with the abbot 
of St. John; but he did not live to enjoy even this 
beggarly provision, lie died in 152G. Two years af- 
terwards the reformation of Biel was an accomplished 
fact. 

No literary remains of sufficient extent to afford a 
proof of Wvtteubach’s scholarly abilities are in exist- 
ence. A few Letters , mostly contained in the archives 
of Biel, are extant, which show him to have been a man 
of convictions and a courageous defender of truth and 
right. See Scheurer, Mausoleum (largely incorrect), 
pt. i; Kuhn, Reformatoren Berns ; Blosch, Gesch. d. 
tStadt Biel , etc., and particularly the section Manuale 
Dominorum Colleyii iSti. Vincentii Bemensis from A.D. 
1488 to the Reformation; Haller to Zwingli in 1523, in 
Zwingli’s Opp. i, 294. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 


x, 


Xavier, Francis, one of the most celebrated mem- 
bers of the Order of the Jesuits, was born of noble par- 
entage at the Castle of Navier, in Navarre, April 7, 
150G. He was the youngest child of a large family, 
and fondly loved by his doting parents. Early devel- 
oping remarkable talents, and devoted to literary pur- 
suits, he was sent, at the age of eighteen, to the College 
of St. Barbara in Paris. The straitened circumstances 
of his parents threatened to cut short his course of 
study; but the affection of his eldest sister, and her al- 
most prophetic insight into his wonderful future career, 
prompted to the practice of the strictest economy in 
home expenditures that this gifted brother might have 
the means to complete his collegiate education. It was 
not long before, as a public teacher of philosophy, he 
w r as able to procure the means for his own support 
and begin to make that impression in the world for 
which he afterwards became so renowned. It was at 
this time that he became acquainted with Ignatius 
Loyola, who threw around the brilliant young man the 
fascination which he was unable to resist, and in due 
time he was enrolled as a member of the Society of Jes- 
uits. He followed his leader with an unquestioning 
obedience to Rome, and united with him in his effort 
to raise a band of devoted missionaries, who should go 
forth in all directions to extend the triumphs of the 
Church and bring the nations under the sway of the 
Christian faith. 

After the discoveries of Vasco de Gama, the Portu- 
guese had sent out colonies to India. By them the 
city of Goa was founded. Acting in accordance with 
the spirit of the age, John III, king of Portugal, re- 
solved to set up the Christian Church in his Eastern 


territories, and by the suggestion of Loyola and of his 
own envoy at Rome, Govea, he selected Navier to com- 
mence the enterprise. “A happier selection could not 
have been made, nor was a summons to toil, to suffering, 
and to death ever so joyously received.” He embark- 
ed in a ship which bore a regiment of a thousand men, 
sent out to reinforce the garrison of Goa. A long, dis- 
mal, sickly, and in many instances deadly, voyage was 
the fearful experience through which they were des- 
tined to pass. Xavier, although himself weakened by 
constant sea-sickness, was an angel of mercy and kind- 
ness to his fellow-voyagers, and “lived among the dy- 
ing and the profligate the unwearied minister of con- 
solation and peace.” Five months were passed in this 
dreary voyage when the ship reached Mozambique. 
Here Xavier was brought to the borders of the grave 
by a raging fever, and so slow was the return of his 
strength that it was months before he set foot in the 
city of Goa. A dismal moral scene met his eye, and a 
less heroic spirit would have been appalled in view of 
the mighty task he had undertaken to perform. But 
with apostolic zeal he commenced and prosecuted his 
work. Wearing the coarsest garments, and pale and 
haggard with his long sickness, he traversed the gay 
streets of Goa, swinging a large bell in his hand, and 
calling everywhere upon the parents whom he met to 
place their children under his spiritual care. Gather- 
ing these little ones under his tuition, he taught them 
the rudiments of religion, and sent them to their homes 
to carry to their parents the lessons which they had 
been taught by the missionary of the Cross. The 
wretched and the diseased w*ere not forgotten by him. 
He frequented the most loathsome hospitals, and had 


XIMENES 


1045 


XIMENES 


words of sympathy and kindness for tlic suffering ones 
whom he found there. More than a year did he re- 
main in Goa; and when his work there was done, the 
city was not what it was when lirst he took up his 
abode within its walls. 

On the coast of Malabar there was then, as there is 
now, a pearl-lishery. Those engaged in this dangerous 
business formed a low and degraded caste, which seem- 
ed to be forsaken of God and man. Thither Xavier 
directed his steps. Once more were heard the tones of 
his ringing bell calling the rude, neglected children to 
his side and giving them such religious instruction as 
he had to impart, lie prepared for them a catechism, 
from which they could learn the elements of Christian 
doctrine. lie remained among these degraded pearl- 
fishers for fifteen months, sharing in all the hardships of 
their abject lot, and living among them in the humblest 
and most self-sacrificing way, if by any means he 
might win them to the acceptance of the faith which 
he taught. lie found inexpressible joy in his mission- 
ary work. “I have nothing to add,” thus he wrote to 
Loyola, “but that they who came forth to labor for the 
salvation of idolaters receive from on high such conso- 
lations that, if there be on earth such a thing as hap- 
piness, it is theirs.” 

His mission on the coast of Malabar accomplished, 
Xavier moved on to make other conquests for the 
Church. The kingdom of Travaueore was next enter- 
ed, and the most marvellous success followed his labors. 
He tells us that in one month he baptized ten thousand 
natives. With a zeal and energy not surpassed by any 
missionary of the Cross, he explored the islands of 
Mora, Manez, Ceylon, the Moluccas, and every part of 
the Indies which had been made known to the world 
by European travellers. “ Weak and frail he may have 
been, but from the days of Paul of Tarsus to our own 
the annals of mankind exhibit no other example of a 
soul borne on so triumphantly through distress and dan- 
ger in all their most appalling aspects.” In 1540 he 
landed on the shores of Japan, and was soon able to 
preach to the natives of that great island the Gospel 
as he believed it. The story of the labors of Xavier 
and his associates among the Japanese is one of the 
most marvellous in the annals of missionary advent- 
ures. The details of this story are too long to be re- 
cited in a sketch like this, and the reader must look 
elsewhere to find them. With his ambition as a mis- 
sionary still ungratified, and resolved to find a still 
larger field within which to operate, he turned his eye 
towards the great empire of China, and resolved to 
make that vast country the scene of liis consecrated toil. 
Overcoming obstacles which would have terrified any 
other man, he embarked in the “ Holy Cross,” and at 
length reached Sancian, an island near the mouth of 
the Canton River, where the Portuguese had a com- 
mercial factory. Here he was prostrated by a disease 
which proved fatal. His iron frame was worn out by 
his ten years and a half of incessant work, and he was 
compelled to bow before a Power whose mandate he 
could not withstand. He died Dee. 2, 1552. His last 
words were, “In te, Domine, speravi ; noil confundar 
in jeternnm” (“In thee, O Lord, have I put my trust; 
let me never be confounded”). His body was removed 
to Goa, where it was deposited in t lie Church of St. 
Paul. In 1G19 he was beatified, and in IG22 was can- 
onized as a saint. The “festive day” of Xavier in the 
calendar of the Romish Church is Dec. 3. See Ste- 
phens, Miscellanies, s. v. “Ignatius Loyola and his As- 
sociates The Life and Letters of St. Francis Xavier 
(Loud. 1872, 2 vols, ) ; Christian Review, June, 1842. 
(J.G S.) 

Ximenes, Francisco de Cisneros, cardinal-arch- 
bishop, grand-inquisitor of Castile, and regent of Spain, 
was descended from a family belonging to the inferior 
nobility of Castile, and originally resident in the town 
from which its appellative was derived, lie was born 
in 143G, and named Gonzales , the name Francisco be- 


' ing a later monastic substitute. Early destined for the 
Church, he studied ancient languages at Alcala, at the 
age of fourteen entered the University of Salamanca, 
and six years later became bachelor of both civil and 
canon law. He was driven by poverty to engage in 
the practice of law at Rome. On the death of his fa- 
ther, however, he returned home, having in the mean- 
time obtained a papal brief assuring to him the lirst 
benefice which might become vacant in. the archdiocese 
of Toledo; but (he archbishop took offence at the in- 
terference of the pope in the affairs of his sec, and had, 
besides, another candidate for the benefice. He accord- 
ingly imprisoned Ximenes to compel a renunciation of 
his claim, and did not liberate him until after six years. 
In 1480 a chaplaincy was obtained which removed him 
from under the jurisdiction of the archbishop and af- 
forded him opportunity for the study of theology and 
also of the Hebrew and Chaldee languages; and soon 
afterwards he became vicar to Mendoza, bishop of Si- 
| guenza, and administrator of the estates of Count C'i- 
suentes, who was a captive among the Moors. 1 1 is fort- 
unes seemed to be assured for life when he suddenly 
renounced all bis emoluments and entered himself in 
the order of Franciscan Observants at Toledo as a nov- 
ice, and dev’oted himself to ascetieal practices excel- 
ling in rigor the harsh requirements of the monastic 
rule. Ere long he had won extraordinary fame as a 
preacher and confessor, and multitudes thronged to his 
eonfessional ; but he turned away from these brilliant 
prospeets also, and buried himself in the hermitage of 
the Madonna of Castannar in a hut erected with his 
own hands. Three years afterwards he was ordered by 
his superiors to the monastery of Salzeda, where he 
soon became guardian, and stimulated the monks by 
bis example to strict performance of their vows. 

In 1492 he was made confessor to the queen, Isabella, 
but with the proviso, insisted on by himself, that he 
should be allowed to fulfil his monastic obligations and 
reside in his convent. Two years later he was chosen 
to be provincial of his order for Castile, and after a vis- 
itation of the convents made on foot, in which he noted 
the lax discipline everywhere prevailing, he induced 
the queen to procure a brief from pope Alexander VI 
directing a reformation. In 1495 the archbishop of 
Toledo died, and Ximenes was promoted to his post, an 
appointment from which he vainly sought to escape by 
flight, and which had no effect whatever over his ascet- 
ieal habits after it was accepted. He was ultimately 
ordered from Rome, under date of Dec. 15, 1495, to live 
in a style comporting with his rank; but, though he 
obeyed in outward appearance, he persisted in wear- 
ing the coarse gown and cord of St. Francis ami in 
sleeping on a beneh by the side of his luxurious bod. 
In the influential position he now held, he was able to 
prosecute the reformation among the monks and secu- 
lar clergy more energetically, and to compel it^ success 
despite the violent opposition raised against it. He 
caused Albornos, a delegate to Rome who was to accuse 
him to the pope, to be arrested by the Spanish ambas- 
sador at Ostia and returned as a prisoner of state. Sev- 
eral thousand Franciscans are said to have sought re- 
lief from his rigorous rule in other lands. The general 
of the order visited Castile and complained bitterly, 
but to no purpose, against Ximenes. After his return 
to Rome, he caused the appointment of a number of 
coadjutors to share with Ximenes in the work of re- 
form ; but the latter paid no attention to this commis- 
sion, and was even able, through the influence of the 
queen, to evade a papal bull, dated Nov. 9, HOG, which 
prohibited their Catholic majesties from proceeding 
with the reform until its operation had been investi- 
gated by the curia. 

A like spirit of unfaltering sternness was exhibited 
by Ximenes in connection with the conversion of the 
Moors. Talavera, archbishop of Granada, was distin- 
guished for liberality of view and for zealous interest 
in the peaceful conversion of the Moors; but Ximenes, 


XIMENES 


1046 


YATES 


acting as the leader of the fanatical party, insisted upon 
more energetic measures. He attempted, indeed, at 
first to convince the Moorish scholars by way of argu- 
ment and also by donations, and so successfully that he 
was able to baptize three thousand Saracens on a single 
occasion; but when he encountered opposition, his vio- 
lent spirit asserted itself. lie disregarded all pledges, 
burned all Arabic books he could seize, though he saved 
three hundred medical works for his University of Al- 
cala, and irritated the Mohammedans beyond endur- 
ance and until they rebelled. Talavera and others per- 
suaded them to lay down their arms; but the revolt 
was punished, nevertheless, by a revocation of all 
pledges previously given them, and by compelling them 
to choose between conversion or banishment. About 
fifty thousand Moslems submitted to. baptism on these 
terms, and all the land was astonished at the ability 
with which Ximenes had been able to convert a hostile 
people to Christianity in so short a time. The charac- 
ter of the conversions will appear most clearly in the 
light of the fact that Ximenes rabidly opposed the pub- 
lication of even fragmentary portions of the Scriptures 
or of expositions of the mass in the Moorish language. 
He insisted that the Scriptures should be preserved 
within the three languages in which, by the order of 
God, the inscriptions at the head of Christ’s cross were 
written, urging that the common people despise what 
they understand, but venerate what is hidden from 
them and beyond their reach, and that wicked persons 
would bring the Catholic Church low whenever the 
Bible should be spread among the people in a form in- 
telligible to them. 

In other respects the work of Ximenes was often 
beneficial to the world, e. g. when he protected the poor 
and discharged unworthy officials, and when he remod- 
elled the financial system of Castile, whose grand-chan- 
cellor he was, so that taxation became at once more 
tolerable to the subject and more remunerative to the 
State. lie was the faithful spiritual adviser of the 
queen while she lived, and after her death secured to 
Ferdinand the government of Castile, a favor which 
was rewarded by the bestowal upon him of a cardinal’s 
hat and of the post of general-inquisitor (1507). He 
had already begun the erection of buildings for the 
University of Alcala in 1498, which were completed ten 
years later, anti had given to it a faculty of forty-two 
professors, the ablest men to be found, and set apart four- 
teen thousand ducats for its annual support. His great- 
est literary undertaking was the Complutensian Polyglot , 
begun in 1502 by the accumulation of available manu- 
scripts. The Old-Test, portion of the materials upon 
which that work was based have recently been trans- 
ferred to the University of Madrid (see Tregelles, Ac- 
count [1854], p. >12-18). The Polyglot (in 6 vols.) was 
finished in 1517. See Polyglot Bibles. Ximenes 
was als^ engaged in the preparation of an edition of 
the works of Aristotle, which was interrupted by his 
death, and he labored for the preservation of the Mozar- 
abic liturgy. 

Ximenes was not possessed of uncommon learning, 
and liis instincts were rather those of a soldier than a 
scholar, lie wished to renew the Crusades, and actu- 
ally did bring about the capture of the piratical harbor 
of Mozarquivir and of the town of Oran, being person- 


ally present at the storming of the latter place. He 
has been credited with having originated the Inquisi- 
tion in Castile, and charged, on the other hand, with 
having opposed its rule. Both statements are, how- 
ever, erroneous, lie came to the court twelve years 
after the Inquisition was introduced, and he protected 
Talavera, archbishop of Granada, against the charge 
of heresy by appealing the case from the Inquisition to 
the pope. As grand-inquisitor he issued instructions 
to enable new converts to protect themselves against 
the suspicion of relapse, and even provided for their 
education in Christian knowledge. lie also restricted 
the authority of subordinate inquisitors. On the oth- 
er hand, he refused to allow causes before the tribunal 
of the Inquisition to be tried in public, and in general 
showed himself to be in thorough harmony with the 
spirit of that institution. A moderate estimate fixes 
the number of persons burned at the stake during the 
ten years of his supreme administration at above two 
thousand. He also erected a new tribunal of the In- 
quisition and transplanted the Inquisition itself to Oran, 
the Canary Isles, and America. 

lie was unable to attend the Lateran Synod held un- 
der Leo X, but counselled the pope by letter, and pro- 
mulgated the decisions of the synod before its members 
had dispersed. He also endorsed Leo’s plan for improv- 
ing the Juliari calendar. But he did not, on the oth- 
er hand, hesitate to condemn the sale of indulgences 
as involving an enervation of the discipline of the 
Church and a dangerous liberality. When king Ferdi- 
nand died (1516), Ximenes was made regent of Castile 
until Charles (V) should reach his majority, a position 
which he filled during twenty months with great abil- 
ity. He preserved fur the crown, against the opposi- 
tion of the nobility, the grand-mastership of the order 
of San lago di Compost ella; transferred the seat of 
government to Madrid; had Charles proclaimed king 
over the votes of the assembled council; restrained the 
nobles by organizing an armed militia throughout all 
Spain, and deprived them of a portion of the property 
they had acquired by violence or fraud. With this 
money he paid all debts incurred by Ferdinand and Is- 
abella, strengthened the army and navy, erected forti- 
fications and established arsenals, and supplied the mer- 
cenary greed of the court with funds. He took meas- 
ures to improve the condition of the natives of Amer- 
ica, and appointed Las Casas to be protector over the 
American colonies. The introduction of African sla- 
very into the colonies, which was proposed by some, 
was positively forbidden by him. On the return of 
Charles to Spain, he found Ximenes dying. The end 
came Nov. 8, 1517. 

The principal source for Ximenes’ life is Gomez, De 
Reb. Oestis a Fr. Ximenio Cisnero . . . Libri Octo , in 
Rerum Ilisp. Scriptores Aliquot (Frankf. 1581), vol. iii. 
Other Spanish works on Ximenes are given in Pres- 
cott. A French life was written by Fle'chier, bishop of 
Nismes. See also Hefele, Der Cardinal Ximenes , etc. 
(1844) ; Prescott, Ferdinand and Isabella; Saint-1 lilaire. 
Hist. d'Fspagne depuis les Premiers Temps Historiques 
jusgu'a la Mori de Ferdinand VII (new ed. 1852, 6 
vols.) ; Lavergne, Le Cardinal Ximenes , in Rev. des 
Deux Mondes , 1841, ii, 221 sq.; Herzog, Real-Encyldop. 
s. v. 


Y. 


Yates, Andrew, D.D., a (Dutch) Reformed min- 
ister, was born at Schenectady, N. Y., Jan. 10, 1772. He 
graduated with honor at Yale College in 1793; studied 
theology under I)r. John II. Livingston, and was licensed 
in 1796 by the Classis of New York. In 1797 be was 
made professor of Latin ami Greek in Union College, 
and held this chair until 1801, when he became pastor 
of a Congregational Church in East Hartford, Conn. 


After thirteen years of efficient service (from 1801 to 
1814), he again accepted a professorship in Union College 
(mental and moral philosophy), which he held eleven 
years (from 1814 to 1825), and for eleven years more 
was the principal of a high -school at Cbittenango, 
N. Y. (to 1836). From that time until his death he 
devoted himself with untiring zeal and great useful- 
ness to the assistance of no less than thirteen feeble 


YATES 


1047 


YOUNG 


churches. During his life as a teacher, he was con- 
stantly engaged in preaching wherever he was wanted, 
lie was the chief instrument in founding a mission among 
the Indians at Mackinaw, about 1823, lie organized a 
Church at Chittenango, and was its pastor while ho had 
charge of the high-school. His death was the result of 
illness contracted in his missionary labors. His last ef- 
fort was the establishment of a Mission Church among 
a poor people at Day, or Sacondaga, Schenectady Co., 
N. Y., of which his sister, an aged and benevolent lady, 
was the chief supporter. Rut ten days before its dedi- 
cation, and on a Sabbath, Oct. 13, 1844, he died without a 
struggle. II is epitaph is inscribed on the bell of the 
little church, which is only one of the many monuments 
of his apostolic spirit and toils. At East Hartford his 
pastorate was greatly blessed with revivals and constant 
ingatherings. There he began, and at Schenectady con- 
tinued, to teach theology to young men, of whom thirty 
entered the minist ry of Christ. Among these were pres- 
ident Wayland, of Brown University ; Dr. Mark Tucker, 
of Wethersfield ; and Dr. B. B. Wisner, of Boston. Dr. 
Yates was an accurate scholar, a thorough theologian, 
an effective evangelical preacher, an accomplished col- 
lege professor and officer, a man of great public spirit 
and Christian enterprise. He was in the best sense a 
Christian gentleman, and “a good minister of Jesus 
Christ.” II is publications consisted of a few occasional 
Sermons and fugitive pieces. He preferred to let his 
active works speak for him, for he was not ambitious of 
distinction. “I allow myself to do nothing,” said he, 
“ for the purpose of being superior to my neighbors. Am- 
bition is a bad motive; the Bible does not appeal to it.” 
“The dew falls silently, nobody hears it, but the fields 
feel it. The attraction of gravitation makes no noise.” 
So he lived and died, a happy Christian, and “a work- 
man that needed not to be ashamed.” Dr. Sprague has 
given an unusual space to his memory in his Annals of 
the Amer. Pulpit , ix, 126-138 ; see also Corwin, Manual 
of the Ref Church , p. 275, 276. (W. J. It. T.) 

Y ates, John Austin, D.D., a (Dutch) Reformed 
minister, son of the preceding, was born at East Hart- 
ford, Conn., May 31, 1801. He graduated at Union Col- 
lege in 1821, and studied theology at the Seminary of 
the Reformed Church at New Brunswick, N. J., for two 
years, when he accepted a tutorship in his alma mater 
at Schenectady, N. Y. He was licensed to preach in 
1824 ; continued as tutor until 1827, and was then made 
professor of Oriental literature in the same institution. 
To complete his preparations for this chair, he went to 
Europe, studied at the University of Berlin, visited 
Italy and other countries, and returned at the end of 
two years to his post (in 1829). He was never settled 
as a pastor, but supplied various churches in Schenectady, 
Alban} 7 , and elsewhere during his collegiate life of twen- 
ty years. He had, however, accepted a call to the First 
Reformed Church of Jersey City, and had informally 
begun his labors with enthusiasm and great popular- 
ity. He died very suddenly of Asiatic cholera, Aug. 26, 
1849, while on a visit to Schenectady, and his funeral 
sermon was preached in his church in Jersey City on 
the evening that had been set apart for his installation. 
Dr. Yates was a highly accomplished man, attractive in 
manners, of genial spirit, and possessed of that magnetic 
power which is so irresistible in social and public life, 
lie was a man of genius, literary and polished to a high 
degree, and an enchanting public speaker. His ser- 
mons, being prepared during his professional life, were 
written with great care, and often were the fruits of 
long previous study and repeated revision. His deliv- 
ery was animated and graceful, with a subdued earnest- 
ness, and free from all stage effects or merely popular 
aims. He was as simple as a child, and singularly free 
from duplicity or suspicion. He passed through many 
trials, to some of which his natural temperament added 
new pangs and complications. His students and friends 
loved him unto death with the most ardent affection, 
while those who opposed him in some of his difficul- 


ties were equally decided in their feelings. 1 1 is sud- 
den death found him at peace with Cod and ready 
for his change. He left no printed remains. (\V. J. 
R. T.) 

Yates, Richard, D.D., an English clergyman, was 
born at Bury St. Edmund’s in 1769. lie was chaplain 
of Chelsea Hospital from 1798, and rector of Ashen, in Es- 
sex, from 1804 until his death, Aug. 24, 1834. lie pub- 
lished, A n Illustration of the Monastic History and . 1 iniq- 
uities of the Town and A bbeyof St. Edmund' s-Bury ( 1 805) : 
— The Church in Danger, etc. (1815): — and other 
works. Sec Allibonc, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors , 
s. v. 

Yates, William, D.D.. a Baptist missionary, was 
born at Loughborough, Leicestershire, England, Dec. 
15, 1792. He was educated at Bristol College, and went 
to Calcutta as a missionary in 1815. lie settled at Scr- 
ampore, where, after the death of Dr. Carey, he devoted 
himself entirely to translating, and to preparing text- 
books. He visited England and the United States in 
1827-29, and in 1845 embarked for England on account 
of his health, but died on the Red Sea, July 3 of that 
year. He translated the whole Bible into Bengalee; 
the New Test, and most of the Old into Sanscrit, and 
the New Test, into llindee and Ilindostanee. Among 
his most important publications were, A Grammar of 
the Sanscrit Language on a Xew Plan (1820) : — Sanscrit 
Vocabulary (eod. ): — Jntroduction to the Ilindostanee 
Language (1827) : — Dictionary, Ilindostanee and English 
( 1836): — Biblical Apparatus, in four parts (1837): — 
Theory of the Hebrew Verb: — and Introduction to the 
Bengalee Language (posthumous ; edited by J. Wenger, 
1847). A Memoir (1847) of him has been written by 
Dr. James Hoby. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. 
A uthors, s. v. 

Yeomans, John Willtam,*T).D., a Presbyterian 
divine, was horn at Hinsdale, Mass., Jan. 7, 1800. He 
graduated at Williams College in 1824; studied theology 
in the seminary at Andover, and was ordained and in- 
stalled pastor of the Church at North Adams in Novem- 
ber, 1828. In 1832 he became pastor of the First Con- 
gregational Church of Pittsfield; in 1834 of the First 
Presbyterian Church of Trenton, N.J.; in 1841 accepted 
the presidency of Lafayette College, Easton, Pa.; and in 
1845 became pastor of the Mahoning Church, Danville, 
where he continued to labor until his death, June 22, 
1863. Dr. Yeomans was a man of strong and original 
mind. His profound thought and logical power were 
acknowledged by all who knew him or read his writings. 
As a preacher, he was instructive, impressive, and often 
highly eloquent. Above all, he was a man of faith and 
prayer, of deep, intelligent, and scriptural piety. He 
published, an Election Sermon (Boston, 1834, 8vo): — 
Dedication Sermon (1840, 8 vo): — Inaugural Address 
(1841, 8 vo) : — and was co-author of a Hist, of the County 
of Berkshire , Mass. (Pittsfield, 1829, 12mo, 468 pp.; in 
2 pts. ). Besides these, he was a frequent contributor 
to the Biblical Repertory and other religious peri- 
odicals, and had for several years been engaged in writ- 
ing Commentaries on the Epistle to the Romans and 
the Gospel of John, both of which were left in an un- 
finished state. Sec Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1864, 
p. 207 ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. A uthors, s. v. 
(J. L.S.) 

Young, Alexander, D.D., a Unitarian minister, 
was born in Boston, Sept. 22, 1800. In 1812 he entered 
Boston Latin School, and in 1820 lie graduated at 
Harvard College. In 1821 he entered the Divinity 
School at Cambridge, where he pursued the regular 
course of study for three years. He was licensed in 
1824, and accepted a call to the Sixth Congregational 
Church, Boston, in 1825. In 1833 he went to Europe, 
lie was a very successful preacher. He died March 16, 
1846. His publications were numerous, mostly ser- 
mons. Sec Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, viii, 
524. 


YOUNG 


1048 


YOUNG 


Young, Arthur, P.D., LL.D., an English divine, 
chaplain to speaker Onslow, became rector of Bradtield, 
and in 1746 prebendary of Canterbury. He died in 
1750. He published a Historical Dissertation on Idol- 
atrous Corruptions in Religion, etc. (1734). See Alii- 
bone, Diet, of Iirit. and A mer. A ut hors , a. v. 

Young, Brigham, the president and prophet of 
the Mormons (q. v.), or Latter-day Saints, was born in 
Whitiugham, Vt., June 1, 1801. lie was the son of a 
farmer, received a very limited education, and learned 
the trade of a painter and glazier. He joined the Bap- 
tist Church and preached occasionally with considera- 
ble acceptance. In 1832. however, he joined the Mor- 
mons at Kirtland, O., became an elder and one of the 
twelve apostles, and was sent as a missionary in 1835 
to make proselytes in the Eastern States, in which he 
was very successful. His preaching was characterized 
by a peculiar kind of eloquence, which made a deep im- 
pression, and enabled him to rise rapidly in the estima- 
tion of the people of his sect, and to acquire almost 
boundless iniluence. He possessed, at the same time, 
great energy and shrewdness and a strong personality, 
which further enhanced his popularity. After the 
death of Joseph Smith, in 1844, Young was one of the 
four aspirants to the presidency, and was unanimously 
elected to that office bv the apostles. The choice was 
received with the highest approval, and his principal 
rival, Sidney Higdon, was excommunicated. When 
the Mormons were expelled from Nauvoo in 1846, 
Young set out to lead the host on their weary journey 
across the Plains, which terminated only on their reach- 
ing Great Salt Lake Valley, which he declared to be the 
promised land. Here he founded Salt Lake City in 
July, 1847, in which he exercised absolute authority. 
In March, 1840, a convention was held in that city, a 
constitution framed, and a State was organized under 
the name of Deseret, V(hich, in the “reformed Egyptian” 
language, is said to mean the “Land of the Honey-bee.” 
Congress, however, refused to admit the new state, but 
Utah Territory was organized, and President Fillmore 
appointed Brigham Young governor for four years. 
The next year the United States judges were driven 
away; and at the termination of the four years for 
which Young had been appointed governor, Colonel 
Steptoe was appointed in his place. But on visiting 
Utah in 1854, he was resisted by the Mormon president, 
who declared that he would “ be governor, and no power 
could hinder it until the Lord Almighty says, ‘ Brig- 
ham, you need not be governor any longer.’” In 1857 
President Buchanan appointed Alfred Cumming govern- 
or, and sent him out with a military force of 2500 men 
for the protection of the Federal officers. This brought 
matters to a crisis, and the Mormons became peaceable, 
though not without some concessions on the part of the 
government. 

On Aug. 29, 1852, Young proclaimed the “celestial 
law of marriage,” sanctioning polygamy, which he 
declared had been revealed to Joseph Smith in July, 
1813. This was denounced by Smith’s widow and her 
four sons as a forgery ; and, although the Mormon 
apostles had repeatedly and explicitly denied the 
imputation of such a doctrine and practice, they now 
accepted it without much resistance. He took to him- 
self a large number of wives, most of whom resided in 
a building known as the “ Lion House,” so called from a 
huge lion, carved in stone, which stands upon the por- 
tico. In addition to his office of president of the Church, 
he was grand archec of t he Order of Danites, a secret or- 
ganization within the Church, which was one of the 
chief sources of his absolute power: and by organizing 
and directing the trade and industry of the community 
for his own advantage he accumulated immense wealth. 
During the later years of his life and administration, 
the development of the mining interests of the Terri- 
tory and of the commercial interests of Salt Lake City 
brought a great many “ gentiles” (as those who are not 
Mormons are called by that sect) to the Territory and 


city, and the temporal power of Brigham Young had 
greatly diminished. He died at Salt Lake City, Aug. 
29,1877. 

Young, Edward (1), LL.D., an English clergy- 
man, father of the poet, was born in 1643. Me was suc- 
cessively fellow of Winchester College, rector of Upbam 
in Hampshire, prebendary of Salisbury (1682), chaplain 
to William and INI ary, and dean of Salisbury. He died 
in 1705. He published a number of single sermons, and 
a collection under the title of Se?'mojiS on Sei'eral Occa- 
sions (Loud. 1702-3, 2 vols. ). See Allibone, Diet, of 
Iirit. and A mer . Authors, s. v. 

Young, Edward (2), a celebrated English poet 
and clergyman, was born at Upham in Hampshire, in 
1681. He was educated at Winchester School and at 
Oxford LTniversity, where he received a law fellowship 
in All -Souls’ College in 1708, He devoted himself, 
however, more to poetry and religious studies than to 
law; but received the degree of B.C.L. in 1714, and 
that of D.C.L. in 1719. His first appearance as a poet 
was in 1713, in an Epistle to George, Lord Lansdoinie , on 
his being created a peer, lie, however, became ashamed 
of its fulsome flattery and suppressed it. In the same 
year he also published two other poems of some length, 
entitled respectively The Last Day and The Force of 
Religion, or Vanquished Love. The year following he 
published A Poem on the Death of Queen Anne. These 
efforts gave him some immediate reputation, and in 
1719 he ventured on the more ambitious effort of a 
tragedy, under the title of Ihtsiris, which was brought 
out at Drury Lane with fair success. This attracted to 
him the notice of the duke of Wharton, with whom he 
went abroad at the end of this year. At the death of 
the duke, Young received an annuity of £'200. In 1721 
his tragedy The Revenge was produced, but was unsuc- 
cessful at the time, though it has since had greater ac- 
ceptance. Between 1725 and 1728 appeared in succes- 
sion his satires entitled The Love of Fame, the Vniver- 
' sal Passion, which had great success, and brought to 
their author both money and fame. In 1726 he issued 
The Instalment, a poem addressed to Sir Bobert Wal- 
pole on his being made a Knight of the Garter, for 
which service it is believed he obtained his pension. 
In 1727 he took holy orders, and was appointed one of 
the royal chaplains; and in 1730 he became rector of 
Welwyn, Hertfordshire, which post he retained, much 
against his will (for he was an anxious seeker for ec- 
clesiastical preferment), until his death, April 12, 1765. 
In 1731 he married Lady Elizabeth Lee, daughter of 
the Earl of Lichfield and widow of Colonel Lee. He 
exhibited great grief at her death, in 1741; and it is 
believed that he received the suggestion of the Night 
Thoughts from the solemn meditations on that event. 
By this work, begun shortly afterwards and published 
1742-46, almost solely is he remembered, lie published 
numerous other works of no present importance. In 
1762 he superintended an edition of his collected works 
in 4 vols. 12mo, from which he excluded some of his 
most gushing productions. The Night Thoughts has 
passed through editions innumerable both in England 
and America. Various other editions of his collected 
works have also appeared from time to time, for which 
see Allibone, Diet, of iirit. and A mer. A uthors, s. v. See 
also Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. ; Johnson, Lives of the 
Poets; Hazlitt, Lectures on the Eng. Poets, lect. vi. 

Young, Jacob, D.D., a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in Allegheny County, Pa., March 19, 1776. 
His father was a member of the Church of England, 
and his mother was a Presbyterian, yet both were 
strangers to the converting power of Christ until 
brought to him by their own son. The stirring scenes 
and mighty struggles connected with the birth of our 
national republic at the time Mr. Young was ushered 
into life seem to have breathed into him the very 
spirit of greatness. 1 1 is first years were passed amid 
the wildest scenes of frontier peril, which inspired him 


YOUNG 


1049 YOUNG MEN’S CHRIST. ASSOC’N 


with physical and mental activity, and uncommon nat- 
ural courage. Under the care of his affectionate moth- 
er, lie grappled with many of those great thoughts 
which afterwards swelled his mature and manly heart. 
The simple grandeur of the New Test, impressed his 
mind, while the history and sufferings of his Saviour 
won his heart and kindled his most ardent love. In 
early manhood he moved with his father to Kentucky; 
joined the Methodists; felt himself called to preach, and, 
without formal Church authority, preached his lirst ser- 
mon, saw the congregation bathed in tears, and felt in 
his own soul the heavenly unction. In 1801 he was 
licensed to preach, and under the direction of William 
McKendree, afterwards bishop, was thrust out on a 
large frontier circuit. For fifty-five years Mr. Young 
was engaged in the itinerancy. lie travelled ex- 
tensively, everywhere attended by marvellous success, 
lie died Sept. 1(1, 1859. He was a man of great intel- 
lectual power, habitually prompt, laborious, unswerving; 
great in his Christian character, great in his fidelity, 
great in his success. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences, I860, p. 233 ; Simpson, Cyclop, of Methodism , s. v. ; 
and his Autobiography . 

Young, John Clarke, D.D., a Presbyterian min- 
ister, son of the Rev. John Young, was born at Green- 
castle, Pa., Aug. 12, 1803. lie prosecuted bis prepara- 
tory studies under John Borland, an eminent teacher of 
New York city; and studied three years in Columbia 
College, when he removed to Dickinson College, gradu- 
ating in 1823. He entered Princeton Theological Sem- 
inary in 1824, where he remained two years; then in 
182G became tutor in the College of New Jersey, where 
he served until 1828. lie was licensed in the spring of 
1827 by the Presbytery of New York; and, on leaving 
Princeton, was settled as pastor of the MeChord Presby- 
terian Church of Lexington, Ky. In the fall of 1830 he 
was chosen president of Centre College, Danville, and 
filled the office with great credit to himself during the 
remainder of his life. In 1831 he assumed, in connec- 
tion with the presidency of the college, the office of 
pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Danville, in which 
relation, also, he remained until his death, which oc- 
curred June 23, 1857. lie published a number of single 
Sermons, Speeches, and .1 ddresses. Sec Sprague, A nnals 
of the Amer. Pulpit, IX, iv, 44. 

Young, John Kimball, D.D., a minister of the 
Congregational Church, was born at Dover, N. 11., March 
22, 1802. His preparatory studies were pursued at Do- 
ver Academy; he entered Dartmouth College at the age 
of fifteen, and graduated in 1821. He was a teacher in 
Dover Academy, and in Charleston, S. C., from January, 
1824, to July, 1827 ; graduated from Andover Theologi- 
cal Seminary in 1829, and was ordained in Boston, Sept. 
24, 1829; was the agent of the American Bible Society 
from 1829 to 1831; installed pastor at Laconia, N. H. 
(then Meredith Bridge), Nov. 29, 1831, and was dis- 
missed Feb. 12, 1867. He was acting pastor at llop- 
kinton from 1867 to 1874. From 1842 he was a cor- 
porate member of the American Board of Commis- 
sioners for Foreign Missions; from 1846 to 1858, also 
from 1861 to 1873, he was a trustee of the New Hamp- 
shire Missionary Society; for a time was a trustee of 
the Gilmanton Academy and Theological Seminary; 
was corresponding secretary of the New Hampshire 
General Association from 1851 to 1861, was moderator 
of it in 1866, and from 1849 was a member of the New 
Hampshire Historical Society. He died at Laconia, 
Jan. 28, 1875. See Cong. Quar. 1876, p. 437; 1877, p. 
576. 

Young, John R. f D.D., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born at Marlborough, N. Y., Oct. 17, 1820, He 
graduated at Union College, and subsequently at Union 
Theological Seminary. After his ordination lie became 
pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Phelps, N. Y. ; and 
subsequently he became stated supply of Painted Post, 
Baldwinsville, Cortland, and Keesville, all in N. \. A 


second pastorate in Plattsburg lasted five years; from 
Plattsburg lie removed to Mamaroneck, and from thence 
to Newport, U. 1. lie was pastor at Greenbush, N. Y., 
for two years, and stated supply at Albany for two 
years following. After this he served a short time at 
Newark, N. Y., and at Tecumseh, Midi.; also at Clyde, 
where he was taken ill, and returned to Albany, lie died 
at Norfolk, Va., July 30, 1879. Sec Necrological Report 
of Union Theological Seminary. 

Young, Matthew, D.D., a distinguished Irish 
prelate and mathematician, was born in the County of 
Roscommon in 1750. lie prosecuted his studies at 
Trinity College, Dublin, where be was admitted in 1766 ; 
became a fellow in 1775, and entered into holy orders. 
In 1786 he was chosen professor of natural philosophy 
in the same institution, and greatly enlarged his course 
of instruction, introducing illustrations by means of ap- 
paratus, He was one of the founders of the Royal Irish 
Academy, which began active work in 1782. lie was 
appointed by lord Cornwallis bishop of Clonfert. and Kil- 
machduagh; and died Nov. 28, 1800. lie published a 
number of mathematical and philosophical papers and 
essays, and left in MS. a Latin Commentary on the First 
Two Books of Newton's Principal. See Knight, Engl. 
Cyclop. Blog, vi, 892; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. 
A uthors, s. v. ; Chalmers, Biog. Diet . s. v. 

Young, Patrick (Lat. Patricias Junius ), a noted 
English clergyman and scholar, was born at Seton, in 
East Lothian, Scotland, Aug. 29, 1584. He was educat- 
ed at the University of St. Andrews, where he took the 
degree of A.M. in 1603. In 1605 he was incorporated 
A.M. at Oxford, took deaeon’s orders, and became chap- 
lain of New College. He went to London afterwards; 
was granted a pension of ,£50 a year; and made keeper 
of the library of king James. In 1617 lie went to France 
and other neighboring countries, where lie attracted 
great attention on account of his learning. lie was sub- 
sequently presented to the. rectories of 1 laves and Llan- 
rhian. In 1649 he retired to Bromfield, in Essex, where 
he lived with his son-in-law, Air. Atwood; and died 
Sept. 7, 1652. His great scholarship is not adequate- 
ly represented by his literary remains, for he is said to 
have been indolent and undesirous of literary fame. He 
assisted Thomas Reid in translating into Latin the works 
of king James; made some notes on the Alexandrine 
MS. of the Bible (extending down to Numb, xv), which 
are published in Walton’s Polyglot Bible, vol. vi, under the 
title Patricii Junii A nnofationes qrnts Paraverai ad MS. 
Alexandria!, etc .: — published in 1633 an edition of the 
Epistles of Clemens Romanns, from the same MS., which 
may be found in vol. i of the Sacrosancta Concilia of 
Labbe and Cossart: — and in 1638 published an Ex- 
position of Solomon's Song, written by Gilbert Foliot, 
bishop of London in the time of Henry II. I lis Life 
has been written by Sir Thomas Smith (rabbi Smith), 
See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. ; Knight, Engl. Cyclop. 
Biog. s. v. ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors , 
s. v. 

Young Men’s Christian Associations. 
This is the current designation of certain organizations 
of modern times for religious work outside of the regu- 
lar ecclesiastical limits. 

I. History. — There were associations of young men 
for religious improvement in Great Britain and Ireland 
at a very early period. The meetings of college stu- 
dents participated in and largely controlled by John 
and Charles Wesley were of this character. Such or- 
ganizations found their way into Germany and Switzer- 
land about the same time. In 1710 there were similar 
societies in New England, which were addressed by Cot- 
ton Mather under t lie title of “ Young Men Associated.” 
There were similar associations in some of the German 
cities during the period from 183 1 to 1842. Up to that 
time, however, the organizations were sporadic, and left 
no permanent results in the form of our present associa- 
tions. A larger movement occurred in Germany in 


YOUNG MEN'S CHRIST. ASSOC’N 1030 YOUNG MEN’S CHRIST. ASSOC’N 


1849, which resulted in the organization of the German 
associations of the present time. 

The Young Men’s Christian Associations of England 
and America originated in a meeting of a dozen clerks 
in the upper story of a London commercial house, for 
the purpose of spending an hour in religious exercises, 
in 1844. It was organized by George Williams, one of 
the clerks, and afterwards became enlarged in its scope 
and plan so as to meet the wants of the Christian young 
men of that vicinity. A convention of those who had 
become interested in the movement was held, and a so- 
ciety was formed on June 0, 1844, for “ Improving the 
Spiritual Condition of Young Men in the Drapery and 
other Trades.” The plan was imitated in other British 
cities, and found its way across the Channel. Various 
cities on the Continent attempted similar organizations, 
and among them Paris. In the French metropolis, 
however, the consent of the police was required in or- 
der to hold any kind of public meeting. This was at 
length given, and a start was made in the good work. 
A providential circumstance favored the popularization 
of the new movement. Just at this time Henan’s Life 
of Jesuit had appeared, and was producing great excite- 
ment among the Parisians. The work was read by 
thousands. To counteract the infidel influence of this 
brilliant writer, Protestant lectures were given in reply 
to him. The lectures were crowded. Thousands be- 
came eager listeners, who had hitherto been out of the 
reach of the churches and other religious movements. 
This gained for the association the esteem of all the 
better classes, and gave it a standing which it has ever 
since maintained. 

The movement of London also found its way across 
the Atlantic in two directions at about the same time. 
The association of Montreal, Canada, was organized ac- 
cording to the model of the London society, Dec. 9, 1851. 
Twenty days later, by direct suggestion from London, 
and without knowledge of the organization at Mon- 
treal, the association of Boston, Mass., was organized. 
On June 30, 1852, the association of New York was or- 
ganized, and during the same year ten associations, 
including those of Baltimore and Washington, came 
into existence. Cincinnati, however, claims a perma- 
nent organization since 1848, which is earlier than 
that of any other American association. Such or- 
ganizations have greatly multiplied -in North Amer- 
ica since the time above mentioned, and at an early 
period of their history united in conventions for ag- 
gressive and concerted action. At the First Annual 
Convention of the Young Men’s Christian Associations 
of the United States and British Provinces, which met 
at Buffalo, N. Y., June 7 and 8, 1854, a number of the 
societies, about half of those in existence, formed a Con- 
federation. There were at that time in the countries 
mentioned 35 societies with about 8000 members. As- 
sociations not formally connected with the Confedera- 
tion were welcomed to seats in the annual meetings, 
but could have no part in the proceedings except by 
courtesy of the convention. A second convention was 
held at Cincinnati in September, 1855, when there were 
60 associations with 9000 members. A third conven- 
tion was held at Montreal in June, 1856, when the re- 
ports showed the existence of 67 societies with 10,000 
members. This convention accepted and ratified the 
Paris basis, adopted by the first World’s Conference of 
the associations, held in that city in 1855. It is as fol- 
lows : 

“The Young Men’s Christian Associations seek to nnite 
those young men who, regarding Jesus Christ as their 
Bod and Saviour, according to the Uoly Scriptures, desire 
to be his disciples in their doctrine and in their life, and 
to associate their efforts for the extension of his kingdom 
among youug men." 

As a rule, the American associations regulated their 
membership on this basis. It was deemed advisable 
to keep their membership within the membership of 
the evangelical churches. While those outside who 


are seriously disposed are permitted to enjoy all the 
general advantages of the association, they are not al- 
lowed to vote or to hold office. In the English associ- 
ations, as a general rule, any person is eligible to mem- 
bership who gives evidence of liis conversion to God. 
But still it is expected that when such a state exists, 
the young man will unite with some Church. In Hol- 
land there is no restriction as to membership; it is 
presumed that when a young man presents himself to 
the association, he is earnestly seeking the kingdom of 
God, and is worthy of all encouragement. From the 
period of its organization to the breaking- out of the 
civil war in 1861, the new movement had made steady 
and rapid progress, the membership of all the associa- 
tions having reached 25,000 in April of the preceding 
year. The work done is in part indicated by an extract 
from the report of the annual convention held at New 
Orleans, April II, 1860: 

“ Sixty-nine associations have sent in reports. Of these 
64 have sustained prayer-meetings; 15 have Bible-class- 
es : 34 conduct mission Sabbath -schools; 30 have had 
courses of sermons, and 35 courses of lectures; 4S own 
libraries, and 38 keep open reading-rooms.” 

But with the fall of Fort Sumter came a terrible 
shock to the associations. Many of them disbanded; 
the annual convention could not be called that spring; 
and the Confederation speedily fell to pieces. The 
work of the preceding ten years seemed to have been 
destroyed in a day. But a new field of activity came 
on with the war. Within a month after the opening 
of the war the association of New York appointed an 
Army Committee, who began work among the soldiers 
gathered in the numerous camps in the neighborhood 
of that city, and exposed to the demoralizing influences 
of camp and army life. Devotional meetings were held 
among the soldiers ; a pocket edition of a Soldier's Hymn- 
book was published and circulated ; the Christian men 
of every regiment were organized, as far as possible, for 
effective work, and public sentiment was aroused in be- 
half of the momentous interests involved. 

The need of co-operation under this new phase of 
the movement, as under the earlier development, was 
soon felt, and, by the suggestion of the Army Committee 
of the New York association, the Central Committee was 
induced to call a convention to meet in New York. 
Only forty-two delegates were present, and these rep- 
resented but fifteen associations; but in their sessions, 
which lasted a day and a half, a grand beginning was 
effected. In order to promote the temporal and spirit- 
ual welfare of the soldiers and sailors of the army and 
navy, the United States Christian Commission was ap- 
pointed. This commission consisted of twelve Chris- 
tian gentlemen, from eight leading cities, and was to 
be the organ and executive agent of the Young Men’s 
Christian Associations and of the Christian public. 
This proved to be a great boon to the soldiers in 
camps, on battle-fields, and in hospitals. It co-operat- 
ed with the Sanitary Commission, which was a purely 
secular agency ; but it went further than that commis- 
sion could go. The Christian public Heartily supported 
its efforts, and made it the medium by which Christian 
homes, churches, and communities sent spiritual and 
material comfort to the soldiers in the field and the 
hospital. This work belonged distinctively to the 
Young Men’s Christian Associations only at its origin. 
After it was fairly organized it belonged to the whole 
Christian public. During the four years of the war, 
the commission sent out 4859 delegates to do hospital 
and Gospel work; expended in cash $2,513,741.63; re- 
ceived and distributed stores worth $2,839,445.20 ; re- 
ceived and distributed Bibles and reading-matter val- 
ued at $299,576.26; distributed 1,466,748 Bibles and 
parts of the Bible, 296,816 bound books, 1,370,953 hymn- 
books, 19,621,103 papers ami magazines, 8,308,052 knap- 
sack-books in flexible covers, 39,104,243 pages of tracts; 
its delegates preached 58,308 sermons, and held 77,744 
prayer-meetings. 


YOUNG MEN’S CHRIST. ASSOC’N 1051 YOUNG MEN’S CHRIST. ASSOC’N 


Similar work was done by some of the associations in 
the South among the soldiers of the Confederate army, 
but there was no general organization for that purpose. 

The distinctive work of the associations throughout 
the country during the war was continued on a limited 
scale. Two general conventions were held during this 
period; the first met at Chicago, June 4-7, 1863, with 
30 associations represented ; the second met at Boston, 
June 1-5, 1864, with 28 associations represented by 136 
delegates. Although these meetings were full of en- 
thusiasm, it appeared that the principal activity of the 
societies was absorbed in army and commission work. 

After the close of the war the associations entered 
upon a new period of progress in their work among 
young men, which has continued at an increasing rate 
until the present, and has every appearance of a still 
greater development of power for good in the years to 
come. Among the items in which this improvement 
has been manifested, a few deserve mention. A num- 
ber of general secretaries have been appointed, who 
make this work for young men the business of their 
lives. These secretaries hold an annual meeting for 
the interchange of views on their common work, and 
carefully prepared papers are read on topics of vital in- 
terest to those present. The greatest advantage accru- 
ing from the labors of these officers is the rapid increase 
of societies, as well as of workers in those already organ- 
ized. There has been a rapid increase in the amount of 
property and the nnmher of buildings owned by these 
associations. A test of membership has been adopted 
by the International Convention, which has secured a 
more substantial Christian character to the associations. 
In 1866, at Albany, N. Y., they reaffirmed the Paris 
basis adopted in 1856; in 1868, at Detroit, Mich., they 
adopted the “evangelical Church test;” and in 1869, at 
Portland, Me., detined the term evangelical . The test, 
as now applied, is as follows: 

il Resolved, That, as these organizations bear the name 
of Christian, and profess to be engaged directly in the 
Saviour’s service, so it is clearly their duty to maintain 
the control and management of all their affairs in the 
hands of those who profess to love and publicly avow 
their faith iu Jesus, the Redeemer, as Divine, and who 
testify their faith by becoming and remaining members 
of churches held to be evangelical. And we hold those 
churches to he evaugelical which, maintaining the Holy 
Scriptures to he the only infallible rule of faith and prac- 
tice, do believe in the Lord Jesus Christ (the only-begot- 
ten of the Father, King of kings and Lord of lords, in 
whom dwelleth the fulness of the Godhead bodily, and 
who was made sin for us, though knowing no sin, bear- 
ing our sins iu his own body on the tree), as the only 
name under heaven given among men whereby we must 
be saved from everlasting punishment.” 

At the time this resolution was passed about one half 
of the associations had the same test. It was decided 
that all associations organized after that date must, in 
order to be entitled to representation in the Interna- 
tional Convention, limit their active voting member- 
ship to members of evangelical churches. The associ- 
ations have thus secured the hearty co-operation of the 
churches and Christian people of the land. Another 
important work, not to be overlooked, is the origination 
by these societies of stringent legislation in the United 
States for the suppression of obscene literature, and the 
continuation of those efforts by special organizations 
for the enforcement of such legislation. 

The building of the Pacific Railroad brought together 
many men of vicious habits, who, in turn, contaminated 
those who came in contact with them. Here was a new 
population continually on the move, yet sadly needing 
the assistance of such an organization as the Young 
Men’s Christian Association. Each new terminus of 
the road became, for the time being, a town, generally 
of tents and board shanties; but what was a town to- 
day might be a wilderness to-morrow, and another spot 
in the wilderness be chosen for the town. Churches 
could not keep pace with this onward march of human- 
ity; and in July, 1868, the Young Men’s Christian As- 
sociation of Omaha organized a movement to meet the 


demands of this new field. They sent out a company 
of Christian young men whose duty it was to keep pace 
with the march of the employe's and the attendant 
means of drawing men into temptation. They held 
religious meetings wherever they could get a hearing, 
and organized societies for the perpetuation of these be- 
ginnings. After the movement had been fairly started 
by the Omaha association, and its practicability had 
been demonstrated, the International Convention of the 
Young Men’s Christian Association took it up, and ex- 
tended it to other railroads as rapidly as circumstances 
would permit. Efforts were made to open rooms for 
railroad workmen at Eric, Altoona, Baltimore, Jersey 
City, and other important centres, but for various rea- 
sons they met with only partial success. In time lead- 
ing railroad men became interested in these philan- 
thropic labors in behalf of their employe's. Such men 
as Cornelius Vanderbilt, Thomas A. Scott, John W. Gar- 
rett, Robert Harris, J. 1 1. Devcreux, and others gave en- 
couragement to the movement in various ways. Some 
of them contributed to the support of secretaries named 
by the associations, and offered rooms for the holding 
of meetings. In Indianapolis twelve railway compa- 
nies unite in supporting the association ; and in Chicago 
the principal railroad officials are members of associa- 
tion committees. 

II. Present Operations. — There are two prominent 
characteristics of these associations, which deserve no- 
tice: they are associations of young men ; they em- 
body the youthful enthusiasm and energies of the 
Church. What constitutes a young man, is a problem 
that has had various solutions. In America a man is 
considered to have passed his youth when he has 
reached the age of forty years. After that he ceases 
to be an active, and becomes a counselling, member. In 
France marriage serves as the dividing line between 
the young men and those who have passed young man- 
hood. Young women, as a rule, are not admitted. In 
one or two organizations women have been admitted to 
equal or nearly equal privileges with men. This is the 
case in Brooklyn, where the wisdom of the plan is ap- 
parent in the activity and efficiency of the society. In 
some other cities women have all the privileges of the 
library and reading-room, and other similar advantages. 
In Boston they have organized a Young Women’s Chris- 
tian Association. A like association was founded in 
New York in 1870, and incorporated in 1873. It has 
for its object the same ends as those to which Young 
Men’s Christian Associations are directed. Generally, 
however, young women are not admitted to these or- 
ganizations of young men, except as spectators to cer- 
tain of the more public meetings. 

The second characteristic of these associations is 
their undenominational character. They profess to be 
simply Christian associations. But it was found neces- 
sary to limit the voting membership to Christian young 
men. and in time it was deemed important to find a 
common basis of Christian belief. This was found in 
the evangelical test already mentioned. There is a 
broad distinction to be noted in the methods and opin- 
ions of the evangelical churches and the so-called liberal 
Christians. The incitements to sinners to lead a new 
life, the degree of zeal in exhortation, and the methods 
of instructing inquiring penitents are so widely differ- 
ent in the two systems of belief that it was considered 
vital to the success of the enterprise to keep them sep- 
arate in this field of labor. No new creed was desired, 
and none was needed; a simple declaration of what was 
already in the symbols of all evangelical churches was 
sufficient to unite the Christian young men of America 
into one brotherhood for aggressive Christian work. 
There is no clashing of theological opinions, for all have 
united under the one banner of the Divine Christ, to 
reach out and save fallen humanity from impending ruin. 

The work of the associations consists of prayer-meet- 
ings, Bible classes, social meetings, educational classes, 
meetings in jails, hospitals and almshouses, open-air 


YOUNG MEN’S CHRIST. ASSOC’X 1052 YOUNG MEN’S CHRIST. ASSOC’N 



Library of the Young .Men’s Christian Association Building in New \"ork City. 


services, services of song, neighborhood and cottage 
prayer-meetings, and the sustaining of reading-rooms, 
lectures, gymnasiums for physical exercise, and em- 
ployment bureaus. The extent of this work is indi- 
cated in the statistics given at the close of this article. 

The great work and rapid growth already indicated, 
and still more apparent by an examination of the sta- 
tistics, could not have been secured by the active efforts 
of individual associations. A very common experience 
is that of a few young men of a village, who meet and 
organize an association, obtain a room, meet for a few 
months, and then disband. Such failures result from a 
lack of organized superintendence. To counteract such 
evils, secretaries were employed, who were to give their 
time to the work and receive remunerative salaries. In 
1870 these were 11 in number; while in 1880 there 
were 133 secretaries, with several assistants. 

The system of organization and mutual dependence 
of these associations is best indicated bv an extract 
from an article by Rev. George R. Crooks, D.D., in 
Harper's Weekly for April 3, 1880. He savs : 

“First are the local organizations, occupying hired 
rooms, or in some instances their own buildings, and em- 
ploying secretaries to conduct the necessary business. 
Then follow the state and provincial organizations, com- 
posed of a State or Canadian province, holding an annual 
convention aud appointing a State committee to exercise 
due oversight. Their relation to the local bodies, how- 
ever, is purely advisory; twelve of them employ secre- 
taries. Ascending higher, we have the American Inter- 
national organization, composed of the associations of 
the United States and Canada. Its executive agent is an 
International Committee of twenty-live members, having 
a working quorum in New Y^ork city. The committee is 
a vigorous body, and has taken in hand the fostering of 
associations among college students, commercial travel- 
lers, Germans, colored young men, and railroad men. At 
the top of all is the International Central Committee, 
which met in Geneva, Switzerland, in June, 1S79.” 

The work accomplished by the American Interna- 
tional organization has exerted a powerful influence 
upon the associations of the whole country. In 18GG 
a committee of five was appointed by the ’convention, 
and located in New York. This committee has since 
retained its headquarters, with a working quorum, in 
that city, but has been increased to twenty-five mem- 
bers, many of whom reside in other parts of the coun- 


try. This is the executive agent of the International 
Convention. By it the convention is called to assemble 
each year, and by it the proceedings are afterwards 
published. Each year the committee brings up a re- 
port of its work, and submits a plan for the coming 
year. This, after due consideration and such modifica- 
tions as are considered desirable, is referred back to the 
committee for execution. In 18G8 the convention au- 
thorized the employment of a visitor in the West. 
The field included the states of Indiana, Illinois, Mich- 
igan, Wisconsin, Iowa, Minnesota, Missouri, Kansas, 
Nebraska, Kentucky, and Tennessee. There he has 
continued to labor with abundant success. When he 
began bis labors there were less than 40 associations, 
maintained at an annual expense of $29,000. Now 
there are nearly 300 associations, expending annually 
more than $100,000. At that time only one general 
secretary was employed, and not one society owned a 
building. Now there are 48 general secretaries and 
eight buildings. The eleven states all have state or- 
ganizations, and of these six employ state secretaries. 

The requirements of the central office had so in- 
creased in 1870 that a general secretary of the Inter- 
national Committee was appointed to direct the corre- 
spondence, visitation, and editorial work. lie has since 
been retained, and, owing to the increased demands of 
this department, an assistant has lately been provided. 

The work in the South has developed wonderfully 
within a period of ten years. In 1870 there were be- 
tween Virginia and Texas only three associations. In 
that year the visitors of the committee began their 
labors in that section, and now there are more than 150 
associations. 

The work among railroad men has already been re- 
ferred to. Another movement, entirely independent 
of the Pacific Railroad Mission, was that begun in 
Cleveland, O., in 1872. In that city, where about 10,000 
men are employed by railroad companies, meetings were 
held to which men of this class only were invited. The 
idea was taken up and practiced by other railroad cities, 
and, finally, the International Committee undertook the 
general supervision of this branch. Since the begin- 
ning of 1877 a general railroad secretary has given his 
entire time to this work, organizing associations, lo- 


YOUNG MEN’S CIIUIST. ASSOC’N 1053 YOUNG MEN’S CHRIST. ASSOC’N 


eating secretaries, visiting associations, and holding con- half of the members reside. In America there are 9 In- 
ventions. There are now more than forty railroad or- ternational secretaries, 13 State secretaries, 111 general 


ganizations,with a membership of about 5000. 

In 1874 the tirst meeting of the National Bund of 
German-speaking Associations was held in Baltimore. 
A competent secretary was chosen, and the Internation- 
al Committee asked to sustain him. The work of this 
secretary is to visit German communities and orgaiiize 
associations. The held embraces the young men to be 
found among the two millions of German-speaking in- 
habitants in America. 

The general work among colleges was begun in 1877, 
when a visitor was placed in the field. The work has 
yielded abundant fruit. There are now 96 associations 
in colleges, with a total 
membership of 4268. 

A secretary has been 
sent to visit the colored 
young men of the South- 
ern States, to organize 
associations, but more 
especially to instruct 
them in right methods 
of Christian endeavor. 

A great work has been 
undertaken in behalf of 
commercial travellers. 

A ticket has been is- 
sued by the Interna- 
tional Committee, which 
entitles the holder to all 
the privileges of the as- 
sociations where he may 
be travelling. A sec- 
retary for commercial 
travellers has been ap- 
pointed, and the work of this department receives his 
attention. 

So the work is ever enlarging and reaching out into 
new fields. In 1868 the committee expended in its 
entire work $1890. Now, with the recent development 
of the work in all its departments, $22,000 are required 
annually to meet the demands upon it. 

III. The Outlook'. — In its Statement of Work for 1880, 
the International Committee has announced the follow- 
ing as its field of labor: “60,000 college students; 
100,000 commercial travellers; 500,000 German-speak- 
ing young men : 500,000 colored young men ; 800,000 
railroad men; the young men in the states west of 
Ohio ; the young men at the South ; the young men 
in Canada; the Young Men’s Christian Associations of 
North America.” Thev state that the work “ will call 


secretaries, and 45 assistants and other agents. 

The following table will indicate in some degree the 
wonderful growth of the Young Men’s Christian Asso- 
ciations in this country. The figures, however, do not 
fully represent the facts. Many associations send in 
no reports. Their membership, property, libraries, and 
work must therefore be left out of the account. Much 
of the work, also, is of such a nature that it cannot 
be represented in statistical tables. The information 
about this work in foreign lands is meagre, but enough 
is known to give some idea of the proportions it has 
assumed in several countries. 


North America. 

I860. 

1870. 

1880. 

Whole number of associations 

205 

802 

972 

Total umnber of members 

25,000 

90,240 

$300,000 

11 

100,000 

$400,000 

178 

Total annual expenses 

General secretaries 


Number of buildings 


14 

5S 

Value of htiilrlino's 


$399,000 

20 

$2,400,350 

30 

Associations having building funds 


Amount of building funds 


$112,840 

$103,550 

146 

Associations owuing libraries 

4S 

Volumes in libraries 


150,984 

250 

Reading-rooms kept open 

3S 


Ag'o-eorntp. average daily attendance 


10,126 

30 

Number of state and provincial conventions held 


17 

Number of associations represented 


300 

402 

Number of delegates present 


1,0SS 

1,401 

72 

Points at which work is done for railroad men 


College associations reporting 



90 

German-speaking associations reporting 



37 

Associations providing situations 




Persons provided with situations 



8,473 

179 

Associations conductin' 1, Bible classes 


40 

Associations conducting daily prayer-meetings 


97 

Associations condnctiu iir weekly prayer-meetings 



202 

Associations conducting meetings in jails, hospitals, etc. 



400 




Other Countries. — The latest reports from the British 
Isles show 281 associations. In 1879 partial returns indi- 
cated an average membership of 160 in England. Many 
societies in Great Britain own the buildings in which they 
keep open reading-rooms, and employ the same general 
plans in their work as have already been described. 

There are in France 65 associations, but the mem- 
bership is very small, averaging less than 20. 

In Germany the statistics are more encouraging. 
There are 293 associations in all, of which 173 report 
a membership of 8035, 113 have libraries aggregating 
20,710 volumes, 170 sustain educational classes, and 173 
conduct Bible classes. 

The total number of associations in Holland is 406; 
but we have no report of membership or other items. 

In Switzerland there are 204 associations, 80 of 


for the undivided effort of nine men; the co-operation, which report a membership of 1284. There are also 


for brief periods, of twenty-five members and forty cor- 
responding members of the committee in every state 
and province; the visitation of more than 550 places; 
130,000 miles of travel by these workers; distribution 
of pamphlets and documents relating to the work, with 
necessary correspondence. All this can be done with 
so much economy that $22,000 will cover the total 
cost.” In America the field is almost unlimited, and 
with its present facilities, the International Executive 
Committee will go on enlarging the work and gather- 
ing power while there are any young men yet unsaved. 

IV. Statistics. — There. have been eight World’s Con- 
ferences held — beginning with that at Paris in 1855, 
and ending with that, at Geneva, Switzerland, in 187S. 
Twenty-three American International Conventions have 
been held — beginning with the one at Buffalo in 1854, 
and ending with the one at Baltimore in 1879. There 
were thirty State and Provincial conventions held dur- 
ing the year ending June, 18S0. There is, over and 
above the committees already referred to, an Interna- 
tional Central Committee, appointed by the World’s 
Conference at Geneva in 1878. This committee rep- 
resents eight Christian countries, and has headquar- 
ters at Geneva, where- the general secretary and one 


22 Boys’ Associations. The most of these societies 
sustain prayer-meetings, Bible classes, song services, 
and Sunday-schools; several have courses of lectures, 
and a few own libraries. The groat majority of them 
have been organized within a few years, and more may 
be expected in the future than has yet been done. 

Sweden has 81 associations, with 3435 members. 

The following additional associations in various 
countries are reported: — Italy, 6; Spain, 8; Austria, 1; 
Belgium, 16; India, 2; Syria, 4— the one at Beirut, or- 
ganized in 1870, has 60 members, and a library of 160 
volumes; the others are at Damascus, Jaffa, and Naz- 
areth; South Africa, 6; Japan, 2; Madagascar, 1; 
Sandwich Islands, 1. 

There are in the world, so far as reported, 2371 as- 
sociations. 

Most of the information contained in this article has 
been obtained from documents published by the Amer- 
ican International Committee, especially a Historical 
Sketch of the Young Men's Christum Associations of the 
United States , etc., written by Bichard C. Morse, secre- 
tary of the International Committee (N. Y. 1878); and 
the Year-book of the International Committee for 1880- 
81. See also Harper's Magazine , Oct. 1870, p. 641 sq. 


Z A AX ADI 


1054 


ZABAD^EAX 


Z, 


Zaan'ai’m (Ileb. Tsaana'yim , E?33?S ; Sept. ttXco- 
vtKTOVvTUiv v. r. ai'a7rat’OjMH'M>i'; Vulg. j&mkuii), the 
name of a “plain” ( I'iSX, cion), more accurately “the 
oak by (2) Zaannaim,” a tree — probably a sacred tree — 
mentioned as marking the spot near which Ileber the 
Kenite was encamped when Sisera took refuge in his 
tent (Judg. iv, 11), Its situation is defined as “near 
Kedesh,” i. e. Kedesh-Naphtali, the name of which still 
lingers on the high ground north of Safed and west of 
the lake of el-Huleh, usually identified with the Waters 
of Merom. The Targum gives as the equivalent of the 
name mishcir agganiyd, “the plain of the swamp;” and 
in the well-known passage of the Talmud (J legillah Je- 
rash. ch. i) which contains a list of several of the towns 
of Galilee with their then identifications, the equivalent 
for “ Klon (or Aijalon) be-Zaannaim” is Agniya hak-ko - 
desk. Ague appears to signify a swamp, and can hard- 
ly refer to anything but the marsh which borders the 
lake of lluleh on the north side, and which was proba- 
bly more extensive in the time of Deborah than it now 
is. See Merom. On the other hand, Prof. Stanley has 
pointed out ( Jewish Church, p. 324; Localities, p. 197) 
how appropriate a situation for this memorable tree is 
afforded by “a green plain . . . studded with massive 
terebinths,” which adjoins on the south the plain con- 
taining the remains of Kedesh. The whole of this up- 
land country is more or less rich in terebinths. One 
such, larger than usual, and bearing the name of Sejar 
em-Messiah , is marked on the map of Van de Velde as 
six miles N.W. of Kedes. — Smith. The name Zaanaim, 
which appears to signify “removiugs” (as if a camping- 
ground), has passed away — at least no trace of it 'has 
yet been discovered (Porter, Handbook, p. 444; Van de 
Velde, Travels, ii, 418). “ From the identity of significa- 
tion. it has been conjectured to be Bessun, a little east 
of Tabor. In this plain the black tents of the Bedawin, 
the modern Kenites, may constantly be seen” (Tristram, 
Bible Places, p. *278). See Zaanannim. 

Za'anan (Heb. Tsaandn, Sept. Setwadp; 

Vnlg. in exita), a place named by Micali (i, 11) in his 
address to the towns of the Shefelah. This sentence, 
like others of the same passage, contains a play of words 
founded on the meaning (or on a possible meaning) 
of the name Zaanan, as derived from yatsd, to go 
forth: “The inhabitress of Tsaanan came not forth.” 
Both Gescnius and F first, however, connect the word 
with “XL!, making it mean a place abounding with (or 
fit ion) flocks. The division of the passage shown in the 
Sept, and A. V., by which Zaanan is connected with 
Beth-czel, is now generally recognised as inaccurate. It 
is thus given by Dr. Pusey, in his Commentary, “ The 
inhabitant of Zaanan came not forth. The mourning 
of Bcth-ezel shall take from you its standing.” So also 
Ewald, De Wette. and Zunz. The place is doubtless 
identical with Zenan (q. v.). 

Za'anan (Heb. Tsaanan', migratory ; Sept. 
7jOVKa.fi v. r. ’IwaKciv; Vulg. Zanan), a Ilorite chief- 
tain, second named of the three sons of Ezer (Gen. 
xxxvi, 27 ; 1 Chron. i, 42, *■ Zanan”). B.C. post 1927. 

Zaanan'nim (llcb. Tsaanannim', Sept. 

Btotvartfi v. r. Sffi -vai ifi ; Vulg. Saananim), a place 
mentioned only (in this form) in Josh, xix, 33, and in 
the Keri or margin of Judg. iv, 11 ; but usually thought 
to be the more correct form of Zaanaim (q. v.), which 
occurs in the text of the latter passage. It appears to 
be derived (if a Hebrew word) from a root to mi- 
grate') signifying to load beasts as nomads do when they 
change their places of residence (Gescnius, Thesaur . p. 


1177). The rendering of the A. V. is incorrect: “And 
their coast was from Heleph,./Wm A lion to Zaanannim .” 
Tlje Hebrew is and can only signify 

“from the oak of (or “in”) Zaanannim” (see Keil, ad 
loc.; Ileland, Pahest. p. 717; Keil and Delitzsch, On 
Judg. iv, 1 1 ; Porter, Giant Cities of Bashan, p. 268). 

Za'bad (Ileb. Zabad', “I2T, gift ; Sept. Zafiid v. r. 
Za/3fr or Z«/3ur. etc.), the name of several Hebrews. 

1. One of David’s warriors, being son of Nathan and 
father of Ephlal, in the lineage of Sheshan’s daughter 
Ahlai by the Egyptian slave Jarha (1 Chron. ii, 36, 37; 
xi, 41). B.C. 1046. 

2 . An Ephraimite, son of Tahath and father of Shu- 
thelah 2 (1 Chron. vii, 21). B.C. post 1875. 

3 . The regicide, son of an Ammonitess named Shim- 
eath, who, in conjunction with Jehozabad, the son 
of a Moabitess, slew king Joash, to whom they were 
both household officers, in his bed (2 Kings xii, 21; 2 
Chron. xxiv, 25, 26). In the first of these texts he is 
called Jozaciiau (q. v.). The sacred historian does 
not appear to record the mongrel parentage of these 
men as suggesting a reason for their being more easily 
led to this act. but as indicating the sense which was 
entertained of the enormity of Joash’s conduct that even 
they, though servants to the king, and though only half 
Jews by birth, were led to conspire against him “for the 
blood of the sons of Jehoiada the priest.” It would seem 
that their murderous act was not abhorred by the peo- 
ple; for Amaziah, the son of Joash, did not venture to 
call them to account till he felt himself well established 
on the throne, when they were both put to death (2 
Kings xiv, 5, 6; 2 Chron. xxv, 3, 4). Joash had be- 
come unpopular from his idolatries (xxiv, 18), his op- 
pression (ver. 22), and, above all, his calamities (ver. 23- 
25). The assassins were both put to death by Amaziah, 
but their children were spared in obedience to the law 
of Moses (Dent, xxiv, 16). The coincidence between 
the names Zechariah and Jozachar is remarkable. 

4 . 5 , 6 . Three Israelites, “ sons” respectively of Zattu 
(Ezra, x, 27), Hashum (x, 33), and Nebo (x, 43), who 
divorced their Gentile wives, married after the return 
from Babylon. B.C. 458. 

Zabadce'an (Za/3«c>a7oc), the designation of an 
Arab tribe who were attacked and spoiled by Jonathan, 
on his way back to Damascus from his fruitless pursuit 
of the army of Demetrius (1 Maec. xii, 31). Josephus 
calls them Xabahvans {Ant. xiii, 5, 10), but he is evi- 
dently in error. Nothing certain is known of them. 
Ewald ( Gesch . iv, 382) finds a trace of their name in 
that of the place Zabda given by Bobinson in his lists; 
but this is too far south, between the Yarmuk and the 
Zerka. Michaelis suggests the Arab tribe Zobeideh; 
but they do not appear in the necessary locality. Jona- 
than had pursued the enemy’s army as far as the river 
Eleutherus (Nahr el-Kebir), and was on his march back 
to Damascus when he attacked and plundered the Zab- 
ada?ans. We must look for them, therefore, somewhere 
to the north-west of Damascus. Accordingly, on the 
road from Damascus to Baalbek, at a distance of eight 
and two-third hours (twenty-six miles) from the former 
place, is the village of Zebddny, standing at the upper 
end of a plain of the same name, which is the very 
centre of Antilibanus. The name is possibly a relic 
of the ancient tribe of the Zabadseans. According 
to Burckhardt {Syria, p. 3). the plain “is about three 
quarters of an hour in breadth and three hours in 
length; it is called Ai'd Zebdeni, or the district of Zeb- 
deni ; it is watered by the Barrada, one of whose sources 
is in the midst of it, and by the rivulet called J foiet 
Zebdeni, whose source is in the mountain behind the 
village of the same name,” The plain is “limited on 


ZABADAIAS 


1055 


ZACCH^EUS 


one side by the eastern part of the Antilibanus, called 
here Jebel Zebdent. The village is of considerable 
size, containing nearly 3000 inhabitants, who breed cat- 
tle and the silkworm, and have some dyeing-houses” 
(ibid.}. Not far from Zebdany, on the western slopes 
of Antilibanus, is another village called Kefr Zebad, 
which again seems to point to this as the district for- 
merly occupied by the Zabadieans.— Smith. 

Zabadai/as (Zafiadaiag), the Greek form (1 Esdr. 
is, 35) of the Heb. name (Ezra x, 43) Zabad (q. v.). 

Zab'bai (Heb. Zabbay ', •'ST [prob. an error for 
1ST, Zakkaif ] ; Sept. Za/3on; Vulg. Zabbai and 
Zachax), the name of two Hebrews. 

1. The father of Baruch, which latter repaired part 
of the wall of Jerusalem after the Captivity (Neh. iii, 

20) . B.C. ante 446. lie is perhaps the same with 
Zaccai (q. v.) of Ezra ii, 9. 

2 . A descendant of Bebai, who divorced his Gentile 
wife married after the return from Babylon (Ezra x, 28). 
B.C. 458. 

Zab'bud (Heb. Ztibbud', "lilST [prob. an error for 
^JlST, Zakkur , as in the marg.] ; Sept. Zafiovd), a “ son” 
of Bigvai who returned from Babylon with Ezra (Ezra 
viii, 14). B.C. 459. See Zaccuk. 

Zabdae'us (Zafidaiog), the Greek form (1 Esdr. ix, 

21) of the Heb. name (Ezra x, 20) Zebadiah (q. v.). 

Zab'di (Heb. Zabdi', I'HiT, my gift; Sept. Z a(3Si, 

Zafipi, Zapfipi, etc.; Vulg. Zabdi , Zabdias), the name 
of several Hebrews. 

1. Son of Zerah and father ofCarmi the son of Aehan 
of the tribe of Judah (Josh, vii, 1, 17, 18). B.C. ante 
1618. 

2 . Third named of the nine sons of Shimhi (Shimei) 
the Benjamite (1 Chron. viii, 19). B.C. cir. 1612. 

3 . A Shiphmite (i. e. inhabitant of Shepham), Da- 
vid’s commissary of vineyards and wine-eellars(l Chron. 
xxvii, 27). B.C. 1043. 

4 . An Asaphite, father of Micha and grandfather of 
Mattaniah (Neh. xi, 17); elsewhere called Zaccuk (xii, 
35) and Zichki (1 Chron. ix, 15). B.C. ante 446. 

Zab'diel (Heb. Zabdiel', b^^^gift of God ), the 
name of three Jews mentioned in the Old Test, and 
Apoen r pha. 

1. (Sept. Za/3^o)\.) The father of Jashobeam, the 
chief of David’s warriors (1 Chron. xxvii, 2). B.C. ante 
1046. 

2 . (Sept. Zo\pn]\ v. r. B«ch//\.) Son of Haggedolim 
(“one of the great men”) and overseer of 128 of the cap- 
tives returned from Babylon (Neh. xi, 14). B.C. 459. 

3 . (Sept. Za(3<5u)\ ; Josephus, Zd/3ijXo€; Vulg. Zab- 
diel.) An Arabian chieftain who put Alexander Balas 
to death (1 Macc. xi, 17 ; Josephus, Ant. xiii, 4, 8). Ac- 
cording to Diodorus, Balas was murdered by two of the 
officers who accompanied him (Miiller, Fragm. Hist, ii, 
16). — Smith. 

Zabriskie, John Lansing, a venerated clergyman 
of the Reformed (Dutch) Church in America, was born 
in 1779 at Albany, N. Y. He graduated at Union Col- 
lege in 1797, studied theology under Dr. Theodoric 
Romeyn, and was licensed by the Classis of Albany in 
1800. His first settlement was in the united churches 
of Greenbush and Wynantskill, near Albany, in 1800- 
11. In the latter year he removed to Hillsborough (or 
Millstone), near New Brunswick, N. J., where he minis- 
tered until his death, in 1850. His pulpit and paro- 
chial labors were said to be greater than those of any 
other minister of the region. He was a judicious, sen- 
sible, wise man ; an excellent “ old-fashioned” preacher; 
evangelical, earnest, and practical ; a father to his peo- 
ple, and venerated by the ministry. His career was 
quietly useful, his character unspotted by the world, 
and his memory is cherished among the godly people 
of his large and important charge, upon whom he left 


the permanent stamp of his faithful teachings, lie 
was in person short and stout, with a large head and 
face, genial in expression, and easy in his manners. 
With all his habitual gravity and professional air, at 
times “ in his social intercourse he would astonish and 
excite you by his wit, his sarcasm, and even drollery.” 
His talents were good, and his attainments in the old 
theology were respectable, lie knew the Gospel, and 
felt it and preached it with clearness, zeal, and often 
with great power of immediate impression. See Cor- 
win, Manual of the Ref Church in America , p. 277, 278. 
(W. J. R. T.) 

Za'bud (Heb. Zabud/, , given; Sept. ZafiovS 
v. r. Zaj3j3ov 3), son of Nathan the prophet (1 Kings iv, 
5). B.C. 1012. He is described as a priest (A. V. “ prin- 
cipal officer”), and as holding at the court of Solomon 
the confidential post of “ king’s friend,” which had been 
occupied by Ilushai the Archite during the reign of Da- 
vid (2 Sam. xv, 37 ; xvi, 16 ; 1 Chron. xxvii, 33). This 
position, if it were an official one, was evidently distinct 
from that of counsellor, occupied by Ahithophel under 
David, and had more of the character of private friend- 
ship about it, for Absalom conversely calls David the 
“ friend” of Ilushai (2 Sam. xvi, 17). Azariah, another 
son of Nathan, was “over all the (household) officers” 
of king Solomon; and their advancement may doubtless 
be aseribed not only to the young king’s respect for the 
venerable prophet, who had been his instructor, but to 
the friendship he had contracted with his sons during 
the course of education. The office, or rather honor, of 
“ friend of the king” we find in all the despotic govern- 
ments of the East. It gives high power, without the 
public responsibility which the holding of a regular of- 
fice in the State necessarily imposes. It implies the 
possession of the utmost confidence of, and familiar 
intercourse with, the monarch, to whose person “the 
friend” ht all times has access, and whose influence is 
therefore often far greater, even in matters of state, than 
that of the recognised ministers of government. In the 
Vat. MS. of the Sept, the word “priest” is omitted, and 
in the Arabic of the London Polyglot it is referred to 
Nathan. The Peshito-Svriac and several Hebrew MSS. 
for “ Zabud” read “ Zaccur.” The same oecurs in the 
ease of Zabbud. — Kitto; Smith. 

Zab'ulon ( Zaf3ov\iov ), the Greek form (Matt, iv, 
13, 15 ; Rev. vii, 8) of the Heb. name Zebulun (q. v.). 

Zac'cai (Heb. Zakkay ', 1ST, pure ; Sept. Zcnc^ai 
v. r. Zmeyou), the ancestor of 760 of the Israelites who 
returned from Babylon (Ezra ii, 9; Neh. vii, 14). B.C. 
ante 536. See also Zabbai ; Zaccii.eus. 

Zacchae'us (Z aK^adog, for the Heb. Zaccai [q. v.]), 
the name of two Jews, mentioned the one in the Apocry- 
pha, and the other in the New Test. 

1. An officer of Judas Maccabasus left with two oth- 
ers to besiege the citadel of Zion (2 Mace, x, 19). Gro- 
tius, from a mistaken reference to 1 Mace, v, 56, wishes 
to read kox tov tov Zayapiou. 

2. The name of a tax-collector near Jericho, who, 
being short in stature, climbed up into a sveamore- 
tree, in order to obtain a sight of Jesus as he passed 
through that place. Luke only has related the inci- 
dent (xix, 1-10). Zacchams was a Jew, as may be 
inferred from his name and from the fact that the Sav- 
iour speaks of him expressly as “a son of Abraham” 
(viog 'AjSpaap). So the latter expression should be 
understood, and not in a spiritual sense; for it was ev- 
idently meant to assert that he was one of the chosen 
race, notwithstanding the prejudice of some of his coun- 
trymen that his office under the Roman government 
made him an alien and outcast from the privileges of 
the Israelite. The term which designates this office 
(dpxcreXoh'tjg) is unusual, but describes him, no doubt, 
as the superintendent of customs or tribute in the dis- 
trict of Jericho, where he lived, as one having a com- 
mission from his Roman principal (manceps,j)ublicanus) 


ZACCLT 


1056 


ZACIIARIAS 


to collect the imposts levied on the Jews by the Ro- 
mans, and who in the execution of that trust employed 
subalterns (the ordinary rtXwrat), who were accounta- 
ble to him, as he in turn was accountable to his superi- 
or, whether he resided at Rome, as was more commonly 
the case, or in the province itself. See Publican. The 
otlice must have been a lucrative one in such a region, 
and it is not strange that Zacclmis is mentioned by 
the evangelist as a rich man (ourog i/v tt\o uatoc). 
Josephus states (Jn/. xv,4, 2) that, the palm-groves of 
Jericho and its gardens of balsam were given as a source 
of revenue by Antony to Cleopatra, and, on account of 
their value, were afterwards redeemed bv Herod the 
Great for his own benefit. The sycamore-tree is no 
longer found in that neighborhood (Robinson, Bibl. Res. 

i. 559); but no one should be surprised at this, since 
“even the solitary relic of the palm-forest, seen as late 
as 1838” — which existed near Jericho, has now disap- 
peared (Stanley, Sinai and Pal. p. 307). The eager- 
ness of Zacchteus to behold Jesus indicates a deeper 
interest than that of mere curiosity. lie must have 
had some knowledge, by report at least, of the teach- 
ings of Christ, as well as of his wonder-working power, 
and could thus have been awakened to some just relig- 
ious feeling, which would make him the more anxious 
to see the announcer of the good tidings, so important 
to men as sinners. The readiness of Christ to take up 
his abode with him, and his declaration that “salva- 
tion” had that day come to the house of his entertain- 
er, prove sufficiently that “ He who knows what is in 
man” perceived in him a religious susceptibility which 
fitted him to be the recipient of spiritual blessings. 
Reflection upon his conduct on the part of Zacchteus 
himself appears to have revealed to him deficiencies 
which disturbed his conscience, and he was ready, on 
being instructed more fully in regard to the way of 
life, to engage to “restore fourfold” for the illegal ex- 
actions of which he would not venture to deny (ft 
rtvog tl iavKocpai’T^aa) that he might have been 
guilty. At all events, he had not lived in such a man- 
ner as to overcome the prejudice which the Jews en- 
tertained against individuals of his class, and their cen- 
sure fell on him as well as on Christ when they de- 
clared that the latter had not scorned to avail himself 
of the hospitality of “a man that was a sinner.” The 
Saviour spent the night probably (pttiun, ver. 5, and 
KaraXvaai, ver. 7, are the terms used) in the house of 
Zacchteus, and the next day pursued his journey to 
Jerusalem. He was in the caravan from Galilee, which 
was going up thither to keep the Passover. The en- 
tire scene is well illustrated by Oosterzee (Lange, fiibel- 
U'crl\ iii, 285). 

We read in the Rabbinic writings also of a Zacchte- 
us who lived at Jericho at this same period, well known 
on his own account, and especially as the father of the 
celebrated rabbi Jochanan ben - Zachai ( see Sepp, 
Ltben Jesu, iii, 166). This person may have been re- 
lated to the Zacchteus named in the sacred narrative. 
The family of the Zacchtei was an ancient one, as well 
as very numerous. They are mentioned in the books 
of Ezra (ii, 9) and Nehemiab (vii, 14) as among those 
who returned from the Babylonian captivity under 
Zerubbabel, when their number amounted to seven 
hundred and sixty. — Smith. For the modern traditions 
respecting Zacchteus’s house, see Robinson (Bibl. Res. ii, 
543). According to ecclesiastical tradition, Zacchteus 
eventually became bishop of Caesarea in Palestine 
( Const . Nat. A post, vii, 46; comp. Clement, Recoyn. iii. 
65 sq.). See Sturemberg, Zacchceus lttu stratus, in the 
Symbol. Du isb. ; lvresse, De Sycumoro Zacchcei (Lips. 
1694); Crossman, Ilist. of Zacchteus (Loud. 1854); 
and the literature referred to by Darling, Cyclop. Biblioy. 
col. 1031, 1032. Sec Jesus Christ, 

Zac'cur (Ileb. Zakkur\ *M2T, mindful ; Sept. Zok> 
\ovp v. r. Z ciKovp or Z a/c^wp), the name of several He- 
brews. 


1. A Simeonite, son of Harauel and father of the 
Shimci whose posterity became numerous (1 Chrou. iv, 
26, A. V. “Zacchnr”). B.C. considerably ante 1612. 

2. The father of Shimea, which latter was the Reu- 
benite “spy” sent out to explore Canaan the second time 
(Numb, xiii, 4). B.C. ante 1618. 

3. A Levite, third named of the four “sons of Merari 
by Jaaziah” (1 Chron. xxiv, 27). B.C. 1043. 

4. First named of the four sons of Asaph as Levitical 
musicians in the arrangement of David (1 Chron. xxv, 
2, 10 ; Neh. xii, 35). B.C. 1043. 

5. Son of Imri and builder of part of the wall of Je- 
rusalem under Neliemiali (Neh. iii, 2). B.C. 446. 

6. Son of Mattauiah and father of the Hanau whom 
Nehemiab appointed to distribute the treasures (Neh. 
xiii, 13). B.C. ante 410. 

7. A Levite who signed the sacred covenant with 
Nehemiab (Neh. x, 12). B.C. 410. 

Zacliaiia, Gottiiilf Traugott, a German theolo- 
gian, was born at Tauchardt, in Thuringia, in 1729, and 
studied at Kdnigsberg and Halle, being the pupil, asso- 
ciate, and amanuensis in the latter place of the learn- 
ed Baumgarten. He was called in 1760 to the newly 
founded University of Biitzow, in 1765 to Gottingen, 
and in 1775 to Kiel, where he died two years afterwards. 
His reputation as a scholar rests principally upon the 
Biblisehe 7'heoloyie, oder Untersuchuny des Grundes der 
vornehmsten biblischen Lehren ( 1771 -75, 4 pts., 3 sec- 
tions, wit!) Suppl. by Volborth [1786]). The work oc- 
cupied the snpranaturalistie ground held by Baumgar- 
ten, professing a belief in revelation and miracles, but 
applying the historico-critieal method of interpretation 
to the proofs deduced from Scripture, and either elimi- 
nating them altogether or depriving them of any con- 
siderable force. The end of the divine economy of 
redemption is represented as being the blessedness 
which Christ will bestow, which consists in the fruits 
of his atonement. The necessity for an atonement 
is, however, said to conflict with the idea of the free- 
dom of the divine will. A progressive economy of 
grace is spoken of, but is shown in its outward mani- 
festations in the mere enumeration of historical events 
only. It is said to have been God’s first design to es- 
tablish faith in the true God, and to reveal nothing re- 
specting Christ until the truth respecting God should 
have been sufficiently impressed on the minds of men. 
The work evidently does not deserve the encomiums 
bestowed on it by Nitzsch, Sclienkel, etc. Zachariii 
published, besides, paraphrastic expositions of the epis- 
tles to the Romans, Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, 
Colossians, Thessalonians, Hebrews, etc., which were fa- 
vorably received and repeatedl\ r published. See Thiess, 
Gdehrtenyesch. der Universitdt Kiel, pt. ii: Doling, Die 
yelehrten Theoloyen Deutschlands , pt. iv; Sclienkel, in 
Stud. v. Krit. ( Aufyabe der Bibl. Theol.'), 1852, No. 1; 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Zachari'ali (<r, 2 Kings xiv, 29; xv, 8, 11 ; b, 2 
Kings xviii, 2). See Zechakiaii. 

Zachari'as (Zoycrpmc), the Greek form of the 
Heb. name Zechariah; applied to several men in the 
Apocrypha and New Test., besides those mentioned in 
the Old Test. : the priest in Jnsiah’s reign (1 Estlr. i, 8), 
the lesser prophet (vi, 1 ; vii, 3), the adviser of Ezra 
( viii, 44; comp. Ezra viii, 16), the “son” of Pha- 
rosh (1 Esdr. viii, 30; comp. Ezra viii, 3), the “son” of 
Behai (1 Esdr. viii, 37 ; comp. Ezra viii, 1 1), a “son” of 
Elam (1 Esdr. ix, 27 ; comp. Ezra x, 26), and one (1 Esdr. 
i, 15) who is properly called Neman (2 Chron. xxxy, 15), 
and another (Sapaicrc, 1 Esdr. v, 8) properly called Aza- 
riah, or Seraiah (Ezra ii, 2; Neh. vii, 7). 

1. Son of Barachias, who,onr Lord says, was slain by 
the Jews between the altar and the Temple (Matt, xxiii, 
35; Luke xi, 51). There has been much dispute who 
this Zaeharias was. There is no reason to identify him 
with the Zechariah son of Jeberechiah mentioned in Isa. 
viii, 2. It is singular that Josephus ( War, iv, 5, 4) men- 


ZACHARIAS 


1057 


ZADOK 


tions another Zacharias, son of Baruch, who was slain. by 
the Jews in the Temple shortly before the last siege of 
Jerusalem began (see Whistou’s note, ad loc.). From 
the time of Origen, who relates that the father of John 
the Baptist was killed in the Temple, many of the Greek 
fathers have maintained that this is the person to whom 
our Lord refers. The name of the father of Zacharias 
not being mentioned by Luke, some unwarrantably 
suppose that the name of Barachias crept into the text 
of Matthew from a marginal gloss, a confusion hav- 
ing been made between Zacharias, the son of Jehoiada, 
and Zacharias the prophet, the son of Barachias (Bere- 
chiali). There can be little or no doubt that the allu- 
sion is to Zechariah, the son of Jehoiada (2 Chron. xxiv, 
20, 21). As the book of Chronicles— in which the mur- 
der of this Zechariah occurs — closes the Hebrew canon, 
this assassination was the last of the murders of righte- 
ous men recorded in the Bible, just as that of Abel was 
the first (see Renan, Vie de Jesus, p.353). See Zeciia- 

R1A1I. 

2. Father of Joseph, a leader in the first campaign of 
the Maccabiean war (l Macc. v, 18, 50-62). 

3. Father of John the Baptist (Luke i, 5, etc.). B.C. 
ante 8. 

Zacharias, pope from A.D. 741 to 752. He induced 
the Lombard king Luitprand to restore the cities taken 
from Rome in 730, to conclude a truce for twenty years, 
and subsequently to desist from the siege of Ravenna 
and restore all the territory taken from the exarchate. 
He was equally successful in influencing Luitprand’s 
successor, Rachis, as respects the interruption of his con- 
quests, and even received that monarch and his queen 
and daughter into the number of his clergy (749) after 
their abdication of the throne. lie also consecrated Car- 
loman to the clerical office (747). lie advised the By- 
zantine emperor Copronymus to replace the images in 
the churches. Boniface, the apostle to the Germans, 
found in Zacharias an energetic and able manager of the 
interests of Rome, and became his agent in the elevation 
of the Carlovingian dynasty. Zacharias held a synod 
in 743 at which fifty-nine bishops were present, and 
which dealt with questions of discipline, lie translated 
the Dialogues of Gregory the Great into Greek, and pur- 
chased the liberty of many slaves destined by the Ve- 
netians for Africa. See Jaffe, Regesta Pontijicum ; Migne, 
Patrologie, tom. 89; Wurtweiu and Giles, collections of 
Boniface’s letters, St. Bonif. Opera (Loud. 1845), vol. i ; 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s v. 

Zacharias, Daniel, D.D., an esteemed minister of 
the German Reformed Church, was born in Washington 
County, Aid., in 1806. He united with the Church un- 
der the Rev. James Ross Reily, and soon afterwards com- 
menced his classical studies, preparatory to the ministry, 
at the Hagerstown Academy, and finished the same in 
Canonsburg, Pa. Subsequently he entered the Semi- 
nary of the Reformed Church, then located in Carlisle, 
where he completed his theological course under the 
Rev. Lewis Mayer, D.D. He was licensed and ordained 
in 1828, and located in York County. In 1830 he took 
charge of the Reformed Church in Harrisburg, where he 
continued to labor until 1835, when he removed to Fred- 
erick City, Mil. Here he labored with great acceptance 
and success to the close of his long and useful life. He 
died March 31, 1873. Dr. Zacharias was a man of supe- 
rior natural endowments, high culture, amiable dispo- 
sition, and more than ordinary pulpit abilities. “Few 
men have been so loved by their congregations, or have 
so grown into the affections of the community in which 
they lived.” As a public speaker he was greatly ad- 
mired, and universally esteemed as a most excellent 
pastor, genial companion, and trusty friend. He was 
chosen president of the District Synod in 1835, and of 
the General Synod in 1866. He aided materially in 
compiling the hymn-book of the Reformed Church, and 
also in getting up its present Order of Worship. See 
Ref. Church Mess. April 9. 1873. (D.Y. H.) 

X.-X x x 


Zach'ary (Zacharias), a mode of Anglicizing (2 
Esdr. i, 40) the name of the prophet Zechariah. 

Za'cher (lleb. Ze'ker , "12T, in pause Za'ker, **OT, 
memorial ; Sept. Zayoop v. r. Z aK^oop), last named of 
the eight sons of Jehicl the founder of Gibcon, by his wife 
Maachah (1 Chron. viii, 31) ; elsewhere (ix, 37) called 
Zechariah (q. v.). 

Za'dok (lleb. Tsadok', righteous ; Sept. Za- 

Cwk v. r. Yiu iW'/c, SacioK', etc.; Josephus Nd^Woi;, Ant. 
vii, 2, 2, etc.), the name of several Hebrews, and one 
that also appears occasionally in the post-Biblical his- 
tory. The associate of Judah the Gaulonitc, the well- 
known leader of the agitation against the census of 
Quirinus, was a certain Pharisee named Zadok (Jose- 
phus, .4 nt. xviii, 1,1), and the sect oftheSadducees (q. v.) 
is reputed to have derived both its name and origin from 
a person of the same name, a disciple of Antigonus of 
Soho. (See Light foot, llebr. and Talm. Exerc. on Matt, 
iii, 8 ; Renan, 1 7e de Jesus , p. 216.) A “ Sailoe” (Snook) 
finally occurs in our Saviour’s genealogy (Matt, i, 14). 
It is, moreover, worth noticing that the New-Test, name 
Justus (Acts i, 23; xviii, 7 ; Col. iv, II ) is the literal 
translation of Zadok. Zedekiah, Jehozadak, may like- 
wise be compared. 

1. Son of Ahitub, and one of the two chief priests in 
the time of David, Abiathar (q. v.) being the other. 
B.C. 1023. Zadok was of the house of Eleazar the son 
of Aaron (1 Chron. xxiv, 3). The first mention of him is in 

1 Chron. xii, 28, where we are told that he joined David 
at Hebron, after Saul’s death, with twenty-two captains 
of his father’s house, and apparently with nine hundred 
men (4600-3700, ver. 26, 27). Up to this time, it may 
be concluded, he had adhered to the house of Saul. But 
henceforth his fidelity to David was inviolable. When 
Absalom revolted, and David fled from Jerusalem, Za- 
dok and all the Levites bearing the ark accompanied 
him, and it was only at the king’s express command 
that they returned to Jerusalem, and became the me- 
dium of communication between the king and Hushai 
the Archite (2 Sam. xv, xvii ). When Absalom was 
dead, Zadok and Abiathar were the persons who per- 
suaded the elders of Judah to invite David to return 
(xix, 11). When Adonijah, in David’s old age, set 
up for king, and had persuaded Joab and Abiathar 
the priest to join his party, Zadok was unmoved, and 
was employed by David to anoint Solomon to be king 
in his room (1 Kings i). For this fidelity he was 
rewarded by Solomon, who “ thrust out Abiathar from 
being priest unto the Lord,” and “ put in Zadok the 
priest” in his room (ii, 27,35). From this time, how- 
ever, we hear little of him. It is said in general terms, 
in the enumeration of Solomon’s officers of state, that 
Zadok was the priest (iv, 4; 1 Chron. xxix, 22), but. no 
single act of his is mentioned. Even in the detailed 
account of the building and dedication of Solomon’s 
Temple his name does not occur, though Josephus says 
that “Sadoc the high-priest was the first high-priest 
of the Temple which Solomon built” (.4?t/. x, 8, 6). In 

2 Sam. xv, 27 Zadok is named a seer; but we have no 
further or more particular information as to the revela- 
tions which were granted to him. See Priest. 

We have no means of knowing how the high-priest- 
hood passed out of the line of Phinehas, the son of 
Eleazar, who was the elder son of Aaron, into the line 
of Eli, who was descended from Ithamar, Aaron’s young- 
er son ; but we do know the doom pronounced by Jeho- 
vah, that the unworthy house of Eli should be dispos- 
sessed. No doubt much confusion had ensued upon 
the death of Eli’s two sons, and the capture of the ark 
by the Philistines; of this we have abundant evidence: 
(i) in the unsettled position of the tabernacle, till we 
find David honoring .it at Gibeon ; (2) in the want of 
interest in the ark, till he brought it up to Mount Zion ; 
and (3) in the absence of any fixed centre of worship, 
so that Samuel sacrificed in different places, according 
to the irregular manner cf that period of transition in 


ZADOK 


1 05S 


ZALMOX 


which he presided. Saul apparently attempted to ex- 
tirpate the high-priestlv house of Eli, on account of 
what he reckoned the treason of Abimelech (1 Sam. 
xxii, 17-23), so that only his son Abiathar escaped; 
and the following chapter narrates how this young man 
came to David, carrying with him the high -priest’s 
ephod,and how Jehovah acknowledged him as the true 
high-priest, inquiring of God, on behalf of that fugitive, 
who was the true king of Israel. The only conjecture 
we feel disposed to make is that king Saul may at this 
time have declared that Abiathar was an outlaw', who 
had forfeited the high-priesthood, and may have de- 
clared that the office reverted to the house of Eleazar, 
to which Zadok belonged; there might be a stroke of 
policy in his thus restoring the constitution of the 
priesthood according to the law of Closes, analogous to 
his slaughter of the Gibeonites, “ in bis zeal to the 
children of Israel and Judah” (2 Sam. x.xi, 2). If so, it 
is easy to see how the two rival royal houses had their 
rival priestly houses tow ; and how, at the end of the 
civil war, David’s policy of gradual and amicable re- 
construction would lead him to acknowledge both high- 
priests, especially after Zadok’s hearty adhesion to 
David’s interest. Perhaps, in memory of his early mil- 
itary service, Zadok had a place among the princes of 
the tribes assigned him by David, as ruler over the 
Aaronites (1 Chron. xxvii, 17). In later times we usual- 
ly find two priests, the high-priest and the second priest 
(2 Kings xxv. 18), and there does not seem to have 
been any great difference in their dignity. So, too. Luke 
iii, 2. Zadok and Abiathar were of nearly equal dig- 
nity (2 Sam. xv, 35, 86; xix, 11). llophni and Phine- 
has, again, and Eleazar and Ithamar, are coupled to- 
gether, and seem to have been holders of the office, as it 
were, in commission. The duties of the office, too, were, 
in the case of Zadok and Abiathar, divided. Zadok min- 
istered before the tabernacle at Gibeon (I Chron. xvi. 
39) ; Abiathar had the care of the ark at Jerusalem ; not, 
however, exclusively, as appears from 1 Chron. xv, II; 
2 Sam. xv, 24, 25, 29. Hence, perhaps, it may be con- 
cluded that from the first there was a tendency to con- 
sider the ofliee of the priesthood as somewhat of the 
nature of a corporate ofliee, although some of its func- 
tions were necessarily confined to the chief member of 
that corporation ; and if so, it is very easy to perceive 
how superior abilities, on the one hand, and infancy or 
incapacity, on the other, might operate to raise or de- 
press the members of this corporation respectively. Za- 
dok seems to have been succeeded in the priesthood by 
his son Azariah (1 Kings iv, 2), strictly speaking his 
son’s son, if we observe 1 Chron, vi, 8. 9, and 2 Sam. xv, 
27. That it continued without derangement in his fam- 
ily may be inferred by the genealogies, and from the 
incidental reference to “Azariah, the chief priest, of the 
house of Zadok,” in Hezekiah’s time (2 Chron. xxxi, 10). 
The language in Ezek.xl, 46; xliii, 19; xliv, 15; xlviii, 
U bears high testimony to the faithfulness of the priests, 
the sons of Zadok; so much so that the prophet takes 
no notice of any priests besides them. — Smith; Fair- 
bairn. See High-pkiest. 

2. Father of Jenisha, who was the wife of king Uz- 

ziah and mother of king Jotham (2 Kings xv, 33; 2 
Chron. xxvii, 1). B.C. 755. ' 

3. According to the genealogy of the high-priests in 
l Chron. vi. 12, there was a second Zadok, son of a sec- 
ond Ahitub, son of Amariah; and he is there given as 
the father of Shallum. B.C. cir. 700. He seems also 
to be referred to in ix, 11; Neh. xi, 11. Some critics 
are disposed to regard this name as an interpolation by 
a copyist’s error; but the person in question seems to 
be the high-priest called Uosaiah in the Seder Olam, 
and Odens (’Udeag) by Josephus {Aut. x, 8, 6). See 
Higii-phiest. 

4. Son of Bnana, who repaired a portion of the wall 
in the time ofNohemiah (Neh. iii, 4). B.C. 446. He is 
probably the same as is in the list of those that sealed the 
covenant in Neh. x, 21, as in both eases his name follows 


that, of Meshezabeel. But if so, we know that he was 
not a priest, as his name would at first sight lead one to 
suppose, but one of k * the chief of the people,” or laity. 
With this agrees his patronymic Baana, which indicates 
that he was of the tribe of Judah; for Baanah, one of 
David’s mighty men, was a Netophathite (2 Sam. xxiii, 
29), i. e. of Netophah, a city of Judah. The men of 
Tekoah, another city of Judah, worked next to Zadok. 
Meshullam of the house of Meshezabeel, w ho preceded 
him in both lists (Neh. iii, '1 and x, 20, 21) was also of 
the tribe of Judah (xi, 24). Intermarriages of the 
priestly house with the tribe of Judah were more fre- 
quent than with any other tribe. — Smith. 

5. Son of Immer, a priest who repaired a portion of 
the w’nll over against his own house (Neh. iii, 29). B.C. 
446. lie belonged to the 16th course (1 Chron. xxiv, 
14), which w as one of those that returned from Babylon 
(Ezra ii, 37). 

6. A scribe, one of the three principal treasurers ap- 
pointed by Nehemiah (Neh. xiii, 13). 13.C. 410. Ilew’as 
perhaps identical with No. 4 or 5 above. 

Za'liam (Heb. id., CfjT, in pause CJjT, rancidity or 
fatness ; Sept. 'Lady v. r. r La\dp and 'PooAo/i; Vnlg. 
Zoom), last named of the three sons of Kehoboam hv one 
of his w'ives (2 Chron. xii, 19), named Abihail (q. v.), 
according to the common version, but, as Keil maintains, 
{Comment, ad loc.) by Mahath (Abihail being the moth- 
er of the latter). B.C, 973. 

Za'i’r (Heb. Tsair ', small, as often; Sept. 

Suop; Vulg. Seira), a plaee named in 2 Kings viii, 21, 
in the account of Joram’s expedition against the Edom- 
ites, as one to which he went with • all his chariots. 
There he and his force appear to have been surrounded, 
and only to have escaped by cutting their w r av through 
in the night. This is not, however, the interpuetation 
of the Jew ish commentators, who take thew’ord 
to refer to the neighboring parts of the country of Edom 
(see Kashi, On 2 Chron. ccxi, 9). The parallel ac- 
count in Chronicles (xxi, 9) agrees with this, except 
that the w'ords “to Zair” are omitted, and the words 
“with his princes” inserted. This is followed by Jose- 
phus {Aid. ix, 5, 1 ). • The omitted and inserted words 
have a certain similarity both in sound and in their 
component letters, rn-CiS and V^b-CS*; and on this 
it has been conjectured that the latter were substituted 
for the former either by the error of a copyist or in- 
tentionally, because the name Zair was not elsewhere 
known (see Keil, Comment, on 2 Kings viii , 21 ). Oth- 
ers, again, as Movers ( Chvonih , p. 218) and Ewald 
( Gesch. iii, 524), suggest that Zair is identical with 
Zoar (“C'22 or Certainly in the Middle Ages 

the road by which an army passed from Judaea to the 
country formerly occupied by Edom lay through the 
place which was then believed to be Zoar, below Kerak, at 
the south-east quarter of the Dead Sea (Fulcher, Gesta 
Dei, p. 405), and so far this is in favor of the identifica- 
tion ; but there is no other support to it in the MS. read- 
ings either of the original or the versions. A third con- 
jecture, grounded on the readings of the Vulg. {Seira) 
and the Arab, version {Sa'ir), is that Zair is an altera- 
tion for Seir (1^'TL*), the country itself of the Edomites 
( Thenius, Kurzgef. exeget. Handb. ). The objection to 
this is that the name of Seir appears not to have been 
known to the author of the book of Kings. — Smith. 

Za'laph (Heb. Tsalapk',t\h 2S, wound ; Sept. N«Af0 
v. r. StXf and ’EXt0; Vulg. Selepk), the father of Ha- 
nun, w'hieh latter rebuilt part of the w r all of Jerusalem 
after the Exile (Neh. iii, 30). B.C. ante 446. 

Zal'mon (Heb. Tsalmon ', shady; Sept. 

N«A/{i ov v. r. ’EdXXwy, etc.; Vulg. Sehnon), the name 
of a man and of a hill. 

1. An Ahohite, one of David’s warriors (2 Sam. xxiii, 
28), called in the parallel passage (I Chron. xi,29) Ilai 


ZAMBRI 


1059 


ZALMON 

(q. v.), which Kennicott prefers (Dissert, p. 187). See 
David. 

2. A mountain (*iH) or wooded eminence in the im- 
mediate neighborhood of Shechem, from which Abime- 
lech and his people cut down the boughs with which he 
suffocated and burned the Shcchemites who had taken 
refuge in the citadel (dudg. \x,48). The reading of the 
Sept, here ('Epjuwi/) is remarkable both in itself and in 
the fact that the two great MSS. agree in a reading so 
much removed from the Hebrew; but it is impossible 
to suppose that Herman (at any rate, the well-known 
mountain of that name) is referred to in the narrative 
of Abimelcch. The rabbins mention a place of the same 
name, but evidently far from the necessary position 
(Schwarz. Palest, p. 137). The name Suleimijjeh is at- 
tached to the S.E. portion of Mount Ebal (sec the map 
of Dr. Hose li, Zeitschr. tier deutschen morgenh Gesell . xiv, 
634), and Jebel S lei man is the name of a high conspicu- 
ous summit S.W. of and linked with Mount Gerizim, 
having on it a tomb attributed by Mohammedan tra- 
dition to Sleiman el -Farsi (Van de Velde, Memoir, p. 
354). The only high mountains around Shechem are 
Ebal and Gerizim, and Zalmon may be another name 
for one of these. The name of Dalmanuthu has been 
supposed by some to be a corruption of that of Tsalmon 
(Otho, Lex. Robb. s. v. “ Dalmanutha”). 

It is usually supposed that this hill is mentioned in 
Psa. lxviii, 14 (A. V. “ Salmon”) ; and this is probable, 
though the passage is peculiarly difficult, and the pre- 
cise allusion intended by the poet seems hopelessly lost. 
Commentators differ from each other; and Fiirst, with- 
in 176 pages of his JIandwdrterbuch , differs from him- 
self (see and "p -?^). Indeed, of six distinguished 
modern commentators — De Wette, llitzig, Ewald. lleng- 
stenberg, Delitzsch, and Hnpfeld — no two give distinct- 
ly the same meaning; and Mr. Keble, in his admirable 
version of the Psalms, gives a translation which, though 
poetical, as was to be expected, differs from any one .of 
those suggested by these six scholars. The literal trans- 
lation of the words A’jpl is “Thou wouldst 

make it snow,” or “It would snow,” with liberty to use 
the verb either in the past or in the future sense. As, 
notwithstanding ingenious attempts, this supplies no 
satisfactory meaning, recourse is had to a translation 
of a comparative character, “ Thou makest it white as 
snow,” or “ It is white as snow” — words to which various 
metaphorical meanings have been attributed. The al- 
lusion which, through the Lexicon of Gcscnius, is most 
generally received is that the phrase refers to the ground 
being snow-white with bones after a defeat of the Ca- 
naanitish kings, and this may be accepted by those who 
will admit that bleaching bones would be left upon a 
battle-field. At the same time, it is to be remembered 
that the figure is a very harsh one, and that it is not 
really justified by passages quoted in illustration of it 
from Latin classical writers, such as “campique ingentes 
ossibus albent” (Virgil, ZEn. xii, 3G) and “ humanis ossi- 
bus albet humus” (Ovid, Fast, i, 558). for in these cases 
the word “ bones” is actually used in the text, and is not 
left to be supplied by the imagination. Granted, how- 
ever, that an allusion is made to bones of the slain, there 
is a divergence of opinion as to whether Salmon was men- 
tioned simply because it had been the battle-ground of 
some great defeat of the Canaanitish kings, or whether 
it is only introduced as an image of snowy whiteness. 
Of these" two explanations, the first would be, on the 
whole, most probable; for Salmon cannot have been a 
very high mountain, as the highest mountains near 
Shechem are Ebal and Gerizim, and of these Ebal, the 
highest of the two, is only 1028 feet higher than the 
city (see Robinson’s Gesenius, p. 805 a). I f the poet had 
desired to use the image of a snowy mountain, it would 
have been more natural to select llermon, which is vis- 
ible from the eastern brow of Gerizim, is about 10,000 
feet high, and is covered with perpetual snow. Still it 
is not meant that this circumstance by itself would be 


conclusive, for there may have been particular associa- 
tions in the mind of the poet unknown to ns which led 
him to prefer Salmon. — Smith. It is perhaps not too 
great a stretch of fancy in this highly figurative Psalm 
to suppose that the hill in question, being near She- 
chem. in the centre of the country, may have been (or 
conceived as being) the scene of a severe engagement 
in the conquest of Canaan ; and the prostrate bodies of 
the. slain foe, covered with their white Oriental gar- 
ments, are pictured like snow upon the distant back- 
ground of the dark mountain-side. The use of the lleb. 
future points out the conceptual character of the state- 
ment, and justifies the translation as a metaphor, “It 
seemed to snow.” 

Zalmo'nah (lleb. Tsalmonah', shady ; 

Sept. ^eXyotiva; Vulg. Salmona ), the name of a desert 
station (the 45th) of the Israelites, which they reached 
between leaving Mount. Ilor and camping at Punon, al- 
though they must have turned the southern point of 
Edomitish territory by the way ( Numb, xxxiii, 41 ). 
It therefore lay on the south-east side of Edom, but 
hardly so far north as Maan, a few miles east of Petra, 
as Eaumer thinks. More probably Zalmonah may be 
in the Wady el-A mran, which runs into the Wady Ithm, 
close to where Elath anciently stood. See Exode. 

Zalmun'na (lleb. Tsalmunna 2*2*2312, apparent- 
ly from bi£, shadow, and 2* 2 73, to withhold, i. e. deprived 
of protection; Sept, and Josephus, ! SaXfiava ), last 
named of the two “ kings” of Midian, whose capture and 
death by the hands of Gideon himself formed the last 
act of his great conflict with Midian (Judg. viii, 5-21; 
Psa. lxxxiii, 11). B.C. 1361. See Zeba. 

The distinction between the “kings” (G^bp, mela- 
kim) and the “princes” (C“H : CJ, sarhn) of the Midian- 
ites on this occasion is carefully maintained throughout 
the narrative (Judg. viii. 5, 12, 2G). “ Kings” of Midian 
are also mentioned in Numb, xxxi, 8; but when the 
same transaction is referred to in Josh, xiii, 21, they are 
designated by a different title (n"'N'2;l), nesiim; A. V. 
“princes”). Elsewhere (Numb, xxii, 4, 7 ) the term 
elders (cpj^T, zelcenim) is used, answering in significa- 
tion, if not in etymology, to the Arabic sheik. It is dif- 
ficult, perhaps impossible, to tell how far these distinc- 
tions arc accurate, and how far they represent the im- 
perfect acquaintance which the Hebrews must have 
had with the organization of a people with whom, ex- 
cept during the orgies of Shittim, they appear to have 
been always more or less at strife and warfare (1 Chron. 
v, 10, 19-22). The unintelligibilitv of the names is in 
favor of their being correctly retained rather than the 
reverse. It should not be overlooked that they arc not, 
like Oreb and Zeeb, attached also to localities, which 
always throws a doubt on the name when attributed to 
a person as well. Josephus inverts the distinction, lie 
styles Oreb and Zecb fiaciXGz, and Zebah and Zalmun- 
na ijytfinveQ (Ant. v, 7, 5). The vast horde which Gid- 
eon repelled must have included many tribes under the 
general designation of “ Midianitcs, Amalekitcs, children 
of the East,” and nothing would be easier or more nat- 
ural than for the Hebrew scribes who chronicled the 
events to confuse one tribe with another in so minute 
a point as the title of a chief. In the great Bedawin 
tribes of the present day, who occupy the place of Midian 
and Amelck, there is no distinctive appellation answer- 
ing to the melek and sdr of the Hebrew narrative. Dif- 
ferences in rank and power there are as between the 
great chief, the acknowledged head of the parent tribe, 
and the lesser chiefs who lead the sub-tribes into which 
it is divided, and who are, to a great extent, independent 
of him. But the one word sheik is employed for all. 
The great chief is the sheik el-kebir; the others are min 
el-masheik, “ of the sheiks,” i. e. of sheik rank.— Smith. 
See Midi anite. 

Zam'bri (Zapf3pi, Vulg. Zamri ), the Greek form 


ZAPHXATH-PAANEAII 


ZAMBRIS 10G0 


(1 Macc. ii, 26) of the Ileb. name (Numb, xxv, 14) Zim- 
KI ((]. v.). 

Zam'bris (ZapfipiQ v. r. Zapfipt), a corrupt Greek 
form (1 Esilr. ix, 64) of the lleb. name (Ezra x, 42) 
Am.uuah (q. v.). 

Za'moth {ZapfoS v. r. Za/mS 1 , Vulg. Zathoim ), a 
corrupt Greek form (L Esdr. ix, 28) of the lleb. name 
(Ezra x, 27) Zattu (q. v.). 

Zamzum'mim (lleb. Zamzummim ; 
Sept. Zop^oppeiv v. r. Zo\op}tiv, Vulg. Zomzommim, 
A. V. “Zamzummims”), the Ammonitish name for the 
people who by others (though who they were does not 
appear) were called Bephaim (q. v.) (Deut. ii, 20 only). 
They are described as having originally been a power- 
ful and numerous nation of giants — ‘‘great, many, and 
tall” — inhabiting the district which at the time of the 
Hebrew conquest was in the possession of the Ammon- 
ites, by whom the Zamzummim had a long time previ- 
ously been destroyed. Where this district was it is 
not, perhaps, possible exactly to define; but it probably 
lay in the neighborhood of Rabbath-Ammon (the pres- 
ent Amman), the only city of the Ammonites of which 
the name or situation is preserved to us, and therefore 
eastward of that rich undulating country from which 
Moab had been forced by the Amorites (the modern 
Belka), and of the numerous towns of that country 
whose ruins and names are still encountered. 

From a slight similarity between the two names, and 
from the mention of the Emim in connection with each, 
it is usually assumed that the Zamzummim are identi- 
cal with the Zuzim (q. v.) (Gesenius, Thesanr. p. 410 a; 
Ewald, Gesch. i, 308, note; Knobel, On Gen. xiv, 5). 
Ewald further supports this by identifying 11am (q. v.), 
the capital city of the Zuzim (Gen. xiv, 5), with Am- 
mon. But at best the identification is very conjectu- 
ral. 

Various attempts have been made to explain the 
name: as, by comparison with the Arabic zamzam, 
“long-necked or samsam , “strong and big” (Simonis, 
0 nomast. p. 135) ; or as “obstinate,” from 12 "2T (Luther), 
or as “noisy,” from ET'ST (Gesenius, Thesanr. p. 419), 
or as onomatopoetic, intended to imitate the unintel- 
ligible jabber of foreigners. Michaelis (Supplem. No. 
629) playfully recalls the likeness of the name to that 
of the well Zem-zeiu at Mecca, and suggests thereupon 
that the tribe may have originally come from Southern 
Arabia. Notwithstanding this banter, however, he ends 
his article with the following discreet words, “Nihil 
historic, nihil originis populi novimus: fas sit etymolo- 
gium ajque ignorare.” — Smith. See Journ. Sac. Lit. 
1852, p. 366. 

Zano'ah (lleb. Zano'ach, [Neh. xi, 30, H-J], 
prob. marsh), the name of two towns in the tribe of 
Judah. 

1. (Sept. 'Zcti'M v. r. Tavio, Vulg. Zanoe.) A place in 
the lowland (Shephelah), named in connection with 
Zoreah and Jarmuth (Josh, xv, 34), in the group occu- 
pying the noTlh -western corner of the district. See 
Judah. The name recure in its old connection in the 
lists of Nehemiah, both of the towns which were rein- 
habited by the people of Judah after the Captivity (xi, 
30). and of those which assisted in repairing the wall 
of Jerusalem (iii, 13). Jerome says ( Ononmst . s. v. “ Za- 
nohua”) that it was still called Zanua in his day, and 
lay in the region of Eleutheropolis on the way to Je- 
rusalem. The name and position tolerably correspond 
to those of Zanua , a site which was pointed out to 
Dr. Robinson from Beit Nettif {Ribl. Res. ii, 16), and 
which in the maps of Van de Velde and of Tobler 
( Dritte Wanderumj) is located on the north side of the 
\Vady Ismail, two miles east of Zareah. and four miles 
north of Yarrauk. Rabbi Schwarz inaccurately calls it 
Zamea { Palest . p. 102). 

2. (Sept, [in Josh., taking in the following name] 


Zavioaiceip v. r. Ticucavatip, Vulg. Zanoel ; in Chron. 
r Z(tpoji’ , Vulg. Zanoe.) A town in the highland district, 
the mountain proper (Josh, xv, 56), named in the same 
group with Maon, Carmel, Ziph, and other places known 
to lie south of Hebron. It is (as Van de Velde sug- 
gests, Memoir , p. 354) not improbably identical with 
Samite, which is mentioned by Seetzen ( Reisen , iii, 29) 
as below Senula, and appears to be about ten miles south 
of Hebron. At the time of his visit it was the last 
inhabited place to the south. Robinson (Bibl. Res. ii, 
201, note) gives the name differently, Za'mitah ; and it 
will be observed that, like Zanu’ah above mentioned, it 
contains the A in, which the Hebrew name does not. 
The English engineers found ( Quar . Report, of the “ Pal. 
Explor. Fund,” Jan. 1875, p. 15') an ancient site called 
Khirbel S unfit (written with an Elif—'S), situated im- 
mediately west of Khirbet Yekin (the Cain of the con- 
text), which Tristram prefers as the representative of 
this Zanoah {Bible Places, p. 62). 

In the genealogical lists of the tribe of Judah in 1 
Chron., Jckuthiel is said to have been the father (i. e. 
founder or rebnilder) of Zanoah (iv, 18); and, as far as 
the passage can be made out. some connection appears 
to be intended with “Bithiah, the daughter of Pha- 
raoh.” This mention of Bithiah probably points to 
some colonization of the place by Egyptians or by Is- 
raelites directly from Egypt. In Seetzen’s account of 
Samite (Za’nutah) there is a curious token of the in- 
fluence which events in Egypt still exercised on the 
place ( Reisen , iii, 29). Here it is also mentioned with 
Soeho and Eshtemoa, both of which places are recog- 
nisable in the neighborhood of Za’nutah. The Jewish 
interpreters considered the whole of this passage of 1 
Chron. iv to refer to Moses, and interpret each of the 
names which it contains as titles of him. “He was 
chief of Zanoach,” says the Targum, “because for his 
sake God^wtf away (ITDT) the sins of Israel.” 

Zaph'nath- Paane'ah (lleb. Tsaphenath' Pan- 
ne' iich, n2^2 r:2^; Sept. A r oi>^op<pavr}x, Vulg. sal - 
vator mimin'), a name given by Pharaoh to Joseph 
(Gen xli, 45). See Joseph. 

I. Form of the Word. — Various forms of this name, 
all traceable to the Hebrew or Sept, original, occur in 
the works of the early Jewish and Christian writers, 
chiefly Josephus, from different MSS. and editions of 
whose Antiquities (ii, 6, 1) no less than eleven forms 
have been collected following both originals, some va- 
riations being very corrupt; but from the translation 
given by Josephus it is probable that he transcribed 
t he Hebrew. Philo {De Xominum Mut. [ed. Col. 1613], 
p. 819 c) and Theodoret (i, 106, ed. Schulz) follow the 
Sept., and Jerome the Hebrew. The Coptic version 
nearly transcribes the Sept., psonthomphnnek. 

In the Hebrew text the name is divided into two 
parts. Every such division of Egyptian words being 
in accordance with the Egyptian orthography — as No- 
Ammon, Pi-beseth, Poti-Pherah — we cannot, if the 
name be Egyptian, reasonably propose any change in 
this case; if the name be Hebrew, the same is certain. 
There is no prima facie reason for any change in the 
consonants. 

The Sept, form seems to indicate the same division, 
as the latter part, is identical with the second 

part of the Hebrew, while what precedes is different. 
There is again no prima facie reason for any change 
from the ordinary reading of the name. The cause of 
the difference from the Hebrew in the earlier part of 
the name must be discussed when we come to examine 
its meaning. 

II. Proposed Etymologies of the Word. — This name 
has been explained as Hebrew or Egyptian, and always 
as a proper name. It has not been supposed to be an 
official title, but this possibility has to be considered. 

1. The rabbins interpreted Zaphnath-paaneah as He- 
brew, in the sense “revealer of a secret.” This expla- 


Z API I X ATII - PA ANE A II 


1061 


ZAREPHATII 


nation is as old as Josephus ( kov7ttuh • tvpETi) r, Ant. ii, 
Gj 1), and Theodoret also follows it (tuiv diroppijTiov 
t PfnjvtVTi)v , i, 10G, Schulz). Philo offers an explana- 
tion, which, though seemingly different, may be the 
same (iv tiiroicpioH aropa tcpivov; but Mangey con- 
jectures the true reading to be tv diroKpviPei ordpa 
tfTroKpiv6p€voi f ,loc.cit.). It must be remembered that 
Josephus perhaps, and Theodoret ami Philo certainly, 
follow the Sept, form of the name. We dismiss the 
Hebrew interpretation as unsound in itself and demand- 
ing the improbable concession that Pharaoh gave Jo- 
seph a Hebrew name. 

2. Isidore, though mentioning the Hebrew interpre- 
tations, remarks that the name should be Egyptian, 
and offers an Egyptian etymology: “Joseph . . . hunc 
Pharao Zaphanath Phaaneca appcllavit, quod Ilebraice 
abscomlitoriim repertorem sonat . . . tamcn quia hoc 
nomen ab yEgyptio ponitur, ipsius lingua debet habere 
rationem. Interpretatnr ergo Zaphanath Phaaneca 
^Egyptio sermone salvator muiuli” (prig. vii. 7, vol. iii, 
p. 327, Arev.). Jerome adopts the same rendering. 

3. Modern scholars have looked to the Coptic for an 
explanation of this name. Jablonski and others proposing 
as the Coptic of the Egyptian original psot-m-phenet , 
etc., “ the preservation (or preserver) of the age.” This 
is evidently the etymology intended by Isidore and 
Jerome. — Smith. See Jablonski, Opnsc. c. 207-21G; 
Iiosellini, Mon. Storici, i, 185; Champollion, Gramm. 
p. 380; Pezron, Lex. Copt. p. 207; Gesenius, Thesaur. 
s. v. 

HI. Comparison with Egyptian Elements. — 1. The He- 
brew Form. — This, after eliminating the Masore tic vow- 
vis, is Z-ph-n-th P-'-n-ch, which transcribed in hiero- 
glyphics stands thus: 


A 


-Kf 


ph n th 


/VWVV $ 

11 ell 

The first syllable, zaf signifies “provisions;” the sec- 
ond, is the preposition “of;” p is the definite article 
“the;” and the last syllable, ditch, means “life.” The 
whole name, therefore, may well be translated “food of 
the living.” 

2. The Septnagint Form . — This is more difficult of 
rendering. The most literal transcription of the Greek 
\pov$Qp<pain)x, omitting the vowels as unessential, i. e. 
p-s-n-t-m-p-n--n-ch , would be in hieroglyphics thus: 


/ysNWU 


p S 11 t ttl p 11 


This means “he who gives jov to the world,” a sense 
evidently taken by Jerome in the Vulg., who lived 
while the Egyptian was yet vernacular, and who ren- 
ders it “saviour of the world” (see the SpeukePs Com- 
mentary [Amer. ed.], i, 480 sq.). 

Za'plion (Ileb. Tsaphon ', north , as often; 

Sept. v. r. Vulg. Saphoii). the name of 

a place mentioned (in connection with Beth-aram, Beth- 
nimrah, and Succoth) in the enumeration of the allot- 
ment of the. tribe of Gad (Josh, xiii, 27). It is one of 
the places in “the valley” ( i. e. of t he Jordan), which 
appear to have constituted the “ remainder ("IP?) of the 
kingdom of Sihon” — apparently referring to the portion 
of the same kingdom previously allotted to Reuben 
(ver. 17-21). The enumeration appears to proceed from 
south to north, and from the mention of the Sea of Chin- 
neroth it is natural to infer that Zaphon was near that 
lake. The Talmud (Gemara Jerus. Shebiifh. vi) identi- 
fies it with the ancient A mnthus (q. v.), the remains of 
which are still called Amateh on Wady Rejib (Schwarz, 
Palest, p. 232), and this position is not an improbable 
one. 


In Judg. xii, 1 the word rendered “northward” 
(tsaphdnah) may with equal accuracy bo rendered “to 
Zaphon.” This rendering is supported by the Alex- 
andrian copy of the Sept. (Kt<f>eivd) and a host of 
other MSS., and it lias consistency on its side, since 
the Ephraimites were marching eastward rather than 
northward. Sec Jepiitiiaii. 

Za'ra (Z apd), the Greek form (Matt, i, 3) of the 
Hob. name Zerau (q, v.), tlie son of Judah. 

Zara. Sec Talmud. 

Zar'aces (Z«jo«fo/{; v. r. Z«pn7oc; Vulg. Zaraceles ), 
a corrupt Greek form (1 Esdr. i, 38) of the lleb. name 
of the brother of Joacim ( Jehoiakiu ), king of Judah, 
probably Zedekiaii (q. v.). 

Za'rah (Gen. xxxviii, 30; xlvi, 12). See Zerau. 

Zarai'as (Z apaiac), the Greek form of Zkkaiiiait 
(«, I Esdr. viii, 2; comp. Ezra vii. 1 : b, 1 Esdr. viii, 
31; comp. Ezra viii, 4) or (corruptly) Zebadiaii (l 
Esdr. viii, 34; comp. Ezra viii, 8). 

Za'reah (Neh. xi, 29). See Zoraii. 
Za'reathite (1 Chron. ii, 53). See Zoratiute. 

Za'red (Numb, xxi, 12). See Zerkd. 

Zar'ephath (Ilcb. Tsarephath Pans, smelting 
place; Sept, and New Test. 2opg7rrd [in Obad. rd 'Za- 
pS7TTd; v. r. in 1 Kings, Josephus, 2ape<p$d; 

“ Sarepta,” Luke iv, 20), a town which derives its claim to 
notice from having been the residence of the prophet Eli- 
jah during the latter part of the drought, and where he 
performed the miracle of multiplying the barrel of meal 
and cruse of oil, and wliere lie raised the widow’s son to 
life (l Kings xvii, 9, 10). Beyond stating that it was 
near to, or dependent on, Zidon (■jiT’ab), the Bible 
gives no clew to its position. It is mentioned by Oba- 
diali (ver. 20), but merely as a Canaanitish (that is, Phoe- 
nician) city. Josephus (J wL viii, 13, 2), however, states 
that it was “not far from Sidon and Tyre, for it lies be- 
tween them.” To this Jerome adds ( Onomast. s. v. 
“Sarefta”) that it “lay on the public road,” that is, the 
coast-road. Both these conditions are implied in the 
mention of it in the itinerary of Paula by Jerome (Epit. 
Paulce , § 8), and both are fulfilled in the situation of the 
modern village of Surujhul , a name which, except in its 
termination, is almost identical with the ancient Phoe- 
nician (comp. Pliny, v. 17 ; Jerome, Ep. 108, ad Eustoch.). 
There were many vineyards there (Sidon. Apoll. Carm. 

xvii, 1G; Fulgent. Mythol. ii, 15). The Crusaders 
0 made Sarepta a Latin bishopric in the archiepisco- 
pate of Sidon, and erected near the port a small chap- 
el over t he reputed site of Elijah’s miracle (William 
ell of Tyre, xix, 14; Jacob of Vi try, ch. xliv). In the 
Middle Ages it was a strongly fortified place (Wil- 
| ken, Kreuzziigc , ii, 208). The locality has been visited 
and described in recent times by Robinson (Bibl. Res. 
ii, 475), Thomson (Land and Book, ch. xii), and others. 
It appears to have changed its place, at least since the 
11th century, for it is now more than a mile from the 
coast, high up on the slope of a hill (Bobinson, p. 474), 
whereas at the time of the Crusades it was on the shore. 
Of the old town considerable indications remain. One 
group of foundations is on a headland called Ain el - 
Kentarah ; but the chief remains are south of this, and 
extend for a mile or more, with many fragments of col- 
umns, slabs, and other architectural features. The Bo- 
man road is said to he unusually perfect there (Bea- 
mont. Diary, etc., ii, 18G). The site of the chapel erect- 
ed by the Crusaders on the spot then reputed to he the 
site of the widow’s house is probably still preserved (see 
the citations of Robinson). It is near the water’s edge, 
and is now marked by a wely and small khan dedicated 
to el-Khndr , the well-known personage who unites, in 
the popular Moslem faith, Elijah and St. George. A 
grotto at the foot of the hill on which the modern vil- 
lage stands is now shown as the residence of Elijah 
(Van de Velde, Sy?\ and Palest, i, 102). See Maun- 


ZARETAX 


100*2 


ZEBADIAII 



Ruins at fci lira feud. 

drell, Travels , p. 63; Kortc, Reis. p. 307; Nan, Voyage 
None. p. 544; Rococke, East, ii, 85; Ra timer, Paldstina, 
p. 140; Richter, Wall/. p.72; Kussegger. iii, 145; Cobi- 
us, JJe Sarepta (Viteb. 1728). See Riuenwia. 

Zar'etan (lleb. Tsarethan ', perhaps splen- 

dor; in Josh. Sept, wholly omits; Vulg. Ear than ; in 
1 Kings vii, 46 Sept. Zliapdp v. r. Sei/qo ; Vulg. Sar- 
tkan ; A. V. *• Zarthan;” with 11 directive, Zarethand- 
nak, n:riT, ill iv, 12; Sept. 2ap$dr v. r. 2f| oapxdv 
and ’KffAtoi^rJi' ; Vulg. Sarthana; A. V. “ Zartanah”), 
a town or locality mentioned by this name three times, 
and apparently several times also under similar names. 
It is first named in the account of the passage of the 
Jordan by the Israelites (Josh, iii, 16) as defining the 


place in the tribe of Reu- 
ben, situated in the mountain 
hu-Emek (A. V. “Mount of 
the Valley”), i. e. in the ab- 
rupt edge of the Jordan or 
Dead Sea valley (Josh, xiii, 
19, where it is mentioned 
between Sibmali and Beth- 
peor). Seetzen ( Reisen , ii, 
369) proposes to identify it 
with a spot called Sard at 
the mouth of the Wady Zer- 
ka Main, about a mile from 
the edge of the Dead Sea. 
In this Tristram coincides, 
and he describes the spot as 
being in keeping with its po- 
etical name, “the inconsider- 
able ruins of Zara” occupying 
a little oasis embayed in the 
shore of the sea, where the river runs through steep 
banks shaded by oleanders and palms, with numerous 
hot and somewhat sulphurous springs ( Bible Places , p. 
351). A place Shakur is marked on Van de Velde’s 
map, about six miles south of es-Salt, at the head of 
the valley of the Wady Seir, which might possibly rep- 
resent the latter part of the name more exactly. 

Zar'llite (Heb. ZarchV , Sept. Z apai v. r. 

— «pm, A. V. “Zarhites”), the patronymic of the family 
of Zerah son of Judah (Numb, xxvi, 20; Josh, vii, 17; 
1 Chron.xxvii, 11, 13), and also of that descended from 
Zerah son of Simeon (Numb, xxvi, 13). 

Zar'tanah [some Zartu'nah ] (1 Kings iv, 12). See 

Z A RETAX. 


position of the city Adam, which was beside (“1:2*3) it. 
It is next mentioned in the list of Solomon’s commissa- 
riat districts as “close to” (^^) llethshean, that is, in 
the upper part of the Jordan valley and “beneath” 
( ? r) Jezreel (1 Kings iv, 12). It is again men- 
tioned in connection with Suceoth as a clayey place 
where Solomon east metal in the circle pST, kikkdr. , 
“plain,” i.e. ghur') of the Jordan (vii, 46). In the par- 
allel passage to this last (2 Chron. iv, 17) Zeuedatiiau 
(q. v.) is substituted for Zarthan, and this again is not 
impossibly identical with the Zererah (q. v.) of the 
story of tiideon (Judg. vii, 22). All these spots agree 
in proximity to the Jordan, and the associated places 
somewhat aid us in discovering the general locality. 
Bethsheau is the present Beisan, Suecoth is probably 
the present Salkut, and Adam is, doubtless, represented 
by the modern Adamieh ford. Van de Velde {Memoir, 
p. 354) inclines to identify Zaretan with Surtabah, a 
lofty and isolated hill which projects from the main 
highlands into the Jordan valley, about seventeen miles 
north of Jericho (comp. De Saulev, Dead Sea, ii, 31 ) ; 
but the names are not closely alike, and this peak has 
another ancient appellation. See Sautaba. Schwarz 
probably refers to the same spot when he declares that 
the name should be read Sartaph, and that the town in 
question was so called “because it lay near Mount Sar- 
taf, five English miles west of the Jordan” ( Palest . p. 
162). Air. Drake (in the Quar. Repot't. of the “Pales- 
tine Explor. Fund,” Jan. 1875, p. 31) thinks that the 
reading Siaram (Stapap) of the Alexandrian MS. at 1 
Kings vii, 46 points to a “ Tell Sarem, a very conspicu- 
ous and unusually large mound three miles south of 
Beisan;” but this reading is very precarious. Accord- 
ing to Tristram ( Bible Places, p. 228), “the name lingers 
in Ain Zahrah and Tullul Zuhrah, three miles west of 
Beisan, indicating that Zaretan was the designation of 
a district rather than a place.” 

Za'reth-sha'har (lleb. Tse'relh hash- Ska' char, 
IfilES! splendor of the dawn; Sept. SopS tcai 

Eaop v. r. iZepacd tcai 2no u; Vulg. Sereth Assahar'), a 


Zar'tlian (1 Kings vii, 46). Sec Zaretan. 

Zath'oe (Sept. Z apSoi); Vulg. Zachues'), a Greek 
form (1 Esdr. viii, 32) of the lleb. name Zattu (which 
is apparently omitted in Ezra viii, 5). 

Zathu'i (Sept. ZaSovi v. r. Zotov ; Vulg. Demu), a 
Greek form (1 Esdr. v, 12) of the lleb. name (Ezra ii, 
8) Zattu (q. v.). 

Zat'thu (Neh. x, 14). See Zattu. 

Zat'tu (lleb. Zattu/, WFl}. pleasant ; Sept. ZaSovid 
v. r. ZarSovd, etc.; Vulg. Zethua , Zethu), an 

Israelite whose “sons” to the number of 945 (or 845) 
returned from Babylon with Zerubbabel (Ezra ii, 8; 
Neh. vii, 13); and another company of them returned 
with Ezra, although his name has accidentally dropped 
out of the text in Ezra viii, 5, as we learn from the Sept, 
and the Apocryphal parallel (1 Esdr. viii, 32), which 
both read “of the sons of Zathoe, Zechenias son of 
Aziel [or Jczelus]” — (Keil, Comment, ad loe.). B.C. ante 
536. Several of these descendants renounced their Gen- 
tile wives (Ezra x, 27). 

Za'van (1 Chron. i, 42). See Zaanan. 

Zayit. See Olive. 

Za'za (lleb. Zaza. ', XTT, perhaps projection; Sept. 
7aiZih) v. r. 'O ZaZ,ci, ’O Zap, etc.; Vulg.Zi'su), last named 
of the two sons of Jonathan of the family of Jerahmeel 
the Judahite (1 Chron. ii, 33). B.C. post 1618. 

Zebachim. See Talmud. 

Zebadi'ah (Web. Zebaayak', [tliriee in tin* 

prolonged form Zebadya'hu, srVHl-T, 1 Chron. xxvi, 2: 
2 Chron. x vii, 8; xix, II], gift of Jehovah ; Sept.Z afia- 
cia or Z afiaCtac v. r. Z af3^ia^ or Zafidia, etc.), the 
name of several Israelites. Comp. Zabdiel. 

1. A Benjamite of the “sons” of Beriah (I Chron. 
viii, 15). B.C. eir. 1618. 

2. A Benjamite of the “sons” of Elpaal (1 Chron. 
viii, 17). B.C, cir. 1618. 

3. One of the two sons of Jeroham of Gedor, a Ben- 
jamite who joined the fortunes of David in his retreat 
at Ziklag (1 Chron. xii, 7). B.C. 1054. 





ZEI3AII 


1003 


ZEBOIIM 


4. A Levite, third son of Meshelemiah the Korhite 
(1 Chron. xxvi, 2). B.C. 1043. 

5. Son of Asahel (Joab’s brother), and commander 
with his father of the fourth contingent of David’s 
troops (l Chron. xxvii.7). B.C. 10 1 4. 

6. One of the two Levites who were sent with others 
in the third year pf dehoshaphat to teach the law in the 
cities of Judah (2 Chron. xvii,8). U.C. 910. 

7. The son of Ishmael and prinee of the house of Ju- 
dah in the reign of Jehoshaphat, who, in conjunction 
with Amariah the ehief priest, was appointed to the 
superintendence of the Levites, priests and chief men 
who had to decide all causes, civil and ecclesiastical, 
whieh were brought before them (2 Chron. xix, 11). 
B.C. 895. They possibly may have formed a kind of 
court of appeal, Zcbadiali acting for the interests of the 
king, and Amariah being the supreme authority in ec- 
clesiastical matters. 

8 . Son of Michael of the “sons” of Shephatiah, who 
returned with Ezra from Babylon with eighty male rel- 
atives (Ezra viii, 8). B.C. 459. 

9. A priest of the “sons” of Itnmer, who divoreed his 
Gentile wife married after the Exile (Ezra x, 20). B.C. 
458. 

Ze'bah (Heb. Ze'bach , sacrifice, as often; 

Sept. ; Josephus, Ztfii) ; Vulg. Zebee), first named 
of the two “ kings” of Midian who appear to have com- 
manded the great invasion of Palestine, and who finally 
fell by the hand of Gideon himself. B.C. 13G1. He is 
always coupled with Zalmunna, and is mentioned in 
Judg. viii, 5-21 ; Psa. lxxxiii, 11). See Zalmunna. 

It is a remarkable instance of the unconscious artless- 
ness of the narrative contained in Judg. vi, 38— viii, 28 
that no mention is made of any of the chiefs of the 
Midianites during the early part of the story, or indeed 
until Gideon actually comes into contact with them. 
We then discover (viii, 18) that while the Bedawin 
were ravaging the crops in the valley of Jezreel, before 
Gideon’s attack, three or more of his brothers had been 
captured by the Arabs and put to death by the hands 
of Zebah and Zalmunna themselves. But this material 
fact is only incidentally mentioned, and is of a piece 
with the later references by prophets and psalmists to 
other events in the same struggle, the interest and 
value of which have been alluded to under Oreb (q. v.). 

Psa. lxxxiii, 12 purports to have preserved the very 
words of the cry with which Zebah and Zalmunna 
rushed up at the head of their hordes from the Jordan 
into the luxuriant growth of the great plain — “ Seize 
these goodly pastures!” 

While Oreb and Zeeb, two of the inferior leaders of 
the incursion, had been slain, with a vast number of 
their people, by the Ephraimites at the central fords of 
the Jordan (not improbably those near Jisr Damieh), 
the two kings had succeeded in making their escape by 
a passage farther to th*e north (probably the ford near 
Bethshean), and thence by the Wady Yabis, through 
Gilead, to lvarkor, a plaee which is not fixed, but whieh 
lay doubtless high up on the Ilauran. Here they were 
reposing with 15,000 men, a mere remnant of their huge 
horde, when Gideon overtook them. Had they resisted, 
there is little doubt that they might have easily over- 
come the little band of “ fainting” heroes who had toiled 
after them up the tremendous passes of the mountains ; 
but the name of Gideon was still full of terror, and the 
Bedawin were entirely unprepared for his attack : they 
fled in dismay, and the two kings were taken. See 
Gideon. 

Then came the return down the long detiles leading 
to the Jordan. We see the cavalcade of camels, jingling 
the golden chains and the ereseent-shaped collars or 
trappings hung round their necks. High aloft rode the 
captive chiefs clad in their brilliant kefiyehs and em- 
broidered abbayehs, and with their “ collars” or “jewels” 
in nose and ear, on neek and arm. Gideon probably 
strode on foot by the side of his captives. They passed 


Beimel, where Jacob had seen the vision of the face 
of God; they passed Succoth; they crossed the rapid 
stream of the Jordan; they ascended the highlands west 
of the river, and at length reached Ophrah, the native 
village of their captor (Josephus, Ant. v, G, 5). Then, 
at last, the question which must have been on Gideon’s 
tongue during the whole of the return found a vent. 
There is no appearance of its having been alluded to 
before, but it gives, as nothing else'could, the' key to 
the whole pursuit. It was the death of his brothers, 
“ the children of his mother,” that had supplied the per- 
sonal motive for that steady perseverance, and had led 
Gideon on to his goal against hunger, faintness, and ol>- 
staeles of all kinds. “What maimer of men were they 
which ye slew at Tabor?” Up to this time the sheiks 
may have believed that they were reserved for ransom; 
but these words onee spoken, there can have been no 
doubt what their fate was to be. They met it like no- 
ble children of the desert, without fear or weakness. 
One request alone they make — that they may die by 
the sure blow of the hero himself — “and Gideon arose 
and slew them ;” and not till he had revenged his broth- 
ers did any thought of plunder enter his heart — then, 
and not till then, did he lav hands on the treasures 
which ornamented their camels. — Smith. See Midian- 
ite. 

Zeba'im (Heb. with the art. hats - Tsebaim't 
Chilli, the gazelles, as often; Sept, viol 'Aasfimtji v. r. 
’Aaefiiotiv; Vulg. Asebaini; in Neh. hats- Tsebayim', 
Sept. viol Ya/3aeqa; Vu’.g. JSabaim), appar- 
ently the name of the native plaee of the “sons of Bo- 
ehereth,” who are mentioned in the catalogue of the 
families of “Solomon’s slaves” as having returned from 
the Captivity with Zerubbabel (Ezra ii, 57 ; Neh. vii, 
59). On the other hand, the compound name Boehe- 
reth hat-Tsebaim is considered by some to have no ref- 
erence to plaee, but to signify the “snarer or hunter of 
roes” (Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 1102 b; Bertheau, Exey. 
Uandb. Ezra ii, 57), designating doubtless an individual. 
See PociiEitETii. 

Zeb'edee, or rather Zebed.e'us (ZqSsdaToe, the 
Greek form apparently of Zabdi or Zebediah), a fish- 
erman of Galilee, the father of the apostles James the 
Great and John (Matt, iv, 21), and the husband of Sa- 
lome (xxvii, 5G; Mark xv, 40). He probably lived 
either at Bcthsaida or in its immediate neighborhood. 
It has been inferred from the mention of his “hired 
servants” (i, 20), and from the acquaintance between 
the apostle John and Annas the high-priest (John xviii, 
15), that the family of Zebedee were in easy circum- 
stances (comp, xix, 27), although not above manual 
labor (Matt, iv, 21). While the name of Zebedee fre- 
quently oecurs as a patronymic, for the sake of distin- 
guishing his two sons from others who bore t lie same 
names, he appears only onee in the Gospel narrative — 
namely, in Matt, iv, 21, 22; Mark i, 19,20 — where he is 
seen in his boat with his two sons mending their nets. 
A.D. 2G. On this occasion he allows his sons to leave 
him, at the bidding of the Saviour, without raising any 
objection, although it does not appear that he was him- 
self ever of the number of Christ’s disciples, llis wife, 
indeed, appears in the catalogue of the pious women 
who were in constant attendance on the Saviour towards 
the close of his ministry, who watched him on the 
cross, and ministered to him even in the grave (Matt, 
xxvii, 55, 5G; Mark xv, 40; xvi, 1; comp. Matt, xx, 
20; Luke viii, 3). It is reasonable to infer tlial Zebe- 
dee was dead before this time. — Smith. See John ( the 
A postle ). 

Zebi'ua (Heb. Zebina', purchase; Sept. 

Z a/3 mV v. r. Zt(3iyvdc m , Vulg. Zabina ), one of the 
“sons” of Nebo, who divorced his Gentile wife taken 
after the return from Babylon (Ezra x, 43). B.C. 458. 

Zebina. See Alexander. 

Zeboi'im (Gen. xiv, 2, 8). See Zebolvi. 


ZEBOIM 


1004 


ZEBULUN 


Zebo'ini, a name which occurs in two distinct J 
forms in the original, denoting different localities. 

1. (lleb. Tscboini', C'NZIi. gazelles, as often, Ilos. xi, 

8; or shorter, Tseboyim Chilli [marg. Z^TZIa]* Gen. x, 
19; or [marg. Z?iz2£], xiv, 2, 8 [A. V. “Ze- 

boiim”]; Dent, xxix, 23; Sept. St/3wei/i v. r. ; 

Vulg. Zeboim), one of the live cities destroyed by divine 
visitation in the vale of Siddim (Uos. xi, 8), mentioned 
immediately after Admail (Gen. x, 19; Deut. xxix, 23), 
and ruled over by a separate king, Shemeber (Gen. xiv, 
*2, 8). De Sau icy tinds the site of Zeboim in the Tahiti 
Sebuun, a name which he reports as attached to exten- 
sive ruins on the high ground between the Dead Sea 
and Kerak {Dead Sea, i, 383); but the position as well 
as the elevation is improbable, and the ancient spot is 
most likely beneath the water of the southern bay of 
the sea. See Sodom; Zoak. 

2 . (lleb. with the art. hats-Tsebo' inT , Z^ZZZH, the 
hyenas ; Sept. Za/iaaV v. r. Na/Si/i, Stfiotifi, etc. ; Vulg. 
Seboim), the name of a valley ("'£), i. e. a ravine or 
gorge, apparently east of Michmash, mentioned in 1 
Sam. xiii, 18, where it is described with a curious 
minuteness, which is unfortunately no longer intelli- 
gible. The road running from Michmash to the east 
is specified as “the road of the border that looketh to 
the ravine of Zeboim towards the wilderness.” The 
wilderness ( midbar ) is no doubt the district of unculti- 
vated mountain tops and sides which lies between the 
central district of Benjamin and the Jordan valley, and 
here apparently the ravine of Zeboim should be sought. 
In that very district there is a wild gorge, bearing the 
name of Shuk ed-Duba , “ ravine of the hyena,” up which 
runs the path from Jericho to Mukhinas (Cornier, Tent 
ITor/t in Palest, iii, 16), It is represented on the new 
Ordnance Map as running for a short distance N.E. of 
Ain Diik. The same place or a town adjacent seems to 
he mentioned in Nch. xi,34 (where it occurs without the 
art. prefixed) — confounding it, nevertheless, with the Ze- 
boim of Genesis — as occupied after the Captivity. Kabbi 
Sclnvarz, however, maintains that the two places are dif- 
ferent, and, while locating the valley as above {Palest. 
1 >. 16(3), he identifies the Zeboim of Nehemiah with “the 
village Znba, situated on a high mount, three English 
miles west of Jerusalem” {ibid. p. 134). lie adds, “In 
[the Talmudical tract] Challah, iv. 10 is mentioned the 
Mount Zeboim.” lie doubtless refers to the ruined vil- 
lage Soba, about six miles west of Jerusalem, near Esh- 
taol ; but tins has little probability. 

Zebub. See Fi.v. 

Zebu'dah (lleb ZebidalT, !“n"Z7; marg. Zebu - 
dak’, rn^ZT, bestowed; Sept. ’I v. r. 

TfXXff, etc.; Vulg. Ztbida'), the daughter of Pedaiah 
of Rumah, wife of Josiah and mother of king Jehoiakim 
(2 Kings xxiii, 3(3). B.C. G33. 

Ze'bul (Hob. Zebul .bzi. habitation; Sept.Z tfiovX; 
Josephus, Zt/3o?Aoc), the chief man ("Vi\A. V. “ruler”) 
of the city of Shechem at the time of the contest be- 
tween Ahimcleeh and the native Canaanites (Judg. ix, 
28,30, 3(3. 38.41). B.C. 1319. lie governed the town 
as the “officer” (TpE ; Sept. t7ri<rico7ro(;; Josephus, £t- 
i' 0 £ [A nt. v, 7, 4]) of Ahimelech while the latter was ab- 
sent; and he took part against the Canaanites by shut- 
ting them out iff the city when Ahimelech was encamp- 
ed outside it. 1 T is conversation with Gaal, the Canaan- 
itish leader, as they stood in the gate of Shechem watch- 
ing the approach of the armed hands, gives Zehul a cer- 
tain individuality among the many characters of that 
time of confusion. — Smith. Sec Aiumklkcii. 

Zeb'ulonite (lleb. Zebuloni', *':'5^Z7; Sept. Za- 
fiov\(oviTTiG v. r. Za/3oui'iY//(;), the patronymic designa- 
tion of a member of the tribe of Zebulon (Numb, xxvi, 
27, “Zebulunite;” Judg. xii, 11, 12). 


Zeb'ulun (lleb. Zebulun', once [Judg. i, 30] fully 
•j^ZT, usually or [Gen. xxx, 20; xxxv, 23; 

xlvi, 14; Judg. iv, 6; v, 18; vi, 35; 1 Chron. ii, 1; vi, 
G3, 77; xii, 33, 40; 2 Chron. xxx, 10, 11, 18; Psa. 
Ixviii, 27; Isa. ix, 1] p^ZT, habitation; Sept., New 
Test., and Josephus, Zaj3ov\iov; Vulg. Zabulon ; A. V. 
“Zabulon,” Matt, iv, 13, 15; Rev. vii,‘8), the name of a 
man and of the tribe descended from him, and also of a 
city in Palestine. 

1. The sixth and last son of Leah, and the tenth born 
to Jacob (Gen. xxxv, 23; xlvi, 14; 1 Chron. ii, 1). His 
birth is recorded in Gen. xxx, 19, 20, where the origin 
of the name is, as usual, ascribed to an exclamation of 
his mother — “‘Now will my husband dwell with me 
{yizbelcni), for I have borne him six sons!’ and she call- 
ed his name Zebulun.” B.C. 1914. This paronomasia is 
not preserved in the original of the “ Blessing of Jacob,” 
though the language of the A. V. implies it. The word 
rendered “dwell” in xlix, 13 is *jZZji, with no relation 
to the name Zebulun. The Sept, puts a different point 
on the exclamation of Leah : “ My husband will choose 
me” (nuptria /if). This, however, hardly implies any 
difference in the original text. Josephus (.4/?/. i, 19,8) 
gives only a general explanation: “a pledge of good- 
will towards her.” In the order of birth, Zebulun fol- 
lowed his brother Issachar, with whom, in the history 
of the tribes and in their allotted territories in Canaan, 
he was closely connected (Deut. xxxiii, 18). His per- 
sonal history docs not appear to have contained a sin- 
gle incident worthy of record ; and his name is not once 
mentioned except in the genealogical lists. In the Jew- 
ish traditions he is named as the first of the live who 
were presented by Joseph to Pharaoh — Dan, Naplitali, 
Gad, and Asher being the others (Targ. Pseudo-Jon. On 
Gen. xlrii, 2). 

At the time of the descent of Jacob into Egypt, Zeb- 
ulun had three sons — Sored, Elon, and Jahleel (Gen. 
xlvi, 14) — who became the founders of the three great 
families into which the tribe was divided (Numb, xxvi, 
2G). Though the first generation was so small, this 
tribe ranked fourth in numbers among the twelve, when 
the census was taken at Mount Sinai, in the year of the 
Exode; Judah, Dan, and Simeon being more numerous. 
During the wilderness journey it increased from 57,400 
males to 60,500; but it held just the same relative place 
among the twelve— Judah, Dan, and Issachar being be- 
fore it when the census was made on the plains of Moab 
(ver. 27). 

History is almost as silent regarding the acts of the 
tribe during the long period of Egyptian bondage and 
the desert march as it is regarding the patriarch Zebu- 
lun himself. During the journey from Egypt to Pales- 
tine, the tribe of Zebulun formed one of the first camp, 
with Judah and Issachar (also sons of Leah), marching 
under the standard of Judah. The head of the tribe at 
Sinai was Eliab son of Helen (Numb, vii, 24); at Shi- 
loh, Elizaphan son of Parnach (xxxiv, 25). Its repre- 
sentative among the spies was Gaddiel son of Sodi (xiii, 
10). The only point worthy of note previous to its set- 
tlement in Palestine is the fact that, on the solemn proc- 
lamation of the law, Zebulun was among the six tribes 
stationed on Mount Ebal to pronounce the curses (Deut. 
xxvii, 13). 

The position and physical character of Zebulun’s des- 
tined territory in the Land of Promise had been sketch- 
ed in the prophetic blessings of Jacob and Moses. Look- 
ing down into a far-distant age, Jacob exclaimed, as his 
son stood by his bedside, “Zebulun shall dwell on the 
shore (Z|*in, choph, a cove, the modern Haifa') of seas; 
and he shall be for a shore of ships; and his side will 
he to Zidon” (Gen. xlix. 13). Though Issachar was an 
elder brother, Jacob seems to have already noticed and 
acknowledged the political superiority of Zebulun by 
placing him first in order. This superiority was after- 
wards more fully displayed in the blessing of Moses, 


ZEBULUN 


1065 


ZEBULUN 


which, though embracing both tribes, appears as if ad- 
dressed to Zebulun alone — “And of Zebulun he said, 
Uejoice, Zebulun, in thy going- out ; and, Issachar, in thy 
tents. They shall call the people unto the mountain; 
there they shall offer sacrifices of righteousness; for 
they shall suck of the abundance of the seas, and of 
treasures hid in the sand” (Dent, xxxiii, 18, 19). Zeb- 
ulim’s territory was one of the richest and most beauti- 
ful sections of Western Palestine. Its allotment was 
the third of the second distribution (Josh, xix, 10). 
doshua defines its borders with his usual minuteness, 
though, in consequence of the disappearance of many 
old cities, it cannot now be entirely identified. Its po- 
sition, however, and general extent, are clear enough. 
Asher and Naphtali bounded it on the north, and Issa- 
char on the south. It stretched nearly across the coun- 
try from the Sea of Galilee on the east, to the maritime 
plain of Phoenicia on the west; embracing a strip of Es- 
draelon, a little of the plain of Akka, the whole of the 
rich upland plain of Battauf (equal in fertility, and al- 
most equal in extent, to that of Jezreel, and with the 
immense advantage of not being, as that was, the high- 
road of the Bedawin); with a part of the fertile table- 
land between it and the great basin of the Sea of Gali- 
lee; and, last, not least, it included sites so strongly for- 
tified by nature that in the later struggles of the nation 
they proved more impregnable than any in the whole 
country. The sacred vicinity of Tabor, Zebulun ap- 
pears to have shared with Issachar (Dent. xxxiii, 19), 
and it and liimmon were allotted to the Merarite Le- 
vites (l Chron. vi, 77). The beautiful wooded hills and 
ridges extending from Tabor, by Nazareth and Sefuri- 
yeh, to the plain of Akka, were also in Zebuhm. U 
touched Carmel on the south-west; and though it did 
not actually reach to the shore of the Mediterranean, its 
sides joined the narrow maritime territory of Phoenicia, 
to which Jacob, according to common Eastern custom, 
gives the name of its chief city, Zidon — “And his side 
thiyhi e. flank) will be to Zidon.” Its opposite 
extremity resting on the shore of the Sea of Galilee, the 
words of Jacob were fulfilled : “Zebulun shall dwell on 
the coast of seas.” His fishermen on the Sea of Galilee, 
and his merchants navigating the Mediterranean, in 
company with their Phoenician neighbors, illustrate re- 
markably the other blessings : “ lie shall be for a shore 
of ships;” “he shall rejoice in his goings out.” Pos- 
sessing thus a rich agricultural country, abundance of 
wood, and an outlet for commercial enterprise, both in 
the Mediterranean and in the Sea of Galilee, the future 
state and history of Zebulun were influenced and mould- 
ed by external circumstances. The four Northern tribes 
— Zebulun, Issachar, Asher, and Naphtali — w T ere in a 
great measure isolated from their brethren. The plain 
of Esdraelon, almost unceasingly swept by the incur- 
sions of hostile nations, separated them from Ephraim 
and Judah; while the deep .Iordan valley formed a bar- 
rier on the east. Isolation from their brethren, and 
their peculiar position, threw them into closer inter- 
course with their Gentile neighbors — the old mountain- 
eers whom they were never able entirely to expel (Judg. 
i, 30), and especially the commercial Phoenicians. Their 
national exclusiveness was thus considerably modilied; 
their manners and customs were changed; their lan- 
guage gradually assumed a foreign tone and accent 
(Matt, xxvi, 73); and even their religion lost much of 
its original purity (2 Chron. xxx, 10, 18). “Galilee 
of the Gentiles” and its degenerate inhabitants came at 
length to be regarded with distrust and scorn by the 
haughty people of Judah (Isa. ix, l; Matt, iv, 15; 
xxvi, 73). 

The four Northern tribes formed, as it were, a state 
by themselves (Stanley, Jewish Church , i, 206); and 
among them Zebulun became distinguished for warlike 
spirit and devotion. In the great campaign and vic- 
tory of Barak it bore a prominent part (Judg. iv, G, 10). 
Deborah, in her triumphal ode, says, “Zebuhm and 


Naphtali were a people that jeoparded their lives unto 
the death in the high places of the field” (v, 18). It 
would appear, besides, that their commercial enterprise 
led them to a closer and fuller study of the arts and sci- 
ences than their brethren. “They thus at an early pe- 
riod acquired the reputation of literary accomplishment; 
and the poet sang of them, ‘ From Zebulun are the men 
who handle the pen of the scribe’” (ver. 14; Kalisch, On 
Genesis , p. 753). One of these scribes may have been 
Elon, the single judge produced by the tribe, who is re- 
corded as having held olflce for ten years (Judg. xii, 1 1, 
12). This combination of warlike spirit with scientific 
skill seems to be referred to once again in a more ex- 
tended field of action. The sacred historian mentions 
that in David’s army there were, “Of Zebulun, such as 
went forth to battle, expert in war, with all instruments 
of war, fifty thousand, which could keep rank; not of 
double heart” (1 Chron. xii, 33). They were generous, 
also, and liberal, as well as brave and loyal ; for they 
contributed abundantly of the rich products of their 
country — meal, tigs, raisins, wine, oil, oxen, and sheep 
— to the wants of the army (ver. 40). The head of the 
tribe at this time was lslnnaiah beu-Obadiah (xxvii, 19). 
The “way of the sea” (Isa. ix, 1), the great road from 
Damascus to the Mediterranean, traversed a good por- 
tion of the territory of Zebulun, and must have brought 
, its people into contact with the merchants and the com- 
| modifies of Syria, Phoenicia, and Egypt. Its inhabi- 
tants, in consequence, took part in seafaring concerns 
, (Josephus, Ant. v, 1, 22). In the Testament of Zahn- 
■ Ion (Fabrieius, Psevdepu/r . V. T. i, 030-645) great stress 
j is laid on his skill in fishing, and he is commemorated 
I as the first to navigate a skiff on the sea. It is satis- 
factory to reflect that the very latest mention of the 
Zebulunites is the account of the visit of a large num- 
ber of them to Jerusalem to the passover of Hezekiah, 
when, by the enlightened liberality of the king, they 
were enabled to eat the feast, even though, through 
long neglect of the provisions of the law, they were not 
cleansed in the manner prescribed by the ceremonial 
law (2 Chron. xxx, 10, 11. 18). 

The tribe of Zebulun. though not mentioned, appears 
to have shared the fate of the other Northern tribes at 
the invasion of the country by Tiglatb-pileser (2 Kings 
xvii, 18, 24 sq.). From this time the history of distinct 
tribes ceases. With the exception of the Levites, the 
whole were amalgamated into one nation; and, on the 
return from exile, were called Jews. The land of Zeb- 
uhm, however, occupied a distinguished place in New- 
Test. times. It formed the chief scene of our Lord’s life 
and labors. Nazareth and Cana were in it; and it em- 
braced a section of the shore of the Sea of Galilee, where 
so many of the miracles of Christ were performed, and 
so many of his discourses and parables spoken. Then 
was fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah: “The land Zabu- 
lon, and the land Nephthalim, the way of the sea, be- 
yond Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles: the people which 
sat in darkness saw great light ; and to them which sat 
in the region and shadow of death, light is sprung up” 
(ix, 1,2; Matt, iv, 15, 10). In the visions of Ezekiel 
! (xlviii, 20-33) and of John (Iiev. vii. 8) this tribe finds 
its due mention. — Kitto; Smith. See Iskael, King- 
dom of. 

The following is a list of all the Biblical local cities 
in this tribe, with their probable identifications: 


Bethlehem. 

Town. 

licit- Lahm. 

Cana. 

do. 

Kanah el-Jelilt 

Dahbashetb. 

do. 

Jebata. 

Dimnah. 

do. 

See Kim mon. 

Gath-liepher, or Git-' 
tah-hepher. 

\ do. 

El-Mcshad. 

llaunathon. 

do. 

[ El-Mugheir ] ? 

Idalah. 

do. 

Jveta ? 

Japhia. 

do. 

Yu fa. 

Kartah, or Kattah. 
Kii'jathaim. 

do. 

El-Uarti t 

do. 

See K aktaii. 

Kit ron. 

do. 

Sec Kartah. 

Mu don. 

do. 

Kcfr Mcnda t 

Nahalnl, Nahallal, or' 
Nahalol. 

j- do. 

Malult 


ZEBULUNITE 


1060 


ZECHARIAH 



TRIBE OF V 

Z E B U L U N 


MadoiCjx 


'ebulon? 


,Amad : 


-X 

^^AraotHjTObor ,j- vB v.' 

h-kazm ^ \ 

,En-haddah 

th < \ 

-MT.TABORV,,,.^ 


Jtiuhal 


AUV// 

y^Alam uieleeli i 


path-liepliero/* 


0 Bethlehem 
Shimron?^V? 

,1 




Kartah? 


Ahlab? 


Dabbasheth 


Abez 


Jokncanr 


^MT.LITTLE ;.^ 

hermon_^£ 


Scale of Miles - CO to a Decree 


Neah. 

& 4 

Town. 

3 2 10 5 

[Mmrin] ? 

Ritnmon (Reramon- 
methoar;. 

} do. 

Jlumanch. 

Rumah. 

do. 

Tell Rnmah ? 

Sarid. 

do. 

[Ruins N.W. of el-Mezraah] ? 

Shimron. 

do. 

Semunieh ? 


2 . A place on the eastern border of the tribe of Asher, 
between Beth-dagon and the valley of Jiphthah - el 
(Josh, xix, 27) ; perhaps the modem Abilin, a village 
‘■perched upon a high and sharp hill, on the south side 
of the wady of the same name” (Robinson, Later Res. 
p. 103). In this passage the word has usually been re- 
garded as referring to the tribe by that name, as if Ash- 
er’s boundary at this point coincided with that of Zebu- 
lun, whereas they were identical along the whole line 
named. See Tribe. 

Zeb'ulunite (Xumb. xxvi, 27). Sec Zebulonite. 

Zechari'ah (IJeb. Zekaryah ', remembered 

of Jehovah; occasionally [l Chron. v, 7; xv, 18, 24; 
xxiv, 25; xxvi, 2, 11, 11; xxvii. 21; 2 Chron. xx, 14; 
xxi, 2; xxvi, 5; xxix, 13; xxxv, 8] in the prolonged 
form Zekarya'hu , iirp'ZT; Sept., N. T., and Josephus, 
Zoyap/ac), the name of many Hebrews, besides Zacha- 
rias (q. v.), the father of John the Baptist. 

1. (Sept. Z aK\ovp v. r. Za\\ovp.) Ninth named of 
the ten sous of Jehiel, the father or founder of Gibeon 
(1 Chron. ix, 37). B.C. cir. 1018. In 1 Chron. viii, 31 
he is called Zaciikr (q. v.). 

2 . Son of Meshelemiah, or Shelemiah, a Korhite, 
and keeper of the north gate of the tabernacle of the 
congregation (l Chron. ix, 21) in the. arrangement of 
the porters in the reign of David. B.C. 1043. In I 
Chron. xxvi, 2, 14, lie is described as “one counselling 
with understanding.” 

3 . A Levite in the Temple band as arranged by Da- 
vid, appointed to play “with psalteries on Alamoth” 
(1 Chron. xv, 20; comp. xvr. 5). lie was of the sec- 
ond order of Levites (xv, 18), a porter or gate-keeper, 
and may possibly be the same as the preceding or the 
following. 

4 . One of the priests who blew with the trumpets 
in the procession which accompanied the ark from the 
house of Obed-edom (1 Chron. xv, 24). B.C. 1013. 

5 . Son of Isshiah, or desiah, a Kohathite Levite de- 
scended from Uzzicl (1 Chron. xxiv, 25). B.C. 1043. 

6. Fourth son of llosah of the children of Merari 
(l Chron. xxvi, 11). B.C. 1013. 

7 . (Sept. ZaCaiag v. r. Z afiSlcig.') A Manassite, 
whose son Iddo was chief of his tribe in Gilead in the 
reign of David (1 Chron. xxvii, 21). B.C. 1014. 


10 20 

8. The son of Benaiah and father of Jahaziel, which 
last was a Gershonite Levite in the reign of Jehosha- 
pliat (2 Chron. xx, 14). B.C. ante 912. 

9. Third named of the live princes of Judah in the 
reign of Jehoshaphat who were sent with priests and 
Levites to teach the people the law of Jehovah (2 
Chron. xvii, 7). B.C. 910. 

10. Fourth named of the seven sons of king Jehosh- 
aphat (2 Chron. xxi, 2). B.C. 887. 

11. (Sept. A^apiag.) Son of the high-priest Jehoi- 
ada, in the reign of Joash, king of Judah (2 Chron. 
xxiv, 20), and therefore the king’s cousin. B.C. 838. 
After the death of Jehoiada, Zechariah probably suc- 
ceeded to his office, and in attempting to check the re- 
action in favor of idolatry which immediately followed, 
he fell a victim to a conspiracy formed against him by 
the king, and was stoned with stones in the court of 
the Temple. Ilis dying cry was not that of the first 
Christian martyr, “Lord, lay not this sin to their 
charge” (Acts vii, GO), but, “The Lord look upon it. 
and require it” (2 Chron. xxiv, 20-22). The memory 
of this unrighteous deed lasted long in Jewish tradition. 
In the Jerusalem Talmud ( Taanith . fol. G9. quoted by 
Lightfoot, Temple Service, ch. xxxvi) there is a legend 
told of eighty thousand young priests who were slain bv 
Nebnzaradan for the blood of Zechariah, and the evi- 
dent hold which the story had taken upon the minds 
of the people renders it probable that “Zaeharias son 
of Barachias.” who was slain between the Temple and 
the altar (Matt, xxiii, 35), is the same with Zechariah, 
the son of Jehoiada, and that the name of Barachias as 
his father crept into the text from a marginal gloss, 
the writer confusing this Zechariah either with Zech- 
ariah the prophet, who was the son of Berechiah, or 
with another Zechariah, the son of Jeberechiah (Isa. 
viii, 2). — Smith. See Castens, De Zachariu lurechhv 
Filio (Lips. 1720) ; 1 1 nth, Cccdes A bells et Ztichariie (Er- 
lang. 175G); ami the Stud. u. Krit. 1841, ii, G73. See 
Zaciiarias. 

12. A prophet in the reign of Uzziah who appears 
to have acted as the king’s counsellor, but of whom 
nothing is known (2 Chron. xxvi, 5). B.C. 807. The 
chronicler in describing him makes use of a most re- 
markable and unique expression — “ Zechariah, who un- 
derstood the seeing of God,” or, as our A. V. lias it, 
“who had understanding in the visions of God” (comp. 
Dan. i, 17). As no such term is ever employed else- 
where in the description of any prophet, it has been 
questioned whether the reading of the received text 
is the true one. The Sept., Targum, Syriac, Arabic, 


ZECIIAPJAII 


10G7 


ZECIIAPJAII 


Rashi, and Ivimchi, with many of Kennieott’s MSS., 
read “in the fear of,” for and their 

reading is most probably the correct one. — Smith. 

13 . (Sept. Zayapm.) A chief of the Iieubenites at 
the time of the captivity by Tiglath-pileser (1 Chron. 
v, 7). B.C. cir. 740. 

14 . The father of Abijah, or Abi, llezekiah’s moth- 
er (2 Chron. xxix, 1) ; mentioned also in 2 Kings xviii, 
2 (Sept. ZayxaioQy A. V. “Zachariah”). B.C. ante 72G. 

15 . Second named of the “sons” of Asaph the min- 
strel, who in the reign of Hczekiah took part with oth- 
er Levites in the purification of the Temple (2 Chron. 
xxix, 13). B.C. 72G. 

16 . The son of Jebereehiah, who was taken by the 
prophet Isaiah as one of the “faithful witnesses to re- 
cord,” when he wrote concerning Maher-shalal-hash-baz 
(Isa. viii, 2). B.C. 723. He was not the same ns Zech- 
ariah the prophet, who lived in the time of Uzziah and 
died before that king, but he may have been the Le- 
vite of that name who in the reign of Hezekiah assist- 
ed in the purification of the Temple (2 Chron. xxix, 13). 
As Zeehariah the prophet is called the son of Bere- 
chiah, with which Jebereehiah is all but identical, Ber- 
tholdt (Pinleit. iv, 1722, 1727) conjectured that some of 
the prophecies attributed to him, at any rate eh. ix-xi, 
were really the production of Zeehariah, the contempo- 
rary of Isaiah, and were appended to the volume of 
the later prophet of the same name (Gesenius, l)er 
Proph. Jesaia , i, 327). Another conjecture is that Zeeh- 
ariah the son of Jebereehiah is the same as Zeehariah 
the father of Abijah, the queen of Ahaz (Poli Synopsis, 
ad loc.) ; the witnesses summoned by Isaiah being thus 
men of the highest ecclesiastical and civil rank. 

17 . The son of Jeroboam II, being the fourteenth 
king of Israel, and the last of the house of Jehu. There 
is a difficulty about the date of his reign. We are told 
that Amaziah ascended the throne of Judah in the sec- 
ond year of Joash king of Israel, and reigned 29 years 
(2 Kings xiv, 1, 2). He was succeeded by Uzziah or 
Azariah in the 27th year of Jeroboam II, the successor 
of Joash (xv, 1), and Uzziah reigned 52 years. On the 
other hand, Joash king of Israel reigned 1G years (xiii, 
10), was succeeded by Jeroboam, who reigned 41 years 
(xiv, 23), and he by Zeehariah, who came to the throne 
in the 33th year of Uzziah king of Judah (xv, 8). Thus 
we have (1) from the accession of Amaziah to the 38th 
of Uzziah 29+38— G7 years; but (2) from the second 
year of Joash to the accession of Zeehariah (or at least 
to the death of Jeroboam) we have 15+41 =5G years. 
Further, the accession of Uzziah, placed in the 27th 
year of Jeroboam, according to the above reckoning, oc- 
curred in the 15th. This latter synchronism is con- 
firmed, and that with the 27th year of Jeroboam con- 
tradicted, by 2 Kings xiv, 17, which tells us that Ama- 
ziah king of Judah survived Joash king of Israel by 15 
years. Most chronologers assume an interregnum of 
II years between Jeroboam’s death and Zechariali’s ac- 
cession, during which the kingdom was suffering from 
the anarchy of a disputed succession, but this does not 
solve the difference between xiv, 17 and xv, 1. We are 
reduced to understand the number 27 in xv, 1 as refer- 
ring to the years of Jeroboam's vieeroyskip on the oc- 
casion of his father’s war with Syria (xiii, 14-25). See 
Chronology. Josephus (Ant. ix, 10,3) places Uzzi- 
ah’s accession in the 14th year of Jeroboam, a variation 
of a year in these synchronisms being unavoidable, 
since the Hebrew annalists in giving their dates do not 
reckon fractions of years. But in any ease we must 
place Zeehariah’s accession early in B.C. 770. His 
reign lasted only six months. He was killed in a con- 
spiracy of which Shallum (q. v.) was the head, and by 
which the prophecy in x,30 was accomplished. We are 
told that during his brief term of power he did evil, and 
kept up the calf-worship inherited from the first Jero- 
boam, which his father had maintained in regal splendor 
at Bethel (Amos vii, 13). See Israel, Kingdom of. 


In the English version of 2 Kings xv, 10 we read: 
“And Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against him, 
and smote him before the people, and slew him, and 
reigned in his stead.” And so the Vulg., “ percussitque 
eum palam et intcrlceit.” But in the Sept we find Ks- 
j3\aap instead of before the people, i. e. Shallum and 
Kcblaam killed Zeehariah. The common editions read 
iv K tfiXaap. meaning that Shallum killed Zeehariah 
in Keblaam; but no place of such a name is known, and 
there is nothing in the Hebrew to answer to iv. The 
words translated before the people, Kff3A (tap, palam, are 
Ewald ( Geschiehte , iii, 598) maintains that 
52J2 never occurs in prose [Is not the objection rather 
that the word is Chaldee? It occurs repeatedly in 
Daniel (ii, 31; iii, 3; v, 1, 5, 10), and also in the Chal- 
i dee portions of Ezra (iv, IG; vi, 13)], and that C2* 
would be if the Latin and English translations 

were correct. He also observes that in 2 Kings xv, 14, 
25,30, where almost the same expression is used of the 
deaths of Shallum, I’ekahiah, and Pckah, the words 
before (he people are omitted. Hence he accepts the 
translation in the Vatican MS. of the Sept., and consid- 
ers that Kabalam or K zfiAcidp was a fellow-conspirator 
or rival of Shallum, of whose subsequent fate we have 
no information. On the death of Zeehariah, Shallum 
was made king, but. after reigning in Samaria lor a 
month only, was in his turn dethroned and killed by 
Menahem. To these events Ewald refers the obscure 
passage in Zech. xi. 8 : “Three shepherds also I cut off 
in one month, and my soul abhorred them” — the three 
shepherds being Zeehariah, Kabalam, and Shallum. 
This is very ingenious: we must remember, however, 
that Ewald, like certain English divines (Mede, Ham- 
i mond, Newcome, Seeker. Pye Smith), thinks that the 
latter chapters of the prophecies of Zeehariah belong 
to an earlier date than the rest of the book. See Zecii- 
ariaii, Book of. 

18 . A Kohathite Levite in the reign of Josiah, who 
was one of the overseers of the workmen engaged in 
the restoration of the Temple (2 Chron. xxxiv, 12). B.C. 
G28. 

19 . Second named of the three rulers of the Temple 
in the reign of Josiah (2 Chron. xxxv, 8). B.C. G28. 
lie was probably, as Bertheau conjectures, “the second 
priest” (comp. 2 Kings xxv, 18). 

20. Son of Shiloni and father of Joiarib among the 
descendants of Perez (Nch. xi, 5). B.C. long ante 53G. 

21. A priest, son of Pash nr and father of Amzi (Neh. 
xi, 12). B.C. long ante 53G. 

22 . Son of Amariah and father of Uzziah, of the 
family of Perez (Neh. xi, 4). B.C. ante 53G. 

23 . The representative of the priestly family of Iddo 
in the days of Joiakim the son of Jeshua (Neh. xii, 1G). 
B.C. 53G. He was possibly the same as Zeehariah the 
prophet the son of Iddo. 

24 . The eleventh in order of the twelve minor 
prophets. 

1. Of his personal history we know but little. He is 
called in his prophecy the son of Bereehiah and the 
grandson of Iddo, whereas in the book of Ezra (v, 1; vi, 
14) he is said to have been the son of Iddo. Various 
attempts have been made to reconcile this discrepancy. 
Cyril of Alexandria ( Pref Comment, ad Zech.) supposes 
that Bereehiah was the father of Zeehariah according 
to the flesh, and that Lido was his instructor, and might 
be regarded as his spiritual father. Jerome, too, accord- 
ing to some MSS., has in Zech. i, l,“filium Baraehia?, 
filium Addo,”ns if he supposed that Bereehiah and Iddo 
were different names of the same person; and the same 
mistake occurs in the Sept.: tov tov Bapa\fov viov 
’Accw. Gesenius (Lex. s. v. *j2) and Rosenmiiller (Da 
Zech. i, l) take ^2 in the passages in Ezra to mean 
“grandson,” as in Gen. xxix, 5 Laban is termed “the 
son,” i. e. “grandson,” of Nahor. Others, again, have 
suggested that in the text of Ezra no mention is made 


ZECIIARIAH 


1068 


ZECIIARIAH 


of Berechiah. because he was already dead, or because 
Iddo was the more distinguished person, and the gener- 
ally recognised head of the family. Knobel thinks that 
the name of Berechiah has crept into the present text 
of Zeehariah from Isa. viii, 2, where mention is made 
of a Zechariah •• the son of J (berechiah,'' which is virtu- 
ally the same name (Sept. as Berechiah. 

11 is theory is that ch. ix-xi of our present book of 
Zechariah are really the work of the older Zeehariah 
(Isa. viii, 2) : that a later scribe finding the two books, 
one hearing the name of Zeehariah the son of Iddo, and 
the other that of Zechariah the son of Berechiah, united 
them into one, and at the same time combined the titles 
of the two, and that lienee arose t lie confusion which at 
present exists. This, however, is hardly a probable hy- 
pothesis. It is surely more natural to suppose, as the 
prophet himself mentions his father’s name, whereas 
the historical books of Ezra and Nehemiah mention 
only Iddo, that Berechiah had died early, and that 
there was now no intervening link between the grand- 
father and the grandson. The son, in giving his pedi- 
gree, does not omit his father’s name: the historian 
passes it over as of one who was but little known or al- 
ready forgotten. This view is confirmed if we suppose 
the Iddo here mentioned to have been the Iddo the 
priest who, in Neh. xii, 4, is said to have returned from 
Babylon in company with Zerubbabel and Joshua. He 
is there said to have had a son Zeehariah (ver. 16), who 
was contemporary with Joiakim the son of Joshua; and 
this falls in with the hypothesis that owing to some un- 
explained cause — perhaps the death of his father — Zech- 
ariah became the next representative of the family af- 
ter his grandfather Iddo. Zeehariah, according to this 
view, like Jeremiah and Ezekiel before him, was priest 
as well as prophet. lie seems to have entered upon his 
office while yet young Zech. ii, 4 ; comp. Jer. i, G), 
and must have been born in Babylon, whence he return- 
ed with the first caravan of exiles under Zerubbabel and 
Joshua. 

It was in the eighth month, in the second year of 
Darius, that he first publicly discharged his office. B.C. 
519. In this he acted in concert with Haggai, who 
must have been considerably bis senior if, as seems not 
improbable, Haggai had been carried into captivity, and 
lienee had himself been one of those who had seen “ the 
house” of Jehovah “in her first glory” ( Hagg. ii, 3). 
Both prophets had the same great object before them; 
both directed ail their energies to the building of the 
second Temple. Ilaggai seems to have led the way in 
this work, and then to have left it chiefly in the hands 
of his younger contemporary. The foundations of the 
new building had already been laid in the time of Cy- 
rus, but during the reigns of Cambvses and the pseudo- 
Smerdis the work had been broken off through the 
jealousies of the Samaritans. When, however, Darius 
llystaspis ascended the throne (521) things took a more 
favorable turn, lie seems to have been a large-hearted 
and gracious prince, and to have been well-disposed to- 
wards the Jews. Encouraged hv the hopes which his 
accession held out, the prophets exerted themselves to 
the utmost to secure the completion of the Temple. 
Erom this time, for a space of nearly two years, the 
prophet’s voice was silent, or his words have not been 
recorded. But in the fourth year of king Darius, in the 
fourth day of the ninth mont h, there came a deputation 
of Jews to the Temple, anxious to know whether the 
fast-days which had been instituted during the seventy 
years’ captivity were still to be observed. On the one 
band, now that the captivity was at an end, and Jeru- 
salem was rising from her ashes, such set times of mourn- 
ing seemed quite out of place. On t he other hand, there 
was still much ground for serious uneasiness; for some 
time after their return they had suffered severely from 
drought and famine (i. 6-11). and who could tell that 
they would not so suffer again? The hostility of their 
neighbors bad not ceased ; they were still regarded with 


no common jealousy; and large numbers of their breth- 
ren had not yet returned from Babylon. It was a ques- 
tion, therefore, that seemed to admit of much debate. 

It is impossible not to see of bow great moment, un- 
der such circumstances, and for the discharge of the 
special duty with which he was intrusted, would be the 
priestly origin of Zechariah. Too often the prophet 
had had to stand forth in direct antagonism to the 
priest. In an age when the service of God had stif- 
fened into formalism, and the priests’ lips no longer kept 
knowledge, the prophet was the witness for the truth 
which lay beneath the outward ceremonial, and without 
which the outward ceremonial was worthless. But the 
thing to be dreaded now was not superstitious formal- 
ism, but cold neglect. There was no fear now lest in a 
gorgeous temple, amid the splendors of an imposing 
ritual and the smoke of sacrifices ever ascending to 
heaven, the heart and life of religion should be lost. 
The fear was all the other way. lest even the body, the 
outward form and service, should be suffered to decay. 
The foundations of the Temple had indeed been laid, 
but that was all (Ezra v, 16). Discouraged by the op- 
position which they had encountered at first, the Jew- 
ish colony had begun to build, and Avere not able to fin- 
ish ; and even when the letter came from Darius sanc- 
tioning the work, and promising his protection, they 
showed no hearty disposition to engage in it. At such 
a time no more fitting instrument could be found to 
rouse the people, whose heart had grown cold, than one 
who united to the authority of the prophet the zeal and 
the traditions of a sacerdotal family. Accordingly, to 
Zechariah’s influence Ave find the rebuilding of the Tem- 
ple in a great measure ascribed. “And the elders of 
theJcAvs buil(led,”it is said, “and they prospered through 
the prophesying of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah 
the son of Iddo” (vi, 14). It is remarkable that in this 
juxtaposition of the two names both are not styled 
prophets — not “Haggai and Zeehariah the prophets,” 
but “ Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the non of Iddo.” 
Is it an improbable conjecture that Zeehariah is desig- 
nated by bis father’s (or grandfather’s) name, rather 
than by his office, in order to remind ns of his priestly 
character? Be this as it may, avc find other indications 
of the close union Avhich mm subsisted betAveen the 
priests and the prophets. Various events connected 
Avith the taking of Jerusalem and the captivity in 
Babylon had led to the institution of solemn fast-davs; 
and Ave find that Avhen a question arose as to the pro- 
priety of observing these fast-days, iioav that the city 
and the Temple Avere rebuilt, the question Avas referred 
to “the priests Avhich were in the bouse of Jehovah, 
and to the prophets” — a recognition not only of the 
joint authority, but of the harmony subsisting betAveen 
t he tAvo bodies, without parallel in JeAvish history. The 
manner, too, in Avhich Joshua the high-priest is spoken 
of in this prophecy shows hoAv lively a sympathy Zech- 
ariah felt toAvards him. 

Later traditions assume, what is indeed \ r ery probable, 
that Zechariah took personally an active part in provid- 
ing for the liturgical service of the Temple. He and 
Haggai are both said to have composed psalms with 
this vieAv. According to the Sept., Psa. cxxxvii, exlv- 
exlviii ; according to the Peshito, exxv, cxxvi : accord- 
ing to the Ynlg., cxi, are psalms of Haggai and Zeeha- 
riah. The triumphant “hallelujah,” Avith Avhich many 
of them open.Avas supposed to be characteristic of those 
psalms which Avere first chanted in the second Temple, 
and came with an emphasis of meaning from the lips 
of those Avho had been restored to their native land. The 
allusions, moreover, with which these psalms abound, as 
avcII as their place in the Psalter, leave us in no doubt 
as to the time when they Avere composed, and lend con- 
firmation to the tradition respecting their authorship. 
If the later Jewish accounts (the Talmudic tract Megil - 
lah , xvii, 2 ; xviii, 1 ; Kashi ad Baba Bathra, xv, 1) may 
he trusted, Zeehariah, as well as Haggai, Avas a member 
of the great synagogue. The patristic notices of the 


ZECHARIAII, BOOK OF 1069 ZECIIAKIAII, BOOK OF 


prophet are worth nothing. According to these, lie I 
exercised his prophetic office in Ghakhea, and wrought 
many miracles there; returned to Jerusalem at an ad- 
vanced age, where lie discharged the duties of the priest- 
hood, and where he died and was buried by the side of 
1 Iaggai (Pseudepiph. De Proph. c. 21 ; Dorotheus, p. 144 ; 
Isidorus, c. 51). 

2. The genuine writings of Zeehariah help us but lit- 
tle in our estimation of his character. Some faint traces, 
however, we may observe in them of his education in 
Babylon. Less free and independent than he would 
have been had his feet trodden from childhood the soil 

“Where each old poetic mountain 
Inspiration breathed around,” 

he leans avowedly on the authority of the older proph- 
ets, and copies their expressions. Jeremiah especially 
seems to have been his favorite, and lienee the Jewish 
saving that “the spirit of Jeremiah dwelt in Zeclia- 
riah.” But in what may be called the peculiarities of 
his prophecy he approaches more nearly to Ezekiel and 
Daniel. Like them, he delights in visions; like them, 
he uses symbols and allegories rather than the bold 
figures and metaphors which lend so much force and 
beauty to the writings of the earlier prophets; like 
them, he beholds angels ministering before Jehovah 
and fulfilling his behests on the earth. lie is the only 
one of the prophets who speaks of Satan. That some 
of these peculiarities are owing to his Chaldiean educa- 
tion can hardly be doubted. It is at least remarkable 
that both Ezekiel and Daniel, who must have been in- 
fluenced by the same associations, should in some of 
these respects so closely resemble Zeehariah, widely as 
they differ from him in others. 

Even in the form of the visions a careful criticism 
might perhaps discover some traces of the prophet’s 
early training. Possibly the “ valley of myrtles” in the 
first vision may have been suggested bv Chalihea rather 
than by Palestine. At any rate, it is a curious fact that 
myrtles are rarely mentioned in the history of the 
Jews before the Exile. They are found, besides this 
passage of Zeehariah, in Isa. xli, 10; Iv, 13, and in 
Neh. viii, 15. The forms of trial in the third vision, 
where Joshua the high-priest is arraigned, seem bor- 
rowed from the practice of Persian rather than Jewish 
courts of law. The filthy garments in which Joshua 
appears are those which the accused must assume when 
brought to trial. The white robe put upon him is the 
caftan or robe of honor, which to this day in the East is 
put upon the minister of state who has been acquitted 
of the charges laid against him. The vision of the 
woman in the Ephah is also Oriental in its character. 
Ewalil refers to a very similar vision in Tods Rajasthan , 
ii, G88. Finally, the chariots issuing from between two 
mountains of brass must have been suggested, there can 
scarcely be anv doubt, by some Persian symbolism. — 
Smith. See Zeciiariau, Book of. 

2 5. The leader of the one hundred and fifty “sons” 
of Pharosh who returned with Ezra (Ezra viii, 3). B.C. 
459. 

26. The leader of the twenty-eight “sons” of Bebai, 
who came up from Babylon with Ezra (Ezra viii, 11). 
13.0. 459, 

27. One of the chiefs of the people whom Ezra sum- 
moned in council at the river Ahava, before the second \ 
caravan returned from Babylon (Ezra viii, 1G). B.C. 
459. lie stood at Ezra’s left hand when he expounded 
the law to the people (Neh. viii, 4). 

28. (Sept. Zoyap/rt.) One of the family of Elam, who 
had married a foreign wife after the Captivity (Ezra x, 
2G). B.C. 458. 

29. One of the priests, son of Jonathan, who blew 
with the trumpets at the dedication of the city wall by 
Ezra and Nehemiah (Neh. xii, 35, 41 ). B.C. 44G. 

ZECIIARIAU, Book of. The time and personal 
circumstances of the prophet whose name this book 
bears have been considered above. It remains to dis- 


cuss the prophecies themselves, and especially their au- 
thenticity. In doing this, we make use largely of the 
article in Smith’s Diet, of the Bible. 

1. Contents . — The book naturally falls into two prin- 
cipal divisions, which, as will be seen more fully in the 
sequel, are marked not only by certain peculiarities of 
expression, but obviously by the absence of any histor- 
ical data in the latter portion such as are given in the 
former. 

(I.) The first part, embracing ch. i— viii, divides itself 
into three sections by the chronological indications given 
respectively in i, 1, 7, and vii, 1 ; and these are still fur- 
ther subdivided by the recurrence of the phrase “the 
word of the Lord came unto me.” This part, therefore, 
consists, first, of a short introduction or preface, in which 
the prophet announces his commission; then of a series 
of visions, descriptive of all those hopes and anticipa- 
tions of which the building of the Temple was the 
pledge and sure foundation; and finally of a discourse, 
delivered two years later, in reply to questions respect- 
ing the observance of certain established fasts. 

1. The short introductory oracle (i, 1-G) is a warning 
voice from the past. The prophet solemnly reminds 
the people, by an appeal to the experience of their fa- 
thers, that no word of God had ever fallen to the 
ground; and that therefore, if with sluggish indiffer- 
ence they refused to co-operate in the building of the 
Temple, they must expect the judgments of God. This 
warning manifestly rests upon the former warnings of 
1 Iaggai. 

2. In a dream of the night there passed before the 
eyes of the prophet a series of nine (essentially seven) 
visions, followed by an emblematical scene, descriptive 
in their different aspects of events, some of them short- 
ly to come to pass, and others losing themselves in the 
mist of the future (i, 7-vi, 15). These visions are ob- 
scure, and accordingly the prophet asks their mean- 
ing. The interpretation is given, not as to Amos by 
Jehovah himself, but by an angel who knows the mind 
and will of Jehovah, who intercedes with him for oth- 
ers, and by whom Jehovah speaks and issues his com- 
mands; at one time he is called “the angel who spake 
with me” [or “ by me”] (i, 9) ; at another, “the angel 
of Jehovah” (ver. 11. 12; iii, 1-G). 

(1.) In the first vision (i, 8-17) the prophet sees, in 
a valley of myrtles, a rider upon a roan horse, accom- 
panied by others who, having been sent forth to the 
four quarters of the earth, had returned with the ti- 
dings that the whole earth was at rest (with reference 
to 1 lagg. ii, 20). Hereupon the angel asks how long this 
state of things shall last, and is assured that the indif- 
ference of the heathen shall cease, and that the Temple 
shall be built in Jerusalem. This vision seems to have 
been partly borrowed from Job i, 7, etc. 

(2.) The second vision (ii. 1-17, A. V. i, 18— ii, 13) ex- 
plains how the promise of the first is to be fulfilled, 
and is composed of three separate emblems. The four 
horns are the symbols of the different heathen kingdoms 
in the four quarters of the world, which have hitherto 
combined against Jerusalem. The four carpenters or 
smiths symbolize their destruction. The measuring- 
line betokens the vastly extended area of Jerusalem, 
owing to the rapid increase of the new population. The 
I old prophets, in foretelling the happiness and glory of 
the times which should succeed the Captivity in Baby- 
lon, had made a great part of that happiness and glory 
to consist in the gathering, together again of the whole 
dispersed nation in the land given to their fathers. 
This vision was designed to teach that the expectation 
thus raised — the return of the dispersed of Israel — 
should be fulfilled ; that Jerusalem should be too large 
to be compassed about by a wall, but that Jehovah him- 
self would be to her a wall of fire — a light and defence 
to the holy city, and destruction to her adversaries. A 
song of joy, in prospect of so bright a future, closes the 
scene. 

The next two visions (ch. iii, iv) are occupied with 


1070 


ZECHARIAH, BOOK OF 


ZECHARIAH, BOOK OF 


the Temple, and with the two principal persons on 
whom the hopes of the returned exiles rested. 

(3.) The permission granted for the rebuilding of the 
Temple had, no doubt, stirred afresh the malice and the 
animosity of the enemies of the Jews. Joshua the 
high-priest had been singled out, it would seem, as the 
especial object of attack, and perhaps formal accusations 1 
had already been laid against him before the Persian 
court. 'The prophet, in vision, sees him summoned be- 
fore a higher tribunal, and solemnly acquitted, despite 
the charges of the Satan or Adversary. This is done 
with the forms still usual in an Eastern court. The 
tilt hv garments in which the accused is expected to stand 
are taken away, and the caftan or robe of honor is put 
upon hitn in token that his innocence has been estab- 
lished. Acquitted at that bar, he need not fear, it is 
implied, any earthly accuser, lie shall be protected, 
he shall carry on the building of the Temple, he shall 
so prepare the wav for the coming of the Messiah, and 
upon the foundation-stone laid before him shall the 
seven eyes of God, the token of his cver-watchful prov- 
idence, rest. 

(4.) The succeeding vision (ch. iv) supposes that all 
opposition to the building of the Temple shall be re- 
moved. This sees the completion of the work. It lias 
evidently a peculiarly impressive character; for the 
prophet, though his dream still continues, seems to him- 
self to be awakened out of it by the angel who speaks 
to him. The candlestick (or, more properly, chandelier) 
with seven lights (borrowed from t lie candlestick of the 
Mosaic tabernacle, Exod. xxv, 31 sq.) supposes that the 
Temple is already finished. The seven pipes which sup- 
ply each lamp answer to the seven eyes of Jehovah in 
the preceding vision (iii, 9), and this sevenfold supply 
of oil denotes the presence and operation of the Divine 
Spirit, through whose aid Zerubbabel will overcome all 
obstacles: so that as his hands had laid the foundation 
of the house, his hands should also finish it (iv, 9). 
The two olive-branches of the vision, belonging to the 
olive-tree standing by the candlestick, are Zerubbabel 
himself and Joshua. 

The next two visions (v, 1-11) signify that the land, 
in which the sanctuary has just been erected, shall be 
purged of all its pollutions. 

(5.) First, the eurse is recorded against wickedness in 
the whole land (not in the whole earth , as in the A. V.), 
v, 3; that due solemnity may be given to it. it is in- 
scribed upon a roll, and the roll is represented as flying, 
in order to denote the speed with which the curse will 
execute itself. 

(C.) Next, the unclean thing, whether in the form of 
idolatry or any other abomination, shall be utterly re- 
moved. Caught and shut up as it were in a cage, like 
some savage beast, and pressed down with a weight as 
of lead upon it so that it cannot escape, it shall be car- 
ried into that land where all evil things have long made 
their dwelling (Isa.xxxiv, 13), the land of Babylon (Shi- 
nar, Zech. v, 1 1), from which Israel had been redeemed. 

(7.) The night is now waning fast, and the morning 
is about to dawn (vi, 1-8). Chariots and horses appear, 
issuing from between two brazen mountains, the horses 
like those in the first vision; and these receive their 
several commands and are sent forth to execute the 
will of Jehovah in the four quarters of the earth. The 
four chariots are images of the four winds, which, ac- 
cording to Psa. civ, 4, as servants of God, fulfil his be- 
hests; and of the one that goes to the north it is par- 
ticularly said that it shall let the Spirit of Jehovah rest 
there: is it a spirit of anger against the nations, As- 
syria, Babylon, Persia, or is it a spirit of hope and de- 
sire of return, in the hearts of those of the exiles who 
still lingered in the land of their captivity? Stiihel in. 
Maurer, and others adopt the former view, which seems 
to be in accordance with the preceding vision; Ewaltl 
gives the latter interpretation, and thinks it is support- 
ed by what follows. 

Thus the cycle of visions is completed. Scene after 


scene is unrolled till the whole glowing picture is pre- 
sented to the eve. All enemies crushed; the land re- 
peoplcd. and Jerusalem girt as with a wall of fire; the 
Temple rebuilt., more truly splendid than of old, because 
more abundantly filled with a Divine Presence; the 
leaders of the people assured in the most signal manner 
of the Divine protection; all wickedness solemnly sen- 
tenced, am! the land forever purged of it: such is the 
magnificent panorama of hope which the prophet dis- 
plays to his countrymen. Very consolatory must such 
a prospect have seemed to the weak and disheartened 
colony in Jerusalem. For the times were dark and 
troublous. According to recent interpretations of new- 
ly discovered inscriptions, it would appear that Darius 
I found it no easy task to hold his vast dominions. 
Province after province had revolted both in the east 
and in the north, whither, according to the prophet (vi, 
S), the winds had carried the wrath of God: and if the 
reading 31 ud raja, i. e. Egypt, is correct (Lassen gives 
Kurdistan), Egypt must have revolted before the out- 
break mentioned in Herod, vii, 1, and have again been 
reduced to subjection. To such revolt there may pos- 
sibly be an allusion in the reference to “ the land of the 
south” (ver. G). It would seem that Zechariah antici- 
pated, as a consequence of those perpetual insurrections, 
the weakening and overthrow of the Persian monarchy 
and the setting-up of the kingdom of God, for which 
Judah, in faith and obedience, was to wait (ver. 9-15). 

(8.) Immediately on these visions there follows a 
symbolical act (vi, 9-15). Three Israelites had just 
returned from Babylon, bringing with them rich gifts 
to Jerusalem, apparently as contributions to the Tem- 
ple, and had been received in the house of Josiah the 
son of Zeplianiah. Thither the prophet is commanded 
to go — whether still in a dream or not is not very clear 
— and to employ the silver and the gold of their offer- 
ings for the service of Jehovah. He is to make of 
them two crowns, and to place these on the head of 
Joshua the high-priest — a sign that in the Messiah 
who should build the Temple the kingly and priestly 
offices should be united. This, however, is expressed 
somewhat enigmatically, as if king and priest should 
be perfectly at one, rather than that the same person 
should be both king and priest. These crowns, more- 
over, were to be a memorial in honor of those by whose 
liberality they had been made, and should serve at the 
same time to excite other rich Jews still living in Baby- 
lon to the like liberality. Hence their symbolical pur- 
pose having been accomplished, they Mere to be laid 
up in the Temple. 

3. It is remarkable, as has already been noticed, that 
the question relating to the fast flays (vii, 1 3) should 
have been addressed to priests and prophets conjointly 
in the Temple. This close alliance between two classes 
hitherto so separate, and often so antagonistic, M as one 
of the most hopeful circumstances of the times. Still 
Zechariah, as chief of the prophets, has the decision of 
this question. Some of the priests, it is evident (ver. 
7), M'ere inclined to the more gloomy view; but not so 
ihe prophet. In language worthy of his position and 
his office, language M’hich reminds us of one of the most 
striking passages of his great predecessor (Isa. 1 vi ii, 5—7), 
he lays down the same principle that God loves mercy 
rather than fasting, and truth and righteousness rather 
than sackcloth and a sad countenance. If they had 
perished, he reminds them it Mas because their hearts 
M-ere hard while they fasted; if they Mould dwell safe- 
ly, they must abstain from fraud and violence, and not 
from food (Zech. vii, 4 14). 

Again, he foretells, but not noM r in vision, the glorious 
times that are near at hand when Jehovah shall du r ell 
in the midst of them, and Jerusalem be called a city of 
truth. lie sees her streets thronged by old and young, 
her exiles returning, her Temple standing in all its 
beauty, her land rich in fruitfulness, her people a praise 
and a blessing in the earth (viii, 1 15). Again, he de- 
clares that “ truth and peace” (ver. 1G, 19) are the bul- 


1071 


ZECUARIA1I, BOOK OF 


ZECIIAUIAII, BOOK OF 


warks of national prosperity. And, once more revert- 
ing to the question which had been raised concerning 
the observance of the fasts, he announces, in obedience 
to the command of Jehovah, not only that the fasts arc 
abolished, but that the days of mourning shall hence- 
forth be days of joy, the fasts be counted for festivals. 
II is prophecy concludes with a prediction that Jerusa- 
lem shall be the centre of religious worship to all na- 
tions of the earth (ver. 16-23). 

(II.) The remainder of the book consists of two sec- 
tions of about equal length, ch. ix-xi and xii-xiv, each 
of which has an inscription. They have the general 
prophetic tone and character, and in subject they so 
far harmonize with i-viii that the prophet seeks to 
comfort Judah in a season of depression with the hope 
of a brighter future. 

1. In the first section he. threatens Damascus and the 
sea-coast of Palestine with misfortune; hut declares that 
Jerusalem shall be protected, for Jehovah himself shall 
encamp about her (where ix, 8 reminds us of ii. f>). Her 
king shall come to her; he shall speak peace to the 
heat hen, so that all weapons of war shall perish ; and his 
dominion shall be to the ends of the earth. The Jews 
who are still in captivity shall return to t heir land ; 
they shall be mightier than Javan (or (irecce); and 
Ephraim and Judah once more united shall vanquish 
all enemies. The land too shall he fruitful as of old 
(comp, viii, 12). The Tcrapliim and the false prophets 
may indeed have spoken lies; but upon these will the 
Lord execute judgment, and then he will look with favor 
upon his people and bring back both Judah and Ephra- 
im from their captivity. The possession of Gilead and 
Lebanon is again promised as the special portion of 
Ephraim ; and both Egypt and Assyria shall be broken 
and humbled. 

The prophecy now takes a sudden turn. An enemy 
is seen approaching from the north, who, having forced 
the narrow passes of Lebanon, the great bulwark of the 
northern frontier, carries desolation into the country be- 
yond. Hereupon the prophet receives a commission 
from God to feed his flock, which God himself will no 
more feed because of their divisions. The prophet un- 
dertakes the office, and makes to himself two staves 
(naming the one Favor and the other Union), in or- 
der to tend the flock, and cuts off several evil shepherds 
whom his soul abhors; but observes, at the same time, 
that the flock will not be obedient, lienee he throws 
up his office ; he breaks asunder the one crook in token 
that the covenant of God with Israel was dissolved. A 
few, the poor of the flock, acknowledged God’s hand 
herein ; and the prophet, demanding the wages of his 
service, receives thirty pieces of silver, and casts it into 
the house of Jehovah. At the same time, lie sees that 
there is no hope of union between Judah and Israel, 
whom he had trusted to feed as one flock, and therefore 
cuts in pieces the other crook, in token that the broth- 
erhood between them is dissolved. 

2. The second section (ch. xii-xiv) is entitled “The 
burden of the word of Jehovah for Israel.” 1’ut Israel is 
here i^scd of the nation at large, not of Israel as distinct 
from Judah. Indeed, the prophecy which follows con- 
cerns Judah and Jerusalem, in this the prophet be- 
holds the near approach of troublous times, when Jeru- 
salem should be hard pressed by enemies. Hut in that 
day Jehovah shall come to save them: “the house of 
David shall be as God, as the angel of Jehovah” (xii, 
8), and all the nations which gather themselves against 
Jerusalem shall be destroyed. At the same time, the 
deliverance shall not be from outward enemies alone. 
God will pour out upon them a spirit of grace and sup- 
plications, so that they shall bewail their sinfulness with 
a mourning greater than that with which they be- 
wailed the beloved Josiah in the valley of Megiddo. 
So deep and so true shall be this repentance, so lively 
the aversion to all evil, that neither idol nor false proph- 
et shall again be seen in the land/ If a man shall pre- 
tend to prophesy, “ his father and his mother that begat 


1dm shall thrust him through when he prophesicth,” 
tired l>v the same righteous indignation as Phiuehas 
was when he slew those who wrought folly in Israel 
(xii, 1 xiii, 6). 

Then follows a short apostrophe to the sword of the 
enemy to turn against the shepherds of the people; and 
a turthcr announcement of searching and purifying 
judgments; which, however, it must he acknowledged, 
is somewhat, abrupt. Ewald’s suggestion that the pas- 
sage xiii, 7-9 is here out of place, and should he trans- 
posed to the end of chap, xi, is certainly ingenious, and 
does not seem improbable. 

The prophecy closes with a grand and stirring pict- 
ure. All nations arc gathered together against Jeru- 
salem, and seem already sure of their prey. Half of 
their cruel work lias been accomplished, when Jehovah 
himself appears on behalf of his people. At his com- 
ing all nature is moved; the Mount of Olives on which 
his feet rest cleaves asunder; a mighty earthquake 
heaves the ground, and even the natural succession of 
day and night is broken. He goes forth to war against 
the adversaries of his people, lie establishes his king- 
dom over all the earth. Jerusalem is safely inhabited, 
and becomes rich with the spoils of the nations. All na- 
tions that are still left shall come up to Jerusalem, as 
the great centre of religious worship, there to worship 
“the King, Jehovah of hosts,” and the city from that 
day forward shall be a holy city. 

11. Integrity . — Mode was the first to call this in ques- 
tion. The probability that the later chapters (from the 
9th to the Hth) were by some other prophet seems 
first to have been suggested to him by the citation in 
Matthew. He says ( Kpist . xxxi) : 

“ It may seem the evangelist would inform us that those 
latter chapters ascribed to Zachary (namely, 9th, 10th, 11th, 
etc.) are indeed t he prophecies of Jeremy, and that the 
Jews had not rightly attributed them. . . . Certainly, if a 
man weighs the contents of some of them, they should in 
likelihood be of an elder date than the time of Zachary — 
namely, before the Captivity— tor the subjects of some 
of them were scarce in being after that time. And the 
chapter out of which St. Matthew quotes may seem to 
have somewhat much unsuitable with Zachary’s time; 
as, a prophecy of the destruction of the Temple, then 
when he was to encourage them to build it. And how 
doth the sixth verse of that chapter suit with his time? 
There is no scripture saith they arc Zachary’s; but there 
is scripture saith they arc Jeremy’s, as this of the evan- 
gelist.” 

lie then observes that the mere fact of these being 
found i n the same book as the prophecies of Zccliariah 
does not prove that they were his; difference of author- 
ship being allowable in the same way as in the collec- 
tion of Agur’s Proverbs under one title with those of 
Solomon, and of Psalms by other authors with those of 
David. Even the absence of a fresh title is, he argues, 
no evidence against a change of author. “The Jews 
wrote in rolls or volumes, and the title was but once. 
If aught were added to the roll, nb similitudinem aryu- 
menti , or for some other reason, it had a new title, as that 
of Agur; or perhaps none, hut was dvwvvftoi’” The 
utter disregard of anything like chronological order in 
the prophecies of Jeremiah, where “sometimes all is end- 
ed with Zedekinh; then wo are brought hack to Jchoi- 
nkim, then to Zedckiah again” — makes it, probable, he 
thinks, that they were only hastily and loosely put to- 
gether in those distracted times. Consequently, some 
of them might not have been discovered till after the 
rertirn from the Captivity, when they were approved 
bv Zechariah, and so came to be incorporated with his 
prophecies. Mode evidently rests his opinion, partly 
on the authority of Matthew, and partly on the con- 
tents of the later chapters, which he considers require a 
date earlier than the Exile. He says again ( Epist . xi): 

“That which inoveth me more than the rest is in ch. xii, 
which contains a prophecy of the destruction of Jerusa- 
lem, and a description of the wickedness of the inhabi- 
tants, for which God would give them t<> the sword, and 
have no more pity on them. It is expounded of the de- 
struction by Titus; but methinks such a prophecy was 
nothing seasonable for Zachary’s time (when the city yet, 


ZECIIARIAII, BOOK OF 1072 ZECHARIAH, BOOK OF 


for a great part, lay in her ruins, and the Temple had not 
yet recovered hers?), nor agreeable to the scope of Zach- 
ary’s commission, who, together with his colleague Hag- 
gai, was sent to encourage the people lately returned 
from captivity to build their temple, aud to instuurate 
their commonwealth. Was this a tit time to foretell the 
destruction of both, while they were blit yet a-bui filing? 
and by Zachary, too, who was to encourage them ? Would 
not this better befit the desolatiou by Nebuchadnezzar?” 

Archbishop Newcome went further. lie insisted on 
the great dissimilarity of style as well as subject be- 
tween the earlier and later chapters. And he was the 
first who advocated the theory which Bunsen calls one 
of the triumphs of modern criticism, that the last six 
chapters of Zechariah are the work of two distinct 
prophets. His words are: 

“The eight first chapters appear by the introductory 
parts to be the prophecies of Zechariah, staud in connec- 
tion with each other, are pertinent to the time when they 
were delivered, are uniform in style and manner, and con- 
stitute a regular whole. But the six last chapters are not 
expressly assigned to Zechariah ; are unconnected with 
those which precede; the three first of them are unsuita- 
ble in many parts to the time when Zechariah lived ; all 
of them have a more adorned and poetical turn of com- 
position thau the eight first chapters; and they manifest- 
ly break the unity of the prophetical book. ... I conclude 
from internal marks in cli. ix, x, xi, that these three chap- 
ters were written much earlier than the time of Jeremiah 
and before the captivity of the tribes. Israel is mention- 
ed in ix, 1 ; xi, 14 (hut that this argument is inconclu- 
sive, see Mai. ii, 11); Ephraim ix, 10, 13; x, 7 ; and 
Assyria x, 10, 11. . . . They seem to suit Ilosea’s age 
and manner. . . . The 12th, 13th, and 14th chapters 
form a distinct prophecy, and were written after the 
death of Josinh ; but whether before or after the Captiv- 
ity, aud by what prophets, is uncertain, though I iu- 
cliue to think that the author lived before the destruction 
of Jerusalem by the Babylonians.” 

In proof of this lie refers to xiii, 2, on which he observes 
that the “prediction that idols and false prophets should 
cease at the final restoration of the Jews seems to have 
been uttered when idolatry and groundless pretensions 
to the spirit of prophecy were common among the Jews, 
and therefore before the Babylonish Captivity.” A 
large number of critics have followed Mede and arch- 
bishop Newcome in denying the later date of the last 
six chapters of the book. In England, bishop Kidder, 
AVhiston, Hammond, and more recently Bye Smith and 
Davidson; in Germany, Fliigge, Eichhorn, Bauer, Ber- 
tholdt, Augusti, Forberg, Kosenniiiller, Gramberg, Cred- 
ner, Ewald, Maurer, Knobel, llitzig, ami Bleek, are 
agreed in maintaining that these later chapters are 
not the work of Zechariah the son of Iddo. 

On the other hand, the later date of these chapters 
lias been maintained among British writers, by Blarney 
and Henderson, and on the Continent by Carpzov, Beck- 
haus, Jab n, Kbster, Hengstenberg, Itavernick, Keil, De 
Wette (in later editions of his Einleitung ; in the first 
three he adopted a different view), aud Stalielin. 

Those who impugn the later date of these chapters 
of Zechariah rest their arguments on the change in style 
aud subject after the 8th chapter, but differ much in the 
application of their criticism. Boseu m filler, for instance 
(Sckol. in Proph . Min. iv. 257), argues that cli. ix-xiv 
are so alike in style that they must have been written 
by one author. He alleges in proof his fondness for 
images taken from pastoral life (ix, 10; x. 2, 3; xi, 3, 4, 
5, 7, 8, i), 11, 15, 17; xiii, 7, 8). From the allusion to 
the earthquake (xiv, 5; comp. Amos i, l),he thinks the 
author must have lived in the reign of Uzziah. Da- 
vidson (in Home’s Introd. ii, 08*2) in like manner declares 
for one author, but supposes him to have been the Zeeli- 
ariah mentioned in Isa. viii, 2, who lived in the reign of 
Ahaz. Eichhorn, on the other hand, while also assign- 
ing (in his Einleitung , iv, 444) the whole of ch. ix-xiv 
to one writer, is of opinion that they are the work of a 
lute?’ prophet who flourished in the time of Alexander. 
Others again, as Bertlioldt, Geseuius, Knobel, Maurer, 
Bunsen, and Ewald, think that ch. ix-xi (to which 
Ewald adds xiii, 7-0) arc a distinct prophecy from ch. 
xii-xiv, and separated from them by a considerable in- 
terval of time. These critics conclude from internal 


evidence that the former portion was written by a 
prophet who lived in the reign of Ahaz (Knobel gives 
ix and x to the reign of Jotham, and xi to that of 
Ahaz), and most of them conjecture that he was the 
Zechariah the son of Jebereehiah (or Bereehiah) men- 
tioned in Isa. viii, 2. Ewald, without attempting to 
identify the prophet with any particular person, con- 
tents himself with remarking that he was a subject of 
the Southern kingdom (as may be inferred -from ex- 
pressions such as that in ix, 7, and from the Messianic 
hopes which he utters, and in which he resembles his 
countryman and contemporary Isaiah); and that, like 
Amos and llosea before him, though a native of Judah, 
he directs his prophecies against Ephraim. There is 
the same general agreement among the last-named crit- 
ics as to the date of the section xii-xiv. They all as- 
sign it to a period immediately previous to the Baby- 
lonian Captivity, and hence the author must have been 
contemporary with the prophet Jeremiah. Bunsen 
identifies him with Urijah, the son of Shemaiah of 
Kirjath-jearim (Jer. xxvi, 20-23), who prophesied “in 
the name of Jehovah” against Judah and Jerusalem. 

According to this hypothesis, we have the works of 
three different prophets collected into one hook, and 
passing under one name: (a) Ch. ix-xi, the book of Zech- 
ariah 1, a contemporary of Isaiah, under Ahaz, .about 
73G; (6) ch. xii-xiv, author unknown (or perhaps Uri- 
jah, a contemporary of Jeremiah), about G07 or GOG; 
(c) cli. i— viii, the work of the son (or grandson) of Iddo, 
Ilaggai’s contemporary, about 520-518. We have, then, 
two distinct theories before us. The one merely affirms 
that the last six chapters of our present book are not 
from the same author as the first eight. The other car- 
ries the dismemberment of the book still further, and 
maintains that the last six chapters are the work of two 
distinct authors who lived at two distinct periods of 
Jewish history. The arguments advanced by the sup- 
porters of each theory rest on the same grounds. They 
are drawn partly from the difference in style, and partly 
from the difference in the nature of the contents, the 
historical references, ete., in the different sections of the 
book ; but the one sees this difference only in ch. ix-xiv as 
compared with ch- i— viii ; the other sees it also in ch. xii- 
xiv as compared with eh. ix-xi. We must accordingly 
consider (i) the difference generally in the style and con- 
tents of cli. ix-xi vas compared with ch. i— viii : (ii) the di f- 
ferenees between eh. xii-xiv as compared with ch. ix-xi, 

(A.) A rguments against the Integrity of the Book , — 
The difference in point of style between the latter and 
former portions of the prophecy is admitted by all crit- 
ics. Bosenmuller characterizes that of the first eight 
chapters as “prosaic, feeble, poor,” and that of the re- 
maining six as “ poetic, weighty, concise, glowing.” 
But without admitting so sweeping a criticism, and one 
which the verdict of abler critics on the former portion 
has contradicted, there can be no doubt that the general 
tone and character of the one section are in decided con- 
trast with those of the other. “ As he passes from the first 
half of the prophet to the second,” says Eichhorn, “ no 
reader can fail to perceive how strikingly different are 
the impressions which are made upon him hv the two. 
The manner of writing in the second portion is far loftier 
and more mysterious ; the images employed are grander 
and more magnificent; the point of view and the hori- 
zon are changed. Once the Temple and the ordinances 
of religion formed the central point from which the 
prophet’s words radiated, and to which they ever re- 
turned; now these have vanished. The favorite modes 
of expression, hitherto so often repeated, are now, as it 
were, forgotten. The chronological notices which be- 
fore marked the day on which each several propheey 
was uttered now fail us altogether. Could a writer all 
at once have forgotten so entirely his habits of thought? 
Could he so completely disguise bis innermost feelings? 
Could the world about him, the mode of expression, the 
images employed, be^so totally different in the case of 
of one and the same writer ?” ( Einleit . iv, 443, § G05). 


ZECHARIAII, BOOK OF 1073 ZECHARIAH, BOOK OF 


(T.) Ch. i-viii are marked by certain peculiarities of 
idiom and phraseology which do not occur afterwards. 
Favorite expressions are : ‘‘The word of Jehovah came 
unto,” etc. (i, 7; iv,8; vi,9; vii, 1,4,8; viii, 1, 18); “Thus 
saith Jehovah (God) of hosts” (i, 4, 16, 17; ii, 11 ; viii, 
2, 4, 6, 7, 9, 14, 18, 20, 23); “And 1 lifted up mine eyes 
and saw” (i, 18 ; ii, 1 ; v, 1 ; vi, 1) ; none of these modes 
of expression are to be met with in ch. ix-xiv. On 
the other hand, the phrase “In that day” is entirely 
-confined to the later chapters, in which it occurs fre- 
quently. The form of the inscriptions is different. In- 
troductions to the separate oracles, such as those in ix,, 
1; xii, l, do not present themselves in the earlier por- 
tion. Zechariah, in several instances, states the time 
at which a particular prophecy was uttered bv him (i, 
1,7 ; vii, l). He mentions his own name in these, pas- 
sages, and also in vii, 8, and the names of contemporaries 
in iii, 1 ; iv, 6 ; vi, 10; vii, 2 : the writer (or writers) of 
the second portion of the book never does this. It lias 
also been observed that after the first eight chapters we 
hear nothing of “ Satan,” or of “ the seven eyes of Je- 
hovah ;” that there are no more visions; that ch. xi 
contains no allegory, not a symbolic action; that here 
are no riddles which need to be solved, no angelus inter- 
pres to solve them. 

(II.) Ch. ix-xi. These chapters, it is alleged, have 
also their characteristic peculiarities : 

1. In point of style, the author resembles llosea more 
than any other prophet; such is the verdict both of 
Knobel and Ewald. He delights to picture Jehovah 
as the great captain of his people. Jehovah comes to 
Zion, and pitches his camp there to protect her (ix, 8, 
9). He blows the trumpet, marches against his ene- 
mies, makes his people his bow, and shoots his arrows 
(ver. 13, 14) ; or he rides on Judah as his war-horse, and 
goes forth thereon to victory (x, 3, 5). Again, he speaks 
of the people as a flock, and the leaders of the people as 
their shepherds (ix, 16; x, 2, 3; xi,4sq.). lie describes 
himself also, in his character of prophet, as a shepherd 
in the last passages, and assumes to himself, in a sym- 
bolic action (which, however, may have been one only of 
the imagination), all the guise and the gear of a shep- 
herd. In general he delights in images (ix, 3, 4, 13-17 ; 
x, 3, 5, 7, etc.), some of which are striking and forcible. 

2. The notes of time are also peculiar: 

(1.) It was a time when the pride of Assyria was 
yet at its height (ch. x, xi), and when the Jews had al- 
ready suffered from it. This first took place in the time 
of Menahem (B.C. 772-761). 

(2.) The Transjordanic territory had already been 
swept by the armies of the invader (x, 10), but a still 
further desolation threatened it (xi, 1-3), The first 
may have been the invasion of Pid (1 Chron. v, 26), the 
second that of Tiglath-pileser. 

(3.) The kingdoms of Judah and Ephraim are both 
standing (ix, 10, 13; x, 6), but many Israelites are nev- 
ertheless exiles in Egypt and Assyria (ix, 11 ; x, 6, 8, 
10, etc.). 

(4.) The struggle between Judah and Israel is sup- 
posed to be already begun (xi, 14). At the same time, 
Damascus is threatened (ix, 1). If so, the reference 
must be to the alliance formed between Pekah king of 
Israel and Hezin of Damascus, the consequence of which 
was the loss of Elath (739). 

(5.) Egypt and Assyria are both formidable powers 
(x. 9, 10, 11). The only other prophets to whom these 
two nations appear as formidable, at the same time, are 
llosea (vii, 11 ; xii, 1; xiv, 3) and his contemporary 
Isaiah (vii, 17, etc.); and that in prophecies which must 
have been uttered between 743 and 740. The expecta- 
tion seems to have been that the Assyrians, in order to 
attack Egypt, would march by way of Syria, Phoenicia, 
and Philistia, along the coast (Zech. ix, 1-9), as they 
did afterwards (Isa. xx, 1). and that the kingdom of 
Israel would suffer chiefly in consequence (Zech. ix, 9- 
12), and Judah in a smaller degree (ver. 8. 9). 

(6.) The kingdom of Israel is described as “a flock 
X.— Y Y Y 


for the slaughter” in eh. xi, over which three shep- 
herds have been set in one month. This corresponds 
with the season of anarchy and confusion which fol- 
lowed immediately on the murder of Zechariah the 
son of Jeroboam H (760). This son reigned only six 
months, his murderer Shallum but one (2 Kings xv, 8- 
15), being put to death in his turn by Menahem. Mean- 
while another rival king may have arisen, Bunsen 
thinks, in some ot.her part ol'^the country, who may 
have fallen as t lie murderer did, before Menahem. 

(7.) The symbolical action of the breaking of the 
two shepherds’ staves— Favor anti Union — points the 
same way. The breaking of the first showed that God’s 
favor had departcil from Israel, that of the second that 
all hope of union between Judah and Ephraim was at 
an end. 

All these notes of time, it is claimed, point in the 
same direction, and make it probable that the author 
of ch. ix-xi was a contemporary of Isaiah, and prophe- 
sied during the reign of Ahaz. According to Knobel, 
ch. ix and x were probably delivered in Jotham’s reign, 
and ch.xi in that of Ahaz, who summoned Tiglath-pileser 
to his aid. Maurer thinks that ch. ix and x were written 
between the first (2 Kings xv, 29) and second (2 Kings 
xvii, 4 6) Assyrian invasions, ch. x during the seven 
years’ interregnum which followed the death of Pekah, 
and xi in the reign of Iloshea* 

(III.) Ch. xii-xiv. By the majority of those crit- 
ics who assign these chapters to a third author, that au- 
thor is supposed to have lived shortly before the Baby- 
lonian captivity. The grounds for separating these 
three chapters from ch. ix to xi are as follows: 

1. This section opens with its own introductory for- 
mula, as the preceding one (ix, 1) does. This, however, 
only shows that the sections are distinct, not that they 
were written at different times. 

2. The object of the two sections is altogether differ- 
ent. The author of the former (ch. ix-xi) has both Israel 
and Judah before him ; he often speaks of them togeth- 
er (ix, 13; x, 6; xi, 14; comp, x, 7); he directs his 
prophecy to the Transjordanic territory, and announces 
the discharge of his office in Israel (xi, 4 sq.). The au- 
thor of the second section, on the other hand, has only 
to do with Judah and Jerusalem : he nowhere mentions 
Israel. 

3. The political horizon of the two prophets is differ- 
ent. By the former, mention is made of the Syrians, 
Phoenicians, Philistines (ix, 1-7), and Greeks (ver. 13), 
as well as of the Assyrians and Egyptians, the last two 
being described as at that time the most powerful. It 
therefore belongs to the earlier time when these two 
nations were beginning to struggle for supremacy in 
Western Asia. By the latter, the Egyptians only are 
mentioned as a hostile nation : not a word is said of the 
Assyrians. The author consequently must have lived 
at a time when Egypt was t lie chief enemy of Judah. 

4. The anticipations of the two prophets are differ- 
ent. The first trembles only for Ephraim. He predicts 
the desolation of the Transjordanic territory, the car- 
rying away captive of the Israelites, but. also the return 
from Assyria and Egypt (x, 7, 10). But for Judah he 
lias no cause of fear. Jehovah will protect her (ix, 8), 
and bring back those of her sons who in earlier times 
had gone into captivity (ver. 1 1). The second prophet, 
on the other hand, making no mention whatever of the 
northern kingdom, is full of alarm for Judah. lie sees 
hostile nations gathering together against her, and two 
thirds of her inhabitants destroyed (xiii, 6) ; he sees the 
enemy laying siege to Jerusalem, taking and plundering 
it, and carrying half of her people captive (xii, 3; xiv, 
2, 5). Of any return of the captives nothing is here 
said. 

5. The style of the two prophets is different. The 

author of this last section is fond of the prophetic for- 
mula: “And it shall come to pass” (xii, 9; xiii, 

2,3,4,8; T .xiv,G. 8, 13, 16); Xinfl 0*^3, “in that day” 


ZECHARIAH, BOOK OF 1074 

(xii, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 11 ; xiii, 1, 2, 4; xiv, 8, 9, 13, 20, 21); 


ZEC1IARIAII, BOOK OF 


rrrr saith Jehovah” (xii, 1,4; xiii, 2, 7,8). In 

the section ix-xi the first does not occur at all, the sec- 
ond but once (ix, 10), the third only twice (x, 12; xi, 0). 
’We have, moreover, in this section certain favorite ex- 
pressions: “all peoples,” “ all people of the earth,” “all 
nations round about,” “all nations that come up against 
Jerusalem,” “ the inhabitants of Jerusalem,” “ the house 
of David,” “family” for nation, “the families of the 
earth,” “ the family of Egypt,” etc. 

G. There are apparently few notes of time in this 
section. One is the allusion to the death of Josiah in 
“the mourning of Hadad-rimmon in the valley of Me- 
giddo;” another to the earthquake in the days of Uz- 
ziah king of Judah. This addition to the name of the 
king shows, Knobel suggests, that he had been long 
dead; but the argument, if it is worth anything, would 
make even more for those who hold a post-exile date. 
It is certainly remarkable, occurring thus in the body 
of the prophecy, and not in the inscription as in Isa. 
i, 1. 

(B.) Arguments in Favor of the Integrity of the. Booh. 

• — (I.) As between ch. i-viii and ix-xi v. — 1. In reply to 
all the foregoing arguments, it has been urged by Keil, 
Stahelin, and others that the difference of style between 
the two principal divisions of the prophecy is not great- 
er than may reasonably be accounted for by the change 
of subject. The language in which visions are narrat- 
ed would, from the nature of the case, be quieter and 
less animated than that in which prophetic anticipa- 
tions of future glory are described. They differ as the 
style of the narrator differs from that of the orator. 
Thus, for instance, how different is the style of Ilosea, 
ch. i-iii, from the style of the same prophet in ch. iv- 
xiv! or, again, that of Ezekiel vi, vii, from Ezekiel iv! 

But, besides this, even in what may be termed the 
more oratorical portions of the first eight chapters, the 
prophet is to a great extent occupied with warnings 
and exhortations of a practical kind (see i,4-G; vii, 4- 
14; viii, 9-23); whereas in the subsequent chapters he 
is rapt into a far-distant and glorious future. In the 
one case, therefore, the language would naturally sink 
down to the level of prose; in the other, it would rise 
to an elevation worthy of its exalted subject. 

In like manner, the notes of time in the former part 
(i, 1,7; vii, l)and the constant reference to the Temple 
may be explained on the ground that the prophet here 
busies himself with the events of his own time, whereas 
afterwards his eye is fixed on a far-distant future. 

On the other hand, where predictions do occur in the 
first section, there is a general similarity between them 
and the predictions of the second. The scene, so to 
speak, is the same; the same visions float before the 
eyes of the seer. The times of the Messiah are the 
theme of the predictions in ch. i-iv, in ix, x, and in xii- 
xiii, 0; while the events which are to prepare the way 
for that time, and especially the sifting of the nation, 
are dwelt upon in ch. v, in xi, and in xiii, 7-xiv, 2. The 
same peculiar forms of expression occur in the two di- 
visions of the prophecy. Thus, for instance, we find 
^Z'VO not only in vii, 14, but also in ix, 8; 
in the sense of “to remove,” in iii, 4, and in 
xiii. 2 — elsewhere it occurs in this unusual sense only 
in later writings (2 Kings xvi, 3 ; 2 Chron. xv, 8) — “ the 
eye of God,” as betokening the divine providence, in iii, 
9; iv. 10; and in ix, 1,8. 

In both sections the return of the whole nation after 
the Exile is the prevailing image of happiness, and in 
both it is similarly portrayed. As in ii, 10, the exiles 
are summoned to return to their native land, because 
now, according to the principles of righteous recom- 
pense, they shall rule over their enemies, so also a sim- 
ilar strain occurs in ix, 12, etc. Both in ii, 10 and in ix, 
9 the renewed protection wherewith God will favor 
Zion is represented as an entrance into his holy dwell- 


ing; in both his people are called on to rejoice, and 
in both there is a remarkable agreement in the words. 
In ii, 14, NZ ^::n 'D y, mm s rz "n -ri ^*1, and in 
ix, 9, n:n cbri-n rz y*z rz 

“p ^ “--• 

Again, similar forms of expression occur in ii, 9, 11, 
and xi, 11 ; the description of the increase in Jerusalem, 
xiv, 10, may he compared with ii,4; and the prediction 
in viii, 20-23 with that in xiv, 10. The resemblance 
which has been found in some other passages is too 
•slight to strengthen the argument ; and the occurrence 
of Chaldaisms, such as NZS (ix, 8), nzX’J (xiv, 10), 
hrz (which occurs besides only in Prov. xx, 21), and 
the phrase r'JjZ N572 (ix, 13), instead of TIST £ T\ 
really prove nothing as to the age of the later chapters 
of Zechariah. Indeed, generally, as regards these mi- 
nute comparisons of different passages to prove an iden- 
tity of authorship, Maurer’s remark holds true: “Sed 
qiue potest vis esse disjcctornm quorundara locorum, ubi 
res jiulicanda est ex toto?” 

2. Of far more weight, however, than the arguments 
already advanced is the fact that the writer of these 
last chapters (ix-xiv) shows an acquaintance with the 
later prophets of the time of the Exile. That there are 
numerous allusions in it to earlier prophets, such as Joel, 
Amos, Micah, has been shown by Ilitzig ( Comment . p. 
354, 2d cd.) ; but there are also, it is alleged, allusions 
to Zephaniah. Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and the latter part of 
Isaiah (ch. xl-lxvi). If this can be established, it is evi- 
dence that this portion of the book, if not written by 
Zechariah himself, was at least written after the Exile. 
We find, then, in Zech.ix,2an allusion toEzek.xxviii,3: 
in ver. 3 to 1 Kings x, 27 ; in ver. 5 to Zeph. ii, 4 ; in ver. 

11 to Isa. Ii, 14; in ver. 12 to Isa. xlix, 9 and Isa. lxi, 7 ; 
in x, 3 to Ezek. xxxi v, 17. Zech. xi is derived from Ezek. 
xxxiv (comp. esp. ver. 4 with Ezek. xxxiv, 4), and Zech. 
xi, 3 from Jer. xii, 5. Zech. xii, 1 alludes to Isa. Ii, 13 ; 
xiii, 8, 9, to Ezek. v, 12; xiv, 8 to Ezek.xlvii, 1-12; ver. 
10, 11, to Jer. xxxi, 38-40; ver. 10-19 to Isa. Ixvi, 23 
and lx, 12 ; ver. 20, 21, to Ezek. xliii, 12 and xliv, 9. 

Tins manifest acquaintance on the part of the writer 
of Zech. ix-xiv with so many of the later prophets 
seemed so convincing to De Wette that, after having 
in the first three editions of his Introduction declared 
for two authors, he found himself compelled to change 
his mind, and to admit that the later chapters must be- 
long to the age of Zechariah, and might have been 
written by Zechariah himself. 

Bleek, on the other hand, has done his best to weaken 
the force of this argument, first by maintaining that in 
most instances the alleged agreement is only apparent, 
and, next, that where there is a real agreement (as in 
Zech. ix, 12; xi, 3; xii, 1; xiv, 10) with the passages 
above cited, Zechariah may be the original from whom 
Isaiah and Jeremiah borrowed. It must be confessed, 
however, that it is more probable that one writer should 
have allusions to many others than that many others 
should borrow from one; and this probability ap- 
proaches certainty in proportion as we multiply the 
number of quotations or allusions. If there are pas- 
sages in Zechariah which are manifestly similar to 
other passages in Zephaniah, in Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and 
the Deutero-Isaiah, which is the more probable, that 
they all borrowed from him, or he from them? In ix, 

12 especially, as Stahelin argues, the expression is de- 
cidedly one to be looked for after the Exile rather than 
before it; and the passage rests upon Jer. xvi, 18, and 
has an almost verbal accordance with Isa. lxi, 7. 

3. Again, the same critics argue that the hisfoidcal 
references in the later chapters are perfectly consistent 
with a post-exile date. This had already been main- 
tained by Eichhorn, although he supposes these chap- 
ters to have been written by a later prophet than Zech- 
ariah. Stahelin puts the case as follows: Even under 
the Persian rule the political relations of the Jews con- 


ZECHARIAH, BOOK OF 1075 ZECHARIAH, BOOK OF 


tinued very nearly the same as they were in earlier 
times. They still were plaeed between a huge Eastern 
power on the one side, and Egypt on the other, the only 
difference now being that Egypt as well as JiuUea was 
subject to the Persians. But Egypt was an unwilling 
vassal; and as in earlier times, when threatened by As- 
syria, she had sought for allianees among her neighbors 
or had endeavored to turn them to account as a kind of 
outwork in her own defence, so now she would adopt 
the same policy in her attempts to cast off the Persian 
yoke. It would follow, as a matter of course, that Persia 
would be on the wateh to check sueh efforts, and would 
wreak her vengeance on those among her own tributary 
or dependent provinces which should venture to form 
an alliance with Egypt. Sueh of these provinces as 
lay on the sea -coast must indeed suffer in any ease, 
even if they remained true in their allegiance to the 
Persians. The armies which were destined for the in- 
vasion of Egypt would collect in Syria and Phoenicia, 
and would march by way of the coast; and, whether 
they eame as friends or as foes, they would probably 
cause sufficient devastation to justify the prophecy in 
Zech.ix, 1, etc., delivered against Damascus, Phoenicia, 
and Philistia. Meanwhile the prophet seeks to calm 
the minds of his own people by assuring them of God’s 
protection, and of the coming of the Messiah, who, at 
the appointed time, shall again unite the two kingdoms 
of Judah and Ephraim. It is observable, moreover, 
that the prophet, throughout his discourses, is anxious 
not only to tranquillize the minds of his countrymen, 
but to prevent their engaging in any insurrection 
against their Persian masters, or forming any allianee 
with their enemies. In this respect he follows the ex- 
ample of Jeremiah and Ezekiel, and, like these two 
prophets, he foretells the return of Ephraim, the union 
of Ephraim and Judah, and the final overthrow both 
of Assyria (x, 11) — that is, Persia — and of Egypt, the 
two countries which had, more than all others, vexed 
and devastated Israel. That a large portion of the na- 
tion was still supposed to be in exile is clear from ix, 
II, 12, and hence ver. 10 ean only be regarded as a 
reminiscence of Mic. v, 10; and even if x, 9 must be 
explained of the past (with De Wette, Einleif. § 250, 6, 
note a), still it appears from Josephus {Ant. xii, 2, 5) 
that the Persians carried away Jews into Egypt, and 
from Syneellus (p. 486, Niebuhr’s ed.) that Oehus trans- 
planted large numbers of Jews from Palestine to the 
east and north ; the earlier custom of thus forcibly re- 
moving to a distance those conquered nations who, from 
disaffection or a turbulent spirit, were likely to give oc- 
casion for alarm, having not only continued among the 
Persians, but having become even more common than 
ever (Heeren, Ideen, i, 254, 2d ed.). This well-known 
policy on the part of their conquerors would be a suffi- 
cient ground for the assurance which the prophet gives 
in x, 9. Even the threats uttered against the false 
prophets and the shepherds of the people are not in- 
consistent with the times after the Exile. In Nell, v 
and vi, we find the nobles and rulers of the people op- 
pressing their brethren, and false prophets active in 
their opposition to Nehemiah. In like manner “the 
idols” (D^a^) in xiii, 1-5 may be the same as the 
“Teraphim” of x, 2, where they are mentioned in con- 
nection with “ the diviners” (D^&ijsn). Malaclii (iii, 
5) speaks of “ sorcerers” (C n S’i ; 3*2), and that sueh su- 
perstition long held its ground among the Jews is evi- 
dent from Josephus {Ant. viii, 2, 5). Nor does xiv, 21 
of necessity imply either idol -worship or heathen 
pollution in the Temple. Ch. xi was spoken by the 
prophet later than eh. ix and x. In ver. 14 he declares 
the impossibility of any reunion between Judah and 
Ephraim, either because the northern territory had al- 
ready been laid waste, or because the inhabitants of it 
had shown a disposition to league with Phoenicia in a 
vain effort to throw off the Persian yoke, which would | 


only involve them in certain destruction. This diffi- 
cult passage Stiiheliu admits he cannot solve to his sat- 
isfaction, but contends that it may have been designed 
to teaeh the new colony that it was not a part of God’s 
purpose to reunite the severed tribes; and in this he 
sees an argument for the post-exilian date of the prophe- 
cy, inasmuch as the union of the ten tribes with the 
two was ever one of the brightest hopes of the prophets 
who lived before the Captivity. 

Having thus shown that there is no reason why the 
seetion ix-xi should not belong to a time subsequent to 
the return from Babylon, Stiihelin proceeds to argue 
that the prophecy directed against the nations (ix, 17) 
is really more applicable to the Persian «<cra than to any 
other. It is only the coast-line which is here threat- 
ened ; whereas the earlier prophets, whenever they 
threaten the maritime tribes, unite with them Moab 
and Ammon, or Edom. Moreover, the nations here 
mentioned are not spoken of as enemies of Judah; for 
being Persian subjects they would not venture to attack 
the Jewish colony when under the special protection 
of that power. Of Ashdod it is said that a foreigner 
(“>T , C , 2, A. V. “bastard”) shall dwell in it. This, too, 
might naturally have happened in the time of Zeeha- 
riah. During the Exile, Arabs had established them- 
selves in Southern Palestine, and the prophet foresees 
that they would oceupy Ashdod ; and. accordingly, we 
learn from Neh. xiii, 24 that the dialect of Ashdod was 
unintelligible to the Jews, and in iv, 7 the people of 
Ashdod appear as a distinct tribe united with other 
Arabians against Judah. The king of Gaza (mentioned 
in Zeeh. ix, 5) may have been a Persian vassal, as the 
kings of Tyre and Sidon were, according to Herod, 
viii, 67. A king in Gaza would only be in conformity 
with the Persian custom (see Herod, iii, 15), although 
this was no longer the ease in the time of Alexander. 
The mention of the “sons of Javan” (ix, 13; A. Y. 
“Greece”) is suitable to the Persian period (which is 
also the view of Eiehhorn), as it was then that the 
Jews were first brought into any close contact with the 
Greeks. It was, in fact, the fieree struggle between 
Greeee and Persia whieh gave a peculiar meaning to 
his words when the prophet promised his own people 
victory over the Greeks, and so reversed the earlier pre- 
diction of Joel iv, G, 7 (A. V. iii, 6, 7). If, however, 
we are to understand by Javan Arabia, as some main- 
tain, this again equally suits the period supposed, and 
the prophecy will refer to the Arabians, of whom we 
have already spoken. 

(II.) We come now to the section xii -xiv. The 
main proposition here is, that however hard Judah and 
Jerusalem may be pressed by enemies (of Israel there 
is no further mention), still with God’s help they shall 
be victorious; and the result shall be that Jehovah 
will be more truly. worshipped both by Jews and Gen- 
tiles. That this anticipation of the gathering of hos- 
tile armies against Jerusalem was not unnatural in the 
Persian times may be inferred from what has been said 
above. Persian hosts were often seen in Judaea. We 
find an instance of this in Josephus {Ant. xi,7, 1 ), and 
Sidon was laid in ashes in eonsequenee of an insurrec- 
tion against Persia (Diod. xvi, 45). On the other hand, 
how could a prophet in the time immediately preceding 
the Exile — the time to whieh, on aeeonnt of xii, 12, most 
critics refer this seetion — have uttered predictions such 
as these? Sinee the time of Zephaniah all the proph- 
ets looked upon the fate of Jerusalem as sealed, whereas 
here, in direct contradiction to such views, the preserva- 
tion of the city is announced even in the extremest ca- 
lamities. Any analogy to the general strain of thought 
in this section is only to be found in Isa. xxix-xxxiii. 
Besides, no king is here mentioned, but only “ the house 
of David,” whieh, according to Jewish tradition (Herz- 
feld, Gesch. des Volkes Israel , p. 378 sq.), held a high 
position after tbe Exile, and accordingly is mentioned 
(xii, 12, 13) in its different branches (comp. Movers, Das 


ZECIIARIAH, BOOK OP 1076 ZECHARIAH, BOOK OF 


Phoniz. Alterfh. i, 531), together with the tribe of Levi; 
the prophet, like the writer of Psa. Ixxxix, looking to it 
with a kind of yearning, which before the Exile, while 
there was still a king, would have been inconceivable. 

Again, the manner in which Egypt is alluded to (xiv, 

19) almost of necessity leads us to the Persian times; 
for then Egypt, in consequence of her perpetual efforts 
to throw off the Persian yoke, was naturally brought 
into hostility with the Jews, who were under the pro- 
tection of Persia. Before the Exile this was only the 
case during the interval between the death of Josiah 
and the battle of Carchemish. It would seem, then, 
that there is nothing to compel us to place this section 
xii-xiv in the times before the Exile; much, on the con- 
trarv, which can only be satisfactorily accounted for on 
the supposition that it was written during the period of 
the Persian dominion. Nor must it be forgotten that 
we have here that fuller development of the Messianic 
idea which at such a time might be expected, and one 
which, in fact, rests upon all the prophets who flourished 
before the Exile. 

Such are the grounds, critical and historical, on which 
Stiihelin rests his defence of the later date of the second 
portion of the prophet Zechariah. We have given his 
arguments at length as the ablest and most complete, as 
well as the most recent, on his side of the controversy. 

Some of them, it must be admitted, are full of weight. 

When critics like Eichhorn maintain that of the whole 
section ix, l x, 17, no explanation is possible, unless we 
derive it from the history of Alexander the Great: and 
when De Wette, after having adopted the theory of dif- 
ferent authors, felt himself obliged to abandon it for 
reasons already mentioned, and to vindicate the integ- 
rity of the book, the grounds fur a post-exile date must 
be very strong. Indeed, it is not easy to sav which 
way the weight of evidence preponderates. 

(C.) With regard to the quotation in Matthew (xxvii, 

9, 10; comp. Zech. xi, 12, 13) there seems no good reason 
for setting aside the received reading. Jerome observes 
( Comment . in Evang. Matth. xxvii, 9, 10), 

“This passage is not found in Jeremiah. But in Zecha- 
riiih, who is nearly the last of the twelve prophets, some- 
thing like it occurs; and though there is no great differ- 
ence in the meaning, yet both the order and the words 
are different. I read a short time since, in n Hebrew vol- 
ume, which a Hebrew of the sect of the Nazarenes pre- 
sented to me, an apocryphal book of Jeremiah, in which 
1 found. the passage word for word. But still I am rather 
inclined to think that the quotation is made from Zecha- 
riah, in the usual manner of the evangelists and apos- 
tles, who, neglecting the order of the words, only give the 
general sense of what they cite from the Old Test.” 

Eusebius [Evangel, Demomtr. lib. x) is of opinion that 
the passage thus quoted stood originally in the prophe- 
cy of Jeremiah, but was either erased subsequently by 
the malice of the Jews [a very improbable supposition, 
it need hardly be said], or that the name of Zechariah 
was substituted for that of Jeremiah through the care- 
lessness of copyists. Augustine [De Cons. Evangel, iii, 

30) testifies that the most ancient Greek copies had Jer- 
emiah, and thinks that the mistake was originally 
Matthew’s, but that this was divinely ordered, and that 
the evangelist would not correct the error even when 
pointed out, in order that we might thus infer that all 
the prophets spake by one Spirit, and that what was 
the work of one was the work of all (“et. singula esse 
omnium, et omnia singulorum”). Some later writers 
account for the non-appearance of the passage in Jer- 
emiah by the confusion in the Greek MSS. of his proph- imitations of them, especially of Ezekiel, characterize 
ecies — a confusion, however, it may he remarked, which i his oracles. He is also peculiar in his introduction of 
is not conlined to the Greek, but which is found no less spiritual beings into his prophetic scenes, 
in onr present Hebrew text. Others, again. suggest that In point of phraseology, generally speaking, Zecha- 
in the Greek autograph of Matthew. ZP 1 01 may have r jali’s stvle is pure and remarkablv free from Clialda- 
been written, ami that copyists may have taken this for isms . is common with writers' in the decline of a 
IPIOI. But there is no evidence that abbreviations , . . , . . . . .. . 

r .. . , . , . , t"s ■ i , language, he seems to have striven to imitate the pun- 

of this kind were in use so carlv. Eniphanius and . , , . , , . , , ' 

some of the Creek fathers seem to have read iv rote '- v of lhe earller mode,s; b,,t ,n orthography, and m the 
wpo^rmc. The most ancient copy of the Latin ver- 1 ns< “ of som<! words aml Phases, he betrays the rnflnence 
sion of the Gospels omits the name of Jeremiah, and , of a later age. He writes TX and “P|n, and employs 


has merely dictum est per Prophet am. It has been con- 
jectured that this represents the original Greek reading 
7-0 pift'tv dtu tov Hpo<pi]Tov, and that some early anno- 
tator wrote '\tpepiov on the margin, whence it crept 
into the text. The choice lies between this, and a slip 
of memory on the part of the evangelist, if we admit 
the integrity of our present book of Zechariah, unless, 
indeed, we suppose, with Eichhorn, who follow^ Jerome, 
that an Apocryphal book of Jeremiah is quoted. The- 
ophylact proposes to insert a icat, and would read ltd 
'leptpiov Kai rov 11 potpgrov — i)yovv Za^apiou. lie 
argues that the quotation is really a fusion of two pas- 
sages; that concerning the price paid occurring in 
Zech. xi, and that concerning the field in Jer. xix. 
But what New-Test, writer would have used such a 
form of expression “by Jeremy and the Prophet?” 
Such a mode of quotation is without parallel. At the 
same time, it must be borne in mind that the pas- 
sage as given in Matthew does not represent exactly 
either the Hebrew text of Zechariah or the version of 
the Sept. The other passages of the prophet quoted in 
the New Test, are ix, 9 (in Matt.xxi, 5; John xii, 15); 
xii, 10 (in John xix, 37 ; Rev. 1,7); xiii, 7 (in Matt, 
xxvi, 31; Mark xiv, 27) ; but in no instance is the 
prophet quoted by name. 

(D.) The following writers have discussed the question 
of the integrity of Zechariah : Mede, IForfo (Loud. 1GG4), 
p. 786. 884 ; Kidder [ Bp.], Demonstration of the Messias 
(ibid. 1700), ii, 199; Newcome [Archbp.], Minor Proph- 
ets (ibid. 1785) ; Blarney, New Translation of Zechariah 
(Oxf. 1797); Carpzov, Yindic. Crit. (Lips. 1724); Fliigge, 
Die Weissaguvgen. des Proph. Zach. (Hamb. 1784); 
Bertholdt, Einleitnng , iv, 1762 sq., 1712 sq. : Eichhorn, 
Propheten , iii. 327-360, 380-392, 415-428, 515-518; id. 
Einleitnng (4th ed. 1824), iv, 427 sq. ; Bauer, Einleitnng, 
p. 510 sq.; Beckhaus, Integritdt der proph. Schrift. p. 
337 sq.; Jahn, Einleitnng, ii, 675 sq. ; Roster, Meletemata 
Exeget. (Gotting. 1818); Forberg, Comm. Exeget. (Cob. 
1824); Gramberg, Gesch. der Beligionsideen, ii. 520 sq. ; 
Rosenmiiller, Scholia, vii, 4, 254 sq.; Creel ner, Der 
Prophet Joel, p. 67 sq. ; Hengstenberg, Beitrage, i, 36 L 
sq. ; id. Christ ologie, vol. iii; id. Integrity of Zechariah 
(Edinb. transl. 1*848); De Wette, Einleitnng (1st to 3d 
eds. against the Integrity, later eds. in favor of it); 
Keil, Einleitnng ; Havernick, Einleitnng; Maurer, Com- 
ment. ii, 621 sq.; Ewald, Die Propheten; id. Gesch. vol. 
iv; Bleek, Einleitnng; id. Zeitalter von Zach., in the 
Stud, und Krit. 1852, p. 247 sq.; Stahelin, Einleitnng, 
1862, p. 315 sq.; llitzig, in Stud, und Krit. 1830, p. 25 
sq., .and in Prophet. ; Henderson, Minor Prophets (1830) ; 
Davidson, in Horne's Jntrod . (10th ed. 1856), and more 
recently in his Introduction to the Old Testament; 
Bunsen, Bibelwerk, vol. ii, ch. i, pt. ii; id. Gott in der 
Geschic.hte, i, 449; Sandrock, Zach. ab uno Autore 
(Yratisl. 1856); Ortenberg [disintegratist], Bestand- 
theile des Bitches Sach. (Stnttg. 1860); Wright, Hamp- 
ton Lect. for 1878; and the later commentators gener- 
ally. 

HI. Style and Diction. — Some of Zechariah’s pecu- 
liarities in these respects have been noticed above. It 
will have been already perceived that the symbols with 
which he abounds are obscure, and their prosaic struct- 
ure is diffuse and unvaried. The rvlithm of his poetry 
is unequal, and its parallelisms are inharmonious and 
disjointed. His language has in many phrases a close 
alliance with that of the other prophets, and occasional 


ZEDAD 


1077 


ZEDEKIAH 


inns: (v, 7) ill its later use as the indefinite article, and 
rvnnpSl with the fem. termination (iv, 12). A full col- 
lection of these peculiarities will be found in Roster, 
Meletemata in Zech. etc. 

IV. Commentaries. — The following are the exegetical 
helps on the entire prophecy exclusively, to the most 
important of which we prefix an asterisk : Jerome, Com - 
mentarii ( in Opp. ed. Villars [Veron. 1734], vi ) ; The- 
odoret , Interpretatio (in Opp. ed. Schulze [Hal. 1769- 
74], II, ii) ; Ephrem Syrus, Explanatio (in Opp. v, 285) ; 
Rupertus Tui tiensis, In Zech. (in Opp. i, 520) ; Kimehi, 
Commentary ( transl. 'from the Heb. by MeCaul, Lond. 
1824, 8vo); Luther, Auslegung (Wittenb. 1528, 4to; Erf. 
eod. 8vo; also in his II r or£s, in Lat. and Germ.); Me- 
lancthon, Commentarius (in Opp. ii, 531) ; Draco, Ex- 
plicate [includ. Joel and Mieah] (Vitemb. 1565, fol.) ; 
Chytraius, Lectiones (in Opp. ii, 397); Stuniea [R. C.], 
Commentaria (Salmant. 1577, fol.) ; Grynams, Commen- 
tarius (Genev. 1581, 8vo) ; Osor [R. C.], Commentarius 
(Colon. 1584, 8vo; also in Opp.) ; Baldwin, Commen - 
ta Hus [ includ. Ilagg. and Mai. ] (Vitemb. 1610, Svo) ; 
Sanetius [R. C.], Commentarius (Lugd. 1616, 4to) ; Pem- 
ble, Exposition [on eh. i-ix] (Lond. 1629, 4to); De Rev- 
roles [Ik C.], Qucestiones (Par. 1631, fol.) ; Ursinus, Com - 
mentarius (Francof. 1652, Svo); Dorsch, Synopsis (ibid. 
1653, 1691, 4to) ; Varenius, Explicate [includ. Ilagg. and 
Mai.] (Rost. 1662, 4to); De Hase, Analysis (Brem.1689, 
4to); Biermann, Erklaaring (Utrecht, 1699; in Germ. 
1706, 4to) ; Gerbade, Opgeluoten (Levd. 1702, 4to) ; Muil- 
man, Illustrate (Franek. 1703, 4to); Meiss, Erkldruug 
(Leips. 1706, 8vo); Bohle, Analysis, ed. Grape (Rost. 
1711, Svo); Nemetlms, Explicate (Ulttaj. 1714, 4to); 
Boekholt, V erklaaring (Amst. 1718, 4to); Andala, Dis- 
sertations (Franek. 1720, 4t’o) ; * Vitringa, Commentarii 
(Leov. 1734, 4to); Mann, Zergliedenmg (Brem. eod. 4to) ; 
Opitz. .1 nmerk. (Gbtt. 1747, 4to) ; Oporin, A nmerk. (ibid, 
eod. 4to) ; Herlich, Erkldruug (Rost. 1764, 8vo) ; Trinius, 
A nmerk. (Quedlinb. 1780, 8vo); * Fliigge, Erlduterung 
(Hamb. 1784, Svo); *Venema, Sennones (Leov. 1789, 
4to); Blayney, Notes (Oxf. 1797, 4to); Tliube, Erkld- 
rung (Schwerin, 1802, 8vo); Salomon, (Dessau, 

1805, 8vo); * Roster, Meletemata [on eh. ix-xiv] 
(Gott. 1818, Svo) ; Forberg, Commentai'ius [ibid.] (Cob. 
1824, 4to, pt. i) ; Stouard, Commentaty (Lond. eod. Svo) ; 
Mailer, Erklarung ( Brem. 1831, 8vo, pt. i ); Park, Ex- 
plication (Lond. 1832, 8vo); Burger, Etudes (Strasb. 1841, 
4to); Baumgarten, Nachtgesichte (Brunswick, 1854, 2 
vols. Svo); Neumann, Erkliirung (Stuttg. 1860); Ward- 
law, Lectures (Lond. 1862, 12mo); * Rliefoth, Erldute- 
rung (Schwerin, eod. 8vo) ; Kohler, Erkldruug (Erlang. 
1862-63, Svo); Robinson, Homilies (Lond. 1865. Svo); 
* Moore, Commentary [includ. Hagg. and Mai.] (N. Y. 
1866, Svo); Pressel, Commcntar [ibid.] (Gotha, 1870, 
8vo); * Wright, Commentary (Lond. 1879, Svo). See 
Prophets, Minor. 

Ze'dad ( Heb. Tsedad\ ‘Till [with il directive, 
Tsedu'dah , !Vn:i], slope ; Sept. Sadadcuc v. r. 'Sapacdtc, 
etc.), one of the landmarks on the north border of the 
land of Israel, as promised by Moses (Numb, xxxiv, 8) 
and as restored by Ezekiel (xlvii, 15). In the former 
passage it occurs between “the entrance of Hamath” 
and Ziphron, and in the latter between the “road to 
Hetblon” and Hamath. A place named Eudud exists 
to the east of the northern extremity of the chain of An- 
tilibanus, about fifty miles E.N.E. of Baalbek and thirty- 
five S.S.E. of Hums (Robinson, Bill. Res. ii, 507 ; Wetz- 
stein, Reis. ub. llauran , p. 88), which Porter thinks is 
identical with Zedad (Five Yeurs in Damascus , ii, 354- 
356; Giant Cities of Bashan , p. 317); and so also ap- 
parently rabbi Sehwarz (Palest, p. 26); but the boun- 
daries of Palestine proper never extended so far north- 
ward. See Tribe. A trace of the name possibly lin- 
gers in the desert plain called Sahil Judeideh , on the 
western slope of Antilibanus, in or near the district of 
Zebedany (Robinson, Later Bill. Res. p. 490). 


Zedechi'as (ZtSeKiag), the Greek form (1 Esdr. i, 
46) of the name of king Zedekiaii (q. v.). 

Zedeki'ah (Heb. Tsidkiyah '. [but in this 

simple form only in 1 Rings xxii, 11; Neiy x, 1; Jer. 
xxvii, 12; xxviii, 1; xxix, 3; elsewhere in the pro- 
longed form Tsidkiyu'hu, Jirvp'l :£],?«$/ righteousness is 
,/tf/i, or, righteousness of Jehovah ; Sept, and Josephus, 
N( 0 £Kiaf), the name of several Hebrews. 

1. Son of Chenaanah, a prophet at the court of Ahab, 
head, or, if not head, virtual leader, of the college. He 
appears but once, viz., as spokesman when the prophets 
are consulted by Ahab on the result of his proposed ex- 
pedition to Ramoth-Gilead (1 Kings xxii; 2 Chron. 
xviii). ^B.C. 896. Zedekiah had prepared himself for 
the interview with a pair of iron horns, after the sym- 
bolic custom of the prophets (comp. Jer. xiii, xix), the 
horns of the reem, or buffalo, which was the recognised 
emblem of the tribe of Ephraim (Deut. xxxiii, 17). 
With these, in the interval of Mieaiah’s arrival, he il- 
lustrated the manner in which Ahab should drive the 
Syrians before him. When Mieaiah appeared and had 
delivered his prophecy, Zedekiah sprang forward and 
struck him a blow on the face, accompanying it by a 
taunting sneer. For this he is threatened by Mieaiah 
in terms which are hardly intelligible to us, but which 
evidently allude to some personal danger to Zedekiah. 

The narrative of the Bible does not imply that the 
blow struck by Zedekiah was prompted by more than 
sudden anger, or a wish to insult and humiliate the 
prophet of Jehovah. But Josephus takes a very dif- 
ferent view, which he develops at some length (Ant. 
viii, 15,3). He relates that after Mieaiah had spoken, 
Zedekiah again came forward, and denonneed him as 
false, on the ground that his prophecy contradicted the 
prediction of Elijah, that Allah’s blood should be licked 
up by dogs in tiie field of Naboth of Jezreel; and, as a 
further proof that he was an impostor, he struck him, 
daring him to do what Iddo, in somewhat similar cir- 
cumstances, had done to Jeroboam — viz. wither his 
hand. This addition is remarkable; but it is related 
by Josephus with great circumstantiality, and was per- 
haps drawn by him from that source, now lost, from 
which he has added so many touches to the outlines of 
the sacred narrative. 

As to the question of what Zedekiah and his follow- 
ers were, whether prophets of Jehovah or of some false 
deity, it seems hardly possible to entertain any doubt. 
True, they use the name of Jehovah, but that was a 
habit of false prophets (Jer. xxviii, 2; comp, xxix, 21, 
£1) ; and there is a vast difference between the casual 
manner in which they mention the awful name and the 
full and, as it were, formal style in which Mieaiah pro- 
claims and reiterates it. Seeing, also, that Ahab and 
his queen were professedly worshippers of Baal and 
Ashtaroth, and that a few years only before this event 
they had an establishment consisting of two bodies — 
one of 450, the other of 400 — prophets of this false wor- 
ship, it is diffienlt to suppose that there could have been 
also 400 prophets of Jehovah at his court. But the in- 
quiry of the king of Judah seems to decide the point. 
After hearing the prediction of Zedekiah and his fel- 
lows, he asks at once for a prophet of Jehovah : “ Is 
there not here besides (*Vi3?) a prophet of Jehovah that 
we may inquire of him?” The natural inference seems 
to be that the others were not prophets of Jehovah, 
but were the 400 prophets of Ashtaroth (A. V. “ the 
groves”) who escaped the sword of Elijah (comp. 1 
Kings xviii, 19 with 22,40). They had spoken in his 
name, but there was something about them— some trait 
of manner, costume, or gesture — which aroused the sus- 
picions of Jehoshaphat, and, to the practiced eye of 
one who lived at the centre of Jehovah-worship and 
was well versed in the marks of the genuine prophet, 
proclaimed them counterfeits. — Smith. SeeMiCAiAH. 

2 . The son of Ilanauiah, one of the princes of Judah. 


ZEDEKIAH 


1078 


ZEDEKIAH 


who were assembled in the scribes’ chamber of the 
king’s palace when Micaiah announced that Baruch had 
read the words of Jeremiah in the ears of the people 
from the chamber of Gemariah the scribe (Jer. xxxvi, 
12). l>.C.f>05. 

3. The last king of Judah and Jerusalem. B.C. 598- 
588. He was the son of Josiah, and his genealogy is 
given in 1 Chron. iii, 15. from which it appears that t lie 
sons of Josiah were Johanan the first-born (who is never 
elsewhere mentioned, and therefore probably had died 
young, or had been set aside by some popular resolu- 
tion, to which Shallura may have been indebted for 
the crown in preference to his elder brother, Jehoia- 
kim), the second Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, and 
the fourth Shallum. Since Jehoiakim was twenty-five 
at his father’s death, and Jehoahaz, or Shallum, twenty- 
three, while Zedekiah was not twenty-one till his acces- 
sion to the throne, eleven years later, there must be a 
different order from that of age adopted with the last 
two sons of Josiah : perhaps it was arranged so as to 
bring together the two sons of Josiah, who reigned each 
eleven years, each having been preceded by a king who 
reigned for only three months. Zedekiah is, indeed, 
called the brother of his predecessor Jehoiachin (2 
Chron. xxxvi, 10); but the word must be used in an 
indefinite sense, for he certainly was his uncle. 11 is 
mother was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah of Lib- 
nah; so that he was full brother of Jehoahaz (2 Kings 
xxiii,31; xxiv, 18). — Fairbairn. 

llis original name had been Mattciniah, which was 
changed to Zedekiah by Nebuchadnezzar when he car- 
ried off his nephew Jehoiachin to Babylon, and left him 
on the throne of Jerusalem. Zedekiah was but twenty- 
one years old when he was thus placed in charge of an 
impoverished kingdom, and a city which, though still 
strong in its natural and artificial impregnability, was 
bereft of well-nigh all its defenders. But Jerusalem 
might have remained the head of the Babylonian prov- 
ince of Judah, and the Temple of Jehovah continued 
standing, had Zedekiah possessed wisdom and tirmness 
enough to remain true to his allegiance to Babylon. 
This, however, he could not do (Jer. xxxviii, 5). His 
history is contained in the short sketch of the events 
of his reign given in 2 Kings xxiv, 17-xxv,7, and, with 
some trifling variations, in Jer. xxxix, 1-7 ; lii, 1-11, to- 
gether with the still shorter summary in 2 Chron. xxxvi, 
10, etc.; and also in Jer. xxi,£cxiv, xxvii, xxviii, xxix, 
xxxii, xxxiii, xxxiv, xxxvii, xxxviii (being the chap- 
ters containing the prophecies delivered by this prophet 
during this reign, and his relation of various events more 
or less affecting Zedekiah), and Ezek. xvi, 11-21. To, 
these it is important to add the narrative of Josephus 
(Awf. x, 7, 1-8, 2), which is partly constructed by com- 
parison of the documents enumerated above, but also 
seems to contain ipformation derived from other and 
independent sources. From these it is evident that 
Zedekiah was a man not so much bad at heart as weak 
in will. He was one of those unfortunate characters, 
frequent in history, like Charles I of England and Louis 
XVI of France, who find themselves at the head of af- 
fairs during a great crisis, without having the strength 
of character to enable them to do what they know to 
be right, and whose infirmity becomes moral guilt. 
The princes of his court, as he himself pathetically ad- 
mits in his interview with Jeremiah, described in cli. 
xxxviii, had him completely under their influence. 
“Against them,” he complains, “it is not the king that 
can do anything.” He was thus driven to disregard 
the counsels of the prophet., which, as the event proved, 
were perfectly sound ; and he who might have kept the 
fragments of the kingdom of Judah together, and main- 
tained for some generations longer the worship of Je- 
hovah, brought final ruin on his country, destruction 
on the Temple, death to his family, and a cruel torment 
and miserable captivity on himself. 

It is evident from Jer. xxvii (in ver. 1 Jehoiakim’s 
name is a copyist’s error for that of Zedekiah) and 


xxviii (apparently the earliest prophecies delivered 
during this reign) that the earlier portion of Zedeki- 
ali's reign was marked by an agitation throughout the 
whole of Syria against the Babylonian yoke. Jerusa- 
lem seems to have taken the lead, since in the fourth 
year of Zedekiah’s reign we find ambassadors from all 
the neighboring kingdoms — Tyre, Sidon, Edom, and 
Moab — at his court, to consult as to the steps to be 
taken. This happened either during the king’s ab- 
sence or immediately after his return from Babylon, 
whither he had gone on some errand, the nature of which 
is not named, but which may have been an attempt to 
blind the eyes of Nebuchadnezzar to his contemplated 
revolt (Jer. li, 59). The project was attacked by Jere- 
miah with the strongest statement of the folly of such 
a course — a statement corroborated by the very material 
fact that a man of Jerusalem named Hananiah, who had 
opposed him with a declaration in the name of Jehovah, 
that the spoils of the Temple should be restored within 
two years, had died*, in accordance with Jeremiah’s pre- 
diction, within- two months of its delivery. This, and 
perhaps also the impossibility of any real alliance be- 
! tween Judah and the surrounding nations, seems to 
have put a stop, for t lie time, to the anti- Baby Ionian 
movement. On a man of Zedekiah’s temperament the 
sudden death of Hananiah must have produced a strong 
impression; and we may without improbability accept 
this as the time at which he procured to be made in 
silver a set of the vessels of the Temple to replace the 
I golden plate carried off with his predecessor by Nebu- 
chadnezzar (Bar. i, 8). 

The first act of overt rebellion of which any record 
survives was the formation of an alliance with Egypt, 
of itself equivalent to a declaration of enmity with Bab- 
ylon. In fact, according to the statement of Chron- 
icles and Ezekiel, with the expansion of Josephus, it 
was in direct contravention of the oath of allegiance 
in the name of Elohim by which Zedekiah was bound 
by Nebuchadnezzar — namely, that lie would keep the 
kingdom for Nebuchadnezzar, make no innovation, 
and enter into no league with Egypt (Ezek. xvii, 13; 
2 Chron. xxxvi, 13; Joseph. Ant. x, 7, 1). As a nat- 
ural consequence, it brought on Jerusalem an immedi- 
ate invasion of the Chaldasans. The mention of this 
event in the Bible, though sure, is extremely slight, 
and occurs only in Jer. xxxiv, 21; xxxvii, 5-11, and 
Ezek. xvii, 15-20; but Josephus (x, 7, 3) relates it 
more fully, and gives (probably by conjecture) the date 
| of its occurrence as the eighth year of Zedekiah. Prob- 
ably, also, the denunciations of an Egyptian alliance 
contained in Jer. ii, 18, 36, have reference to the same 
time. It appears that Nebuchadnezzar, being made 
aware of Zedekiah’s defection, either by the non-pay- 
ment of the tribute or by other means, at once sent 
an army to ravage Judiea. This was done, and the 
whole country was reduced, except Jerusalem and two 
strong places in the western plain, Lachish and Aze- 
kah, which still held out (Jer. xxxiv, 7). In the panic 
which followed the appearance of the Chaldseans, Zed- 
ekiah succeeded in inducing the princes and other in- 
habitants of Jerusalem to abolish the odious custom 
which prevailed of enslaving their countrymen. A sol- 
emn rite (ver. 18), recalling in its form that in which 
the original covenant of the nation bad been made with 
Abram (Gen. xv, 9, etc.), was performed in the Temple 
(Jer. xxxiv, 15), and a crowd of Israelites of both sexes 
found themselves released from slavery. 

In the meantime Pharaoh had moved to the assist- 
ance of his ally. On hearing of his approach, the Chal- 
dteans at once raised the siege and advanced to meet him. 
The nobles seized the moment of respite to reassert their 
power over the king, and their defiance of Jehovah, by 
re-enslaving those whom they had so recently manu- 
mitted; and the prophet thereupon utters a doom on 
these miscreants which, in the fierceness of its tone and in 
some of its expressions, recalls those of Elijah on Ahab 
! (Jer. xxxiv, 20). This encounter was quickly followed 


ZEDEKIAII 


ZEDEKIAII 


10 

bv Jeremiah’s capture and imprisonment, which, but for 
the interference of the king (Jer. xxxvii, 17, 21), would 
have rapidly put an end to his life (ver. 20). llow 
long the Babylonians were absent from Jerusalem we 
are not told. It must have required at least several 
months to move a large army and baggage through the 
difficult and tortuous country which separates Jerusalem 
from the Philistine Plain, and to effect the complete re- 
pulse of the Egyptian army from Syria, which Josephus 
affirms was effected. All we certainly know is that on 
the tenth day of the tenth month of Zcdekiah's ninth 
year, the Chaldieans were again before the walls (Hi, 4). 
From this time forward the siege progressed slowly but 
‘surely to its consummation, with the accompaniment of 
both famine and pestilence (Josephus). Zedekiah again 
interfered to preserve the life of Jeremiah from the 
vengeance of the princes (xxxviii, 7-13), and then oc- 
curred the interview between the king and the prophet 
of which mention has already been made, and which 
affords so good a clew to the condition of abject depend- 
ence into which a long course of opposition had brought 
the weak-minded monarch. It would seem from this 
conversation that a considerable desertion had already 
taken place to the besiegers, proving that the prophet’s 
view of the condition of things was shared by many of 
his countrymen. But the unhappy Zedekiah throws 
away the chance of preservation for himself and the 
city which the prophet set before him, in his fear that 
he would be mocked by those very Jews who had al- 
ready taken the step Jeremiah was urging him to take 
(ver. 19). At the same time, his fear of the princes 
who remained in the city is not diminished, and he 
even condescends to impose on the prophet a subter- 
fuge, with the view of concealing the real purport of 
his conversation from these tyrants of his spirit (ver. 24- 
27). 

But while the king was hesitating the end was rap- 
idly coming nearer. The city was indeed reduced to 
the last extremity. The fire of the besiegers had 
throughout been very destructive (Josephus), but it 
was now aided by a severe famine. The bread had 
long been consumed (Jer. xxxviii, 9), and all the ter- 
rible expedients had been tried to which the wretched 
inhabitants of a besieged town are forced to resort in 
such cases. Mothers had boiled and eaten the flesh of 
their own infants (Bar. ii, 3; Lam. iv, 10). Persons of 
the greatest wealth and station were to be seen search- 
ing the rhmgheaps for a morsel of food. The effemi- 
natehobles, whose fair complexions had been their pride, 
wandered in the open streets like blackened but living 
skeletons (ver. 5, 8). Still the king was seen in public, 
sitting in the gate where justice was administered, that 
his people might approach him, though indeed he had 
no help to give them (Jer. xxxviii, 7). 

At last, after sixteen dreadful months had dragged 
on, the catastrophe arrived. It was on the ninth day 
of the fourth month, about the middle of July, at mid- 
night, as Josephus with minuteness informs us, that the 
breach in those stout and venerable walls was effected. 
The moon, nine days old, had gone down below the hills 
which form the western edge of the basin of Jerusalem, 
or was, at any rate, too low to illuminate the utter dark- 
ness which reigns in the narrow lanes of an eastern 
town, where the inhabitants retire early to rest, and 
where there are but few windows to emit light from 
within the houses. The wretched remnants of the 
army, starved and exhausted, had left the walls, and 
there was nothing to oppose the entrance of the Chal- 
deans. Passing in through the breach, they made 
their way, as their custom was, to the centre of the 
city, and' for the first time the Temple was entered by 
a hostile force, and all the princes of the court of the 
great king took their seats in state in the middle gate 
of the hitherto virgin house of Jehovah. The alarm 
quickly spread through the sleeping city, and Zedekiah, 
collecting his wives and children (Josephus), and sur- 
rounding himself with the few soldiers who had sur- 


79 

vivetl the accidents of the siege, made his way out of 
the city at the opposite end to that at which the Assyr- 
ians had entered, by a street which, like the Bein e$- 
Surciu at Damascus, ran between two walls (probably 
those on the east and west sides of the so-called Tyro- 
pu‘on valley), and issued at a gate above the royal gar- 
dens ami the Fountain of Siloam. Thence he took the 
road towards the Jordan, perhaps hoping to lind refuge, 
as David had, at some fortified place in the mountains 
ou its eastern side. On the road they were met and 
recognised by some of the Jews who had formerly de- 
serted to the Chahheans. By them the intelligence' 
was communicated, with the eager treachery of desert- 
ers, to the generals in the city (Josephus), and, as soon 
as the dawn of day permitted it, swift pursuit was made. 
The king’s party must have had sonic hours’ start, and 
ought to have had no difficulty in reaching the Jordan; 
but, either from their being on fodt, weak and infirm, 
while the pursuers were mounted, or perhaps owing to 
the incumbrance of the women and baggage, they were 
overtaken near Jericho, when just within sight of the 
river. A few of the people only remained round the 
person of the king. The rest fled in all directions, so 
that lie was easily taken. 

Nebuchadnezzar himself was then at Kiblah, at the 
upper end of the valley of Lebanon, some thirty-live 
miles beyond Baalbek, and therefore about ten days’ 
journey from Jerusalem. Thither Zedekiah and his 
sons were despatched ; his daughters were kept at Jeru- 
salem, and shortly after fell into the hands of the no- 
torious Isbmael at Mizpah, When he was brought be- 
fore Nebuchadnezzar, the great king reproached him in 
the severest terms, first for breaking his oath of alle- 
giance, and next for ingratitude (Josephus). lie then, 
with a refinement of cruelty characteristic of those cruel 
times, ordered his sous to be killed before him, and last- 
ly his own eves to be thrust out. See Eye. He was 
loaded with brazen fetters, and at a later period taken 
to Babylon, where he died. We are not told whether 
he was allowed to communicate with his brother Jehoi- 
achin, who at that time was also in captivity there; 
nor do we know the time of his death; but from the 
omission of his name in the statement of Jehoiakitn’s 
release by Evil-Merodach, twenty-six years after the 
fall of .Jerusalem, it is natural to infer that by that time 
Zedckiah’s sufferings had ended. 

The fact of his interview with Nebuchadnezzar at 
Kiblah, and his being carried blind to Babylon, recon- 
ciles two predictions of Jeremiah and Ezekiel, which at 
the time of their delivery must have appeared conflict- 
ing, and which Josephus indeed particularly states Zed- 
ekiah alleged as ti is reason for not giving more heed to 
Jeremiah. The former of these (Jer. xxxii, 4) states 
that Zedekiah shall “speak with the king of Babylon 
mouth to mouth, and his eves shall behold his eves:” 
the latter (Ezek. xii, 13), that “he shall be brought to 
Babylon, yet shall he not see it, though he die there.” 
The whole of this prediction of Ezekiel, w hose prophe- 
cies appear to have been delivered at Babylon (i, 1-3; 
xl, 1), is truly remarkable as describing almost exactly 
the circumstances of Zcdekiah’s flight. — Smith. 

4 . A son of Jehoiaehin or Jeconiah, and grandson 
of Jehoiakim, king of Judah (1 Citron, iii, 1G). B.C. 
598 or Inter. As nothing further is recorded of Itiyi, and 
he is not mentioned subsequently among the royal lin- 
eage (ver. 17), Keil conjectures (Comment, ad W.) that 
lie ma^ have died prior to the deportation of the royal 
family; but in that case he must have been only an 
infant 

5 . The son of Maaseiah, a false prophet in Babylon 
among the captives who were taken with Jeconiah (.Jer. 
xxix, 21, 22). He was denounced in the letter of Jer- 
emiah (595) for having, with Ahab the sou of Kolaiah, 
buoyed up the people with false hopes, and for profane 
and flagitious conduct. Their names were to become 
a by-word, and their terrible fate a warning. Of this 
fate we have no direct intimation, or of the maimer in 


ZEEB 


10S0 


ZEMARAIM 


which they incurred it; the prophet simply pronounces 
that they should fall into the hands of Nebuchadnezzar 
and be burned to death. In the Targura of lb Joseph 
on 2 Chron. xxviii, 3, the story is told that Joshua the 
son of Jozadak the high-priest was cast into t lie fur- 
nace of lire with Aliab and Zedekiah, but that, while 
they were consumed, he was saved for his righteous- 
ness’ sake. — Smith. 

6. The first named of the princes who sealed the sa- 
cred covenant with Nehemiah (Neh. x, 1, A. V. “Ziki- 
jah”). 13. C. 410. 

Zeeb. See Wolf. 

Ze'eb (Heb. Zeeb', 2JST, icolf, as often; Sept, 6 Z)';/3, 
Vulg. Zel »), one of the two “princes” of Midian 

in the great invasion of Israel — inferior to the “kings” 
Zebah and Zalmunna. He is always named with Oreb 
(Judg. vii, ‘25; viii,«o; Tsa. lxxxiii, 11). The name 
signifies in Hebrew" “wolf,” just as Oreb does “crow,” 
and the two are appropriate enough to the customs | 
of predatory warriors, who delight in conferring such 
names on their chiefs. Zeeb and Oreb were not slain 
at the first rout of the Arabs below the spring of Harod, 
but at a later stage of the struggle, probably in crossing 
the Jordan at a ford farther down the river, near the 
passes which descend from Mount Ephraim. An enor- 
mous mass of their followers perished with them. See 
Ou lb. Zeeb, the w'olf, was brought to bay in a wine- 
press which in later times bore his name — “the wine- 
press of Zeeb” (2N* ; Sept. 'laKt<pZi)<p v. r. latcttp- 

£j//3, Vulg. Torcular Zeb). — Smith. Down the Jordan 
valley, overlooking the plain of Jericho, is a sharp peak, 
still known as Ash el-Ghorab , i. e. “the Raven’s, or 
Oreb's, Peak.” Five miles north-west of this is a wady 
and mound known as Triveel el-Diab, i. e. “the Wolfs, 
or Zeeb’s, Den,” which Tristram accepts as the required 
localities ( Bible Places, p. 230). Rabbi Schwarz’s sug- 
gestion {Palest, p. 231) is inapposite. 

Zekukith. See Crystal. 

Ze'lali (Ileb. Tsela', [in pause, in Sam.], 
a rib; Sept, in Josh. N//XJ, in Sam. IlXfi'pd), a city in 
the tribe of Benjamin (Josh, xviii, 28, where it is men- 
tioned in the south-western section between Taralah 
and Ha-Eleph); it contained the family tomb of Kish, 
the father of Saul (2 Sam. xxi, 14), in which the bones 
of Said and Jonathan, and also apparently of the two 
sons and five grandsons of Saul sacrificed to Jehovah 
on the hill of Gibeah, at last found iheir resting-place 
(comp. ver. 13). The ancient geographers seem igno- 
rant of the locality (Reland. Palest, p. 1058) ; but mod- 
ern travellers are inclined to identify it with Beit Jala 
(Wilson, Lands of the Bible , i. 401 IJonar, Mission, p. 
234), a considerable Christian village opposite Rachel’s 
Tomb (Robinson, Bibl. lies, ii, 2 sq.). The suggestion 
of rabbi Schwarz ( Palest . p. 128) is too vague. Lieut. 
Conder’s suggestion of Rumman is equally a venture 
(lent IPonfc in Palest, ii, 340). See Zelzah. 

Ze'lek (Heb. Tse'lek, pppl, Jissnre ; Sept. NfXX)/*: 
and S/3Xeyi v. r. ’EXt and 2*X//), an Ammonite, one of 
Davids thirty heroes (2 Sam. xxiii, 37 ; 1 Chron. xi. 
39). B.C. 1046. See David. 

Zeloph'ehad ( Heb. Tselophchnd of 
uncertain etymology; Sept. NaX7racit) v. r. NoX^oat*, 
etc.), son of Ilepher, son of Gilead, son of Macliir, son 
of Manasseh (Josh. xvii,3). B.C. ante 1618, lie was 
apparently the second son of his father, Ilepher (1 Chron. 
vii, 15); though Simon and others, following the in- 
terpretation of the rabbins, and under the impression 
that the etymology of his name indicates a first-born, 
explain the term “OlEin as meaning that his lot came 
up second. Zelophehad came out of Egypt with Mo- 
ses; and all that we know of him is that he took no 
part in Korah’s rebellion, but that he died in the wil- 
derness, as did the whole of that generation (Numb. 


xiv, 35; xxvii, 3). On his death without male heirs, 
his live daughters, just after the second numbering in 
the wilderness, came before Moses and Eleazar to claim 
the inheritance of their father in the tribe of Manasseh. 
'l’he claim was admitted by divine direction, and a law 
w’as promulgated, to be of general application, that if 
a man died without sons his inheritance should pass 
to his daughters (xxvi, 33; xxvii, 1-11); and this led 
to a further enactment (ch. xxxvi), that such heiresses 
should not marry out of their own tribe — a regulation 
which the live daughters of Zelophehad complied with, 
being all married to sons of Manasseh, so that Zelophe- 
liad’s inheritance continued in t he tribe of Manasseh. 
The law of succession as exemplified in the case of Ze- 
lophehad is treated at length by Selden (Be /Success . 
cb. xxii, xxiii). — Smith. See Inheritance. 

Zelo'tes (ZjjXwn'/A an epithet of the apostle Si- 
mon (Luke vi, 15; Acts i, 13) to distinguish him from 
Simon Peter. In t lie parallel lists of Matt* x, 4; Mark 
iii, 18, he is called Simon the Cunanite (Karariri/e, A.* 
XL erroneously “ Canaanite”), this being a translitera- 
tion of the Heb. or Aramaean zeal , of which the 

Greek title is a translation. The word denotes a zealot 
in general (1 Cor. xiv, 12; Tit. ii, 14; 1 Pet. iii, 13), 
especially in behalf of Jewish law r and institutions (Acts 
, xxi. 20; xxii. 3; Gal. i, 14). Probably there were al- 
I ready extant in the time of Christ, when this epithet 
w'as given to Simon, the germs of the sect or party af- 
terwards thus designated, the members of which profess- 
ed great attachment to Judaism, and, under pretext of 
punishing by informal trial and execution those guilty 
of infringing the observances of the national religion, 
perpetrated great excesses (Josephus, lP«r, iv, 3, 9; v, 
1,4; vi, 3; vii, 8,1). See Simon. 

Zel'zah (Heb. Tseltsach', shadow from the 

sun, or, by reduplication from nss, to send ; Sept. aX- 
\6f.avoQ fieydXa, Vulg. meridies), a place in the border 
of Benjamin, mentioned by Samuel when sending Saul 
home from Ramah: “Thou shalt find two men by 
Rachel’s sepulchre, in the border of Benjamin, at Zel- 
zah ” (1 Sam. x, 2). Rachel’s sepulchre stands on the 
side of the road leading from Bethlehem to Jerusalem, 
about a mile distant from the former. Westward of 
the sepulchre, in full view across the valley, and not 
much over half a mile distant, is the village of Beit 
Jala, which may be identical with Zelzah. The names 
bear considerable resemblance to each other and the 
position agrees with the sacred narrative (Wilson, 
Lands of the Bibb, i,401). The Sept, rendering of Zel- 
zah is remarkable. It makes it an expression of joy 
on the part of the men who announced the finding of 
the asses — “Thou shalt meet two men leapimj violently 
But dean Stanley’s remark on this is surely a rash 
criticism, that the Hebrew text “cannot be relied upon” 
(Sin. and Pal. p. 222). The Greek rendering in this 
case apparently rests upon a reading which 

indicates a possible etymology of the word=efow6fe 
shade. The Talmud has numerous explanations, the 
favorite one being that Zelzah was Jerusalem — “the 
shadow ( bs) of God.” Something of this kind seems to 
be at the basis of the rendering of the Vulg. The essen- 
tial part of the name is thus rendered more closely con- 
gruent with that of the above Arabic village, aud at the 
same time with that of Zklaii (q. \\), which must have 
lain in the same vicinity. Rabbi Schwarz suggests an- 
other location less apposite (Palest, p. 158), See Saul, 

ZemaraTm (Heb. Tsemara'ijim, 0^1221, double 
fleece of wool , or perh. the dual of same base as Zema- 
rite [q. v,]), the name of two localities in Palestine. 

1. (Sept. Nf/ipi/t v. r. Ndpo ; X T ulg. Semaraim.) One 
of the ancient towns in the territory allotted to Benja- 
min (Josh, xviii, 22), where it is grouped in the eastern 
section of the tribe, and named between Beth-arabah 
and Bethel ; and it would therefore appear to have been 


Z EM A RITE 


10S1 


ZE1TIAXIAII 


situated either in the Jordan valley (Arabah) or on the 
mountain declivities between it and Bethel. About live 
miles north of Jericho, in the western edge of the val- 
ley of the Jordan, are the ruins of a small town or vil- 
lage, strewn over a low hill, and called Khurbet es-Sum- 
rah. which may be regarded as the modern representa- 
tive of the old town of Benjamin (Seetzen, Ik-isen, vol. 

iv, map; Robinson, Bill. Pes. i, 5(30 ; iii, 292, note; Van 
de Velde, Memoir , p. 355 ; De Sauloy, Bead Sea. ii, *20, '20 ; 
Schwarz, Patent, p. 125). Though little remains above 
the ground, there are many extensive quarries of sand- 
stone beneath, which are proofs of large buildings once 
existing in the vicinity (Tristram, Bible Places, p. 103). 

2 . (Sept. Sopopeov', Vulg. Semcron. ) A mountain 
("'•»?) or eminence mentioned in 2 Chron. xiii, 4 as be- 
ing “in Mount Ephraim,” that is to say, within the 
general district of the highlands of that great tribe. It 
appears to have been close to the scene of the engage- 
ment mentioned in the narrative, which again may be 
inferred to have been south of Bethel and Ephraim (ycr. 
19). It may be said, in passing, that a position so far 
south is no contradiction to its being in Mount Ephraim, 
which extended into the contiguous territorv of Benja- 
min. See Ramaii. It probably lay adjacent to the 
above-named town, from which it appears to have de- 
rived its tna me (Reland, Pakest. p. 1053). 

Zem'arite (Heb. with the art. hats- Tscmuri', 
evidently a patronymic or rather patrial from 
Zemer [see below]; Sept, o Sapapaiogi Vulg. Sa- 
marazus), the general designation of one of the Ilamitic 
tribes who in the genealogical table of Gen. x (ver. 18) 
and 1 Chron. i (ver. 16) arc represented as “sons of Ca- 
naan.” They are named between the Arvaditc, or peo- 
ple of Kuad, and the Hamathite, or people of Hamah. 
The old interpreters (Jerusalem Targum, Arabic ver- 
sion, etc.) place them at Emessa, the modern Hums. 
Michaelis ( Spiciley . ii, 51), revolting at the want of 
similarity between the two names (which is perhaps 
the strongest argument in favor of the old idciitifica- 
tion), proposes to locate them at Sumra, the Sinn/va 
(Sipvpa) or Simgrus (Sipvpog) of ’the classical geogra- 
phers (Assemani, Biblioth. Orient, i, 504), located on the 
Phoenician river Eleutherus (Ptolemv, v, 15, 4; l'linv, 

v, 17; Mela, i, 12, 3), which name is mentioned bv 
Shaw (p. 234) as attached to a site of ruins near Arka, 
on the west coast of Syria, ten or eleven miles above 
Tripoli (comp. Buckingham, ii, 415). On the French 
map of the Lebanon ( Carte da Liban , etc., 1862) this 
place appears as Kobbet oum Shounmt, and lies between 
Arka and the Mediterranean, two kilometres from the 
latter and five and a half from the former. Beyond, 
however, the resemblance in the names, and the proxim- 
ity of Ruad and Arka, the probable seats of the Arva- 
dites and Arkites, and the consequent inference that 
the original seat of the Zemarites must have been some- 
where in this direction, there is nothing to prove that 
Sumra or Shumra has any connection with the Tscm- 
arites of the ancient records. The name is more like- 
ly to have sprung from the locality in the eastern de- 
clivity of Mount Ephraim or Benjamin, elsewhere des- 
ignated as Zemakaim (q. v.). The identification by 
the Sept, and Vulg. of both these places with the city 
of Samaria is evidently a mere conjecture or false 
transliteration. 

Zemi'ra (Ilcb. Zemirah music, as in Isa. 
xxi v, 1 6, etc. ; Sept. Zf pipet v. r. Z apipiag and ’Apapiug; 
Vulg. Zamira), first named of the nine sous of Beehcr 
son of Benjamin (1 Chron. vii, 8). B.C. post 1871. 

Ze'nan (Hob. Tsenan', ]- 11, pointed, if this be the 
proper form of the name; Sept. So naift v. r. Stvvd; 
Vulg, Sanaa), a town in the lowland district of Judah 
(Josh, xv, 37), where it is named before lladashah and 
Migdal-gad in the western group of t he tribe. See 
Judah. Accordingly, a few miles south of the present 
Mejdel is a small village called Jenin, which is probably 


the modern representative of Zenan. It is generally 
supposed that Zcunn is the same place which the proph- 
et M ieah calls Zaamin (Mie. i, 1 1 ; see Roland, Pakvst. 
p. 1058; Koil and Delitzsch, On Josh, xv , 37). Kuohcl 
supposes this last to be identical with the ruin of es- 
Scnat, near Beit Jibrtn (Tobler, Pritte Wandennty, p. 
124). Schwarz ( Palest . p. 103) proposes to identify* 
Zenan with “the village Zan-abra , situated two and a 
hall English miles south-east of Marcshali.” By this 
he doubtless intends the place which in the lists of Rob- 
inson ( Bib/. Jtes. [1st ed.J, vol. iii, app. p. 1 17 ) is called 
es-Sendbirah, and in Toblor's Pritte Wandernny (p. 119), 
es-Senndbereh, The latter traveller in his map places 
it about two and a half miles due east of Marash (Ma- 
resha). But both these latter identifications arc more 
than doubtful. 

Ze'nas (Yaji'ag, a contraction from 'Aqi'Miopog, as 
’Ap-fpag from * Aprs pie lopoc, N vptyag from SrpipdcM- 
I ooc, and probably ‘Kppdg from ‘ Kppnemfiog), a believer, 
and, as may be inferred from the context, a preacher of 
the Gospel, who is mentioned in Tit. iii, 13 in connec- 
tion with Apollos. and. together with him, is there com- 
mended by Raul to the care and hospitality of Titus 
and the Cretan brethren. A.l). cir. 59. lie is further 
described as “the lawyer” (rbv vopacdv). It is impos- 
sible to determine with certainty whether wc arc to in- 
fer from this designation that Zenas was a Roman juris- 
consult or a Jewish doctor. Grotius accepts the former 
alternative, and thinks that he was a Greek who had 
studied Roman law. The New-Test, usage of ropocog 
leads rather to the other inference. Tradition has been 
somewhat busy with the name of Zenas. The Synopsis 
de Vita et Morte Prophet arum, A postolomm, et PiLcipu- 
loruni Domini , ascribed to Dorotheas of Tyre, makes 
him to have been one of the “seventy-two” disciples, 
and subsequently bishop of Diospolis, in Palestine ( Bibl. 
Pair, iii, 150). The “seventy-two” disciples of Doro- 
theas are, however, a mere string of names picked out 
of salutations and other incidental notices in the New 
Test. The Greek menologios on t he festival ofSS. Bar- 
tholomew and Titus (Aug. 25) refer to a certain Life of 
Titus, ascribed to Zenas, which is also quoted for the 
supposed conversion of the younger Rlin v (comp. Eabri- 
cius, Codex A pocr. X. T. ii, 831. 2). The association of 
Zenas with Titus, in Paul’s epistle to the latter, suffi- 
ciently accounts for the forgery. — Smith. 

Zeno, a Greek philosopher, was born at Elea, in 
! Southern Italy, about B.C. 490. lie was a pupil ofCar- 
meuides, and lived at Elea all his life, with the excep- 
tion of occasional visits to Athens, where he had many 
of the wealthy citizens for his disciples. He is said to 
have engaged in a conspiracy against Ncarchus, the ty- 
rant of Elea, who captured him and put him to death 
hv cruel torture. For an account of his philosophy, see 
Elkatic School. 

Zeno the Stoic. Sec Stoics. 

Zephani'ah (Heb. Tsephnnynh\ JV:£U' [in the 
prolonged form Tsephanya'hu, 2 Kings xxv, 

18], hidden of Jehovah; Sept. v. r. [in 1 

Chron.] Sa<paviug, Vulg. Sophonias), the name of fuur 
Hebrews. 

1. A Kohathitc Levite, son of Tahath and father of 
Azariah, in the ancestry of the prophet Samuel (q. v.) 
and of lleman (1 Chron. vi, 36 [Hob. 21]); the same 
elsewhere (ver. 24 [9]) called Uriel (q. v.) the lather 
of Uzziah. 

2. A prophet of whom wc have no information be- 
yond what his book furnishes. In this ( Zepli. i. 1) he 
is said to have been " the son of Ciislii. the son ot Ged- 
aliah. t lie son of Amariah, the son of Hizkiali.” which 
last is usually regarded as the same with king llezcki- 
ah. If so, he lived B.C. cir. 620. With i his agrees the 
date of his prophecy there given ; namely, in the reign 
of .Josiah. We do not elsewhere, however, read of any 
such son of llezekiali as Amariah, ami, so far as the 


V 


ZEPHANIAH, BOOK OF 


10S2 


ZEPHANIAII, BOOK OF 


record and probability go, Manasseh was his only son. 
See Zephaniaii, Hook of. 

3. The son of Maaseiab (Jer. xxi, 1) and sagan , or 
second priest, in the reign of Zedekiah. lie succeeded 
Jehoiada (xxix, 25, 26). and was probably a ruler of 
the Temple, whose office it was, among others, to punish 
pretenders to the gift of prophecy. In this capacity he 
was appealed to by Shcmaiah the Nehelamite, in a let- 
ter from Babylon, to punish Jeremiah (ver. 29). Twice 
was he sent from Zedekiah to inquire of Jeremiah the 
issue of the siege of the city by the ChaltUvans (xxi, I), 
and to implore him to intercede for the people (xxxvii, 
3). On the capture of Jerusalem by Nebuzaradan, he 
was taken with Seraiah the high-priest and others, and 
slain at Kiblah (lii, 24, 27; 2 Kings xxv, 18, 21). — 
Smith. B.C. 588. 

4. Father of Josiah 2 (Zcch. vi, 10), and of Hen, ac- 
cording to the reading of the received text of Zech. vi, 
14 as given in the A. V. B.C. ante 519. See Josiah. 

ZEPHANIAII, Book of, the ninth in order of the 
minor prophets, both in the Hebrew and Creek copies 
of the Scriptures (Jerome, Prolog, ad Paul, et Eu - 
stock.). Besides his genuine prophecy, there was in 
the ancient Christian Church an apocryphal book as- 
scribed to Zephaniah the prophet, and quoted by some 
of the fathers under the name of his ’AvdXi)\pig or npo- 
<pi)Ttia. See Apocrypha. 

1. Author. — 1. The- name of this prophet has been 
variously explained. Disputes upon it arose as early 
as the times of Jerome, for in his Commentary on this 
book he says, “Nomen Sophonia?, alii speculam, alii 
arcanum Dei, transtulerunt.” The word was thus de- 
rived either from HSIS, he watched , or "Eli, he hid , with 
the common affix IT*, i. e. Jah. The old father made 
it a matter of indifference which etymon he adopted, 
as both, according to him, give virtually the same sense 
— the commission of a prophet being virtually that of a 
watchman or seer, and the burden of his message some 
secret revealed to him by God. Abarbanel (Prcef. in 
Ezek.) adheres to the latter mode of derivation, and the 
Pseudo-Dorotheus, following the former, translates the 
prophet’s name by the Greek participle oKOTrevmv. 
Ililler and Simonis differ also in a similar way; Hiller, 
taking the term from “(Eli, renders it “abscondidit se, 
i. e. delituit Jehovah” ( Onomast . s. v.), as if the name 
had contained a mystic reference to the character of 
the age in which the prophet lived, when God had 
withdrawn himself from his apostate people; but Si- 
monis ( Onomast . V. T.) gives the true signification, one 
sanctioned by Gcsenius — “abscondidit, i. e. custodivit 
Jehovah,” Jehovah hath guarded, the verb “jEIi being 
used of divine protection in Psa. xxvii, 5 and lxxxiii, 4. 
The name seems to have been a common one among 
the Jews. 

2. Parentage. — Contrary to usual custom, the pedi- 
gree of the prophet is traced back for four generations 
— “the son of Cushi, the son of Gedaliah. the son of 
Amariah, the son of llizkiah.” This formal record of 
his lineage has led many to suppose that Zephaniah 
had sprung from a noble stock (Cyril. Prcef. ad Zeph.), 
and the occurrence of the highest name in the list, 
which in the Hebrew text is spelled and pointed in the 
same way as that rendered llezekiah in the books of 
Kings and Chronicles, has induced some to identify it 
with that of the good king Hezekiah, and to pronounce 
the prophet a cadet of the royal house of Judah. Kim- 
chi is very cautious in his opinion, and leaves the point 
undecided; but Aben-Ezra, ever ready to magnify his 
nation, at once concludes that Zephaniah was descend- 
ed from Hezekiah ; and his opinion has been followed 
by Huet ( Demonstrat . Evangel. Propos. iv, 303), and 
partially by Eiehhorn ( Einleit . § 593). The conjecture 
has little else to recommend it than the mere occurrence 
of the royal name. But it was not a name confined to 
royalty; and had it been the name of the pious mon- 


arch to which Zephaniah’s genealogy is traced, certain- 
ly his official designation, “king of Judah,” would have 
been subjoined in order to prevent mistake. Such an 
addition is found in connection with his name in Prov. 
xxv, 1 and Isa. xxxviii, 9. It forms no objection to 
this statement to affirm that the phrase “ king of Judah” 
is added to Josiah, and to avoid repetition may have 
been omitted after llizkiah, for such regard to eupho- 
ny, such finical delicacy, is no feature of Hebrew com- 
position. The argument of Carpzov ( Tntrod . p. 414), 
copied by Bosenmiiller ( Procemium in Zeph.), against 
the supposed connection of the prophet with the blood 
royal is of no great weight. These critics sav that from 
Hezekiah to Josiah, in whose reign Zephaniah flourish- 
ed, are only three generations, while from Hezekiah to 
Zephaniah four are reckoned in the first verse of the 
prophecy. But as Hezekiah reigned twenty-nine years, 
and his successor sat on the throne no less than fifty- 
five } r ears, there is room enough in such a period for 
the four specified descents; and Amariah, though not 
heir to the crown, may have been much older than his 
youthful brother Manasseh, who was crowned at the 
age of twelve. As there was at least another Zeplia- 
niah, a conspicuous personage at the time of the Cap- 
tivity, the parentage of the prophet may have been re- 
counted so minutely to prevent any reader from con- 
founding the two individuals. The descent of the 
prophet from king Hezekiah, therefore, is not in itself 
improbable, and the fact that the pedigree terminates 
with that name points to a personage of rank and im- 
portance. Late critics and commentators generally ac- 
quiesce in this hypothesis, viz. Eiehhorn, Hitzig, F. Ad. 
Strauss ( Vatidnia Zephanice [Berlin, 1843]), Ilavernick, 
Keil, and Bleek (Elide dung in das Alte Testament ). 

The Jews absurdly reckon that here, as in other su- 
perscriptions, the persons recorded as a prophet’s ances- 
tors were themselves endowed with the prophetic spirit. 
The so-called Epiphanius (De Vitis Prophet, ch. xix) 
asserts that Zephaniah was of the tribe of Simeon, of 
the hill Sarabatha, n7ro 6 povg Napa/SaS-d. The exist- 
ence of the prophet is known only from his oracles, 
and these have no biographical sketches; so that our 
knowledge of this man of God comprises only the fact 
and the results of his inspiration. It may be safely in- 
ferred, however, that he labored with Josiah in the 
pious work of re-establishing the worship of Jehovah 
in the land. 

II. Date. — It is recorded (ch. i) that the word of the 
Lord came to him “in the days of Josiah the son of 
Amon, king of Judah.” We have reason for supposing 
that he flourished during the earlier portion of Josiah ’s 
reign. In the second chapter (ver. 13-15) he foretells 
the doom of Nineveh, and the fall of that ancient city 
happened about the eighteenth year of Josiah. In the 
commencement of his oracles, also, he denounces various 
forms of idolatry, and specially the remnant of Baal. 
The reformation of Josiah began in the twelfth and 
was completed in the eighteenth year of his reign. So 
thorough was his extirpation of the idolatrous rites and 
hierarchy which defiled his kingdom that he burned 
down the groves, dismissed the priesthood, threw down 
the altars, and made dust of the images of Baalim. 
Zephaniah must have prophesied prior to this religious 
revolution, while some remains of Baal were yet secret- 
ed in the land, or between the twelfth and eighteenth 
years of the royal reformer. So Hitzig (Die 12 kleinen 
Prophet.) and Movers ( Chronik , p. 234) place him ; while 
Eiehhorn, Bertholdt, and Jager incline to give him a 
somewhat later date. At all events, he flourished be- 
tween the years B.C. 642 and 611; and the portion 
of his prophecy which refers to the destruction of the 
Assyrian empire must have been delivered prior to the 
year B.C. 625, the year in which Nineveh fell (Hender- 
son, On the Minor Prophets, p. 326). The publication 
of these oracles was therefore contemporary with a por- 
tion of those of Jeremiah, for the word of the Lord came 
to him in the thirteenth year of the reign of Josiah. 


1083 


ZEPHANIAH, BOOK OF 

Indeed, the Jewish tradition is, that Zcphaniah had for 
his colleagues Jeremiah and the prophetess Iluldah, the 
former fixing his sphere of labor in the thoroughfares 
and market-places, the latter exercising her honorable 
vocation in the college in Jerusalem (Oarpzov, Introd. 
p. 415). Ivbster (Die Prophet en, iii) endeavors to prove 
that Zcphaniah was posterior to llabakkuk. 1 1 is ar- 
guments from similarity of diction are very trivial, and 
the more so when we reflect that all circumstances com- 
bine in inducing us to fix the period of 1 labakkuk (q. v.) 
in the reign of Jehoiakim, immediately before the Clial- 
drean invasion. In the present book Nineveh is repre- 
sented as in a state of peace and prosperity, while the 
notices of Jerusalem touch upon the same tendencies to 
idolatry and crime which arc condemned by the con- 
temporary Jeremiah. It is not impossible, moreover, 
that the prophecy was delivered about t lie time when 
the Scythians overran the empires of Western Asia, 
extending their devastations to Palestine. The king’s 
children, who are spoken of in ch. i, 8 as addicted to 
f%reign habits, could not have been sons of Josiah, who 
was but eight years old at his accession but were prob- 
ably his brothers or near relatives. The remnant of 
Baal (ch. i, 4) implies that some partial reformation had 
previously taken place, while the notices of open idola- 
try arc incompatible with the state of Judah after the 
discovery of the Book of the Law. 

III. Contents. — In ch. i the utter desolation of Jiukea 
is predicted as a judgment for idolatry, and neglect of 
the Lord, the luxury of the princes, and the violence 
and deceit of their dependents (ver. 3-9). The pros- 
perity, security, and insoleuce of the people are contrasted 
with the horrors of the day of wrath ; the assaults upon 
the fenced cities and high towers, and the slaughter of 
the people (ver. 10-18). Ch. ii is a call to repentance 
(ver. 1-3), with prediction of the ruin of the cities of 
the Philistines, and the restoration of the house of Ju- 
dah after the visitation (ver. 4-7). Other enemies of 
Judah, Moab, Ammon, are threatened with perpetual 
destruction, Ethiopia with a great slaughter, and Nine- 
veh, the capital of Assyria, with desolation (ver. 8-15). 
In ch. iii the prophet addresses Jerusalem, which he 
reproves sharply for vice and disobedience, the cruelty 
of the princes and Lhe treachery of the priests, and for 
their general disregard of warnings and visitations (ver. 
1-7). He then concludes with a series of promises, the 
destruction of the enemies of God’s people, the restora- 
tion of exiles, the extirpation of the proud and violent*, 
and the permanent peace and blessedness of the poor 
and afflicted remnant who shall trust in the name of the 
Lord. These exhortations to rejoicing ami exertion are 
mingled with intimations of a complete manifestation 
of God’s righteousness and love in the restoration of his 
people (ver. 8-20). 

It has been disputed what the enemies are with whose 
desolating inroads lie threatens Judah. r l he ordinary 
and most probable opinion is that the foes whose period 
of invasion was “a day of the trumpet and alarm against 
the fenced cities and against the high towers” (ch. i, If>), 
were the Chaldaeans. Ilitzig especially, Cramer too, and 
Eichhorn, supposed the prophet to refer to a Scythian 
invasion, the history of which they imagine has been 
preserved by Herodotus (i, 105). Hut tbc general style 
of the oracle, and the sweeping vengeance which it 
menaces against Assyria, Philistia, Ammon, and Cush, 
as well as against Judah, by some great ami unnamed 
power, point to the Chaldiean expedition which, under 
Nebuchadnezzar, laid Jerusalem waste, and carried to 
Babylon its enslaved population. The contemporary 
prophecies of Jeremiah contemplate the musto rings, 
onset, and devastations of the same victorious hosts, 
The former part of Zephaniah’s prediction is “a day of 
clouds and of thick darkness,” but in the closing section 
of it light is sown for the righteous : “ The king of Is- 
rael, the Lord, is in the midst of thee; he will rejoice 
over thee with joy; he will rest in his love.” 

IY. Style.— \Ve cannot by any means award so low a 


ZEPIIAXIAII, BOOK OF 

character to Zephaniah’s style as is done by L)e Wettc 
(F.inleit. § 245), who describes it as being often heavy 
and tedious. It has not the sustained majesty of Isaiah, 
or the sublime and original energy of Joel : it has no 
prominent feature of distinction; yet its delineations are 
graphic, ami many of its touches are bold and striking. 
For example, in the first chapter the prophet groups to- 
gether in his descriptions of the national idolatry sev- 
eral characteristic exhibitions of its forms and worship. 
The verses are not tame and prosaic portraiture, but 
form a series of vivid sketches. The poet seizes on the 
more strange peculiarities of the heathen worship — ut- 
tering denunciations on the remnant of Baal, the wor- 
shippers of Chcmarim — the star-adorers, the devotees 
of Malcliam, the fanatics who clad themselves in strange 
apparel, and those who in some superstitious mummery 
leaped upon the threshold (Bochart, IJieroz. c. 3G). Not 
a few verses occur in the course of the prophecy which, 
in tone ami dignity, are noL unworthy to be associated 
with the more distinguished effusions of the Hebrew 
bards. A few paronomasia.* occur (i, 15 and ii, 1-4), and 
occasionally there is a peculiar repetition of a leading 
word in the formation of a climax (ii, 15). 

Jahn (Introd. § 132) and Eichhorn assert that Zcph- 
aniah lias borrowed to a considerable extent from the 
earlier prophets, especially from Isaiah; yet the simi- 
larity of such passages as Isa. xxxiv, 11 to Zcph. ii, 14, 
or Isa. xlvii, 8 to Zeph. ii, 15, or Isa. xviii, 1 to Zcph. 
iii, 10, or Isa. xvi, G lo Zeph. ii, 8, is not sufficient evi- 
dence that Zcphaniah was Isaiah’s imitator. The clauses 
of resemblance are idiomatic in nature, and seem to have 
been of proverbial force and currency, so that both proph- 
ets may have taken them from the national usus lo~ 
quendi . Coincidences of expression have also been noted 
between Zcphaniah ami some of his contemporaries, 
particularly Jeremiah (Eichhorn, Einleit. § 505 ; Bosen- 
m idler, Proant. vi). Between Zeph. i, 5 and Jer. viii, 
2 we can perceive little similarity of language, though 
the same superstitious custom is referred to, and a com- 
parison of Zeph. i, 12 with dor. xlviii, 1 1 leads to such a 
conclusion as we have already stated, as the phrase com- 
mon to both passages — “settled on t lie lees” — must 
have been one in wide circulation in a wine country 
like Jmhva. It was altogether groundless, therefore, in 
some of the older critics, such as Isidore and Schmidius 
( Prokyom.bi Sophon.), to style Zcphaniah theabbrevia- 
tor of Jeremiah. Resemblances have also been traced 
between Zcphaniah and Amos, and between him and 
his successor Ezekiel; lmt to call these imitations is 
rash indeed, if we reflect on the similarity of the topics 
discussed, and the peculiar range of imagery and phrasc- 
ology which is common to Hebrew prophetic ]x>etrv, 
and which was the stereotyped language of the inspired 
brotherhood. The language of Zcphaniah is pure: it 
has not the classic ease ami elegance of the earlier com- 
positions, but it wants the degenerate feebleness and 
Aramaic corruption of the succeeding ;era. Zeplianiah 
is not expressly quoted in tbc New Test.; but clauses 
and expressions bccur which seem to have been formed 
from bis prophecy (Zcph. iii, 9; Bom. xv, G, etc.). Tie 
was, in line, as Cyril of Alexandria terms him ( Prof at . 
in Soph. tom. iii), “a true prophet, and filled with the 
Holy Ghost, and bringing his oracles from the mouth 
of God.” 

The chief characteristics of this book are the unity 
and harmony of the composition, the grace, energy, ami 
dignity of its style, and the rapid and effective alterna- 
tions of threats and promises. Its prophetical import 
is chiefly shown in the accurate predictions of the deso- 
lation which has fallen upon each of the nations de- 
nounced for their crimes; Ethiopia, which is menaced 
with a terrible invasion, being alone exempted from the 
doom of perpetual ruin. The general tone of the last 
portion is Messianic, but without any specific reference 
to the person of our lx>rd. — Kitto; Smith. 

There has often been noticed in this prophecy a gen- 
eral or universal character, rather than specific predic- 


ZEPIIATII 


1084 


ZEPHATII 


tions, though these are not entirely wanting. This tend- 
ency is in harmony with the position which Zephaniah 
was called to occupy in the course of divine providence ; 
for he lived at the commencement of the period of the 
universal empires, which are represented by Daniel in 
detail, and exhibited as introductory to the kingdom 
of the Son of man. The Chaldtean monarchy was rising 
with marvellous rapidity to universal empire, and was 
in preparation by the Lord to be the scourge of his own 
people as well as of the heathen nations; and in con- 
nection with their work Zephaniah saw the coming of 
the day of the Lord, the day of judgment, when all the 
earth should be devoured with the tire of his jealousy (ch. 
i, liS ; iii, 8). But as earlier prophets, especially Joel and 
Isaiah, had already foreseen and declared this in con- 
nection with the work of the Assyrian monarchy, which 
only made a commencement and left the completion to 
its rival and heir at Babylon, we find the language and 
imagery of these earlier prophets continually referred 
to, adopted, or elaborated anew by Zephaniah and his 
contemporary Jeremiah, with whom he has much in 
common. — Fairbairn. 

V. Commentaries. — The following are the special ex- 
egetical helps on this entire book exclusively: Luther, 
Commentarius (in Opp. vol. iv ; also in Germ, in Werke)\ 
Bucer, Commentarins (Argent. 1528, 8vo); Selnecker, 
Auslegnng ( Leips. 1566, 4to) : Ciisar, Predigten (Wittenb. 
1603, 8vo); Tarnovius, Commentarius (Host. 1623, 4to) ; 
Larenus, Tuba (Mediob. 1653, 8vo); Gebhardus, Viudi- 
catio (Grvphan. 1701-2, 4to) ; Ilocke, A «^e^«?i^[includ. 
Nah. and llab.] (Frankf. itlO, 4to); Noltenius, Com- 
meiUariolus [on ch. i] (Fr. ad,0. 1719-24, 4to); Geb- 
hardi, Erkldrung ( Fr. am (X. 1728, 4to); Cramer, 
Scythische JJenkmaler (Kiel, 1777, 8vo); Anton, Inter - 
pretatio [on ch. iii] (Gorl. 1811, 4to) ; Colin, Observa- 
tiones ( Vratisl. 1818, 4to ) ; Ewald, Erklarung (Erlang. 
1827. 8vo) ; Strauss, Commentarius (Berol. 1843, 8vo) ; 
Robinson, Homilies (Loud. 1865, 8vo); Reitike, Erliiute- 
rung (Leips. 1868 ). See Prophets, Minor. 

Ze'pliath (lleb. Tsephath r5S, watch-tower ; 
Sept. <p'& v. r. 2e<pSK and Ef <pep ; Vulg. Sephaath ), 
the earlier name (according to the notice of Judg. i, 17) 
of a Canaanitish town, which after its capture and de- 
struction was called by the Israelites IIormaii (q. v.). 


According to rabbi Schwarz ( Palest . p. 186), it is like- 
wise mentioned in the Jcrus. Talmud (Posh hash-Shanah , 
ch. ii). See also Zipii. Two identifications have been 
proposed for Zephath — that of Dr. Robinson with the 
well-known pass es-Sufd, by which the ascent is made 
from the borders of the Arabah to the higher level of 
the “south country” (Jiibl. Pes. ii, 181), and that of Mr. 
Rowlands (Williams. Holy City, i, 464) with Sebdta, two 
and a half hours beyond Khalasa, on the road to Suez, 
and a quarter of an hour north of Rohebeh, or Ruheibeh. 
See also ZepmatiiaIi. 

1. The former of these Mr. Wilton ( The Xegcb, etc., 
p. 199,200) has challenged, on account of the impracti- 
cability of the pass for the approach of the Israelites, 
ami the inappropriateness of so rugged and desolate a 
spot for the position of a city of any importance. The 
question really forms part of a much larger one, which 
this is not the place to discuss — viz. the route by which 
the Israelites approached the Holy Land. Sec Exons. 
But, in the meantime, it should not be overlooked that 
the attempt of the Israelites in question was an unsu#- 
cessful one, which is so far in favor of the steepness of 
the pass. It should also be borne in mind that both in 
ancient and modern times such difficult passes have 
in many cases been the chief thoroughfares in Pales- 
tine, and this one in particular has remained such to 

I the present day. The argument from the nature of the 
site is one which might be brought with equal force 
against the existence of many others of the towns in 
this region. 

2. On the identification of Mr. Rowlands some doubt 
lias been thrown by the want of certainty as to the 
name and exact locality. Dr. Stewart (Tent and Khan, 
p. 205) heard of the name, but east of Khalasa instead 
of south, and this was in answer to a leading question — 
always a dangerous experiment with Arabs. The Eng- 
lish engineers of the Ordnance Survey, however, found 
Sebaita in the vicinity indicated ; namely, about fifteen 
miles south of Khalasah. Prof. Palmer gives a full de- 
scription of the extensive ruins of the place (Desert of 
tlie Exodus , p. 315 sq. ), and a plan of the town, with 
other details, may be found in the Quarterly Statement 
of the “Palestine Explor. Fund,” Jan. 1871, p. 3-73. 
Preferring, as we decidedly do, the location of Kadesh- 
baruea, on the edge of Hie Arabah, we should decide 



Pass of Sufu. (From a photograph by the Editor. The dark spot half-way up the mouutaiu is the travellers’ 

caravan climbing the asceut.) ^ 


ZEPIIATHAII 


1035 


ZEPwVTI 



against the claims of this spot to be the Zephath of 
Scripture, notwithstanding the agreement in name and 
remains. See Kadesh. 

Zeph'athah (Heb. Tsepha'thah, Pir5!£, iratch- 
tower ; Sept. Kara fioppav, Josephus, Ant. viii, 

12, 1 ; Vulg. Sephata ), the name of a valley (^Xj?) where 
Asa joined battle with Zerali the Ethiopian (2 Chron. 
xiv, 10). It was “ at,” or rather “ belonging to,” Mare- 
shah Josephus, o vk ennoS ev'). This would 

seem to exclude the possibility of its being, as suggest- 
ed by Robinson (Eibl. Res. ii. 31), at Tell es-Sajieh. which 
is not less than eight miles from Marash, the mod- 
ern representative of Mareshah. There is a deep valley 
which runs past the latter place down to Beit Jibrin, 
and thence into the plain of Philistia. This, perhaps, 
may be the valley of Zephathah (Porter, Handbook , p. 
258). Some, however, understand the name Zephathah 
to be only that of Zephath (q. v.), with n directive, and 
render it “ the valley towards Zephath.” 

Zepheth. See Pitch. 

Ze'phi (1 Chron. 5,36). See Zepiio. 

Ze'pho (Heb. Tscpho ', i£!i, watch -tower ; Sept. 
2i o(pap; Vulg. Sephu), third named of the five sons of 
Eliphaz the son of Esau (Hen. xxxvi, 11), and one of 
the Idumaean “dukes” (ver. 15). B.C. considerably post 
1027. In the parallel passage (1 Chron. i, 36) the name 
is written Zephi (Heb. Tsephi ; Sept. 2io<pap; 
Vulg. Sephi). 

Ze'phon (Heb. Tseplion ', watch ; Sept. £o- 
(pojv : Vulg. Sephori), first named of the seven sons of 
(lad (Numb, xxvi, 15) and progenitor of the family 
of the Zephonites ( Heb. with the art. hats-TsephonV , 
Sept, b Vulg. Sephonihe). In Gen. 

xlvi, 16 his name is written Ziphion (Heb. Tsiphyon ', 
Sept. Vulg. Scphioii). B.C. 1874. 

Zephyrinus, bishop of Rome, succeeded Victor 
about A.D. 199-201, and filled his office (according to 


Eusebius) during eighteen years. lie died in 217. 
1 1 is pontificate falls in the period when Montanistic 
and Monarchian influences were struggling to obtain 
control of the Church; and although his own personal- 
ity was by no means imposing, his rule became impor- 
tant through the unlimited power which he permitted 
CalixtusI (q. v.) to acquire. Zcphvrinus’s original atti- 
tude was hostile towards Montanism; and though the 
influence of Ilippolytus (q. v.) compelled the gradual 
exclusion of the Monarchians from the Church, they 
were accorded kindly treatment. The peace of the 
Church was in this way preserved, in outward appear- 
ance, while Zephyrinus lived. The more energetic ad- 
ministration of his successor, Calixtus, produced a for- 
mal breach, and thus conferred prominence upon Zcphy- 
rinus’s pontificate as being the close of the first period of 
the greatness of the Roman Church. Eusebius furnishes 
a few scanty notices on Zephyrinus in the Hist. Eccles. 
(bk. v and vi), which are supplemented by the ninth 
book of Ilippolytus ( Contr . lla’res.'). The latter work 
called forth Bunsens book Ilippolytus u. seine Zeit , a 
production of but little value, and Dbllingcr’s Ilippoly- 
tus u. Callistus , which is not impartial. Greater im- 
portance attaches to Baur's brief remarks in his work 
on the Christianity of the first three centuries, and to 
Ritschl, in Entstehnny dev ulfkutholisehen Kirche (2d cd.). 
See also Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

ZeTall (Ileb. Ze'vach, rPT [in pause Za'rach , 
n~T, 1 Chron. ii, 4; “Zarah,” Gen. xxxviii, 30], rising 
of the sun ; Sept, usually 7japd , but sometimes Zopf, 
Znpf'c, etc.), the name of several Hebrews and one for- 
eigner. 

1. Second named of the three sons of Rcucl, son of 
Esau (Gen. xxxvi, 13; 1 Chron. i, 37), and one of the 
“dukes” or phylarchs of the Edomites (Gen. xxxvi, 17). 
B.C. considerably post 1927. Jobab of Bozrah, one of 
the early kings of Edom, perhaps belonged to his fami- 
ly (vcr. 33 ; I Chron. i, 44). 

2. Twin son with his elder brother Pharez of Judah 
and Tamar (Gen. xxxviii, 30; 1 Citron, ii, 6; “Zara,” 


ZERAII 


10SG 


ZERAII 


Matt, i, 3). B.C. cir. 1895. His descendants were 
called Zarhites, Ezrahites, and Izrahites (Numb, xxvi, 
20; 1 Kings iv, 31; 1 Chron. xxvii, 8, 11), and contin- 
ued at least down to the time of Zerubbabel (ix, G; 
Neh. xi, 24). Nothing is related of Zerah individually 
beyond the peculiar circumstances of his birth ((Jen. 
xxxviii, 27-30), concerning which see Heidegger, Hint. 
Patriarch . xviii, 28; Geddes, Critical Remarks, p. 120. 
127. 

3. Fourth named of the five sons of Simeon (1 Cliron. 
iv, 24), and founder of the family of Zarliites (Numb, 
xxvi, 13). B.C. 1874. In Gen. xlvi, 10 he is called 
Zoiiar. 

4. A Gershonite Levite, son of Iddo (or Adaiah) and 
father of Jeaterai ( 1 Cliron. vi, 21, 41 [Heb. vi, 20 J ). 
B.C. ante 1043. 

5. The Ethiopian or Cushite ("'ISnStt) king who in- 
vaded Judah, and was defeated by Asa (2 Cliron. xiv, 
9). (In the treatment of this character we chiefly fol- 
low' Poole’s article in Smith’s Diet, of the Bible , s. v.) 

1. The Xame. — In its form Zerah is identical with 
the Hebrew proper name above. It has been supposed 
to represent the Egyptian Usarken , possibly pronounced 
Usarchen , a name almost certainly of Shemitic origin. 
See Shishak. The difference is great, but may be 
partly accounted for if we suppose that the Egyptian 
deviates from the original Shemitic form and that the 
Hebrew' represents that form, or that a further deviation 
than would have been made was the result of the simi- 
larity of the Hebrew' proper name Zerah. So, N1D, even 
if pronounced Setva or Seva, is more remote from She- 
bek or Shebelek than Zerah from Usai'ken . It may be 
conjectured that these forms resemble those of Memphis, 
Moph, Noph, which evidently represent current pronun- 
ciation, probably of Shemites. 

2. The Date. — The war betv'een Asa and Zerah ap- 
pears to have taken place soon after the tenth (2 Chron. 
xiv, 1) or early in the fifteenth year of Asa (xv, 10). 
It therefore occurred in about the same year of Usarken 
H, fourth king of the twenty-second dynasty, who be- 
gan to reign about the same time as the king of Judah. 
We may therefore date the invasion in B.C. 939. 

3. The Event.— The first ten years of Asa’s reign were 
undisturbed bv war. Then Asa took counsel with his 
subjects, and walled and fortified the cities of Judah. 
He also maintained an army of 580,000 men, 300,000 
spearmen of Judah, and 280,000 archers of Benjamin. 
This great force w r as probably the v'hole number of men 
able to bear arms (2 Chron. xiv, 1-8). At length the 
anticipated danger came. Zerah the Ethiopian, with a 
mighty army of a million, Cushim and Lubim, with 
three hundred chariots, invaded the kingdom, and ad- 
vanced unopposed in the field as far as Mareshah. As 
the invaders aftenvards retreated by way of Gerar, and 
Mareshah lay on the west of the hill-country of Judah, ! 
where it rises out of the Philistine plain, in the line of 
march from Egypt to Jerusalem, it cannot be doubted 
that they came out of Egypt. Between the border on 
the side of Gerar and Mareshah lay no important city 
but Gath. Gath and Mareshah were both fortified by 
Rehoboam before the invasion of Shishak (xi, 8), and 
w'ere no doubt captured and probably dismantled by that 
king (comp, xii, 4), w’hose list of conquered towns, etc., 
shows that lie not only took some strong towns, but that 
he subdued the country in detail. A delay in the capt- 
ure of Gath, where the warlike Philistines may have 
opposed a stubborn resistance, would have removed the 
only obstacle on the way to Mareshah, thus securing 
the retreat that was afterwards made by this route, j 
From Mareshah or its immediate neighborhood was a , 
route to Jerusalem, presenting no difficulties but those 
of a hilly country ; for not one important town is known ' 
to have lain between the capital and this outpost of the , 
tribe of Judah. The invading army had swarmed across 
the border and devoured the Philistine fields before Asa 
could march to meet it. The distance from Gerar, or 


the southwestern border of Palestine, to Mareshah was 
not much greater than from Mareshah to Jerusalem, 
and, considering the nature of the tracts, would have 
taken about the same time to traverse; and only such 
.delay as would have been caused by the sieges of Gath 
and Mareshah could have enabled Asa hastily to collect 
a levy and march to relieve the beleaguered town or 
hold the passes. “In the valley of Zephathah at Ma- 
reshah” the two armies met. We cannot perfectly de- 
termine the site of the battle. Mareshah, according to 
the 0 nomast icon , lay within two miles of Eleutheropolis, 
and Dr. Robinson has reasonably conjectured its posi- 
tion to be marked by a remarkable “ tell,” or artificial 
mound, a mile and a half south of the site of the latter 
town. Its signification, “ that which is at the head,” 
would scarcely suit a position at the opening of a val- 
ley. But it seems that a narrow valley terminates, and 
a broad one commences, at the supposed site. The val- 
ley of Zephathah, “ the watch-tower,” is supposed by 
Dr. Robinson to be the latter, a broad wady, descending 
from Eleutheropolis in a northwesterly direction to- 
wards Tell es-Sajieh , in which last name he is disposed to 
trace the old appellation {Bibl. Res. ii,31). The two 
have no connection whatever, and Robinson’s conjecture 
is extremely hazardous. See Zephathah. If this 
identification be correct, we must suppose that Zerah re- 
tired from before Mareshah towards the plain, that he 
might use his “chariots and horsemen” with effect, in- 
stead of entangling them in the narrow valleys leading 
towards Jerusalem. From the prayer of Asa we may 
judge that, when he came upon the invading army, he 
saw its hugeness, and so that, as he descended through 
a valley, it lay spread out beneath him. The Egyp- 
tian monuments enable ns to picture the general dispo- 
sition of Zerah ’s arm}'. The chariots formed the first 
corps in a single or double line; behind them, massed 
in phalanxes, were heavy-armed troops ; probably on 
the flanks stood archers and horsemen in lighter forma- 
tions. Asa, marching down a valley, must have at- 
tacked in a heavy column ; for none but the most high- 
ly disciplined troops can form line from column in the 
face of an enemy. His spearmen of Judah would have 
composed this column : each bank of the valley would 
have been occupied by the Benjamite archers, like those 
who came to David, “ helpers of the war, armed with 
bows, and [who] could use both the right hand and the 
left in [hurling] stones and [shooting] arrows out of a 
bow” (1 Chron. xii, 1, 2). No doubt the Ethiopian, 
confident in his numbers, disdained to attack the He- 
brews or clear the heights, but waited in the broad val- 
ley, or the plain. Asa’s prayer before the battle is full 
of the noble faith of the age of the Judges : “ Lord [it is] 
alike to thee to help, whether the strong or the weak : 
help us, O Lord our God; for we rest on thee, and in 
thy name we go against this multitude. O Lord, thou 
[art] our God ; let not man prevail against thee.” From 
the account of Abijah’s defeat of Jeroboam, we may 
suppose that the priests sounded their trumpets, and 
the men of Judah descended with a shout (2 Chron. 
xiii, 14, 15). The hills and mountains were the favor- 
ite camping-places of the Hebrews, who usually rushed 
down upon their more numerous or better-disciplined 
enemies in the plains and valleys. If the battle were 
deliberately set in array, it would have begun early in 
the morning, according to the usual practice of these 
times, when there was not a night-surprise, as when 
Goliath challenged the Israelites (1 Sam. xvii, 20-23), 
and when Thothmes III fought the Canaanites at Me- 
giddo; and, as we may judge from the long pursuits at 
this period, the sun would have been in the eyes of the 
army of Zerah, and its archers would thus have been 
useless. The chariots, broken by the charge and with 
horses made unmanageable by flights of arrows, must 
have been forced back upon the cumbrous host behind. 
“So the Lord smote the Ethiopians before Asa, and be- 
fore Judah ; and the Ethiopians fled. And Asa and the 
people that [were] with him pursued them unto Gerar: 


ZERAII 


10S7 


ZERAII 


and [or “for”] the Elhiopians were overthrown, that 
they could not recover themselves.” This last clause 
seems to relate to an irremediable overthrow at the 
first; and, indeed, had it not been so, the pursuit would 
not have been carried, and, as it seems, at once, Jbcyonj] 
the frontier. So complete was the overthrow that the 
Hebrews could capture and spoil the cities around < Jcrar, 
which must have been in alliance with Zerah. From 
these cities they took very much spoil, and they also 
smote “the tents of cattle, and carried away sheep and 
camels in abundance” (2 Chron. xiv, 9-15), More 
seems to have been captured from the Arabs than from 
the army of Zerah : probably the army consisted of a 
nucleus of regular troops, and a great body of tributaries, 
who would have scattered in all directions, leaving their 
country open to reprisals. On his return to Jerusa- 
lem, Asa was met by Azariah, who exhorted him and 
the people to be faithful to God. Accordingly Asa 
made a second reformation, and collected his subjects 
at Jerusalem in the third month of the fifteenth j’ear, 
and made a covenant, and offered of thfe spoil “seven 
hundred oxen and seven thousand sheep” (xv, 1-15). 
From this it would appear that the battle was fought 
in the preceding winter. The success of Asa, and the 
manifest blessing that attended him, drew to him Ephra- 
imites, Manassites, and Simeonites. His father had al- 
ready captured cities in the Israelitish territory (xiii, 19), 
and he held cities in Mount Ephraim (xv, 8), and then 
was at peace with Israel. Simeon, always at the mer- 
cy of a powerful king of Judah, would have naturally 
turned to him. Never was the house of David stronger 
after the defection of the ten tribes; but soon the king 
fell into the wicked error, so constantly to be repeated, 
of calling the heathen to aid him against the kindred 
Israelites, and hired Ben-hadad, king of Syria-Damascus, 
to lay their cities waste, when Hanani the prophet re- 
called to him the great victory he had achieved when 
he trusted in God (xvi, 1-9). The after-years of Asa 
were troubled with wars (ver. 9) ; but they were with 
Baaslia (1 Kings xv, 16, 32). Zerah and his people had 
been too signally crushed to attack him again. See 
Asa. 

‘4. The identification of Zera has occasioned some dif- 
f ference of opinion. The term Cushite or Ethiopian 
may imply that he was of Arabian Cush ; the principal 
objection to which is that history affords no indication 
that Arabia had at that epoch, or from its system of 
government could well have, any king so powerful as 
Zerah. That he was of Abyssinia or African Ethiopia, 
is resisted by the difficulty of seeing how this “huge 
host” could have obtained a passage through Egypt, 
as it must have done to reach Judaea. If we could sup- 
pose, with Champollion (Precis, p. 257), whom Coquercl 
follows ( Biog.Sacr . s.v.), that Zerah the Cushite was 
the then king of Egypt, of an Ethiopian dynasty, this 
difficulty would be satisfactorily met. But lately it has 
been supposed that Zerah is the Hebrew name of Usar- 
ken I, second king of the Egyptian twenty-second dy- 
nasty; or perhaps more probably Usarken 11, his second 
successor. This is a tempting explanation, but cannot 
be received without question, and it is not deemed sat- 
isfactory by Rosellini, Wilkinson, Sharpe, and others. 
Jahn hazards an ingenious conjecture, that Zerah was 
king of Cush on both sides of the Red Sea, that is, of 
both the Arabian and African Ethiopia; and thus pro- 
vides him a sufficient power without subjecting him 
to the necessity of passing through Egypt. Tlicrc are 
two other suppositions which are not destitute of prob- 
ability. It is conceived either that he was a native 
Ethiopian general who, on this occasion, commanded 
the armies of Egypt, or that he was an Ethiopian gen- 
eral who led an Ethiopian army through Egypt, now 
separate from Ethiopia, and invaded Judah through 
Egypt. This question is a wider one than seems at tirst 
sight. We have to inquire whether the army of Zerah 
was that of an Egyptian king, and, if the reply be af- 
firmative, whether it was led by either Usarken I or II. 


The war of Shishak had reduced the angle of Arabia 
that divided Egypt from Palestine. Probably Shishak 
was unable to attack the Assyrians, and endeavored, by 
securing this tract, to guard the approach to Egypt. 1 f 
the army of Zerah were Egyptian,, this would account 
for its connection with t lie people of Gerar and the 
pastoral tribes of the neighborhood. The sudden de- 
cline of the power of Egypt after the reign of Shishak 
would be explained by the overthrow of the Egyptian 
army about thirty years later. 

The composition of the army of Zerah, of Cushim 
ami Lubim (2 Chron. xvi, 8), closely resembles that of 
Shishak, of Lubim, Sukkim, and Cushim (xii, 3) : both 
armies also had chariots and horsemen (xii, 3; xvi, 8). 
The Cushim might have been of an Asiatic Cush, but 
the Lubim can only have been Africans. The army, 
therefore, must have been of a king of Egypt, or Ethi- 
opia above Egypt. The uncertainty is removed by our 
finding that the kings of the twenty-second dynasty 
employed mercenaries of the Mashuwasha, a Libyan 
! tribe, which apparently supplied the most important 
part of their hired force. The army, moreover, as con- 
sisting partly, if not wholly, of a mercenary force, and 
with chariots and horsemen, is, save in the horseman, 
exactly what the Egyptian army of the empire would 
have been, with the one change of the increased impor- 
tance given to the mercenaries, which we know marked 
it under the twenty-second dynasty. That the army 
was that of an Egyptian king therefore cannot be 
doubted. 

As to the identification of Zerah with a Usarken, 
we speak diffidently. That he is called a Cushite must 
be compared with the occurrence of the name Namuret , 
Nimrod, in the line of the Usarkens, but that line seems 
rather to have been of Eastern than of Western Ethio- 
pians. The name Usarken has been thought to be 
Sargon, in which case it is unlikely, but not impossible, 
that another Hebrew or Shemitic name should have 
been adopted to represent the Egyptian form. On the 
other hand, the kings of the twenty-second dynasty 
were of a warlike family, and their sons constantly held 
military commands. It is unlikely that an important 
army would have been intrusted to any but a king or 
prince. Usarken is less remote from Zerah than seems 
at first sight, and, according to our computation, Zerah 
might have been Usarken II, but according to Dr. 
Hincks’s, Usarken I. 

5. Preternatural Character of the Deliverance. — The 
defeat of the Egyptian army by Asa is without parallel 
in the history of the Jews. On no other occasion did 
an Israelitish army meet an army of one of the great 
powers on either side and defeat it. Shishak was un- 
opposed; Sennacherib was not met^in the field ;*Necho 
was so met, and overthrew Josiah’s army; Nebuchad- 
nezzar, like Shishak, was only delayed by fortifications. 
The defeat of Zerah thus is a solitary instance, more of 
the power of faith than of the bravery of the Hebrews, a 
single witness that the God of Israel was still the same 
who had led his people through the Red Sea, and would 
give them the same aid if they trusted in him. Wc 
have, indeed, no distinct statement that the defeat of 
Zerah was a miracle, but we have proof enough that 
God providentially enabled the Hebrews to vanquish a 
force greater in number, stronger in the appliances of 
war, with horsemen and chariots, more accurate in dis- 
cipline, no raw levies hastily equipped from the king’s 
armory, but a seasoned standing militia, strengthened 
and more terrible by the addition of swarms of hungry 
Arabs, bred to war. and whose whole life was a time of 
pillage. This great deliverance is one of tbc many 
proofs that God is to his people ever the same, whether 
he bids them stand still and behold his salvation, or 
nerves them with that courage that has wrought great 
things in his name in our later age; thus it bridges 
over a chasm between two periods outwardly unlike, 
and bids ns sec in history the immutability of the di- 
vine actions. See Egypt. 


ZERAIIIAII 


10S8 


ZERUBBABEI 


Zerahi'ah (Heb. Zerachyah ', rrrHt, Jehovah has 
risen; Sept. Sapata v. r. Zajoaia), the name of two He- 
brews. 

1. A priest, son of Uzzi and father of Mcraioth, in 
the ancestry of thedater Jewish pontiffs (I Chron. vi, G, 
51 [lleb. v,32; vi, 30]), and of Ezra (Ezra vii, 4). B.C. 
cir. 1350. See High-priest. 

2. Father of Elihoeuai “of the sons of Pahath-moab” 

(Ezra viii, 4). I5.C. ante 459. 

Zerai’m. See Talmud. 

Ze'red (Heb. id. ’Til [in pause Za'red , Deut. 

ii, 13 ; “ Zared,” Numb. xxi. 12], ostVr-brook ; Sept. Za- 
pe$ v. r. Zapfr and Z apt), the name of a brook or valley 
(bns) on the border between Moab and Edom (Dent, 
ii, 13), where the Israelites encamped before crossing 
the Arnon (Numb, xxi, 1*2). It seems to be the same 
with the HWy el-Ahsy, which runs into the Dead Sea 
near its S.E. corner (Robinson, Bill. lies, ii, 157). La- 
borde, arguing from the distance, thinks that the source 
of the Wady Ghiirundel in the Arabah is the site, as 
from Mount Ilor to el-Ahsy is by way of Ezion-geber 
sixtv-five leagues, in which only four stages occur — a 
rate of progress quite beyond their power. This argu- 
ment, however, is feeble, since it is clear that the march- 
stations mentioned indicate not daily stages, but more 
permanent encampments. He also thinks the palm- 
trees of Wady Ghurtindel would have attracted notice, 
and that Wady Jethum (el-Ithm) could not have been 
the way consistently with the precept of Deut. ii, 3. 
The camping station in the catalogue of Numb, xxiii, 
which corresponds to the “pitching in the valley of Ze- 
red”of xxi, 12, is probably Dibon-gad, as it stands next 
to Ije-abarim (comp, xxxiii, 44, 45 with xxi, 12). The 
Wady el-Ahsy forms the boundary between the districts 
of Jebal and Kerak. Taking its rise near the castle of 
el-Ahsy, on the route of the Syrian Ilaj, upon the high 
eastern desert, it breaks down through the whole chain 
of mountains ( Burckhardt, Travels , p. 400) in a very 
deep ravine, and contains a hot spring which the Arabs 
call the “Bath of Solomon son of David” (Irby, May 
29). The Israelites doubtless crossed it near its upper 
end, where it would present no difficulty. See Ex- 
ode. 

The Jewish interpreters translate the name in the 
first case “osiers,” and in the second “ baskets” (Targuin 
of Pseudo-Jonathan ), which recalls the “brook of the 
willows” of Isaiah (xv, 7). The name Sufsaf (willow) 
is attached to the valley which runs down from Kerak 
to the Dead Sea; but this appears to be too far north 
for the Zcred. — Smith; Kitto. See Willows, Brook 1 

OF THE. 

Zer'eda (Heb.^ith the art .hats-TseredaV, 
the fortress [ Fiirst] or the cool [Gesen.] ; Sept. 7/ Sapid a 
v. r. Saptpa. ; Vulg. Sareda), a town in Mount Ephraim, 
the birthplace of Jeroboam the son of Nebat ( I Kings 
xi. 26). In an addition made by the Sept, to ch. xii, 
Barba (as this place is called by some MSS.) is said/to 
have been built bv Jeroboam for Solomon, and it is 
stated that to it Jeroboam returned when he came out 
of Egypt. The same passage further substitutes it for 
Tirzah. It seems to have been located as a fastness on 
some strong position. On this account, as well as be- 
cause of its connection with Mount Ephraim, it cannot 
be (as many think) the same with Zeredatha, Zerrath , 
or Zarthan, which lay in the Jordan valley. Lieut. 
Cornier ( Tent Work in Palest, ii, 340) identifies it with 
Surdah, a village little more than a mile south of Jufna 
(Tristram, Bible Places, p. 1 10). 

Zered'athah (Heb. Tsereda'thah . which 

is the same word with Zereda above, with H local added ; 
Sept. SipdaSd v. r. NaorjS’aS’d and SadaSa ; Vulg. Sare- 
dathas), mentioned as the place of Solomon’s brass-foun- 
dry (2 Chron. iv, 17), in place of the Zarthan (q. v.) 
of the parallel passage (L Kings vii, 46). 


Zer'eratli [some Zere'rath ], or rather Zer'eraii 
(Heb. Tsererah', with H local added, Tsei'era'- 

thah, np“H:£, io Zererah, perh. an interchange for 
Zereda h , as some MSS. and versions read; Sept. Taya- 
paya&d v. r. jcai avrt}ypkvi)\ Vulg. omits), a place 
mentioned (Judg. vii, 22) in describing the rout of the 
Midianites before Gideon: “And the host [camp] fled 
to [as far as] Bcth-shittah in [towards] Zererath 
[Zererah], and [i. e. even] to [as far as] the border of 
Abel-meholah, unto [upon] Tabbath.” It appears to 
have been the same place in the Jordan valley else- 
where called Zeredaihah (q. v.) or Zarctan (q. v.), but 
not Zereda (q. v.). 

Ze'resh (Heb. id. 1L : TT, Persian for gold; Sept. 
Zwaapd v. r. Suxjapa; Josephus, Zdpapa, Ant. xi, G, 
10; Vulg. Za?'es'), the wife of Haman the Agagite 
(Esth. v, 10), who advised him to prepare the gallows 
for Mordeeai (ver. 14), but predicted his fall on learn- 
ing that Mordeeai was a Jew (vi, 13). B.C. 474. See 
Esther. 

Zereth. See Span. 

Ze'reth (Heb. Tse/reth, prob. splendor ; Sept. 
StosS v. r. Sap& and ’Aps^r, Vulg. Sereth), first named 
of the three sons ofAsliur (the Judahite and founder of 
Tekoa) by one of his wives, Helah (1 Chron. iv, 7). 
B.C. cir. 1612. 

Ze'ri (Heb. 7km'. *H2S; Sept. Sovp’r, Vul g.Sori), 
second named of the six sons and assistants of Jedu- 
thuu in the Levitical music (1 Chron. xxv, 3) ; prob- 
ably the same elsewhere (ver. 1 1) called by the equiva- 
lent name of Izri (q. v.). 

Ze'ror (Heb. Tseror ', *1*PS, a bnneh, as often ; Sept. 
Sapap v. r. ’Apid and Tap«£; Vulg. Seror ), a Benja- 
mite, son of Beehorath and father of Abiel in the ances- 
try of king Saul (l Sam. ix, 1). B.C. cir. 1230. 

Zem'ah (Heb. Tseruah', smitten with lep- 

rosy [Gesen.] or full-breasted [Fiirst]; Sept. Sapova; 
Vulg. Snrua), the widowed mother of Jeroboam the son 
of Nebat (I Kings xi, 2G). B.C. 973. In the additional 
narrative of the Sept, inserted after 1 Kings xii, 24, she 
is called Barba (a corruption of Zereda, Jeroboam’s na- 
tive place), and is said to have been a harlot. 

Zerub'babel (lleb. ZervhbabeV , sown in 

Babylon; Sept. Zopo/3d/3*A; Josephus, ZojoogfcqfoXof), 
the phylarch or head of the tribe of Judah at the time 
of the return from the Babylonian captivity in the first 
year of Cyrus. B.C. 536. His exact parentage is a 
little obscure from his being always called the son of 
Shealtiel (Ezra iii, 2, 8; v, 2, etc.; Hag. i, 1, 12, 14, 
etc.), and appearing as such in the genealogies (“ Zoro- 
babel,” Matt, i, 12; Luke iii, 27 ), whereas in 1 Chron. 
iii, 19 he is represented as the son of Pedaiah, Shealtiel’s 
or Salathiel’s brother, and consequently as Salat h iel’s 
nephew. Probably the genealogy in 1 Chron. exhibits 
his legal parentage, and he succeeded his uncle as head 
of the house of Judah — a supposition which tallies with 
the facts that Salathiel appears as the first-born, ami 
that no children are assigned to him. It is worth not- 
ing that Josephus speaks of Zorobabel as “the son of 
Salathiel of the posterity of David and of the tribe of 
Judah” {Ant, xi, 3, 10). Had he believed him to be 
the son of Jeeoniah, of whom he had spoken (x, 1 1, 2), 
he could hardly have failed to say so (comp, x, 7, 1). 
(See below.) 

1. Canonical History. — In the first year of Cyrus, Ze- 
rubbabel was living at Babylon, and was the recognised 
prince (tt^UTS) of Judah in the Captivity, what in later 
times was called or “ the Prince of the 

Captivity.” On the issuing of Cyrus’s decree, he imme- 
diately availed himself of it, and placed himself at the 
head of those of his countrymen “whose spirit God had 
raised to go up to build the house of the Lord which is 
in Jerusalem.” It is probable that he was in the king 


ZERUBBABEL 


1080 


ZERUBBABEL 


of Babylon’s service, both from his having, like Daniel 
and the three children, received a Chaldee name (Shesh- 
bazzar ) , and from his receiving from Cyrus the office 
of governor (HIlD) of J udiea. The restoration of the 
sacred vessels which Nebuchadnezzar had brought from 
the Temple having been effected, and copious presents 
of silver and gold and goods and beasts having been 
bestowed upon the captives, Zerubbabel went forth at 
the head of the returning colony, accompanied by Jcsh- 
na the high-priest, and perhaps by the prophets Ilag- 
gai and Zeehariah, and a considerable number of priests, 
Levites, and heads of houses of Judah and Benjamin, 
with their followers. On arriving at Jerusalem, Zerub- 
babel’s first care was to build the altar on its old site, 
and to restore the daily sacritiee. Perhaps, also, they 
kept the Feast of Tabernacles, as it is said they did in 
Ezra iii,4. But his great work, which he set about 
immediately, was the rebuilding of the Temple. Being 
armed with a grant from Cyrus of timber and stone for 
the building, and of money for the expenses of the 
builders (Ezra vi,4), he had collected the materials, in- 
cluding cedar -trees brought from Lebanon to Joppa, 
according to the precedent in the time of Solomon (2 
Chron. ii, 1G), and got together masons and carpenters 
to do the work by the opening of the second year 
of their return to Jerusalem. Accordingly, in the 
second month of the second year of their return, the 
foundation of the Temple was laid with all the pomp 
which they could command : the priests in their vest- 
ments with trumpets, and the sons of Asaph with cym- 
bals, singing the very same psalm of praise for God’s un- 
failing mercy to Israel which was sung when Solomon 
dedicated his Temple (v, 11-14); while the people re- 
sponded with a great shout of joy “because the foundation 
of the house of the Lord was laid.” Ilow strange must 
have been the emotions of Zerubbabel at this moment! 
As he stood upon Mount Zion and beheld. from its sum- 
mit the desolations of Jerusalem, the site of the Temple 
blank, David’s palace a heap of ashes, his father’s sep- 
ulchres detiled and overlaid with rubbish, and the silence 
of desertion and emptiness hanging oppressively over j 
the streets and waste places of what was once the jov- J 
ous city ; and then remembered how his great ancestor 
David had brought up the ark in triumph to the very 
spot where he was then standing, how Solomon had 
reigned there in all his magnificence and power, and 
how the petty kings and potentates of the neighboring 
nations had been his vassals and tributaries — how must 
his heart alternately have swelled with pride, and throb- 
bed with anguish, and sunk in humiliation! In the 
midst of these mighty memories he was but the officer of 
a foreign heathen despot, the head of a feeble remnant 
of half-emancipated slaves, the captain of a band hardly 
able to hold up their heads in the presence of their hos- 
tile and jealous neighbors; and yet there he was, the 
son of David, the heir of great and mysterious prom- 
ises, returned by a wonderful providence to the home 
of his ancestors. At his bidding the daily sacrifice had 
been restored after a cessation of half a century, and 
now the foundations of the Temple were actually laid, 
amid the songs of the Levites singing according to 
David’s ordinance, and the shouts of the tribe of Judah. 
It was a heart-stirring situation; and, despite all the 
discouragements attending it, we cannot doubt that 
Zerubbabel’s faith and hope were kindled by it into 
fresh life. 

But there were many hindrances and delays to be 
encountered before the work was finished. The Samar- 
itans or Cutheans put in a claim to join with the Jews 
in rebuilding the Temple; and when Zerubbabel and 
his companions refused to admit them into partnership, 
they tried to hinder them from building, and hired 
counsellors to frustrate their purpose. They probably 
contrived, in the first instance, to intercept the supplies 
of timber and stone, and the wages of the workmen, 
which were paid out of the king’s revenue, and then by 
X.— Z z z 


misrepresentation to calumniate them at the court of 
Persia. Thus they were successful in putting a stop 
to the work during the seven remaining years of the 
reign of Cyrus, and through the eight years of Camby- 
ses and Smerdis. Nor does Zerubbabel appear quite 
blameless for this long delay. The difficulties in the 
way of building the Temple were not such as need have 
stopped the work; and during this long suspension of 
sixteen years, Zerubbabel and the rest of the people had 
been busy in building costly houses for themselves, and 
one might even suspect that the cedar-wood which had 
been brought lor the Temple had been used to decorate 
private dwellings (comp, the use of '(SD in llagg. i, 4, 
and 1 Kings vii, 3, 7). They had, in fact, ceased to 
care for the desolation of the Temple (llagg. i, 2-4), 
and had not noticed that God was rebuking their luke- 
warmness by withholding his blessing from their la- 
bors (ver. 5-11). But in the second year of Darius 
light dawned upon the darkness of the colony from 
Babylon. In that year — it was the most memorable 
event in Zerubbabel’s life — the spirit of prophecy sud- 
denly blazed up with a most brilliant light among the 
returned captives; and the long silence which was to 
ensue till the ministry of John the Baptist was pre- 
ceded by the stirring utterances of llaggai and Zeeha- 
riah. Their words fell like sparks upon tinder. In a 
moment Zerubbabel, roused from his apathy, threw his 
whole strength into the work, zealously seconded by 
Jeshua and all the people. Undeterred by a fresh at- 
tempt of their enemies to hinder the progress of the 
building, they went on with the work even while a 
reference was made to Darius; and when, after the 
original decree of Cyrus had been found at Ecbatana, 
a most gracious and favorable decree was issued bv Da- 
rius, enjoining Tatnai and Shetharboznai to assist t he 
Jews with whatsoever they had need of at the king’s 
expense, the work advanced so rapidly that on the third 
day of the month Adar, in the sixth year of Darius, the 
Temple was finished, and was forthwith dedicated with 
much pomp and rejoicing. It is difficult to calculate 
how great was the effect of the prophecies of llaggai 
and Zeehariah in sustaining the courage and energy 
of Zerubbabel in carrying his work to completion. Ad- 
dressed, as many of them^were, directly to Zerubbabel 
by name ; speaking, as they did, most glorious things of 
the Temple which he was building; conveying to Ze- 
rubbabel himself extraordinary assurances of divine fa- 
vor, and coupling with them magnificent and consola- 
tory predictions of the future glory of Jerusalem and 
Judah and of the conversion of the Gentiles, they nec- 
essarily exercised an immense influence upon his mind 
(llagg. i, 13, 14; ii, 4-9, 21-23; Zoclu iv, G-10; viii, 3— 
8, 9, 18-23). It is not too much to say that these 
prophecies upon Zerubbabel were the immediate instru- 
ment by which the Church and commonwealth of Ju- 
dah were preserved from destruction and received a 
life which endured till the coming of Christ. 

The only other works of Zerubbabel which we learn 
from the Scripture history are the restoration of the 
courses of priests and Levites, and of the provision for 
their maintenance, according to the institution of Da- 
vid (Ezra vi, 18; Nell, xii, 47) ; the registering of the 
returned captives according to their genealogies (vii, 5) ; 
and the keeping of a l’assovcr in the seventh year of 
Darius, with which last event ends all that we know of 
the life of Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel — a man infe- 
rior to few of the great characters of Scripture, wheth- 
er we consider the perilous undertaking to which he 
devoted himself, the importance in the economy of the 
divine government of his work, his courageous faith, or 
the singular distinction of being the object of so many 
and such remarkable prophetic utterances. 

2. The Apocryphal history of Zerubbabel, which, as 
usual, Josephus follows, may he summed up in a few 
words. The story told in 1 Esdr. iii-vii is that on the 
occasion of a great feast made by Darius on his acces- 


ZERUBBABEL 


1090 


ZERUIAII 


sion, three young men of his body-guard had a contest ' reckoned as Salatliiel’s lieir [Ezra iii, 2]). [Ver. 21] 


who should write t he wisest sentence. One of the 
three (Zerubbabel) writing ‘‘Women are strongest, but 
above all things Truth beareth away the victory,” and 
afterwards defending his sentence with much eloquence, 
was declared bv acclamation to be the wisest, and claim- 
ed for his rewaril at the king’s hand that the king 
should perforin his vow which he had vowed to rebuild 
Jerusalem and the Temple. Upon this the king gave 
him letters to all his treasurers and governors on the 
other side the river, with grants of money and exemp- 
tion from taxes, and sent him to rebuild Jerusalem and 
the Temple, accompanied by the families of which the 
list is given in Ezra ii, Nell, vii ; and then follows, in 
utter confusion, the history of Zerubbabel as given in 
Scripture. Apparently, too, the compiler did not per- 
ceive that Sanabasar (Sheslibazzar) was the same per- 
son as Zerubbabel. Josephus, indeed, seems to identify 
Sheshbazzar with Zerubbabel, and tries to reconcile the 
story in 1 Esdras by saying, “ Now it so fell out that 
about this time Zorobabel, who had been made govern- 
or of the Jews that had been in captivity, came to Da- 
rius from Jerusalem, for there had been an old friend- 
ship between him and the king,” etc. (/Dtf. xi. 3). But 
it is obvious on the face of it t hat this is simply Jose- 
phus’s invention to reconcile 1 Esdr. with the canonical , ogy (of Christ). 
Ezra. Josephus has also another 
story (ibid, xi, 4, 9) which is not 


The descendants of the above Hananiah were Pelatiah 
and Jesaiah, besides the children of a third son Re- 
pkaiah, together with those of Arnan (one of the last- 
mentioned children), and in like manner the issue again 
of his son Obadiah and grandson Shechaniah . [Ver. 
22] The family of this last consisted of six descendants, 
namely, his son Shemaiah , and grandchildren Hattush, 
Igeal, Bariah, Neariah, and Shaphat. [Ver. 23] Neariah 
had three sons, Elioenai , Ilezekiah, and Azrikum ; [ver. 
24] and Elioenai again seven, namely, Ilodaiah, Elia- 
shib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan , Delaiah, and Anani.” 
An objection, it must be admitted, lies against this ar- 
rangement, namely, that it brings down the list to a 
later date than the close of the Old-Test, canon (B.C. 
406), requiring the supposition of the addition of some 
of the last names by a subsequent hand. Another view, 
which condenses the lineage within earlier limits, is 
given under Daiu us 2. The above adjustment, how- 
ever, is not only conformed to the natural view of the 
textj but is also confirmed by not a few striking coin- 
cidences in names and descent with the genealogies of 
our Lord as given by the evangelists. The following 
table will exhibit these at a glance (see Strong, Har- 
mony and Exposition of the Gospels, § 9). See Geneal- 


found in I Esdras. of Zorobabel go- 
ing on an embassy to Darius to ac- 
cuse the Samaritan governors and 
hipparchs of withholding from the 
Jews the grants made by Darius 
out of the royal treasury for the of- 
fering of sacrifices and other Tem- 
ple expenses, and of his obtaining 
a decree from the king command- 
ing his officers in Samaria to sup- 
ply the high-priest with all that he 
required. But that this is not au- 
thentic history seems pretty certain 
from the names of the governors, 

Sambabas being an imitation or 
corruption of Sa?iballat, Tanyanes of 
Tatnai (or Thauthanai, as in jjept.), 

Sadraces of Sathrabouzanes, con- 
fused with Shadrach, Bobelo of Zorobabel ; and the names 
of the ambassadors, which are manifestly copied from 
the list in 1 Esdr. v, 8, where Zorobabel, Enenius, and 
Mardochaens correspond to Zorobabel, Ananias, and Mar- 
doehoeus of Josephus. Moreover, the letter or decree of 
Darius as given by Josephus is as manifestly copied from 
the decree of Darius in Ezra vi, 6-10. In all probabili- 
ty, therefore, the document used by Josephus was one of 
those numerous Apocryphal religious romances of which 
the Hellenistic Jew's w'ere so fond about the 4th and 
3d century before Christ, and was written partly to ex- 
plain Zorobabel’s presence at the court of Darius, as 
spoken of in 1 Esdras, partly to explain that of Mordecai 
at the court of Ahasnerus, though he was in the list of 
those who were Zorobabel’s companions (as it seemed), 
and partly to give an opportunity for reviling and hu- 
miliating the Samaritans. It also gratified the favorite 
taste for embellishing and corroborating, and giving, 
as was thought, additional probability to, the Scripture 
narrative, and dwelling upon bygone times of Jew'ish 
triumphs. — Smith. 

3. The list of Zerubbabel’s posterity in 1 Chron. iii, 
19-24 is somewhat confused. Perhaps its statements 
maybe harmonized with themselves and with the New f - 
Test. genealogies, if the entire passage read thus: [ver. 
19] “The issue of Pedaiah were Zerubbabel (by his 
brother Salathiel’s widow'), Shimei (to whom may be 
added Zerubbabel’s children, Meshullam, llananiah. and 
a daughter Shelomith), [ver. 20] Ilashubah, Ohel, 
Berechiah, and Ilasadiah (called also Jushab-hesed), 
making in all five sons (besides Zerubbabel, who w f as 


Generation. 

1 Chron. iii. 

Matt, i, 12-17. 

1 Chron. iii. j 

Luke iii, 27-33. 

Born B.C. 

1 

Zerubbabel 

Zorobabel 

Zerubbabel 

Zorobabel 

C. 560 

2 

Hananiah 


llananiah 


? 530 

3 

Rephaiah 


Iiephaiah 

Rhesa 

? 505 

4 

Arnan 


Arnan 

Joanna 

? 475 

5 

Obadiah 

A biud 

Obadiah 

Jnda 

? 445 

6 

Shechaniah 

Eliakim ? 

Shechaniah 

Joseph ? 

Semei 

? 415 

7 

Shemaiah 


Shemaiah 

? 3S5 





Mattathias 

Mnath 


8 

Neariah 


Neariah 

Naqge 

Esli 

? 355 

9 

Azrikam. 

Azor 

Elioenai 

? 325 . 

10 



Johanan 

Naum 

? 295 

11 




Amos 

? 265 

■ 12 


Sadoc 


Mattathias 

? 235 

13 


Achim 


Joseph 

? 205 

14 


El iu d 


Jan mi 

? 175 

15 


Eleazar 


Melchi 

? 145 

16 


Mattlian 


Levi 

? 105 

17 


Jacob 


Matthat 

? S5 

IS 


Joseph 


Hell 

? 55 

19 



Mary 

C. 25 

20 


Jesus 


J KBU8 

6 


Zerui'ah (lleb. Tseruyah', iT 1 !H2£ [1 Sam. xiv, 1 
wounded [Gesen.] or balsam [Eiirst]; Sept, 
and Josephus, Ertjoontrt; Vnlg. Sari'ui), a woman noted 
as the mother of the three leading heroes of David’s 
army— Abishai, Joab, and Asahel — the “sons of Zeru- 
iah” (1 Sam. xxvi, 6; 2 Sam. ii, 18: 1 Kings i, 7, ete.). 
B.C. ante 1046. Slwftpid Abigail are specified in the ge- 
nealogy of David’s family in 1 Chron. ii, 13-17 as “sis- 
ters oT the sons of Jesse” (ver. 16; comp. Josephus, Ant . 
vi, 10. 1). The expression is in itself enough to raise a 
suspicion that she was not a daughter of Jesse, a sus- 
picion which is corroborated by the statement of 2 Sam. 
xvii, 25, that Abigail was the daughter of Nahash. 
Abigail being apparently the younger of the two wom- 
en, it is a probable inference that they were both the 
daughters of Nahash, but w r hether this Nahash be — as 
Prof. Stanley has ingeniously conjectured — the king of 
the Ammonites, and the former husband of Jesse’s wife, 
or some other person unknown, must forever remain a 
mere conjecture. See David; Nahash. Her relation 
to Jesse (in the original Ishai) is expressed in the name 
of her son Ab-ishai. Of Zeruiab’s husband there is no 
mention in the Bible. Josephus (Ant. vii, 1,3) explic- 
itly states that his name was Souri (£oi >pt), but no cor- 
roboration of the statement appears to have been dis- 
covered in the Jewish traditions, nor does Josephus 
himself refer to it again. The mother of such remark- 
able sonS must herself have been a remarkable woman, 
and this may account for the fact, unusual if not unique, 
that the family is always called after her, and that her 


ZETHAM 


1091 


ZIDDIM « 


husband’s name has not been considered worthy of pres- 
ervation in the sacred records. — Smith. 

Ze'tham (Heb. Zetham ', EPT, prob. i. q. Zethan 
[q. v.] ; Sept. Z &6fi v. r. ZoSo/i, Z/]$rdy, etc. ; Vulg. 
Zetham , Zatham ), a grandson of Lnadan, a Gershonite 
Levite (l Chron. xxiii, 8), associated with his father, 
Jehiel or Jehieli, and his brother Joel, in charge of the 
Temple treasury (xxvi, 22). B.C. 1043. 

Ze'tlian ( Ileb. Zeythan', olive [Gesen.] or 
shining [Fiirst]; Sept. Z «t3di' v. r. TISme; Vulg. Ze- 
than), fifth named of the seven sons of Bilhan, a Ben- 
janiite (1 Chron. vii, 10). B.C. prob. 1014. 

Ze'thar (lleb. Zethar ', *PT, prob. Persian, either 
star [Gesen.] or sacrifice [Fiirst] ; Sept. ’AfiaraJZag; 
Vulg. Zethar ), sixth named of the seven eunuchs of 
Ahasuerus who attended upon the king, and were com- 
manded to bring Vashti into his presence (Esth. i, 10). 
B.C. 483. 

Zi'a (Heb. id. motion [Gesen.] or terrified 
[Fiirst] ; Sept. Z id v. r. Zone; Vulg. Zief, sixth named 
of the seven Gadite chiefs resident in Bashan (1 Chron. 
v, 13). B.C. prob. 1014. 

Zi'ba (Heb. Tsiba \ [briefly xp, 2 Sam. 

xvi, 4], plantation [Fiirst], or statue [Gesen.]; Sept. 

v. r. Ei/ 3/3«; Josephus, Vulg. Siba), a per- 

son who plays a prominent part, though with doubtful 
credit to himself, in one of the episodes of David’s history 
(2 Sam. ix, 2-12; xvi, 1-4; xix, 17, 29). He had been 
a slave (”Q 2) of the house of Saul before the overthrow 
of his kingdom, and (probably at the time of the great 
Philistine incursion which proved so fatal to his mas- 
ter’s family) had been set free (J#sephus, Ant. vii, 5, 5). 
It was of him that David inquired if there was any one 
left of the house of Saul to whom the monarch might 
show favor. B.C. 1044. Mephibosheth was in con- 
sequence found, and having been certified of David’s 
friendship, Ziba was appointed to till the land for the 
prince, and generally to constitute his household and 
do him service (2 Sam. ix, 2-10). The opportunities 
thus afforded him he had so far improved that when 
first encountered in the history he is head of an estab- 
lishment of fifteen sons and twenty slaves. David’s 
reception of Mephibosheth had the effect of throw- 
ing Ziba with his whole establishment back into the 
state of bondage from which he had so long been free. 
It reduced him from being an independent landholder 
to the position of a mere dependent. When David 
had to fly from Jerusalem in consequence of the rebell- 
ion of Absalom, Ziba met the king with a large and ac- 
ceptable present: “ But where is Mephibosheth ?” asked 
the fugitive monarch. “ In Jerusalem,” was the answer; 
“ for he said, To-day shall the house of Israel restore me 
the kiiAlom of my father.” Enraged at this, which 
looked nke ingratitude as well as treachery, David there- 
upon gave to Ziba all the property of Mephibosheth 
(xvi, 1 sq.). On David’s return to his metropolis an 
explanation took place, when Mephibosheth accused 
Ziba of having slandered him; and David, apparently 
not being perfectly satisfied with the defence, gave his 
final award, that the land should be divided between 
the master and his servant (xix, 24 sq.). — lvitto; Smith. 
B.C. 1023. See Meimihjosheth. 

Zib'eon (Heb. Tsibon', dged [Gesen.] or 

robber [Fiirst]; Sept. Ee/3eywn; Vulg. Sebeon ), the 
father of Anah, whose daughter Aholibamah was Esau’s 
wife ( Gen. xxxvi, 2 ). B.C. ante 1963. Although 
called a Hivite, he is probably the same as Zibeon the 
son of Seir the Horite (ver. 20, 24, 29 ; 1 Chron. i, 38, 
40), the latter signifying “cave-dweller” and the former 
being the name of his tribe, for we know nothing of the 
race of the Troglodytes; or perhaps *^nn (the llivite) 
is a mistranscription for "H*nn (the Horite). See Esau. 

Another difiiculty connected with this Zibeon is that 


Anah in Gen. xxxvi, 2 is called hisdaughter, and in ver. 24 
his son ; but this difficulty appears to be easily explained 
by supposing that P2 refers to Aholibamah, and not to 
the name next preceding it. The Samaritan, it should 
be observed, has p. An allusion is made to some un- 
recorded fact in the history of the llorites in the pas- 
sage “This [was that] Anah that found the mules in 
the wilderness as he fed the asses of Zibeon his father” 
(ver. 24). The word rendered “mules” (q.v.) in the 
A. V. is the Heb. Op" 1 , yeinim, perhaps the Emim, or 
giants, as in the reading of the Sam. 0"52 n Xn, and so 
also Oqkelos and Pseudo -Jonathan; Gesenius prefers 
“ hot-spqings,” following the Vulg. rendering. Zibeon 
was also one of the dukes or phylarchs of the llorites 
(ver. 29). For the identification with Beeri, father of 
Judith the I littite (xxvi, 34), see Beeri, and also 
Anaii. — S mith, 

Zib'ia (Ileb. Tsihya roe; Sept. 2e/3/a v. r. 
Tf/3td; Vulg. *SV6i«), k Beujamite, second named of the 
seven sons of Shaharaim (q. v.) by one of his two wives, 
Hodesh (l Chron. viii, 9), B.C. post 1612. 

Zib'iah (Ileb. Tsibyah fipS, roe; Sept. S«/3m 
v. r. ’A/3<d ; Vulg. Sebia), a native of Beer-sheba, mother 
of king Jehoash of Judah (2 Kings xii, 1; 2 Chron. 
xxiv, 1), and consequently wife (or concubine) of his 
father, Ahaziah. B.C, 876. 

Zich'ri (Heb. Zikri\ pIT, my memorial or memo- 
rable; Sept. Z exfi v. r. Z a\pt, Zoypi, Zapi, and even 
sometimes Zapping, ’E ^€\pi; Vulg. Zechri). the name 
of numerous Hebrews. 

1. Last named of the three sons of Izhar the son of 
Kohath of the tribe of Levi (Exod. vi, 21, where most 
editions of the A. V. incorrectly have “Zithri”). B.C. 
eir. 1658. 

2 . Second named of the nine sons of Shimhi of the 
tribe of Benjamin (1 Chron. viii, 19). B.C. cir. 1612. 

3 . Fifth named of the eleven sons of Shashak of the 
tribe of Benjamin (1 Chron. viii, 23). B.C. cir. 1612. 

4 . Last named of the six sons of Jeroham of the tribe 
of Benjamin (1 Chron. viii, 27). B.C. cir. 1612. 

5 . A “son” of Asaph and father of Mieah (1 Chron. 
ix, 15) ; elsewhere called Zabdi (Neh. xi, 17) and Zac - 
cur (xii, 35). 

6. A descendant of Eliezer the son of Moses, being 
son of Joram and father of the treasurer Shelomith (1 
Chron. xxvi, 25). B.C. ante 1043. 

7 . The father of Eliezer, which latter was chief of the 
Reubenites in David’s reign (1 Chron. xxvii, 16). B.C. 
ante 1043. 

8. A Judahite whose son Amasiah volunteered at the 
head of 200,000 men in Jehoshaphat’s army (2 Chron. 
xvii, 16). B.C. 909. 

9. Father of Elishaphat, which latter was one of the 
conspirators with Jehoiada to restore Joash (2 Chron. 
xxiii, 1). B.C. ante 876. 

10 . An Ephraimitish chief in the invading army of 
Pekah the son of Renialiah (2 Chron. xxviii, 7). B.C. 
eir. 734. It seems that he took advantage of the vic- 
tory of this monarch over the army of Judah to pene- 
trate into Jerusalem, where lie slew one of the sons of 
Ahaz, the governor of the palace, and the king’s chief 
minister or favorite. See Ahaz; Pekah. There is 
some probability in the conjecture that he was the 
“Tabael's son” whom Pekah and Rezin designed to set 
upon the throne of Judah (Isa. vii, 6). See Tahakl. 

11 . Father of Joel, which latter was superintendent 
of the Benjamites after the return from Babylon (Nell, 
xi. 9). B.C. ante 536. 

12 . A priest of the family of Abijah in the days of 
the high-priest Joiakim the sou of Jeshua (Neh, xii, 
17). B.C. eir. 480. 

Zid'dim (Ileb. with the art. hats-TsMdim* , 
the declivities ; Sept. tCjv Tvpioju [apparently reading "1 


• ZIDKIJAII 


1092 


ZIDON 


for *1] ; Vulg. Assedim), the first named of the fortified 
towns of the tribe of Xaphtali (Josh, xix, 35), Zer being 
mentioned next; but the two names are probably to be 
connected as one. See Zick. The Sept, (as above) 
identifies the place with Tyre and the Syriac with Zi - 
don, but both these are quite beyond the bounds of 
Naphtali. The Jerusalem Talmud (. Megillah , ch. i) is 
probably nearer the mark in identifying hats-Tsiddim 
with Kefr Chittai, which Schwarz (Palest, p. 1S2) with 
much probability takes to be the present Hattin , at the 
northern foot of the well-known Kurn Hattin, or 
“ Horns of Hattin,” a few miles west of Tiberias. This 
identification lulls in with the fact that the next names 
in the list are all known to have been connected with 
4 the lake. “The village has several traces of antiquity 
in its tombs, and is, compared with many others, a clean 
and thriving place” (Tristram, Bible Places, p. 258). 

Zidki'jah (Neh. x, 1). See Zkdekiaii. 

Zi'don (II eb. 7'sidon', 'JIT’S [or briefer ■j“P2£ } Gen. 
x, 15, 10; xlix, 13 ],fshery [Gesen.] or fortress [Ftlrst] ; 
Sept, [usually]. New Test., and classical writers gener- 
ally, 1'iCwr ; A. V. “ Sidon” in ver. 15. 10, and New Test.), 
the name of a man and of a place. (In the discussion 
of the tatter we make use of the articles in the diction- 
aries of Kitto and Smith, with important additions from 
other sources.) 

1. The eldest son of Canaan (Gen. x, 15; 1 Chron. i, 
13). RC. considerably post 2514. See Ethxogkapiiv. 

2. One of the most ancient cities of Phoenicia (Gen. 
x. 10; xlix, 13; Josh. xi,8; xix, 28; Judg. i, 31 ; x, G; 
xviii, 28; 2 Sam. xxiv, 6; 1 Kings xvii, 9; Isa. xxiii, 
2, 4, 12; Jer. xxv, 22; xxvii, 3; xlvii, 4; Ezek. xxvii, 
8; xxviii, 21, 22; Joel ii, 4 [Heb. iv, 4]; Zech. ix, 2; 
Matt, xi, 21, 22; xv. 21 ; Mark iii, 8; vii, 24, 31 ; Luke 
iv, 26 ; vi, 17; x, 13, 14; Acts xii, 20, xxvii, 3), which 
still retains its ancient appellation (Pham. p2S) in the 
Arabic form Saida. Justin Martyr (who lived in Pal- 
estine) derives the name from the Phoenician word for 
fish. " piseem Phoenices sidon voeant” (xviii, 3); but 
Josephus, from the son of Canaan (Ant. vi, 2). 

1. Situation and Importance. — Zidon lies on the east- 
ern coast of the Mediterranean Sea, in lat. 33^ 34' 5" 


N., less than twenty English miles to the north of Tyre. 
It is situated in the narrow plain between the Lebanon 
and the sea, to which it once gave its own name (Jose- 
phus, Ant. v, 3, 1, to ptya 7rHioi> 1 aCujvoq noXeiog) at 
a point where the mountains recede to a distance of two 
miles ( Kenrick, Phoenicia, p. 19). Adjoining the city 
there are luxuriant gardens and orchards, in which 
there is a profusion of the finest fruit trees suited to the 
climate. “The plain is flat and low’,” says Mr. Porter, 
author of the Handbook for Syria and Palestine, “ but 
near the coast line rises a little hill, a spur from which 
shoots out a few hundred yards into the sea in a south- 
western direction. On the northern slope of the prom- 
ontory thus formed stands the old city of Zidon. The 
hill behind on the south is covered by the citadel” (En- 
cyclop. Britannica, 8th ed. s. v. ). It had a very com- 
modious harbor, which is now r nearly choked up with 
sand (Strabo, xvi, 756; Josephus, .4 nt. xiv, 10, 0). It 
was distant one day’s journey from the fountains of 
the Jordan (ibid, v, 3, 1), and four hundred stadia from 
llerytus (Strabo, xvi, 756, 757). It was situated in the 
allotment of the tribe of Asher, but never conquered 
(Judg. i, 31) : on the contrary, it was sometimes a for- 
midable enemy (x, 12). Even in Joshua’s time it was 
called Tsidon-rabba, or Great Zidon (Josh, xi, 8; xix, 
28), or Zidon the Metropolis, scil. of Zidonia. This dis- 
trict appears to have embraced the states of Zidon, Tyre, 
and Aradas, and its inhabitants are ahvavs distinguish- 
ed from the inhabitants of the city itself (called “ dwell- 
ers [ , ’JiV 1 ] of Zidon”) as “Zidonians,” or 

dwellers in the districts; and it seems in those early 
times to have extended northward to the Giblites, 
southward to the Carmel (Zebulun’s border, Gen. xlix, 
13). At a later period the boundaries south w'ere de- 
termined by the fluctuating issue of the struggle for the 
hegemony between Zidon and Tyre, while northward 
the river Tamyrus divided it from the State of Bervtns. 
To the east, where it never had extended very far (Dan, 
a Zidonian colony, being described as being “far from 
the Zidonians,” Judg. xviii, 7) in early days, it touched, 
at a later period, the territory of Damascus. The as- 
sumption, however, drawn by some writers from the in- 
exact w’ay in which the appellation Zidonian is used by 



Modern Zidou. 


ZIDON 


1093 


ZIDON 


ancient writers — viz. that this name stood for “Phoe- 
nician,” and Zidonia itself for the whole of Phoenicia, 
of which it formed only an important part — is incorrect. 
Tyre, of later origin than Zidon, if not indeed founded 
by it, in the same way styles itself on coins ODTII CX, 
“Metropolis of Zidonia,” in the sense of its momentary 
hegemony over Zidon only, possibly also with a second- 
ary reference to the nationality of its inhabitants, most- 
ly immigrants from Zidon. 

The frequent allusions to the skilfulness of the Zido- 
nians in arts and manufactures, the extent of their com- 
merce, their nautical information and prowess, in ancient 
writers, are well known (see Homer, II. vi, 290; xxiii, 
743; Odys. iv, GL7; xiii, 285; xv, 117,425). Of the trade 
of the “Zidonian merchants” (Isa. xxiii, 2; Ezek. xxvii, 
8), both by land and sea, we hear in Diod. Sic. (xvi, 41, 
45); of their glass, linen, and other manufactories, in 
riiny (v, 20), Virgil, Strabo (xvi, 10), and other clas- 
sical writers. The best vessels in the fleet of Xerxes 
were Zidonian (Herod, vii, 99, 128). In llasselqnist’s 
time (1750) its exports to France were considerable 
( Travels , p. 1GG); but at present its traffic is chiefly 
confined to the neighboring towns (Mannert, Geogra - 
phie y i, 291 ; Kitto, Pictorial Bible , notes on Deut. xxxiii 
and Josh. xix). 

2. History. — The antiquity of Zidon is evident from 
the ethnological assertion that Zidon was the first-born 
of Canaan, though Berytus and Byblus, as towns found- 
ed bj r Cronos, claimed a high mythological antiquity. 
Tyre is not mentioned in the Pentateuch at all; but Zi- 
don is referred to in terms that give it the pre-eminence 
among Phoenician cities. From a Biblical point of 
view, this city is inferior in interest to its neighbor Tyre, 
with which its n^tne is so often associated. Indeed, in 
all the passages above referred to in which the two cit- 
ies are mentioned together, Tyre is named first — a cir- 
cumstance which might at once be deemed accidental, 
or the mere result of Tyre’s being the nearest of the two 
cities to Palestine, were it not that some doubt on this 
point is raised by the order being reversed in two works 
which were written at a period after Zidon had enjoyed 
a long temporary superiority (Ezra iii, 7 ; 1 Chron. xxii, 
4). However this may be, it is certain that, of the two, 
Tyre is of the greater importance in reference to the 
writings of the most celebrated Hebrew prophets; and 
the splendid prophecies directed against Tyre, as a sin- 
gle colossal power (Ezek. xxvi; xxvii; xxviii, 1-19; 
Isa. xxiii), have no parallel in the shorter and vaguer 
utterances against Zidon (Ezek. xxviii, 21-23). The 
predominant Biblical interest of Tyre arises from the 
prophecies relating to its destiny. 

If we could believe Justin (xviii, 3), there would be 
no doubt that Zidon was of greater antiquity than Tyre, 
as he says that the inhabitants of Zidon, when their city 
had been reduced by the king of Ashkelon, founded Tvre 
the year before the capture of Troy. Justin, however, 
is such a weak authority for any disputed historical 
fact, and his account of the early history of the Jews, 
wherein we have some means of testing his accuracy, 
seems to be so much in the nature of a romance (xxxvi, 
2), that, without laying stress on the unreasonableness 
of any one’s assuming to know the precise time when 
Troy was taken, he cannot be accepted as an authority 
for the early history of the Phoenicians. In contradic- 
tion of this statement, it has been further insisted on 
that the relation between a colony and the mother city 
among the Phoenicians was sacred, and that as the Tyr- 
ians never acknowledged this relation towards Zidon, 
the supposed connection between Tyre and Zidon is 
morally impossible. This is a very strong point; but, 
perhaps, not absolutely conclusive, as no one can prove 
that this was the custom of the Phoenicians at the very < 
distant period when, alone, the Zidonians would have 
built Tyre, if they founded it at all; or that it would 
have applied not only to the conscious and deliberate f 
founding of a colony, but likewise to such an almost ac- ; 


■ cidental founding of a city as is implied in the account 
, of Justin. Certainly there is otherwise nothing im- 
. probable in Zidonians having founded Tyre, as the Tvr- 
l ians are called Zidonians; but the Zidonians are never 
> called Tyrians. At any rate, this circumstance tends to 
r show that in early times Zidon was the most influential 

of the two cities. This is shadowed forth in the book 
of Genesis by the statement that Zidon was the first- 
born of Canaan (x, 15), and is implied in the name of 
“Great Zidon,” or “the metropolis Zidon,” which is 
twice given to it in Joshua (xi, 8; xix, 28). It is con- 
firmed, likewise, by Zidonians being used as the generic 
name of the Phoenicians, or Canaanites (xiii, 6; Judg. 
; xviii, 7); and by the reason assigned for there being no 
1 deliverer to Laish when its peaceable inhabitants were 

■ massacred, that “it was far from Zidon;" whereas, if 
Tyre had been then of equal importance, it would have 
been more natural to mention Tyre, which professed 
substantially the same religion, and was almost twenty 
miles nearer (ver. 28). It is in accordance with the in- 

; ference to be drawn from these circumstances that in 
the Homeric poems Tyre is not named, while there is 
mention both of Zidon and the Zidonians ( Odys . xv,425; 
II. xxiii, 743); and the land of the Zidonians is called 
“ Sidonia” (Odys. xiii, 285). One point, however, in the 
Homeric poems deserves to be specially noted concern- 
ing the Zidonians, that they are never here mentioned 
as traders , or praised for their nautical skill, for which 
they were afterwards so celebrated (Herod, vii, 44, 9G). 
The traders are invariably known by the general name 
of Phcenicians, which would, indeed, include the Zido- 
nians; but still the special praise of Zidonians was as 
skilled workmen. \Yhen Achilles distributed prizes at 
the games in honor of Patroclus,he gave as the prize of 
the swiftest runner a large silver bowl for mixing wine 
with water, which had been cunningly made by the 
skilful Zidonians, but which Phoenicians had brought 
over the sea (Homer, II. xxiii, 743, 744). When Mene- 
laus wished to give to Telemachus what was most beau- 
tiful and most valuable, he presented him with a similar 
mLting-bowl of silver, with golden rim— a divine work, 
the work of Hephaestus — which had been a gift to Me- 
n elans himself from Phaxlimus, king of the Zidonians 
(Odys. iv, GI4-G18; xv, 425). Again, all the beau- 
tifully embroidered robes of Andromache, from which 
she selected one as an offering to Athene, were the pro- 
ductions of Zidonian women, which Paris, when coming 
to Troy with Helen, had brought from Sidonia (II. vi, 
289-295). But in no case is anything mentioned as 
having been brought from Zidon in Zidonian vessels or 
by Zidonian sailors. Perhaps at this time the Phoeni- 
cian vessels were principally fitted out at seaports of 
Phoenicia to the north of Zidon. 

But very soon after that period the splendor and 
power of Zidon began to pale before Tyre, which exist- 
ed already at the time of Joshua, but as a dependency 
of Zidon. After the memorable defeat which the Zi- 
donians suffered in the war with the king of Ashkelon 
(13th century B.C.), reported by Justin, when the Zi- 
donians are said to have “retired to their ships and to 
have founded [? refounded] Tyre,” Zidon almost disap- 
pears from history for a time, so utterly enfeebled and 
insignificant had it become through the sudden and 
brilliant rise of its own daughter and rival, to whom all 
the noblest and most skilful of her children had fled. 
Its fate was almost the same as was that of Tyre her- 
self when Dido-Elissa had founded Carthage, and drew 
all the most important elements from the old city to the 
“ new town,” which, it must not be forgotten, had origi- 
nally been a Zidonian settlement under the name of 
Ivakkabe. 

From the time of Solomon to the invasion of Nebu- 
chadnezzar Zidon is not often directly mentioned in the 
Bible, and it appears to have been subordinate to Tyre. 
When the people called “Zidonians” is mentioned, it 
sometimes seems that the Phoenicians of the plain of 
Zidon are meant; as, for example, when Solomon said 


ZIDON • 


1094 


ZIDOX 


to Iliram that there was none among the Jews that 
could skill to hew timber like the Zidonians (1 Kings 
v, C) ; and, possibly, when Ethbaal, the father of Jeze- 
bel, is called their king (xvi, 31), who, according to Me- 
nander, in Josephus (Jwt. viii, 13, 2), was king of the 
Tyrians. This may likewise be the meaning when 
Ashtoreth is called the goddess, or abomination, of the 
Zidonians (1 Kings xi, 5, 33; 2 Kings xxiii, 13); or 
when women of the Zidonians are mentioned in refer- 
ence to Solomon (1 Kings xi, 1). And this seems to be 
equally true of the phrases “daughter of Zidon,” and 
“merchants of Zidon,” and even once of “Zidon” itself 
(Isa. xxiii, 2, 4, 12) in the prophecy of Isaiah against 
Tyre. There is no doubt, however, that Zidon itself, 
the eitv properly so called, was threatened by Joel (iii, 
4) and Jeremiah (xxvii, 3). Still, all that is known re- 
specting it during this epoch is very scanty, amounting 
to scarcely more than that one of its sources of gain was 
trade in slaves, in which the inhabitants did not shrink 
from selling inhabitants of Palestine; that the city was 
governed by kings (ibid. ; xxv, 22) ; that, previous to 
the invasion of Nebuchadnezzar, it had furnished mari- 
ners to Tyre (Ezek. xxvii, 8): that, at one period, it 
was subject, in some sense or other, to Tyre ; and that, 
when Shalmaneser, king of Assyria, invaded Phoenicia, 
Zidon seized the opportunity to revolt. It seems strange 
to hear of the subjection of one great city to another 
great city only twenty miles off, inhabited by men of 
the same race, language, and religion ; but the fact is 
rendered conceivable by the relation of Athens to its 
allies after the Persian war, and by t lie history of the 
Italian republics in the Middle Ages. It is not improb- 
able that its rivalry with Tyre may have been influen- 
tial in inducing Zidon, more than a century later, to sub- 
mit to Nebuchadnezzar, apparently without offering any 
serious resistance. 

During the Persian domination, Zidon seems to have 
attained its highest point of prosperity; and it is re- 
corded that, towards the close of that period, it far ex- 
celled all other Phoenician cities in wealth and impor- 
tance (Diod. Sic. xvi, 44; Mela, i. 12). It is very pfob^ 
able that the long siege of Tyre by Nebuchadnezzar 
had tended not only to weaken and impoverish Tyre, 
but likewise to enrich Zidon at the expense of Tyre; as 
it was an obvious expedient for any Tyrian merchants, 
artisans, and sailors, who deemed resistance useless or 
unwise, to transfer their residence to Zidon. However 
this may be.in-the expedition of Xerxes against Greece, 
the Zidonians were highly favored, and were a pre-em- 
inently important element of his naval power. When, 
from a hill near Abydos, Xerxes witnessed a boat-race 
in his fleet, the prize was gained by the Zidonians (He- 
rod.vii,44) ; when he reviewed his fleet, he sat beneath a 
golden canopy in a Zidonian galley (ibid, vii, 100); when 
lie wished to examine the mouths of the river Peneus, he 
intrusted himself to a Zidonian galley, as was his wont on 
similar occasions (ibid, vii, 128); and when the Tyrants 
and general officers of his great, expedition sat in order 
of honor, the king of tYie Zidonians sat first (ibid, viii, G7). 
Again, Herodotus states that the Phoenicians supplied 
the best vessels of the whole fleet; and of the Phoeni- 
cians, the Zidonians (vii, 9G). Lastly, as llomer gives 
a vivid idea of the beauty of Achilles bv saying that 
Nireus (thrice-named) was the most beautiful of all the 
Greeks who went to Troy, after the son of Peleus, so 
Herodotus completes the triumph of the Zidonians 
when he praises the vessels of Artemisia (probably for 
the daring of their crews) by saying that they were the 
most renowned of the whole fleet, “after the Zidonians” 
(vii, 9). 

The prosperity of Zidon was suddenly cut short by 
an unsuccessful revolt against Persia, which led to one 
of the most disastrous catastrophes recorded in history. 
Unlike the siege and capture of Tyre by Alexander the 
Great, which is narrated by several writers, and which 
is of commanding interest through its relation to such 
a renowned conqueror, the fate of Zidon is only known 


through the history of Diodorus (xvi, 42-45), and is 
mainly connected with Artaxerxes Ochus (B.C. 359- 
338), a monarch who is justly regarded with mingled 
aversion and contempt. Hence the calamitous over- 
throw of Zidon has not, perhaps, attracted so much at- 
tention as it deserves. The principal circumstances 
were these. While the Persians were making prepara- 
tions in Phoenicia to put down the revolt in Egypt, 
some Persian satraps and generals behaved oppressively 
and insolently to Zidonians in the Zidonian division of 
the city of Tripolis. On this the Zidonian people pro- 
jected a revolt; and, having first concerted arrange- 
ments with other Plnenician cities and made a treaty 
with Nectanebus, they put their designs into execution. 
They commenced by committing outrages in a residence 
and park (7rapadtn7og') of the Persian king; they burn- 
ed a large store of fodder which had been collected for 
the Persian cavalry; and they seized and put to death 
the Persians who had been guilty of insults towards 
the Zidonians. Afterwards, under their king Tennes, 
with the assistance from Egypt of four thousand Greek 
mercenaries under Mentor, they expelled the Persian 
satraps from Phoenicia; they strengthened the defences 
of their city; they equipped a fleet of one hundred tri- 
remes; and prepared for a desperate resistance. But 
their king Tennes proved a traitor to their cause; and, 
in performance of a compact with Ochus, lie betrayed 
into the king’s power one hundred of the most distin- 
guished citizens of Zidon, who were all shoe to death 
with javelins. Five hundred other citizens, who went 
out to the king with ensigns of supplication, shared the 
same fate; and, by concert between Tennes and Mentor, 
the Persian troops were admitted within the gates and 
occupied the city walls. The Zidonians, before the ar- 
rival of Ochus, had burned their vessels to prevent any 
one leaving the town; and when they saw themselves 
surrounded by the Persian troops, they adopted the des- 
perate resolution of shutting themselves up with their 
families, and setting fire each man to his own house 
(B.C. 351). Forty thousand persons are said to have 
perished in the flames. Tennes himself did not save 
liis own life, as Ochus, notwithstanding his promise to 
the contrary, put him to death. The privilege of search- 
ing the ruins was sold for money. 

After this dismal tragedy Zidon gradually recovered 
from the blow ; fresh immigrants from other cities must 
have settled in it; and probably many Zidonian sailors 
survived who had been plying their trade elsewhere in 
merchant vessels at the time of the capture of the city. 
The battle of lssus was fought about eighteen years af- 
terwards (B.C. 333) ; and then the inhabitants of the re- 
stored city opened their gates to Alexander of their own 
accord, from hatred, as is expressly stated, of Darius and 
the Persians (Arrian, Anal. Al. ii, 15). The impolicy 
as well as the cruelty of Ochus in his mode of dealing 
with the revolt of Zidon now became apparent ; for the 
Zidonian fleet, in joining Alexander, was an essential 
element of his sueeess against Tyre. After aiding to 
bring upon Tyre as gfeat a calamity as had afflicted their 
own city, they were so far merciful that they saved the 
lives of many Tyrians by concealing them in their ships 
and then transporting them to Zidon (Quint. Curtins, iv, 
4, 15). From this time Zidon, being dependent on the 
fortunes of war in the contests between the successors 
of Alexander, ceases to play any important political 



Greek Coiu of Zidon. 


ZIDOX 


1095 


ZIDOX 



Yards 


LLel-fihias* 


\W ■ Shn ' h i iuf>ih 

’hl/i}i A7,u ShuJca 

mfrrMWtl 


Anchorage 
for largo Vussols 


"3 Dept ft Line of 3 Fathoms. 


.El-Jeztreh 


Cg -j^alaal el- Ba^ r 

O-s ‘ jfe- « 1 


it. 


/// Aim n>m\yt. 
m Taharf trn .1 krSm 

ttviiKMAf 

N>> — L_--^jEl-Merah 


SAIDA 


tbtj Seidun, . 


l \ 

=j- 

Mctrt-ruicl'itapet X 

- *«.///'! 1 


^ShiffiAbaron 


M<j</fiaret^S^, 

Allan : . X 

•v Pkirnieian 
Js. Secropoli* 


, Roman. Milestone' 


Bllnat er-lionliriajj 


Mimmyeh 


■^W 


ItnriaMi rounds. 

1. Foreigners' (Turbcl 

el-KutJYir). 

2. Old Greek. 

3. iNew *• 

4. Israelitmh. 

6. Latin. 

6. Maronite. 

7. Metuali. 

8. Mohammedan. 

9. Bostan el-'Amdd. 

10. “ el-llobbu. I 

11. “ el-KutnUir. i 

12. ** Mekhedeh. 

13. Mohninin. Antnr. 

14. Garden of the St., 

Joseph Sisters. 

15. Roman Milestone. I 

16. Spin uiii|5-ni il la. 

17. TuhAnet Mekliedeli! 

(Mill). 

IS, Remains of ancient 
quay and mosaic . 
pavement. 


Human Milestone* 


yuoha rel 'ez Zeitu i 


Khan ti Senile 


sin V4 . x 

r'arf’c' KtbtJ, T)o\td 

aOrvtto - ' 

Saif edVl^iia^ara 
; 1 < V&iutu^ 




part in history, it became, however, again a flourish- 
ing town; a ml Polybius (v, 70) incidentally mentions 
that Antiochus, in his war with Ptolemy Pliilopator.cn- 
eamped t>ver against Zidon (B.C. 21S), but tliil not vent- 
ure to attack it from the abundance of its resources and 
the great number of its inhabitants, either natives or 
refugees. Subsequently, according to Josephus (.i/jf. 

xiv. 10, 2), Julius Ciesar wrote a letter respecting llyr- 
canus, which he addressed to the “ Mtiyist rates, Council, 
and Demos of Sidon.” 'This shows that up to that time 
the Zidonians enjoyed the forms of liberty, though Dion 
Cassius says (lxiv, 7) that Augustus, on his arrival in 
the East, deprived them of it for seditious conduct. Not 
long after Strabo, in his account of Phcenicia. says of 
Tvre and Sidon, “Both were illustrious and splendid 
formerly, and now; but which should be called the cap- 
ital of Plnenicia is a matter of dispute between the in- 
habitants’’ (xvi, 756), lie adds that it is situated on 
the mainland, on a line, naturally formed harbor. lie 
speaks of the inhabitants as cultivating the sciences of 
arithmetic and astronomy; and says that the best op- 
portunities were afforded in Zidon for acquiring a knowl- 
edge of these and of all other branches of philosophy. 
He adds that in his time there were distinguished phi- 
losophers — natives of 
Zidon — as Hoe ill us, 
with whom he studied 
the philosophy of Ar- 
istotle, and his broth- 
er Diodorus. It is to 
be observed that both 
those names were 
Greek; and it is to be 
presumed that in Stra- 
bo’s time Greek was the 
language of the educat- 
ed classes at least, both 
in Tyre and Zidon. 

This is nearly all that 
is known of the state 
of Zidon when it was 
visited by Christ. It is 
about fifty miles distant 
from Nazareth, and is 
the most northern city 
which is mentioned in 
connection with his 
journeys. Pliny notes 
the manufacture of 
glass at Zidon (Xat. 

Hist, v, 17, 10) ; and 
during the Roman pe- 
riod we may conceive 
Tyre and Zidon as two 
thriving cities, each 
having an extensive 
trade, and each having 
its staple manufacture 
— the latter of glass, 
and Tyre of purple 
dyes from shell-fish. 

Zidon is mentioned 
several times in the 
New 'Pest. Jesus went 
once to the coasts of 
'lyre and Zidon (Matt. 

xv, *21 ) ; Sarepta, a city 
of Sidon, is referred to 
(Luke iv. *26); ami Paul 
touched at Zidon on his 
voyage from Ctosarea 
to Rome (Acts xxvii, 

3). Whatever be the 
doom of Tyre and Zi- 
don, it shall be “ more 
tolerable in the day of 
judgment” than that 


of Cliorazin and Bethsaida, which saw the Saviour’s 
mighty works, but were unconvinced by them ; for had 
these towns been so privileged, ‘‘they would have re- 
pented long ago in sackcloth and ashes.” 

Zidon was sometimes dignified with the Greek title of 
Xauarehis (commander of ships), and was also called by 
the Romans Colmna .1 u (just a and Metropolis. Chris- 
tianity appears to have been introduced lu re at an early 
period (Acts xxvii, 3), and a bishop of Zidon attended 
the Council of Nicica in 3*25. After the conquest of 
Syria by the Moslems (in 636), Zidon surrendered to her 
new masters without resistance, and ii was then in an 
enfeebled condition. It shared generally the fortunes 
of 'lyre, with the exception that it was several times 
taken and retaken during the wars of (he Crusades, 
and suffered, accordingly, more than 'lyre previous to 
the fatal year B.C. 1*261. Since that time it never 
seems to have fallen quite so low as 'lyre. Through 
Fakhr ed-Din, emir of the Druses between 1561 and 
1634, and the settlement at Saida of French commer- 
cial houses, it had a revival of trade in the 17th and 
part of the l.Sth century, and became the principal 
city on the Syrian coast for commerce between the 
East and the West (sec Me moires du Chevalier d'Ar - 


Map of the Euvirons of Zidon. 


ZIDON 


109(3 


ZIDON 


vieux [Paris, 1735], i, 291-379). This was put an 
end to at the dose of last century bv violence and op- 
pression (Hitter, Erdkunde , 17. Thcil, 1. Abth. 3. Huch, 
p. 405. 106), closing a period of prosperity in which the 
population of the city was at one time estimated at 

20.000 inhabitants. Under the Egyptian rule the place 
again somewhat revived, but in 1840 its fortress was 
destroyed by the European allies. 

3. Present Condition . — The town still shows signs of 
former wealth, and the houses are better constructed and 
more solid than those at Tyre, being many of them built 
of stone. Its chief exports are silk, cotton, and nntgalls 
(Robinson, Bill. lies, iii, 418, 419). The trade between 
Syria and Europe, however, now mainly passes through 
Beirut, as its most important commercial centre; and 
the natural advantages of Beirut, in this respect, for the 
purposes of modern navigation, are so decided that it is 
certain to maintain its present superiority over.Zidon 
and Tyre. 

The modern Saida has thus lost all and everything, and 
has once more become a poor miserable place, without 
trade or manufactures worthy of the name. To add to 
its desolation, an earthquake, which took place in 1837, 
destroyed about one hundred of its insignificant houses. 
Yet such is its favorable natural position, and the fruit- 
fulness of the surrounding country, that in 1840 the dis- 
trict of Saida contained about 70,000 inhabitants (above 

30.000 Christians and Jews), whose annual tax amount- 
ed to about $570,000. It only requires some favorable 
turn in the tide of its affairs to make it once more lift 
np its head again as of yore. The population of Saida | 
is estimated at 10,000, of whom about 7000 are Mos- I 
lems, 500 Jews, and the rest Catholics, Maronites, and 
Protestants. The city that once divided with Tyre the 
empire of the seas is now almost without a vessel, and 
its commerce is so insignificant that it would not repay 
even a periodical call of one of the passing steamers. 
Silk and fruit are its staple products; the latter is not 
surpassed in variety or quality by any other place in 
Syria. The harbor was formed by a low ridge of rocks 
running out from the northern point of the peninsula, 
parallel to the shore line. On one of these stands an 
old castle, which is connected with the town by a bridge 
of nine arches, forming the picturesque group so well 
known from engravings. The harbor was counted large 
in the days of ancient commerce, being sufficient to con- 
tain fifty galleys; but the Druse chief Fakhr ed-Din, fear- 
ing the Turks, caused it to be filled np with stones and 
earth, so that now only small boats can enter. Larger 
vessels, when they come here at all, anchor off to the 
northward, sheltered only from the south and east winds. 

4 .Antiquities. — Around the island, on which stand 
the ruins of the mediaeval castle, particularly on the 
south-west side, are remains of quays built of large 
hewn stones, and similar remains flank the whole of 
the ridge which forms the northern harbor. The broad 
tongue of land which bounds the harbor on the west 
also bears remains of ancient walls, and on the east side 
there are two artificial square basins. Antiquities, chief- 
ly of the Christian period, consisting of sarcophagi, cip- 
pi. statuettes, trinkets, and tear- vessels, are frequent- 
ly dug up in the gardens around the town. The ne- 
cropolis, situated in the limestone rocks adjacent, con- 
tains tombs of various plans and styles, which are mi- 
nutely described by Henan (Mission en Phenicie, p. 117). 
Saida, however, possesses another most vital interest, 
apart from its faded historical memories. It is the only 
spot in Phoenicia where Phoenician monuments with 
Phoenician inscriptions have been found as yet. While 
the great bulk of paheographical relics of this most im- 
portant people had been found in its colonies, Saida 
alone has furnished no less than three of the most an- 
cient and lengthy inscriptions extant. On Jan. 19, 
1855, one of the many sepulchral caves near the city 
was opened by chance, and there was discovered in it a 
sarcophagus, the lid of which represented the form of a 
mummy with the uncovered face of a man. Twenty- 


two lines of Phoenician writing were found engraved 
upon the chest of the royal personage — king Ash- 
manezer II — whom it represents. A smaller, abbre- 
viated inscription runs round the neck. The age of 
this monument lias variously been conjectured as of 
the 11th century B.C. ( Ewald ), whieli is unques- 
tionably wrong; further, as of the 7th, 6th, or 4th 
respectively by Ilitzig, the due de Luvncs, Levy, and 
others. The inscriptions contain principally a solemn 
injunction, or rather an adjuration, not to disturb the' 
royal remains. Besides this, there is an enumeration 
of the temples erected by the defunct in honor of the 
gods. This sarcophagus is now in the Nineveh division 
of the sculptures in the Louvre, At first sight tlie ma- 
terial of which it is composed mav be easily mistaken, 
and it lias been supposed to be blaek marble. On the 
authority, however, of M. Stichard of Paris, who lias ex- 
amined it very closely, it may be stated that the sarcoph- 
agus is of black syenite, whieh, as far as is known, is 
more abundant in Egypt than elsewhere. It may be 
added that the features of the countenance on the lid 
are decidedly of the Egyptian type, and the head-dress 
is Egyptian, with the head of a bird sculptured on what 
might seem the place of the right and left shoulder. 
There can therefore be little reason to doubt that this 
sarcophagus was either made in Egypt and sent thence 
to Zidou, or that it was made in Phoenicia in imitation 
of similar works of art in Egypt. The inscriptions 
themselves are the longest Phoenician inscriptions which 
•have come down to our times. A translation of them was 
published by Prof. Dietrieh at Marburg in 1855, and by 
Ewald at Gottingen in 1856. The king's title is “king 
of the Zidonians ;” and, as is the case with Ethbaal, men- 
tioned in the book of Kings (1 Kings xvi, 31), there 
must remain a certain doubt whether this was a title 
ordinarily assumed by kings of Zidon. or whether it had 
a wider signification. We learn from the inscription 
that the king’s mother was a priestess of Ashtoreth. 

The following is a portion of the most remarkable 
(larger) inscription divided into words (there is no di- 
vision even of the letters in the original) according to 
the sense — in some instances merely conjectured — and 
transcribed into Hebrew characters, to whieh is subjoin- 
ed a translation, principally following Munk and Levy, 
but occasionally differing from either: 

icbob i tii — i rc“ixi -or r:uc be nra 1. 

nns “bo "J^-ux ibo 

n«Brs< ■>="> r:=n ,= 2. 

rb7n: n*zxb erne “bz 

no bx p eri on 7 x cci “oo p irr be 3. 

t -cpci 7 rbne “:x czun 
cnx bzi rzbco bz rx^erp rrc ux c~zc 4 . 

1 7 ezus r-x nrsi bx 
sl ” 1 bxi ero p du ^x d ere p upci bx 5 . 

ozi bxi iczuo nbn r^x 
cc^ix dx cx 13 u czuo rbv 7 CZUCC p 6 . 

“1 rzbee bz z erne rcun bx -ja-cn 
xui ux cx 7 czuo nbr n rei ux cnx bz 7. 

•zz pom ux cx ■’czu o p.bn r^x 
nepi bxi DX2-1 nx czuo cb pi bx 7 czu 8 . 

r-i 7 -, p n b pi bxi cepe 
-nx “bo nnx cunpn crbxn nr-noi-, ernnn 9 . 

pb erz bus ux 

nbr nnsi ux xn mx cx nzbco nix erne 10. 

r-x xo*i ux cx 7 ecus 
none d^x cx xn n[z]boo r -7 r.-'xi 7 rbn 11. 

1 00b u“u cb pi bx 
. . . uoun rnn cine -.xn brob nc 12. 


ZIDOXIAX 


1007 


ZIKLAG 


(1.) In the month of Bui, in the year 14 (XIV) of my 
reitrniutr, [I,] king Ashmnnezer, king of the Zidoidmis, <*2) 
Bon of kiu.^ Tahuith, kin lt of the Zidoniaus: snake kin«r 
Ashmunez'er, king of the Zuloninus, saying, “ I nave been 
stolen away (3) before my time— a sou of the Hood [?] of 
days. The whilom Great is dumb— the Son of God is 
dead. And I rest in this grave, even in this tomb, (41 in 
ihc place which I have built. My adjuration to all the 
ruling powers and all men: Let no one open this resting- 
place, and (5) not search with us for treasure, for there is 
no treasure with us; ami let him not hear airai ; the court/ 
of my rest, and not trouble (0) ns on this resting-place by 
disturbing the conch of my slumbers. Even if people 
should per-nade thee, do not listen to their speech. Ent- 
ail the ruling powers and (7) all men who should open the 
tomb of this my rest, or any man who should carry a tray 
the couch of my rent , or any man who troubles me or (-0 
this mv conch, unto them there shall he no rest with the 
departed; they shall not be buried in a grave, and there 
shall be to them neither son nor seed (*.») in their stead, 
and the holy gods will send over them a inightv kin^g who 
will rule over them, aud (ID) cut them off with their dy- 
nasty. If any human being should open this resting- 
place, and any man should carry away (11) this tomb— be 
he of royal seed or a man of the people— there shall be 
unto them neither root below nor (1*2) fruit above, uor 
houor arnoug the living under the sun. . . 

The shorter inscription — round the king’s neck — con- 
tains seven lines, as follows : 

Dsns . . . i in— i. 
. . . 2 . 
y'srr.bx . . . 3. 

\ 

. . . i::bxn~:“.:ow~:rnr:n7N::~2:r^x 5. 

, . . . . . c. 

r:xr - 

... 7. 

The third inscription we have mentioned was discov- 
ered a few years ago by consul Moore on another locality 
near Saida. It is found on a block sixty-nine centi- 
metres in height, thirty-eight in length, which evidently 
was once used for building purposes. It is now in the 
possession of count dc Vogue. The inscription reads 
as follows : 

t 11 rr- . . . e . . . m-Q 

. . . -ix:-irni»=:ns-j3^ 

. . . 

The fragmentary nature of this inscription allows of lit- 
tle certainty in its deciphering, save with respect to a 
few proper names. See Phoenicia. 

Zidon'ian (Heb. sing. Tsidoni ', Ezek. xxxii, 

30: plur. Tsidonim \ Z^-PIS, DOIT’S [the full form], 
or [Ezra iti, 7, they of Zidon”] ; and [1 Kings 

xi. 5, 33] Tsidonin ■p:T“:£; Sept. XiCwwot [except. 
Ezek. xXxii, 30, arparijyoi ’Aovroiyj]; Vulg. Sidonii 
[except vcr. 30. cenutores] ; A. V. “ Sidnnians, 2 Kings 
xxiii, 13), the inhabitants of Zidon. They were among 
the nations of Canaan left to practice the Israelites in 
the art of war (.Jitdg. iii, 3), and colonies of them ap- 
pear to have spread up into the hill country from Leba- 
non to Misrephoth-maim (Josh, xiii, 4. G ), whence in 
later times they hewed cedar-trees for David and Solo- 
mon (1 Chron. xxii, 4). They oppressed the Israelites 
oji their first entrance into the country (Jndg. x, 12). 
anti appear to have lived a luxurious, reckless life (xviii, 
7) : they were skilful in hewing timber (l Kings v, (5), 
and were employed for this purpose bv Solomon. They 
were idolaters, aud worshipped Aslitorctli as their tute- 
lary goddess (xi, 5, 33; 2 Kings xxiii, 13), as well as 
the sun-god Baal, from whom their king was named (1 
Kings xvi, 31 ). The term *Zidonian among the He- 
brews appears to have been extended in meaning as 


that of Phoenician among the Creeks. Zidonian wom- 
en {Tsedeniyoth' , ; Sept. 2£rpai; Vulg. Sidoni/r) 

were in Solomon’s harem (xi, 1). — Smith. See Ztnox. 

Ziegelbauer, M.w:noai,i>, a Uoman Catholic the- 
ologian of Germany, was born in 1G1H5 at Elwangen, 
Suabia. In 1707 lie entered the brotherhood of the 
Benedictine friars, and taught philosophy ami theology 
at the convent of Zwiefalten and that of Beiehcnnu. 
After having resided for a time near the learned priest 
Bessel of (lottcnich, who had been appointed to instruct 
tin* young friars, lie passed many years at Vienna, and 
at Braimau and Prague, in Bohemia, and assisted in 
reorganizing the academic college at the last-named 
place. In 1717 lie went to occupy the position of sec- 
retary of the Academy of the Unknown at Olmlltz. 
Here he prepared a book in which lie wished to call the 
attention of the pope to numerous abuses introduced 
among the clergy of these countries. Those interested 
in suppressing the publication of this work administered 
to him a poison powder by a physician. lie died June 
•1, 1750, at Olmlltz. We have from Ziegelbauer, // in- 
to rinche Xachricht von dcr 8. Georyenfahnc. (Vienna, 
1735) : — . lc(u 8. Stephuni Protomart yris (ibid. 173G). in 
German : — Xorus Pci Litteraruc Ord. 8. Benedict i Con- 
spectus (lhitisbon, 1730), a prospectus of a large and ex- 
cellent collection which was puWished by Legipont after 
his death under the title Historia Pei Litter . Ord. 8. 
Benedicti (Augsburg, 1754): — Epitome Uisloricu Mona- 
sterii Brennoniensis prope Pray am (Cologne, 1740): — 
Sponsalia Viryinis (Kbnigshofen, 1740): — Historia Di- 
dactica de Crucis CtiUu in Ord. 8. Benedicti (Vienna, 
174G) : — CentifoUnm Ca maid /dense (ibid. 1750), which is 
a prospectus of the historical library of the Camaldulcs. 
Ziegelbauer left in manuscript several works, such as 
Olomucium Sacrum and Bibliotheca Bohemica . See 
lloefcr, Xouv. Bioy. Generate , s. v. 

Zif (llcb. Zir, IT, bloom; Sept. Zion v. r. Nairw, 
Vulg. Zio), the early name (l Kings vi, 1, 37) of the 
second Hebrew month Iyau (q. v.), corresponding to 
April or May. See Calisxdai;. 

Zi'lia (Ilel). Tsicha', XrPII, parched; Sept. Stad 
v. r. Sijd, Xoead, XouStd, etc. ; Vulg. 8 ill a, Soha, Sou- 
ha), the name of two Hebrews. 

1. One of the Ncthinim whose “children” returned 
from Babvlon with Zcrubbabcl (Ezra ii, 43; Nch. vii, 
4G). B.C. ante 53G. 

2. First named of the two chief Ncthinim resident 
in Ophel after the Captivity (Neh. xi,2l). B.C. 53G. 

Ziim. See Tsiyiji. 

Zik'lag (Heb. Tsiklay', [in pause fully 

Tsikday ', 1 Chrou. xii, 1, 20], ivindiny [Elirst]; 

Sept. XftcsXd/c or XocfXdy v. r. X/«Xd, etc. ; Josephus, 
LVreWft, Ant. vi, 13, 10; 14, fi; Steph. Byz. £t7rc,\«; 
Vulg. Siceley ), a place which possesses a special interest 
from its having been the residence and the private prop- 
erty of David. It is first mentioned in the catalogue 
of the towns of Judah in Josh, xv, where it is enumer- 
ated (vcr. 31) among those of the extreme south, be- 
tween Ilormah (or Zcphath)and Madmannah (possibly 
Beth-marcabotli). It next occurs, in the same connec- 
tion, among the places which were allotted out of the 
territory of Judaii to Simeon (xix, 5). We next en- 
counter it in the possession of the Philistines (1 Sam. 
xxvii, G), when it was, at David’s request, bestowed 
upon him by Achish king of Gath, lie resided there 
for a year and four months (ver. 7; xxxi, II, 2G; 1 
Chron. xii, 1, 20; Josephus [/lwL vi, 13, 10] gives this 
as one month and twenty days). It was there lie re- 
ceived the news of Saul’s death (2 Sam. i, 1 : iv, 10). 
He then relinquished it for Hebron (ii, 1). Ziklag is 
finally mentioned, in company with Becr-slicba, llazar- 
sliual, and other towns of the south, as being reinhab- 
ited by the people of Judah after their return from the 
Captivity (Nch. xi, 23). 


ZILLAII 


1098 


ZIMRI 


The situation of tlie town is difficult to determine, 
notwithstanding so many notices. On the one hand, 
that it was in “the south” (A egeb) seems certain, both 
from the towns named with it, and also from its men- 
tion with “the south of the Cherethitcs” and “the 
south of Caleb,” some of whose descendants we know 
were at Ziph and Maon, peril aps even at Paran (1 Sam. 
xxv, 1). On the other hand, this is difficult to recon- 
cile with its connection with the Philistines, and with 
the fact— which follows from the narrative of 1 Sum. 
xxx (see ver. 9, 10, 21)— that it was north of the brook 
Besor. The word employed in xxvii, 5, 7, 1 1, to denote 
the region in which it stood is peculiar. It is not hash- 
Shephelah, as it must have been had Ziklag stood in 
the ordinary lowland of I’liilistia, but has-Sudeh , which 
Prof. Stanley {Sin. and Pal. App. § 15) renders “the 
field.” On the whole, though the temptation is strong 
to suppose (as some have suggested) that there were 
two places of the same name, the only conclusion seems 
to be that Ziklag was in the south country, with a por- 
tion of which the Philistines had a connection, which 
may have lasted from the time of their residence there 
in the days of Abraham and Isaac. 

Ziklag does not appear to have been known to Euse- 
bius and Jerome, or to any of the older travellers. INI r. 
Howlands, however, in his journey from Gaza to Suez 
in 1842 (in Williams, 'Holy City, i, 463-468), was told 
of “an ancient site called Ashij, or Kasluj , with some 
ancient walls,” three hours east of Sebata, which again 
was two hours and a half south of Khalasa. This he 
considers as identical with Ziklag. Dr. Hobinson had 
previously (in 1838) heard of Ashij as lying south-west 
of Milh, on the way to Abdelt {Bill. Res. ii, 201), a po- 
sition not discordant with that of Mr. Howlands. The 
identification is supported by Mr. Wilton {Negeb, p. 209) ; 
but in the Arabic form of the name the similarity 
which prompted Mr. Lowlands’s conjecture almost en- 
tirely disappears (sbplZ, 5t?l!53?).— Smith. The Eng- 
lish engineers think that they have discovered the 
name and site of Ziklag in the ruins still called Kliirbet 
Zuheilikah , occupying three small hills, nearly half a 
mile apart, in the form of an equilateral triangle, to- 
gether with ancient cities, situated in an open, rolling 
plain eleven miles east-southeast of Gaza, anil nineteen 
south-west of Beit-Jibrin (Quar. Report of “Pal. Ex- 
plor. Fund,” Jan. 1S78, p. 12 sq.). See Simeon. 

Zil'lah (Heb. Tsillah', shade; Sept. EeXXa; 
Vnlg. Sella), last named of the two wives of Lamech 
the Cainite, to whom he addressed h'is song (Gen. iv, 
19, 22, 23). B.C. cir. 3500. She was the mother of 
Tubal-Cain and Naamah. Dr. Kalisch {Comm, on Gen.) 
regards the names of Lamech’s wives and of his daugh- 
ters as significant of the transition into the period of 
art which took place in his time, and the corresponding 
change in the position of the woman. “Naamah signi- 
fies the lovely, beautiful woman; while the wife of the 
first man was simply Eve, the life-giving. . . . The 
women were, in the age of Lamech, no more regarded 
merely as the propagators of the human family ; beauty 
and gracefulness began to command homage. . . . Even 
the wives of Lamech manifest the transition into this 
epoch of beauty; for while one wife, Zillah, reminds 
still of assistance and protection (‘shadow’), the other, 
Adah, bears a name almost synonymous with Naamah, 
and likewise signifying ornament and loveliness.” In 
the apocryphal book of Jashar, Adah and Zillah are both 
daughters of Cainan. Adah bare children, but Zillah 
was barren till her old age, in consequence of some 
noxious draught which her husband gave her to pre- 
serve her beauty and to prevent her from bearing. — 
Smith. See Lamech. 

Zil'pah (Heb. Tsilpah', a trickling; Sept. 

ZtX^d v. r.ZfX^dj/; Josephus, 7.e\<pd, Ant. i, 19,7; Vulg. 
Zelpha), a female servant of Laban, whom he gave to 
Leah on her marriage with Jacob (Gen. xxix, 24), and 
whom Leah eventdally induced him to take as a concu- 


bine wife, in which capacity she became the mother of 
Gad and Asher (xxx, 9-13 ; xxxv. 2(5 ; xxxvii, 2 ; xlvi, 
18). B.C, 1919. 

Zil'thai (II eb. Tsiltay', shady or my shad- 

ows ; Sept. NaXaSt v. r. NaXei and Nn/ua£i; Vnlg. Sala- 
thi and Selathai), the name of two Hebrews. 

1. Fifth named of the nine “ sons” of Shimhi, and one 
of the Benjamite chiefs resident at Jerusalem (1 Chron. 
viii, 20). B.C. post 1612. 

2 . Last named of the seven Manassite captains who 
joined David at Ziklag (I Chron. xii, 20). B.C. 1054. 

Zim'mah (II eb. Zimmah ' , npf, purpose; Sept. 
Z tppd v. r. Z ayyctfi and Zqua£; Vnlg. Zemma or Zam - 
nut), the name of two or three Levites. 

1. A Gcrshonite, “ son” of Jahath and father of 
Joah (I Chron. vi, 20) ; probably the same with the 
“ son” of Shimei and father of Jahath (ver. 42). B.C. 
post 1874. 

2 . Father or ancestor of Joah, which latter was a 
Gcrshonite in the reign of Ilezekiah (2 Chron. xxix, 

, 12). B.C. ante 726. At a much earlier period we find 
I the same collocation of names, Zimmah and Joah as 
father and son (1 Chron. vi, 20). This is but an evi- 
I deuce of the frequent recurrence of the same names in 
a family (comp. “ Mahath the son of Amasai” in 2 Chron. 
xxix, 12 with the same in 1 Chron. vi, 35; “Joel the 
son of Azariah” in 2 Chron. xxix. 12 and 1 Chron. vi, 
36; and “ Kish the son of Abdi” in 2 Chron. xxix, 12 
with “Kishi the son of Abdi” in 1 Chron. vi, 44). 

Zim'ian (Ileb. Zimran ', celebrated; Sept. 

So/(/3 pdv v. r. Zf/t/3jo«/t, 'Zefipan, etc. : Vulg. Zama and 
Ztimrani ), first named of the nine sons of Abraham by 
Keturah (Gen. xxv, 2; 1 Chron. i, 32). B.C. cir. 2020. 
His descendants are not mentioned, nor is any hint 
given that he was the founder of a tribe; the contrary 
would rather appear to be the case. Some would iden- 
tify Zimran with the Zimri of Jer. xxv, 25, but these 
lay too far to the north. The Greek form of the name, 
as found in the Sept., has suggested a comparison with 
Zrt/3(Ou/<, the chief city of the Cinaxlocolpitte, who dwelt 
on the Bed Sea, west of Mecca. But this is extremely 
doubtful, for this tribe, probably the same with the an- 
cient Kenda, was a branch of the Joktanite Arabs, who 
in the most ancient times occupied Yemen, and may 
only have come into possession of Zabram at a later pe- 
riod (Knobel. Gen.). Hitzig and Lengerke propose to 
connect the name Zimran with Zimiris , a district of 
Ethiopia mentioned by Pliny (xxxvi,25); butGrotius, 
with more plausibility, finds a trace of it in the Zamere - 
ni, a tribe of the interior of Arabia (Pliny, vi, 32). The 
identification of Zimran with the modern Beni Omran 
and the Bani Zomaneis of Diodorus, proposed by Mr. 
Forster ( Geogr. of Arabia, i, 431 ), cannot be .seriously 
maintained. — Smith. AViner ( Ilandw. s. v.) suggests 
the Zinuira of Asia Minor (Ptolemy, v, 7, 2 ; Pliny, x, 
20) or Zimyra {Zipvpct) of Asia (Ptolemy, vi, 17,8). 
See Arabia. 

Zim'li (Heb. Zimri', ^*2T, my song or celebrated; 
Sept. Z apfip'r, Josephus, Z apaptjc, Ant. viii, 12, 5; 
Vulg. Zambri ), the name of several Hebrews, and ap- 
parently one foreign tribe. 

1. First named of the five sons of Zerah the sou of 
Judah (1 Chron. ii, 6). B.C. post 1874. 

2 . The son of Sain, a Simeonitish chieftain, slain by 
Phinehas with the Midianitish princess Cozbi (Numb, 
xxv, 14). B.C. 1618. When the Israelites at Shittim 
were smitten with plagues for their impure worship of 
Baal Peor, and were weeping before the tabernacle, 
Zimri, with a shameless disregard of his own high posi- 
tion and the sufferings of his tribe, brought into their 
presence the Midianitess, in the sight of Moses and in 
the sight of the whole congregation. The fierce anger 
of Phinehas was aroused^ and in the swift vengeance 
with which he pursued the offenders, he gave the first 
indication of that uncompromising spirit which charac- 


1000 


ZIXZEXDOKF 


ZIX 


terized liim in later life. The whole, circumstance is 
much softened in the narrative of Josephus (J«f. iv, O', 
10-12), and in the hands of the apologist is divested of 
all its vigor and point. In the Targrnn of Jonathan 
hcu-rzziel several traditional details are added. Zimri 
retorts upon Moses that he himself had taken to wife a 
Midianitcss, and twelve miraculous signs attend the 
vengeance of Bhiuehas. Sec Phixicuas. 

In describing the scene of this tragedy an unusual 
word is employed, the force of which is lost in the ren- 
dering •• tent” of the A. V. of Numb, xxv, 8. It was not 
the d/ftV. or ordinary tent of the encampment, but the 
nzj?, kubbuh pv hence Span, alcoba and our alcove), or 
dome-shaped tent, to which riiiuehas pursued his vic- 
tims. Whether this was the tent which Zimri occu- 
pied as chief of his tribe, and which was in consequence 
more elaborate and highly ornamented than the rest, or 
whether it was, as Gcsenius suggests, one of the tents 
which the Midianites used lor the worship of Poor, is 
not to be determined, though the latter is favored by 
the rendering of the Vulg. lupanar. The word does 
not. occur elsewhere in Hebrew. In the Syriac it is 
rendered a “ cell,” or inner apartment of the tent. — 
Smith. See Uaijem. 

3 . The son of Azmaveth (rather Jehoadah or Jarah) 

and father ofMoza in the lineage of king Saul (1 Citron, 
viii, 30; ix, 42). 15.0. cir. 045. 

4 . The fifth sovereign of the separate kingdom of 
Israel, of which he occupied the throne for the brief pe- 
riod of seven days in the year 15.C. 020. Originally in 
command of half the chariots in the royal armv, he 
gained the crown by the murder of king Klah son of 
Baaslia, who, after reigning for something more than a 
year (cotnp. I Kings xvi, 8, 10), was indulging in a 
drunken revel in the house of his steward Arza at Tir- 
zah, then the capital. In the midst, of this festivity 
Zimri killed him, and immediately afterwards all the 
rest of Baasha’s family. But the army which at that 
time was besieging the Philistine town of Gibbet lion, 
when they heard of Elah‘s murder, proclaimed their 
general Omri king. He immediately marched against 
Tirzah and took the city. Zimri retreated into the in- 
nermost part of the late king’s palace, set it on fire, and 
perished in the ruins (vcr. 0-20). Ewald’s inference 
from Jezebel’s speech to Jehu (2 Kings ix, 31) that on 
Elah’s death the queen-mother welcomed his murderer 
with smiles and blandishments seems rather arbitrary 
and far-fetched. The word is ■jVS'lfcC, which Ewald 
(after J. D. Michael is) in both the above passages insists 
on translating “harem,” with which word he thinks that 
it is etymologically connected, and hence seeks confirma- 
tion of his view that Zimri was a voluptuous slave of 
women. But its root seems to be EjN, “to be high” 
( Gcsenius) ; and in other passages, especially Prow 
xviii, 19, the meaning is “a lofty fortress,” rather than 
*• a harem.” Ewald, in his sketch of Zimri, is perhaps 
somewhat led astray by the desire of finding a historical 
parallel with Sardanapalus. — Smith. See Iskaf.u 

5 . An obscure name, mentioned (Jer. xxv, 25) in 
probable connection with Dcdan, Tema, Buz, Arabia 

the mingled people “’ercb” (SnrPt), all of 
which immediately precede it, besides other peoples, 
and followed by Elam, the Modes, and others. The 
passage is of wide comprehension, but the reference, as 
indicated above, seems to ho to a tribe of the sons of the 
East, the Bcni-Kedem. Nothing further is known re- 
specting Zimri, but it may possibly be the same as, or 
derived from, Zuikax (q. v.). — Smith. 

Z in (llcb. Tsin, “12 [with H directive, Tsinah, Pil!£. 
Numb, xxxiv, 4; or Tsin'nah , Josh, xv, 3], a flat 
[plain or palm-tree]; Sept. NiV v. r. Ni no, etc.; Vnlg. 
Sin), a wilderness (“Z'/'C ) or open, uncultivated region 
on the south of Palestine and westward from lduma*a, 
in which was situated the city of Kadesh-baruea (Numb. 


xiii, 22; xx. 1 ; xxvii, 14; xxxiii,3G; xxxiv, 3; Dent 
xxxii, 51 ; Josh, xv, 1). It evidently was a portion of 
the desert tract between the Dead Sea, Ghor, and Ara- 
bah (possibly including the two hitter, or portions of 
them) on the east, and the general plateau of the Tih 
which stretches westward. The country in question 
consists of two or three successive terraces of mountain 
converging to an acute angle (like stairs where there 
is a turn in the flight) at the Dead Sea’s southern 
verge, towards which also they slope. Here the drain- 
age finds its chief vent by the Wady el-Eikreh into the 
Ghor, the remaining waters running hv smaller chan- 
nels into t lie Arabali, and ultimately by the Wady cl- 
Jeib also to the Ghor. Judging from natural features 
in the vagueness of authority, it is likely that the por- 
tion between and drained bv these wadies is the region 
in question; but where it ended westward, whether at 
any of the above-named terraces or blending imper- 
ceptibly with that of Paran, is quite uncertain. Jose- 
phus (.1??/. iv, 4, f>) speaks of a “hill called Sin” (Nin) 
where Miriam, who died in Kadcsh, when the people 
had “come to the desert of Zin,” was buried. This 
“ Sin” of Josephus may recall the name Zin, and, being 
applied to a hill, may, perhaps, indicate the most singu- 
lar and wholly isolated conical acclivity named Mode- 
rn!) (Madura, or Madarn), standing a little south of the 
Wady Fikreh, near its outlet into the Ghor. This 
would precisely agree with the tract of country above 
indicated (Numb, xx, 1 ; see Scetzcn, Reisen, iii, Hebron 
to Madam; Wilton, Xegeb, p. 127, 134). — Smith. See 
Kauksii. 

Zi'lia (lleb. Zina', perhaps abundance ; Sept. 

Zi£«, Vulg. Ziza), second named of the four sons of 
Shimei the Gcrshouitc (I Chron. xxiii, 10). B.C. 1043, 
In vcr. 11 he is called Zizau (q. v.). and some MSS. 
here have Ziza (JX'PT), like the Sept, and Vulg. 

Zinzendorf, Nicholas Licwts, Count von , D.D., 
founder of the llerrnhuters. or Moravian Brethren, was 
born at Dresden in 1700. According to his own ac- 
count (in his Xatural Reflections on Various Subjects ), 
he aspired to form a society of believers from his boy- 
hood. On coming of age in 1721, he settled, with this 
object in view, on his estate at Bcrthelsdorf, in Upper 
Lusatia. and was there joined by several proselytes 
from Bohemia. By 1732 the numbers who had flocked 
around him amounted to six hundred, and all these were 
subject to a species of ecclesiastical discipline or monastic 
despotism which brought them in spirit and body, ‘or 
was intended so to do, under the most absolute control 
of their leader. From an adjacent hill called the lluth - 
bery was derived the name of the colony, lluth des 
1 lerrn, contracted to llerruhut, and from this the name 
of the sect. The appellation Moravian Brethren was 
assumed for his party by count Zinzendorf for the sake 
of connection with the separatists of Bohemia and Mo- 
ravia, partly derived from Valdo, the forerunner of Lu- 
ther : some of these, indeed, were among his colonists. 
Zinzendorf assumed various titles as the chief of the 
llerrnhuters, all of which really pointed to a pontificate 
as his function. From 1733 his missionaries began to 
spread, not only over parts of Europe, but in Greenland 
and North America; even Africa and China were not 
forgotten. To him, in fact, Wesley was directly in- 
debted both for his religious organization and his mis- 
sionary plans which became so eminently successful, 
that indefatigable laborer having passed some time 
with count Zinzendorf at llerruhut. The interfer- 
ence of the government with the count’s projects can 
hardly be regarded as a measure of persecution, as se- 
cret doctrines were undoubtedly held by him, and thus 
motives given to his followers, and objects sought, of 
which, whether good or evil, the established authori- 
ties could take no cognizance. The history of the seqt 
is curious and interesting. Next to its orgaui^l^on 
in classes, the use of singing, which furnished the Wes- 
leys with a valuable hint, is one of its most remarkable 


ZION 


1100 


ZION 


characteristics; under this head some singular details 
might be given. Something might be said also on the 
connection of a certain marriage-rite with the theory 
of regeneration, the efficacy of which was probably 
tried by the Hcrrnhuters in common with the Quakers. 
Count Zinzendorf died among his people, June 9, 17G0. 
See Moravians. (\V. P. S.) 

Zi'on (Heb. Tsiyon ', sunny [Gesen.] or fort 
[Fiirst] ; Sept, [usually] and New. Test. Xtwr, Vulg. 
Sion ; A. V. “Sion” in New. Test.), a prominent hill 
(“H) of Jerusalem, being generally regarded as the 
south-westernmost and the highest of those on which 
the city was built. It included the most ancient part 
of the city with the citadel, and, as first occupied for a 
palace, was called the city of David (2 Chron. v, 2). 
Being the original site of the tabernacle pitched by 
David for the reception of the ark, it was also called 
the holy hill, or hill of the sanctuary (Psa. ii, 6). By 
the Hebrew prophets the name is often put for Jeru- 
salem itself (Isa. viii, IS; x, 24; xxx, 19; xxxiii, 14; 
Psa. xlviii, 2, 11, 12; comp. Bom. ix, S3; xi, 2G; 1 Pet. 
ii. 6; Bcv. xiv, 1): also for its inhabitants, sometimes 
called sons or daughlci'S of Zion (Isa. i, 27 ; xii, G; xl, 
9; xlix, 14; lii, 1 ; Psa. ix, 14; xcvii.8; Zcch. ii, 7, 10 ; 
ix, 9, 13; Zeph. iii, 14, 1G; Joel ii, 23; Matt, xxi, 5; 
John xii. 15); and for the spiritual Sion, the church or 
city of the living God (Heb. xii, 22, 28; Gal. iv, 2G; 
Kev. iii, 12; xxi, 2, 10). 

There never has been any considerable doubt as to 
the identity of this hill. Josephus, indeed, singularly 
enough appears to ignore the name Zion; but he evi- 
dently calls the same hill the site of the Upper City. 
In modern times Fergusson has attempted to identify it 
with Mount Moriah (. Jerusalem Revisited ; the Temple, 
etc.), and Capt. "Warren, with equal futility, has contend- 
ed for its identity with Akra ( The Temple or the Tomb 
[Lond. 1880]). The mistake of the latter has origi- 
nated from not observing that Josephus uses dtepa, the 
summit, in two senses: (a) the citadel on Mount Zion 
(An*, vii, 3,1, where it is clearly distinguished from “the 
lower city”), and ( b ) the hill Akra {ibid. 2, where it 
is clearly distinguished from “ the upper city”). See 
Acra. 

Of the several hills on which Jerusalem was built, 
Zion is the largest and, in many respects, the most in- 
teresting. It extends considerably farther south than 
the opposite ridge of Moriah and Ophel. The western 
and southern sides rise abruptly from the bed of the 
valley of Ilinnom, and appear to have originally con- 
sisted of a series of rocky precipices rising one above 
another like stairs; but now they are partially, and in 
some places deeply, covered with loose soil and the de- 


bris of buildings. The southern brow of Zion is bold 
and prominent; and its position, separated from other 
heights and surrounded by deep valleys, makes it seem 
loftier than any other point in the city, though it is in 
reality lower than the ground at the north-west corner 
of the wall. The elevation of the hill above the val- 
ley of Ilinnom at the point where it bends eastward 
is 300 feet, and above the Kidron, at cn-Bogel, 500 feet. 
On the south-east, Zion slopes down in a series of culti- 
vated terraces steeply, though not abruptly, to the site 
of the “King’s Gardens,” where Ilinnom, the Tvropce- 
on, and the Kidron unite. Here and round to the south 
the declivities arc sprinkled with olive-trees, which 
grow luxuriantly among narrow strips of corn. The 
scene cannot but recall the words of Micah, “Zion shall 
be ploughed like a field” (Jer. xxvi, 18). On the east, 
the descent to the Tyropceon is at first gradual, but as 
we proceed northward to the modern wall it becomes 
steeper; and about 300 yards within the wall, directly 
facing the south-west angle of the Ilaram, there is a 
precipice of rock from twenty to thirty feet high. The 
declivity is here encumbered with heaps of filth and 
rubbish, overgrown in places with prickly-pear. The 
Tyropoeon was anciently much deeper at this point than 
it is now; it has been filled up by the ruins of the 
bridge, the Temple walls, and the palaces of Zion to a 
depth of more than 130 feet. The best view of the 
eastern slopes of Zion and the southern section of the 
Tyropoeon is obtained from the top of the wall in de- 
scending from Zion Gate to the Dung Gate. 

From the descriptions and incidental notices of Jose- 
phus the following facts may be gathered: that the 
“Upper City,” built on Zion, was surrounded by ra- 
vines; that it was separated from the “Lower City” 
(AZra) by a valley called the Tyropoeon; that upon a 
crest of rock thirty cubits high on the northern brow 
of Zion stood three great towers— Ilippicus, Thasaelus, 
and Mariamne; that the wall enclosing the Upper City 
on the north ran by these towers to a place called the 
Xystns and joined the western wall of the Temple area; 
that there was a gate in that western wall northward 
of this point of junction opening into Akra; that the 
Xystns was near to and commanded by the western 
wall of the Temple area, though not united to it, and 
that the royal palace adjoined and overlooked the Xvs- 
tus on the west, while it was also attached to the great 
towers above mentioned ; and, lastly, that both the Xys- 
tus and palace were connected at their southern end by 
a bridge with the Temple area (see Josephus, War, v, 
4; vi, G, 2; ii, 1G, 3; A tit. xv, 11,5). 

On the summit of Zion there is a level tract extend- 
ing in length from the citadel to the Tomb of David, 
about GOO yards; and in breadth from the city wall to 



Mount Zion as seen from the Hill of Evil Couusel. (From a photograph.) 


ZTOX 


1101 


ZTOX 



100 ft 500 1000 5000 

Map of the Original Surface of Jerusalem. (Reduced from Schick’s plan.) 


the eastern side of the Armenian convent, about 2. r >0 captured by king David (Numb. xiii. 20; Josh. xv. 03; 
yards. A much larger space, however, was available Jud. i, 21; 2 Sam. v, 5-S). Upon it that monarch built 
for building purposes, and was at one time occupied, his palace, and there for more than a thousand years 
Xow not more than one half of this space is enclosed the kings and princes of Israel lived and ruled (ver. 0 
by the modern wall, while fully one third of that en- etc.). In Zion, too, was David buried, and fourteen of 
closed is taken up with the liar rack -yards, the convent his successors on the throne were laid near him in the 
gardens, and the waste ground at the city gate. All royal tomb (1 Kings ii, 10; xi, 13; xiv, 31, etc.). Zion 
without the wall, with the exception of the cemeteries was the last spot that held out when the Romans under 
ami the cluster of houses round the Tomb of David, is . Titus captured the city. When the rest of Jerusalem 
now cultivated in terraces and thinly sprinkled with was in ruins, when the enemy occupied the courts of 
olive-trees. the Temple, the remnant of the Jews from t he walls of 

Zion was the first spot in Jerusalem occupied by Zion haughtily refused the terms of the conqueror, and 
buildings. Upon it stood the stronghold of the Jehu- j perished in thousands around ami within the palace of 
sites, wiiich so long defied the Israelites, and was at last I their princes. 


ZIOR 


1102 


ZIPPORAH 


The city which stood on Zion was called successively 
by several names. It was probably r he Salem of Mel- 
ciiizedek (comp. Gen. xiv. 18 with Psa. lxxvi, 2); then 
it became Jebns under the Jebusites, so called from a 
son of Canaan (Gen. x. Id; 1 Chron. xi, 4, 5) ; then the 
“ city of David” and Jerusalem (2 Sam. v, 7). Jose- 
phus, as above stated, calls it the “ Upper City,” adding 
that it was known also in his day as the “ Upper Mar- 
ket.” See Jerusalem. 

Zi'or (Ileb. Tsior\ ‘"i smallness; Sept. Stwp v.r. 
SwpmS; Vulg. Sior'), a town in the highland district 
of Judah (Josh, xv, 54), where it is mentioned in the 
group around Hebron to the south. See Judaii, Tribe 
op. Eusebius and Jerome {0 nomast. s. v. 2ubp) call it 
a village between Jerusalem and Eleutheropoli^ It 
probably corresponds to the small village still called 
Sair oil the road about six miles north-east of llebron 
towards Tekoa (Robinson, JUbl. Res. i, 488), traditional- 
lv pointed out as the site of the grave of Esau (Schwarz, 
Palest, p. 106). 

Ziph (Ileb. id. tpj, battlement [Gesen.] or melting- 
place [Fiirst] ; Sept. Z i/3 or Zap, with many v. rr. ; Vulg. 
Ziph or Siph), the name of a man and of one or two 
places in Judah. 

1. First named of the four sons of Jehalelecl of the 
tribe of Judah (I Chron. iv, 1G). B.C. post 1618. 

2. A town apparently in the south or Simeonitish 
part of Judah (Josh, xv, 24), where it is mentioned 
between Itlinan and Telem ; but the enumeration and 
the absence of the copula require us to join it with the 
former, i. e. Itbnan-ziph, and in that ease it may be an 
appendage retaining a trace of the Zephath (q.v.) of 
that region. See It n nan. 

3. A town in the mountain district of Judah (Josh, 
xv, 55), where it is mentioned between Carmel and Jnt- 
tah, in the south-east group. See Judah, Tribe of. 
The place is immortalized by its connection with Da- 
vid, some of whose greatest perils and happiest escapes 
took place in its neighborhood (1 Sam. xxiii. 14, 15, 24; 
xxvi, 2). It had been built by Mesha the son of Caleb 
(1 Chron. 3i, 42), and w r as eventually fortified by Reho- 
boam (2 Chron. xi, 8). “Zib” is mentioned in the 
Onomusticon as eight miles east of llebron; ‘‘the vil- 
lage,” adds Jerome, “in which David hid is still shown.” 
This can hardly be the spot above referred to, unless 
the distance and direction have been stated at random, 
or the passage is corrupt both in Eusebius and Jerome. 
Elsewhere (under “ Zeib” and “ Ziph”) they place it near 
Carmel, and connect it with Ziph the descendant of 
Caleb. The place in question is doubtless the Tell Zij\ 
about three miles south of Hebron, a rounded hill of 
some hundred feet in height, with a spring adjacent. 


About half a mile east of- the tell are some consider- 
able ruins, standing at the head of two small wadies, 
which, commencing here, run off towards the Dead Sea. 
These ruins are pronounced by Robinson (JJibl. Res. i, 
492) to be those of the ancient Ziph. There w as orig- 
inally a desert (*2“TC) and a wood (£T.h, choresk , 1 
Sam. xxiii, 15) attached to the place, traces of the lat- 
ter of which have been supposed fo exist in the present 
Khirbet Khoreisa , about one mile south of Tell Zif 
(Quar. Statement of the “ Palest. Explor. Fund,” Jan. 
1875, p. 45). See IIaciiilaii. 

Zi'phali (Ileb. ZiphaJT , SIS"'’!, fern, of Ziph [lent, 
Fiirst] ; Sept. Zt0« v. r. Z a(pd or Z aapd; Vulg. Zipha), 
second named of the four “sons” of Jelialeleel of the 
tribe of Judah (1 Chron. iv, 1G). B.C. post 1G18. 

Ziph'im (Psa. liv, title). See ZirniTE. 

Ziph'ion (Gen. xlvi, 16). See Zepiion. 

Ziph'ite ( Ileb. with the art. [except 1 Sam. xxiii, 
19] haz-Ziphi, [always in the plur., but abbre- 

viated C'Bt in ver. 19; xxvi, 1]; Sept. Zeapdtoi; 
Vulg. ZipJuci ; A. V. “ Ziphites,” but “ Ziphims” in Psa. 
liv, title), the patrial designation of the inhabitants of 
the town of Zirn (q. v.). 

Zi'phron [some Ziph'ron~\ (Ileb. Ziphron ', *p 2 T ? 
fragrance [Gesen.] or beautiful top [Fiirst] ; Sept. Zt- 
<ppu)vd v . r.£t(ppiovd', Vulg. Zephrona, both from the di- 
rective tl of the Ileb.), a place on the northern bounda- 
ry of the Promised Land, and consequently also of Naph- 
tali (Numb, xxxiv, 9, where it is mentioned between 
Zedad and Hazar-enan; possibly the present Kavhaba , 
a village high up the western slope of Wady et-Teini 
(Robinson, Later Res. p. 385). In the parallel passage 
(Ezek. xlvii, 16), Hazar-hatticon (q.v.) occurs in a simi- 
lar connection. According to Jerome (ad loc. Kzech .), it' 
was the Zephgvium Ciliciie (Mannert.VII, ii. 66,76). But 
this is too far away. Wetzstein thinks it is the exten- 
sive river Zif ran , fourteen hours north-east of Damas- 
cus {Reisebericht iiber IIauran,p. 88) ; but this is equal- 
ly out of the question (comp. Schwarz, Palest, p. 27). 
See Tribe. 

Zip'por (Ileb. Tsippor "VIES [briefly ‘IBS, Numb, 
xxii, 10; xxiii, 18]. sjmrrow [comp. Zipporah ] ; Sept. 
'Ztirtyiop', Vulg. Sephor'), father of Balak, king of Moab, 
who is always designated by this patronymic title (xxii, 
2, 4, 10, 16; xxiii, 18; Josh, xxiv, 9: Judg. xi, 25). 
B.C. ante 1618? He is possibly the king referred to in 
Numb, xxi, 26. See Balak; Moab. 

Zippo'rah (Heb. Tsipporah', l“PE Ii. fern. of Zippor; 
Sept. 2.£7T(pibpa ; Josephus, 2«7T0i5po, Ant. iii. 3. 1 : Vulg. 



Tell Zif. (From a photograph by the Editor.) 


ZIZ 


1103 


ZXICZ 


Sephoro), one of the seven daughters of TCenel or Jethro, 
the priest of Multan, who became the wife of Moses and 
mother of his two sons (Jershom and FJiezer (Exod. ii, 
21 ; iv, 25; xviii, 2; comp. ver. 6). The most note- 
worthy incident in her life is the account of the cir- 
cumcision of the former, who had remained for some 
time after his birth uuoirenmeised ; but an illness into 
which Moses fell in a khan when on his way to Pharaoh, 
being accounted a token of the divine displeasure, led 
to the circumcision of the child, when Zipporah, hav- 
ing, it appears, reluctantly yielded to the ceremony, ex- 
claimed, “Surely a bloody husband thou art to me” (iv. 
26; see Frischmuth, De Circumcision e Zipponr [Jen. 
16(53]; llase. De Sponso Sanyuinco [Hal. 1753]\ This 
event seems to have caused some alienation of feeling, 
for Moses sent his wife back to her father, by whom she 
was again brought to her husband while in the desert, 
when a reconciliation took place, which was ratified by 
religious rites (Gen. xviii, 1 sq.). B.C. 1658. It has 
been suggested that Zipporah was the Cushite (A. V. 
“Ethiopian”) wife who furnished Miriam and Aaron 
with the pretext for their attack on Moses (Numb, xii, 
1, etc.). A slight confirmation for this appears to be 
that in a passage of Uabakkuk (iii, 7) the names of 
Cnshan and Midi an are mentioned together. Another 
suggestion is that of EwaUl (Gesch. ii. 220, note), name- 
ly, that the Cushite was a second wife, or a concubine, 
taken by Moses during the march through the wilder- 
ness — whether after the death of Zipporah (which is 
not mentioned) or from other circumstances must be 
uncertain. See Moses. 

Ziz (f lob. with the art. hats- Tsits. the pro- 

jection; Sept. ’Anas v. r. 'A<T<rft£ ; Vulg. Sis), the name 
of a cliff (nsr/S, ascent) or pass bv which the band of 
Moabites, Ammonites, and Mehtmim who attacked Je- 
hoshaphat made their way up from the shores of the 
Dead Sea to the wilderness of Judah near Tekoa (2 
Chron. xx, 16: comp. ver. 20). There can be very lit- 
tje doubt that it was the pass of .1 in July — “the very 
same route," as Robinson remarks, “which is taken by 
the Arabs in their marauding expeditions at the present 
day; along the shore as far as to Ain Jidy, and then 
up the pass, and so northward below Tekua” (Bill. Res. 


i, 508, 530). The pass, although exceedingly precipi- 
tous, is still a great thorough fare (Tristram, Laud of 
Moub. p. 41). The name haz-Ziz may perhaps be still 
traceable in el-lhtsasah , which is attached to a large 
tract of table-land lying immediately above the pass of 
Ain Jidy, between it and Tekua. and bounded on the 
north by a wady of the same name ( Hibl . Iks. i, 527). 
Lieut. Cornier remarks that there is a ruin called Khir- 
bet M ziz south of Yutta {Quar. Statement of the “ 1‘alest. 
Kxplor. Fund,” Jan. 1875. p. 15). 

Zi'za ( Ilcb. Ziza', N5“T, abundance. [Gesen.] or 
shininy [Fllrst]; Sept. Zt£« or Zoi»£«), the name of two 
men. See also Zizaii. 

1. Third named of the four sons of Rehobonm by 
Maachnh the granddaughter of Absalom (2 Citron. Xi, 
20). li.C. post 073. 

2. Son of Shiplii and one of the chiefs of the Simeon- 
ites, who in the reign of Ilezckiah made a raid upon the 
peaceable llamite shepherds of Gcdor and smote them, 
“because there was pasture there for their flocks” (1 
Chron. iv, 37). B.C. cir. 725. 

Zi'zah (Ileb. Zizah PIT'T, i. q. Ziza; Sept. 7 a^u ; 
Vulg. Ziza), a Gcrshonitc Lcvitc, second son of Shimei 
(1 Chron. xxiii, 11); elsewhere (ver. 10) called Zina 
(q. v.). 

Zizanion. See Take. 

Zju-gwats (or Zju-gen), in Japanese mythology, 
is the Ncw-vear festival, which takes place on the first 
day of the first month (February). 

Zlata Baba, in Slavonic mythology, was a goddess 
worshipped by the Poles, whose golden statue (whence 
I her name, yoldeii icomun) is said to have stood in a 
temple on the Obi River. Many sacrifices were made 
I to her because she announced oracles to those desiring 
them. 

Zlebog [pron. Ztieboy]. in Slavonic mythology, is 
the supreme evil deity, and at the same time a sur- 
name of all evil black deities, as the reverse of Dobri- 
bog. Czerneboy is identical with Zlebog. 

Znicz, in Slavonic mythology, is a deity of the Rus- 
sians that was worshipped at Kiev through an eternal 



Ain Jidy and the Cliff of Ziz. (From a photograph by the Editor. The faint line in the background to the left 

is the pass up the cliff.) 


ZOAN 


1104 


ZOAN 


fire. It is thought that Znicz signifies fire. The priests 
of this god gave to the sick and suffering their advice 
in exchange for rich offerings. 

Zo'an (Ileb. Tso'iin , Sept. Tan's; Vulg. Tu- 

nis ), an ancient city of Lower Egypt, situated on the 
eastern side of the Tanitic branch of the Nile, and men- 
tioned several times in the Old Test. (Numb, xiii, 22; 
Fsn. lxxviii, 12, 43; Isa. xix, 11, 13; xxx, 4; Ezek. 
xxx, 14). (In our account of the place we partly fol- 
low the art. by Poole in Smith’s Diet, of the Bible.) 

1. Thew«»ie, preserved in the Coptic Jane, the Arabic 

San (a village still on the site), and the classical Trrnc, 
Tunis (whence the Coptic transcription Tamos'), comes 
from the root “he moved tents” (Isa. xxxiii, 20), 

cognate with “he loaded a beast of burden;” and 

thus signifies “a place of departure” (like Zaanannim, 
Josh, xix, 33, or Zaanaim, Judg. iv, 11, on a similar 
thoroughfare). Zoan lay near the eastern border of 
Lower Egypt. The sense of departure or removing, 
therefore, would seem not to indicate a mere resting- 
place of caravans, but a place of departure from a coun- 
try. The Egyptian name JIa-awar or Pa-awar ( Avit - 
ris, ’Aovapic) means “ the abode” or “ house” of “going 
out” or “departure.” Its more precise sense fixes that 
of the Shemitic equivalent. 

II. History. — 1 . From Manetho. — At a remote period, 
between the age when the pyramids were built and that 
of the empire, Egypt was invaded, overrun, and subdued 
by the strangers known as the Shepherds, who, or at 
least their first race, appear to have been Arabs cognate 
with the Phoenicians. How they entered Egypt does 
not appear. After a time they made one of themselves 
, king, a certain Salatis, who reigned at Memphis, exact- 
ing tribute of Upper and Lower Egypt, and garrisoning 
the fittest places with especial regard to the safety of 
the eastern provinces, which he foresaw the Assyrians 
would desire to invade. With this view, finding in the 
Saite (better elsewhere Sethroite) nome, on the east of 
the Bubastite branch, a very fit city called Avaris, he 
rebuilt and very strongly walled it, garrisoning it with 
240,000 men. He came hither in harvest-time (about 
the vernal equinox), to give corn and pay to the troops, 
and exercise them so as to terrify foreigners. 

The position of Tanis explains the case. Like the 
other principal cities of this tract — Pelusiutn, Bubastis, 
and Heliopolis — it lay on the east bank of the river, to- 
wards Syria. It was thus outside a great line of de- 
fence, and afforded a protection to the cultivated lands 
to the east and an obstacle to an invader, while to re- 
treat from it was always possible, so long as the Egyp- 
tians held the river. But Tanis, though doubtless for- 
tified partly with the object of repelling an invader, was 
too far inland to be the frontier fortress. It was near 
enough to be the place of departure for caravans, per- 
haps was the last town in the Shepherd period, but 
not near enough to command the entrance of Egypt. 
Pelusium lay upon the great road to Palestine — it has 
been until lately placed too far north [see Sin] — and the 
plain was here narrow from north to south, so that no 
invader could safely pass the fortress; but it soon be- 
came broader, and, by turning in a south-westerly di- 
rection, an advancing enemy would leave Tanis far to 
the northward, and a bold general would detach a force 
to keep its garrison in check and marcli upon Heliop- 
olis and Memphis. An enormous standing militia, set- 
tled in the Bucolia, as the Egyptian militia afterwards 
was in neighboring tracts of the delta, and with its 
headquarters at Tanis, would have overawed Egypt, 
and secured a retreat in case of disaster, besides main- 
taining hold of some of the most productive land in the 
country, and mainly for the former two objects we be- 
lieve Avaris to have been fortified. 

2. From the Egyptian Monuments. — Apipi, probably 
Apophis of the fifteenth dynasty, a Shepherd-king who 
reigned shortly before the eighteenth dynasty, built a 
temple here to Set, the Egyptian Baal, and worshipped 


no other god. According to Manetho, the Shepherds, 
after 511 years of rule, were expelled from all Egypt 
and shut up in Avaris, whence they were allowed to de- 
part by capitulation by either Amosis or Thummosis 
(Aahmes or Thothmes IV), the first and seventh king9 
of the eighteenth dynasty. The monuments show that 
the honor of ridding Egypt of the Shepherds belongs to 
Aahmes. Kameses II embellished the great temple of 
Tanis, and was followed by his son Menptah. 

After the fall of the empire, the first dynasty is the 
twenty-first, called by Manetho that of Tanites. Its 
history is obscure, and it fell before the stronger line of 
Bubastites, the twenty-second dynasty, founded by Shi- 
shak. The expulsion of Set from the pantheon, under 
the twenty-second dynasty, must have been a blow to 
Tanis, and perhaps a religious war occasioned the rise 
of the twenty- third. The twenty-third dynasty is 
called Tanite, and its last king is probably Sethos, the 
contemporary of Tirhakah, mentioned by Herodotus. 
See Egypt. 

3. From the Bible we learn that Zoan was one of the 
oldest cities in Egypt, having been built seven years 
after Hebron, which already existed in the time of 
Abraham (Numb, xiii, 22; comp. Gen. xxii, 2). It 
seems also to have been one of the principal capitals, 
or royal abodes, of the Pharaohs (Isa. xix, 11, 13); and 
accordingly “ the field of Zoan,” or the fine alluvial plain 
around the city, is described as the scene of the marvel- 
lous works which God wrought in the time of Moses 
( Psa. lxxviii, 12, 33). Tanis once more appears in 
sacred history as a place to which came ambassadors, 
either of Iloshea or Ahaz, or else possibly Hezekiah : 
“For his princes were at Zoan, and his messengers 
came to Hanes” (Isa. xxx, 4). As mentioned with the 
frontier town Tahpanhes, Tanis is not necessarily the 
capital. But the same prophet perhaps more distinctly 
points to a Tanite line when saying, in “the burden of 
Egypt,” “The princes of Zoan are become fools; the 
princes of Noph are deceived” (xix, 13). The doom of 
Tanis is foretold by Ezekiel: “I will set fire in Zoan” 
(Ezek. xxx. 14), where it occurs among the cities to be 
taken by Nebuchadnezzar. 

II I. Description and Remains . — Anciently a rich plain 
extended due east as far as Pelusium, about thirty miles 
distant, gradually narrowing towards the east, so that in 
a south-easterly direction from Tanis it was not more 
than half this breadth. The whole of this plain, about 
as far south and west as Tanis, was anciently known 
as “ the Fields” or “ Plains,” “ the Marshes” (jd "E X?/, 
'EXeojoy/a), or “the pasture-lands” (Bor*:oX<a). Through 
the subsidence of the Mediterranean coast, it is now al- 
most covered by the great lake Menzaleh. Of old it was 
a rich marsh-land, watered by four of the seven branches 
of the Nile, the Pathmitic, Mendesian, Tanitic, and Pe- 
lusiac, and swept by the cool breezes of the Mediter- 
ranean. 

At present “the plain of San is very extensive, but 
thinly inhabited; no village exists in the immediate 
vicinity of the ancient Tanis; and, when looking from 
the mounds of this once splendid city towards the dis- 
tant palms of indistinct villages, we perceive the desola- 
tion spread around it. The ‘ field’ of Zoan is now a bar- 
ren waste; a canal passes through it without being able 
to fertilize the soil; ‘lire’ has been set in ‘Zoan;’ and 
one of the principal, capitals or roval abodes of the Pha- 
raohs is now the habitation of fishermen, the resort of 
wild beasts, and infested with reptiles and malignant 
fevers.” It is “remarkable for the height and extent 
of its mounds, which are upwards of a mile from north 
to south, and nearly three quarters of a mile from east to 
west. The area in which the sacred enclosure of the 
temple stood is about 1500 feet by 1250, surrounded by 
mounds of fallen houses. The temple was adorned by 
Eameses II with numerous obelisks and most of its 
sculptures. It is very ruinous, but its remains prove 
its former grandeur. The number of its obelisks, ten or 
twelve, all now fallen, is unequalled, and the labor of 


ZOAIi 


1105 


ZOAI 



transporting them from Svene shows the lavish mag- 
nificence of the Egyptian kings. The oldest name 
found here is that of Sesertcsen III of the twelfth dy- 
nasty, the latest that of Tirhakah” (Wilkinson, Hand- 
book, p. '221, 222 ). Two black statues and a granite 
sphinx, with blocks of hewn and occasionally sculpt- 
ured granite, are among the objects which engage the 
attention of the few travellers who visit this desolate 
place. The modern village of San consists of mere huts, 
with the exception of a ruined kasr of modern date (id. 
Modern Egypt, i, 449-452; Narrative, of the Scottish 
Deputation, p. 72-76). Recently M. Marictte has made 
excavations on this site and discovered remains of the 
Shepherd period, showing a markedly characteristic 
style, especially in the representation of face and figure, 
but of Egyptian art, and therefore afterwards appropri- 
ated by the Egyptian kings. The bilingual or rather 
trilingual inscription of Ptolemy III (Euergetcs I) is of 
very great interest. See Pepsins, Das bilingue Decret 
v on Kanopus (Eel. 1867) ; Ueinisch und Rosier, Die zieei- 
sprachige fnschrift. von Tunis (Vienna, cod.) ; Proceed- 
ings of the Amer. Oriental Society, May, 1870, p. viii ; 
Bibliotheca Sacra, xxiv, 771 ; xxvi, 581. 

Zo'ar (Heb. Tso'dr, [fully ^VTl.Ge n.xix,22. 
23, 30], smallness ; Sept. Stjywp, Zoyop, or Zoyopa ; Jo- 
sephus Zowp, to. Z oapa or Zi oapa ; Yulg. Segor ), one of 
the cities of the Jordan and Dead-Sea valley, and ap- 
parently, from the way in which it is mentioned, the 
most distant from the western highlands of Palestine 
(xiii, 10). Its original name was Bela, and it was 
still so called at the time of Abram’s first residence in 
Canaan (xiv, 2, 8). It was then in intimate connec- 
tion with the cities of the “plain of Jordan”— Sodom, 
Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboiim (see also xiii, 10; but 
not x, 19) — and its king took part with the kings of 
those towns in the battle with the Assyrian host which 
ended in their defeat and the capture of Lot. The 
change is thus explained in the narrative of Lot’s es- 
cape from Sodom. When urged by the angel to flee 
to the mountain, he pointed to Bela, and said, “This 
city is near to tiee unto, and it is a little one (“i"!!^). 
Oh, let me escape thither (is it not a little one?) and 
my soul shall live.” The angel consented ; and the in- 
cident proved a new baptism to the place — “Therefore 
the name of the city was called Zoar," that is, “little” 
(v, 22). This incident further tends to fix its site, at 
least relatively to Sodom. It must have been nearer 
than the mountains, and yet outside the boundary of 
the plain or vale of Siddim, which was destroyed dur- 
ing the conflagration. It would seem from ver. 30 that 
it lay at the foot of the mountain into which Lofsub- 
sequently went up, and where he dwelt. That moun- 
tain was most probably the western declivity of Moab, 
overlooking the Dead Sea. In Dent, xxxiv, 3 there is 
another slight indication of the position of Zoar. From 
the top of Pisgah Moses obtained his view of the Prom- 
ised Land. The east, the north, and the west he viewed, 
and lastly “the south, and the plain of the valley of 
Jericho, unto Zoar.” This is not quite definite; but, con- 
sidering the scope of the passage, it may be safely con- 
X.— A A A A 


clmled that the gener- 
al basin of the Dead Sea 
is meant, and that Zoar 
was near its southern 
end. Isaiah reckons 
Zoar among the cities 
of Moab, but does not 
describe its position. It 
would seem, however, 
from the way ill which 
it is mentioned, that it 
must have been on the 
utmost border (Isn. xv, 
5). Jeremiah is t lie 
only other saered writ- 
er who mentions it, and 
his words are less definite than those of Isaiah (Jcr. 
xlviii, 31). 

In early Christian times Josephus says that it retained 
its name (Zoo'jjo) to his day (Ant. i. 1 1, I), that it was at 
the farther end of the Asphaltic Lake, in Arabia — by 
which he means the country lying southeast of the lake, 
whose capital was Petra ( iVtir. iv. X, I ; A nt. xiv. 1,4). 
The notices of Eusebius are to the same tenor: the Dead 
Sea extended from Jericho to Zoar (Zoo p\ov\ i)no- 
mast. s. v. HdXoaao i) uXvki)). Plnvno lay between Pc- 
tra and Zoar (ibid. s. v. 4>ti'<0i'). It still retained its name 
(finapd), lay close to (TrapaKetphni) the Dead Sea, was 
crowded with inhabitants, and contained a garrison of 
Roman soldiers; the palm and the balsam still flourish- 
ed, and testilied to its ancient fertility (ibid. s. v. H«,\«). 
To these notices of Eusebius, Jerome adds little or noth- 
ing. Paula, in her journey, beholds Segor (which Je- 
rome gives on several occasions as the Hebrew form of 
the name, in opposition to Zoom, or Zoara, the Syrian 
form) from Caphar Barncha (possibly Beni Nairn, near 
llebron), at the same time with Engedi, and the land 
where once stood the four cities; but the terms of the 
statement are too vague to allow of any inference as to 
its position (Epist. cviii, § 1 1). In his commentary on 
Isa. xv, 5. Jerome says that it was “ in t he boundary of 
the Moabites, dividing them from the land of the Phi- 
listines,” and thus justifies his use of the word rectis to 
translate nrp"'^ (A. V. “his fugitives,” marg. “ bor- 
ders;” Gesen. Fliichtlinge). The terra Ph'disthiim, un- 
less the words are corrupt, can only mean the land of 
Palestine — i. e. (according to the inaccurate usage of 
later times) of Israel — as opposed to Moab. In his 
Qneestiones Hebraicee, on Gen. xix, 30 (comp. xiv. 3), 
Jerome goes so far as to allirm the accuracy of the Jew- 
ish conjecture, that the later name of Zoar was Shali- 
sha — “Bale primum ct postea Salisa appellata” (comp, 
also his comment on Isa. xv, 5). Hut this is probably 
grounded merely on an interpretation of shalishiy* h in 
Isa. xv, 5, as connected with beta, and as denoting the 
“ third” destruction of the town by “earthquakes.” 

Zoar was included in the province of Palest ina Ter- 
tia, which contained also Kerak and Arcopolis. It was 
an episcopal sec, in the patriarchate of Jerusalem and 
archbishopric of Petra; at the t'onncil of t'halcedon 
(A.D. 451) it was represented by its bishop. Musonius, 
and at the Synod of Constantinople (A. D. 536) hv John 
(Lc Quicn, Oriens Christ, iii, 743 716). 

Among the statements of mediaeval travellers there 
are two remarkable ones. (1.) llroeardus tcir. \.1>. 
1290), the author of the Descriplio T<rw Sancto , the 
standard “ Handbook to Palestine” of the Middle Ages, 
the work of an able and intelligent rosidmt in the 
country, states (c. vii) that “live h agues hiicie) to 
the south of Jericho is the city Segor. si mat « I In-neat h 
the mountain of Kngaddi. between wl ich mountain and 
the Dead Sea is the statue of salt.” True, lie confesses 
that all his efforts to visit the spot had been frustrated 
by the Saracens; hut the paisage bears marks of the 
greatest desire to obtain correct information, and he 
must have nearly approached the place, because he saw 


Z0A1 


1100 


ZOBA 


with his own eyes the “ pyramids” which covered the 
45 wells of bitumen,” which he supposes to have been 
those of the vale of Siddim. This is in curious agree- 
ment with the connection between Engodi and Zoar 
implied in Jerome’s Itinerary of Paula. (2.) The state- 
ment of Thietmar (A. 13. 121 7^) is even more singular. 
It is contained in the lltli and 12th chapters of his Pe- 
regrimitio (ed. Laurent, Hamburg, 1857). After visit- 
ing Jerieho and Gilgal, he arrives at the “ lords of Jor- 
dan” (xi, 20), where Israel crossed and where Christ was 
baptized, and where then, as now, t lie pilgrims bathed 
(22). Crossing this ford (33), he arrives at “the 
Held and the spot where the Lord overthrew Sodom 
and Gomorrah." After a description of the lake come 
the following words: “On the shore of this lake, about 
a mile (ad miliare) from the spot at which the Lord 
was baptized, is the statue of salt into which Lot’s wife 
was turned” (47). “lienee 1 came from the lake of 
Sodom and Gomorrah, and arrived at Segor, where Lot 
took refuge after the overthrow of Sodom; which is 
now called in the Syrian tongue Zora. but in Latin the 
City of Palms. In the mountain hard by this Lot sin- 
ned with his daughters (xii, 1-3). After this I passed 
the vineyard of Benjamin (?) and of Engaddi. . . . Next 
I came into the land of Moab and to the mountain in 
which was the cave where David hid, . . . leaving oh 
my left hand Sethim (Shittim), where the children of 
Israel tarried. ... At last I came to the plains of Moab, 
which abound in cattle and grain. ... A plain country, 
delightfully covered with herbage, but without either 
woods or single trees; hardly even a twig or shrub 
(4-15). . . . After this I came to the torrent Jabbok” 
(xiv, 1). 

Zoar is very distinctly mentioned by the Crusading 
historians. Fulcher (Gesta JGei, p. 405, quoted by Rau- 
mer, p. 239) states that, “ having encircled ( ; girato ) the 
southern part of the lake on the road from Hebron to 
Petra, we found there a large village which was said 
to be Segor, in a charming situation, and abounding 
with dates. Here we began to enter the mountains of 
Arabia.” The palms are mentioned also by William 
of Tyre (xxii, 30) as being so abundant as to cause the 
plaee to be called Villa Pahnarum , and Palmer (i. e. 
probably Paumier). Abulfeda (cir. A.I). 1320) does 
not specify its position more nearly than that it was 
adjacent to the lake and the GhOr, but he testifies to 
its then importance bv calling the lake after it — Bah- 
retzeghor (see, too, Ibn-Idris, in Belaud, p. 272). The 
natural inference from the description of Fulcher is 
that Segor lay in the Wady Iveralc, the ordinary road, 
then and now’, from the south of the Dead Sea to the 
eastern highlands. The conjecture of Irby and Man- 
gles (June 1, and see May 9), that the extensive ruins 
which they found in the lower part of this Wady w r ere 
those of Zoar, is therefore probably accurate. The 
name Dra'a or Dera'ah , which they, Poole ( Geogr . 
Journ. xx vi, 63), and Burekhardt (July 15), give to 
the valley, may even without violence be accepted as 
a corruption of Zoar. The ruins have likewise been 
described by De Saulev (Journey, i, 307). 

M. de Sanlcy himself, however, places Zoar in the 
Wady Zuiceirah , the pass leading from Ilebron to the 
Dead Sea. But the names Zuweirah and Zoar are not 
nearly so similar in the originals as they are in their 
Western forms, and there is the fatal obstacle to the 
proposal that it places Zoar on the west of the lake, 
away from what appears to have been the original 
eradle of Moab and Ammon. Ifw'e are to look for Zoar 
in this neighborhood, it would surely be better to place 
it at the Tell um-Zoghal, the latter part of which name 
is almost literally the same as the Hebrew’ Zoar. The 
proximity of this name and that of Usdum, so like 
Sodom, and the presence of the salt mountain — to this 
day splitting off in pillars which show a rude resem- 
blance to the human form — are certainly remarkable 
facts. — Smith; Kitto. Other w'riters locate Zoar in 
the plain at the northern end of the Dead Sea. An in- 


superable objection to this is that in that case Lot must 
have crossed the Jordan in his flight; for Sodom was 
on the west side of the plain, and Zoar on the east. 
Mr. Birch (in the Quar. Statement of the “ Palest. Fxplor. 
Fund,” Jan. 1879, p. 15 sq.) is coulidcnt that the name 
and site are those of Tell es-Shagur , at the foot of Wady 
Hesban; but his arguments lack weight. Tristram’s 
attempt ( Land of Moab, p. 343) to identify Zoar with 
Ziara on Mount Nebo is based upon an error as to the 
latter name, which is properly Siaghuh ; the position on 
a mountain, moreover, is preposterous. For the differ- 
ent views held regarding the site of Zoar, see Robinson, 
Pill. Res. ii, 517 ; Relaud, Pa last. p. 1064; De Saulev, 
Travels , i, 481 ; Tristram, Land of Israel, p. 360; Bi- 
bliotheca Sacra , 1868, p. 136 sq. See Sodom. 

Zoarites. See Separatists of Zoar. 

Zo'ba (Hob. Tsoba'. 50*' X, 2 Sam. x, 6, 8) or Zo'- 
bah (lleb. Tsoba k [briefly 2 Sam. xxiii, 
36], station ; Sept. f3a v. r. etc.; Vulg. usu- 

ally Soba), the name of a portion of Aram or Syria, 
which formed a separate kingdom in the time of the 
Jewish monarclis Saul, David, and Solomon. It is 
difficult to fix its exact position and limits; but there 
seem to be grounds for regarding it as lying chiefly 
eastward of Coele-Syria, and extending thence north- 
east and east towards, if not even to, the Euphrates 
(see 1 Chron. xviii, 3-9; xix, 6). It would thus have 
included the eastern flank of the mountain chain which 
shuts in Coele-Syria on that side, the high land about 
Aleppo, and the more northern portion of the Syrian 
desert. The Syriac interpreters take Zobah to be Xisi- 
bis, in Mesopotamia, and they have been followed by 
Michaelis (De Syria Sobcea, in the Comment . Soc. Got- 
(ing. p. 57 sq.). Others would identify it with the clas- 
sic Chalets . It was so closely connected with Hamath 
that that great city was sometimes distinguished as 
llamath-zohah (2 Chron. viii, 3). Among the cities 
of Zobah were also a plaee called Tibhath or Betah (2 
Sam. viii, 8; 1 Chron. xviii, 8), which is, perhaps, Tax- 
beh, between Palmyra and Aleppo; and another called 
BenKhai, which has been supposed to be Beirut, but 
with little probability, for the kingdom of Hamath 
must have intervened between Zobah and the coast. 
See Berotiiaii. Zobah was a wide, arid plain inter- 
sected bv several ranges of bare, white mountains, but 
having also a few’ fertile valleys. The inhabitants 
were probably semi- nomads, and chiefly shepherds. 
Like the modern Bedaw’in of that region, they were 
rich in horses (Ritter, Pal. und Syr. iv, 1700; Porter, 
Handbook for Pal. p. 614). See Syria. 

We first hear of Zobah in the time of Saul, when w r e 
find it mentioned as a separate country, governed ap- 
parently by a number of kings who own no common 
head or chief (1 Sam. xiv, 47). Saul engaged in w T ar 
with these kings and “vexed them,” as he did his oth- 
er neighbors. Some forty years later than this w r e find 
Zobah under a single ruler, Hadadezer, son of Rehob, 
who seems to have been a powerful sovereign. lie had 
w’ars with Toi, king of Hamath (2 Sam. viii, 10), while 
he lived in close relations of amity with the kings of 
Damascus. Beth-rehob, Ish-tob, etc., and held various 
petty Syrian princes as vassals under his yoke (x, 19). 
He had even considerable influence in Mesopotamia, 
beyond the Euphrates, and was able on one occasion to 
obtain an important auxiliary force from that quarter 
(ver. 16; comp, title to Psa. lx). David, having re- 
solved to take full possession of the tract of territory 
originally promised to the posterity of Abraham (2 Sam. 
viii, 3; comp. Gen. xv, 18), attacked Hadadezer in the 
early part of his reign, defeated his army, and took from 
him a thousand chariots, seven hundred (seven thou- 
sand, 1 Chron. xviii, 4) horsemen, and twenty thousand 
footmen. Iladadezer’s allies, the Syrians of Damas- 
cus, having inarched to his assistance, David defeated 
them in a great battle, in which they lost twenty-two 


ZOHEBAII 


1107 


ZOIlKLKTli 


thousand men. The wealth of Zobah is very apparent 
in the narrative of this campaign. Several of the of- 
ficers of Iladadczer’s army carried ‘“shields of gold" (2 
Sam. viii, 7), by which we are probably to understand 
iron or wooden frames overlaid with pintes of the pre- 
cious metal. The cities, moreover, which David took, 
Bet ah (or Tibhath) and Berothai. yielded him “exceed- 
ing much brass” (vcr. 8), It is not clear whether the 
Syrians of Zobah submitted and became tributary on 
this occasion, or whether, although defeated, they were 
able to maintain their independence. At any rate, a 
few years later they were again in arms against David. 
This time the Jewish king acted on the defensive. The 
war was provoked by the Ammonites, who hired the. 
services of the Syrians of Zobah among others to help 
them against the people of Israel, and obtained in this 
way auxiliaries to the amount of thirty-three thousand 
men. The allies were defeated in a great battle hv 
Joab, who engaged the Syrians in person with the Mow- 
er of his troops (x, 0). lladadezer, upon this, made a 
last effort, lie sent across the 1C uph rates into Meso- 
potamia and “drew forth the Syrians that were beyond 
the river” (1 Chron, xix, HI), who had hitherto taken 
no part in the war. With these allies ami his own 
troops, he once more renewed the struggle with the Is- 
raelites, who were now commanded by David himself, 
the crisis being such as seemed to demand the presence 
of the king. A battle was fought near 1 1 clam — a place 
the situation of which is uncertain — where the Syrians 
of Zobah and their new allies were defeated with great 
slaughter, losing between forty thousand and fifty thou- 
sand men. After this we hear of no more hostilities. 
The petty princes hitherto tributary to Hadadezer 
transferred their allegiance to the king of Israel, and 
it is probable that he himself became a vassal to Da- 
vid. Zobah, however, though subdued, continued to 
cause trouble to the Jewish kings. A man of Zobah, 
one of the subjects of lladadezer — Rezon, son of Elia- 
dah — having escaped from the battle of Ilelam and 
“gathered a band” (i. e. a body of irregular marauders), 
marched southward, and contrived to make himself 
master of Damascus, where he reigned (apparently) for 
some fifty years, proving a fierce adversary to Israel 
all through the reign of Solomon (1 Kings xi, 23-25), 
Solomon also was (it would seem) engaged in a war 
with Zobah itself. The llamath-zobah against which 
he “went up” (2 Chron, viii, 3) was probably a town 
in that country which resisted his authority, and which 
he accordingly attacked and subdued. This is the last 
that we hear of Zobah in Scripture. The name, how- 
ever, is found at a later date in the inscriptions of As- 
syria, where the kingdom of Zobah seems to intervene 
between Hamath and Damascus, falling thus into the 
regular line of march of the Assyrian armies. Several 
Assyrian mouarchs relate that they took tribute from 
Zobah, while others speak of having traversed it on 
their way to or from Palestine. — Smith; Kitto. 

Zobe'bah (Heb. with the article, hats-Tsobebah 
the slow [Gesenius] or affable [FUrst ] ; Sept. 
E(oj3t]l3d v. r. ^lafiazrd; Vulg. Sobeba ), last named of 
the two sons (or perhaps a daughter, as the word is 
feminine) of Coz (q. v.) of the tribe oi Judah (1 Chron. 
iv, 8). B.C. post 1(118. Rabbi Schwarz regards it as the 
name of a town, “the village Beth-zaphapha, two and a 
half English miles south of Jerusalem” (Palest, p, 110). 

Zo'har (Heb. Tso'char, “HU, light ; Sept. Zadp), 
the name of two or three men. 

1. The father of Ephron the Ilitfire, from which lat- 
ter Abraham purchased the cave of Maciipelah (Gen. 
xxiii, 8 ; xxv, 9). B.C. ante 2020. 

2. Last named but one of the six sons of Simeon 
(Gen. xlvi, 10; Exod. vi, 15); elsewhere (1 Chron. iv, 
24) called Zeuaii (q. v.), 

3. A marginal reading in 1 Chron. iv, 7 for Jf.zo.ui 
(Heb. rather Yitschar “HU* 1 , which [as usual] takes 


1 the pointing of the Keri “HU*, and Zahar; the A. V. 

| of Bill has “Zoar"), second named of the three sons 
j of llelah ol the tribe of Judah. B.C. post 101, s. 

Zo'heleth (lleb. with the art. ha - Z.oelu'bth 
a loin, participial form ; Sept. Y.iotMx v. r. 

\«rt; Vulg. Zo/nbth), the name of a stone which 

was “ by” (“UX, bisidt ) En-rogel, and “by” (“•*, along 
/nth) which Adoiiijah o lie rod hi.s f coronal ion sac ri tires 
(1 Kings i, 9). If Kn-rogcl bo tho present Bir-Hyuh in 
[ the valley of tin- Kidron, the Mono in question mav be 
! any of the boulders in that vicinity. 

As to tho signification of the name, t ho Targnrni'ts 
■ translate it “the rolling Mono;” and Jarclii nllirms that 
| it was a large stone on which the young men tried ilo-ir 
j strength in attempting to roll it. Others make ii “the 
j serpent stone” (Gesenius and Fllrst), as if from the root 
5 HT, “to creep.” Jerome simply says, “Zoolot tractum 
sive protractum.” Others connect it with running wa- 
ter; but there is nothing strained in making it “the 
stone of the conduit” Mazchihth), from its 

proximity to the great rock conduit <>r conduits that 
poured into Siloam. Buchan's idea is that the Hebrew 
word zbhcl denotes “a slow motion” (/ Hero z. 1, i. 
“The fullers here pressing out the water which drop- 
ped from the clothes that, they had washed in the well 
called Rogcl.” If this be the case, then we have some 
relics of this ancient custom at the ma-Mve breastwork 
below the present Birket cl-llamrn. where l lie < hut keys 
wait for their load of skins from the well, and where 
the Arab washerwomen may be seen to this day beat- 
ing their clothes. 

The practice of placing stones, and naming them from 
I a person or an event, is very common. Jacob did so at 
Bethel (Gen.xxviii, 22: xxxv, 14; see Boehart. ( 'anaan, 
p, 785, 78G) ; and he did it again when parting from La- 
ban (Gen. xxxi, 15). Joshua set up stones in Jordan 
and Gilgal, at the command of God (Josh, iv, 9 2<> ), 
and again in Shoehorn (xxiv, 2(1). Near Bothsliemesh 
there was the Eben-gedoldh (“great stone,” 1 Sam. vi, 
14), called also Abvl-gedotdh (“ the great weeping.” vcr. 
18). There was the Eben- Bohan, south of Jericho, in 
the plains of Jordan (Josh. xv. G; xviii. 17), “the stone 
of Bohan the son of Reuben," the Ehrcnhreit.Mein of the. 
Ciecar, or “plain,” of Jordan, a memorial of the son or 
grandson of Jacob’s eldest-born, for which travellers 
have looked in vain, but which Felix Fabri, in the 15th 
century (Eragat. ii, 82), professes to have seen. The 
i rabbins preserve the memory of this stone in a hook call- 
ed Eben- Bohan, or the touchstone (Citron. off I tabid Jo- 
seph, trails], by Bialloblotzky, i, 192). There was the 
stone set up by Samuel between Mizpoh and Slum, FJ*n- 
Ezer , “the stone of help” (t Sam. vi i, 11, 121. There 
was the Great Stone on which Samuel slew the sacri- 
fices, after tlx 1 great battle of Saul with the I'hili'tino* 
(xiv, 33). There was the Elnn-EzB (“lapis discerns 
vel abitus, a discessu Jonatlianis el David is” >imonis. 
0 nomast. p. 150]), where David hid himself, and which 
some Talmudists identify with Zohcletli. Large stones 
have always obtained for themselves peculiar names, 
from their shape, tin ir position, their connection with a 
person or an event. In the Sinaitic desert mav be 
found the Hajar el-lb kab (“stone ol the rider . Haj ir 
el-Ful (“stone of the bean”), II ajar Musa '‘-four ot 
Moses”). The subject of stum* is hv no means uninter- 
esting, and has not in any respect been exhausted. ^ . 
the notes of l)c Sola anil Lindenllial in tlo ir < lui< » « f 
Genesis, p. 175, 220; Boehart. Canaan, p. 7 V .> : Volins 
Be Jdnhlatr. vi,38; Sealiger, On Co >1 ’•*. p. I " : H* ni- 
dus, On A mold ns, bk. vii : an 1 Linn ihoi» 1 1 »•». t>„ I / no- 
bitts ; also a long note of Onzi no*, in hi' «dition of J/i- 
I uncins Felix, p. 15; Calm' i Pnn/m-nt •. IGG. 7J5. 

I 7;WI; Kitto, Pabstim. ^ , he i . the works ot m li- 

| quaries on stones and stone circle: and an inti n Mu g 
, account of the curious Rliamiciau JJajar ( hem in MaltA, 


ZOPIIIM 


ZOIIETII 1108 


inTallack’s recent volume on that island, p. 115-127.) — 
Smith. See Stone. 

INI. Clermont Ganneau, of the French consulate at Je- 
rusalem, has found what he deems a strong confirmation 
of the name in question in ez-Zehweli ', a rocky plateau 
along the edge of the village of Silwan (Quar. Statement 
of the “Palest. Explor. Fund,” Jan. 1871, p. 252 sq.). 
This is adopted by Tristram ( Bible Places , p. 124) and 
Lieut. Cornier ( Tent 1 1 'ork, ii, 313). The boundary-line 
of Judah passed near .this. See Tribe. 

Zo'hetk-(fleb.ZW*eM', nniT, [Fiirst]; Sept. 
Z(x)\a$ v. r. Zioav; Vnlg. Zoheth ), first named of the two 
“sons of lshi” of the tribe of Judah (1 Chron. iv, 20), 
the other being called P»cn-zoheth (q. v.). B.C. post 
1618. 

Zollikofer, Georg Joachim, a famous preacher of 
Leipsic, was born at Saint Gall, Aug. 5, 1730. Tie at- 
tended the gymnasia of Saint Gall and Bremen, and 
afterwards the University of Utrecht; giving attention 
rather to literature than theology at the latter place, 
and cultivating a finished diction. lie became a family 
tutor at Frankfort-on-the-Main in 1740. In 1753 he re- 
turned to Saint Gall, and vainly sought employment 
there and in other Swiss towns; but earned, in the 
meantime, a reputation which obtained for him a call 
to become the pastor of the Beformed congregation at 
Leipsic. He served that congregation during thirty 
years, and until his death, which occurred Jan. 22, 1788. 

Zollikofer’s tendency was in some measure in harmo- 
ny with the spirit of his times, lie was given to the 
exaltation of virtue, and loved to discuss the dignity of 
man, the ways of righteousness which alone lead to God, 
and which Jesus opened by teaching and example, lie 
asserted that persons who have always been virtuous 
need no conversion, but simply a perfecting of their 
characters. Christianity was to him God’s own best 
means for the instructing, comforting, and improving of 
men, through which progress they may attain to bless- 
edness. He was not, however, an exponent of the “en- 
lightenment” of that period; for Christ’s resurrection, 
ascension, and eternal glory were held by him as posi- 
tive facts. Christ was to him the only-begotten Son 
of the Highest, though the atonement was regarded as 
simply an expression of God’s readiness to forgive. As 
a preacher, he may be ranked with lieinhard, though su- 
perior to him as an expositor and in the definite aim of 
his discourse, as well as in the joyous fervor with which 
it was usually pervaded. Leipsic regarded it as an evi- 
dence of inferior culture and poor taste not to prefer 
him above the contemporary preachers. lie wrote 
prayers which are mere reflections preceded by an ad- 
dress to God; e. g. A nretlen u. Oebete bci deni gemein - 
schaftl. u. hduslichen Gottesdienste (1777): — Andachts - 
iibungen u. Gebete , etc. (new ed. 1804, 4 pts.). He also 
prepared a hymn-book, Sammlung geistl. IAeder u. Ge- 
scinge (1766). His sermons were repeatedly published; 
in 15 vols. in 1798-1804. Ilis personal character was 
thoroughly upright and manly, and also kindly and be- 
nevolent. He was self-possessed and of an equitable 
temper. The care with which he chose the precise 
word he needed made him eloquent in the pulpit, but 
reticent in ordinary intercourse with men. 

The sources for Zollikofer’s life are, Fischer, A Me- 
mortal Discourse ; IJirsehing, Hist. -lit. flandbuck (Er- 
nesti’s supplement, Leips. 1815), xvii, 272 sq.; Doring, 
Deutsche Kanzelredner el 18. it. 19. Jahrhnmlerts (Neti- 
stadt an d. Oder, 1830), p. 586 sq. ; Jj&rve, Charakteriza- 
tion (Leips. 1788) ; Lentz, Gesch. d. Ilomiletik , ii, 327 sq. ; 
Hagenbach, Kirchengesch. el. 18. u. 19. Jeihrh. i, 366 sq. 
See also Herzog, Real- Ency Hop. s. v. 

Zo'phah (Ileb. Tsophach', n£112 [in pause h£i:£], 
a cnise [Gesen.] ; Sept. Zu>0d v. r. Z eoepeep and Zwy«£; 
Vulg. Suphee), an Asherite, first named of the four sons 
of Helam or Hotham (1 Chron. vii, 35; comp. ver. 32), 
and father of many sons (ver. 36). B.C. cir. 1618. 


Zo'phai (Ileb. Tsophay ^£112, patronymic from 
Zuph [Fiirst] ; Sept. Zo vepi ; Vulg. Sophcti), a Kohathite 
Levite, son of Elkanah and father of Nahatli (1 Chron. 
vi, 26 [Ileb. 11]); elsewhere (ver. 35) called simply 
ZuPIl (q. v.). 

Zo'pliar (Heb. Tsophar', ’ISIS, sparrow [Gesen.] 
or shaggy [Fiirst] ; Sept. 'Aunpa ; Vulg. Sophetr), the last 
named of Job’s three friends and opponents in argument 
(Job ii, 11; xi, 1 ; xx, 1 ; xlii, 9). B.C. cir. 2000. lie 
is called a Naamathite, or inhabitant of Naamalqa place 
whose situation is unknown, as it could not be the Na- 
amah mentioned in Josh, xv, 41. Wemyss, in his Job 
and his Times (p. Ill), well characterizes this interlocu- 
tor: “Zophar exceeds the other two, if possible, in se- 
verity of censure; he is the most inveterate of the ac- 
cusers, and speaks without feeling or pity. He does 
little more than repeat and exaggerate the arguments 
of llildad. He unfeelingly alludes (Job xi, 15) to the 
effects of Job’s disease as appearing in his countenance. 
This is cruel and invidious. Yet in the same discourse 
how nobly docs he treat of the divine attributes, show- 
ing that any inquiry into them is far beyond the grasp 
of the human mind! And though the hortatory part 
of the first discourse bears some resemblance to that of 
Eliphaz, yet it is diversified by the fine imagery which 
he employs. He seems to have had a full conviction 
of the providence of God as regulating and controlling 
the actions of men ; but he limits ail his reasonings to the 
present life, and makes no reference to a future world. 
This circumstance alone accounts for the weakness and 
fallacy of these men's judgments. In his second dis- 
course there is much poetical beauty in the selection of 
images, and the general doctrine is founded in truth; 
its fallacy lies in its application to Job’s peculiar case. 
The whole indicates great warmth of temper, inflamed 
by misapprehension of its object and by mistaken zeal.” 
It is to be observed that Zophar has but two speeches, 
whereas the others have three each. When Job had 
replied (cli. xxvi-xxxi) to the short address of Bildad 
(ch. xxv), a rejoinder might have been expected from 
Zophar; but he said nothing, the three friends, by com- 
mon consent, then giving up the contest in despair 
(xxxii, 1). — Kitto. See Jon. 

Zo'pliim (Ileb. Tsophim\ [briefly £^£22 in 

Numb.], watchers , as often; but Fiirst thinks, fertile)^ 
the name either in whole or part of two places in Pales- 
tine. 

1. (Sept, gkotticiv ; V ulg. sublhnis.') The designation 
of a field (HTJ) or spot on or near the top of Pisgah, 
from which Balaam hail his second view of the encamp- 
ment of Israel (Numb, xxiii, 14). If the word seuleh 
(“field”) may be taken in its usual sense, then the “field 
of Zophim” was a cultivated spot high up on the top of 
tiie range of Pisgah. But that word is the almost in- 
variable term for a portion of the upper district of Moab, 
and therefore may have had some local sense which has 
hitherto escaped notice, and in which it is employed in 
reference to the spot in question. The position of the 
field of Zophim is not defined ; it is only said that it com- 
manded merely a portion of the encampment of Israel. 
Neither do the ancient versions afford any clew. The 
Targum of Oukelos, the Sept., and the Peshito-Svrinc 
take Zophim in the sense of “watchers” or “lookers- 
ont,” and translate it. accordingly. But it is probably a 
Hebrew version of an aboriginal name, related to that 
which, in other places of the present records, appears as 
Mizpeh or Mizpah. — Smith. Mount Nebo, or Pisgah, 
is now undoubtedly identified as Jebel Neba, near lles- 
ban. See Nebo. lie Saulcy appears to have even 
heard the ancient name given to it by the Bedawin 
{Voyage en Terre Sainte, i, 289). Along its eastern 
side, and reaching from the ruins of Maan to Ilesban, 
is a plateau of arable land, still cultivated in part by 
the Arabs, which appears to be the place in question 
(Porter, Handbook for Palest, p. 300).— Kitto. In this 


Z OR ATI 


1109 


ZOSIMUS 


view Tristram at length eoucurs (Bible Places , p. 31G\ 
Prof. Paine, of t he American Exploring Party, regards 
it as Wady llaisu, on the south-east of Jebel Neba. 
See Pisgaii. 

2. (Sept. Suxpip v. r. Zi0d; Vulg. Sopfthn.) Ra- 
mathaim-zophim was Samui l’s birthplace (1 Sam. i, 1). 
The dual form of the first term, according to some, sig- 
• nifies one of the two Kamahs: to wit, that of the Xo- 
phites (Lightfoot, ii, 162, ed. 1832); and the second 
term, according to others, means specula tores, i. e. proph- 
ets, and denoting that at this place was a school of the 
prophets— a hypothesis supported by the Chaldee para- 
ph rast, who renders it “ Elkanah, a man of Kamatha, a 
disciple of the prophets.” Others find in the dual form 
of Hamathaim a reference to the shape of the city, which 
was built on the sides of two hills; and in the word Zo- 
phim see an allusion to some watch-towers, or places of 
observation, which the high situation of the city might 
favor (Clerici Opera , ii, 175). Others, again, allirm that 
the word Zophim is added because Hamah or Kamatha 
was inhabited by a elan of Levites of the family of 
Zuph (Calrnct, s. v.). Winer asserts ( Realicurt . art. 
“Samuel”) that the first verse of the book declares 
Samuel to be an Ephraimite. This term, however, if 
the genealogy in Chronicles remain undisturbed, must 
signify not an Ephraimite by birth, but by abode. 
We find that the Kohathitcs, to whom Samuel be- 
longed, had their lot in Mount Ephraim (Josh, xxi, 
5-20), where not the hill of Ephraim is meant, but 
the bill country of Ephraim (Geseuius, Thesavr . s. v.). 
The family of Zoph, living in the hill country of Ephra- 
im, might be termed Ephrathite, while their ancestor’s 
name distinguished their special locality as Ramathaim- 
zophim. The geography of this place has been disput- 
ed. See Rasiaii. Eusebius and Jerome confound it 
. with Arimathiea of the New Test. ( 0 nomast . art. “Ar- 
matha Sophim”). The Sept, renders it 'AppaSaip i.\o- 
tyip, Cod. A, or Cod. B, ’AppaSip i’(0tf. For an account 
of the place now, and for long called Neby Samwil, and 
the impossibility of its being the ancient Ramah, see 
Robinson, Palestine, ii, 141 ; and for an interesting dis- 
cussion as to the site of Ramath -zophim, the latter 
name being yet retained in the Arabic term Sobah, the 
curious reader may consult the same work (p. 830), or 
Billiot h. Sacra (p. 46). The hilly range of Ephraim 
extended southward into other cantons, while it bore 
its original name of Mount Ephraim : and so the inhab- 
itants of Ramathaiin-zophim might be termed Ephrath- 
ites, just as Mahlou and Chilion are called “ Ephrathites 
of Reth-lehem-jiulah” (Ruth i, 2). — Kitto. Sec Ra- 
mathatm; Zurir. 

Zo'rah (Ileb. Tsorah',PlVy±, hornet ; Sept. Sapad 
v. r. £o|od3’, SttjO«/\, Sopd, etc. ; Josephus, Sapaaa, A nt. 
v, 8, 12; Vulg. Santa; A. V. “Zareah,” Neh. xi, 20; 
“Zoreah,” Josh. xv, 33), one of the towns near the bor- 
der of the tribe of Dan (xix, 41), but really within the 
limits of Judah, being in the north-western corner of 
the “valley district” (xv, 33). It is almost always 
mentioned in connection with Eshtaol (sec also Jndg % 
xiii, 25; xvi, 31 ; xviii, 2, 8, 11 ; and comp. 1 Chron. ii, 
53). Zorah was the residence of Manoah and the na- 
tive place of Samson. The place both of his birth and 
his burial is specified with a curious minuteness as “be- 
tween Zorah and Eshtaol,” “in Mahauch-Dan” (Judg. 
xiii, 25; xvi, 31 ). In the genealogical records of 1 
Chrou. (ii, 53; iv, 2) the “Zareat bites and Kshtaulites” 
are given as descended from (i. e. colonized by) Kirjatli- 
jearim. Zorah is mentioned among the places fortified 
by Rehoboam (2 Chron. xi, 10). and it was re-inhabited 
by the men of Judah after the return from the Captivi- 
ty (Neh. xi, 29). In the Onomasticon (s. v. Sloped and 
“Saara”) it is mentioned as lying some ten miles north 
of Eleutheropolis on the road to Nicopolis. By the 
Jewish traveller Hap-Parchi (Zunz, Benjamin of Tud. 
ii, 44 1 ) it is specified as three hours south-east-of Iydd. 
These notices agree in direction— though in neither is 


the distance nearly sufficient— with the modern village 
" hicli lias been visited by Robinson ( Bi7>f. 
Bts. iii, 153) and Toblcr (Drift*- l Pom/, p. 1X1-183). it 
lies just below the brow of a sharp-pointed conical bill, 
at the shoulder ol the ranges which there meet and 
form the north side of the Wady Cliurtb, the northern- 
most of the two branches which’unitejusi below Stir’ab, 
and form the great wady Surar. Near it are to be seen 
the remains nt Zanoali, Rcihshctucsh.Tiuinnih, and oth- 
er places more or less frequently mentioned with it in 
the narrative. Eshtaol, however, has not ret been iden- 
tified. The position of Sur’uli at the entrance of the 
valley, which forms one of the inlets from the great low- 
land, explains its fortification by Rehoboam. The spring 
is a short distance below the village, “a noble fountain” 

this was at the cud of April “ walled up square ilh 
large hewn stones and gushing over with tine water. 
As we passed on,” continues Robinson, with a more 
poetical tone than is his wont, “we overtook no less 
than twelve women toiling upwards to the village, each 
with her jar of water on her head. The village, the 
fountain, the fields, the mountain, the females hearing 
water, all transported us back to ancient limes, when in 
all probability the mother of Samson often in like man- 
ner visited the fountain ami toiled homeward with her 
jar of water.”— Smith. See also Schwarz, Ptibst. p. 
102; Thomson, Laud and Book, ii, 3G1 ; Porter, l/ainlb, 
for Pal. p. 285; Tristram, Bilk Places, p. -16; Condor, 
Tent )Ion(\ i, 274. 

Zo'rathite (Ileb. Tsorathi' , patronymic 

from Zorah ; Sept. SapaZi v. r. ApaSi ; Vulg. Sttralhi; 
A. V. “ Zorat bites”), a designation of the inhabitants of 
Zorah (q. v.), mentioned in 1 Chron. iv, 2 as descended 
from Sliobal, one of the sons of Judah, who in ii, 52 is 
stated to have founded Kirjath -joarim, from which 
again “the Zareathitcs and the Kshtaulites” were colo- 
nized. See Zakuatiutk; Zoiutk. 

Zo'reali (Josh, xv, 33). Sec Zokaii. 

Zo'rite (Ileb. TsorV, a patronymic; Sept. 

Sapat v. r. Tl (rapt; Vulg. Sarai; A. V. “Zorites"). the 
designation apparently of t lie inhabitants of Znrfth 
(q. v.), mentioned in 1 Chron. ii, 5-1 as descended from 
Salma (be brother of Shobal, and hence classed with the 
descendants of the latter the “Zareathitcs and the Ksh- 
taulites” (vcr. 53). 

Zosimus, pope in A.D. -11 7-4 IS, successor to Inno- 
cent I, was by birth a Greek, and is noteworthy as a 
participant in the doctrinal controversies of his time, in 
which he first endorsed and then rejected doctrines re- 
garded as heretical, and also for his abortion of author- 
ity and his energetic labors in behalf of the supremacy 
of the Roman see. He countermanded the condemna- 
tion of Pelagins and Cielestins, denounced by Innocent 
and the African synods; and in a letter to bishop Aure- 
lius of Carthage and others he censured the treatment 
they had received, declared them orthodox, and warned 
the bishops against sophistries in speculation. lie also 
cited before his bar Paulinas, the accuser of Pelagins. 
The African bishops, however, held another s\ p n<»d (II s ). 
which defended their course and censured Zosimus for 
reopening a settled case, besides forbidding the depart- 
ure of Paulinus for Rome. Zosimus endeavored to for- 
tify his position by a rcDrenre to the ooelesi.'Wi al au- 
thority derived by his see from Peter; lot when ibe 
Africans obtained a sacrum rescript um against the Pe- 
lagians from the emperor Ilonurins. he gave way. and 
for his part pronounced the. condrtnnnii i of K< lag i us 
and Ctrlcstius in an Bjnsfola Trarttp*- rut. I hi-* lieu* 
he was opposed by eighteen It** 1 :. in bishops, w bom be 
at once declared deposed, Tl e d« position of the pr< s- 
hyter Apiarius of Sicca, in Xmnidia, and 1 is n| p< al to 
Zosimus against his bishop. I rbatiu*. l‘*d to trcsli dis- 
putes with the Africa! s. X< dm r< fused to recog ise 
the deposition, and «ent three delegates t * a synod con- 
vened at Carthage to demand the restoration of A( iarius. 


ZOUCII 


1110 


ZUZIM 


Zosimus also interfered in the affairs of the Gallican bish- 
ops by appointing bishop Patroclus of Arelate his vicar 
in Gaul, and conferring upon him the rights of metro- 
politan over the province of Vienne. 1 1 is course ex- 
cited much opposition ; but death put an end to his 
plans for aggrandizement in 418. See Schrbckh, Kir- 
chevgesch. (Leips. 1782). viii, 148 sq. ; Gieseler, Kirchen- 
gesch. (4th ed. Bonn. 1845), i, 2, 111 sq.— Ilerzog, Real- 
Kncyklop. s. v. 

Zouch, Thomas, D.D., a learned English divine, 
was born at Sandal, near Wakefield, Yorkshire, in 1737. 
He was educated at Wakefield School and at Trinity 
College, Cambridge, where he graduated in 1761. He 
became a fellow of his college in 1703, and was appoint- 
ed assistant tutor. In 1770 he became rector of Wyc- 
lififo, in the North Hiding of Yorkshire, where he re- 
mained until 1703. In 1701 he was appointed deputy 
commissary of the archdeaconry of Hiehmond, and in 
1703 was chaplain to the Master of the Iiolls and rector 
of Serayingham. By the death of his elder brother, the 
Bev. llenry Zouch, in 1795, he succeeded to an estate at 
Sandal, where he resided until his death. lie became 
prebendary of Durham in 1805; declined the bishopric of 
Carlisle in 1808; and died in 1816. He was the author 
of, The Crucifixion (Canterbury, 1765), a Seaton prize 
poem : — A n Inquiry into the Prophe tic Character of the 
Romans as Described in Dan . viii, 23-25 (1792): — Me- 
moirs of the Life and Writings of Sir Philip Sidney 
(York, 1808): — and other works. See Chalmers, Blog . 
Diet. s. v. ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer . A nth. s. v. 

Zu'ar (Heb. Tsuur', littleness; Sept. Sojpdp; 

Vulg. Suar), the father of Nethaneel, which latter was 
the chief of the tribe of Issachar at the time of the 
Exode (Numb, i, 8; ii, 5; vii, 18,23; x, 15). B.C. ante 
1658. 

Zubly, John Joachim, D.D., a Presbyterian divine, 
was born at St. Gall, Switzerland, Aug. 27, 1724. He was 
ordained to the ministry Aug. 19, 1744; took charge of 
the Independent Presbyterian Church of Savannah, Ga., 
in 1760; and was a delegate from Georgia to the Con- 
stitutional Congress in 1775-76, but opposed separation 
from England, and returned to Savannah, which his 
unpopularity forced him to leave, lie died July 23, 
1781. Dr. Zubly was a man of great learning and un- 
affected piety, devoted to his call as a preacher of the 
Gospel, and zealous for the success of his labors. He 
published, The Real CludstiaFs Hope in Death , etc. 
(Charlestown, 1756, 12mo), with a Preface by the Bev. 
Biehard Clarke : — Sermon on the Repeal of the Stamp 
Act (Savannah, 1766, 8vo): — An Bumble Inquiry into 
the Nature of the Dependency of the American Colonies 
upon the Parliament, of Great Britain , and the Right of 
Parliament to Lay Taxes on the said Colonies , by a Free- 
holder of South Carolina (1769, 4to) : — Sermon on the 
I "a lue of that Faith without which it is Impossible to 
Please God (1772) : — Sermon on the Death of Rev. John 
Osgood, of Midway (1773) : — The Law of Liberty (Phila. 
1775, 8vo; Lond. eod. 8vo; Phila. 1778, 8vo), a sermon 
on American affairs. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
A mer. A uthors, s. v. ; Sprague, A nnals of the A mer. Pul- 
pit, iii, 219; London Monthly Review, Eeb. 1776, p. 167 ; 
Georgia Ancdytic Repository, i, 49. (J. L. S.) 

Zuph (Ileb. Tsuph, Cpli, honey-comb [Gesen.] or 
moist [FUrst]; Sept. Sou$> v. r. Soj^ and SoiV; but in 
1 Sam. ix, 5 S($>, apparently reading rp’IS, Tsiph , as the 
text of the Heb. there does), the name of a man and of 
a place. 

1. A Kohathite Levite, the son of Elkanah and father 
of Tohu, or Toah, or Nahath in the ancestry of the 
prophet Samuel (1 Sam. i, 1 ; 1 Citron, vi, 35 [Heb. 
20]). B.C. cir. 1310. In the parallel passage (1 Chron. 
vi, 26) he is called Zopiiai. 

2. A district land ) at which Saul and his ser- 

vant arrived after passing through those of Shalisha, of 


Shalim, and of the Benjamites (1 Sam. ix, 5). It evi- 
dently contained the city in which they encountered 
Samuel (ver. 6), and that, again, if the conditions of the 
narrative are to be accepted, was certainly not far from 
the “ tomb of Bachel,” probably the spot to which that 
name is still attached, a short distance north of Bethle- 
hem. 'file name Zuph is connected in a singular man- 
ner with Samuel. One of his ancestors (see above) was 
named Zuph (i, 1 ; 1 Chron. vi, 35) or Zophai (ver. 26), 
and his native place was called Bamathaim-zophim (1 
Sam. i, 1). The name, too, in its various forms of Zo- 
pliim, Mizpeli, Mizpah, Zephathah, was common in the 
Holy Land, oil both sides of the Jordan. 

The only possible trace of the name of Zupli in mod- 
ern Palestine, in any suitable locality, is to be found in 
Soba, a well-known place about seven miles due west 
of Jerusalem, and five miles south-west of Nabv Sam- 
wil. This Dr. Bobinson ( Bibl . Res. ii, 8. 9) once pro- 
posed as the representative of Bamathaim-zophim; and 
although on topographical grounds he virtually re- 
nounces the idea (see the foot-note to the same pages), 
yet those grounds need not similarly affect its identity 
with Zuph, provided other considerations do not inter- 
fere. If Shalim and Shalisha were to the north-east of 
Jerusalem, near Taivibeh, then Saul’s route to the land 
of Benjamin would be south or south-west, and pursu- 
ing the same direction he would arrive at the neighbor- 
hood of Soba. But this is at the best no more than 
conjecture, and unless the land of Zuph extended a 
good distance east of Soba, the city in which the meet- 
ing with Samuel took place could hardly be sufficiently 
near to Baehel’s sepulchre. The signification of the 
name Zuph is too doubtful to be of use in identifying 
the place. Zopliim is usually considered to signify 
watchmen or lookers -out, hence prophets, in which 
sense the author of the Targum lias actually rendered 
L Sam. ix, 5 — “they came into the land in which w r as 
a prophet of Jehovah.”— Smith. Babbi Schwarz re- 
gards the name Zuph as having the same root (from 
H5 IS, to spy out'), and thinks it denotes an eminence or 
look-out. lie also ( Pidest. p. 1 56 ) ingeniously traces 
Saul’s route, and seeks to identify “the land of Zuph” 
with Bamathaim-zophim itself. Wolcott (in the Bi- 
blioth. Sacra, i, 604) suggests that the city of Ziph (so 
the name reads in the Kethib and Sept.) gave its name 
to this w T hole region; but this town was too far south 
for that. It is probable that the district in question 
was a wide one, at least from north to south, and ex- 
tended from the hills of Ephraim to the vicinity of 
Bethlehem. See Kamaii. 

Zur (Heb. Tsur, “ISIS, a 7'ock, being substantially the 
same as the lleb. name of Tyre [q. v.] ; Sept. So vp v. r. 

Ieroi'p; Vtilg. Su?'), the name of two men. 

1. Third named of the five princes of Midian who 
w r ere slain by the Israelites when Balaam fell (Numb, 
xxxi, 8). B.C. 1618. His daughter Cozbi was killed 
by Phinehas, together with her paramour Zimri, the 
Simeonitish chieftain (xxv, 15). lie appears to have 
been in some w ay subject to Sihon king of the Amorites 
(Josh, xiii, 21). 

2. Second named of the eight sons of Jehiel (the 
founder of Gibeon) by his wife Maachah (1 Chron. viii, 
30; ix,36). B.C. post 1612. 

Zu'riel (Ileb. Tsuriel', my rock is God; 

Sept. 7jOvpu)\’, Vulg. Suriel), the son of Abihail and 
chief of the Merarite Lcvites at the time of the Exode 
(Numb, iii, 35). B.C, 1658. 

Zurishad'dai (Ileb. Tsurishadday' , my 

rock is the A Imiyhty —■ Zuriel [comp. Ammishaddai in 
the context]; Sept. So vptaadai; Vulg. Surisaddai), 
the father of Shelumicl, which latter was chief of the 
tribe of Simeon at the time of the Exode (Numb, i, 6; 
ii, 12; vii, 36, 41 ; x, 19). B.C. ante 1658. 

Zu'zim (Ileb. only in the plur. and with the art. 


ZWICK 


1111 


Z WIN C5 LI 


httz-Zuzim', the Znzites ; Sept, translates *3 17 / 

b\i <pd, like Jerome in Qwest . fleb. “gentes fortes;” l>ut 
the Yulg. has Zuzim ; A. V. “the Zuzims”), the name 
of an ancient people, who, lying in the path ofChedor- 
laomcr and his allies, were attacked and overthrown hy 
them (Gen. xiv, 5 only). Of the etymology or syndi- 
cation of the name nothing is known. The Sept., Tar- 
gum of Onkelos, and Samar, version (perhaps reading or 
mistaking for render it “strong people.” The 

Arabic version of Saadiah (in Walton’s Pvlyylof) gives 
ed-Dakakin , hy which it is uncertain whether a proper 
name or an appellative is intended. Others understand 
by it “ the wanderers” (Le Clerc, from UT) or “dwarfs” 
( Michaelis, Suppl. No. (506). Hardly more ascertain- 
able is the situation which the Zuzim occupied. The 
progress of the invaders was from north to south. They 
first encountered the Rephaini in Ashteroth-karnaim 
(near the Leja, in the north of the Ilauran); next the 
Zuzim in Ham; and next the Emim in Shaveh-kir- 
iathaim. The last-named place has not been identi- 
fied, but was probably not far north of the Arnon. 
There is therefore some plausibility in the suggestion 
of Ewald (Gcsch. i, 308, note), provided it is etymologi- 
cally correct, that Ham, CH, is C:', Am, i.e, Ammon; 
and thus that the Zuzim inhabited the country of the 
Ammonites, and were identical with the Zamzummini 
(q. v.), who are known to have been exterminated and 
succeeded in their land by the Ammonites. — Smith. 
See Journ. Sac. Lit. Jan. 185*2, p. 3G3. See Ganaan- 

1TE. 

Zwick, Joiianx, preacher and Reformer in the city 
and region of Constance, Switzerland, was born about. 
1496. He studied theology and jurisprudence, being 
made doctor of laws at Padua, and priest about 1518. 
lie then came under the influence of Luther and Zwin- 
gli, married, and entered on a pastorate at Riedlingen in 
1522; from which he was expelled, on account of his 
evangelical tendencies, by the Nuremberg Diet of 1525. 
After a time he was associated with Ambrose Blarer as 
preacher, and in the conduct of the Reformation at Con- 
stance, which was brought to a successful consummation 
in 1531. Zwick was especially concerned with the set- 
tling of plans for the education of the young, and with 
the introduction of an order of discipline in the Church. 
After the completion of such labors, the preachers of 
Constance engaged in the work of extending the Refor- 
mation over surrounding regions in Wurtemberg and 
Switzerland, Blarer being prominent in such service, 
while Zwick was by that fact obliged to restrict his 
efforts to more limited areas, lie gave twelve years of 
most arduous and exacting toil to the Church, and ex- 
hausted his entire patrimony before he applied to the 
council (1538) that provision might be made for his sup- 
port. The union efforts of Bucer engaged the attention 
of Zwick in common with the Protestant clergy in gen- 
eral, but did not commend themselves to Ids judgment, 
though Luther’s personality had somewhat impressed 
him at the Wittenberg Concord (May, 1536); and he 
thought that some concessions might be made to a man 
so eminent, especially since a meaning which the Swiss 
churches could endorse might be found in the great Re- 
former’s doctrine of the bodily presence in the sacra- 
ment. He was eventually, however, constrained to see 
that no true agreement was possible upon this question ; 
and his influence, joined with that of the other clergy- 
men of Constance, gave to that city the unpleasant no- 
toriety of being the only one which had not replied to 
Luther’s agreement with Bucer. Zwick was also in- 
volved in the Schwenkfeldian disputes, lie obtained 
possession of manuscripts written by Schwenkfeld, cir- 
culated them among friends, and aided in bringing the 
writings of Vadian against that agitator before the pub- 
lic. Zwick died as the clouds of the Smalcald war be- 
gan looming in the distance. After being repeatedly 
unwell, lie went to Bischoffszcll, in Thurgovia, to minis- , 


ter to an orphaned congregation, in which the ravages 
of pestilence were carrying away from ten to thirty 
adults, and as many children, in each week to the grave, 
lie was himself attacked, and lay for several weeks re- 
joicing in the triumphs of fait li, and died Oct. 23, 1512. 
Dr. \ oegeli, the physician whom Constance, had sent to 
care for her favorite preacher, came away from the sick- 
bed, where, he said, lie had learned how to die, and soon 
followed his friend into the other world. Zwick was con- 
stantly busy with bis pen; but. lie preferred to publish 
the works of others rather than his own productions, 
lie caused the publication of a Latin-fienmui Ann Tes- 
tament at Zurich in 1535, and wrote a preface for it. 
He also prepared a number of catechisms, llis princi- 
pal importance, to literature lies, however, in the field of 
hymnology. lie issued a hymn-book in 1536 (V), and 
a second enlarged edition in 1510. A collection of Latin 
hymns and prayers for educated young people, entitled 
Ithapsodicp, whose date and authorship were long un- 
known, lias recently been found attributed to Zwick in 
a note of the 16th century written in the Zurich copy 
of the lihapsadicp. See Zwick, 1 1 'orks and Letters^ gen- 
erally unpublished ; Schclhorn, Summluupi H Jur d. tie- 
schichte, i, 4 1 sq.; the more recent biographies of Blarer; 
and Herzog, Hud-Encyklop. s. v. 

Zwingli (Zwingle, or Zuingli; Lat . Z vinyl ins 
or Zubujliu . <), Uuttat, the prime mover in t lie Reforma- 
tion in Switzerland nearly as much as Luther in tier- 
many, was born Jan. I, 1481, in Wild him*, a village in the 
upper valley of the Toggenhurg, in the Canton of St. Call. 
Such was t lie precocity which he displayed in his youth 
that his father resolved to send him to Basel to be edu- 
cated. He made such rapid progress in his studies that 
he soon accomplished the work upon the prosecution of 
which he had entered at Basel, and he was removed to 
Berne, and placed under the tuition ol'LnpuIns, a distin- 
guished scholar of his day, with whom he studied for 
some time. The Dominican monks in this place, attract- 
ed by his talents and rising reputation, sought to entrap 
him into their order; but his father, in order to remove 
him from the scene of temptation, sent him off to Vien- 
na. Here he remained for a brief period and then re- 
turned to Basel, where lie pursued his theological stud- 
ies. Under the instruction of Thomas Wyttcnbach, 
he was led into a more liberal course of study than the- 
ological students had been wont to pursue. The charms 
of the classics were unfolded to him under the tuition 
of Ins learned master, and were cheerfully substituted 
for the dry husks of scholastic theology. In 1506 he 
became a pastor in (llarus, not far from his native vil- 
lage. Here he devoted himself most diligently to the 
study of (lod’s Word, copying with li is own hand 
the original of Raul’s Epistles, and transferring it to 
memory. During the same period lie mingled in the 
strife of arms against the French. Influences which 
we will not stop to explain induced him to Wave 
(Hams and become pastor in Einsiedeln, a famous 
spot in popish pilgrimage and superstition, where he 
preached doctrines which he had drawn from his study 
of the Holy Scriptures; and when, in 1519, he was 
called to the Cathedral Church of Zurich, he pro- 
claimed the same truths which he had preached in the 
Church of the Virgin of the Hermitage in ICinsiedeln. 
Multitudes flocked to hear him, attracted by t lie novelty 
of the doctrines he taught and the eloquence with which 
he spoke. lie delivered expository discourses on Mat- 
thew and the Epistles of Raul and of lVter. I he e f- 
fect of his honest preaching of the Gospel soon been me 
apparent in the city and country, ami his general char- 
acter and opinions produced a deep and universal sen- 
sation. While this state of transition was so marked, 
the crisis was hastened, in 15IN, by the arrival of Sam- 
son, the seller of indulgences. The irallic in these 
“Roman wares” roused the indignation of Zwingli, 
and led to a keen exposure and a successful resistance. 
Luther’s writings were, at the same time, largely circu- 
lated at the recommendation of the Reformer. The 


ZWINGLI 


1112 


ZWINGLI 


plague broke out, and, during its continuance, though I 
weak himself from exhaustion, Zwingli assiduously 
tended the sick and dying, llis zealous labors grew in 
number and results, the simplicity of the Gospel was 
more distinctly apprehended by him ; but the friends of 
the popedom were enraged, and Zwingli was tried, in Jan- 
uary, 15*23, on a charge of heresy. Home gained noth- 
ing by the trial. Zwingli presented sixty -seven prop- 
ositions, and defended them from Scripture. The Rc- 
formcr gathered courage with growing difficulties, and 
in 1524 the Council of Zurich remodelled the public 
worship according to the views and wishes of Zwingli. 
Pictures, statues, and relies were removed from the 
churches, and mass was abolished. Opposition to the 
Keformed doctrines was meanwhile gathering in the 
other cantons. The question arose, whether each can- 
ton was free to choose its own form of religion, or 
whether the Confederation should interfere; Zurich 
contended for its individual liberty and independence, 
but was opposed by the Waldstiitter, or the primitive 
democratic cantons of Schwytz, Unterwald, Uri, and 
Lucerne. The triumph of the Reformation at Berne 
and other places threw those forest cantons into wilder 
commotion, and, in consonance with their views of their 
federal polity, they took up arms for Home. Zurich, 
encouraged by Zwingli, called out its troops and put it- 
self into a posture of defence. Efforts were made to 
maintain peace, but it was of no long duration, and after 
various diplomatic negotiations, hostilities finally com- 
menced. Zurich had also lost somewhat of its earlier 
evangelical purity, while the neighboring states were 
conspiring for its ruin. In the awful emergency, when 
the public mind was alarmed by a series of omens and 
prodigies, the Reformer maintained tranquillity. The 
war began. Zurich was cowardly, dilatory, and far 
from being prepared; but the horn of the enemy ech- 
oed among their hills, and the devoted Zwingli mount- 
ed his caparisoned horse, took farewell of his wife and 
children, and went forth as a patriot and warrior to 
share in the common danger. His official position in 
the army, however, was that of chaplain, according to 
Swiss custom. Tlie Znrichers marched to meet the 
Waldstiitter, but were defeated at Cappel with great 
slaughter, Oct. 11, 1531. Zwingli was found, after the 
battle, lying on his back and his eyes upturned to heav- 
en, with his helmet on his head, and his battle-axe in 
his hand. He had been struck near the commence- 
ment of the engagement, and then as he fell and reeled, 
he was several times pierced with a lance. According 
to some accpunts, he was wounded while stooping to 
comfort a dying soldier. His last audible words were, 
“What of that? They can indeed kill the body, but 
they cannot kill the soul.” He was living when dis- 
covered in the evening; but the infuriated fanatics soon 
despatched him. Next day his dead body was barbar- 
ously quartered and burned. Thus perished this hero- 
martyr. A plain monument in granite, erected in 1838, 
marks the spot where he died. 

But the Protestant faith gained the victory not in 
Zurich alone, nor was Zwingli the only Swiss reformer. 
CEcolampadius did a good work at Basel. In Berne, 
also, the Reformation was successful. The Reformation 
being not only a religions movement, but in some re- 
spects a political one, it attracted to its support many 
persons who were contending for the spread of more 
liberal opinions throughout Switzerland. Zwingli was 
a patriot, and those who were immediately associated 
with him were patriots, and he believed that there could 
be no influence so potent to reach and transform the 
characters of his countrymen as the Gospel. There 
was substantial agreement between Luther and Zwingli 
on all the cardinal doctrines of the Protestant faith. On 
the doctrine of the eucharist there was, however, a rad- , 


ical difference of opinion. Luther held to “consubstan- 
tiation,” declaring that there were present, in some mys- 
terious way, the body and the blood of the Lord Jesus 
in the elements administered at the Lord’s supper; 
while Zwingli contended that the sacrament was de- 
signed to be merely a reminder of the suffi rings and 
death of the Saviour. The controversy was a bitter 
one. Neither party could convince the other. All that 
could be done was to lay down fourteen articles of faith 
which were to be received by both parties on the basis 
of the Augsburg Confession. But these minor contro- 
versies, for such they seem to us to be, must have lost 
all their interest in the presence of the grave dangers 
which threatened the very existence itself of the Refor- 
mation in Switzerland. Zwingli led the Reform move- 
ment in the other German cantons of Switzerland, and 
attended the conference at Berne in 1528, which result- 
ed in the abolition of the mass. lie was invited to a 
personal conference with Luther and Melancthon at 
Marburg, September, 1529, to adjust the only serious 
doctrinal difference between them on the eucharistic 
Presence. He counselled energetic measures for the 
promotion of the Reform in his native land, but was 
defeated by the policy of hesitation which prevailed in 
Berne. He also entered into bold political combina- 
tions with Philip of Hesse for the triumph of the Prot- 
estant cause in Germany, and addressed the emperor of 
Germany and the king of France with a confession of 
his faith. Zwingli was a bold Reformer, an able schol- 
ar, an eloquent preacher, a patriotic republican, and far- 
sighted statesman. He lacked the genius and depth 
of Luther and Calvin, the learning of Melanctlion and 
CEcolampadius; but he was their equal in honesty of 
purpose, integrity of character, heroic courage, and de- 
votion to the cause of Reformation, and surpassed them 
in liberality. Ilis prominent intellectual trait was 
dear, strong common-sense. 

Zwingli’s principal works are a Commentary on the 
True and False Jieliy ion (1525) : — a sermon On Providence. 
(preached at Marburg, 1529) his Confession of Faith , 
addressed to Charles V of Germany (1530) : — a similar 
Exposition of Faith , addressed to Francis I of France 
(July, 1531, three months before his death). This last 
document is clear, bold, spirited, and full of hope for the 
triumph of the truth ; warns the king against the slan- 
derous misrepresentations of Protestant doctrines, and 
entreats him to give free course to the Gospel, and to 
forgive the boldness with which he dared to approach 
his majesty. A few years afterwards (1536) Calvin 
dedicated, in a most eloquent preface, his famous Chris- 
tian Institutes to the same monarch, but with equal 
want of direct success. Zwingli represents only the 
first stage in the history of the Reformed Church. His 
work was completed after his death by his successor, 
Bollinger, at Zurich, and still more by Calvin at Gene- 
va. See //. Zwinglii Opera , edit. Schuler and Schult- 
hess (Zurich, 1828-42, 8 vols.) ; a popular edition of 
his jrorfo by Cliristoffel (ibid. 1843 sq. 15 vols.); 
Biographies of Zwingli , by Myeonius (1536), Niischel- 
er (1776), Iless (1811; transl. by Aikin, Lund. 1812), 
Schuler (1819), Hottinger (1843; transl. by Thomas C. 
Porter, Harrisburg, 1856), Robins (in Bibliotheca /Sacra 
for 1851), Roder (1855), Cliristoffel (1857; transl. by 
John Cochran, Edinburgh, 1858), Giider (in Herzog’s 
Real-Encyklop. 1864). and especially Miirikofer ( Ulrich 
Zwingli nach den Quellen [Leipsic, 1867-69, 2 vols.]). 
On the theological system of Zwingli, see Zeller, Das 
theol. /System Zwingli' s ( 1 583) ; Sicgwart, Ulrich Zwingli: 
der Char alter seiner Theologie (1855) ; Spiini, Zwingli- 
Studien (1866). Compare also D'Aubigne, History of the 
Reformation , vol. iv; Hagenbach, Geschichte der Re- 
format imi (1870), p. 183 sq. ; and Fisher, The Reforma- 
tion (1873), p. 137 sq. 


LIST OF ARTICLES LX VOL. X 


Snada Page 

Suadehi 

Snata 

Snares 

Suarez 

Snayambhu 

Suba 

Subai 

Snbarrhation 

Subcanou 

Subchancellor 

Subchanter. .’. 

Snbdeacon 

Subdean 

Subdiacouissa 

Subigus 

Subintroductro, 

Subjectivism 

Sublapsarians 

Subleyras 

Submission, Act of. 
Submission to God. 

Subprebendary 

Subprecentor/. 

Subprior 

Subramanya Maha- 

sena 

Snbruuciuator 

Snbsacrist 

Subscription 

Subsellium 

Substance (in phi- 
losophy) 

Substance (in the- 
ology) 

Snbstantialists 

Substrati 

Sub treasurer 

Subucula 

Suburbicarian 

Suburbs (Biblical).. 
Suburbs (ecclesiasti- 
cal) 

Snccat 

Succeusum 

Snccentor 

Succession , — 

Sncciuctorium 

Succinere 

Succoth, 1 

Succoth, 2 

Succolh-Benoth 

Snchathite 

Stickow 

Sud, 1 

Sud, 2 

Sudaili 

Sndarium 

Suddath 

Sudhoff 

Sadias 

Sudices 

Sudra 

Stulri 

Suehre 

Suemmer Oala 

Sneues 

Sueur 

Suffering-psalm 

Snfie til m 

Suffragan 

Suffrage 

Sutis 

SiitLm 

Snger 

Snggestuni 

Suggestum Lecto- 

runi 

Sugin 

Suicer 

Suicide. 

Slikkiim 

Suleviro 

Sullivan, Dan’l N.V. 

Sullivan, Lott B 

Sullivan, Samuel B. 


1 Sully, Maurice dc 
1 Page 

1 Sully, Odon 

1 Sulphur 

1 Sulpicians 

1 Suiter 

1 Stilzer 

1 Sumeru 

1 Suinmanus 

1 Summer 

1 Summerfield 

1 Summer-house Sil- 

l| ver 

2 Summers 

2 Summerville 

2 Su minis Desideran- 
2 ! tes Affcctibns — 
2 Sum mists 

2 Sunimus Sacerdos.. 

3 Sunnier, John B 

3 Sumner, Joseph 

3 Sumption 

3 Sumptuary Laws... 

3 Sun 

3, Sun, Children of.... 

Sun, Worship of.. .. 

3 Snnadi 

3 Sundauese Version. 
3 Sunday 

3 Sunday, John 

4 1 Snnd ay-school 

Sunday-school So- 

4 cieties, etc 

[Sunday Service 

5 Sundays 

5 Snnias 

5,Sunisactanism 

5 Suuna (Norse) 

5 Suuna (Moslem). . . . 

5Sunnites 

5 Sunyabadis 

Snovetaurilia 

5 Sup 

5 Snper-allar 

5 Superannuated 

5 Superatteudens 

5Superbia 

7 Supererogation 

7 Superfrontale 

7 Superhumcral Cloth 

S Snperhumerale 

SiSuperindicta 

S Superinspector 

SiSupennstitntion.... 
SSnperintendent .... 

S Superior 

sj Superioress 

9 Supernatural 

9 Supernatural ist 

9 Supernumerary 

9|Superpellice 

9 Snperpositio 

9 Superpurgation 

9 [Superstition (Orien- 

9j tal) ... 

9 Superstition (in 

9, Christendom) 

9[Supertotus 

9, Siipcrville 

9 Supervisor Canto- 

9 nun 

10 Supervisor Operis.. 
10 Suph 

10 Supper 

11 Supper of the Lord. 

11 Supplicatio 

[Supplication of Beg- 
1 1 [ gars 

11 Supplication of 

12 Commons 

T2Supplicalioues 

12 Snpralapsarians 


ISnr (a place). .Page 

13 j Sura Deva 

13 Sura Parpma 

13 1 Surcingle 

lSiSurenhusins 

13 Sureties 

13 Surety (Biblical).... 

14 Surety (clerical). . . . 

14 Surin 

14 Surinam Version. .. 

14 Sttrins 

Surlet (de Chokier). 

14lSurlet, Jean 

15 Surlet, Jean Ernest. 

15jSnrlet, Jean Fred- 
eric 

15 Surname 

15 Surplice 

15 [ Surplice-fee 

15 Surrogate 

15 Snrsum Corda 

15 Surtnr 


Supramanya. 
Supremacy (Papal). 
Supremacy (Royal). 
Sur (a gate) 


Surya 

Susanchite 

Susanna, 1 

Susanna, 2 

Susanna (symbol).. 

Susceptores 

Snsi 

Susil 

Stiso 

Suspension 

Suspicion 

Snstentation Fund. 
Sutcliffe, Matthew . . 
Sutcliffe, Robert B. 

Sulhdtire 

Snlhreh Shahis 

Sutphen, Joseph W. 
Sutphen, Morris C.. 

Sutra 

Sutri 

Suttee 

Sutton, Alvah A 

Sutton, Amos 

Sutton, Charles M.. 
Snttou, Christopher 

Sutton, Ilenry 

Sutton, Richard 

Sutton, Stephen B. . 
Sutton, Thomas (1). 
Sutton, Thomas (2). 

Sutton, William 

Suva 

Svarlilfur 

Svaha 

Svainshaugi 

Svaixdtmoka 

Svaixtix 

Svakons 

Svalgoni 

Svantevit 

Svartalfhcin 

Svarthoefde 

Svasudes 

Svava 

Sverga Divi 

Sviartovit 

Svidor and Svipull. 

Svipnl 

34[Swaddle ... 

34 Swaddlers 

34 Swahili Version 

34 Swaim, John S 

34[Swaim, Samuel B . . 
3G Swain, Charles W.. 

Swain, Nathan 

36 Swain, Richard — 

Swallow 

36 Swan 

36 Swan (myth.) 

36 Swan, Roswell R... 

36 Swan, Samuel 

30[Swanger 

36 Swarm 

36,Swayze, John J — 


30'Swayze, Wm . .Page 

36 Swearing 

36 Swearing, Profane.. 

36 Sweat 

36 Swedbcrg 

36 Sweden 

36 Swedenborg 

37 Sweet, Elisha 

37 Sweet, John 1) 

37 Sweet Singers 

37 .Sweet Singers (Rant- 

37 1 ers) 

37, Sweet man 

37iSweetser 

Swell 

37, Swelling 

37 Swert 

38 Swift, Elisha Pope.. 

38 Swift, Job 

38 Swift, Jonathan 

38 Swift, Selh 

38 Swindcu 

>38 Swine 

38 Swincrton 

38 Swiii cy 

39 Swin nock 

39 Swin ton 

39 S wit bin 

39 Swithin’s Day 

39 Switzerland 

39 Sword 

40 Sword, Brothers of 

4(>| the 

40, Sword-dance 

40 Swords 

40 Swormstcdt 

40 Syagrius 

40 Sybaris 

40 Sycamine 

40 Sycamore 

41 Syceas 

41 Sychar 

41 ( Svcites 

41 Sydesmen 

41 Syelus 

41 Syenc 

42 Sygn 

42 Sykes, Arthur A 

42 Sykes, Oliver 

42 Sylea 

42 Sylens 

42|S3’llaboeenthronisti- 

42 cro 

42Syllabns 

42 Syllabus, Papal — 

42 Sy 11 is 

42 Syllitnrgus 

42 Sylphs 

42 Sylvester I 

43 Sylvester II 

43 Sylvester III 

43 Sylvestriaus 

43 Symrothis 

43 Symbol 

43 Symbol (creed) 

43 Symbolical Books.. 
43 Symbolics 

43 Symbolism 

44 Symbol ti m 

44 Symc 

44 Symmachia 

44 Syimnachians 

44 Symmaehus (pope) . 
44 Symmaehus (trans- 

44 lator) 

44 Symmaehus, Quin- 

44 tus Aurelius 

44 Symmcs, William .. 
44 SyinineSjZachariah. 

46 Sympathy 

47 Symphony 

47 Symphoriamis 

47 Symphorosa 

47 Symposia 

47 Sympson 

47 Synagogue 


47,Synagoguc, the 

4S Great Page 82 

50 Synagogue and 

50 1 Church 84 

50 Synallaxis «S4 

50'Synapte S 4 

52iSynaxaritim s 4 

53 Synaxis 84 

53 Syncellus 84 

54 Syncellus, Georgi- 

| us s4 

54 'Syncretism 85 

54 Syncretistic Coil- 

54 [ troversies 86 

54'Syncretists 87 

54 Syndics 87 

54 Synecdcmi 87 

54 Synedrians 87 

55 Synergism 88 

55 Synesilis 88 

56 Synge 9t 

56lSyuisactro 92 

56 Synistameiii 92 

57 Sy un ad a 92 

57 Synod 92 

57, Synod, Associate. . 92 

57 Synod, Iloly 92 

57 Synod, Holy Gov- 

57 eruing 92 

57, Synod ales 92 

59 Synoilals 92 

Synodaticmn 92 

GO Synod i cm 93 

60 Synod itro 93 

61 Synods 93 

61 Synodus 93 

61 Synth ronus 93 

G1 Syntychc 93 

61 Synnsi astro 93 

62 Syracuse 94 

62 1 Syria 95 

62 Syria, Missions in. 103 

63 Syriac 105 

63 Syriac Language.. 106 
63 Syriac Literature.. 107 

63 Syriac Versions ... 113 

64 Syrian 124 

64 Syrian Churches... 124 

64 Syrinx 125 

Gt Syrna 125 

64 Syro-Phceuician. . . 125 

Syropulus 125 

64 Syrtis *.... 125 

64 Syrus 126 

64 1 Systaticro 126 

64 

64 Taannch 12G 

64 Taanath-Shiloh . . . 126 

65 Tabaoth 126 

65 Tabbath 126 

65 Tabeel, 1 126 

65 Tabcel, 2 127 

G5Ta bell ins 127 

e5iTaberah 127 

65 Tabering 127 

65 Tabernacle 127 

67 Tabernacle (chap- 

GS els) 144 

CS Tabernacles, Feast 

6S of 144 

GS Tabitha 1M 

68 Table 152 

CS Table (written) 152 

Table (name) 153 

69 Table, Credence. . . 153 

Table, Holy 15-3 

70 TrtbleofCoinmund- 

70j meats 153 

70 Table of Degrees.. 153 
70 Table of Feasts. ... 153 
70 Table of Lessons. . 153 
70 Table of the Lord. 153 
70 Table of Secrets. , . 153 

70 Table of Shew- 

71 bread 153 

71 TableofSucccssiou 154 


1114 


LIST OF ARTICLES IX VOL. X. 


TaMc-tomb . .Page 

Tablet 

Tablet, Memorial.. 

Tablet, Mural 

Tabor, Mount 

Tabor, Plain of 

Tabor, City of. 

Tnboriies 

Tabret 

Tabrimon 

Tabula Clericornni 

Tabula Dei 

Tabula Eucharis- 

tiie 

Tabula Paris 

Tache 

Tacbmonite 

Tackling 

Tacquet 

Tadmor 

Taft 

Taggart, Samuel . . 
Taggart, William.. 

Tafiau, 1 

Tahan, 2 

Tahanite 

Tahath, 1 

Tali at h, 2 

Tahatb, 3 

Tahath, 4 

Tahitian Version.. 

Tahpauhes 

Tahpeues 

Tahrea 

Tahtim-llodshi — 

Taitazak 

Taj us 

Talapoins 

Talbot, Peter 

Talbot, Robert.... 
Talbot, Samson 
Talbot, William. .. 

Talent 

Talent (skill) 

Tali on is, Lex 

Talitha Cmni 

Tallents 

Talleyrand, Alex- 
audre Angelique 
Talleyrand, Elie... 

Tallis 

Talmage 

Talmai, 1 

Talmai, 2 

Taluion 

Talmud, 

Talmud, the Old 
Testament in the 

Time of the 

Talmudists 

Talochon 

Talsas 

Tam 

Tam ah 

Tamar, 1 

Tamar, 2 

Tamar,' 3 

Tamar, 4 

Ta m b ur i n i ,Mich ael 

Angelus 

Tambnrini, Pietro. 
Tambnrini, Tom- 

maso 

Tamil Version 

Tam muz 

Tnnchebn 

Tan chum 

Tniichuma 

Tailored, Christo- 
pher 

Taucred ofBologna 
Tauered of Sicily. . 

Tanhumeth 

Tanis 

Tankerfield 

Tanner 

Tanner, Adam — 
Tanner, Conrad. . . 
'runner, Matthias.. 
Tanner, Thomas .. 

Tapers 

Taphath 

Tnphnes 

Taphon 

Tappau, Benjamin 

Tappau, David 

Tapp an, William B. 

Tappnah, 1 

Tappnah, 2 

Tappnah, 3 


154 Tarali Page 201 Tekoite Page 239'Testnments, Patri- Theodosinns .Page 321 

154 Taralah 201 Tela Stragula .. . . 233 archnl Page 2-01 Theodosius 1 321 

154 Tarasius 201 Telabib 239 Testes Synodales. . 294 Theodotiaus 322 

154 Tarea 201 Tel all 239 Testimonial 294 Theodotion 322 


154 Tares 201 Tolaim 239 Testimony of Dis- 

157'Targct 202 Telassar 239, owumeut 

157iTargum 202'Teleioi 240 Teta ,. 

157 Tarn oezy 217 Teleioteroi 240jTetragrammiitoii.. 


157 Tarnov, Johann... 217 Telem, 1 240 Tetrapla . . . 

:r " ' ~ “ * “ ' 


Theodotus 323 

294 Theodotus the Fill- 

2951 ler 393 

295 Theodromi 323 


... 295 Theodnlph 323 


157 Tarnov, Paul 217! Telem, 2 ’ 240 Tetrayolitana Con- Theodnlus or The- 

157 Tarpelite 217 Telemachns 240 fessio 295 odorus 1 

157 Tarphou 217 Teleology 240 Tetrarch 295 Theodnlus or The- 


323 


iTarqnini 217 Teiept.nL 240iTetrastyle 2961 odorus i I 323 

~ 1 ■ 'll o'. ■ * - ■ “** 


Telesphorns 240 Tetzel 290 Theodnlus or The- 

21s'Teletarches 240 'rexerants 296 odorus 111 324 


159 

159 

159 

102 


157 Tarragona, Couu 
158 1 cils of 

15s Tarshish, 1 21S Teletarchikos 24u Text 290 Theognostus 324 

15S Tarshish, 2 218 Telete 240 q’ext of Scripture.. 297 Theogouy 324 

" Tarshish, 3 21S Tellvarsa 240 Textus 297 Theologal 324 

Tarshish, 4 218 Telinga Version.. . 241 Textus Receptns.. 297 Theologia Germa- 

Tarshish, 5 220 'l'eller, Romamis . . 241 Tezcntlipoea 297 nica 324 

Tarsus 220 Teller, Wilhelm A. 242 Thaboiinin 297 Theologiau 325 

102|Tartak 222 Tell ier 242 Thacher, George . . 297 Theolngns 325 

163 Tartan 222 Telmelah 242 Thacher, Peter (1). 29s Theology 325 

103 Tascodnigitcs 222 Tema, 1 242 Thacher, Peter (2). 29S,Theology, New 

163 Tasmania 222 Tema, 2 242 Thacher, Peter (3). 29s England 327 

lGslTassehemacher. . .. 222 Teinan, 1 243 Thacher, Peter (4). 298 Theology, Specula- 

1 63 i Tassel 223 Teman,2 243 Thacher, Samuel C. 298 live...’ 331 

163 Tate 223 Temaui 243 Thacher, Thomas.. 298 Theomancy 331 

163 Tatian 223 Temeni 243 Thacher, Tyler ... . 298 Theonas 331 

163 Tatiani Evangeli- Temueh Versiou .. 243]Thacher, Wash’u . . 299 Theopasehites 331 

163 uni • 224 Temper 244 Thaddtei Acta 299 Tlieopathetics 332 

163 Tatianists 224 Tempemuce 244 Tlmddsei Evange- Theopathy 332 

1G4 Tatuai 224 Temperance Re- I limn 299 Theophanes, 1 332 

164 Tattam 224 form 244 Thaddtens 299 Theophanes, 2 332 

Tail Cross 224 Temple 250|Thuhash 299 Theophanes, Cera- 

Tanler 224 Temple (heathen). 266 Thalemaun 299 mens 332 

Taiisan 225 TCmple, Daniel.. . . 266 Thales 299 Theophany 332 

Taverner 225 Temporal 266 Th am all 299 Theophilanthro- 

Tavthe 225 ( Temporal Power.. 266 Thamer 299 _ pist 


164 

164 

164 

164 

164 

165 
165 
165 
165 
165 


Tawuls 225 

Taw butte 225 

Tawdry 226 

Tax 226 

Taxatio 227 

16ft| Taxes 228 

165 Taxing 22s 

1651“ 


16G 

106 

106 

166 

166 

160 

166 

160 


is: 

190 

191 
191 


333 

333 

333 


Temporalities of Thamnatha BOO Theophilestali 

Bishops 267 Thane 300 Theophilus, 1 . 

Tempt 267 Thank-offering 300 Theophilus, 2 334 

Temptation 2GS Thanksgiving 300. T h e op h i 1 n s of 

Temptation of j Thanksgiving-day. 300' Alexandria 334 

Christ 208 Thanksgiving fc?er- Theophilus of A 11 - 

Tempus Clausum.. 271 vice 301 : tioch 335 

Ten 271 Thanner 301 Theophilus of Cais- 


Taygete 230 

Tavlor, Charles C.. 230 
Taylor, Channcey.. 230 
Taylor, Cornelius II. 230 

Taylor, David 230 

Taylor, Edward . . . 230 
Taylor, Ellison — 230 Tenneut, Gilbert .. 275 Thayer, Elihti.. 


Ten Articles 271 Tliarra 301 

Ten Command- Tharshish 301 

ments 272 Thassi 301 

Tenebrte 275 Thaumatopoei 301 

Teuison 275 Thaxter 301 



area 335 

Theophilus of Ci- 
licia 335 

Theophilus of the 
Indies 335 

Theophori 335 

... 335 

330 
336 
336 
336 

Therapeutae 336 

342 
342 
342 

191 Taylor, John (1)... 232,Teut 277 i roes of 309 Thermeleth 343 

192 Taylor, Johu (2). .. 232 'feat h Deal 279 Thebez 309 Thesaurarius 343 

192 Taylor, John (3)... 233 Tenths 279 Thelmtes 309 Thessalonian 343 

192 Taylor, John (4). .. 233 Teutzel 279 Theca 309 Th essalonians, 

192 Taylor, John S . . . . 233 Teoealli 279 Tliecla, 1 309 First Epistle to.. 343 

193 Taylor, Jonathan. . 233!Teotl 279 Theda, 2 310 Thessa 1 o liians, 

! Taylor, Joseph ... . 233 Te rah 279 Theda, 3 310; Second Epistle to 348 

’ ‘ > Theda and Paul.. . 310 Thessalonica. 351 


Taylor, James A .. 231 Tenney, Caleb J. . . 277 Theatre and 

90 Taylor, James B.. . 231 Tenney, Ephraim . 277 Church 303'Theras. . . . 

91 Taylor, Jane 231 |Tenney, Roswell . . 277 Thebes 304 Theremin . 

91 Taylor, Jeremy 232 Tenney, Samuel G. 277 Thebes, Seven lie- Theresa... 


193 Taylor, Joshua 233 Teraphim 2s<> 

193 Taylor, Michael S.. 233 Terebinth 283 

Taylor, Nath’l (1).. 233 Teresh 2S4 

193 Taylor, Nath’l (2).. 233 Term in ism 284 

193 Taylor. Nath’l W. . 234 Terms 2S5 

195|Taylor, Oliver A... 234 TermsofUommun- 

198 Taylor, Richard C. 234 ion 285 

198 Taylor, Rowland. . 235 Terrace 2S5 

19S|Taylor, Samuel... . 235 Terrasson, Andre.. 285 
Taylor, Stephen . . . 235 Terrasson, Gaspard 285 
198 Taylor, Thomas (1) 235 Terrasson, Jean. . . 285 


Thecoe 

Theft 

Theft, Christian 


314 Theudas 355 

314 Theurgists 357 

Theurgy 357 


, 198 Taylor, Thomas (2) 235 Terrier 


Treatment of.... 314 Thevet 357 

Theile 314 Thiard, Cyrus de.. 357 

Theiner, Augustin. 314 Thiard, lieuri de. . 357 

Theiner, Johaun A. 315 Thiband 357 

Theism 315 Thibet 357 

Thelersas 316 Thibetan Version. 357 

Theman 316 Thief 358 


. 285 Themistiaus 316 Tliiemon 35S 



99 J Taylor, _ . „ 

199 Tchn-chor 236 Tertia 287 

199 Teach 236 Tertiana 287 

199 Tears 236 Tertiaries 287 

199 Te bah 237!Tertius 288 

200 Tebaliah 237|Tertre 28S 

200 Tebeth 237 Tertullian(ifs) 2S8 

200 Te Detim 237 Tertnllns 290 

200 Te Igitur 23T Teschenmacher . . . 290 

200 Teen 237 Tesserte 290 

200 Tehinnah 237 Test 291 

200 Teil-tree 237 Test Acts 291 

201 Teind 237 Testament 291 

201 Tekel 237 Testament, Old and 

201 Tekoa 237, New 291 


Theodicy 317 Thigh 360 

Theodora (1) 31S Thilo, Johann K. . 361 

Theodora (2) 318 Thilo, Wilhelm., . . 382 

Theodore 319 Thionville 362 

Theodore (of Can- Third Orders 362 

terbnry) 319 Thirds 362 

Theodore (Grap- (Thirlwall 362 

tus) 319 Thirst 362 

Theodore Lector.. 319 Thirty Years’ War 362 

Theodore of Mop- 



Thishe 


319 

Thistle 


320 

Thiven 

364 

320 

Tholuck 

364 

320 

Thomas 



532 

532 


Thomas, h 


LIST OF A1JTICLKS IX VOL. X. 1115 

Thomas, Christ inns Thursday of the 'Title (I) Page WT Torrey, It.... Page 437 Tir.lisrhi ...Pago MU 

Tlw. I,;','.' V,' • ' ‘ V'= e ^ „ liroalCauon.Pago » title 4.1- Torngiami . 4;»7 Troo V Mu 

Th ! !, ’ " f ' • • oO'J liuistoii mi:. I Ittinaiin, J. A. II. l.N Totl.iUc ItiT Tree ofl.ifo Ml 

I nomas, Writings I hyntirn 395 'Pin maim, Karl C.. 43s Tort o*a 49s Tu-gellcs mi 

T ;‘| 2?!!2J- vil,c VV,,od Tiiular 43s Tor til it* 49s Trehjwnev, Sir II.. 5.U 

T m ‘ a i' U> * 3 ^' ,L hym -: iVjt l,tu,ns 13s To, wo., d Excom- Trelawnev, Sir J. . M2 

lhomasJJarnnbas. ..t.i) I’hyron 39, Pirns 43s mnnienlion 49s TruniHImV M2 

Thomas, Hem. C... 3*19 Physinsterium . . . . 397 Titus, Epistle to.. . 4 lu Tosnplioth 4'A Trent It 532 

Th°n! ,IS \ M *• •;:••• IS 1 ’ 31*7 'rims, bishop of T«»i 499 T ren d elenbnrg, 

1 homns,c Imstinn. oOi Inna. 397 Hostra 442 Tort ado 499 Friedrich A 532 

Ihomas, Christ r.. 3.n I ibena* 39s lints, Flavius Sa- Toulmin *!*.>•» Tie n d clenbnn*, 

Thomas, David (1). 370 Tiberias, Sen of... -tun binu* V 442 Toulouse 499 Jolmmi G 

Thomas, David (2). 370 Tiberius 4i>0 Tizitc 442 Tmip ! MiO Tm.t o.r-' 

Ihomas, Davit (3). 370 Tibl.ath 4un Tonli 443 Toiiimdy Win Timtal 542 

Thomas, Lavitl d). 3i0 1 ihm 4ilu lob 443 Tournemine Mil) Trepnliiun 542 

Thomas, hbeiifzer 37n Tickets of Member- Tob-ndouijah 443 Toiimeux Mm Trespass 512 

t ta W ‘ ,Ul ’* tl\ r»?l u P * lltl Z"\'\'Z 443 Tournon, t has. T. Mm Tie^pass-oflering.. M2 

T 1 m 1 r e:lZ i Cr " oil W.-V ■ |nl J. 1 * »!» pi 1 443 Touruon, Francois Tiouonfels M2 

1 honias, Lnoch 3, 1 ledebaik 4M o bint, 2 441 do r,on Trcv.-s, Councils of. M3 

Ihomas, John (1). 3,1 Tierce 4M Tobiah, beu - Elie- Tours Mil Trrvett 543 

Thomas, John *2) . 371 Tiercilits 4m zcr 444 Tousi 5o2 Trial 513 

1 hoiuas, Joshun. 372 Tillin 4(U Tobias, 1 4 1 J Tous**ain, or Tus- Trial,’ Forensic.’.’.’.’ M3 

Thomas. Hub d II. 3,2 Tiglath-pileser 401 Tobias, 2 4 11 samis 50 > Trials 544 

homas,Kobert J. 372 Tigrc Version 403 Tobie. 4 14 Tow MKl Triamde ‘ Coillro- 

i honias, bam 1 (1). 372 Turns 403 Tobiel 44 1 Towel M>3 vei>y 544 

\.Sam 1 (2). 372 Tikknii Sopherim. 404 Tobijah, 1 414 Tower 503 Tribe M4 

,SamT (3). 372 Tikvah, 1 405 Tobijah, 2 441 Tower in Chri-tian Tribulation . 547 

372 Tikvaili, 2 4ii:>Tol)it 444 Architecture 501 T’ribur M7 

372 Tikvath 405 Tobjt, Hook of 445 'Powers 505 Tribute 547 

3,3 Tije 405 Tobler 440 Towerson 506 .Tribute-money. . . . Ms 

i tie. i» Architect- Toehen 4M) Towgood, Micainh. 506 'Pricerinm 519 

. 3 I 3 m nw •*<>•'> T'>*1‘1, Ibivid 450 Towgood, Richard. Mio 'Priebotomy 549 

I ioiuAMtis 3. J T ilenns 407 Poibl, Henry J 450 'Pown 5i>0 Tridentiue M9 

i homassiu 373 Tiling 4i)S Todd, Hugh 450 Town-clerk 507 Tridentiue JTofcs- 

jhomists 373 Tillage 4ns Todd, James II.. . . 4M» Townlev, James (1) Mis sion of Faith ... 549 

1 homlinson 373 Tillemont, Louis S. 40s Todd, John (1).... 45o Townlev, James (2) 50s Triennial Visita- 

Tliomoi — 374 Tillemont, Fierce.. 4 ik Todd, John (2).... 4Mi Townlev, John II.. Mis t ion 549 

ihompson,Alex.b. 374 Tibet 40s Todd. Jonathan... 45J Townsend, George. Mis Triers wn 

Thompson, A. L... 374 Tillinglmsl 4iis Todd, Nathaniel . . 451 Townsend, John . . 509 Trigland 549 

Thompson, Anth’y 374,1’illotson 40s Todros 451 i Townsend, Joseph. Mill Triglaw 519 

Thompson, A. F... 374 Tilon 409 'Pogarmah 451 Townsend, T. S 5i>9 Trim M9 

I hompson,C harles 3,4 Tilton, Albert F. . . 40;i Toggenbnrg War.. 451 iTownshend 5U9 'Primmer . . 550 

Thompson, Fred. H. 374 Tilton, llervey.... 409 T,,lm 452 Townson 509 'Primnell 550 

Thompson, (reo.C. 374 'Pimieus 409 Toi 452 'Tozer 509 Trine lbiptism ... . 550 

Thompson.Geo.W . 3,5jTimbrel 409 Tokens 452 Truclionitis 509 Trine-God Contro- 

1 hoiupsou, John.. 375 Time 410 Tola, 1 452 Tract 511 versv. ... 550 

Thompson, Joua'11 375;Timna, 1 413 Tola, 2 452 "’ •-* 

Thurapsou, Jos. P. 375 Timna,2 413 Tolatl 452 

Thompson, Jos. U. 376 Timnah, 1 413 Toluite 452 Tractorue 

Thompson, Lewis. 376 Timnah, 2 413 'Poland 452 Tracts and 

Thompson, Otis. .. 376 Timnnth-hcres.... 413 Tolbanes 453 

Thompson, K. G... 376 Timnite 414 Toledo 

Thompson, Samuel 376 Timon 414 Toledo, Francisco 

Thompson, S. II... 376 Timothcaus 414 de 

Thompson, Thos.. 376 'i’imothens, 1 414 Toledo, Koderigo 

Thompson, Wm... 376 Tiinothens, 2 414 de 

Thompson, W. J... 377 Tiinothens, 3 414 Toledoth Jeshti 

Thomson, And'w.. 377 Timolhy 414 'Polecat ion 457 

Thomson, Edw’d . . 377 Timothy, First Toleration, Acts of 457 

Thondraciaus 377 Epistle to 417 Toll 457 

Thor 37> T.imothv, Second Tollner 457 

Thorn 379 Epistle to 423 Tomasini 45s ... 

Thoru in the Flesh 3S4 Tin 424 Tomb 45s Trndneians 

Thorn, Conference Tinction 425 'Pombs 45!) 'Praheron 


Thomas, Thomas. 
Thomas, Wm. (1). , 
Thomas, Wm. (2). . 
ThomnMit of Zirk- 
laria 


Tractatnr 511 Trinitarian Hrotli- 

Tractaius 511 ers 550 

511 Trinitarian Sisters. 551 

Tract Trinitarians 551 

Societies Ml Trinitv 551 

Tracy, Eernard De- Trinity, Heathen 

stult de 51 C Notions of 556 

Tracy, William.... 516 Trinity, Fraternity 

Traditio 517 of (he 556 

Tradition 517 Trinity Sunday 556 

456 Tradition, Chris- Triphysites 556 

tian 51S Triplet 556 

Tradition, in the Tripolis 556 

Church of Eng’d. 5Js Triptych 557 

Traditores 51s 'Priquetral 55T 

'ITadncianism 51s Trisacramentari- 

519 a 1 is 557 

of 3S5 ’Pindal(l), Matthew 425 Tombstone 459 Trniii V.’.*.’.' . . 519 Trisantia. . . 1! ’. 55S 

Thorudtke 3s5 Timlal(l), Nicholas. 426 Tomline 461 Train 519 Triscilidie 55s 

Thorn-hedge 3s5 Tings-tad 426 Tomlinson, Ceorge 461 Trajan 519 Tritlieim .’ 55s 

Thornton, Y. C. .. . 3S6 'Pinker 426 Tomlinson, Jos. S. 461, Tramontane 520 Trit heists 55S 

Thornton, W. L. . . 3s>6 Tiune Version 426 Tomniasi 461 Trance 520 Triumph 55s 

Thoru well 3SG Tintoretto 426 Tongan Version... 461 Trniii, l«*aiah da... 521 Triumnhus’ ‘ ‘ 560 

Thonvuldseu 3S7 Tiphsah 426 Tongs 402 Trani, Moses da. . . 522 Trivet 560 

Tholh. 3s7 Tjppelskirch 427 Tongue 462 Transanimation. . . 522 Trivulzi. AgostiVm! 56o 

Tnracia 3;>» Tippet 427 Tongues, Confu- .Transcendent, or Trivulzi, Antomo(l) 560 

I hraseas 3^ Tipstaff 427 simi of 463 Transcendental.. 522 Trivulzi, Antonio(2) 560 

Three Tim 427 Tongues of Fire. . . 479 Transcendental- Trivulzi, Scamunc- 

Three Chapters ... 3s9 'Pirns 427 Tongues, Gift of.. . 479 ism 522 do. . 5f,0 

Three Denoiniua- Tirathite 427 Tonsure 4*6 Transelementatiou 523|Troas !!!..! m;o 

3*9 Tire 42s Tooke 4*7 Transfiguration . . . 523 Trogvilimn 561 

Three Taverns.... 3S9 Tirhakah 42s Tooth 4*7 Transtlguratiou- Troil’ Samuel 56*> 

Thre>hing 3s9 Tirhauah 429 Toparchy 4** day 524 Troil Uno ’ 56*> 

Threshing-floor . . . 390 Tiria 429 Topaz 4ss Trausitorimn 524 Troki 562 

Threshing - nistru- Tirinus 429 Tophel 4*9 Translation 524 Trolle 563 

went 390 Tirones 429 Tophel 4s9 Transmigration . .. 524 Tromni . ... 563 

Threshold 391 Tjronesinns 429 Toplady 4$9 Ttaiisportation.. . . f.26 Tronchin, Louis. !! 563 

Throne... v 391 Tjrscli 429 Topograph ical 'Prnnsnbstantiation 526 Tronchin, Theo . . . 563 

Throne, Episcopal. 392 Tirshatha 429 _ Terms 490 Trap 527 Troop 563 


Thrupp. . 

Thrvm 

Thugs . . . - • . 
Thumbslall . 

Thunder 

Thunderbolt . 


.vj 2 Tirzah, 1 429 Torah 495 Trapp, John 527 Tropa;a 563 

392 Tirz: ll, ,2. 43" Torch... 495 Trapp, Joseph 027 Tropes 563 

^92 1 isclicndorf 43n '1’ordesillas 495 'IVap|iists 52s Trophimus 563 

^•VJ^her ,j3i Torpmn 495 Tra-k 52s Tropici 504 

3J3 l ishlme 431 Tonbio 496 Trnuthsun 529 'Propit :e 564 

432 Torinah 496 Travelling 529 Tropnlogical 1 nter- 

Thurarn 3J4 IVri 432 T«)rmentn*- 496 'Pravis 529 pretation 564 

Thur.hle 394 Titan 432 Tonpieinada, Jnan Treasure 529 'Prork 504 

Thurifer. ......... 395 Titan es 432 de 496 Treasurer 530 'Pros I c 504 

Thmiricatuor J hn- Tithe 433 Torqucmadn, To- Treasurer, Ecclo-i- Trust 561 

riticatorcs 395 Tithes 436 mas de 496 astical .Mn Troth 564 

Thuringia 395 Titian 437 Torre 496 Treasury 53«i Trough x/u 

Tharoferary 395 Title (1) 437 1'orrentius 496 Trent 530 ’Proves. 

Thursday 395 Title (2) 


Title (2) 437 Torrey, Joseph. . . . 497 Trecanum 530 TruW 


1116 


LIST OF ARTICLES IX VOL. X. 


Trublet Page 505 Turnns Page 

Truce of God 565'Turpeutine-tree.. . 

True 566 Turpin 

True Reformed (Turpin, Thomas D. 

Dutch Church... 506 Turquoise 

Trullo 500 Turret, Touret, or 

Trumbull, Benj’n.. 500 Turette 

Trumbull, Robert.. 500 Turretiui, Benedet- 

Trumpet 507 to 

Trumpets, Feast Turretiui, Franpois 

of 5 G 8 Turretiui, J. A 

Trust iu God 50S Turn 

Trust-deeds 568 Tnrrigera 

Trnstees 501* Turseliu 

Trustees, General Turstine 

Board of 500 Turtle 

Truth . 509 Turtle, John 

Tryphcena 570 Turton, Thomas... 

Trypho 570 Turton, William . . 

Tryphon 570 Tutanus 

Tryphosa 570 Tutiani 

Tsabians 570 Tutilina 

Tschornaboltsi 570 Tutilo 

Tsi ng-Ch a m u n- Tuttle, Amos C.. . . 

Keaou 570 Tuttle, Jacob 

Tsiruph 571 Tuttle, Samuel L.. 

Tsonkliapa 571 Tuttle, Timothy. . . 

Tubal 571 Twelfth-day 

Tubal-caiu 57*2 Twelfth day of the 

Tubieni 5721 Month 

Tubingen School, Twelfth-night 

The Old 572 T wells 

Tfibingen School, Twelve 

The New 573 Twesten 

Tuch 573 Twichell 

Tncher 574 Twilight 

Tucker, Abraham. 574 Twining 

Tucker, Elijah W.. 574 Twisse 

Tucker. Elisha 574 Two 

Tucker, Josiah 574 Twombly 

Tucker, Levi 574 Twyue 

Tucker, William .. 574 Tyana 

Tnckermau 574 Tvchacum 

Tuckney 575 Tyche 

Tudehope 575 Tyches 

Tudela 575 Tychicus 

Tudor 575 Tycho 

Tudor Rose 575 Tychonius 

Tudor Style 575 Tychsen, Olaus G. . 

Tueshimel 570 Tychsen, Thos. C.. 

Tuet 576 Tye 

Tufa 576 Tyler, Bennet 

Tuff-taffeta 576 Tyler, Edward R. . 

Tuiscon 570 Tvler, James E.... 

Tukudh Version. . . 57G Tyler, Joseph D... 

Tulchans, or Tul- Tyler, William 

chan Bishops 570 Tympanum 

Tulisso 576 Tympe 

Tulla 570 Ty nd ale 

Tulloch 576 Tyndarens 

Tully, George 576 Tyudarides 

Tally, Thomas 576 Tyndaris 

Tuln, or Tulnvu... 570 Tyng 

Turn 577 Type i, 

Tumanurong 577 Typhon 

Tumblers 577 Typhrestns 

Tundley 577 Typicnm 

Tunic, or Tunicle . 577 Tyr 

Tuuicle-hall 577 Tyrannus (1) 

Tunicle-chest 577 Tyrannus (2) 

Tunis 577iTyrbenus 

Tuukers 577 Tyre 

Tunnell 578 Tyre, Council of. . . 

Tunstall, Cuthbert. 57S Tyrian 

Tnnstall, James. . . 578 Tyrimmas 

Tuonelu 57S Tyrins 

Tuoni 578 Tyrones 

Tuquoa 57S Tyropceon 

Tura 578 Tyrrhenus 

Turban 578 Tyrrhus 

Tnrchi 579 Tyrus, 1 

Tarek 579 Tyrns, 2 

Turibio 579 Tyson 

Turin 579,Tyssens 

Tu rkey 5S0 Tzschirner 


59 S Udall, John . .Page 
598 Udall, Nicholas... . 
59S Udine, Giovanni da 

598 Udine, Girolamo da 
59S Udine, Martino da. 

jUdu 

59S Udur 

Udvarde 

599 Ueberweg 

599 l ei 

599 Ughelli 

000 Uginda 

600 Ugolino 

600 Uhland 

600, U hie 

000 Uhlemaun 

00 1 Uh licit 

001 Ujen 

001 Ukko 

GOl.Ukkuma 

001 Ulai 

002 U lam, 1 

602 Ulam, 2 

602 Ulbcr 

602 U leu berg 

602 1 Ulfilas 

602 Ulfrnua 

002 Ulin 

Ulitis 

602 Ulla 

603 I lian Machaitse. .. 

603 Ulldra 

003|UHer 

GOB'Ullmaun 

G03[Ulric 

603 Ulrich, Jean J. (1). 
G()3 Ulrich, Jean J. (2). 
603 Ulrich, Jean G . . . . 

603 Ulrich, Jean R. . . . 

G04 Ulriek 

604 Ulster 

604 Ultimate Appeal . . 

604 U1 tor 

604 U1 1 ra m on t a n i sts. . . 

604 Ultraqnist 

604 Uma 

604 Umbrae u lu m 

G04,Umbreit 

605! Umbrella 

005 Uminah 

005 'Until ruk 

OOo.Untvin 

000 Unant Sanctam — 


Unbelie 
Unbloody Sacri- 
fice 

Uncial Letters 

Uncircumcised 

Unclean 

Uncleanness 

Uncles 

Unction 

Unction in Preach- 


United Presbyte- 
riau Church. Page 
United Secession 

Church 

United Society of 

Believers 

025 United States 

025 1 Un i t ed Sy ri a ns 

025' Unity 

025 Unity of the Church 

025 Unity of God 

625 ' Universal Bishop. . 
025 Universal Friends. 

025 Universal German 

020 Library 

026 Universulism 

020 Universalists 

026 Universality of 

620 j Grace 

020 Universal 

620 Universe 

027 University 

027 Unknown God.... 
027 Unknown Tongue. 

627 Unlearned 

627 Unleavened Bread. 

627 Unni, 1 

027 Unni, 2 

627 Unni (archbishop). 

027 Uunifer 

028 Unpardonable Sin. 

G2S Unselt 

028 Unterberger 

028 Unwin 

029 Unwritten Word. . 

629 Unxia 

029 Unzer 

029 Upauishad 

029 Upfold 

629 Upham, Chas. W. . 

629 Upham, Thos. C.. . 

029 Upham, Wm. D. . . 
029 Uplia z *. 

029 Upis 

030 Upper Chamber. . . 

030 Up«al 

630 Upton 

030 Ur, 1 

631 Ur, 2 

631 Uraettir 

631,Urannis 

631 Uranus 

631 Urban I 

031, Urban II 

Urban III 

031 Urban IV 

031 Urban V 

031 Urbau VI 

032 'Urban VII 

034 Urban VI 11 

030 Urbane 

OBOiUrbaneuses 


nig 


Undergird 

Underhill 

Undersetter 


012 Underwood, Alvan 
012 Underwood, H. B.. 

612 Underwood, Jos... 

012 Undine 

612; Un gal- 

621 Unger 

621 Unge witter 

021 Unhallowed Uses.. 

G21U mates 

021 Unicorn 

621 Unicnlus 

C22| Uniformity 

Unigenitns 

Unio Mystica 

Union Amer. Meth. 

Epis. Church 040 

Union with Christ. 640 
Union of Churches G41 
Union, Congrega- 


Urbanis. 

037 Urbino 

637 Urbs Beata llieru- 

C37 salem 

637 Ur d 

037 Urdnborn 

637 Urgel 


Turner, Daniel 


Turner, Je*se II. . 


Turner, Peter. . 


Turner, William II. 



.. 023 

? © 

t ion al 

041 

590 Ubbonites 

.. 623 

Union, Hypostati- 


596 Ubertinus 

.. 023 

cal 

041 

597 Ubiety 

. 623 

Unitarianism 

041 

597 Ubiquitarians 

.. 023 

Unitarians 

040 

597 Ubiquity 


United Armenians. 

047 

597 Ublanizn 


United Brethren in 


597 Uboze 

.. 023 | 

Christ 

647 

597 Ucal 


United Christians. 

649 

597 Ucalegon 

, . 024 United Copts 

649 

597|Uckewallists 


United Evangeli- 


597 ,Uda3iis 


cal Church 

649 1 

59S Udainsakr 

.. 024 

United Methodist 


59Sj Udall, Ephraim . . 

.. 024 j 

Free Chnrch .... 

650 1 


Urghier 

Urgiaffa 

Urf, 1 

Uri, 2 

Uri, 3 

Uriah, 1 

Uriah, 2 

Uriah, 3 

Uriah, 4 

Uri as 

Uriel, 1 

Uriel, 2 

Uriel, 3 

Uriel, 4 

Urii 

Urim and Thum- 

mim 

Uri ns 

Uriya Version 

Urlsperger, J. A. . . 
Urlsperger, Sam’l. . 

Urqnehart 

Urquhart 

Ursacius 


Ursulines . . . .Page 

650 Unied 

U inker 

050 Uru Sukhar 

Urwick 

050 Usagers and Col- 

051 legers 

656 Use 

050 Ushas 

050 Usher, James 

056 Usher, John (1) ... 

656 Usher, John (2).... 
650 Usous 

Usque 

050 Ussermami 

050 Usteri 

057 Ustick, Hugh S.... 
Ustick, Stephen C. 

005 Ustnr 

005 Usnard 

005 Usurpation of a 

605 Benefice 

660 Usury 

600 Ut a 

000 Utanubadeu 

060 Utenheim 

006 Utgard 

060 Uthai, 1 

000 Uthai, 2 

000 Utlii 

600 Utilitarianism 

000 Utility 

000 Utino 

060 Utraquists 

067 Utrecht 

607 : Ut tig 

667 Una 

067iUwienon 

007 Uytenbogaert 

607 Uythnge 

607 Uz, 1 

007 Uz, 2 

668 Uz, 3 

008 Uz, 4 

008 Uza 

669 Uzai 

009 Uzal 

009 Uzza, 1 

072 Uzza, 2 

672 Uzza, 3 

072 Uzza, The Garden 

672 of 

072 Uzza h, 1 

072 Uzzah, 2 

672 Uzzen-sherah 

672 Uzzi, 1 

673 Uzzi, 2 

673 Uzzi, 3 

673 Uzzi, 4 

673 Uzzi, 5 

674 Uzzi, C 

674 Uzzia 

674 Uzziah, 1 

674 Uzziah, 2 

(Uzziah, 3 

074 Uzziah, 4 

G74 Uzziah, 5 

674 Uzziel, 1 

674 Uzziel, 2 

G74 Uzziel, 3 

074 Uzziel, 4 

674 Uzziel, 5 

674 Uzziel, 6 

674 Uzzieiite 

674 


Vacant See 

Vacant Sundays... 

Vacantivi 

Vacation 

Vacation of a Bene- 
fice 

Vaccaro, Andrea. . 

070 Vaccaro, D. A 

076 Vaccary 

j Vach 

G76 ( Vachaspati 

679) Vacbery 

079 Vacua a 

079 Vade-mecum 

6S0 Vneck 

680, Vaga 

GSOiVagautes, or Vagi. 
GS0 Vagmicci 


080 
, cso 
080 
. 080 
GS0 
6S1 
081 


Vagum Ministeri- 

um 

Vaiano 

Vail 

Vail, Edward J — 
Vail, Solomon T. .. 
Vaill, Joseph (1)... 


CS2 

082 

652 
082 
CS2 

CSS 

083 

083 
683 
683 
683 

683 

653 
6b4 

684 
684 

084 
684 
684 

684 

084 

685 

685 

085 
OSC 
C86 

056 
6SC 

686 
680 
6SG 
686 
6SC 
686 
686 
OSC 
080 
687 
CS7 

087 

057 
GS7 
OSS 
OSS 
CSS 
68* 
OSS 
6SS 

088 
0S9 
089 
0S9 
089 
6S9 
GS9 
089 
089 

089 

689 

690 

090 
G90 
090 

090 

690 
GOO 

691 

091 
091 
091 
691 

091 

091 

091 

091 

091 

691 

091 

691 

091 

091 

091 

691 

691 
091 

091 

092 

692 

692 

092 

092 

692 

092 

092 


LIST OF ARTICLES IX VOL. X. 


1 111 


Vaill. Jos. (2). Page 
Vaill, William F. . . 

Vail hint 

Vairagis 

Vaisesliika 

Vaisliuavas 

Vaishya 

Vaison 

Vajezalha 

Val 

Valadon 

Valckenaer 

Valdes, Alfonso... 

Valdes, Juan 

Valdes, Don Juan. 
Valdes, Don Lucas. 

Valdes, Don S 

Valence 

Valencia 

Valencia, F. M. de. 
Valencia, J. P. de.. 

Valeus 

Villens (emperor).. 

Valenti a 

Valentia, Gregorio 

de 

Valentin 

Valentine, St 

Valentine, Geo. INI . 

Valentine, J. M 

Valentiniau I 

Valentin inn 11 

Valenti nian III — 

Valeutinians 

Valentinus, St 

Valentinus, the 

Guostic 

Valerian 

Valerian, St 

Valeriani 

Valerio 

Valerius 

Valesiaus 

Valesio, Francesco 

Valesio, G. L 

Valesius 

Valette 

Vali 

Valiero 

Valla 

Valladier 

Valladolid 

Vallarsi 

Valle 

Vallee, Geoffroi ... 

Vallee, Simou 

Vallemont 

Valleusis, Johau- 

nes 

Valleusis, Theophi- 

lus 

Val let 

Valle tie 

Valley 

Valley-gate 

Valliere 

Vallischolares 

Vallombrosa 

Vallouia 

Valois 

Valpuesta 

Valpy, Edward — 
Valpy, Richard — 

Vain ana 

Vam is, or Vania- 

charis 

Van Arsdale, C. C. 
Van Arsdale, Mel- 
ville 

Van Arsdale, Sim- 
eon 

Vanatta 

Vau Bokkeleu . . . . 

Van Brunt 

Van Bnnschooten. 

Vau Buren 

Vance, Andrew .. . 
Vance, Thomas P. 

Van Cleef 

Vandals 

Vandercook 

Vanderliude 

Vauderlip 

Vaudermeulen .... 
Van der Schnnr . . . 

Vau der Sloot 

Van der veer, C. G. . 
Vanderveer, John. 
Vandervoort, J. C. 
Vandervoort, Paul. 


G92!Vaude water. .Page 70S Yaren. 


093 Van Driesscu, jo- Vnriclc 720 Yemliriud !!! . .!!! . 7 

093 lmnnes 709 Varillas 720 Venctlci. 7. 

no 1 n 1 \ t .. s 1 > .. .. .1 : .. 1 » _ 


r - _ - — Page 7)9 ViMiiilile Page 741 Vei.-e ... Page 

093 V an Doren, Isaac.. 1 ns % argas, Alfonso, . . 719 Yenan/.i 742 Wim- (in nooirv) 

693, Van Doren, L. II .. 7o9 Vargas, Luis de... 719 Vcnaturius "42 Verse Noel A 

093 Van Doren, Win. .. 709 Variaiion 720 Venee 742 VimvcIc.. .. 

12 Versions of 1 In* Ili- 

42 hie 

742 Versiiiaan 

742 Vert 

742 Vori jconlla 

714 Verloi 

7 I I ViM'liimuus 

744 \ ei ulam 

1 1 \ ervactor 

% erv Hrverend . . . 

711 Wallin 

727 Veni, Kedcinptor \r-cv 

727 Gentium 74.% Vesica l'l-ds 

727 Veni, Sanete Spi- Vespasian. 


09* Vail Driesseu, Pe 

094 trtis 

094 Van Duzer 

094 Van Dyck, C. L.. . . 
09* Vau Dyck, Uam'n, 


Various Headings Vciiema 

709 of the New Test. 72n Venenihle 

709 Various Headings Veneta Vorsin... 


7U9 of the Old Tc.-I. 
70'.i Varisutis 


094 Van Dyck, L. B.... 709 Varlet 


694 Vandyke, Sir A., 


710 Vurnell ... 


69r> Van Dyke, John P. Tin Vurotari 


090 Vane 

090 Vane, Sir lleury. .. 

090 Van Gaasbeek 

090 Van Harlingen, Jo- 

6901 ban lies M 

697|Van Harlingen, 

697 John M 

097 Vau llelmont, Bar- 


10 Vurro 

710 Vartabeds 

710 Varty 

Vanina 

711 Varus 

Vas 


725 Venetus. ... 

720 Venezia 

726 Vcuozinno. . .. 

720 Vengeance 

720 Veni, Creator Spl* 
’ TOT lit ns. 


runs . 
727 Veil ia . 


74T> W—pcrul 

7 10 Ve-pers 

740 Ve-pers, Sicilian . . 

740 Ye-pillnt.es 

740 Ves-els 

740 Vessels for Holy 


711 VasAri 727 Venial Sin .... 

Va>ey, Thomas (1). 727 Venice 

097 on Francis M. .. 711 Vasey, Thomas (2). 727 Venier 

097 Van Ilelmout, Ser- Vashni 727 Venilia 

ges J 711 Vashti 727 Venison 740 oil 

097 Van Hoeek 711 Vasishlha 72s Venile Adtnemus . 740 Vc-ta 

097 Van Hook 711 Vasquez, Alonso .. 728 Venite Kxultemus. 740 Vesiada 

09S Van Ilorne 711 Vasquez, Dionysius 72 s - Veil ins 740 \e-tnl- 

C9S Van Hovcnbergh. . 711 Vasquez, Gabriel. . «2S Venn, Henry 740 V. tibule 

698 Van Ilusen 711 Vasquez, Juan 15.. 72s Venn, John 740 Vestment 

09S Van Huysen 711 Vassar, John E. ... 72s Venning 740 Voiiuei 1 H. aid. 

69S Vaniah 711 Vassar, Matthew . . 72s Ventidius 747 Vestments 

698 Vnuierc 712 Vassilacchi 72* Ventura 747 Vestiy 

69s Van ini 712 Vassor 729 Veutiirini, Gnsparo 747 Vestry (ecclesiabti- 

698 Van lrhoveu 712 Vassy 729 Veutiirini, Karl 747 cal)’ 

Vanists 712 Vat 729 Veil 11 Ins 747 Vestiymaii 

699 Vanity 712, Vat for Holy Wa- Venus 747 Ve-tiy-piess 

700 Van Kenrcn 712 ter 729 Venus (Finn) 747 Vestry-trunk 

70o Van Kleek 712, Vntnble 729 Ventisti 74s Yestincr 

700 Van Liew, John.. . 712 Vater 729 Veracini 74s Vetch 

700 Van Liew, John C. 712 Vates 729 Veracity of God... 74s Yetliym 

700, Vanloo, Charles A. 712 Vatican 729 Vorberic 74"« Velo*Act 

700 Vanloo, Jeau B 713 Vatican Council.. . 751 Verbicst 749 Yo\ei> . 

Ton Van Meter 713 Vatican Mauu- Verbrngge 749 Vex. 

701 Van Mildert 713 script (1) 731 Verbruggen, Henry 749 Vexilla Regis 

701 Vauuel 713 Vatican Ilium- Verbruggen, Henry Vexillum 

701 Vannes 713 script (2) 732 F. and Petci;.... 749 Vezelay 

701 Vail Nest, Abra’m. 713 Vaticanus, also Va- Verbr.vck 749 Via 

701 Van Nest, Peter. . . 714 gitauus 732 Verceilcsi 749 Via Media 

701 Vau Nest, Rvnier . 714 Vaughan, Henry .. 732 Vercelli 749 Viaixues 

701 Yanni, Cavalier F. 714 Vaughan, Isaac .. . 732 Vercelloue 749 Vial — 

Van ni Cavalier Ivnnniniii .tnim a vad Vorrl, un- 


tie,* 

702 

702 
704 
70| 
701 
70| 
701 
701 
704 
7or> 
7 Gfj 
7 fifi 
765 
70.% 
765 
*o,% 

700 
7 00 
700 

700 

70.0 

700 

700 


"07 

707 

70s 


709 

709 

709 


709 
7»'.9 
709 
7 09 
709 
709 
709 


| Vaughan, .John A. 732; Verdour. 



u- | Aaron 714 Vault 733 Vergara, Nicolas de 750 Vicar 

.. 702 Van Noslraud, Al- Vaulting-shaft 734 Verge 75i> Vicar Apostnlic .. . 

li- 1 bert 714, Vavassenr 734 Verger. 750 Vicar Apostnlic of 


702 Vaunuys 715 Vayu 734 Vergerius 750 the Nmlli Pole 

702 Van Ofinda 715 Ve . . 734 Vergil 751 Vicar Capitular. . 

702 Van Pelt. 715 Veal 734 Verhaghen 751 Vicar Choral 

7u2 Vau Raalte 715 Veasey 734 Veringer 751 Vicar of Christ ... 

704 Vau Rauslaer 715 Vecchi 734 Veritas 751 Vicar I. pi-copal. 

704 Van Rensselaer, C. 715 Vecchia 734 Verjus, Antoine .. . 751 Vicar Formic. 

704 Van Rensselaer, Vecchietta 734 Verjus, Francois.. . 751 Vicar General .... . 


Vecchietta 

704 II011. Stephen .. . 715 Vecelli 734 Verjus, .lean, 

704 Vau Santvoord 716 Vechner, David 

704 Vau Schie 710 Vechner, Georg. 

704 Van Schoick 710 Veda 

704 Van Siuderiu 716 Vedan 

704 Van Stavoreu 710 Vedanga 

704 Vansyckle 716 Vedanta 


751 Vicar of the Holy 

.. 735 Vermeule 751 See 

.. 735 Vermcveu 752 Vicar of Peter 

.. 735 Wrmigli 752 Vicarage 

. . 736 Vermiglio 753 Vicarial 'Fillies .... 

... “30 Vermilion 753 Vicariate 

.. 730 Vermilyc, Isaac D. 753 Viearii . . 



V* Vireliims 

Van Vraukcu ,’Saml Veiiiodter. .7. .... . 740 Verocchio 

uel A 717 Vein 74«» Veron \ic-nmy , M- r ’ 

V-AU Wncrpnen.dohn Veitch 74<i Verona • ■ > 


705 Van Vleck, John.. 717 Vefel 737 Verneml ........ .. J ire-chancel I01 

795 Vau Vleck, Paulas. 717 Veil ?37 Vernon, J. %\ . M. . . \ u e-dean . . 

705 Vau Vlierdeu 717 Veil, Ecclesiastical. 739 Vernon, Thomas . . ^->4 \ icc-dmim.l 

705 Van Voorlus 717 Veil, Chas. M. de. . 7*<» Verimil ' lec-le-aie 

705 Van Vranken, N. . . 717 Veil, Louis de C. dc 740 \crniim. 

700 Van Vraukcu, “ 

700 lie) A . . 

706 Van Wagenen, John Veitch 740 \ eronn. 

706 Hardeubergh. ... 71^ With N * rn - r , l 

706 Van Wagenen, J... 7l> Vela ‘41 vaum da ••• • • 

707 Van Wageucn.Wil- Velasco, Don Acis- \oroiia, Jacopo da. - k. .1 

707 liam A 718 lo A. P T41 \ erona. Maffeo da. _ 

707 Van Winkle 718 Velasco, Crislo- \ eroniea, St. . . . I;V viViI/r' ni'vth >’ ‘ ‘ 

708 Vau Zatult 719 lml dc .41 \ crouiea (napkin). . J; 1 > 1 

708 Van Znureu 719 Velasco, Matins de. «41 N eronuis l\". , . . _ J., 

70S Vara. 

70S Var 
70S Vara 
70S Varanes, 

70S Vardeuian.. .. 


7 :■ Vi k, .N* wet 


■MO ve.de .... 74. L -5.^ J . 

Siani:::::::: SS.vSifc::::::::: 7ii,vSStt“:::::: 


’73 

:73 

773 

773 

773 

773 

773 


774 

774 

774 


1118 


LIST OF ARTICLES IX VOL. X. 


Victor of Tununa 
Page 

Victor of Vita 

Victor I 

Victor II 

Victor III 

Victor IN’, l 

Victor l V, 2 

Victoria 

Victorinas 

Victory 

Victriciits 

Victrix 

Victuals 

Vicns 

Vida 

Vidal, D. (elder). . . 
Vidal, D. (younger). 

Vidal, Diouisio 

Vidam 

Vidas 

Vidua 

Viduse 

Viduns 

Vieil 

Vieira, Antonio . . . 
Vieira, Sebastiano. 

Vienna 

Vienne 

Vieti 

Vienx 

Viger 

Vi gems 

Vigier, 

Vigil of Lights.... 

Vigilant ins 

Vigil ire Monnorum 

Vigilius 

Vigilins the Dea- 
con 

Vigilius ol’Thapsus 
Vigilius of Trent. . 

Vigils 

Vignali 

Vignerio 

Vignette 

Vignier 

Vignola, Giacomo 

Barozzio da 

Vignola, Girolamo 

da 

Viguoles 

Viguon 

Vigor, Simon 

Vigor, William 

Vignier 

Vihara 

Vi Laica 

Vila, Lorenzo 

Vila, Seueu 

Viladomat 

Vilgard 

Vili 

Villacis 

Village 

Village (ecclesiasti- 
cal) 

Villa Ipando, Fran- 
cisco 

Villalpando, J. B .. 

Villameua 

Villanova 

Villaret, Foulqnes 

de 

Villaret, Guillaume 

de 

Villaret, Jean C. . . 
Villars, Franjrois . . 

Villars, Henri 

Villars, Jerome 

Villars, Pierre (1). . 
Villars, Pierre ( 2 ).. 
Villars, Pierre (3).. 

Villefroy 

Villegaignon 

Villegas-Marmole- 

jo 

Villeueuve 

Villiers, Cosme de. 
Villiers, Ilenry M. . 
Villiers, Phiiippe 

de 

Villiers, Pierre de. 

Villoldo 

Villotte 

Vilmar 

Viucent of Beau- 
vais 

Vincent of Lerins. 
Vincent de Paul. .. 


| Vincent of Sava- 

774 gossa Page 

774 Vincent Ferraris.. 
774 Vincent, John A. . . 
774 Vincent, Thomas. . 
774 Vincent, William .. 
774 Vincentian Congre- 
774| gation !... 

774 Vinci . 

77a Vinckenbooms. . . . 

775 Vine 

775 Vine of Sodom 

775 Vinegar 

775 Vines 

777 Vinet 

777 Vineyard 

777 Vineyards, Plain 

777 of the 

777 Vini 

777 Vintage 

777 Vintimille 

777 Vinton, John A . . . 
777 Vinton, Justus II . . 
777 Vinton, Robert S. . 

777 Viol 

777 Viola 

777 Vi ole 

777 Violent Hands 

778 Viper 

77S [ Vi pond, David .... 

778 Vi pond, John 

77S Vipoml, William .. 

779. Virbius 

77b Viret 

77b Virgili us 

779 Virgin 

77b Virgin, Charles 

77b Virgin Chimes 

Virgines Dei 

780 Virgiuieusis Dea . . 

780 Virginity 

750 Virginity, Penetra- 

781 tive 

781 Virginity, Perpet- 

751 ual 

7SI Virginity, Tokens 
781 of 

Virginias 

781 Virgins, Giant 

Virgins of Love ... 

7S1 Virgo Virgin urn . . . 

751 Vi nils 

782 Viriplaca 

782 Virtue 

752 Virtues, Cardinal.. 
782 Virtues, Theologi- 

782 cal 

7S2 Virtues and Vices. 

7S2 Virtue 

782 Visaed 

782 Viscata, or Viscosa 
7S2 Visch, Karl de 

782 Visch, Matthias de. 

7S2 Vischer 

752 Visconti, Giovanni 

| de 

753 Visconti, Giuseppe. 
Visconti, Ottoue de 

783 Visdelou 

783 Vise 

784 Vishnu 

784 Visible Church — 

Vision 

7 $4 Visit 

Visitants 

784 Visitatio 

784 Visitation 

754 Visitation (ecclesi- 

784 astical) 

7s4 Visitation of Mary. 
784 Visitation, Festival 

784 of the 

784 Visitation, Order of 

754 the 

784 Visitation, The 

Saxon 

785 Visitation of the 

755 Sick 

7^0 Visitatorial Power. 
780 Visitor 

Viso 

780 Vispered 

786 Visscher 

780 Visucins and Visu- 

780 cia 

786 Viswaraitra 

Vital 

756 Vital Chajim 

787 1 Vi tali, Alessandro. 
7S7,Vitali, Giuseppe. .. 


I Vi tali an Page 

7SS Vital is a Furuo . . . 

7SS Vite 

7SS Vitek 

7ss Vitellius 

781) Vi tell ins, Aulus ... 
Vitellius, Erasmus. 

789 Vitellius, Lucius... 

7sb Vitisator 

790 Vitringa, Campegi- 

790 ns (elder) 

794 Vitringa, Campegi- 

795 ns (younger) 

795 Vitruvian Scroll. .. 
795 Vi try, Edouard de. 
790 Vi try, Muchsor of. . 

Vittoria 

797 Vitula 

797 Vitumntis 

797 Vitnriarii 

797 Vitus 

797 Vitus, Domenico .. 
797 Vitus, Stephanas.. 

797 Vivaldus... 

797 Vives 

797 Vivian, II 

70S Vivian, James C... 

798 Vivian, Thomas... 

79S Vivier, G. dn 

79S Viweg 

798 Vlerick 

798 Vliet 

798 Vocal iou 

798 Voel 

799 Voet, Alexander.. . 

799 Voetius 

800 Vogel, David 

SOft, Vogel, Georg J. L. . 
800 Vogel, Johann J... 
S00 Vogel, Mat tineas . . 
S00 Vogel, Paul J. S. . . 

Vogelsang 

S00 Vogler 

jVogt 

S00 Votcq-lube 

Void Benelice 

800 Voiglit, Gottfried.. 

S00 Voight, John L 

800, Voigt 

800 Vois 

800 Voisenon 

500 Voisin 

800 Vol anus 

801 Volition 

801 Volk 

Volkel 

801 Volk mar 

501 Vollborth 

801 Voluey 

801 Volo 

SOI Voloer 

SOI Volowing 

801 Volpato 

SOI Vol pi 

Vol see ns 

SOI Voltaire 

Sol Vol terra 

801 Voltumua 

SOI Volume 

802 Volnmnus and Vo- 

802 In mn a 

803 Voluntary 

803 Voluntary Associa- 

803 tions 

S03 Voluntary Coutro- 

503 versy 

504 Voluntary Offering 

Voluntaryism 

804 Vol n pin 

804 Vo hi si an 

Voluspa 

804 Volute 

Volutin a 

804 Vol vino 

Voorst, Johann van 
804 Voorst, Wilhelm II. 

Vophsi 

804 Vorilongns 

804 Voris 

804 Voronikhin 

S04 Vorsc 

804 , V ors t erma u s , Lu cas 
S04 (elder) 

VorstermangjLucas 

804' (younger) 

S04 Vorstius 

805 Vos, Aric 

805 Vos, Martin de — 

805 Vos, Simon de 

605 Vos, Willem van.. 


S05,Vosen Page 

505 Vossius, Gerard . . . 
605 Vossius, Gerard Jan 

805 Vossius, Isaac 

S00 Vota 

806 Vote 

S0G Votive Tablets 

806 Vnuet 

806 Vouillcinont 

Vonssoir 

SOGi Voussure 

Vow 

S0G Vowel-points 

506 Vowler 

806 Vowles 

807 Vredenbergh 

807 Vredenburgh 

507 Vrihaspati 

807 Vrimoet 

807 Vrooman 

807 Vuez 

S07;Vuitasse 

607 Vulcan 

807 Vulgar Tongue 

807 Vulgate 

SOS Vulgivaga 

8ns 1 Vulture 

80S, Vultnrius 

80S | 

80S Waajen, Hans van 

8os' der (I) 

SOS Waajen, Hans van 

80S I der (2) 

SOS Waast 

SOS Wabst 

SOS Wachler 

809 Wachsmuth 

509 Wachter r 

809 Wachtler 

809 Wack, Casper 

810 Wack, Charles P.. 

Sin Wack, George 

810 Wack, John J 

510 Wnckernagel 

810 Waddel, James.. . . 
810 Waddel, Moses.... 

S10 Waddheam 

810 Wadding 

S10 Waddington,Ed. . . 
S10 Waddingtou, Geo.. 

810 Waddle 

S10 Waddy 

510 Wade, Alpheus... . 

811 Wade, Deb’ll B. L. 

811 Wade, John 

811 Wade, Jonathan. . . 

511 Wade, Joshua 

811 Wadrakali 

811 Wadsworth, Ben ja- 

511 min (1) 

811 Wadsworth, Benja- 

811 min (2) 

811 Wadsworth, Geo. . . 
611 Wadsworth, J. W.. 
811 Wadsworth, Lem* 1. 

811 Wadsworth, Sam‘1. 

51 2 Wadsworth, Thos. . 

812 Wadsworth, W. A. 

812 Waehrwolf 

Waeinaemoeiuen. . 

S12 Waeipaes 

812. Wael 

Wafer 

S12 Wafer (ecclesiasti- 
cal) 

512 Wafthrnduer 

813 Wagenaar 

813 Wagenseil, C. J. . . . 

513 Wageuseil, J. C 

513 Wages 

813 Wagg 

813 Waggoner 

813 Wagl 

813 Wagner, Daniel. .. 
813 Wagner, Friedrich. 
813 Wagner, Henry . . . 

813 Wagner, Johann J. 

814 Wagner, Joseph. . . 
814 Wagner, Tobias . . . 

514 Wagnitz 

814 Wagnnff. 

Wagon 

S14 Wagstaffe, John.. . 
Wagstaffe, Thomas 

814 Wall abees 

S14 Wahl, Christian A. 

814 Wahl, Samuel F.G. 

815 Wahlers 

815 Wahner 

S15iWaidshayanta 


815 Wail Page 

515 Waiuright, David.. 

815, Wain right, William 
S 15 1 Wainscot 

516 Wain wright 

810 Wairewert 

810 Waishwauara 

810' Wait 

810 Wait, Lying in 

S10 Wnitana 

810 Waite, Clarendon.. 

816 Waite, John J 

819 Waite, Thomas. . . . 

823 Waite, William 

823 Waith 

823 Waits 

823 Waiwassaden 

823 Waiwnswata 

823 Waizgan thos 

823 Wake 

523 Wake, William 

824 Wakefield, Gilbert. 
824 Wakefield, Robert. 
824 Wake-ikatsu-lsino- 

524 kami 

839 Wakeley 

839 1 Wakemanites 

841 1 Waku-nawo-sona- 

j<> 

Wala 

841 Wala (abbot) 

W a Ire us 

841 Walaskialf 

841 Walch, C.W. F.... 

841 Walch, J. E. I 

S41 Walch, Johann G.. 
S41 Wald, Samuel G. .. 
841 Wald, Wilhelm 

541 Waldau 

841 Waldegrave 

841 Wjildeu 

842 Waldenses 

842 Walden sis 

542 Waldhausen 

842 Waldo, Daniel 

842 Waldo, Horatio 

842 Waldo, Nathan 

842 Waldo, Peter 

842 Waldron, Isaac.... 

842 Waldron, William. 

543 Wald schmidt 

643 Waleuburg 

543 Wales 

843 Wales, Eleazer. . . . 

844 Wales, Elkanah . . . 

544 Wales, John 

S44 Wales, Samuel — 
844 Walfadur 

Walford 

844 Walgino 

Walhalla 

844 Wali 

S44 Walk 

844 Walker, Aldace . . . 

544 Walker, Alex. W . . 

844 Walker, Augustus. 

845 Walker, Ben). M. . . 
845 Walker, Charles... 
845, Walker, Charles S.. 
845 Walker, Edward P. 
845 Walker, Elkanah . . 

545 Walker, Elnathan. 
S45 Walker, Francis. . . 

Walker, George (1) 
S45 Walker, George (2) 
845 Walker, George (3) 
S45 Walker, George (4) 

545 Walker, Geo. W. . . 

845 Walker, James (1). 

546 Walker, James (2). 

846 Walker, Jas. McC.. 

846 Walker, Jason 

546 Walker, Jeremiah. 

846 Walker, Jesse 

846 Walker, John (1).. 

547 Walker, John (2)-. 
S47 Walker, John (3).. 

847 Walker, John (4).. 
847 Walker, John (5).. 
847 Walker, John (6).. 
S47 Walker, John (7).. 
S47 Walker, Joseph (1). 
S4S Walker, Joseph (2). 
S4S Walker, Joseph E.. 
849, Walker, Josiah II.. 
849 1 Walker, Levi (1). .. 
S49 Walker, Levi (2)... 
S49 Walker, Nathan . . . 
849 Walker, Obadiah. . 
849, Walker, Peter J. . . 


S49 

859 
850 
850 
850 

850 
85ft 

860 
85!) 

851 
851 

851 

852 
S52 
852 
852 
S52 
852 
852 
S52 

852 

552 

853 

853 

553 
853 

853 

853 

853 

853 

853 

553 

554 

854 

554 

555 
S55 
S55 

855 
855 
857 
857 
657 
857 
857 
857 
857 
S57 

557 

857 
85S 
85S 

558 
S5S 

858 
S5S 

558 

858 
85S 
S5S 
85S . 

559 
659 

859 
8 6ft 

860 
860 
SCO 
860 
860 
66ft 
86ft 
861 
861 
S61 
861 
SOI 
861 
861 
861 

561 
862 
802 

562 
662 
862 
862 
S62 

562 
862 

563 
863 
S63 
863 
863 
S63 
863 
SO 3 


1119 


LIST OF ARTICLES IX VOL. X. 


Walker, R. (I). Pace 
Walker, Robert (2). 
Walker, Robert (3). 
Walker, Samuel. . . 
Walker, Saunders . 
Walker, Simeon R. 
Walker, Thus. (1).. 
Walker, Thus. (2). . 
Walker, Thus. (3). . 
Walker, W. S.C.... 
Walker, 

Walker, Wm. (2). . . 
Walker, Win. ft.... 

Walkinshaw 

Walkyries 

Wall 

Wall Arcadin'g . ... 
Wall, Andrew J... 

Wall, George 

Wall, John. 

Wall, Thomas 

Wall, William 

Wallace, Benj. J. . . 
Wallace, Cranniore 
Wallace, Geo. W . . 
Wallace, llenry C.. 
Wallace, James . . . 
Wallace, John (1) . 
Wallace, John (2) . 
Wallace, Jonathau 
Wallace, Marcus J. 
Wallace, Rob’t (t). 
Wallace, Rob’t (2). 
Wallace, William.. 

Wallauer 

Wallbridge 

Waller, Alvin F... 
Waller, Edmund . . 

Waller, John L 

Waller, Ralph 

Wallet 

Wallin, Benjamin . 
Wallin, Johan 0... 
Wallis, George — 

Wallis, Hugh 

Wallis, John (1). .. 
Wallis, John (2). . . 
Wallis, William J . 
Walloon Church. .. 

Wall-painting 

Wall-plate 

Wall rot h 

Walls 

Walruesley 

Walmsley 

Wain 

Walpurgis, or Wal- 

P argil 

Walsh, Henry 

Walsh, John 

Walsh, Peter 

Walsh, Thomas, 

Walsh, Tracy R. . . 
Walsh, Win. M‘K.. 
Walsiugham,Sir F. 
Walsingha m, Thus. 

Walter of Gallo- 
way 

Walter of Glasgow 
Walter of St. Vic- 
tor 

Walter, Ann 

Walter, Ernst J, K. 
Walter, Ferdinand. 

Walter, Henry 

Walter, Hubert. .. . 
Walter, Johann G. 
Walter, Nathaniel. 
Walter, Nehemiah. 
Walter, Thomas.. . 
Walter, William. . . 
Walter, William B. 
Walters, Christian. 

Walters, John 

Walters, Thomas.. 

Walther 

Walther, Chris’ n (1) 
Walther, Chris’n (2) 

Walther, C. T 

Walther, H. A 

Walther, Johann . . 
Walther, John L.. 
Walther, Michel (1) 
Walther, Michel (2) 
Walther, Rudolph. 

Walton, Brian 

Walton, James — 
Walton, Jonathan. 
Walton, Robert II. 
Walton, William... 


863 Waltou, William C. 

863 1 Pago 

S64 Waltz . 

S64 Wiiniit 

564 Wamack 

SG4 Wambnugh 

864 Wan 

804 Wanadis 

804 Wanagareu 

804 Wanaheim 

s 64 Wandalin,Johau(l) 

804 Wandalin, Joining) 
864 Wandalin, Peter. . . 

864 Waudelbert 

865 Wandsworth 

865 Wanes 

866 Wangnereck 

S 66 [ Wanker 

S 66 |Wanley 

8661 Wanslebcn 

S 66 Waple 

SOOAVappers 

866 War 

866 War, Christian 
SOO! Views of 

866 War (Norse) 

S 6 T Waranda 

867 Warbnrum 

SOT Warl m r ton ian Lec- 

867 lure 

807 Wardlaw, John S.. 
SOT Wardlaw, Ralph... 
867 Wardlaw, Thus. I). 

867 Ware, Henry, Sr... 

SOT Ware, Henry, Jr... 
SOS Warham 

868 Warner, Aaron. . . . 
SOS j Warner, Ferdiuan- 

5 6 5 do 

SOS Water 

805 Water of Baptism. 
S 6 S Water of Jealousy. 

SOS Waterbury 

SOOjWaterland 

SG9 1 Waterman 

S09 Watson, Janies V.. 
S09 Watson, Ricli’d (1) 
S69 Watson, Rich’d (2). 

869 Watts, Isaac 

869 Watts, William 

S09| Waugh, Alexander 
S69 Waugh, Beverly... 

569 Way 1 arid, Francis . 

869 Wayland, John 

869 Way te 

870 Way u 

Wayusaccha 

570 Wazo 

S 70 Wean 

S70 Weapon 

570 Weasel 

870 Weather 

571 Weathercock 

871 Weatherford, John 

571 Weatherford, Thos. 
871 Weaver. John M . . 

Weaver, Lindsey C. 
871 Weaver, Richard . . 

871 Weavers 

Weaving 

Web 

Webb, Benj. C 

Webb, Daniel 

Webb, Francis .... 

Webb, James 

Webb, John (1) 

Webb, John ( 2 ).... 
Webb, John (3).... 
Webb, John (4).... 

Webb. Joseph 

Webb, Loren 

872 1 Webb, Nathan .... 

572 Webb, Samuel — 
873 Webb, Thomas. . . . 

573 Wegscheider 

873,' Wegswiiv 

873 WeTchselzopf 

873 Weiekhmanu 

873 Weidelbot 

873 Weid man 

873 Weidner, Johann J. 

873 Weid ner, Paul 

874 Weigel, Christ’ r... 
874 Weigel, Valentine. 

574 Weighing of Souls. 

874 Weight.' 

874 Weihenmayer 

874 Weikel 

874 Weil 

S74 .Weiller 


Weimar Page 902 Weston, Stephen William of All- 

875 Welch, Bart h’w T. 902 0) Page 966 xerie .Pa.-e 

875 Welch. Moses <\ . . 'JHH WVston, Stephen Williutn of Clmiii- 

875 Welchman 9n3 (2) 966 penux 

875 Weld ‘.m3 Weston, William. . 966 William of t *. »r- 

875 Well 903 West plml, Georg < beuil . 

875 WVIIheloved 905 Kilim d 967 Willi nn St o| Di- 

875 Weller 905 Westphal, Joaeliim 967 |<m. 

875 Welles 9n5 Westphalia, Peace William of M >de- 

875 Wells him; of 967 un 

875 Welsh 9H6 \\ elenhall 96s William of Neu- 

875 Wesel 9‘iG \\ elhei HI 96s bury 

875 Wosi-lliisi 907 Wetlierill 96s Wil'iain 1 of Or- 

875 Wesley 9 u" Wet more, l /.rahiah 96- ange 

870 Wesley, Barlhol’w 907 Wet more, James. . 96s Will am «»f R.on- 

876 Wesley, Charles (1) 9<»7 Wet to this M -v . 

876 Wesley, Charles (2) 911 Wetlengel 97** Wilfi nil of >t. AN 

876 Wesley, Charles (3) 912 Wett-tein, Johann ban's 

S76 Wesley, John (1). . 912 Rudolf (1) 9Tn William of si. 

876 Wesley, John (2).. 912 Wettstein, Joliunn Amour.... 

876 Wesley, John T. . . 917 Rudolf (2) 97b William of m. 

876 Wesley, Samuel (1) 917 Wetlstein, Johann Thierry.. . 

876 Wesley, Samuel (2) 91s Jakob 97b Wi limn the Trmi- 

Wesley, Samuel (.'») 91s Wetzel, Andreas.. 971 vere 

881 Wesley, Susannah. 9ls Wetzel, Johiuin K. 971 William of W'y. 

883 Wesleyan Confer- Wetzcr 971 mnib . 

s-3 ence, Australian. 918 Wexford, Council William**, Cha*. S. 

SS3 Wesleyan Confer- of 971 Williams, Dan el. 

mice, French 921 Wlmle 972 Williams, Kllplm- 

883 Wesleyan Confer- Whaliey *373 let ... 

883 ence, Irish 923 Wharton 973 WilWams Ci tlbli. 

ss3 (Wesleyan) Meth. Whatcout 973 W V: inn* John t) 

883 New Connection. 928 Whalely 974 Williams .b ln 2 

884 AVesleyan Reform Wheat 975 William**, John 

sS4 Union 933 Wheaton 977 Williams. Joshua. 

884 Wesleyanism 935 Wheel 977 Williams, Nathan. 

584 Wesleyans 936 Wheeler, Daniel. . . 978 Williams, Ivo r.. 

Wesua 953 Wheeler, Sir Geo. . 97s Williams, phi ip 

884 Wessel, Johann (1). 953 M heeler, John 97s Williams, Robert. 

884 Wessel, Johann (2). 954 Wheelock, I'.lcazer 978 Wi iani**, Roger.. 

585 Wesseling 955 Whoelo'cki John... 97s Wil'innis, Rowrd. 

885 Wessely 955 Whelan 97 s Williams. Nolom'ii 

886 West 955 Whelp 979 Williams, Stephen 

S87 West in Exorcism. 956 Wliewell 979 (1) 

887 West, Benjamin... 956 Whichcote 979 Williams, Stephen 

887 West, Elizabeth. . . 957 Whip 979 (2 

SS7 West, Enoch G 957 Whipple 9-n Williams, Thomas 

SS7 West, Francis 957 Whiston 9s(i Williams, Will am 

589 West, Francis L. .. 957 Whitaker, Nathan*! 9 sH Williamson, Isaac 

890 West, John (1).... 957 Whitaker, Tims. D. 9sii Dowd 

890 West, John (2) ... 957 Whitaker, William 9s] Willibald. St 

590 West, Jon ’n Ren- Whitby 9si Willis, Ib niy.... 

890 shaw 957 White, Charles 9s 1 Willis, Michael .. . 

591 West, Nathaniel... 957 White, Francis.... 9st Wi lis, Ri< hard. 

592 West, Richard 95 s White, Henry. ... 98 | Willis, Robert . 

892 West, Roht. Athow 95s White, Joseph (1).. 9s| Willis, Thonm-. 

892 West, Samuel (l).. 958 White, Joseph (2).. 981 WjllNtou 

S92 West, Samuel (2).. 958 While, Robert M . . 9-2 Willow 

S92 West, Stephen 958 While, Thomas (1). 9-2 Wills 

892 West, William (1).. 95s White, Thomas (2). 9-2 Willson, James 
S93i West, William (2).. 95s ( White, William... . 9sg McLeod... 

894 Wes tall 958 Whitcrteld.. . 

894 Westbrook 95s Whitchouso. 

894 Westbrooks 959 Whitgift.... 

S95 NVestcott, Lorenzo. 959 Whiton 

895 Westcott, Wm. A . . 959 Whittaker . . . 

895 Westen 959 Whitteniore. 

895 Westerns 960 Wliittingliam. . 

S95 Westergaard 960 Whittlesey 


996 
996 
996 
9! 6 
996 
996 
996 


9^2 Willson, Jus. Keu- 

9s4 wick 

9-4 Willymott 

9 M Wi liner 

985 Wiln a 

9*5 Wilson, Adam 

98.5 Wilson, Bird ... 
9-5 Wilson, Chi sio- 


895 Westerlo 96(1 Wilherforce, Sain’l. 9-5 plier.. • • .. 

896 Westermeier 961 Wilherforce, Wm. . 9-5 Wilson. Daniel 

896 Westervelt, Alf. L. 961 Wilhrord, St 9 m; Uhls lb . ry R. 

896 Westervelt, John P. 961 Wiley, Allen 9-6 \\ tls.in, Hugh N.. 

897 Westervelt, Ralph. 961 Wilev. Charles 9-0 W ils.m, Jaine- 

897 Westervelt, Sam.D. 961 Wilfrid (St.), 1 9-7 W i -n .Janie- 1 .. 

897 Westfall, Benj'n B. 962 Wilfrid ^St.), 2 95. U; son, John. . . 

897 Westfall Simon V. Wilfrid St.), 3 9**, jb.m, J.-hn M . . 

897 E ... 962, Wilfrid tSt.),4 9-7 W ilson, Jo^lma L. 

897 Westfield !M!2 Wilkie ;•-••• \ ViNo "’ ? 

897 Wcsthoff 962 Wilkins, David.... 9-. son. Robert <■ 

897 Westlake, Burrows 962 Wilkins, Isaac 9-7 U iN.m Mr 1 l.om- 

597 Westlake, Charles. 962 Wilkins, John 9— as 1).. 

897 Westley 962 Wilkinson, Henry 

897 West ininst’r Abbey 962 (1) 

898 Westminster Anno- Wilkinson, Henry 

898 tat ions 963 (2) 

598 Westminster As- Wilkinson. Sir olio. 

S9> semblyof Divine- 963 Gardner......... 

898 Westminster Cate- Will, Arm Milan 

898 chism 965 View of the. . . . . . •*-. 

898 Westminster Con- Will, Cal vm l-tic W I 

599 fession of Faith. 965 Doctrine of the. . 99‘- »' 

-99 Westminster Direc- Willard * , , < t 1,1 

yj).| tory 966 WiMehad, St 99: 

900 Westminster Form 966 Willenmi. . . ... 

900 Weston, David,... 966 William (St.) 

901 Weston, Edward.. 90rt A*iuilaiiu* 

901 Weston, Hugo 966 William ol A t 

902 Weston, John E... 966 William of 

902 , Wcslou, John W.. 966^ vergne 


997 

997 

997 

99s 
9* is 
•t‘»v 
99- 
99- 
99- 
•**19 
999 
999 
999 
9'. *9 
]non 
loot I 

llKMl 

H'01 

IlMll 

UHll 

moi 

n*oi 

1002 
1<k»2 

long 

1 *M'2 

1»N»2 

Ph*2 

1003 
10b| 

11*04 

mm 

pH *5 
P 05 
pH *5 
1 < *0.5 

pH *5 

inert 

pH'rt 

l on 6 
1 *.•»; 
pH 16 
inert 
P n7 
1 «m» 7 
inn; 
1*H*7 
pH'7 


Wilson, Tlioma- 

988 

Wilson, Thou i- 

yss 3 

Wimpiini. 

9 ss Wimple 
Wimple. 


“•) 


An 


\Mil‘ 

r «* 

••M U . In 
M, k. 
W k 
i-Jc U l«de 


, I ' 


P .Tl. 
mnOti.. 


p*. s 
PH*-* 
loss 

pH«y 
p*** 
t* »J 


pH»» 


1**9 
f 0 


1120 


LIST OF ARTICLES IX VOL. X. 


Window . . • .Page 

Wine 

Winebrenuer, C. . 
Winebreuuer, J. . . 

Winer 

Wines 

Wing 

Wing 

Wiukelinann 

Winslow, Gordon 
Wiuslow, Hub- 
bard 

Winslow, Myron.. 

Wiustanley 

Winter 

Winter, Robert... 
Winter, Samuel.. 

Wisdom 

Wisdom of Solo- 
mon, Book of. . . 
Wiseman, Luke II. 
Wiseman, Nicho- 
las Patrick S. . . 
Wishart, Geo. (1). 
Wishart, Geo. (2). 
Wishart, William. 
Wisuer, Benjamiu 

Blydenbnrg 

Wisuer, William . . 
Wisuer, Win. C. . . 

Witch . . .• 

Withers 

Witherspoon 

Witsius 

Wizard 

Woide 

Wolf (animal) 

Wolf. 

W o 1 f e n b ii 1 1 e 1 

Manuscript 

Wolff, Bernard C. 
Wolff, Joseph. . . , 

Wolfgang, St 

Wollaston 

Wolsey 

Womb 

Wood 

Wood, James (1).. 
Wood, James (2).. 
Wood, Jeremiah.. 
Wood, Nathaniel 

Milton 

Wood, Samuel 

Woodbridge, Ben- 
jamin 

Woodbridge, Tim- 
othy 

Woodford 

Woodhouse 

Woodhull, John.. 
W oodhull, Selah 

Strong 

Woodrolffe 

Woods, James S.. 
Woods, Leonard. 

Woodward 

Woolley 

Wool ton 

Wool worth 

Worcester, Noah . 
Worcester, Sam’l. 

Wordsworth 

Wormwood 

Worthington, J.. 
Worthington, T.. 
Worthington, W.. 

Wotton. 

Wreu, Christopher 


1010 Wren, Matthew 
1010 Page 

in 17 Wright, Ed w’d W. 

1017 Wright, John F. . 
Kill Wright, Sam lie].. 

lulS Wimram, St 

10l\ Wulstan (1) 

inks Wulstan (2) 

1018 Wulstan (3) 

1018 Wyatt 

Wyckhoff 

1019 Wyckoff, Isaac N. 
1019 Wyckoff, Theo. F. 

1019 Wycliffe 

1019 Wylie, Andrew... 
1019 Wylie, Samuel B.. 
1019 Wynne, John 

1019 Wynne, Robert... 

Wytteubach 

1020 

1025, Xavier 

IXimenes 

1025' 

1025 Yates, Andrew. . . 
1020 Yates, John A. . . . 

1026 Yates, Richard. . . 
Yates, William... 

1026 Yeomans 

1026 Young, Alexander 
1026 Young, Arthur... 
1026 Young, Brigham. 
1026 Young, Ed w’d (1). 

1026 Young, Edw’d (2). 

1027 Young, Jacob 

1028 Young, John C... 
1028 Young, John K... 

1028 Young, John R... 

1029 Young, Matthew. 
Young, Patrick... 

1029 Young Men’s 

1030 Christian Asso- 

1030 ciatious 

1030 

1031 Zaanaim 

1031 Zalinan 

1032 Zaauauuim 

1032 Zaavan 

1033 Zabad, 1 

1033 Zabad, 2 

1033 Zabad, 3 

Zabad, 4, 5, 6 

1033 Zabadtean 

1033 Zabadaias 

Zabbai, 1 

1033 Zabbai, 2 

Zabbuci 

1033 Zabdteus 

1034 Zabdi, 1 

1034 Zabdi, 2 

1034 Zabdi, 3 

Zabdi, 4 

1034 Zabdiel, 1 

1034 Zabdiel, 2 

1034 Zabdiel, 3 

1034 Zabriskie 

1035 Zabud 

1035 Zabulou 

1035 Zaccai 

1035 Zacchaens, 1 

1035 Zacchiens, 2 

1036 Zaccur, 1 

1037 Zaccnr, 2 

1037 Zaccnr, 3 

1038 Zaccur, 4 

1038 Zaccur, 5 

103S Zaccnr, 6 

103S Zaccur, 7 

1038 Zacharia 


1044 

1045 

1046 

1047 
1047 
1047 
1047 

1047 
104S 
104S 

1048 

1048 
104S 

1049 
1049 


' Zach arias, 1.. Page 

1038 Zacharias, 2 

lUBS'Zucharias, 3 

1039 Zacharias (pope). 
1039 Zacharias, Daniel. 

1039 Zachary 

1009 Z ache r 

1039 Zadok, 1 

1039 Zadok, 2 

1039 Zadok, 3 

1039 Zadok, 4 

1040 Zadok, 5 

1040 Zadok, 6 

1040 Za ham 

1043 Z air 

1043 Zulaph 

1043(Zalmon, 1 

1044 Zalmon, 2 

1044 Zalmonah 

Zalmmma 

Zambia 

Zambia s. 

Zamoth 

Zamznmmim 

Zanonh, 1 

Zanoah, 2 

Z aph n at h - Pail n e- 

ah 

Zaphon 

Zara 

Zaraces 

Zaraias 

Zarephath 

Zaretau 

Zarethshahar 

Zarhite 

1049 Zathoii 

1049 Zathui 

1049 Zattu 

Zaza 

|Zebadiah, 1 

1049 Zebadiah, 2 

'Zebadiah, 3 

1054 Zebadiah, 4 

1054 Zebadiah, 5 

1054 Zebadiah, 6 

1054 Zebadiah, 7 

1054 Zebadiah, 8 

1054 Zebadiah, 9 

1054 Zebah 

1054 Ze bairn 

1054 Zebedee 

1055 Zebina 

1055Zeboi‘m, 1 

1055Zeboim, 2 

1055 Zebtidah 

1055 Zebul 

1055 Zebulonite 

1055 Zebulun, 1 

1055 Zebultin, 2 

1055 Zechariah, 1 

1055 Zechariah, 2 

1055 Zechariah, 3 

1055 Zechariah; 4 

1055 Zechariah, 5 

1055 Zechariah, 6 

1055 Zechariah, 7 

1055 Zechariah, S 

1055 Zechariah, 9 

1055 Zechariah, 10 

1056 Zechariah, 11 

1056 Zechariah, 12 

1056 Zechariah, 13 

1056 Zechariah, 14. ... 

1056 Zechariah, 15 

1056 Zechariah, 16 

1056 Zechariah, 17 

1056;Zechariah, IS 


1056 

Zechariah, 19 Page 1067 Zichri, S. 

.Page 1091 

1057 

Zechariah, 20 

1067 Zichri, 9. 


1057 

Zechariah, 21 

1067 Zichri, 10 

1091 

1057 

Zechariah, 22 

1067 Zichri, 11 

1091 

1057 

Zechariah, 23 

1067 Zichri, 12. . . 


1057 

Zechariah, 24 

1067 Ziddim 

1091 

1057 Zechariah, 25 

1069 Zidou, 1 

1092 

1057 

Zechariah, 26 

1069 Zidon, 2. 

1092 

1058 Zechariah, 27 

1069 Zidonian 

1097 

1058 Zechariah, 28 

1069 Ziegelbaucr 

1097 

1058 Zechariah, 29 

1069 Zif 


105S Zechariah, Book 

Ziha, 1 


1058 

of 

1069 Ziha, 2 , 

1097 

1058 Zedad 

1077 Ziklag 

1097 

1058 Zedechias 

1077 Zillah 


1058 Zedekiah, 1 

1077 Zilpah 


1058 Zedekiah, 2 

1077 Zilihai, 1..., 

1098 

1059 Zedekiah, 3 

1078 Zilthai, 2. . . 

1098 

1059 Zedekiah, 4 

1079 Zimmah, 1. 

1098 

1059 Zedekiah, 5 

1079 Zimmah, 2. 

109S 

1059 Zedekiah, 6 

1080 Zimrau 


1<>60 Zet*b 

10SO Zimri, 1 


1060 Zelah 

1080 Zimri, 2 

1098 

1000 Zelek 

10SO Zimri, 3 

1099 

106o Zelophehad 

1080 Zimri, 4 . . . . 

1 1099 

1000 Zelotes 

1080 Zimri, 5 

1099 


Zelzah 

1080 Zin 

1099 

1060 Zemarai'm, 1 

1080 Zina 

1099 

1061 Zemaraira, 2 

10S1 Zinzendorf. 

1099 

1061 Zemarite 

1081 Zion 

1100 

1061 Zemira 

10S1 Zior 

1102 


1061 Zeuan 1081 Ziph, 1 1102 

1061 Zeuas 1081 Ziph, 2 1102 

1062 Zeno 10S1 Ziph, 3 1102 

1062 Zephaniah, 1 10S1 Ziphah 1102 

1062 Zephauiah, 2 10S1 Ziphite 1102 

1062 Zephaniah, 3 1082 Ziphron 1102 

1062 Zephaniah, 4 10S2 Zippor 1102 

1062 Zephauiah, Book Zipporah 1102 

1062 of 10S2 Ziz 1103 

1062 Zephath 10S4Zizn,l 1103 

1062 Zephathah 10S5 Zizn, 2 1103 

1062 Zepho 1085 Zizah 1103 

1063 Zephon 1085 Zju-gwats 1103 

1063 Zephynnns 1085 Zlata Baba 1103 

1063 Zerah, 1 1085 Zlebog 1103 

1063 Zerah, 2 10S5 Znicz 1103 

1063'Zerah, 3 10S6 Zoiiu 1104 

1063 Zerah, 4 1086 Zoiir 1105 

1063 Zerah, 5 1086 Zoba 1106 

1063 Zerahiah, 1 10SS Zobebah 1107 

1003 Zerahiah, 2 10SS Zohnr, 1 1107 

1063 Zered. 108S Zohar, 2 1107 

1064 Zereda loSS Zohar, 3 1107 

1064 Zeredathah. ...... 10SS Zohelcth 1107 

1064 Zererath 10SS Zoheth 110S 

1064 Zeresh 10SS Zollikofer 1108 

1064 Zereth loss Zophah 110S 

1064 Zeri KISS Zophai 110S 

1066 Zeror 1088 Zophar 1108 

1066 Zeruah 1088 Zophim, 1 1108 

1066 Zerubbabel 10SS Zophim, 2 1109 

1066 Zerui'ah 1090 Zorah 1109 

1066 Zetluim 1091 Zorathite 1109 

1066 Zethan 1091 Zorite 1109 

1066 Zethar 1091 Zosiimis 1109 

1060Zia 1091 Zoiich UlO 

1066 Ziba 1091 Zuar H10 

1066 Zibeon 1091 Zubly D10 

1066 Zibia 1091 Znph, 1 H10 

1066 Zibiah 1091 Znph, 2 1110 

1066 Zichri, 1 1091 Znr, 1 D10 

1067 Zichri, 2 1091 Znr, 2 blO 

1067 Zichri, 3 1091 Zuriel D10 

1067 Zichri, 4 1091 Ztirishaddai 

1067 Zichri, 5 1091 Znzim 

1067 Zichri, 6 109l’Zwick 

1067 Zichri, 7 1091,Zwiugli 


1110 

1110 

1111 

1111 


END OF VOL. X. 




















I 



jilt' 

*T 

V .w - " . -»ga- A \r '«B0!7£3w 

1%, ' $M£* 

M?lJ»S 

^lliP 



« 




IM 

fir 

lljf&rs 

m% - 

15 ■ %, 

»w 

f 1 



jil 

iWrAlt . -<tb i M ui. 

*• mv^*m ^ 

l .' 'Vv^mbHS^Mj 






^JTjjk 



V ^ ;,^r^ 'JJjl 

OKI. Wlm 

^K*f ^ > 

'UlW 






